Robert Brainerd Gaylord
Grand :t.f:aater, 1931·1932

ROBERT BRAINERD GAYLOllD, the sixty-fifth Most Worshipful Grand
Master of the Jurisdiction of the State of California, completed his duties
as Grand Master on Friday, the 14th day of October, 1932, after a long
and useful service to the Fraternity; deserving and worthy of the Ion,
respect and admiration of his Brethren.
While he was honored by being exalted to the dignified office of Most
Worshipful Grand Master, the Grand Lodge of California was equally
honored by the nobili:ty of character ever exemplified by their Grand
Master. Brother Gaylord received 'the degrees in, and is at present a
member of, Oakland Lodge No. 188, was initiated February 11th, 1899,
passed to the degree of Fellowcraft February 23rd, 1899, and raised to
the degree of Master Mason March 18th, 1899. He served in the several
stations of the Lodge, being Master in 1906. He is a member of Oakland
Chapter No. 36, Royal A'rch Masons, having received the degrees in Sa.id
Chapter as follows: Mark Master, September 17, 1902; Past Master,
October 1, 1902; Most Excellent Master, October 8, 1902; and Royal
Arch Mason, October 22, 1902. He is a member of Oakland Commandery
No. 11, Knights Templar, having received the Order of Knighthood
there on November 17, 1903. He served as Eminent Commander in 1923,
after passing in the several subordinate chairs. He is a member of the
Oakland Scottish ~ite Bodies, his record being as follows: Received
the 14th Degree, March 25, 1907; the 32nd Degree, June 14, 1909;
K. C. C.H., October 22, 1929. He served as Orator of Oakland Scottish
Rite Bodies, 1910-11. He is a member of Islam Temple A. A. 0. N. M. S.,
having joined the Shrine April 25, 1910; is a member of St. Philip Conclave Red Cross of Constantine, and was Sovereign in 1929. He served
as Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge in 1917, and Right Eminent Grand
Commander of the Grand Commandery of California in 1930.

ROBERT BR.l\INERD G.l\YLORD
Grand Master
1931

Throughout his long and active Masonic career, Brother Gaylord has
ever exemplified the principles and tenets of Masonry, and practiced the
virtues of. Christian Knighthood as promulgated by the Commandery of
Knights Templar. By the sterling qualities of his character as daily

Robert Brainerd Gaylord
Grand Muter, 1931· l 9 32

ROBERT BRAINERD GAYLORD, the sixty-fifth Most Worshipful Grand
Master of the Jurisdiction of the State of California, completed his duties
as Grand Master on Friday, the 14th day of October, 1932, after a long
and useful service to the Fraternity; deserving and worthy of the love,
respect and admiration of his Brethren.
While he was honored by being exalted to the dignified office of Most
Worshipful Grand Master, the Grand Lodge of California was equally
honored by the nobility of character ever exemplified by their Grand
Master. Brother Gaylord received the degrees in, and is at present a
member of, Oakland Lodge No. 188, was initiated February 11th, 1899,
passed to the degree of Fellowcraft February 23rd, 1899, and raised to
the degree of Master Mason March 18th, 1899. He served in the several
. stations of the Lodge, being Master in 1906. He is a member of Oakland
Chapter No. .36, Rqyal Arch Masons, having received the degrees in said
Chapter as follows:. Mark Master, September 17, 1902; Past Master,
October 1, 1902; Most Excellent Master, October 8, 1902; and Royal
· Arch Mason, October 22, 1902. He is a member of Oakland Commandery
No. 11, Knights Templar, having received the Order of Knighthood
there on November 17, 1903. He served as Eminent Commander in 1923,
after passing in the several subordinate chairs. He is a member of .the
Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies, his record being as follows: Received
the 14th Degree, March 25, 1907; the 32nd Degree, June 14, 1909;
K. C. C. H., October 22, 1929. He served as Orator of Oakland Scottish
Rite Bodies, 1910-11. He is a member of Islam Temple A. A. 0. N. M. S.,
having joined the Shrine April 25, 1910; is a member of St. Philip Conclave Red Cross of Constantine, and was Sovereign in 1929. He served
as Grand Orator of the Grand Lodge in 1917, and Right Eminent Grand
Commander of the Grand Commandery of California in 1930.

ROBERT BRAINERD GAYLORD
Grand Master
1g:J1

Throughout his long and active Masonic career, Brother Gaylord has
ever exemplified ·the principles and tenets of Masonry, and practiced the
virtues of_Christian Knighthood as promulgated by the Commandery of
Knights Templar. By the sterling qualities of his character as daily

exemplified in his service in the Grand Lodge and Grand Conunandery
of the jurisdiction of the State of California, he has endeared himself to
the entire Masonic Family of our Grand Jurisdiction.

.

Brother Gaylord was born at River Falls, Wisconsin, November 24,
1876, the son of Titus Brainerd Gaylord and Annie Phimelia Parker
Gaylord. On his mother's side, he traces his New York Colonial ancestry,
while he is a descendant, on his father's side, of the Pioneer. William
Gaylord, who settled in Massach?setts in 1631. He came to California in
1883 and lived in San Jose until 1894, when he moved to Oakland with
his family. He attended our pablic schools and received a diploma from
the University of California in 1897, having been graduated from Hastings
Law School. He has followed the profession of the law, and at present
.
has his offices in the Russ Building in San Francisco.

Brother Gaylord's success in life was made certain wh~" Ql1 July 17, "
1901, he was united in marriage with Harriet Brown Lumley," who took .: . ' .
her place as a loving companion and the heart of an inspiring family
life, a place which she has held with true womanly grace and charm.
They have been blessed with a son, Robert Brainerd Gaylord Jr., and a
daughter, Rachel C. Gaylord, who are successful in their chosen prO:
fessions.
· Tt may be truthfully said of Robert Brainerd Gaylord that in his
Ma'sonic as well as in his civic life, his character has ·been such as to
induce emulation by his fellow men. He is courageous, fearless and outstanding in his decisions of right, truth and justice, as well as kind,
courteous and charitable in his relationship with his fellow men in· thought
as well as in deed.
·

~ran~ ilo~gr nf <1Ialiforttia
I, JOHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary of the M:. w:. Grand Lodge
of ~ree and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby
certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of
the proceedings of that body at its Eighty-third Arumal Communication
commenced at the city of Oakland on Tuesday, the eleventh day of Oc~
tober, A. L. 5932, and terminated on Friday, the fourteenth day of October,
A. L. 5932.

Jn <!l'tsttmouy ll~treof.
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed
the seal of the Grand Lodge of
the jurisdiction of California, at
the office of the Grand Secretary,
in the city of San Francisco,
this twenty-5eventh day of October, in the year of Light, Five
Thousand Nine Hundred and
Thirty-two.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

.

'

M:. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

1lf r.e .e anh Arr.ept.eh ·tla.aon.a
OJ!' THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
·

AT ITS

Eighty-third Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF OAKLAND
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 11, A. D. 1932, A. L 5932
AND TERMINATING ON

Friday, October 14, A. D. 1932, A. L 5932

SAN FRANCISCO
Thomas C. Conmy, 509 Sansome St.
1932

'

GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND. LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE

For the Year Commencing October, A. L. 5932
Grand Master.;...----····--·--'·-··--·······•-··········-Fr• W. Mixter (424)
'Exe.ter ·
·
Deputy Grand Master-•··-···~·-·T···:.....:...,..._...•..~.....··-:f'-···J1µ11C1S B. Gist (202)
Security First National Bank, Guaranty Office, Los Angeles
Senior Grand Warden.....................·-················-········William A. Sitton (20)
Mitau Building,· Sacramento
Junior Grand Warden.........·-····-····--··················Randolph V. Whiting (260)
Monadnock Building, San Francisco
Grand Treasurer_..,.,...._ ....i..!••--~········-·-·-····~········William P. Filmer (260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco
Grand Secrctary..........-···-····-····-····-··-····-··········-····-····John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand 'Lecturer..........-············································-········ Thomas J. Baker (58)
. Muan.ic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Chaplain....................._ ..................:_................-····-····.]ohn Snape (349)
Temple Baptist .O lurch, _Los Angeles
Grand Orator...·-··········-····-·················~····-················Oaklcy K. Morton (259)
Court House, Riverside
Assistant Grand Secretary- .......•......,:,..- ..................-F,rank G. Hobbs (531)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal.........·-····-····-······················--······Hcriry G. Mathewson (514)
State Buil~g, San Francisco.
Grand Standard Bearer..................:..............·-····-··········-······Percy King ( 12)
Napa
Grand Sword Bearer.........·-··········-·-···-·······-···Wallace R. Farrington (21)
. HonoJµlu, T. H .
Grand Bible Bearer ..:~---···-···•··;··-··-··:..:..................~ ......Harry Horne (300)
Redlands
Senior Grand Deacon....- ····················-························ Warren E. Libby ( 442)
· J.015 Spring St., Arcade Bldg., Los Angeles
Junior Grand Deac6n............................- •.··-········-········Sidncy B. Force (113)
3021 Fruitvale Avenue, Long Beach
Senior Grand Steward............................................ Herbert C. Goldman (674)
247 Loma Avenue, Long Beach
Junior Grand Stcward..:.......:.......................- ..............Andrcw Whitney (229)
Vallejo
Grand Pursuivant..............................................................Warren D. Gill (608)
42 East Main Street, Alhambra
Grand Organist...·-····-········---·····..·-··········-···-····Charles E. Anderson (374)
1717 Cabrillo Street, San Francisco
Grand Tiler ___ ....-····-························--······················Fr'ank G. Watson (354)
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco

OF

1'11rtt auh .Arrtptth masons
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

•

Eighly~third Annual Communication
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Ac~epted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its 83d Annual Communication in the Scottish Rite Temple
at the city of Oakland, on Tuesday, October 11, A. L. 5932,
at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
Officers of Grand Lodge
M .... w._-.RoBERT B . GAYl.,ORD.........•..•...•.......•...•.••.....•.•: .....•...: .......Grand Master
R •• • w ••• FRANK W. MIXTER...................•............•...........D eputy Grand Master

R.. · W •• ·JAMES B . G1sT.......................-········:··················.Senk>r Grand Warden
R. _.w. _.wru.rAM A. SITTON.•..••..•..•..•......•....•..•..•.•.•.•.•Junicw Grand Warden

v.. ·w •• ·WILLIAM ],". FIJ:.MER•..••.....•..•..••..•.- •...•.•.........•.•.•..... Grand Treasurer
v... w·.·JOHN WHICHER...•••..:.•..•..••.•..•...~.....•.•.•...••:...•.••....•.•..•Gralld S ecretary
v... W: • THOMAS J. BAKER_,.................. ;.....,.•,•••.•.••.. _,,_•.••.•.•.••Gra#d Lecturer

V.. R •••J OHN SNAPE ;..-~- .... ,.....-···········•- , ••.- .•••:..•... -.,•••••- ••,:_G,.anl Chaplain
w ••• JAMES T. FRASER ••..••••..•.•.:•..........•.~......... ..,..................... Grand Orator
w._.FRANK G. Hmms ...- ..................................:..A ssistant Grand S ecretary

c,.anJ

w._.HENRY G. MATHEWSON ..• - ....•..•....•....•.•.......•..•._ :........: .•
Marshal
w •• ·JOHN M. Ross.........•........•...................................Gt"Olld Sword Bearer

s.

w._.WILLIAM
MAcMukTRY•...•.•.•. ,..••.•.••.•.•..••.. _.••.. G,.alld Bible Bearer
w._ . WARREN E. LIBBY_ ................... - ..........................SnNo,- Grand Deacon
W., -SIDNEY B . FoBCl!. ....:.............................................Junio,. Gran.d Deacon

c.

w._.HERBERT
GoLDMAN ..•..... ·-··········-··········-····.Snsicw Grand Steward
W. ·WARREN D. GILL•.••.••.•..•.•....... - .................................Grafld Pursuivant

W. ·-CHAS. E. ANDERSON :.·-····•···········--···-···-·,•••:•••• ·-·~····Grtllfd Organist
w.·.FRANK G. WATSON ...~ ..............................._············-·············Grand Tiler
.

(6)

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Masters
M.".W.".ORRIN S. HENDERSON
M.".W.".SAMUEL E. BuRKE
M:.w:.DANA R. WELLER
M:.w:.wrLLIAM A. SHERMAN .
M:.w:.JoaN D. MuRPHEY
M.".W.".DAvro J. REEsE
M:.w:.wrLLIAM P. FILMER
M:.w:.ALBERT E. BoYNToN
M.".W.".BENJ. F. BLEDSOE
M.".W.".GEORGE L. }ONES
M.".W.".WrLLIAM RHODES HERVEY M.".W.".WrLL H. FrscHER
M.".W.".CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.".W.".Gus A. HuTAFF
M.".W.".BRADFORD WEBSTER
M.".W.".CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
M.".W.".GEORGE F. RODDEN
M.".W.".JoaN STEWART Ross

clares that the seat and spring of religion are in the head. Heresy trials
in the name of religion are always trials for heresy of the head. Heresy
is wrong thinking; it is never predicated ort wrong behavior. And we
must not have less thinking in religion-we need clearer thinking. As a
man thinketh in his heart, so is he.
Another view is that religion is emotion-a fine emotion. This is
religion of the heart and not of the head. It converts it into a fine glow.
It says, in effect, that if a man feels good, he may think as he pleases.
A great many people do right in order to feel right; it is better to do
right because' it is right, whether we feel good over it or not. Religion·
is not a matter of feeling; it is a matter of fact.
·Another view is that religion is an activity. It consists in doing
something. It is an answer to the cry, What shall I do to inherit eternal
life? It makes of religion a sort of a glorified fussiness. · It locates religion neither in the head nor in the heart, ~t in the hands and feet. It
makes religion a synonym for service. This is the popular view of religion, but it is an abortive view.
A fourth view is that religion is passivity-a sort of quiescent acquiescence in an inner working, wonder working God, who does it all,
while we lean back upon His waiting breast and allow Him to do it all .
This makes of religion a contemplation-a mere subjectivity.
There came a Man who spake as never man . spake, and He said,
"Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart and with all thy
soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength, and thy neighbor
as thyself." That is to say, religion is an idea. It grips the mind. Religion is an emotion-it grips the heart. Religion is an activity-it takes
the strength. Religion is a passivity-it commaI)ds the soul.

6

And 1480 otficers and representatives from 566 chartered
Lodges.
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the followiRg appointments:
Grand Standard Bearer, Thomas Anderson.
·
Junior Grand Steward, Jame~ B. McLees.
Chairman, Committee on Jurisprudence, Dana R. Wetler.
Committee on Finance, Louis Sutter.

.

And Grand Lodge was opened in ample form, with song
and prayer by the Grand Chaplain..... /
A telegram was received .from Past G'rand Master Ke.esling, now in New York, expressing his regret at not bemg
able to be present.

DEVOTIONAL SERVICE
The V. R. John Snape, Grand Chaplain, conducted a
brief but interesting and instructive devotional service, with
appropriate music by the Grand Organist. The Grand Chaplain's text was Religion, and his remarks thereon were substantially as follows:
Religion, t{ it means anything, means everything. It is not an accident, or an incident, or an expedient, .o r a commercial convenience. It is
not a method of moral behavior. It is life--God's life-in human life-expressing itself in human conduct.
Four great ideas, which have developed into four great philosophies
set forth the great facts of religion.
One view of religion is that religion is an idea. It is the philosophy
that if a man thinks correctly, he may do as he pleases. This view de-

7

TRIBUTE TO GEORGE WASHINGTON
Past Grand Master Albert E. Boynton then addressed
Grand Lodge as follows :
Throughout the length and breadth of the land, the 200th anniversary
of the birth of "the Father of his Country" is being observed this year~
George Washington, the first President of the United States, was
born at Wakefield, Virginia, February 22, 1732. At.the age of three, his
family moved to what later became known as Mount Vernon, a magnificent estate on the banks of the Potomac River. His father died when
he was eleven years of age. His elder half-brother secured for him an
appointment as midshipman in the British Navy, but his mother, described as a woman of · fine presence, intelligent, high-minded, resolute
Christian character, would not permit him to accept it.
He acquired all of his schooling before he was sixteen. His teacher
was a convict-a political prisoner sent over from England.

8

• t PROCEEDINGS OF THE

When seventeen, he was commissioned as a surveyor by William and
Mary College.
For two years, Washington pursued the vocation of surveyor, but
the encroachments of the French aroused the military spirit of the people
and, although he was only nineteen, he secured an appointment as a Major
in the Virginia militia, later acting in a similar capacity in Braddock's
campaign, where he played an outstanding part.
At the age of twenty-seven, he married Martha Custis, widow of
.Colonel Custis.
He was a member of the Virginia House of Burgesses for sixteen
years.
These were troublous times, and the mother country was bearing
down on the colonies. The period from the passage of the Stamp Act in
1765 to the outbreak of the Revolution was one of feverish excitement
throughout the colonies.
In 1774, the first Continental Congress met in Philadelphia. Washington was one of the seven delegates from Virginia. His position in
the gathering is best known through Patrick Henry's tribute: "If you
speak of eloquence, Mr. Rutledge of South Carolina is by far the greatest
orator, but if you speak of solid information and sound judgment, Colonel
Washington is unquestionably the greatest .man on the floor."
The next year, the secon°d Continental Congress assembled in Independence Hall, Philadelphi~, with John l!ancock as President. Blood
had already been shed on the soil of New En!Jland. Congress regularly
adopted the New England provincial army, and the pay of the Commander-in-Chief was fixed at $500 per month. Washington, at the age
of forty-three, was unanimously elected to take command. He accepted
the appointment but stipulated that he would accept no pay for his services.
He assumed command of the Continental Army under an elm tree
on the Cambridge Common adjoining Harvard University.
It is impossible to follow our national hero through his campaigns,
or dilate on Valley Forge, Trenton, Brandywine and Yorktown.
. The end of the Revolution came when Yorktown fell, and Washington received the sword of Cornwallis in surrender.
Thus closed the mighty struggle for American independence.
.As the Commander-in-Chief of the Continental Army, the services
and achievements of George Washington are unique in the world's history.
He was much more than the Commander-in-Chief. He was the one necessary person whose ability and calm, unswerving, determined sense of
patriotic duty to country put real backbone into the R~volution and kept
it from collapsing or merging into civil conflict under the hardships and
privations encountered during the eight years of war. Without General

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

Washington at . its head, it could never have succeeded. His faith in the
cause and his devotion to the ideals it embodied, made him the symbol of
America-the spirit of the Revolution.
Our wise and unselfish commander of tattered soldiery wrung victory
from the seasoned legions of Europe under discouragements that would
have crushed any save an indomitable spirit.
Of his leadership and skill, Von Moltke said in Berlin in 1874 :
"You have in American history one of the greatest captains
of all times. I t might be said of him, as it was of William the
Silent, that he seldom won a battle, but he never lost a campaign."
Washington's farewell t~ his officers at New York was an affecting
scene.
Not a word was spoken as he embraced his c'omrades. The deep
feeling and manly tenderness of these veterans in the parting moment
could find no utterance in words.
Arriving in Annapolis where Congress was in session,· he resigned
his commission and proceeded to Mount Vernon. Shortly after his arrival,
he wrote Lafayette, who had served with him :
"I have become a private citizen on the banks of the Potomac,
in the shadow of my own vine and my own fig tree, free from the
bustle of a camp, and the busy scenes of public life. I am solacing
myself with these tranquil enjoyments of which the soldier, who
is ever in pursuit of fame-the statesman, whose watchful days
and sleepless nights are spent in devising schemes to promote the
welfare of his own, p~rhaps the ruin of other countries, as if
this globe was insufficient for us all-and the courtier, who is always watching the countenance of his pri~ce in the hope of catching a gracious smile~an have very little conception. I have not
only retired from all public employment, but am retiring within
myself, and shall be able to view the solitary walk, and tread the
paths of private life, with heartfelt satisfaction. Envious of none,
I am determined to be pleased with all; and this, my dear friend, ,
being the order of my march, I will move gently down the stream
of life, until I sleep with my fathers."
But it was not to be. The Constitutional Convention drafted Washington as its President. It took four months to complete the document
and it was nearly a year before it was ratified by a sufficient number of
States to become effective.
Washington received the entire vote of the electoral college and
was unanimously chosen as the first President of the United States.
Two days after being notified of his election, he set out from Mount
Vernon on his journey to N ew York. This trip proved a veritable ovation from start to finish.

10

11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

His approach and entry into New York was a perfect triumph and
beggars description.
On the balcony of Federal Hall, in the presence of a vast concourse
of citizens, and surrounded by intimate friends and former comrades,
he took the oath of office as President of the United States. This oath
was administered by Robert L1vingston, Chancellor of the State of New
York, and Grand Master of its · Grand Lodge. The Bible used for the
occasion was brought from the Lodge Room of St. John's Lodge.
His eight years as President were most trying. It could not have been
otherwise. A new nation was being organized and grave questions had
to be met and settled. Several times, Congress was on .the very verge of
dissolution. To pacify these warring elements and smooth the way for the
successful administration of the government's affairs, was not an easy
task and probably could not have been accomplished by a less resourceful
man than the President. Through his calm leadership, salutary advice and
consummate diplomacy, most of the vexed issues were satisfactorily adjusted.
·
Having determined to retire at the end of his 'second term, some six
months previous to its expiration, he published his Farewell Address or,
as it has been aptly termed, ''Washington's Legacy to the American
People." This marvelous document will be cherished as long as America
exists.
After leaving the Presidency, Washington returned to Mount Vernon.
The last year of his life was largel;r devoted to the settlement of his
private affairs and in arranging for the final distribution of his vast estate,
he being the richest man in the United "States.
And now, to digress, my Brethren,. may I .recall to your minds some
of the facts about Washington, the Mason?
He received the degrees of· ,Preemasonry in Fredericksburg Lodge at
Fredericksburg, Virginia; paid his initiation fee in November, 1752,
amounting to two pounds, three shillings (between ten and eleven dollars),
and was "brought to light" as
Entered Apprentice. He was passed as
a Fellow Craft in March, and raised as a Master Mason August 4, 1753.
He was not yet twenty-one when he became an Entered Apprentice which,
apparently, ·was allowable in Virginia. Washington remained a member
of Fredericksburg Lodge throughout his life.
In April, 1788, the Virginia Grand Lodge issued a charter to Alexandria Lodge No. 22, and Washington was designated as the first Master
of the Lodge. Dual membership was permissible in Virginia in those early
days, as it is today, the only inhibition being that a Mason could not be
a member of two Lodges in the same town. He served as ].laster for .two
y~ars. After his death, the name of the Lodge was changed to Alexandria
Washington Lodge, and the Lodge is so known today.

Washington was Master of his Lodge when elected and inaugurated
as President of the United States, he being the only President.to have that
distinction.
When the Grand Lodge of Virginia was organized in 1777, he was
offered the position of Grand Master but declined because, at that time, he
had never serv~d as Master or Warden of a chartered Lodge.
He was a frequent visitor to M;°sonic Lodges in the different colonies
and was an honorary member of several.
Upon invitation of the Grand Lodge of Maryland,. which' ha~ been
requested to lay the corner stone of the National Capitol, Wash1ng~on
officiated as Grand Master. The trowel used on that memorable occasion
is the property of Alexandria Washington Lodge. It has been used a. few
times since the last occasion being some three weeks ago when President
Hoover laid the comer stone of the new Post Office Building in Washington.
·
Many Masonic articles were found among his effects and listed in the
inventory of his estate:
The constitutions of four Grand Lodges-Pennsylvania, New York,
Virginia and Massachusetts-were dedicated to him.
More Masonic Lodges have been named after Washington than ~y
other person, there being nine such Lodges in the state of Pennsylvama,
alone.
Towns cities and states have been named in his honor. Monuments
have been :rected to his memory-the greatest of all being the magnifice!1t
memorial which the Masons of America have constructed at Alexandria,
Virginia, and which was dedicated on May 12th last.
Many of our groat Presidents, themselves members of the Craft, h~ve
paid tribute to Washington, the Mason. Theodore Roosevelt, addressing
the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania in 1902, said:
"One of the things that attracted me so greatly in Masonry,
that I hailed the chance of becoming a Mason, was that it really
did act up to what we, as a government, and as' a people, are
pledged to-of treating each man on his merits as a man. ~en
Brother George Washington went into a Lodge of the Fraternity,
he went into the one place in the United States where he stood
below or above his fellows, according to their official position in
the Lodge. He :went into the place where the ideal of our g~vern­
ment was realized as far as it is humanly possible for mankind to
realize a lofty ideal."
But to resume:
The curtain was about to fall around the greatest figure in history.
He was sick but two days, dying December 14, 1799, of pneumonia. On
his deathbed, after nearly twenty-four hours of struggle for breath, he

0

an

12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

placed the final ·seal of courageous manhood upon his life and went to his
Maker with his "brave faith unshaken: "I felt from th~ first " he whispered, "that the disorder would prove fatal. I die hard, bu~ I am not
afraid' to go."- ·

MESSAGE OF GRAND MASTER

In these last half-dozen words lie the worth of his rel.igion to George
.. '
Washington.

· He ·was buried on his estate at Mount Vernon the funeral services
'
being conducted by Alexandria Lodge.
Shortly after his death, at the request of Congress, his 'comrade-inarms, Major General Henry Lee, delivered before that body a masterly
funeral oration, paraphrasing his life in the immortal words: "First in
war, first in peace, and first in the hearts of his countrymen."
In summing up, it has been truly said that, "in the throes of war and
revolution, America had brought forth a man to be ranked with the greate_st and noblest of any age in all the world. There have been greater
generals in the field and 'statesmen in 'the Cabine't in our own and other
nations. There has been no greater character. When we 'think of Washington, it is not as a military leader, nor as an executive or diplomat. We t
think of the man who, by sheer force of character, held a divided and'
disorganized country together until victory was achieved, and who, after
peace was won, still held his disunited country by their love and respect
and admiration for himself, until a '·nation was }Velded into enduring
strength and unity. . .
.
..
· There were great patriots in America whose' names are inscribed in
the story of that time. There were many humble folk whose names have
faded from our histories and were never kn~wn outside their narrow village circle, who struggled and .suffer~d from the noblest motives. But war
bring's out the worst as well as the. best in men. It is a mistake to think
of the America of 1776-1783 as a nation.of patriots, pressing their services
to gain freedom. '. It was hard to get men into the army, and to keep them
there. Often Washington had. neither money, nor food, nor clothing to
offer them. But he always had an army, pitifully small as it was at times
which held the flag flying in _the field through love of him, and confidenc~
in the; character "'.hich they sensed in his dignifled presence.
Without him, the cause .would have been irretrievably lost, and the
~un~er . of the . orators would .have rumbled .long since into forgetfui
silence. When the days were blackest, men clung to his unfaltering courage as to the last firm ground in a rising flood. When, later the forces of
disunion in the new country seemed to ·threaten disrupti~n, men again
~allied to him as the solid bond of union. Legacy to America from these
troubled. years! he is, apart from independence itself, the noblest heritage
of all."
· ·
·
·

13

Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
For better or worse, another year in Masonry in this Jurisdiction
has become history. During this year general economic conditions
_h ave been precarious and unavoidably they have been reflected in
the experiences of our Lodges. For the first time in many years, if
not in the history of Grand Lodge, the repbrt of the Grand Secretary
shows a net loss in membership. A year ago we were one of only
eight jutisdictions in the country to report a net gain, and only' one
of t}le eight showed a larger net gain than our own; this year our net
loss approximates 1800. While such a report is depressing, our
Fraternity may well congratulate itself that under such extreme conditions our showing is as good as we find it. The spirit of our Lodges
is healthy; the needs of our Brethren have revivified our fraternal
spirit, our realization of human brotherhopd and interdependence has
been quickened, and time has been available for other than ritualistic
activities. I believe it safely can be said that Masonry is fundamentally stronger today than .during high water marks 'of membership
prosperity and financial affluence. During these times, as an organization, we may welt learn the lessons which most of us as individuals
have been compelled to study; the virtues of the simple life; the
interdependence of human relationships; the true relative values of
human aims and human accomplishments.
Much of the subject matter of this report already has been placed
before you. Approximately two months ago I forwarded to all
Lodges, all Inspectors and all interested committee men, the recommendations and decisions found in this report, so far as they were
available at that time. N ecessarity, additional decisions and recommendations have been made; nor was any attempt made to give
advance publicity to the general discussion of the events and problems of the year. Normally, the greater portion of Grand Lodge
action is grouped about the decisions and recommendations of the
Grand Master. Many of our members attend Grand Lodge at only
one communication. Even with previous experience, the large number present at any commu.nication prohibits adequate consideration
upon the floor of Grand Lodge, or during the four days of the commttnication. Much of the work is done in committee and advance
information is valuable to committee men themselves. To date I
have received much of commendation and,none of criticism for this
prqce.d ure; I hope that by reason of the plan the member s of Grand
Lodge will participate more intelligently in its deliberations and will
find greater pleasure and profit from their attendance; the results

14

15

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of this communication will indicate to succeeding Grand Masters the
merits or disadvantages of the innovation.

under the direction of the Deputy Grand Master and one each under
the direction of the Senior and Tunior Grand Wardens. Each Grand
Officer will be responsible for Masonic welfare in his district and
his authority will be respected accordingly. While not undertaking
to visit each Inspection district within his executive district, he will,
nevertheless, so far as possible maintain contacts with Officers' Associations and with individual Lodges. Questions of law which are
of sufficient importance or doubt to merit report to Grand Lodge
should be sent directly to the Grand Master. Dispensations, approval
of by-laws and other matters which under the Constitution require
personal action by the Grand Master should be presented directly' to
him or to the Grand Secretary.
The Grand Master will, so far as possible, preside at all special
communications of Grand Lodge for the laying of cornerstones,
dedication ceremonies or other functions, and will endeavor to establish contacts with the various portions of the jurisdiction as occasion arises from time to time; he will not, however, undertake a
scheduled program for visiting each Inspector's district.
This plan meets with the approval of the Grand Officers concerned, and the present Grand Master is· authorized to state that
except as modifications appear desirable from time to time, or as
meritorious objections are found, it is anticipated that the plan will
be followed during succeeding administrations. It is hoped that it
will meet the approval of the Brethren and that it will contribute to
the efficiency of Masonry in the jurisdiction.
The boundaries of the three executive districts may require adjustment from time to time, depending upon the place of residence
of the Grand Officers. For the present year, the Inspection Districts
are grouped as follows:
Executive District No. r: R.". w:. Wm. A. Sitton, Junior Grand
Warden-:1st, 2nd, 3rd, 4th, 5th, 6th, 7th, 8th, 9th, 10th, 11th, 12th,
13th, 14th, 15th, 16th, 17th, 18th, 19th, 20th, 21st, 22nd, 23rd, 24th,
25th, 26th, 29th, 30th, 31st, 32nd, 33rd, 34th, 35th, 36th, 37th, 38th,
39th, SOth, 51st, Inspection Districts.
Executive District No. 2: R.". w:. Frank W. Mixter, Deputy
Grand Master-27th, 28th, 40th, 41st, 42nd, 43rd, 44th, 45th, 46th,
47th, 48th, 49th, 52nd, 53rd, 54th, 55th, 56th, 57th, 58th, 59th, 60th,
61st, 62nd, 63rd, 64th, 65th, 66th, 67th, 68th, 69th, 113th, 114th, 115th,
Inspection Districts.
Executive District No. 3: R.". w:. James B. Gist, Senior Grand
Warden-70th, 7lst, 72nd, 73rd, 74th, 75th, 76th, 77th, 78th, 79th,
80th, 81st, 82nd, 83rd, 84th, 85th, 86th, 87th, 88th, 89th, 90th, 91st,
92nd, 93rd, 94th, 95th, 96th, 97th, 98th, 99th, lOOth, 101st, 104th, 105th,
106th, 107th, 108th, 109th, llOth, 11 lth, 112th, 116th, 117th, Inspection
Districts.
Special District: The 102nd and 103rd Inspection Districts located in the Territory of Hawaii will act directly under the Grand
Master.
Dated: February 10, 1932.
Fraternally yours,
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
Grand Master."

Apportionment of Grand Lodge Work Among Grand Officers
The tremendous increase of members in our jurisdiction with
the corresponding multiplication of duties devolving upon the Grand
Master under the administratio·n of his office as heretofore conducted,
necessitates some radical revision of our executive system, and of the ·
relationship between the Grand officers and the constituent Lodges.
After consultation among the elective line officers, a solution of this
problem was attempted, which it is hoped will be found advantageous.
It relieves the situation, and if the plan meets the sympathetic cooperation of the Lodges, we believe that they will ultimately find
themselves better served through a division of labor than by an
ineffective attempt (at whatever personal sacrifice) on the part of
one man occupying the position of Grand Master to adequately
maintain contacts with all of the Lodges of the jurisdiction, while at
the same time attempting to adequately perform the executive duties
of his office. The following letter which was issued to the Lodges is
self explanatory.
"EXECUTIVE DISTRICTS FOR GRAND OFFICERS

To the Masters and Brethren of the Constituent Lodges
of This Jurisdiction:
The number of Lodges and Inspection Districts in the jurisdiction is now so large that it is impractical for any one man to establish
proper contacts with the officers and the Brethren. Even with his
entire time devoted to the office, the contacts are inadequate, nor is
it possible for every man who serves as Grand Master to wholly
neglect his personal affairs for a year. Changed conditions demand
development of our executive system; it is no longer advisable to
restrict the organization of our work to the forms which were sufficient in the early days of this Grand Lodge, nor is it to the interest
of the fraternity that the entire responsibility for executive work in
this jurisdiction between communications of Grand Lodge shall rest
upon one man.
Our Lodges come in immediate contact with their Inspectors,
and the organization and maintenance of Officers' Associations marks
substantial progress toward the development of a proper State-wide
organization; through this procedure the local work centers in the
Officers' Associations under the general direction of the Inspector,
who becomes responsible to the Lodges of his district not only for
ritualistic attainments but for guidance in the general conduct of
Masonic affairs.
The general situation has received the careful consideration of
th~ present Grand Lodge officers, and in line with the recommendation of Grand Master Ross at the 1931 communication, it has been
decided to sub-divide the State into three executive districts, one

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Visitations
It has been a source of deep regret and personal loss that I have
been obliged to conform to the announcement, which I made a
year ago, that I could not hope to follow the example of several of
my predecessors in personally meeting the Brethren throughout the
jurisdiction. Whether I have found the executive duties of the position more exacting than they, oi: whether I have given to them undue
attention, I cannot say; I know that they have made far greater
demands for time than I anticipated or was forewarned. I have given
to the duties of the office the limit of time and strength, and it is my
only regret that more time could not have been found, and that the
duties of the office could not have been discharged more efficiently.
For reasons indicated elsewhere in this report, I firmly believe, however, that the loss through personal contact with the Brethren of
the jurisdiction is more a personal loss of the Grand Master than of
the Brethren; the greatest pleasure of the office is found in these
se.lf same personal contacts and friendships created or _renewed, but
I believe that the solution for effective administration is to be found
in a division of responsibility, and the dignifying of offices other than
that of the Grand Master. Except where conflicting engagements
prevented, I have endeavored to personally attend the more outstanding meetings of our Lodges, as well as the laying of cornerstones and other public ceremonies, and in addition to these occasions
I have made such additional visits as time· and circumstances permitted. A detailed enumeration would be neither of value nor of
interest to Grand Lodge.
Special Communications
For the purposes of the record, I insert the' following compila- .
tion of special communications occurring since the last annual communication of Grand Lodge:
By the Grand Master:
At Westwood, Los Angeles, October 17, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the Eastern Star Home.
At Oakland, November 14, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the
Oakland postoffice.
At Clovis, February 19, 1932, to dedicate the Masonic hall at
Clovis.
At San Diego, April 19, 1932, to dedicate Silver Gate Masonic hall.
At Red Bluff, July 9, 1932, to lay the cornerstone of the Masonic
T~mple at that city.
At Long Beach, August 20, 1932, to lay the cornerstone of the
Federal Building at that city.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

17

At Martinez, September 23, 1932, to lay the cornerstone of the
Contra Costa County Hall of Records.
At Petaluma, October 1, 1932, to lay the cornerstone of the
Petaluma Postoffice building.
By the Deputy Grand Master:
At Santa Barbara, October 23, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of
the Junior High School at that place.
By the Senior Grand Warden:
At Montrose, September 10, 1932, to lay the cornerstone of the
La Crescenta Junior High School.
By the Junior Grand Warden:
At Knights Landing, October 17., 1931, to lay the cornerstone of
the Masonic Temple at that place.
By the Senior Grand Deacon :
At Lompoc, December 12, 1931, to lay the cornerstone of the
Lompoc Union High School.
Digest of Decisions
The questions which have been presented for consideration during
the past year have again demonstrated the value of the Digest which
was compiled by Past Grand Master Ross. Its comprehensive
. chara~er and facility for research materially lighten the labor of the
man who must answer a Masonic question. Independent investigation
for themselves by Lodge officers has been materially promoted, both
by ou.r Officers' Associations and by this pigest, but there remain
many officers who seem to be still unaware of its existence or wh.o,
if aware,' find it easier to write a letter than to consult an ind~x. The
duties of the executive officers of Grand Lodge ;tre exacting; perhaps
fifty per cent of the questions which are asked of the Grand Secretary
and the Grand Master are plainly covered by decisions in the Digest ;
fraternal courtesy demands that all letters receive a proper answer ;
a large amount of time is wasted in checking the citation for an answer
to questi~ns which should not be asked. Unfortunately, the Secretaries of our Lodges who, because of experience, should be the best
informed, and who are the natural custodians of the Constitution
and the Digest, are the most frequent offenders in this respect. There
have been several instances in which questions were asked .based
upon decisions appearing in antiquated editions of. the Constitution
and in complete disregard of both the later editions of the Constitution and the Digest which is now the authoritative recourse for Masonic law in California.
Necrology
During the past year many have gone from our midst to the Great
Beyond. Some of them were known and loved throughout the juris-

19

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

diction; others primarily in their own communities. To all of them
we pay an equal tribute of respect, and with all of them goes loving
memory and the hope that each has received the coveted and merited
commendation of "Well done, thou good and faithful servant." All
of them were Masons; all of them were good men and true; all of
them stand alike before the Great White Throne, and discrimination
among them is inappropriate; each of them will receive his penn°y, .
whether he labored from the first or the eleventh hour. Appropriate
tribute to all of them will be paid through the report of our Committee
on Necrology.
Frank M. Angellotti, Past Grand Master, for years Chairman
of our Jurisprudence Committee, former Chief Justice of the Supreme
Court of California, leading jurist, respected citizen and beloved
Mason, was called into the Great Beyond on May 23, 1932. Past
Grand Master Dana R. Weller, a close friend of the deceased, and
long his associate on the Jurisprudence Committee, has consented to
deliver a special eulogy at this communication, and words from me
could not adequately express our love for the deceased brother or the
respect and honor in which we held him. He was buried with Masonic
honors in ceremonies conducted by Grand Lodge,
Only one other I shall mention, and one whose name may not be
found in the resport; although he was one of the outstanding Masons
of the jurisdiction, he was not officially a member of this Grand
Lodge. Perry W. Weidner, but recently installed Grand Master of
the Grand Encampment of Knights Templar of the United States,
in whose honor the coming Triennial Encampment is to be held at San
Francisco, and whose presence so many anticipated, was suddenly
called from us on August 16, 1932. His life and character are too
well known to all of us to require emphasis; he was outstanding as a
citizen, as a Mason and as a man; his loss seems irreparable.

mittee, and myself. The monument is inspiring and the ceremony of
dedication was a most impressive one. The President and Mrs.
Hoover honored the occasion by their presence. Preparations were
made for outdoor ceremonies in the presence of thousands who made
the trip to Alexandria, but a steady downpour of rain necessitated
the conduct of the ceremonies in the auditorium of the Memorial,
to which only a limited number could gain admission. The most inspiring fact of the occasfon, however, was neither the Memorial
itself nor the dedication ceremonies, but the three-hour parade which
preceded it. It was inspiring, not because of fts grandeur, nor because
of the large number of participants drawn from every Masonic
organization, but because for three hours this large number of men
willingly marched, uncomplainingly and in the main without protection, in a steady downpour of rain, through loyalty to the occasion,
and as a tribute of esteem to the father of his country.

18

George Washington Bicentennial
Early in the year a committee was appointed to promote proper
participation by our Lodges in the fitting observance of the 200th
Anniversary of the Birth of George Washington. An independent
report will be filed by that committee, which speaks for itself. I believe that this anniversary has been very generally observed by our
Lodges, both directly and in co-operation with the general community
observance, and I feel that substantial credit is due to this committee
for the extent and mariner of its activities in this connection.
The dedication of the George Washington Memorial Monument
at. Washington, D. C., was attended by our Senior Grand Warden,
the Grand Secretary, Past Grand Master Boynton, who is a director
of the Association; Brother Jeffries, Chairman of the Finance Com-

Grand Masters' Conference
The dedication ~f the Me1J1orial was immediately preceded by
the annual conference of Grand Masters at Washington. The same
representatives from California were in attendance.' Gathering, as it
· did, representatives from all our jurisdictions, it was a most valuable
opportunity for exchange of views and discussion of problems, but
an even greater value lies in the personal contact with the officers
from the respec.tive jurisdictions, permitting not only fellowship and
common purpose, but ability to harmoniously and in a personal manner deal 'with the questions which arise among the jurisdictions.
Our Grand officers who have attended such a conference are unanipious in their recommendation of its desirability, and it is to be
hoped that no future Grand Master will fail to avail himself of the
opportunity to attend. The conference of Grand Secretaries, which
is held concurrently, is of equal advantage to our Grand Secretary,
and from the standpoint of personal contacts is of even greater
value than the conference of Grand Masters; a large proportion of
our interjurisdictional business is conducted through the Grand
Secretary, and normally these Grand Secretaries continue in office
from year to year. In this connection, I recommend that our own
Grand Secretary be requested to attend the 1933 conference, and that
a proper ~ppropriation be made to cover his expenses.
Tribute to George Washington by French Masonry
The world-wide regard for · the character and attainments of
George Washington is illustrated by the following address issued
by the · Grand Orient of France, and which I feel justifies insertion
in full in this report.

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"ADDRESS
"From The Grand Orient De France
"To The Free Masonry
"Of The United States of America and To The American Nation
On The Occasion of The Second Centenary of The
Birth of George Washington
"The Grand Orient de France, faithful to the lofty ideal of Universal Free Masonry, intends to celebrate those among the eminent
Free Masons who, through their great dignity, their unselfishness,
the services they rendered to mankind, have made their names an
ornament to our Order.
"Two centuries have elapsed since, on February the 22nd, George
Washington was born in Virginia, who, through the greatness, the
splendour of his public action, and the virtue of his private life, is an
honour to his land, and has shown himself one of the greatest among
great men.
"As clever an administrator in peace time as he had been a brave
soldier during the war of Independence, he wisely and strongly
org:inized his country after he had liberated her from foreign dominat10n.
"His work once accomplished, as modest as he was distinguished,
he deliberately left the highest post in the Republic, to retire in the
simplest manner, among his family.
'
"Was .there any _age or country, where a moi:e wonderful example
of abnegation, of d1smterestedness, of courage, of higher wisdom is to
be found?
"Therefore, we, Free Masons of the Gr~nd Orient de France
find our pride in the fact that one of the best who ever was among
us, the Brother Lafayette, has had the great honour to fight at his
side for the cause of Liberty.
. . "On the o~casion of this men;10rable anniversary, we want to
3om the American Free Masons, m order to exalt our Illustrious
Brother George Washington; and, free citizens of the French Republic, we wish to share with the free citizens of the great Republic
of the United States of America, the joy of celebrating the noblest
among its sons, and to bow with admiration and respect before the
pure glory of his genius.
.
"THE CoNsEiL DE L'ORDRE DU GRAND ORIENT DE FRANCE."

Public Schools Week
Our committee with its recurring efficiency has again promoted
the observance of Public Sch"ols Week. The detailed results will
appear in its own report. The efforts of this committee, ·and particularly of its chairman, and the time which is so generously given by
them to so worthy a purpose, deserve the deep appreciation of the
Fraternity throughout the jurisdiction; it is a ·public as well as a
~fasonic service.
In this connection consideration may well be given to the education which our children now receive. Education involves not only

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

the mental training which is afforded by a general school system,
but equally general preparation to meet the problems of life. It
has been well said that "an education is not worth very much which
teaches a child how to make a living but does not teach him how
to live." It is a well known fact that with the outstanding efficiency of
our public educational system, we nevertheless have in the United
States probably the highest percentage of juvenile crime found in
any country in the world. Nor are these juvenile criminals confined to
those of deficient education. An illustration of this is found in statistics recently issued by the Warden of Sing Sing Prison, in which
he states that 19%o/o of the 1931 admissions to the prison were high
school graduates, and that during the first fou; months in 1932 the
ratio rose to more than 25 o/o. It is obvious that these high school
graduates did not receive their training in a proper atmosphere, and
that their environment was not sufficiently conducive to the development of a proper attitude towards society. In our desire for the
separation of church and state, moral instruction has for practical
purposes been eliminated from the public schools; whether this
tendency is advantageous is a subject upon which there exists wide
diversity of opinion. There can, however, be no diversity of opinion
upon the fact that the combined means through which we give our
children an education, whether it be in the public school, at home
or through other existing channels for moral and religious training,
must be such as will inspire them with proper ideals, develop a
proper character and give to them the inherent integrity which will
make for upstanding manhood, good citizenship and the proper
relationship of man to his fellow-man. It is almost self-evident that
somewhere along the line we are inefficient ; a highly developed educational system and a maximum percentage of juvenile crime should not
go hand in hand. With our emphasis upon mental instruction in the
public schools and the maintenance of the public school system, we
may also well give earnest thought to the development of efficiency
and the proper channels for training for the denlopment of a high
type of character among the youth of today and the generations to
come. Whether in our own homes we maintain the proper example
and create the proper environment, whether the moral atmosphere
of our public schools and our higher educational institutions, is as it
should be, and whether our agencies for moral instruction are sufficiently fostered and emphasized, is a vital question for every man;
a question which calls for introspection as well as observation.
I have suggested that our present problems are not exclusively
material; neither are they solely local. We are prone to regard such
world movements as the Russian programs as primarily economic,
as a challenge to the primacy of the capitalistic system, and as of only
indirect and financial importance to ourselves. The standards of

2Z

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

men throughout the world and their effect upon human relationships
necessarily influence our own standards and both our moral and our
physical welfare. One illustration will suffice. The atheistic purposes
of the Soviet government are well known; many of us do not realize
that at this time Soviet atheistic propaganda is further reaching and
more effective than its commercial propaganda. The league of
fighting atheists is supported by the Soviet government. It has a
present membership of at least 5,000,000, and under a five-year plan
it is hoped to increase that membership to 17,000,000. Supporting
radio broadcasts are comprehensive and thirty-five anti-religious universities are furnishing instruction to active atheists. This league
supports kindred orgapizations in other countries; in Germany alone
it fosters leagues whose present membership is 850,000. The most
serious challenge from the movement is its effect upon the rising
generation. Neither argument nor illustration is required to demonstrate to any of us that all we have of human uplift, every decrease of
friction in the relationships among men and every step of permanent
mental and moral progress for the race, finds its source in belief in
an almighty a:nd all-wise God and in that progressive appreciation of
the will and purposes of the Divine Being which He has afforded to
us through diverse channels through the ages. Belief in God is the
bedrock upon which civilization rests, and systematic attack upon
that belief must be not lightly disregarded. An enlightened conception of the {:reator is as essential a part of the education of our youth
as the more direct form of mental instruction· for which we strive
today.
Unemployment · ·
All of our Lodges during the past year have felt the need for
assisting many of our members to obtain employment. It is not
necessary to recite the varying methods which have been pursued, nor
the varying degrees of success, depending partly upon conditions and
partly upon the energy which was devoted to the work. Through both
the efforts of Employment Bureaus and the efforts of individual
Lodge committees, much· has been done to relieve the situation.
Conditions and needs so greatly vary in different localities, that no
definite state program appeared advisable. Accordingly, the following
letter was issued to the Lodges upon the subject:
To the Masters and Brethren of the Constituent Lodges
of This Jurisdiction:
·
The most pressing and practical charity confronting our Lodges
today is the problem of unemployment. Our concern . is three-fold :
1. The need among our own number.
.2. General conditions in the community.
3. The effect upon both general business conditions and human
relationships.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. 23

All Lodges are most strongly urged to appoint a competent and
energetic committee to undertake this responsibility if such a committee has not already been appointed.
Charitable purposes for which Lodge funds may be expended
are restricted to necessary relief for our own Brethren and their
families. ·Contributions from those funds cannot be made to general
community relief, nor should our members be solicited as Masons
for such general relief. Necessarily our primary effort is to be assured
that every member of the Lodge is adequately employed; to this end
a canvass should be made of the entire membership without waiting
for solicitation on behalf of a needy Brother. Both at Lodge meetings
and through individual contacts, an urgent appeal should be made to
members who are able to furnish or to assist in obtaining employment. A card index of the Lodge membership classifying the Brethren
in these respects will be of value.
As individuals, each Mason should discharge his responsibility
toward relieving the general unemployment situation. Particularly
in smaller communities, or.g anized general relief may well be conducted under the sponsorship of the Lodge if no general organization
already · has been effectel;l. In some instances our Lodge committees
have already successfully promoted one day a week and/or one day
a month employment movements, and this is only one illustration of
the manner in which a Lodge committee can properly foster relief
without expending Lodge funds and without solicitmg individual
contributions in the name of the Lodge.
The situation is urgent and promptness is imperative; it deserves
every Masonic effort; failure to meet it may bring appalling results;
pArticularly, it is our duty to assure every Mason reasonable employment if it can be made available through any source or by any effort.
Dated: February 10, 1932.
Fraternally yours,
.
.
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
Grand Master.
Board of Control
As always, the report of the Board of Control will be of general
intere~t. Its work continues throughout the year and its efficiency
has been amply demonstrated. The adoption of uniform and businesslike procedure by our Boards of Relief is obviously desirable and the
Board of Control has contributed largely to present success. The
Boards of Relief cannot be too strongly urged to co-operate with the
Board of Control. It is also desirable that any delays in obtaining
reimbursement for expenses incurred should be promptly reported to
the Board of Control; delay always increases the difficulty of collection in any financial transaction and misunderstandings frequently
· are avoided by prompt action. Year by year since the organization
of the Board of Control there have been decreased requirements for
reimbursement by Grand Lodge, and it is a reasonable conclusion,
particularly at the present time, that this condition is due to the activities of the Board of Control. Insofar as these reductions are due to
more ltusiness-like methods and a larger percentage of direct reimbursement f ron'l other jurisdictions, too high praise cannot be given.

25

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND ·LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. On the ot~er hand, we must not forget that Masonic charity is
neither mechanical nor mercenary. Our charity funds are a trust and
must not be carelessly or extravagantly disbursed; conversely, no
worthy brother or his dependents should suffer by reason of technicalities, nor should worthy applicants to a Board of Relief be made
to feel that our charity is mechanical or grudgingly bestowed, or
that our sole purpose is to avoid the disbursement of charity funds.
The Board of Control in its activities necessarily emphasizes the
~ecessity for economy and business-like methods, particularly at a
time when demands are so numerous. Because of this function Boards
of Relief and other executive officers should not misconstrue the
purpose of the Board of Control or the ~xtent of Masonic charity.
Necessarily, cases will arise where immediate assistance in reasonable
amounts is essential to adequate relief of the situation, and good judgment must be exercised as well as business methods; this does not
me~n extravagance or carelessness, but it does mean the exemplification of brotherhood; our charity is brotherhood and not fraternal
insurance. In the face of adverse conditions and widespread want,
increased savings in reimbursement are, I am informed, shown this
year, while deficits normally would be expected. I have had no
opportunity to analyze the underlying occasion for such savi~s as
appear and, while praising without stint all increase in efficiency and
success in obtaining direct reimbursement, I feel that both the Boa.rd
of Control and our Boards of Relief should be sure during the coming
year that efficiency shall 'not degenerate. into niggardliness or evasion
of legitimate Masonic responsibility; if we must err, it should be on
t~e side of charity.
Issuance of Literature to Lodge Members
In the interest of tax reduction, petitions for three proposed
amendments to the San Francisco charter, providing for reductions
in salary of certain municipal employes, were recently circulated. A
number of the employes affected are members of the Order and in
several San Francisco Lodges circulars were issued, signed by members of the Lodge, and addressed officially to the members of the
Lodge generally. In the circ\llar it was stated that the adoption of
the amendments would result in salary reductions and would cause
direct financial loss to a specified number of the members of the
particular Lodge, the names of these members being listed in the
circular. This was followed by a statement that "aside from the injury
to these brothers" there were other objections to the amendments;
the circular then specifying three arguments against the amendments.
In conclusion the circular requested those to whom it was sent to
refrain from supporting the petitions and to withdraw their signatures if previously affixed. The letters were signed "Sincerely and
Fraternally Yours."

The highly improper character of these circulars is self evident,
but particular mention should be made of the following reasons:
1. The official Lodge roster was used as a mailing list. As elsewhere indicated in this report, the Lodge roster is not maintained for
such a purpose.
2. It is an appeal to Masons because of fraternal connection to
oppose pending political legislation upon the ground of the selfish
interest and financial loss of a few named members of the Lodge.
The attempt to use the Lodge roster and Lodge membership for
personal financial advantage is distinctly contrary to Masonic .principles. The circulars were inspired and issued through a group of
Masons in the Municipal employ who would be adversely affected
by the proposed legislation. ·
3. The appeal was an attempt to influence political action of
Lodge members because of Lodge affiliation, thereby endeavoring to
involve the Lodge in controversial politics. A sharp difference of
opinion existed among Lodge members as to the advisability of the
legislation and whether it was a legitimate measure for tax economy.
· Issuance of such a circular, with its misuse of Masonic affiliation
and Lodge rosters,' cannot be too strongly condemned. In some
instances the circulars were issued without the knowledge of Lodge
officers, while in others the Lodge officers either approved or participated, being themselves adversely affected by the proposed legislation.
Unfortunately, the issuance of the letter was not called to my
attention until too late to nullify its mischievous effect as applied to
the particular legislation. However, it is illustrative of repeated
attempts (sometimes thoughtless and sometimes intentional) to take
advantage of and misuse Lodge affiliations and Lodge rosters, and it
is not too late to call attention to the impropriety of such action. It
is a growing evil, and persistence in it necessarily will result in drastic
discipline if we are to maintain our ideals.

24

Masonic Homes Endowment
The ultimate goal for maintenance of our Homes is an adequate
endowment fund. The activities of past years have resulted in a substantial increase in endowment, and we are still reaping a harvest
of testamentary gifts. From a fund of $17,000.00 in 1910, the amount
grew to $718,000.00 in 1931, the greater portion of which accrued
from legacies. There are, however, tremendous future possibilities for
endowment which must not be neglected. While it is unlikely that,
in these times of stress, we can materially increase our endowment by
contributions of living donors, apd while in such a period it is almost
equally difficult to obtain additional testamentary provisions we
should at least seek to prevent loss of testamentary provisions already

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

26

27

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

made, and preparations should be made for an aggressive campaign
when financial conditions warrant. Accordingly, I have appointed
a committee consisting of Brothers Rollie W. Miller, Benjamin G.
Wright, Francis V. Keesling, Albert E. Boynton and Wm. P. Jeffries
to make a survey and, in co-operation with our permanent Endowment
Committee, to present to Grand Lodge concrete and comprehensive
plans for the establishment of an adequate endowment fund. I feel
sure that any plans which are presented by so competent a committee
will receive sympathetic support from Grand Lodge.
Per Diem of Representatives
At the last communication of Grand Lodge, the question of revision of pay of members was deferred to the present communication.
It is inevitable that any satisfactory plan for revision will require
an increased appropriation by Grand Lodge. Whether it will reduce
the net cost to California Masonry through the elimination of direct
appropriations by our Lodges, is open to discussion. In any event,
the present condition of our treasury and our present sources of
revenue do not justify increased appropriations at this communication, and our policy should be retrenchment rather than increase. It
is to be hoped that the present stringency will further actuate our
Lodges to refrain from undue appropriations for expenses of attendance upon Grand Lodge; in any event, both the responsibility and the
remedy for excessive expense, if such there be, rests with the constituent Lodge. I feel that I have no alternative to recommending
that no action upon the subject be taken at this communication.
Reduction of Initiation Fees
Although no change in fees has been made by the great majo;ity
of our Lodges, nevertheless there has been a substantial tendency
to reduce the fees, evidenced by the number of Lodges which have
submitted amendments to l:iy-laws to that effect. While I have
uniformly approved these amendments, upon the theory that it is a
question which each Lodge must settle for itself, nevertheless unless
the circumstances are unusual, I believe it is a mistake for our Lodges
to reduce fees even during. the present financial stringency. The
reduction of fees tends to cheapen our Fraternity and in the long
run does not, I believe, result in any advantage to the particular
Lodge. Experience in the past in our own and its allied organizations
indicates that a reduction in fees tends to lower the stand'ard of
membership and ultimately has tended to even reduce the number
of petitioners. I do not believe that the man who will be deterred
from membership because of a small difference in initiation fee
sliould be encouraged to join the fraternity. In a modified sense
Masonic membership is ·a luxury, and no man should expend his

money for that purpose if the necessities of himself and his family
are such that a small difference in the original charge will prevent
his presenting a petition. Nor do I regard the present reduction in
the number of petitions as an evil. In our general average as an
organization in this jurisdiction we might better devote our attention
to digesting the membership which we already have, than to expend
our efforts to increase membership and devote our time to the mere
initiation of candidates. While the reduction in revenue may necessitate a corresponding reduction in expenditures, that also is not an
unmixed evil.
Nonpayment of Dues
The reports from Lodge~ indicate an alarming increase in the
number of suspensions for nonpayment of dues. As an illustration,
in one lodge having a membership of less than 250, the Secretary
rep.orted ten per cent of the membership suspended for this reason.
The seriousness of the situation is evident when we consider the
fact that the only brother who should be suspended is one who is
financially able to pay his dues but declines to do so. In the Lodge
in question three of those suspended were Past Masters. It is almost
inconceivable that, even under present conditions, ten per cent of
the membership fall. in the category of those who can but will not
pay their dues. Either proper efforts have not been made by the
committee on delinqu'ent dues or there is a woeful lack of Masonic
spirit in the membership of the Lodge, including its Past Masters.
I urge upon the brethren of the itJrisdiction their duty of loyalty to
our Fraternity in these times.. of stress, and I emphasize the importance
of the work of the committee on delinquent dues. No member should
be suspended until he has been personally interviewed by the comuiittee, and the situation presented to him in a fraternal spirit. Nor
should any brother be suspended unless, following an interview, the
committee is convinced that the delinquent brother is financially able
to pay. If a brother because of conditions or reverses is unable to
· pay either his dues should be remitted or he should be granted further
tim~, as circumstances dictate; he should not be suspended. Unless
there is the definite prospect within a reasonable time of ability to
pay, dues should be remitted rather than to grant extensions of time.
The difficulty with unreasonable extensions of time is that the
dues accumulate to such an amount that it is unlikely the brother
will ultimately pay the accumulated sum. The requirements of Sections 117 and 118 of the Constitution should be strictly observed,
but compliance with those sections does not necessarily result in
suspension for nonpayment. The sections grant the alternatives of
suspensions, remission of dues or extension of time for payment. I
particularly emphasize the further fact that under no circumstances
should the notice mentioned in Section 117 be sent to a brother untH

'

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODG!il OF CALIFORNIA

he has been interviewed by the Service Committee in a fraternal spirit
and in an earnest endeavor to arrange for the payment of his dues
if he possesses the ability, with a personal assurance that remission
or extension of time will be granted if the committee determines that
he is unable to pay. If absence prevents a personal interview, the
same procedure should be followed through correspondence, and
all of this should precede the forwarding of the formal notice. Too
frequently, lack of brotherly love in contacts with delinquent members, or neglect to obtain contact, results in suspensions which are
avoidable if a proper fraternal spirit is displayed. The purposes of
Masonry are not mercenary, and there are goals far more important
than financial gain.
Masonic Keys
From time to time through advertising circ;ulars and otherwise,
the attention of members of the craft is called to so-called keys or
books of instruction covering the secret work. It is self-evident that
the issuance of such publications is a violation of the oath and the
use of them is not only discountenanced, but prohibited.
Through lack of realization, our officers occasionally resort to
this assistance, for which reason I take this opportunity to remind
the craft in general that such use is prohibited and that all Masons
should discountenance any tendency to resort to, or encourage such
publications.
National Masonic Research Society

"Except for the coincidence that (a personal reason) and
for that reason I am interested in the reasons behind the
correspondence, I would not be disposed to give it attention,
as it is a purely business transaction."
Investigation disclosed that the claim covered books ordered by a
member of the Lodge, and although he happened to be chairman of
the educational committe~, the books were billed to him personally
and no attempt had been made to collect from the Lodge until
efforts to collect personally from the brother failed.
It ultimately developed that while the books were sold to the
brother personally, the Lodge some two years ago had issued a check
to him to cover the amount, and for the purpose of paying the bill.
Notwithstanding my feeling that the Grand Master should not
b~ called upon to act as a collecting agent for claims of this size, and
particularly under these circumstances, nevertheless, it appearing
that the brother had misappropriated funds of the Lodge, I instructed
the taking of proper disciplinary action; there being a marked distinction be.tween his failure to pay a bill and his misappropriation of
Lodge funds which were entrusted to him for the purpose of payment.

The National Masonic Research ·Society, publisher of "The
Builder" and "The Masonic Who's Who," and publisher of books
dealing with },{asonic subjects, complained that one of our Lodges
had failed to pay a bill of $10.97 which was of more than three years'
standing, and in an effort to obtain payment of which the Society
had previously corresponded with the Grand Secretary of California.
Feeling that the Grand Master of this jurisdiction has more important duties than the collection of $10.00 claims, and knowing the
business and moral integrity of the. Lodge with which the Society
stated it had corresponded, I replied as follows:
"This acknowledges yours of 26th ult., enclosing correspondence file connected with a stated indebtedness of $10.97
on the part oL.................................- ... Lod.g e.
"You suggest that you do not care to bother the Grand
Secretary or to make a collection agency of him. To be
frank, I do not feel that the Grand Master should be used
for that purpose on an item of this size; nor can I convince
myself that your motives in calling the matter to my attention· are other than a desire on your part to avoid losing the
' amount. If it were a matter of disciplining the Lodge, it
should be presented through the usual channels of your own
Grand Master.

29

Decisions

I. Election by Ballot.
A question was presented. covering the rules governing election by
ballot in constituent Lodges and the form of the semi-annual report
of delinquencies which is to be made by the Secretary; a controversy
having arisen whether the Secretary by viva voce vote may be instructed
to cast the ballot and whether the Secretary's report of delinquents must
be publicly made known to the Lodge.
I replied that pursuant to decision of Grand Master Rucker (Ross'
Digest No. 593), Grand Lodge has ruled that the word "ballot" as
used in our constitution, means a secret vote by balls, cubes or slips of
paper; therefore, that when Section 135 prov·ides that officers of a Lodge
shall be·elected "by ballot," this must be a secret ballot and cannot be
by acclamation or by instructing the Secretary to cast the ballot pursuant
to a show of hands or a call for ayes and noes. In some instances this
procedure may appear cumbersome, but it appears to be the law.
As. to the Secretary's report of delinquents, I gave it as my opinion
that this report must be orally< announced to the Lodge unless by appro·
priate action of the Lodge the report is filed waiving oral presentation.
In common acceptation, a matter is not "reported" to a Lodge by merely
filing a written report which is in no way made known to the Lodge.
On the other hand, I call attention to the fact that under decision reported
in Section 143 of the Digest, this report may be presented orally without
a written report for permanent filing.

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In this connection I call attention to the fact that the same language
regarding procedure for electing officers "by ballot" is found in Section
17, governing, the election of Grand Lodge officers, as appears in Section
135, relating to constituent Lodges. If the present ruling is approved
by Grand Lodge, either Section 17 should be so amended as to obviate
the necessity for secret ballot on the elective officers, or Grand Lodge
should hereafter be prepared to obey its own rules and modify its present
custom of dispensing with the secret ballot as applied to all officers
other than the Junior Grand Warden.
It is no answer to say that in the
absence of objection the secret ballot may be waived, unless we are willing to apply the same construction to the identical language governing
constituent Lodges, thereby giving them a similar right to waive the
secret ballot. The ruling of Past Grand Master Rucker appears to directly controvert such a rule.

II. Vacancies in Office.
The, Master elect of Delta Lodge No. 47i, received his certificate
of qualification but was unable to present himself for installation" because
of illness which apparently might prove chronic. In reply to questions
as to the status of the previously installed Master and the procedure
regarding the election and installation of a Master, I stated:
1. That under Section 135 of the Constitution the present Master
·
continues in office until his successor is elected and i~stalled.
2. That by analogy with Section 139 of the Constitution, the failure
of the Master to present himself for installation is the equiv.alent of
failure to obtain a certificate of qualification,' and that if he has not
presented himself for installation within sixty days from election, the
Lodge might declare the election vacated and petition for a dispensation
to elect a Master.
3. That in its discretion the Lodge might temporarily defer declaring
the office vacant and requesting the dispensation if it appeared that the
Master elect could and desired to assume his duties within a reasonable
time, "but that the Lodge should not contipue indefinitely vyithout a
regularly elected Master. '
4. In response to the question as to the status of the Wardens, I
stated that unless one of them were elected to the position of Master,
they would continue to serve in the offices in which they were installed
until the close of the year; all officers other than the Master · having
been regularly installed.
See Digest Decisions 112, 139 ·and 581.

.

III. Physical Qualifications of Officers.
"An Inspector inquired whether a certificate of qualification should be
issued to a Junior Warden elect, who has lost his right hand, but who

31

uses an artificial hand with which he can remove his hat, and pick up
a dime from the floor, as illustrating 'the sufficiency of the artificial
member, and who is otherwise qualified.
I replied that any Master Mason in good standing is l'!ligible for
office and that I saw no occasion to refuse to qualify· this officer if he
is able to perform the duties ~f his office in the proper manner, notwithstanding the loss of a hand.

IV. Physical Qualifications.

-AIn two instances the question was asked whether a petitioner for
degrees who has lost the thumb of his right hand is physically qualified.
I replied that if without his thumb the candidate can ' conform to
the requirements of the Ritual, I see no objection to the receipt of his
petition, but that before acting upon it the Master should carefully satisfy
himself that the petitioner can meet the requirements.

-BA brother who, because of physical affliction, is unable to write,
desired to affi'liate with one of our Lodges, he having been formerly a
member of another California Lodge. T•he blanks in the application were
filled and his name was appended by someone acting on his behalf. In
response to an inquiry as to the procedure upon his applicatfon for affilia'
tion, I stated:
1. That while the questions in a petition for degrees must be answered
in the handwriting of the petitioner, the only requirement for an appli·
cation for affiliation under Section 98 of the Constitution is that it be
signed by the petitioner.
'
2. If the petitioner is unable to write by reason of physical affliction,
I see no objection to his signing by a mark, provided his signature is
sufficiently attested by Masonic witnesses. By analogy with State law,
the signature of two Masonic witnesses, one of whom has written the
name of ·the petitioner in conjunction with the mark made by the petitioner, should be satisfactory.
3. No Lodge should grant an application for affiliation by a brother
thus afflicted until after unusually careful investigation. If such a
brother subsequently becomes a Masonic charge the burden should rest
with the Lodge and it should not expect assistance either at the Homes
or from general Grand Lodge funds. If, under these circumstances, the
Lodge accepts the brother without such an investigation, or in the face
of insufficient assurances of the ability of the applicant to maintain him-

32

33

PROCEEDINGS J)F THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

self and his dependents for the remainder of his life; the Lodge and
its officers will be subject to severe criticism, if not to further penalties.
Following the expression of this opinion, it developed that the
brother is 67 years of age, although in good physical condition, except a crippled right hand, and regularly employed. He is an interior
decorator; his wife is living and his assets are $2000 in bank. . He
has a married daughter and a son who is employed. Under these
circumstances, and in view of the opinion above expressed, the Lodge
did not feel justified in accepting his application for a dimit. ~t was
further represented, however, that exceptional circumstances exist
because of the fact that he formerly belonged to a California Lodge
from which he had taken a dimit, being unfamiliar with the constitutional provision which obviates that necessity as a preliminary to
applying for affiliation; that any rule applicable to the Lodge to
which the present application was presented, is equally applicable
to other Lodges and that therefore in effect he is permanently barred
from membership in California.
In response to a renewed request for an opinion, I stated that
notwithstanding these circumstances I did not feel justified in advising the Lodge to accept the application. Un.d er the circumstances
stated there is great probability that the brother might become a
Masonic charge, his reserves being small, his wife being alive and
probability of continued employment at his age and with his affliction being not of the best. So far as the children are concerned
numerous instances unfortunateiy indicate how frequently, from a
variety of reasons, children of worthy Masons fail to provide for
their parents in old age. If the Lodge is unwilling to accept the
potential responsibility for assistance to this brother in years to
come it should not, as an agent for statewide Masonry in California,
impose that burden upon the Fraternity generally, whether through
care at the Masonic Homes or through Grand Lodge relief to the
brother or reimbursement to the Lodge. The Lodge to which the
application was presented is in no way at fault for the situation and
so far as it is concerned, this application is not distinguishable from
any other petition for affiliation. There being no petition for reaffiliation with the original Lodge that contingent situation did not
require determination. With the constantly increasing necessity
for Masonic charity and the very substantial percentage of that charity
which is extended to affiliates, I did not feel justified in reconsidering
the opinion previously expressed.

grees upon a candidate elected to membership twelve years ago in
the eastern jurisdiction. The candidate is a permanent resident of
California and the delay in receiving his degrees was because of his
removal to a hospital shortly thereafter and continuous succeeding
absences. The candidate is paralyzed from the waist down and is
obliged to use a wheel chair. He is in receipt of per manent adequate pension as a retired military officer. There is a possibility,
but no assurance that he ultimately will recover.
While no statute law prohibits the conferring of degrees by request upon one who is physically disqualified, I felt that the principles governing the reception of a petition by a California Lodge
should at least substantially control the conferring of degrees by
request. In the present instance the candidate cannot even remotely
conform to the physical requirements of the degrees. I accordingly
declined the request with regret that I was unable to extend this
courtesy to a sister jurisdiction.
Except for t he receipt of a perma nent pension, and possibly even
in spite of it, I would have felt obliged to decline the request for a
further reason. A physically disabled man is a potential charge
upon the fraternity. If the candidate is a permanent resident of
California, the obligation for his support in the event of need will
rest primarily upon this jurisdiction. Unfortunately, in numerous
instances relief has been extended to non-affiliates resident in California and it has been found impossible to obtain reimbursement
either from the local Lodge in which he holds membership or from
the Grand Lodge to which that Lodge acknowledges allegiance.
Because of this unfortunate situation the same care should be exercised in conferring degrees by request upon candidates who are
residents of California and who, for any reason, whether physical disability or age, or financial status, are likely to become charges Aipon
the fraternity. Where the first degree has already been received
the responsibility for giving consideration to this situation rests upon
the Master of the subordinate L odge ; the discretion of the Grand
Master is invoked only when the request includes t he conferring
of the first degree. Attention of Lodges is called to the fact that
in all cases the request must be communicated through the Grand
Master or the Grand Secretary.

-C-

In 1924 objection was made in one of oun Lodges to the advancement of two brothers who had received their first degree. The record is silent as to whether the procedure prescribed in Sections 110

A request was presented by the Grand Master of an eastern jurisdiction for permission that a California Lodge confer the three de-

a

V. Objection to Advancement.

-A-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and 111 was followed; the minutes of the Lodg~ showing m~r~l.y !he
adoption of a motion that the unearned portion of the m1tiat1on
fee be returned and a recital that the brothers were Entered Apprentice Masons only. Recently one of them filed his peti~ion i_n .
the regular way for the second and third degrees, accompanying his
petition with the necessary fee: The committee .reported favorably,
but upon ballot, the petition was rejected and the fee was ret.urned.
At a subsequent meeting a motion was carried to expunge this record from the minutes 1 apparently upon the theory that the brother
had not been legally s topped in connection with the original petition
and was entitled to his second and third degrees without petition.
This is verified by the fact that he subsequently wrote a letter
enclosing check for the unearned portion of the fee, and requesting
that he be given proper coaching and the remaining two degrees.
I ruled:
1. If, notwithstanding the facts which ~ere presented to me it
shall affirmatively appear that no action was taken pursuant to Sections HO and 111, if is the duty of the Master at this time to follow
under the original petition the procedure prescribed by those sections.
2. If there is no definite information other tha11 the record above
recited it will be presumed that the required procedure was followed;
presu~ptions being . always in favor of regularity as a.g ainst irre!P'larity. They were not entitled to refund of fees under any withdrawal or resignation and the Lodge having refunded the money
following the objection it is to be assumed that the necessary constitutional requirements for refund were observed.
Upon these
assumptions the only procedure through which the brethren are entitled to further degrees is by application in the regular way to the
Lodge in which they were originally elected, or by application to
another Lodge with waiver of jurisdiction by the original Lodge.
Except for the presumptions of regularity this matter is substantially covered by the discussion in Hea1ing 151 of Ross' Digest of
Decisions.

any formal record of the objections is immaterial; no record being
required save the record of the proceedings under Section llO.
I see no other logical courl!e to follow. If objection were made
to the outgoing Master following the annual election in December
and if his successor were installed before the next stated meeting,
the foregoing is the only procedure which would be possible; I do
not see that the mere extension of delay alters the situat~on.

34

-BA candidate received his first degree but objection was made to
his advancement.• The candidate not presenting himself for further
degrees no action pursuant to Section 110 was taken by the M~ster.
Following the installation of another Master, however, the candidate
applied for his second degree and the question was asked what procedure should be followed. I advised that the present Master should
follow Section 110 in the same manner as if the objection had been
presented to the present Master. I also advised that the lack of

35

VI. Avouchment.

-AOne of our Officers Associations inquired whether for the purpose
of vouching for a brother or for coaching .a candidate at the request
of a Lodge of which the coaching brother was ~ot a member, a torn
letter of identification can be used, one part of the letter being given
to the party to whom the avouchment is given and the other to the
brother or candidate for whom the avouchment is made. The essence of this question is whether avouchment must be transmitted
orally or whether a written communication is sufficient. I have
been unable to find any decision upon the question in this jurisdiction.
In principle there is no essential necessity for an oral communication if the written avouchment is sufficiently identified. Necessarily,
the vouching brother must be personally known by and identified
to the brother to whom the assurance is given, and such means of
communication must be adopted as will insure against possibility
of mistake or fraud. Mere possession of a fragment of a letter of
itself necessarily is insufficient, as the letter may 'be lost or stolen
and used by some person other than the one to whom it was delivered. However, if the identity of the person bearing the portion
of the letter is established there is no inherent objection to vouching
for a brother by written communication as well as by word of mouth.
Under such circumstances the identity can be established through
any of the customary methods, including signature, place of residence, business affiliations or other proper means of identification,
although care must be exercised to establish identification beyond
possibility of mistake.
As concerns avouchment among Masons as individuals the question is settled by Section .125 of the Constitution, which permits
such avouchment by one brother to another for a third brother, "all
three being present." This language precludes transmitted written
communications. The language does not in terms, however, apply
to a written avouchment addressed to the Master of the Lodge.
Doubtless the constitutional provision was enacted because of the
danger of careless identification unless all three brethren are per-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sonally present at the time of avouchment. The objection does not
apply with the same force to a written avouchment forwarded to the
Master of a Lodge, and the Constitution does not in terms prohibit
such written avouchment. I accordingly ruled:
1. That no avouchment is sufficient among Masons in their individual capacity unless all three parties concerned are present at the
time.
2. That if uncontrovertible evidence of identity is presented and
if the vouching brother is personally known to the Master of the
Lodge, a written communication by the vouching brother to the
Master of the Lodge is not prohibited by the Constitution and therefore is sufficient.
I am moved to rule formally and to this effect because of the
lack of discussion of the subject matter · in our decisions and the
frequency with which analogous questions are presented.

was asked whether under these circumstances he was a member at
the time of his death -of the Lodge to which he was elected to membership or whether he was still a member of the Lodge from which
he dimitted.

36

-BA brother received his first degree in a California Lodge and
subsequently received his second and third degrees in other Lodges
at the request of the California· Lodge. He subsequently dimitted to
another California Lodge and \n the meantime had never sat in
his own original Lodge as a Master Mason, although per the usual
certificate his name had been entered as a member of the Lodge, and
a dimit was issued to him in due course. He subsequently desired
to visit the original Lodge and the question arose whether his membership coupled with identification was a sufficient avouchment or
whether an examination was necessary.
I ruled that no examination was necessary if it appeared in the
usual manner that he was in good standing in the Lodge to which
he had dimitted. A Lodge should certainly take official notice of
its own membership if the identity of the member is established, even
though at the time no one is present who has sat in Lodge with the
brother. If the certificate that the degrees have been conferred by
request in another Lodge is sufficient to justify the entry of the
brother's name ·as a member of the original· Lodge, equally it should
be sufficient to establish his standing as a Master Mason as of that
date.
VII. Death Pending Affiliation.
A member of a California Lodge applied to another California
Lodge for affiliation and was elected. He died on the day he received his dimit but after the receipt of the dimit. He did not sign
the ~y-Lawf of the Lodge to which he was elected. The question

•

37

I replied that in my opinion he was a member at the time of his
death of the Lodge in which he was elected. The law seems clear
that membership in his original Lodge terminated with the Issuance
of. the dimit (Ross Digest, 2d Ed., Section 102). It is true that
Section 161 of the Constitution recites that "at the stated meeting
at which the dimit is presented the Secretary shall enter the applicant's name as a member of the Lodge." On its face this implies
that membership is not acquired until the dimit is presented at the
stated meeting of the Lodge to which the brother is elected. However, he loses his membership in his original Lodge upon the issuance of the dimit and it is inconceivable that it is the purpose of
the section to leave a brother, who died under the circumstances
above recited, in a situation in which he is not a member of either
Lodge. The purpose of the section, is to permit a brother to maintain membership in one Lodge until he acquires membership in another. His connection with the original Lodge terminates with the
issuance of the dimit and he has been elected in another Lodge; the
only reasonable construction of the section in the light of its purpose
seems to be that notwithstanding the language of the section the
brother becomes a member of the Lodge to which he has been
elected coincidentally with the issuance of the dimit by the original
Lodge. While not necessary for the decision of the present question
apparently the change in membership occurs at the time the request
for dimit is presented to the original Lodge ; the rule being that membership terminates upon presentation of a request for a dimit. (See
Section 102 above cited from Ross Digest.)

VI II. Automatic Expulsion.

-ASection 192 of the Constitution conditionally provides for automatic expulsion of a brother who shall suffer a final judgment of
conviction of a felony "and be imprisoned in pursuance thereof."
The question has been raised whether conviction immediately followed by release on probation satisfies this requirement. In one
instance the brother was convicted in Nevada of bank robbery, which
carries capital punishment, and in another instance the brother was
convicted of embezzling county funds. In both cases probation immediately followed conviction.
·

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The provision of our law requiring imprisonment as a condition
to automatic expulsion indicates that the constructive confinement
incident to probation does not satisfy its requirements. Except.
in the remote contingency of a pardon concurrently with conviction
final conviction necessarily results in either release on bail, release
on probation or imprisonment. If it were intended that the constructive confinement incident to probation or release on bail shall
permit automatic expulsion, then the reference in the law to imprisonment is superfluous. It is a settled rule o.f construction that
unless necessary to do so, no provision will be disregarded as meanirigless; I therefore advised that in my opinion the phrase "imprisoned in pursuance . thereoP' must be literally construed and that
unless conviction is followed by actual imprisonment the provisions
for automatic expulsion do not applt.'

by the Junior Warden under instructions from the Master. Under
such circumstances I have designated a Past Master to preside, but
I call the attention of our Lodges to the fact that there is no occasion
for the Master to direct the filing of charges. Both under Section
192 and under Section 189 it is the official duty of ,the Junior Warden
to prefer charges and there should be no necessity for instructions
from the Master. Of course, if a Junior Warden neglects his duty
in this respect it is incumbent on the Master to direc·t the filing of
the charges; however, the Junior Warden should act without the
necessity for special instructions.

-BA member of one of our Lodges was convicted of a felony, whereupon the court made an order that the "proceedings be suspended
and the defendant granted probation for a period of six years" under
condition that the first three years of that period be spent at the
county road camp, a part of the county penal system. The question
was asked whether this constitutes imprisonment following conviction within the meaning of tne pro\risions of Section 192 of the Constitution governing automatic_expulsion.
I replied that in my opinion the brother is subject to automatic
expulsion. Section 192 does not in te;ms provide that time shall
be served as a part of the sentence following the conviction· the
requirement being that he shall be imprisoned "in pursuance" of the
conviction. I see no distinction between imprisonment as an incident to sentence following conviction and imprisonment for a shorter
period in the county institution as a ccindition to probation. In
both cases the imprisonment is pursuant to the conviction and incident to the conviction and arises from the conviction. Our courts
have held that confinement in a road camp is imprisonment within
the meaning of the penal sections governing escape, which seems
to settle the question that the work at the road camp constitutes
imprisonment. The court evidently regarded the . road camp confinement as imprisonment; the order recites that modification of the
probation will be considered if the defendant shows a good record
after serving twenty months in the county jail.

IX. Junior Warden's Duly to Prefer Charges.
In several instances a request has been made for the desi.gnation
of a Past Master to preside at a trial because charges were preferred

89

X. Criminal Conviction as Evidence at Masonic Trials.
On several occasions the question has been presented whether the
certified record of final conviction in a criminal proceeding is prima
facie evidence in a Masonic t r ia l of guilt of the offense covered by
the criminal proceedings. Section 202 of the Constitution provides
for the use of transcripts of court tes•t imony and Section 192 covers
automatic expulsion, but I find no provision dealing with the use
of the record of conviction alone as a prima facie case in an ordinary
Masonic trial. In the report of the Grievance Committee, found
in Section 527 of Ross' Digest, it is held that such a record is not
evidence prior to its becoming final, but the report, except through
possible implication, does not determine the question now presented.
As the review of trial records goes to the Grievance Committee
I did not feel that I had authority to officially express an opinion.
Common sense dictates that such a conviction should constitute
prima facie proof, but -there are technical reasons which throw doubt
upon the subject, accentuated by our rule that in Masonic trials we
are not concluded by the determination of courts of the land.
Accordingly, I recommend that the Jurisprudence Committee
.consider this question and, if after deliberation, doubt exists in the
minds of the Committee as to the sufficiency of such a record of final
conviction to establish a prima facie case, that the Committee frame
appropriate legislation making it prima facie evidence of the commission of the crime involved. Whether the commission of that
crime constitutes a Masonic offense necessarily is for consideration
by the Masonic tribunal and the prima facie case afforded by the
record of conviction is subject to rebuttal; but the establishment
of such a rule will frequently save unnecessary expense to our
Lodges and in the interest of certainty there should be a definite
ruling upon the point.
XI. Penal Jurisdiction Following Suspension.
A brother suspended for non-payment of dues by one of the Hawaiian Lodges is alleged to have defrauded other Lodges by obtain-

40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ing loans and cashing worthless checks. He is not within the
territorial jurisdiction of the Lodge and the question was asked
whether the Lodge retained jurisdiction to try him on charges which
might be preferred or whether under Section 188 penal jurisdiction
is limited to the Lodge within whose jurisdiction he now resides.
I replied that in my opinion the restriction upon penal jurisdiction of a Mason who has been suspended "for cause" does not apply
to a Mason who has been suspended for non-payment of dues and
that the Lodge from which he was suspended retains penal jurisdiction.
The decision of Grand Master Curtis reported as No. 505 in our
Digest of Decisions and Regulations differentiates between suspension for non-payment of dues and suspension for cause and implies
that a suspension for non-payment of dues is not a tuspension for
cause within the meaning of the law. Section 188, after referring
to suspension for non-payment of dues, refers specifically in the last
sentence to suspension for cause, indicating upon .t he face of the
section that there is a distinction between the two and that suspension for non-payment of dues is not a suspension for cause within
the meaning of the section.

XII. Master's Discretion in Proceeding to Trial of Charges.
Charges were presented to the Master of a Lodge which, although informally drawn, undoubtedly upon their face sufficiently
charged the character of the offense, namely, illicit relations with
the accuser's wife.
With commendable conscientiousness the Master investigated
the circumstances of the case at great length and from numerous
sources; his ultimate conclusion being that the accuser was mistaken
in believing that impropriety existed. Investigations indicated that
the accuser was somewhat erratic and that he had previously made
similar charges without due justification. Because of this the Master desired to disregard the charges. Independently of the possibility of a mistaken conclusion on the part of the Master in so
serious a situation it is my view that if charges are presented, which
upon their face are sufficient, no jurisdiction exists on the part of
the Master to investigate the supporting evidence or to reject the
charges because in his opinion they cannot or will not be proven.
If charges, which are sufficient upoh their face, are presented by a
Master Mason in good standing, he is entitled to a trial of the
charge regardless of the opinion of anyone, and neither the Master
nor any committee appointed by the Master is authorized to go
behind them. My attention has been called to several instances in
which the Master appointed investigating committees; this, I believe,

•

is wholly without authority and constitutes a disclosure by the Ma~­
ter which at least technically violates our law. The accuser is
en;itled to have a duly elected commission pass upon the sufficiency
of such evidence as he may present in support of the charges, and
neither the Master nor anyone else except the trial commission can
go behind the support which the signature of the accuser gives. to
the suffidency of the accuser's reasons and grounds for preferring
the particular charges.

XIII. Trial Postponement Pending Civil Action.
The Master of a Lodge handed me for consideration charges
which have been presented to him in which the accuser charged the
accused with seducing and over a considerable period of time violating the chastity of ·t he accuser's wife. The Master stated that
the accuser admittedly intends to make the subject matter of these
charges a subject also for civil action; that the Master suggest~d
the postponement of a Masonic trial pending the result of the trial
in the civil courts, but that the accuser objects to the postponeme?t
on the ground that "he did not consider he would be able to obtam
justice in a civil action prior to a Masonic trial." The Master inquired whether he is obligated to proceed wi·th the trial.
I re~lied that while the Master is undoubtedly. obligated to. accept
the charges and while our law does not specifically provide for
postponement of the Masonic trial under such circumstances, nevertheless that in my opinion the spirit of our law contemplates deferring of Masonic trials under such circumstances; that in view of the
avowed purpose of the accuser to institute civil proceedings the
Master is justified in postponing the calling of a meeting to elect
commissioners under Section 193 until the trial in the courts of the
land has been determined, or until it shalt appear that such a c~vil
trial is not contemplated. This conforms to the purpose which
underlies the provision of the first sentence in Section 192. I also
called the Master's attention to the fact that no Mason is entitled
to use Masonic trial procedure for the purpose of obtaining evidence
to be used in a subsequent civil action.

XiV. Dues Pending Appeal.
A brother was tried by his Lodge and sentence fixed at expulsion the sentence taking effect November 6, 1930. At its Communicati~n of October, 1931, Grand Lodge reversed the judgment of .the
Lodge and remanded the proceedings for a new trial. At the time
of expulsion the brother's dues were paid to December 31, 1930.
Following the reversal he sought •t o pay his dues, but suggested
that dues should not run against him during the time intervening

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the expul~ion and the reversal by Grand Lodge, as he was deprived
of Mason~c benefits during that period and that the dues paid for
the unexpired balance of 1930 should also be credited to him.
I ruled that he was not entitled to credit on account of 1930 dues
but that 1931 dues did not commence to accrue against him until
the date of reversal by Grand Lodge. Under Section 206 of the
Constitution expulsion takes effect immediately. Grand Lodge, however, has r.u led that no refund can be made for a fraction of a
q~arter on account of dues which were paid in advance.
(Ross'
Digest of Decisions, Section 5-B.)

'

XV. Destruction of Lodge Hall:
The building in which was located the Lodge room of Fort Crook
Lodge, No. 575, was destroyed by fire and dispensation was reques~ed for the hol~ing of stated meetings in a temporary location
pending reconstruction of the building; there being no practical
~eans. of following consHtu~ional requirements . for change of location, dispensation was granted to meet the emergency, relying upon
the general powers vested in the Grand Master during recess of
Grand Lodge.
·
XVI. Masonic Opening at Decoto.
Several times in the past requests have been made by some of the
brothers at the Decoto Home ·that their club be permitted to open
and close _in Masonic form. The same request has been made this
year and necessarily it was refused. It should be self-evident that
these ceremonies can be used only in opening and closing a regular
Lodge meeting in its own Lodge room.

T~e .decision is mentioned not because of any uncertainty, but to
submit .1t for .a~proval. to Grand Lodge in order that there may be
a. definite dec1s1on which will avoid the necessity for further repetiti.ons of request a~d ne~essary refusal. Alt Grand Masters apprec1at~ ~nd symp~th1ze with the motives which inspire the request,
but 1t 1s one which carinot be granted.
XVII. Public Appearance ;, Lodge.
~he brethren ?f one of our Lodges were invited by a clergyman

serving as c~aplain of the Lodge to attend divine service on a given
Sunday evening at the church to which he ministered. The question
was asked whether without a dispensation the brethren could assem~le at the Lodge room and proceed to the church in Masonic clothing.
I repli~d that Section 115 of the Constitution prohibits the use
of Masonic · clothi~g in public except at a funeral "or for the performance of some ·other strictly Masonic duty or ceremony." Under

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

43

thi& section it was held by Past Master Rucker (Digest of Decisions,
Section 53) that notwithstanding the prohibition, t he members of a
Lodge might, without a dispensation, assemble and appear in Masonic clothing for the purpose of decorating the graves of deceased
Masons. Tribute to the Supreme Architect should be a Masonic
duty of equal importance to respect for the dead.
Based merely upon a construction of the language of the Constitution I should seriously doubt the right of brethren to assemble
without a dlspensation for the purpose of attending divine service
in Masonic clothing, but upon the authority of the a bove mentioned
decision, which has been approved by Grand Lodge, I advised the
brethren that they were within their rights in attending divine service 'as a body and in Masonic clothing without a dispensation.

XVIII. Financial Returns of Lodges.
At the 82d Annual Communication of Grand Lodge a resolution
was adopted (1931 Proceedings, page 707) directing t hat a summary
of the income and disbursements of each Lodge be included in its
annual return. The question was raised as to what period of time
should be covered by the financial statement, the r esolution being
silent upon that subject. No annual period being specified and the
statement being required as a part of the annual return, the logical
conclusion is that the financial s tatement shalt cover the same period
of time as is embraced by other statistics in the return, and I ruled
accordingly.
X I X . Charity.
A Lodge presented for advice the question of its obligation to one
of its char ter members, who demands as a matter of right, under
Section 90 of the Constitution, that the Lodge make the fotlowing
annual payments to him:
Interest on mortgage on his home ..........................$206.50
Premium on $10,000 life insurance ........................ 700.00
T axes ········- ······- ·····- ····-··········-·-·······-····················· 104.00
Living expenses at $65 p er month .......................... 780.00

Total.........................._ .......................................$1790.50
The brother also desired that his house be painted and that in
addition to the above payments he be supplied clothing, medical and
hospital attention, tight, water, gas, etc. He has borrowed $4000
on the life insurance policy, plus $500 additional on account of delinquency of the last premium payment, leaving a net prospective value
of $5500. If the brother lives his present life expectancy of nine
years the premiums will aggregate $6300.

44

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The brother is a charter member of the Lodge. He is sev~ty
years of age and his family consists of his wife and his son, fOrtysix years of age, who is a Mason and unable to work.
Under definite existing decisions I advised that the Lodge was
neither obligated nor authorized to pay the insurance premiums;
also that the Lodge is not justified in paying carrying charges on
the real estate unless it constitutes the cheapest procedure for paying rent.
Particularly under present economic condition~ the question of
charity by our Lodges and the fraternity is a serious one. Our organization is not an insurance benefit society and the charity which
we extend is, I feel, granted as a matter of brotherhood and fraternity and not as a matter of right. No Mason who receives extensive
charity from his Lodge has paid to the fraternity in either fees or
dues an amount equivalent to th.e charity received; nor is financial
protection the primary purpose of Masonry.
Notwithstanding the provisioru; of Section 90 I cannot persuade
myself that our Lodges are obliged to permanently support all
needy members regardless· of financial conditions, and if that section
is to be literally construed I strongly recommend that its language
be revised.
·
I advised the Lodge that no one member, however great his
need, is entitled to exhaust the available funds of the Lodge and
that while disbursements for charity must be made in a spirit of
brotherhood and generosity, nevertheless they must be made with
due regard for present and prospective requirements of other members of the Lodge. Accordingly I advised in this case that the
charity to be extended must be determined in the light of the resources of the Lodge and the present and prospective requirements
of other members, and that in the first instance it is incumbent upon
the Lodge to . determine for itself what can and should be done, having due regard to the fraternal spirit upon which our organization
rests; but that no member, as a matter of right, can demand that
unreasonable expenditures be made for his benefit, nor can he dictate
to the Lodge the amount of its charity r1or the manner in which
the relief shali be extended.
ro permit adequate relief which is within the resources of the
Lodge it may be necessary to change the manner and place of living
of the distressed brother, including residence in surroundings or
under circumstances other that\ those which he prefers. These are
questions within the discretion of ·t he Lodge, and in the event of
difference of opinion or desire, the brother must yield to the conclus!ons of his Lodge if those conclusions are reached in a fraternal
and Masonic spirit.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

46

n .this connection I . called attention to the decision .of Pa~t
Gra~ Master Ross, found under Heading 437 of the D1~est, .m

whic he emphasizes the propriety of using sources of ?ubhc r~hef
wher they are available and adequate or where necessity requires.
XX. Salary of Treasurer.
Inquiry was made whether a Lodge constitutionally can pay ~
salary to its Treasurer. In the particular case it has been the cu~
tom of the Lodge to pay a salary equal to the annual dues of the
Treasurer.
. I replied that in my opinion this is not a ?~oper pr~ct~ce.
The
treasurership is regarded as an honorary pos1t1on and 1t 1s not customary to pay a ~alary. The small amount of salary p~id indicates
that it constitutes an appreciation rather than compensation for services rendered. I can see no more occasion to pay a salary to the
Treasurer than to the Master.
The only direct legislation which . I find is Section 88 of the
Constitution which authorizes the expenditure of Lodge funds for
"necessary ~xpenses"; I do not feel that a nominal salary to the
Treasurer is a "necessary" expense.
The latter portion of Section 128 authorizes the annual remission
of "accrued" dues of members who render special service for th.e
Lodge. Possibly the performance of the duties of :rreasurer c~nstt­
tutes special service, although I do not so regard _it under or~m~ry
circumstances. At best this section merely authonzes the rem1ss1on
of dues in so many words; it does not authorize payment of a salary
equivalent to dues. However this may be, I regard it as a dangerous
procedure to even permit the remission of dues as compensation for
the services of a Treasurer and I accordingly advised that the payment of this salary is not permissible.
XX!. Delinquent Dues of Expelled Mason.
A ·member of one of our Lodges was expelled but was subsequently reinstated by Grand Lodge. At the time of the expulsion
he owed dues amounting to $52.52. Inquiry was made whether the
Lodge can now collect the delinquency which had accrued at date
of expulsion and if so in what manner.
I replied that in my opinion the Lodge has no redress. Under
Section 108 of the Constitution expulsion operates as a complete
termination of membership. When the brother is restored to membership by action of Grand Lodge under Section 211, he is restored
"to the ·r ights and privileges of Masonry," except that his membership in the particular Lodge is not reinstated. The restoration operates as a new membership following a complete severance and I

46

/

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

'

J

see no procedure by which the Lodge, of which he is no lonJr a
member, can collect delinquent dues. According to the decision of
~rand Master i;ng~llotti, approved by Grand Lodge in 1899 ($eadmg 467 of Ross Digest), a restored brother becomes without action
on his part "a Mason in good standing, entitled to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry" and is "in effect a non-affiliated Mason in
good standing." This decision presupposes the elimination of all
past delinquencies and if liability for dues which were delinquent
at the time of expulsion still attaches he is not "a non-affiliated
Mason in good standing."
•
Doubtless. in its discretion Grand Lodge could make the payment of delinquent dues a condition to restoration, but not having
done so the act of restoration, in my judgment, is final and leaves no
MasoniC procedure for collection of dues. Apparently the only
remedy available to the Lodge is the collection of the amount as an
ordinary contract liability to the Lodge. I am confirmed in this
view by the fact that under•Section 213 notice must be given to the
Lodge before restoration can be acc~mplished; this gives to the
Lodge an opportunity t.o present any objection.s it desires, including
delinquency in payment of dues.

XXII. Refreshment Fund.
One of our Lodges inquired whether in computing the amount
of the twenty per cent fund available for refreshment and the promotion of fraternal intercourse, under Section 89, Grand Lodge dues
or fees must first be deducted, or whether computation is made upon
the gross income.
I replied that in my opinion there is available for this fund twenty
per cent of the revenue without first deducting Grand Lodge per
capita, whether the per capita be paid for the Masonic Homes or
other G_rand Lodge purposes, but that in computing the revenue of
the Lodge the sum of $25 paid by each candidate for the benefit of
the Homes is not a part of the revenue of the Lodge. Section 89
prescribes that "twenty per cent of the total revenue" is available.
On the other hand, Subdivision · 1 of Section 41 prescribes that the
payment of $25 shall be collected directly from the petitioner for the
use and benefit of the Homes; in fact, the Lodge acts as an agent
for Grand Lodge in collecting this sum of $25 from the petitioner.
Apparently it is not contemplated tha·t the amount should be a part
of the revenue of the Lodge as such; on the other hand, the per
capita tax is paid from the general funds of the Lodge.
XXIII. Candidate's Payment for Masonic Homes.
Correspondence in connection with attempts to establish two
classes of affiliation fees in By-Laws indicates a misapprehension on

GRAND LOD GE OF CALIFORNIA

the\ part of some Lodges as to the status of th~ ~~5 payment ~or the
Ma¥>nic Homes which is collected under Subd1v1s1on 1 of Section 41
It is my interpretation of the law that this $25 paym ent forms no
part of the initiation or affiliation fee stipulated in the By-Laws and
I have so advised; if the fee stipulated in the By-Laws for degrees is
$75 the Lodge collects $100 from the candidate. If t he stipulated
affiliation fee is $1 the Lodge collects $26 unless (under the 1931
amendment) the affiliate brother has made the $25 payment under a
former application for degrees or affiliation.

· XXIV. Life Membership Resol·ution.
The question has arisen whether the 1931 amendment to Section
129, governing life membership resolutions, is self executing or
whether it is necessary for the Lodges which have adopted such a
resolution to amend that resolution to conform to the 1931 amendment. I have taken the view that the amendment is merely directory and that it is necessary for all Lodges to take a ffirmative action
amending the standing res-0lution.
XX V . Corner Stones.
An invitation was extended to lay, during Public Schools Week,
the corner stone of a grammar school building. It appeared, however, that the building has been occupied as a school for several
months although the corner stone has n-0t been set, the statement
being made that "it was deemed advisable to wait for an auspicious
moment before so doing."
In the light of precedents established by previous Grand Masters
and in conformity with Masonic tradition, I felt obliged to decline
the invitation, although I did so with regret because of the appr?priateness of the occasion. Properly a corner stone should be laid
as a part of the foundation and before any portion of the walls has
been reared and this fact should be well known to the craft. Because of th~ recently increasing tendency to request the laying of
corner stones for buildings when the steel framework is up, or a substantial portion of the walls is in place, or even when the building
is substantially or entirely completed, I call the matter to the attention of Grand Lodge.
W hile Grand Masters in the past · have
sometimes shut their eyes to a partial erection of ·t he building I
know of no instance in which the corner stone of a completed and
occupied building has been laid by Grand Lodge. The ceremony
is far more significant if the corner stone is laid at the proper t ime,
when no portion ·of the building other than founda tion is in place,
and it is as easy to arrange for the laying of the corner stone at this
stage of the building instead of a later period in the construction.

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

i.

.
XXVI. Degree Teams.
Substantial differences of opinion exist in the jurisdiction
to
the efficiency and advisability of so-called degree teams, and in . rde.r
that there may be some declaration of policy upon the part of Grand
Lodge, I shall as a ruling briefly outline my views upon the subject.
Ritualistic perfection is essential to successful Lodge activity, but
at best it is a means to an end, and the vital factor in all Lodge work
is the interest of the individual Mason. If, and to the extertt that a
degree team legitimately promotes general interest and increases
.
attendance, it is a valuable contribution, provided:
1. Work shall be conferred by a degree team at the request of •·
the Master and not at the solicitation of the team or its representative. I am told that there are instances in which teams have
practically insisted upon their right to confer the degree. The responsibility for the work of each Lodge rests upon the Master, and 1
whether a team shall serve or not rests in his arbitrary discretion.
Any team which presumes to dictate or to attem.pt to unduly influence a Master should be summarily disbanded.
Z. Conferring of degrees by a degree team should be an exceptional event; primarily it is the function of the officers of the Lodge
to fi 11 the chairs.
3. Only an efficient degree team should be permitted to act. In
this respect the responsibility rests with the Master, and he should
not request or permit a team to serve without first obtaining reliable
assurance of its efficiency. Because of the exceptional character of
the occasion on which the degree team is used, its work should be
more, rather than less, efficient than the work of the regular officers.
4. It is an indispensable condition that the work of the degree
team in both sections of the third degree shall be conducted in a
dignified manner consistent with the high purposes ef Masonry and
the impression which the degree is designed to create in the mind of
the candidate. Too frequently, on the part of both degree teams and
regular officers, there is a tendency to make light of one section of
this degree, thereby depriving the candidate of the noble teachings
which that section is designed to exemplify.
'XXVII. Uniform Code of By-Laws.

-AOne of our Lodges presented for approval an amendment to its
by-laws dispensing generally with affiliation fees, but providing that
the fee should be $50.00 if the application were based upon a dimit
from the Lodge in question. The letter accompanying the amend-

· GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49

ment disclosed that the dues of that Lodge are high and are found
burdensome under present financial conditions. Many of the members are taking dimits with the avowed intention of subsequently
reapplying for membership if the dues are reduced and/or when
financial conditions improve. The brethren of the Lodge regarded
this as an injustice to those who continued their membership in the
Lodge, notwithstanding present hardships. I felt obliged to rul~ that
the Uniform Code of By-Laws is inflexible, and that there 1s no
provision for two classes of affiliation fees; the amendment therefore
was disapproved.
Because of my opinion that the Uniform Code of By-Laws is
inflexible, I similarly disapproved an amendment whereby one affiliation fee is charged for members from this jurisdiction and a different and larger fee for members affiliating from other jurisdictions.
Frequently, amendments have been presented in which there were
minor departures from the language of the Uniform Code, but without changing the meaning. In each instance I have required that the
amendment conform to the Code. It is my understanding that the
language of the Uniform Code is inflexible to the dotting of an "i"
and the crossing of a "t," and that the only discretion allowed to
Lodges is the literal one of making appropriate insertions in the
blanks found in the Uniform Code. In this connection, I call attention to the carelessness of many Secretaries. With few exceptions,
it was the evident intent of the Secretary to follow the language of
the Code, but I think it is a conservative estimate to say that in fifty
per cent of the amendments which were presented for approval, there
were departures from the Code either by paraphrasing expressions
or by omitting or adding words without changing the meaning. It
does not seem uncharitable to say that no brother is competent to
act as Secretary of a Lodge who is unable to at least copy without
mistakes ~ single paragraph from the Uniform Code.

-BFollowing the recent action of Grand Lodge by which the Uniform Code of By-Laws was amended to provide for the payment of
dues quarterly in advance on the first day of January, April, July
and October, many of our Lodges formally amended their By-Laws
and forwarded a certificate of amendment for approval by the Grand
Master.
Section 8 of the Constitution reserves to Grand Lodge the inalienable right to adopt, amend or repeal the Uniform Code of By-Laws
for subordinate Lodges. In 1911 Grand Master Weller held that it

61

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

was not necessary for Lodges to adopt amendments for the purpose
of accomplish1ng conformity of the By-Laws of a particular Lodge
to the Uniform Code. The report of the Jurisprudence Committee
approving the decision appears to definitely establish the rule that
under this section of the Constitution any action of Grand Lodge
amending the uniform Code is self-executing and that the only function of the Lodge is to change the existing By-Laws from time to
time as amendments are adopted by Grand Lodge; these changes
being merely the clerical act of the Secretary and requiring neither
action of the Lodge nor approval by the Grand Master. While I
originally approved a few of these amendments I subsequently, on
the authority of Section 8 of the Constitution and this approved
decision of Past Grand Master Weller, declined to approve further
amendments on the ground that the action of the Lodge was superfluous.

the present critical demands for assistance to the living, I did not
feel justified in authorizing the Board of Relief to incur this expense,
although I sincerely regretted the probable alternative of burial in
the Potter's Field. I suggested that the Board guarantee the expense
with the expectation that there would be sufficient equity in the real
estate to permit direct collection of the undertaker's bil1, but ·was
advised that the chance of such an equity appeared negligible. It is
possible that I have overlooked some decision or regulation upon
the subject, but unless the matter is already covered, I think Grand
Lodge should prescribe a definite rule, as this is a situation which
arises from time to time.

50

XXVIII. Funeral Expenses of Masan's Widow.
One of our Boards of Relief, whose claim for a substantial amount
of charity extended to a member of an Eastern Lodge was recently
rejected by the Board of Control, inquired regarding its right and/or
obligation to bury the remains of the aged widow of another Eastern
Mason. The brother himself died twenty years ago, and was buried
in California. The widow was over ninety years of age and, prior
to her death, expressed a wish that her remains be cremated and the
ashes deposited in her husband's grave. .Prior to her death, the
Eastern Lodge refused to authorize any charity, apparently because
she received a small pension and was able to live in a little home which
is mortgaged for its full value. Col!ditions immediately prior to her
death became so critical that the amount was insufficient and at the
last the local Board of Relief advanced approximately $75.00 for
necessary assistance, which the Eastern Lodge refused to either
authorize or reim.burse. That Lodge also declined to authorize funeral expenses. The Board of Relief was unwilling to bear the expense without assurance of reimbursement through the Board of
Control, although the amount was only about $75.00 above embalming
expense already incurred. I was unable to find any authority for the
payment of funeral expenses under these circumstances. The obligation to bury a Mason in good standing seems clear, although he
belongs in anoth'er jurisdiction and that jurisdiction refuses to pay;
equally, we are obligated to assist his widow during her lifetime.
While to a degree the same reasons may seem to apply to respectable
burial for the widow, under all of the circumstances and in view of
the previous rejection of claims by the Board of Control as well as

XXIX. Conferring of Degrees in Nevada by a California Lodge Upon
Its Own Candidate.
One of our Lodges requested permission to confer a third degree
on one of its own members in the hall of a Nevada Lodge pursuant
to invitation from the latter Lodge. I replied that no Lodge can
meet outside of its own Lodge room, but that I saw no objection
to the officers, as individuals, attending a meeting of a recognized
Lodge in Nevada and, if requested by the Master of that Lodge to
act, conferring a degree in that Lodge; the meeting, however, being
a meeting of the Nevada Lodge. I also advised that the only procedure by which the degree at that meeting could be conferred on a
Fellow-Craft belonging to a California Lodge was through formal
action by the California Lodge requesting the Nevada Lodge to
confer the degree, that request to be transmitted through the Grand
Master or the Grand Secretary of this jurisdiction to the Grand
Master of Nevada. The language of Section 155 of the constitution
permitting the conferring of the third degree on a California candidate in "another Lodge" is not restricted to another Lodge in this
jurisdiction; being general in its form. I see no reason for not
applying it to a Lodge in another jurisdiction. Nor does the section
restrict the reasons for the request to residents in the other jurisdiction or other analogous causes. Whether the reason for the request
is sufficient is a question to be determined by the respective Grand
Masters when the situation is presented. While Section 155 does
not in terms require that the request from a Lodge of this jurisdiction
to a Lodge of another jurisdiction shall be transmitted through the
Grand Master . or the Grand Secretary of this jurisdiction, the fact
that requests from another jurisdiction must come through its Grand
Master or Grand Secretary to the Grand Master or Grand Secretary
of this jurisdiction, implies that this is the proper procedure.

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Recommendations

I. Educational Committee.
The matter of Masonic education was left in the hands of the Grand
Master for investigation, a contingent appropriation being provided.
During the year no committee has been appointed, nor has active educational work been undertaken, except that a special committee has
been appointed to foster the celebration of the George Washington
Bicentennial in this jurisdiction, the expense of that committee being
borne by the appropriation last mentioned. I have refrained from
further action, partly from motives of economy and partly through
uncertainty as to a procedure whose results would justify further
investment of our funds.
Proper Masonic education is a critical question and a crying need,
but the means to be adopted and the educational lines to be followed
are subjects of widespread diversity of opinion. That through the
years gone by we have neglected the cultivation through education of
a fraternal and progressive spirit upon the part of our L\:idges, seems
self-evident. If we had expended upon these activities a tithe of the
money and energy which during my Masonic memory have been devoted to the perfection of the ritual, we would not today, I believe, be
concerned either with lack of interest in our Lodges or with a problem
of Masonic education. I have no criticism to offer for development of
the ritual, but the ritual at best is only a means to an end, and should
constitute only a minor consideration in our Masonic activities.
Lodges cannot live for ritual, nor will our membership attend for
ritual, nor will ritual alone accomplish the mission of Masonry. Unless we can retain the fraternal spirit and the lively interest which
characterized our early brethren and the meetings of our earlier
Lodges, then the usefulness of Masonry has terminated. While I have
given considerable thought to the subject, I do not feel justified in
making concrete recommendations. I am, however, convinced that
the only satisfactory procedure, if any, for Grand Lodge activity in
this respect, is the appointment of a salaried Grand Lodge representative who will devote his entire time to this work in the same manner
in which the ritual is so splendidly perfected and maintained by our
present Grand Lecturer. I am inclined to the view that it should be
the work of this representative not to lecture to our Lodges or to give
instruction, but to devote his time to the promotion of independent
efforts on the part of OU(' Lodges, in the same manner in which my
predecessor Grand Masters have cultivated interest in officers' associations. The man who can properly fill such a position is not easy to
find, and it would be better that Grand Lodge do nothing for five

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

53

years than that we should prematurely select a man who is not fitted
to the task; a task which I believe presents the greatest problem of
modern Masonry.
I recommend that a committee of not less than three nor more than
five be appointed by the incoming Grand Master to study this question,
and to report its conclusions at the next communication of Grand
Lodge, either in such general form or expressed in such con~rete
legislation as the committee may deem advisable. If the committee
reaches the conclusion that there should be a full time paid representative of Grand Lodge to handle this activity, and if through its investigations it has come in contact with a man whom it believes
competent to discharge that duty, I recommend that the committee,
in conjunction with its report, nominate the man of its choice. I feel
that the permanent work should be handled through some committee
and that flexibility of administration should be obtained by making
this position appointive through a committee rather than elective
through Grand Lodge. An elective official of normal personality, who
occupies office for a number of successive years, inevitably gains the
confidence and love of his brethren. It is conceivable that in the course
of years it would be to the interest of Grand Lodge that a change in
office be made. The difficulty of such a change in an elective office
is obvious and for that reason I believe that efficiency will be promoted thr~ugh an appointive officer coming under the jurisdiction of
a committee either appointed by the Grand Master or consisting of
the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand Master and the Grand Wardens.
My views in this respect are strengthened by the fact that for a few
years at least the work necessarily will be experimental, mistakes may
be made in the selection of a representative, and the greatest freedom
should be permitted during the experimental stage to obtain the best
man qualified for the undertaking.

II. Moving Pictures of Grand Masters.
Pursuant to action of Grand Lodge at its last communication, a
committee was appointed for the purpose of investigating the expense
for procuring moving pictures of our living Past Grand Masters, and
to make the proper arrangements upon approval by the Finance Committee.
I have been somewhat regretfully obliged to concur in the conclusion of these committees that this action is inadvisable for the
present. The minimum conservative expense estimate is $1500.00, and
the permanent value of the records is doubtful in view of rapidly
changing methods in the industry. E'x perience indicates that it is
quite probable that within a few years it would be impossible to :ent
proper projecting machines for pictures taken at the present time,

54

55

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and to acquire permanent title to projection apparatus adequate for
proper use of the films in coming years would incur excessive expense.
In times when the immediate demands for the relief of human
suffering are so urgent, I recommend that the taking of these pictures
at least be temporarily deferred.

stance. It is desirable that there be some permanent body which will
administer all such relief, to which reports will be made from time ~o
time, and which will, through contacts with relief extended, avoid
overlooking termination of relief when the need has ceased.
I therefore recommend the enactment of appropriate legislation
for the appointment of a permanent committee to have in charge direct
Grand Lodge relief of every type. Such legislation should supersede
present provision for tuberculosis cases, but should not infringe the
jurisdiction of the Board of Control.

III. Finl)ncial Conditions.
During the past year Grand Lodge itself has suffered from reduced
revenue and increased demands, and during the coming year there
should be such further retrenchment as is reasonably possible. · Retrenchment is desirable, not only because of our own financial situation, but as an object lesson to our Lodges. Many of them are in a
precarious situation, and at least some of them have not administered
their funds as carefully as they might. Expenses should be budgeted,
income should be conserved, and the present situation should be used
as an opportunity to place the administration of all our Lodges on a
sound financial basis. Notwithstanding Grand Loqge deficits, it is to
be hoped that it will not be necessary to increase our per capita tax.
Of all our work, our Homes have suffered the most severely from loss
of revenue; to relieve that situation, I recommend that the per capita
tax, which normally is credited to the building fund, be transferred at
least for the coming year to general maintenance o( the Homes, as I
feel that the avoidance of unnecessary hardsh~ upon the Lodges under
present conditions is more important than the addition to the building
fund. If, upon a review of the financial situation by the Finance Committee, it shall be found that the entire amount of this fifty cents per
capita is not required for this purpose, the amount withheld from the
building fund can be modified accordingly.
IV. Grand Lodge Relief.
From time to time applications are made for Grand Lodge relief,
many of which require prompt action, and all of which should be
investigated. I find no comprehensive and expeditious procedure; on
occasion the relief has been provided through the Masonic Homes, and
special provision has been made for the relief of tuberculosis cases.
Without formal authority, I appointed a committee which has handled
these matters most satisfactorily during the past year, consisting of
Past Grand Master Charles M. Wollenberg and Brothers Arthur Joel
and Leo Bruck at San Francisco, and Grand Senior Warden James B.
Gist and Brothers John W. Crawford and Earl Thaxter at Los Angeles. The composition of this committee covered both sections of the
State, and in both sections linked it to both the work of the Masonic
Homes and of the Relief Boards. The burden should not be imposed
upon the Grand Master of directly investigating Grand Lodge relief,
nor should he be obliged to appoint a special committee in each in-

V. Life Membership Funds
An attempt has been made through legislation to control the investment of life membership funds, but' there is an' ever present
danger of diversion or expenditure of these funds th~ough lax~tr or
ill advised investment or lack of proper records. Durmg my vlSlt to
the conference of Grand Masters at Washington, I learned from the
Grand Master of Oregon of legislation recently adopted in that State
at his suggestion, and which I believe might well be followed in California. Briefly stated, all life membership funds are held in custody
by Grand Lodge, investment being made through a special ~ommitt~e
appointed for that purpose. Each Lodge holds a pro rata interest m
the total fund, depending upon the amount of life membership moneys
held by Grand Lodge in trust for the particular Lodge. The Lodge
exercises no control over the fund, but regularly receives its proportion of the income. I can see no objection to this procedure, and it
possesses many obvious advantages. Through an investment of so
large a sum, distribution of investment is possible, which can not be
accomplished through investment by the individual Lodge. Investment being handled by a general committee of men experienced in
financial affairs there is greater assurance of secure investment than
if the investme~t is made directly by local Lodges whose officers in
many instances are not skilled in financial affairs. The plan eliminates
possibility of diversion of the fund ~y the ~o~al Lodge,. :Whether
through expenditure or investment m proh1b1ted securities, ~d
whether the possibility of diversion exists in carelessness, finan~ial
pressure upon the Lodge, lack of sufficient information or otherwise.
I recommend that legislation be enacted for the creation of such a
committee requiring that all life membership funds now held by
Lodges be' transmitted to the committee, and that all future life membership payments be forwarded immediately to the committee when
received. While not an essential part of the recommendation, it may
well be found advisable to provide for a special, adequately bonded
Treasurer for this committee so that no fear may exist of commingling
of these funds with other Grand Lodge funds. If the Treasurer of

..
56

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge acts as Treasurer for these funds, they should be kept
scrupulously segregated from other funds, and fidelity in connection
with them should be covered by an independent bond.

VI. Investment of Life Membership Funds.
Section 129 of the Constituti~n provides that life membership funds
shall be "invested in securities legal for Savings Banks under the laws
of the State o.f California and the Territory of Hawaii." The history
of the provision is that an amendment was proposed which referred
to Savings Bank investments under California law; at the time the
amendment was adopted the point was raised that Hawaiian Lodges
should be authorized to invest in securities which are legal for Savings
Banks in the Hawaiian Islands and the amendment from the floor was
adopted in its present language. Undoubtedly it was the intent of
Grand Lodge that securities which are legal investments for Savings
Banks either in California or the Islands shall be acceptable, but a
literal construction of the existing language would limit investments
to securities which are legal in both jurisdictions, eliminating securities which are recognized under the laws of only one of the two named
jurisdictions.
For the purpo~e of practicaf results and because of the history of
the legislation, I have advised Lodges that they are justified in investing these funds in securities which are legal either under the laws of
California or under the laws of the Territory of Hawaii. In the interest
of future clarity, however, I recommend that the clause be amended
to read "invested in securities legal for Savings Banks under either the
laws of the State of California or the laws of the Territory of Hawaii."
If desired, the change can be so worded that Hawaiian Lodges are
regulated by the laws of Hawaii and California Lodges by the laws
of California, but such a provision is somewhat cumbersome and to my
mind is not essential.
VII. Exemption from Dues.
One of the brothers who received a fifty year button during the
past year suggested that through action of Grand Lodge all brethren
who are .qualified to receive fifty year buttons be exempted from paying dues to their Lodge and be correspondingly omitted in computing
payments accruing from their Lodge to Grand Lodge.
He recited the fact that many Lodges remit the dues of older members who are unable to pay, but that such action savors of charity
which should be avoided. He feels that because of the advanced
years of such members no unreasonable burden would be imposed
upon our Lodges thereby.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

In conformity with his request that the matter be presented to
Grand Lodge I submit the suggestion for appropriate action by Grand
Lodge in its discretion.

VIII. Addresses on Stationery.
The stationery provided for Inspectors bears only the title of Grand
Lodge and the number of the Inspection District. Unless the Inspector in each instance is sufficiently thoughtful to append his address,
the party with whom he corresponds is obliged to locate the address
through other sources before replying. The expense of printing an
address is small !Ind I recommend that the Inspector's name and
address be supplied on his stationery.
In this connection I call the attention of the officers of Lodges to
the fact that a very substantial portion of the letters which are sent
to the Grand Master bear no address. In other instances, the stationery for many of our Lodges bears only the address of the Lodge room
which means delay in receipt by Master or Secretary of a reply which
is addressed to the ~odge room, and which normally is not received
until the next meeting night.
IX. Masonic Temple Associations.
In one of our Lodges a bitter controversy developed between the
Inspector (who was a member of the Lodge) and three Past Masters
who held the office of Trustees, and in which controversy most of the
Past Masters were involved. The situation was inexcusable and illustrated two evils. After exhaustive investigation, both personally and
by proxy, I was satisfied that the underlying cause of the friction was
the disposition of the Inspector on the one hand to exercise a controlling influence on the Lodge, and a similar disposition on the other
hand on the part of the Trustees. This paternalistic attitude on the
part of Trustees, and the inadvisability of the now unnecessary Trus·
tee system, is mentioned elsewhere in this report. I am equally of the
opinion that, while many Lodges take pride in the fact that their
Lodge is in the Inspection District of one of their number, nevertheless, this situation also contains inadvisable possibilities for friction
and paternalism. A Past Master who is also Inspector is no more than
human if he does not feel that more attention should be paid to his
recommendations than to the recommendations of other Past Masters,
and having the welfare of his Lodge at heart he is again no more than
human if he does not unconsciously develop a paternalistic attitude
and dominating influence. Attempts to change this situation meet
with determined opposition, but I believe the welfare of Masonry will
be promoted in the long run if our Lodges and our Inspectors will
jointly agree that, wherever practical, no Lodge shall have one of its
own number for Inspector. Notwithstanding vehement statements

58

69

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that the dangers of the situation are magnified, the fact remains that
during the single year in which I have served as Grand Master several
pointed illustrations have come to my attention, and it is reasonable
to assume that an approximately equal number of other and similar
situations arise each year; naturally no Inspector will admit even to
himself that such a situation exists in his own ca·s e; nor is it likely
that the Lodge itself will concede the situation. The fact remains
that such situations which are obvious to third parties repeatedly
present themselves. This particular illustration is mentioned because
of another important point which was involved.
The Lodge holds all of the stock (except one share which cannot
be located) of the Temple Association whose building it occupies.
From time to time surplus funds of the Lodge have been advanced in
one form or another to the Temple Association untH all of its debts
have been discharged. Notwithstanding freedom from debt, and the
receipt of an adequate maintenance income, payments from the Lodge
have been continued as funds were available, so that practically the
entire surplus of the Lodge, amounting to some $5,000.00, is in the
hands of the Temple Association, and was deposited by the Temple
Association in a building and loan association from which it cannot
at present be withdrawn. A ~ote to cover the amount was issued by
the Temple Association to the Lodge. The Inspector insisted that
the Treasurer of the Lodge was the proper custodian for its funds,
and that if the amount could not be paid in cash, the deposit with the
Loan Association should be transferred from the Temple Association
to the Lodge, thereby cancelling the note and placing the funds under
the direct control of the Lodge and in the custody of its Treasurer.
Upon appeal to the Grand Master, the Trustees objected to this procedure, giving as a primary reason the fear that if the money were in
the custody of the treasurer the Lodge might be unduly tempted to
expend it, and that the further they could get the funds from the
direct control of the Lodge, the greater the security afforded against
dissipation of the money. I ruled that the Inspector was correct in
his contention, however praiseworthy the motives of the Trustees
might be. As, already stated, it was self-evident from the discussion
that underlying these opposing contentions was a struggle between
the Inspector and the Trustees for domination in the Lodge, notwithstanding the fact that, as members of the Lodge, neither the Inspector
nor the Trustees were entitled to any greater influence than any other
Past Master, and that, except as their advice is sought, Past Masters
themselves should remember that they are entitled only to the same
voice as any other member. In the discharge of his official duties the
Inspector should be treated as the representative of the Grand Master
but in his capacity of a member of the Lodge he is on a level with hi~

fellow members. The Trustees have no authority whatever; they are
mere naked custodians of title, whose duty it is to be governed exclusively by the instructions and wishes of the Lodge. In connection
with this particular situation, I feel that there is a weakness in our
law. The erection of temples is subject to control of Grand Lodge
through the supervision of the Committee on Financing Building
Projects. There is, however, no specific limitation upon the manner
in which Lodge funds shall be invested in the securities of Temple
Associations whose building is already erected. While I have informally ruled that the investment of funds in an existing Temple Asso ·
ciation should be submitted to this committee, the technical accuracy
of the ruling may be open to question. I recommend that by appropriate legislation our Lodges shall be definitely prohibited from hereafter
investing any of their funds in the securities of any Temple A11sociation without approval of this committee.

X. Lodge Trustees.
In the report of Grand Master Ross mention was made of the California statute which permits Lodges to hold title to real property
without incorporation (Statutes of 1911, p. 1093; General Laws No.
687) . He also commented upon the questionable right of Masonic
Lodges to take title because Section 87 of our Constitution provides
for the holding of title through Trustees, but does not in terms permit
a Lodge to hold title in its own name, and because of the provision of
the statute that the right of the Lodge to hold title is subject to the
regulations of the Grand Lodge. He recommended that the constitution in terms permit Lodges to take title in their own names, but
apparently no action was taken upon the recommendation, either in
committee or by Grand Lodge.
It is the policy of Grand Lodge, as evidenced in Section 87, that a
Lodge shall exerc.ise complete control of its own affairs, that it cannot
entrust any of its assets to a corporation, and that the Trustees who
are appointed shall be subject to its control. Vesting title in Trustees
is an indirect method of holding title which possesses no inherent
advantage in view of the policy of Grand Lodge law; the intervention
of Trustees, who must be merely dummies under the requirements of
Section 87, serves merely to complicate the situation where the statute
permits the Lodge to hold title. Moreover, too frequently a spirit of
paternalism develops on the part of Trustees. Holding title, they feel
that they can exercise a guardianship for the Lodge, notwithstanding
the provisions of the constitution. However good the motives of the
Trustees may be, this is not the law. During the past year friction
has developed in several instances because of the desire of the Trustees
to direct the financial policy of the Lodge and because of the practical

60

61

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

difficulty in controlling the action of the Trustees when differences of
opinion exist. I can see no useful purpose to be subserved by vesting
title in Trustees, and to promote both hai;mony and simplicity of
procedure I recommend that our law be changed by eliminating the
right of Lodges to elect Trustees and by squarely providing that title
to Lodge property shall vest in the Lodge. This can be accomplished
by changing the third sentence in Section 87 to read substantially as
follows:
Title to all of its assets, whether real or personal, shall vest
in the Lodge, and the acquisition and encumbrance of property and investment and re-investment of funds shall be determined solely by action of the Lodge.

Rite and the Scottish Rite, they represent the appeal which fellowship
and social intercourse make to the brethren who affiliate with them.
Of itself this may indicate a lack on the part of the average Lodge in
developing a well-rounded program. The spirit of fellowship and
brotherly cheer and intercourse are as important as ritualistic work.
If more of our time were given to activities beyond the conferring of
degrees, we might find less disposition to affiliate with collateral
organizations. Quality of candidates and membership, means far
more than numbers or the financial prosperity of the Lodge as an
organization. Cultivation of the social side of our fraternity may well
be accomplished on evenings when there is no degree work, and is far
better than to leave the Lodge room dark.
I am firmly convinced that our Ritual itself may be materially
shortened with profit to the Lodge, without injury to the work, and
with a result of increased attendance and the development of fellowship. Repetitions may be eliminated without loss of impressiveness.
The portion of the work at which there is the smallest attendance is
the lecture. Substantial portions of each lecture are mere repetitions
of preceding work, which add little to its value and which materially
discourage the attendance of the brethren. A knowledge of the work
is best obtained by attending subsequent meetings. Much of the explanation of the work and the philosophy of the lecture can better be .
imparted by instruction given to the candidate at a subsequent time.
I recommend:
1. That the committee on Ritual be directed to review the Ritual
and the lectures for the purpose of radically reducing their length
without loss of dignity and impressiveness, the findings to be reported
at the next communication of Grand Lodge.
2. That a special committee be appointed by the incoming Grand
Master to co-operate with the Committee on Ritual in the above
mentioned investigation, and that such special committee also investigate and, if deemed advisable, report a plan for instruction of candidates through intelligent explanation of the Ritual and our Masonic
philosophy, such instruction to be given privately at some time after
all of the degrees have been conferred upon the candidate, rather than
through the medium of the lecture in open Lodge.
3. That the giving of private instruction to candidates be made
obligatory and that appropriate legislation to that end be reported at
the next communicaion of Grand Lodge.
4. That Lodges be encouraged to use for purposes of fellowship
and the promotion of participation in current moral and civic activities, the time mad~ available through the abbreviation of Ritual or
lecture.

XI. Pioneer Masonry.
The Grand Secretary has made many valuable contributions in
varied fields to the welfare of both general Masonry and our own
jurisdiction in particular. In this connection I cannot refrain from
emphasizing his study of "Masonic Beginnings in California and
Hawaii" which has been issued in pamphlet form by Grand Lodge
during the present year. It is extremely interesting as a study and
most valuable as a part of the permanent record of our history. I
commend it to the attention of both Lodges and individual Masons.
With pleasure and profit it might well be made the subject for an
evening's entertainment and instruction by' every Lodge in the jurisdiction.
XII. Dedication Ceremonies.
An invitation was extended to me by local Lodges to dedicate a
Masonic Plot in the Cemetery. I was unable to personally attend, but
stated that while such a dedication is unusual, and any cheapening of
the dedication ceremony should be avoided, I can see no legitimate
objection to it; that the dedication of a resting place for deceased
brethren and their families is as appropriate as a dedication of a
meeting place for living brethren. The request emphasizes the fact
that no ceremonial is prescribed for such an event.
. If Grand Lodge approves the dedication of Masonic burial places,
or other dedications consistent with Masonic dignity, I recommend
that the Grand Secretary be directed to prepare and submit at the
next communication of Grand Lodge a modification of the ceremonial
for .dedicating halls which can appropriately be used for other dedications.
XIII. Abbreviation of Ritual.
There is frequent discussion and many times criticism of the
number of organizations which require Masonic membership as a
prerequisite. Without exception, other than the degrees of the York

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

XIV. Form for Petitions.
My attention has been called to defects in the forms prescribed for
petition for degrees and application for affiliation. The petition for
degrees does not call for the business address of the petitioner, nor
for his residence and/or business telephone. "This information is of
assistance to committee men; Nor does it contain a place for the
date of the petition. The application for affiliation contains no application. It is merely a statement of facts accompanied by no request.
M~reover, the only information regarding Masonic record which is
afforded under the form now prescribed, is the Lodge with which the
p6titioner is or last was affiliated. In particular, the date of initiation
is important, both historically and for the award of Veterans' Buttons.
In in~estigating the application, the record of Lodges with which the
petitioner has been affiliated during his Masonic life should be available. While it is inadvisable to continually make changes in these
forms, I recommend that by appropriate legislation, effective upon
exhaustion of the present supply, the following changes be made:
1. Petition for degrees:
.
(a) At the end of question 4 add~
''Phone ......................:.......- ...---~~··········-.···-·-=-··--······-··~··-~-~~''
(b) In question 5 add:
·
"Business address .....·-·············-······-···; Phone............- ···-·······"
(c) Following question 14 add:
"Dated: -··~····-····-·--····--····,............................_ .,_, 19.-......"

2. Application for Affiliation:
(a) Insert a statement to the effect that the brother
applies for membership in the Lodge to which the application is presented.
(b) Add the following statement in the petition for affiliation:
"That he was made a Master Mason !n·-···-·-,-··..··-··-····~.:..Lodge No.................in the........_.,..- ........oL....:.................on the
................ day of....................- ..;.and that since his initiation
he has also been affiliated with the following Lodges:
(Here insert name, number and location of Lodges, if
any, with which petitioner subsequently affiliated.)"
XV. Uniform Code of By-Laws.

-ASection 1 of Article I X of the Uniform Code of By-Laws provides
"the dues of each member of this Lodge shall be·- ··-······..·..··-··-·--"
etc. In practice I find that Lodges frequently insert merely the sum

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

63

of money which represents annual dues so that as adopted by the
Lodge the clause reads (for example) "the dues of each member of
this Lodge shall be $12.00" without specifying whether $12.00 per
annum or $12.00 per month or some other period of time is intended.
The Code contemplates annual dues payable quarterly and I recommend that the clause be amended to read "the dues of each member of
this Lodge shall be $_..................per annum," etc.

Section 1 of Article III of the Uniform Code of By-Laws \n two
places provides that meetings shall be held "at....................o'clock." If
Lodges literally follow the rule that they are permitted only to fill the
blanks in the Code, it is impossible to grammatically specify whether
the hour is in the forenoon or afternoon.
I recommend that in both instances the Code be amended to read
"at........................o'ctock ......... M."

-CReference is made to a decision in whieh I ruled that under the
present Uniform Code of By-Laws it is not permissible for a Lodge
to impose a special affiliation fee upon applicants who present a dimit
from the Lodge in question. The occasion for- the amendment Was the
large number of dimits taken with the announced purpose of applying
for reaffiliation when financial conditions improve or when the dues
of the Lodge are reduced. Other instances readily suggest themselves
where special classifications may be desired.
I recommend that Section 1 of Article VIII of the Uniform Code
of By-Laws be amended to meet this situation. The following change
in the language applicable to affiliation would accomplish the purpose;
"and for affiliation the sum of......................_....DoDars, except that the
affiliation fee shall be............................ Dollars if the dimit accompanying the application is issued ~-···-·-···---·····-··" (Here insert "this
Lodge" or "a Lodge in this jurisdiction" or any other special classification desired.)
XVI. R efund of Unearne-d Dues.
Under our Uniform Code of By-Laws, dues are payable quarterly
in advance. Under the decision of Past Grand Master Ross, approved
by Grand Lodge in 1931 (Section 5-B of Digest of Decisions), a Lodge
cannot refund dues paid in advance, except dues paid in excess of
those for the current quarter. Giving the decision its full effect, if a
member dies during the first month of the quarter, the unearned dues
for the following two months cannot be refunded. Similarly, in the
case of a brother who is expelled or suspended for cause during the

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

quarter, I have felt 'obliged (see decision embodied in report) to rule
that no right of refund for the unearned dues accrues even when the
conviction is vacated by Grand Lodge. Another illustration is found
in the case of a California brother who applies for affiliation in November and is elected to membership in December. His petition for
affiliation must be accompanied by a receipt for not less than three
months' dues from his former Lodge. In the normal course his dimit
will be presented to the new Lodge at the February stated meet~ng
and his dues in the new Lodge commence March 1st under Section
161. His obligation for dues to his former Lodge does not terminate
until the dimit is issued, which under the illustration would be at" some
date following the January stated meeting of the new Lodge. In the
meantime, three months' dues to his former Lodge accrue on January
1st. Under the ruling no part of the dues for the January-March
quarter in the former Lodge can be refunded.
I see neither occasion for nor essential merit in a rule which prevents the refund of unearned dues merely because dues are payable
quarterly in advance. If the dues were payable annually in advance,
a man would lose the benefit of eleven months' dues although his
connection with the Lodge terminated in January. I therefore recommend the adoption of appropriate legislation requiring the refund of
unearned dues, whether for a current quarter or otherwise, and from
whatever cause the membership terminates. A financial penalty even
in the case of expulsion which becomes final, is not consistent with
Masonic principles, nor is there any occasion for the forfeiture of
unearned dues where membership terminates in the ordinary way,
merely because the by-laws re.quire the payment of dues in advance.

XVII. Commercial Activities of Lodges.
There is . an increasing tendency on the part of our Lodges to
directly or indirectly foster collateral financial undertakings. Most,
if not all, of these undertakings are meritorious in their purpose, but
the tendency is so strong that I believe there should be some declaration of policy on the part of Grand Lodge either discouraging such
activities or giving definite approval to these movements.
The danger is illustrated by a critical situation which arose in one
of our Lodges. In that instance the Lodge, by resolution, approved
the formation of an independent association among its members, denominated a Thrift Society, whose avowed purpose was to promote
thrift among the membership and to afford an opportunity for safe
and profitable investment. During a period of several years many
of the brethren joined the organization and it handled very substantial
sums of money under the management of an elected Board of Direc-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

66

tors. For a time the investments were profitable, but with the decline
in prices which preceded the present depression, the organization
suffered substantial losses, and at the time the matter came to my
attention its assets were insufficient at current market prices to pay
the amount of its deposits. This resulted in criticism of the management, charges that favored members were permitted to withdraw
funds in full while this condition existed, and threats of civil action
and criminal prosecution. Whether the charges were or were not
justified, whether the investments which were made were honestly
selected, and whether the membership tacitly, if not expressly, approved some of the more speculative investments, are all beside the
question. The essential fact is that under a resolution of approval and
authorization adopted by the Lodge, this collateral business activity
was inaugurated, resulting in dissension among the membership and
threatening serious injury both to the Lodge and to Masonry if
general publicity had resulted.
Following these developments, I had a census of the Lodges
taken to ascertain the extent and character of these collateral business
undertakings throughout the State. I found only one other organization similar to the Thrift Society above mentioned, but it appears
that a very substantial proportion of the Lodges of the State are
fostering what are known as "Widows and Orphans Funds." Some
of these funds have only nominal reserve, and depend largely upon
· the proceeds of an immediate assessment to pay death benefits. Others
have accumulated a substantial surplus which requires investment
and over whose investment at the present time neither the locai
Lodge nor Grand Lodge exercises control. While I know of no
instance to date in which friction has developed from these CO·
operative death benefit organizations, nevertheless it cannot be denied
that they hold inherent possibilities for future friction, particularly
in those cases in which a substantial reserve is maintained. There
is also the possibility that in the course of time some of them at least
will meet the difficulties which have confronted ordinary commercial
insurance societies operating upon the assessment plan.
I have neither approved nor attempted to discourage any of these
organizations, feeling that the question is too important for any
Grand Master to determine for himself. I do feel, however, that
the time has come when Grand Lodge should squarely face this
situation and directly either approve or disapprove these activities.
If they are to be continued, it should be with the approval of Grand
Lodge, and with a proper assumption of responsibility for direction
and control on the part of the Lodge which fosters the organization,
and with a corresponding responsibility if trouble or financial difficulty results. If these financial activities are to be curbed, the question is of sufficient importance to merit the action of Grand Lodge.

66

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Another illustration of a commercial activity was the action of
one of our Lodges in promoting a movement which has frequently
been attempted commercially and usually with an unsatisfactory
conclusion. A list of selected merchants in various lines of business
in San Francisco was collected by a committee, under an arrangement
whereby these merchants would pay to the committee an agreed
percentage of proceeds froi:µ sales made to members of the Lodge.
These proceeds were to be used by the committee for _unemployment
relief. Members of the Lodge were circularized and urged to patronize
these particular dealers; a "confidential list of dealers" accompanying
the circular. Criticism resulted that the tendency of this movement
was to temporarily divert to other channels business which was previously enjoyed by members of the Order, but that once diverted
the patronage was likely to remain with the new dealer after the
payment of commissions to the Lodge ceased. It was also contended
that the movement was a commercialization of Masonic membership.
Another suggestion was that the list contained the names of firms
whose prices were so high that they could well afford, to pay the
commission, leaving them still a net selling price equal to the prices
charged by other dealers, many of whom were members of the
Order. Whether the list of dealers was confined to members l:>f the
Order did not appear. It is self-evident that if any substantial number of Lodges in a commercial center adopted such a plan, it would
result in a network of competition for Masonic business, based
directly on an appeal to Masonry as an inducement to patronize a
particular group of men. I felt that the inherent dangers in such a
program were sufficiently obvious to justify me, without reporting
the matter to Grand Lodge, to direct a cessation of the activity.
It is impractical to detail all of the collateral commercial activities
which our Lodges are sponsoring, and the foregoing instances sufficiently illustrate the tendency. Masonry at all times has prided
itself that it was not a commercial institution and that mercenary
considerations shall not influence our members as Masons. While
the Widows and Orphans Funds are probably the least danger~us
illustration, and while the immediate relief of a brother's family
is most laudable, it is a serious question nevertheless whether we
are to embark upon the field of fraternal insurance and transform·
ourselves, at lea.st in part, into a mutual benefit society. It is my personal opinion that it does not conform to the purposes of Masonry,
and that in the long run it will prove disastrous, and I have no hesitancy whatsoever in disapproving the remaining commercial activities
which have come to my attention. However, if we are to become a
fraternal insurance society, it should not be done by indirection, with
the ultimate possibility of controversy as to the extent to which a

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

67

particular Lodge is legally or morally responsible for the collateral
organization which it has directly or tacitly sponsored, but over which
it exercises no control or supervision. I recommend that this Grand
Lodge adopt a definite policy upon the subject so that there may
hereafter be a definite rule for the guidance both of its officers
and its constituent Lodges.

XVIII. Lodge Rosters.
Grand Lodge has ruled (Digest, Sec. 22a) that Lodge rosters
should not be exploited for commercial purposes or other non-Masonic
use, and that Masters are obligated to prevent improper use of the
list. I believe experience has demonstrated that this is not sufficient
protection. Many of our Lodges publish rosters which include the
addresses of the members and when these are distributed it is physically impossible to prevent improper use and/or use by unauthorized
persons. Numerous instances have come to my attention during the
year, and these doubtless represent only a small percentage of the
infractions. In several cases such rosters were used as a mailing list
for political literature of a highly improper character. In other cases
the roster was used for commercial purposes. My attention was called
to the roster of one Lodge in which was listed not only the address
but the telephone number and occupa~ion of each brother, and the
roster also contained a classified business directory of the members
similar in form to the classified list appearing in the telephone book.
The inadvisability, if not the impropriety, of such a roster is obvious.
The only effective manner in which to prevent improper use of Lodge
roster is to omit all details other than the names. The Secretary is
the proper custodian of detailed information regarding the membership, and it may well be that the disadvantages overbalance the
benefits of issuing even a list of members without addresses or other
details. However, the glaring evil can be eliminated by restricting
rosters to a list of membership. I therefore recommend the adoption
of appropriate legislation to be framed by the Jurisprudence Committee prohibiting Lodges and their officers from issuing or permitting the issuance or distribution of any ,roster or other list of members
containing addresses, telephone numbers, occupation or other details
regarding the membership, except addresses and telephone numbers
of officers. By the legislation the Secretary should also be prohibited
without written permission of the Master from permitting the use or
transcription of all or any part of the Lodge's mailing list for ·any
purpose other than the issuance of communications from the Lodge
or its officers; such a requirement will fix responsibility for protection
of the roster.
·
·

•

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

XIX: Maintenance of Masonic Homes.
I believe that it is only a question of time when we shall be
obliged to depart from our present plan for the maintenance of the
Homes. The ideal source of revenue is an adequate endow.m ent fund,
and it is to be hoped that as the years progress we may larg:ly
increase our present endowment. It is interesting to note that dun~g
a period of approximately twenty years, from 1910 to 1931, we increased our endowment from $17,000.00 to over $700,000.00, and that
the greater portion of this amount has accru~d from te.stament~ry
gifts. This sum, however, must be largely increased during coming
years if it is to afford an adequate remedy. Such an. endowme~t
cannot be too strongly urged and I anticipate that. at th1~ comi:riunication of Grand Lodge a special report upon this subJect will be
presented for your consideration. It is self evident, however, that
a long period of time must elapse before we shall have an adequate
endowment.
In the meantime, there remains a question, which is incre~singly
discussed, whether we shall look for maintenance to a per capita tax
and the payments by initiates and affiliates, or whether to :" greater
or less extent the Lodges shall directly contribute to the maint~na~ce
of those who are admitted at Decoto and Covina upon t~e application
of the Lodge. Many jurisdictions have already determined that the
latter is the wiser course, and I believe that sooner or later we shall
find it advisable in California to require that at least a portion of
the expense be borne by the Lodge upon whose applic~tion th: a~­
mission is granted. A merited criticism _o f our Masonic .charity is
that it has become too mechanical, and t~at the. do~or ~s too f~r
removed from the recipient. Ideal Masonic charity is still that in
which each brother directly contributes to the need, temporary. or
permanent, of another brother o~ his depe?dents . . The increasing
size of our membership makes this method 1mpractical, and we use
the Lodge as an intermediate agency betwee~ the. contributor .and the
needy brother. When we rely upon a per capita :ax, we increase
once more the distance between donor and beneficiary, and to that
extent we lose still more the spirit of Masonic brotherhood and
charity. The inevitable result of the per capita system is a lack of
feeling of responsibility upon the part of the Lodge, and a tendency
upon the part of the Lodge to seek to shift responsibility to the stat~­
wide charity fund, and to scrutinize applications less closely than 1f
the immediate expense were imposed upon the treasury of the Lodge.
This tendency varies with circumstances and membership, and financial conditions, but it is ever present. Such a chang~ mu~t be made
gradually, but I believe it will be in the interest of California Masonry
and its charity that the change be made. It may be contended that

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

69

a temporary injustice will result to Lodges which have contributed
regularly, and which to date have presented only a limited number
of applications. The first answer to this contention is that if the
change is desirable, it should not be rejected because of minor inequities among the Lodges. A more conclusive answer, however, is
that it is a sad commentary upon California Masonry if we . have
reached the point where we measure our Masonic charity and brotherhood and our inter-Lodge relationship by cold financial standards and
with mathematical accuracy, or if a more advantageous and worthy
system of conducting our charity is to be rejected because forsooth
to date the charitable gifts of one group of our Masons have been
disproportionate to those of another group.; it is to be hoped that the
Masonic charitable spirit of California has not yet become so petty
or fallen so low.
Another subject which deserves consideration is the administration of outside relief through the trustees of the Homes. Insofar
as outside relief is a substitute for maintenance at the Homes of
persons who are entitled to admission, it is a proper subject for administration by the tru~tees and for payment from the funds of the
Homes. However, there is a gradually increasing tendency to make
appropriations from Homes Funds for the assistance of worthy
Masons or their dependents who are not eligible to admission, either
where the Lodge is unable to afford the full relief sought, or where
for other reasons the trustees deem it advisable to extend the relief.
The Homes are conducted for the maintenance, either at the institution or elsewhere, of adults and children who are eligible for admission. The endowment trust exists for that primary purpose, and
at least in theory the appropriations which are made for maintenance
have that end in view. The administration of relief for those who
are not eligible to admission is foreign to the functions of the H omes
Board; doubtless the custom has arisen because of lack of other
Grand Lodge machinery for administering direct charity from Grand
Lodge to those who are not entitled to admission to the Homes; no
criticism can be made of the manner in which the appropriations have
been made or of their merit; nevertheless, an anomalous situation
has developed, and it is practically impossible for Grand Lodge to
tell today the amount which it is spending as a proper charge for
maintenance of the Homes, including outside relief which is equivalent
to residence, and the amount which it is expending for the assistance
of Lodges in charity to those who are ineligible to the Homes. If
Grand Lodge creates the committee for the administration of Grand
Lodge relief which is mentioned in Recommendation · IV of this
report, I further recommend that by appropriate legislation the administration of charity for either adults or children who are ineligible for

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

admission to the Homes be delegated to that committee, and that the
funds controlled by the Homes Trustees be used exclusively for the
benefit of those who are eligible to admission.

districts. While the districting of the State and the present arrangement for visits by these officers probably constitutes "traveling by
authority of the Grand Master," nevertheless uncertainty is to be
avoided, and whether the expenses of these officers are to be paid
should be definitely understood both by Grand Lodge and by them.
I have reserved for the concluding portion of this message my
report on the
Shrine Lottery
Early in January of this year ·rumors came to me of the purpose
of Islam Temple of the Shrine to conduct a nationwide lottery for
the purpose of providing ·funds for the conduct of the Shrine Convention at San Francisco in July, and the promotion of attendance
at that Convention. . Although I prosecuted inquiries through several
channels, it appeared impossible to obtain authentic information even
from the officials of Shrines whose participation was solicited. It
was authoritatively stated that the plan, whatever it might be, was
not objectionable, and that it had been approved by the national
authorities of the Shrine; eventually I was advised that its conduct
by Islam Temple and the San Francisco Shrine Convention Committee rested upon an opinion of John L. McNab, Esq., a well known
attorney of San Francisco and a member of our fraternity. When I
consulted Mr. McNab he promptly acquiesced in my request for a
copy of the opinion; the opinion reads as follows:

70

XX. Expenses of Grand Officers.
While a substantial portion of the appropriation for expenses of
the Grand Master during the current year remains unexpended, I
recommend that the same contingent appropriation be made for the
coming year. Only lack of time and opportunity for travel about the
jurisdiction prevented the exhaustion of the appropriation, and it is
to the interest of Grand Lodge that the Grand Master be provided
with adequate funds for such traveling as he deems advisable and
possible. It is superfluous to say that the incoming Grand Master
will expend only such amount as appears necessary. The maximum
allowance should be uniform from year to year, and latitude should
exist for the varying demands of successive Grand Masters necessitated by expenses of travel.
The situation regarding expenses of Grand officers other than
the Grand Master is somewhat changed by the present plan of
districting the State, and the assumption of executive duties in their
respective districts by the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and
Junior Grand Wardens. Independently of the fact that the making
of visits to Lodges or districts by these officers will tend to materially
decrease the traveling expenses of the Grand Master, it is self evident
that these officers should not be expected to personally bear their
traveling expenses in addition to giving their time, and I do not
believe Grand Lodge desires it. Section 70 of the constitution provides for payment of expenses of e.l ective Grand officers in attending
Grand Lodge "at any of its communications," which includes both
the annuai communication and special communications for cornerstones or other formal ceremonies; however, only a small percentage
of visits comes within this category. It has also been the custom
for many years upon recommendation of the Finance Committee
to annually adopt a resolution providing for payment of expense~ of
Grand Lodge officers "who may be traveling by authority of the
Grand Master." This is not a standing resolution and because of its
form there has been more or less hesitancy and embarrassment on
the part of elective Grand officers to present statements for traveling
expenses which in all propriety should be paid by Grand Lodge. I
therefore recommend that the form of the customary annual resolution
for payment of the expenses of the Grand Master be revised to include
the necessary traveling expenses of the Deputy Gra~d Master and the
Senior and Junior Grand Wardens when visiting Lodges or attending
other Masonic meetings in their official capacity in their respective

"To:
"Mr. Geo. "Filmer,
"Mr. John H. Skeggs,
"Donald Elliot, .
"Wm. L. Hughson,
.
"Mr. Wm. H. Woodfield, Jr., constituting the 1932 San Francisco
Imperial Council Sessions Aftendance Committee:
"Dear Sirs:
"I have had submitted to me the plan you propose for the raising
of funds by the various Temples throughout the United States for
insuring attendance at the 1932 Shriners Convention in San Francisco.
. "You have impressed upon me from the beginning your insistence that there shall be no element of that plan which will be in
violation either of the moral code of the Imperial Council or of the
laws of the country.
"The plan as submitted to me by you does not, in my opinion,
involve any violation either of the code of the Imperial Council or
of law.
"The plan submitted by you calls for the distribution among
those who have performed meritorious service of sums a~gregating
$150,000.00, the same to be distributed during the convention in San
Francisco.
"You have proposed that the manner in which these awards of
merit shall be distributed shall be determined by your Committee,
augmented by one ·representative from each Temple within the
United States in attendance at the convention.

72

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"It· is ·your purpose to approve only a plan which will provide
for the distribution of this fund strictly on a basis of merit for services
performed throughout the entire campaign for the raising of funds.
"While this plan, as evolved by your Committee, will have to
receive the approval of the entire group composed of yourselves and
representatives from each Temple, you have resolved that this distribution shall be conducted . by a method which shall not involve
any element of chance, but shall be based upon rigid rules of award
for merit earned during the campaign, and you have likewise resolved that it shall contain no element violative of either the letter
or spirit of the law relating to lotteries or games of chance.
"You are advised that under these restrictions and under the
plan which you have discussed with me, you may proceed with the
full knowledge that you are not violating any law of the country.
"Yours very respectfully,
"JOHN L . McNAB."
It will be noted that the opinion categorically re·sts upon the .
basis that "this distribution shall be conducted by a method which
shall not involve any element of cHance," that it "shall be based upon
rigid rules of award of merit earned during the campaign" and that
"it shall contain no element violative of either the letter or spirit of
the law relating to the lottery or games of chance." It is also stated
that the distribution is to be made "among those who have performed meritorious service" and that there shall be no violation of
either the moral code of the Imperial Council or of the laws of the
country.
Upon the assurance that the plan rested upon this opinion, and
notwithstanding the lack of concrete information, I felt that further
action upon my part at the time was both impractical and inappropriate. However, it was suggested to me by some of the Brethren that,
in view of the current rumors and before the execution of the plan
had progressed too far, I should acquaint the authorities of the Shrine
. with my views regarding the conduct of a lottery. Accordingly, I
addressed a letter to the- San Francisco Committee and on February
25th, sent it to Potentate John H . Skeggs of Islam Temple with a
letter stating my assumption that it should go in the first instance
to :him as Potentate, as "the entire situation necessarily is under your
supervision and control." Islam Temple at San Francisco was to be
the host for the Shrine, Convention and the enterprise, whatever it
might be, was to be conducted by and was within the control of
Islam Temple. The following is a copy of this letter addressed to the
Committee and forwarded through the Potentate of Islam Temple :
"To the 1932 San Francisco Imperial Council
Sessions Attendance Committee :
"Dear Brethren:
"It is perhaps known to you that representations have been made
to me from several quarters that an improper distribution of cash is

GRAND J,ODGE OF CAf,JFt>RNIA

73

to be made in connection with the plan for conduct of Shrine b'!-lls
throughout the country to raise f\mds for. the benefit of the. com1!1g
1932 session at San Francisco. I have discussed the situation with
Mr.· John L. McNab, who very kindly gave me a copy of the l~tter
which . he addressed to the committee in charge at San Francisco.
In his conversation with me, as well as in the letter, he. stated very
emphatically that his approval of the plan is st~ictly condit~oned
that any dist.ribution .of the fund is to be based ent1rel~ on. merit for
services rendered ''and that no · element of chance will directly or
indirectly attend 'the distribution of money. This ne~essarily pr~­
cludes participation on the part of .ticket purchasers m general 1n
the distribution of any money whatever through any element ?f
chance or otherwise than in consideration for services rendered m
thems~lves ·selling tickets.
·
"Upon this assumption I have seen no occasion for me ~o raise
any objection at this time. On the other hand, if it should ultimately
develop that the assurances upon which Mr.. McNab rendered his
opinion are unjustified, and if funds are distributed through_ resort
to chance, either amon~ tieket purcha·s ers .g enerally or otherwise, the
situation would be serious. Because of the fact that t~ose who p:irticipate are also Master Masons, there would be a serious reflection
upon Masonry in general; under such circumstances, it probably
would be necessary to direct rather severe action in their individual
. capacity as Masons against those who participate, on. the ground that
their action has reflected discredit upon the Fraternity. It has been
my intention to merely rest upon the assuran~es and await. the outcome but in talking to some of the more active members m Grand
Lod~~. it ~a.s been suggest~d that i.n fairness .and because. of my
official pos1hon, I should give definite express10!1 to my ".'lews at
this time and it is for that reason that I am sending you this letter.
I hope you will understand th:it it is mer~ly for .the p_urpose of
making my views clear, and w1thou.t the s)1ghtest mtenhon of reflecting in any way upon the good faith of either yourselves or other
active participants in this plan. I take it for granted that one may
safely rely upon the assurances. of Master Masons.
"With best wishes for the success of the coming session, and
renewed assurances of my confidence in our common regard for the
Fraternity, I am,
·
"Fraternally yours,
"ROBERT B. GAYLORD."
· Except as he·r eafter indicated in connection with my second and
registered · letter to the Potentate, this letter brought. neither
acknowledgment nor reply.
·
About· ~hi~ time I learned that Aahmes Temple of Oakland declined to pa_rticipate in the enterprise, and it is a matter ·of record
that it did riot participate. To its Chief Rabban, Ea.rt .Warren, who
is also District Attorney of Alameda county, is due a substantial
proportion of the credit for this result.
On the morning of March 19th, as a member of Islam Temple,
I received a circular with an enclosed book of tickets to a "Shrine

\

74

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Ball" which I was requested to sell, being one of the uniform communications sent to all members of the Temple. This literature was
delivered by a Western Union messenger, and it is a recognized fact
that distributions in connection with the enterprise were conducted
through Western Union messenger service. It was subsequently
stated to me by members of the Shrine ·Committee that motives of
economy occasioned the use ·of Western Union service instead of
normal use of the United States mail. The standard unregistered
first class postage on the circulars and tickets which were sent to me
would be six cents.
The enclosures were contained in an inner envelope bearing
upon its face in eleven-sixteenth inch characters the figures $115,000.00."
The enclosures included a book of twenty tickets to the ball,
with twenty corresponding "Award of Merit Certificates." The
A ward of Merit certificates were consecutively numbered and were
attached to a stub bearing a corresponding number, with a space for
the name and address of the purchaser and an instruction to write
the name and address plainly. These certificates read as follows, the
figures "$115,000.00" being prominently displayed in a scroll in the
center:
"Islam Temple
"Pre-Convention Ball
"$115,000.00 .
•"Free-Given A way-Free
"156-AWARDS-156
"This Ticket is Not For Sale'
"IT iS GIVEN A WAY FREE!"
The following was printed on the back of each ticket:
"THESE 156 CASH A WARDS
"will be awarded at the Shrine Convention, ·
"San Francisco, California, JULY 28, 1932.
". 1st Award ..................: .....................................$50,000.00 in Cash
" 2nd A war.d ...................................................... 25,000.00 in Cash
" 3rd Award ........................................................ 10 000.00 in Cash
" 4th A ward ..................-.................................. s:ooo.OO in Cash
" 5th Award - ..............;......_,............:............... 2,500.00 in Cash
: " 6th;Award :....:..............................:................... 1,000.00 in Cash
" 7th A ward ......................................................
500.00 in Cash
:; 8t~ A ward ........................................................
500.00 !n Cash
9t A ward -···- ·······- ..·--·-·····-····-············
500.00 m Cash
"10th. Award .................:......................................
500.00 in Cash
"U th 'Award .,..,...,....,..............,...........................
500.00 in Cash
"45 Awards each.....................:..........................
200.00 in Cash
"100 ~wards each................·- ··-····--·- ····--···100.00 in Cash
"TOTAL $115,000.00"
The --accompanying ·circular recited among . other things that
"each ball ticket sold entitles the purchaser to an Award of Merit

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

76

certificate" and that "this Award of Merit certificate will entitle the
holder to an opportunity of sharing in the $115,000.00 that will be
awarded during our Shrine Convention in accordance ~ith the _s~t of
rules to be determined and agreed upon by the A warding Committee
during the Convention."
The circular offered additional prizes to sellers of tickets, depending on the number of tickets sold, and contain~d the following
in a half page display of alternate red_and green prmt :
"$115,000.00
"In Cash Awards of Merit
" 156-Magnificent Gifts-156
"!st Award ............'........$50,000.00 " 7th Award ..,.....--..-$
"2nd A ward .................... 25,000.00 " 8th A ward ..................
"3rd Award .................... 10,000.00 " 9th Award ..................
"4th Award ...........:......... 5,000.00 "10th Award ..................
" 5th Award ..:....._.......... 2,500.00 "11th Award ..................
"6th Award.................... 1,000.00 "45 Awards, each............
·
"100 Awards, each........$ 100.00"

500.00
500.00
500.00
500.00
500.00
200.00

Upon the same day on which I received this circular with its
accompanying enclosures, I forwarded a letter by registered mail,
return receipt demanded, to Potentate John H. Skeggs of Islam
Temple. After reciting my previous letter to him which brought no
reply or acknowledgment, I mentioned the fact that in Mr. McNab's
opinion the latter "studiously based his conclusions upon the elimination of all elements of chance." I further stated that "in my capacity
as Grand Master of this jurisdiction I .did not feel justified in countenancing the conduct of what is in effect a lottery or similar device
by an organization whose prerequisite for membershi? is mem~ers?ip
in the Blue Lodge, which holds itself forth as an affiliate organization
of Masonry, and which is regarded in the community at large as
representative of the better elements of Masonry."
After referring to the literature which I had received, I su.g gested
that it was obvious either that the element of chance must en.t er 'into
the distribution or that the distribution must be ·made pro rata
among ticket holders; the only alternative being that the Shrine
was deceiving the purchaser in representing the benefits to b~ derived
from the purchase of a ticket with · its accompanying certificate. I
also mentioned the widespread publicity, the _d isrepute for Masonry
which would be invo]v·ed, and 'suggested that ·"whether under such
circumstances the action of Grand Lodge will or will not be drastic,
Brethren participating have equal facilities with myself for ~e­
termining." I closed the letter with a statement that unless a satisfactory reply was received, I was ·disposed to issue a notice to _~h.e
Masons of the jurisdiction warninr thent of the danger of partrc1-

76

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

fating in ~ither ~he· ?urcha:se or the sale of these tickets, and that the
~tte.r ~ar:1e? with 1t an official request from ·the Grand Master of
the J.un_sd~cti.on for a full reply from the addressee as a Mason within
t e Jurisdiction.
•
·
On March 23rd I received the following reply to this second
letter to the Potentate of Islatn Temple. (Italics mine,)
;;Hon. Robert B. Gaylo~d,
,;Grand Master, Grand Lodge
.
:u~cnfd~.d Masons of California,
"San Francisco, California.
"My Dear Brother Gaylord:

..fJ.J2

gard~~h~h~efi~f!ci~i'~~~ r~fi~t~~ed l~tte~, da!e.d March 19, 1932, rethe Imperial session of th~ lhrine adsi~t m hais mg funds to entertain
1932, is acknowledged; also I wish u:mg ~ e 1ardr portion of July,
:i;:eb. 2I5, 193~, transmi.tting copy of you~ 1:t~e~~~ 'T~e l~Jts let~r of
C
. e
an ranc1sco mpenal Council Session Atte d
regarding the ·identical subject-indic~te~ti~ thommitted~· of even date,
"Due t th
b
e prece mg.
State, and i~ an~i~ip~~loc: ~/ ~;r~cto~ Cfeneral. Woodfield from the
f?r having failed to acknowledge e;~cdpref
this, l tflead neglige_nce
0
hon. However Mr Woodfi Id h d
your rst commumcaafter the date ·~f yo~r first 1:tter ~ndxfudcthd Jo return very shortly
W?uld have. received a visit .fro~ both Wo~dfiJd so,ddoubt.less YC!U
this connection be assured ther
.·
. e an self, and m
unmindful of your communicati~nwnagr nyooumptent1on lol n my part to be
"R
d"
·
. .
. ~rsona y.
egar mg the subject upon which 0 . h
dd
is requested that you await the r t ·
Y .u ave a ressed. me: It
(on or abou! April ht) followinge.:hlchfI Dhei'lt~r ~eneral Woodfield
f?r a~ appointment permitting Woodfi Ids ad e p eased to !lsk you
s1tuat1on with _you at length.
e an myself to go mto the
"In ~losing permit me to state that ~h .Sh ·
.
. .
rectors discussed and considered th fi
~
nne Co~vention Di. length, and· as· you ·are aware rec:ivedn.~hcmdJ ~nder/ta~ng at great
John_ L, McNab, as well as seve;al other atto~ne vice ho t e Hon'!rable
quals'fied to advise us Also b
d
ys, W om we considered
have the welfare -of Masonry in ags:;:;:al t1aht the Convention Directors
Shrine.
·
·
a . ea':t, as well as .that of the
· · "With kiridest personal
d
·d b
.
. .
ment of Masont'y in Californiar~~:fe/ an . e~dt W1Shes for the advance.
.
" .
.
your gu1 ance, I am,
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
"JNO. H. SKEGGS."
I h ~t the .time of my second letter to the Potentate of Islam Temple

of ~I ~:~:iv~:mnp~ea~!~~:~a~~= i~formati?n as to the participatiod
Jam es B. Mc Lees of .Ai Bah. Tgo' al ccordmgly~ I . sent to Potentate
r emp e a copy of my second letter to

77

the Potentate -of Islam Temple with a request for information as to
the participation by Al Bahr Temple.
Brother McLees promptly wired me that "Al Bahr Temple
declined to join in the proposition of Islam Temple selling tickets
to Shrine Ball. We did not believe that it was lawful." Al Bahr
Temple did not participate in the enterprise.
I also se.n t to Potentate Stanton A. Bruner of Al Malaikah
Temple• at Los Angeles a copy of my second letter to Potentate
Skeggs, with a letter amplifying my views as to the impropriety of
the enterprise and requesting information as to the attitude of Al
Malaikah Temple. On March 28th, I received . a reply from him
under date of March 25th, in which he stated that he had given my
letter "extreme consideration" and had "telephoned Brother Skeggs
with reference to the same." He added :
"It would be impossible for me to give the details of our understanding of this campaign in writing, and I find that in the near
future a meeting is being arranged between yourself and the Shrine
Convention Committee, at which time I will make arrangements to
be in attendance."
The conference to which Potentate Bruner apparently refers
was held on April 8th, but he was not present.
As previously noted, the Temples at Oakland and San Diego
did not participate in the enterprise, and so far as California is concerned;· it was conducted by the Los Angeles and San Francisco
Temples above noted, and by Ben Ali Temple of Sacramento. It is a
well known fact that tickets with their accompanying certificates
were sold broadcast throughout the State and that at least a very
substantial proportion of the pun;hasers bought them because of the
chance of receiving the $50,000.00 fi'rst prize or the secondary prizes
constituting the aggregate of $115,000.00. Many of the poor scraped
pennies together for a "chance" and frequent references were made
by those whom the Grand Master met on the street to their prospective chance of winning $50,000.00 The campaign was conducted so
extensively that even inmates of our institutions for maintenance of
the poor, singly or in groups, purchased blocks of tickets in anticipation of winning a prize which would permit withdrawal from the
institution and comfort for the remaining days of life.
Following this correspondence there were consultations between
Dfrector General Wm. H. Woodfield, representing the Shrine, and
myself, which climaxed in a general conference of the Convention
committee with myself, at which eight or ten of the leading representatives of Islam Temple were present. I repeated my views, as expressed in the correspondence, to the effect that obviously it was the
intention of the Shrine to either conduct a lottery or to bunco ticket

79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE 0F CALIFORNIA

purchasers into the belief that they were acquiring a chance in a
lottery, and at the conclusion of the meeting it was tacitly agreed that
a communication be issued to the Shriners of California advising
them that in the disposition of the $115,000.00 fund the committee
was to be restricted in its award by two rules, namely, that the distribution was to be strictly on a basis of merit for services performed
throughout the entire campaign for the raising of funds, and shall be
conducted by a method which shall not involve any element of
chance. I retained in my files a carbon copy of my memorandum
upon this subject, which at the time was delivered to the committee
at its request. Upon returning to the office, and on the same date,
I confirmed the understanding in a letter to Director General Woodfielq. Grand Lodge may be interested in two instances which illustrate the extent to which gentlemen who represented the Shrine on
this occasion are in touch with general Masonic affairs. During the
discussion l was asked what Grand Lodge could do if they proceeded
with their plans in defiance of it. I mentioned several possible things
which might occur, whereupon the inquiring Noble said "I do not
believe Grand Lodge would do anything like that anyway; how
many are there in Grand Lodge-fifty?" He appeared somewhat
startled when I indicated the normal attendance at Grand Lodge.
Another well known Noble stated that I should proceed in this matter
with caution, stating that if I were not careful "the Shrine may withdraw from Masonry." Several Nobles apparently agreed with him
but some of them were not so optimistic.
No action being taken pursuant to this understanding, I personally pressed the Director Gene.r at for action or an explanation, and
was informed by him, among other things, that there was a difference
of opinion among .the Convention Committee whether, and if so in
what manner and to what extent, the understanding above mentioned
should be performed. He also advised me that by reason of these
differences of opinion Mr. McNab had been authorized, by and as the
representative of the committee, to meet me and determine a definite
procedure which would be observed by the committee. On April 14th,
the Director General and Mr. McNab called upon me, reciting the
authorization of Mr. McNab, and as a result of our discussion it was
agreed that the Convention Committee would so control the disposition of the $115,000.00 fund that in its distribution no resort should
_be had to methods of chance; that the California participating Temples
would immediately notify all of their members of this fact and that
the Convention Committee would itself immediately advise all outof-State participating Temples of the same fact. I confirmed this
understanding in a letter ,to Mr. McNab on April 14, 1932, in which it
was recited that the lett~rs to be issued to California Shrine members

and to the Potentates of the various participating Temples should,
among other things, contain a statement that "full discretion as to
the awards rests with the committee, subject only to the limitation
that the fund is to be distributed in accordance with law and on an
exclusive basis of merit for services performed throughout the campaign, and without resort to methods which involve. any element of
chance." Following the recital of this language, my letter to Mr.
McNab concluded as follows:

78

"It is my understanding:
"l. That a letter in this form will, not later than Monday next,
be addressed by the Director General to the Potentatt!! of ~II p~r­
ticipating Shrines, both within and without the State of Cahforma.
"2. That I have the assurance of the Director General that that
portion of the last paragraph which prescribes the limitations upon
the award will be published in the May 1st bulletin of the three
California Temples which participate in the campaign.
"3. That the Director General is to write me a letter for iµy
personal file, assuring me that the limitations mentioned will in fact
be followed in awarding the fund of $115,000.00.
"As I leave for the South Saturday, please have the Director
General 0. K. the enclosed copy of this letter, returning it to me
before I leave so that there is no possibility of further misunderstanding and that my mind may be at ease while I am gone. If (which
I both hope and assume is not the case) any action on my part is
necessary because of our being unable to agree upon a procedure, I
feel that there should not be the delay incident to action following
my return."
There can be no question that Mr. McNab personally received
this letter. On the day of its delivery to him he telephoned asking
me what I wanted done about it, and I confirmed the statement in
the letter that I wished Director General Woodfield to 0. K. the
duplicate which was enclosed. Following this conversation I received
from Mr. McNab a duplicate of the letter, each sheet of which bore
an 0. K. with personal signature of Director General Wm. H . Woodfield. On April 20th the Director General wrote me as follows:
" I just returned from Los Angeles today and completed signing
and sending out the letter you outlined to all Potentates throughout
the country who are participating in our campaign, as per our understanding.
"The Potentates of the three California Temples have been requested to place a paragraph in their bulletins, as you suggested."
I have no reason to doubt the correctness of this statement that
the Director General advised the Potentates of all participating Temples of the agreement which had been made; he offered to show me
copies of the letters.
'
Knowing that the men with whom I dealt were Masons, and
believing them to be gentlemen, I accepted their assurances; I

80

81

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

could not well have done otherwise. I co-operated with them so far
as appeared possible ·and refrained from issuing a notice to the
Masons of California warning them ag.a inst participation in a lottery.
On behalf of the Masons of California, I publicly joined with others
in extending a welcome to the Convention visitors. On several
occasions I reminded the Director General of the importance of this
matter to Masonry in California and throughout the country, mentioned to him the public announcement which I made in Washington
(next referred to herein) and told him that the letter which he had
approved was not an idle act and that I relied upon him personally
for its performance; in each instance he looked me in the eye and
assured me upon his honor as a man and as a Mason that the letter
would be observed in letter and in spirit.
At the conference of Grand Masters at Washington, D. C., in
May, numerous questions were asked as to the disposition which
had been or was to be made of the Shrine lottery at San. Francisco.
In 'response to these inquiries I made a public announcement to a
large number of leading Masons gathered from every section of the
country to attend the dedication of the George Washington Memorial,
stating the agreement which had been. made as to the method to be
pursued in the distribution of the $115,000.00 fund. Therefore, the
agreement as well as the subsequent procedure on the part of the
Shrine is generally known throughout the country.
On April 26th, I wrote a letter to the Potentates of Ben Ali and
Al Malaikah Temples reciting the understanding that they would
advise their members that the committee distributing the cash award
would "be limited to a method of distribution which is in accordance
with law and on an exclusive basis of merit for services performed
throughout the entire campaign,. and without resort to methods which
involve any element of chance." I requested confirmation of the
understanding and a copy of the bulletin when issued. No letter was
sent to Potentate Skeggs of Islam Temple l;>ecause through his membership on the committee and the representation of that committee
through Mr. McNab, he was a party to the agreement.
Potentate Harber of Sacramento conformed to the understanding
in good faith and in due course issued the agreed statement to his
membership. While there were some delays in issuing the bulletin,
I feel that the circumstances were such that the delay occasions no
criticism. As to whether his Temple should have discontinued further
selling of tickets, I express no opinion; in fact, I am not in a position
to state that further sales were made, and I think I am correct in
saying that at no time was the sale of tickets intensively pressed at
Sacramento.

At no time has Potentate Skeggs attempted in any way to observe
either the letter or the spirit of the agreement for the issuance of a
notice to the members of Islam Temple. He not only failed to issue
the statement, but in the next Islam Temple bulletin there appeared
a circular letter addressed to the Nobles and signed personally "John
H. Skeggs, Potentate," in which he reminded the Nobles of the
distribution of $115,000.00 at the Convention to those aiding in carrying forward the Convention, and then stated:
"The real service men a·n d women will be those who are holders of
certificates of merit. Each Temple of Shrinedom will appoint one representative to the Convention Awards Committee. This committee will be
in full charge of the granting of the awards. I have appointed our Orator,
Noble Harry K, Wolff, to serve as the representative of Islam Temple on
the Convention Awards Committee." ( Italics mine.)
Upon receiving this bulletin on May 3rd, I called the attention
-0f Director General Woodfield to this breach of the· agreement, with
the result that he promised to promptly and personally place the
agreed statement before the members of Islam Temple. Accordingly,
in the next issue of "Convention News" (a bulletin issued to the
membership of Islam Temple from time to time during the campaign),
the Director General over his personal signature published the agreed
statement that the discretion as to making the awards rested with
the committee, but subject to the limitations specified in the correspondence which has been already quoted; thus to the extent of his
ability conforming to the agreement in this respect.
On May 3rd I wrote a letter to Potentate Bruner of Los Angeles,
which in the ordinary course of mail should have been delivered on
May 4th, and in which I called his attention to the fact that I had no
reply to my letter of April 26th requesting confirmation that he
would conform to the agreemtnt. On May 5th I received a letter
from him dated May 2nd, in which he stated that his T emple could
not guarantee the action of the representatives of other participating
Temples,. but that he would guarantee that the representative from
'h is Temple· would ."not agree to making the awards in any manner
e:ic:cept. on 'a legal basis and in accordance with the request set forth by
yo1'.': (lt~lics .mine.) In this connection I call attention to the fact
that while there could . well be argument as to whether the procedure
for the awards conformed to law, there could be no argument as to
my co-ordinate stipulations that the award should be "on an exclusive
basis of merit for services performed throughout the entire campaign
and without resort to methods which involve any element of chance."
In this letter Potentate Bruner objected to the immediate issuance
of a bull~tin to his membership on the ground of expense, stated that
the next official mailing would be "otir ceremonial notice in June"
and. that he felt "that the June bulletin will serve your purpose without

83

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

any hardship on ou_r Temple and would meet all the requirements of
the situation." The first Al Malaikah bulletin in which any mention
was made of the agreement regarding the conduct of awards was
issued on or about July first, and the only attempt to conform to the
agreement was a statement that the methods of award would be
decided by a representative appointed from each participating Temple,
"and we further guarantee that the representation of this Temple
will not agree to making the awards in any manner except on a legal
basis." At Los Angeles, tickets which entitled the purchaser to an
accompanying certificate of merit, were sold for a circus instead
of a ball. This circus was held June 1st to 9th-nearly a month
_before the bulletin in question wa.r issued. It is currently reported in
Los Angeles (although I have no concrete substantiation of the report) that the sale of tickets, with their accompanying certificates of
right to participate in th:e award, continued for some time after the
circus itself was closed. In this connection I repeat that on April 20th
Director General Woodfield informed me that he had already advised
Potentate Bruner of the agreement that his membership must be
promptly notified, and that on April 26th, I myself wrote Potentate
Bruner reciting the u"nderstanding with the Director General; in
the ordinary course of mail this letter should have been delivered on
April 27th; that it was in fact received appears in subsequent letters
from Potentate Bruner.
On June 13th a circular was issued by the Campaign Committee
of Islam Temple urging the sale of tickets, with the statement "Oh,
Boyl How those pre-convention Ball tickets are selling. You have
only to show them and explain the possibilities of each ticket, and they
are snapped up:"
On June 1st I wrote Potentate Woodfield repeating intimations
which had been made at Los Angeles that the understanding was for
the purpose of saving mY "face and to give me a record, but that
through either evasion or ignoring the understanding, a system of
awards would be adopted by which ticket purchasers would have the
opportunity through methods of chance to participate in the award.
I reminded him that the agreement was · not made to give me a
record, nor with any expectation that it would be disregarded, and
emphasized the importance of its observance in both letter and spirit.
In the same letter I again mentioned the public announcement which
I had made at the.conference of Grand Masters at Washington.
Early in June, general publicity was given throughout the country
to warnings issued by the Department of Justice condemning as
illegal the promotion of lottery schemes among fraternal organizations. On June 10th an official letter was sent by the Department of
Justice at Washington to our Grand Secretary, Brother Whicher.

The body of the letter was addressed "to all fraternal organizations"
and presumptively it went to the Secretaries of all Masonic organizations throughout the country. This letter condemned, as a criminal
violation of Federal lottery laws, the sale of tickets to entertainments
by Fraternal organizations in conjunction with which the purchaser
is entitled to a chance at cash prizes.
On July 29th the newspapers contained lists of the winners,
scattered over the .country, of the prizes in the $115,000.00 Shrine
Awards.
On August 9th I wrote Director General Woodfield asking that
he advise me what procedure was adopted by the committee "for the
distribution of the Shrine Award of Merits Fund." O n August 11th,
he replied to me as follows:

82

"In reply to your letter of August 9th, I wish to state that I
have no knowledge of the exact method of which the $115,000.00 was
awarded.
"You will recall that I sent a letter to each Potentate who participated requesting that he name one member of his Temple to act
on a committee to determine the awards. At that time I instructed
the Potentates that the only limitation was that the awards be disposed of without resorting to lot or chance.
"The day the matter was disposed of I was very busily en~aged
with the handling of the motion picture pageant and the affairs of
the convention and the matter was left entirely in the hands of this
representative committee. While I do not know this to be a fact, I
am informed that no Californian participated or was present during
the awards because of the fact that so many ball tickets were sold
in California, and it would be the consensus of opinion t hat many of
the awards would be made to Californians; therefore, it was considered a better policy to eliminate the California representatives.
"On behalf of the Shrine Convention Committee, permit me to
thank you for the splendid address you made during the opening
exercises of the Imperial Council. Your constructive talk was a fine
contribution to our national demonstration of optimism which the
press and leaders of the nation have proclaimed as the year's most
outstandingly patriotic offensive against the depression."
On August 15th I wrote John L. McNab, Esq., who advised with
me as-the official representative of the ·convention Committee, asking
him "whether the award was made in conformity with my letter to
him which was okayed by Director General Woodfield, and which
' itself was confirmatory of the conversation of these two gentlemen
with myself. On August 22nd he replied as follows :
"I must apologize for the delay in answering your letter of
August 15th.
"I only returned to the City this morning from a hunting trip
in the mountains.
"Personally, I know nothing_ whatever concerning the method
of award adopted in the Shrine Convention. However, I have been
inform·ed that the Shrine Convention appointed a representative from

I

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

each Shrine to form a Committee on Awards. On this committee, I
understand, there was no representative from the Grand jurisdiction
of California. I am informed that the situation was explained to them
and they were told that it must be worked out in a legal manner and
that thereafter it went into session and reported the awards. Concerning the basis upon which they were worked out I have not the
remotest knowledge. The report was filed and I understand that
was the end of the transaction so far as any connection the Shrine
officials had with it.
·
I have been assured that it was carried out in the spirit of the
letter which you wrote."
I am informed on the authority of a Noble who was ·present at
the drawing that a normal procedure for a lottery drawing was
pursued, the certificates being dumped in a pile on the floor and a
disinterested person drawing the winning numbers in succession.
It is practically self evident that this or some similar procedure was
followed. There is no pretense that the prize winners were designated
upon any basis of superior merit for services rendered or that the
winner of the $50,000.00 prize performed any greater service than
thousands of other ticket purchasers who received nothing. It is
generally claimed (and correctly so far as I can ascertain) that no
representative or Noble from California was present at the drawing;
thus apparently endeavoring to shift responsibility to N obi es from
. other jurisdictions.
Personally I prefer a crook to a coward. ·
I am unable to see wherein the California Shriners in authority
can safely hide behind a skirt of protested ignorance of the procedure.
The men in charge of this Convention were California Shriners and
California Masons. They were in control of the fund. A definite
oral and written agreement was made by the Director General of the
Convention and by .Mi:. McNab, purporting to act by authority of the
Committee, that in the award there should be no resort to any method
of chance, and that the awards should be made strictly on the basis
of merit for services rendered. Publicity was given to the participating
Temples throughout the country and to the Nobles of California that
this agreement would serve as a limitation upon the authority of the
committee making the awards. If the procedure for awards did· not
conform to the agreement, it was within the power of California
Shriners and California Masons to withhold payment, for the custody
of the fund was with them and publicity was given to their agreement.
Having failed ro exercise the control which they possessed, they
cannot shift responsibility through claims of ignorance or a contention that the committee in their absence violated the agreement. Nor
can the Shrine itSelf evade responsibility. It was within ·its power
to control both Islam Temple and its Convention Committee.
The Chief Rii.bban of: Islam Temple, Noble George J. Hatfield,
participated in the conference which I held with the Shrine Commit-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

85

tee, and I came in contact with him on other occasions in this connection. It is with very sincere pleasure that I am able to state that in
every instance he co-operated with and supported me. At the com·
mittee meeting he was obliged to leave before the conference closed
and as he left he made a statement which was typical of his attitude
throughout: "Before I leave I want to state that I want to do whatever the Grand Master desires, and my vote is for whatever he requests." In fairness to him I wish to state that in this report I
purposely disclaim intention of either express or implied criticism
of him, as I do not feel that responsibility for subsequent developments rests upon him.
· It is unfortunate that the Shriners, as an organization, which possesses such tremendous possibilities for fellowship and effective civic
and moral service, and whose rolls are honored by the names of
some of our most respected citizens and most illustrious Masons,
should permit itself to be discredited and its legitimate influence
prostituted by the irresponsible acts of a comparatively small percentage of its members who are not Masons in fact, and who should
never have been made Masons in name. It is unfortunate that there
are repeated instances in which these same irresponsible Masons
and . Shriners by their public acts reflect disrepute upon their organization. It is equally unfortunate that to the man upon the street the
name "Shriner" is the equivalent of "High Mason" and that to those
not versed in our fraternity Shrinedom represents the pinnacle of
Masonry. It is even more unfortunate that legitimate Masonry must
suffer, both in reputation and in fact, from this condition, and because
the Shrine tolerates conduct which is, and men who are, a disgrace
to Masonry and to the Shrine itself. It is a condition which cannot
continue indefinitely and the day will come, if it is not at hand, when
Masonry must pay the price for its own complaisance and condonat.i on; mere words will not change facts, nor will they restore tarnished
prestige to our fraternity ; the influence of Masonry depends as much
upon the respect with which it is regarded as upon the principles
which it professes or practices.
Possibly I have exaggerated in my mind the importance of that
which has occurred; this I leave for you to determine. With the
near approach of an annual communication of Grand Lodge, I have
felt that it was neither my province nor my responsibility to direct
the action, if any, which shall be taken. I have placed the facts
before you and the issue is in your hands. Numerous courses of action
suggest themselves, all or any of which are possible if you deem them
advisable. I shall suggest only a few of them and these are submitted
without reco.mmendation, as I believe that this body is competent
to decide for itself, and that it should for itself assume the responsibility for action or non-action.

86

87

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1. If, in the opinion of Grand Lodge, Masonic offenses have
been committed, it is within its power to direct the prosecution of
charges against at least those, whether leaders or otherwise responsible, who have conducted this enterprise. It requires neither a
prophet nor the son of a prophet to foretell the tremendous inftuence
which will be brought to bear on behalf of the accused if this course
is followed. In no event is it practical to prosecute charges against
all who have participated, for their name is legion.
2. Possibly it is within the jurisdiction of this body, without
trial, to impose such, if any, punishment as may be deemed proper
upon those whom Grand Lodge deems guilty. Such action should not
be attempted without an approving opinion from the Jurisprudence
Committee.
3. Members of constituent Lodges may be prohibited from acquiring or retaining membership in the Shrine so long as the Shrine
requires Masonic affiliation as a prerequisite to Shrine membership.
4. Affiliation by a member of a constituent Lodge may be prohibited in any organization (other than York and Scottish Rite
Bodies) which makes Masonic affiliation a condition precedent to
membershp, but which does not subject itself to control by Grand
Lodge. The advisability of such action involves consideration of
whether Grand Lodge is willing to assume the responsibility for such
control.
5. It may be made a Masonic offense for a member of ·a constituent Lodge to acqqire or retain membership in any organization
which requires Masonic affiliation as a prerequisite to membership,
and which permits or suffers to go unpunished, action on the part
of its membership which is contrary to the rules or practices of Blue
Lodge Masonry, or which would constitute a Masonic offense if the
particular action were related to Blue Lodge membership. The
objection to such a rule rests primarily in uncertainty of enforcement.
·
6. It may be made a Masonic offense for any member of a constituent Lodge to be guilty of an act which brings or tends. to bring
discredit upon .any organization which requires Masonic affiliation
as a prerequisite for membership, in the same manner and to the
same extent as if the discredit directly affected a Blue Lodge or
Blue Lodge Masonry. Frequently, acts are committed in connection
with other organizations or the meetings of other organizations, which
bring discredit, but under circumstances where serious question arises
whether Blue Lodge Masonry is directly affected. The justification
for such a definition (if deemed advisable) rests in the indirect reflection upon Masonry in general wherever an organization which requires Blue Lodge Masonry as a prerequisite is discredited.

7. Merely by inaction, this Grand Lodge may tacitly approve the
Shrine's procedure, and thereby go of record throughout the land
that no action is merited, and that the Shrine's attitude conforms to
the standards of Masonry.
The returning of Federal indictments against men who have b~eµ
involved in similar enterprises conducted by other Fraternal organizations under identical management, is current knowledge and not
history which requires recital. At the writing of this report a Senator
of the United States, who is a former cabinet officer, is on trial under
such an indictment. The present enterprise of the Shrine was under
investigation by the Grand Jury when these indictments were returned and it is stated in the press that the failure to return indictments' against Shrine officials was due to the inability of investigators to connect Shrine officials with the distribution of profits; why
such inability exists is not disclosed. The Western Union Telegraph
Company has been indicted for the distribution of the literature connected with the award of $115,000.00 in prizes at the Shrine Convention at San Francis.co, but Shrine officials themselves to date
have escaped.
Whether or not the Shrine has technically evaded the laws of
the United States, apparently at least it has successfully ~efied the.m.
It is for this Grand Lodge to determine whether the Shrine h~s w1~h
equal impunity defied Masonry and the Grand Lodge of Cahforma.
I am forwarding a copy of this report to the Grand Masters of
the several jurisdictions throughout the United States, accompanied
by a letter which reads as follows:
"Most Worshipful Sir and Dear Brother:
"For your information I enclose copy of 1_11ess~ge which I s~all
tomorrow present to the Grand Lodge of Cahforma at the opening
of its annual communication. In the latter portion of the message
you will find my report upon the di.stri~ution of $115_.000.00 in cash
prizes at the recent Shrin~ Conve!1bon in Sa~ Franc1sc<?, under the
auspices ·of the San Francisco Shrine Conv.enb".n C?mm1ttee.
"What action the Grand Lodge of Cahforma will take, I do n.ot
know; in any event, its authority is limited to the Masons of its
territorial jurisdiction.
"The sale of tickets for this plan was conducted. throughout the
United States, and at least some of the Tc;mples in almos~ ~very
jurisdiction conducted such a sale. According to ~he prehminary
agreement, the method of awar~ was to be deter'!1~ned. by a committee consisting of a representative from each partic1patmg TemP,le.
You will note that for reasons .best known t<? ~hel!lselves,. the Shriners of California probably refrained from parhc1p~t1~n. Jt.1s gener~lly
reported that representatives from most of .the JUrlsd1ctions participated in the determination of the method. to. be follo~ed; as to the
correctness of this report I :im. n?t :iuthont~t~vely advised. \Yhe!her
representatives from your Junsd1cbon participated, necessarily 1s a

88

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

matter for your own investigation if you deem it of importance ;
which, if any, of your Temples participated in the enterprise, doubtless is already known to you.
"I have made no recommendation to the Grand Lodge of California other than to report the facts, and it is needless to say that I
shall not presume to make any suggestion whatever to you; however,
I feel that you are entitled to information of such facts as I can
furnish. Necessarily and properly, what report you desire to make to
your own Grand Lodge, and what action if any you or it may deem
1t proper to take, is a matter for your own consideration.
"With assurances of my high regard, I am,
"Fraternally yours,
"ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
"Grand Master."

severe criticism has been directed. However, under the conditions, I
felt that the use of this plan was in any view of the matter regrettable
at this time, and I addressed a letter to the Sciots suggesting that
fact and indicating my opinion that it was inadvisable to continue the
enterprise. While the Department of Justice disapproved this plan,
also, no such decisive action was taken as occurred in connection with
enterprises of the type of that in which the Shrine engaged. The
Pharaoh of the Sciots immediately issued an edict prohibiting the
conduct of such an enterprise by the Sciots and the Pyramids which
already had launched a campaign recalled all books, whether completely sold or not. In its own enterprise the officials of the Shrine
neither prohibited the conduct of the enterprise, nor stopped the sale
of tickets, nor ordered the recall of books.
The obvious desire of the Sciots to conform to the wishes and
standards of Grand Lodge and to remove grounds for objection, to
the end that the relationship between the two bodies may be harmonious, is in contrast to the attitude of the Shrine. Which of the
two organizations is the more creditable is a matter upon which there
may be differences of opinion; I am a member of the Shrine and I am
not a member of the Sciots; nor do I hold a brief for the Sciots, but
to my mind the facts speak for themselves. An ancient teacher once
asked which of two sons did the will of his father, the one who said
" I go, Sir," but who went not, or the disobedient son who afterward
repented and went.
Appreciation
Preceding successive Grand Masters have so properly and adequately expressed appreciatiort for the activities of our Grand Secretary and our Grand Lecturer, that the subject although ever new is
almost threadbare. This year and the present Grand Master have
proven no exception. California Masonry owes to both of these
officers a debt which neither words of appreciation nor financial
remuneration can pay. Their assistance and their wisdom and experience have been invaluable, and they richly deserve the satisfaction we trust they derive from a realization of the love and respect
which exists for them throughout the jurisdiction, and the high esteem
in W'hich they are held by every Grand Master with whom they come
in contact. Nor can I miss this opportunity to express for both the
jurisdiction and myself personally the appreciation we owe the Deputy
Grand Master and the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens. They have
been always ready to answer every call, and to assume every responsibility; the assistance and co-operation which they have rendered in their respective districts has, I believe, far more than
compensated my own inability to come in personal contact with all
sections of the jurisdiction. Time forbids the merited tribute I would

Sciots
The message of the Grand Master at the last communication of
Grand Lodge severely criticized the Sciots because of public and
fraternal activities in an effort to promote the business interest of
individual members of the organization. Following the communication, representatives of the Sciots called upo~ me and assured me that
every effort would be made to correct any improper conditions. I am
glad ·to be able to report that apparently everything which is possible
was done to remove the grounds for criticism mentioned in the Grand
Master's message. At the meeting 'of the Supreme Pyramid at Stockton in November, the use of the abbreviation or initials "BOA" was
prohibited; deputies were charged with the duty of preventing vulgar
or offensive conduct at any ceremonial or function, with authority to
immediately suspend for violation ; the use of the word "Mason" was
eliminated from the ritual and a commi.ttee was appointed to make
the necessary changes to that end. I was requested to immediately
call to the attention of the Sciot authorities any report of objectionable conduct or action, and was assured that prompt action would be
taken if investigation substantiated the report, and that it was the
desire and intention of the officers of the Supreme Pyramid to maintain proper standards 'bf gentlemen and Masons. I have no reason to
doubt the good faith of both actions and statements, and feel that
credit should be given to the organization and its officers for the
position which has been taken.
Shortly following the action by the Department of Justice, occasioned by the distribution of $115,000.00 at the Shrine Convention,
and similar action by other Fraternal organizations, it came to my
attention that two of the Sciot Pyramids were endeavoring to raise
funds through the sale pf blankets under the well known punching
system. This is a plan which has been followed by various organizations from time to time, and at which, so far as I know, no particularly

89

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

pay to other Grand officers. I can only say that each of them in his
place has well performed his part, and each deserves our gratitude for
his loyalty.

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY

Conclusion
Such is the Grand Master's report of his year; his record rests
in the events themselves and 'Yords can neither add nor detract. With
all its pleasure and all its honor, the year has held for me much of
disillusion and disappointment-disillusion that my accomplishments
have been so slight, if any, and disappointment that I have been able
to give so little. It is my only hope that any impress which has been
left is for better and not for worse. I can only say that although
mistakes and deficiencies doubtless have been numerous, I have to
the limit of physical endurance and, mental equipment done the best
I can. My heart is in this Grand Lodge and my best wishes go to all
the Brethren. The friendships of the year have been many and those
friendships and the countless acts of kindness and courtesy which
have come to me, are among life's priceless memories. I wish for this
Grand Lodge every accomplishment, for succeeding officers every
success, and for the brdhren every measure of happiness and prosperity.
Fraternally yours,
ROBERT B. GA YLOR.D,

Grand Master.

The Deputy Grand Master appointed the following
Committee on Segregation: Oakley K. Morton, Foster G.
Dyer, Irving Magnes.

91

w.·.Grand Lodge of California:

To the M. · • .

In submitting this, my twenty-fifth annual report, I have to show for
the first time in our history a loss in membership-possibly a not altogether
cause for tears but rather for a survey to determine the real reasons,
and also to asdertain why Lodges cannot successfully function without
rapid accessions in membership.
Membership
No new Lodges were formed in the year past. Our membership as
of July 31, 1931, was 142,422; it is now 140,636, a net loss of 1,786.
The work for the year was as follows :
Membership, July 31, 1931...·-····-····-····-····-····- ····-······...--··-·-········ 142,422
July 31 1932 initiations reported................................ 2,699
,
•
3 018
Passed ····-····-····-····-····- ··········-···················-···-···-····- ,
Raised ····················-·····························,··············-······-·········-· 3,230
312
Affiliated from other jurisdictions...- ····-········-·······;-···-···718
Affiliated from California .Lodges...•-·-··········.-··-····-····•·-284
Restored --····- ··················-······-·········-···········-······--······
76
Gained by ei:ror.....·---········-··-··········- ···-··- ······-·..·-··--····Gross gain -·····--·········-·-··- - ···········-········-···········..- ····

4,632

147,054
Withdrawn ----····-----·-····-·~·········--··-····-·······-···--··-- l,m
Suspended, non-payment dues-··-······················..-··-····--··-····. 3,173
37
Expelled and suspended for cause.....·-····-··········-····-····-····1,901
Died - ····-···-··--·- -·-·--····- ·--··-·······--·--····-····-····............
136
Loss by error -········--··- -·-···--- ··-····----······--··- ······--·····
Total loss -······--··-····- ··········-····---····-····-····-····-··········

6,418

140,636
Membership July 31, 1932.........·-····-········--················-···-····
1,786
Net loss for the year.........·- ····- -··········-··········-····-····-····
Dues remitted - ··---··-·-·-····-··-····- ·--·--·-·-···--········--·· 4,941
22 .
Total dual members ····-··········- ·-·-············-··--···-······-··········
Increase in five years --····-···-·····--··-··--·-·---·-·-··-········-·· 6,339

93

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
For various reasons, but mainly because of closing of local banks,
the following Lodges failed to pay their full dues to Grand Lodge :
Amount due
Lodge
Bakersfield No. 224-····-..··-··........-...................................-..........-........
500.00
Anchor No. 1:13....~..............:......-...-.:........_....- ..,.........................._. ....400.00
Arroyo No. 274...............;.r···..................................:..............- ...-........
80.00
Redlands No. jOO............_............................ _......................- ................-· 715.50
Artesia No. 377......................,..............- ...............................-................
191.70
Highland Park No. 382......................................................................-962.00
Turlock No. 395............- ....- .........- ..................................-..................
230.40
Rising Light No. 397..,.....,..........................,.......- ...:...... _........................
939.70
Sierra Madre No. 408.,................,.-....., .................----.......................
137.70
America No. 475.............-.......................- ..........-.................. _................
300.00
Beverly Hills No. · 528................:......~...-...~......_...........- .........,;.. ~
450.90
Arcadia No. 547...........,...............................-···- ···...........................,.......
153.40
West Adams No. 565...............,.............-..........................................- ...401.80
Angeles Mesa No. 625;...;:.:..........:..............:..........................................
593.80
John Marshall No. 1>36...........................,.............,..................................
183.10

forward to the Grand Secretary a full roster of members as of July 31,
1931, on forms to be . supplied by the Grand Secretary. This was for the
purpose of checking against the annual returns.
· The responses were rather startling. Several hundreds of returns
disclosed that Secretaries did not have correct rosters of .their members,
and much correspondence ensued in an effort to reconcile the differences.
In some cases we were able to fully adjust the rosters, and in others it
was necessary to make arbitrary losses and gains to strike a balance.
Secretaries generally now know the exact number of their members and
it is hoped that further confusion in this respect will not again C:Ccur.

92

$6,24-0.00
Gains and Losses During Ten Years
Year

Raised Afliliated Rest'ed

1923
1924
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932

8005
8187
8177
8147
8089
6858.
6624
6215
4465
3230

1477
1720
1925
1870
2083
1985
1680
1571
1228
1042

216
242
222
222
219
262
305
279
246
284

SusfJ. Withdrew

' 507
745
818
982
953
1178 .
1294
1734
2602
3173

1473
1323
1475
1719
1380
1478
1276
1220
1157
1171

Died

Members Increase

1045
1124
1223
1255
1383
1039
1699
1638
1767
1901

100 583
108,173
115,517
122,412
129,309
134,302
138,652
142,062
142,422
14-0,636

74-04
7590
7344
6895
6897
4993
4350
3410
360
*1786

*Loss.
Duplicate Charter
Fort Crook Lodge No. 575 lost its charter by fire on the 16th of
December, 1931, and by order of the Grand Master a duplicate of the
original charter granted October 11, 1923, duly certified, was issued.
Roster of Members
At the last annual communication of Grand Lodge, a recommendation
was adopted (Proc. 1931, p. 513) directing Secretaries of Lodges to

Salary of Grand Secretary
The finances of Grand Lodge are in a healthy condition. We· have the
goodly surplus (October 1, 1932) of $260,000 in cash and sound liquid
securities, besides $589,300 in non-liquid stocks. But notwithstanding this,
in deference to demand for retrenchment, I respectfully recommend that
the salary of the Grand Secretary be reduced ten per cent.
Income and Disbursement
An approved report of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, adopted last year (1931, p. 707) provided that "the Grand Secretary
should add to the forms for annual returns an additional sheet for the
inclusion of a summary of the income and disbursements of each Lodge."
This was done, but the returns as to these items were disappointing. One
hundred fifty-nine Lodges did not so report, and I did not communicate
with the Lodges not reporting for the reason that had I done so it
would have been impossible to close the books in time for this an~ual
communication. The Lodges reporting showed gross receipts of $1,637,131.52, and gross disbursements of $1,630,650.19.
Emergency Relief Fund
Pursuant to the order of Grand Lodge at the last annual co~nmnica­
tion, I closed the account of the Emergency Relief Fund, and transferred
the entire amount, $14,224.46 in cash, and four first Liberty loan bonds
of $1,000 each, to the General Fund, delivering it all to the Grand Treasurer.
Requests for Recognition
Grand Lodge Occidental Mexicana, Jalisca.
Grand Lodg~ Symbolic of Nicaragua.
Grand Lodge of Spain.
Grand Logia Cuscatlan.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fifty-year Buttons
.•r.. 'Since the inauguration of the custom of presenting distinctive lapel
buttons to those of our brethren who have been members of some Lodge
continuously for fifty or more years, 781 buttons have been issued. By
years, the number is as follows: 1929, 234; 1930, 316; 1931, 122; 1932,
109. Following is a list of, the veterans who were honored last year:

Lodge
Name
Raised
Frost, SamueL......................-····--Mar. 29, 1882 Magnolia No.' 242
Fuller, Clarence M .......................May 18, 1875 ·McKinley No. 347
Golden, John William..................-Oct. 14, 1881 Arlington No. 414
Grover, Harry Morris................-Dec. 3, 1881 Georgetown No. 25
So. California No. 278
Gillespie, Matthew McG........... _ln 1879
Grant, Duncan.................·-···---Jan. 2, 1878 Sacramento No. 40
Gray, Roscoe Spaulding............--July 19, 1882 Oakland No. 188
Hall, James Albert.....................-Aug. 18, 1882 Santa Monica No. 307
Hammon, Wendell P.-................:.Nov. 9, 1878 Hammonton No. 433
Hardison, Lowell Mason_....- ..-8ept. 24, 1873 Santa Paula No. 291
Henry, James Harrison................ Apr. 27, 1869 San Jose No. 10
Holtquist, Charles M ............·-····-Mar. 11, 1882 Alhambra No. 322
Howard, Charles A. S·-····-····--Jan. 5, 1882 Brawley No. 402
Hinchcliffe, Chas. Warren ........ _May 24, 1881 So. California No. 278
Hyde, Oliver Pc;rry........- ..........--Dec. 31, 1881 Calexico No. 412
Santa Barbara No. 192
Jones, Rufus Thomas.................. _ln 1872
Jory, John.: ...·--··-················-··......Feb. 2, 1882 Morning Star No. 68
Kennard, George G·--··--·-·-··-Oct.,
1881 Redlands No. 300
Kennedy, Thomas...................-.....July 15, 1880 Pacific No. 136
Kerr, Louis Cormick.................... Feb. 26, 1877 Live Oak No. 61
Kent, Lewis Edgar........................June 9, 1882 San Diego No. 35
Laws, William Henry...............-June 15, 1882 So. California No. 278
Lishman, Thomas Walker.•........July 30, 1881 Hawaiian No. 21
Livingston, William.....................•May 30, 1881 San Jose No. 10
Maulsby, Orland Wood ................ Nov. 19, 1881 Whittier No. 323
Metcalf, Charles W .................. __ May 5, 1881 Santa Ana No. 241
Meyer, Edwin Lewis..................-Aug. 29, 1882 Golden Gate No. 30
Merrifield, Chas. Sumner............Mar. 4, 1882 Elsinore No. 289
Miner, Amstard Early......- ........-Feb. 4, 1882 San Joaquin No. 19
Selma No. 277
Mitchell, John Lair--··-····-····-In 1880
Rialto No. 582
Mohle, Henry..................................In 1870
Montigel, Ferdinand...............•....-Oct. 3, 1881 Redlands No. 300
Mosier, Hugh Wm............. _..___ _sept. 7, 1878 San Joaquin No. 19
McCord, William Harris..............Sept. 24, 1881 Santa Ana No. 241
Pasadena No. 272
McDonald, John..................- ..•..•..ln 1878
McNaughton, Wm. F •...........•....-Mar. 21, 1872 Carquinez No. 337
Newman, Andrew.......................... Oct. 22, 1881 Mendocino No. 179
Pardee, George Cooper........- ......Oct. 29, 1881 Oakland No. 188
Parker, Charles Henry ................ Feb. 27, 1880 Morgan Hill No. 463
Pruitt, George Anderson.........•..-May 14, 1872 Santa Cruz No. 38
Ragan, Charles....................- .....-Sept. 10, 1881 Glendora No. 404
Raggio, Joseph ..... ·-··-··-·-··----Dec. 9, 1875 Calaveras No. 78
Ramsay, Samuel............................ Apr. 21, 1882 Petaluma No. 180

94

Name
Raised
Abbott, Harvey E.--··----··-··-May 25, 1882
Armstrong, William Evans ......--July 1, 1882
Barker, Charles A.-····-····-·-···-Jmre 22, 1882
Barnett, William Perry......- ....-Aug. 14, 1873
Beem, Abner Lyman.. ..............- .. Aug. 1, 1870
Brewster, Lennan Benton..-·-···-Nov. 29, 1881
Biller, James G.. ·-·-··--··············-Apr. 12, 1881
Blackman, Chas. M .......- ..............In 1880
Boggs, William Stewart.............. Nov. 16, 1875
Boland, Michael Sixon.................. Dec. 10, 1881
Bonslett, Jacob A ............ ·-··--···-Nov. 5, 1881
Boucher, Josiah. ...............- ..........-Mar. 18, 1882
Buhring, Harry Herman.......... _Nov. 12, 1881
Burke, Allen Willard................... Sept. 3, 1877
Burland, William H .......................Aug. 20, 1881
Burwell, William J--·····-····-······· Nov. 13, 1873
Campbell, John Tyler......- .......... In 1865
Canfield, Eugene Erastus ..........-N ov. 12, 1881
Carson, Martin L.:.... ·-····-···_.....--July 1, 1882
Corbin, James M .............--··-····-Jan. 28, 1882
Clark, William S ..........._. _____.,_Jul;r 9, 1881
Cook, John Wesley......................-Feb. 24, 1876
Cooper, Frederick G. W .... _. ___..June 12, 1882
Dall, Christian Hansen......- ........May 20, 1882
Daley, Garrett C., Sr._..........~...-Dec. 3, 1881
Delano, Ira Lernuel............ - ........-June 1, 1876
Dollar, Robert-··--···:.. ................-Apr. 2, 1874
Dunn, George.................. ~···---Mar.11, 1872
Durgin, Walter Clements .....- ..-Sept. 9, 1881
Edmonds, Thomas ........................ _Oct. 1, 1881
English, Van O·-····-·-·-····--·:-Mar. 8, 1880
Evans, Reese Thompson....·-·-·- Jan., · 1880
Fischer, John......................- ........June 3, 1876
Fitch, Joseph Ahera...................... Apr. 27, 1882
Franks, Frederick......-····-····-·-Feb. 27, 1882
Frohman, Henry-····--··-····--·--..Jan. 10, 1877

Lodge
Salinas No. 204
Alturas No. 248
Friendship No. 210
Olive Branch No. 269
Pomona No. 246
Antioch No. 175
Pomona No. 246
Selma No. 277
San Bernardino No. 348
Calistoga No. 233
Antioch No. 175
Chico No. 111
Charter Rock No. 410
Pomona No. 246
Pajaro No. 110
San Diego No. 35
Santa Rosa No. 57
Chico No. 111
Covina No. 334
Pasadena No. 272
Lodi No. 256
Fraternity No. 399
Pearl Harbor No. 598
Alisa! No. 321
Forbestown No. SO
Roseville No. 222
Marin No. 191
Sacramento No. 40
West Lake No. 392
Alcatraz No. 244
Covina No. 334
San Jose No. 10
Hermann No. 127
Pomona No. 246
Santa Cruz No: 38
Fidelity No. 120

95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

96

97

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name

Raised ·

Rhodes, Charles W·-···-····-········Mar. 12, 1882
Richards, John Wm·--····;·-··--Sept. 15, 1880
Reynolds, Edward Tillotson......-Apr. 15, 1882
Robinson, Edward ConstanL--July 22, 1881
Rogers, Cecil D--·········-·--·-···-May 2, 1870
Romans, Theodore Denney..._. __ Jn 1881
Schernstein, KarL...·-··--··-···-·--June 13, 1881
Schooler, William Henry......- ..-Dec. 20, 1881
Scribner, George Washington....July 28, 1882
Sifford, William H ......·-···-···---July 1, 1882
Smith, Albert Anderson............--ln 1881
Smith, Isaac Ward........................ Nov. 3, 1881
Smith, John W·-····-···-········-.:..5ept. 4, 1880
Spear, J oseph......-.~·-····-·-·-·---M'llr.~11, 1882
Sproule, Isaac Henry.............- .....Dec. 27, 1881
Squier, Asa Hamilton--····--··---Dec. 28, 1881
Stephens, Thomas-····-······-···-Nov. 8, 1877
Thatcher, Alexander.:..·--···-·--Nov. 12, 1881
Thomas, William E.....·-····-·····-Aug. 2, 1881
Tuttle, Charles K......·-····-----Aug. 10, 1882
Vance, George PrescotL---·-·-··Apr. 18, 1882
Vance, Thomas Logan.__·-···-·-Jn 1881
Varley, Edwin.....·-··--·--··-···-Mar. 4, 1882
Vaughan, Richard.....·-··············--Dec. 28, 1881
Walker, Joseph E.·-····- -- · _Apr. 28, 1882
Ware, John Anderson-·-·········-Apr. 29, 1882
Wilkinson, Henry Patterson____July 18, 1878
Wishon, Albert Graves......_........July 9, 1881
W otters, GeOrge-..··-···-·-·-····-In 1877
Zumwalt, John Henry_.........•...._Jn 1882

Lodge
Keystone No. 161
Durant No. 268
Chico No. 111
Live Oak No. 61
Oakland No. 188
East Gate No. 290
Hermann No. 127
Chico No. 111
Franklin No. 143
Janesville No. 232
Selma No. 277
Tuolumne No. 8
Santa Cruz No. 38
Los Angeles No. 42
So. California No. 278
Anaheim No. 207
Alcatraz No. 244
Northern Light No. 190
San Diego No. 35
Pacific Grove No. 331
Golden Gate No. 30
Santa Paula No. 291
Ferndale No. 193
Sacramento No. 40
Ontario No. 301
Georgetown No. 25
Pomona No. 246
Las Palmas No. 366
· Hermann No. 127
Laurel No. 245

Unfinished Business
Recommendation I of Grand Master Ross (Proc. 1931, p. 469) "that
Grand Lodge, in its .Pay of Members, should include all expenses and
not only those incurred for transportation." The Committee on Policy
and General Purposes recommended that a committee of three be appointed to make a study of the question and report at this communication
(p. 722-3) .. The Committee on Finance also reported (p. 750), recommending "that the subject · of the pay of members and per diem be postponed
until the next annual communication."
Trial Records
No. 713-A member of Redlands Lodge No. 300. Suspended October 6, 1931.

No. 714-A member of Plumas Lodge No. 60. Expelled August 8,
1931.
No. 715-A member of Jewel Lodge No. 374 and tried by Argonne
Lodge No. 514. Acquitted Nov.ember 6, 1931. Appealed by accuser
November 10, 1931.
No. 716-A member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. Expelled August
Zl, 1931.
No. 717-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled November 6, 1931.
No. 718-A member of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Expelled August
3, 1931.
No. 719-A member of Wilmington Lodge No. 198. Tried and found
not guilty December 1, 1931.
No. 720-A member of Jewel Lodge No. 374. Expelled December
3, 1931.
No. 721-A member of Spokane Lodge No. 34.
No. 722-A member of Ione Lodge No. 80: Expelled October 2, 1931.
No. 723-A member of Paul Revere Lodge No. 462. Expelled January 8, 1932.
No. 724-A member of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled January 1, 1932.
No. 725-A member of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528. Tried and
acquitted December 1, 1931.
No. 726-A member of Sequoia Lodge No. J49. Expelled January S, 1932. Appeal by the accused.
No. 727-A member of Corona Lodge No. 324. Expelled August 6,
1931.
No. 728-A member of Alturas Lodge No. 248. Expelled January
2, 1932.
No. 729-A member of Surprise Valley Lodge No. 235 and tried
by Alturas Lodge No. 248.
No. 730-A member of Nicolaus Lodge No. 129. Expelled January
8, 1932.
No. 731-A member of Reading Lodge No. 254. Expelled February 2, 1932.
No. 732-A member of Santa Ana Lodge No. 241. Expelled February 5, 1932.
No. 733-A member of Silver ' Gate Lodge No. 296. Expelled
February 5, 1932.
No. 734-A member of Woodbridge Lodge No. 131. Tried and
acquitted February 6, 1932.
No. 735-A member of Redlands Lodge No. 300. Suspended December 3, 1931.
No. 736-A member of Whittier Lodge No. 323. Tried and acquitted March 3, 1932. Appeal by the accuser.

99

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 737-A member of Magnolia Lodge No. 242. Expelled April
5, 1932.
No. 738-A member of Fort Crook Lodge No. 575. Tried by
Madison Lodge No. 23 and suspended.
.
No. 739-A member of Calistoga Lodge No. 233. Expelled April
5, 1932.
.
No. 740-A member of Lodi Lodge No. 256. Expelled April 14, 1932.
N'o. 741-A member of Corcoran Lodge No. 490. Expelled February 18, 1932.
No. 742--A member of Pacific Lodge No. 136. Suspended May 3,
1932. Appeal by the accused.
No. 743--A member of Ocean Park Lodge No. 369. Expelled
April 5, 1932.
No. 744-A member of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Expelled
May 5, 1932.
No. 745-A member of South Pasadena Lodge No. 367. Expelled
May 3, 1932.
No. 7~A member of Santa Paula Lodge No. 291. Sentenced
to reprimand May 5, 1932.
No. 747-A member of Loyalton Lodge No. 359. Tried by Oroville
Lodge No. 103 and suspended June 6, 1932.
No. 748-A member of Alta Lorna Lodge No. 643. Expelled
March 1, 1932.
No. 749-A member of Laurel Lodge No. 245. Suspended July 1,
1932.
No. 750-A member of Damascus Lodge N-0. 648. Suspended July
12, 1932.
No. 751-A member of Fraternity Lodge No. 399. Tried by Burlingame Lodge No. 400 and expelled April 3, 1932.
.
No. 752--A member of Mission Lodge No. 169. Sentenced to reprimand June 22, 1932. Appeal by accuser.
No. 753--A member of Security Lodge No. 581. Expelled December 4, 1931.
No. 754-A member of Lebanon Lodge No. 495. Expelled August

. No. 760-A member of LaCumbre Lodge No. 642. Expelled September 12, 1932.
No. 761-A member of Chula Vista Lodge No. 626. Expelled September 6, 1932.
No. 762-A member of Alta Loma Lodge No. 643. Expelled September 6, 1932.
No. 763-A member of Ionic Lodge No. 520. Expelled August 3,
1932.
No. 620-A petition fo~ restoration from a member of Berkeley
Lodge No. 363, June 27, 1932.
No. 672-A member of Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297. Tried by Howard
LOdge No. 37 and acquitted April 5, 1932. This was a retrial ordered by
the Grievance Committee.
No. 700-A member of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625. Expelled
July 5, 1932. This was a retrial ordered by the Grievance Committee.
No. 435-A petition for restoration from a former member of Unity
Lodge No. 368.
Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life memberships as follows :
Visalia No. 128, $150; Alturas No. 248, $200; Evergreen No. 259,
$150; Los Gatos No. 292, $200; Porterville No. 303, $150 ; Palestine No.
351, $300 ; Palos Verdes No. 389, $200 ; Patterson No. 488, $150; Mount
Vernon No. Sl7, $150; George Washington No. 525, $225 ; Riverside No.
635, $150.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master has approved requests for special dispensations
for various purposes, as follows :

2, 1932.
•
No. 755-A member of Anchor Lodge No. 273.

To receive and act upon petitions from members of the A rmy and
Navy who did not have the required residential qualifications:
Service No. 594.

98

7, 1932.

Expelled

M h
arc

.
od
No. 756-A member of Benicia Lodge No. 5. Tried by Laurel L ge
No. 245 and found not guilty July 2, 1932.
.
No. 757- A member of Live Oak Lodge No. 61. Expelled May 6, 1932.
No. 758-A member of Rising Light Lodge No. 397. Sentenced
to reprimand August · 2, 1932.
No. 759-A member of University Lodge No. 394. Expelled September 5, 1932.

To re-ballot on candidates rejected within twelve 1'WJnths:
San Fernando No. 343 ; Gardena No. 372 ; West Lake No. 392 ;
America No. 475.

To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Mountain Shade No. 18; Volcano No. 56 ; Enterprise No. 70 ; Rose's
Bar No. 89; San Simeon No. 196; Selma No. 277 ; Southern California
No. 278; Ashlar No. 306; Apollo No. 396 ; La Mesa No. 407 ; Morgan Hill
No. 463 ; Blythe No. 473 ; Seaport No. 550; Fairfax No. 556 ; South Park
No. 563; Escalon No. 591; Malta No. 661; San Gorgonio No. 668.

100

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amendments to By-laws
Changing time of stated meetings: Franklin No. 143; San Simeon
No. 196; Alta Vista No. 464; Mount Vernon No. 517; Craftsmen No. 559;
Progressive No. 578; Elmhurst No. 610; Menorah No. 623; La Cumbre
No. 642; Greenleaf No. 670.
Excepting holidays. as stated meetings: Illinoistown No. 51; Phoenix
No. 178; Oakland No. 188; Calistoga No. 233; Eucalyptus No. 243;
Laurel No. 245 ; Durant No. 268; Reedlet No. 304; Rising Light No.
397; Wilshire No. 445; Torrance No. 447; Maui No. 472; Benjamin
Franklin No. 509; Argonne No. 514; Mount Vernon No. 517; Utopia
No. 537 ; James Madison No: 572; Pomona No. 590; Riverside No. 635;
La Curnbre·No. 642; Fontana No. 653; Monte Vista No. 655; Malta ·No.
661.
Increasing fees : Chula Vista No. 626, to $75.
Increasing dues:· Anchor No. 273, to $12; Buena Park No. 357, to
$9; Henry S. Orme No. 458, to $15; Lynwood No. 600, to $12; Melrose
No. 602, to $12; Chula Vista No. 626, to $12 ; Metropolitan No. 646, to
$12; La Habra No. 659, to $12; Laguna Beach No. 672, to $12.
Decreasing fees: Vallejo No. 87, to $50; Santa Barbara No. 192, to
$75; Oak Grove No. 215; to $75; Solano No. 229, to $50; Magnolia No.
242, to $75; Pasadena No. 272, to $70; Arroyo No. 274, to $35; Mt.
Jackson No. 295, to $30; Monrovia No. 308, to $50; Corona No. 324, to
$70; Brentwood No. 345, to $30; Sunset No. 352, to $75; Richmond
No. 375, to $50 ; Mizpah No. 378, to $50; West Lake No. 392, to $50;
Apollo No. 396, to $75; Rising Light No. 397, to $75; Burlingame No. 400,
to $50; Moneta No. 405, to $75; Silver Trowel No. 415, to $75 ; Kerman
No. 420, to $60; Wilshire No. 445, to $50; San Pasqual No. 452, to $70;
Henry S. Orme No. 458, to $100; Culver City No. 467, to $50; America
No. 475, to $75; Temblor No. 477, to $50;' 'W'6&fstoek No. 491, to $50;
Benjamin Franklin No. 509, to $50; Palms No. 512, to $50 ; Alexander
Hamilton No. 535, to $100; Utopia No. 537, to $75; Glendale No. 544, to
$60 ; Craftsmen No. 559, to $75; West Adams No. 565, to $65; Carmelita
No. 599, to $70 ; Sojourner No. 607, to $50; Larchmont No. 614, to $75;
La Cumbre No. 642, to $75; Lomita No. 644, to $60; Malta No. 661, to
$80; Henry Knox No. 662, to $50; Meridian No. 667, to $75.
Decreasing 'dues: Yosemite No. 99, to $10; Santa Barbara No. 192,
to $15 ; Magnolia No~ 242, to $15; Unity No. 368, to $12; La Puente No.
446, to $9; Glendale No. 544, to $12; La Cumbre No. 642, to $15; Lomita
No. 644, to $9; Meridian No. 667, to $12. · ·
Dec_reasing affiliation fees: Fid~lity ~o. 120, to $15; Oa.k Gr0 ve No.
215, to $1; Mizpah No. 378, to $15 ~ Larchmont No. 614, to $1.

GRAND .LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

101

Eliminating affiliation fees : Wilmington No. 198; West Gate No.
335; Unity ]'iq,.~; Sunset No. 352.;.. Wilshire No. 445; Henry. S. Orme
No. 458 ; American No. 475; Southland No. 618; Victorville No. 634;
Crescenta Valley No. 652.
Changing fee for the third degree : Mount Oso No. 460, to $30; San
Gabriel No. 546, to $30.
Resolutions providing for change of meeting place: Grafton No. 141;
Mountain View No. 1~4 ; . Silve~ Gate No. 296; Sanger No. 316 ; .Silve.r
Trowel No. 415; ·Lindsay No. 416 ; Schofield No. 443 ; Riverbank No.
459; Victory No. 474; Sunrise No. 522; Utopia No. 537; Educator No.
554; Military Service No. 570; Menorah No. 623; Composite No. 639.

Report of Auditors
Finance Committee, Grand L odge, F. & A. M. of California:
In accordance with your authorization, we have audited the accounts
of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1932 and submit herewith certain financial statements as follows:
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Receipts and Dis·
bursements-General Fund. · •
Exhibit B: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Received for Account
of Masonic Homes.
Exhibit C: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements-Emergency Relief Fund.
Exhibit D: Grand Treasurer's Re1J0rt of Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit E : Grand Treasurer's Report of Assets on Hand July 31,
1932.
This audit covered the cash funds received during the year ended
July 31, 1932 from the annual returns for the fiscal year ended July 31,
- . 1931. Funds received and on hand at the date of our audit from annual
returns for the fiscal year 1932 were not included in our examination.
We certify that' the attached statements, with exception as to the
stated value of the securities on hand, set forth the condition of the· Grand
Lodge, F. & A. M. of California at July 31. 1932, and that a proper
accounti!1g has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
Respectfully submitted,
RucKSTELL & LAND, Certified P ublic Accountants,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

102

103

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Cash received by Grand Treasurer.:
Exhibit A

Cash Receipts and Disbursements-Grand Secretary
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932
General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1931.........:...·-····-························-······-·· $ 57,996.88
Dues from Lodges............................- ............................$131,292.30
40.00
Dispensations -······················-·-·····································
Collections for Secretary's and Treasurer's bonds.. 2,197.90
Sales. of supplies:
·Constitutions ······-··················-······-·····.$2,917.00
Monitors ··-············································- 774.90
Lodge receipts ··············-················-····- 991.75
Blanks ...................................................... 716.11
Small diplomas ...................................... 478.78
Large diplomas ...................................... 191.90
Past Masters' diplomas ........................ 114.05
Card cases and Lodge lists....................
25.30
Digests of decisions -···························· 1,124.00
Installation services and Proceedings
45.80
Bound volumes and funeral services.. 184.50
Masonic Law and Custom and sundry 244.30
Uniform system of accounting............ 454.55
8,262.94
Refunds and reimbursements :
San Francisco Board of Relief.. ..........$ 214.00
Los Angeles Board of Relief ................
5.00
Fresno Board of Relief ..........................
5.00
Masonic Educational Conunittee.......... 100.00
Colorado jurisdiction ............................ 175.00
Washington jurisdiction ...................... 100.00
Payroll refund ......................................
19.00
3.20
Lodge dues prior to July 31, 1931........
621.20
Emergency relief fund ····················-············
$ 14,224.46
Total cash received direct by Grand Secretary.................... $156,638.80

Bank interest -·····································-·······-····-····-···.$
Bond interest ························-··························-······- ····
Dividends ································································-······
Bon.d redemption:
Southern California Edison Co•.....·-··················

1,694.36
7,702.75

3,22025
5,149.28

Total cash received direct by Grand Treasurer........

17,766.64

Total cash to account for .................·-······························ $232,402.32
Ca.sh Disbursed on Grand Secretary's Warrants:
Appropriations ················-·········-···;.._......,..........__..... 40 518.72
Masonic Homes .................................:.......·-··········-······ 75,000.00
George Washington National Memorial.................. 27,892.60
Relief-order of Grand Master ................................ 1,810.00
Annual Grand Lodge Week (including annual
· communication and activities) ............................ 3,923.40
Representatives' payroll ··············································- 20,243.93
Committee on Masonic Education.............................. 1.181.33
Conunittee on Masonic History.................................. 2,808.12
777.85
Conunittee on Public School Week...........·-············Committee on Board of Control..................................
294.64
Grand Secretary's expense-Washington................
500.00
240.96
Officers' expenses ············-··········-································
Grand Master's conference ..................................·........
50.00
Contingent expense-Grand Lecturer ...................... 1,285.86
Printing and binding-supplies .................................. 6,871.38
396.00
Buttons-Fifty year veterans -··········-······················
264.00
Inspectors' aprons ························-································
28.00
Grand Lodge library ········-··································-········
89.50
Trial record ··················-················································
Salaries ······- ···································································· 21,240.00
Office rent -······················-·············································· 3,900.00
Office expenses ......................•.......................................
627.88
Office printing and binding ························-················ 5,679.72
Postage ··················-························································ 1,362.99
225.10
Telephone and telegrams··-··········································
49.82
Drayage and express -······················-················-········
Premiums on Secretary's and Treasurer's bonds .... 2,285.00
150.00
Auditing ····························································-············
Liability insurance ......................................................•.
22.80
Miscellaneous expense ..................................................
152.88
$219,872.48

10(

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

105

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cash Disbursed by Grand Treasurer:
Securities purchased:
50 shares Masonic Temple Association stock..

500.00

Total disbursements.......................................

$220,372.48

Cash balance, July 31, 1932:
Funds with Grand Treasurer
. .. .......... ...$ 11,529.84
Funds with Grand Secretary ..............................
500.00

Receipts Since August 1, 1932
For the current fiscal year, August 1 to October 1, 1932, the ~eceipts
from Lodges, aU paid to the Grand--Treasurer, were as follows:
$25.00 Home tax ...• _ ...... ...
... .... ·-·· ....
.... ..............$ 20,775.00
Home Maintenance Fund ..................~·-·········:··-····-······-·················· 65,563.40
Home Building Fund -~··-········--···-····.:·-·•···-····-··---·-···-··········- 65,563.40
Grand Lodge, General Fund ·······-············-··························-······· 99,218.60
Total ···········-······--·:··········-'-····:......!_;~.-~..:.~ ..-.........~~

$ 12,029.84
Analysis of Annual Returns
AUGUST 1 TO SEPTEMBER 16, 1932

Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes

Initiations .,.!:,41.,!...,,••••••,••••••••••••••••••••••••••- ••••••••••••,........ 2,697
Passings - ......;,..~...····-····-····--············-····-······················ 3,016
Raisings ··-·· - - ---···-··········-······-··-····-······--·········· 3,228

Exhibit B
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932
Per capita tax-139,322 Master Masons: · '
Maintenance fund -···-····-···-·-·-····--·:'......:.......$ 34,830.50
Building fund .......................................................... 69,661.00

Initiation tax:
1440 initiates, fiscal year 1931..............•............... 36,000.00
2177 initiates, fiscal year 1932.....,•..........- ...~...... 54,425.00
Overpayments (refunded by Masonic Homes)
. 200.00

$104,491.50

Total Master Masons at 70c per capita............135,700

90,625.00
Total cash received for Masonic Homes and turned
over to Grand Treasurer • ........................................ $195,116.50
Exhibit c
Emergency Relief Fund
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932
Fund balance, August 1, 1931..•..••..-.......................

Cash Receipts:
Bank intere&t...•......•......;.............................................

Total degrees conferred at $1.00 each........................... $ 8,941.00
Total· Master Masons, August 1, 1932....•..- ......,.•.........-140,641
Less members whose dues were remitted..............~~.~"'' 4,941
94,990.00

Total Grand Lodge dues-·········-··········..·•!"··-'-·-········ $103,931.00
67,850.00
135,700 Master Masons at- 50c Home Maintenance....................
67,850.00
135,700 Master Masons at 50c Home Building..'--····- ····-'·······
2,697 Initiations for the year
313 Affiliations from outside jurisdictions
12 Affiliations from outside jurisdictions-Dual members
6 E. A. and F. C.-Outside jurisdictions.
3,028 Upon whom the $25.00 Home tax is payable..................

75,700.00

Overpayment on Home tax...........................................

$315,331.00
225.00

$ 17,979.83
244.63

Disposition of Fund:
Cash turned . over to Grand Treasurer.............._..,...$ 14,224.46
Securities turned over to Grand Treasurer.............. 4,000.00
,
$ 18,224.46

Total due from Lodges, Oct. 1, 1932, Home Tax and
Annual Returns ····························-··········-··········-···· $315,556.00
Less amount unpaid by Lodges......................................
10,060.60
Net amount collected ........................................................ $305,495.40
]ORN WRICHER, Grand Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

'

106

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit D
REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER
Cash Receipts and Disbursements
FOR THE FISCAL YE~R ENDED JULY 31, 1932

General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1931...._·.................................................... $ 57,496.88
Receipts:
From Grand Secretary ................................................$156,638.80
Bank interest .................................................................. 1,694.36
Bond interest .................................................................. 7,702.75
Dividends ........................................................................ 3,220.25
Bond redemption ............................................................ 5,149.28
Total receipts ......................................................................

174,405.44

Total cash to account for ................................................ .. $231,902.32
Disbursements:
Grand Secretary's ·· warrants........................................$219,872.48 ·
Masonic Temple Association stock purchased........
500.00
Total disbursements

220,372.48

Cash balance, July 31, 1932:
The San Francisco Bank..............................,.......$ 8,429.18
Wells Fargo Bank &-Union Trust Co.............
495.90
Crocker First National Bank..............................
922.45
Bank of America-Humboldt Branch............ ..
364.42
Anglo California National Bank...................... 1,317.89
;

$ 11.529.84

107

Exhibit E
Schedule of Assets
JULY 31, 1932
General Fund
Cash in banks...... -....---......... _. ...... ~., ....;........:.............. :............. $ 11,529.84
Bonds-at cost:
$ 7,000 Blue Lakes Water ci>.......6 % 1938 $ 7,700.00
6,000 Southern Pacific Co...........4 % 1955
5,580.00
10,000 Southern Pacific Co ......... ..4Yz.o/o 1981
9,565.00
9,000 California Gas & Electric
Co .....................................- ..5 % 1937
8,550.00
8,000 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co .......5 o/o 1937
8,000.00
2,000 Los Angeles Gas & Elec.
Co. .......................................
% 1939
1,860.00
4,000 Los Angeles Gas & Elec.
Co........................................... 5~% 1943
3,935.00
5,000 Los Angeles Gas & Elec.
Co. ..............:.........................6 o/o 1942
5,068.75
5,000 Southern California Gas .
4,787.50
Co. -····-················-···;......... ,5~% 1952
9,925.00
10,000 Philadelphia Electric Co...4~% 1967
8,946.25
9,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co ... 5Yz% 1952
4,720.00
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co... 5 % 1942
4,000 California Oregon Power
3,970.00
Co. _................- .... - .... -........ 5~% 1955
5,000 San Joaquin Light &
4,912.50
Power Co. ~ ..........- .:..- ......5 o/o 1957
5,000 Central Arizona Light &
4,812.50
Power Co...........................5 o/o 1960
10,000 New York Telephone Co ...4Yz% 1939 10,000.00
5,000 Mercantile American
4,912.50
Realty Co .....................,.-....5 % 1951
4,000.00
4;000 First Liberty Loan............3W7'o
1,000 First Liberty Loan con1,000.00
verted ..................- ................4~ %
15,300 Second Liberty Loan converted · ...... _.. :_..~ ..............- ... ;4~ %
15,300.00
30,056.25
30,000 Fourth Liberty Loan..........4r.4 o/o
157,601.25
Stocks-at cost:
58,955 shares Masonic Temple Association......$589,300.00
200 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co., preferred ............................ ,..:........................... 5,000.00
594,300.00

:$

Total assets ,.........,,.;............................................................ $763,431.09
WILLIAM P. FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
At 1 :10 o'clock p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until
2 :30 o'clock p. m.

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Jn {granh lohge
AFTERNOON SESSION
.Tuesday, October 11, 1932.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
. To the M.·. w:. Gr111nd Lodge of CalifMnia:
'_Vhen the mess.age of the M ... W •.• Grand Master was presented this
:i;mng'. w~ experienced an additional thrill of pride, profound respect
. dgadm1rat_ion for the diplomacy, courage, executive ability and sound
JU ment W:th which he has guided the destiny of this ancient and honormak
able fraternity through the past year A study of bi's add
I' ·
ed'
·
ress
es us
r~ ize imm iately that the ~eliberations of this communication of Grand
Lodge. ha~e b~en launched with a message which instills us with renewed
hope'. msp1~ati.on and determination to carry on and keep pure and I
the high prmc1ples of true Masonry.
c ean
The various matt~rs contained therein will receive the attention of
Grand Lodge through its regular committees and we therefore recommend
that t~ey be segregated and referred as follows: To the I . "-·~-Committee- D . . I
XXI
ur,isr,_,,.,m;e
·
ecmon to
X. Recommendations IX X XIV XV
XVI, and Shrine Lottery.
' '
'
'

,To the Committee on Policy cmd General Purposes: Grand Secreta~ s Conference, Board of Control, Masonic Homes Endowment p

Diem of Representatives and Decisions I, XIII, XIV, XVII, XIX XX~r
XX:-71 and XXVIII. Reconunendations I to X XIII XVI t XX d,
Shrme Lottery.
'
•
o
an
XX To the Committee on Finance: Recommendations III IV IX XIX
, ~n~ Grand Masters' Conference as to Grand Secreta.:.y. ,
'
'

To the Committee on Ritual: Recommendation XII.
To the Committee on Necrology: Necrology;
If we correctly interpret the reaction of our Brethren, it. is the unanimou~ thought of ~II that one experienced by many years of Masonic
service has ~ept h1_s ear clo~e to the pulse of our fraternity and to the
utmost of his physical and mental ability applied himself ·to ·the" faithful

GRAZ'JD LODG:E 01''. OALIFORNIA

109

discharge of his trust. It is apparent .that vital and important matters
have ·been presented to this meeting of Grand Lodge for careful consideration apd decision. We also realize that the administration of the
office of . Grand Master in this jurisdiction now requires almost a superman. An Executive District' plan of allocating some of the executive
duties and responsibilities was put into operation last Feb~uary. Without
thi.s relief it would have been impossible for the Grand Master to render
such an outstanding service on fundamental issues of our Masonic life.
Under this plan all elective Grand Lodge officers function and maintain a
'much closer relationship to the constituent Lodges. All should benefit
thereby.' Visitations by the Grand Master are among the pleasant duties
of the office and in times of less stress more social life can ·be enjoyed.
However, the solution of vital problems should always have first attention.
We join with the Grand Master in urging officers of Lodges to make
independent investigations on minor Masonic questions. It develops the
efficiency of the officer personnel of the Lodge and the District Officer
Associations in the same manlier as the examination questions for officerselect. Secretaries many times become an invaluable aid to the Master.
We note that special attention will be given to the Necrology and
George Washington Bicentennial portions of the report. We therefore
'only trespass to say that the· lives of those Brothers will always be an
incentive to us to carry on and also merit the final judgment of "Well done,
thou good and faithful servant."
The committe~ feeis that special commendation is due the Grand
Master for attending the dedication of the George Washington Memorial
and the Grand Masters' Conference at Washington. We repeat his hope
·"That no future Grand Master will fail to avail himself of the opportunity
to attend." It appeals to us that the Grand Secretary should be' likeWise
equipped for interjurisdictional matters, and we approve of the Grand
Master's .recommendation in this matter.
In connection with his comments on the fine work of the Committee
on the Observance of Public Schools Week, the Grand Master calls attention to the high percentage of juvenile criminals. This is one of the serious
problems of our time and the remedy must be supplied by the Am~rican
home. Speaking of children he has well said that their "Moral and religious training must be such as will inspire them with proper ideals,
develop a proper character and give to them the inherent integrity which
will make for upstanding manhood, good citizenship and the proper relationship of man to his fellowman." With insidious agencies at work in
our jurisdiction his warning is timely, advising inttt>spection in social
life, school life .and .home life. Keep in mind that "Our present problems
are not exclusively material ; neither are they solely local."

110

URAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Regarding action on charitable matters, his letter and message contain
sound constructive advice, reminding us of our obligations but calling attention to limitations that must be observed in the use of Masonic funds.
We thoroughly concur in the Grand Master's condemnation of the
misuse of Masonic affiliation and Lodge rosters for political purposes. Our
fraternity can not hope to maintain its prestige if members persist in
violating its ideals and endeavor to embroil it in political controversies.
The thoughts of the Grand Master on the matter of non-payment of
dues should receive the careful study of all members of Grand Lodge,
and representatives should see that this matter is given due consideration
by the officers of their respective Lodges.
The committee desires to call attention to the admonition regarding
Masonic keys. Do not violate your oath or .encourage others to do likewise.
Masonic education is a matter that means a great deal to this jurisdiction. During the past year the George Washington Bicentennial Celebra- ,
tions have been of a real educational value and have produced beneficial
activity. The suggestion of the Grand Master on the educational program
question appeals to us as meriting a trial ; it will furnish a new stimulus
for Lodge activity and should increase attendance.
Startling to Grand Lodge was the report of the Grand Master regarding his experience with the Shrine Lottery. Apparently a direct violation
of State and Federal laws; engineered and manipulated by Masons; the
Grand Master's reliance upon assurances of Master Masons in his jurisdic.tion breached ; officials of other fraternal organizations under criminal
prosecution in Federal Courts for a like offense; the Shrine, known to the
public as a Masonic organization: we are indeed confronted with a problem
that calls for the calm and deliberate consideration and sound advice of the
experienced leaders of the Grand Lodge of California. This is a situation
that cannot be passed by; it is now for us to "assume the responsibility for
action or non-action."
In approaching the close of this administration, Masonry of California
desires to give fitting recognition to a leader, honest with his moral convictions, one who values the worth-while things of this life, one willing to
listen to the opinion of others, but firm when convinced he is sound in his
position. A direct and able speaker, possessing a personality congenial
and sympathetic-a man true to his friends, fair to his opponents and
with an abiding faith in his God. Brother Gaylord, the Brethren of this
jurisdiction express to you their sincere and lasting appreciation.
FOSTER G. DYER,
0

IRVING MAGNES,

0. K . MORTON,
Committee.

Adopted.

111

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which was referred the report of the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary, desires to report as follows:
Long association with an office is conclusive evidence of efficient and
faithful service. For twenty-five years Brother Whicher as Grand Secretary has annually submitted to Grand Lodge a detailed report of his
stewardship. His record is one of unselfish devo~ion to the interest~ of
Masonry in this jurisdiction and many a serious mistake has been .av01d~
through his co-operation; knowledge of Masonic law and experience m
dealing with confusing and intricate problems. We congratulate our Grand
Secretary on his wonderfully fine record, his host of friends and o~e enjoying the esteem and respect of the craft even beyond the boundaries of
California.
We respectfully recommend that portions' of his report be referred
as follows :
To the Jurisprudence Committee: Life Memberships.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes: Unpaid Grand
Lodge dues ; Salary of Grand Secretary ; Income and disbursements; Requests for recognition ; Unfinished business.
To the Finance Committee: Unpaid . Grand Lodge dues ; Salary of
Grand Secretary ; Income and disbursements of Lodges; U nfinished business; Cash receipts and disbursements of Grand Secretary.
To the Committee on By-Laws: Amendments to by-laws.
To the Grievance Committee : Section relating to Trial Records.
In the first paragraph of his report the Grand Secretary gives us much
food for thought. He says :
·
"I have to show for the first time in our history a loss in membership
~possibly a not altogether cause for tears, but rather for a survey to determine the real reasons, and also to ascertain why Lodges cannot successfully function without rapid accessions in membership."
It is now for the Lodge officers and Brethren during the coming year
to supply the remedy.
FOSTER G. DYER,
IRVING MAGNES,

0. K. MORTON,
Committee.

Adopted.

112

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ANNUAL ORATION
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers and Brethren of Grand Lodge:
I am not unmindful of the fact that you have suffered me this day
to stand where many honorable men have stood. With pleasure we have
listened to their eloquence as they reached into the archives of memory
and unfolded before our minds the philosophy of Masonry. I, too, have
thought that I might take you on a journey from Babylon up the beautiful
Euphrates, thence westward by Tadmor in the wilderness, and from thence
down through the corridor of time to the present hour. Such a theme has
all the alluring beauties of a sorceress, and the story when told is much
like the vision of Mirza. Or I might have chosen to take up the story of
the trade schools established by Numa, second king of Rome, who reigned
from 716 to 672 B. C., followed the mystic story of Masonry along the
ever widening and deepening stream of the civil law as it flowed on
down through the ages, stepped aside a moment to see an intellectual
Hebrew Hercules baffle and confound the Roman governors and listen
to his eloquence as he stood upon Mars Hill delivering the most daring · .
and powerful oration recorded ·in the history of man. But I have selected
a less pleasing theme and more difficult task. Less pleasing, because I
shall endeavor to point out that, as Masons, we have a duty to perform
vital to the life of the Republic in which we live, and more difficult because I shall seek to show that Masonry is a Battle and not a Dream.
From the Babylonian captivity to the present hour the great eternal conflict between right and wrong has never ceased. Why were the chosen
people of God suffered to be thus carried away? Was it not because they
had forgotten the God of their fathers? Did not Zedekiah refuse tbe aid
and deny the existence of Jehovah; and was not his Kingdom and the
Temple destroyed, the holy vessels carried away and his people driven
into captivity? In the very beginning of our Masonic life the Bible is
given to us as the rule and guide of our faith and we are taught that it
is to be the great light in our profession; we are told that in it we will
learn the important duties which we owe to God, our neighbor, and ourselves. To God, by never mentioning His name but with that awe and
reverence which are due from the creature to His creator ; by imploring
His aid in all our lawful undertakings, and by looking up to Him in
every emergency for comfort and support. We are also taught that
Masonry is calculated to impress deeply upon our minds a firm .belief in
the existence and attributes of a Supreme Being, and that we should have
a due reverence for His great and sacred name. Such are the teachings
of Masonry, and every one who takes the obligation is bound by those
teachings. The eternal laws of God are written into the heart of the
universe, and the entire world is ruled and guided by those laws. For

113

our guidance He has laid down only such laws as were founded in those
relations of justice that existed in the nature of things antecedent to the
laws of Moses or any written law or precept. These are the immutable
laws of good and evil, and they are written by the finger of God upon
the heart of man and shalt remain eternal and unchangeable for the
guidance of humanity throughout all future time.
In those days of long ago there came the wave that caused the loss
of faith in God, and when faith went out, fear moved in. For centuries
thereafter, want and crime and cruelty and fear spread their blighting
curse over the race. In the beginning of the sixteenth century Martin
Luther kindled the fires of reason, burned away the burdens of ignorance
and superstition and planted the seeds of hope and faith in the hearts
and minds of the human family. The lightning of his intellect flashed
across the dark, threatening clouds of doubt and unbelief, and the rumbling
thunder of the Reformation was heard in the distance. From out the terrific storm that followed came the American Republic.
Our forefathers founded this Republic on the unlimited suffrage of
the millions of their fellowmen. They spread the mantle of responsibility
upon the shoulders of the people, and with a faith in both God and man
they wove into the Constitution of our country the web of perpetual
existence. One hundred and fifty-six years have passed aw~y since they
declared that God intended all men ·t o be free and equal; alt men, without
restriction, qualification or limitation. As we look back over the intervening decades our hearts must throb with pride when we consider the
a~hie~e~ent of having successfully grappled with, and disposed of, quest10ns mc1dent to human progress, some of which threatened the very life
of the Nation. Across the pages of history there has never been written
such a chapter of accomplishment. The constitutional safeguards thrown.
around the human family by the builders, who laid the foundati~n of
this Nation, have lifted up the people until they, as sovereign citizens, ~it
upon the throne of freedom trammeled only by constitutional rights.
We should make no mistake about the active energy of .the c~nstitu­
tion and laws of our cduntry. With all its roughness and faults the fa~t
remains obvious ·t hat it is the greatest foundation of civil .go~~rnment
known· to history. It gives energy to the wheels of progress, broadens the
avenues of education and places in the hands of the people the power to
determine and extend the limits of their liberties. ·
Our fathers realized; as we do, that this Republic could not 'survive
nor could a people enjoy the benefits of free institutions unless there was
a free, popular education, unimpaired by religious bigotry, ra~ial hatreds
or the selfishness of man. Macaulay said, "It is universally allowed that,
by some means, government must protect our persons and property. This
~eing admitted, can it be denied that the education of the common people
is a most effectual means of securing our persons and our property·?"

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fully realizing this principle, our immediate ancestors established the free
public school system in order that not only our persons and property
might be secure, but that future generations might not go through life
bearing a burden of prejudices heaped upon them by ignorance. A thousand
foes have in the past and are today assailing our public school system.
Men and women clothed in the garb of American citizenship pose as
teachers in our schools in order · that they may pour the deadly virus of
their disloyalty into the minds of our children. In my official capacity I
have met and grappled with this hydra-headed monster in our schools
within the last six months.

come out from our higher institutions of learning preaching their deadly
atheism, agnosticism, communism, and those other isms which are all
bastard brothers of disloyalty.
There is a rising tide flowing from out our universities that is bearing
the youth of our country away to their spiritual doom and our nation to
oblivion. Grandeur of intellect without truth and morality is a delusion;
it is the union of those gifts and virtues which alone can elevate man to
that dignified station which God intended him to occupy.
These institutions of learning of ours, from the little red school
house to our great universities, should become shrines of patriotism filled
with the spirit of hope and faith, of freedom and justice.
"Long should pause the erring hand of man before it dares to clip
away with the chisel of human reason, one single word graven in the
enduring by the hand of the Infinite God."
It is well fo remember that this nation was founded to carry into
practical effect the beneficent principle that government is instituted for
the advancement and improvement of the people who determine the
government. This is peculiarly true of our nation, for the American
Republic was organized primarily to give to the people of this nation
a freedom denied to them in other lands, to inculcate a love of liberty, to
promote happiness and dispense justice, giving to the people the full
enjoyment of life. We are distinctively a liberty loving people. We believe in the right of freedom of speech, of an untrammeled conscience,
of civil and religious liberty and the dignity of labor. We should never
lose sight of these exalted principles in the turmoil and wild mad rush
of every day life.
The future welfare of our country depends upon our attitude toward
the enforcement of our laws and the tone and spirit in which we perform
our duties as citizens. Our faces should be set against the vain display
of wealth and earthly power, and set -towards rational enjoyment and a .
faithful performance of those services to our country which would
annihilate the influences that are seeking to undermine our system of
government.
As a correlative of our duty to uphold the law it is equally incumbent
upon us to suppress the evils that exist, everywhere tending to lawlessness
and anarchy. We should, too, on every occasion instill in the popular
mind an undivided and unswerving devotion to the American Republic.
We should teach without prejudice and with the kindest feelings that
every citizen should, regardless . of the place of birth, fraternal, political
or religious affiliations, hold this nation above any organization on the
face of the ~arth; that it should receive our undivided loyalty and the
efforts · of our lives should be put forth to preserve it in all its purity .
and strength.

11'

It is time that we, as loyal American citizens, awoke to the dangers
which beset our cherished institutions. This is not a time for silence.
We should not be lulled to sleep by sophistry nor allow the smoothness
of political flattery to blind our minds or obscure our visions concerning
the important question of Public Education. We here have a duty to
perform, vital to the existence of the Republic in which we live. T~e allimportant factor in public education is the school teacher, for he is the
one who does more to direct the mind and mould the character of the
American citizen than any other agency outside of the family, and the
requirements for an American teacher ought to be patriotism of the
highest and most unswerving character, to the end that he be a formative
influence that would enrich the hearts and minds of the youth of America
with patriotic thought. It is our duty to demand such qualifications in
all those who seek to teach the children in our schools.
Theodore Roosevelt said, "To educate a man in mind and not in
morals is to educate a ·menace to society." Some of the most powerful
lessons which wu learn are taught us in the every day lives of men in
their ·every day work, and no man should be allowed to teach in our
schools or universities who, has not reached into his own soul, searched
for and found the -spirit of America. There is a necessary relation between the love of God and the love of countfy. Throw the pilot overboard
and your ship will run upon the rocks and be lost. Leave God and the
moral law out of our schools and universities and the end of the Republic is in sight.
When we think of all the sacrifices and glories of the past, of the
struggles and hardships endured by our fathers and mothers, it appears
to me that our Masonry should be baptized .into a new hope for "humanity.
We cannot hang the shield of our faith in the armory of the past and
expect the deeds of our fathers to release us from the responsibility that
is ours.
America has nothing to fear from outside foes. The only danger to
our national life lurks within the borders of our own couritry: Many of
the enemies of our institutions, along with others who are imported,

115

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

If the principles upon which our country rests are similar to the
fundamental principles of Masonry, and they are in a marked degree, it
is because the spirit of freedom moved throughout the fraternity, giving
energy and power to the voice of liberty. Across the ocean the voices of
Samuel Adams and John Hancock shook the thrones of Europe.
"Freedom of speech is God's training school in which men are educated," and we should use it in ail its power and glory to blast criminals
from their strongholds, fetter and destroy the agencies of crime, and
place American ·citizenship and honor above the tongue of reproach, By
printed page and public utterance we should kindle the fires of righteous
indignation in the hearts and minds of our people against all those who
defy our laws, to such an extent that it will rise a living, vital force that
will descend in fury and destrciy every enemy of society.
Organized greed and crime have snatched the scepter of power from
the hand of decency and honor, and we have lost the sense of God and
the ability to .enforce the law, until a child is not safe in its crib in the
home of its father. The hour has struck when we must consider it a
patriotic duty to emphasize a devotion to the fundamental principles of
the Republic and the majesty of the law. Is the spirit of Washington
lost in the maw of Greed? Are the fires of seventy-six entirely quenched
and the ashes cast to the four winds of heaven? If not, what inftuence
is it that distorts the mind, contaminates the soul and dries up the stream
of American courage in our veins until we sit unconcerned while this
heritage of ours, that has come down to .us at the price of blood, is
trampled in the dust and yet we are not aroused from the slumber of
·
indifference?
Masonry is a Battle and not a Dream. A battle against the vicious
and consuming. elements which .tend to. destroy mankind is the chief busi~
ness ..of Masonry. If .lbere is to be progress we Ga.tlllot escape the conftict.
That :which is Masonry is in constant conftict with the forces of error..
Th.e momentous lesson written in the blood of patrlot.s on · ~ tho'Usan<,!
fields of battle teaches us that it is our duty to see that the free cur.rent
of our country's cOO:Stitutional rights runs on ~obst~~cted. If this 'cu~::
rent .is to continue to widen and de~pen and wash itself .clearer as it . ru~s.
on the agent of civilization, it must find its source in the he.a rts and minds
of men suc!t as are he.re assembled, springing from th.cir .souls and issuing·
fr911) their lips in the daily walks of Ii fe,
· · .·
. The foundation .upon which shall rest not only the progress ·and
.de.velopment of the race, but the future safety of our liberties, mu.st be
laid in the. heart.s and minds o~ our children · .in ·infancy, and upon their
souls m~st !>«; inscribed, ."Under God my first duty. is to.
co.utttry.''. .·
·We need the courage, the moral character, the firm determfnation
and the Masonry of Washington to enable us to stand as a solid. phalanx,.

on the side of truth and justice, in the great eternal conftict between
right and wrong; to lift this noble brotherhood above the common level
of fraternalism and place it upon a higher plane of endeavor worshiping
God, honoring the state and obeying the law.
On this auspicious occasion, rejoicing in the memories of long ago
when California contributed the spirit of her people, together with her ·
golden stores, to preserve this union, we ought as patriotic Americans to
pledge anew our loyalty to the nation of which we are a part. We ought
to. regard every agency of the government as a memorial to the memory
of those who eontributed so much that freedom might be the heritage
of humanity. We ought to look upon all of our institutions as reminders
'of those who fought and labored that we might enjoy the inestimable
benefits of a free nation. We ought to utilize every inftuence in our
'power to teach our citizens a reverence for our National Constitution,
a high regard for the institutions of the nation and a patriotic ardor for
the advancement and integrity of our citizens.
Let us hope and pray that as the years roll away the great eternal
Ruler of the Universe will shower His blessings upon the American
·people, lead and guide our nation in the paths of peace and prosperity,
so that our Republic may stand as a beacon light of · justice, admired
and respected by all the world as the brightest hope for humanity.

116

my

117

On motion of Past Grand Master Burke, carried by
unanimous and enthusiastic vote, the Grand Orator was re. quested to furnish a copy of the Oration to the Grand Secretary, to be by him printed and copies .sent to all the
Lodges of the Jurisdiction.

118

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:
It is with a keen sense of pleasure that I hereby present my twentyfifth annual report of my stewardship. In rendering this report of the
activities incident to my duties as Grand Lecturer, I am forcibly reminded
of the hearty co-operation given me by the vast majority of the brethren,
as well as the valued aid and assistance on the part of each Inspector
during the year just passed. This friendliness has always been evident,
and this year's contacts have differed only incidentally. The splendid tenets
of our Craft have often been brought home to me with recurrent force,
when, perhaps weary and worn out, I have been refreshed by hopeful,
pleasant words and smiles broadcast from friendly faces. These features
of my work have seemed to make my tasks easy and have indeed filled my
heart with gratitude.
I have been assisted materially by the prevailing spirit of a fraternalism, transcendent in its earnestness and charitable in its judgments.
I have received reports from all the Inspectors, all of whom report
the Lodges under their respective supervision to be getting along as well
as can be expected under the circumstances. Most of the Lodges however
are doing very little degree work, many of them supplying their meeting
nights with social and educational• programs; which have proven very
satisfactory.
I cannot say too much in praise of the Inspectors. They have always
been most loyal and always ready and willing to assist and co-operate in
·
every way possible.
A Brother has aptly expressed the definition of fellowship : "·Fellowship is the word which utters, s~ far as a word can, the deepest meaning,
the noblest feeling within the heart of Masonry. This is the truth which
the words of the ritual labor to express and which even symbols are dumb
to interpret. Fellowship! This was the vague something within Masonry
which our early brethren instinctively and half unconsciously groped
after and prized. Men of rank and men of wisdom, men of low degree
and simple men, felt that here was some new thing, something they only
half defined, but something which was wonderful beyond words. We
have not used that word Fellowshrp enough. We have not used enough
the sentiment, the truth, which this word tries to utter." "Fellowship,"
says some one, "is life's most savory delight." It is Fellowship which
makes this Institution a Fraternity. It is the very heart and soul of
Masonry.
I have accompanied the M:. W:. Grand Master at many installations,
dedications and corner-stone layings. The messages which he left on those
occasions were both interesting and inspiring and were greatly appreciated by the brethren.

119

I have visited every district in the state and some of them twice, and
have found the officers and brethren always willing and anxious to perfeet .
themselves in the ritual.
I am ind.ebted to t-he V:. W:. Grand Secretary and his assistant for
many courtesies extended to me in his office during the year.
In spite of the condition of the country, several new Temples have
been erected this year: at Red Bluff, Knights Landing, Lindsay, and
Willits. Several Lodges have taken over buildings and remodeled them.
These Lodges have - taken advantage of the opportunity in building at
·this time. This I am sure will stimulate a greater interest in the Lodges.
All these will be dedicated following Grand Lodge by the incoming Grand
Master.
A Third Degree will be conferred by officers of the Oakland Lodges
under the auspices of Oakland Lodge No. 188.
Thanking the Grand Lodge and the brethren for the confidence reposed in me as your Grand Lecturer.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS

J. BAKER,

Grand Lecturer.

Referred to the following committee: Earl W arren, Albert F. Shulte, Foster G. Dyer.

VACATION FOR GRAND LECTURER
Past Grand Master Wollenberg moved that the Grand
Lecturer be given leave of absence from the jurisdiction for
three months. Carried unanimously.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
FINANCING MASONIC BUILDING PROJECTS
To the M:. w:, Grand Lodge of California:
During the year ending September 30, 1932, ten Lodges or Temple
Associations have conducted correspondence with your Committee. The
majority of these were only of minor matters, which asked the Committee's opinion as to spending money to remodel their hall or buy a lot, and
only a few involved any great amount of funds. Most of the Lodges felt
that in the present financial depression, they should keep their funds intact
and refrain from going into debt.
The Committee has reviewed and approved the following projects :
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331, situated at Pacific Grove : On Oc·tober 24, 1931, this Lodge was given permission to lease. for a period of
ten years, at a monthly rental of $120.00, the entire second floor of a

120

GRAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

building which they at that time occupied, and also to expend $5,000 of
funds on hand for improvements and furniture. The Lodge at that time
had on hand $12,000.00. They proposed · to sub-let the apartments and
offices for $70.00 to one individual, thereby relieving the Lodge of the
responsibillty of looking after them. The room mentioned above was
not plastered, but otherwise finished, and they intended to fix this up
as a banquet room and use the present banquet room for a club room.
Madison Lodge No. 23, situated at Grass Valley : On December 30,
1931, this Lodge was given permission to purchase a lot in the city of
Grass Valley for the sum of $9,000, said lot being approximately 86.70x82
feet and _located on the corner of Auburn and Bank streets in said city.
The financial condition of this Lodge was in excellent shape, it having
on hand or in funds safely invested, $30,964.35. The Lodge desired to
purchase the lot at this time, but did not propose to proceed with the
erection of a building until at a later date.
Silvey-ville Lodge No. 201, situated at Dixon: On November 11,
1931, this Lodge was given permission to expend $4,500 of funds which
they had on hand, for remodeling their Lodge hall and the purchase of
new furniture. This Lodge is in splendid financial condition and had on
hand, in their various accounts, approximately $7,000. They own their
own building, fully paid for. Under date of September 23, 1932, this
Lodge reported that it had completell its remodeling and had expended
$5,100 of its own funds, in addition to which the Chapter donated $600.
They have no indebtedness.
Riverbank Lodge No. 459, sitµated at Riyerbank: On March 22,
1932, this Lodge was given permission to purchase a two-story, reinforced
concrete building 50 by 100 feet, on a lot 50 by 120 feet, located in the
town of Riverbank. It was estimated that $28,000 had originally been
invested in this property, but it was offered to the Lodge for $4,500, with
a down payment of $500, and $200 semi-annually, over a period of ten
years, with interest at 5 per cent. The Lodge had on hand at that time
in excess of $2,500, and reported that the work of remodeling the building
would be donated by members of the Lodge, with the exception of three
unemployed Masons who would ·be used on the work. They also reported
that they would raise their dues from $9.00 to $12.00 per year.
Willits Lodge No. 365, situa·ted at Willits: On April 25, 1932, this
Lodge was given permission to proceed with the erection of a new Masonic Temple in the town of Willits, and to furnish the same, the total
cost, including furnishings, not to exceed $9,000. They submitted blueprints showing floor plans, with a bid of $7,550 for the completed building.
Their balance sheet as of March 31, 1932, indicated their net worth as
$15,550.86. Under date of September 14, 1932, this Lodge reported that
they had completed their new Temple and that the cost was as follows:

121

Cost of new Temple-··-····-··--········-······-····-····..$ 8,000.00 ·
Cost of lot ........•..•..•..................................:............ 1,500.00
Cost of furniture ······································-··········- 1,500.00

Total.·-·····-····-···-·-··-····-···················-··--$11,000.00
Balance on hand, cash and bonds, $2,500.00. No indebtedness.
Lindsay Lodge No. 416, situated at Lindsay: On April 4, 1932, this
Lodge was given permission to purchase the clubhouse of the Lindsay
Woman's Club, in the town of Lindsay, for the sum of approximately
$460.00, in addition to which the Lodge will permit the Woman's Club
to use one of the rooms for their meetings. The original cost of the
building was said to have been $15,000, and the lot at that time was appraised at $2,000. Their original estimate was $1,200 to remodel the
property, and they had certain tenants whereby they would secure some
rental to help carry the project. The Lodge at that time had funds on
hand in excess of $3,000. However, when they started .alterations, they
found that it would cost considerably more than originally estimated, and
also required the installation of a heating and ventilating system. After
expending all funds on hand, they finally reported on September 6, as
follows:
Amount paid in transfer of property..:.........- .•..........$ 843.81
Amount paid for remodeling to date............................ 2478.49 $3322.30
Amount to be paid for heating and ventilating........$ 875.00
Amount to be paid for furniture......................•·-··-···· 300.00

1175.00

$4497.00
Further permission was given on August 8, 1932, to borrow $1000.00
which we undel'stand they have arranged with a private party at 7 per
cent. They have created a sinking fund which they believe will take care
of the indebtedness at the time it matures.
Schofield Lodge No. 443, situated at Schofield Barracks, Territory
of Hawaii: On March 7, 1932, this Lodge was given permission, through
Grand Treasurer Wm. P. Filmer, of the Committee, to Past Master C. C.
Pittam, who at that time was in San Francisco, to proceed to erect a new
building at a cost of approximately $13,000. Brother Pittam at that time
did not have all details of the financing of the Lodge, but reported that
a lease on the land had been secured at $100.00 per year for twenty years.
That they proposed to build a two-story frame building, 30 by 70 feet,
the ground floor to be used for office, kitchen and banquet room, and· the
second floor to have Lodge room 30 by 50 feet, with suitable preparation
rooms. That the Lodge had on hand funds in an amount in excess of
$7,500 and expected contributions from members of $4,000, one-half of
which had already been subscribed. Also, that tenants they already had,

.•

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

had offered to pay advance rent amounting to $1,800 upon completion of
the building, and that their indebtedness at the time of the completion of
the building, if any, would be limited to unpaid pledges. To show how
well the brethren carried out their project, we quote from letter received
from Brother Rodby, Past Master and Secretary, under date of May 14,
1932, as follows :
·
"It may be of interest · to you to know that ~he new home
of this Lodge has been dedicated. The Lodge moved into its new
home owing not one cent of money. Ten members of the Lodge
signed a note for $2,500 to finish payment on the building furniture in their own names and not in the name of the Lodge.
"At the present writing, $1,000 has already been paid on
the note from cash from the brethren and there is on hand in the
Building Fund (through cash donations) an addition of $400
that can be applied on the note but is being held to pay a threeyear premium on insurance on the building and contents. The
Lodge still has nearly $300 in the General Fund. There are
unpaid pledges for over $2,000, and as they come in the note will
·be paid off. Every mail brings in moneys and pledges for the
building fund and the finance committee expects that $1,500 more
will come in."
Vesper Lodge No. 84, situated at Red Bluff: On March 4, 1932, this
Lodge requested permission to erect a new building and submitted the
following statement of assets:
A lot 50 by 115 feet on the corner of Main and Oak streets
in the city of Red Bluff, leased to the Associated Oil Co.
for a service station at $150 monthly, said lease expiring in
January, 1935. Appraised value................................................$20,000
A lot facing Main street, 65 by 150 feet, upon which it proposed
•t o build its Temple, valued at.................................................... 6,500
Cash on hand ........................................................................................ 20,000

Total.......................................................................:........................$46,500
The Lodge estimated its annual income from rentals as follows :
Service station ......................................................................................$ 1,800
Rent of hall from Masonic bodies..................................................
425
Seven-year lease with Pacific Gas & Electric Co. in store in
proposed new building, at $165 per month..............,............... 1,980
Total of outside rentals..............................................................$ 4,205
After considerable correspondence, the Lodge was given permission
to proceed to erect a building on the lot facing Main street, at an estimated
cost of $42,000, with the understanding that when the building was completed, they would not be in debt more than $22,500.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

123

Under date of September 14, 1932, Brother Delbert J. Davis, Master,
wrote ·the Committee in part as follows:
"The principal contracts for the building total $35,893.50.
Work has progressed to the extent that we have paid $11,500 on
our contracts. In addition to these contracts, we estimate that
extras will be about $1,500. We have not planned on furniture
as yet. We will use the furniture we have, as far as it will go.
At the commencement of the building project we had on hand
about $20,000, and it will probably be necessary to borrow $17,000
more to complete the building and furnish it. The ground on
which the building is erected was owned by the Lodge before
the construction was commenced, except a strip of five feet which
was purchased for the sum of $600 l'O give more space. We have
an agreement to obtain the money necessary to complete the
building at the rate of 6~ per cent per annum."
Oakdale Lodge No. 275, situated at Oakdale: Under date of September 6, 1931, this Lodge wrote your Committee concerning the purchase
of a lot. The Committee endeavored to discourage this purchase, as they
had no plan to build a Lodge hall, nor funds with which to finance the
same.
In a letter dated October 2, 1932, the Lodge wrote that they had
abandoned the idea of purchasing a lot.
Pinole Lodge No. 353, situated at Pinole: On December 30, 1931,
this Lodge was given permission to acquire a lot, build a building and
furnish the same, at a total cost of not to exceed $13,500, with the understanding that when the project was completed, they would show in their
treasury a balance of $2,000, and a total indebtedness of not to exceed
$4,000. Under date of September 21, 1932, your Committee wrote this
Lodge, making inquiry as to whether they had proceeded with their project,
but up to this time no reply has been received. Hence we are unable to
report definitely what action was taken.
Your Committee congratulates the Lodges on the excellent Jllllllner
in which they have financed their buildings and repairs during the past year.
We have received full co-operation from all of th~ brethren throughout the jurisdiction, in their effort to build buildings, and reconstruct and
furnish halls, without borrowing any great amount of money to handle
their improvements.
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCING B UILDING PROJECTS.
WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES, Chairman,
WILLIAM P. FILMER,
EDWARD A. REINKE.

Report adopted ..

124

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA .

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
TRUSTEES REPORT
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
As required by the Constitution, we herewith submit a report of
the property, condition and operation of the Masonic Homes for the
fiscal year just ended.
Immediately after the close of Grand Lodge on October 16, 1931,
the Board organized as follows:
President, C. M. Wollenb~rg (1934);
Vice-President, James B. Gist, Senior Grand Warden;
Chas. Albert Adams (1933);
Samuel E. Burke (1932);
John Stewart Ross (1935);
Frank W. Mixter, Deputy Grand Master;
William A. Sitton, Junior Grand Warden;
William P. Filmer, Treasurer ex-officio;
John Whicher, Secretary ex-officio.
The year has been a trying one, but it is not necessary to remind
you of the business situation nor of the difficulties incident to a proper
maintenance of the Homes, other than to report that the increase of
dependents of Lodges and the decrease of our revenues have added
burdens to the conduct of our business as your agents · charged with
relieving Lodges of the care of their indigent members, to an extent
never before experienced.
State Aid and Tax Relief
In all the history of our Homes it has been the steadfast policy
of Grand Lodge and of the Trustees to maintain the poor of the craft
without invoking the provisions of the State Constitution respecting
public relief for dependents in institutions. In view, however, of the
financial situation and reduced revenues, and having in mind that
institutions similar in character to ours are all receiving aid from
public funds, your Trustees, at a general meeting held February 27,
1932, concluded that they would take advantage of the provisions of
Article XIII, Section lY.a of the Constitution of the State of California, as it was adopted by the people at the general election of
November, 1920, reading in part as follows:
"All buildings, and so much of the real property connected therewith as may be required for the occupation of institutions sheltering
more than twenty orphan or half orphan children, receiving State aid
shall be free from taxation; •••"

126

The necessary steps were taken before the State Department of
Social Welfare and the Assessors of the counties of Los Angeles and
Orange, and the Masonic Homes of California are now relieved
taxation on all the lands and buildings belonging to the Homes at
Covina and Balboa, a yearly saving of approximately six thousand
dollars. The Homes will continue to be relieved of taxation at Covina
and Balboa as long as they shelter more than twenty orphan or half
orphan children subject to Sta.t e aid. The rules of the Department of
Social Welfare with regard to payments for relief to institutions are
very strict, · but this year there are twenty-nine of our children who
come within the provisions of the State law and the rules of the Department, and we will benefit to the extent of $1,129.00 for the first
half of the year, in addition to a large saving in taxes.

of

Outside Care
Following our policy, inaugurated several years ago, of maintaining children at private homes and with the mother whenever
possible, instead of placing them in the Covina Home, we have in the
past year placed 32 children outside the Home. The total number of
children now being assisted outside the Home is 68 from 36 Lodges,
at a monthly expense of $1,085.00, an average per month per child of
$16.00.
We also are contributing $1,850.00 per month to 63 Lodges, for
eighty aged people. The total monthly payments for the relief of
dependents outside of the Homes aggregates more than thirty-five
thousand dollars a year-a severe tax on the Homes revenues.
The above observations are suggested to us largely because of
the continually increasing demands upon the Homes, particularly the
Home for adults at Decoto. Ten years ago there were in the Decoto
Home one hundred and fifty adults dependent upon the Lodges; fiv~
years ago the number had increased to two hundred and twenty-five;
one year ago there were three hundred and twenty-six adults at the
Decoto Home; and now, notwithstanding the loss by death in the
year of sixty-two, you are caring for three hundred and forty-one,
almost the limit of the room capacity of the institution.
Field Worker
In November, 1929, we authorized the Superintendent of the
Covina Home to employ a field worker. A woman trained and experienced in that line has been employed continuously in such capacity
·
since that date. Her duties have included:
(a) The investigation of applications for admissions to both the
Covina and Decoto Homes when such applications originated in or
near Los Angeles.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

126

127

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

(b) The making and executing of plans by which outside relief
or home aid is substituted for admission to the Homes, in that class
of cases where such measures were applicable.
(c) Contact · with families or relatives of children in the Covina
Home, in order that the Home may deal with the children more intelligently, and in order that children may be returned to their relatives . whenever improvement in the financial or domestic conditions
warrants such return.
(d) After-care work for children discharged from the Home, to
assist them in getting a proper start in life.
The employment of a person in this capacity is in line with the
practice in the bes_t institutions in the country. The Trustees have
been able to act more intelligently in determining a large number of
applications for admissions in both Homes because of information
which was secured through this field worker. Lodge officers and
committees of investigation are often handicapped through lack of
experience and skill in collecting information requisite to a proper
determination of requests for admission to the Homes. We feel that
the results so far obtained through the services of our field worker
have been abundantly justified, not only from the standpoint of an
outright saving, but also from the standpoint of rendering the right
kind of aid to those whose care we undertake.
In one case a mother applied for the admission of her two children,
a boy and a girl, to the Masonic Home. After studying the case the
field worker recommended that a monthly allotment of money be
made to assist the mother to keep the children at home with her, and
the application was . so decided by the Trustees. At first the mother
was much disappointed and resented the refusal of the Trustees, to
admit the children to the Home. Within a few months however, when
the new arrangement had been placed on a successful working basis,
she expressed herself as profoundly grateful that she had not been
allowed to separate herself from her children in accordance with her
request when the application was made. We urge all officers of our
Lodges to fully co-operate with our field worker when she approaches
you in the discharge of her duties.
New Forms for Applications
In March, 1932, the Trustees adopted and placed in use new forms
of appfications to take the place of the old application forms of admission to the Covina and Decoto Homes. The new forms were designed somewhat after the manner of those in use in the Pennsylvania
jurisdiction. They are more complete than the old forms and call for
a much greater amount of information.
In conformity with what has come to be our practice they are
applications not specifica_lly for admission to the Homes but rather

for Masonic relief, leaving for determination by the Trustees whether
relief if granted shall be by means of admission to the Homes or by
other means.
·
They call for careful work by the committee of investigation of
the Lodge in which the application originates. After that committee
has made its report and the same has been acted upon by the Lodge,
the application is then reviewed by the Inspector of the district, who
forwards it to the Trustees of the Homes with any comment or
recommendation which he cares to make.
·
We feel that the new forms of application are a distinct improvement on those previously in use and wiH result in a more careful and
discriminating consideration both by Lodge officers and by the Trustees of the Homes before applicants are received into our care.
In taking measures to secure more exact information concerning
those for whom relief ,is requested, both through the field worker an~
through the new application forms, it has not been the intention of
the Trustees to make relief less accessible to those who really. need
it and merit it. However, in the stress of present economic conditions,
we . feel that we are justified in giving the most careful scrutiny to all
applications in order that the funds available shall not be denied to
the r!!lief of deserving cases because of having been allotted to other
cases which had a lesser claim or no claim upon us.
A Word for the Old People
The men and women residents at the Decoto Home are in general
contented, even happy, although very naturally it is difficult for some
of them to readily readjust themselves to a new environment. This is
particularly so with those who have lived for many years in one
private home of their own. The Superintendent and Matron do all
in their power to relieve any condition of home-sickness, and most
of the residents soon adjust themselve.s to their new mode of living
and 'in a few weeks make new contacts and new friendships that.
prove to be a panacea for the loss of the old.
Lodges and members could, and should, render a great service
to their residents at the Decoto Home by writing to them now and
then, to let them know they are not forgotten, and these letters
should take practical form by the inclosure monthly of a .little spending money-say a dollar or two--for knickknacks not provided by the
HCime-not necessarily for essentials.
Motion Picture of Covina Home
A new motion picture of life at the Covina Home is now available
for Lodges and Lodge entertainments. It was the gift of the brethren
of Mount Olive Lodge No. 506, and is a faithful representation of the
daily life of the children.

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CAJ.IFORNIA

A scenario was written by Brother Fred Kelsey in collaboration
with other members of the Lodge, and the picture was "shot" during
four days of strenuous work by a crew of twelve picture men, with
an equipment which included a light generator and a dozen Kleig
lights.
The story, as clearly told in the picture, is of an eccentric bachelor
who has amassed a fortune in the diamond fields of ·Africa returns
to New York and learns that the only daughter of his dead brother
is an inmate of an orphanage in California. He traces her to the
Masonic Home at Covina, and comes to the Home full of wrath that
his niece should be in a poor house, resolved to take her away and
lavish upon her everything that money could buy. He finds that she
is not keen about leaving, and proposes to show him something of her
home and its daily life. They go on a tour of the institution, taking
an afternoon and evening and part of the next day. As the uncle
sees the life there his conception of it undergoes a change and after
fully viewing the Home he leaves to his niece the choic~ of going
With him to a life of luxury or of remaining at the Home. She
promptly elects to remain until she finishes high school. Uncle
Charlie is satisfied, returns to New York and adds a codicil to his
will leaving a goodly share of his estate to the Masonic Homes.
Uncle Charlie was played by Brother Charles Crockett well
known as the impersonator of the Grand Master of Hamburg ~t the
get-together dinner in Los Angeles in 1929.
The reels of this interesting picture are now available for the
use of Lodges on request either to Trustee Gist at Los Angeles or to
Trustee Wollenberg or the Secretary of the Homes at San Francisco.
The onl! res.triction as to their use is that they must be displayed by
men tramed in the work of handling moving pictures.
Finances
The demands for aqmissions to the Decoto Home have been
larger than for any previous year, and the revenues from Lodges, due
to reasons not necessary to relate, have been materially reduced. The
continued slump is shown in the following table :
1921
1931
1932
Membership all Lodges............-.. 8S,181
142,422
140,641
Fees from initiates........................$211,600.00 $124,S9S.OO $ 7S,700.00
Per capita tax..-······-················--.$ 21,13S.SO $ 3S,1Sl.SO $ 67,8SO.OO•
Admissions Decoto .....................•
26
69
79
Residents Decoto ..........................
146
326
341
Expense both Homes....................$112,988.14 $211,968.00 $191,921.91
Homes direct revenue ..................$ 19,647.73 $ 22,S3S.2S $ 13,764.81
"*For 1932 the per capita tax was increased from ZS cents to SO cents.

129

Every possible economy has been practiced. The salaries of staff and
employes have been reduced. The cost of supplies is lower than ever
before, and we have brought down the per capita cost per day at the
Home for adults from 88.6 cents to 77 cents. And at the Home for
children, from $1.S3 to $1.32. Yet despite the exercise of this economy
we appear before you with a deficit of $9,SS0.19 for the year, which we
are asking Grand Lodge to assume.
We respectfully ask you to give due consideration to the means of
adequately providing for our Homes, either throllg'h an increase of per
capita tax or by other means and par ticularly for the rapidly increasing
cost of outside relief, due to demands caused largely by unemployment.
Donations and Legacies
Donati<111s and legacies to the Homes in the year amounted to
$11,967.43, to the Endowment Fun!! and $5,284.47 to t he General
Fund, as follows:
Endowment
Frank G. Watson --".__
......_•..t.......;f lOS.00
McCloud Lodge No. 4aQ_.._............,...,.,...•..,........,; 12S.OO
Estate of Wm. V. Nichols--·····-································ 100.00
John Sinclair ··-·······- ····················:............ 2,277.03
Fred Kolliker -·······--···-··········:•....,....... 3,000.00
August Swanson ··-··-···········•··················· 1,000.00
John Buben ·--·-······-··················-······ 250.00
Fred M. Strom ··-····--······························ 1,082.50
Martin K. Barkley -·····-···········- ·······-····· 269.00
Harding L. Walk·-······-·······-······-······- 2,009.90
Nathan Simons ··-·····-··········-·-·······-·-·- 250.00
Wm. E. Alexander .........................•........., 1,500.00 $11,967.43
General
Estate of Lester D. Welch...........___..:....·-········-::""··:·$11!09.4r
Jessie D. Seale ·-········-··- -··········-·-- - 1,250.00
John A. Swanson ......................, ...·-·····-~ 1,000.00
Edwin C. Y~ung ...............·--·--········- - 1,92S.OO

S,284.47

Donations to Scholarship Fund
The Scholarship account is overdrawn, and donations for this
desirable purpose are needed. This is a fund made up entirely from
donations, no part of it coming from Homes revenues. In the year
jq,st past we have had the interest accruing from the bequest of
George f. and Laura E . Brigham, $2,330.50, and $1,090.00 donated
by the following friends of the children graduates at the Covina
Home :

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Frank G. Watson........•............·-··--····················-················$105.90.
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection................................- 750.00
McCloud Lodge No. 430--······························--·············· 175.00
La Brea Lodge No. 650......·-···-············,·•·····-·-- ················· 10.00
Taft Lodge No. 516......•..........;····························-·············· 50.00

You visited the Home for the aged Monday, and had the opportunity of seeing at first hand just what your Trustees are doing for
the care of the wards of the fraternity. A large family is domiciled
there, and many perplexing problems arise which tax the patience
and the judgment of those in charge. But on the whole the work,
though at times arduous, is interesting and indeed instructive. We
really have but one difficult problem, and that is, how to keep expenses within the income.
Fraternally submitted,
CHARLES M. WoLLENBERG,
}AMES B. GIST,
SAMUEL E. BURKE,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
]oHN STEWART Ross,
FRANK w. MIXTER,
WM. A. SITTON.

Scholarships
At the present time ten children, graduates of the Home and the
high · school, are participating in the Scholarship fund, at a total annual expense of $3,290.00. These boys and girls all evince interest in
their studies, and in due time will become self-supporting, useful men
and women. ·
Doubtless you will be interested to know that Grayson Merrill, a
graduate from the Covina Home, has finished his second year at the
Naval Academy, Annapolis, and that in a class of five hundred young
men his average standing in engineering, mathematics (in which he
itood 15), electrical engineering and physics, English and History,
and modern language, was forty-five.
Appreciation From a Beneficiary
The following letter of appreciation from an aged woman whose
husband is a chronic invalid, receiving outside relief, is published
because too often beneficiaries complain rather than thank the fraternity for assistance rendered:
"It is with much gratitude and appreciation that I am writing you
this letter for my dear husband and myself, and I trust you will
pardon the seeming liberty I am taking in doing so. But I do so
much want to and have wanted to for some time write and thank
you for what the Masonic Home of California is doing for us, and
we appreciate your great kindness and consideration, more perhaps,
than you have any idea.
"And I only hope and pray that I am worthy of the aid given
us. I know my husband is. He has always been so fine and good.
"It will be three years in September since this seeming misfortune has befallen us. While physically my dear husband is helpless,
thank God, the Giver of all good things, his mind is just as active as
it always was, and he is so patient at all times, and has such a wonderful disposition, and these are the things you know that help us to
carry on. That in caring for him, it is really a labor of love.
"There are times when a feeling of discouragement would try
to creep in and the clouds try to hide the sun, still behind it all I
know the sun still shines, and I realize I have much, oh so much to
be grateful for, and truly I am.
"Again let me thank you and the Trustees of the Homes from
the depths of my heart for my dear husband and me for the aid given
l!s by the good Masons of California. May God bless you and them.
"Gratefully,"

131

Report of Auditors
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:
In accordance with your instructions, we have made a general
·audit of the books of account of the Masonic Hoines of California,
giving particular attention to the verification of the Balance Sheet
as at July 31, 1932. We present herewith the following statements:
Statements of Accountability for Funds and Properties
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements, (2
pages).
Exhibit B: Balance sheet, July 31, 1932 (2 pages).
Exhibit C: Statement of net worth.
Schedule B-1: Summarized statement of Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-2: Summarized statement of Scholarship Fund.
Schedule B-3: List of securities-Special Rule No. 16, Securities
Deposited (2 pages).
Schedule B-4: Composition of Special Fund Accounts.
Statements of Operation (Statistical)
Exhibit D: Summarized statement of revenue and expenses (2
pages).
Schedule D-1: Distribution of operating expenses in detail (2
pages).
Schedule D-2: Statement of per capita costs.

132

Secretary's Report

Sundry Explanalory Comments ·
After a general review and analysis of the nature of the items
being capitalized to the Covina Improvement account, and following
a conference with the office of the Grand Secretary, an adjustment
was made by writing this account down to an estimated value of
$20,000.00. This adjustment is reflected in the Balance Sheet under
Exhibit B and in the Net Worth account under Exhibit C.
We have written off the note of August and Marie Kangris in
the amount of $1,680.96, due since 1927, on which no principal or
interest payments have been made since that date. This note is considered valueless. This note has been carried as a part of the securities
Special Rule No. 16.
By way of explanation, we wish to point out that, under Exhibit
A, the summarized closing statement setting out the composition of
cash funds as at July 31, 1932, contains certain amounts due to and
from the Endowment Fund bank accounts. These items consist of
transfers not made as at July 31, 1932.
Certificate
We certify th~t, in our opinion, the attached statements, with
exception as to the st;lted value of the securities on hand and the
actual values of the fixed properties at Decoto and Covina, set forth
the condition of the Masonic Homes of California at July 31, 1932,
and that a proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
·
Respectfully submitted,
Rucx:STELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

133

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932
General Fund
Cash balances August 1, 1931 :
In banks ._,._•._..••••..:..·-·········-·····················-···.$ 458.24*
Petty cash, Covina and Decoto........................ 1,000.00

---$
Receipts
Home maintenance tax-annual returns ................$34,830.50
Home building tax-annual returns ........................ 69,661.00
$25.00 Home Uut•··-···-························..··········-·......... 90,625.00
Maintenance, subordinate fodgcs, Decoto.............. 1,615.00
Maintenance, subordinate lodges, Covina............ 3,718.00
Endowment fund interest............•............................. 20,086.19
Interest ............................•..........................................•
878.79
Farm produce sales, Decoto_....................................
210.09
Farm produce sales, Covina......•......- ....................; 1,406.75
Farm rent, Decoto ................................- -..................
534.26
116.50
Salvage and mis;ellaneous .................... _..................
Refunds and reimbursements:
Funeral expeaJse..................................$3,46~.()1
Insurance ..............................................
11.45
Outside care of children, Covina......
55.16
Outside .rolleSA········..............-..............
80.00
Merchandise purchases, Covina...... 4,832.36
Sundry maintenance, Covina............ 192.88
Sundry maintenance, D ecoto............
46.50
8,687.36
Appropriation from Grand Lc;>dge..,..- .....- ............ 75,000.00
Sundry bequests and receipts.................................... 5,531.33
Special Rule No. 16;.......-························-···..:.........:. 6,305.90
Entertainment fund ..........,....................................... 5,599.60
Students' loan fund- ................:................................ 3,420.52
Notes payable to Anglo California Trust Co....... 25,000.00

541.7~

..• .

Total receipts ................................................

353,226.79

Total to account for ....................................................

$353,768.55

*Red.

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

136

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

Disbursements

Composition of Funds

Maintenance, Decoto..- ........................:.....................$94,231.87
Maintenance, Covina...·-············································ 90,599.89
General and other expenses:
Outside relief...•.........................................- ........ 28,203.75
Outside care of children......................·--········ 3,117.80
Special Rule No. 16 interest.:...........•.......... _.~
376.00
Interest Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
note ................................................................
932.64
Interest on bank overdrafts............_.............•..
39.94
4,077.15
Insurance -····························································
Taxes ..................................................................... 7,349.68
Secretary's salary......- ..................•..................... 1,599.96
900.00
General office accounting.....·-············-············
Trustees' expense-..............................................
598.60
Miscellaneous expense......................................
387.85
Funeral expense.............................••.....•......•...... 5,511.30
Headstone expense..............................•...............
133.75
Settlement of claim on account of accident
at Decoto................................................·- ··· 1,000.00
Safekeeping of securities and safe deposit
266.50
box rentaL-·-····-·······················-·················
Auditing ...............................................................•
325.00
Maintenance and improvements to grounds,
Covina ....................................•..................... 1,450.50
Federal tax on checks drawn............................
4.60
Refund $25.00-Home tax.·-··························- ·········
200.00
Furniture and fixtures, De.coto................................ 3,076.09
Special Rule No. 16...•.....................-......................... 3,000.19
Entertainment fund-.................................................. 7,767.99
Students' Loan funi:l.. ......................................._.......'.. 3,667.96
Notes payable ··································-··············- ·········.100,000.00 ·
Interest on $45,ooo;oo Hetch Hetchy bonds at
time of purchase................................- ......:.........
249.17

Anglo California Trust Company (commercial
account) ·················- -·······························-········--$15,729.98•
Security First National Bank of Los Angeles,
(commercial account).---··············-···················· 3,380.55
Anglo California Trust Company (endowment) interest account............$10,548.44
Less: Due the Endowment Fund
bank account.............................. 5,249.17
5,299.27
533.43
Security First National Bank, Pasadena................
Petty cash funds, Decoto and Covina.................... 1,000.00
Due from the Bank of America (Humboldt
217.10
Branch) Endowment Fund account................
Total

. . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . .. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . . u

$ 5,299.63•

. . . . . . . . . ...

Exhibit B
BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1932

Assets

Cash :
In banks (overdraft) ............$
6,299.63•
Petty cash, Decoto................
500.00
Petty cash, Covina................
500.00
----$
Securities:
Special Rule No. 16 (See
38,696~97
Schedule B-3).·-········-···
2,000.00
General securities ....................
40,986.50
Scholarship Fund securities

5,299.63•

81,683.47

Total disbursements.........................:..........

359,<>68.18

Overdrawn July 31,1932...............·--························

$ 5,299.63•

Decoto Home:
44,969.90
Land ··-······························-····
Buildings ............................,... 1,480,213.03
56,452.55
Building equipment................
48,411.26
Improvements ........................
75,177.83
Power plant and laundry......
70,103.69
Furniture and fixtures ..........
5,406.00
Farm equipment......................
l,780,734.26

136

Covina Home:
Land ............................. _________._.
24,300.00
Buildings ................................ 474,330.09
Building equipment..............
7,956.49
Improvements ........................
20,000.00
Laundry machinery................
6,609.80
Furniture and fi:{Ctures ..- ...... · 14,517.66
Hospital building................., ..
53,999.09
Farm improveme.ot................
1,205.85

recorded on the books in the case of securities having little or no
value, and in case of real estate, the value of which is uncertain.
Upon realization of donated real estate in cash, entry of cash realized
is entered in books, as the first book record of the donation.
No depreciation on fixed properties is reflected on the books or
in the above balance sheet.

_.

Camp Tucker:
Real estate ..................,...
Improvements ..............
Automobiles ....................................
Stores and Supplies:
Decoto ......................................
Covina

Exhibit C
STATEMENT OF NET WORTH

002,918.98
12,749.00
12,347.00
25,096.00
1,522.78
282.72
818.49
1,101.21

Total assets ....................
Liabilities
Notes Payable:
Anglo California Trust Co...$ 2-5,000.00
Endowment Fund .................. 225,000.00
Fund Accounts :
Residents' deposits (due
from general fund) ........
Special Rule No. 16 (due
from general fund) ........
Special Rule No. 16, securities deposited ..................
Entertainment Fund
(Schedule B-1) ,:.............
Students' Loan Fund
(Schedule B-2) ..............

137

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·

$2,487,757.07

JULY 31, 1932
Capital Account
Balance August 1, 1931..................._....•........~...$2,006,076.20
Add:
Excess of revenue over expense for the
fiscal year ended July 31, 1932........
70,681.14

$2,076,757.34
Deduct:
Write-down of the Covina improvements from $60,097.22 as at July 31,
46,097.22
1931 to $20,000.00 estimated value....
Balance July 31, 1932-···-··-·····-························

$250,000.00

$2,036,660.12

Schedule B-1
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF ENTERTAINMENT FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932
Balance, August 1, l~L. ......~...~....,,..,.....-.,.."..-...,....1•••.,...,......- ......$3,711.36
Receipts during the year..........--,--···-··-··············..···:·•········•··-.. 5,599.60

10,000.00
111,823.60

Total ·-·····················---·········-··-··-·-·---····'···-~-~-•-··-....$9.al0.96
Disbursements during the year...·-·····-·····-~·········-·-·······-··-_:·-·· 7,767.99

38,696.97
1,542.97

Balance, July 31, 1932.•- ..·..···-······~············.················-····$1,542.97
39,033.41
201,096.95

Total liabilities ..............

$ 451,096.95

Net worth (See Exhibit C) ........

$2,036,660.12

Note: The following items are not included in this statement:
Donated real estate and securities received by the Secretary are not

Schedule B-2
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF STUDENTS' LOAN FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932
Balance, August 1, 1931:
Cash (due the general fund) ............................-$ .1,705.65•
Securities ·-··············-"-·······································-· 41,986.50
- - - $40,280.85

138

PROCEEDINGS OP" THE

139

GRAND LOD GE OF CALIFORNIA

Receipts During the Year:
Cash:

Schedule B-3

Earnings on securities................................ 2,330_52
General contributions
-·-· •••'"• ••••••• H••• ••••••• •••
l,090.00

LI ST OF SECURITIES-SPECIAL RULE NO. 16 SECURITIES DEPOSITED

3,420.52
$43,701.37
Disbursements During the Year:
Cash:
For education .................................................u... 3,667.96
Securities:
Return of Widows and Orphans Fund,
Islam Temple policy ..........................

l,OOO.OO
4,667.96

Balance, July 31, 1932...............:................
$39,033.41
Composition of Funds
Cash (due the general fund) ..................
$ 1,953.09•
Securities:
100 shares Masonic Temple Asso1 00
ciation stock
5 $1,000 Sugar p·j~-~···i~·~·b·;~
O.OO
Company 6% First Mortgage
Bonds .......................................... 5,000.00
1 $1,000 Yosemite Lumber Company 6~% First Mortgage
Bonds .......................................... . 1,000.00
5 $1,000 Broadway Department
Stores, Inc., 15 year 6% Sinking Fund Debentures.............. 5,000.00
5 $1,000 Blue Diamond Company
6% First Mortgage Bonds.....'. 5,000.00
5 $1,000 Los Angeles Railway Co,,
5% First Mortgage Bonds...... 5,000.00
5 $ 1,000 Fruit Growers' Supply
Co., 6~ % First Mortgage
Bonds .......................................... 5,000.00
527 shares Pacific Gas & Electric
Co., 6% Preferred Stock
(cost) .......................................... 13,986.50
40,986.50

'

Total ..........................................

.$39,033.41

JULY 31, 1932
Bonds:
Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton R.R. Co.....4~ % $1,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Company ....................6%
1,000.00

- - - $ 2,000.00
Stocks :
American Telephone & Telegraph
Company .................................... 3 shares par $ 300.00
California Mutual Building &
Loan Association ....................2~ shares
500.00
California Prune & Apricot
Growers' Association.............. 4 shares
14.68
Graton & Knight Company, common stock (no par) .................. 10 shares
10.00
Graton & Knight Company, preferred stock .............................. 4 shares par
400.00
Kolster Radio Corporation, common stock .................................. 4 shares
246.20
·Kern County Mutual Building &
Loan Association .................... 15 shares par
1,500.00
Mercantile American Realty
500.00
Company ···'··"····-...................... 5 share,s par
National Leather Company, preferred stock .............................. 1 share
100.00
National Leather Company, common stock ................................ 5 shares
50.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Company,
preferred ...........................- ......208 shares par ' 5,200.00
San Jose Building & Loan Association .l..............._ ..............;...., 6 shares
300.00
Southern California Edison Com"
pany .................:........................... 9 shares par .
225.00
Southern California Edison Company ...;.:...................................... 20 shares cost
548.50
Transamerica Corporation
7 shares cost
175.00
Transamerica Corporation
script
10.00

10,079.38

140

Schedule. B-4

Building and Loan Certificates:
Pacific States Saving & Loan Society:
Fidelity participating certificate 6% ....$250.00
Fidelity definite term investment certificate 6%--····-····--··-·-·-·-····--- 750.00

COMPOSITION OF SPECIAL FUND ACCOUNTS
JULY 31, 1932
Special Rule No. 16:
.C ash:
Due from general fund ........$111,290.17
Security First National
Bank, Pasadena ...•......
533.43
- - - - $111,823.60

1,000.00
Columbia Building & Loan Association accumulation investment certificates - ············································

202.81
1,202.81

Notes:
George E. and Esther Hoag (Deed of Trust) ........ 2,150.00
Wallace D. and Bernice D. Swanson (Deed of
Trust) ··············································-····-················ 2,422.10
J.B. and Esther Anthony (Deed of Trust) ............ 3,170.39
Samuel Leask ························-················-······················ 2,800.00
J. Donald and Margaret McCretdf..........................- 500.00
William J. Mellis, et at. (Deed of Trust)................ 290.00
P. G. Little and wife..•········-···---~----~:.......~·-·······•··· 2,225.00
Anna Wilber (Deed of Tl'tlll) .._.....,........:................. 1,672.76
H.J. and Ida R. Johnston (Deed of Trust)............ 387.40
W. H. and Ruth E. Peck (Deed of Trust).............. 797.13

Total ·-·····-·····--··-········--···--·-'.····-Trust Funds:
Gloria Benjamin, cash in San Francisco

-

$150,520.57

.Bank -················-··-··········-·-········-····-- $
Eunice Botts, cash in San Francisco Bank

$ 15,599.68

1,362.95
730.50

$ 2,093.45
Total ················•··············'.············-······•···
•Cash in banks is contained in separate bank accounts apart from
the general funds of the Masonic Homes of California.
Exhibit · D
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF ItEVENUE AND EXPENSE ( STATISTICAL)
FOlt THE FISCAL YEAlt ENDED JULY 31, 1932

9,000.00

-

38,696.97

Residents' Deposits:
Cash due from general fund ........................ $ 10,000.00
Ca.sh on hand and in bank -··························
5,599.68*

Life Insurance Policies:
Western States Life Insurance Company, (straight
life) on H.J. Clo$sen, face value•....·-················ 1,000.00
Bankers Life Company, 22-year endowment policy
issued May 22, 1916 on Emil Cohn, face value_ 2,000.00
National Life .Insurance Company, ordinary life,
on Emma M. Engle, face value-····-····-····-········ 1,000.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Company; 47-year endowrn~t issued 1911 on Wesley G. Stewart,
face value ................................................................ 1,000.00
Widows and Orphans Fund on F. H. Roscoe............ 1,500.00
Widows and Orphans Fund on F. D. Parsons.......... 1,500.00
Relief Association Certificates, Grand International Auxiliary Brotherhood of Locomotive
Engineers on Ella H. HMis................................ 1,000.00

.
. Total .......................................
.................. ............ ....

Securities ··········•····················•··························
Total ........•.....................••..........................

16,414.78 .

-

141

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$38,696.97

Decoto
Rev1nue
Revenue from General Sources :
Maintenance Fund :
$25.00 Home tax..$90,425.00
Building fund ...... 69,661.00 ·
Per capita tax........ 34,830.50

Covina

Total

$194,916.50
5,333.00
Maintenance subordinate Lodges....$ 1,615.00 $ 3,718.00
19,837.02
Interest endowment fund securities ................ ................
878.79
Interest on bank deposits .................. ................ ..,..._..•...
Total

-···-······-···············-····--.$ 1,615.00 $ 3,718.00 $220,965.31

142

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Revenue from Operations of Homes :
Farm produce sales .............................$ 5,581.87 $ 7,583.18 $ 13,165.05
534.26
Farm rent ······································-····
534.26 ................
Salvage ................................................
65.50 ················
65.50

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL ( STATISTICAL)

. Total ............................................$ 6,181.63 $ 7,583.18 $ 13,764.81
Total revenue from all sources........$ 7,796.63 $11,301.18 $234,730.12
Expenses
Maintenance ............ (Schedule D-1) $50,635.39 $39,974.63 $90,610.02
Hospital .................... (Schedule D-1)
11,337.65
4,240.63
15,578.28
Farm .......................... (Schedule D-1)
4,848.85 11,419.02
16,267.87
Laundry -~.................,( Schedule D-1)
3,338.02
2,549.68
5,887.70
Payroll ...................... (Schedule D-1)
13,675.66 20,208.76
33,884.42
General expense ...... (Schedule D-1)
16,044.65 13,648.97
29,693.62
Total ............................................$99,880.22 $92,041.69 $191,921.91
Common Expense (Undistributed):
Outside relief ................................ ~ ...............................:..'...........:....$ 28,123.75
Oufside care of children, Covina................................................ 3,062.64
Insurance .....................................~ ..................,..............•,................. 4,065.70
Taxes ................................................................................................ 7,349.68
Secretary's salary ................................................ ~........................ ~,599.96
General office accounting ..............................................................
900.00
Interest Special Rule No. 16........................................................
376.00
Interest on notes payable............. ~..............................................
932.64
Interest on oyetdrafts......................................................:.............
39.94
Funeral expense, Decoto (net) .................................................... 2,042.29
Headstone expense ........................................................................
133.75
Maintenance and improvements to grounds, Covina.............. 1,449.50
Trustees' expense ..........................................................................
598.60
Settlement of claim on account of accident at Decoto............ 1,000.00
Auditing ..........................................................................................
325.00
Safekeeping of securities and safe deposit box rental............
266.50
General ............................................................................................
387.85
Federal tax on checks drawn ......................................................
4.60
Total common expense (undistributed) ..........:..................$ 52,658.40
Total expense ................,.................................................................$244,580.31
Excess of expense over Revenue .........:............................................*$ 9,850.19
Other Income:
Appropriation from Grand Lodge .............................................. 75,000.00
Sundry bequests and receipts ...................................................... 5,531.33
Net income for the fiscal year ended July 31 , 1932........................$ 70,681.14

*Red.

143

Schedule D-1
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932

Expenses
Decoto

Total
Covina
Groceries ··-········~···························$ 6,728.84 $10,968.68 $17,697:52
8,038.28
2,717.68
Meat ................................................ 5,320.60
695.21
67.60
Fish ..................................................
627.61
1,983.20
727.69
Provisions ...................................... 1,255.51
7,199.38
2,905.92
Fruit and vegetables...................... 4,293.46
18,265.03
8,109.73
Butter, milk and eggs.................... 10,155.30
5,352.15
1,258.14
Baker supplies .............................. 4,094.01
187.37
187.37
Medical supplies and drugs ........................
1,115.09
1,590.07
474.98
Dental expense ..............................
2,017.99
1,328.92
Clothing ........................,.................
689.07
1,994.88
1,382.29
Shoes ..............................................
612.59
696.80
95.23
·Bedding ..........................................
601.57
273.76
273.76
School supplies ..............................................
17.03
17.03
Repairs and maintenance ............ ................
Kitchen and dining room:
Operating and miscellane10,091.57
3,500.64
ous expense .................... 6,590.93
14,509.78
5,318.86
Payroll . .................................... 9,190.92

·Maintenance Expense

Total maintenance ··········-····$50,635.39 $39,974.63 $90,610.02
Hospital Expense
Miscellaneous expense ................$ 4,261.32 $ 3,115.63 $ 7,376.95
1,125.00
8,201.33
Payroll ............................................ 7,0~6.33
Total hospital ..........- ..~.........$11,337.65 $ 4,240.63 $15,578.28
Farm Expense
Tools and equipment ····-···········-~-$ · 81.68 $ 132.30 $ 213.98
7.05
129.13
Seeds ..................:.............................
122.08
6,092.37
3,345.63
Feed ................................................ 2,746.74
4,562.25
3,683.90
General expense ............................
878.35
4,250.14
5,270.14
Payroll ............................................ 1,020.00
Total farm ............................$ 4,e48.85 $11,419.02 $16,267.87
Laundry Expense
Expense •.........................................$ 632.77 $ 560.88 $ 1,193.65
4,694.05
1,988.80
Payroll ............................................ 2,705.25
Total laundry ........................$ 3,338.02 $ 2,549.68 $ 5,887.70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Payroll Expense (Other than Farm, Laundry, Maintenance and Hospital)

Wages ----·--····-:...................• 8,815.66 $16,968.76 $25,784.42
3,240.00
8,100.00
Salaries ............................................ 4,860.00
Total payroll ..........................$13,675.66 $20,208.76 $33,884.42
General Expense
Light, heat, power and water ......$ 9,832.73 $ 7,800.46 $17,633.19
2,637.95
Plant repairs and maintenance.. 1,593.25
1,044.70
742.60
Freight and express......................
605.00
137.60
1,994.82
1,994.82
Traveling ........................................................
885.77
Printing and office .supplies........
136.06
749.71
Replacements of furniture and
1,002.18
324.21
fixtures ....................................
677.97
1,116.33
625.26 '
Telephone and telegraph ..............
491.07
3,680.78
752.64
Miscellaneous ................................ 2,928.14
Total general expense..........$16,044.65 $13,648.97 $29,693.62
FocYrNOTE (Statistical only)
Total expenses exceeded direct revenue from Home operations
as follows:
Total
Decoto
Covina
Expenses distributed ..........,.............$99,880.22 $92,041.69 $191.,921.91
Add: Co~mon expense ( undistrib52,658.40
uted) ..............................................

Deduct:

Total expense ......................
Revenue direct from
Home operation.s ................ 6,181.63

$244,580.31
7,583.18

13,764.81

E:ii;cess of expenses over direct
Home revenue ............................$93,698.59 $84,458.51

$230,815.50

145

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

147

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit A

Endowment Fund
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1932
Cash on hand, August 1, 1931-··-··········--·~·-······--···-·····-···-$48,321.76
Receipts
.
Donations ·······--···--··-·-····-~---···--·--·····-···-··-$ 230.00
Sundry receipts, deceased residents .........·-········- 3,509.90
Bequests ··········································-·························· 7,428.53
Collection in full on I. C. and Isabella Lawyer
700.00
note ··················-····································.··········-··Redemption of 5 City and County of San Francisco Water Bonds ·········-································· 5,000.00

$16,868.43

Total receipts ..............................................

$65,190.19
Total cash funds to account for ............................_ .
Disbursements
Refund to estate of Clarence Falk, bequest of
cash made in May, 1931...._.................~....•.........$ 2,000.00
Purchase of $45,000 face value Hetch Hetchy
bonds ·········-············-·········-··························-- 48,267.94
Federal tax on withdrawals................................__
.28
Total disbursements -································

$50,268.22

Cash on hand, July 31, 1932.-.................................

$14,921.97

Composition of Funds:
Crocker First Federal Trust Co. No. 23899..$ 330.50
999.96
American Trust Company No. 20608............
Anglo California Trust Company No. 4532.. 1,645.46
Bank of America, French American Branch
No. 6250 ........................................................ 1,074.34
Bank of America, Humboldt
· Branch No. 3743..........................$ 176.43
tLess : Due the Anglo California
Trust Company Endowment
interest account; to. be transferred (when sufficient funds
are available) ········-···:··.-········: 379.45

~3.02*

San' Francisco .Bank No. 24730Z....;....~....;,.:••~• . 5,825.56

tDue from Anglo California Trust
Company No. 13272 (Endowment Fund interest account):
Proceeds from redemption of
San Francisco City and County
Water Bonds ................................$5,000.00
Interest due on $45,000 Hetch
Hetchy Bonds paid out of
Permanent Endowment
Fund bank accounts................ 249.17
5,249.17
Total (as above) ........................................................

$14,921.97

tN ote: These items represent bank transfers not made as at
July 31, 1932.
*Red.
Exhibit ·B
COMPOSITION OF ENDOWMENT FUND
JULY 31, 1932

Endowment Cash (Samngs Accounts):
Crocker First Federal Trust Company..............$
American Trust Company....................................
Anglo California Trust Company......................
Bank of America (French American Branch)
Bank of America (Humboldt Branch) due
the Anglo California Trust Co. Endowment interest account ....................................
Due from Anglo California Trust Company,
Endowment interest account........................
San Francisco Banlc..............................................

330.50
999.96
1,645.46
1,074.34

203.02*
5,249.17
5,825.56
$ 14,921.97

Endowment S ecurities:
· U. S. Government Bonds, at par:
First Liberty Loan-<:onverted........4WYo .$ 11,700.00
Fourth Liberty Loan..........................4~% 182,850.00
$194,550.00

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Other Bonds, at Par:
City of Santa Barbara, Street..................4~% $ 11,287.50
City of Santa Barbara, Water............ -A~'lC>
1,000.00
City and County of San Francisco,
City Hall ··-··-·········-····--'·-······--:..-5 % 21,000.00
City and County of. San Francisco,
Street Railway ---··-·;··--··-~·-····-~-~ %
1,000.00
City and County of San Francisco,
Water -·-·-··---···-···-····-········-········*~% 35,000.00
City and County of San Francisco,
Sewer .,..::-····-··--··-~·-······-······-···-~ % 10,000.00
City of Richmond, Municipal Improve5,000.00
ment --·-··-····--·-···-··-····'··"···--S %
City of Upland, Municipal Improve3,125.00
ment ..,++... -,.....-",..~....-·-+t•-··-·... ..,....,..,.+l) o/o
9,000.00
City of Ashland, Water ······-····-····-··-··S %
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co......... 5 % 16,000.00
California Gas & Electric Corporation .. 5 % 19,000.00
Los Angeles Railway Company.............. 5 %
5,000.00
Pacific Gas & Electric Company............5 %
5,000.00
Jonathan Club of Los Angeles ................7 %
1,500.00
142,912.50

Other Bonds at Cost:
$ 5,000 ~st. Bay Municipal Utility
District ---··-'··············-·····--'·······$ % $ 5,326.55
3,000 Oroville Union High School
3,114.63
District ·····--'·········-····-·······'"·'"··""5 o/o
10,000 Los Angeles County Flood
Control District ..........................6 % 10,720.64
5,000 Long Beach High School... ....... S %
5,417.65
45,000 City and County of San Francisco, Hetch Hetchy Bonds..... .4~% 48,267.94
72,847.41
Stock:
Southern California Edison Company (cost)
420.35
17 shares ············································-··········-······-Masonic Homes of California-Note, 5% ..... .
225,000.00
Donated Stocks at Par or Market Value:
Olympian Dredging Company, 5 shares ............$
500.00
Masonic Temple Association, 2329~ shares.... 23,292.50
Taft Masonic Temple Association, 1 share......
100.00
Los Angeles Investment Company, 79 shares..
790.00
Colma Land Company, 25 shares........................
25.00
Baker, Hamilton & Pacific Co., 10 shares.·-····
100.00 ·
Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 108 shares...... 2,700.00
Visalia Building & Loan Assn., 10 shares........ 1,000.00
28,507.50

Acquired after July 28, 1931:
Amer. Telephone & Telegraph Co., 7 shares ....$
Bond and Share Company Ltd., 13 shares........
Broad River Power Company, 10 shares ..........
Bethlehem Steel Corporation, 5 shares.....·-····
Calamba Sugar Estate, 85 sha,r«is......................
California Packing Corporation, 9 shares ........
Calwa Company, 7 ahaua--··-~··-----·-.•····--,.­
Central States Power & Light C~rp., 14 shares
Central Southwestern Utilities Co., 5 shares..
Central Indiana Power Company, 10 shares ... .
Central Public Service Company, 15 shares ......
Continental Oil Company, 11 shares..................
W. B. Coon Co., preferred stock, 5 shares......
W. B. Coon Co., common stock, 15 shares ......
Crocker First National Bank of S. F., 2 shares
Crown Williamette Paper Co., 10 shares ........
Eastern Public Service Corporation, 5 shares ..
Ewa Plantation Company, 12 shares......- ..........
Galland Mercantile Laundry Co., 5 shaces ......
Guggenheim Company, 16 shares............ - .......Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co., 20 shares
Hawaiian Pineapple Co., 28 •~ .................. _
Hawaiian Sugar Company, 25 shares.............. ..
Honolulu Oil Corporation, Ltd., 14 shares......
Intrnl. Hyfiro-Elec. System 38+ shares..........
Oahu Sugar Company, 5 shares..........................
Onomea Sugar Company, 42 shai:es..................
Oklahoma Natural Gas Corporation, 15 shar.es
· Orpheum Circuit, Inc., 3 shares .......... -····--·-'···
Pacific American ·Fisheries, Inc., 10 shaces......
Peoples' Light & Power Corp., 10 shares ......
Pacific Gas & Electric Company, 47 shares......
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 29 shares ..........
Pantepec Oil Company of Venezuela, 9 shares
Pig'n Whistle Corporation, · 68 shares..............
Pure Oil Company, 5 1bares..............................Public Service Co. of Oklahoma, 2 shares
Realization Company, 2 shares.....................- ....
Shaffer Oil & Refining Company, 17 shares.. ..
Shell Union Oil Corporation, 11 shares..........
Shenandoah Corporation (optional), 15 shares
Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corp., 5 shares ....... .
Southern California Gas Corporation, 6 shares
Splitdorf Bethlehem Electrical Co., 10 shares

700.00
78.00
1,000.00
500.00
1,700.00
207.00
70.00
728.00
450.00
720.00
825.00
66.00
500.00
11.00
200.00
520.00
5.00
240.00
160.00
1,312.00
500.00
560.00
500.00
196.00
882.36
100.00
840.00
431.25
48.00
80.00
170.00
1,175.00
1,508.00
7.00
204.00
125.00
200.00
12.00
340.00
66.00
195.00
500.00
630.00
7.50

149

150

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Standard Public Service Company, · 14 shares
A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co., 15 shares......
Standard Oil Company of Calif., 240 shares
Standard Oil Company of Indiana, 4 shares
Socony Vacuum Corporation, 49 shares..........
Standard Power & Light Corp., 5 shares....
Schulte United Sc to $1 Stores, Inc., 10 shares
The Sun Drug Company, 1 share......................
Telephone Investment Corporation, 11 shares
Tidewater Associated Oil Company, 5 shares
United Linen Supply Company, 4 shares......
United Stores Corp., trust certificate, 2 shares
United Stores Corp., preferred stock, 6 shares
United Stores Corp., Class "A" stock, 3 shares
Universal Consolidated Oil Company, 8 shares
Universal Chain Theatres Corp., 20 shares......
Yosemite Portland Cement Corp., 15 shares....
West Ohio Gas Company, 7 shares....................

Miscellaneous Donations:
3000 Ochoco Irrigation District Deposit Certificates .............................- ...- ......................$ 3,000.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund-Islam Temple.. 1,000.00

560.00
1,500.00
8,640.00
100.00
1,225.00
485.00
2.00
100.00
220.00
500.00
96.00
1.00
141.00
7.50
80.00
40.00
150.00
644.00

4,000.00
Total Securities-Endowment Fund..........

.$717,598.37

Total Cash and Securities-Endowment
Fund ...................................................._.

$732,520.34

*NOTE: U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan Bonds valued at $25,000.00 were
pledged to the Anglo California Trust Co. as security on two notes issued
to them by the Masonic Homes of California as follows :
Note dated June 8, 1932, for 1 year..........................................$12,500.00'
Note dated July 1, 1932, for 1 year.......................................... 12,500.00

$25,000.00
33,760.61

Donated Bonds at Face Value:
Pacific Telephone and Telegraph Co.....S
Home Tel. and Tel. Co., Spokane.......... 5
Northern California Power Company......5
Pacific Gas & Electric Company..............6
University Masonic Temple Assn ...........6

151

% $ 1,000.00
%
500.00
% 1,000.00
% 2,000.00
%
100.00

4,600.00
Acquired After July 28, 193r.·
Anderson Cottonwood Irrig. District....6 % 1,000.00
Donna Irrig. Dist., Hidalgo County......5 % 1,000.00
Imperial Irrig. Dist., Issue No. 4..........6 % 1,000.00
West Okanogan Valley Irrig. Dist.........6 % . 1,000.00
Oroville Wyandotte Irrig. District........6 % 1,000.00
Palo Verde Irrigation District................6 % 1,000.00
Pecos County Water lmprovemt. Dist...6 % 1,000.00
Pick Barth Holding Corporation............6 % 1,000.00
State of Arizona, Queen Creek Irrigation District ........................................6~% 1,000.00
Reclamation District No. 1660 Sutter
County ............................................._;.6 % 1,000.00
Terra Bella Irrigation District................6 % 1,000.00

11,000.00

These notes have been paid since August 1, 1932.
Donated securities having little or no value are not recorded on the
books.
JOHN WHICHER, Secretary.

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Report of Superintendent-Decoto

To the Board of Tr~tees:
I herewith present for your consideration my twenty-third annual
report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Decoto, California,
for the year ending August 31, 1932.
There has been the usual reutine in the management of the Home,
without any special changes, during the past year.
A year ago the Administration building, consisting of five floors
and basement, was· completed. Since then the rooms have been comfortably furnished, and are now occupied by the women residents.
The rooms they vacated in the East Wing building are now occupied
by men residents of the Home.
The men and women residents of the Home are now permanentl'Y
located, which has enabled the management to systematize the workings of the several departments and has led in no small measure to a
more practical carrying on of the daily life of the Home, and so
meeting the physical, mental and spiritual needs of our large family.
Members-There are now at the Home 341 residents-184 men
and 157 women. During the year 79 persons have been admitted48 men and 31 women ; 62 have passed away-40 men and 22 women.
There have been two departures.
Health-The general health of the Home has been normal, with
the exception of those who have become infirm and feeble owing to
advancing years.
Hospital-There are now 50 persons being cared for at the Coleman hospital. The facilities afforded by our hospital department
enable our physician and nurses to give every care and attention to
those who are ill. Day and night nurses are in constant attendance.
Industrial-Alt the members of the Home are encouraged to
render some service in keeping with their strength, and during their
leisure hours to interest themselves in healthful and wholesome diversions for their general well-being. During the past year a number
of the Brethren have contributed to the welfare of the Home by their
services in the engine room, carpenter, paint, and barber shops, care
of the garage, mail, passenger and freight service, kitchen, pantry,
vegetable room, laundry, store rooms, clerical work, telephone switchboard, care of elevators, flower beds, watering trees and shrubs, care
of walks, roads and lawns, vegetable garden and poultry yards, janitor
work and many other light duties in a general way.
The women of the Home attend to the making, marking and
mending of linen sheets, pitlow slips, table cloths, etc., also assist in
the preparing of fruit and vegetables, in the kitchen and dining rooms,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

153

diet kitchen, clerical work, attending telephone calls, music room,
showing visitors about the Home, care of their rooms, the halls and
general light household duties.
Farm-There has been no change in the management of the farm.
The greater part of the hill ranch has as in the past been leased either
on shares or cash rental. Our share of the hay crop has been more
than sufficient for the needs of the farm departments, the surplus
being sold in the local market. The orchards have supplied plenty of
fruit, figs and nuts for table use, the surplus being sent to the drier
and stored for winter use. The garden has furnished a variety of
vegetables, berries and greens. The chicken ranch has supplied a ll
eggs for table use; 12,000 have been put down in water glass. Alt
over and above our needs have been sold in the San Francisco market.
There has been a slight decrease in our water supply, owing to
the lowering of the water level in connection with our deep well
pump. So far we have been able to keep our reservoirs full at a ll
times, and they have peen equal to all demands made upon them for
household, lawns, fire and irrigating purposes.
Social Life-All holidays have been observed, with appropriate
exercises. The specials are those which were held on New Year's
Eve, New Year's Day, Lincoln's and Washington's Birthday, Easter,
Memorial Day, Fourth of July, Hallowe'en, Thanksgiving and Christmas.
Many splendid programs, stage plays, band and orchestra concerts, have been provided during the year by visiting Lodges, Eastern
Star Chapters, and friends, for the entertainment of the members of .
the Home, the evening often closing with dancing. From time to time
entertainments are prepared entirely by members of the Home, consisting of vocal and instrumental music, readings, recitations, community singing, stage sketches, cards, games, dancing, etc. Tuesday
evenings are devoted to cards, and Friday evenings to chorus practice.
The croquet grounds are well patronized during the day. Services are
held every Sunday afternoon in the Assembly hall. A reading class
for the blind meets daily in the reception room, during which the daily
papers are read to them by one of the ladies of the Home. A number
of the members of the Home have radio sets in their rooms. T his
privilege is particularly appreciated by those who are blind and by
those who are being cared for in the hospital. The club rooms and
the reception room also have radios, which may be enjoyed at any
time during the day and evening.
Library and Club Rooms--There are now 5,800 books on the
shelves of our main library and branches located in the several departments of the Home. The Masonic Hill branch of the Alameda
County Free Library enables our family to obtain many of the latest

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

books, and an opportunity for special ones. In addition, we are the
recipients, through friends and members of the fraternity, of daily
papers, magazines and periodicals, which are placed on the tables of
the library, club rooms, and social halls.
Arrangements have been made whereby members of the family,
a few at a time, may enjoy an outing to nearby places of interest, also
an occasional visit to nearby Lodges and Eastern Star chapters. During the year many trips were made to Oakland, San Francisco, San
Jose, and towns in the vicinity of the Home.
Grand Master Robert B. Gaylord, officers and members of the
Grand Lodge have made a number of visits to the Home during the
year, and a large number of Brethren from various Lodges have spent
many pleasant hours with us: The number of visits this year indicates
an increasing interest in the welfare of the Home family.
I desire to express my appreciation of the efficient and conscientious work on the part of the officers and employees whose earnest
efforts have been a factor in maintaining a high standard of service
throughout the several departments of the Home, and to thank the
Board of Trustees for their kindly assistance and for the many acts of
courtesy received.
·
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.

Visitations to Decoto Hom.e

154

155

September 12, 1931, Oak Grove Lodge ~o. 215. Miscellaneous
entertainment.
September 18, 1931, Ladies' Auxiliary San Francisco Commandery K. T. No. 41. Visited the several departments of the Home.
September 19, 1931, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Dancing, vocal and
_instrumental programs.
·
September 26, 1931, Charter Rock Lodge No. 410. Miscellaneous
program.
.
September 27, 1931, Parnassus Chapter No. 269. Stage play;
musical program.
October 12, 1931, annual visit of the officers and delegates of the
Grand Lodge.
October 14, 1931, Dramatic Club of Country Club, Washington
Township, Alameda County. Stage play, "Lady of the Field."
October 17, 1931, Thousand Oaks Lodge No. 478. Chinese boys
entertainment.
October 24, 1931, Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Minstrel show.
October 30, 1931, Sewing Club, Hayward Chapter No. 331,
0. E. S. Musical program.
November 1, 1931, Joaquin Chapter No. 348 0. E. S., Tracy.
Girls' dancing class; orchestra program.
Noveptber 7, 1931, Parnassus Chapter No. '269, 0. E. S. Miscellaneous program.
November 8, 1931, women students Armstrong College of Business, of Berkeley. Stage play; musical program.
November 24, 1931, Alameda Order De Molay. Stage play, "Go
Easy Mabel."
December 4, 1931, Thousand Oaks Chapter No. 375, 0. E. S.
Stage play, "Two Table Bridge"; musical program.
December 6, 1931, Fruitvale Bethel Job's Daughters. Vocal and
instrumental program.
December 11, 1931, Dramatic Club of San Jose. Operetta,
"Queen Esther."
December 16, 1931, Alameda Lodge No. 167.. Second degree.
December 17, 1931, Ladies' Auxiliary California Commandery
No. 1, K. T. Visited the several departments of the Home.
December 19, 1931, Hayward Bethel Job's Daughters. Degree
work.
December 22, 1931, Fruitvale Chapter of De Molay. First degree.

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

February 22, 1932, Masonic Lodges 39th District: Eden No. 113,
Alameda No. 167, Mosaic No. 218, Eucalyptus No. 243, and Alisal
No. 321. Each Master planted a tree on the grounds in front of the
Administration building, with appropriate ceremonies.
March 13, 1932, San Francisco Chapter Order De Molay. First
and second degrees.
March 14, · 1932, students Amador Valley Joint High School.
Operetta, "The Count and the Co-ed." Music by the High School
orchestra.
March 20, 1932, Argonaut Lodge No. 461. Minstrel show by the
Argonaut Songsters, " 'Way Down South."
April 3, 1932, William Straus and pupils. Musical program.
April 8, 1932, Tracy Advanced School orchestra. Musical program.
April 30, 1932, students Amador Valley Joint High School. Operetta, "Chimes of Normandy."
May 7, 1932, Alameda Pyramid of Sciots. Miscellaneous program.
May 8, 1932, Stockton Pyramid of Sciots ~o. 5. Band concert.
May 10, 1932, Sequoia Lodge N:o. 349. First degree.
May 14, 1932, Masonic Lodges Slst District. Miscellaneous program.
May 15, 1932, Homo Chapter No. 50, 0. E. S. Stage sketch and
musical program.
May 21, 1932, Oak Grove Lodge No. 215. Miscellaneous entertainment.
May 22, 1932, Monterey Lodge No. 217. Visited the several departments of the Home.
May 26, 1932, East Bay Past Matrons' Association. Social visit;
vocal and instrumental program.
May 27, 1932, Washington Union High School. Three act play,
"Meet the Prince."
June 5, 1932, San Francisco Chapter Order De Molay. "Mothers'
Ritual."
June 12, 1932, Luther League, St. Marks Church, Oakland. Stage
play, "The Patsy."
June 13, 1932, Golden Rule Lodge No. 479. Third degree.
June 16, 1932, Foothill Lodge Np. 564. Second degree.
June 21, 1932, Jewel Lodge No. 374. Concert; orchestra.
August 20, 1932, Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Miscellaneous program ; dancing.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

August 20, 1932, East Bay Past Matrons' Association, annual
visit, accompanied by the Worthy Grand Matron and the Worthy
Grand Patron. Vocal and instrumental program.
August 21, 1932, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219. Miscellaneous
program.
August 27, 1932, Oakland Lodge No. 188. F irst degree in the
Temple in the afternoon, and dancing in the Assembly Hall in the
evening.
Donations to Decoto Home
Alameda Lodge No. 167-1 Atwater Kent radio.
East Bay Past Matron's Association-1790 glasses of jelly, 151 ladies'
work bags, 36 comforters, 25 gallons ice cream, 50 home-made
cakes, 30 dresser scarfs, 32 hospital night-gowns.
Mrs. Miller A. Kidd-I upright piano.
Lodges 39th Masonic District-5 ornamental trees.
Dr. B. J. Hoffman-2 suits men's clothing, 2 prs. shoes.
Alameda Pyramid, A. E. 0. Sciots-12 fruit trees.
W. H. Falbraith-1 package clothing.
Emera Club, Santa Paula-I box magazines.
Mrs. J. W illiams-12 volumes Library of Universal H istory, 15 vols.
Oratory, Ancient and Modern, 5 vois. fiction, 1 pkg. magazines.
Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219-150 cigars, 30 lbs. candy.
A. Blum, San Francisco-4 vols. History of Free Masonry.
John Whicher, San Francisco-3 suits men's clothing.
Marysvitle Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 large leather arm chair.
Sewing Club Pacific Grove Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 comforter.
S. C. Gifford-10 vols. miscellaneous books.
Fraternity Lodge No. 399-1 pkg. magazines.
Mrs. Laura L. Reese, Berkeley-I large box men's clothing.
J. S. Cameron, Oaklan<!.--60 vols. miscellaneous books.
W . W. Fawden, Oakland-2 pkgs. magazines.
Shell Date Garden, Indio-25 lbs. Coachella dates.
Mrs. Tillie Carpenter-200 pin cushions.
Louis Miller, San Francisco-I large pkg. periodicals.
Calexico Lodge No. 412-4 boxes grapefruit.
Sewing Club Hayward Chapter, 0. E. S.-4 boxes apples.
Past Matron's Association Burlingame Chapter O. E . S.-1 year's
subscription Daily Examiner, 1 year's subscription Sunday Chronicle.

158

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Frank Daybill, Ducey-2 boxes oranges.
Oroville Chapter No. 20, 0. E. S.-5 gals. ripe olives.
George Schwain-10 vols. miscellaneous books.
E. E. Winters, Oroville--1 box magazines.
Oroville Lodge No. 103-5 gals. ripe olives.
Laurel Chapter, 0. E. s......:..50 glasses of jelly.
Selma Chapter No. 119, R. A. M.-24 cans sliced peaches.
P. J. Wilson, Selma-20 cans apple butter, 6 cans sliced pineapple.
Masonic Club of Yosemite Park-3 large books of photos of Yosemite
· Valley and surroundin·g country.
·
Porterville Lodge No. 303-2 boxes oranges.
M. Firfire, Santa .Maria-2 cartons cigarettes.
Selma Chapter No. 119, R. A. M.-50 lbs. almonds.
Mrs. E. J. Hansen, Berkeley-1 pkg. periodicals.
Mrs. E . 0. Allison, Oakland-1 vol. "The Harp of Gold."
Chas. H. Wood, Oakland-2 1-year subscriptions Ladies Home Journal.
Emma J. Hall-1 pkg. memo~andum bo?ks.
M~s. J. A. Busby, San F~ancisco-1 vol. "House of Prayer."
C. Reitler, San Francisco-30 packs playing cards.
Past Matron's Association 1930, Oakland-1 arrp chair.
W. B. McCulle:y:-2 vols. miscellaneous books.
Grand Chapter 0. E. S.-199 vols. miscellaneous reports, 0. E. S.
Henry Starbuck---80 vols. miscellaneous books, 1 pkg. clothing.
Sarah J. Phillips-5 vols. Masonic Books.
Imperial Valley Chapter, 0. E. S.-2 boxes grapefruit, 1 box oranges.
Atwater Lodge No. 622-1 box periodicals.
C. X. Cherry, San Jose-1 box Geographic Magazines, 1925-1930.
Past Matrons Ch~b, Ocean Spray Chapter, 0. E. S.-4 boxes grapefruit.
Chas. D. Willets, Oriental Lodge No. 144-7 vols. Library of Free
Masonry, 25 vols. magazines.
]. McCauley, San Francisco-SO pen wipers, 3 thimbles.
George Schwain-11 vols. fiction.
Mrs. C. Marten, Pacific Grove-1 comforter.
W. G. Stewart-1 davenport, 1 rocker, 1 easy chair, 2 rugs, 1 extension table, 1 parlor table, 1 phonograph, 50 records, 1 radio, 1
large mirror, 1 leather rocker, 1 large picture, 40 vols. miscellaneous books, 6 fruit trees, 15 flower plants.

F. Hausman-11 packs playing cards.
Chas. F. Lt:1e-20 vols. "Messages of the President."
George Getchell-1 pkg. magazines.
] . L. Bane--1 davenport, 1 table, 1 m'orris chair, 1 chest tools.
J. E . Ellis, Los Gatos-18 vols. miscellaneous books, 1 box magazines.
Golden Rule Lodge No. 479-150 cigars, 25 lbs. candy.
Foothill Lodge No. 564-20 lbs. candy, 150 cigars.
Mrs. Anna A. Wehmer-1 dresser, 1 chiffonier, 1 dressing table.
James McLaren-1 truss.
R. W. Madden-1 pkg. magazines.
Oakland Tribune Publishing Co.--3 1-year subscriptions to Daily
Tribune.
Mrs. Elsie Watkins Mills-All Souls Church, Los Angeles-183 copies
anthems, 60 hymn books.
Albert 0. Stein, San Francisco-3 dozen packs playing cards.

159

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home

Lodge

No.

Acorn ··················-········494
Adin ····-····-······--··:....250
Alameda ··········-··········167
Alamo ..........................122
Alcatraz ......................244
Alisa! ····················-····321
Alpha ····-················-····431
Alturas ....•...................248
Amador ........................ 65
Amity ..........................370
Antioch ··················- ····175
Apollo ··········-··············396
Argonaut ....................461
Argonne ......................514
Artesia ........................377
Ashlar ........................-306
Atascadero ··········-'····.493
Athens ..........................228
Azusa ............................305
Balder ··················- ······393
Bay City ......................526
Bay View ....................401
Bear Mountain .......... 76
Berkeley ......................363
Blackmer ············-········442
Brooklyn ··········-········--225
Buckeye ......................195
Burlingame ................400
Cahuenga ··········-········513
Calaveras .................... 78
Caledonia ....................486
California .................... 1
Callayomi ....................282
Carquinez ....................337
Charity ........................362
.Charter Rock ····-····..410
Chico ····-····-··-····-··-·.! 11
Clay ..............................101
Clinton ........................119
Coalinga ......................387
Colusa ..........................240
Compass ......................590

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
100.00
5.00
10.00
5.90
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Concord .....................:117
Confidence ····-····r····--203
Corcoran •.....................490
Corinthian .................. 9
Corona ........................324
Coronado ··········-·······-441
Covenant ,...............- ....527
Crescent •..................... 45
Crockett ...................... 139
Cupertino ....................510
Curtis ..........................140
Delta ··········- ·····'··'······.471
Dinuba ·········-··············385
Doric ····-······················;216
Downey ........................220
Dunsmuir ..................-'l97
Durant .........................268
East Bay ....................489
East Gate ....................'l90
East San Diego............561
Eden ················--····-···.113
El Centro ....................384
El Dorado .................... 26
Elmhurst ......................610
El Segundo ..................507
Elsinore ........................289
Enterprise .................... 75
Eucalyptus -··············--243
Eureka .......................... 16
Evergreen ...................259
Excelsior ..................:.166
Fairmount ..................435
Far West ····-···········---673
Ferndale ......................193
Fidelity ........................120
Fillmore ......................379
Forest .......................... 66
Fort Crook ..................575
Francis Drake ............376
Franklin ....................-143
Fraternity ....................399
Fremont ··········-········--597

161

UHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00

5.!XJ
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

Lodge

No.

Fresno ············-···········247
Friendship .................210
Fruitvale ············-········336
George Washington .. 525
Golden Gate ................ 30
Golden Rule ................479
Gold Hill .................... 32
Guardian ......................596
Hammonton ··········-····433
Hanford ················-··-279
Hartley .;......................199
Hawaiian .................... 21
Henry Clay ................ 95
Henry Knox ......::......662
Henry Morse
Stephens ··········-······541
Henry S. Orme.... _......458
Hermann -··········-··---127
Hesperian ············-----264
Highland Park ..........382
Hill's Ferry -··············236
Hiram ····-···················· 43
Hollenbeck ····-············319
Hollywood ..................355
Holtville ················-···.425
Honolulu ..............- ......4-09
Howard ........................ 37
Indian Rock ................638
Ione .............................. 80
Jewel ····-···-····-····-····374
Jonathan ····-····-·········-545
Justice ······-··················549
Kaweah ················-····..665
La ·Brea ····-····-..····-····650
Lake Shore ..................551
La Mesa ····-···········.....407
Landmark ..............- ...253
La Parfaite Union...... 17
Las Palmas ..................366
Laurel ..........................245
Le Progres de
!'Oceanic -················371
Libertas ········-··············466

Amt.
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
100.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
15.00
5.00

Lodge

N o.

Liberty ··················-·'·299
Lincoln ....•...................470
Live Oak .................... 61
Lodi ············-··············-256
Long Beach ................327
Los Angeles ................ 42
Los Gatos ....,....,..........'l92
Madera ........................280
Madison ........................ 23
Malta ............................661
Maricopa ......................434
Marin ······-·················.191
Martinez ...................... 41
McKinley ····-······-·······347
Mendocino ·-··············.179
Midway ······-···············.426
Military Service..........570
Mill Valley -··············--356
Mission ........................169
Molino ··········-·····..······.150
Monterey .•...•.............217
Morgan Hill ................463
Mosaic ······-·············218
Mountain View ..........194
Mt. Diablo ..................448
Natoma Lodge ............ 64
Naval ............................ 87
Nevada ........................ 13
Nicolaus ··············-······l'l9
Norwalk ····-········-·····-315
Oak Grove .........,........215
Oakland ......................188
Occidental .................... 22
Ontario ........................301
Oriental ················-····144
Orland .........................~5
Oxnard ........................341
Pacific ·······--·········.'.... 1J6
Pacific Grove ..............331
Pajaro :...- .....................110
Palestine ......................351
Palisades ......................637
Palo Alto .•..................346

Amt.
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Palos Verdes ..............389
Park -····-············•··-····449
Parnassus ·········--········388
Pasadena ......................Zl2·
Paso Robles ................286
Patterson ····-··············488
Paul Revere ....- ..........462
Penrhyn ··············-·-··.258
Perris .......•.. ..:-·-··-···.411
Petaluma ·-·······-····-····180
Phoenix ············-····-····178
Piedmont ....~ ........•.....521
Pinole ··---······----··---·.353
Pittsburg ............c••••••••.429
Plumas ........................ 60
Point ····-··········-··········503
Point Firmin .............. 558
Pomona ····-··········-·····..246
Presidio ····-·•············-™
Ramona ·····-···-····-····-457
Reading ........................254
Redwood City....... ____ 168
Richmond ··--········-·-··-375
Rio Vista........ _............208
Rising Light.......:..- ....397
Riverside ....................635
Rockridge ....................468
Roosevelt ··········-····-··500
Roseville ......................222
Russian River ............ 181
Sacramento ................ 40
St. Helena.................... 93
Salinas ····-····-···········.204
San Bcnito....................211
San Bernardino ..........348
San Diego...·-··········-- JS
San Dimas ..................428
San Francisco..............360
San Gabriel.................. S46
San Jacinto..................338
San Jose.........·-··········- 10
San Mateo....................226
San Miguel................-285

Amt.
2S.OO
lS.00
20.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
12.SO
10.00
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
10.00
10.00
S.00
12.SO
7.SO
12.SO
S.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
40.00
2S.OO
lS.00
S.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
12.SO

Lodge

163

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

San Pedro ····-··············332
San Simeon................... 196
Santa Barbara ............ 192
Santa Cruz ················- 38
Santa Maria ................580
Santa Paula ................291
Santa Rosa ····-············ S7
Seapart ··········-···· ........550
Security .....:-.....: ........ 581
Selma ··--··-·-··········-·.2:12
Sequoia ····-····-·-·-··--349
Silver Gate ····--·········.296
Silver TroweL...........415
Silveyville --········--···.201
Sincerity ····-··········---132
Southern California..278
South Pasadena ........-367
South San Francisco.. 212
Speranza ltaliana ......219
Standard ····-····-··········440
Starr King ......... ·-····-··344
Suisun ················-····-- SS
S. W. Hackett.... - ........ S74
Taft ······················-······su;
Tehachapi :...................313
Tehama ........................ 3
Temblor ......................477
Texas ............................ 46
Thousand Oaks ..........478
Triangle ...................... 543
Truckee .....:..................200
Tuolumne .................... 8
Tuscan .......... :..... - ........261
Union .......................... 58
Vacaville ....- ................134
Veritas ........................640
Vesper .......................... 84
Victorville ..................634
Visalia ......................-128
Washington ................ 20
Western Star.............. 2
White P.ine.................. S5S
Willow Glen ................676

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
27.32
12.SO
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
10.00
S.00
2S.OO
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
2S.OO
S.00
10.00
S.00
20.00
20.00
S.00
2.SO
10.00
12.SO

s:oo

S.00
10.00
2S.OO

s.oo

S.00
20.00
S.00
10.00
2S.OO
10.00
10.00
2.SO

Lodge
No.
Wilmington ................ 198
Winnedumah ····-··--··287
Woodbridge ····-····---131
Woodland ··-···-·--··--156
Woodstock ..................491

Chapter

No.

Antioch ····--··········-···· 6S
Berkeley ····-····-·········· 92
California .................... S
Chico ························-·· 42
Colusa .......................... 60
Crown .......................... 72
Cyrus ························-· lS
Donner ........................ 39
El Centro...................... 109
Fidelity ........................ 96
Fresno .......................... 69
Grass Valley......... ·-··- 18
Hanford ··················-·· 74
Howard ················-··- 14
Huntington Park........127
La Purissima .............. 104
Los Angeles ................ 33
Marin ····-····················102
Mill Valley ..................108
Mission ........................ 79
Modesto ...................... 49
Montebello ..................119
Nevada ........................ 6

Commandery
No.
Auburn ........................ S2
Berkeley ...................... 42
California .................... 1
Calvary ........................ 62
Chico ............................ 12
Colusa .......................... 24
Fresno .......................... 29
Golden Gate .................. 16
Marysville ····-·······..... 7

Amt.
S.00
20.00
S.00
S.00
S.00

Lodge
No.
Yerba Buena ..............403
Yolo ..........•................... 81
Yosemite .................... 99
Yount .......................... 12

Chapters, R. A. M.
Amt.
Chapter

No.

Amt.
S.00
2.SO
10.00
S.00

Oakland -··-················- 36
Ontario ...... :.................105
Petaluma .................... 22
Plumas ···-············--··107
Pomona ················-······ 76
Red Btuff...................... 40
Redondo ············-········101
Riverside ················-·· 67
Sacramento .................. 3
San Francisco.............. 1
San ] acinto .................. 87
Santa Ana... •..·--······- 73
Santa Cruz ········--··-·· 38
Searchlight -····-····--··133
Siloam ·············-········- 37
Sonora .......................... 2
South Pasadena .......... 112
St. Helena .................... 63
Temple ........................ 41
Visalia .......................... 44
Washington ................ 13
Wilmington ................141
Woodland ....................156

Amt.
S.00
S.00
S.00
2.SO
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
20.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00

Commanderies, K. T.
Amt.
Commandery
No.
$ 2.SO Mount Olivet .............. 22
10.00 Mount Shasta... ;.......... 32
2S.OO Naval .......................... 19
14.20 Nevada ........................ 6
10.00 Oakland ........................ 11
S.00 Oroville ...................... S
S.00 Pacific .......................... 3
2S.00 Pasadena ...................... 31
10.00 Riverside .................... 28

Amt.
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
10.00

$10.00
20.00
12.SO
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
2.SO
12.SO
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
S.00
S.00
S.00

164

GRAND LODGE OF <.!ALIFORNlA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Com'dy
No.
Sacramento .................. 2
San Francisco.............. 41
San Jose........................ 10
San Luis Obispo.......... 27
San Pedro .................... 60
Santa Cruz ················- 44

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00
2.SQ
S.00

Com'dy
No.
Southern California.... 37
St. Bernard .................. 23
Vacaville ...................... 38
Visalia ··········-·············· 26
Watsonville .....,.......... 22
Woodland ··········-········ 21

Councils, R. & S. M.
Council
No.
Amt.
Council
No.
California .................... 2
$10.00 San Jose ...................... 20
s.oo Valley .......................... 27
King Soloroon............- 29
S.00
Pasadena ············-········ 16

Amt.
S.00
S.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
S.00

Amt.
$ S.00
S.00

Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S.
Islam ........................................$100.00
Lodges of Perfection
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Lodge
No.
California ··········-··-···· 10
$2S.OO Sacramento ..................
2S.OO San Francisco ............
Fresno ..........................
Oakland ........................ 2
10.00 San Diego ....................
10.00
Peninsula .................... 14

Amt.
$2S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO

Pyramid, A. E. 0. S.
San Luis Obispo ............................- .................................................. 29

$ S.00

Chapters, 0. E . S.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
Chapter
No.
Buena Vista ..............364
$10.00 Mill Valley ..................219
10.00 Ocean View ................ 111
Mercedes .................,.... 126
Migue!ito ..........- ........ 176
s.oo San Rafael ..................21S

Amt.
$20.00
S.00
20.00

Individuals and Miscellaneous
Breckenridge, F. J., Hollywood No. 355................................................$ 1.00
Burrows, Mr. and Mrs. Henry G., Coalinga.......................................... 20.00
Chamberlain, Lewis, Mission Lodge No. 169..................................-.... 100.00
Miguelito Circle ..............................................~............................................ S.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Association, 28th District 0 . E. $................. S.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club......·-····--····-····-··········-··"-························- S.00
Waters, A. R., Santa Rosa No. S7............................................................ S.00
Watson, Frank G..........................................- .....................,....................... 10.00

165

Names of Residents-Decoto Home
Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home, the
date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number
of the Lodges nominating them and the location of such Lodges,
complete to August 31, 1932.
MEN, 184. Average age, 74.38

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Akerly, James C. S .........}uly 26, '31 Live Oak.............. 61
Oakland ............71
Alderman, Alfred H .........Oct. 6, '26 Corinthian .......... 9
Marysville ...... 70
Anderson, Alfred ..............June 1, '20 Gravel Range...... S9 Camptonville ..81
Anderson, Julius ............ Aug. 19, '30 King Solomon......260 San Francisco..88
Ansley, James G.............Feb. 28, '26 Jonathan ..............545 San Francisco..70
Atwood, Ira A ................... Sept. 7, '31 El Cajon Valley..S76
El Cajon ..........70
Bader, Henry .................. Nov. 28, '28 King Solomon......260
San Francisco..68
Bailey, William ]...........Dec. 25, '28 Callayomi ............282
Middletown ....83
Bane, John L ................... Nov. 13, '29 Rockridge ............468
Oakland ............73
Bane, Paul D.....................July 20, '32 Orland ..................265 Orland ..............68
Baker, Napoleon L......... May 25, '31 Waucoba ..............413 Big Pine ..........80
Bang, Anders ..................Jan. 29, '30 Fresno ..................247
Fresno .............. 73
·Barton, Timothy G...........Mar. 8, '32 Union .................. S8
Sacramento ......59
Barnes, Joshua D ....:........June 10, '28 Golden Gate.......... 30
San Francisco..82
Barnes, Albert ..................May 7, '28 H awaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..........86
Barker, Harry W .............July 23, '28 San Pedro ............332
San Pedro ........55
Hasker, Solomon ....~....... Sept. 30, '29 Mount Moriah .... 44
San Francisco.. 70
Battle, Joseph D ............... Dec. 9, '30 Stanislaus ............206 Modesto ...........:72
Beck, Herman H .............Aug. 28, '24 Nicolaus .............. 129 Wheatland ......78
Bentley, Isam H .............Jan. 31, '31 Oakdale ................275 Oakdale ............72
Berge, Carl T. E ............. Sept. 30, '26 West Gate............335 Los Angeles ....74
Bernstein, Jacob A .........June 26, '24 Berkeley ..............363 Berkeley .......... 78
Bonde, Hans P ...................July 6, '32 Alisa! ....................321 Pleasanton ......69
Boehm, Hiram J ...............}uly 19, '31 Big Bear................617 Pine Knot ........69
Brooks, William W ....... Sept. 25, '31 Fresno ..................247 Fresno ..............70
Buckley, Peter ................ May 21, '19 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..........85
Buckner, Andrew B.......Mar. 27, '32 Welcome ..............255 Lemoore ..........76
Bull, Clint M ................... Aug. 11, '21 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles .... SS
Burtchael, George T .....}une 12, '26 Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ............78
Burkett, Thomas R.........Aug. 22, '24 Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ....83
Bush, Elmer E .................Jan. 13, '30 Alturas ................248 Alturas ............70
Byrd, Thomas J ...............Oct. 10, '25 Gravel Range ...... S9 Camptonville ..98
Carden, William L ......... N-0v. 27, '30 Charter Rock ......410 Berkeley ..........66
Carey, William F .....- ....Sept. 16, '31 San Pedro ............332 San Pedro ........62
Chase, Willis S...............Mar. 19, '22 Turlock ................395 Turlock ............82
Cheesebrough, Chas. E ...Oct. 11, '30 Pajaro .................. 110 Watsonville ....84

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Clemenson, Newton E .....June2, '28
Closson, Harry J--·-····-May 4, '31
Clover, John A...·-·-····--Oct. 26, '29
Collins, Nelson W .....- .. Sept. 12, '19
Corse, John M.-................Mar. l, '22
Cowan, William H ..... _..]WJe 27, '28·
Cowan, John s...............J an. 22, '28
Craig, David C.-····-··-··Oct. 17, '27
Crill, Howar<L..........- ......Dec. 1, '28
Delzelle, William R.........Jan. 31, '26
DePenne, Frank L ......... Mar. 19, '26
Dirks, John A. C.............Dec. 19, '29
Dillon, Robert.. ...............]uly 28, '32
Dodds, Thomas...........- ...Dec. 24, '28
Dolan, John C............•-.... Aug. 4, '31
Downs, Benjamin F-.....June 28, '32
Elder, George W ...-..- .. Sept.18, '28
Engle, William H ......- ... Dec. 12, '31
Ernst, Cuno A1:1gust...... Aug. 26, '32
Fender, Andrew J ..- ..- .....Dec. 5, '30
Fink, Conrad..............- ....Aug. 23, '12
Fish, Charles E.......- .......Apr. 2, '30
Fisher, Homer C............. May 28, '32
Foltz, George._............... Aug. 19, '31
Frank, Isadore-................Jan.10, '16
Freeman, Isaac L...........May 17, '18
Gallet, Henry W .......- ....Jan. 24, '31
Gibbs, John W·--·-·-····-Aug. 5, '30
Gifford, Seymore C.......June 29, '31
Gleave, Samuel J ........... Mar. 28, '31
Godfrey, James......-........Jan. 13, '32
Gordon, Luther de W .....Feb. 12, '28
Goodrich, Edward............Aug-. 8, '31
Gough, William G...........May 23, '25
Green, Phillip....................Feb. 9, '31
Griffin, Francis L •..........June27, '30
Grimshaw, Frederic C...June 24, '32
Guerra, Jobn•.•................. Aug. 19, '24
Haile, John W ........._. ___Nov. 9, '31
Hamilton, Hiram M..... Mar.15, '32
Hardage, James M•........ Mar.13, '17
Harms, Herman............ Mar. 16, '31
Harris, Louis....................Jan. 13, '23
Harrison, Jobn..................Sept. 5, '30

Lodge

No.

Marin ··············--191
Tuolumne ............ 8
Excelsior ..............166
Calistoga ..............233
Tuscan ..................261
Friendship ..........210
Morgan Hill ........463
Pacific ..................136
Valley .................. 135
Excelsior ..............166
Moneta .......~---····405
So. San Fran.......212
Liberty ..................299
Brooklyn ....-_.....225
Redlands ..............300
Silver Ga'te ..........296
Corinthian .......... 9
Pentalpha ............202
Tehama ··············- 3
Northern Light....190
Hermann ..............127
Vesper ····-············ 84
Janesville ..........-232
Phoenix ................178
La Parfaite Union 17
Elk Grove ............173
Excelsior ........:..... 166
Berkeley ········-····363
San Joaquin.......... 19
La Mesa................407
Nevada ................ 13
Carquinez ............337
Fresno ....;.............241
Pacific ...._.,;.•....... 136
San Miguel ..........285
Summit ................ 112
Western Star...... 2
Francis Drake......376
Suisun .................. 55
California ··········- 1
Sunset ····-····-.....-352
Acacia ·-·······-······438
Los Angeles...._.... 42
Hollenbeck ..........319

Town
Age
San Rafael .....,75
Tuolumne ...-...63
San Francisco..83
Calistoga ..........70
Williams ..........87
San Jose ..........78
Morgan Hill ....78
San Francisco..72
Linden ....- ....71
San Francisco.. 73
Los Angeles......58
So. San Fran...77
Santa Clara......80
Oakland ............82
Redlands ..........67
San Diego ........66
Marysville ......81
Los Angeles......62
Sacramento ....69
Millville ..........69
San Francisco..93
Red Bluff..........80
Janes ville ........59
S. Bernardino 66
San Francisco..84
Elk Grove ····--73 •
San Francisco..66
Berkeley ····--72
Stockton ..........76
La Mesa............66
Nevada City ....64
Crockett ..........77 .
Fresno ..............'17
San Francisco..73
San Miguel ......78
Knights F~rry 72
Shasta ............_62
So. San Fran...79
Suisun ········----86
San Francisco..79
Los Angeles......91
Los Angeles......79
Los Angeles......56
Los Angeles......7.~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

Lodge
No.
Tehachapi ............313
Van Nays..............450
Naval .................... 87
Temple City ........612
San Jo~................ 10
West Gate............335
Bell ....•....._............483
Summit ····-····-···.112
Mount Diablo......448
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Phoenix ..............178
Forbestown ........ SO
Mill Valley ..........356
McKinley ............347
Palestine ..............351
Fresno ..................247
Dinuba ..................385
Sequoia ................349
Chula Vista..........628
Nicolaus ................ 129
.Speranza I taliana 219
LaFayette ............ 126
Pacific Grove ......331
Santa Monica......307
Mission ................169
Utopia ..................531
Pacific ..................136
San Joaquin .......... 19
Bakersfield ..........224
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Eden ·····:······-······-113
South Gate............320
Eden ····-······-······-113
Hollywood ..........355
South Gate............320
South Gate............320
Laurel ..................245
Hollywood ..........355
East Gate..............29()
Palo Alto..............346
Mountain View.... 194
So. Califomia......278
Selma ..........~ ........Z11
El Dorado ............ 26

Town
Age
Tehachapi ........65
Los Angeles......87
Vallejo ............69
Temple City......73
San Jose ..........68
Los Angeles......79
Bell ·-·-········-····SS
Knights Ferry..87
Concord ............74
Santa Cruz ......69
S. Bernardino 88
Forbestown ......95
Mill Valley......73
Richmond ........68
Los Angeles......69
Fresno ..............71
Dinuba ..............81
Oakland ..........81
Chula Vista......77
Wheatland ......87
San Francisco..76
Sebastopol ........67
Pacific Grove ..83
Santa Monica ..73
San Francisco..73
Los Angeles......69
San Francisco..80
Stockton .......... V6
Bakersfield ......80
Santa Cruz ......67
San Leandro ....79
Los Angeles......69
San Leandro .... 75
Hollywood ......69
Los Angeles......79
Los Angeles......78
Willows ..........68
Hollywood ......83
Los Angeles......71
Palo Aho..........78
Mt. View ..:.......11
Los Angeles......74
Selma ..............76
Placerville ......86

Admitted
Name
Harpster, Harry W ......... Nov. 5, '30
Hathaway, John S...........Aug. 7, '30
Haupt, Oscar....................June 28, '30
Haviland, Emerson........ May 10, '31
Hazard, Emil ] ...............Aug. 10, '25
Herford, William B.......May 9, '31
Hirlinger, Chas. M....... Aug. 30, '31
Hocker, Jos. L •................ Sept. 5, '26
Holmes, Chas. T .............June 16, '30
Hotchkiss, Marshall ......June 11, '30
Hulsizer, John H ...........Mar. 31, '32
Humphreys, Thomas........Mar. 9, '30
Hyde, George....................Dec. 22, '30
Jack, David........................June 1, '31
Jensen, Alfred T .............May 22, '25
Johnson, Wm. M .............Dec.6, '30
Johnson, Daniel F .........Sept. 16, '29
Journal, Philip S.............Mar. 6, '27
Kellogg, Irving M ...........Dec. 2, '30
Kesner, James P ............. Nov. 14, '23
Lagomarsino, G...............May 12, '22
Laton, Edward L .............Apr. 23, '32
Lee, Abraham....................May 1, '30
Lehmann, August H .......Dec. 14, '28
Libby, Chas. F.................Dec. 18, '31
Lipphard, William A..... Aug. 15, '32
Lockwood, Tom..............Feb. 13, '28
Lund, Andrew J .............Sept. 29, '27
Macmurdo, Wirt R .........Feb. 23, '25
Martin, Benjamin R. ......May 15, '24
Martin, Henry W ...........June 29, '32
Marsh, Chas. P .................Oct. 10, '31
Matson, Martin B...........Dec. 15, '27
Maxwell, John................Nov. 28, '29
McCulley, Wm. B.............June 2, '31
McDonald, Frank..........Nov. 21, '26
McRae, Alexander..........Oct. 20, '30
Mensch, Wm. A .............June 17, '27
Merrill, Chas. H .............July 29, '30
Meuser, Alfomo............Sept. 19, '26
Meyer, Willia~ D ...........June 1, '32
Millar, David S.................Apr. 2, '32
Miller, George N ...........At>r. 30, '30
Miller, John W .................Jan. 22, '30

.

169

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Miller, Samuel C............. May 16, '29 Mount Diablo ......448
Milisich, Christoforo _, ... Oct. 5, '31 Speranza Italiana 219
Morrison, William F .....June27, '32 Solano ..................229
Morrison, George D ....... Mar. 20, '30 Golden State ........358
Morris, Harry B............. Nov. 28, '30 . LaFayette ............ 126
Murdon, Robert J ......... Mar. 26, '28 ~lcatraz ............. .244
Myers, William P ............. Feb. 1, '32 Las Palmas .......... 366
Nannestad, Henrik ..........Mar. 8, '32 Doric ....................216
Newell, Eban P .................Oct. 6, '27 Occidental ............ 22
Newman, Adolph ............June 4, '29 Antioch ................ 175
Nice, Harry W.-............July 11, '32 Alhambra ............ 322
North, Edwin B-····--····Apr. 2, '29 Vesper .....~............ 84
Mission ............... .169
Onslow, Frank ·-··············-Jan. 8, '31
Otto, Fred A ...............:..... Feb. 23, '30 Lassen _................ 149
Owen, William L ........... Aug. 12, '22 Mission ................169
Parsons, Frederick .... _ ...Feb. 5, '32 Bay View..............401
Plowman, Alfred R. ...... Jan. 17, '30 Consuelo ..............325
S. W. Hackett.... 574
Prosser, Thomas J ...........Sep. 6, '31
Potter, Loyal A ...............Jan. 21, '30 Union .................... 58
Rhodes, Eustace H ......... Feb. 22, '32 Laurel ,.................245
Righetti, Robt. ············-···~ar. 9, '18 Pentalpha ............202
Risher, Charles B........... Aug. 24, '29 Redlands .............. 300
Rolfe, Earnest ................Oct. 17, '23 Hermann .............. 127
Roscoe, Thomas H ......... Jan.13, '32 Oroville :............... 103
Rouland, Neils P..........-.Feb. 25, 28 South W est... .......283
Russell, William H .......Apr. 22, '32 Antioch :...............175
Schmidt, Edward ............ Aug. 1, '32 Golden Gate .......... 30
Oakland ................188
Shapiro, George H ........... Apr. 6, '31
Smith, Harry B...............June 30, '28 Oriental ................ 144
Smith, William C ........... Apr. 25, '28 Oakland .... - ......... .188
Smith, Roland A .............June29, '27 Callayomi ............282
Smith, Charles ................ Sept. 2, '31 Georgetown ........ 25
Sollner, John B ...............Feb. 14, '30 Sisson .................. 310
Ione ...... :............... 80
Spencer, Sheldon .......... Sept. 15, '31
Standeford, Wm. B....... Nov. 12, '29 Live Oak .............. 61
Starbuck, Henry F ......... Feb. 24, '32 · Jas. A. Foshay....641
Starbuck, Edward I.......June27, '32 Santa Monica ...... 307
Starkweather, Reuben .. May 28, '29 Corinthian .......... 9
Stevens, Charles D ........... Apr. 6, '32 Santa Rosa .......... 57
Stewart, Wesley G.........Mar. 12, '32 Concord ...............;117
Swaffield, Thos. W ........... Feb. 4, '29 Apollo ·············-···396
Durant ..................268
Swain, George .............. Nov. 29, '31
Swedburg, Eric .............. Oct. 19, '29 Reading ................254
Taylor, Geo. McC. ..........July 14, '25 Excelsior ..............166

Town

Age

Concord ..........86
San Francisco ..68
Vallejo ............ 70
Los Angeles ......68
Sebastopol ......68
Oakland ............66
Fresno ..............63
San Francisco..86
San Francisco .. 76
Antioch ............88
Alhambra ........66
Red Bluff.......... 75
San Francisco..65
Susanville ........66
San Francisco..73
Oakland ............67
Escondido ........ 79
San Diego ........81
Sacramento ....73
Willows ............ 76
Los Angeles ......80
Redlands ..........68
San Francisco.. 72
Oroville ............70
National City .. 90
Antioch ······-····66
San Francisco ..64
Oakland ............60
San Francisco .. 78
Oakland ·····-·····7a
Middletown .... 72
Georgetown .... 72
Sisson _............72
Ione .......... - ......83
Oakland ............65
Los Angeles ......82
Santa Monica .. 62
Marysville ......68
Santa Rosa ......81
Sacramento ...... 58
Alameda ..........84
Berkeley ..........86
Redding ............77
San Francisco.. 70

Admitted

Trenchel, August F ....... Sept. 18, '25
Trost John H .................Mar. 15, '32
I
Towzey,
Wm. J ................. Mar. 9, '32
Viles Charleton H .........Oct. 24, '29
' Chas. C...............Jan. 21, '30
Walker,
Watkins, David K. ........Nov. 29, '.31
Watson Matthew P ....... May 16, 25
Whitak~r, George A .......Jan. 30, '32
Wigginton, James W .....July 15, '29
Willard Thomas .......... Aug. 23, '27
Willia~s, Wm. J ...............May 8, '32
Wilhelm, Frederic G....... Oct. 25, '27
Witcosky, John A ......... Sept.16, '30
Wood Uriah S............... Aug. 21, '31
Yarri~gton, James T ..... Feb. 26, '29
Young, Lars G...................Apr.1, '23

Lodge

No.

Live Oak .............. 61
Ferndale .............. 193
Las Palmas ..........366
Abell .................... 146
Palo Alto..............346
Paul Revere ..........462
Long Beach..........327
Caledonia ............486
S. W. Hackett .... 574
Petaluma ..............180
Fortitude ..............624
· LaParfaite Union 17
Amity ..................370
Mount Oso............460
University ............394
Oak Grove ............215

Town

Age

Oakland ............81
Ferndale ..........78
Fresno :.-..........86
Ukiah ................75
Palo Alto ........81
San Francisco..60
Long Beach ......80
Bakersfield ......77
San Diego ........ 75
Petaluma ........71
Oakland ............60
San Francisco .. 78
San Francisco .. 53
Tracy ., .......,......74
Los Angeles ...... 70
Alameda ..........82

WOMEN, 157. Average age, 73.76

Name

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

El Centro.......... 74
Alexander, Ida E .............Jan. 13, '30 El Centro .............. 384 Vallejo ............77
Vallejo
................
87
Anderson Mary J ...........Aug. 12, '28
Needles ............75
Armanta~e, Theresa ........Jan. 5, '15 Needles ................326 Oakland ............84
Foothill
................
$64
Artz Mary Ann .............. Oct. 27, '26
El Cajon ..........67
'
Atwood,
Ida ! ................... Sept. 7, '31 El Cajon Valley .. 576 Hanford .......... 73
Han
ford
..............
279
Ayers Sarah A ............... May 14, '32
Orland ..............65
Bane 'Annabell E. ............July 20, '32 Orland ..................265 Oakland ..........67
Rockridge
......•.....
468
I
3
'29
Bane Florence A ...........N ov. 1 ,
Honolulu ........71
I
Sallie B................. May 7, '28 Hawaiian ............ 21
Barnes,
Santa Ana ........75
Santa
Ana
...........
.241
Becker, Elizabeth ..............Jan. 5, '31
Potterville ......81
Porterville
..........
303
Beebe, Annie L .................Mar. 1, '28
Dinuba ............82
Dinuba
.............
...
385
Bemis, Ellen J .................June 26, '29
Berkeley ..........73
Bernstein, Cornelia ......June 26, '24 Berkeley ..............363 Los Angeles ...... 78
West
Gate
............
335
Berge Li11ie B ................. Sept. 30, '26
San Francisco .. 78
Birmi~gham, Isabel ...... May 19, '29 California ............ 1 Truckee ............72
200
Truckee
................
Blinn, Sophia W ..........;..Jan. 20, '30
Stockton ...... - ..74
Blumenthal, Elizabeth ....July 6, '27 San Joaquin .......... 19 San Francisco .. 76
Mount
Moriah
....
44
Boyd, Isabelle L ............... May 25, '25
San Francisco ..64
Bradley, Nannie ·.............. Apr. 30, '25 Oriental ................144 Santa Barbara 78
Santa
Barbara
.....
.192
Brassfield, Maggie ..........Feb. 11, '28
Folsom City ....77
Brown, Rosalind V ....... Mar. 27, '24 Natoma ................ 64 San Pedro ........61
San
Pedro
............
332
Carey, Laura E ............. Sept. 16, '31
Berkeley ...... - ..62
Carden, Alice M ...........-Nov.27,'30 Charter 'Rock ..... .410 San Francisco..69
Excelsior
.............
.166
Carlson, Laura .L ...........Feb. 10, '20

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

171

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Carpenter, Tillie C. ........ May 30, '30 King Solomon ...260
San Francisco..69
Cash, Anna -·-·········-- -July: 7, '22 South Gate............320
Cash, Mary E.. .................Oct. 25, '26 San Jase.____·····- - 10 Los Angeles ...... 73
San Jose ........ - ..83
Cass, Mary E..._ .. ,.....•. ___July 7, '28
Sisson ··········-······310
Chilcott, Marion E......... Oct. 14, '30 Redwood City..... .168 Mt. Shasta........ 76
Redwood City..83
Collister, Mary L--····-··--Jan. 19, '30 -Vitruvius ··-- ·······145
Bloomfield ......78
Cohn, Sarah --······---.Sept. 8, '22 Los Angeles.......... 42
Los Angeles...... 75
Copeland, Wilhelmina .. July 11, '32
Golden Gate.-··-···· 30 San Francisco.. 59
Cook, Becky L---·····-····Mar. 27, '30 Hollenbeck ····-····319
Los Angeles ...... 76
Cosner, Lydia C. ........-...... May 3, '30
Colusa -··········-····240 Colusa ······-······82
Cowley, Cerita J ....._____Sept. 18, '25
Berkeley ···-······---363 Berkeley ····-····76
Crawley, Nellie G........... Dec. 19, '27
Willits ······-····-···-365 Willits ····-········'12
Crill, Flora A.-··-··········---Dec. 1, '28 Valley ······-··········135
Linden ............ _65
Davis, Eliza A.._.............July 26, '17
Keith --··-····-··- 187
Davis, Grace G--·-······---July: 25, '16 Naval .................... 87 Gilroy ··-··-·····-85
Vallejo ............78
Dickson, Alice · W •........-June 11, '21
Pacific •........•......-136 " San Francisco..72
Dougherty, Lucy H ...- ....Apr. 3, '26
Parnassus ······-····388 San Francisco .. 71
Dowling, Emily ............ Mar. 15, '29
York ··········-········423 Watts ..............83
Dryden, Sarah S .............Feb. 26, '26 Tyrian ..................439
Manteca ..........91
Dunn, Annie C.................June 22, '25 Oroville ............... .103
Oroville ............85
Elder, Ellena R. .............. Sept. 18, '28 Corinthian .......... 9
Marysville ...... 73
Estey, Catherine A ......... Apr. 20, '27 Benicia ................ 5
Benicia ............'12
Evans, Mary J................. Dec. 28, '23 Whittier ..............323
Whittier ..........78
Fanshaw, Mary E ........... Oct. 22, '29 Los Angeles.......... 42
Los Angeles ....92
Felter, Eliza D .....- ..........July 24, '23 King Solomon ......260
San Francisco.. 70
Fortriede, Auguste E .....Apr. 24, '25
Crockett ····-·······-139 San Francisco.. 55
Foster, Nellie G ..•............]line 21, '30
Berkeley ..............363 Berkeley ..........69
Garland, Susan C. .......... Aug. 18, '25
Consuelo ..............325 Escondido ........83
Gifford, Kathryn ..........June 29, '31
San Joaquin .......... 19 Stockton ..........70
Godfrey, Jennie ............ -Jan. 13, '32 Nevada ................ 13
Nevada City .... 60
Gordon, Isabel C; ............Feb. 12, '28 Carquinez t·······--··337
Crockett ..........58
Gordon, Mary ] ...............July 13, '27 Board of Relief ........
San Francisco ..83
Grant, Hattie H .................Feb. 6, '22 San Jose ........ ,....... 10
San Jose............ 59
Hazard, Marie ..............AIJI'. 10, '25 San Jose......... ·-···· 10
San Joee ............62
Heith, Catherine ............ Oct. 16, '10
Fresno ·········--······247 Fresno ..............86
Hibbard, Elizabeth ........ Mar. 22, '30 Oakland ............... .188
Oakland ............15
Hill, Barbara M ...............July 26, '27 Brooklyn ..............225
Oakland ............69
Hipkins, Sue B............... Mar. 16, '30
Thousand Oaks ... .478 Berkeley ..........87
Hodgson, Mary A. ........,.Apr.19, '29 Santa Rosa _________ 57
Santa Rosa ......83
Hoffman, Sarah J ...........-Apr. 7, '32
Golden Gate.......... 30 San Francisco .. 91
Hollis, Ella A •.................... Oct. 7, '31
Dunsmuir ............ 297 Dunsmuir ........65
Humiston, Isaphene ...... Sept. 11, '24 Mountain View .... 194
Mt. View.......... 78
Irvine, Adelaide H .........;.Nov. 4, '31
Sacramento ······- 40 Sacramento ....83
Jack, Mary ········-·············-June 1, '31
McKinley ............347 Richmond ...,....65

Lodge ·
No.
Name
Admitted
Jackson, May R ..........._Aug. 27, '25 Lompoc ·---·········.262
Jeffries, Viola H ........... __ Nov. 8, '23 Los Angelet.......... 42
Durant .. _.....:_____ 268
Jenkins; Mary E.....-...... May 21,.,31
Johnson, Julia 1L......... Aug. 23, '31 · Patterson ............488
Johnson, Hattie E .........-July 25, '30 So. San Fran .......212
Kalfus, Sarah W •.....--.-Jan. 29, '19 San Joie ..:.- -····-- 10
Katzenstein, Jennie ·-·-·-Sept. 8, '30
Penrhyn -····-···--258
Kellogg, Lillie F .. ________ Dec. 2, '30 Chula Vista..........626
Amity ....- ...•,.......37(}
Kidd, Millie A:.......·--····Aug. 21, '32
Kimball, Camelia L. ...... Sept. 19, '26 San Francisco ......360
Kimball, Annette C....... -Aug; 3, '32 Enterprise -----····- 70
Lane, Laura M •........... :...... Oct. 2, '26 McKinley ............347
Langworthy, Martha E. July 23, '26 San Pedro............332
Laufman, Anna _________Aug. 27, '24 Sincerity _______ 132
Lawrence, Lucy P.--.... Nov. 21, '16 Board of Relief ........
Lee, Sarah V •••........ _ __Jan. 21, '31
Eucalyptus ·-······243
Lee, Alice L. ..-:.................. May 1, '30 Pacific Grove ...._331
Leonard, Lois ·-······- - ····-.June 7, '30 Oroville ...:.....-: ....103
Longfellow, Sarah J. ___ Nov. 15, '31 Truckee ................200
Loughery, Adelaide G...June 15, '31 Amity ··--····-··-..370
Lightner, Sarah J •....:...-...Oct. 9, '28 Starr King............344
Lillie, Amelia F•..............May: 23, '32 Woodland ............ 156
MacDuffie, Dorothy ...... Mar. 7, '30 Foothill •...:.........~ .. 564
Maddrill, Mary L ........... Apr.15, '32 Madison .............. 23
Martin, Arethusa G.:..... June 29, '32 Eden ..:_........!.- --113
Mast, Frances C.....-.......Aug. 31; '12 Yosemite ······- ····- 99
Matthews, Louise L. ........ Aug. 7, '22
Yount .................. 12
McDowell, Alice M..... Mar. 24, '32 Alcatraz ··········-··244
McKinnon, Mary A •..:._Dec. 31, '01
Morning Star ...... 68
McGavic, Georgann....,.Mar. 11, '31 Board of Trustees....
McGuire, ·Mary .......... :...July 14, '26 Alea tra:z .... :.......:..244
Meyer, Mary .!.·-·····-- ·..Apr. 13, '28 Acorn :...- .....•.....494
Mills, Kate D ....:..........:.Mar. 21, '28 Santa Cruz .......... 38
Mitchell, Eliza : ............... Nov. 3, '29 Fresno :...•.... u•······241
Morrison, Louise B .....,.Mar. 20, '30 Golden State:....... 358
N ewnian, Susanna .....:....June 4, '29 · Antioch ....- ..........175
Nielson, Mary V ............. Nov.21, '27 Santa Cruz -········ 38
·27
. . .
Noble, Grace F-........••..•..July 4, '32 T rm1ty
. -··;----····--·
Nourse, Florence A ....'. .... Dec. 7, '26 Natoma ····-·········· 64
Nutter, Martha 'L. ......:...Mar. 25, '23 East Gate..............290
Nyhuis, Marie H. ..........Mar. 21, '25 Naval .................... 87
Pankow, Catherine --.... Apr. 29, '29 Crockett' ..............139
Peck, Sarah A ...............:... Nov. 4, '25 Madera · -·-········-.280
Perry, Mary C ............:.. May 12,"'30 Mendocino .......... 179

Town

Age

Lompoc ........... 23
Los Angeles ....80
Berkeley ...:......62
Patterson ........62
So. San Fran ... 71
San Jose .. _:•....69
Periryn ·····-·····(IJ
Chula Vista ......76
San Francisco..65
San Francisco..67
Yuba City ........70
Richmond ........84
San Pedro........62
Greenville ····--81
San Francisco.. 70
Hayward ····-··75
Pacific Grove....74
Oroville .••......•..19
Truckee ..........65
San Francisco.. 73
San Francisco.. 72
Woodland ........80
Oakland ..........68
Grass Valley ....67
San Leandro ....71
Merced ............87
Napa ....... ~ ..: .•..17
Oakland .......... 56
Stockton _........84
Mas. Homes ....82
Oakland .......... 78
Oakland ..........18
Santa Cruz ......72
Fresno ·--~---·····83
Los Angeles ....68
Antioch' ....... ::...:~
Santa Cruz ....-11
Weaverville .... n
Folsom City...•.. 77,
Los Angeles. ....77
Vallejo .~ ..........82
San Francisco..67
Madera ...... - .... 14
Mendocino .....:~

172

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Percival, Hannah D....... Dec. 29, '29
Phillips, Sarah J .............Feb. 22, '32
Pohlman, Mary ·····•··---July 15, '21
Proctor, Caroline A......... May 5, '30
. Proll, Anna R. G...- ..........Feb. 5, '15
Rackerby, Elizabeth ....Mar. 29, '30
Reid. Katherine ····-········Sept. 11, '28
Richardson, Julia .......... Mar. 13, '16
Risdon, Imogene B........... Feb. 3, '27
Risher, L<>uise E ............. Aug. 24, '29
Rogers, Leonora J .............Oct. 6, '25
Rassette, Sarah B...........Mar.12, '31
Roscoe, Nettie P ............Jan. l3, '32
Sandell, Selma ~ ·............Dec. 31, '31
Sawyer, Ella B............... Sept. 18, '13
Schwain,. Mary ..............Jan. 22, '25
Seiler, Alice C. ................Aug. 24, '31
Shearin, Eliza E ..........:..Mar.16, '31
Soale, Carl B.................- May 15, '32
Starbuck, Catherine ...... Feb. 24, '32
Stevens, Isabella A........... Apr. 6, '32
Stevens, Mary H ...............July 8, '32
Stewart, Mary ······-······Mar.12, '32
Surface, Emma ..............Aug. 19, '16
Tate, Sarah A •................Aug. 29, '31
Teall, Lena ····-··············Aug. 22, '32
Templeton, Phoebe ......Aug. 30, '26
Terrill, Cynthia E ......... Sept. 15, '27
Thurling, Angeline ......Dec. 22, '26
Walker, Emma O.............June l, '28
Walton, Ida M.................June 22, '25
Waterhouse, Flora E.-..Apr. 20, '29
Weigel, May L.-·······----Apr.10, '32
West, Henrietta B.........May 10, '30
West, Eva L. ..................... Aug. 9, '23
White, Clara McG.......-....Oct. 8, '31
White, Martha J .....~ .........Oct..2, '30
Wilber, Anna ..............:...Mar. 8, '30
Wilcox, L<>uise .......... ~....July 25, '32
Williams, Laura A.......•.Mar. 22, '25
Williams, Lillias ..............May 8, '32 ·
Wise, Adelaide H ...........Oi;t. 29, '31
Withers; Phoebe ............June 13, '27
Wootten, Mary ./\....- ..... Pee, 26, '26 .
Yarrington, Grace M.....Feb. 26, '29

Lodge
No.
Liberty ................299
Mission ................169
Porterville ........-303
Pajaro ~-·-··········-110
King Solomon ....260
Crockett ..............139
Porterville ........-303
Live Oak .............. 61
Consuelo ..............325
Redlands ..............300
King Davids........209
San Francisco......300
Oroville ····-··········103
Martinez. ····-········ 41
Natoma ................ 64
Bakersfield ..........224
Mount Moriah .... 44
Pajaro ···-·-··········110
Corona ..................324
James A. Foshay 641
Santa Rosa ········- 57
Golden State ........358
Concord ..•.............117
Ione ··················-·· 80
Brooklyn ..............225
Golden Gate ........ 30
San Mateo ..:.......226
Yosemite .............. 99
Argonaut ····-······461
Roseville ..............222
Oakland ................188
Oroville .;.............. 103
Marin ..................191
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Mission ................169
Mission ................ 169
Natoma :............... 64
Maui ····-············-472
Sequoia ................349
Chico ·-·-············-111
Fortitude ..............624
Occidental ............ 22
East Belt ..............391
Mill Valley ..........356
University ............394

Town
Age
Santa Clara......89
San Francisco.. 78
Porterville ......73
Watsonville ....97
San Francisco..73
San Francisco..74
Porterville ......78
Oakland ..........82
Escondido ........79
Redlands ..........60
S. Luis Obispo 68
San Francisco.. 74
Oroville .......... 73
Martinez ..........66
Folsom City......82
Bakersfielct ......78
San Francisco..75
Watsonville ....77
Pasadena ..........75
Los Angeles ....61
Santa Rosa ......75
L<>s Angeles ....76
Sacramento ......62
Ione ···········-·····79
Oakland ..........69
San Francisco..69
San Mateo ......90
Merced ··-········77
San Francisco.. 78
Roseville ..........74
Oakland ....... _.73
Oroville ............70
San Rafael ......67
Santa Rosa ......80
San Francisco..78
San Francisco..67
Folsom City ....80
Kahului .........._64
Oakland ............ 73
Chico ···········'-··71
Oakland ..........61
San Francisco..65
Tuolumne ........79
Mill Valley ......86
L<>s Angeles ....62

Outside Relief-Adults
Lodge

..

173
Month!~

allowance

N ame
Datt began
John J. Terry....................-Western Star No. 2............$40.00
Dec. 7, 1928
Mary J. Willgeroth..........-Hawaiian No. 21................ 25.00
Feb. 28, 1931
an Diego No. 35.............. 30.00
00
July 28, 1932 George W a tson ················S
Silas A. Williams.............Forbestown No. 50............ 30.
May 28, 1929 Rebecca A. Sherwood.....Naval No. 87..,................... 30.00
Jan. 28, 1927 George Wm. Schmidt......St. Helena No. 93.............. 25.00
Mar. 10, 1932
Chico No. 111............:....... 30.00
June 9, 1925 F ranees M. Jack ................
G. w. Forsyth...................La Fayette No. 126.......... 3~.00
Mar. 28, 1924
Mrs. B. L. Whitehead......Woodbridge No. 131.......... 1 .00
June 28, 1932
.berger
Pacific No. 136.................. 20.00
ax Fral
············-··
June 28, 1932 M
Ernest B. Thompson....... Curtis _No. 140.................... 20.00
June 28, 1932
. · McFarland ......... Franklin No. 143................ 15.00
April 20, 1932 M mme
Kittie May White............. Excelsior No. 166.............. 25.00
Aug. 28, 1930
Mary E. Grant................. Santa Barbara No. 192.... 20.:
Sept. 25, 1930
Ellis P. Moore and, wife. Santa Barbara No. 192...... 30.
June 28, 1932
J. A. M. Vonk................... Rio Vista No. 208.............. 30.00
Aug. 28, 1931
·
Oa'· Grove No 215.......... 25.00
.
0
Nov. 28, 1931 E mma Shear······················ ..,
.
Doric No. 216...·-················ 30.0
···················
Feb. 27, 1929 Ad0 Iph Isaac .gh
.Magnolia No. 242.............. 30.00
Oct. 28, 1926 Rebecca E . Hl ...............
Mrs. Iva B. Llewellyn....Reading No. 254................ 30.00
Feb. 13, 1931
.thson···········.Reading No. 254..........·- ··· 20.00
Dec. 28, 1930 Ja mes S. Sml
George W. Buchanan..... Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
Oct. 27, 1925
i No. 256.........·-············ 30.00
June 29, 1929 J ames A. Bowen····-·········Lod
Rupert Shaw and wife......Evergreen No. 259....:......... 30.00
Jan. 28, 1932
scan No. 261.................. 25.00
Jan. 28, 1932 J ohn A. Spencer··········-····Tu
Cora Lee Bennett..............So. California No. 278.... 30.00
Feb. 1, 1927
No. 295.......... 25.:
Feb. 29, 1932 J. Wm. Rumb_ek ............... ~t. Jackson
n No. 310.................... 4-0.
Mar. 28, 1928 W aIter J . Smith................Sisso
Mary H. Perkins..............Temescal No. 314.............. 18.00
June 2, 1932
Daniel R. Ballinger.........Needles No. 326.................. 30.00
Nov. 28, 1923
Christopher D. Metcalf..Redondo No. 328................ 10.00
Feb. 29, 1932
Dec. 31, 1931 Ella Yuker Shanks...........Hawaiian No. 21...·-········- 15.00
H . Truitt ............................Fruitvale No. 336.............. 30.00
June 28, 1929
Margaret K. Williams......Fruitvale No. 336.............. 30.00
Nov. 28, 1930
William Dean ....................Palo Alto No. 346.............. 25.00
Nov. 28, 1931
John M. Kecley ..........-......Sequoia No. 349.................. 30.00
Jan. 27, 1929
Theo. Wetzel and wife....Presidio No. 354................ 60.00
May 28, 1931
Mrs. Julia W. Allison......Las Palmas No. 366.......... 25.00
Sept. 1, 1931
·11·
T Hu·ff
Ocean Park No. 369.......... 25.00
June 28, 1929 W 1 tam· 1 .Black. ................Palos Verdes No. 389........ 30.00
.............
Oct. 30, 1925 Nathame
Daniel DeBarrows, wife..Balder No. 393...............:.... 25.00
Oct. 28, 1931
Perris No. 411 .................... 20.00
Dec. 1, 1930 J ames E . Adams················

174

Name

Date began

Monthly
allowance

Lodge

Name

Admitted
Doughty, }anres.............. Sept. 11, '31

Feb. 7, 1931
Dec. 28, 1929
Mar. 8, 1929
April 28, 1932
Dec. 31, 1931
Feb. 20, 1931
July 29, 1931
April 28, 1931
Oct. 28, 1931
May 28, 1931
July 31, 1931
Jan.
7, 1932
Feb. 28, 1930
July 31, 1931
Dec. 4, 1930
Sept. 13, 1926
Aug. 4, 1932
Aug. 10, 1932
Aug. 10, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932
Aug. 29, 1932
July 8, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932
Sept. 28, 1932
Sept. 28, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932
Sept. 8, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932

Wm. Henry Corbett..........Exeter No. 424.................... 25.00
John W. Moore, wife........Exeter No. 424..........._... 40.00
George F. Geibel..............Fairmount No. 43.L.~······ 30.00
Wm. H. Curtiss................ -Blaclcmer No. 442.............. 20.00
David S. Gitti~s ............. East Bay No. 489..•.- .......-. 25.00
Mrs. Wm. Judd ..: ...............Sunrise No. $22.....- .•·-······ 12.50
Robt. E. Mims and wife.Citro! No. 656.. _............ ...... 30.00
Mrs. Jane Snyder...- ........Lassen No. 149...- .....:....,_ 20.00
Mrs. Min. J .. Fitzgerald..Sotoyome No. 12.L.-- ...,.. 25.00
Wm. A. MacLeod..............El Dorado No. 26,_.•.,...•..• 30.00
Edw. H. Silsby................-Palos Verdes No. 389........ 20.00
Elizabeth Fuqua ..............Table Mountain No. 124.. 20.00
Mrs. Clara Scott................So. California No. 278...... 15.00
Robt. A. Martin...............Eclen No. 113.,..... ~ .....1•••,,.. 25.00
Mrs. Addie Cohn..............Monterey No. 217, ..-......-. 30.00
Guy Fallai .,...- ....................Silver Gate No. 296..'........ 30.00
Selina L. Dewey................California No. I _ . . . 15.00
Frank Ridell ...;.................Redwood . City No. 168...... 25.00
Susan Ridell ......................Redwood City No. 168...... 25.00
Claude Willson ...............Drytown No. 174......- ......:. 15.00
Emma Irish ...•- ..................Truckee No. 200..- ...•....... 25.00
Christian Dahl ····-.. i~· California No. 278...... 15.00
Chas. H. Pfeiffer....- ..- ....le. Progrs No. J7l._.......... 25.00
Helen A. Pfeiffer...._....Je Progrs No. 37L,_........ 25.00
Walter Greaves ..............•~pollo No. 396.....,............ 25.00
Margaret Greaves ·····~····Apollo No. 3~ ...... ,.;......... 25.00
William C. Rall ...............Arlington No. :414._.•........ 20.00
Mrs. Manford Tucker......Midway No. 426.................. 20.00
Archibald M. and
Blanche A. McArthur...Henry S. O rme No. 458.... 45.00
Sept. 28, 1932 C~rrie E. Good~riend ........Sun Garden No. 530_........ 15.00

DoWns, Benjamin F .......June28, '32
Engle, William H ...........Dec. 12, '31
Ernst, Cuno August... ... Aug. 26, '32
Fisher, Homer C............. May 28, '32
Godfrey, James ................Jan.13, '32
Grimshaw, Frederic C...June 24, '32
Haile, John W--····-······Nov. 9, '31
Hamilton, Hiram M.......Mar. lS, '32
Hulsizer, John H ...........Mar. 31, '32
Laton, Edward L........... Apr. 23, '32
Libby, Chas. F.-.......••.... Dec. 18, '31
Lipphard, William A .....Aug. lS, '32
Marsh, Chas. P-···-····~-..Oct.10, '31
Martin, Henry W .......- ..June 29, '32
Meyer, William D .....••..June 1, '32
Milisich, Christoforo........Oct. S, '31
Millar, David S................. Apr. 2, '32
Morrison, William F.....June27, '32
Myers, William P •......--.. Feb. 1, '32
Nice, Harry W-····-··•-··July 11, '32
Parsons, Frederick......- ....Feb. S, '32
Prosser, Thomas J .....- ..•.Sept. 6, '31
Rhodes, Eustace H .........Feb. 22, '32
Roscoe, Thomas H ..........Jan. 13, '32
Russell, William H ...•..Apr. 22, '32
Schmidt, Edward..............Aug. 1, '32
Smith, Charles.................. Sept. 2, '31
Spencer, Sheldon............Sept. lS, '31
Starbuck, Edward I.......June 'l:l, '32
Starbuck, Henry F .......-Feb. 24, '32
Stevens, Charles D ........... Apr. 6, '32
Stewart, W esley G.......Mar. 12, '32
Swain, George....•.....- .. Nov. 29, '31
Towzey, Wm. J .........•....Mar. 9, '32
Trost, John H ................. Mar. lS, '32
Watkins, David K ......-.Nov. 29, '31
Whitaker, George A.......Jan. 30, '32
Williams, Wm. J ............May8, '32
Wright, Wm. Calvin......Jan. 13, '32

Admitted during the year, Men 48. Average age 65
Name

Admitted

Atwood, Ira A--~-...·--··~ 7, '31
Bane, Paul D .......- ......• ..Ju!,y 20, '32
Barton, Timothy G,_.-.....Mar. 8, '32
Bonde, Hans P •.....·--······-111116, '32
Brooks, William W ....... Sept. 25, '31
Buckner, Andrew B ..~ .... Mar. 'l:l, '32
Carey, William F __...... Sept.16, '31:
Dillon, Robert-............- ..J11ty 28, '32

Lodge

175

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

El Cajon .........._..576
Orland ..................2'>S
Union "··--····-··. 58
Alisa! ·-·····-······-321
Fresno ..........-......247
Welcome ..............ZSS
San Pedro...........,332
Liberty .............:..299

T0W1J

Age

El Cajon ..........70
Orland ..............68
Sacramento .... 59
Pleasanton ......69
Fresno .............70
Lemoore ...-":=:··76
San Pedro........62
Santa Clara......80

I

Lodge

No.

So. California......'l:l8
Silver Gate..........296
Pentalpha ............202
Tehama ····-·········· 3
Janesville ............232
Nevada ................ 13
Western Star..... 2
Suisun .................. SS
California ............ 1
Phoenix ..•......._.. 178
La Fayette............126
Mission ....•...........169
Utopia ..................537
South Gate............320
Eden •.:........._._.113
· Mountain View ....194
Speranza Italiana 219
So. California......278
Solano .................229
Las Palmas............336
Alhambra •....._ ..322
Bay View ............401
S. W. Hackett....574
Laurel ......• ..•. _....24S
Oroville ........... 103
Antioch ...•.,.. __,J7S
Golden Gate......... 30
Georgetown ......• 2S
Ione ..........•.......... 80
Santa Monica...... 307
Jas. A. Foshay....641
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Concord .............. 117
Durant ····--·······.268
Las Palmas..........366
Ferndale ....•......• 193
Paul Revere ........462
Caledonia ...........-486
F ortitude ..............624
Las Palmas..........366

Town

Age

Los Angeles......76
San Diego ····-··(i6
Los Angeles......62
Sacramento ....69
Janesville ........S9
Nevada City ....64
Shasta ..... ........62
Suisun ····-····-··86
San Francisco..79
San Bern'dino ..88
Sebastopol ......67
San Francisco..73
Los Angeles......69
Los Angeles......69
San Leandro....79
Mt. View..........71
San Francisco..68
Los Angeles ....74
Vallejo ..........-70
Fresno .,....,_......6l
A lhambra ........fJ6
Oakland ......-67
San Diego........81
Willows ...- ....76
Oroville ..........70
Antioch ···-······66
San Francisco..64
Georgetown ....72
Ione -··•·····-··-SJ
Santa Monica..62
Los Angeles ....82
Santa Rosa ......81
Sacramento ....58
Berkeley ..........86
F resno .........--~
Ferndale ·---- .78
San Francisco..60
Bakersfield ....-77
Oakland .......•.60
Fresno ····----76

176

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted during the year, Women 31. Average age 68.6
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Atwood, Ida I... .............. Sept. 7, '31
El Cajon Valley .. 576
El Cajon............67
Ayers, Sarah A ............... May 14, '32
Hanford ..............279
Hanford ..........73
Bane, Annabell E...........July 20, '32
Orland ..................265
Orland ............65
Carey, Laura E............. Sept. 16, '31 · San Pedro............332
San Pedro ........61
Copeland, Wilhelmina....July 11, '32
Golden Gate ........ 30
San Francisco.. 59
Godfrey, Jennie .:............Jan. 13, '32
Nevada ................ 13
Nevada City....60
Hoffman, Sarah J .......,..... Apr. 7, '32
Golden Gate ........ 30
San Francisco ..91
Hollis, Ella A ................... Oct. 7, '31
Dunsmuir ............297
Dunsmuir ........ 65
Irvine, Adelaide H ........... Nov. 4, '31
Sacramento ........ 40
Sacramento ....83
Kidd, Millie A. ..............Aug. 21, '32
Amity ..................370
San Francisco..65
Kimball, Annette C.........Aug. 3, '32
Enterprise ............ 70
Yuba City ........70
Lillie, Amelia F ............... May 23, '32
Woodland ............156
Woodland ........ 80
Longfellow, Sarah J. .... Nov. 15, '31
Truckee .......... ~ ...200
Truckee ............65
Maddrill, Mary L ........... Apr. 15, 'J2
Madison .............. 23
Grass Valley ....67
Martin, Arethusa G...... .June 29, '32
Eden ....... ~ ...........J 13
San Leandro....71
McDowell, Alice M ....... Mar. 24, '32
Alcatraz ..............244
Oakland ····;·····56
Noble, Grace F .....:...........July 4, '32
Trinity ........ :......... 27
Weaverville .... 72
Phillips, Sarah J ............. Feb. 22, '32
Mission ................169
San Francisco .. 78
Roscoe, Nettie P .............Jan. 13, '32
Oroville ............. .103
Oroville ..........61
Sandell, Selma S ............. Dec. 31, '31
Martinez .............. 41
Martinez ..........66
Soale, Carl B.................... May 15, '32
Corona ................324
Pasadena .......... 75
Starbuck, Catherine ........ Feb. 24, '32
Jas. A. Foshay....641
Los Angeles .... 61
Stevens, Isabella A. ........Apr. 6, '32
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Santa Rosa ......75
Stevens, Mary H .............July 8, '32
Gvlden State ........358
Los Angeles ....76
Stewart, Mary .............. Mar. 12, '32
Concord .............. 117
Sacramento ·....62
Teall, Lena ....................Aug. 22, '32
Golden Gate .......... 30
San Francisco ..69
Weigel, May L ............... Apr. 10. '32
M~rin .................. 191
San Rafael... ..... 67
White, Clara McG ........... Oct. 8, '31
Mission ............... .169
San Francisco..67
Wilcox, Louise ................July 25, '32
Sequoia ................349
Oakland .......... 73
Williams, Lillias .............. May 8, '32
Fortitude ............624
Oakland ..........61
Wise, Adelaide H ........... Oct. 29, '31
Occidental ............ 22
San Francisco..65
Died during the year, Men 40. Average age 77.75
Name
Age
Lodge
No.
Date
Buried at
Armantage, Wm. L .......81 San Ber'dino .... 348 May 29, '32 San Bernardino
Barnhisel. Chas. F .........93 Brooklyn ..........225 Mar. 26, '32 Oakland
Barkley, Martin K. ......73 Highland Pk. .... 382 Sept. 17, '31 Decoto
Best, Willis A•..............84 Consuelo .......... 325 Feb. 11, '32 Santa Paula
Blumenthal, Albert........ 78 Crockett ............139 M~ 1, '32 San Mateo Co.
Browne, John L ............. 79 King Solomon ..260 May 19, '32 Decoto
Cambis, Emanuel..........86 Bepicia .............. 5 May 28,''32 Decoto
Catherwood, F. H •........74 Mariposa .......... 24 May 30, '32 Merced
Cohn, Emil ....................64 Monterey ..........217 Aug. 6, '32 San Mateo Co.

•

Name
Age
Crossfield, Frank M.....82
Doughty, James ............77
Dowling, Geo. W .........75
Drake, Oscar B.............79
Gray, Wm. S.................75
Harris, Ranse B.............80
Haydon, John H ...........94
Helms, Geo. L...............60
Henderson, Clar'ce F ...53
Jacobs, Francis J ...........85
Kennedy, Daniel...... __95
Loughery, Robert J .......78
Mesler, Orlando A. ......81
Molera, Jos. R. ...- -..65
Nicolas, Nahum ............72
Norton, Samuel Mcl...80
Powell, John L ...............81
Price, Thos. G...............83
Roberts, Joseph L .........83
Robinson, Henry J .......82
Robinson, James M.......85
Sawvelle, Charles ..........66
Severance, Frank ..........79
Smith, Robert ................77
Stevens, F. A ..........- ....73
Tillinghast, Jos. H .......77
Walk, Harding L ...........71
Warner, William ..........83
Waugh, Oscar................73
Wildman, Wm...............77
Wright, Wm. Calvin ....77

177

Lodge
No:
Date
Buried at
Russian River ....181 Apr. 2, '32 Deco to
So. California ..278 May 23, '32 Deco to
York ..................423 Sept. 5, '31 Los Angeles
Hartley ............199 Jan. 23, '32 Deco to
Santa Rosa ..........57 Dec. 23, '31 Deco to
Downey ............220 July 6, '32 Sacramento
Hesperian ........264 Oct. 19, '31 Santa Maria
Presidio ............354 June 9. '32 Decoto
Pyramid ............ 562 May 23, '32 Decoto
Marin ................191 Dec. 19, '31 Santa Rosa
Howard ............ 37 Mar. 25, '32 San Mateo Co.
Amity ................370 Nov. 22, '31 San Francisco
Olive Branch ....269 Jan. 11, '32 Deco to
La Parfaite Un. 17 Oct. 28, '31 Deco to
Speranza Ital... ..219 Dec. 25, '31
Deco to
Hammonton ......433 June 19, '32 Deco to
Durant ..............268 Mar. 20, '32 Deco to
Orosi ................383 Aug. 6, '32 Decoto
Porterville ........303 July 21, '32 Deco to
East Gate ..........290 Nov. 22, '31 Deco to
La Mesa ............407 Mar. 8, '32 Deco to
Bethlehem ....... .453 Oct. 20, '31 Deco to
Mendocino ........179 May 8, '32 San Mateo Co.
Mt. View ..........194 Nov. 23, '31 Saratoga
Union ................ 58 Dec. 13, '31 Oakland
Fairfax ..............556 Aug. 1, '32 Deco to
Hammonton .... ..433 Sept. 8, '31 Deco to
Covina .............. 334 Apr. 28, '32 Deco to
Laurel ................245 Dec. 20, '31 Willows
Pomona ............246 Aug. 2, '32 Deco to
Las Palmas ......366 .July 29, '32 Deco to

Died during the yeat'. Women 22. Average age 77.05
Name
Age
Lodge
No.
Date
Buried at
Bell, Augusta R .............81
San Francisco ..360 Oct. 31, '31 San Francisco
Bidgood, Laura P .........81 Elysian ..............418 Oct. 9, '31 Decoto
Brown, Mary L.............82 San Mateo ........226 July 2, '32 Oakland
Gates, Adelia E............. 75 Educator .......... 554 Jan. 21, '32 Modesto
Gregory, Ada M...........67 Mizpah ..............378 Oct. 30, '31
Deco to
Hall, Maria A...............96 Live Oak ............ 61 Mar. 7;'32 Deco to
Hamerly, Mary ..............79 Corinthian ........ 9 Aug. 7, '32 Oakland
Higgins, Lillie................71 Fort Bragg........361 Jan. 26, '32 Oakland
Hubbard, Carrie I.. .......73 San Joaquin ...... 19 Sept. 13, '31
Stockton
Huisman, Charlotte ......63 Fairview .......... 629 Aug. 4, '32 Los Angeles

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Na.me
Age
Hyde, Mary ---····-·····Ji()
Jacobs, Martha ..........--12
Orman, Ella J •.•..............83
Peck, Cassie M ........... _84
Phillip, Margaret ..........75
Plummer, Frances ····--87
Rowell, Jane ·-·-····-······86
Southwick, Marion E ...80
Stokes, Mary --······--15
Tilley, Sadie G. ····-·--77
Truax, Mary E.............73
Wehmer, Annie....- ........ 75

Lodge
No.
Date
Mill Valley ......356 Mar. 19, '32
Marin ······-······-191 Nov. 12, '31
Burlingame ......400 Apr. 11, '32
Henry Clay........ 95 Mar. 29,'32
Mission .·······-··.169 Apr. 13, '32
Bay View..........401 Dec. 26, '31
Golden Gate...._ 30 Sept. 20, '31
Alameda ............167 Dec. 18, '31
East Gate..........29() June 6, '32
Bay View..........401 May 4, '32
Howard ............ 37 Jan. 28, '32
Westlake ..........392 May 17, '32

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Buried a.t
Vallejo
Santa Rosa
Decoto
Oakland
San Francisco
Decoto
Deooto
Oakland
Decoto
Oakland
Yreka
Los Angeles

Departures during the year, 2
Lodge
No.
Name
Age
Date
Ames, Clemintina H- ........70
Mar. 22, 1932
Mission ·-·-·"·-·-·-···········.169
Burtchael, Gertrude M .....61
May 7, 1932
Oakland ····-·········•~·-··'··:....188
Report of the Superintendent-Covina
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes:
During the past summer, while on her vacation, the Home nurse,
"Nurse Jane," as the children familiarly call her, visited some of the
former girls of the Home, who now live in San Francisco. After
her return she wrote a letter about her visit, from which I quote. I
have substituted fictitious names for the real ones; the number in
connection. with each name indicates the dates of admission and discharge from the Covina Home:
"I took five days at the end of my vacation to pay a long prom-.
ised visit to Sally Smith (1922-1928), now Mrs. John M. Jones, who
lives in San Francisco. John met me at the Ferry and on the way
to their home was full of news of their little family. Sally has a
beautiful little girl two and a half years old and an equally beautiful
little boy five months. They are very well behaved children.
Sally is very stout, but otherwise the same Sally she was while in
the Home. They live in a rented house of five large rooms, nicely
furnished, with every convenience including an electric washer and
ironer. The next day, Charles Johnson (1917-1930) came to see
me at Sally's house. Charles has grown much taller and weighs
twenty pounds more than when he left us. He has finished his premedical course at Berkeley, where he has attained an honor-student
standing. I think seeing me made him homesick to visit the Home
again.

•

179

"Sally and I went to see Dora Hamilton (1916-1928) and Virginia
. Edwards (1913-1923) at Virginia's home. Virginia is t hin from
nursing her big husky boy, six months old. She is the same old
Virginia, happy with any present situation. I didn't see her husband
as he was on duty; he is a cook at a hospital. The other girls lik~
him,. and Virginia seems very much in love and that is all that
matters after all. Virginia's place is in one of those crowded apartment house districts-front room, small dark bedroom and kitchenette.
I just missed seeing Katherine Edwards (1913-1928). Dora Hamilton
was at Virginia's. She seems very much subdued and is not the
pert Dora of old. She is thin, smokes a lot, and says she is supervising night clinic at ...........•...... Hospital. After visiting there we
all crowded into John's car (John is a good sport and not afraid
of hen parties) and went over to Emma Nelson's (1922-1927). Emma
seems very happily married and has a very presentable husband. He
has steady work and seems to be doing well. Their baby is two
months old and does not seem to be doing well on the food she has
been getting. Emma phoned Sally on the morning of my departure
to get the address of the Clinic. The young mothers all decided that
they could get better service at much · Jess cost by patronizing the
Clinic. It was very amusing to hear the general talk of babies clinics
weights, ages, formulas, diapers, and such. The young h~sband~
were as much interested as the girls and expressed themselves as
freely.
"The following Tuesday Sally gave a luncheon for me, all
planned and engineered very nicely and successfully. E mma Nelson
came with her baby. Virginia couldn't get there as her husband
was starting on his vacation. Barbara Reynolds (1925-3()) and
Alice Reynolds (1925-1930) were there. They are both thin and
are working very hard at summer school. I was interested to notice
the congenial way the girls visited-how they were pleased at each
other's success and the absence of gossip about the Home and the
ex-Masonic Homers in general.
"As a whole I had a very interesting and enjoyable visit in
San Francisco."
I have thought it worth while to quote from this letter at length
because I think it contains in and between its lines the answer to .
a question which is often asked : Does life in the Masonic Home
produce normal human beings w.ho are capable of going out into
society and taking their place there in a natural and wholesome
manner ? It has sometimes been charged that an experience of
being brought up in an institution hinders boys and girls, particularly
girls, from a subsequent normal domestic life. Apparently their
experience in the Masonic Home has not had this effect upon the
lives of the girls referred to in this letter.

180

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Masons of California want the Covina Home to be a Home
and not an institution. They want it to be a place where children
who have been deprived of natural home advantages can live happy
lives while they are being instructed and trained toward useful and
successful careers. To attain these objects there must be a nice
balance between allowing on the one hand, the expression of their
spontaneous desires, and the r·equirement on the other hand, that they
take on the habits of civilized human beings. We are attempting
contantly to examine our own work and measure its achievements
in the light of these objectives.
The operation of the Home during the past year has been
substantially on the same lines as for the last several preceding
years. The present is not a time for innovations; we should be content if we can hold the gains made during previous years. During
the past year the objectives and problems of the Home have been
discussed in the weekly staff meetings, participated in by housemothers and others directly connected with the care of the children.
If you had attended these staff meetings from week to week throughout the year, you would have been impressed with the capable and
devoted effort that is being put forth by those immediately in charge
of our boys and girls.
We have our problems and they are not few. Child welfare writers
are prone to assert that all children are naturally "good" and that
only a little encouragement is needed for them to develop in the
most gratifying manner. If it were as easy as that our job would
have little significance. While most of our children learn with comparative ease those habits and attitudes which society requires, a
certain proportion in any group present problems, sometimes of the
most difficult character. In dealing with such children we must
have in mind the welfare of the problem child himself but must
not forget the welfare of the other children in the group. 'Sometimes
a child comes so completely into ·conflict with his environment at
Covina that it is necessary to remove him. This happens with boys
more often than with girls, not because they are worse but because
they are less docile, more adventurous and have · more initiative.
Nevertheless it may happen that in the interest of the peace and
harmony of the Home atmosphere they must be placed elsewhere.
To "expel" them for bad conduct under such circumstances would in
many cases be to place upon them · an unmerited stigma, and it would
not benefit them.
The fraternity is inclined to have a blind faith in their institution
at Covina, to believe that once a child is admitted within those portals
all will be well. If the Home is so arranged and conducted as to
rrieet the needs of the average child, by the same token the unaverage

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

181

child will need some other program. We have furnished this alternative
program for a limited number of children by placement outside the
Home with access to special school facilities or other special opportunities to meet the child's peculiar needs. For instance, one "bad"
boy was sent to the California Polytechnic School at San Luis
Obispo, where he successfully learned the welder's trade.
In June of this year five bo.ys and five girls of the Home graduated from the Covina High School and were returned to their
Lodges. In some of these cases the return to the Lodges was only a
nominal procedure, because during the years when the Home had
been caring for the child the Lodge had completely lost sight of its
ward. I believe there should be emphasis on the fact that when a
Lodge places a child under our care it agrees that it will "receive
said child when dismissed from the Home." What such "receiving"
means may be open to various interpretations. However, it should
be self-evident that it can not be regarded as the Home's duty to
carry its children to a point where they are fully capable of stepping
out into the world and proceeding without further guidance. Some
Lodges have regarded seriously their responsibility for their wards
upon discharge from the Home, making a sincere and effective effort
to help the boy or girl in getting launched in life. I think it desirable
that the Hom~ make a more systematic effort to keep Lodges
informed about and interested in their wards during their period of
residence in the Home. This could be done by a periodical report
dealin~ with their physical condition, educational progress, vocational
aptitude, general behavior, and character development.
Of the boys who graduated this year, one boy was fortunate
in obtaining immediate employment in a manufacturing company;
one boy has entered the Frank Wiggins Trade School in Los
Angeles to learn the trade of automobile mechanic. A third boy 1 who
finished his high school course with high grades, is ambitious for a
college education, but owing to demands previously made upon the
Scholarship Fund, it seems that it will not be possible for him to be
financed from that source. The two remaining boys of the graduating class have been returned to their mothers and both are looking
about to find such employment as they can.
One of the girls has entered a hospital to take a training course
for nursing; her expenses during her training will be taken care
of through her Lodge. A second girl has entered the University of
California at Los Angeles where she will take a course preparing
herself for teaching; her unusually high marks received during her
high school course as well as her general characteristics of resourcefulness and initiative seem to justify her ambition. She is fortunate
in the fact that her deceased father's life insurance was placed in a

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

trust fund to care for her education. Two other girls of this class
are taking courses in a business college, while another is planning to
enter a junior college.
There is a tendency for some of our young people to leave the
Home imbued with ambitions for academic education out of proportion to their ability. Sometimes, too, they announce vocational
choices, such as . dramatic director, radio announcer, costume designer, artist, aviator, airplane designer, which would only be justified in those having extraordinary ability. It is oftentimes our task
in these cases to translate their ideas into more practical terms.
A problem which must be constantly in our thoughts is that
of how much we should do for our children in the way of supplying·
them not only with necessities, but also with comforts and luxuries.
If we care for them on too restricted a scale, in other words, if we
make their lives in the Home too harsh and severe, if there is too
great a discrepancy between their scale of living and that of the
other children with whom they are associated in the Covina community, there is danger that they will become stamped with a sense of
inferiority that will destroy their courage and their sense of selfrespect. On the other hand, if they are given too much, if their
lives are too easy and effortless, they will become soft and flabby,
will have a false sense of their own worth, will feel. that the world
owes them a living, and will be ill-prepared to fight the hard battle
of life.
The test should be found in the reactions which they present
when they go up against the situations confronting them after they
leave .the Home. A study of the behavior and performance of the
Masonic Home children after they leave our care seems to me to
indicate that their life in the Hoine has not unfitted them to sustain
the trials of real life. While in some cases they leave us with
rather lofty ideas, and while some of their initial gestures would
· seem to indicate that they have been too much pampered, if we
follow them in their reactions in the face of stress and difficulty,
they exhibit a stamina and a courage which speaks well for their
training while in the Home. The world has a way of saying to
them in no uncertain terms, especially in these present difficult
times, that they are not so smart as they thought they were. The
thing that. is significant is the amount of "comeback" which they
show under these circumstances and the ability which they exhibit to
get up and keep on fighting when knocked down. While they do
not all make a good showing when confronted with difficulties and
discouragements, most of them do.
The rule which you adopted two years ago, requiring each boy
or girl having reached the age of sixteen to make an application for

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

183

reappointment annually, and to sustain that application by evidence
·that they merit to be carried in the Home another year, has undoubtedly had a most salutary effect. I~ has brought to these older
children a more just conception of their relationship to the Home,
and the value to them of its opportunities. There may be some
question as to whether we have not been too generous in granting
reappointments. In my judgment the applicant who is petitioning
to be maintained in the Home during his seventeenth or eighteenth
year should have some positive qualities and achievements to recommend him, qualities of co-operativeness and helpfulness in the Home.
He should be an active force in promoting good citizenship in the
Home community; he should be a leader, and a leader in the right
direction. His last year in the Home should be the year in which
he demands . the least and gives the most; he should be thinking
more about his duties than about his rights. If he cannot rise to
this conception of his relationship to the institution and to the
younger children in it, I question whether he should be reappointed.
JOHN M. DowNEN, Superintendent.

Visitations at Covina Home by Lodges
September, 1931:
26--Job's Daughters Bethel ,No. 35, Riverside.
October, 1931:
z_..:Lyra Chapter Social Club. Came to the H ome and did
sewfag for the children.
~Lynwood No. 600, Lynwood. Ramona Chapter, 0. E. S.,
Monterey Park.
November, 1931:
3-Electa Auxiliary to Glendale Chapter No. 422, 0. E. S.
Came to the Home and did sewing for the children.
12-Estrella del Este Club of Whittier Chapter 0. E. S.
!~Menorah Chapter No. 497 0. E. S.
15-Reseta Chapter, 0. E. S.
17-Glen Eyrie Chapter No. 237 0. E. S.
22--Corona Lodge No. 324, Pasadena.
Upland Lodge No. 419, Upland, and Eastern Star Chapter.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452, Pasadena.
December, 1931:
6--Triangle Lodge No. 548, Venice.
January, 1932:
31-Job's Daughters, Downey Lodge No. 220, provided program
for children.

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

March, I932:
I2-Ascot Lodge No. S38, Los Angeles. Provided entertainment
and furnished orchestra for dance.
April, I932:
2-Hollywood De Malay.
I7-0ntario Lodge No. 30I, and 0. E. S.
Signal Lodge No. S43, Long Beach.
24-Composite Lodge No. 639, Los Angeles.
May, I932:
7-Downey Lodge No. 220, Downey.
IS-Veteran Lodge No. 373 and Columbia Chapter, 0. E. S.
West Los Angeles.
22-Bettina Chapter No. 339, 0. E. s.; Long Beach.
Downey Lodge No. 220. Had a ball game with the Home
boys in the afternoon.
29-EI Petrol Chapter No. S07.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, Huntington Beach.
June, I932 :
S-Palestine Lodge No. 3SI, Los Angeles.
I2-Temple City Lodge No. 612, and 0. E. S.
IS-Knights Templar.
I9-Tujunga Lodge No. S92, Tuju~ga.
July, I932-Visitations at Summer Camp, Balboa Island:
9-Service Chapter, 0. E. S., Long Beach.
I7-Alexander Graham Bell, No. S9S, Los Angeles.
24-Los Cerritos No. 674, Long Beach.

Donations to Covina Home
Al Malaikah Temple-SOOO lbs. potatoes.
Areme Club, The 0. E. S., Box llS, Trana, Calif.-Scraps and
small doll.
Armagost, Mr., I040 Vineland Ave., Baldwin Park-3 crates Young
berries, SO quarts canned Young berries.
Artesia Chapter No. 2S3, 0. E. S.-3 quarts fruit, 8 pints jam, 4
glasses jell.
Baker, Thrift, 464 E. 8th St., Pittsburg-Encyclopedia, loose leaves
for I931.
Bentley, G. J.-4 sacks almonds.
Bethel No. I7, Downey--8 quarts, 3 glasses jams and jellies.
Bethel ·Chapter No. 36, Job's Daughters-I9 scrap books, I6 stuffed
dolls.
Bethel No. S3, Job's Daughters, North Sacramento--8 books, 2
games, blocks, mechanical toy, material for doll clothes, doll and
basket, sewing set, 3 handkerchiefs, 6 necklaces, 2 brooches,
bracelet, perfume, felt flowers, yarn flowers, 2 purses, girl's
belt, bath salts.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0. E. S.-3 quarts, I7 pints jam; I4 glasses
jell.
Bullock's, Los Angeles-6 airplanes, 3 Meccano sets, I Zep.
Butchart, D. G., Junior Warden, Kilauea Lodge No. 330, Hilo,
Hawaii-$10 Treat Fund.
Carter, Miss Mary, Occident Chapter No. I60-9 pints jam.
Central Junior High School, Los Angeles-2 baskets Thanksgiving
provisions.
Clapp, Mr.-9 different donations of magazines.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-2S lbs. dates.
Colton Chapter No. 211, 0. E. S.-$2.00 for Treat Fund; SO lbs.
walnuts, 22 quarts canned fruit, 22 pints jam, 2 cans grapefruit,
I can apple butter.
Composite Lodge No. 639-8 packages stick candy, 8 boxes chocolate
bars, 2 boxes lollipops, S-lb. can candy, I2 quarts, 27 pints jam,
7 glasses jell.
.
Conrad, E. P. (L. A. Shopping News), 34th and Hope Sts., Los Angeles-IO lbs. tin foil.
Corona Lodge No. 324, Pasadena-2 bunches bananas, 2. boxes
· grapes, 3 boxes apples, I box cranberries, 23 quarts jam, 22
pints jam, IO quarts fruit, 4 cans tuna, 2 lbs. nuts, 3S .glasses
jelly.
Covina Lodge No. 334-Transportation for 20 boys to visit I;Jattle
Fleet Chapter (round trip) and transportation of all the children
of the Home to the summer camp at Balboa, a lso transportation
of the same children returning from the summer camp at the
close of the season.

Entertainment~Covina

December 17, I93I:
Monrovia Lodge No. 308, gave its annual Christmas party for
the children. All of the children were taken to Monrovia and
were entertained at the Masonic Temple with a Christmas tree,
each child receiving a gift followed by refreshments.
December 23, I93I:
The Los Angeles Masters' and Wardens' Association, continuing
its custom of past years, financed and managed the Christmas
party at the Home. The party was held in the gymnasium. A
delightfully.decorated Christmas tree added much to the Christ• mas spirit and of course Santa Claus was eagerly anticipated.
An enjoyable entertainment was given, and the evening gave
much joy to the children.
January 9, I932:
Mount Olive Lodge No. S08 visited the Home and presented its
moving picture of "Home Life." This picture was eagerly
awaited by the children as it represented to them an opportunity
to see themselves as movie stars.

185

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Cox, Mrs. Maude, Watsonville, Calif.-1 box apples.
Cruson, Mrs. Tom; Fillmore Chapter No. 361, 0. E. S.-18 quarts
canned tomatoes.
Culver, W. L., Jr., 105 E. Ave. 38, Los Angeles-6 rubber balls.
Davis, H. W., C/o Golden State Ice Cream Co., 1711 Albio~ _St.,
Los Angeles- Ice cream to serve all children for Thanksg1vmg.
Downey Lodge No. 2~ quarts 29 pints jam, 4 glass~s jell..
Dusel, Mrs. William J., Order of Rainbow, Redwood City, Calif.Books of funny papers.
.
Electa Auxiliary of Glendale, Chapter No. 442, 0. E. S.-47 bibs,
64 tea towels.
Engle William H.-2 tnodel yachts (during summer).
.
El Pe~rol Chapter No. 507-20 quarts fruit, 21 pints jam, 1 can. frutt.
Estrella de! Este -Club, of Whittier Chapter 0. E. S.-1 quart pickles,
2 quarts canned fruit, 90 quarts jams and jellies, 21 glasses
jelly, 1 pint peanut butter.
Evans, M. D.-3130 So. Western Ave., Los Angeles-100 lbs.
chocolate candy.
Euclid Chapter No. 179 0 . E. S., Ontario-6 gallons canned fruit,
30 quarts canned fruit, 1 can milk, 1 lb. candy.
Fillmore ·Chapter O. E. S.-11 quarts 1 pint tomatoes.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379-48 quarts tomatoes, 22 quarts jam, 8 quarts
canned fruit, 61 pints jam, 8 glasses jell.
Fire Warden, San Dimas-About 100 pounds sword fish.
Flynn, Thomas'-Tennis balls, racquets, baseballs and basket ball.
Foreman & Clark-46 suits; 5 pairs knickers.
Foster, Mr. L. B., L.A. Rubber Stamp Co.-Stamps for boys' collection.
Fox Studio Masonic Employees-$50 worth of toys.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339-1 typewriter, 1 radio loud speaker, 1 set
ear phones, 2 children's tables.
Garrison, C. C.-5 pounds pellets for rabbits.
General Food Sales Company, per Jennings-Nesley Warehouse Co.
-2 bags Swans Down Cake Flour.
Genther, Mabel, 8580 S. Gramercy Pl., Los Angeles-11 print
dresses 3 slips, 4 pajamas, domino.
Glendale A~sembly, Beaucant-7 quarts 12 pints jam, 2 pints honey,
13 glasses jell, 1 pint canned fruit.
Glen Eyrie Chapter No. 237, Glendale, Calif.-132 quarts fruit, 10
quarts jam, 33 pints jam, 10 glasses jelly.
.
Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380-9 pints jam, 10 quarts fruit.
Hirsch, Milton, 211 E. 8th St., Los Angeles-Box of cookies.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145 0. E. S., Azusa-150 boxes home-made
candy.

Kee, Mrs. 0. B., 25 La Linda Drive, Long Beach, Calif.-15 pounds
candy, 6 boxes birthday candies.
Lavender, Mrs. Ada, Long Beach--3 pillows to be made, 2 pillows,
6 stuffed dolls and animals, 2 fancy dolls.
Leach, Mr. and Mrs. F.-5 gallons canned honey.
Ledeboer, Mr. and Mrs. H., Hollywood Lodge No. 355-Jar lemon
drops, bag .gum drops and chocolates.
Liberman, Mrs., 165 So. Mansfield, Los Angeles-Thanksgiving cake
to serve everyone, beautifully decorated.
Los Angeles Soap Co., 100 bars White King Soap, 2 dozen bars
Mission Bell Soap.
Los ·C erritos Lodge No. 674-4 pints jams and jellies, 16 glasses
jams and jellies.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, Hanford, Calif.-1 box mixed nuts, about
35 pounds.
Lynwood Lodge No. 600-30 pints jelly and jam, 62 glasses jelly, 11
quarts jelly and jam, 4 glasses peanut butter.
Lyra Chapter No. 144 0. E. S.-4 cans vegetables, 1 can soup, 1 can
salmon, 4 quarts jam, 14 glasses jelly.
Masonic Club of Yosemite, Yosemite National Park, Calif.-Clothing
and toys.
Menorah Chapter No. 497-Moving picture for children (shown in
evening), 16 quarts jam, 3 pints jam, 4 glasses jelly, 4 quarts
fruit, 5 cans beans, 1 jar peanut butter.
Mill Valley Chapter 0 . E. S.-3 glasses jell, 9 pints jam.
Mitchell, Mr. and Mrs. B. E., 1316 W. 23rd St., Los Angeles-4
pounds candy, child's coat.
Monrovia Lodge No. 308-Christmas party, 32 pounds walnuts, 4
• pounds candy, "New Erector," "The world's greatest toy."
Mt. Olive Lodge-Picture "Home Life," projecting machine and
screen, 12 quarts 43 pints and glasses jams and jells, 15 pounds
candy, 5 pounds cookies, Little Giant pool table, 2 puzzles.
Murphy, Mr. and Mrs. Henry A., Elgin Lodge No. 24, Myrtle Point,
Ore.-5 quarts canned fruit, 1 pint canned fruit.
McCormick, Judge, Earl L. Stone, Secy, U. S. District Court, So.
Dist. of Calif., Los Angeles-37 sacks sugar.
McCurrie, Chas. H ., I. 0. 0. F. Home, Saratoga-25 necklaces.
MacLafferty, Mrs., 4523 Grammercy Pl., Los Angeles-Weekly gift
of Sunday school papers, Lutheran Young folks.
Oroville Lodge No. 103, Oroville, Calif.-1 5-gallon pail olives, 5
gallons olives.
Pacific Electric Railway Co.-50 round trip tickets to Los Angeles
football game.
Pacific Wholesale Grocery Co.-5 cans Ocean Spray cranberry jelly.
Palestine Lodge No. 351-7 glasses jell, 10 pints jam, 1 quart fruit.

186

187

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pasadena Commandery K. T. No. 31-11 glasses jell, candy.
Past Matrons and Patrons Assn. of Idlewild Chapter No. 19, 0. E. S.,
Cora B. Adams, president, 82 Barson St., Santa Cruz, Calif.7 dresser scarfs.
Pentalpha Chapter 0. E. S., Manteca, Calif.-5 quarts canned fruit,
23 pints canned fruit, 10 pounds nuts, 2 pounds candy, 3 pounds
figs.
Pentalpha Club of Security Chapter No. 486 0. E. S., Bakersfield1 comfort.
Pomona Chapter No. 110 0. E. S.--6 quarts jam, 20 pints jam, 30
glasses jelly, 1 quart fruit, 1 quart honey, 1 pint honey.
Porterville Lodge No. 303-23 pounds candy, 20 pounds nuts, 5
pounds dates.
Ramona Lodge No. 457-150 candy canes.
Ramona Star Chapter No. 357 0. E. S.-14 glasses jam and jellies,
20 pints jam, 19 quarts jam, 2 tea towels, bundle comic papers.
Reed, Dr. J. D., Lions Club, Rotary Club-125 minstrel show tickets.
Reseda Chapter No. 505-29 quarts jam, 45 pints jam, 45 glasses
jelly, .15 quarts fruit, 8 pints fruit, 1 can peas, 50 pounds baby
lima beans (brought by Reseda Chapter and donated by Marion
Milling Co., P. H. Deaux).
Rouch, Alva, Traver Lodge No. 294-50 pounds raisins, 2 lugs
grapes, 100 pounds dried prunes, 24 quarts fruit.
San Gabriel Masonic Club and San Gabriel Chapter No. 407 0. E. S.
-Magazines, 15 quarts jam, 22 glasses jell.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452, Pasadena, Calif.-3 wool blankets, 3
cotton and wool blankets, 181 pints of fruit, 123 quarts of fruit,
137 glasses jelly, 55 cans fruit, 15 pounds walnuts, 2 bushels
apples, 10 boxes apples, 2 bunches bananas, 50 pounds crapberries.
Schumacher, Mrs. H. B., Sespe, (:alif.-9 quarts canned fruit. ·
Sittel, Mr. Al and Purdy, Mr. Fred-2000 pounds sugar.
Savage, C. L., deputy game warden-1 deer.
Service Chapter No. 414 0. E. S.-8 quarts jams and jellies, li pints
jams and jellies, 15 glasses jams and jellies.
Social Club, Lyra Chapter No. 144 0. E. S.-3 quilts, 1 quilt made
by John R. Malcho.
Smith, Mrs. J. Joseph, Pasadena Assembly I. 0. 0. F. No. 44, Pasadena, Calif.-20 quarts fruit, 31 pints jam, 4 cans fruit, 1 quart
pickles.
Sunshine Chapter No. 327-20 quarts fruit, 14 cans fruit, 13 quarts
jam, 15 pinJs jam, 10 glasses jell.
Temple City Lodge No. 44~2 quarts jam, 7 pints jam, 3 quarts
fruit, 28 glasses jell, 3 dozen tangerines.
Thompson, Mrs. M. W., Murrieta, Calif.-1 bundle comic papers.

Triangle Lodge No. 548, Venice, Calif.-13 cans orange marmalade,
~6 quarts jams and jellies, 12 pints jams and jellies, 16 glasses
Jams and jellies, 200 marbles, girl's wrist watch from E. Malley.
University Lodge No. 394--$99.75, F. B. Comfort Fund-"Foolish
Money."
Upland Lodge No. 419 and Eastern Star Chapter-Basket persimmons, 15 pounds apples, 8 pints jam, 13 quarts canned fruit 1
can pumpkin, 1 can peaches, 1 can codfish, 5 pounds peanut b;ittle, 5 pounds nuts, 1 cake.
Vallee de France Lodge No. 329-1 rug 9x12, 6 pairs curtains, 5
blankets.
Welch, Patrick--$40.00 for Thanksgiving dinner.
W?i~e, M. B., 1809 Santa Clara Ave., Alameda-SO pounds walnuts.
Wtlhams, Scott; Higham, Art C., 808 South Broadway, Los An. geles-22 harmonicas, 2 bugles, 5 cornets, 12 bells, 30 playolas.
Wilson, Mrs. A. G., Pasadena-Magazines.
Wilson, Mrs. F., 4657 York Blvd., Los Angeles- Loan of ·three
movie films.
Zimmerman, Mr. Chas., South Pasadena Lodge No. 367, 1225 Stratford Ave., South Pasadena, Cal.-1 radio 1 loud speaker
Zimmerman, Mr. and Mrs. Chas.; Stark, Mr. and Mrs. R. · H ,;_2
quarts canned fruit.
Zinn, Mr.· and Mrs. Chas. A., Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-75 books
magazines, night case.
·
'

1811

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations-Covina Home
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Alamo ..........................122
$10.00 Cahuenga ....................513
10.00
Albert Pike ................484
10.00 Caledonia ....................386
15.00
Alexander G. Bell ......595
10.00 Callayomi ....................282
5.00
Alisa! ............................321
10.00 Capital City..................499
10.00
Alpha ............................431
5.00 Carquinez ....................337
10.00
Alta Loma....................643
10.00 Center ...:......................465
10.00
Amador ........................ 65
5.00 Charity ..:.....................362
5.90
Antioch ................:.......175
5.00 Charter Rock ..............410
15.00
Argonaut ....................461
10.00 Clay ..............................101
10.00
Argonne ......................514
10.00 Clear Lake .................. 183
5.00
Artesia ........................377
10.00 Clinton .......................119
10.00
Ascot ..........~ ................538
5.00 Coalinga ......................387
10.00
Ashlar ..........................306
5.00 Compass .......:..............590
10.00
Atascadero ..................493
5.00 Concord ..,................... 117
10.00
Azusa ..........................305
10.00 Confidence ..................203
10.00
Bakersfield ..................224
25.00 Corinthian .................. 9
10.00
Blackmer ....................442
10.00 Corona ........................324
25.00
Burlingame ................400
15.00 Covenant ....................527
5.00

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Crescent ....................- 45
Crockett ................ _.... 1~
Cupertino ....................St&
Curtis ····--··········--····-140
Delta ····-··········-··········"°'
Dinuba ················-········385
Downey ........................228
East Bay ......................389
East Gate ···········-·····-~
East San Diego..........561
Eden ........................-..113
El Cajon VaUey..........516
Elmhurst ....................610
El Segundo..................507
Elsinore ......................289
Enterprise .................... 70
Eureka ........................ 16
Evergreen ..................259
Excelsior ····-········----166
Fairmount ········-·'--····4.15
Fillmore ··········-······-··379
Forest ·················-···--·· 66
Francis Drake ............376
Fraternity ..................399
Fremont ......................497
Friendship :..................210
Fruitvale ....................336
George Washington.... 525
Guardian ····~-··············596
Hammonton ................433
Hartley ........................199
Henry Knox................662
Henry M. Stephens....541
Hermann -············---121
Hesperian ····-----····-..264
Highland Park............38Z
Hill's Ferry ............_..236
Hiram .......................... 43
Hollywood ..................355
Honolulu ....................409
Howard ........................ 37
lllinoistown ................ 51
Indian Rock ................638
La Brea -"·········-··........650

Amt.
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
100.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.50
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Lakeshore .................. _551
La Mesa ......................4f/1
Land~rk ....................253
La Parfaite.:................ 17
Las Palmas..................366
Laurel ····-··········-········245
Lexington .................... MM
Libertas .....·-··-····-····-466
Liberty .........,..............299
Live Oak ...................... 61
I:..e Progres de
l'Oceanie -····-·········-371
Lodi ..............................256
Lompoc ·--~·-····-············2d2
Long Beach..................327
Los Angeles ................ 42
Los Cerritos _.......:......fj/4
Madera ........................280
Madison ··--····---·········· 23
Malta ......................- ..661
Marin ..............:.......- ..19!
Maricopa ....................434
Mariposa .................... 24
Martinez ..................- .. 41
Mendocino ..................179
Menorah ······-····-········623
Midway .........·-····--....426
Military Service..........570
Mill Valley.........,........356
Molino ..:..•.................. 150
Monterey ...................217
Mountain View .......... 194
Mount Diablo.............. 448
Neptune ............:.......-619
Nicolaus -····-····-····-··129
Norwalk ......................315
Occidental .................. 22
Ontario ····-···-·-··········301
Orange Grove..............293
Oriental ...................... 144
Orland ····---········-······265
Owensmouth -········-··611
Oxnard ··--····-····-······341
Pacific Grove ····-···-··331

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.QO
25.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
12.06
31.00
10.00

-·

: Lodge
'
N o:
Lodge
No. • Amt.
-Pajaro ....:..:... ____ ....-110 .
10:50 Santa Paula ............ _.291
5.00 Santa Rosa .................. 57
Palisades :...'...~.............637
Seaport ........................550
10.00
Palestine ·-·--·······-·····351
Palqs V er'des ..............389 . I 25.00 Security ......................581
25.00 Selma .....~..~.................277
Pasadena ....................272
5.00 Silver Gate ..................296
Paso Robles ··········-····286
10.00 Silver Trowel..............415
Patterson ....................488
10.50 Sincerity .:....................132
Penrhyn ... ~ .................258
5.00 Snow Mountain..........271
Perris .......:..................411
25.00 South Pasadena..........367
Piedmont ....................521
5.00· Standard ......................440
~inole ..,,......................353
10.00 St. Helena .................. 93
Point Firmin ..............558
25.00 Suisun .......................... 55
Pomona ................:...:...241
30.50 S. W. Hackett............574Progressive ................578 '
15.00 Temescal .1••••••••••••••••••••314
Redwood City..............168
9.50 Texas· .......................... 46
Rio Vista.........:............208
10.00 Triangle ......................548
Rising Light................397
5.00 Trinity ...'..................... 27
Riverside .,....- ............635
12.50 Truckee .,....................200
Rockridge .....................468
7.50 Tujunga ····-····-····-····592
Roosevelt ....................500
5.00 Tuscan ........................261
Russian River..............181
10.00 Unity ...........;................368
Sacramento .................. 40
5.00 Victorville ..................634
Salinas ···-··················204
10.00 Victory ........................474
San Bernardino..........348
40.00 Visalia .......................... 128
San \Diego.................... 35
25.00 Washington ................ 20
San Dimas ..: ...............428
15.00 Whittier ..'....................323
San Francilco..............360
5.00 Willow Gien................676
San Gabriel ................546
5.00 Wilmington ................198
San Jose ...................... 10
10.00 Winnedumah ..............287
San ·Ma;eo ,.................226
12.50 Woodland ....................156
Sa¥. \d:ikuel............:.....285
10.00 Woodstock ..................491
Saii Pedro .............. ~
10.00 Yolo .............................. 81
San Simeon ................196
20.00 Yorba Linda ................469
Santa Ana....................241:
10.00 Yount .......................... 12
Santa Barbara ............192
10.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38
Chapter
No.
California .................... 5
Coalinga ......................114
Crown .......................... 72
Cyrus ················-········ 15
Donner ........................ 39

Chapters; R. A. M.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
$12.50 Fidelity (Santa Maria) ..
5.00 Grass Valley....--····-·· 18
5.00 Keystone ...................... 56
5.00 Lo's Angeles ....,........... 33
5.00 Marin ..........................102

191

Amt.
. 27.32
12.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
12.50
5.00
5.00
7.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
3.50
5.00

Amt.
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00

192

Chapter
No.
Mission ··················-···· 79
Montebello ······-·········.139
Ontario -·- ·-·······-······105
Plumas ···'"·····-··········- 107
Pomona ........................ 76
Redondo ·····-·········-···.1()-1
Riverside ...................... 67
Sacramento .............. 3
San Diego.................... 61
Commandery
No.
Calvary ............:........... 62
Glendale ,•.- ;............._ 53
Golden West................ 43
Los Angeles ................ 9
Marysville .................. 7
Mt. Shasta .................. 32
Oroville ........................ S
Pasadena ··················- 31

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
il0.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

Chapter
No.
San Jacinto················- 87
Searchlight ······-··-- -133
Signet ····-··········-···-- 57
Siloam ··············-········ 37
South Pasadena..........112
Washington ................ 13
Wilmington ····- -····-··141
Woodland ················- 46

Amt.
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Amt.
$14.25 Riverside .................... 28
5.00 St. Bernard ................ 23
25.00 San Luis Obispo........ 27
25.00 San Pedro ···-·············· 60
10.00 So. California ............ 37
5.00 Visalia .......................... 26
10.00 Watsonville ................ 22
5.00 Woodland .................... 21

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

Miscellaneous
Peninsula Lodge of Perfection No. 14-.--.:.-··--····-····-.,.--..--··- 10.00
San Diego Lodge of Perfection, Scottish Rite........· -····-····--·--·- 25.00
San Luis Obispo Pyramid No. 29, Sciots-·····--·-- ·-·-····-····--··--- 5.00
Miss E. }. Spencer-··-··,.--·---·-·-··· - - - - -- ·-···...,.-.···- ····--- 15.00
A. R. Wat~L--·-·-····------··----,.-········-··--·---··-··········-..·-•·- 5.00
Frank G. Watson-···-··- - ··--·-·-··--··-·--··- ···- -··-····-····--···-··•·· 15.00
F. E. Williams_.....;····-····-····-····-······-··-.····-···-····-··········-················- ······ 20.00
Children at the Covina Home-August 31, 1932

Councils, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Council
No.
Amt.
$ 5.00
$ 5.00 Valley ························- 27
Chapters, 0. E. S.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
$ 5.00
. Amapola .;....................119
$15.00 Miguelito - ·················.176
5.00 San Rafael ..................215
20.00
· Atascadero - ··-············344
5.00 Santa Ana _,................. 73
5.00
Buena Vista ................364
25.00 Santa Clara ................"195
10.00
Fidelia ···- ·················· 56
10.00 Temple ........................ 41
5.00
Huntington Park........ 127
10.00 Visalia .......................... 44
10.00
Jewel .......:...- ..............-238
10.00 Wheatland .................. 48
20.00
Mercedes ·-·················401
Miscellaneous
Berkeley High Twelve Club....- --····-··--····-···-·-··········-··-··--.,.........$40.00
S. }. Breclcenridge...-····-·--····-··- ····-- --··-----·-··-···············-···- 1.00
Albert Denser ·-·-······-··-·- -····--··-····- ···- -··-·······--····-···-·-···-···-······ 1.00
Mrs. A. P. l!arry·- ------·-·-····-··-··--·--····-·-·-········-····-····- 10.00
Los Angeles Police Square ctub·--·---·---··-·········-··-···--· 10.00
D. C. McKillip (East Gate) .....·-··-······-········-····-···-··········:........:.......... 1.00
Masonic Club of Yosemite--·····--····-~-···-·--··-··-············-···'·····-· 5.00
Miguelito Circle ---·--·- -·-··- ····-···-·-··----···-····-····-··········-···· 5.00
Oakland Lodge of Perfection No. 2...---····-··· -·.:........~·····-········· 10.00
John O'Reilly (East Gate) .···-················-··-············-···················~---········ 2.00
No.
Council
1
Pasadena .................... 16

193

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BOYS-89
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Allen, Orin.............·- ·-·--·July 16, '23 Molino -··-·······-··150
Arthur, Paul Leland......June 27, '28 Dinuba •.................385
Athan, Byron....•._.,..........Dec. 29, '27 Petaluma .............. 180
Baker, Kenneth...·-····-····Aug. 3, '28 Westlake ..............392
Baker, Philip..........___Aug. 3, '28 Westlake ..............392
Bergman, Roy...·-·····-·····Dec. 30, '29 Mizpah ................378.
Blair, Arthur.......:....- ... Sept. 13, '31 Maui ....................472
Blair, James................-..Sept. 13, '31 Maui ...•..•.-.:......-472
Blair, Theodore..............Sept. 13, '31 Maui ....................472
Bounds, F.dward...._......Sept. 14, '31 Fullerton ....:..........339
Bounds, Wallace............Sept. 14, '31 Fullerton -············339
Boyer, Clarence ····-- - - Oct. 15, '30 Alhambra ............322
Breinin, Lawrence..........Aug. 11, '29 San Bernardino..348
Brown, R~bert..-.....•.........Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles.......... 42
Brown, William................Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles.......... 42
Burgen, Fred-····-····-····Aug. 23, '32 Alhambra •....,......322
Carroll, Chas...•- ..........-Mar. 17, '28 Pentalpha ............202
Chapin, PhiliP-····-········-Oct. 30, '25 Redwood City...... 168
Chapin, Robert.....·-····-·-June 22, '22 Redwood City......168
Chetham. Alfred............Aug. 31, '24 Sequoia -············-349
Clark, Harry Seaman....May 29, '32 So. California......278
Cooksey, John..................Aug. 27, '32 North Star............ 91
Countryman, Robert...... Nov. 20, '30 Occidental ............ 22
Cuniberti, Etby......- ........Nov, 18, '28 Speranza
Italiana ............219
Cuniberti, Remo..............Nov. 18, '28 Speranza
Italiana -···-···.219
Davis, Frank......................Aug. 5, '28 Golden State........358
Dent, George..................April 14, '27 San Joae................ 10
Ede, Clarence..................Aug. 24, '26 Hope ......................234
Enslow, Lawrence-............Jan. 6, '30 Reading ................254
Falkenrath, John..............Jan. 21, '32 Larchmont ..........614
Fasshauer, Jacob_ ..:.......June 12, '28 Durant ..................268

Location Age
Tehama ............ 16
Dinuba ..............14
Petaluma ........14
Los Angeles...... 8
Los Angeles......10
Los Angeles......12
Kahului, T. H ... 12
Kahului, T. H ...12
Kahului, T. H ...12
Fullerton .......... 10
Fullerton ..........12
Alhambra ........ 11
San Bernardino 7
Los Angetes...... 6
Los Angeles...... 8
Alhambra ........12
Los Angeles......13
Redwood City .. 16
Redwood City.. 17
Oakland ...'.........16
Los Angeles...... 6
Ft. Jones .......... t'l
San Francisco..13
San Francisco.JS
San Francisco..12
Los Angeles......15
San Jose............17
Beckwith ·--~,...17
Redding .........'...14
Los Angeles......13
Berkeley . ..........15

194

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Firgins, Herbert-..........April 28, '32
Gains, Burton.........•........June 26, '29
Gittings, George..............Sept. 16, '29
Gorbett, Williarn.............. Nov. 4, '28
Greene, William..................Oct. 3, '26.
Hocks, Russell................:June 23, '27
Jewell, Donald................Sept. 12, '31
Kathan, Frederick E .........Jan. 2, '32
·Lidell, Ernest.................. Aug. 29, '31
Lord, Edmund..................July 27, '29
Lord, Raymond................July 27, '29
Lord, Richard ..................]uly 27, '29
Mark, J ohn........................ Aug. 6, '29
Maxwell, Allen A ...........Mar. 4, '32
Maxwell, Martin L .........Mar. 4, '32
McKinley, Douglas........ Aug. 31, '21
McKinnon, John P., Jr..Dec. 15, '24
McLean, Norman H .......Jan. 20, '32
McNamara, Edward......Apr. 23, '30
Micheletti, Alfred............Feb. 14, '32
Monroe, James..................]an. 21, '31
Monroe, Preston..............Jan. 21, '31
Morgan, John W .............Mar. 3, '31
Myers, Harvey................Aug. 23, '32
Myers, Lawrence............ Aug. 23', '32
Myers, Wilbur................Aug. 19, '32
Nelson, Nels....................Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Alva......................Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Calvin C...........Oct. 23, '30
N·orell, Richard ..............Sept. 13, '31
Ogden, Allen.................... Aug. 31, '31
Plaster, George..............Aug. 23, '32
Prewett, Norman..............Jan: 4, '28
Reynolds, lvan.............:......May 7, '28
Richards, Langton..........May 17, '30
Richardson, Joseph ........ Nov. 18, '28
Riddell, Edwin................May 29, '30
Riddell, Robert ................ May 29, '30
Rouch, Herbert A .............May 4, '26
Rouch, Melvin..................May 4, '26
Runkle, R6bert... .............June 15, '25
Runkle, Thomas.............. Nov. 14, '22
Schwartz, Adolph .......... Apr. 27, '30
Schwartz, Joseph............ Apr. 27, '30

Location Age
Lodge
No.
Monrovia ............308 Monrovia ........ 11
Meridian ..............667 Glendale ..........16
Silver Gate..........296 San Diego........17
Ontario ...·............·.301 Ontario ............13
Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ............17
............................13
Grand Lodge............
Rio Vista..............208 Rio Vista..........12
Security ..............581 Bakersfield ...... 12
Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena ..........13
Golden W est........455 San Francisco.. 12
Golden W est........455 San Francisco.. 13
Golden W est........455 San Francisco.. 7
Whittier ..............323 Whittier ..........12
Albert Pike..........484 Los Angeles...... 7
Albert Pike..........484 Los Angeles...... 9
Vacaville ............134 Vacaville .......... 15
Sequoia .........~ ......349 Oakland .......... 12
Mt. Moriah.......... 44 San Francisco.. 7
Eureka .,..........11
Humboldt ............ 79
Speranza
ltaliana ............219 San Francisco.. 10
Orland ......:...........265 Orland .............. 9
Orland ......:...........265 Orland .............. 8
Amity ..................370 San Francisco.. 10
University ..........394· Los Angeles...... 8
University .........~394 Los Angeles ......14
University .........~394 Los Angeles...... 12
Las Palmas..........366 Fresno ..............15
Montebello ..........451 Montebello ......11
Montebello ..........451 Montebello ...... 8
E. San Diego......561
San Diego........ 14
Lynwood ..............600 Lynwood .......... 11
So. Park .............. 563 Los Angeles......13
Sisson ..................310 Mt. Shasta........ 14
Live Oak ...........>,. 61 Oakland ...:......11
Mt: Davidson ......481 San Francisco.. 15
Golden State........358 Los Angeles......13
Amity ..................370 San Francisco.. 11
Amity ..................370 San Francisco.. 13
Traver ..................294 Kingsburg ...... 15
Traver ..................294 Kingsburg ......12
Lompoc .......~ ........262 Lompoc ............ 13
Lompoc ................262 Lompoc ............17
Los Angeles.......... 42 Los Angeles...... 13
Los Angeles.......... 42 [ 1······s_;)1;).Suy soi:

.

195

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Admitted
Short, Ralph...................... Aug. 4, '28
Shoupe, Billie..................Sept. 10, '27
Simon, N orman.............. Sept. 22, '26
Simon, Teddy.................. Sept. 22, '26
Taylor, Floyd..................Oct. 19, '22
Taylor, Lauryn..............Aug. 29, '21
Taylor, Vaughn..............Aug. 29, '21
Thacker,. Marvin............June 18, '32
Traxler, Arnold................]une 8, '29
Walline, Cleon..................Jan. 31, '30
Walline, Harold..............Jan. 31, '30
Watts, Jack Dean..............Feb. 7, '32
Williams, Robert............May 27, '25.
Williams, Thomas............July 12, '30

No.
Lodge
La Fayette ............126
Santa Ana............241
Ocean Park..........369
Ocean Park..........369
Woodstock ..........491
Woodstock ..........491
Woodstock ..........491
San Jacinto..........338
Oakland .............. 188
Winnedumah ......287
Winnedumah ......287
America ................475
Artesia ................37'7
Orosi ....................383

GIRLS-79
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Bailey, Anita..................Sept. 10, '25
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..........371
Bailey, Alberta ................June 22, '31 Redondo ..............328
Bailey, Haroldine ..........June 22, '31 Redondo ..............328
Benjamin, Gloria..............Mar. 9, '30 Manchester ..........585
Botts, Eunice E .................May 2, '31
Dinuba ................385
Bowser, Irma....................Sept. 9, '27 Lexington ............104
Bowser, Verna.................. Sept. 9, '27 Lexington ............104
Brown, Alberta................July 16, '24 Dunsmuir ............297
Brown, Eleanor..................Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles........ 42
Brown, Virginia................Dec. 8, '29 Los Angeles........ 42
Burgen, Marie................ Aug. 23, '32 Alhambra ............322
Clark, Dorothea..............June 15, '26 So. California......278
Clark, Frances................June 15, '26 So. California......278
Clark, Josephine.............. Apr. 23, '27 Antioch ...•............ 175
Clark, Phyletha ................June 15, '26 So. California......278
Colby, Maxine................ Nov. 28, '29 Covenant ..............527
Countryman, Barbara.... Nov. 20, '30 Occidental ............ 22
Cox, Emily......................May 16, '26 Center ..................465
Ede, Thelma....................Aug. 24, '26 Hope ....................234
Eremin, Zenith..................Oct. 16, '27 Los Angeles........ 42
Ernst, Emma.................. Sept. 14, '31 Yosemite .............. 99
Ernst, Gladys....................June 6, '31 Yosemite .............. 99
Fahringer, Helen............Feb.10, '29 Ascot ................:...538
Falkenrath, Frances M ...Jan. 21, '32 Larchmont ..........614
Firgins, Margaret..........Apr. 28, '32 Monrovia ............308

Location Age
Sebastopol .....JO
Santa Ana........16
Ocean Park......17
Ocean Park......15
Alameda ..........13
Alameda ..........16
Alameda ..........17
San J acinto......13
Oakland ..........15
Bishop .............. 8
Bishop ..............10
Los Angeles .....J 1
Artesia ............ 14
Orosi ................ 7

Location

Age

Honolulu ..........16
Redondo .......... 11
Redondo ..........14
Los Angeles..... .10
Dinuba ..............14
El Monte ........17
E l Monte ...:.... 15
Dunsmuir ........12
Los Angeles......16
Los Angeles..... .13
Alhambra ........14
Los Angeles...... 9
Los Angeles...... 11
Antioch ............15
Los Angeles......10
Los Angeles..... .11
San Francisco.. 11
F resno ..............10
Beckwith ..........15
Los Angeles......10
Merced ............14
Merced ............12
Los Angeles......14
Los Angeles...... 8
Monrovia ........12

196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Locati01J Age
Kingsburg
-····w16
Traver ······-····-··-294
Meridian -····-···-667 Glendale _........17
Pasadena _............272 Pasadena _........13
Pasadena ·······-····.'1:72 Pasadena -·······-16
Silver Gate..........296 San Diego ____
Ontario ................301 Ontario _____..;..11
Oakland ......- ........188 Oakland •......•..16
Union ······-····-····- 58 Sacramento ....16
Tujunga ..............592 Tujunga ____.;.16
Las Palmas ........366 Las Palmas...... 13
Military Service..570 San Francisco.. 9
Justice ·-··········-····549 San Francisco- 9
Justice ..................549 San Francisco.. 13
Whittier ..............323 Whittier _........14
Whittier ..............323 Whittier --·····.16
Eureka ............ 9
Humboldt ............ 79
Durant ................268 Berkeley ..........11
Durant :...............268 Berkeley ........-14
Las Palmas..........366 Fresno -···--··-14
Montebello ______..451
Montebello" ...,...... ,7
Silver Trowel......415 Los Angeles......12
Silver Trowel......415 Los Angeles ......17
Mizpah -········-····378 Los Angeles......15
Lynwood ..............600
Lynwood -··:·--· 9
Excelsior ..............166 San Francisco... 8
Excelsior ..............166 San Franeisco.. 5
Excelsior ..............166 San Francisco.. 6
So. Park................563 Los Angeles...... 5
Holtville ..............425 Holtville ......,...12
Holtville ..............425 Holtville ..........17
Ionic --··--·-····--520 Los Angeles......16
Live Oak.....·-····- 61 Oakland ..........13
Traver ···-·-····--·.294 Kingsburg ......12
Lompoc ................262 Lompoc ............15
Hermann ··-········127 San Francisco..14
King David's........209 San Luis
Obispo - ........15
Short, Beth Marie........_..Aug. 4, '28 La Fayette......_....126 Sebastopol ......11
Short, Dorothy Mae........Aug. 4, '28 La Fayette............126 Sebastopol _....12
Ascot ....................538 Los Angeles......16
Small, Marie....................Aug. 12, '28
Tripp, Geraldine................N ov. 8, '27
San Jose ··········-- 10 San Jose_......-12 ..
Palo Alto ··-········346 Palo Alto ~ ......10
Tyler, Barl;lara..•...............:.Jan. 9, '26
Tyler, Dorothy..................-Jan. 9, '26 Palo Alto ---~.......346 Palo Alto •.•..-14
Wall, Eleanor Gene-........Apr. 5, '32
Monrovia -····-····308 Monrovia ........ 8

Admitted
Name
Fowler, Alice-······-·······-June28, '27
Gains, Marjorie.:..._..........Oct.14, '29
Germond, Dolly..............Nov. 24, '24
Germond, Ramona.......... Nov. 24, '24
Gittings, Helen................Sept. 16, '29·
Gorbett, Ruth............- ......Nov. 4, '28
Harris, Annabet..............June 24, '23
Hartman, Betty Jane......Mar. 6, '26
Hedrick, Bernice......- ......]an. 22, '29
Hildebrand, Marjorie D ...July 4, '32
Horr, Margaret............•. _Jan. 27, '30
Jordan, Dorothy_............May 28, '27
Jordan, Mildred..............May 28, '27
Mark, Elizabeth_..........- .. Aug. 6, '29
Mark, Martha.................. Aug. 6, '29
McNamara, Anna..........Apr. 23, '30
Milter, Anna Mae..........Apr. 29, '28
Miller, Ruth_ ....................Apr. 29, '28
Nelson, Lillian..,.........- .. Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Ina ~fay......-•.....Oct. 23, '30
O'Connell, Alice..........__ Nov. 18, '23
O'Connell, Paulipe......:... Nov. 18, '23
Odell, Betty.....·-······-···-Mar. 13, '22
Ogden, Ruth...,.... _.......... Aug. 31, '31
P!irbery, Alice................Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Catherine........Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, P~ytlis..............Mar. 26, '31
Plaster, Elizabeth..........Aug. 23, '32
Prim, Maxine...,..............Nov. 15, '28
Prim, Virginia..,.............Nov. 15, '28
Reed, Lila_,.~ ......;........- ......Dec. 2, '28
Reynolds, Juiiette..............May 7, '28
Rouch, Doris.....,............-Sept. 11, '31
Runkle, Je~____;_..........-Nov.13, '22
Schulte, Helen.~····-····-····Apr. 2, '25
Shaw, i..orraine................]an. 13, '23

Lodge

No.

ts

Name
Admitted
W~itine, Lois........-----····Jan. 31, '30
Warren, Ruth---·····-·····..Sept. 28, '26
White, Madorie..............Jan. 18, '31
Willgeroth, Eleanora......May 25, '28
Willgeroth, Wilhelmina.May 25, '28
Williams, Dorothy-........July 12, '30
Williams, lrene................Aug. 28,'27
Williams, Lucile.........._Sept. 10, '31
Williams, Patricia..........Aug. 28, '27
Zbinden, Shirley.............. _Sept. 4, '31

Lodge
No.
Winnedumah ......287
Alhambra ............322
Fairmount --......435
Hawaiian ........-.:.~21
Hawaiian ..............21
Orosi ..............:.....383
Downey ................220
Orosi .:..................383
Downey .............. 220
Artesia ................377

197
Location Age
Bishop _ ......... 14
Bishop - ...:.:.......14
San Franeisco.. 10
Honolulu, T. H. 9
Honolulu, T. H. 9
Orosi ................12
Downey ............15
Orosi -···-····-··16
Downey ............12
Artesia ............10

Outside Relief by Trustees
Monthly
Name
Lodge
Allowance
Follette (three children) ....Bear Mountain No. 76......$20.00
Clyde Owen ........................ Vacaville No. 134..:........... 40.00
Wear (two children)
Excelsior No. 166......._.~.. 40.00
Cornett (two children) ...... Santa Ana No. 241............ 40.00
John A. Day.................- ... Lompoc No. 262.................. 15.00
Clifford A. Stewart............ Elsinore No. 289................ 20.00
Gorbett (three children) .. Ontario No. 301...... _.......... 15.00
Wisler (two children)_.... Porterville No. 303............ 30.00
Bone (four children) ........ San Pedro No. 332............ 65.00
Bayer (four children) ...... Palestine No. 3SL............. 30.00
Greider (two children) .... Palestine No. 351....,........... 40.00
DeNike (two children) ...... Presidio No. 354................ 25.00
Smith (two children) ........ Ocean Park No. 369.......... 30.00
Herbert (two children) .... Artesia No. 377.................. 10.00
Curtis M. Langford............ Fraternity No. 399............ 20.00
Pearl 0. Vincent................ Yerba Buena No. 403........ 10.00
Shay {three childten) ........ Upland No. 419...... __........ 40.00
Phillips (four children) .... Mount Oso No. 460......- .... 60~00
Abraham Ottenberg.......... Lincoln No. 470................ _ 20.00
Hitch (two children) ........ Point No. 503...................... 40.00
Maas (three children) ...... Cupertino No. 510.............. 60.00
Reese (two children) ........ Sunnyside No. 577.............. 30.00
Todd (two children) ......- .. Palisades No. 637.............. 30.00
William Chandler_.........._.Afpha No. 431............- ........ 20.00
Mary Lota Bibby................ Ocean Park No. 369.......... 30.00
Jean L. Martin.................... Mt. Jackson No. 295.......... 25.00
Raymond Sherrer................ Veteran No. 373.................. 30.00
Havlin (~wo children) ...... Lc Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371 ............................ 60.00
Jan. 28, 1927 Carlisle (two children) .. _Schofield No. 443.............. 40.00
Feb. 17, 1930 Hazel D. Wagner.........._.. St. Helena No. 93..." ......... 15.00
Date began
July 28, 1932
Mar.
1926
Aug. 28, 1928
June 28, 1931
June 28, 1932
Nov. 28, 1930
June 28, 1932
Mar. 3, 1930
Nov. 28, 1930
July 28, 1932
Feb. 7, 1931
Mar.28, 1930
Aug. 28, 1930
June 28, 1932
Mar.10, 1932
May 5, 1927
Sept. 18, 1931
June 28, 1929
Apr. 28, 1928
Sept. 28, 1928
Mar. 31, 1932
Dec. 31, 1931
Oct. 9, 1930
Feb. 4, 1926
Aug. 28, 1931
Feb.
1927
Feb. 28, 1927
Nov. 13, 1925

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Monthly
Date began
Name
L.odge
Allowance
Jan. 29, 1931 · Robert C. Lavender............ Orosi No. 383...................... 25.o<i
Feb. 7, 1931 Jerome E. Zahn.................. San Francisco No. 360...... 20.0Q,
Oct. 28, 1931 Johnson (two children) .... Point Firmin No. 558........ 30.00 ..
Feb. 13, 1931 Audrey T. Llewellyn.......... Reading No. 254................ 30.00
Sept. 28, 1932 Geraldine Tripp..:............... San Jose No. 10.............,.... 20.00
Admitted .During the Year
BOYS-24
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Location
Blair, Arthur.................. Sept. 13, '31 Maui ........,.....472 Kahului, T. H.
Blair, James.....................Sept. 13, '31 Maui ..............472 Kahului, T. H.
Blair, Theodoce...,.......... Sept. 13, '31 Maui ..............472 Kahului, T. H.
Bounds, Edward............Sept. 14, '31 Fullerton ........339 . Fullerton
Bounds, Wallace............ Sept. 14, '31 Fullerton ........339
Fullerton
Burgen, Fred.................. Aug. 23, '32 Alhambra ......322 Alhambra
Clark, Harry Seaman.... May 29, '32 So. Calif.........278 Los Angeles
Cooksey, John.................. Aug. 27, '32 North Star.... 91
Fort Jones
Falkenrath, John ..............Jan. 21, '32 Larchmont ....614 Los Angeles
Firgins, Herbert..............Apr. 28, '32 Monrovia ......308 Monrovia
Jewell, Donal<l................ Sept. 12, '31 Rio Vista........208 Rio Vista
Kathan, Frederick............Jan. 2, '32 Security ,..,......561 Bakersfield
McLean, Norman............Jan. 20, '32 Mt. Moriah.... 44 San Francisco
Maxwell, Allan..................Mar. 4, '32 Albert Pike....484 Los Angeles
Maxwell, Martin.............. Mar. 4, '32 Albert Pike....484 Los Angeles
Micheletti, Alfred ............Feb. 14, '32 Speranza
I taliana ......219 San Francisco
Myers, Lawrence............Aug. 23, '32 University ......394 Los Angeles
Myers, Harvey................ Aug. 23, '32 University ......394 Los Angeles
Myers, Wilbur................ Aug. 19, '32 University ......394 Los Angeles
Nore!!, Richard ..............Sept. 13, '31
E. San Diego..561 E. San Diego
Ogden, Allen....................Aug. 31, '31 Lynwood ........600 Lynwood
Plaster, George.............. Aug. 23, '32 South Park....563 Los Angeles
Thacker, Marvin............]une 18, '32 San Jacinto....338 San Jacinto
Watts, Jaclc........................Feb. 7, '32 America ........475 Los Angeles
GIRLS-14
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Burgen, Marie................Aug. 23, '32 Alhambra ......339
Ernst, Emma..................Sept. 14, '31 Yosemite ........ 99
Falkenrath, Frances........Jan. 21, '32 Larchmont ....614
Firgins, Margaret..........Apr. 28, '32 Monrovia ......308
Hildebrand, Marjorie......July 4, '32 Las Palmas....366

Location
Alhambra
Merced
Los Angeles
Monrovia
Merced

Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Ogden, Ruth....................,Aug. 31, '31 Lynwood ........600
Plaster, Elizabeth..........Aug. 23, '32 So. Park..........563
Osborne, Betty Jo..............Feb. 5, '32 Montebello ....451
Rouch, Doris.................. Sept. 11, '31 Traver ............294
Wall, Eleanor.................... Apr. 5, '32 Monrovia ......308
Williams, Lucile............Sept. 10, '31 Orosi ..............383
Willgeroth, Eleanora....Feb. 25, '32 Hawaiian ...... 21
Willgeroth, Wilhelmina.. Feb. 25, '32 Hawaiian ...... 21
Zbinden, Shirley..............Sept. 4, '31
Artesia ..........377

199
Location
Lynwood
Los Angeles
Montebello
Kingsburg
Monrovia
Orosi
Honolulu
Honolulu
Artesia

Departed During the Year
BOYS-13
Name
Admitted
Departed
Bailey, J ames..................Sept. 10, '25
Returned to mother....:...June 18, '32
Clemo, Raymond............ Apr. 30, '28
Returned to mother........June 18, '32
Day, Jack..,....................... Apr. 10, '24
Returned to mother........June 18, '32
Harris, Charles..............June 24, '23
Returned to Lodge..........Feb. 26, '32
Herbert, Fred..................May 12, '29
Returned to mother........ Aug. 26, '32
Lavender, Earl..................Mar. 4, '28
Returned to mother........June 18, '32
Liddell, Sam.................... Aug. 29, '31
Placed in foster home ...... Sept. 9, '31
Lord, Robert....................July 27, '29
Placed in sanatorium...... May 15, '32
McKinley, Philip............Aug. 31, '21
Returned to sister............ Mar. 3, '32
Schulte, Car1......................Apr. 2, '25
Returned to mother........June 18, '32
Schultz, Frank................May 11, '28
Placed in sanatorium...... May 15, '32
Shields, John......................Jan. 2, '28
Returned to Lodge..........J une 18, '32
Swartz, Lowell..................June 8, '30
Returned to mother........June 18, '32
GIRLS-8
Name
Admitted
Departed
Cox, Mary........................June 13, '25 Returned to mother........June 18, '32
Craig, Bonita....................June 22, '31 Returned to mother.......... Sept. 3, '31
Eremin, Hatriet..............Oct. 16, '27 Returned to mother........June 18, '32
Herbert, Josephine..........May 12, '29 Returned to mother........June 20, '32
O'Connell, Florence........Oct. 18, '23 Returned to mother........June 18, '32
Osborne, Betty Jo...........~Feb. 5, '32 Returned to father ............July 5, '32
Schierenbeck, Ruth ..........July 7, '26 Returned to aunt..............July 19, '32
White, Yvonne................ Apr. 27, '24 Returned to mother........June 18, '32

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
At 4 :35 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10
o'clock Wednesday morning.

200

201

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1Jn "ranb ilobgr
MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 12, 1932.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of Tuesday's sessions were read and approved.
The Grand Secretary was directed to telegraph to Past
Grand Masters Thomas Flint and George M. Perine the
greetings of their brethren in Grand Lodge.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.' . w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts has the honor to report that in conformity with the regulations of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, we
have audited all bills which have been paid by Grand Lodge.
Your Committee has carefully observed the system of filing and
auditing all accounts of all current bills of the Grand Lodge and we feel
it opportune at this time to commend the Grand Secretary's office for the
efficient manner in which all accounts have been handled.
Respectfully submitted,
• -r
Lours SUTTER,
E. E. CONN,
PAUL NATHAN,

OTTO FREYERMUTH .

v. E. PERRY,

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M.' . w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns herewith submits its annual report:
The business depression is still with us--only worse. So much so
that our fraternity has had to fall in line with the rest of the community

and report a falling off in membership. There is no need to raise a wail
of woe over the circumstance. We believe the loss is entirely due to the
distressful times, and not to anything wrong with Masonry.
The membership, as of July 31, 1932, is 140,636, which is a loss for
the year of 1,786. This is the first time a decrease of membership has
been shown.
Again there has been a falling off in the number of candidates raised.
This year 3,230 attained the third degree, compared with 4,465 in the
previous year.
Members holding dual membership increased 12 during the year, and
now number 22.
The number of deaths during the year is 1901, an increase of 134.
It is in trying times like these the test comes, and there is a survival
of the fittest. Three thousand one hundred and seventy-three have been
suspended for non-payment of dues, an increase of 571 over last year. And
4,941 members have had their dues remitted, compared with 2,959 for the
previous year. Some Lodges have suspended ten per cent of their membership for non-payment of dues, and remitted the dues of very few; and
some have suspended none, and remitted the dues of more ·t han ten per
cent of their membership. We believe each Lodge is the best judge of its
own affairs, but there must be a great difference in the membership of
Lodges.
Herewith follows the names of, the Lodges making annual returns and the
amount due by each :
Name of
Lodge

Number

California ................................ 1
Western Star .................. 2
Tehama
3
Benicia •••• ••onoou•••••••--•••••• • • 5
Tuolumne ............................... 8
Corinthian ........... . .................. 9
San Jose ....... ....................... 10
Yount ......... .................._.... _ 12
Nevada .............................. 13
Temple ................................. 14
Eureka ......................,....... 16
La Padaite Union.......... 17
Mt. Shade .....~ .................. 18
San Joaquin ........... .............. 19
Washington ...................... 20
Hawaiian .......................... 21
Occidental ......................... 22
Madison ............................ 23
......... . .. . . .. . .. . ... . u

. . . .. .

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$511.90
59.00
337.20
108.80
163.50
238.00
341.00
194.40
108.60
90.20
149.90
130.60
18.90
483.20
382.60
270.40

666.70
118.30

$353.50
40.00
223.00
77.00
107.50
165.00
235.00
131.00
69.00
58.00
103.50
89.00
13.50
313.00
264.00
186.00
440.50
79.50

$353.50
40.00
223.00

77.00
107.50
165.00
235.00
131.00
69.00
58.00
103.50
89.00
13.50
313.00
264.00
186.00
440.50
79.50

$25.00

Home Tax

Total

$175.00 $1393.90
25.00
164.00
150.00
933.20
287.80
25.00
453.50
75.00
75.00
643.00
125.00
936.00
125.00
581.40
75.00
321.60
256.20
50.00
25.00
381.90
50.00
358.60
.............; ...
45.90
350.00
1,459.20
75.00
985.60
100.00
742.40
450.00
1,997.70
25.00
302.30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

202
Name of
Lodge

Number

Mariposa ·························· 24
Georgetown ...................... 2S
El Dorado ...:.................... 26
Trinity ······························ 27
Golden Gate .................... 30
Gold Hill .......................... 32
Ophir ································ 33
San Diego ........................ 3S
Howard .,..,....................... _ 37
Santa Cruz ...................... 38
Sacramento ··············-······ 40
Martinez .......................... 41
Los Angeles .................... 42
Hiram .............................. 43
Mt. Moriah ...................... 44
Crescent ............................ 4S
Texas ................................ 46
Forbestown ...................... so
Illinoistown ...................... Sl
Suisun ····························- SS
Volcano
56
Santa Rosa ...................... S7
Union .............................._ S8
Gravel Range .................. S9
Plumas .............................. 60
Live Oak .......................... 61
Natoma ···························· 64
· Amador .:.......................... 6S
Forest ······························ 66
Morning Star .................. 68
Enterprise --········--······.. ···· 70
Bear Mt. .......................... 76
Calaveras ......................•. 78
Humboldt ........................ 79
Ione .................................. 80
Yolo .......:......,................... 81
Vesper .............................. 84
Naval ································ 87
Roses Bar ........................ 89
North Star ...................... 91
· St. Helena ........................ 93
·· Henry Clay ·..:............:........ 9S
Hornitos ····-··-·····'·'·-·''- 98
00 0 0 - • 0 00 0 0000••• • 000 0H00

Home
General
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

120.20
68.00
38.SO
22.SO
139.SO
92.SO
6S.SO
42.SO
S84.10
391.50
83.SO
S2.SO
32.90
23.SO
Sl3.40
336.00
167.40
106.00
2Sl.10
156.SO
426.60
284.00
166.SO
102.SO
S83.70 . 400.SO
34.SO
22.SO
391.20
268.00
102.20
68.00
23.00
44.20
27.00
37.80
S8.20
38.00
118.SO
77.SO
18.90
13.SO
210.00
327.00
277.SO
407.SO
24.70
ls.so
49.00
91.60
693.70
480.SO
94.60
S9.00
S9.30
39.SO
26.00
44.40
226.00
33S.40
171.30
109.SO
41.00
62.40
47.00
-OS.80
293.SO
207.SO
37.SO
S6.SO
34.00
S0.60
134.40
86.00
440.10
296:SO
30.70
20.SO
28.00
20.00
74.40 ' Sl.00
24.SO
48.30
49.70
3S.SO

203

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

68.00
22.SO
92.SO
42.SO
391.50
S2.SO
23.SO
336.00
106.00
1S6.SO
284.00
102.SO
400.SO
22.SO
268.00
68.00
23.00
27.00
38.00
77.SO
13.SO
210.00
277.SO
lS.SO
49.00
480.SO
S9.00
39.SO
26.00
226.00
109.SO
41.00
47.00
207.SO
37.SO
34.00
86.00
296.SO
20.SO
20.00
Sl.00
24.SO
3S.SO

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

4S6.20
200..00
133.SO
S0.00
374.SO
S0.00
17S.SO
2S.OO
1,642.10
27S.OO
238.SO
S0.00
79.90
1,610.40
42S.OO
S29.40
lS0.00
889.10
32S.OO
200.00 1,194.60
S46.SO
17S.OO
1,634.70
250.00
104.SO
2S.OO
1,027.20
100.00
S0.00
288.20
100.00
190.20
116.80
2S.OO
184.20
S0.00
348.SO
7S.OO
4S.90
1,047.00
300.00
7S;()() 1,037.SO
80.70
2S.OO
lS0.00
339.60
1,804.70
lS0.00
100.00
312.60
2S.OO
163.30
171.40
7S.OO
. 962.40
17S.OO
17S.OO .
56S.30
2S.OO
lt>9:40
1S9.80
2S.OO
733.SO
2S.OO
1S6.SO
. 143.60
2S.OO
12S.OO
431.40
200.00
1,233.10
71.70
68.00
. 201.40
2S.OO
100.00
197.30
............
120.70

Name of
Lodge

Number

Yosemite ·························· 99
Clay ········-'···········-············101
Oroville .............................103
Lexington ........................104
Arcata ..............................106
·Pajaro ....:......................... 110
·Chico ··········-················'··:111
·Summit ..:................._.:.•..112
Eden ····-··········-············:...113
Concord ...:-..................•. -117
Clinton ....:.:...- .................;119
Fidelity ............................120
Alamo ••••!.:•••••••••••••••••:•••••• 122
Sotoyome ..................:.......123
Table Mt. ........................124
LaFayette ........................126
Hermann ......••..................127
Visalia ............................-128
Nicolaus ·······················-···129
·Woodbridge -················-131
Sincerity '···-················---132
Vacaville .......................... 134
Valley ······-·-····..····---13S
Pacific .....:...:.......... _______ JJ6
Crockett ............................139
Curtis ·············-·················140
Grafton ....................:....... 141
Franklin ............................143
Oriental ...•......................•. 144
Vitruvius ·----····················14S
Abell ····-··········--·············-146
Eel River ..........................147
Lassen ····--·-·-·········:........149
Molino ···························--ISO
Woodland --~---··················1S6
Keystone ..........................161
·Harmony ····-············:.....:..164
Excelsior ..................':.......166
Alameda ..........................167
Redwood City ................ 168
Mission ..:....................... :.....169
Elk Grove ................;...•..•173
Drytown ····-·--······-······174

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance B uilding

16S.30
42.20
202.SO
124.30
161.20
186.20
269.10
2S.90
167.30
206.10
29.40
488.90
lOS.10
138.SO
6S.30
13S.10
192.70
237.60
62.30
81.70
78.60
117.30
49.60
SS3.90
S86.60
S8.70
39.90
73.70
360.30
61.80
129.60
134.20
139.40
.92.90
184.SO
24.10
10.80
413.60
110.30
220.90
S88.10
I
84.70
18.90

.

109.SO
28.00
137.SO
84.SO
108.00
123.00
181.50
18.SO
109.SO
131.50
21.00
333.SO
66.SO
92.SO
44.SO
91.SO
130.SO
1S4.00
44.SO
SS.SO
S4.00
79.SO
34.00
378.SO
379.00
3S.SO
28.SO
so.so
239.SO
42.00
84.00
88.00
96.00 .
63.SO
117.SO
16.SO
7.00
284.00
74.SO
143.SO
406.SO
SS.SO
13.SO

$25.00
H ome Tax

109.SO
12S.OO
2S.OO
28.00
137.SO
100.00
84.SO
S0.00
108.00
100.00
123.00
100.00
181.50
12S.OO
18.SO
109.SO
lS0.00
131.50
200.00
21.00
.........-...
333.SO
17S.OO
66.SO
12S.OO
92.SO
7S.OO
44.SO
2S.00
91.50
100.00
130.SO
100.00
1S4.00
17S.OO
44.SO
SS.SO
S0.00
S4.00
79.SO
S0.00
34.00
S0.00
200.00
378.SO
379.00
42S.OO
3S.SO
7S.OO
28.SO
so.so
2S.OO
239.SO
2SO.OO
42.00
2S.OO
84.00
100.00
88.00
S0.00
96.00
S0.00
63.SO
2S.OO
117.SO
lS0.00
16.SO
2S.OO
7.00
284.00
lS0.00
74.SO
S0.00
143.SO
lS0.00
406.SO
200.00
SS.SO
S0.00
13.SG .

Total

S09.30
123.20
S77.SO
343.30
. 477.20
S32.20
7S7.10
62.90
S36.30
669.10
71.40
1,330.90
363.10
398.SO
179.30
418.10
SS3.70
720.60
lSl.30
242.70
186.60
326.30
167.60
l,Sl0.90
1,769.60
204.70
96.90
199.70
1,089.30
170.80
397.60
36020
381.40
244.90
S69.SO
82.10
24.80
1,131.60
309.30
6S7.90
1,601.10
24S.70
4S~90

204
Name of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OJ.I' THE

Number

Antioch · · - -········-'.:.-175
·Phoenix ···--······-· -178
Mendocino · -·--·--··-··-'-··179
Petaluma l-·····-·-··----180
Russian River --··········---181
Arbuckle ····-··············----182
Clear Lake ····-··········----183
Sierra Valley ··············---184
Claiborne :...·-···-········-:... 185
Evening Star ····-···········-186
Keith --··--··-···-····---187
Oakland ········-·-·····-········188
Northern Light ········-····190
Marin ···-····-·-·--····----191
Santa Barbara ................192
Ferndale (deduct) ..........193
Mt. View____
····-···-···············194
_..__________195
Buckeye
San Simeon ········-··.;,-..-196
•Wilmington ··············-·-198
Hartley ·-··········-····'---199
Truckee ·-·-············-··-··2DO
Silveyville ················-···.201
Pentalpha ·-·~---····-'-;..202
Confidence --·······-~·-···.203
Salinas ········-·······-····-···.204
Olivet ---.············-····--..205
·Stanislaus ····-··········-······206
Anaheim ····-··········-··-···.207
Rio Vista ..........................208
King David's •..•.•.•..:••••...209
Friendship ·-···········,..........210
San Benito ••.•..........:•.-...211
l So. San Francisco..........212
, San Buenaventura ...•....214
Oak Grove ····-·······-'-··--215
. Doric ................................216
Monterey -·-··········---217
, Mosaic ···-·-·········----218
Speranza Italiana ..........219
Downey ..:.................- ...-220
·. Inyo ····----·-·-····-·---..221
Roseville -··-···········-··-...222

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

111.50
35420
114.30
230.10
7S.i'O
62.90
38.00
30.30
43.60
31.SO
135.70
6S2.70
62.50
342.60
207.70
118.60
148.80
85.20
97.70
241.20
130.10
97.00
95.80
497.30
21.70
213.40
72.00
247.80
237.80
66.90
235.40
41S.60
114.30
207.40
201.30
430.00
4S5.00
110.20
98.40
287.40
160.10
56.20
208.10

77.50
233.00
79.50
1S6.50

so.so

.

43.50
2S.OO
19.50
29.00
22.SO
85.50
4S5.50
37.50
229.00
140.50
79.00
102.00
53.00
45.50
158.00
86.50
60.00
67.00
334.50
15.SO
136.00
S0.00
162.00
1S7.00
43.SO
146.00
269.00
69.50
141.00
139.50
290.00
295.00
78.00
66.00
196.00
106.SO
38.00
131.50

77.50
233.00
79.SO
156.50
50.SO
43.SO
2S.OO
19.50
29.00
22.SO
85.50
4SS.SO
37.50
229.00
140.SO
79.00
102.00
53.00
4S.SO
158.00
86.50
60.00
67.00
334.50
15.50
136.00
50.00
162.00
1S7.00
43.50
146.00
269.00
69.50
141.00
139.50
290.00
295.00
78.00
66.00
196.00
106.SO
38.00
131.50

205

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00
Home Tax

25.00
2S0.00
50.00
. 75.00
7S.OO
25.00
2S.OO
25.00
25.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
150.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
75.00
250.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
2SO.OO
175.00
25.00
150.00
lS0.00
50.00
375.00
32S.OO
150.00
7S.OO
75.00
175.00
37S.OO
50.00
50.00
50.00
75.00
25.00
200.00

Name of
Lodge

Total

291.50
1,070.20
323.30
618.10
2Sl.70
174.90
113.00
94.30
126.60
76.50
406.70
1,663.70
237.SO
950.60
588.70
351.60
402.80
266.20
438.70
65720
378.10
292.00
229.80
1,416.30
52.70
660.40
197.00
721.80
701.80
203.90
902.40
1,278.60
.403.30
564.40
55S.30
1,18S.OO
1,420.00
316.20
280.40
729.40
448.10
1S7.20
671.10

..

Number

Bakersfield ····-················224
Brooklyn -···-····--········...225
San Mateo ·-·····--··········226
Athens ····--········--········..228
Solano ··-·········--···········.229
North Butte ····--···········.230
Covelo ··········--··-··-,······.231
Janesville ····-·················...232
Calistoga ···-·····-············..23.1
Hope ·-·-·········---~··········-Zl'
Surprise Valley ..............235
Hill's Ferry ····-·············.236
Guadalupe ····-····-······-··..237
Colusa ····-······················..240
Santa Ana -····-·············.241
Magnolia ••••••••••••••-Y••••••..242
Eucalyptus ······-··········--·.24.1
Alcatraz ······-·················..244
Laurel ··--·:..·-····- ··-··-···.245
Pomona --··-··-········-···.246
Fresno ...........:-····-········..247
Alturas ·--·-······-··-······-····248
Adin ····-······················-···.250
Landmark ····-················..253
Reading ··············-~---·······-254
Welcome ····-··················..255
Lodi ····-··········-····-······-..256
Penrhyn ............................258
Evergreen ....:....,..............259
King Solomon's ..............260
Tuscan ·············-·····-······..211S1
Lompoc ............................262
Hesperian ··'····················.264
Orland --··-··-········'·-····..265
North East ......................266
Galt --·-·-·-··········-··········.:JI/I
Durant ..............................268
Olive Branch ········-······-269
Snow Mountain ········-····271
Pasadena
Anchor ··--···--····-·······_273
Arroyo ····-····-····-···········.214
Oakdale -········-····-····-··..ZlS

-.......................m

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

355.70
466.10
222.20
87.00
308.90
75.80
47.20
51.90
66.10
60.50
59.00
72.60
67.70
126.40
376.20
189.20
164.70
409.70
140.90
273.40
411.30
101.10
44.40
64.40
lSl.SO
93.40
196.00
80.00
401.50
S57.60
71.50
116.70
187.20
80.70
42.00
S4.70
484.90
167.90
23.80
453.90
258.90
61.70
85.40

235.SO
316.50
143.00
60.00
218.SO
52.00
23.00
33.SO
46.50
37.SO
35.00
44.00
30.SO
81.00
2S3.00
123.00
lOS.SO
280.50
88.SO
176.00
274.50
61.SO
31.00
46.00
97.50
61.00
135.00
55.00
2S7.SO
389.00
42.SO
7S.50
123.00
55.SO
25.00
35.SO
333.50
98.50
17.00
313.50
163.SO
40.50
56.00

$25.00
Home Tax

23S.50
22S.OO
200.00
316.SO
143.00
12S.OO
S0.00
60.00
2S.OO
218.SO
52.00
2S.OO
23.00
12S.OO
33.50
2S.OO
25.00
46.50
7S.OO
37.SO
50.00
35.00
44.00
7S.OO
22S.OO
30.50
100.00
81.00
22S.OO
2S3.00
123.00
125.00
lOS.SO
12S.OO
280.50
17S.OO
12S.OO
88.SO
176.00
27S.OO
274.50
250.00
61.SO
100.00
31.00
25.00
46.00
97.50
12S.OO
61.00
125.00
13S.OO
2S.OO
55.00
25.00
2S7.SO
400.00
389.00
12S.OO
42.50
100.00
7S.50
7S.OO
123.00
100.00
55.50
25.00
25.00 . 100.00
35.50
100.00
333.50
17S.OO
98.50
225.00
17.00 ................ .... .
313.50
200.00
163.50
175.00
40.50
. 7S.OO
56.00 .
75.00 .

Total

1 051.70
1,299.10
633.20
257.00
770.90
204.80
218.20
143.90
184.10
210.SO
179.00
23S.60
353.70
388.40
1,107.20
560.20
S00.70
1,145.70
442.90
900.40
1,210.30
324.10
131.40
1S6.40
471.SO
340.40
491.00
215.00
1,316.SO
1,460.60
. 256.SO
342.70
533.20
216.70
192.00
22S.70
1,326.90
589.90
S7.80
1,280.90
760.90
217.70
272.40

206
Name of
Lodge

Number

Home
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

92.50

.100.00
300.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
150.00
75.00
25.00
125.00
225.00
200.00
50.00

134.50
Selma •.......•:••.•••. _.......•--1,11"
461.70
So. California .............•....218
108.90
Hanford ····-·················'-.2'9
141.90
Madera ····-···-···············...lft)
56.80
Mt. Shasta -···················.281
42.40
Calla}'omi -······-··············282
113.50
South West ......................283
52.70
San Miguel ···-·················225
87.80
Paso Robles ····-·············.286
112.90
Winnedumah ..............~.21!.7
65.00
Maxwell ·····················-···288
59.50
Elsinore ·······-'···-·············.189
616.40
East Gate ..........................290
235.10
Santa Paula ....................291
172.10
Los Gatos ........................292
154.50
Orange Grove ..............•.293
84.60
Traver ........•.................•...294
108.80
Mt. Jackson ....................295
451.40
Silver Gate ······--···········.296
179.90
Dunsmuir
18020
Liberty ················-············m
305.50
Redlands .............•..........-30'>
167.50
Ontario .............................301
90.20
Santa Lucia ··············-····302
220.40
Porterville ······-·······-····....30ll
100.70
Reedley ·······-··-··•········-.304
129.60
Azusa ··········-·-················.J0.5
133.90
Ashlar ··········~--·········--306
242.80
Santa Monica ................-307
184.70
Monrovia .........._.;..........-308
135.00
Delano ................._•...•••.••.309
62.50
Sisson ····-························310
112.80
Los Banos ··········-····-~·-···312
130.00
Tehachapi ·······--····-······313
112.90
Temescal ··········--·········-314
100.80
Norwalk ····-··..-'-··········..316
120.60
Sanger ··········-··---··········3l6
53.10
Fallbrook ··········-·········..317
61.50
Emmanuel ··········-····-····-318
Hollenbeck ··········-··········319 1,039.60
553.50
South Gate ····-················320
90.20
Alisa! ····-····-----············321
331.20
Alhambra ···----··········..322

.......................:m

. 92.50
310.50
73.50
93.50
32.00
26.00
77.50
35.50
57.00
' 68.50
40.00
42.50
431.00
156.50
106.50
107.50
59.00
67.00
296.oo ·
113.50
118.00
192.50
107.50
58.00
146.00
70.50
84.00
88.50
162.00
130.50
90.00
32.50
62.00
85.00
78.50
62.00
79.00
31.50
37.50
719.00
377.50
58.00
218.00

:no.so
73.50
93.50
32.00
26.00
77.50
35.50
57.00
68.50
40.00
42.50
431.00
156.50
106.50
107.50
59.00
67.00
296.00
113.50
118.00
192.50
107.50
58.00
146.00
70.50
84.00
88.50
162.00
130.50
90.00
32.50
62.00
85.00
78.50
62.00
79.00
31.50
37.50
719.00
377.50
58.00
218.00

207

dRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

125.00
375.00
225.00
125.00
250.00
150.00
50.00
100.00
50.00
125.00
125.00
225.00
25.00
100.00
150.00
200.00
50.00
25.00
100.00
125.00
75.00
75.00
275.00
250.00
75.00
275.00

.' Total

419.50
1,382.70
305.90
378.90
170.80
144.40
318.50
173.70
251.80
399.90
220.00
169.50
1,603.40
773.10
585.10
419.50
202.60
367.80
1,418.40
631.90
541.20
940.50
532.50
256.20
612.40
291.70
422.60
435.90
791.80
470.70
415.00
277.50
436.80
350.00
294.90
324.80
403.60
191.10
211.50
2,752.60
1,558.50
281.20
1,042.20

Name of
Lodge

Number

Whittier .........................:323
Corona ........:......! ...............124
Consuelo .......................:..325
Needles .....~ ...................,.:326
Long Beach ...•................327
Redondo :...........:...............328
Vallee De France............329
Kilauea .........•..:.................330
Pacific Grove ..................331
San Pec!ro .....•..................332
Alta .~..................................333
Covina ........•....•..,...,.........334
West Gate ··········-··········335
Fruitvale ..........::..............336
Carquinez .:................... ~ ...337
San Jacinto .....:................338
Fullerton ....•.•....•..............339
Oxnard ..........................:...341 .
San Fernando .~................343
Starr King ......................344
Brentwood ....•....••.............346
Palo Alto ....•.....•.............346
McKinley ····-··················347
San Bernardino ..........:...348
Sequoia ········'···················349
Palestine ....~......•..............351
Sunset ····-························352
Pinole ····-··········-··············35l
Presidio ............:...•...........354
Hollywood ....,...................355
Mill Valley ......................356
Buena Park ....................357
Golden State ....................358
Loyalton ..........: .................359
San Francisco ................360
Fort Bragg ......................361
Charity ............................362
Berkeley ············:·-············36.)
Willits ................ ~ ............36S
Las Palmas ················-····366
South Pasadena •...........367
Unity ····-··························368
Ocean Park .,..................•.369

H ome
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Building

374.90
449.20
111.90
173.60
489.30
189.80
112.90
164.60
117.50
425.60
40.50
169.90
591.50
571.90
113.50
74.30
327.50
169.10
185.00
465.80
72.10
370.10
237.70
346.00
689.00
477.60
373.30
99.80
462.40
869.70
253.30
97.60
653.90
51.40
295.30
75.50
86.50
424.70
103.30
487.10
390.10
354.00
291.30

248.50
303.00
78.50
109.00
339.50
127.00
73.50
109.00
77.50
274.00
22.50
118.50
392.50
378.50
77.50
49.50
222.50
116.50
115.00
312.00
51.50
241.50
155.50
220.00
480.00
324.00
249.50
67.00
306.00
580.50
174.50
69.00
438.50
36.00
204.50
52.50
57.50
290.50
69.50
326.50
256.50
225.00
189.50

248.50
303.00
78.50
109.00
339.50
127.00
73.50
109.00
77.50
274.00
22.50
118.50
392.50
378.50
77.50
49.50
222.50
116.50
115.00
312.00
51.50
241.50
155.50
220.00
480.00
324.00
249.50
67.00
306.00
580.50
174.50
69.00
438.50
36.00
204.50
52.50
57.50
290.50
69.50
326.50
256.50
225.00
189.50

$25 .00
Home Tax

175.00
150.00
200.00
200.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
125.00
375.00
25.00
25.00
375.00
400.00
50.00
75.00
125.00
75.00
225.00
125.00
300.00
100.00
275.00
150.00
175.00
225.00
50.00
275.00
575.00
50.00
25.00
400.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
50.00
250.00
325.00
275.00
200.00

Total

1,046.90
1,205.20
268.90
591.60
1,368.30
543.80
359.90
482.60
397.50
1,348.60
110.50
431.90
1,751.50
1,728.90
318.50
248.30
897.50
477.10
640.00
1,214.80
175.10
1,153.10
648.70
1,061.00
1,799.00
1,300.60
1,097.30
283.80
1,349.40
2,605.70
652.30
260.60
1,930.90
123.40
779.30
180.50
276.50
1,105.70
292.30
1,390.10
1,228.10
1,079.00
870.30

208
Name of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Number

Amity ····-··-...··"·--··-··..·••¥3'0
Le Progres de l'Oceanie..371
Gardena
Veteran ...............;...........:.rJJ
Jewel ··"----~----................374
Richmond ..--·----···-...--315
Francis Drake ....- ..........376
Artesia ....-.•-..................-:rl'I
Mizpah ........,...:..- ............318
Fillmore .....................~-....319
Huntington Beach ..........380
Oceanside ····-····- ............381
Highland Park ..............382
Orosi .;..........................._383
El Centro .........'-..........-.384
Dinuba ...........................-.385
Coalinga ....___ ,........-,381
Parnassus ....- ................-•.388
Palos Verdes ......:...........389
Imperial ....·-·---····-..·--390
East Belt ....- ..........- .......391
West Lake .....:...._ .......~92
Balder ........................;....~93
University ........._ ....- ......394
Turlock - .................- ....__395
Apollo ..............................-396
Rising Light ....._.............397
Fraternity .........,..............399
Burlingame ....,.................400
Bay View ....__._..............401
Brawley .......~.......-..........402
Yerba Buena ..................403
Glendora ..............:............404
Moneta ..............................405
Burbank .........___ ...........-406
La Mesa ..........- ..,..-.......~W.
Sierra Madre ..................408
Honolulu .........:....:........-409
Charter Rock ..................410
Perris .........._...__,._ ......411
Calexico .........- ...~...........412
Waucoba ..............- ..........413
Arlington .............._..........414

..........-....-......._.m

Home
$25.00
General
Home
Fund Maintenance Building Home Tax

372.40
286.30
123.00
181.60 .
127.7(1
466.00
149.40
80.70
364.30
127.90
226.60
100.10
422.00
83.40
182.20
137.60
193.40
504.70
460.40
54.50
47.80
911.00
418.60
477.20
133.40
294.10
408.70
319.90
308.30
273.30
119.10
33220
74.10
545.80
185.80
96.60
66.70
181.20
341.60
60.80
135.00
32.70
272.50

256.00
189.50
80.00
114.00
85.50
320.00
91.00
55.50
254.50
88.50
154.00
61.50
270.00
56.00
123.00
89.00
136.00
340.50
311.00
37.50
35.00
625.00
279.00
318.00
86.00
201.50
265.50
213.50
214.50
179.50
81.50
213.00
51.50
362.00
117.00
59.00
45.50
123.00
239.00
42.00
85.00
20.50
182.50

209

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

256.00
189.50
80.00
114.00
85.50
320.00
91.00
55.50
254.50
88.50
154.00
61.50
270.00
56.00
123.00
89.00
136.00
340.50
311.00
37.50
32.00
625.00
279.00
318.00
86.00
201.50
265.50
213.50
214.50
179.50
81.50
213.00
51.50
362.00
117.00
59.00
45.50
123.00
239.00
42.00
85.00
20.50
182.50

150.00
200.00
175.00
150.00
75.00
150.00
200.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
125.00
125.00
275.00
25.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
325.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
325.00
200.00
300.00
125.00
125.00
375.00
175.00
150.00
200.00
25.00
300.00
50.00
350.00
175.00
150.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
125.00
50.00
125.00

Total

1,034.40
865.30
45S.OO
559.60
373.70
1,256.00
531.40
216.70
923.30
329.90
659.60
348.10
1,237.00
220.40
528.20
390.60
515.40
l,510.70
1,157.40
154.50
136.80
2,486.00
l,176.60
1,413.20
430.40
822.10
l,314.70
921.90
887.30
832.30
307.10
1,058.20
227.10
1,619.80
594.80
364.60
207.70
502.20
869.60
144.80
430.00
123.70
762.50

Name of
Lodge

Number

Silver Trowel ..~.- ............415
Lindsay ···-··--····............-416
Clovis ..........----····..···--•17
Elysian ..........- ..................418 ·
Upland ....-·-·----..··--··-419
Kerman ·--·-··---... ....----~
Inglewood ........................4.21
Eagle Rock _,,_ ..............422
York .......___....................423
Exeter .........- .............--424
Holtville ····--·-········--·--425
Midway ··--......................42lS
Chino Valley _,,..............42.'1
San Dimas ----................428
Pittsburg ..........................429
McCloud ......._ ................430
Alpha ................- ............-431
Hammonton - ··- ········--·--433
Maricopa ..........-..............-434
Fairmount ····-····-·"····-435
Claremont ......................-436
Lancaster ··-'-·--..........__437
Acacia ....-....-..................438
Tyrian ....-...--..............-439
Standard -·····-..--..--..--440
Coronado ··-·········"·"·-·-··441
Blackmer -····-··-··..- ....-:..442
Schofield ..........-....- ......-443
Carpinteria ......................444
Wilshire ····"'···-············--445
La Puente ................-......446
Torrance ..........- ............-447
Mt. DiabIp ....-................448
Park -··-·--·"··-··-··..··-··449
Van Nuys ....- ..................450
Montebello ........................451
San Pasqual _..................452
Bethlehem ................_......453
Crocker ..........- ................454
Golden West ....................455
Ramona ......................- ....457
Henry S. Orme................458
Riverbank ----··---------459

-

General
Home
Home
$25.00
Fund Maintenance Building Home Tax

268.80
187.00
115.10
81.50
157.90
108.50
375.60 . 259.00
122.40
81.00
39.90
28.50
254.20
173.00
219.40
146.00
121.40
76.00
119.40
81.00
89.20
53.00
265.40
176.00
46.40
31.00
88.70
55.50
99.00
65.00
90.00
55.00
315.00
215.00
32.00
50.80
142.30
94.50
410.10
286.50
84.90
53.50
103.70
65.50
79.60
49.00
97.60
59.00
234.70
165.50
139.50
87.50
377.40
251.00
175.70
95.50
53.00
35.00
387.70
270.50
63.70
40.50
150.20
98.00
112.70
70.50
358.40
246.00
199.40
126.00
198.70
120.50
302.10
186.50
291.00
190.00
192.70
130.50
393.20
268.00
163.80
107.00
478.90
318.50
53.70
35.50

187.00
81.50
108.50
259.00
81.00
28.50
173.00
146.00
76.00
81.00
53.00
176.00
31.00
55.50
65.00
55.00
215.00
32.00
94.50
286.50
53.50
65.50
49.00
59.00
165.50
87.50
251.00
95.50
35.00
270.50
40.50
98.00
70.50
246.00
126.00
120.50
186.50
190.00
.JJ0.50
268.00
107.00
318.50
JS.SO

75.00
25.00
25.00
125.00
175.00
125.00
125.00
100.00
25.00
125.00
150.00
25.00
125.00
50.00
125.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
250.00
325.00
50.00
100.00
50.00
150.00
125.00
100.00
150.00
250.00
300.00
175.00
50.00
100.00
125.00
250.00
25.00

Total

717.80
303.10
399.90
1,018.60
459.40
96.90
725.20
636.40
373.40
306.40
320.20
767.40
133.40
324.70
279.00
325.00
820.00
189.80
431.30
1,058.10
266.90
309.70
252.60
315.60
590.70
414.50
l,129.40
691.70
173.00
1,028.70
194.70
496.20
378.70
. 950.40
601.40
689.70
975.10
846.00
503.70
1,02920
502.80
1,365.90
149.70

210
Name of
Lodge

Number

Mt. Oso ...:..................:...-4«>
Argonaut ················--·~·-··it61
Paul Revere ....................462
Morgan Hill ··-················463
Alta Vista ....- ..................464
Center ·····························--465
Libertas ··········-····-·····-····466
Culver City -··-•·············--467
Rock ridge ........................468
Yorba Linda ....................469
Lincoln ··········-················470
Delta ················-·········'······471
Maui ··········-···-·················•72
Blythe ··········-················-473
Victory .......! ......•...............474
America ·········-··············475
Coachella ........•..............._476
Temblor ····-···:-................477
Thousand Oaks ..............478
Golden Rule ....................479
Fellowship ...................;..-480
Mt. Davidson ..................481
Clarence F. Smith..........482
Bell ··········-··--··········-······483
Albert Pike -··············..i-'484
Chowchilla .....•................485
Caledonia ..........................486
Vallejo ····-····-············-····487
Patterson .......•........•.........488
East Bay ..........................489
Corcoran ........................•.490
Woodstock ····-········;.......491
Garvanza ··········-··············492
Atascadero ····--·-·············493
Acorn ····-··························494
Lebanon ............................495
Riverdale ..........................496
Fremont ····"--················-~..497
Stockton ..........................498
Capital City -··················499
Roosevelt ····-··················-500
Westwood ........................501
Harbor ..............................502

General
Home
Home
$25.00
Fund Maintenance Building Home Tax

139.30
281.40
439.40
72.80
227.80
248.iO
200.80
189.20
275.20
101.60
230.60
236.60
96.00
2520
187.60
285.00
72.20
87.70
275.30
257.50
171.80
235.30
196.20
141.30
174.40
23.30
117.80
203.50
52.70
209.80
67.40
132.00
134.40
37.10
221.30
250.90
54.90
215.00
98.40
133.40
118.00
146.40
116.10

89.50
186.00
286.00
47.00
152.00
161.50
132.00
113.00
188.00
69.00
154.00
159.00
60.00
18.00
114.00
190.00
43.00
60.50
179.50
162.50
107.00
159.50
128.00
94.50
96.00
14.50
77.00
122.50
35.50
142.00
46.00
80.00
86.00
26.50
144.50
148.50
28.50
135.00
61.00
76.00
75.00
91.00
71.50

89.50
186.00
286.00
47.00
152.00
161.50
132.00
113.00
188.00
69.00
154.00
159.00
60.00
18.00
114.00
190.00
43.00
60.50
179.50
162.50
107.00
159.50
128.00
94.50
96.00
14.50
77.00
122.50
35.50
142.00
46.00
80.00
86.00
26.50
144.50
148.50
28.50
135.00
61.00
76.00
75.00
91.00
71.50

211

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

175.00
225.00
325.00
25.00
150.00
150.00
100.00
250.00
75.00
25.00
125.00
100.00
75.00
200.00
125.00
75.00
25.00
175.00
225.00
150.00
125.00
125.00
75.00
275.00
25.00
50.00
200.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
200.00
125.00
175.00
375.00
125.00
250.00
125.00
200.00
100.00
150.00
175.00

Total

493.30
878:40
1,336.40
191.80
681.80
721.10
564.80
665.20
726.20
264.60
663.60
654.60
291.00
61.20
615.60
790.00
233.20
233.70
809.30
807.50
535.80
679.30
577.20
405.30
641.40
77.30
321.80
648.50
148.70
568.80
184.40
492.00
431.40
90.10
685.30
922.90
236.90
735.00
345.40
485.40
368.00
478.40
434.10

Name of
Lodge

Number

Point ····-···!-.•...•..........:.__503
Seaside ····-·······················..504
Silver Cord .•..................505
Mt.~Olive

........................506

El Segundo ....................507
Joppa ····-··························508
Benj. Franklin ..........~.....509
Cupertino -·-················-510
Sunnyvale •...••.•................511
Palms ····-··..····--·········--·512
Cahuenga ···-··--··········-··513
·Argonne ········-'-•···-····-····514
Vermont Square ............515
Taft ·-·-····-····-··········..;·---516
Mt. Vernon ....- •........:......517
La Jolla ....•.•..............•....518
Euclid ······'········-···············519
Ionic ........;.;..;.•............-••..520
Piedmont ··········-··············521
Sunrise ....:.•................:......522
Bellflower ...:_..................523
·Catalina Island ............•.•.524
·Geo. Washington ..........-525
Bay City .•.................:•.....526
Covenant ..........................527
Beverly Hills ..................528
Loyalty ·······--···········-····-529
Sun Garden ....................-530
Alexandria ····-··········-····531
: Smyrna ········- ·············--·.532
"Azure ··········-····················533
Forest Hill ················-····534
Alex. Hamilton ............_535
·seal Rock ......................-536
· utopia ····-························537
·Ascot ....•••.•.•..•...........•.•..•.538
Belvedere ····-··········'····-.539
··Queen Beach ............:.......540
Henry Morse Stephens..541
Lanker shim ......................542
Signal ····--··--··················543
Glendale -················'···-..544
Jonathan -················"···--545

General
Home
$25.00
Home
Fund Maintenance Building Home Tax

81.90
228.40
181.50
285.80
123.90
41.30
177.90
72.10
85.90
165.80
233.80
. 267.50
269.00
141.70
155.90
100.40
197.30
257.80
156.70
145.00
131.60
82.10
205.30
172.60
217.30
173.90
169.90
253.30
113.40
41.30
145.40
84.30
98.60
92.10
339.50
187.50
150.60
93.40
205.40
171.70
221.10
263.90 '
128.20

53.50
146.00
127.50
182.00
88.50
24.50
113.50
41.50
53.50
102.00
152.00
172.50
170.00
95.50
108.50
61.00
129.50
147.00
105.50
90.00
84.00
56.50
134.50
104.00
139.50
113.50
98.50
169.50
66.00
29.50
96.00
54.50
59.00
56.50
207.50
112.50
94.00
56.00
131.00
110.50
146.50
168.50
83.00

53.50
146.00
127.50
182.00
88.50
24.50
113.50
41.50
53.50
102.00
152.00
172.50
170.00
95.50
108.50
61.00
129.50
147.00
105.50
90.00
84.00
56.50
134.50
104.00
139.50
113.50
98.50
169.50
66.00
29.50
96.00
54.50
59.00
56.50
207.50
112.50
94.00
56.00
131.00
110.50
146.50
168.50
83.00

25.00
175.00
75.00
350.00
50.00
175.00
75.00
100.00
175.00
225.00
200.00
275.00
50.00
50.00
125.00
125.00
375.00
125.00
150.00
100.00
25.00
175.00
200.00
200.00
175.00
300.00
175.00
125.00
100.00
75.00
175.00
100.00
350.00
250.00
175.00
75.00
175.00
150.00
100.00
275.00
100.00.

Total

213.90
695.40
511.50
999.80
300.90
140.30
579.90
230,10
292.90
544.80
762.80
812.50
884.00
382.70
422.90
347.40
581.30
926.80
492.70
475.00
399.60
220.10
649.30
580.60
696.30
575.90
666.90
767:30
370.40
100.30
437.40
268.30
391.60
305.10
1,104.50
662.50
513.60
280.40
642.40
542.70
614.10
875.90
394.20

212
Name of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Number

San Gabriel -··-········---546
Arcadia ····-··········-····--··w
Triangle ···-····-~---··-····--548
Justice · ··········-··-········-···-549
Seaport ····-····-·········-----550
Lakeshore :..·--·····-···-··-551
Semper Virens ··········-··552
Golden City ··················-··553
Educator ····-····:..........._..554
White Pine ··-············-··-555
Fairfax ····-'-·-·········-·····556
Hermosa ····-···-···-~-------557
Pt. Firmin --·-····-··········558
Ccaftsman ·---··········-···-559
Plymouth ··--··········-··---..560
East San Diego................561
Pyramid ····-····-····-···-····562
South Park -········-····-563
Foothill ····-·--····-····-····564
West Adams ..................565
Jas. A. Garfield................566
Searchlight ---············---567
Park Boulevard ··········--·568
Chateau Thierry ............569
Military Service ............570
Francis K. Shattuck......571
J as. Madison ··············---572
Hillcrest ····----··········--...513
s. w. Hackett................574
Fort Crook ····--·········--·575
El Cajon Valley..............576
Sunnyside ·-·-··········-----577
Progressive ····-················578
· Warren G. Harding ......579
Santa Maria ....................580
Security ·························--581
,·. Rialto
··········-···········-~·-···-582
Wasco ····-·-·-············-····-583
.Harding ····-····-··········-····584
Manchester ......................585
, Garden Grove ..................586
Valley Forge ..........,.....-587
El Sereno '···-················-588

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

109.70
76.40
108.70
136.30
141.30
164.4o
98.50
64.00
131.80
76.60
86.60
123.70
214.70
162.00
141.40
177.00
135.40
262.70
158.90
187.80
115.10
259.80
149.40
137.50
232.50
140.80
154.80
42.00
164.80
52.30
55.30
205.50
20320
119.00
36.60
151.80
67.40
100.40
142.30
214.50
77.10
162.70
112.60

70.50
51.00
55.50
84.50
84.50
101.00
57.50
40.00
87.00
44.00
49.00
75.50
130.50
110.00
86.00
105.00
81.00
160.50
93.50
107.00
66.50
172.00
91.00
77.50
117.50
87.00
87.00
30.00
102.00
34.50
34.50
137.50
128.00
65.00
24.00
97.00
41.00
51.00
79.50
117.50
51.50
105.50 .
64.00

70.50
51.00
55.50
84.50
84.50
101.00
57.50
40.00
87.00
44.00
49.00
75.50
130.50
110.00
86.00
105.00
81.00
160.50
93.50
107.00
66.50
172.00
91.00
77.50
117.50
87.00
87.00
30.00
102.00
34.50
34.50
137.50
128.00
65.00
24.00
97.00
41.00
51.00
79.50
117.50
51.50
105.50
64.00

213

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00
Home Tax

75.00
25.00
275.00
125.00
200.00
175.00
150.00
50.00
75.00
175.00
150.00
100.00
225.00
50.00
175.00
250.00
225.00
300.00
325.00
275.00
225.00
175.00
100.00
225.00
475.00
175.00
275.00
225.00
50.00
75.00
75.00
. 200.00
275.00
25.00
150.00
75.00
225.00
250.00
500.00
75.00
150.00
225.00

Total

325.70
203.40
494.70
430.30
510.30
541.40
363.50
194.00
380.80
339.60
334.60
374.70
700.70
432.00
488.40
637.00
522.40
883.70
670.90
676.80
473.10
778.80
431.40
517.50
942.50
489.80
603.80
102.00
593.80
171.30
199.30
555.50
659.20
524.00
109.60
495.80
224.40
427.40
551.30
949.50
255.10
523.70
465.60

Name of
Lodge

Number

Kauai ····---.:...........__589
Compass ···--·•··-··---590
Escalon ---.:....-····----591
Tujunga - · - -·········--·592
All States --~---·-······593
Service ···--····-····-SP4
Alex. Graham Bell....-....595
Guardian ··---·-····-···--·596
Truth --···--·-··-·······.......59'1
Pearl Harbor ···-·····-····-598
Carmelita -··-····-············599
Lynwood ····--··-····-····--600
Grizzly -··-····-····-········-··601
Melrose -········-...:.-........~.602
DimCind ····-·······-·-····-····603
Jubilee ····-····-···-····-····-604
Glass ell Park ....:..........._605
Sojourner -·--······-····-«fl
Granada -···---··········-608
Provident -··--··:········-·-609
Elmhurst ·----··-····-····--610
Canoga ·----...:.:......._6H
Temple City -·--·······---612
Three Pillars ····-············613
Larchmont ··-----··········-614
Hemet ______.:.........--615
Seal Beach ····--··--··-····616
Big Bear •..•;.....-····-··---617
Southland ····-····.:··-······-618
Neptune --·-····-·..:..-.....•..619
Pt. Loma ···-····-·-·-···---~
The Gardens ____..;··-····-··621
Atwater ····--··--···-······-~
Menorah ----····-···---623
Fortitude -------·'-····--624
Angeles Mesa -·-······--·625
Chula Vista ···---·······--626
Lamanda Park _______..(il)
Beacon of West..............628
Fairview ···-··-···········--629
Ingleside .........:....:.-...•.;_630
Benevolence _____ ;_____...•-6.11

Normal Heights ····-········6.12

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

71.30
103.30
60.30
69.20
22020
225.80
111.20
177.40
72.00
143.30
117.30
79.70
67.60
114.80
148.80
121.10
201.40
69.90
179.70
95.50
109.50
106.10
69.60
92.80
140.50
60.60
40.50
21.70
155.40
96.50
67.40
138.10
127.00
198.50
98.00
259.80
100.50
81.90
94.70
80.60
87.40
143.20
170.40

44.50
64.50
34.50
43.00
143.00
147.00
68.00
111.00
45.00
69.50
79.50
55.50
44.00
67.00
92.00
76.50
121.00
48.50
115.50
57.50
67.50
61.50
39.00
57.00
92.50
39.00
27.50
15.50
91.00
62.50
36.00
81.50
75.00
107.50
55.00
167.00
62.50
53.50
55.50
49.00
51.00
73.00
91.00

44.50
64.50
34.50
43.00
143.00
147.00
68.00
111.00
45.00
69.50
79.50
55.50
44.00
67.00
92.00
76.50
121.00
48.50
115.50
57.50
67.50
61.50
39.00
57.00
92.50
39.00
27.50
15.50
91.00
62.50
36.00
81.50
75.00
107.50
55.00
167.00
62.50
53.50
55.50
49.00
51.00
73.00
91.00

$25.00
Home Tax

100.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
175.00
175.00
150.00
275.00
125.00
350.00
125.00
75.00
125.00
150.00
75.00
275.00
25.00
125.00
175.00
125.00
125.00
125.00
150.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
350.00
100.00
150.00
200.00
175.00
375.00
150.00
225.00
125.00
100.00
150.00
75.00
100.00
350.00
300.00

Total

260.30
332.30
204.30
230.20
681.20
694.80
397.20
674.40
287.00
632.30
401.30
190.70
230.60
373.80
482.80
349.10
718.40
191.90
535.70
385.50
369.50
354.10
272.60
356.80 .
425.50
188.60
120.50
52.70
687.40
321.50
289.40
501.10
452.00
788.50
358.00
818.80
350.50
288.90
355.70
253.60
289.40
639.20
652.40

214
Name of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Number

Poinsettia ........................633
Victorville .....................:..634
Riverside ........, .................635
John Marshall ................636
Palisades ..........................631
Indian Rock ....................6-18
Composite .......................•639
Veritas ..............................640
Jas. A. Foshay................641
La Ctunbre ......................642
Alta Loma ......................643
Lomita .............................•644
A. F. E. Irwin. .................645
Metropolitan ....................646
Hawthorne ....................•.~
Damascus ........................ 64.8
Florence ··········-·············.649
La Brea ............................650
Menlo Park .... ~ ................651
Crescenta Valley ............652
Fontana ............................653
Jordan ................•.............654
Monte Vista ....................655
Citro! ·············•··-··············656
J. D'. Spreckels................657
Livingston ........................658
La Habra ....•..................•659
Baldwin ' Park ..................(i6()
Malta ..............................: ..661
Henry Knox ....................662
Ojai ..................................663
Oasis .............................. ..664
Kaweah ............................665
Reseda ..............................666
Meridian ..........................667
San Gorgonio ..................6()8
J. P. Jarman ....................669
Greenleaf ............ :.............670
San Clemente ..................671
Laguna Beach ..................672
Far ·west ··········-··············673
Los Cerritos ....................674

General
Home
Fund Maintenance

153.50
82.00
107.60
80.10
145.90
62.30
109.80
66.50
47.50
62.60
206.50
78.30
151.10
78.30
39.90
135.90
120.30
135.30
63.60
83.70
59.60
120.90
188.10
128.30
213.90
58.80
96.80
51.30
91.50
90.60
30.80
58.90
38.20
45.70
154.40
60.00
78.80
117.10
26.60
40.30
87.00
60.70

92.50
45.00
59.00
51.50
88.50
44.50
57.00
37.50
32.50
34.00
122.50
49.50
66.50
49.50
28.50
83.50
79.50
84.50
34.00
50.50
39.00
68.50
106.50
89.50
128.50
32.00
62.00
34.50
. 52.50
59.00
22.00
33.50
23.00
30.50
86.00
30.00
37.00
66.50
19.00
24.50
45.00
35.50

Home
Building

92.50
45.00
59.00
51.50
88.50
44.50
57.00
37.50
32.50
34.00
122.50
49.50
66.50
49.50
28.50
83.50
79.50
84.50
34.00
50.50
39.00
68.50
106.50
89.50
128.50
32.00
62.00
34.50
52.50
59.00
22.00
33.50
23.00
30.50
86.00
30.00
37.00
66.50
19.00
24.50
45.00
35.50

215

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00
Home Tax

225.00
100.00
225.00
50.00
200.00
25.00
250.00
125.00
25.00
175.00
250.00
75.00
400.00
100.00
225.00
100.00
125.00
125.00
175.00
75.00
200.00
300.00
375.00
125.00
50.00
75.00
125.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
25.00
200.00
175.00
200.00
225.00
50.00
125.00
150.00

Total

563.50
272.00
450.60
233.10
522.90
176.30
473.80
266.50
137.50
305.60
701.50
252.30
684.10
277.30
96.90
527.90
379.30
429.30
256.60
359.70
212.60
457.90
701.10
307.30
845.90
247.80
270.80
195.30
321.50
308.60
99.80
225.90
109.20
131.70
526.40
295.00
352.80
475.10
64.60
139.30
302.00
281.70

Name of
Lodge

Number

Modesto ............................675
Willow Glen ····-··············676
Liberal Arts ............:..... -677
Altadena .......:..................678

Home
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

Total

98.30
49.40
68.90
115.60

150.00
50.00
300.00
375.00

347.30
161.40
425.90
598.60

49.50
31.00
28.50
54.00

49.50
31.00
28.50
54.00

Total Annual Returns

Due .:.. _............••............$103,933.50 $67,847.50 $67,847.50 $75,725.00 $315,353.50
Total Unpaid by Lodges,
Oct. 20, 1932............... 3,156.30 1,504.35 1,504.35
75.00
6,240.00
Total Paid Grand Treas.....$100,777.20 $66,343.15 $66,343.15 $75,650.00 $309,113.50
ROBERT E. ALLAN,
JACOB M. BASHOR,
THOMAS FOREE,
JOHN S. CoREY,
CLARENCE H. EcKERT,

Committee.

Report adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the M. •. w. ·. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report of its activities during the past year, together with its recommendations.
During the past year the Committee suffered an irreparable loss in
the death of its Chairman, Brother Arthur M. Ellis. He had pioneered
in this work and for four years had directed the activities of the Committee
and was looking forward with pleasurable anticipation to the completion
of our labors this year. His quiet, constant, painstaking research had given_
him a wider knowledge and insight into California's early Masonic history
than was possessed by any other member of the fraternity. Fortunately,
much of that knowledge has been reduced to written records and is preserved, but some very valuable information, the result of his personal
efforts during the previous year, has been lost to the craft through his untimely death. California Masonry. and the citizens of the State at large
will deeply miss his kindly presence and mourn his passing.
At the last communication of the Grand Lodge, your committee expressed the belief that it would be able to complete its research work in
the existing records of the subordina;te Lodges within the year. We are
pleased to report that we have practically finished our labors, with the exception of a few of the younger Lodges which have not yet finished the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

search of their records but have active committees earnestly endeavo~ing
·t o bring to conclusion their reports, and these will undoubtedly be · filed
.
' with the committee within a very short time.
In July of this year we were able to dispense with the services of our
field investigator who was employed to visit the different Lodges fQr the
purpose of locating old records and submitting reports o_n the interesting
and instructive facts contained therein.
We are also pleased to report that we were able to carry on this year's
activities at a cost much less than was estimated in our last Annual Report
and we have an unused ·balance of approximately $650 which is turned
back to Grand Lodge.
The activities and investigations of your committee covering the past
four years have cost Grand Lodge approximately $8,147.18. We consider
this an extremely conservative expenditure considering the time involved
in our investigations, the long historical period covered, the number of
Lodges visited and reported on, . the extent of territory necessarily
traversed, the vast amount of information collected and the numerous difficulties encountered.
. As a result of the labor of your committee during the past four years,
there is now a complete summary of the records and early activities of
subordinate Lodges on file in the offices of the Grand Secretary. These
files also contain the history and interviews of many of our very interesting
Fifty Year Masons, together with numerous humart interest stories involving the lives and activities of many of California's most colorful Masonic
characters; also historical facts connected with Masons in the State which
have never been converted to the printed page; facts which reflect and
interpret controversial questions having to do with events in which Masons
took a prominent part; a large group of pictures of the buildings in California dedicated to Masonic purposes; reconstructed and pieced together
stories and history of the activities of old Lodges whose records have long
been lost or destroyed ; copies of documents and papers of unusual historical interest connected with the official and personal acts of pioneer
Masons; and numerous references to valuable source material involving
California Masons and Masonry contained in the Bancroft and State
Libraries.
We have a separate file for each Lodge and all records are contained
in a steel cabinet under lock and key in possession of the Grand Secretary's
office so that the records will be protected from fire or mishandling. In
addition, there are two separate sets of records in the hands of the committee which are used for reference work without disturbing the master
file. These are kept in different locations and under fireproof conditions
as a further protection against loss.
Experience has shown that the work of preserving our historical data
should have commenced at the very beginning of our Masonic activities.

Many of our valuable records and treasures are known to have been lost
by fire. Others were lost through careless storage and the vicissitudes of
time. In several instances we have been able to locate lost records and
restore them to permanency. Each year results in new discoveries, and
with the interest that has been aroused throughout the state, we hope that
other dusty attics and remote places may ·bring forth additional records.
Every member of the craft can be of assistance in this matter and should
be ever alert in search of these early records and historical relics.
The committee again desires to urge upon the older Lodges-particularly those on the Mother Lode-the vital necessity of providing a safe
fireproof repository for their priceless records. T ime and fire are the
ruthless enemies of the written page and it is too late when these twin
destroyers have completed their devastating work.
We find that the Rosters and Tylers' registers of many of our older
Lodges contain the actual signatures of Masons who have stood high in
the hearts of the people of California and of the Nation and these valuable
records should be adequately protected and preserved.
Several California Lodges have adopted a unique policy which we
believe will be of interest and value to the Craft and should be followed
by all of the Lodges in the state. They are keeping scrapbooks in which
are posted newspaper clippings and other printed matter relating to the
activities of their members, the Lodge and the community. As time progresses, these scrapbooks will contain material not found in Lodge books
and records and will furnish much valuable data for future Masonic
Historians.
At the last Annual Conununication, Grand Lodge instructed this committee to prepare a Masonic play having for its purpose the portrayal of
the lives and activities of those interesting Masonic characters who in the
early days played a conspicuous part in the development of northern
California. ' We were instructed to present the same at the present session
of Grand Lodge. We accordingly collected the necessary historical facts
and a drama was written by Brother Jesse M. Whited. Brother John
McEwing was selected to direct and present the same. W hile Brother
McEwing was gathering the proper information for correct costuming
and staging of the play, he was stricken and never recovered. In the very
limited time that was left, it did not seem advisable to make any further
attempt to present the drama at this time. The manuscr ipt for the play
has been placed in the Grand Lodge files for use at a future date.
We have not seen fit to incorporate herein at length a resume of the
vast amount of material collected by the committee during the past year
but will content ourselves for the purposes of this report ·by presenting a
few items and stories which we think will be of interest to the craft:
· The committee continues to find evidence indicating that the Indians
in the early days were familiar with Masonic signs.

216

217

218

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In the early 60's Fred Peed, a Mason, was traveling.in the vicinity of
Fall River in northern California. He there met a Pit River Indian who
gave him a Masonic sign and informed him that the Hat Creek Indians
intended to kill him. The Indian traveled with him through that section
of the country. After leaving this friendly guide Peed came upon a band
of Indians with the chief riding in the lead, their bows and arrows ready
for action. His horse was crippled and tired and his ammunition exhausted; escape.was impossible. In desperation he gave the Masonic sign
of distress. The· leader of the group beckoned him to come forward. He
refused to do this. Presently the leader approached him, talked in a
friendly manner and directed two of his band to guide him on his way
north.
The following rather unusual incident occurred in San Francisco Bay
in 1849:
Brother Alexander Montgomery, after whom Montgomery Street
was named, was the commander of a vessel entering the bay. As the
vessel approached the inner harbor a passenger called his attention to a
vessel evidently in distress anchored some distance away. Montgomery
.directed his glasses toward the vessel and there beheld a man leaning over
its side waving a white rag on which was crudely drawn the square and
compass. He ordered a boat lowered and the crew boarded the vessel.
They there encountered an insane man who had taken possession, keeping
the passengers and crew at bay with a revolver and knife. They subd,ued
the mad man and rescued the crew and passengers, which included several
Masons. The one who had improvised and waved the signal was a Mason.
In the early 50's Dr. Ware was mining in the vicinity of Weaverville.
He built a dam and diverted the water of a nearby stream for use in his
mining operations. The miners placering on the stream below resented
this action and rather unceremoniously destroyed the dam and released
the waters. Dr. Ware preferred charges against the ringleaders and
procured their arrest..
Feeling ran high and as the evening approached a large group of
miners congregated in the vicinity of the principal saloon of the town and
were in the process of organizing a mob to hang Dr. Ware when a citizen
of the community apprised John Carr, a ·blacksmith, who had recently
joined the Masonic fraternity, of the fact that Dr. Ware was a Mason
and that the mob seemed intent on hanging him. Carr strapped on his
six-shooters and called to his side all those whom he knew tq be Mas 0 ns
and by quick, determined action frustrated the murderous intent of the
liquor-inflamed mob, thereby saving the life of a worthy bro.t her Mason.
Northern California has produced some of the finest citizens of the
state, among whom was Wi11iam Lowden, for many years an honored
resident of Trinity County and a member of the fraternity. He was the
father of good roads in northern California, having built ~he ~rst road in

th~t section ~rom Shasta to Weaverville. He completed that road of fifty
miles expe_ndmg thereon less than $30,000. Road engineers have estimated
that to build the same road today with its numerous cuts and fills would
probably entail an expenditure far in excess of that amount.
In his younger days Brother Lowden was a rider for the Adams Express Company. There was much rivalry between the Adams Company
and the Wells Fargo Company in their desire to procure the contract for
c~rrying t~e mail between Shasta and Weaverville. They agreed to decide the dispute on a horse race. Lowden was chosen to ride for the
Adams Compan~. But in ~he first ten miles of the fifty-mile race young
Lowden so outdistanced his competitor that the Wells Fargo Company
acknowledged defeat and its rider quit the race. But young Lowden rode
the full fifty miles in a time which has never been equalled between those
communities, :iding over dimly defined, uncertain trails, fording streams
and encountering at the end of the journey one of the most terriffic blizzards ever known in that section of the state.
In the town of Downieville in the early 50's a man shot a Mason
without provocation or excuse. A posse was formed and gave chase but
he made good his escape. Two years passed and word was received in
D?wnieville that the murderer had ·been apprehended in Oregon and was
bemg brought back for trial. The day the word was received a citizen of
the town, in a conversation with one of the merchants said that it had
been. his ?bservation in· the west that those who seriou~ty harm Masons
are. mvanably a_pprehended and brought to justice, and he expressed a
de~1re to know JUst how this desperado had been captured after so long
a time. He a~so expressed a desire to join a fraternity whose long strong
arm reaches mto every part of this half-civilized country. The merchant
he was then addressing was a Mason and on the night of the murder
had written a minute description of the assassin and sent that description
to all Masons he knew on the western coast, and one of tHese letters
reached a Mason in Oregon, who committed the description to memory
and thus, after almost two years, he recognized the killer of the Californfa
Mason and caused his arrest.

219

In our investigations we have found several instances in the early
days where men were made Masons before reaching their majority.
~amuel Thomas Moore, a member of Keith Lodge No. 187 of Gilroy,
is perhaps the only surviving Mason in California who received the three
degrees before he was twenty-one years of age. He was raised in the
Lodge at Snelling, Merced County, at the age of twenty.
There is at present in the possession of Phoenix Lodge No. 178 of
San Bernardino, a cane given to the Lodge years ago by Brother J. Jud~on Ames. Brother Ames was the organizer of San Diego Lodge No: 35
m 1851. Subsequently he moved to San Bernardino and gave the cane
to the Lodge to be held in the possession of the oldest member of the
Lodge. It is so held today.

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We found the following resolution in the minutes of Harmony Lodge
. No. 164 of Sierra City, adopted shortly after the death of President
Garfield:
"Resolved that as a token of respect to the memory of our
deceased brother, the members of this Lodge will wear the usual
badge of mourning for a period of thirty days."
In. one of the drty Lodges of this state the Secretary's office was
the ·stepping stone to the Master's chair. Repeatedly men -:Vho ~d ser.ved
one or more years as Secretaries were passed from that office directly mto
the East.
In the early days the Lodges were exceedingly jealo~s of their_ t~r­
ritorial jurisdiction and at times went to great lengths m determllll~g
whether or not a petitioner was within their jurisdiction. Brother Harris,
a Past Master of Amador Lodge No. 65 at Jackson, says that in 1916,
while serving as Master of Amador Lodge, he received a petition from
a man named Thomas. There was a question as to whether Thomas was .
within the .jurisdiction of Amador Lodge or the Lodge at Sutter Creek.
Brother Harris, with McFarland, the Secretary, made a survey fr~m the
limits of Sutter Creek to the limit lines of Jackson. They earned an
unbelievably tong chain, McFarland at one end and Harris at the other.
They worked far into the night. A part of the time it was so dark th~y
could not see each other, but finally completed their surve.y :Wd to .th~1r
great satisfaction established the fact that Thom~s was w1thm the Jurisdiction of Amador Lodge.
The minutes of many of the Mother Lode Lodges contain records
of similar surveys by the officers and members of the Lodges.
Some of the Secretaries of Lodges, in answering conununications
from the History Committee, are inclined to be somewhat facetious, as
is evidenced by the following :
Each 'year the committee has sent letters to the several Lodges: n~ti­
fying them of our desire to present at the Grand Lodge comrnumcat1on
an exhibit of those interesting Masonic relics possessed by Lodges and
Masons throughout the jurisdiction and requesting that they forward
same to the committee. Here .is a reply we received from one Secretary:
"Referring to your letter of September 17th regarding Masonic relics :
"Regret to advise you that all the relics we have are a few
Past Masters and I think the majority of the brethren have
seen plenty of them."
Brother John Fischer, who resides in Placerville, is in many_respects
one of the most interesting Masonic characters in California and for 23
years he was Master of Hiram Lodge No. 43 at El D~rado: At the
Masonic celebration at Coloma in 1928, Grand Master Will Fischer, at

GRA:SD LODGE OF CALIFOR::-;'IA

221

the request of the members of Hiram Lodge, presented Brother John
Fischer with a large Past Master's Jewel, in appreciation of his long
years of service as an officer of their Lodge. Brother Fischer tells the
story of the trials and struggles of the brethren of Hiram Lodge as
follows:
"Old Hiram Lodge has upon its Roster the names of some of the
finest men in California and has held high the ·banner of Masonry on
the Mother Lode for over 75 years. Hiram Lodge waxed strong in the
old days and was an important factor in the moral and social life of the
community. Eventually the placers played out and the young Masons
scattered to the four winds and left but a few of the faithful to carry on.
"For several years the struggle was intense and then we suffered our
first major financial loss. Our Treasurer defaulted for $1,500, and left
us heavily in debt. The brethren met and counseled as to what action
they should take. Some were in favor of surrendering the charter but
finally each member went deep into his pocket and the treasury was
replenished and the Lodge continued its activities. Years later a second
Treasurer defaulted for $500 and again the faithful brethren resorted to
their almost depleted pocketbooks and old Hiram was able to meet its
obligations. One night in September, 1923, the alarm of fire was sounded
throughout the little town of El Dorado and, lo and behold-the Temple
of Hiram was in flames and in a short time nothing was left but a
pathetic heap of ruins. Everything belonging to the Lodge was lost.
The next morning I visited the site of our beloved Temple to view the
remains. It almost broke my heart as I looked upon that mass of fallen
bricks, twisted iron and smouldering debris that once had been the pride
of the Masons of old El Dorado, and as I turned to go away, the tears
streaming down my weatherbeaten cheeks, in abject despair I cried aloud,
'Goodbye Hiram, this is the last.' But today I regret my lack of faith.
I underestimated the spirit of California Masons, for when the news
spread throughout the state that the beloved Temple of old Hiram-that
old Lodge that never acknowledged defeat-was in ashes, the great heart
of California Masonry responded and, thanks to that ·wonderful spirit,
we were able to erect a new Temple on the spot hallowed by the memories
of more than half a century."
.
The following story was related to the committee by Brother C. F ..
McGlashan, who was the author of the History of the Donner Party:
"When a young man, Brother McGlashan lived in a little mining
town on the Mother Lode. It was his custom during the summer evenings
to frequent the principal salopn of the town and, as a mere observer,
enjoy the festivities there indulged in. One evening, while standing in
the corner of the saloon, his attention was attracted to a large crowd of
miners congregated in front of the bar.

222

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"At one end s.tood a rather tall, muscular man imbibing quite freely
and showing the effects of his indulgence. A~ the other en? of th~ bar
stood a much smaller man in conversation with some of his associates.
Presently the large man made some uncomplimentary. ·remar~s directed
to the smalJer man. The lie was passed and approbnous epithets were
voiced back and forth. The miners in front of the bar moved. back .to
give the anger-inflamed combatants a fair field. The large. fellow, w1~
deliberate step, approached the other end of the bar, takmg ~rom his
belt a large, ugly-looking knife, and indicating in no uncertain terms
the serious damage he intended to ·inflict upon .his much smaller antagonist, whose face was as white as a sheet and who stood there apparently
helpless, trembling like an aspen leaf. When the lar~e man approached
within striking distance, the smaller man made a sign and .the larger
man stopped as though he had encountered a wall, looked the little fellow
squarely in the eye, sheathed his knife and turned and _walked sl~wly out
of the room, a sober Master Mason, for when that sign was gr~en, he
remembered its significance which he learned the night he was raised to
the sublime degree of Master Mason."
On Friday evening, July 10, 1932, three Brother Masons, me.~bers
of Francis Drake Lodge No. 376 of South San Francisco, were re~1p1ents
of Masonic honors from the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, which we
believe merits mention at this time.
Samuel Duncan, a Mason and a member of a Lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, resided in San Bruno,
California for some years. The exact period of his residence there does
not appea;, but it is interesting to note that he had not visited the ~earest
Lodge-Francis Drake-nor any of the other Lodges of the Penmsular
district and, Masonically, was a total stranger.
He fell ill and was moved to Mills Memorial Hospital, San Mateo,.
and his condition became such that the end was anticipated shortly. It
was his wish that a Masonic funeral be held over his remains and, in
anticipation of same, the Master of San Mateo Lodge was called in who,
in turn, referred the matter to the Master of Francis Drake Lodge, under
whose jurisdiction Brother Duncan resided.
·Brother Weed Master of Francis Drake, after responding to the
summons, made in~uiry as to this brother's condition and if anyt~ing.
could be done, and was informed that possibly blood transfusions might
prove effective if they could be obtained. Brother Wee~ undertook to
see what could ·be done in this respect and related the circumstances to
his Lodge. Brother Weed, after first volunteering himself, called for
others. The response was gratifying and approximately a dozen members
volunteered and submitted to the preliminary tests. As a result of the
tests, three were selected-Brother Arthur T. W eed, Master; Brother
Richard M. Zemke, Senior Warden; and Brother Carl E . Peterson,
Steward.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

223

The transfusions were made and the patient for a time rallied very
encouragihgly, then followed a relapse and death, and he was buried
·
under the auspices of Francis Drake Lodge.
This, so far as the Francis Dra\ce Lodge was concerned, was presumed to write finis to the matter. Such, however, was not t'h e case, for,
presumably through relatives, word of what had occurred reached the
Grand Lodge of Massachusetts and was called to the attention of the
Grand Master of that jurisdiction, who was greatly impressed, as is evidenced by his correspondence with our Grand Master, Brother Gaylord.
The Grand Master of Massachusetts saw that while these members of
Francis Drake Lodge had done what, to them, was a very simple and
obvious thing, yet in reality it was an act representing the pure gold of
Masonic charity and brotherly love, particularly so when given a brother
who was a total stranger.
The Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, on occasiohs, presents for distinguished Masonic service medals known as the Joseph W arren medals
and three of these medals were forwarded the Grand Master of California with the request that he arrange for the presentation on behalf
of Massachusetts.
On Friday evening, June 10th, Samuel L. Hawken, Inspector of the
52nd District, acting in behalf and at the request of our Grand Master,
maQe the presentation. of these medals before a large assembly which
included Masons from the entire Peninsular district.
We appreciate the fact that the great body of the craft earnestly
desires that the history of Masonry in California be immediately converted to the printed page and made available.
During the past year insistent requests from brethren all over the
state have been received by the committee, urging that the data already
collected be placed in book form, that the membership may be stimulated
and inspired by the lessons of those sturdy pioneer brethren who came to
California in the early days and who took a leading part in the affairs
of this state and its people. With this sentiment, the committee is in
unanimous accord. We believe that our history should be prepared and
published in suitable form as soon as is . practically possible; however,
the preparation and publication of a history as comprehensive as ours,
covering a period from 1826 up to date, involves problems of policy and
finance which we ·believe are not within the purview of this committee
to solve.
We originally were commissioned and instructed by Grand Lodge to
pursue research work and to gather and preserve facts pertaining to
the history of Masons and Masonry and we have obeyed that mandate
to the letter. It is true that in our reports last year we requested authority
to investigate this question of preparation and publication and were so
authorized, but after consulting with the best historians in California

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

and later conferring with many of the most active members of Grand
Lodge, we have reached the conclusion that it is part of wisdom to refer
this matter to the incoming Grand Master for appropriate action. We
therefore respectfully recommend that the incoming Grand Master be
instructed and empowered to appoint a committee whose duty it shall
be to devise ways and means whereby the available Masonic historical
data may be prepared and publish~ in suitable form.
While this is in the nature of a final report by your committee, the
gathering of historical data is never fully completed. History is constantly in the making and our acts today are history tomorrow. For these
reasons there should be a continued effort to keep our historical record
up to date; however, we feel that this work can be done on a voluntary
basis without the aid of a field investigator, as was required in going
d~rough our former records. No further appropriations are needed for
this work at this time. It can be carried on by voluntary service, just as
much of the work has been done in the past by committeemen without
remuneration, ·by Inspectors, by subordinate Lodge officers, and by . the
local History Committees.
· We find that there is much follow-up work to be accomplished-all
of our Fifty-Year Masons should be interviewed and their stories obtained ; sources of information not yet investigated should be scrutinized;
some of the reports on important Masonic personages and events are
fragmentary and incomplete and should be supplemented and verified.
We believe that the Committee on Masonic History should be continued
during the ensuing Masonic year, and will so recommend.
We desire to express our appreciation for the generous, whole-hearted
co-operation afforded the committee by the present Grand Master, the
Past Grand Masters, and our Grand Secretary, Brother John Whicher,
and his patient, hard-working staff. We also desire to acknowledge the
deep debt of gratitude we owe the Inspectors and local Lodge committees
for the exceptionally fine work they have performed and the very great
assistance they have rendered the committee. Without exception they
have heartily responded to our many requests for help and have greatly
lightened our burdens and shortened our work. This is the true spirit
of Masonry-the spirit which has characterized the members of the fraternity as far back as our investigations have gone. It is this spirit which
has made our history of which we are so justly proud.
We hereby respectfully offer the following resolution and move its
adoption:
1. That the Committee on Masonic History be continued
during the ensuing Masonic year.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

225

2. That the incoming Grand Master be instructed and empowered to appoint a committee to work out the most feasible
and economic plan for the preparation and publication of the
History of Masonry in California.
LEON 0. WHITSELL,

MARK SAWRIE,
DAVID TULLOCH,
ROSCOE L. CLARK,

CHARLES A. SCHWARTZ,
ALBERT F. Ross,
Committee on Masonic History.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS
Brother Mallachowitz presented twenty-five resolutions
on sundry subjects. Referred to Committee on Policy.
Resolutions were presented to amend sections 79, 200,
and 202~. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
A resolution was introduced to amend section 161 of
the Constitution, providing for a refund of unearned dues
of withdrawing members. Referred to 'the Committee on
Policy.
A resolution was presented to amend section 135 by
inserting the word "secret" before the . word "ballot." Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Arthur Townsend of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598 introduced a resolution proposing to amend section 128 of the
Constitution, as follows:
"Any member who is qualified to receive a fifty-year token shall
be exempt from paying dues to his Lodge and be correspondingly omitted
in computing payments from his Lodge to Grand Lodge."

Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Officers Association of the 66th Masonic District
presented the following proposed amendment, which was
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

226

The Masonic Officers Association of the Sixty-sixth Masonic District
feels that the members of subordinate Lodges do not have proper authority
in selecting its officers, and that many times those who have been appointed to fill the minor offices, whether capable or not, are permitted to
continue through the chairs, and eventually elected to the office of Master.
We feel that the membership as a-whole should have a voice in selec~ing
those who are to govern the affairs of their Lodge, and make the following
recommendation:
That in addition to the Master, Wardens, Treasurer and Secretary
being elected, our Constitution be revised to include the Senior and Junior
Deacons, ·and that the Senior Deacon be required to pass a satisfactory
examination and secure a certificate of qualification before being installed.

REPORT OF ENDq.WM.ENT COMMITTEE
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:
Your Committee on Endowment respectfully reports the donations
for the year were as follows :
Estate of William V. Nichols, Oceanside No. 381 .....•........$ 100.00
"
John Sinclair ............................................................... 2277.03
"
Fred Kolliker .............-....................................................- J()()().00
August Swanson ··············································-······ 1000.00
"
John Buben ..................................................................... 250.00
F. M. Strom················-······-······-······ .. ··-····-·········· 1082.50
Martin K. Barkley........................ ·-························· 269.00
Frank G. Watson........................................................................ 105.00
McCloud Lodge No. 431............................................................ 125.00
Estate of Harding L. WllJtc:..._, ... -.,,,.-•... ,. ......,.............:..... :.. , 2009.90
Nathan Simons ....·.................................................... 250.00
William E. Alexander ........................................._... 1500.00
The fund now amounts, cash and securities, to $732,520.34, an increase for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1932, of $13,667.76.
Respectfully submitted,
GEORGE

M. PERINE,

THOMAS FLINT,
EZRA

w. DECOTO,

WILLIAM I. KOHNKE,
· LEMUEL L. TEST,

Juuus GABRIEL,
HARRY L. SIMON,

Committee.

Adopted.

227

REPORT OF GEORGE WASHINGTON
BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION COMMITTEE
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Committee appointed by the M. ·. W. ·. Grand Master to assist
the constituent Lodges in the celebration of the George Washington Bicentennial begs leave to submit the following report of its activities:
On January 25, 1932, the M.". w:. Grand Master, in a circular
letter to the Masters and brethren of the Lodges, called -attention to the
observance this year by the American people of the 200th anniversary of
the birth of George Washington and suggested that our participation
should be twofold, to-wit: as Lodges and as individuals. To assist the
Lodges in this observance, he appointed two committees, one for the
northern and the other for the southern portion of our State. A copy
of the Grand Master's said letter is hereto attached for more further
particulars.
Pursuant to said appointment said Committee addressed to the Masters of the Lodges a letter under date of February 11, 1932, urging a
participation by the members of the Lodges in all civic celebrations and
requesting that a committee be appointed in each Lodge to arrange and
supervise cclebra~ions within the Lodge. We' recommended that several
Lodge meetings be arranged to consider Washington in at least three
different phases, to-wit : As a man, as a Mason, and as a citizen. A copy
of said letter is attached hereto for further particulars.
On February 24th, 1932, we again addressed a communication to each
Master of the Lodges and enclosed a report blank for his use in reporting
to us the meetings held by his Lodge. A copy of said report blank is
hereto attached. In said letter we also enclosed a booklet of suggested
programs. In arranging these programs we sought to give a diversified
choice and in connection with each suggested program cited a large number of reference books which fully covered the desired subject and which
were obtainable at any public library.
Later, about March 5, 1932, each Inspector in the Jurisdiction was
furnished, without cost, with a copy of Tatsch's "The Facts About
.George Washington as a Freemason" for the use of the Lodges in his
District, and the Masters of the Lodges were informed of that fact.
A supply of said books was also made available through the office of
the Grand Secretary to individual members of the Craft at a nominal cost.
In addition to the foregoing, each Committee had voluminous correspondence with individual Masters, Lodge Committees and members
of the Craft in connection with George Washington Celebration. Although

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

we <lid not undertake to furnish the Lodges with speakers, we did, so far
as we were able, cooperate with them in procuring men well qualified
to present them addresses worthy _o f the occasion.
For purposes of administration the Lodges were divided into two ·
groups; those in Districts 1 to 65 inclusive and Districts 113, 114 and
llS were assigned to the Northern Committee; .those in Districts 66 to
ll2 inclusive and Districts ll6 and ll7 were assigned to the Southern
Committee. Reports from one hundred seventeen Lodges in the Northern
Division and one hundred ninety-one in the Southern Division were received reporting one or more meetings held. From these reports we are
satisfied that the Lodges of this jurisdiction have played a proper part in
this .Bicentennial Celebration. We are also satisfied that our members
and their friends have learned to appreciate more fully the qualities of
Wa~hington as a man, as a Mason and as a citizen. We are convinced that
the lessons which have been learned and the ideals which have been
formed, as a result of these meetings, will stand our country and Masonry
in good stead in times ·such as these through which we are passing.
We desire to express our particular appreciation to the Hon. Sol
Bloom, a member of the Craft, who, as a Director of the United States
Commission for the Celebration of the Two Hundredth Anniversary of
the Birth of George Washington, was of invaluable assistance. In all our
correspondence with the Master and brethren and the officers of Grand
Lodge we received that hearty cooperation so necessary to attain the
·success which we hope was ours. And last, but by no means least, we
extend our thanks to the Most Worshipful Grand Master for the opportunity given us to serve Masonry in this Grand jurisdiction.
.
Fraternally submitted,
· Southern Committee,
Northern Committee,
FREDERIC J. BRUDI,
HARRY L. TODD,
STUART M.. McHAPFIE,
A. F. SHULTE,

Our participation should be twofold: as Lodges and as individuals.
As an individual, each Mason should lend his encouragement and person~!. suppo~t. to .all community events. Masonic tradition prevents the
off1c1al parhc1pation of Lodges in other than Masonic functions· therefore, it is impossible that we appear as official bodies or in Masonic
clothing either in parades or other general forms of public celebration.
Because of this fact, it is the more essential that as individuals we exert
every effort to promote general public observance.

WESLEY

w. KERGAN,

Chairman

DWIGHT W. STEPHENSON,

Chairman..

Report adopted.
GEORGE WASHINGTON BICENTENNIAL CELEBRATION
To the Masters and Brethren of the Constituent Lodges of this Jurisdiction:
The observance this year by the American people of the 200th anniversary of the birth of George Washington is most fitting because of his
outstanding contributions to the founding and the development of the
nation and .the perpetuation of the institutions and principles to which it
is dedicated. It is peculiarly appropriate that the Masonic fraternity
participate in this observance.

229

The extent to. which, and the manner in which individual Lodges
shall conduct Masonic observance of this outstanding event must be left
to the discretion of the respective Lodge and its officers. It is strongly
urged, however, that through Lodge meetings (either several or collecti~e) we tak~ advantage of ~he opportunity thus afforded, not only to pay
t~1bute t~ this .great Masonic character, but also to emphasize the principles of integrity, manhood and citizenship which he so fully exemplified.
!he day of his birth doubtless will be so generally celebrated through
pubhc observance that many of our Lodges may find it more desirable
to observe this year in their private meetings other anniversaries more
directly connected Masonically with the life of George Washington.
Appropriate dates will readily suggest themselves, but the following
are mentioned as illustrations:
George Washington was initiated on November 4th; he .was passed
on March 4th; he was raised to the sublime degree of Master Mason on
August 5th. The oath of office as president was administered to him on
April 30th by Robert R. Livingston, then Grand Master of the State of
New York; he was obligated on the Bible of St. John's Lodge of New
York, which is still preserved as a treasured relic.

!o

assist our Lodges in this observance, two committees have been
appointed, one for the northern and the other for the southern portion of
our state. The members of the committees are:
. Northern Committee: Wesley W. Kergan, Russ Building, San FranCJsco; Harry L. Todd, Postoffice, San ·Francisco; Albert F. Shulte,
c/o Standard Oil Co., 225 Bush Street, San Francisco.
Southern Committee: Dwight W. Stephenson Citizens' National
Bank Building, Los Angeles; Frederic J. Brudi, 622 West Magnolia
Street, Inglewood; Stuart M. McHaffie, 702 Pacific National Building,
Los Angeles.
In due course these commitees doubtless will address further communications to the Lodges. The National Commission has provided an
?bundance. of literatu~e covering every phase of the life of George Washm~ton, with suggestions appropriate for diversified types of meetings.
Literature and detailed information may be obtained, as desired, either

230

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

through application to the .committees a,bove named or by direct application to the National Director: Hon. Sol Bloom, Washington Building,
Washington, D. C.
Fraternally yours,
RoBERT W. GAYLORD, Grand Master.
Dated January 25, 1932.
February 11, 1932.
To the Masters of the Constituent Lodges of this Jurisdiction:
The Grand Master in his letter of January 25th has already brought
to your attention the George Washington Bicentennial Celebration. We
hope you have already appointed a committee that your Lodge may take
its proper place in the celebration.
While we join with the Grand Master in urging a participation by
our members in the various civic celebrations, we feel that · our Lodges
should have meetings of peculiar interest to their members as Masons.
We would recommend that you arrange several meetings to consider
Washington in at least three different phases: As a man, as a Mason,
and as a citizen. Surely the example of Washingion is one worthy of all
emulation and his words should strike. a responsive chord in every
Mason's heart.
We will very shortly send you literature which will be of assistance
to you. In the meantime, we suggest that a reading of Washington's
Farew~ll Address will itself bring to your mind topics for meetings which
will be highly entertaining to your members. In the January issue of the
National Geographic Magazine will be found in short form an accurate
account of Washington's life. A study of these two, which can be obtained at any public library, will ena,ble a speaker to thoroughly prepare
himself. We can also recommend Tatsch's "The Facts About George
Washington as a Freemason," which will be available through the Grand
Secretary's office at fifty cents a copy after February' 18th.
The Masonic chronology of Washington may be briefly summarized
as follows:
March-Passed.
April-Took oath as President on Masonic Bible.
May-Dedication of the Washington Masonic Memorial at Alexandria, Va.
August-Raised.
September-Signed Constitution as President of the Convention.
November-Initiated.
Fraternally yours,
DWIGHT W . STEPHENSON,
WESLEY W. KERGAN,

Chairmen.

231

This report is to be made immediately following the holding of a meeting.
Name and number of Lodge.........,.............................·-······················- ················
Number of lnspectorial District.......... Date and place of meeting ..................
Was meeting open or closed?.............. Number present ................................... .
Nature of program (if a printed program was used, please attach a copy).

Worshipful Master.
(The Committee would be glad to have your suggestions regarding
similar or future celebrations.)

February 24th, 1932.
To the Masters of the ·Constituent Lodges of the Jurisdiction:
In furtherance of our letter to you of February 11th, we are enclosing
programs for the Celebration by Masonic Lodges of the Two Hundredth
Anniversary of the Birth of George Washington. In arranging these
programs, we sought to give you a diversified choice. It is not our
intention to prepare programs or write essays or speeches for you, but
rather to furnish you with information from which addresses can be
prepared by your speakers. Each program in the enclosed pamphlet cites
you to reference books that fully cover the desired subject. The reference
books can be obtained at any public library.
You can procure from the Grand Secretary at fifty cents a copy
Tatsch's "The Facts About George Washington as a Freemason," and
we recommend that you do so at once, inasmuch as from it you can get in
interesting form splendid material covering Washington's Masonic life.
We are aiso enclosing a report blank, which you will please fill out
and return to us immediately following your first meeting, or, if you
already have held your first meeting, fill out said report and return
it at once.
Again we call your attention to the advisa,bility of at once appointing
a committee to take charge of your Washington Celebrations, and also
again suggest the following months as appropriate for Masonic celebrations, to-wit: March-Passed to F. C.; April-Took oath as President
on Masonic Bible; May-Dedication of the Washington Masonic Memorial at Afexandria, Va.; August-Raised to M. M. ; September-Signed
Constitution as President of the Constitutional Convention; NovemberInitiated E. A.
Fraternally yours,
GEORGE WASHINGTON BICENTENNIAL COMMITTEE,
By DWIGHT W. STEPHENSON,
Chairman Southern Division..

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

February 29th, 1932.
To the Masters of Lodges in Districts 1 to 65 and 113, 114 and 115:
There has been sent to each Inspector a copy of Tatsch's book,
"The Facts About George Washington as a Freemason," which is available for use in the preparation of programs and talks celebrating the
Washington Bicentennial. If you desire a copy for your own use, it may
be obtained from the Grand Secretary's office for fifty cents.
The national celebration started last week and now is the time for
every Lodge to be making its plans for a fitting Masonic celebration. Let
us make this most opportune celebration the means of reawakening our
members to their responsibilities as such.
Enclosed herewith is a booklet giving a list of suggested programs
as well as a list of selected books on Washington. With the assistance
afforded by this booklet we are sure that every Lodge can present at
least three very interesting meetings.
We shall later send you a short form for reporting the activities
of your lodge.
Fraternally yours,
WESLEY W. KERGAN, Chairman, Northern Committee

6. "Caballeros de Dimas-Alang, Inc.," with headquarters at 839
Kearny Street, San Francis.co.
7. "Gran Oriente Filipino, Inc.," of the Territory of Hawaii.
8. Certain Chinese Lodges allegedly Masonic, but whose ceremonies
bear no resemblance to ours.
9. An alleged Masonic Lodge called "King Solomon Lodge No. 10,"
Scottish Rite A. F. & A. Masons for the City of Pasadena.
10. "Sovereign National Consistory of Legionarios de! Trabajo."
Our attention has also been directed to an organization known as
"The National Grand Lodge of the Independent Order Free Masons."
This organization was incorporated in 1930 in the State of Ohio by John
F. Furniss, Jacob C. Jennings and John D. Hartman. We have no information that this organization has attempted to charter Lodges in California,
although one of the incorporators, John F. Furniss, previously attempted
through one of his dupes, named George E. Holt, to organize several
Lodges here in the year 1912-13, under a former spurious Grand Lodge
also organized by Furniss under the name of "Ancient -F ree and Accepted
Masons of the State of Ohio." Holt was arrested and prosecuted, which
ended the activities of that organization in this state.
11. Some information comes to us of the activity of a body known
as "Acacia Lodge No. 16-Masoneria Universal" operating in Santa
Barbara. Diligent inquiry has failed to develop any further information
regarding this Rite or this Lodge.
We attach hereto a list of the subordinate Lodges which our information discloses are acting under charters from the respective Rites and
Grand Bodies.

232

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report
as follows:
At the 81st Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, your Committee
presented a report showing that there were five Grand Bodies, allegedly
Masonic, pretending through chartered subordinate Lodges to practice
various Masonic Rites and Ceremonies in California. They were designated
as follows:
1. "Supreme Gran Oriente de! Rito Nacional Mexicano."
2. "Grand Lodge Benito Juarez" of Torreon, Coahuila, Mexico.
3. A colored Grand Lodge known as "Most Worshipful Hiram of
Tyre, Grand Lodge, Ancient, Free and Accepted Masons."
4. "Most Worshipful Sovereign Grand Lodge of F. & A. M.,"
colored.
5. Masonic Lodges operating under charters from the "American
Federation of Human Rights" as the general Grand Body with headquarters at Larkspur, Colorado.
Our further investigation discloses the following additional Clandestine Grand Lodges operating in this state:

233

S11J>remo Gran Oricntc del Rito Nacional Mexicano.
1. As to the first Grand Body, known as "Supremo Gran Oriente
del _Rito Nacional Mexicano," we have previously reported twenty subordinate Lodges as active in Southern California, the names and information concerning which · were given in our 1930 report. Most of these
Lodges have been dormant in the last year although maintaining a nominal
existence. This is no doubt due to economic conditions and the dispersion
of many Mexican citizens who were residents of California in the year
19,30. This Rite was said to have been organized in 1826 in Mexico by
certain Mexican citizens who claimed to have been dissatisfied with the
politic:at activities of the York and Scottish Rite Bodies in Mexico. They
organized a distinctly Mexican Rite, most of which ceremonies were
based upon incidents in Mexican National history, although we are in·
formed that the first three degrees bear striking resemblance to our
·.
.
Symbolic Lodge ceremonies.
. . We are informed that thi~ Rite propagandizes only among Mexica~
citizens who are resident in California and makes no effort to draw into

235

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

its Lodges Americans. It is said also that they appeal to Mexicans of a
higher grade of intelligence and culture than the average. Although the
Rite is said to be clandestine even in Mexico, yet the high standing of its
membership was apparently recognized there by receiving recognition
from the Scottish Rite for various periods during its history. The last
rupture occurred in 1873 and this we are informed has never been healed.
The "Rito Nacional Mexicano" has women's Lodges where identical
work is given the members though women are not made Masons in men's
Lodges nor are men initiated in women's lodges, although visitation is
permitted. These women's Lodges are of comparatively recent origin and
are known as "Logias de Adopcion." We are informed that there is one
women's Lodge in Los Angeles called "Urania No. 4."
·
As previously reported this Rite consists of nine (9) degrees, three
of which are Craft and the other six are equivalent to Chapter, Coun~il
and Consistory Degrees. We are told that during the period of recognition
of this Rite by the Scottish Rite of Mexico, the ninth degree was recog·
nized as the equivalent of the Scottish 32nd degree.
At the time of our report in 1930, Samuel W. Kelly, a Mexican,
had been the Grand Inspector General. Mr. Kelly has since deceased and
the present Inspector General of this Rite in California, Arizona and
New Mexico is Professor Cristobal Aguillon. He resides in Mexicali and
is well known, respected and highly regarded in Calexico and the Imperial
Valley towns. His wife is an English woman and she maintains a residence in Calexico apparently for immigration purposes. Professor Aguillon
is highly educated, very enthusiastic and thoroughly devoted to his brand
of Masonry. He is a professor of English in the Normal School in
Mexicali.
Under the leadership and inspiration of Professor Aguillon, the Lodge
in San Diego "Obreros de! Porvenir," and the two Lodges in the Imperial
Valley, "Socrates No. 18" and "Imperial No. 18," have been revived and
are again active.
We learn that this Mexican Rite has since our last report organized
two Lodges in San Francisco known as "Renacimiento Lodge No. 59"
and "Sebastian Lerdo de. Tejada Lodge No. 73." "Renacimiento Lodge"
meets Thursdays at American Hall, 20th and Capp Streets. Hilario Diaz,
resident at 540 Shotwell Street, and Elias Coss y Leon is Secretary, also
residing at 540 Shotwell Street. "Tejada Lodge" meets Thursday evenings
at 424 Guerrero. Street, and its Master is Jesus Sanchez, resident at 6
Summer Street, and the Secretary is Crispin Pineda of 3724 20th Street.

their charters and are not now existing as Masonic bodies, although we
are· informed that they are active socially and are holding together as far
as possible their former ix:rsonnel.
·

234

Grand Lodge Benito Jua~es.
. 2. The Lodges. reported in our 1930 communication as chartered and
operating under the "Grand Lodge of Benito Juarez" have surrendered

Hiram of Tyre Grand Lodge (Colored)
3. The Lodges under this colored Rite have given little or no evidence
of activity and we have no further information regarding their work.

/

Sovereign Grand Lodge, F. A. & A. Masons (Colored).
4. This Rite is also known as the "Prince Hall Masons" and they
seem to ·be thoroughly organized and to hold regular annual communications. They have been unofficially aided in various ways by officers of the
Grand Lodge of California, although no recognition has been or can be
extended to them either as a Masonic Body or individually. A complete
report of the proceedings of their 77th Annual Communication is attached
hereto and made a part hereof.
Co-Masonic Bodies.
5. We have no further information as to the adivities of subordinate
Lodges under charter from the "American Federation of Human Rights"
which has previously chartered the Lodge in Hollywood located at Serrano
and Hollywood Blvd., nor have we any further information as to the
Lodge in Long Beach or the one in San Diego.
We are informed that there are Lodges in Oakland and San Francisco, though we have not ~en able to locate or contact them. Also, we
are informed that this Rite has Lodges in 22 States and the District of
Columbia, beside being affiliated with an organization known as the "International Order of Co-Masonry."
Caballeros de Dimas-Along, Inc.
6. This alleged Grand 'Lodge has its general offices at 839 Kearny
Street, San Francisco, and was organized December 14, 1920. We have
contacted four of its subordinate Lodges, as follows :
"Zamora Lodge No. 6" of Roseville, California.
"Mabini Lodge" of San Francisco.
"Rizal Lodge" of Salinas, California,
"Regidor Lodge" of Stockton.
"Vivora Lodge" of El Centro.
Gran Oriente Filipino, Inc.
7. We are informed through a communication from Brother Lydgate,
Secretary of Kauai Lodge, that one Prudencio Gabriel, pretending to be
the Grand Master of the Grand Body called "Gran Oriente Filipino, In~.,"
and registered in the Territory of Hawaii, attempted to and did organize
a subordinate Lodge at Lihue, Island of Kauai, Hawaii. This Lodge was
said to be known as "Lodge Lihue,'' with Adridne Defiesta as Master.

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We are also informed that there is a Lodge known as "Burgess Lodge
No. 30," with Prudencio Gabriel as Grand Master and Abundie F. Refuli
as Grand Secretary operating in Honolulu, Hawaii.

the State which we have not been able to locate or contact. We believe
that these Clandestine Bodies are made up of Americans and that the
' investigation should be continued.
We, therefore, respectfully submit the above report and earnestly
urge that the Committee be continued.
Dated October 11, 1932.
WILLIAM A. ScHREIDER,
Chairman.

Chinese Masonry.
8. We contacted an alleged Lodge i~ Marysville, meeting in a building
on 1st and Elm Streets of that city, We learned that the Lodge room is
fitted up in rather peeuliar manner, an altar being placed in the North
end of the room. An altar was also found in an anteroom leading into the
South end of the hall. This lodge is not active and has not been for some
time. We are informed that when any degrees are conferred the officers
come up from San Francisco. Degrees seem to be conferred on women
and babes in arms. These babies are identified by a star-shaped button
sewed on their clothing. We understand that the ceremonies and Rites
do not resemble ours in any respect, although they use the word Masonic
to designate their ceremonies.
Alleged Scottish Rite Lodges.
9. A letter from the Secretary of "King Solomon Lodge No. 10,
Scottish Rite, A. F. & A. Masons,'' announcing a smoker of that Lodge
at 107 South Fair Oaks Avenue, Pasadena, was, by mistake, received by
one of our Lodges in Sunset Masonic Temple, Pico and Orchard Streets.
This letter was signed by one L. L. Redgray, as Right Worshipful Master,
and A. A. James as Secretary. We have been unable to locate these parties,
but believe that such a Lodge exists and also that a Lodge known as
"Mount Moriah Lodge No. 6, A. F. & A. Masons," exists in Los Angeles
under the same Rite. We shall endeavor to get further information.
Sovereign National Con.sistory, Legionarios de Trabajo.
10. Apparently, there is in Oakland, California, a Lcidge known as
"Calapati Lodge No. 515" under this Rite said to exist at 1363 62nd Ave.
Also we believe that there is -a Lodge called "Getchemani Lodge No.
538" located in the City of Los Angeles. We have been unable to gain
further information, but hope to pursue the inquiry.
Masoneria Universal.
11. We are informed that a Lodge. known as '"Acacia N-0. 16" under
this Rite is operating at Santa Barbara.
Also a Lodge known as "Emilio Carranza No. 55" is working in
Santa Paula. We have no other information relative to these Lodges.
Your Committee has heard rumors of the existence of a FrenchAmerican Lodge in Oakland and vague reports of the activities of socalled Scottish Rite Bodies, but was unable to trace these to any definite
source. However, we believe that there are Clandestine Bodies working in

237

JoHN ALPERS,
0RLA A. PllATT,
HAROLD I. SCHOFIELD.

Report adopted and the committee continued.
List of Clandestine Bodies and Lodges

Supremo Gran Oriente del Rito Nacional Mexicano.
"Renacimiento" Lodge No. 59, American Hall, 20th and Capp Streets,
San Francisco.
"Sebastian Lerdo de Tejada" Lodge No. 73, 424 Guerrero Street, San
Francisco.
The Lodge "Dante" No. 34, Ruben La Vega, Master, 1956 Ea!!t First
Street, Los Angeles.
"Patria" No. 35, Manuel Beltran, Master, 736 Towne Avenue, Los
Angeles.
In Pasadena there are the following :
"Hiram Abif" No. 22, Policarpo L. Cruz, Master, Box 591, Pasadena.
"Fenix" No. 46, Ramon Gonzales Mercado, Master, P. 0. Box 458,
Pasadena.
Chapter "Iris" No. 14, Orcadio Jaime, Master, P. 0. Box 591,
Pasadena.
In San Bernardino there are the following:
"Minerva" No. 5, Josephine Kelly, probably the wife of Samuel W.
Kelly, Master, 1030 Seventh Street.
·
"Reconstruction" No. 32, Ernesto Lopez, Master, 760 L Street.
Chapter "Rosiclas" No. 16, Felipo Esquivel, Master, 1030 7th Street.
In Calexico :
"Socrates" No. 18, Cristobal Aguilon, Master, P. 0. Box 244.
"Imperial" No. 18, Rosendo A. Espino, Master, P. O. Box 963.

In Santa Paula:
"Emelio Carranza" No. 55, Jose G. Gonzales, Master, P. 0. Box 417.

238

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In Upland:
"Lealtad" No. 61, Leonardo Padillo, Master, General Delivery.
Corona:
"Samuel R. Kelly" No. 54, Calixto J. Rubakada, Master, 306 South
Main Street.
San Pedrn:
"Cosmos" No. 5, Marguerita Chavez, Master, P. O. Box 1054.
Wilmington:
"Osiris" No. 36, Caledoino Alvarado, Master, P. 0. Box 665.
Santa Barbara:
"Acacia" No. 16, Andras Melendez, Master, 626 Estado Street.
Santa Ana:
"Helios" No. 48, Vicenta Mercurio, Master, 900 East 4th Street.
San Diego:
"Obreros Del Porvenir" No. 33, Fabian G. Quintanar, Master, 72
17th Street.
Grand Lodge Benito l'N<Wea.
All Lodges under this Grand Lodge dissolved and charters surrendered.

Most Worshipful Hiram of Tyre, Grwid Lodge {Colored).
"General Luna" Lodge No. 15, Salinas.
"Picarte" Lodge No. 16, Castroville.
"Acacia" Lodge No. 14, Watsonville.
"Ezra" Lodge No. 11, Stockton.
"Aidan" Lodge near Livermore.
"Luana" Lodge, Carpenter Hall, Valencia, near Market Street, San
Francisco.
"M_alachi" N.o. 9, Los Angeles.
Most Worshipf-uil Sovereign Grand Lodge F. & A. Masons (Colorrd).
A list of these Lodges is set forth in the printed "Proceeding of the
77th Annual Communication" of this Grand Lodge which accompanies
this report.
Caballeros de Dimas-Alang, Inc.
"Zamora" Lodge No. 6, 225 Fig Street, Roseville.
"Mabini" Lodge, California Hall, l!Oy.1 Capitol Street, San Francisco.
"Rizal" No. 3, Salinas.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

239

"Regidor" Lodge No. 5, 350 South El Dorado Street, Stockton.
"Lodge Vivora," El Centro.
"Malvar" Lodge No. 7, 163 Jackson Street, San Jose.
"Lwna" Lodge, 126 Weller Street, Los Angeles.
"Jaena" Lodge No. 11, 545 5th Avenue, San Diego.
"Gomez" Lodge No. 12, 308y.! L Street, Sacramento.
"General Trias," 126 Weller Street, Los Angeles.

Gran Oriente Filipino, bi.c.
"Burgess" Lodge No. 20, Lihue, Kauai, Hawaii.
"Lodge Lihue,'' Kauai.
Chinese Masonry.
Chinese Lodge in Marysville, name unknown. Certain Lodges in San
Francisco, Los Angeles, San Diego and Calexico, names unknown.
Clandestine Scottish Rite Lodges.
"King Solomon" Lodge No. 10, Pasadena.
"Mount Moriah" Lodge No. 6, Los Angeles.
Sovereign National Consistory Legionarios de Trabajo.
"Calapati" Lodge No. 515, 1363 62nd Avenue, Oakland.
"Getchemani" Lodge No. 538, Los Angeles.
Masoneria Universal.
"Acacia" Lodge No. 16, Santa Barbara.
"Emilio Carranza" Lodge No. 55, Santa Paula.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON FORMS
FOR VARIO US PURPOSES
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
At the last annual communication of Grand Lodge, Grand Master
Ross recommended that certain forms now a part of the Constitution that
are not mandatory in fact be eliminated therefrom, but that they be retained and published with other informative matter. The recommendation
.was referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, which
committee reported that "Grand Lodge approve as to policy .. ., but that
the proposed changes in the Constitution be referred to the incoming
Grand Master and Grand Secretary and reported upon at the next annual
communication." This was adopted.

240

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We have given careful consideration to the proposed changes, and
are of the opinion that many of the forms should be considered as standing
resolutions and be eliminated from the Constitution.
We therefore recommend that all forms now set out as part of the
Constitution as sections 233 to 250, inclusive, be eliminated from the Constitution but be included in the published volume under the general title
of "Forms for Various Purposes,'' and be numbered consecutively for
convenience of reference.
We recommend that all matter now contained in the Constitution as
sections 251 to 260, inclusive, relating to procedure for trials for unmasonic conduct, be eliminated from the Constitution and published therewith
under the general title of "Manner of Trial, and Forms of Charges and
Proceedings."
We further recommend that section 261, which authorizes the Finance
Committee to annually set aside three hundred dollars for the purchase
of a present to the retiring Grand Master, be repealed as a part of the
Constitution and retained as a standing resolution. .
.If the above recommendations meet with the approval of Grand Lodge,
the C~nstitution will end with section 232.
We further recommend that section 73 of the Constitution be amended
by striking out the words "in the form prescribed in sections 159 and 161"
and "in the form prescribed in section 235" ;
That section 75 be amended by striking out the words "in the form
prescribed in section 239" ;
That section 98 be amended by striking out the words "in the forms
prescribed in sections 246 and 247" and the words " in said section 246
hereof";
That section 159 be amended by striking out the words "in the form
prescribed in section 243."
And that the Grand Secretary shall, in making up the copy for the
Constitution, cause to be printed a footnote after each of sections 73, 75,
98 and 159 calling attention to the Form appropriate to each of said
sections.
ROBERT B. GAYLORD,
Gra1id Master.
JOHN WHICHER,

Grand· Secretary.

The report was adopted except as to the proposed
amendments to the Constitution, which were referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence. That committee reported

241

recommending the proposed amendments, and all the sections so recommended for amendment and repeal were
accordingly amended by unanimous vote.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON LIBRARY
To the M.". w:. Gratid Lodge of California:
It has been my pleasure during the past year, as chairman of your Committee on Library, to abide with patience the outcome of our country's
enforced depression. I have enjoyed such distinction as came to me in the
absence of other emolument, in the prestige given one for service on a
Grand Lodge committee. For all this I am thankful. I trust the future has
a long season in store for us, wherein a greater interest in the acquirement
of craft knowledge will be manifested. I shall always be ready to further
the interests of this jurisdiction either as a lecturer on Freemasonry, or as
exemplifier of ritualistic rendition.
DENMAN S. WAGSTAFF,
JOHN E. HOUSTON,
RUDOLPH R OSENBERG,
RALPH L. G ARNIER,
CLAYTON ST. JOH N HALE,

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK ON THIRTEENTH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE
To the M .. W . Gratid Lo~ge F. & A. M . .of California:
Each year for several years past in commencing our report attention has been called to the continued growth of the observance in
public favor as evidenced by increased attendance at the public meetings and by the newspaper publicity given it. Never before however
has this. been so apparent as it was this year. And never before were
the programs throughout the state generally so well designed to
accomplish the purpose in view.
In our report last year we pointed out that the space devoted by
the newspapers to any occurrence is generally in proportion to the
public interest displayed. And we called attention in detail to the
increased publicity given the Twelfth Annual Observance. This year
this was even more marked, especially in editorial comment and in
the publication of special articles. Last year the proclamation of the·
Grand Master was published in 107 daily and weekly papers and this
year Grand Master Gaylord's proclamation was reproduced either in
its entirety or in part in 161 different publications.

243

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our clipping service was discoptinued in the interest of economy
on April 1st. By that time however a total of 1337 articles, both
editorial and news matter, had been reported. The success of the
week from the publicity aspect was so apparent at that time that it
was believed unnecessary to entail further expense. The increase in
newspaper publicity was undoubtedly due to the activity of the local
publicity committees. · In a report from our Director of Publicity
reference is made to the increase in the number of chairmen of local
committees in touch with him from 42 in 1930 to 103 this year. The
value of these local publicity chairmen is in their visits to their local
press which not only insure a closer attention to publicity matter sent
out by our committee, but serve to increase the interest in local
happenings.
In many instances, indeed it seemed wherever possible, Masters
of Lodges named local newspaper men as publicity chairmen; and
the wisdom of such action was evidenced by the result. It may be
said that generally speaking the publicity received from either the
urban or rural press is in proportion to the activity of the local committees. And in this connection we feel it incumbent to again call
attention by way of appreciation to the fact that many of the smaller
papers which ordinarily could not well afford any considerable portion of their limited space devoted columns to the observance; and
in many instances were largely responsible for the public interest
displayed.
Extraordinary as was the amount of publicity received, even
more significant was the nature thereof. Not only were the news
reports unusually complete and detailed with photographs and cartoons, but there were more and longer editorials published than ever
before. Many of the photogra.phs were of the participants or scenes
in tableaus, plays and pageants commemorating the Washington
Bi-Centennial; and the cartoons in some instances appearing in connection with news reports and in others as special features of the
editorial pages. There was one which appears from the report to
which it was attached with other newspaper clippings, to have attracted unusual attention; and it seems to us well worth describing.
It depicted a school room with the teacher seated at her desk smiling
behind a paper which partially concealed her face. In front of her
were two snickering pupils with books upraised in front of them
and in the corner, and the evident object of the smiles and snickers,
was a figure of consternation sitting on a stool, crowned with the
traditional "dunce cap" and labeled "Uninformed Critic of Our
Schools." Over the teacher's desk on the wall. was a placard "Public
Schools Week April 25-30." It was a pungent stricture on that
criti£~siµ which is too often the result of ignorance, and a graphic

reminder of the opportunity afforded through Public Schools Week
to become advised and informed of the purposes and accomplishments of the modern school.
There were also this year an increased number of special articles
of a sort usually appearing in 'only educational publicatic;ms. Some of
these explained in detail the difference between modern ed~cational
methods and those in vogue when the parents of today were m school
and called attention to the tremendous changes and evidence of
progress during the last twenty-five years and to the n~cess~ty for a
changed curriculum in our schools. Others .gave detailed mf?r~a­
tion of their local schools and particularly with respect to activities
of which the general public have little knowledge; such as trade
and continuation schools, and opportunity and other special classes
for the handicapped children. No greater contribution could be made
to the movement in which we are engaged than was received from
the newspapers throughout· the state.
The radio was another form of publicity of which mention should
be also made. There were broadcasts from many stations of infor~
mation similar to that given by the newspapers. And there was at
least one station, and perhaps others which were not reported, from
which every day during the week was broadcast an address on an
educational topic or an announcement of some sort germane to Public Schools Week.
As was explained last year, it is virtually impossible to convey
in a report of this character anything like an adequate idea of the
success achieved. And each year it becomes more difficult to make
appropriate mention of specific observances which well deserve it.
This year we shall not even attempt to do so. Instea~ ":'e pur?ose
endeavoring to give a composite view of the observance m its entirety
throughout the state with only occasional reference to some particular report.
For those who continue to use attendance as the yardstick with
which to measure success, we may say that in one city on a single
night there were held twenty-one separate meetings with an estimated gross attendance of 25,000 people on that night alone; and
that there were from 6 to 10 meetings on each of the other nights of
the week with the attendance at many of them exceeding the capacity
of the auditorium. And in another city it was estimated that approximately 30,000 persons visited the schools during the ~eek. In
a report from a third community (and where, by the way, 1t was at
one time apparently believed that a fitting observance could. not be
held but which for several years past has reported outstanding success~) the following statement appears:· "This was the greatest
Public Schools Week observance that has ever been held in this
city and it is evidenced by the fact that 26,000 people visited the

242

244

245

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

schools and attended the evening programs." In that report, by the
way, mention is made of the fact that many programs were arranged
and given during the week without any solicitation on the part, and
in some instances even without the previous knowledge, of the general committee in charge of arrangements. This is extremely significant as indicating the extent of the growth of the observance in
public favor.
Over-flow meetings were reported from all portions of the state.
The comment of one Master with respect to his observance was that
"The only bad feature was the fact that the auditorium of the high
school was not large enough to accommodate all who desired admission." To consol~ him we may say that there were reports of
many observances which had similar "bad features."
There · was also a material increase in the number of visitors to
the schools, and particularly to the rural schools. In one county in
·addition to the visits by the parents of the children and others in the
district, every rural school was visited by representatives of twentyfour .different civic and fraternal organizations through arrangements
made by the County Superintendent.
In a previous report attention was called to the trend in the
direction of making the public meetings only incidental features of a
program extending over the entire week with visits to the schools
and practical demonstrations of actual work being done, exhibits of
school work of all sorts and kinds, and pageants presented by school
children exemplifying school objectives as its dominant features. At
that time this was noticeable only in the larger communities. This
year it extended to the small rural districts.
The promise made last year for even greater success in the rural
districts was this year certainly fulfilled. There were several reports
from communities in which every elementary school in a un.ion high
school district held an observance of its own on one day of the week
and then joined with all the other schools in the district in an evening
meeting held at the high school. And even in the very sparsely
settled districts an observance of some sort was held in the little one
room school. In more than one instance one or both parents of every._
child enrolled was a visitor to the school; and some of the programs
compared very favorably with those of the urban schools. As was
the case last year, there were some in which the program would
have been virtually impossible in a city school, and which was of
tremendous benefit to all who participated-teacher, pupils and parents. What was accomplished in these little rural schools was due
to the splendid co-operation received from the county superintendents and the rural supervisors under the .direction of the State De~
partment of Education..

Again this year a "Bulletin" designed especially for the use of
teachers in the one and two room schools was issued by the State
Department. Superintendent Kersey in his report to the Governor's
Council made extended reference to the observance which he stated
was characterized by a well planned program of activities throughout
the whole of the state of California. In commending the observance,
Superintendent Kersey said, "The wi~e. significance o~ Public Schools
Week will be reflected in the fine spmt of co-operation be~wee~ the
school officials and the general public brought about by an mtelhgent
understanding of the nature and purpose of the mo.dern program. of
educatien. This close co-operation is especially important during
these abnormal times if education is not to suffer."
The "intelligent understanding" to which Superintendent Kersey
referred was sought to be conveyed not only through the public
ad.dresses and the school programs with visits to the schools and
school exhibits but as well by means of printed and mimeographed
bulletins and ~irculars .distributed at the public meetings. Data of
all so.rts were given including the cost of the schools throughout the
state generally estimated on the average daily atten.dance and the
cost of the schools of the particular district, with details thereof, and
an explanation of the various funds.
As was perhaps to be expected; there was this year more than
the usual attention given to the cost of public education. At the
present time when curtailment of school expenditures is a subject of
the greatest consideration throughout the country: parents and othe~s
may reasonably .be expected to evince unusual interest not ?nly m
hat the schools are doing, but as well in the cost of education. In
;is connection we quote from an editorial in a publication which
always has been exceedingly generous in the amount of space devoted to the observance of Public Schools Week.
"Public Schools Week is not a new observance. It has
been held annually for a number of years. This time however there is a new attitude upon the part of the general
public and Public Schools Week, inte~tion~lly or no~, h~s
brought to the front the feeling of sat1sfact1on and pride m
the fact that the children of today have so many more educational advantages than the past generation or two. ·• · .
"This year Public Schools Week finds the people in a
different frame of mind. They have just been called upon to
pay their taxes; their taxes are high and there is much tal.k
of more taxes. On top of this the money to pay them is
harder to get. Then, too, there is the talk of shifting the
burden of the school taxes from the counties to the state.•. ·

246

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Public Schools Week with its demonstrations of the
fine work done by the public schools should also bring before
the people the desire to have the public schools conducted
most efficiently. The fundamental and essential departments
of our educational system we want to be carried on in a most ·
thorough fashion and we are willing to pay the costs, but
there is no room for 'frills' in our present scheme of things.
This week brings us a new evaluation."

In many communities in addition to the meetings held in the
school auditoriums there were meetings held for the observance of
Public Schools Week by the service and other luncheon clubs and
by organizations of various sorts and kinds. In some instances the
program was presented by pupils from the schools and consisted of
vocal and instrumental music with perhaps a brief talk by a high
school student, while in others, particularly at luncheon meetings,
there was an address delivered by a school administrator. In one
city there were thirty-four of these meetings held during the week.
And as an evidence of the care and detail with which the arrangements had been made mention may be made of the fact that as a
part of the report of the observance there was a list of these organizations with the names of the president and secretary of each
and the date of the meeting. This was typed and had been evidently
prepared in advance; while in pencil was the name of the speaker
assigned t-0 each meeting. There was thus brought to the men and
women composing the membership of these organizations information with respect to the schools which otherwise they never might
have obtained. It also served as splendid publicity for the week's
program and without doubt encouraged visits to the schools ·by those
who desired further information.
School exhibits of all sorts and kinds were again this year an
outstanding feature of the observance in many communities; and
there was an increased number of instances where merchants contributed space in their show windows for the display of school work.
The most attractive of these window displays were of course the
so-called "live exhibits" where the pupils gave an actual demonstration of many of the cultural, vocational and homemaking activities
of the schools, including clay m-0deling, block printing, book binding,
art leather work and home economics. And hardly less so was the
exhibition in a store window of two reels of motion pictures illustrating the activities of adult classes in session. It was an exceedingly novel method of acquainting the public with the work being
done in adult education.
Included with other exhibits at one school there was a complete
display in the cafeteria -0f food sold to the pupils with tags showing
the price charged for each. In connection with the mention of food,
reference may be here made to what must have been not only a very
interesting, but an extremely significant, feature of the program of
a particularly well designed observance. It was a "Father and Son
Night" at a junior high school where the boys. and their fathers sat
down to a dinner which had been prepared in its entirety by 12 boys
enrolled in the cooking class. Its significance is in the indication of
the extent to which boys are availing themselves of the opportunity

It is particulariy gratifying to your committee to note an evident
willingness on the part of those in charge of an observa.n<:e to avail
themselves of the experience of others. Many features whi"ch were
unique at the time to which reference to them was made in our
reports were this year a part of the program in other communities.
For instance, there were several observances including as an outstanding feature what was generally termed a "Back to School Night"
wit~ the parents in attendance not as visitors but as pupils. This is
one of the most effective methods which could be devised of giving
the parents an insight into the work being done by the children and
of establishing a proper understanding between the parents and the
school. There were several variations of this reported. There was
however one feature common to all of them. The parents were in
attendance in the classes in which their children were registered and
there received the lessons which ordinarily would have been given
the children and in exactly the same way. And as they moved from
one class to another they were afforded an opportunity to meet all
the teachers. In some instances the periods were of the usual length
and in others they were cut to such time as would ·make possible a~
entire. day's program being given. When the parents were gathered
in the auditorium for the "assembly" period they there received the
program provided for the pupils of the school. The school nurse
gave such instructions to the parents as she ordinarily would have
given to the children respecting the care of the teeth, health, etc. ;
and the principal gave the usual instructions with respect to fire drill,
use of the grounds and lunch permits. In some instances this was
varied by holding a student body meeting in which the parents
represented their children:· Amusing features were introduced such
as requiring all parents late to classes to report to the prihcipal's
office for a tardy slip before being permitted to enter the class room.
And in one school the young teacher informed the clerk of the school
board who was late for one of the classes that it would be necessary
for her to be on time if she expected to be permitted to continue in
school. Wherever this feature was introduced it received extremely
favorable comment and will undoubtedly be continued as a permanent
feature of the observance.

247

249

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to learn to cook. In the early stages of this activity it was only for
what was termed "camp cooking" that the boys enrolled. Many of
them are now taking exactly the same courses which were originally
provided only for girls. In passing it may be said that in even what
are termed "occupational courses" there is none, or at least very few,
exclusively pursued by either .sex. Confirmatory of this it will be
possibly recalled that in one of our previous reports in referring to a
certain observance mention was made of a .g irl who had given a
demonstration of electric welding. And it is no longer a rarity to find
girls enrolled in automotive courses, and more commonly in certain
courses in home economics in which is given instruction in electrical
wiring, care of electrical appliances and simple household plumbing.
The unusually large number this year of plays and pageants was
probably due in part at least to the fact that there was in this way
afforded a splendid opportunity for the observance of the Washington
Bi-Centennial during Public Schools Week. In one city which this
year well maintained the high standard previously set, all the exhibits
and programs (and many elsewhere throughout the state) were built
around the Washington Bi-Centennial theme with plays and pageants
introducing Mt. Vernon, Valley Forge, the First Inauguration, Washington's Farewell Address and other incidents of his life. Instead of
the usual exhibit of dancing there was the stately tread of the
minuet; and the music was of colonial days. In some instances there
were very elaborate productions presented by high school and junior
college students; and in others the program consisted only of tableaus by the smaller children. In some of the particularly small
communities where no attempt was made to present a play or pageant
or even a tableau the address of the evening was a patriotic one
with the First President as the subject. Whatever the form of the
program it of course accomplished the desired object of centering
the attention of the children and of their parents as well on George
Washington.
·
·
The foregoing will, we hope, give some idea of what we feel well
warranted in saying was without doubt from every point of view the
most successful observance of Public Schools Week ever held. Of
course what was accomplished would have been impossible without
the sympathetic aid and assistance received from the school people
and from civic and fraternal organizations of every sort, and character, as well as from churches, theatres, newspapers and radio
stations. As was of course to be expected, all the co-ordinate bodies
of · Masonry and allied organizations co-operated wholeheartedly
everywhere with the Lodges. _And we feel that special mention
should he made of the part played by the Order of De Molay in one
of the observances. There were twenty-eight boys selected, one of

-w hom at every public meeting .delivered a five minute "key note"
talk in which a brief history was given of the beginning and growth
of the system of public schools in that community. The talks given
by these boys might well have served as the theme of a more extended address by the "speaker of the evening."
W ~ also deem it simple justice to apprize Grand Lodge of the
action of a chapter of the Order of Eastern Star. With the heads of
the co-ordinate bodies of Masonry, and of the Sciots and Shrine, the
Grand Matron of the Or<ler of Eastern Star each year issues an
edict calling attention to Public Schools Week and decreeing that no
chapter shall hold any meeting or give any entertainment that may
possibly conflict with any meeting held for the observance of Public
Schools Week; and she, herself, arranges her itinerary so that she
makes no official visits during that week. It appears however that
a chapter in the southern part of the state had inadvertently arranged for a reception to the Deputy Grand Matron of which the
outstanding feature was to be a banquet. When this came to the
knowledge of the Master of a Masonic Lodge in the community he
immediately wrote a letter of protest to the Matron of the Chapter.
This was only four <lays before the date set for the reception; and
as he subsequently explained it was with the hope of preventing
anything of the sort in the future and with no expectation, or even
thought, that the affair would be cancelled on such short notice.
Nevertheless immediately upon the matter being brought to her
attention the Matron cancelled the arrangements which had been
made and postponed the reception; and this notwithstanding the
fact that reservations had been made for a banquet for 400 people.
It was certainly a fine gesture which we believe will be commended
by Grand Lodge. Our committee has made suitable acknowledgment to the Matron of the Chapter and also to the Grand Matron.
We close our report with a quotation, slightly changed, from an
address made by the chairman of a committee of arrangements at a
public meeting which brought to a close an exceedingly successful
observance. What he said of the observance in that community is
likewise applicable to the observance in its entirety throughout the
state:
"The real success of the observance just closed cannot be
measured by the attendance at the various events or by the publicity
received. If those who attended our meetings, visited our schools
and viewed the exhibits have become really informed of what is being
done and the reason for it; if the wide public interest manifested
continues unabated; if there results that spirit of co-operation between the school people and the general public which is dependent
upon an intelligent understanding of the modern program of educa-

248

250

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion; and if such criticism of our public schools as is proper will
always be intelligent and constructive, and never merely captious or
uninformed, then, and then only, will it be known that the Thirteenth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week was indeed the
success we believe it to have been."

1Jn ~ranh ifjohgr

251

AFTERNOON SESSION

All of which is respectfully submitted.
ROBERT A. ODELL,

RoY W. CLOUD,

ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,

WILL CROCKET,

L.

E. CHENOWETH,

W. E. GIVENS,

DR.

JOSEPH M. GWINN,

w ALTER V. GooDFELLOW,

WALTER R. HEPNER,
J. L. HOUSE,
FREDERICK F. MARTIN,
]AMES T. MONTANO,
CHARLES

E. TEACH,

.

Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

ELIAS E. ELLISON,

A. R. CLIFTON,

F. A. HENDERSON,

Wednesday, October 12, 1932.

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

w ALTER L. BACHRODT,

JOHN B. BEMAN,
MELVIN BOWMAN,

o. s. HUBBARD,
GEORGE c. JENSEN,
WESLEY w. Ki:RGAN,
WILLIAM G. PADEN,
LEWIS

w. SMITH,

VAUGHAN MACCAUGHEY.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws begs leave to report as follows:
Your committee has reviewed and considered resolutions of various
Lodges with reference to decrease and increase of dues; decrease of fees;
changes of time and place of holding stated meetings, and finding them in
order, we recommend their approval.
Respectfully submitted,
RANDOLPH

v. WHITING,

ARTHUR JOEL,

At 12 :15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 2
o'clock this afternoon.

VICTOR MCLUCAS,
}OHN ROBINSON,
FRANKLIN PADAN,

Committee.

Adopted.

RITUAL FOR PAST MASTER DEGREE
]. Lynn Goode, Inspector of the 81st Masonic District,
presented the following:
Whereas, section 224 of our Constitution sets out that "This Grand
Lodge recognizes no degree of Past Master conferred by any authority not
holden under a legitimate Grand Lodge, acknowledging only the order of
that name as it exists in the ceremonies attending the installation of the
Master-elect of a chartered Lodge; which order shall be conferred only
by a convocation of Masters or Past Masters, not less than three in number who have thus regularly received it."
And whereas, many associations of Past Masters have been formed
within our jurisdiction for the purpose of conferring what they term the

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

STATEMENT OF INCOME AND EXPENSE
Fiscal Year Ended September 30, 1932

Past Master's degree, which associations have no legal Masonic standing
and no uniformity of procedure or ritual. Therefore, be it
Resolved, that a form of ritual be prepared by the Committee on
Ritual, for use throughout the jurisdiction, for the proper preparation of
Masters-elect, the conferring of which shall be a prerequisite to installation of Masters of Lodges.

Income
Donations by Grand Lodge....-····-····-··············..- ·.....$10,459.75
Rental of building and dance receipts........................
165.00

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Pur~
poses.
FORMS FOR ANNUAL RETURNS
Raymond D. Laughery introduced the two following
resolutions, which were referred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes :
Resolved, that the Grand Secretary be, and he is hereby directed to
omit from the blank forms for the annual returns, provided for in section
80, the summary of the income and disbursements of each Lodge.
Resolved, that the Grand Secretary be, and he is hereby directed to
omit from the blank forms for the annual returns, provided for in section
80, a request for information as to the members who are in arrears in
the payment of dues.

REPORT OF TRUSTEES U. C. MASONIC CLUB
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of California,
Inc., submit herewith the report of the audit of the finances of the Club,
together with the proposed budget for the ensuing year.
Nothing out of the ordinary has happened at the Club during the past
year, beyond the fact that the present condition of depression, which is
felt by students attending the University as well as by all others, has resulted in the Club House affording opportunity for recreation and social
intercourse among the several hundred Masonic students daily using the
place probably to a greater degree than at any other time during its history.
Were it not for the maintenance of the institution at the University, many
of our young people of Masonic affiliation would be utterly deprived of
the opportunities for that much needed fine association and close contacts
among students that the Masonic Club affords, and which they otherwise
could not enjoy.
The proposed budget for the ensuing year calls for an expenditure of
practically forty per cent less than that provided for the year just closing.
All salaries have been reduced twenty-five per cent for the ensuing year,
and consolidation of various activities results in a budget twenty-five per
cent less than the actual expenditures of the last year.

253

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

·

Total income ····-··--·········..·······-····- ···········'··········--················$10/124.75

•

Maintenance Expense
Salaries:
Resident hostess ....,_...,_..............$ 2,000.00
Superintendent of building........ 1,600.00
Office ............................................
240.00
Attendants ....................................
623.60

$ 4,463.60

Services:
Heat and light......: .........................
Telephone ···-·······························Water ······························-···········
Garbage ..................•.....................

682.79
126.20
58.81
17.70

885.50

Supplies:
Office supplies and expense......
Postage ..........................................
Jan itor's supplies..........................

39.60
9.25
100.28

149.13

General:
2,516.67
Taxes
334.30
Insurance ····································739.56
General repairs.. ....--··················76.24
Laundry .......................................,..
89.34
Papers, magazines, etc•............298.00
Club service....-················-··········189.73
Miscellaneous ..............................

4,243.84

Total maintenance expense .................................................... 9,742.07
Excess of income over maintenance expense .,..................................$
Add : Other income :
Interest on savings bank account ......................$ 173.21
Interest on depreciation and insurance
fund (savings account) ..............................
79.74
Donation to depreciation and insurance fund..
15.55

882.68

Total other incoine....................................................................

268.50

$ 1,151.18

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

254

255

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Deduct: Transfers to Depreciation and Insurance Reserve:
79.74
Interest on depreciation and insurance fund ....$
Donation to depreciation and insurance fund..
15.55

R~PORT OF DIRECTORS MASONIC CLUB U. C.

95.29

Net income carried to Capital and Surplus Exhibit~..........'......, ..:$ 1,055.89

Proposed Budget
1932-1933 1931-1932
Resident hostess ..............................................$1,500.00 $2,000.00
Superintendent .............................................. 1,200.00
1,600.00
Bookkeeper .................................................... 240.00
240.00
445.00
Club service ---·-···········----------······-·······----·····--- 200.00
Attendants ...................................................... 300.00
600.00
Heat and light ................................................ 565.00
850.00
Telephone ...................................................... 125.00
190.00
Water ..............................................................
60.00
125.00
25.00
Garbage ························-··································
20.00
120.00
Office supplies ··································-············
32.00
200.00
Janitor supplies ··'······························----········· 100.00
Laundry ............................................:...............
45.00
Gar.dener .......................................................... 120.00
Miscellaneous .................................................. 150.00
Repairs and replacements ..........................
50.00
1,000.00
Newspapers and periodicals ........................
80.00
80.00
Taxes ................................................................ 2,600.00
2,600.00
Insurance .......................................................... · 300.00
425.00
Depreciation ..................................................................
1,800.00

$7,687.00 $12,300.00

Amount
Expended
1931-1932
$2,000.00
1,600.00
240.00
298.00
623.60
682.79
126.20
58.81
17.70
48.85
100.28
76.24

189.73
739.56
89.34
2,516.67
334.30
$9,742.07

THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF THE MASONIC CLUB
OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, INC
WILLIAM H. WASTE, President.
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS, Secretary,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
MILTON T. FARMER,
WILLIAM P . FILMER,
WILLIAM B. HERMS,
WALDO F. POSTEL,
GEORGE F . RODDEN,
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

.

LOS ANGELES

To 'the M. •. w. ·. Grand Lodge of California:
. Your Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the University of
California at Los Angeles fraternally submit their report for the year
ending September 30, 1932.
The financial statement is reflected by the report of Brother Reynold
E. Blight, which is annexed to and made a part hereof. Particular attention
. should be directed, however, to the following :
First.: In accordance with the request of the Finance Committee, that
we curtatl expense for the year as far as possible, it appears that from
the sum appropriated for maintenance during the past year there remains
the sum of $2,463.36 after deducting the sum of $1,250.00 for depreciation.
and the sum remaining on hand September 30, 1931. Adding this balance
to the sum appropriated last year for the. coming year's work, it is the
belief of your Board that we shall be able, except, of course, for unfore- .
seen emergencies, to carry on as heretofore.
.
Second: The sum of $175.00 mentibned under the heading of maintenance fund represents the sale of a first edition discovered by one of the
students in the library.
Third, the campaign or capital fund increased during the year in the
sum of $205.62, that being the excess of subscriptions received in the
amount of $563.36 and interest earned over the cost of imp~ovements
. during the same period.
Fourth: Last year your Board reported that there had been impounded
. in the United States National Bank, by the closing of that institution, the
sum of $13,046.67. Since that time we have received a dividend of 25 per
cent, or the sum of $3,266.56. The reports received by your Board tend to
_confirm the information of a year ago that eventually we shall lose a very
small percentage, if anything, of the remaining balance. The remainder of
the items are self-explanatory, the report showi_ng proprietary interests
now amounting to $141,476.33, distributed as follows:

--.---·----1-·---·.

··-·····--$li,609.45
Building site ._....,...........
Building and landscaping ·- ·-····-..·-·-·······--··--···-····:·····- 88,052.19
Furnishings and equipment ······"········--···-··············-·--····- 16,153.18
Cash in bank ~-··-··--------··---·····----·· ..·······---···-···-······· 6,381.40
Cash in receivership··············-······················-········-··········-·· 9,780.11
Mortgage certificates ··--"···-···········--····-···-··········-·········· 3,500.00
It should be noted that, as in the past, we h,ave no liabilities other
·
'
than current bills.

256

257

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

With respect to the budget for the ensuing year, our estimate is as
foUows:
Salaries: Resident hostcs!t - ........._,. ______........·-····-···: ......-$1,800.00
Superintendent of building .................................... 720.00
Janitorial assistance ··-···-··-········•··-····-······-····- 500.00
Gar<lening ··········-··-············································-·· 120.00
Office assistance ······-··········-··-························- ··- 500.00
Bookkeeping ...:.......:.........·-···········-·-··················- 100.00
Service Charges : Heat and light ············-······························ 750.00
Telephones ................................................ 150.00
Water . ·····-··································-·············
60.00
Supplies : Office ........................................................................ 200.00
Postage ......................................................................
50.00
Janitor's and gardener's ........................................ 150.00
General Charges : Taxes .......................................................... l,000.00
Insurance .................................................. 530.00
General upkeep .......................................... 1,000.00
Newspapers and period~als ................... 75.00
Mi11cellaneous expense ····················- ······ 500.00
Furniture replacement reserve .............. 500.00
Depreciation of building fund ................ 750.00

Kempton continue~, in her quiet and affectionate manner, in the capacity
of resident hostess, to win the respect and esteem of the Masonically affiliated students at the University. During the year, 29,365 students made use
of the clubhouse; that is to say, about 150 per college day. And, as evidence
that the students are catching the spirit of the clubhouse, may we call
attention to the fact that one of the organizations not only helped several
families with baskets of food, but practically supported a needy family
during the winter and paid their milk bill during the summer. Another
group furnished funds to a senior in order to enable her to complete her
course and graduate. During the year, also, a new group of Masonically
affiliated young men perfected an oritanization under the name of
"Macafen" to carry that spirit farther into the campus life.
We recommend that such provision be made for support and maintenance during the year 1933-1934 as will be adequate for that purpose.
Fraternally submitted, by order of the Board of Directors.
BEN G. WRIGHT,

Total ································································--·--···-·-$t.i415181
While five vacancies occurred during the year, the Grand Master renominated those whose terms expired, and for that reason, your Board,
with one exception, remains the same as last year, the members thereof
being as follows : Past Grand Masters John Stewart Ross, Will H. Fischer
and Dana R.. Weller; Brothers Frank X. Pfaffinger, Charles H . Dodds,
Elmer E. Beckman, Marco R. Newmark, Walter L. Berger, Thomas B.
Buchan, William S. McFadden, C. H. Robison, Clyde C. Shoemaker, Ira
F. Thompson and Ben G. Wright.
A heavy hand fell upon Masonry in California this year, taking from
its ranks one whose virtues and qualities of leadership we should love to
extol at length were we gifted with the wisdom to do him justice. In this
report, however, we should perhaps confine ourselves to the statement that,
with your Board, as in other Masonic activities, Perry Weidner's advice,
support and energy were invaluable and always characterized by a high
and philosophic conception of Masonry. We, who have labored with him,
mis~ his counsel and shall revere his memory so long as we shall live.
Acknowledgment is hereby made of the contribution of several volumes
to our library by Brother C. H. Robison and his wife.
So far, our report has largely dealt with financial affairs. It would
not be proper to let that picture remain as the predominant one. M-rs.

Vice Chairma-n.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.
Balance in banks, October 1, 1931 _......................................-·········-·$ 13,210.06

Receipts
Grand Lodge •...:-·--·'- ··---··············-··--····-······---' 10,459.75
Subscriptions -································································
563.36
Interest: Mortgage guarantee certificates ···-···········
210.00
Bank balances ····--·---·····-·····-·-·····-·····-·-·
172.26
Sale library book ·················-·:·················-······-········-··
175.00
Refund, expense -·················---····---~-····---·······
34.00

11,614.37

$ 24,824.43
Disbursemen.ls
Hostess and assistant ....-·-······..··-·-·-··..·-·..····-··-Superintendent of building ···---···-·········-····-········
Heat, light and water .,..............................................Janitor, extra ··········································-····················Gardening ···-····-·······-·································-········-····Stationery and printing -···-··-··················-········-········
Telephones -~----··-···············:··-············-··-··············-··­
Subscriptions ······················································-········
Insurance ····-·---··-··..-·-··········-··----········-·
Taxes ··········--·······-···········.."···--·····-···-····--··-···..Library ·······-··························-···-······--······-·-·~··-Miscellaneous ..............................................................
Genera1 upkeep .......................................,......................

1,905.00
720.00
748.97
327.92
122.00
217.65
116.46
56.65
4225
945.04
58.33
57.40
735.56

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Business office expense --..-'---'--~----:···-··-Improvements, maintenance ..........: .............................
Interest on loan -·--'-·-····-········'-··-..:.·-·····-····:,......

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

406.49
370.50
8.50

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PLANS FOR
ENDOWMENT

Maintenance fund disbursements ····-··..··---'-$ 6,838.72
184.20
Accounts payable, 9/30/31 ··········-·········-·········-·······
640.00
Improvements, Campaign fund ····-···-·····················Loan repaid ····-····--····--···'····:···'·····--·····'---······- 1,000.00

8,662.92

Cash on hand, September 30, 1932 ----·--·-~···..:..,....·--$ 16,161.51
Campaign Capital
Subscriptions received ····--··--··--·-·---··············--····-·-·-····-···--$145,251.65
As of previous report ;._____;.._______________________$144,688.29
'
In fiscal year ended September 30, 1932 -····-····

563.36

Interest received ··········-····-····-················-················-····-··········-··Previous report ····-····-········································
7,044.53
Year ended September 30, 1932 ..........,.-...........
382.26

7,426.79

Investment, previous year ················································-····-··········-

1,000.00

Total cash received to September 30, 1932 ············-········-·····-$153,678.44
Less: Expenses previously reported .................................................. 16,459.46

.
$137,218.98
Note: As the bank accounts are not maintained separately as to Campaign and Maintenance funds, all interest received has been credited to
·
Campaign Capital.
Maintenance Fund
Balance, reported September 30, 1931 -··----··-····-····-····-···········.$ 1,677.32
Receipts-October 1, 1931, to September 30, 1932:
Grand Lodge --···-····-·-~·-..•--·...:....:..._·-····..$ 10,459.75
Library ··························-··················=·····················
175.00
Refund ······················-····-····-································
34.00
10,668.75

$ 12,346.07
Disbursements: Schedule A ........................................ $ 6,838.72
Depreciation: Buildings ··············-····························
750.00
Furnishings ..........................................
500.00

Balanc~, September 30, 1932

259

8,008.72

-··--·------··--------$

4,257.35
. Note : excepting for the items totaling $640.00 for the fountain, all
disbursements for the year are charged to Maintenance Fund.
IRA F. THOMPSON.

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your special committee appointed by the Grand Master to study ways
and means of increasing the Endowment Fund, begs leave to report:
The Grand Master, through his many years s.ervice to the Craft, and
particularly his service as a member of the Homes· Board, has come very
definitely in contact with the ever increasing calls for relief from members
of the fraternity and their dependents. He sees the need of increasing the
Endowment Fund and has taken this means of bringing it to your attention.
Your committee has given the matter very careful study and agrees
with the Grand Master that something definite and concrete should be done
to increase the Endowment Fund. You have but to turn to the statistics
so widely published and advertised by our great American life insurance
companies for proof as to the financial mortality of the average man. Our
fraternity is made up of average men, and we must necessarily conclude
that .the members thereof will have the average financial mortality. With
these facts in mind, a look to the future is indeed convincing that it is
important that we begin at once to build a fund that will be sufficient to
enable future generations to maintain the standard of relief we have
enjoyed.
In passing, your committee wishes to pay its tribute to the present
members of our Homes· Board and those men who have served you in the
past. They have given unstintingly of their time and energy to the interest
of the Craft and for the well being of the resident members in each of
our Homes. We commend them to you and assure you that they are
handling a difficult 'job well, and certainly should not be burdened with
the problem of securing the necessary funds to carry on their work.
It is a well known fact that from the early history of this country,
educational, religious and charitable institutions have been founded and
owe their success to endowments, which is particularly called to our attention in the State of California by Stanford University, originally created
through an endowment and perpetuated by the same and additional endowments; the University of California at Berkeley and Los Angeles created
by the people of California is indebted to endowments for a great deal of
its wonderful work. Like mention could be made of many other institutions in this state, which have received endowments from those who wish
the perpetuation of like ideas, that is, from former students and those
whose financial ability allows them to assist their fellow men.
The Endowment Fund may be increased in several different ways: by
contribution of cash or other properties, by bequests and through life insurance. The problem is to familiarize members of the Craft with our
Homes, their present and future needs.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is the opinion of your com111ittee .that there should be a continuous
progra111 of edtication and that the "present Homes Board be requested to
have printed such information as would in their opinion be of interest to
the Craft in general and would likewise tend to create in them an interest
in their institutions; this material to be used by the co111mittee or com111ittees that 111ay hereafter be appointed to carry on the endowment work.
Your cotnmittee recommends that one month in each year be set aside
and designated by the Grand Master as Masonic Homes month, during
which every Lodge in this jurisdiction will be expected to hold a meeting
or meetings in which they will familiarize the members of their Lodge
with the Homes to the end that they may know of our present and future
endowment needs, and that each Lodge maintain a standing conunittee on
Masonic Homes.
We recommend that every Lodge, through its Secretary, be required
to furnish to the Grand Lodge the name and address of every attorney in
their Lodge and that these attorneys be circularized and informed of the
needs of our Masonic institutions, and whenever possible that they direct
attention to Masonic endowments and suggest to their clients that the
Endowment Fund may be mentioned in their will.
·
Likewise, we recommend that each Lodge, through its secretary, be
required to furnish to Grand Lodge the name of every life insurance man
that is a member of their Lodge and that they also be circularized and given
information regarding our Homes and their needs that they may in tum
direct the attention of their clients to Masonic endowments.
With these thoughts in mind and the emergency which exists, your
committee recom!llends for adoption the following:
That a committee of fifteen, to be known as "Masonic Homes Endowment Board of California," be created. The members of said committee
be appointed· by the Grand Master and shall serve for a period of three ·
years. The first committee of fifteen so appointed shall, at the first meeting of said committee, draw lots so that their terms shall be fixed and
that five members of said Board shall serve for one year, five for two
years, and five for three years, and thereaf.ter the Grand Master shall
fill all vacancies on said Board.
•
The Grand Master shall appoint the Chairman of said Board and
said Board is. hereby authorized to employ an executive Secretary and
such other clerical force as is deemed necessary.
Said Board shall have the power to collect and invest funds in conformity to the regulations of Grand Lodge.
The Grand Treasurer to be the custodian of said funds and shall pay
the net income of such funds to the trustees of the Masonic Homes at
least annually.
The members of said Board shall be entitled to actual necessary
expenses incurred in the performance of their duties, claims for which

shall be itemized and presented to the Grand Master foe his approval. And
when so approved shall be presented to the Grand Secretary who shall
draw his warrant in payment of same on the Grand Treasurer.
This Board shall make such rules and regulations as it shall deem
necessary to carry on the work that may now or hereafter be assigned
to their Board.
That the sum of $5,000.00 be and is hereby appropriated from the
general funds of Grand Lodge for the immediate use of said Board. .
ROLLIE W, MILLER,
WM. P. JEFFRIES,

260

·261

BEN G. WRIGHT,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON,

Committee.

Ad.opted and referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, Jurisprudence and Finance.

MATTER OF REPRIMAND
A resolution was introduced proposing that the Committee on Jurisprudence shall prepare and submit amendments to the Constitution to the end that where the
judgment of a trial commission is that the accused shall- be
sentenced to repl"imarrd, such sentence shall be executed
in the Lodge of which the accusea is a member if the
charges originated in the Lodge of his membership, which
reprimand shall be delivered by the Master of the accused's
Lodge, regardless of whether the said Master presided at
the trial. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Orcan solo, "Elegie"
Grieg
"I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine.
"When toou passest .thro11gh the waters, I will he with thee ; and
through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: w'hen thou walkest
through the fire, thou shalt not be burned ; neither shall tbe flame kindle
·
upon thee.
"For I am the Lord thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Savior:
"I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mme own
sake, and will not remember thy sins.
"Fear not: for I am with thee."

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

God has seen fit in His infinite wisdom to call members of the Grand
Lodge to their final reward.
Among those who have departed are several who have rendered distinguished service to Masonry, and the committee regrets that time will
not permit them to go into great detail regarding the service, given so
unselfishly, by these brethren.
Chief among those who have rendered exceptional service is Frank
M. Angellotti, Past. Grand Master, and for many years a member and
chairman of the Jurisprudence Committee. Brother Dana R. Weller, Past
Grand Master, has been designated. to give us a more detailed account of
the virtues and accomplishments of Brother Angellotti.
Your committee can not refrain from mentioning four others who
have rendered exceptional service to Masonry; they are Michael D. Lininger, John M. Dunsmoor, Arthur M. Ellis and Theodore J. Milliken.
Michael D. Lininger received his degrees in White Marble Lodge No.
238, in the Jurisdiction of Iowa, and affiliated with Eureka Lodge No. 16 in
the year 1883. From 1883 until the time of his death Brother Lininger was
a laborer in the vineyard of Masonry, serving as Master of his Lodge for
six years, Grand Bible Bearer for seven years, and Inspector for twentynine years.
John M. Dunsmoor, a Past Master of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319,
gave up the private practice of his profession to assume the important
duties of Secretary of the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles more
than thirty years before his death. His pleasant smile and encouraging
counsel during all those years were the means of starting many a distressed brother on the road to winning back his place in the community
which he had formerly occupied.
Arthur M. Ellis, a Past Master of University Lodge No. 394, served
as Chairman of the History Committee of this Grand Lodge for many
years, and was never too. busy about his private business to go out of his
way to learn about early Masonry in California.
Theodore J. Milliken was Master of Tehama Lodge No. 3 in the year
1902. At the expiration of his year as Master, he was elec~d Secretary
of his Lodge and occupied that position for many years. At the annual
communication of Grand Lodge in 1915 he was appointed Grand Pursuivant
and served in that capacity until the communication of 1924. He occupied
a position of public trust in his community and was greatly beloved by
his brethren and by the community at large.
The list of our departed brethren is as follows:
California No. 1
William C. Hassler, died August l , 1931.
Tehama No. 3
Theodore J. Milliken, died March 20, 1932.

Benicia No. 5
Arthur L. Wheeler, died February 9, 1932.
Tuolum11e No. 8
Thomas L. Richards, died November 3, 1931.
Yount No. 12
Herbert R. Coleman, died September 17, 1931.
Eureka No. 16
Michael D. Lininger, died December 27, 1931.
Madison No. 23
Frank Aver, died July 11, 1932.
Mariposa No. 24
Frank H . Catherwood, died May 31, 1932.
Gold Hill No. 32
W. M. Sparks, Sr., died December IS, 1931.
Ophir No. 33
John Henry Gilmore.
Santa Cruz No. 38
Henry J. Godfrey, died November 4, 1931.
Sacramento No. 40
Julian I. Prugh, died December 23, 1931.
Martinez No. 41
Henry V. Alverado, died May 31, 1932.
Live Oak No. 61
George W. Domin, died Apr.ii 23, 1932.
Vesper No. 84
Henry C. Swain, died November 29, 1931.
Naval No. 87
Glen D. Dickey, died May 24, 1932.
Yosemite No. 99
Oscar A. Baker, died January 18, 1932.
Charles Simon, died September 28, 1931.
Clay No. 101
Brigham B. McKenzie, died August 28, 1931.
Concord No. 117
Henry A. Heilbron, died September 26, 1931.
Fidelity No. 120
Herbert Blumenthal, died September 26, 1931.
Walter A. Radius, died April 6, 1932.
Alamo No. 122
Lewis F. Sherburne, died August 3, 1932.
Barnett Hollenbeck, died July 10, 1932.

263

264

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEE.DINGFI OF THE

Sotoyome No. 123
John W. Hillhouse, died April 18, 1932.
Valley No. 135
John C. Ryburn, died March 18, 1932.
Pacific No. 136
William Fanta, died -October ·20, 1931.
Frederick L. Hansen, died February 11, 1932.
Crockett No. 139
Edward S. Ciprico, died December 29, 1931.
Vitruvius No. 145
Joe W. Salz, died November 16, 1931.
Eel River No. 147
Walter T. Fisher, died February 1, 1932.
Keystone No. 161
William H. H. Rhodes, died August, 1931.
Steven D. Hildebrand, died September 12, 1931.
Excelsior No. 166
Howard D. Noble, died December 18, 1931.
Warren F. Gelder.t, died November 17, 1931.
William W. McNair, died January 23, 1932.
Redwood City No. 168
Edward H. V. Hoenck, died April 24, 1932.
Ben C. Zimmerman, died July 17, 1932.
Mission No. 169
Wilkins de W. William, died October 22, 1931.
Oakland No. 188
Charles N. Walter, died November 10, 1931.
Marin No. 191
Frank M. Angellotti, died May 23, 1932.
Pentalpha No. 202
John A. Kingsley, died November 7, 1931.
Orville D. Stone, died June 13, 1932.
Rio Vista No. 208
Ernest L. P. Led, died June 20, 1932.
King David's No. 209
Benjamin Brooks, died October 10, 1931.
South San Francisco No. 212
Samuel Hansen, died August 20, 1931.
Frederick C. Mayer, died May 28, 1932.
William J. B. Warner, died December 12, 1931.
Doric No. 216
Carl Neuer, died September 28, 1931.

•

•

l

Monterey No. 217
William Kay, died November 24, 1931.
Speranza Italiana No. 219
Giovanni Lepori, died June 8, 1932.
Antonio B. Scalmanini, died March 6, 1932.
Downey No. 220
Ranse B. Harris, died July 6, 1932.
Inyo No. 221
John C. Morris, died August 30, 1931.
Bakersfield No. 224
George G. Hutchings, died January 28, 1932.
Athens No. 228
William Jensen, died August 17, 1931.
Calistoga No. 233
David D. Evey, died March 27, 1932.
Laurel No. 245
Byron 0 . Cobb, died November 10, 1931.
Welcome No. 255
Julius H. Fox, died June 25, 1932.
Evergreen No. 259
John T. Jarvis, died January 3, 1932.
Orland No. 265
S. lglick, died July 8, 1932.
Durant No. 268
William E. Ashlund, died December 13, 1931.
Ralph P. 0. Newcomb, died April 15, 1932.
Southern California No. 278
James G. Scarborough, died October 5, 1931.
Callayomi No. 282
Lonzo 0. McKelley, died October 31; 1931.
South West No. 283
Jay G. Hudgins, died April 8, 1932.
San Miguel No. 285
William McNaul, died Jul!le 18, 1932. ·
Casper J. Weir, died June 22, 1932.
Elsinore No. 289
Kemp A. Berry, died August 29, 1931.
~ewis D. Clark, died April 4, 1932. .
Los Gatos No. 292
Herbert W. McAuley, died November 11, 1931.
Orange Grove No. 293
Walter S. Gregg, died October 31, 1931.

265

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Silver Gate No. 296
James H. Cassidy, died October 24, 1931.
George H. Garner, died March 1, 1932.
Liberty No. 299
George L. Downing, died October 7, 1931.
Charles L. Gruwell, died April 2, 1932.
John C. Morrison, died April 8, 1932.
William C. Raymond, died July 12, 1932.
Los Ban~s No. 312
John H . Fisher, died March 17, 1932.
Louis T. Mason, died February 20, 1932.
Temescal No. 314
Arthur R. Dickinson, died August 28, 1931.
Frank A. Perkins, died March 22, 1932.
John W. Walker, died April 13, 1932.
Emmanuel No. 318
Millard F. Neff, died April 6, 1932.
Hollenbeck No. 319
John M. Dunsmoor, died September 19, 1931.
Joseph Simmons, died April 28, 1932.
Alisa! No. 321
Andrew M. Kemp, died November 19, 1931.
Covina No. 334
Wallace A. Reed, died March 26, 1932.
James A. Stewart, died June 27, 1932.
West Gate No. 335
William E. Chamberlain, died December 25, 1931.
Fruitvale No. 336
George 0 . Kinney, Sr., died January 6, 1932.
Palestine No. 351
Arthur J . Wheeler, died April 21, 1932.
·Hollywood No. 355
Edward W. Fox, died November 19, 1931.
Las Palmas No. 366
Samu~ J. Lazarus, died September 2, 1931.
Unity No. 368
Daniel Campbell, died April 20, 1932.
Amity No. 370
Marcus W. Dunbar, died June 9, 1932.
Robert J. Loughery, died November 22, 1931.
Jewel No. 374
~
Joseph E. Levin, died October 27, 1931.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dinuba No. 385
J. Rene Clotfelter, died April 24, 1932.
Westlake No. 392
William A. Hammell, died December 31, 1931.
University No. 394
Arthur M. Ellis, died April 7, 1932.
Brawley No. 402
Herbert L. Fulton, died July 20, 1932.
Moneta No. 405
Gilbert D. Perrine, died March 28, 1932.
Burbank No. 406
Lestocque D. Davidson, died December 9, 1931.
Clovis No. 417
William H. Kemp, died July 7, 1932.
Harry Pilkington, died September 18, 1931.
Inglewood No. 421
Frank S. Friend, died January 5, 1932.
York No. 423
George W. Bryson, died January 4, 1932.
Louis R. Gillette, died April 22, 1932.
Lancaster No. 437
Wm. Oliver, Jr., died February 23, 1932.
Jesse A. Searing, died February 29, 1932.
Standard No. 440
Joseph B. Reboli, died December 30, 1931.
Van Nuys No. 450
Edward L. Bliss, died January 8, 1932.
Libertas No. 466
Ira H. Glenn, May 22, 1932.'
Catalina Island No. 524
John L. Fitch, died December 31, 1931.
Beverly Hills No. 528
Harrie L. Walker, died August 25, 1931.
S. W. Hackett No. 574
Charles W. Partridge, died December 10, 1931.
Progressive No. 578
John B. Renfrew, died March 14, 1932.
Manchester No. 585
Samuel Goodwin Lindsley, died May 2, 1932.
Kauai No. 589
Wilbur A. Anderson, died August 19, 1931.

267

, • PROCEEDJNGS OF THE

270

We who served under him on the Jurisprudence Committee feel most
poignantly the loss
his genial manner, his engaging presence, his sound
reasoning, his excellent leadership.
Notwithstanding all the honors which came to him, and which he so
richly deserved, he never lost the human touch. Always modest, unassuming, gentle and kindly, never for a moment did his demeanor suggest that
he was other than one of us, an humble seeker for the truth, laboring
shoulder .to shoulder with his brethren in the endeavor to brighten the
world and elevate mankind.
Such, in brief, is the life history of our friend and brother. None but·
those who knew him best and loved him most can realize the extent of
our loss. Words are but feeble and futile expressions of emotions at a
time like this.
As the lengthening shadows indicate the setting of the sun, and the
eventide of life approaches, we become more and more impressed with the
knowledge that ere long our sun )Vilt set, to rise on the morrow, bright and
glorious, on that other land where our friends have gone to enjoy the
eternal life, and who will greet and welcome us on our arrival.
May the Great Architect grant us so to live that we may be found
worthy to a place by the side of our dear friend and brother to whom
we bid an e~rthly "Farewell." ·

of

Benediction . . . . . ·• . . . . Grand Chaplain
Memorial song, ·"Taps" . . . . . . . . . Custance
Tenor solo with organ. ·

At 4:15· o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9:30
o'clock Thursday morning.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

271

Jin e&ranb 1Jlnbgr
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 13, 1932.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of Wednesday's sessions were read and
approved.
D. F. Black of Hollywood Lodge No. 355 presented a
resolution to relieve Lodges from Grand Lodge dues when
the funds of the Lodge should be lost or tied up by reason
of bank failure. Referred to the Committee on Finance.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK
The following communication was received from the
California Association of Public School Superintendents,
in annual session at San Francisco:
The public schools serve as democracy's agency for the perpetuation
of American ideals in the young generation, and for training children for
intelligent and effective citizenship.
The public schools provide the means whereby all children of whatever race, creed or ability are provided with the opportunity to develop
their individual aptitudes, to improve their status, to acquire the ability
to adjust themselves to the complex social order of their day, and to learn
to work together harmoniously for worthy social purposes.
The effective functioning and the moral and financial support of this
democratic institution depend upon a clear and comprehensive understanding by all the people of the purposes, methods and financing of the public
schools.
Such understanding ·has been ably promoted by the observances of
California Public Schools Week.
The California Association of Public School Superintendents expresses to the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of California

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

its ~reat .apprec~ation of the foresight of the Grand Lodge in estat>lishing
California Pubhc Schools Week and of sponsoring its observance annually.
Thi.s Association arid i~s members individually pledge their wholehearted cooperation in observing California Public Schools Week in the
various districts of the state.
'
A copy of this resolution is to ·be forwarded immediately by the Secretary to the Masonic Grand Lodge now in session in Oakland, California.

The Grand Secretary was directed to wire the .thanks
of the Grand Lodge to the Association for its appreciation
of our work for public education.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND LECTURER'S
REPORT
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to which has been referred for consideration the
report of the Very Worshipful Grand Lecturer begs leave to report as
follows:
For twenty-five consecutive years our Grand Lecturer has been able
to report progress in the fellowship and fraternal feeling existing among
the Masons of this jurisdiction--;i condition largely of his own making.
During this quarter of a century he has fanned the flame of Masonry in
~v~ry nook and corner of our state. In his endeavor to perfect the ritual1stic work he has never sacrificed substance to form. His guiding principle
has always been that the ritual is but a means to an end-not the end
itself; and that if Masonry is to serve its true purpose, we must have
proper ritualistic interpretation as well as proper ritualistic ·instruction.
It js this concept of his responsibility that has made of his work a real
livjng force fo Masonry.
During his many years as Grand Lecturer he has seen the Fraternity
double in size and influence and it should be a source of everlasting satisfaction to him that his work has contributed to this result in ·such large
measure.
Twenty-five years of devoted service to a worthy cause is something
to be admire~ and emulated by all men and as we look back over his Jong
years of service we cannot fail to be inspired thereby.
Our Fraternity has gained prestige through his service and our jurisdiction is a better place to live in by reason ·of the truths he has exemplified
through our ritual.
We congratulate him; we congratulate Grand Lodge.

273

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

And lastly, we trust that for many years to come, his kindly countenance, his genial smile and .his devoted service to the Fraternity will continue to promote fellowship and spread the everlasting truths of Masonry
in our Lodges.
EARL WARREN,
FosTER G. DYEK,
ALBERT F. SHULTE,

Committee.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California :
Your committee charged with the duty of ascertaining cost of transportation for one person from the· location of each Lodge in the jurisdiction .to the place of meeting of Grand Lodge and return, and of reporting
such cost ·of transportation as the sum due to the officers or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as Grand Officers, Past Grand
Masters, Chairmen and members of Standing Committees, and Inspectors,
for their necessary expenditures .to and from Grand Lodge, report tha.t
they have carefully discharged the duty and submit the follow ing statement:
Grand Lodge Officers --....·----·--·-..-"···--.$ 526.66
Past Grand Masters .......·--···-··--····--··..·-···- 306.38
Committees ---···-·---·--·..-··--·······..·-··..·····-··- 645.66
Inspectors ·-···-··--····-······--..··--·..-···-····-··-····-···· 2,530.20
:Representatives ····--·· .........................._...................,.15)43.7i
Total .:........- .........- ............................ -····-··:-$19,752.68
JoHN McGEHEE,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
Jos. Br.ocx,
W . W. McKEE,
F. E. SNIDECOR,
Committee on Pay of Members.
~,

.

REPORT OF BOARD OF ~ONTROL
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lotlge of California.:
In presenting to Grand Lodge its report of its activities during the
year, the Board of Control believes that it is fitting and proper to recite
first of all the results of the efforts of the respective Boards of Relief to
secure reimbursements from Lodges of other jurisdictions and to reduce
the· amount of reimbursements requested from this Grand Lodge. Despite
the fa<:t'that more actual relief has been given this year than ever before;

274

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNIA

despite the fact that more money has been expended by the Boards of
Relief, individually and collectively, yet the reimbursements approved and
recommended to the Finance Committee are less than ever before. It is
true that the Board of Control has found it necessary to reject some of the
requests for reimbursement which have ·been presented, but your Board
has felt and now feels that these. requests are not justified, that the relief
was not granted in accordance with the procedure and regulations adopted
by Grand Lodge.

This small amount may seem unbelievable, and yet the fact remains
that that sum is all that has been requested and that sum is all that has
been granted. It is declared, however, and substantiated as well that not
one single case of relief has been slighted or neglected by the Board
of Relief.
At the risk of being criticized for repetition, we again call attention
to the record of reimbursements granted by Grand Lodge since and
including 1925.
1925 reimbursements granted ...- ......... -...- ...........$15,1()6.71
1926 reimbursements. granted ·················-············· 10,464.26
1927 reimbursements granted·····--···-·········:···-··· 11,035.05
These are the three years before the Board of Control began to
function.
1928 reimbursements granted ..................................$8,544.17
1929 reimbursements granted ........................·-···-- 7,570.82
1930 reimbursements granted ··························--··- 6,881.87
1931 reimbursements granted .................................. 6,458.94
1932 reimbursements granted ....................~.........._. 4,428.68
In these matters of reimbursement, we desire to again call the attention of Boards of Relief and Lodges to the fact that each year the list
of jurisdictions which refuse to reimburse for relief extended without
pre-authorization is steadily growing. As a matter of fact, if the Boards
and Lodges are following the letter of information sent out by this Board
. last year under the sanction of the Grand Master and approved by Grand
. Lodge, no relief except temporary or emergency will be granted u,nless
said Boards or Lodges secure prior authorization. Many foreign jurisdictions refuse or neglect to reimburse even after authorization has been
given. The Board of Control has been of assistance many times quring
the year in securing these long delayed and often ignored promises to pay.
Reference has been made heretofore to the refusal of English and
Scottish Lodges to authorize the expense of funerals of deceased brethren
in this jurisdiction and warning has been given not to extend relief in any
considerable amount to brethren of these Lodges without evidence of their
good standing.
There .are many life members of Scottish Lodges in this jurisdiction
who are not entitled 'to relief. But this matter has been cleared somewhat
by the following excerpt from the 1931 Proceedings of the Grand Lodge
of New York:
"The Grand Lodge of Scotl;aild has called bpon the members of their
Lodges to abstain from proposing or admitting to Freemasonry any men
who are about to emigrate before they can possibly become grounded in
the principles of the Craft and have been instructed adequately as to the
duties devolving upon them as Master Masons.
"Brethren who have decided to emigrate are to be furnished by their
respective Lodge Secretaries with the addresses of the appropriate District

Your Board, with a great deal of satisfaction, reports that Boards
of Relief are working in greater harmony and accord with the Board of
Control than ever before; and that through this accord and cooperation
the procedure. and business methods of the various Boards of Relief have
become m?re and more systematized and coordinated.
Whereas, at the time of organization of the Board of Control there
was a misunderstanding and misconception on the part of B~rds of Relief
and Lodges as to its objects and purposes, and in many cases both Lodges
and Boards of Relief acted at cross purposes and in variance with directions and requests of the Board of Control, now these same Lodges and
Boards are working with the Board of Control in every respect.
During this session of Grand Lodge conferences have been held with
the Secretaries and other officers of the respective Employment SerVices
and Boards of Relief, which conferences have resulted in a general expression of unanimity of purpose and objective, and a proposed further
uniformity in much of the procedure of these organizations.
While your Board of Control realizes, and has many times declared,
that c?arity or relief cannot be standardized or made uniform, yet it is
becoming more and more apparent that the methods and procedure of
distributing or dispensing relief can be made uniform. Our Boards of
Relief and our Employment Service are demonstrating the truth of that
statement, and their reports to the Board of Control which are transmitted to Grand Lodge each year, show conclusively that they are using
uniform methods, reducing the overhead, using judgment instead of unwise sympathy, and making their funds and the funds of Grand Lodge do
greater service than ever before. Particularly is this so in the matter of
reimbursements requested from Grand Lodge to cover e~penditures made
by the respective Boards of Relief in behalf of brethren from foreign
jurisdictions where the foreign jurisdiction Lodge refuses to make reimbursement. Year after year since the organization·of the Board of Control,
these reimbursements have decreased until today the total is less than the
amount once requested by a single Board of Relief. As an outstanding
example of what can be done by a Board of Relief in securing .reimburseiµent from foreign jurisdictions, there is included in this presentation the
report of one Board of Relief which .has expended for relief during. the
past year the sum of $41,854.11 and which has requested from Grand Lodge
reimbursement of only $567.13.

275

276

277

PRO<.!EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOl'lNIA

Grand Lodges, where such exist, and to be advised to seek affiiliation
with one or the other of the Lodges there.
"The brethren are to be told plainly life membership of their Mother
Lodge does not include active membership of other Lodges, and that in
order to acquire benefits of other Lodges, together with all the rights and
privileges pertaining thereto, they must acquire affiliation with such
Lodges."
Me~tings: The work of the Board of Control during the year cannot be recited her~. The Board is a continuing committee. Its work
extends from one Grand Lodge session to the succeeding session. It involves a volume of correspondence during the year. It requires conferences
with Lodges; with Boards of Relief ; with individual Masons. Five
meetings of the Board have been held since Grand Lodge of 1931: One at
Los Angeles in February, a second at Long Beach in April, the third at
Los Angeles in August, a fourth in San Francisco in September, and the
fifth · during this session of Grand Lodge in Oakland. At each of these
meetings, the officers of the Boards of Relief have been invited to attend
and to participate in tlte proceedings.
Your Board of Control appreciates the splendid cooperation and
assistance of our Most Worshipful Grand Master and his generous indorsement in his annual message. We appreciate, too, the kindly courtesy and
assistance of our Worshipful Grand Secretary.
We do not find any disposition generally on the part of well informed Masons, either singly or in groups, to avoid doing their share
toward the relief of the worthy distressed brother or his dependents, but
all too frequently we find an erroneous idea in the minds of some Masons
and more frequently among their dependents "with respect to just what
kind of aid and how much they may or may not be entitled to receive. It
should be very definitely stated and emphasized that Freemasonry is not
an insurance or benefit organization; that there are no weekly, monthly
or yearly allowances of any kind or character. We should say without
hesitation that Masonic relief is not a right, it is a privilege which Masons
gladly extend to a worthy brother in distress or to his worthy dependents.
In these days we have gotten away from the personal element in many
of these matters largely because · of the conditions under · which we live.
We don't have the close contact of former years. We are dependent upon
organizations to carry out the spirit of our Order.
We are therefore of the opinion that it is highly important that Grand
Lodge should through some agency bring to the attention of its Lodges
just what is the position of Masonry upon the question of Relief. The
Grand Lodge of indiana has enacted a provision requiring the establishment and maintenance by each Lodge of a Masonic Relief Fund. This
law clearly recognizes the duty of a Lodge in matters of relief, but in no
way assumes that there is any obligation or contract to pay to the applicant for Masonic relief any specified sum or any sum, for that matter.

We readily reach the conclusion that the whole purpose of Freemasonry is to create the will and the desire to do those things wbich will
make the world a better p1ace to 1ive in and those who 1ive in it wiser
and happier.
Statistics.
Statistics form a large _part of the background o-f business endeavor.
They play a very important part in the handling of Boards of Relief. The
statilrtical knowledge and the experience already gained form a basis f01'
the improvement of future service.
The followtnf statistica:l report is based .on -the information received
from the liecrdaries of the respective Boards of Relief and from information gleaned from the audits of certified accountants and it js believed that
it will be a useful reference for Boards of Relief, as it certainly will be
to the Board of Control during its deliberations.
It is the opinion .of the Board .of Control that considerable progress
has been made during the last fiscal year, .in a further standardization of
the operations of the Boards of Relief and methods pursued in the extension of relief. The Board further feels that, largely due to this feature
ai the work, there has been a very considerab1e reduction in the amounts
of money requested from the Grand Lodge as reimbursements.
Report of Boards
Each Board of Relief continues the practice of having .an annual
audit of its accounts made by its own auditor, a certified accountant, with
the 1tpp!'Oval of the Boll1'd of control.
The reports of these audits, made on the Board of Control forms,
have been promptly filed by the Boards of Relief.
The following review of the operations of the respective Boards -0£
Relief covers the twelve months ending July 31, 1932. It is based upon
the reports of the officers who have been serving and upon the financial
reports of the certifiod accountants.
Alameda: This Board of Relief is composed of members of each of
the Lodges. No salaries are paid. No per capita assessment was levied
during the year. Six funerals were conducted 'by the Board. There were
no burial expense·s.
Balance on hand last report .........:.~::.:...·.....'. .............................................$ 94.04
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ..........................................$15.00
California Lodges .. ~ ..............................._....... ~·······-"" 60.00
Foreign Lodges .............................................................. 24.38 $99.38
.'

Miscellaneous .................................................................................. 43.50

142.88

Total balance and receipts ..........................................................$236.9!

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

278

279

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements
For relief:
Cati fornia Lodges -··--··-···-····-·-·-··········-····-$99.69
Other United States Lodges ................................ 20.00
Foreign Lodges ······························-······················· 34.38 $154.07

The secretary is bonded in the sum of $1,000.00 and the bond is carried
by the Grand Lodge. Compensation insurance is also carried. Fidelity insurance and carrier.
·
During the year eight funerals were conducted by the Board. Total
.
cost of funerals not given.
B,alance on hand last report -·-··-···-···---···--··-···~·-··--··..:.._, __...f 486.72

Total disbursements ....................................................... ~............. 154.07

Receipts During the Year

Balance July 31, 1932 -~·-·--.:....··--·...,:...-._ _ _·..~:__...;::..:.4 82.85

Grand Lodge of California·---··-····-·····-$ 53.00
Other California Lodges ··············-··········- 102.50
Other United States Lodges ................-····- 705.50
Foreign Lodges ·········-················-········-·- ·2.50
Individuals ......................................................
29.10

$ 892.60

Per capita contributions ..................$980.00
Subscriptions ...................................... 900.00

1,880.00

Bakersfield: The Board of Relief of Bakersfield is composed of
members from each of the four Lodges and meets once each month. During the year a per capita assessment of thirty-five cents per member was
levied.
There is one paid employe, the secretary, who receives $25.00 per
month. The secretary and the treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500
each. There is one automobile used.
Ten funerals were conducted by the Board and seven by the Lodges.
The complete cost of each funeral was $157.00.
Balance on hand last report .•···-··-····-·-·-····-··········-····························--$104.95
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges --··-····-····--"---.:.\..--'·"···---L.L..$ 23.39
Other United States Lodges ··········-····-·················· 527.00
. 890.29
From supporting Lodges and Bodies ...................... 339.90
Total balance and receipts .........._,_,_____________,_, ___________$91>5.24

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ......---·----~-----·--·----.'-.$ 23.39
Other United States Lodges ········-··········-······ 530.25
Foreign Lodges.................................................... 15.00 $568.64
Salaries ················-··················-··························-_,········ 300.00 .
Miscellaneous .......................................:......-............ 6.54 306.54
Total disbursements ····--····-··--···~····---·-····-.····-···--··-' 875.18
Balance July 31, 1932 ··············-·····························:...........,..........•...........$120.06
Fresno: The Fresno Board of Relief is composed of members from
each of the four Lodges and meets once each month. The per capita
assessment during the year was forty-three cents.
There is one paid employe, the secretary, who receives $150.00
per month.

2,772.60

Total balance and receipts ·-·······-,..······--···-····-··········-····..$3,259.32

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges -·--....-·-·-·-·····.$ 109.50
Other United States Lodges •............... 832.10
7.50
Foreign Lodges ....- ......·.................._...:..
5.00
Grand Lodge ····-····-····-················-··--··

$ 954.10

For salaries····-·······················:........................ 1,800.00
5.10
Telephone and telegraph ········-····················
3.04
Postage, etc. ··················-································
31.00
Miscellaneous-Audit, comp. ins. ..............

1,839.14

Total disbursements .................................................................. 2,793.24
Balance July 31, 1932 ...,.....·--·-····--·-······-····-·-···.:.--····---···-··--··-$ 466.08
Glendale: Balance on hand last report ····-..·-····....•-'·--......·---..$ 91.62

Receipts During the Year
C;Llifornia Lodges ......-....- ..................- ..............- .-..$168.00
Other United States Lodges ..................- ..............- 455.50
Foreign Lodges ··········-··································-············ 5.00 $628.50
Per capita contributions ··························································- 230.60

859.10

Total balance and receipts ····-··········-··············:·····-····-··--····-.$950.72

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THJil

281

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ............:.................................$168.00
Other United States Lodges ··········-·············-· 357.50
Foreign Lodges ····················'·····························- 5.00
FWlerals ······-················································-··.-·· 182.89 $713.39

Long Beach: The Board of Relief is composed of Masters and War·
dens of each Lodge and holds one meeting each month. The per capita
assessment during the year is forty-two cents per member.
There is one paid employe, the secretary, who receives $225.00 per
month. The secretary and the treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500.00
each. Compensation insurance is also carried. Fidelity insurance and
carrier. One automobile is used.

Miscellaneous ··················-·-·-·-···--··--·--·........-·-············ 50.47

During the year 41 funerals were conducted by the Board and eight
by the Lodges. There were no funeral charges given.
Balance on hand last report ..·-··························-··--....,..-···---·•···•·,.$ 983.59

Total disbursements ················-········'········-···-···--·-.. 763.86
Balance July 31, 1932 ·-t...•..·······-····:················-~~-···--········:•••..---•·..$Ji6.81i
Honolulu: This Board is composed of members from three Lodges
and meets once each month.
There are no paid employes. The treasurer's bond is in the sum of $500.
There were nine funerals handled under the direction of the Board.
There were no funeral charges.
Balance on hand last report --····-··················-:.......................................$1,654.57

Receipts puri,.g the Year
California Lodges ...........:..::.............................:$ 155.00
Other United States Lodges ............................ 1,254.20
Foreign Lodges ..................................................
14.40 $1,423.60
Per capita contributions .................................... 3,148.88
Interest ··················································-············
25.54
Funerals ................................................................ 223.00

3,397.42

4,821.02

Total balance and receipts ················································-······$5,804.61

Receiptr During the Year
California Lodges ..........i.........:....'···'················-····' 84.55
Other United States Lodges ······················-·········· 55.75
Foreign Lodges ·····-················································· 87.70 $228.00
Interest ························································-·········:-················- 120.00

348.00

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges .-...-.,...•.....................$ 155.00
Other United States Lodges .................... 1,284.00
Foreign Lodges ..........................................
6.00
Funerals ····-···-············································· 228.00 $1,673.00

Total balance and receipts ..............................................•.$Z,002'.!1
For salaries····-·····················:·····-······················· 2,700.00
Rent ································-··-···-·························· 180.00
Telephone and telegraph ··--····························
52.31
Printing, stationery and postage......................
81.60
Miscellaneous-Auto. exp., audit .................... 105.66

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ............................................$351.65
Other United States Lodges .......................... 78.00
Foreign Lodges ····-·········································· 87.70

3,119.57

517.35
Total disbursements .................................................................. 4,792.57

Telephone and telegraph ·········---··-·--··---···· 40.58
Miscellaneous ··········-··················,····························· 30.39

70.97

Total disbursements ··········-····························-··········-··:········

Balance July 31, 1932 ................................................................$1,012.0f

588.32

Balance July 31, 1932 ····-··································-··········:··················-····-$!,.~

Loa Angeles: The Los Angeles Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge and holds one meeting each month. A per capita
assessment of forty-eight cents per member was levied during the year.
There are four paid employes, a secretary at a salary of $250.00 per
month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100 per month, and a field man
· at a salary of $175.00 per month.

282

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The secretary and the . treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000
each. Compensation insurance is also carried. Fidelity and carrier insurance~
One automobile is used.
During the year there were 222 funerals conducted by the Board and
27 by the Lodges. The funeral cost amounted to $102.00 for interment
and $110.00 for cremation.
Balance on hand last report ·-·----~---···-·-··--··--···-····--··'"* 8,098.12

each month. During the year a per capita assessment of forty-eight cents
per member has been levied.
Ther~ are two paid employes, both engaged in the relief and employment service. The secretary receiv.es nothing, the assistant secretary receives
$175.00 per month, and a typist or clerk receives $50.00 per month. These
amounts cover the work done for both departments.
~he secretary is bonded in the sum of $2,000.00. Compensation insurance is also carried. Fidelity insurance and carrier. There is one automobile used.
Sixty-one funerals were conducted by the Board and seven by the
Lodges. The undertaker's charge was $100.00, cemetery costs $40.00. Total
costs of funerals $140.00; cremation $145.00.

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ·-······-·-·;·-~ 1,352.07
California Lodges ··········-····-··-····-····-····- 7,487.70
Other United States Lodges .......·-····-······ 29,288.65
Foreign Lodges ······-.. -·-··-·····-·--····-·- 1,878.94
Interest from bank ····-············-··················
6.65

40,014.01

Balance on hand last report

283

-·---------------·--···-----$ 2,989.84

Receipts During the Year
Per capita contributions .............................. 14,544.49
Interest ................_....... ·-····-···-.. ··-····-····61.25
Estate -····-··········-·-·-··--·-·•·····'-··········-··600.00
Non-member Lodges, clear. house rep. ....
120.00
Miscellaneous ................................................
87.83

15,413.57

Total balance and receipts ····-····--•········-··············~·····-····..$63,52510

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ~··-.···----····-···-$ 7,603.52
Other United States Lodges - ············ 31,811.36
Foreign Lodges ············-········-·--····- 2,311.93
Funerals .................................................. 3,569.26
Unclassified ····--··-····-····-··········-····127.30 $45,423.37
For salaries ········-····--,.-···:·····-···-····-····- 7,942.47
Rent ······-··········-·-·······································
672.50
Telephone and telegraph .......·-·······-·-····754.17
Printing and stationery ····-························
426.78
Postage ····-····-·--·-·-····-····-···-·-·····-···326.58
Auto expense ··········-····-··········-····-····--··670.39
Auditing -······-····-····-····-··-·········-····-····137.50
Clear. house -········...··--···---~-····-····-·-·151.00
Miscellaneous ····-····-·-·····--····-····-·-·-····630.37

11,711.76

Total disbursements ······"········-··--····-··-······-········----- 57,135.13
Balance July 31, 1932 :..---·-~~-·-'-··-w- __ _._._:........._..__...,...$ 6,390.57
Oakland and Berkeley: The Board of Relief located in Oakland,
known as the East Bay Masonic Board of Relief, is composed of members
from the Lodges located in Oakland and Berkeley, and holds one meeting

•

Grand Lodge of California ····-···-··-···-··$ 2,135.65
California Lodges ············-····-············-····- 5,552.88
Other United States Lodges ...................... 11,678.81
Foreign Lodges ............................................
461.00
Grand Lodge advances refunded by
Lodges and. individuals .............................. _ 479.00 $20,307.34
Per capita contributions .............................. 5,598.51
Interest ••••••••-•••••••a& ..••••••no.o.aao••a& • •-•nn•••••-••n154.03
Funerals .......................................................... 1,549.00
Individuals ...........................,........................
642.50
Loan-Employment fund ..........................
500.00
Miscellaneous receipts .............................. ..
30.68

8,474.72

28,782.06

. Total balance and receipts ....................................................$31,771.90
For rehef:
Disbursements
California Lodges ····-···-····--·-· $ 5,232.00 ·
Other United States Lodges .............. 10,915.64
Foreign Lodges ........................:...........
516.35
Funerals ···-··········································· 1,720.50
Audit ····················--··'·--·-····-····- ··50.00
Funeral services ....................................
547.00 $18,981.49
For salaries --··-·· ..--··-·········-··-···---····-- 2,700.00
Rent ······································-························
300.00
Telephone an_d telegraph ·······-················274.88
Printing, stationery and postage................
177.75
Miscellaneous -····-··········-···-·····-··-··········559.36
Automobile ,..............................·-················425.00

4,436.99

. Total disbursements ................................................................ 23,418.48
Balance July 31, 1932 ...:..........:..·-·······-····-·····--··:·-····-······-······-...$ 8,353.42

286

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

284

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements

Pasadena: The Pasadena Board of Relief is composed of members
from each Lodge. Meetings are held when called.
During the year a per capita assessment of twenty-five .cents per
member was levied.
•
The secretary is the only paid employe; he receives $75.00 per month.
His bond is in the sum of $500.00. One automobile is used.
The Board conducted thirty-seven funerals, the cost being about
$110.00: Undertaker's charges, $75; cemetery expenses, $35.
Balance on hand last report ··-··-····-·--·-._._.......- ......l--·-····--··..$JJ121.47

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ················-····-·····-$ 880.00
California Lodges ...............---····-··..·-·..··-···-· 211.33
Other United States Lod_ges •...._ .................. 2,030.17 $3,121.50
Per capita contributions ····--···--················..-·
Interest ···························-·-····-··························

485.00
26.60

511.60

3,633.10

Total balance and receipts ··························-···············--······$5,454.57

Disbursemen ts
For relief:
California Lodges ·········-·-······················-$1,060.00
Other United States Lodges .................... 2,345.00
Funerals···················•··-···-·······..····--·········- 155.00 $3,560.00
Salaries ········-'····················································Miscellaneous -································-..·······-···-

825.00
20.47

California Lodges_.,...---··--··--·-$ 2.50
Other United States Lodges ................................ 87.00 $89.50
Miscellaneous ••••••U••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••HHHooooo uooH••••••nooo•onoo• 5.02

==:=.... 94.52

Tota! disbursements ......................................................

Balance July 31, 1932 ····-·····················-··········-··········-····"'··········-····-····· 53.70
Sacramento: The Board of Relief at Sacramento is composed of
members _from nine Lodges and meets once each mont·h. During the year
a per capita assessment of thirty-six cents per member was levied
There are tw? paid employes, a secretary who receives $3S.OO per
month, and an assistant secretary who receives $10.00 per month.
. .Fourteen funerals were conducted by the Board. Undertaker's charges,
mmtmum, $100.00; tota! cost of funeral, $108.00; cemetery charges, $15.00.
Balance on hand last repurt ··········-················-··········-····························$2;'53.17

Total disbursements ·-········································-······-··-··-··- 4,4-05.47
Balan.ce July 31, 1932 .-···-·:--.•·~····························-······--····-,....,.:.r·r··..$)..049.10
Richmond: The Board of Relief is composed of members from the
four Lodges, and meets at the call of the President. During the year a
per capita assessment of five cents per member was levied.
Seven funerals were conducted by the Board. No cost of funerals
was given.
Balance on hand last report ········-······················-····-·'.~..::.......- .....::.•....• .56.02

J

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ......................- ..... $ 405.28
California Lodges ········································-·_: 217.50
Other United States Lodges ............................ 401.00
Funerals
M iscellane~~-~---······· ··· ········· ··········· ·····-················ 170.00
......................................................
9.90 $1,203.68
Per capita contributions ....................................
Interest received ··········································-····

845.47

Receipts During th~ Year
Other U.S. Lodgell (exclusive of California) .....,..................$40.00
Per capita contributions ····-····- ····························-········-····-··- 52.20

Foe relief:

963.66
77.30

1,04-0.96

2,244.64

Total balance and receipts ····-·················································-$4,997.81
Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges .................:....................$ 299.50
Other United States Lodges .................... 1,386.96
Foreign Lodges ,...- ..:.................................
5.00
Funerals ············:·.......................................... 382.00 $2,073.46
For. salaries··········-············-········-······················
Telephone and telegraph ··························-····Printing and stationery ··········-························
Auditing ····························································Miscellaneous ......................................................

540.00
96.18
9.36
25.00
21.58

692.12

92.20

Total disbursements ·························-··········-··························· 2,765.58

Total balance and receipts ·······························~--·-····-·-···$148.22

Balance July 31, 1932 ··················································-····················........$2,232.23

286

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Diego: The Board of Relief is composed of members of each of
the Lodges and meets once a month. During the year a per capita assessment of seventy-five cents per member was levied.
The secretary is the only paid employe and receives $200 per month.
The secretary's salary includes the salaries paid to the assistant secretary
and typist.
The treasurer and the secretary are bonded in .the sum of $1,000.00
each. One automobile is used.
Sixty-one funerals were . conducted by tl;ie Board. The cost of funerals varies.
Balance on hand last report •...._._._,.,..__ _.,......,~~•--.1-.,-...
$ 903.54

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ....~--_:----···-···-.......-...$1,946.30
Other United States Lodges -················-··:·- 5,895.07
Foreign Lodges ··-······-·-··-·-...,.····-·-·-,--·44.45
Other contributions ....;..,......,.- ..,...,..,.......- ..,,-:- 117.28 $8,003.10
Per capita contributions ...-...........- ;..._.....;....................- 2,477.75

The secretary and the treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000.00
each. Compensation insurance is also carried. The automobile used by
,
the secretary is his property.
One hundred funerals were conducted by the Lodges at an average
cost of $100.00, where paid for by the Board.
Balance on hand last report ...........................- ..........- ...·-········:;_....-$ 8,817.57

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California _........................$2,-072.85
California Lodges .......................................... 7,166.10
Ot>her United States Lodges - ................- .... 7,769.32
Foreign Lodges .............................................. 555.35 $17,563.62
Per capita contributions .............................. 5,498.00
Interest ............................................................ 469.15

5,967.15

23,530.77

Total balance and receipts ····--····- ........................................$32,348.34
10,480.85

Total balance and receipts ;;...;....- ...;......................_.. _ ......$11,384.39

.Disbursements
For relief:
. . .
.
.
California Lodges _................................-$2,048.()1)
Other United States Lodges ........- ........ 5,591.48
Foreign Lodges ................,.......................
28.00
Miscellaneous .........- ............................... 103.83 $7,771.40
Salaries ............................-...···-'-------·~ ..- 2,400.00
Auto hire _................................................--..-- 180.00
Miscellaneous .................~............................... 133.55

287

For salaries ...................................................... 4,500.00
Rent .................................................................. 360.00
Telephone and telegraph .............................. 183.68
Miscellaneous .................................................. 257.32
Automobile expense ...................................... 600.00
Refunded Grand Lodge................................ 114.00
Bond Purchases ............................................_ 4,367.50
Donation-Masonic Employment Bureau.. 1,000.00

2,713.55

Total disbursements ......_..........._.....................,.-·-·-•··-·· 10,484.95
Balance July 31, 1932 -·--·-····~·-·-·---·-··-.:_·-----··--'

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ..:...........................- ..$8,463.78
Other United States Lodges ................ 9,096.74
Foreign Lodges ...................................... 789.46 $18,349.98

11,382.50

Total disbursements ................................................................ 29,732.48

899.44

Balance July 31, 1932 ...............·-····-·-·-··-·····-····-·.............................$' 2,615.86

San Francisco: The San Francisco Board of Relief is composed of
members from each of the fifty-four lodges, and two meetings are held
each month. During the year a per capita assessment of twenty-five cents
per member was levied.

San Jose: The San Jose Board of Relief is composed of members
from each of the five Lodges, Chapter and Commandery. Meetings are
held quarterly. A per capita assessment of twenty-four cents per member
was levied during the year on Blue Lodge members, and twenty cents per
member on other Lodge members.
There is one paid employe, a secretary, who receives a salary of $50.00
per month. The secretary is bonded in the amount of $500.00. There is
one automobile used.
·

· The paid employes are the secretary, who receives $300.00 salary and
$50.00 automobile allowance monthly, and a typist or clerk who receives
$75.00 monthly.

288

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

During the year one funeral •was conducted by the Board and six by
the Lodges. · The· cost of funera,!. was' $145.00, of which the undertaker's
charge was $100.00 and the cemetery costs $45,()().
Balance on hand last report ···•·······--·····----··-··----·--·--~-$1iP?3.81

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ·····-···:...................-$1.lllt?IO
Other United States Lodges ····-························ 983.50
California Lodges ··········-·-··--···········-············· 617.27 $1,744.87
Per capita contributions ·--·--····························· 582.15
Interest ······--···- ·······-····-·····--············-····-·····:- 32.10
Building and Loan dividend························-····- 6.72
Miscellaneous ················-····-·-···························- 3722

658.19

·2,403.06

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ····--··-····-·····--·······-·····.$914.47
Other United States Lodges ....................- 898.50
Foreign Lodges ·······-·-----···-···················· 65.00
Funerals '···-···-··-···-·--·······························- 145.00 $2,022.97

657.23

Total disbursements '·······························-············-····-········-·· 2,680.20
Balance July 31, 1932 ···-·--.·;··-·········-~····-····--······-_,_,_,,_....$ 796.67
Santa Monica: The Santa Monica Board of Relief is composed of
three members from· each of the Lodges ·and-meets once a month. During
the year a per capita assessment of twenty-five cents per member was levied.
There are two paid employes, a secretary, who receives a salary of
$25.00 a month, and a field man, who receives a salary of $10.00 a month.
The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500.00 each.
Compensation·· insurance is also carried. Fidelity· insurance and carrier.
Fifty-one funerais were conducted by '-the· Board. Cost of funeral,
$135.00, of which $70' was for undettaker's charge and $65.00 cemetery
expense.
Balance on hand last report ················-··--·'··-····-····-·-·-····-···•··-·,..····$ 397 .85

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California·~-················-····--$ 35.00
California Lodges ...............................................:.. 115.00

Other United States Lodges ···--··-······-··-····- 866.00
Foreign Lodges ··········-·······-············-················- 40.00
Flowers ·················--·-····...······························-····- 25.00 $1',081.00
Per capita contributions ················-····-·············· 398.40
Sale of ticltets, Charity ball ................................ 984.85
Donation :~.--~·-::....- ....:-....~:....·-····-······-··········..2S;o<>

1,408.25

2,489.25

Total balance and receipts -····-··········-·;··-····-··"-··········-·····~$2,887.10

Total balance and receipts ····-················-··········- ··········-······$3,476.87·

· Salaries ····························---·--···-···········-·········- 600.00
Miscellaneous ················-···-···························-- 57.23

289

Di.rbursements
For relief:
California Lodges_....--·-·--···-..+ $ 113.30
Other United States Lodges ············--···· 1,024.03
Foreign Lodges ·--··-····-······-··············28.00
Funerals -····-·---··--·····--····--·······
55.55
Flowers ·- - · · - - - -·····-······················ 278.35 $1,499.23
For salaries - ---..:-·-·----·-·-·-··-··········
Rental ballroom and music ····-········-············
Telephone and telegraph--····-·······-············
Printing and stationery ····- ······························
Postage -··•··-···-··············--·--·-···-············
Miscellaneous -·-··---··--·--·-·-··········-····-

630.00
255.00
102.12
.82.74
151.67
73.92

1,295.45

Total disbursements ····-·················~········:·········:··············-······ 2,794.~
Balance July 31, 1932 -----··---··-...,-··--···-····-······:·-··--··..:.$

92.42

Stockton: The Stockton Board of Relief is COIJlposed of _members
from each of the three Lodges. During the year a per capita assessment
of twelve cents per member was levied.
There are no paid employes. The secretary and assistant use private
cars. Seven funerals were conducted by the Board. No cost of funerals
given.
Balance on hand last report - · · · - ·..$ 35.61

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California...·-····--········----$• 65.00
California Lodges ····---··-····-····-····-····-···-··--·- 44.75
Other United States Looges ····-·..··--·········-··········- 223.76 $333.51
Per capita contributions··············- ··-········- - -...:.-...-_,._,., 100.00

433.51

Total balance and receipts ...·-··--·-·-·-.......~ ............~...........•...$469.12

290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORKIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

291

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges -·------~-·-··········-····-·"·---·$ 44.75
Other United States Lodges ··········-················ 386.12 $430.87

Los Angeles

Printing and stationery ··································-····-·······-·······- 12.25

Oakland
1 California Jurisdiction ············-··············-···················'$39(}.00
13 United States Jurisdiction ······················-·················· 203.00
6 Foreign Jurisdiction ......................,................................. 62.00 655.00

26 United States Jurisdiction ················-·················-~·-·····$316.83
3 Foreign Jurisdiction ····················································- 113.00
Unclassified························································-··········- 137.30

Total disbursements ················-·················································· 443.12
Balance July 31, 1932 ····-·-·-····-··~····--..·-····-····--····-········-····-··········..$ 26.00
Requests for Reimbursements
At no time during the existence of your Board of Control have the
demands for relief been greater than during the past year. Without exception, all Boards of Relief have extended relief far in excess of any
other period. It is with a great deal of satisfaction and gratitude, therefore, that we are pleased to report a very substantial reduction in the
amount being asked for reimbursement. Satisfaction in the knowledge
that our relief has been rendered without stint or niggardliness and with
every thought of our Masonic responsibility, and gratitude for the splendid cooperation, efficiency a.nd business-like methods of the Secretaries
of our various Boards of Relief.
During this communication of Grand Lodge your Board of Control
has had for consideration requests for reimbursement in 121 cases. After
completing our findings we have approved requests in 101 cases, totaling
$4,428.68. This is less than last year by 13 cases and $2,030.26. The
numbers and amounts of the requests approved are :
4 cases-California Jurisdiction ..........................................$1,230.00
79 cases-From 26 other U. S. Jurisdictions .................... 2,214.68
18 cases-From 5 Foreign Jurisdictions ............................ 846.70
Unclassified relief ····························-····~·····'.-·.··················-······ 137.30
Total ············-····-··--,···- ··,···-..··--·-·····-···-····-····-············$:4.~.68
The requests for reimbursement which we have reported to the Finance Committee, with the recommendation . that payment be made from
the funds of this Grand Lodge, are as follows:
Bakersfield
1 United States. Jurisdiction ............................-.:··-··-..$ 5.00
1 Foreign Jurisdiction·········'············-················-····-····-· 5.00 $ 10.00
Fresno
5 United States Jurisdiction ································-····-··-.:$ 17.50
1 Foreign Jurisdiction ······························-··················- 5.00

22.50

567.13

Sacramento
7 United States Jurisdiction ..........................................$349-.00 349.00
San Francisco
\,.
3 California Jurisdiction ···~···-,·-······-·····'····-···-······$840.00
20 United States Jurisdiction ............................................ 943.37
4 Foreign Jurisdiction .............................................•........ 108.60 1891.97
San Jose
1 Foreign Jurisdiction ...................................................... 5.00
Santa Monica
1 United States Jurisdiction............................................ 25.00
San Bernardino
4 United States Jurisdiction .......................................... 104.73
Stockton
1 United States Jurisdiction .......................................... 97.14

5.00
25.00
104.73
97.14

Total ......: ...................................................................................-$442&68
Employment Service
The Board of Control has given painstaking consideration to the work
of the Masonic Employment Service as organized in the several communities of the jurisdiction, and desires to commend the brethren in charge
for the splendid results obtained. Getting jobs for unemployed brethren
reduces the call for relief, and funds carefully expended for this purpose
are frequently more of an investment than an expense. Reports show that
two thousand (2000) more positions were secured this past year than
during the previous twelve months.
It is gratifying to note the improvement in the methods and efficiency
of the several offices. Greater care is being given to the selection of persons sent out to fill positions so that they may reflect credit to the Service
and to the Craft. Several of the offices are carefully building up the Employers' List to facilitate ~his placing of the increased number of applicants and to encourage the filing of applications by those qualified for
the very best positions.

293

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

292

0

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

..."'

q)~ ....

... I ~ ......,.."'
....,"'
..
I
i
.., "'
:e
....
......"'
..... .....
:;Ii ...........
..."' .."' ..§
..."" ...
...
-.."' .....
0

0

~ ~g~
..........
....,
... "'

+0

.... ....

"' ... ...

gg
g~
.... .... ~

""

0

0

0

0

0
0

0

0

0

.... ....
"'

00
00

QQ

0
0.-4

l"'1

0~

e»

t-

"'~ ~t~ ~:

i :
.i""'
a

~

~

~

ooooot- tcnr.ioo.-10 co
. .. . . . ,

..... ~ g ~ ggr.o~ ~
CJ\ ....... 0000.-1..
r-t N
CD

...

l"'1

~
;::::

0

..

~

'"

0

N
..,

0

0

0

J. REESE,

FRANK M. WISE,
]AMES R. ERSKINE,
EUGENE ELKUS,

Board of Control.

Adopted, except as to matters involving appropriations,
which were referred to the Committee on Finance.

0
00

"'""

CD

....

0
00
...

.... ..,

-

00)

"'
0

.. ..

00
CO

.... " '
C:O o:aN

l"""I

cCOCI~

...
C'l:I

t- 1- H»

00'0

..

00"'

....

~M

00

... °'""

..:
..."'"'

DO

OCNC"I

+-

...

00

...

COCO

"'"'

t--- ~00

"'

~

=~

~~~~ ~
00 . . . .
...;~.;

.. ... ... ..

"'"'
=:~ ~
1"'1(0

Nao

...

t-•

Olb-

..."' "'"'
"'"'

1"'1Mo:i

OC'l':IO
t-CQO>

........,, ... "' "'
""°' ......
""

=e-i
,.,oo
,....,,

...

~ ~

C'Q

cw:>.0

0

0

"'"'
..: ci cN'

I
tCO

~

..,g~-~
..... . ~

t-0

CN-.:1'1

.-I

......

com

...

Nlt:>

$ 9,200.00

ROBERT CALLENDER,

0

"'"'

lt)Qi"""'

.... 00

~

........ .,,o
o ....,

00

CQOCOC'l':I

00

gg g; · g
C"IO
000

...

0

......."'

....

N

....

0

Q! "

0

Requested RecomnuJnded Last Year
·San Francisco ........., ..................................$ 2,400.00 $ 2,000.00 $ 2,400.00
East Bay .................................................... 2,400.00
1,600.00
1,200.00
Los Angeles .............................................. 3,000.00
2,800.00
2,400.00
San Diego.................................................. 1,500.00
1,000.00
1,400.00
Long Beach .............................................. 2,400.00
2,000.00
1,800.00
Santa Monica ............................................
457.50
300.00
................
600.00
Sacramento ................................................ 1,200.00

DAVID

-

:o~~

:!l

Appropriations for Service Bureaus
In the matter of- allocating Grand Lodge funds to the employment
service, the Board of Control is convinced that a definite plan must be
outlined as a basis for making equitable appropriations. A survey will
be made and data arranged for future guidance. In the meantime, bearing
in mind the importance of the work and the need for strict economy, your
Board of Control has recommended appropriations for the respective Employment Service Bureaus totaling $10,300, as follows:

$10,300.00

I

0

"'...

Financial Reports
Attached hereto is a comparative statement for 1931 and 1932, showing
sources of income and the expenditures of the respective employment
service bureaus; the total applications received and positions secured;
the cost per unit for each placement and the percentage of the expense
borne by Grand Lodge. This statement is made a part of this report.

$13,357.50

..

...;'.!:;

Standard forms for registering applicants and keeping records have
been recommended by the Board of Control and unanimously approved by
the representatives of all the employment offices. This will tend to increase the efficiency and uniformity of this service and make possible
greater cooperation between officers by the interchange of information.
The Masonic Employment Service should become the most valuable agency
of its kind in a community.

!

.... ........
..
=
~·«>
;;
I~
~

0)

..,

00

... 00

CQ

63,426. 70

32,386 . 63

5904.29 14,072 . 16 11,341.07
•• . . •.
102.75
22.40
Clear House Reports 151. 00

5949. 74

72.05
381. 78
94.35

103.65
333.86
105.62
1100.00

108.28
1100.00

7942.47
672.50
670.39
754.17
753.36

10,216.00
850.00
768.64
891.68
908 . 33

5400.00
360.00
600.00
421.82
116.85

/

45,620 . 66

5400.00
360.00
600 . 00
450. 78
130.68

19,498 . 98 41,153.67

8463 . 78
5273.94
7603 . 52
9096.74 29,076.38 31,811.36
789.46
1620.57
2311.93
114.00
90 . 00
3951.59
3569 . 26
127 .30
1000.00
800.00
35 . 00
87.50
137 .50
4367 .50
253 . 69
59.69
1698.00

2177 .40

3082.07

49.35

2700 . 00
180. 00
60.00
47 .34
45.38

25.00

25.00

3094.51

20 :66

2700 . 00
180.00
60 . bo
52 . 31
81.60

aoa:iti
8530. 75
4011.99
Auto- 425.00

358.11
74.58

2570 . 21

1106 . 00
984 . 85
398.40

1383. 25
2887 .10

1658 . 14
815. 75
290. 50

1106.25
2724.39

Total Refund • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •
Other Receipts . . . . .. . . • . . . • . • • • . • •
From Supporting Lodges and Bodies. • •
Interest • .• ..• • ••• •.• •••••••••••••
Other Items ••.••••••••••••.•.•••.
Total Receipts • • . • • . • • • • • • • • • •
Total Receipts Including Balance from
Last Report • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • •

Balance on Hand Last Report ..•. . •••
Refund of Relief Expenditures . ••• • •••
Grand Lodge of Calltoml& ..•.• • •.• • .
Other California Lodges . . .. •.••. .• • •
Other United States Lodges ••.•••••••
Foreign Lodges • •.•• • •.•••• .• • . •• •
Funerals .•••• ••• •.• • .•.. •• .•• • • ••
Individuals • ••••.••••.•••. • ••.••••

2615.86
77%

Santa Monica
1931
1932
257.00
397.85
1204 . 14
454 . 00
35.00
20 . 00
115.00
9S2.50
866.00
35 . 00
40 . 00
125 . 00
25.00
25.00
91.64

Total Erpenditures ••. • •••••••• 26,939.01
Balance 60 Hand This Report . . ...... .
8817 . 57
Percentage Expended for Relier.. . ....
77 . 9%

6390.57
79 . 84%

4422.12

1164 .40

1995 . 20
•• . •• •
1132.45
31.95

820.00
25.00
1119.75
30.45

545,,117

511. 60

3121.50
• .•.• •
485.00
26.60

880.00
211.33
2030.17

Pasadena
1931
1932
1262.52
1821.47

8098.12
74 . 4%

1012.04
35 .6%

72.50

266.54

92.44

92.44

236 . 92

43.50

43.50

99.38

. 24:38

50.00

122 . 50

15.00
60 . 00

Alameda
1931
1932
51.60
94.04

983 .59
37.2%

8353.42
64%

3881.90

696. 43

582. 54
41.61
72 . 28

2135.43

147 .50
493. 93
961.00
533 . 00

3476.87

658.19

582 . 15
32.10
43 . 94

1744 . 87

145.00

144.10
617.27
838.50

San Jose
1931
1932
1050.04
1073. 81

860.09
67.6%

0

2566 . 22

2713.55

21.40

180.00
17.15
32.00
63.00
·20: 00

2400.00

tz:J

:i:

0
".I
>-3

3364.11

3259.32

1880.00

1880:00

11iso:oo
1880.00

892.60

29 . 10

53.00
102 . 50
705 .50
2 . 50

1932
486.72

899.44
74%

1136 . 74

27 .oo

Fresno

1931
347.37
1079. 74
57.00
60.74
992.00

903.54
77 . 1%

<11

~

~

d

t:

~

0
tz:J
0
".I

t'

g

§

0
l:!l

z
Ul

30. 00
18.46
22 . 76
75.00

7771.40

ioa:aa

2048.09
5591.48
28.00

11,384 . 39

2477. 75

2477. 75

tz:J
tz:J

tJ

2400.00

8663.67

15.00

88.95

2394 . 35
6024 . 47
140.90

12,133.43

2700.00
300.00
219 . 62
274.88
111. 75
86.55

18,981.49

6350 . 00
600 . 00
421.39
388.99
337.68

17,'72.55

50.00
547 . 00

1720:50

:so

437 :so

26i7

228 :00

466.50

31,771 . 90

5232. 00
10,915 . 64
fil6.35

29,162.39

6283.22

155 . 00
3781. 24
1284. 00 10,940. 60
6.00
433.21

5804.61

6243.06

63,525. 70

9279.59

218 . 50
1024 .90
5.00

4821.02

3802.97

15,413.57

EXPENDITURES

18,756 . 43

6005.44

89.46

.2480: 75

9086.86
174.26
18.47

500 . 00
5598 .51
154.03
30.68

3148 . 88
25.54

3777 :37
25.60

O:f.25
807 .83

14.s4n9

8003 . 10

8744 . 02

----16,206. 71 22,498.84

1646.60

~
()

'i:I

~

""'""

- - ----25,403.27
- - 55,328 . 58 57.135.13 - -5259.47
- - - -4792.57
- - - 26,303.30
- - - --23,415.48
- ----- - -- -11,229.89 10,484.95

Total Expense • • • . • . • • • . • • • • • •
Omce Equipment Purehased .•.•.• . •• •

Balar!es •.•..••••••. • •• • • • •••• • ••
Rent •. .. • ... •. •. .• • . • . •• · · · • • • • •
Automobile Allowance and Expense .•••
Telephone ahd Telegraph ..•. • . • ••.•••
Printing, Stationery and Postage .••• • •
Traveling Expense ... • . ••• ••••••• • •
Field Representative Expense •••••••••
Other Items .. . . •.•• • .•.• • • . ••••••
Less Contributed by Emp. Bureau .••••

FOR EXPENSE-

Total Relief Expenditures .• • .•••• 20,989.27

California Jurisdiction ••.•••••.•••• • 7118. 71
Other United States Jurisdictions .•••• 11..013.11
Foreign Jurisdictions •••••••• . : • •••• 1286.65
Repayment to Grand Lodge Callt. ••• • •
188.15
Funerals ••• • • •• • • •.•• ••• •••••••••
Individuals •••• • •••• •• •.•• • .•.••••
200.00
Contributed to Employment Bureau ••••
35.00
Audit • . ••••• • •••••.••• • ••• • •••• •
147 .05
other Itema •• • ••• •• ••• • ••••• • ••••

FOR RELIEF-

Total Receipts • • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • 6742.58
Total Receipts Including Balance from
Last Report • • .•.• ••. ••. • •••• • 35.756. 58

Total Refunds •• .•••.••.•.•••• 19,728.29
Other Receipts •. . . : .... . .••. •. ••••
From Supporting Lodges and Bodies .•• 5546.00
888.19
Interest ••••••••• . •••••..•.••• • • •
308.39
Other Items • •.•••••••••••••••.••••

117 .28

23.00

San Diego
1931
1932
819.20
903.54
1946.30
5895.07
44 .45

2526.11
2135.65
5552. 88
2811.36
7641.13 11,678.81
287 .90
461.00
1408.50
1549.00
1531. 71
1121. 50

Berkeley-Oakland
1931
1932
3676.59
2989 . 84
2568 . 47
5997 .80
154. 75

155.00
1254.20
14 . 40
223.00

1602.90

103.05

481.00

250 . 00
871. 90

Long Beach
1931
1932
837 .19
983.59

40,014.01

6.65

2072:85
1550 . 28
1166.10
5481.08
7769.32 28,612.02
555.. 35
1713.57

2686: 74
6904. 74
9556.16
580 .65

17,563 . 62 37,460.00
38.29
• .. .. •
5498. 00 17,679. 28
469.15
27 . 91
1049.24

1352 . 07
7487. 70
29,288.65
1878.94

8817.57

9285.11

Refund of Relief Expenditures ••••••••
Grand Lodge of Calltornla ••.••• •• •••
Other California Lodges • •.• • ••.•••••
Other United States Lodges • •••••••••
Foreign Lodges •• • .••.•• • .••••••• •
Funerals .• • • • .• ••• •.•. .• ••. • •. • •.
Individuals .•••• . •••. • .•. • •••• • •••

Los Angeles
1931
1932
7210 . 27
8098.12

Balance on Hand Last Report .•••••• •

San Francisco
1931
1932

For Twelve Months Ending July 31, 1932

ANNUAL REPORT
MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF

1695.00

--------1874.66
1831.81

73. 75

·10:00

68 . 97
172 . 45

963.46
126.80
32.50

928. 74
107 . 82

·20:00
' 2093.46
540 . 00
96 . 18
9 .36

1677. 06
540.00
67.00
11.00

Total Relier Expenditures . • • •
Balsrles • • • • • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • •
Bent ................ ..... ... .
Automobile Allowance and Expense .
Telephone and Telegraph ••.••••• •
Printing, Stationery and Postage •••
Traveling Expense ... • .. • .•.••••
Field Representative Expense ••••••
Other Items .•• •• ..•. •.. ...•.•
Less Contributed by Emp. Bureau • .

Total Expenditures
Balance on Hand Th1s Report .••• •
Percentage Expended for Beller ••••

Omce EQU!pment Purchased . •• ••.•

2295 .06
2753.17
73 .1%

- --618.00
Total Expeme .. • .•.• ••• •• •

2111 .80
2291.91
75.37%

684.34

38.80

382:00
• • . ••.
20. 00
4. 00

181.11
104 . 95
60%

875 .18
120 . 06
65%

306.54

3.M
3.00

5. 07
3.00

308.07
7.00

300.00

568.64

23.39
530.25
15.00

\ 1; ·~\,•

192 .50
74.04
100%

192.50

a.5o

120 . 00

175. 02

52. 55

52.55

64.00

64.00

119.00
56.02
95. 8%

5. 00

3. 00
1.00
1.00

114.00

114.00

94 .52
53. 70

5.02

5 . 02

89.50

2.50
87.00

148.22

52.20

52 . 20

40 . 00

40.00

Rich111nd
1931
1932
58.47
56.02

4405 . 47
1049.10

845.47

11.80

5.50

· ·s:i7

825 . 00

3560.00

155 .00

1060.00
2345 . 00

EXPENDITURES

995 .24

339.90

339 .90

550.39

23.39
527 .00

300.00

472 .64

160 . 00
287 .64
15 . 00
10.00

892 .66

5069.11
5048.03

203.00

"515.10

203.00

243:00

FOR EXPENSE-

·2i<oo

145 . 00
343 . 10

1122 . 76

263. 50
1422 . 96
5.00

2600.65
1821.47
65%

905.60

... :i5

......
5.50

Bakersfield
1931
1932
174.56
104 .95

2794 . 68
92.42
66.6%

962.87

48.92

1036. 56

279. 06
913,50
217 . 50

Caillornls JurlBdiction • •. . •. .•• •
Other United States Jurisdictions ••
Foreign Jurisdictions .••• • • ..• ••
Repayment to Grand Lodge Calli.• •
Funerals .••.•.•• • ••.•• • • ••• ••
Individuals .•..•.•..• .•• •.•• • •
Contributed to Emp. Bureaus . • • • •
Audit • • • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • . • • •
Other Items • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •

FOR RELIEF-

Total Receipts •..•. • ....• •
Total Receipts Including Balance
trom Last Report .• •• •••••••

1193 . 78

687 .80

Total Refund •.• • •••.••••••
Otber Receipts ••..•... . .••.••.
From Supporting Lodges and Bodies
Interest ..................... .
Otber Items • •• •••••.•••••• • •••

110. 00
10 . 00

405.28
211 .50
391.00

200.30
55.00
411.50
5 . 00
16.00

Grand Ledge or Callfornla ••• .••••
Other Caillornla Lodges .•.•• . ••• •
Other United States Lodges • • . •.••
Foreign Lodges • • •.••• • • : •••.••
Funerals ••••• • ••••.•••••• • •• •
Individuals •••••• •• .•• . •••••••

Refund of Relief Expenditures •••••

Balance on Hand· Last Report •••••

2326. 5'
:t91. 85
80. 6 %

Total E%pendltures • • • • • • • • • • • •
Balance on Hand This Report . • • • • • • •
Percentage Expended for Reller. • • • • • •

S1cra11111ta
1931
1932
3323.67
2753.17

66.11

O!llce Equipment· Purchased •••••••• .•

----Total Exvense .... ......... . .. .
385.17

Balarles •••••••• , ••••. • •.• •••••••
Bent ••.....•..•. ••• ..•.•••.•.•••
Automobile Allowance and Expense • •••
Telephone and Telegraph ••.• . ..••••••
Printing, Stationery and Postage ••••••
Traveling Expense • •.. ..•••••••••.•
Field Representative Expense •••••••••
Other Items ... ••.•...••.•.•••.•••
Less Contributed by Employment Bureau

FOR EXPENSE-

Total Reller Expenditures .•••••• •

900 . 00

·10:00

25.00
60.00

175.00
255.00
130.00
102.12
234.41
17 .42

125.00

38.13
278.35
325.00
25.00

4oo:oi
132.50

820 . 00
740 . 00

70.00
997 . 00
25.00
165.15

EXPENDITURES
113.30
1024.03
28.00

Callfornla Jurisdiction ••..••••.•••••
Otber United states Jurisdictions .••••
Foreign Jurisdictions ... .. ••...•• ; ••
Repayment to Grand Lodge Callf.•••••
ll'unerals ..•••..•••••..•••••.•...•
Individuals ••.•••.•.•.••• •. •••••••
Contributed to Employment Bureau . •••
Audit •...•..••••.•.•••••••••••••
Other Items ••••.•••••.•••••••••••

FOR RELIEF-

(Continued)

,....

2808.09
1073.81
75.5%

682.81

·as:oi

11.73

.. 6:07

600 .00

334.43
1654.57
86 . 47%

44.99

·aa:so

6 . 49

289. 44

258 . 16
26.28
5 .00

1989 .00

127 . 50

127 . 50

311 . 29

271.16
46.13

588.32
1414 .25
87%

10.91

30.39

40.58

511. 35

351.65
78.00
87. 70

2002 .57

120.00

120.00

228.00

84 .55
55.75
87 .70

443.12
26.00
95%

12.25

12.25

430.87

44. 75
386 . 12

469 .12

100.00

100.00

333 .51

65 . 00
44.75
223 . 76

1932
35. 61

2877 .39
486. 72
36.4%

1829.65

·2s:oo

. 95
4.80

1800 .oo

1041.34

ioo:oo

95.24
842.50
10.00

Stodlton

1931

2680.20
196.61
16%

642 . 23

·33:27

3.22
5. 74

600.00

2037 .97

·is:oo

·i5:oo
2125. 28

145. 00

914 . 47
898 .50
65.00

533.00

484.38
1092.90

Honolulu
1931
1932
1544.21
1654. 57

154 .07
82.85
100%

154 .07

99.69
20.00
34.38

For Twelve Months Ending July 31, 1932

ANNUAL REPORT
MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF

l:i:J

"ti

l:i:J

:i:

0
'>J
'3

rn

c;'l

0

~

§

t'

zt)

>-

:ti

763.86
186.86
94%

50.47

.i7 :so

20.07
12.58

713.39

~

""'
"'

~

~

g

is2:so "iJ

168.00
357 .50
5 .00

950. 72

859.10

230 .60

628.50

5.00

ias:oo
455 .50

Glendale
1932
91.62

2793 .24
466.08
35%

1808.14

··5:io
.. s:o4

1800.00

985.10

c;'l

:ti
g

·i5:oo
~
16.00 z

109.50
832 . 10
7 .50
5.00

N

..."'

$57,692.41

$ 19,498.98
45,620.66
1,698.00
18,981.49
7,771.40
1,831.81
3,560.00
154.07
2,037.97
985.10
2,093.46
568.64
89.50
517.35
430.87
713.39
$106,552.69

$169,823.59

Total
Relief

San Francisco --·--··-·-·------·--:-···$ 32,386.63
Los Angeles _;·······-·····--·····-····--····- 63,525.70
5,804.61
Long Beach ··········-··············-·-·--··-Oakland and Berkeley....................- 31,771.90
San Diego ····-····----·············--········-- 11,384.39
Santa Monica ··---··-······--········-·--·-·- 2,887.10
Pasadena ····--·-······----·-··-------············ 5,454.57
236.92
Alameda ············--·-········-····---···--·····
San Jose ····-------·····--·------··--·----·--··- 3,476.87
Fresno ··········- ·-······--···----·······-······ 3,259.32
Sacramento ····-····----·-······-··---···- 5,069.71
995.24
Bakersfield. -----··-------·-·--···-··---·--·148.22
Richmond ····---··············-·---·····--··-·Honolulu ------·-·----·-·--·----------·· 2,002.57
469.12
Stockton --··---··--·---------·----·-·------··-950.72
Glendale --··-·-··------·--·--·--········--- ···-

Total Receipts
Incl. Balance

$23.952.27

$7,157.95

---··s:oo

455.50

"223:76

35
75.37
65
94.6
87
95
94

76

79.48
35.6
64
74
66.6
80.8
100

77

Per

· Cent

---········-

Gross
Overhead

$1,299.53

............

-----------............

$32,453.71

642.23
1,808.14
684.34
306.54
5.02
70.97
. 12.25
50.47

$ 5,904.29
11,341.07
3,094.51
. 4,011.99
2,713.55
962.87
845.47

$3,026.02

------------

---------···

O o u o•o • • • • •

2.50
---·-·····-·

----------·--------····

29.10

24.38

6.65

---------···
·-----------

$
1,121.50
117.28
25.00

Foreign

Supporting Bodies
or Individuals

$ 555.35
1,878.94
14.40
461.00
44.45
40.00

............
--···-------

--------····

$ 7,769.32
29,288.65
1,254.20
11,678.81
5,895.07
35.00
880.00
15.00
144.10
53.00

SUMMARY-1932 ·

84.55
44.75
168.00

$ 7,166.10
7,487.70
155.00
5,552.88
1,946.30
115.00
211.33
60.00
617.27
102.50
217.50
23.39

Receipts
Receipts
From
Calif. Lodges
Other States

San Francisco ................................$2,072.85
Los Angeles ··-···········---·········-···-·- 1,352.07
Long Beach -·--····---·-·--····--------······-·
Oakland ····--···--···----·--···-··- ·-----····- 2,135.65
San Diego ··--····--··--·----·····---·--·····--·
35.00
Santa Monica ····-----·--····--------······Pasadena ····-··-··-··-···-·-······--·---··--·-- 880.00
15.00
Alameda ···----·-·-----·------·--·--·--·····----·
San Jose ···---·---------·--·---------------···---· 144,10
53.00
Fresno --··-------····-----·--···------·---··---Sacramento ---·--··---------··---·----···--·-· 405.28
Bakersfield -·-----·-------·---------··-·--·---- ............
Richmond ---------·---·----···---------···----- ..............
Honolulu --·-·--·-·---------·-··-------····----65.. 00
Stockton ---------··--------·--·--·----·-··-···---Glendale --·--·-----····------·---·----····------- ····----·-·

From
Grand Lodge

24
65
24.63
35
5.4
13
5
6

23
20.52
64.4
36
26
33.4
19.2

Per

Cent

$26,653.14

$ 8,463.78
7,603.52
155.00
5,232.00
2,048.09
113.30
1,060.00
99.69
914.47
109.50
263.50
23.39
2.50
351.65
44.75
168.00

Foreign

$25,382.47

- --

600.00
1,800.00
540.00
300.00

$ 5,400.00
7,942.47
2,700.00
2,700.00
2,400.00
175.00
825.00

Salaries

$64,662.47

386.12
357.50

$25,851.12

$ 2,615.86
6,390.57
1,012.04
8,353.42
899.44
92.42
1,049.10
82.85
796.56
466.08
2,291.91
120.06
53.70
1,414.25
26.00
186.86

Balance
on Hand

$3,791.62

5.00

---······-··

----········

------------

............

34.38
65.00
7.50

$ 789.46
2,311.93
6.00
516.35
28.00
28.00

$ 9,096.74
31,911.36
1,284.00
10,915.64
5,591.48
1,024.03
2,345.00
20.00
898.50
832.10

Disbursements
Other
Calif.
States
Members

1.932-RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS FOR RELIEF

""'

~

"d

~

~

.,..

>

z

~

Cl

....

>
t<

(')

l'J
0
".l

tj
Q

0

t<

z~tj

Q

~

:i:

,..,

0
".l

Ul

zQ

H

tj

l'J
l'J

(')

0

l:d

00

Items of Record-

$6600--Gen.
Accident Co.-p.
1-S.ec. Furn.

Items of Record-.

No. Fanerals Conducted by Board ....
No. Funerals Conducted by Lodges ..
Undertaker's Charges ..........................
C<ist of Opening & Closing Grave ......
Cost of Funeral Service -·--·················
Total Cost of Funerals ........................

Auto Insurance and Carrier .. ·-·-·- ··-

Number Automobiles Used-Name ....

Number Paid Employees ......................
Secretary' s Salary ................................
A.-istant Secretary's Salary................
Typist's or Clerk's Salary....................
Field Man's Salary ..............................
Switchboard Operator's Salary............
Fidelity Bond-Name Carrier ............
Amount Treasurer's Bond ............ h····
Amount S€.cretary's Bond ........ :.......... .
Amount Fidclify Ins. & Carrier ....... .
Compe n ~ation Ins. & Carrier..............

Number Meetings· per M°""th ... _..:......
f'.~r Capita Assessmen! During Year~

~ a~agcd ~Y---_·---~-_--, -·-------­

Location of Boards. of Relief:
Composed of members from each
Blue i;.o<Igc. ......, .. - ·-···--····----···- -

ByC:all

1
$75 per Mo.

2

$70
$65
$135

51

'$500
$500
$1000
Pac. Ind. Co.

$10 Monthly

$25 Monthly

W. F. Kress,
S«y.
J.N.Kmnedy,
Secy.
1 .
25c per member

• Lodge

~000

r.o

I

6
$100
$45
$145

$75
$35, inc. grave
$110

$500

Grand Lodge..

24c Btue Lodge
20c other Bod.
1
$600 per Yr.

. '4 ,

'

8

uooo .

$10bo. G.-.•L<>dge
Aetna Life
-. Ins. Co.

1
$150 per Mo.

...
0

w

>

z

~:ll

~

"'l

0

Cl
t.tJ

'::'

t'
0

0

~
Spee<! B. Leas,
Pres.
1
4Jc per member

:ll

Q
4 Lodges

5 Blue Lodges,
Chap., Comm.
W . F.AnthcsJr.,
Secy.

~

8

"'l

0

Fresno

Not fixed

No fixed charge

$12.50

No fixed charge

61

1-Buick
None

None

$1000
$1000
None

Grand Lodge

0

0

...z

l.'11

t1l

(')

"d
::i:s
0

0

0

c.>

San Jost

Burial $145
Cremation $140

$40 Cemetery,
$45 Cremate
None

Independence,
Indiana
1-Ford Coach
Occ. Und. &
Md . Casualty
61
7
$100

By

Grand Lod<!.e,
Pac. Ind. o.

1-Hupmobile
Pub. Liab. &
Globe Ind. Co.

Alameda

$5.00

8

All chgs; paid
by family

$500
$500
$1000
Pac. Ind. Co.
Home Acc.
Ins. Co.
1-E. T. Date
Home Acc.
Ins. Co.
41

$50:r-Y~~eMo.

None
$175 per Mo.

1-Buick
Keystone Und.
Pd. by Kress, Sec.
37

. $500

Pac. Ind. Co.

25c per member

Yes
3 Blue Lodges

f

Pasadena

Total Cost of Funerals ..........______

$15 (we do
not bill Lodge)
Interment 102
Cremation 110

Ind. Ins. Co.
of Philadelphia
1 Buick
Auto Club of
South. Cal.
222
27
$60, Charity
Cases only
$6.00

Santa Monica

$100

Cost of Opening & Closing Grave ....••
Cost of Funeral Service ......................

100
Av. $100
complete
Included in
Undertaker's Ch.
$100

No. Funerals Conducted by Board ....
No. Funerals Conducted by Lodges ..
Undertaker's Charges ..........................

Number Automobiles Used-Name ....
Auto Insurance and Carrier ..-------·····•

(;omper1sation Ins. & Carrier..............

$2000
$2000

Pac. Ind. Co..

$2000
$2000
None

J\mount Treasurer•s Bond ................. _
An1Qunt Sceretary's Bonet....................
Amount Fidelity Ins. · 6: Carrier........

$100 per Mo.
$17~er Mo.
one
Pac. Ind. Co.

$900
None
Gr;uid Lodge

Earl Thaxter
1
48c per member
4
$250 per Mo.

Leo Bruck
2
25c per member
2
$3600
2

Yes

Masters &
Wardmg
Edwin T. Date
1
42c per member
1
$225 per Mo.

Yes

54

Bd. Directors
1
75c per member
1
~400 per Yr.
d. by Secy.
Pd. by Secy.

San Diego

Oakland
Oakland and
Berkeley
R. C. Horstmann
1
48c per member

Long Beach

Los Angeles

San Francisco

Managed by ............................................
Number Meetings per Mo.nth ..............
P er Capita Assessment During Year .•
N umber Paid Employees ......... _...........
S ecretary's Salary ................................
Assistant Secretary's Salary................
TySist's or Clerk's Salary-..................
Fie d Man's Salary ..............................
Switchboard Operator's Salary............
Fidelity Bond-Name Carrier - ------··

Location of Boards of Relief:
Composed
·of membera
from
f!ach
Blue LOl<lge
________________
,_________

Statistical Information
FOi' the Year Ending July 31, 1932

MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF

I

I

J

I
:rn2

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

...
"

>.

.:

<>
~

..

s"s

~

fl~

...... j::.l
.ii

~:;

.;
,,,,,, "'...
<u
.ts~

...
"

1:1

~~

""

"""".....

303

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
OF CALIFORNIA

.....

ii·;:

!:!"

0

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ul~

Tp the M.".

w:. Grand Lodge of California :

The following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
M~sonic Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending

s

~

'.!

September 30th, 1932: .

~.t!

.. ., 0

.: ]'"...l..8..a
~ (") H~
;:;::"
C)

~

ril

~

~

ril

~
~

0

-

s::-'

0 "'
·.i::
:>..

r3,....
. . . . 'i

0 ~ ='
:S.
·s
~

< ] ~ 5
0 ·.i:: .... ()
~

·!l ~ ....,

u

fl.)""

~

0

fl.I

<
)l

~~t;
.,,
~ t' - .~~
...,"£ jt~'Oa
C)

N

"'a.

0

z

RECEIPTS

October 1, 1931, balance on hand (cash and securities) ................$37,400.97
From rentals -···············:..:......~ .............:..................-$49,9?<J,~O
From interest on bank balances ............................
52.30
From interest on bonds ..........................................- 1,916.80
Refund on taxes .........................................,......-,.....
179.69
Premium on sale of bonds ........................................
81.66
Sale of discarded furniture ....................................
325.00 52,505.95

.<;t

A::

~~~~
..,.en-=
u

g.

- -... (J

...- · ...
., .. 1
~ ....
.,
~..
--~--&
,_

... .s""~~
"

ll:l

<>

i!

i...

~

;:;::

" "'
"'
..,""" ...
"'

"'UJ

-s
~

ci

.,:>,

.is><

~

Total receipts ....................................,..............._...................,•.~~.92

=-<"'

.." .\!

"'r.; .. ii 0 0
!Ji ...s " ~;:;::

DISBURSEMENTS

ci

u

'co
""co

........
.,.
""'"'
~

~

I<

~

" -a5
"::l C::o"

l>l

l ~- ~

...
~

Taxes ······-····-···'···········:..........,.........,...•..._.,..............$ 8,484.00
Current expense .....•.,................................................ 5,479.97
Repairs and improvements ....................................- 6,924.61
Superintendent and salaries ····················- ············- 10,983.25
Accrued interest on bonds bought ..........................
197.23
Insurance ....................................................................,.
659.45
Dividends ...............................................·-················-- 4,662.43
120.00
Notes payable -···········-....................- .....,....................

j::ic::,.....S~ILJt

Total disbursements .....................::'...............-...···-················ 37,510.94

.....

Balance on hand September 30, 1932 (cash and securities) ..........$52,395.98

~5

O\"

ll:

t;

g.g.

" ......
Q.

""
..,

U>O

During the year unusual repairs and improvements were made. The
entire exterior of the building was cleaned and waterproofed, new floors
and modern equipment installed in all kitchens, old lighting fixtures replaced with modern. Extensive repairs were made on the roof.
As president I speak in the highest terms of commendation to the
constant care and business acumen of the Secretary-Manager, Brother
Frank C. Ruppel, in his management of the Temple.
P. FILMER,
President.

w.

Adopted.

3-04

PROCEEDINGS . OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
To the M.".

w:. Gra11d Lodge of California:

. Your Committee on Grievances to which was referred the following
T~1al Records, begs leave to report that in each of the cases covered by

said recor-ds, substantial justice seems to have been done ; . and while in
some .of them there are irregular.ities; nevertheless··the same are not of such
character as to prejudice the rights of the parties, to-wit:
Trial Record No. 716 of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
Tr~al Record No. 717 of Silver Gate Lodge No. 294.
Trial Record No. 718 of Fruitvale Lodge No. 336.
Trial Record No. 719 of Wilmington Lodge No. 198.
Trial Record No. 720 of Jewel Lodge No. 374.
Trial Record No. 721 of Spokane Lodge No. 34, Washington.
Trial Record No. 722 of lone. Lodge No. 80.
Trial Record No. 724 of Silver Gate Lodge ·No; 296.
Trial Record No. 725 of Beverly Hills Lodge No. 528:
Trial Record No. 727 of Corona Lodge No. 324.
Trial Record No. 730 of Nicolaus Lodge No. 129.
Trial Record No. 731 of R~adjng -Lodge No. 254.
Trial Record No..732 of Santa Ana Lodge No. 241.
Trial Record No. 733 of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296.
Trial Record No. 734 of Woodbridge Lodge No. 131.
Trial Record No. 735 of Redlands Lodge No. 300.
Trial Record.No. 737 of Magnolia .Lodge No. 242.
Trial Record N:o. 740of Lodi Lodge No. 256.
Trial Record.No. 741 of Corcoran Lodge No. 490.
Trial Record No. 743 of Ocean Park Lodge No. 369.
Trial Record No. 744 of Golden State Lodge No. 358.
Trial Record No. 745 of South Pasadena Lodge No. 367.
Trial Record No. 764 of Anchor Lodge No. 273.
Trial Record No. 748 of Alta Loma Lodge No. 643.
Trial Record No. 751 of Fraternity Lodge No. 399.
Trial Record No. 7-53 of Security Lodge No,>581.
Triat-Recocd No. 754 of Lebanon Lodge No. 495.
Trial Record.No.·155 of Anchot Lodge No. 213.
Trial Record No.. 7561of Benicia Lodge No, 5.
Trial Record No. 759 of University Lodge No. 394.
Trial Record No. 761 of Chula Vista Lodge No. 626.
Trial Record No. 762 of Alta Loma Lodge No.-643.
Trial Record No. 672 of Dunsmuir Lodge No. 297.
Trial Record No. 700 of Angeles Mesa Lodge No. 625.
Trial Record No. 765 of Berkeley Lodge No. 363.
Trial Record No. 763 of Ionic Lodge No. 520.
Trial R~cord No. 749 of Laurel Lodge No. 245.

305

. We therefore recommend that the same be approved; offer the fol-·
lowing resolution and move its adoption l
"Resolved, that the determination of the trial commissioners in each
of the. above mentioned cases be and the same is hereby sustained and
approved."

Adopte9.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 746, from Santa Paula' Lodge No. 291, wherein the accused was found
guilty and sentenced to reprimand, believe the accused was guilty of wilful
perjury, and recommend that the decision of the trial commission in finding
the accused guilty of unmasonic conduct be sustained, but that the penalty
be raised to expulsion.

Adopted:
Your Committee on Grievances, to: which was referred Trial Record
No. 758 from Rising Light Lodge No. 397, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct on two specifioations .aoousing· him on two occasions of violating the Wright Act and that
he was convieted in the Courts of such violations. He was found guilty on
both specifications and upon the charge of unmasonic conduct and sentenced to a reprimand. The record is fatally defective for two reasons:
First, it shows that the summons was issued on July S, 1932, and was
served on the accused on July 6, 1932, although the Commissioners were
not elected until July 12, 1932. The explanation given for this action by
the Secretary was that the Master was afraid the accused would leave
Orange County as soon as the accused got out of jail and the Master
wanted the accused served while he knew where to find him. Sei:tion 199
of the Constitution provides that "If the accused be within the jurisdiction
of the ·L6dge; the summons and copy of the charges shalt be Issued and
served upon the accused at least ten days prior to the day appointed for the
trial, etc."
Section 198 of the Constitution provides "The Master will then name
the time and place for the first meeting of the Commissioners, keeping in
view the convenience of the parties and the time allowed the accused
for appearance, and will direct the Secretary to notify each Commissioner
of his election and of such time and place of meeting, either in person or
in writing, and - will also direct the Secretary to notify the accuser of
such time and pljlce of meeting, and will have prepared for his signature
a summons which he will cause to be served, etc."
This the Master is required to do at the time the Commissioners are
elected. This is the Master's only authority to cause such summons to be

306

307

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

issued. We are compelled to find that the summons purporting to have
been issued on July 5, 1932, was not legally issued and therefore its service
did not confer jurisdiction to try the accused. It is true the Master did at
the time the Commissioners were elected direct the Secretary to cause
a summons to be prepared for the Master's signature. This, however, does
not appear to have been done. The files in the case show two certified
copies of the conviction of the accused in the Municipal Court at Los
Angeles, but the Secretary's minutes of the trial do not disclo!e that such
certified copies were offered in evidence or that any evidence was offered
at the trial. The case must therefore be reversed .. As the Commissioners
under section 204 of the Constitution, did not take on adjournment to another date, but purported to have finished their labors and adjourned sine
die; we are of opinion that the case can not be retried before such Commissioners, but that if it is desired to proceed further with the matter a
new commission will have to be elected, and a new summons issued and
served on the accused in compliance with our Constitution after such
Commissioners are elected.

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition of
G. R. S., expelled by Berkeley Lodge No. 363 in 1929, report that petitioner
was found guilty by a trial commission and sentenced to reprimand; that
Grand Lodge in 1929 raised the penalty to expulsion; but that no showing
is made by the petitioner on his behalf why petition should be granted.
We therefore recommend that the petition for restoration of G. R. S. be
denied without prejµdice.

We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:

Resolved, that the decision of the Trial Commissioners herein be
and the same is hereby rever~ed and said cause be and the same is hereby
remanded for a new trial with directions that a new Trial Commission be
elected and a new summons be issued in the manner provided by the
Constitution after the election of such Commission and thereafter served
on the accused.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 728, from Alturas Lodge No. 248, on appeal by the accused, are of
opinion that ample evidence was introduced to sustain the findings of the
Commissioners and we see no reason to disturb their verdict.
We therefore recommend that the verdict of guilty and sentence of
expulsion be approved.

Adopted.
. Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition for
restoration of P. T.; formerly a member of Tyrlan Lodge No. 439, expelled by that Lodge January 7, 1928, beg leave to report that no recom- ·
mMtory letters or any evidence as to his conduct since expulsion have
been:filed with the petition for restoration. As there is nothing upon which
to base an order granting petitioner's request, we recommend that the pe~ ,tition of P. T . for restoration be denied without prejudice.

. · Adopted.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 757, from Live Oak Lodge No. 61, find that the accused was convicted by summary method provided by section 192 of our Constitution.
The record shows that the accused was convicted in the Superior Court of
Alameda County of a crime classified as a felony, but was given probation and not imprisoned. We therefore offer the following resolution and
move its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of Live Oak Lodge No. 61, in expelling accused from the rights and privileges of Masonry, be and the same is
hereby reversed, and the said Lodge is directed to take such action as may
be consistent with the facts and the Masonic law applicable thereto.

Ado.pted. (Earl Warren and A. W. Brouillet, members
of the Committee, did not participate in this report.)
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record No. 714, from Plumas Lodge No. 60, begs to report: The charges
were preferred by the Junior Warden by direction of the Master, and the
accusing Master presided at the trial. Accused was not present and no
witnesses testified. The minutes of the meeting of the Trial Commissioners show that copies of seventeen letters, copy of a bank check for $35.00,
copy of a protest, and copy of an affidavit of a Sheriff in Utah stating that
the accused could not be located, were presented. The Commissioners
found the accused guilty and fixed the penalty at expulsion. In cases where
the Junior Warden prefers the charges at the direction of the Master,
that Master can not preside. The Grand Master should have been requested to designate a Past Master to preside. But in addition to this
irregularity, no competent evidence was adduced. The seventeen . letters
were not identified, no proof was made to show by whom. they were
wr~ten, or whether the statements contained in them were true or false or
hearsay. Your Committee is of the opinion that the judgment must be
reversed, and offer the following resolution and move its ·adoption :

Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by Trial Record No.
714 be and the same is hereby reversed and the case remanded for a
new trial.

Adopted.

308

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDlNOS ·oF THE

Your Committee on· Grievances, to which was referred Trial .Record.
No.· 750, from Damascus Lodge No. 648, recommend that ·the penalty of
suspension· fixed ·b:Y the trial commissioners be raised to expulsion.

Adopted;
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial· Record
No. 736, from Whittier Lodge No. 323, respectfully reports that the
evidence in the case constitutes prima facie evidence of guilt on the part
of thl!·accused, and that the judgment of the Commissionel'S in failing to
find ·him ·guilty: of unmasonic conduct should .be ·reversed. We therefore
recommend that the accused in Trial Record No. 736 be ·expelled··from · aU
rights· and"privileges· of Masonry.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances has given careful consideration to the
petition of H . B. M.). heretofore, in 1925, ·expelled by Unity Lodge Nb. 368,
for restoration. His application is.supported by letters from Past Ma5ters
of his Lodge, members of the trial commission, business associates, his
banker and others, all of whom attest his complete reformation. We therefore recommend that' H. B.' M. be restored to all the rights and privileges
of Masonry.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to. ·which was referred Trial .Record
No. 747 from· Oroville Lodge No. 103, covering the trial of one E. H. D.,
a member of L@yalton Lodge No: 359; begs leave to report as follows ::
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct under specifications, thl!·gist·of which is that'the accused was engaged in bootlegging and
that although he· had been Mice convicted before the courts he was still
engaged as such and was thereby bringing the Masonic fraternity into
disrepute. The accused was not present at the trial, but wrote a letter
to the· Lodge. confe"Ssing his guilt 'on all charges. In addition to this admission there was other competent evidence of his guilt. In his letter, above
referred-to, the accused expressed the hope that the· future might offer him
something- "more· worthy of a living as· a Master Mason." While not so
stated", the· implication is plain that he· expects to' continue his present line
of endeilvor until something more promising presents itself. The trial
commission found accused guilty and· fixed his' penalty at suspension.
Id view
his steadfastness to his• present line' of endeavor and the
uncertainty as- to how long he may continue to follow it, we feel that all
uncertainty as to his status as a Mason should be removed.

of

309

·We,:itherefore, .offer the following resolution and move its adoption:

Be it resolved, that the finding of gUilt of the trial commission be,
and the same hereby is affirmed, but that the penalty be, and the same
hereby is fixed at expulsion.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 766, from Euclid Lodge No. 519, begs leave to report that the trial of
this case was had in September, 1931, and that the Secretary of the Lodge
sent up the transcript of the record to the.Grand Secretary on October 10,
1932. Accused was found not guilty by the trial commiiSion. The evidence adduced at the trial was ample on which to find a judgment .of
guilty. The charges were preferred by the Junior Warden by direction .of
the Master, and the Master nevertheless presided at the trial---a reversible
error. We· therefore recommend that the finding of not guilty by the trial
commission be set aside and vacated, and the matter be remanded for a
new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances·, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 729, from Surpl"ise Valley Lodge No. 235, begs to report that the
evidence in· this case 'clearly shows that the accused was guilty "Of most
reprehensible conduct. The trial commission found him guilty and nxed
the penalty at suspension. In the opinion of your Committee this was
wholly inadequate. We -therefore recommend that the finding of guilty ·of
the ·trial commission be affirmed, ·but · that the penalty be and the same
is hereby fixed at expulsion.

Adopted.

.,..
Your Committee on Gt-ievance&, to which was referred Trial Re(!Ord
No. 713, begs leave to report as follows:
,one A. W., a member of Big Bear Lodge No.· 617, was accused of
unmasonic conduct under one specification charging the commission of an
assault upon a brother' ·Mason: By order of the Grand ·Master the trial
was transferred to Redlands Lodge No. 300. While the ·order of transfer
is· made over the signature of the Grand Secretary, this was pursuant to
dinotions of the Grand Master. The accused, thFollgh his counsel, :objected to this transfer and insisted upon being tried before Big Bear
Lodge-. No. 617, of which -accused was a member. Neverthelcss,1.the trial
was conducted before commissioners elected by and from the membership
of . Redlands Lodge.

.J

310

'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Section 43, subdivision 9, of the Constitution, authorizes the Grand
Master to transfer upon the request of ·Master to whom charges of unmasonic conduct have been presented, the trial of the .a~cused to some -0ther
Lodge whenever, in the judgment of the Grand Master, the convenience of
witnesses, or other good cause, makes such transfer necessary or expedient. In this case the Master of Big Bear Lodge was the perS-On assaulted,
and while the record does not show a request by him that the case be
transferred, we are pf the opinion that the order of transfer, under the
circumstances, could be made by the Grand Master of his own volition
and that under these peculiar circumstances such order was entirely proper.
Over the objection of counsel for the accused, members of Big Bear
Lodge were excluded from attending the trial. Your Committee finds no
Constitutional provision or previous decision of Grand Lodge dealing with
this question.
Unquestio!l4bly, members of the public who are not Masons should
not be permitted to attend such trials. Li~ewise, it is equally clear that
the presiding officer should, and does, have the power, in his discretion,
to exclude witnesses. As to Masons attending such trials a variety of
views may and does exist. On the one hand is the argument that trials
should be open and free to attendance by members of the Craft in the
interests of fair dealing and in conformity with the practice in the courts
of the land. On the other, it is urged that Masonic trials should be as
secret as possible to avoid undue publicity and notoriety, even within the
fraternity itself. Also, in cases where factions exist with respect to an
accusation, and this not infrequently occurs, attempts might be made to
pack an audience because of the influence upon the trial commission thus
to be obtained. After careful consideration of these and various other
views, your committee is of the opinion that the matter of th~ attendance
of Masons, known or properly vouc·hed to the presiding ·officer as such,
should be entrusted to the discretion of the presiding officer, and that, in
the absence of a showing of an abuse of such discretion, his judgment
should he final: At all events, in this case we find no miscarriage of justice
because Masons were excluded.
·
The evidence sufficiently shows the commission of .the assault alleged
in the specification. As a matter of fact the accused admitted the assault
but attempted to establish self defense; his defense in this respect wa~
weak and evidently not accepted by the trial commission. In addition
however, the accused offered to prove circumstances leading up to and i~
extenuation.of the assault. He offered evidence that the person a~saulted
had circulated false and malii;ious statements concerning him and that
such statements had. beei:i made to the wife of the accused for the purpose
of brealdIJg up his hqme. This offered ev.i!ience was excluded. In this
we ie;e;j :m e;rror was committed. In view of the fact that a trial commission has the duty of fixing the penalty as well as determining guilt, anrl

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

311

in view of the provisions of our Constitution, particularly those of section
200, giving the accused the right of showing matters in extenuation, we
think this evidence should have been received. An unprovoked assault
with nothing shown in extenuation may well merit one penalty, while an
assault resulting from provocation and for which extertuat ing circumstances may be shown, may merit another. In reaching this conclusion we
have in mind the ruling of Grand Lodge made in 1878 which indicates a
somewhat contrary view. (Section 398, p. 371, Digest of Decisions--1932).
However, we feel that the views herein expressed are more in harmony
with our present theory of Masonic trials, and more consistent with the
provisions of our Constitution.
The trial record discloses that while the commissioners found the
accused guilty of the specification, no vote or determination was had upon
the charge of urunasonic conduct. In conformity with former rulings of
Grand Lodge we· find· it necessary to recommend a reversal because of
this fact.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:

Resolved, that the finding of guilt of' the trial commission on the
specification and the fixing of the penalty at suspension be and the same
hereby is set aside and vacated and that the matter be . remanded for
a new trial.

The report was adopted, except as to that portion relating to the exclusion of members from attending the hearing
at the trial, which w.as referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 726, from Sequoia Lodge No. 349, on appeal by the accused, begs
to report that in the opinion of your Committee the findings and sentence
of expulsion by the trial commissionets should be affirmed, and we so
recommend.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 738, being a member of Fort Crook Lodge No. 575 tried by Madison
Lodge N o. 23 and sentenced to suspension, begs to report that in the opinion of the Committee the evidence was not sufficient to justify the judgment of the trial commission, and we recommend that the case be reversed
and remanded for a new t rial.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

312

-

313

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your Committee un Grievances, to which -was referred Trial Record ·
No. 671, from Highland· Park Lodge· No. 382; begs to report: Tliis jg a
petit~on fo'r restoration from M. R. S., who· in December, 1930, was
~onv1tted ~nd sentenced·to reprimand, which sentence was by Grand Lodge
1~1 1931. raised -to suspension. The application· for restoration is accompamed by letters of recommendation from prominent' members of the fraternity. We are of the opinion that petitioner has been .sufficiently punished
and that he should. again·be admitted to fellowship, and we therefore recommend that M. R.·.S.' be and he>is restored ·to the rights and privileges
of Masonry.

Adopted.
. :our Committee on Grievances has also had under consideration the
petition of E. M. G. for restoration. This petitioner was a member of
Highland Park Lodge No. 382; was tried for unmasonic conduct in December'.1929, found guilty and sentenced to reprimand; Grand Lodge, in
1~31., .raised: the pena~ty to suspension... The file indicates that ·the petitioner
did not notify the tnal Lodge of his intention to ask for restoration until
August 15, _1932, which would pr,eclude the Lodge from taking any action
ther~on unt~I the stated meeting of September 12-less than the forty days
required prior to the annual communication of Grand Lodge. We therefore recommend that the petition of E. M. G. for restoration be denied
without prejudice to the filirtg of a future application.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Retord
No. 752, from Mission Lodge No. 169, begs leave to report: The accused
was ·convicted by the :trial commission, and sentenced to reprimand which
jud~ment was carried out. The accuser appealed on the · ground that the
pumshment ·was· not adequa~ to the offenses proven at the trial. Your
committee is of the opinion· that the contention ·of the accuser is correct,
and we therefore recommend that the findings of the trial commi&5ion be
affirmed, but that the penalty be and the same is raised to and fixed at
expulsion.

Adopted.
Your· Committee on Grievance.s, to which was •referred Trial Record
No. 7l5; from .Jewel• Lodge No. 374; tried by Argonne Lodge No. 514·
wherein one· G; L., a member of Fidelity' Lodge No. 120. is the accuser'
and one T. L. I., a Past Master, is the accused, begs to· report:· Th~
commissioners in the trial _Lodge found the .accused not guilty, and the
accuser appeals from such iudgment. There 1s not one shred of evidence

in the entire record of one hundred fifty-five pages to show .that the
accused was guilty of any of. the fifteen specifications in the charge, and
we recommend that the appeal be denied and that .the judgment··of the
trial commission in finding the accused not guilty be affirmed.

Adopted.
~ Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 739, from Calistoga Lodge No. 233, begs leave to (eport as follows:

This is a case under section 192 ·of the Constitution for automatic
expul6ion.· When this•record first came before your 'Committee there was
an absence of showing of the nature of .the crime for the commission of
which the accused was convicted. As section 192 only applies to cases
involving conviction of a felony, it was necessary that this should appear
in the record. Your committee now has definite information that accused
was. convicted in the Federal Court of conspiracy to violate the National
Prohibition Act, which is made a felony. We therefore offer the following
resolution and move its adoption:
Re.solved, that the expulsion of the accused be and the same is hereby
sustained. ·

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 723, from Paul Revere Lodge No. 462, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused was proceeded against under section 192 of the Constitution.
It appears from the record that the accused was convicted by his plea of
guilty of a felony and was sentenced to serve a term of imprisonment
therefor. Thereafter, and while accused was in jail, the Secretary of the
Lodge on October 14, 1931, sent to him by registered mail a notice under
section 192 of the Constitution and addressed it to his home, where the
return receipt was signed by an agent. No other proof of service was
made. On January 8, 1932, the accused, having failed to demand a trial,
was expelled.
It has been repeatedly held by Grand Lodge that the above does not
constitute proper notice to the accused under section 192 and that it can
not be made the basis for expulsion.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the action of Paul Revere Lodge No. 462 in expelling
the accused be and the same is hereby reversed and remanded for further
proceedings.

Adopted.

314

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Trial Record
No. 742, from Pacific Lodge No. 136, begs ·leave to report : The trial
commission found the accused guilty and sentence was fixed at suspension,
from which the accused appeals. This trial is not only the longest, but
the most involved that occurred in the jurisdiction in the year. It was
vigorously contested and able counsel represented both sides. The rights
of the accused were protected in ·every way-and in passing it should be
remarked that the Master of the trial Lodge, although a layman, presided
not only with dignity and fairness, but in a manner that would have done
credit to a trained lawyer. The charges were proven and the findings of
the trial commission in finding the accused guilty should be sustained, but
the penalty should be raised to expulsion, and we so recommend.

Adopted.

315

AFTERNOON SESSION
Thursday October 13, 1932
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :15 o'clock, the Deputy
Grand Master presiding.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES

WALTER F. lIAAs,

Shrine Lottery

DI.IN L. BERRY,

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Having had under consideration that-portion of the Grand Master's
message, under the caption "Shrine Lottery," your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes reports as follows:
Your Committee is in complete and unreserved sympathy with the
motives which actuated the Grand Master in the extended and various
proceedings set forth in his message. His conduct was courageous and
determined and directly in line with his duty, which is the duty of every
Mason, to preserve unsullied the reputation of the fraternity. While insistent and persistent in his course, he nevertheless conformed precisely
to the courtesies and amenities properly applying to inter-fraternal communications. There is evidence to support the conclusion that the consideration extended to those in control of Shrine affairs was in important
respects reciprocated less in substance than in form.
We believe we sense a disposition on the part of numerous members
of Grand Lodge, supporting as do they, and all of us, the unassailable
rectitude and propriety of the Grand Master's conduct, to take action of
a corrective nature if proper grounds for such action exist. In all candor
and fairness, however, it must be admitted that no definite evidence is
before Grand Lodge at this time, establishing as a fact that such grounds
do exist.
Masonic membership is a prerequisite to membership in the Shrine.
This is a Shrine regulation and not a Masonic law. Our Grand Lodge has
never recognized the Shrine as a Masonic body, and there is no justification
whatever for the opinion widely held by the profane as well as by many
Masons and Shriners that a member of the Shrine is a "high Mason."
Perhaps Grand Lodge has been negligent and unwise in that it has never
taken orderly steps to educate Masons to a clear understanding of these
facts. Since Grand Lodge recognizes no connection between itself and
the Shrine, it is obvious that Grand Lodge can not undertake or assert

EARL WARREN,
ARTHUR BROUILLET,
FRANK BELCHER,

Committee.

At 12 :40 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 2 :15
o'clock this afternoon.

316

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the responsibility of regulating the affairs of the Shrine. There is an
old saying that "You mustn't spank a ..baby you haven't adopted." It
seems clear that our only line of disciplinary or regulatory approach
to the Shrine runs in our just authority to require of its individual
members, who are Masons, that their conduct in all their activities and
relationships conform to the practices and standards of Masonry. For
the exercise of this authority ample power is provided in our existing
.laws, under which disciplinary proceedings .may be established,against any
Mason in our jurisdiction, whether or not he be a member of a Lodge
constituent of our Grand Lodge.
The Shrine, however, having elected to make Masonic affiliation a
prerequisite, may properly be . reguded -as..having voluntarily assumed an
obligation to conform its own practices with 'Masonic usages and standards and to insist that the conduct of its members accord with Masonic
law. Those charged with responsibility for the management of the Shrine
should not put themselves in a positiom to 1'equire a reminder .of this obli.gation. On .the contrary, tliey should be the first to .insist upon discharging it.
In view of the foregoing, your Committee feels that the opinion ex.pressed by the Grand Master that action by Grand Lodge is essential in
order to avoid tacit approval of Shrine procedure is subject to examination.
The Grand Master suggests six possible courses of .action, and at
the same time,. with respect to four of them, raises definite question as to
the advisability of their adoption.. It thus appears that he leaves but two
suggestions for serious consideration, as follows:
" Members of constituent Lodges may ·be prohibited from
acquiring ·or retaining membership in the Shrine so long as the
Shrine requH:es· Masonic affiliation as a rprerequisite -t o Shrine
membership."
Your Committee does not believe that Grand Lodge is disposed to
adopt this course at this time; nor does it believe that such a course should
be aqopted without more mature and extended consideration than can be
given the matter at this communication of Grand Lodge. Such action
would go far in its effects upon the personal rights and personal reactions
of thousands of good Masons of this jurisdiction and probably exercise a
disruptive force the probable consequences of which should at least be
subjected to careful investigation and analysis in advance of legislation by us.
"It .may be made a Masonic .offense .for .any member of a
constituent Lodge to·be guilty of an act which br.ings or-tends to
bring discredit .upon any organization which requires Masonic
affiliation as a prerequisite for. membership, in the same manner
and to the same extent as if the discredit directly affected a Blue
Lodge or Blue Lqdge Masoriry."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

317

Although your Committee believes that our Lodges now possess -ample
power to discipline those· guilty of the acts described, it sees no. objection
to the adoption -of ·this .legislation provided that pl)'.)Ceedings thereunder are
carried out under our existing system of trial by L@dges. In order that
the matter may be brought before Grand Lodge in proper form for consideration, we therefore present the following resolution and move its
adoption:
R esolved, that the Grand Master's sixth recommendation · be approved,
and that- the' Committee- on Jurisprudence be requested to prepare and
present-the necessary legislation for final action by Grand Lodge.
Your Committee also presents the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved, that this Grand Lodge approves the action taken by the
M.'.
Robert B. Gaylord, Grand M aster, in his communications with
representatives of the Shrine, and that Grand Lodge express to him, by
a rising vote, its unreserved moral support.

w:.

Ado'pt~d by unanimous rising vote .

Grand Secretary
Your .Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered that
portion of the Grand Master's message which recommends the attendance
of our Grand Secretary, Brother Whicher, at the 1933 conference of Grand
Secretaries at Washington, D. C. It is needless to recount the many vir tues
of Brother Whicher. He is as a tower of strength to this Grand Lodge.
In making it possible for him to attend this conference, Grand Lodge is
providing a capable representative who will not -0nly bring great benefit to
this Grand Lodge, but will be an inspiration and delight to all with whom
he comes in contact. We concur most heartily in the recommendation of
the Grand Master.

Adopted and referred to Committee on Finance.
Board of Control
Your Committee on .P olicy and General Purposes has read with
interest that portion of the GTand· Master's message having reference to
the Board of Control and Boards of Relief. We note his suggestion that
efficiency should not deg.enerate into niggardliness or the evasion of Maa
sonic>responribility. We agree that the Board of Control has done much
to· eliminate waste and promote efficient and business-like methods and
that Grand Lodge has profited as ·a result of its activity. H owever, Boards
of Relief are organized to relieve distress among our brethl'en, and effi-

318

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

cient methods should be tempered with sound judgment and sympathetic
understanding. Greater demand for reimbursement can be overlooked
when the errors are on the side of charity. We concur in the comments
of the Grand Master.

319

can be settled best by the Master of the Lodge and that Grand Lodge
should not encroach upon his prerogatives.
We therefore recommend that the proposed legislation be not adopted.

Adopted.

Adopted.
Per Diem of Representatives
Degree Teams
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered that
portion of the message of the Grand Master relating to degree teams. We
note that he has made no recommendation for legislation on this subject,
but as a ruling has given his views on the general practice in Lodges of
using degree teams on more or less frequent occasions. In the opinion of
your Committee his views seem to be clear and dictated by sound judgment. Under proper supervision degree teams can add to the impressiveness
of the work, and if the team is formed at least partially from members
of the Lodge it gives them an added interest in the work. However, the
degree teams should not control the work, but should be invited by the
Master to participate. And before extending an invitation the Master
should assure himself of the proficiency of the temporary officers. Your
Committee feels that there is no alternative but to place this responsibility
directly on the shoulders of the Master of the Lodge. We therefore concur
most heartily with the views of the Grand Master.

Adopted.

The Grand Master in his message referred to the proposal made at
the last communication of Grand Lodge to revise the pay of members,
and which was referred to this communication. At that time it was called
to the attention of Grand Lodge that many Lodges made very generous
provision for the attendance of their representative, and that by placing
the pay on a more equitable basis it would not be necessary for Lodges to
appropriate additional money for expenses of their representative. While
no figures are available, the plan proposed would undoubtedly increase the
expense to Grand Lodge and the expenditure by individual Lodges would
be limited only by the restraint that Grand Lodge would wish to put upon
them. It is the opinion of your Committee that Grand Lodge expenses
should not be increased at this time and that the expenditure of Lodges
for representatives be left to the discretion of its officers and members. We
therefore concur in the recommendation of the Grand Master that no
action upon this subject be taken at this communication.

Adopted.
Cornerstones

Lodge Rosters
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
recommendation of the Grand Master relating to Lodge rosters. He
states that such rosters are used continually for commercial and nonMasonic purposes, and to prevent this recommends that appropriate legislation be adopted which will prevent Lodges from issuing rosters with any
information except the names of members, with the possible exception
of the names and addresses of officers. Undoubtedly there have been
many instances of the misuse of rosters and the practice can not be too
severely censured. Your Committee, however, is of the opinion that enactment of the proposed legislation will not prevent exploitation. A roster
with names only can be fairly completed as to addresses by the use of
city and telephone directories· and the only alternative would be to prohibit
the publication of all rosters. To do this might work a hardship on the
Lodges. The rosters are issued generally for legitimate reasons and many
members make use of them for Masonic purposes. Their importance
varies with the individual Lodge and can not always be known by Grand
Lodge. Your Committee is of the opinion that this matter is one which

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered Decision XXV entitled "Cornerstones" in the message of the Grand Master.
He reports that he declined to lay the cornerstone of a public school building which had been completed and occupied for several months. He states
further that he calls the matter to the attention of Grand Lodge because of
the increasing tendency to request the laying of cornerstones of partially
completed buildings. Undoubtedly he does this with the thought that
Grand Lodge may wish to establish some policy in this matter. It is the
opinion of your Committee that the decision of the Grand Master was
correct. The significance of the ceremony tends to lose its value if the
building is completed. However, it is difficult to fix a policy for the guidance of future Grand Masters. It might be wise to lay some cornerstones
when buildings are partially completed. Benefits to Masonry in some particular community might result. In other cases it might be well to require
strict conformity to the symbolism of the ceremony. We can not foresee
what contingencies may arise. These matters have been handled with good
judgment by Grand Masters in the past and we believe they should be

320

PROCEEDINGS OF THE - ·

left (o the discretion of Grand ·Masters in the future. Therefore. your
Committee recommends that the decision of the Grand Master be approved,
but
that no. policy
for the.
. ' ·.
.
. future be .fixed by Grand Lodge.
\

Adopted.
Moving Pictures of Grand Masters
.Youi;- Committe.e on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
~ecoriunendation of the Grand Master with .·reference to the taking of
moving.pictures of our Past Grand Masters. He states that after investigation the plan ·appears to .be impracticable and recoi:nmends that no further
action be taken at this time. We concur in this recommendation.

Adopted.
·charity
,Y9µr Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
Decision XIX 0 f. the Gr:and Master entitled ' 1Charity." In it he told of a
demand made by a charter member of a Lodge that that Lodge finance him
to the extent of. approximately $1,800.00 a year in addition to supplying
t,nedical attention, clothing and other expenses for himself and family.
The Grand Master ruted that the Lodge was neither obligated nor authorized to make all of these advances and that any assistance to be given must
be determined by the resources of the Lodge and need for assistance by
other members of the Lodge. The Grand Master also calls attention of
Grand Lodge to the language of section 90 of the Constitution and recommends that it be revised if it is to be literally construed. Your Committee
ls qu"ite in accord with the ruling: of the Grand Master. While the size
-of the" Lodge riot' its ability to "pay are not disclosed, the payments demanded are· exorbitant arid far more than any. Lodge is able to give. A
Lodge owes obligations to all of its members and one of the most paramount of these is· to conserve its resources for the benefit of all and not
let a few claim as their tight that which belongs to all. It is extremely
unfortunate that brothers who formerly have been successful in business
'atld consequently have been able to niaintain certain standards of living,
now having fallen upon evil ·days, are forced to seek the assistance of their
brethren. In most cases these brothers accept gratefully the assistance and
advice of those responsible for the affairs of the Lodge, and are willing
to make such changes in ·their manner of living as are consistent with
their· reduced circumstances. It is only in isolated cases such· as the cine
·under· review that the sweeping language of section 90 of our Constitution
is invoked." We believe· that that section ·was never intended to entitle a
brother to the consideration <lemanded in this case and others sii:nilar to •it.
Practical consideration prevents its literal ·construction. A Lodge must not

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

321

commit itself to the use of its available resources for one emergency when
other emergencies may arise next month. However, y·our. Committee· is of
the opinion that the language of section 90 should not. be revised. Interpreted ·in the light of reason and sound judgment -it serves as a mantle
of protection to all of our needy brethren and maintains a standard of
Grand Lodge for the guidance of its constituent Lodges. We believe that
.it is better for Lodge~ occasionally to seek the protection. of Grand . Lodge
from exorbitant demands than to lessen the moral force of the .section
and fail to give protection to our needy brethren.
· Therefore your Committee recommends that the decision· of the
Grand Master be approved but that no change be made in the language ·of
section 90 of the Constitution.
· ·
·
·

Adopted.

• ~J

Masonic History
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was referred the resolution contained in the report of the Committee on Masonic
History, has had the same under consideration and reports as follows:
Following is the text of the resolution:
"Resolved, that the Committee on Masonic History be continued during the ensuing Masonic year; that the· incoming Grand
Master be instructed and empowered to appoint .a committee to
work out the most feasible and economic plan for: the preparation
and publication of the history of Masonry in California."
The Committee on Masonic History has performed a monumental
labor and we .are certain that it is the desire of Grand Lodge that this
work be carried ultimately to its full fruition. We understand that a plan
is to be suggested at a later and more favorable time ior the publication
of the results of the extended research which this committee has carried on;
We therefore approve the resolution and move its adoption.

Adopted.
Ritual for Past Master Degree
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under con"
sideration the resoiution introduced by Brother J. Lynn Goode, Inspector
o.f the. 8lst District, proposing that a form of ritual be prepared for conferring the degree of Past Master, and that the conferring of such degree
shall be a prerequisite to installation of Masters of Lodges.
The second Landmark of our fraternity specific~Uy di~i~~s ·s;q1i;Q1ic
Masonry into three degrees, and the twenty-fifth Landmark states: "The

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

last and crowning Landmark of all is that these Landmarks can never be
changed." Every Master and Past Master here present doubtless recalls
his pledge of acceptance of the ancient regulation proposed to him by the
installing ·officer at the time of his installation: "You agree that it is not
in the power of any man or body of men to make innovations in the body
of Masonry."
In the opinion of your Committee the prescribing of a ritual for a
Past Master's degree and a Constitutional amendment making such a
degree a prerequisite to installation as Master, is to engraft upon our
system a fourth degree, to effect an innovation in the body of Masonry
and to violate our ancient Landmarks.
If the associations now conferring the degree desire to use the ritual
which has been prepared, we see no objection, but this should be their
election and not that of Grand Lodge.

Deacons should pass a satisfactory examination as to their proficiency
before installation. We therefore submit the following:

322

We therefore return the resolution of Brother Goode without our
approval.

Adopted.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was referred the communication from the Officers Association of the 66th
Masonic District, suggesting that the offices of Senior and JuniOl" Deacon
be made elective, has had the same under consideration and reports
as follows:
Among the reasons assigned in support of the proposal is that "many
times those who have been appointed to fill the minor offices, whether
capable or not, are permitted to continue through the chairs" ; also that
"the membership as a whole should have a voice in selecting those who
are to govern the affairs of their Lodge."
The governing officers of a Lodge are the Master and Wardens. No
other officers, except through the incompetence or neglect of the Master
and Wardens, can exercise governing power, and even the powers entrusted
to them are limited. These officers, together with the Secretary and Treasurer, who are important administrative officers, are elected. If members
of a Lodge permit the election of incapable brethren to executive offices
they have but themselves to criticize. A Lodge which will elect incapables
to its most important offices would probably elect incapables as Deacons.
Among the Junior officers of a Lodge Senior Deacons are of first
importance. Their duties should be performed capably and with dignity.
Your Committee is in agreement with the suggestion of the Officers Association of the 66th District that persons appointed to serve as Senior

323

Resolved, that the Grand Lecturer be directed to require of Inspectors
due certification of the proficiency of brethren appointed to serve as Senior
Deacons, such certification to be based upon the Senior Deacon's lecture
in the second degree.

Adopted as to policy, and referred to Committee on ]l,lrisprudence.
Commercial Activities of Lodges
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, having had under
consideration the Grand Master's recommendation No. 17, relating to
commercial activities of Lodges, and having noted his suggestion that the
policy of Grand Lodge be definitely fixed with reference to the fostering
and sponsoring by Lodges of collateral and financial undertakings, submits
its report as follows :
Your Committee is in accord with the opinion expressed by the
Grand Master that numerous dangers are inherent in the sponsoring by
Lodges of thrift societies, assessment funds for widows and orphans,
etc. It therefore presents the following resolution and moves its adoption:
Resolved that it be the policy of this Grand Lodge that constituent
Lodges be forbidden to sponsor, or by resolution or otherwise directly
to sanction, or to permit the use of the name of the Lodge in connection
with, collateral financial undertakings; and that the Committee on Jurisprudence be requested to prepare the necessary legislation whereby this
policy may be made effective.

Report adopted.
Refund of Unearned Dues
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the recommendation of the Grand Master that appropriate legislation
be enacted requiring the refund of unearned dues, whether for current
quarter or otherwise, and does not concur in the recommendation.
Under the Uniform Code of By-laws dues are payable quarterly in
advance. They are not payable daily, weekly or monthly, nor for any
greater or less period of time than one quarter of a year. At the beginning of the quarter the member becomes indebted to the Lodge for dues
for one quarter and on payment thereof the money so paid ceases to be in
any sense or to any extent the property of the member. The money becomes the absolute property of the Lodge. There are no strings to it and
the member retains no claim to it or interest in it or any equitable right to

325

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

any part thereof. The fact is that a debt was incurred and was discharged
by payment and the fact can not be altered by any subsequent" events.
The severance of membership by death, withdrawal, suspension or otherwise will not alter the fact nor will it create a right in a member to
money that he does not own and in which he has no interest. The case is
otherwise as to dues paid for a quarter or quarters beginning subsequent
to the date of such severance of. membership. In view of the foregoing
we are of the opinion that there is no such thing as unearned dues as
respects the payment. for a current quarter. We do not favor shortening
the dues paying period to one month or any lesser time which would be
necessary if refunds are properly to be made for parts of a quarter.

Grand Lodge Relief
The Grand Master recommends appropriate legislation for the appointment of a permanent committee to inve;tigate applications for and
to administer· Grand Lodge relief of every type. He met the situation by
appointing a special committee to deal with the subject.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the burden of direct investigation in matters of Grand Lodge relief should not be imposed upon the
Grand Master and that such work should be delegated by him either to
a special committee or to one of the several instrumentalities of Grand
Lodge already set up. It appears to us that through the offices of the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes, the Board of Control, the Boards of
Relief or the officers of the subordinate Lodges prompt and adequate
investigations can be made and the wishes of the Grand Master efficiently
executed. We do not look with approval upon the multiplication of standing committees unless an urgent and persuasive reason therefor exists
and we believe that a new committee for relief work would result in
overlapping of functions and duplication of effort. For these reasons
your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that no such
new permanent committee be set up.

324

Your Committee recommends that the legislation be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Form of Petitions
The Grand Master directs attention to certain defects in the forms
prescribed for petition for degrees and application for affiliation (Recommendation XIV), and recommends that changes be made in said forms
to afford needed information amt that such changes become effective upon
the exhaust\on of the present stock on hand. Your Committee recommends
the adoption of the recommendation of the Grand Master.

Report adopted.
Uniform Code of By-Laws
The Grand Master by sections A, B, C of his recommendation No. XV
points out several changes desirable to be made in the Uniform Code of
By-Laws and your Committee recommends the adoption of said recommendations of the Grand Master.

Adopted.
Abbreviation of Ritual
To your Committee on Policy and General Purposes was referred
for consideration the timely and pertinent suggestions of the Grand Master relative to the shortening of our rituals and his recommendation that
a review of the ritual and the lectures be made and that reports on certain designated aspects of the subject be made at the next annual communication of this Grand Lodge. We are of the opinion that the Committee
on Ritual is peculiarly qualified to make such review and report, and we
recommend that the same be made by said committee.

Adopted.

.Adopted.
Educational Committee
The Grand Master recommends the appointment of a committee by
the incoming Grand Master to study the question of Masonic education
and to report its conclusions at the next communication.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes approves the recommendation.

Adopted.
Masonic Temple Associations
The Grand Master recommends legislation prohibiting Lodges from
investing any of their funds in the securities of any T emple Association without approval of the Committee on Financing Building Projects.
This recommendation appears sound to your committee for the reason
that Lodges .are prohibited from investing their funds without the consent
of said committee in buildings proposed to be erected, but after the erection of a building there is no restriction on such investments. If the
approval of this committee is a desirable safeguard in the one case, it
should be equally desirable in the other.
Your Committee thinks that Grand Lodge should go a step farther
than the Grand Maste·r has indicated, for the reason that there is no

326

PROCE.EDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

general provision in our law governing investment of the funds of subordinate Lodges. We are of the opinion that the subordinate Lodges should
be permitted to invest their funds only in bank deposits and in securities
legal for savings banks in the State of California or of the Territory of
Hawaii, except that they be permitted to purchase stock, with the approval
of the Committee ·on Financing Building Projects, of the Temple Association owning the building in which .such Lodge meets. We therefore recommend that section 87 of the Constitution be amended by adding thereto a
clause to read substantially as follows:

It is the opinion of your Committee that a Lodge should have the right,
not only to take and hold title in itself, but it should have the right,
at its election, to appoint trustees with administrative powers to manage
and care for the property and investments of the Lodge, but always subject to the control of the Lodge.
It has been the practice for many years for Lodges to appoint trustees,
not only to take and hold title, but to administer the real property and
invested funds belonging to the Lodge, and with rare exceptions this has
proven to be an expedient and business-like manner of caring for these
important concerns. The trustees are elected by the members of the Lodge
and are usually brethren in whom the members have confidence and to
whom they desire to intrust the actual management of their property interests. Moreover, these trustees are usually brethren of sagacity and
business experience who are deeply attached to the Lodge and are zealous
and faithful in the performance of their duties as trustees. It seems to
your committee to be a distinct advantage to the Lodge to have the benefit
of the service of such men and the continuance in office of the same
trustees over long periods of time is a recognition of this fact. Masters
and other officers of most Lodges are changed annually, but the trustees
of its property are continued from year to year, thereby giving a stability
to its business policies that could not otherwise be secured. The judgment
of faithful trustees who are charged with a definite responsibility for
management of property is apt to be as good, if not better than that of
a large group who consider such affairs intermittently in Stated Meetings
of the Lodge. It is true that human nature can not be entirely eliminated
in any of the busy concerns of the Masonic or outer world, and that sometimes a feeling of paternalism develops on the part of trustees, just as
it sometimes develops on the part of other persons elected or appointed by
Lodges. This feeling grows out of an abiding concern for the welfare
of the Lodge and is sometimes unfortunate and at other times fortunate.
However, should the Lodge become dissatisfied with a trustee or trustees,
it has the power by orderly processes to correct the situation and at all
times it retains over the trustees the power of veto and direction. In every
case a Lodge must delegate to some one or more persons, whether they
. be trustees or otherwise, the actual management of its business in connection with its property and investment s, because a group of one hundr.ed,.
five hundred or a thousand men can not attend to the details of collectmg
rents, paying insurance and taxes, purchasing securities and doing those
many things that are necessary to be done if any form of property of
substantial value is properly administered.
It is the opinion of your committee that each Lodge should have the
right to determine for itself whether it will itself own and hold its assets
and manage the same, or whether it will delegate this duty to trustees
elected by and responsible to it. We _therefore recommend that section 87

"All investments of funds (except Life Membership Funds,
the investment of which is prescribed by section 129) by a Lodge
shall be in securities prescribed as legal by the laws of California
or the Territory of Hawaii for investments by savings banks; or,
with the approval of the Committee on Financing Building Projects, in the capital stock of a Temple Association owning or
proposing to erect a building in which the Lodge meets or intends
to meet; or, with the approval of said committee, in the land and
building of a Masonic Temple or hall owned by or proposed to be
erected by the Lodge; or, by depositing the same in a sound and
reputable bank or banks."

Adopted.
Lodge Trustees
The Grand Master directs attention to the fact that no action was
taken last year upon the recommendation of Grand Master Ross that the
Constitution be amended to permit Lodges to take title to real and personal
property in their own names. He also directs our attention to the California statute which permits Lodges to hold title to property without
incorporation and the questionable right of Masonic Lodges to take title
because section 87 of the Consti~tion provides for the holding of title
through Trustees, but does not in terms permit a Lodge to hold title in
its own name. The Grand Master recommends that our law be changed
by eliminating the right of Lodges to elect trustees and by providing that
title to Lodge property shall vest in the Lodge.
It is not the province of your Committee to construe the law of Grand
Lodge, but it understands that section 87 requires a Lodge to retain control of its own funds and property, which it can do by taking and holding
title in itself, or, at its election, it may, through trustees provided for in
a standing resolution, who shall always be under its control, hold and
manage its property and investments. If trustees are appointed they are
always subject to the direction of the Lodge. It appears, however, that
there is some doubt as to the right of a Lodge to take and hold property
directly and therefore section 87 of the Constitution should be amended
to remove such doubts.

327

328

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

be amended by striking out the third sentence thereof and adding a new
sentence to read substantially as follows:
"A Lodge may hold title to all of its assets with the power
to acquire, mortgage, sell and convey property and to invest and
reinvest its funds; or, it may through trustees provided for in a
standing resolution, who shall . always be under its control, hold,
mortgage, sell and otherwise dispose of its property and funds,
which may be invested and reinvested as the Lodge shall direct."

The report was _adopted, and the Committee on Jurisprudence having approved the proposed amendments, section 87
as above set out was amended by a five-sixths vote.
Life Membership Funds
The Grand Master recommended that legislation be enacted for the
creation of a committee for the investment of all Life Membership Funds ·
now held by Lodges and such Life Membership Funds as may hereafter be
received by them. The reasons for the recommendation are:
(a) That such a committee could make a wider distribution and diversity of investment than the local Lodges ;
(b) That there is greater assurance of wise investment by a general
committee of experienced men than when made directly by local Lodges;
(c) That it would prevent a possible diversion of the fund from the
purposes intended to be secured thereby.

While this proposal has much to commend it, yet your Committee
is of the opinion that no showing has been made to indicate that it is necessary or even desirable to deprive the Lodges of the handling of their
respective Life Membership Funds. Until it is shown that the Lodges a~e
incapable of properly investing and managing their Life Membership
Funds, or that the same are being diverted for improper uses, we think
that Grand Lodge should not assume the responsibility for the investment
and handling of these funds and that the Lodges should not ·be deprived.
of what would seem to be their logical and rightful authority and duty
in the premises.
The present investments of Life Membership Funds would probably
show a great diversity and it would be difficµlt, if not impossible, for
Grand Lodge to take over the handling an\! management of these funds
and to accord to each Lodge an equitable and proper proportionate interest
in the whole. In some cases the Lodges have invested wisely, and in other
cases the investments may have been injudicious, and sometimes have responded to the needs of the Temple Associations to sell to the Life Membership Fund stock in the building in which the Lodge meets. For example,

GRAND LODGE -OF CALIFORNIA

329

if the Life Membership Fund of one Lodge consisted largely of non-income
producing Temple stock and that of another Lodge consisted wholly of
cash in bank or gilt edge income producing securities, it would require a
financial and diplomatic genius to apportion the combined property between the Lodges in a manner just an? satisfactory to each.
For many years Life Members;hip Funds have been authorized by
·our law and prior to 1931 the Lodge, with the approval of the Master,
could invest the funds i~ any securities ap.proved by the Master. A cur'sory examination of the laws indicates that prior to 1923 the original
amounts paid in were to be forever kept and maintained as and for a
permanent Life Membership Fund; and that in 1923 the law was amended
to provide that upon the death of a Life Member such sum as he shall have
paid into the Fund could be withdrawn therefrom and become a part of
the General Fund of the Lodge. In 1926 the law was again amended to
provide that original payments should be kept forever as a part of a permanent Life Membership Fund. In 1931 Grand Lodge also amended the law
to require that Life Membership Funds should be invested only in bank
deposits or securities legal for savings banks under the laws of the State
of California and Hawaii, permitting the Lodge to use the income
only of the fund. Thus it will be seen that for a period of more than
fifty years there were no restrictions upon the investments of these funds
and that for only a single year has a proper safeguard in the matter of
investments been provided. Your Committee has not at hand the data to
show the interesting vicissitudes that have occurred through the years in
the history of the different Life Membership Funds operated under the
. varying provisions of our law, but is of the opinion that there is a sufficient
dissimilarity of investment and management to prevent the aggregate of
these funds being set up for the proportionate benefit of the Lodges.
A survey of the field under discussion, using the returns of 1931 for
the number of Lodges and membership, and the returns of 1932 for the
other facts, discloses that, out of 580 Lodges; 169 (or 29%) have set up
Life Membership Funds; and that out of a . membership of 142,062 there
are 3698 (or 2.6%) who are Life Members. While only 29% of the Lodges
have Life Membership Funds, about 50% of the ·Masons in California
belong to Lodges having such filnds. We find that 26 Lodges have only
one Life Member; 76 have 5 or less; 97 have 10 or less; 132 have 25 .or
less and 37 have more than 25. Of this 37, sixteen have more than SO
Lif~ Members; 7 have more than 100, and the largest number of Life
Members in any Lodge is 301. The Life Membership F unds of three
Lodges are in excess of $25,000; of 14 Lodges in excess of $10,000 and
less than $25,000; of 15 Lodges in excess of $5,000 and less than $10,000; of
10 Lodges in excess of $3,000 and less than $5,000; of 44 Lodges less than
$3,000 and more than $1,000, and of 83 less than $1,000. ·

330

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In the larger communities there are 122 Lodges having 58 552 members with 3,452 Life Members and Life Membership Funds agg;egating in
amount $588,188. In the smaller communities there are 47 Lodges having
11,_830 m.embers, with 236 Life Members and Life Membership Funds
aggregating $35,872. The total amount of Life Membership Funds in
·
this jurisdiction is $624,652.
An analysis of the foregoing' statistics shows that by far the larger
part of the Life Memberships are in centers where investment information
and advice is readily accessible to Masters and others ; and in the other
parts of the state if they have not access to such information and advice
it can be readily secured without difficulty; and in every case the Grand
Treasurer and the members of the Finance Committee would doubtless be
glad to assist in such matters whenever called upon to do so.
In the opinion of your Committee if a machinery was set up for the
purpose of investing Life Membership Funds it should be for the benefit
of that large number of Lodges that have less than $1,000 in Life Mem?ership Funds and for that reason find it difficult to secure satisfactory
investments for the small sums involved. It would appear that no undue
hardship would be worked on these Lodges by depositing their funds at
interest in reputable savings banks until the fund amounts to $1000 which
can then be invested in bonds or other securities that are legal inve~trnents
for savings banks. Moreover, there are good bonds of $500 denomination
and United States Government issues of $500· and $100 denomination that
would be available to the Lodges.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is of the opinion
that the present restrictions imposed by our law are a sufficient safeguard
for the investment of these funds and that the duty and responsibility in
connection therewith should remain with the Lodges, and therefore recommends that the proposal for a Life Membership Fund Committee of
Grand Lodge be not adopted.

Grand Lodge concurred in the views of the committee,
and the report was adopted.
Investment of Life Membership Funds
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes approves the policy
of the recommendation of the Grand Master that our present law be
amended to permit the investment of Life Membership Funds in securities legal for savings banks under either the laws of the State of California
or the laws of the Territory of Hawaii. The sole purpose of the amendment is to clarify the present rule, and the Committee on Jurisprudence will
recommend the appropriate verbiage.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

331

Exemption From Dues
Your Committee on :J:>olicy and General Purposes has considered the
suggestion made by one of the brothers to the Grand Master that all
members qualified to receive fifty-year buttons be exempted from paying
dues and is of the opinion that no such exemption should be granted.
It is the opinion of your committee, and has been the policy of this
Grand Lodge during all the years of its existence, that every member
should contribute to the support of Masonry unless his dues, in proper.
cases, were remitted. This duty of contributing to the Lodge for its support and that of the charities and other activities of Masonry is not affected
by the matter of years or of service, but is inherent in the character of a
Mason. Money is required to carry on our works and without money our
institution as an organization would come to a standstill and the usefulness
of Masonry would be seriously impaired if not destroyed. The burden of
providing sufficient funds for Masonic purposes should ·be evenly distributed on the membership and no one should be allowed to shift his obligation onto his brethren, for lightening the load of one by exemption
increases that of the other members. Many of our brethren of mature
years are better able to contribute to Masonry than many of the younger
brethren, because age does not necessarily indicate the extent of a man's
resources or ability to pay. Whether a brother be old or young, his dues
should be, and will be, remitted by the Lodge when the circumstances of
each individual case requires such action.
The Grand Lodge instituted the custom of presenting fifty-year buttons in order to honor and distinguish those certain brethren who have
for. half a century been faithful Craftsmen. It was a graceful and fraternal
recognition of long years of Masonic service, but it was not intended as,
and is not, the setting up of a free list. Masonry is a "way of life" and
from the highest · to the lowest, and from the oldest to the youngest, it
expects spiritual, moral and financial contributions from each according to
his capacity and ability. We recommend that the suggestion be not adopted.

Report adopted.
The Grand Master assumed the chair.
Forms for Returns
:
Brother Raymond D. Laughrey proposes that the Grand Secretary be
directed to omit from the blank forms for the annual returns, provided
for in section 80, a request for information as to members who are in
arrears in the payment of dues, and also a summary of the income and disbursements of each Lodge. It appears that the requirement for this informa!ion en.tails considerable work and that the reports when made serve
no useful purpose. It was proper and expedient that this information be

332

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

collated and checked in order to verify the records in the offices·.of the
_S.ecretaries .of Lod~e_s, but it does not appear to your committee that it is
necessary to do.-this -..york annµally . . From time to time when, good reason
~ppeai:s therefor ~µch information may be required and obtained.

Foreign Grand Lodges

We.recommend that said requirements be omitted from the forms.

.

.

Endowment Fund Committee
· -Your Commitee on Polfoy and General Purposes has carefully considered the ·.report of the speCial committee appointed to study ways ·and
means of. increasing' the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes.:··The
result of the study made is embodied in the following recommendation
of said committee :
.
..
.

- .' '. (;i;)_'A. co~ti'nuou~ program of educ~tion on the subject of the Homes
artftheir ne~s; (b) The designation by the Grand Mastei: of :a Masonic
Hoirieffaonth iri ·each year · for an intensive effort on the part of the
LOdges in \Jehalf of the Home·s and the End9wment Fund; ( c) That each
LOdge "furnish nanies· and addr;-esses of certain ·de.signated classes of mem~
t>Crf \\:ho"by :reason of thdr business can be 'of material assistance in th~
~ork ;· ( d) That the ·Gr;md Ma~ter ·appoint a Masonic Homes Endowment "'Board"of fift~en members, and the chairman thereof and"that the .
board employ a secretary and such clerical force as ma/~ necessa~y;
fef Tha:Lthe board shall ha.ve power to collect funds and with the
appr.oval ·of•""the· ·Grarid ·Master ·and Grand Treasurer invest the Endow"
hltmt ·~uniis 1 iii conformity to .the regulati0ns "of Grand Lodge; ( f) That
the Grwd·-Trea-surer shatrbe the custodian .of all Endowment Funds and
~hlfll"p~y the· net incom·e ·therefrom annually or oftener to the Masortic
HoMes ··of. CaHfornia; · and. '. (g.) That ·a suitable appropriation be made
f{)r~the use ofsafd:board and ·that ·it shall have the right to make rules and
regtlta<tions n·ecessary to carry on· its ·work and that its "members shall be
entitled to reimbursement for actual necessary expenses. incurred in the
·. · ~ · ' ··· · . ·
performance of their duties.
Your committee is :.Sensi_bl_e ;of the -importance : of buildingup ai"f Endowment Fund for the Masonic Homes commensurate with the need of
the Homes and adequate to insure their usefulness and. wel1 .being in.times
of misfortune or adversity. Such a board as is proposed will have a definite
r~sponslhility 'and can.be:ati effective agency to "accomplish a ~plendid "Work
6f'.:MasoniC" benevdlence.
·
·
·
We. ;~!=o~m~~d-t~e <i,d(>pli()h .<;>f .th~~ jepo~t .of th~ sp~ci~I c9~~itt~e ~~d
!~~' fra~i~i(qf' sui~abJe fogiS:lii.tio,n .to _qiaice the same effective.
••.•
••
••
• .••.
•
••
.
c
•
·0

•

~ ·:1·1A-dopted, and . refer_ted to ·the· Committee on Jurispni·
uence fo'form "suitable "legislation. . . . . .. .
.
' .

•

'

333

•

•.

•1

Grand Lodge Cuscatlan of Salvador. Conversations have been pe,nding for several years between this Grand Lodge and the Grand Lodge
Cuscatlan of El Salvador, which is regularly recognized by many of the
Grand Lodges in the United States, by the Grand Lodge of England and
other Mas~nic powers of the world. This Grand Lodge has renewed its
request for recognition from year to year and has furnished us with
its constitutions and ·other literature as a basis of ·examination and as a
reason for recognition.
The Grand Lodge Cuscatlan was constituted in the same manner as
the Grand Lodges of Costa Rica and Guatemala. In the Republic of El
Salvador it exercises supreme and absolute authority over the Craft Degrees and does not admit or countenance the. authority of any. S.upreme
Council or other Masonic body. The Grand Lodge has four Lodges on its
roster, and we are informed that care is exercised in the selection of Masonic material and that the members are mindful of their duty of' introducing into the membership only ~uch men as will maintain its standards
of quality and enhance the advancement of Masonry in the Republic.
Although Salvador is the smallest of the Central American republics; the
brethren there believe that further Lodges will be established.. ·
Your committee is creditably informed that Grand Lodge Cuscatlan
observes the ancient landmarks and evidences the practice of a genuine
and regular Masonry and we therefore recommend· that fraternal recognition be granted to it.
Germany. There are nine Grand Lodges in GePmany whic.h have
been accorded a wide recognition by other Grand Lodges. Complete amity
exists among these Grand Lodges and they are united in an ·association or
bund known as the "League of German Grand Lodges." We have-heretofore recognized six of these Grand Lodges and our reasons therefor are
set out in the reports made to this Grand Lodge in 1928 and 1930. We now
have the appli~ations of th.e three remaining German Grand Lodges which
have not been recognized by us and it is the opinion of your committee
that recognition should be accorded to them.
The Grand Lodge of Saxony was organized in 1811 and is sovereign
over forty-six Lodges, thirty-eight Masonic Clubs and seven thousand
members. The Grand Secretary is Rudolph Gottschall, 15 Ostra Allee,
Dresden, Saxony.
The .Grand Lodge Conco1·d at Darmstadt was organized in 1846 and
has under its jurisdiction ten Lodges, three Masonic Clubs and nine hundred members. This is by far the smallest of the German Granq Lodges,
but it has been in existence for almost a century and has always borne an
excellent reputation for Masonic regularity. The Grand Secretary is
George Guyot, 20 Gruener Weg, Darmstadt, Germany.

:

334

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Lodge "German Fraternal Chain;" seated at Leipzig, has
jurisdiction over ten Lodges, five Masonic Clubs and nineteen hundred
members. It is the youngest in point of time of the German G1-and Lodges,
having been organized in 1924 by the union of the five independent Lodges
of Germany. These Lodges joining to form a Grand Lodge were all from
one hundred fifty to one hundred ninety-five years old and their standing
among the German Grand Lodges· has· been unquestioned.
Your committee recommends that the Grand Lodge of California
recognize the.
Grand Lodge of Saxony (Grosse Landesloge von Sashen);
Grand Lodge "Concord" at Darmstadt (Grosse Freimaurerloge "Zur
Eintracht" in Darmstadt), and
Grand Lodge "German Fraternal Chain" seated at Leipzig (Grossloge
"Deutsche Bruderkette," Sitz in Leipzig).
Various. Your committee has under consideration the requests for
recognition of the following Grand Lodges:
The Grand Lodge of Paraguay.
The Grand Lodge of.Venezuela.
The Grand Lodge of Amazons and Acre.
The Grand Lodge of Vera Cruz.
The Grand Lodge of N uevo Leon.
The Grand Lodge of Valle de Mexico.
The Grand Lodge Occidental of Guadalajara, Mexico.
The Grand Lodge of Nicaragua.
The Grand Lodge of Spain at Barcelona.
The Grand Lodge of Uruguay.
The National Grand Lodge of Palestine.
WU.LIAM RHODES HERVEY,
GEORGE F. RODDEN,
WILLIAM

A. SHERMAN.-

ALBERT E. BOYNTON,
WILL H . FISHER,
WILLIAM H. WASTE,
CLAUDE H. MoRJUSON,

~ommittee.

Adopted.

335

PAY OF MEMBERS
The ·following re~olution was presented by the Committee on Pay of Members:
Resolved, that the incoming Grand Master be authorized to appoint
a committee of five to study the matter of an equitable system of pay of
members in attendance at Grand Lodge, to report at the next annual communication.

'This was referred to the Committee on Policy, which
committee reported that the resolution should go over until
next year. The report was lost, and the resolution adopted.
The Deputy Grand Maste! assumed the chair.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
Decisions of Grand Master

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom were referred the decisions of the Grand Master as· set forth in his message, have had the same
under consideration and beg leave to report:
In decision number 1, rendered by the G1-and Master, two matters
are presented:
1. Relying upon a decision of Grand Master Rucker in 1888 (Ross'
Digest No. 593) to the effect that the word "ballot" as used in the
Constitution of the Grand Lodge means a "secret vote by balls or cubes or
slips of paper," the Grand Master has ruled that in neither Grand nor
subordinate Lodge may any officer be elected by "acclamation," that is,
by the Secretary or other person being directed to cast the unanimous
"ballot" of the assemblage for some one candidate. The record of proceedings of 1888 does not disclose the particular sort of · "ballot" referred
to in the question propounded to and answered by Grand Master Rucker.
We are constrained to conclude, however, that it must have had reference
merely to some form of "ballot" required under our traditional practices
to be secret. In sections 101 and 110 of the Constitution provision is found
for election to membership and for advancement to a higher degree after
objection interposed by means of a "secret ballot." The use of this
language in these instances suggests by implication that there may be action
taken. by ballot other than by a "secret ·baHot." We think the matter of
election of officers, when all are of one mind, clearly should come within
such implied category. It may be said, too, that the practice of Grand

337

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA ·

Lodge and of many subordinate Lodges. in this jurisdiction for years is
opposed to the Grand Master's ruling. Elections by acclamation through
t_he use of an unanimous ballot cast by the Secretary or other person have
never ·been questioned. This contemporaneous construction of the Constitution, long unchallenged, but confirms the conclusion to which we have
arrived. ~ e recommend that this portion of Decision 1 be not concurred in.

In paragraph C the Grand Master holds that a Lodge in this jurisdiction should not confer the degrees by request for another jurisdiction
on a candidate who is entirely unable to conform to the physical requirements, being paralyzed from the waist down and obliged to use a wheel
chair. We recommend the approval of this decision.

336

Adopted.
2. In Decision 1, the GTand Master held that the report of the Secre-·
tary in delinquents required in June and December should be orally announced, unless waived by appropriate action of the Lodge. We recommend approval.

Approved.
Decision II. In the first paragraph the Grand Master holds that a
Master continues in office until his successor is elected and installed. This
is in accordance with the provisions of section 135 of the Constitution and
should be approved.
In paragraph 2 the Grand Master decided that as section 139 of the
Constitution fixes sixty days as a reasonable time for the Master-elect
to obtain a certificate of qualification the same period should be construed
as a reasonable time within which he should present himself for installation in any event, though for good cause shown, and if it appears that the
Master-elect desires to assume his duties within a reasonable time thereafter, the Lodge might defer action temporarily, but that the Lodge should
not continue indefinitely without electing a Master. We are in accord with
this decision. The time which should be granted to the Master-elect is
necessarily left to the good judgment of the Lodge, but should not be
unnecessarily extended. We recommend the approval of the decision.
In paragraph 4 it is held that the Wardens who have been regularly
elected and installed continue to serve in their respective offices. We reccmmeild the approval of this decision.
Decision III that any Mason in good standing is eligible for ~ffice
is correct and should be approved.
In decision IV-A the Grand Master held that it was the duty of
the Master carefully to satisfy himself that a candidate was physically
able to comply with the requirements of the ritual. The Master and the
Lodge are invested with the power and duty of determining the question,
and should be held to responsibility in the exercise thereof. We recommend the approval of the decision.
In paragraph B the Grand Master holds that a brother desiring to
affiliate with a Lodge, who is unable to write by reason of physical affliction, may sign his name by mark, properly attested. We recommend that
the decision be approved.

In decision VA the Grand Master decides that where objection was
made to advancement of an Entered Apprentice in 1924, if no action
pursuant to the provisions of sections 110 and 111 had been taken, it was
the· duty of the Master now to proceed, and in the absence of any proof
to the contrary it is to be presumed that such action was taken. The
ruling is correct, and we recommend its approval.
In paragraph B an objection was made to one Master but no action
pursuant to section 110 was taken by him. Following the installation of
another Master, to whom the candidate had applied for advancement, the
Grand Master ruled that the procedure prescribed by section 110 should
be followed. There can be no doubt as to the correctness of this ruling,
and we recommend its approval.
Decision VII we approve.
In decision VIII, A and B, the Grand Master rules that imprisonment
pursuant to a conviction of a felony which subjects a Mason to summary
expulsion is a necessary prerequisite to such action, and that imprisonment
in a county road camp for three years, as a condition to the granting of
probation, constitutes such imprisonment as is contemplated by our law.
We believe this to be a correct statement of the. law and recommend its
approval.
Decision IX holds that it is the duty of the Junior Warden under
sections 189 and 192 to prefer charges without direction of the Master.
This is correct .and should be approved.
Decision XI, to the effect that a Lodge from which a Mason is suspended for non-payment of dues, retains penal jurisdiction to try him for
unmasoriic conduct, notwithstanding his residence within the territorial
jurisdiction of another Lodge, is correct and should be approved.
· · · ·In ·de~ision XIV the Grand Master rules that a Mason who was exi>etied by hi.s ·Lodge; 'and the sentence ·reversed by Grand Lodge, was .not
·entitled
recover dues paid iii advance, but that no dues accrued agamst
·him while he was under sentence of expulsion and uritil the date of the
reversal by Grand Lodge. We believe this decision to be correct and recommend its approval.
In' decision XV the Grand Master reports that a Lodge room was
destroyed by fire, and that he had issued a dispensation to the Lodge to
.meet temporarily in another Lodge room. As this was an emergency re-

fo:

338

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

quiring immediate action, we believe the Grand Master was acting within
his power, and we recommend approval of his action.
In decision XVIII the Grand Master decided that the summary 'of
incomes and disbursements required by the resolution of 1931 should
cover the same period as other matters in the returns, which is undoubtedly
correct. We recomm~nd approval.
In decision XX the Grand Master held that a Lodge could not pay
its Treasurer for services. There is no specific provision for such pay- •
ment. The Uniform Code of By-Laws provides for paying ·the Secretary
and Tiler, and as no other officers are included, it would appear that the
intention was to exclude any others. We recommend approval.
In decision XXI the Grand Master ruled that a Lodge could not collect
delinquent dues from a member who had been expelled and subsequently
restored without condition. This ruling we ·believe to be correct and
recommend its approval.
·
.
In decision XXII it is held that no part of the sum required of I awlicant for the degrees and for affiliation for the Masonic Homes could ·be
considered in determining the income of the Lodge for the 11ur~se of
calculating the refreshment fund allowance. The Lodge is not entitled to
retain . any portion of such contributions, hence they .form no part of . its
income. The decision should be approved.
In decision XXIII the Grand Master holds that the payment to the
Masonic Homes forms no part of the fees required of petitioners for the
degrees or applicants for affiliation, and that such payment ·should be
collected in addition to the fees provided by the By-laws: We recommend
approval.
In decision XXVII the Grand Master decided that a Lodge could not
in its By-laws provide for different classes of affiliation fees. We believe
this is correct and recommend approval.
In decision XXVII-B the decision that it is 1µ1necessary for Lpdges
to amend By-laws to comply with amendments made to the Uniform ~ode
by Grand Lodge is correct and we recommend .approval.
In decision XXVIII the Grand Master held that a Board of Relief
should not be compelled to. pay the funeral .expenses of the ·widow o~ a
deceased member of another jurisdiction; when thli Lodge,' of whicl1 suC.h
.deceased Mason was a member, refused .to authorize or pay such :experise.s.
We recommend approval.
.
.. .. .
·'"
In decision XXIX the Grand Master refused a dispensation to . a
Lodge in this jurisdiction to confer a degree on one of its. candicl,ates in .
the hall of a Nevada Lodge. We recommend ;lPProyal, .
The Grand Master reports in decision XVII that~ he advised· a Lodge
that the brethren might attend a church service in Masonic clothing with-

339

out a dispensation. He stated that the decision was based upo~ a decision
of the Grand Master in 1888 that the members of a Lodge might appear
in Masonic clothing for the purpose of decorating the graves of deceased
Masons. It is argued that tribute to the Supreme Architect is a Masonic
duty of equal importance with respect for the dead. Whil~ it is true that
the worship of God is a duty incumbent upon all Ma~ons, this Gran~ Lodge
has never undertaken to legislate the manner in which such worship sha~l
be conducted or any church or other place in which it shall be done. This
is left to the individual consciences of the members. But this Grand Lodge
has said in section 116 of the Constitution: "No Lodge, nor any Mason,
shall ap~r in Masonic clothing in any public procession or at any public
meeting or place, except for the burial of a brother or for the performance
of some other strictly Masonic duty or ceremony."
There is no provision, of our law imposing a duty upon M~sons as su~h
to attend church services, hence it can not be said to be a strictly Masonic
duty, and Masonic clothing should not be worn. We recommend that the
decision be not approved.

All the above reports were adopted.
Evidentiary Value of Court Records in Trials
Your Committee on Jurisprudence have had under consideration recommendation of the Grand Master with respect to the evidentiary value
of legally certified records of State and Federal courts in criminal cases
in Masonic trials, and respectfully reports as follows:
The Grand Master asks "whether certified record of final conviction
in criminal proceedings is prima fade evidence in a Masonic trial of
guilt of the offense covered in the criminal proceedi?gs."
Your committee is of the opinion that this question must be answered
in the affirmative. Properly authenticated reporters' transcripts of t~sti­
mony taken in State and Federal courts in criminal cases and duly certified
records of proceedings and judgments in such courts have long bee~ recognized and received as evidence in Masonic trials, and have received the
approbation of Grievance Committees, and have been rep?'"ted to Grand
Lodge. These reports have been invariably approved by t~1s G~and .Body.
Such authenticated records, when presented and received m. ev1den~e
in a Masonic trial in this jurisdiction, undoubtedly make out a pr1ma fac1e
case as to all matters finally determined on the face of such record, and
may be accepted as such by the Trial Commissions.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
decision of the Grand Master numbered XXIV and recommendation No.
VI dealing with the subjects of Life Membership Resolution and Investment of Life Membership Funds.

341

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

· The amendment of 1931 ·to section 129 of the Constitution expressly
·defines what the resolution establishing Life Membership should contain
and therefore it is our opinion th;it the Grand Master correctly decided
that if .any Lodge has adopted such resolutions prior to the amendment of
1931 such Lodge should at once take affirmative action amending their
standing resolution upon this subject to conform to the amendment of 1931.
Feeling, however, that section 129 of the Constitution is unfortunately ·
worded in many particulars it is our opinion that the entire section should
be revamped for the purpose of making the same self-executing and correcting the error in the wording thereof to which our attention has been
directed by recommendation No. VI of the Grand Master.

mertt of .a Masonic trial pending the result of the trial in the civil courts,"
but the accuser objected to such a postponement on the ground that "he
did not consider he would be able to obtain justice in a civil action prior
to a Masonic trial."
In the opinion of the Grand Master "the spirit of our law contemplates deferring of Masonic ·trials under such circumstances," and he
holds that "in view of the avowed purpose of the accuser to institute civil
proceedings the Master is justified in postponing the calling of a meeting
to elect commissioners under section 193 until the trial in the courts of
the land has been determined, or until it shall appear that such a civil
trial is not contemplated," and this opinion, he states, "conforms to the
purpose which underlies the provisions of the first sentence in section 192."
The ·sentence referred to reads as follows: "When the charge is for an
offense which is the subject <if proceedings in courts of the land, the
Masonic trial may, in the discretion of the Master, be deferred until such
proceedings are concluded."
If the Master finds the charges presented to him to be sufficient, he
must call a special meeting for the election of commissioners (section 193,
Constitution), and the trial should not be deferred .under section 192
unless a condition arises as is contemplated by that sect10n. In the present
case: no action, based upon the offense included in the charges presented to
the . Master 1 is shown to be pending in court, and the fact that such a
proceeding may be planned would not justify the ~ast~r in. defe~ring the
Masonic trial. The Master is authorized to exercise his discretion as to
deferment only when court proceedings based upon the same offense h~ve
been brought in a court of the land, and if that situation does not exist,
then the Master must act under section 193.
. . We therefore recommend that the decision be not approved.

340

We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption. Resolved, that section 129 of the Constitution be and the same
is hereby amended to read as follows :
"Provided, that the Lodge, by the adoption of a standing resolution
to that effect, which resolution shall not be acted upon at the stated meeting at which it is introduced, nor until notice in writing thereof shall
have been forwarded by mail to every member, may provide for a system
of life membership, which shall forever exempt the member from the
payment of dues therein. Said resolution shall provide that life membership
shall be granted upon payment of a sum of money named therein, which
sum shall, in case the annual dues are $12.00, be not less than the sum
of $150.00 and the minimum amount to be proportionately greater or less
as the dues are greater or less. Said resolution shall take effect only upon
its approval by the Grand Master.
"All amounts paid for life membership shall be deposited in some
reputable bank or invested in securities legal for savings banks under
either the laws of the State of California or the laws of the Territory
of Hawaii, and only the income thereof shall be used by the Lodge, the
original amounts to be forever kept and maintained as and for a permanent Life Membership Fund.
"The Secretary, in making his annual report to the Grand Lodge, shall
report the number of life members borne on the roll, the amount of the
fund thus created and the manner in which said fund is invested." · ·

Adopted, and section 129 amended by unanimous vote.
Trial Postponement Pending Civil Action
Your committee to which was referred the Grand Master's decision
No. XIII report as follows:
Charges had been presented. to a Master by an accuser who, it is
stated, "admittedly intends to make the subject matter of thes-e charges a
subject also for civil action." The Master had "suggested the· postpone-

Adopted.
Addition to Section 206:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends the adoption of the
foll~~ing addition to Section 206 of the Constitution : .
" If the penalty be reprimand and the trial of the charges has been
t ransferred by order of the Grand Master, then the Grand Master may,
after the announcement of the result of the trial, designate the Lodge in
which the reprimand shall be given; but in any event the Master who
presided at the trial shall deliver the reprimand.'~

Adopted and Section 206 amended by unanimous vote.
Dispensations
Your Committee on Jurisprudence have examined the records of
the issuance of dispensations for various purposes and approval of resolutions establishing life memberships by the Grand Master, and find the
same to be in accordance with faw.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

342

343

PROCEIDDINGS OF THE

We therefore recommend that the action of the Grand Master in that
respect be approved.

Adopted.
The Grand Master resumed the chair.

Endowment Board
Your Committee on Jurisprudence respectfully reports with reference
to a proposed reorganization of the Committee on Endowment Fund,
as follows:
·
We recommend that the Constitution of the Grand Lodge be amended
in the following particulars :
ARTICLE VIII-B

Authorization to Vote Temple Stock
Your Committee on Jurisprudence offer the following resolution and
move its adoption:
Resolved, that the Grand Master and Grand Secretary are, or either
of them is hereby authorized and empowered to vote all shares of the
Masonic Temple Association ·of California, Inc., owned by the Grand
Lodge of California or by the Masonic Homes of California, at any meeting of the shareholders of such corporation.

Adopted.
Right of Members to Attend Trials
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration the
request of the Committee on Grievances that we should pass upon the
question of the right of Masons to be present at Masonic trials. We
assume that this refers to the right of the membership generally who are
not parties to the hearing, to attend the hearing.
It is the unanimous opinion of this committee that it is contrary to
the spirit of our Institution to declare, as a matter of law, that trials in
a Masonic Lodge may be conducted in secret, and that property avouched
Masons should be admitted. But we are also of the opinion that for the
present the question should be left open, and that if any exceptions-and if
any, what exceptions-should be made to this policy, should receive a more
thorough consideration and investigation than we are able to give at this
communication. It is our thought that this question should go over until
next year for more mature consideration and report, and we so recommend.

Adopted.
Amendment to Section 79
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred the proposed amendment to section 79 of the Constitution, recommend that said
section 79 be amended by striking out therefrom the last sentence and
adding it to section 88, and changing the word "shall" where it occurs
therein to "may."

Adopted, and sections 79 and 88 of the Constitution accordingly amended by unanimous vote.

Masonic Homes Endowment Board of California
Sec. 37f. There is hereby created the "Masonic Homes Endowment
Board of California," to consist of fifteen members. They shall be appointed by the Grand Master and shall serve for a period of three years;
provided, that those first appointed shall draw lots so that five thereof
shall serve for one year, five for two years and five for three years.
Thereafter each succeeding Grand Master shall appoint five to serve for
three years. Any vacancy accruing on the board shall be filled by the
Grand Master, the appointee to serve for the remainder of the unexpired term.
Sec. 37g. The Chairman of the Board shall be named by the Grand
Master and shall serve for one year. The board shall provide for the
election of a Secretary and such other officers and employes as it may determine. The board, subject to the approval of the Grand Master, may
adopt and from time to time change or amend such rules and regulations
gove:ning its deliberations, modes of procedure and the like as may be
required and as shall best enable it, faithfully, efficiently and successfully
to carry out the true spirit, intent and purpose of its creation.
Sec. 37h. The Masonic Homes E~dowment Board of California shall
study, devise and carry out plans for the securing of adequate endowment
for the Masonic Homes of California. To that end, subject to the approval
of the Grand Master, the board shall issue such appeals, and from time to
time establish such contacts with persons disposed to contribute to or aid
in the creation or maintenance of an Endowment Fund for the Masonic
Homes of California, as may be deemed appropriate. The end to be attained eventually in this behalf is that a sufficient endowment shall be
created to make it possible for the Masonic Homes of California to be
supported from the income from such endowment, and complete reliance
upon the income derivable from Grand and subordinate Lodges thereby
avoided.
Sec. 37i. The board provided for herein shall collect, and pursuant
to regulations adopted by it and subject to the approval of the Grand
Master and the Grand Treasurer, shall invest funds and moneys contributed or inuring to the Endowment Fund herein provided for, and
at least annually shall cause the income therefrom to be paid to the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes for use in the maintenance and opera-

344

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tion of the same. No moneys or funds may be invested in securities or
other properties save those now specified for investment of Endowment
Funds or as shall hereafter by this Constitution be permitted. All moneys,
securities and other property belonging to the Endowment Fund shall be
placed in the custody of the Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge to be
held by him as such and to be by him accounted for as other Grand Lodge
funds are accounted for and disbursed pursuant to the provisions hereof.
Sec. .37j. No part of the Endowment Fund herein provided for, either
principal or interest, shall ever be used for any purpose other than the
maintenance and operation of the Masonic Homes of California.
Sec. 37k. The members of the Board shall be entitled to their actual
~xpenses necessarily incurred in the performance of the duties devolving
upon them as herein provided, claims for which said expenses shall, upon
being prop.e rly itemized and approved by the Grand Master, be allowed
and paid from the General Funds of the Grand Lodge.
Sec. 371. It is hereby made the duty of the Secretary of each subordinate Lodge to furnish to the Board such information pertaining to matters
affecting or relating to his Lodge as may be requested from time to time.
Sec. 37m. The Grand Master is hereby directed to designate each year
one month which shall be known as "Masonic Homes Endowment Month "
during which time, pursuant to such rules and suggestions as may be
promulgated by the Masonic Homes Endowment Board of California, the
various subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction shall bring to .the minds
of their members and other persons interested, the Endowment Fund
herein provided for and the purposes for which the same is to be used.
Sec. 37n. Nothing herein contained shall operate to prevent the
Board herein provided for from delegating duties to, or apportioning
responsibilities between, subordinate sections; committees or members, it
being 1mderstood that such delegation of duty or apportionment of re. sponsibility shall ·be in every case pursuant to rule or regulation of said
bOard, adopted as herein provided, and in conformity with the due and
appropriate exercise of the authority herein conferred.
DANA R. WELLER,
BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,

345

3Jn ~run!l Jjo!lgr
Friday, October 14, 1932
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of Thursday's sessions were read and
approved.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON ACTIVITIES
To the M.'.

w:. Gra11d Lodge of Californ4a:

Your Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities begs leave to report as follows :
We have attached to this report, which is in duplicate; a copy of all
form letters, circulars and programs. We ask leave ·to be allowed to file
at a later date a financial report with the M.'.
Grand Master, for
his approval, a detailed statement of receipts and disbursements.
May the committee, on behalf of the Masons and the constituent
Lodges of the East Bay district, and we know we voice the sentiment of
each of them, say that we are deeply honored by this initial visit of Grand
Lodge. We trust that the return of this M.'.
Grand Lodge may not
long be delayed. We would consider it a real compliment if Grand Lodge,
a:t some annual communication in the near future, would evince its desire
to return to us. You may do so freely, for always you will find a heartY.
welcome in the East Bay district.

w:.

w:.

EA,RL

wARREN,

RussELL C. HORSTMANN,
WESLEY

w. KERGAN,

JAMES E. HAMMOND,
CHARLES L. HEMPHILL,
CHARLES B. GREELEY,

JOHN D. MURPHEY,

WILLIAM WATTS.

BRADFORD WEBSTER,

Referred to Finance Committee, which committee reported, recommending the payment of $2,750.00. Adopted.

GEORGE L. JONES.

Adopted, and sections 37f, 37g, 37h, 37i, 37j and 37k were
added to the Constitution by unanimous vote. ·

At 4 :15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 9 :30
o'clock Friday morning.

•

346

THANKS TO EAST BAY BRETHREN
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California.:
Whereas, the representatives in attendance at this, the eighty-third
communication of the Grand Lodge, have had a most enjoyable time as the
guests of our brethren of the East Bay Lodges, due in no small part to
the splendid program provided by them for our entertainment, and that of
our ladies, we desire to take this opportunity to express to them our
hearty appreciation of their untiring efforts to make this, our first communication to be holden in the city of Oakland, one long to be remembered.
To our brethren of the Scottish Rite, we would also give our sincere
thanks for their great kindness in providing us with this magnificent
auditorium, with its wonderful organ, in which to hold our daily sessions.
And to the press of Oakland and the other cities around the Bay, we
desire to give grateful acknowledgment for their generous support and
co-operation in giving to our brethren of the craft the very interesting
accounts of our activities.
To our brethren of Alameda county we would most gratefully say
that your slogan, "Let brotherly love continue," has been most generously
demonstrated.
Respectfully submitted,
Ron G. GUYETr,
Inspector.

Adopted by rising vote.
REPORTS OF FINANCE COMMITTEE
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California.:
Reimbursements of Boards of Relief and Constituted Lodges
1. Your Committee on Finance has received and examined the report
of the Board of Control referring to reimbursements of Boards of Relief
and constituent Lodges and concur in its recommendations, that the Boards
of Relief and Lodges be reimbursed as follows:
Los Angeles Board of Relief -·..·········-····--·~---·--··--··········$ 567.13
Bakersfield Board of Relief ..................................................
10.00
Fresno Board of Relief ······················-······················-····-····22.50
Oakland Board of Relief .......................................................... 655.00
Sacramento Board of Relief ····································-············ 349.00
San Francisco Board of Relief .........·-····-····················-······ 1,891.97
San Jose Board of Relief ..........................................................
5.00
Santa Monica Board of Relief -·········-································
25.00
Stockton Board of Relief ······························--~·-····-············
97.14

347

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEIDINGS OF THE

San Bernardino Board of Relief ····-······························-·-·Marin Lodge No. 191 ····-··-···-····-···-····-·······.···-····-········-Martinez Lodge No. 141 ········-····-:····-···-··········-····-·-·--..,.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397 ··········-····-····--·············-············

104.73
488.10
60.00
153.11

Total ···-·········-·--··-·-····-······-··-····-·············-·-····-·····-$4,428.68
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, that the sum of $4,428.68 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Boards of Relief and subordinate Lodges in the amounts as above set out.

Adopted.
Masonic Employment Service
Your committee, on the recommendation of the Board of Control,
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $10,300.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be divided into the following donations, to assist in maintaining employment bureaus :
Employment Service of San Francisco -····-····--···--------$2,000.00
Employment Service of Oakland ····-··········--··········-·-·-······ 1,600.00
Employment Service of Los Angeles ····-······························ 2,800.00
Employment Service of Sacramento ...................................... 600.00
Employment Service of Long Beach ...................................... 2,000.00
Employment Service of Santa Monica ···········-····················· 300.00
Employment Service of San Diego ····················-··········-······ 1,000.00

2:

Total ··········-····························-············:........-.•.................$10,300.00

Adopted.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
3. The Grand Secretary reports that the Grand Lodge dues of 15
subordinate Lodges amounting to $6,240.00 which became due August 1,
1932, and for various reasons remain unpaid as of this date, October 12,
1932, are as follows:
Bakersfield No. 224 ·-·--··-···-~-·--·-········-······-:···-········-·.$ 500.00
Anchor No. 273 ··························--·········································· 400.00
80.00
Arroyo No. 274 ··········-··········--·······-····-····--······-················
715.50
Redlands No. 300 -····-····-····-·········-··········-····-····················
Artesia No. 377 ··································-··········-·························· 191.70
Highland Park No. 382 .......................................................... 962.00
Turlock No. 395 ············-·····--··········-···································· 230.40
Rising Light No. 397 ································-··········-·················· 939.70
Sierra Madre No. 408 ··········-··········-····-····-········-················ 137.70
America No. 475 ··············-··········-··········-··········-····-·············· 300.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

348

Beverly Hills No. 528 .............,............................................
Arcadia No. 547 ..........................................................................
West Adams No. 565 ................ ~ ............................................
Angeles Mesa No. 625 ..........,...................................................
John Marshall No. 636 ............................................................

450.90
153.40
401.80
593.80
183.10

Total ............................... _...................................................$(),24().00
Some of the delinquencies are occasioned by the fact that the Lodges
had funds on deposit in banks which have closed, others by the Lodges'
inability to collect outstanding dues and many other causes too numerous
to mention.
A few of these Lodges have requested that their Grand Lodge dues
be remitted, but the great majority have asked for furt~er time in W"hich
to pay these delinquent dues.
Your Committee on Finance feel that all Lodges should be treated
fairly and on the same basis. We, therefore, recommend that all of the
above named Lodges be given a moratorium for six months in which to pay
their dues. We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that each of the subordinate Lodges whose names are set
out above, be requested to execute a note in favor of the Grand Lodge for
the amount due by each of said Lodges in payment of their Grand Lodge
dues. Said notes to become due on or before six months from this date
with interest at 5% per annum.

Adopted.
Masonic Clubs of the University of California at
Berkeley and Los Angeles
4. Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the report of the
Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of California, located at
Berkeley, and the Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the University of California at Los Angel.es, and their requests for funds for
maintenance during the fiscal year 1933-1934.
Your committee is pleased to report that these clubs are being operated
on a very economical basis, both of them showing substantial reductions in
operating expenses and closing the year with comfortable cash balances
in the bank.
We are of the opinion that a tax of lOc per member will be sufficient
with the balances they have on hand to properly care for the expense of
these clubs during the year 1933-1934.
·
·
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that lOc per paying member be levied upon the membership
for the maintenance of the Masonic Clubs at Berkeley and Los Angeles

349

for the fiscal year 1933-1934. And when the funds are collected by the
Grand Secretary they be equally divided between the Trustees. of the
two club houses.

Adopted.
Audit of Accounts
5. Your committee employed Ruckstell & Land, certified public accountants, to examine the books and records of the Grand Secretary and
Grand Treasurer, as well as those of the Masonic Homes of California
and Endowment Fund.' These accountants •have certified that all books and
accounts are correct. This audit certifies that the net worth of the property of the Grand Lodge July 31, 1932, ·was $763,431.09, which included
Masonic Temple Association stock in the amount of $589,300.

Adopted.
Overpayment Grand Lodge Tax
6. San Francisco Lodge No. 360 have submitted a statement showing
that during the years 1925-1931, inclusive, they overpaid Grand Lodge tax
in the amount of $51.02. Your committee feels that if the Lodges pay
their just dues they should not be penalized for an error of one of their
officers. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $51.02 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse San Francisco Lodge No.
360 for its overpayment of Grand Lodge tax for the years 1925-1931,
inclusive.

Adopted.
Remission of Per Capita Tax
7. . San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, located at Ventura, has petitioned the Grand Lodge to have its Grand Lodge dues, which have already
been paid, for the year ending July 31, 1932, returned.
Your committee feels that the petition for the return of this money
should be declined, for the reason that · there are a large number of
Lodges in this jurisdiction whose financial conditions are as bad or worse
than.that of the petitioner: Your committee offers the following resolution
and recommends its ·adoption:
Resolved, that the petition of San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, located at Ventura, for the return of the Grand Lodge dues which said
Lodge paid on August }. 1932, be denied.

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Traveling Expenses of Grand Lodge Officers
8. Should the executive districts for Grand Lodge officers, as set out
in the Grand Master's report, be followed in this and subsequent years,
it will of necessity have a tendency to decrease traveling expenses of
Grand Master and to increase traveling expenses of the Deputy Grand
Master and the Grand Wardens.
For a number of years, various sums have be!!Il appropriated to the
Grand Master for traveling expenses, some Grand Masters having to
use all the funds appropriated, others having only used a portion of
the funds.
·Y our committee, after considering this matter fully, offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that a sum not exceeding $3,500.00 be and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray the traveling
expenses of the Grand Master. And further, _that the necessary traveling
expenses of the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and Juni<;>r Grand
Wardens, when visiting Lodges or attending other Masonic 'meetings in
their official capacity in their respective districts, be paid by the Grand
Treasurer on presentation of itemized expense accounts presented by said
Grand Lodge officers.
·

who may be traveling by authority of the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore after same have been audited by the Committee on Accounts.

350

Adopted.
Portrait of Grand Master
9. Your Committee on Finance recommends that the retiring Grand
Master, Brother Robert B. Gaylord, have his portrait painted, present a
bill to the Grand Secretary, who is authorized to pay the same, and that
when the portrait has been painted it be a part of the gallery of Past
Grand Masters.
Salaries
10. Your committee has given consideration to the annual salaries of
the officers of Grand Lodge, and recommend that the salaries for the
following year be fixed as follows:
Grand Secretary ...........:......_.-...- ........- ...·-----·----~.500.00
Grand Lecturer ..........................................._ ........- ......- ......~ 5,400.00
Assistant Grand Secretary ........................- ....- ....-_,............- 2,700.00
Grand Tiler ....................................--······--··--·-·-·--····- 200.00
Grand Organist .........................................- ..........- ..............- 100.00
Chairman Committee on Correspondence ............................ 500.00
We also recommend that the traveling expenses incurred by the Grand
Lecturer in performing his official duties in visiting the various Lodges
within the state and also the expenses incurred by members of Grand Lodge

351

Adopted.
Pay of Members
11. Your Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report
indicating that it will require $19,752.68 to PaY the traveling expenses of
the officers and members attending this session. We, therefore, offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $19,752.68 be, and it is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the purpose of paying the
traveling expenses of officers and members attending this session.

Adopted.
Grand Secretary's Conference
12. The conference of Grand Secretaries, which is held annually in
the city of Washington, D. C., we feel is of vital importance to this Grand
Lodge. Our Grand Secretary has attended many of these conferences and
is considered one of the leaders in that distinguished gathering.
Your committee is of the opinion that our Grand Secretary should be
requested to attend the 1933 conference. We, therefore, offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $500.00 be, and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of paying the traveling
expenses of the Grand Secretary in his attendance at the 1933 Grand Secretaries Conference.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Activities Committee
13. Your Committee on Finance is of the opinion after thoroughly
reviewing this subject that the limit of this appropriation should not
exceed $2,000.00.
We are, therefore, offering the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:
· Resolved, that the sum of not exceeding $2,000.00 be and the same
is hereby appropriated out of the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray
the expenses of the committee having in charge Grand Lodge Activities
Week for the annual communication to be held in 1933.

Adopted.

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Lodge Tax
14.. By resolutions presented by your committee you have voted special
taxes as follows :
Maintenance of Masonic Homes of California _________________..,.....$0.75
Maintenance of Masonic Club Houses at the University of
California, Berkeley and Los Angeles·--··--··--····-····-····-······-· 0.10
Making a total tax voted of 8Sc per member.
In addition to this the Constitution provides for annual dues of SOc
per member for the support of Grand Lodge and also for annual dues of
SOc per member for the Building Fund of the Masonic Home. The tax,
therefore, on the membership will be as follows:
.

Grand Lodge General Fund.....·-·····-···-····-····--····-·---···················..$0.50
Masonic Homes Building FuraL---··················--··············-··-·-····- .SO
Masonic Homes Maintenance Fund.........·-··-·-···-·---····-··········- .7S
Masonic Club Houses·····-···-··--------···-········-·..---····-··-·······-··-········· .10
Or a total Grand Lodge tax, payable as of July 31, 1933,
· per member of......... ~·-··-········'·······--············-····-----········-···-$1.85

Adopted.
Masonic Hornes Endowment Board
Your Committee on Finance have considered the request of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board of California for an appropriation of
$S,OOO to start their work during the coming year. We are of the opinion
that a major effort should be undertaken to increase the Endowment Fund,
and that if any active committee can secure results they should be provided
~ with sufficient funds to carry on their work.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption :
Resolved, that the sum of $S,OOO be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic Homes Endow.ment Board for their expenses for the year ending July 31, 1933.

is.

Adopted.
Relief for a Worthy Past Grand Master
16. There has been brought to the attention of your Committee on
Finance the necessity of extending relief to a Past Grand Master of this
jurisdiction. Your committee therefore, offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $600.00 be appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge for the relief of a worthy Past Grand Master of this
jurisdiction, said disbursement to be made by the Grand Secretary in
monthly installments of $SO.OO each.

Adopted.

353.

Inspectors' Stationery
17. Referring to the recommendation of the ·Grand Master that the
stationery -provided for Inspectors be printed with the name and address of
each Inspector, as well as the number of the district, your committee is of
the opinion that this recommendation· should be adopted. We, therefore,
offer the following resolution and reeommend its adoptiOn: ·
Resolved, that the Grand Secretary be instructed to have printed stationery for each Inspector, bearing the name of the Inspector and his
address, with the number of the di.s trict; and pay for same as he does other
supplies for his office.

Adopted.
Budget
18. Your committee is of the opinion that it will be very helpful for
future Committees on Finance, as well as valuable information for members of Grand Lodge, if we were to present and have published. in the
proceedings an analysis of the income and expenses of Grand Lodge. With
this thought in view we are presenting the following :
The report of the Grand Secretary shows receipts from sources other
than those which we are taking into account in this analysis. These are of
such a character that in some instances it is difficult to estimate the amount
that may be received and others that are offset by expenses incurred, as
for instance the purchase and sale of supplies and the amounts received
and expended for surety bonds for officers of Lodges. Therefore, these
items are not included in this report, as they have no material bearing. The
figures submitted, in round numbers, are as follows :
Receipts Year Ending July 31, 1933
Dues from Lodges...·-·············'···············-·············-··············$ 99,220.00
Unpaid dues -··········-··········································-··········-···- 4,000.00
Interest and dividends............................................................ 12,600.00
Cash on hand........................................................................._. 12,028.00 :. :
Total receipts .........................................._........................$127,849.00
Disbursements Year Ending July 31, 1933
Salaries .................,..............._:•..-····-·.-··..-···-··--·--·$ 19,000.00 . , .
Printing and binding.....................,..........·-····--·---···-····· 6,000.00
Expenses Grand Lecturer...................................................... 1,000.00 , .
Office rent ..................................................,............................. 3,900.00
Postage ··················-·······--····················-·······························- l,S00.00
Auditing ··-·······-·····-········---·········-·····························..,····--····
200.00 •1'.
Telephone and Telegraph...:..................................................
2SO.OO

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Lodge relief--··--·---··-·····--···---·--- 1,500.00
Pay of members-----··---·····-············--··-·····-····-· 20,000.00
300.00
Board of ~ol..-····-·..----·····-·········-··-·-·····-···­
750.00
Public School Woek..·-·-·········-····-·-···--·-·-··•····-···Grand Lodge entertainment...-··-····-·--······-·················· 2,000.00
Additional expense Annual. Communication.................... 1,000.00
400.00
Gold buttons ( 50 years)···································-··················
500.00
Traveling expenses Grand Lodge officers..................·-···Investments to replace securities called...·-··············-··-·· 10,000.00
Miscellaneous items -·-···-----························-··········-····- 3,000.00
Total expense incident to operation of Grand
Lodge ·--·
--·-$ 71,300.00 ·

Appropriations at the 1932 Session
Boards of relief---····---·-··--··---.,---..$ 4,428.00
Employment Bureaus ·--·-·······································-······-·· 10,300.00
Traveling expenses Grand Master................-······'-·--- 3,500.00
Masonic club houses.·-·--··--·--············-····-···-·-···- 13,500.00
George Washington Memorial.................. _.........,•.....-····- 13,500.00
Grand Secretary trip to Washington .........·--······--··-······
500.00
Masonic Endowment Board..........................................-.__ 5,000.00
Relief of Past Grand Master.................................·-··········600.00

Total-----···-·-····-··-:-···'----r--~..:...J 51,328.00
Estimated income ·-·--·-························ .. ········-···············- 127,849.00
Grand total expenses and appropriations .................. :.......$122,628.00
Leaving a possible sutplus for the year of....•........-$ 5,221.00

·Adopted.
Masonic Homes
The most important subject that will come before this Grand Lodge at
this session, and for many years to come, is the support and maintenance of
the Masonic Homes.
More than two-thirds of the total revenue of the Grand Lodge is now
raised for the support of these Homes. The net operating expenses of the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes have increased from $140,538.65 in 1924,
to $231,280.91 in 1932. The greatest single item of increase can be traced
to Outside Relief (i.e., care of old folks and children outside the Homes).
In 1925 this amounted ·to only $3,210.00, whereas in the year 1932 it
amounted to $31,186.39.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

355

On July 31, 1928, the Trustees of the Homes had a net bank balance in
their Operating Fund, after allowing for all overdrawn fund accounts, of
$107,616.95, whereas on July 31, 1932, their General Fund Account was
overdrawn $5,299.63, and their indebtedness amounted to $376,713.11, which
was made up a~ follows :
Notes payable to banks-····-·· ..--··--:-.--....,...- ..................$ 25,000.00
Note payable to Endowment FWlcL.......-.. ·-·-··········-··-~- 225,000.00
Overdrawn accounts (residents deposits).......................... 10,000.00
Special Rule No. 16--.~ ........-···-····-·-····-···-··········-·-·- 111,823.60
Entertainment Fund ............................................................,. 1,542.97
Bank overdraft ,..................................................................... 5,299.63
Total ................ _...........................·- ····-·····················-··-$378,666.20
Less credit student fund ........................................-········-···· 1,953.09
$376,713.11
With reference to that portion of the Grand Master's recommendation
relating to the transfer of funds collected for building fund during the
coming year to the General Maintenance Fund, we recommend that the
entire amount so collected shall be credited to said General Maintenance
Fund.

Adopted.
As of July 31, 1932, the Trustees of the Masonic Homes were indebted
in the amount of $376,713.11, whereas we estimate that their income
for the year 1932-1933 will be $10,000 less· than their present operating
expenses. There are only two courses to pursue:
1 : To reduce expenses.
2: To increase revenue.
The expenses of maintenance of our Masonic Homes, together with
outside relief, have increased in proportion to our growth, and in order to
guarantee for them a future of increasing usefulness, we recommend that
the per capita tax be raised from SOc to 75c.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of 75c per capita be levied upon the membership, for the maintenance of our Homes at Decoto and Covina.

,\dopted.
WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES,
FRANK

c. RUPPEL,

Gus A. HuTAFF,
Jos. M. ARGABRITE,
Louis SuTTER,
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
356

367

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Credentials have the honor to report that 1480
members of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled
to participate in its deliberation.
w ALTER L. BERGER,
CHAS.

E. SONES,
w ARLOW,

CHESTER H.

IRVING MAGNES,
CHAS. T.

w HITE,
Commillee.

Mileage Allowed
Representatives
California........................... No.1.. .. Ernst F. Marwedel, Master
Lee Crawford, Sr. Warden .
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Max J. Mertens, Jr., Past Master

Western Star... ·-····-·--... No. 2.... Albert V. Fondahan, Master .... --......$24.42
Tehama............................... No. 3.... Charles L. Pratt, Master.................... 6.12
Edward Adams, Sr. Warden
James Calvert, Jr·. Warden
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
Richal'd J. Carpenter, Past Master
Benicia................................ No. 5.... Henry Kirk White, Jr., Master........ 2.04
Tuolumne.................. _....... No. 8.... Adelbert A. Nicholls, Master............ 10.86
Corinthian.......................... No. 9.... William Wilson Will, Sr. Warden.... 8.64
·
James Wm. Robinson, Jr. Warden
Solomon Lewek, Past Master
San Jose ................-···--.. No. 10....John A. Fair, Master............................ 3.00
Curtner Wm. Zanker, Sr. Warden
Christopher H. Smith, Jr. Warden
John H. McGehee, Sr., Past Master 6.12
Yaunt................................ No. 12.... Hector D. MacLean, Sr. Warden.... 3.00
Percy S. King, Past Master
Nevada........................- .... No. 13 .... Wm. E. Meservey, Past Master and
Representative ......................- .......... 12.86
George L. Jones, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .. :....................... 12.86

Temple......................- ..... No. 14.... Henry J. Borrbom, Master................ 3.72
Robert C. Bancroft, Past Master
Henry D. Burmester, Past Master
Eureka.............................. No. 16.... Sidney Wm. Bancroft, Sr. Warden.. 8.76
John H. Jeffreys, Past Master
La Parfaite Union.......... No. 17.... A. Huguenin, Past Master
H. Dragon, Past Master
San Joaquin...................... No. 19.... Ernest A. Dunstan, Master................ 5.76
Bruce G. Hislop, Sr. Warden
John J. Mcintosh, Jr. Warden
Washington...................... No. 20.... Clyde R. Palmer, Master.................. 6.12
Frederick L. Clark, Sr. Warden
John J. Haken, Past Master
Harold I. Schole'field, Past Master
George W. McCoy, Past Master
William A. Sitton, Past Master and
Junior Grand Master...................... 6.12
Hawaiian.......................... N o. 21....Ellwood Coggeshall, Representative 250.00
Occidental... .............- ...... N o. 22 .... Harold A. C. Mitchell, Master
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master and
Inspector
Madison............................ No. 23 .... Sidney Hocking, Master ...................... 12.56
Charles A. Harris, Sr. Warden
Mariposa........................... No. 24.... Fred C. Alexander, Master ................ 26.60
Geoi:ge McP. Stark, Sr. Warden
Richard Martin Starns, Jr. Warden
Jos. P. McElligott, Past Master
Georgetown...................... No. 25 .... Robert Francis Veercamp, Master.. 15.40
El Dorado....:.............- ..... No. 26.... George H. Valz, Master...................... 11.40
John Thomas Hall, Sr. Warden
Elwyn L. Veerkamp, Jr. Warden
George Chas. Rolleri, Past Master
Trinity.............................. No. 27.... George E. Connor, Master................ 33.02

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Golden Gate....-•.........-No. 30....Frederick S. Nobmann, Master
·
Nicholas F . Munson, Sr. Warden
Stanley S. Schlobohm, Jr. Warden
Chas. T. White, Past Master
Paul R. Bjick, Past Master
Samuel A. Clarke, Past Master
E. C. C. Wellesley, Past Master
James H. Humphreys, Past Master
W. A. T. Agard, Past Master
Gold Hill.....-.........,....-.-·No. 32.... Elroy Q. Berry, Master...................._ 8.16
Ophir....-L.........·--····--·No. 33....Rolland Wayne Parker, Master........ -16.86
·San Diego................-.......No. 35 ....]oseph Leib Shell, Master.........·-····- 53.02
·
Robert M. McDonald, Sr. Warden .
Jesse W. Bailey, Past Master
R. W . Belding, Past Master
James B. McLees, Past Master and
Inspector -··-········-····-····--····-······ 53.04
Frederick W . Reif, Past Master
Martin Ortlieb, Past Master
Claude H. Morrison, Past Master.... 53.04
Howard.-·- ····- '··-·-····- -No. 37....George A. Tebbe, Jr., Sr. Warden.. 34.34
George S. Ward, Jr. Warden
C. A. Baumgartner, Past Master .
and Inspector ··- ····-··················-······ 35.14
Santa Cruz.....................•.No. 38....Harry E. Piper, Master...·- ················ 6.12
Harry R. Turver, Sr. Warden ·
Val C. Waterman, Past Master
Willett Ware, Past Master
Sacram~nto...................._No. 40....Walter E. Stoddard, Master.............. 6.12
Alvin E. Clark, Jr. Warden
James B. Giffen, Past Master

Martinez...............·-····--.No. 41....Louis Mittelman, Master.................... 2.52
WilHam E. Tompkins, Sr. Warden
O. E. Hayward, Past Master
Los Angeles...................•.No. 42....Tobias Kotzin, Master.........·-····-·:__ 42.72
Harry Lawrence Kerr, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Past Master and
Inspector ····- ························- -··-····- 42.72

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

359

Hiram.....................·-- ---No. 43..,.Thomas H. Sheets, Master.................. 10.80
L. E. Osborne, Past Master
Mount Moriah...........- •.No. 44.... Edmond P. Bergerot, Master
Harold G. Hacke, Sr. Warden
Garfield T. Murray, Jr. Warden
Crescent...·- ··········-····-····No. 45....Melton Peter Nielsen, Master............ 48.50
Texas...·- ············-·············No. 46....Ralph P. Binkley, Master...·-············ 6.32
Forbestown....-············--·No. 50.... Arthur T. Gould, Master .................. 16.80
John D. Vance, Sr. Warden
Jeremiah A. Vaughan, Past Master
Illinoistown...................... No. SL.George E. West, Past Master and
Representative ····- ··········---·····'····- 10.56
Suisun......................- ...._.No. 55....John H . Murray, Past Master and
Representative ····- ····-··············-······ 3.24
Volcano................-..··---No. 56....James Giannini, Past Master and
Representative ····················-····- ······ 14.76
Santa Rosa..................:..•. No. 57.... Ira Franklin Brown, Master............ 5.16
Raford W. Leggett, Sr. Warden
Karl F. Stolting, Jr. Warden
J . T. Mailer, Past Master
Union-·-·-····- ········-··---No. 58.... Charles F. Gray, Master...................... 6.12
George A. Uhl, Sr. Warden
H oward S. Mclritire, Jr. Warden
Thomas J. Baker, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer
Gravel Range...................No. 59....Frederick Jos. Joubert, Master-........ 19.00
Plumas...........................~•.No. 60.... Edward Eckstein, Master.................. 27.34
John Peter Smith, Sr. Warden
Jesse G. Walker, Past Master
Live Oak..........- ··········-···No. 61...~Elijah H. Steele, Master
Robert P . Gillham, Sr. Warden
Clarence A. Severin, Jr. Warden
Chas. N. Victor, Past Master
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Wm. B. Joseph, Past Master
Chas. E. Haven, Past Master
Ezra W. Decoto, Past Master
Edgar F. Gee, Past Master
Wm. J . Garibaldi, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Master and
Past Grand Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

360

361

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Natoma...........................•. No. 64.... Chas. F. Anderson, Master................ 7.32
R. H. Borsberry, Past Master
Amador............................. No. 65 .... Albert S. Lawrence, Master.............. 11.26
Forest................................ No. 66.... Ivan R. Wood, Master........................ 23.86
H. R. McDougall, Past Master
T. J. Murray, Past Master
Morning Star.................. No. 68.... John Mullally, Master.......................... 6.12
Asa Van C. Martin, Sr. Warden
Henry W. Hawley, Jr. Warden
Henry W. Bessac, Past Master and
Inspector............................................ 6.12
Enterprise .....................-.No. 70....Eugene C. Littleton, Master................ 8.40
Oscar L. Harris, Sr. Warden
Robert V. McPherris, Jr. Warden
Bear Mountain ................ No. 76.... Frank C. Adams, Master.................... 11.86

Yosemite........................... No. 99 .... Earl Robinson Ewing, Master.......... 9.60
John E. Brown, Sr. Warden
George A. Jordan, Jr. Warden
True W. Fowler, Past Master
Walter J. Chenowith, Past Master
Clay.................................No.101....Gerald Philip Lee, Master.................. 11.64
Herbert W. Haberkorn, Sr. Warden
Oroville...........................No. 1-03 ....Chas. 0. Hamilton, Past Master and
·
Repr~sentative .................................. 10.44
Albert E. Boynton, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Lexington....................... No. 104.... Edgar W. Wilkerson, Master............ 43.80
Robert L. W olstoncroft, Past Master
·
Arcata............................. No. 106.... Leonard C. Lindstrand, Master ........ 31.98
Pajaro............................. No.110 .... Jacob Foster, Master............................ 6.60
Chico...............~ ............... No. 111....David D. Raker, Sr. Warden............ 11.88

Calaveras.......................... No. 78.... David H. Wheeler, Sr. Warden........, 14.16
Vincent C. Tiscornia, Jr. Warden

Summit........................... No.112 .... William E. Arnett, Master................ 11.52

Humboldt......................... No. 79.... William R. Sinclair, Master.............. 31.98
James T. Fraser, Past Master and
Grand Orator .................................. 31.98

Eden................................. No. 113....John S. Ferns, Sr. Warden................ 1.08
Joseph B. Mills, Past Master
Sidney B. Force, Past Master and
Junior Grand Deacon

lone................................. _.No. 80.... Thomas E. Morrin, Master:............... 8.76
Yolo................................-.No. 81....Leon L. Borach, Master...................... 6.24

Concord .......................... No. 117.... Chester E. King, Sr. Warden............ 6.12
Anton L. Johnson, Past Master

Vesper............................... No. 84.... Delbert J. Davis, Master.................... 20.78

Clinton............................ No. 119.... Marshall L. Gill, Master...................... 26.06

Naval... ............................ :No. 87.... Albin R. Setterquist, Master.............. 2.04
. .
Paul E. Meyers, Sr. Warden

Fidelity............................No. 120.... Allyn S. Wexel, Master
Leo S. Schoenfeld, Sr. Warden
Jesse Rosenwald, Jr. Warden
Phillip Jacobvics, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master

Rose's Bar........................ No. 89....Jesse C. J. Neighbor, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 12.00
North Star.....................•. No. 91.. .. George E. Holmes, Sr. Warden........ 37.34
St. Helena. ....................... No. 93 ....John H. Steves, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 4.32
Henry Clay.....'................. No. 95 .... Charles Wm. Geller, Sr. Warden...... 11.26
Hornitos .... .'...................... No. 98.... Clarence C. FitzGibbon, Master........ 20.18
John W. Collins, Past Master
George L. Klug, Past Master

Alamo..............................No. 122.... Allan McPhee, Master........................ 3.84
Elwood Wm. Glazier, Sr. Warden
Frank E. Butt, Jr. Warden
J. B. Neer, Past Master
Sotoyome........................ No. 123.... Albert Nelson York, Master.............. 5.40
Reuben E. Baer, Past Master
Table Mountain.....:....... No.124 .... Wm. Henry Henderson, Master...... 10.80

362

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LaFayette...·-···-······-··..No.126.... Cort G. Husing, Master............... _..... 4.44
Harold Baker, Sr. Warden
Chas. Henry King, Jr. Warden
Ernest A. Feaks, Past Master and ·
Inspector ··································-········ 5.64

Franklin..·-····-····-····-··No. 143....Ralph Krull, Master...·-···-····-····- 6.88
Gordon Wight, Sr. Warden
Milo E. Dye, Jr. Warden

Hermann ........................ No.127.... Hugo H. W. Stamm, Master
Otto C. von Borstel, Sr. Warden
John Behrens, Jr. Warden
Louis Muller, Past Master and In· Spector
Paul R. Schubert, Past Master
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
E. H . N eumarkel, Past Master
·

363

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Visatia................. - ........... No. 128... .]esse C>tto Clark, Master.................... 23.60
Simon Levy, Past Master
Nicolaus~ ....................... _No.129 .... i..orel E. Middleton, Master ............

8.64

Woodbridge..........,........ No.131....Cralis Dexter, Past Master, Inspector and Representative.................,.. 6.48
Sincerity....- .......... _,, ___ No. 132.... Solon F. Luzzader, Sr. Warden........ 26.88
· Vacaville..........-··········--No. 134... .James Robert McCrory, Master...... 4.44
Robert G. Allen, Past Master
,Valley.............................. No. 135.... Chas. F. Cooper, Master... ·-·············· 6.76
Pacific....... -... :.................No. 136.... Harold Robt. Jacobs, Master
Carl Wm. Miles, Sr. Warden
Albert A. Axelrod, Jr. Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Thomas Anderson, Past Master and
Inspector
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Herman Wertsch, Past Master

OrientaL.............:.....-.. No. 144....Volney Stamps, Master
Roy N. Buell, Sr. Warden
Walter Leonard, Past Master
L. C. Hansen, Past Master
A. J. Snow, Past Master
William E. Conner, Past Master
Edgar McHugh, Past Master
William S. Wells, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
Burnside Cromwell, Past Master
Richard Tuedens, Past Master
.Herbert Joyce, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master
George N. Strot, Past Master
John F. Clute, Past Master
Chas. T. Clark, Past Master
Olin Berry, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
Amos V. Mollhart, Past Master
Vitruvius................-.......No. 145....Wm. J. Somers, Master... _................. 4.82
·
Martin Mickelsen, Sr. Warden
AbelL............................. No. 146.... Clemons B. Heryford, Master....·-····· 8.76
Wm. Robert Ford, Sr. Warden
Eel River.................. _•...No. 147.... Daniel McLean, Master...................... 30.48
Arthur J. Johnson, Sr.' Warden
Walter G. Orman, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 25.68
Lassen..--..................-... No. 149.... lvor B. Clark, Master.......................... 32.76
F. L. Holmes, Past Master
Nelson G. Mathews, Past Master
J. B. Spalding, Past Master and Inspector ···············-······························ 32.76

Crockett ..... ·-····---··"······No. 139....Wm. A. H. Fleischer, Master
Milo J. North, Sr. Warden
Eugene S. Elkus, Past Master
George W. Davis, Jr. Warden

Molino............................. No. 150....Stearns W. Wood, Master.................. 19.58

Curtis......- ...................... No. 140.... George Cavalli, Past Master and
·
Representative .................................. 6.72

Woodtand........................No. 156.... Eugene Carroll Stowe, Master.......... 5.88

Grafton........,.................. No. 141....James R. B_ohanan, Sr. Warden...,....

Keystone ......................... No. 161.... A. L. Groves, Past Master and
Representative ................................_ 7.92

6.~

364

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND L OD G E OF CALIFORNIA

Harmony....- ................- .No. 164....Ernest M. Innes, Past Master and
Representative ....•............................. 36.38
.e1Ju.vL 166....Ra Iph G. Curt1s,
. Master
. ............•·····--·.No.
E xce Is10r
Arnold T. Brown, Sr. Warden
Raymond T. Higgins, Jr. Warden
Henry B. Winkelman, Past Master
James W . Crosby, Past Master
George R. Armstrong, Past Master
Samuel H. Perkins, Past Master
Rod. G. Guyett, Past Master
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Alameda.........:................ No. 167.... Hugh M. Kibby, Master...................... 2.40
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
E. A. Richmond, Past Master
P. V. Wilson,.Past Master
Redwood City.......•........ No. 168.... Harold Edw. Simpton, Master.......... 2.40
Mission......................_.: ..No ..169....John C. Strickler, Master
·
· Willard R. Arnold, Sr. Warden
Robert E. Allan, Past Master
G. A. Hansen, Past Master
J. A. Bishop, Past Master
Elk Grove..:.................... No. 173 ....James Lillico, Master.......................... 6.12
G. M. Tavernli, Past Master
· T. L. Conrad, Past Master
Drytown•..........•:..........,..No. 174....J. J. Meers, Past Master and Rep. resentative ........................................ 12.76
Antiodi.......:...:.........."_... .N~. 175 ....Leland F. Hulbert, Master.................. 3.48
.
Lewis B. Weatherbee, Sr. Warden
Phoenix.............,.......,.....N~.178::.. Fra~k .R. Eshelman, Master .............. 46.92
'
G~s A. Eskew, Sr. Warden
Mendocino...................... No. 179.... Andrew Hansen, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 26.28
Petaluma. ..............~ .........No. 180.... Duncan H. Olmsted, Sr. W~rden...... 3.36
Rennie F. Nelson, Jr. Warden
· A. E. Owen, Past Master
Russian River .............~ .. No.181....Walter W. Martin, Master...............". 5.04
·
Frank F. Welti, Past Master

365 .

Atbtickle......................- No: 182....Gilbert Gould Vann, Master.............. 7.92 '
Clear Lake...................... No. 183.... Clarence E. Corum, Master.,............,. )J.92
Sierra Valley..................No. 184....Chas. Dubourdieu, Representative .... 36.26
Claiborne.........................No. 185....James Daniel 'Moungovan, Master ...: 26.52
D. W. Dunbar, Past Master
Evening Star.····-············No. 186....Benton A. MacLellan, Sr. Warden.: ~5.58
Keith ................................No. 187....George M. Mason, Master.................. 6.12
George H. Smith, Jr. Warden ..
·Spencer M. Maze, Past Master
Oakland .......................... No. 188.... Chas. Capp Dewolf, Master
Ralph A. Kurtz, Sr. Warden
James N. Mosher, Jr. Warden
· Arnt C. Heidekker, Past Master
Francis A. Braun, Past Master
Thomas Irving Miller, Past Master
Wm. N. Munro, Past Master
Robert M. Ford, Past Master
Harold H. Meredith, Past Master
William I. MacDonald, Past Master
Chas. E. Keyes, Past Master
Fred L, Arbogast, Past Master
Sidney F. Sea, Past Master
George C. Perkins, Past Master
Sophus Nelson, Past Master
Wm. M. Huffman, Past Master
Arthur Mock, Past Master
Wilfred R. Hill, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Wm. S. MacMurtry, Past Master
and Grand Bible Bearer
Northern Light..............No, 190....Vern Fawver, Sr. Warden.................. 25.56
Marin..................:............Nci. 191....Harry Franklin Meilink, Master...... 1.80
Herbert K. Walton, Sr. Warden
Charles L. White, Jr. Warden
Joseph Block, Past Master
George F. Rodden, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Santa Barbara................No. 192....William L. Snook, Master ................... 33.66
Arthur James McAdams, Sr.
Warden

367

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ferndale--------------'----- ---- No. 193....R. A. Cruikshank, Master ______,, _________ 34.08

Friendship.......................No. 210....Claude C. Clark, Master...................... 3.00
Ca:rl H. Nelson, Jr. Warden
Frank L. E. Edmans, Past Master
William W. Paul, Past Master
Albert T. Hollingsworth, Past
Master

366

Mountain View..............No. 194.... Engelbert B. Erichsen, Master.......... 3.12
Jos. W. Lovejoy, Sr. Warden
Buckeyc...........................No. 195....Robert B. Bigelow, Master.. ___________,,. 5.64
Arthur H. Manyan, Past Master
San Simcon...........:........ No. 196....William R. Williams, Master............ 26.92
Wilmington.................... No. 198.... Warren A. Shepherd, Master............ 44.16
Glenn C. Merkley, Sr. Warden
Hartley..........----------..No. 199....Guido De Ghetaldi, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 16.90
Truckee......................-...No. 200....William F. Wilkie, Jr., Sr. Warden .. 22.24
Pentalpha....- ............:···-No. 202....Theodore T. Spurgeon, Master.......... 42.72
Constantine N. Perkins, Sr. Warden
Robert B. Smith, Jr. Warden
Lawrence C. Kelley, Past Master
and Inspector ............................~....... 42.72
James B. Gist, Past Master and Sr.
Grand Warden .................................. 42.72
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 42.72
Confidence................-.... No. 203.... George B. Wells, Master.................... 7.32
Walter C. Buttle, Past Master
R. H. Rasmussen, Past Master
C. Dudley, Past Master
Salinas......................- .... No.204....Fred T. Kraft, Master........................ 7.92
Arthur G. Howell, Sr. Warden
Olivet................___________No. 205....0scar Chas. Bley, Master.................. 12.60
Fred Lewis Deitz, Sr. Warden
Stanislaus.......................No. 206.... Axel E. Gustafson, Master................ 6.96
Elmer ·L. Talbert, Sr. Warden
Anaheim..................- ......No. 207.... Arthur H .. Shipkey, Master................ 44.64
Elden R. Deering, Sr. Warden
Rio Vista........................No. 208....Roger S. Turney, Sr. Warden.......... 4.88
King Davids..........- .......No. 209....Elmo E. Burriss, Master.................... 23.52
Loran T. Curtright, Jr. Warden
John Whicher, Past Master and
Grand Secretary

San Benito..........- .......... No. 21 L .. Clarence H. Keaton, Master.............. 6.24
R. W. O'Bannon, Past Master and
Inspector .........................................._ 6.24
So. San Francisco......... N~. 212.... Henry A. Kruger, Master
Sigvart C. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Andrew D. Zanetti, Jr. Warden
William G. Green, Past Master
Richard Nielan, Past Master
San Buenaventura ........No. 214....Glenn DeLoyd Corey, Master............ 37.20
Courtland R. Strong, Sr. Warden
Michael LeGrande Brazil, Past
Master and Inspector....- ................ 37.20
Joseph M. Argabrite, Past Master.. 42.72
David J. Reese, Past Master and
Past Grand Master..................- ....- 37.20
Oak Grovc..........- .......... No. 215....Kenneth R Cunningham, Master
George C. Merris, Sr. Warden
Henry C. Snead, Jr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Past Master
M. C. Godfrey, Past Master
T. Howen, Past Master
Dori~...............................

No. 216....Jacob H. Hoffmann, Master
Jaffa Edw. Moss, Sr. Warden
Morris Paul Revere, Jr. Warden
Manuel Lafee, Past Master

Montercy.....................-No, 217.... Charles A Watson, Past Master
Mosaic.............................No. 218....Max McKelvey Woltx, Master.......... 3.00
Manley J. Clark, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.00
Speranza ltaliana.......... No. 219.... Pietro Capua, Master
J~hn G. Alioto, Sr. Warden
Giovanni D'Ambrosio, Jr. Warden
John M. Icardo, Past Master and
Inspector
C. Antonio, Past Master

368

PROCEEJDINGS OF THE

Downey................-......... No. 220....0tto T. Boyd, Master.......................... 43.56
lnyo..........- ..................- ..No. 221....Robert J. Bandhauer, Master............ 55.38
Alexander C. Krater, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 56.88
Roseville..............,...........No. 222.... Leroy Etzel, Master.............................. 7.44
Bakersfield......................No. 224.... Andrew H. Walker, Master.............. 28.86
Henry Eissler, Past Master................ 28.86
Brooklyn.....................,....No. 225....Chas. L. Hemphill, Master
Robert A. Smale, Sr. Warden
Francis J. Rennie, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
Homer W. Campbell, Past Master
Kenneth H . Keifer, Past Master
John H. Bottel, Past Master
John Paw, Past Master
T. C. Drennan, Past Master
Howell P. Capell, Past Master
Herbert P. Briggs, Past Master
J. Arthur Petty, Past Master
Walter H. Cohick, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo..........,............No. 226....George E. Forbes, Master.................. 1.80
Donald W. Tiddy, Sr. Warden
Athens............................. No. 228....Robert F. Miller, Master............-...... 5.16
Wm. P. Maghetti, Sr. Warden
Solano..............................No. 229.... Chester P. Berner, Master.................. 2.04
Edward 0. Massey, Sr. Warden
Donald H. MacLean, Jr. Warden
Andrew J. Whitney, Past Master
John F. Walters,"Past Master
Alvord B. Cushing, Past Master
John Ramsay, Past Master
North Butte....:...............No. 230....James R. Shaffer, Sr. Warden.......... 9.96
Covelo..............................No. 231....Fred E. Wooley, Sr. Warden............ 22.34
Hope........................:.......No. 234....Raymond A. Scolari, Sr. Warden...... 29.76
Surprise VaUey..............No. 235.... George M. Tierney, Master................ 47.60

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

369

Hills Ferry..................... No. 236....Joseph Floyd Pearce, Sr. W arden.... 7.44
W. S. Thompson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 7.44
(Juadalupc.... ~..................No. 237....Henry Robert Gewe, Master.............. 25.32
Colusa..........,...........-......No. 240.... William J. Comfort, Master.............. 9.36
Claude L. Houchins, Sr. W arden
Robert A. Caldwell, Jr. Warden
Santa Ana....- .................No. 241.:..Raymond R. Ross, Master.................. 45.12
E. B. Trago, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 45.12
Magnolia.........................No. 242....Francis R. Dolan, Master.................... 33.66
John Robert Watson, Jr. Warden
Chas. N. Allen, Past Master
Eucalyptus....- ................No. 243....George Dana Hovey, Master.............. 1.44
Joseph P. Pearce, Sr. Warden
Alfred B. Morris, Jr. Warden
John Elmer Welsh, Past Master
William Martin Bockman, Past
Master
M. E. Rowland, Past Master
John Lee Wilbur, Past Master
Alcatraz......................- .. No. 244.... Thomas Smillie; Master
George K. Harry, Sr. Warden
Virgil R. Skaggs, Jr. Warden
Edwin R. Clothier, Past Master
Arthur R. Atteberry, Past Master
Frederick S. Smith, Past Master
James G. Kane, Past Master
Arthur H. Gowne, Past Master
Carl C. Eiln, Past Master
Herbert A. Glines, Past Master
John G. Sjoberg, Past Master
Wm. W. Neal, Past Master
Lewis I. Corwin, Past Master
Anthony D. Childers, Past Master
William E. Schneider, Past Master·
Elbert W. Garrity, Past Master
.Vernon J. Coley, Past Master
Alonzo Waggener, Past Master

..,.

Laurel..........................- -No. 245 ....Lyrel D. Bullard, Sr. Warden............ 10.56

370

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Pomona...·-··--···-·········No. 246....George A. Goodell, Master.............._ 45.24
Herbert B. Martin, Sr. Warden
Nelson J. King, Jr. Warden
George C. Smithen, Past Master and
Inspector ··················-··········-············ 45.24
Fresno---····-~·····-········.No. 247....Jesse W. Warner, Sr. Warden..·-····· 19.56
0

Chester H. Warlow, Past Master....-19.56
Donald H . Fisher, Past Master and
Inspector ··········-··········-····--····-···-· 19.56
Alturas............- ...........~ .. No. 248....Clarence Edw. Ebbe, Master..........- .. 41.60
C. S. Baldwin, Past Master and Inspector ·····-···························-····-···-· 41.60
Landmark.·--····-··········-No. 253....Thomas R. Tadlock, Sr. Warden...... 6.96
Reading..........- ............... No. 254.... Hugh H. Shuffieton, Jr., Master...... 22.56
George P. Rogers, Sr. Warden
Gilbert C. De Forest, Past Master
and Inspector ····-······························ 22.56
Albert F. Ross, Past Master
Lodi...·-····-····-····--··-····No. 256....William H. Growden, Sr. Warden.... 6.12
Penrhyn.........·-···-- ···-··No. 258....Clyde Reeves, Master.....-.................. 8.16
Evergreen..................- ...N-0. 259....Frank T. Carroll, Master.....·-··········- 46.92
Rufus G. Jones, Sr. Warden
James H. Jordan, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master and
Inspector ··················-··········-····-····- 46.92
James MacDougall, Past Master
King Solomons.............. No. 260....John Wesley Davey, Master
Thayer B. Thomas, Sr. Warden
Forrester J. Millar, Jr. Warden
Randolph V. Whiting, Past .Master
W. K. Cullen, Past Master
Wm. P. Filmer, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Tuscan..·-····-··--·······-·.No. 261....John K. Coleman, Sr. Warden.......... 8.76
Lompoc...............·-··:·-···No. 262.... Howard E. Hutton, Master................ 29.70
C. D. Mc;:Cabe, Past Master
Walter A. Ste~art, Past Master and
Inspector =·-····-··········-················-- 29.70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

371

Hesperian....- ................. No. 264....Virgil F. Alexander, Sr. Warden...... ·25.42
Orland-····-····-···············No. 265....Thomas J. Morrissey, Sr. Warden.... 11.64
R. C. E. Weber, Past Master and
Inspector···-·····-·········-····-···-····-- 11.64
North East................- ....No. 266.... Henry Kaber, Representative.......~..- 54.08
Galt..·-·-··············-··········No. 267....Joseph L. Orvis, Past Master and
Representative ··········-···-···-····-····- 6.12
Durant.............................No. 268....Wilfred Jos. Smith, Master
Roy V. Crowell, Sr. Warden
George H . Irwin, Jr. Warden
N. 0. Millar, Past Master
E. D. Thomas, Past Master
F. H. E. O'Donnell, Past Master
G. E. Oxley, Past Master
W.W. Bradley, Past Master
J. W. Gregg, Past Master
E. C. Bridgman, Past Master
Olive Branch..................No; 269....Edgar F. Reed, Master...·-····--·········· 22.80
Andrew H. Terrill, Sr. Warden
George Sayre, Past Master ·
Snow Mountain............. No. 271....F. M. Kesselring, Past Master and
Representative ··········-····--··-·········· 15.36
Pasadena..........- .......,.... N o. 272....Allan L. Dunnica, Master·····-·····•····· 43.68
Ralph T. Merriam, Sr. Warden
Kenneth H. Munroe, Jr. Warden
Albert Mercer, Past Master
Anchor.·--··-···•··-··.'- .... No. 273 ....Joseph Wm. Littlefield, Sr. Warden 43.5?
Arroyo............................ .No; 274....A. Harry Severson, Master...·-······-- 24.90
Harry A. Truesdale, Sr. Warden
Oakdale...........................No. 275....G. F. Hoisholt, Past Master and Inspector ····-·······-·-····-····- ····-············ 8.16
Albert A. Hoffman, Past Master
and Representative ····-··················" 8.16

Sclma........•.-····-·'···········No. 277....B. R. Bergstrom, Master ..,.......·--···· 20.76
So. California................ No. 278....William C. Kottemann, Master ...·-··- 42.72
James E. Rogers, Sr. Warden
W. P. Jeffries, Past Master...............• 42.72
E. B. Spencer, Past Master
Dana R. Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master...........·-····-····- 42.72

372

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hanford..........................No. 279....Gridner Wm. Robinson, Sr. Warden 22.08
Burton Washburn, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 22.08
Madera:·························--No. 280....James E. Barrett, Master.................... 18.12
Hart N. Cook, Jr., Sr. Warden
Frank Davis, Jr. Warden
Mt. Shasta....- ................ No. 281....William Chas. Gover, Master..:......... 21.72

373

Dunsmuir.........·-······-··-No. 297.... Albert L. Sonnichsen, Sr. Warden.... 28.62
Gus A. Hutaff, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Liberty............................ No. 299....Frederick H. Mehlborn, Master........ 2.88
Chas. A. English, Past Master and
Inspector ··········-··········-····-··········-'- 3.00
Redlands ..:.......................No. 300....Heber Nicholson, Sr. Warden............ 47.52

. Callayomi........................No. 282....Paul Frank Hoberg, Master.............. 9.90
Elmer E. Noyes, Past Master

Ontario..................- ........No. 301....Albert V. Hughes, Master.................. 45.60

South West.............~ .......No.-283.... Ira _Golden Silver, Master.................. 55.70
Theodore R. Miller, Sr. Warden

Santa Lucia.................... No. 302.... Lee Dudgeon, Past Master and Representative ......................................... 11.16

San Mig-UCL................... No. 285... ~Arthur B. Eddy, Past Master and

Porterville...................... No. 303....Clarence W. Bradford, Jr. Warden.. 24.6Q
Edwin S. Lawson, Past Master and
Inspector ··································-········ 24.60
Logan L. Dobbs, Past Master

Representative ················- ················ 14.28
Paso Robles.......,...:....-..No. 286....Henry A. Vorrath, Master·-······.······· 15.00
Gustav A. Herth, Sr. Warden
Winnedumah..................No. 287.... Ezra Truman Albright, Master........ 57.22
Elsinore...........................No. 289....Willis Lee Everett, Sr. Warden........ 48.08
East Gate................-...... No. 290.... Frank S. Moore, Master...................... 42.72
Frank M. Smith, Sr. Warden
Santa Paula......:....:. ........ No. 291....Thomas Leslie Millham, Master ...... 38.40
Ernest 0 . Wakeford, Sr. Warden
Leon Whitsell, Past Master
Los·Gatos........................No. 292.... Cecil Robert Reynolds, Sr. Warden.. 3.92
·
Thomas W. Widby, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 3.00
Orange Grove.................No. 293....Lucian C. Flippen, Master.................. 45.12
Daniel W . Gruwell, Sr. Warden
Traver:.;....•......,.-........•.. No. 294..:.Arthur A. Lindquist, Sr. Warden ...... 21.12
Mt. Jackson....................No. 295....Glen P. Laughlin, Master.................... 5.88
Silver Gate...·-····-·:....,...No. 296....Raymond P. Wakeman, Master........ 55.28
·
Earle H. Parkins, Sr. Warden
Edgar F. Cooper, Jr. Warden
Harvey R. Sylvester, Past Master
Francis Mitchell, Past Master

Reedley............................No. 304....Chauncey M. Baker, Sr. Warden ...... 22.86
Azusa.......... _...................No. 305....John W. Calvert, Jt. Master.............. 44.52
Ashlar•.....................- ..-..No. 306....John Henry Miller, Master................ 46.92
Santa Monica..........-.....No. 307....]ohn E. Paterson, Master.................. 44.28
John C. Hines, Sr. Warden
Frank M. Wise, Past Master and
Inspector ········-············- ··················- 44.28
Victor Roy McLucas, Past Master.. 44.28
Monrovia.........·-··········-No. 308....Wilson Pro Elliott, Master................ 44.04
Leslie M. Renaker, Past Master and
Inspector ····-······································ 44.04
Delano..................- ......... No. 309....Theodore H. Hotchkiss, Master........ 26.58
A. Sheppard, Past Master
Sisson........................- ....No. 310....Joseph L. Paynter, Past Master and
Representative ··········-··········- ·········· 29.70
Los Banos....................... No. 312....Joseph E. Place, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 8.88
Thomas Amos, Past Master
Tehachapi....................... No. 313....R. G. Doupe, Master............................ 32.34
R. R. Merritt, Past Master
Temescal.............._.........No. 314....Wilbur G. Darst, Master.................... 48.00
William E. Loranger, Sr. Warden
Fred E. Snidecor, Past Master.......... 48.00
Frank S. Johnson, Past Master

374

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.Norwalk....-·-·····--···--·N<>. 315 .... Arthur C. Gould, Sr. Warden ...... - .... 43.92
Sanger.-.....:... _......__,: .... NQ. 316.... A. T. Christiansen, Master ................ 20.64
Fallbrook...·-····-····-······No. 317....Russell B. Cook, Master ...................... 54.14
EmmanueL............. - .•...No. 318....Jos. A. Foster, Representative ............ 10.20
Hollenbeck .....___ ........... No. 319 .... Gilbert Payne, Master .......................... 42.72
Jos. A. Gilman, Sr. Warden
W. Denney Johnston, Jr. Warden
South Gate......................

No: 320....Howard M. Wallace, Master.............. 42.72
George M. Donovan, Sr. Warden
M. L. Griffith, Past Master

AlisaL.-................ k•···--No. 321....Hans Niels Hansen, Master................ 2.52
·
Robert E. Cope, Sr. Warden
Samuel D. Glassey, Jr. Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra........................No. 322 ... .]oseph W. Schoeppner, Master.......... 43.44
Roy C. Armstrong, Sr. Warden
Whittier................- ..·..- .. Nti. 323.... Albert Elmer Lee, Master.................. 44.16
Bernard F. Weil, Sr. Warden
Roy I. LeFever, Past Master and
Inspector ····························-····-········ 44.16
Corona'..;............. - ........... No. 324....Lambert P. Bagnard, Master............ 43.68
Aaron G. Marcus, Sr. Warden
Consuelo.................. - ....-No. 325.... Chas. R. Wilkinson, Sr. Warden...... 53.22

.

.

Needles........................ _.No. 326 .... Chas. Ellis Holley, Sr. Warden........ 57.32
Long Beach .................... No. 327.... A. Malcolm Thompson, Master........ 44.28
E.dwin R. Nelson, Sr. Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master and
Inspect.or ...... :..................................... 44.28
Edwin T. Date, Past Master
Redondo.......................... No. 328....John H. Gregory, Sr. Warden .......... 4428
Vallee de France........... N'o. 329.... Rene Portier, Master............................ 42.72
Kilauea ........................... No. 330.... Chas. A. Shepherd, Pa~t Master and
Representative and lnspector........283.00
John M. Ross, Past Master and
Grand Sword Bearer ......................250.00

375

Pacific Grove....- ............No. 331....Elwyn W. Jenkins, Master......... ·-···· 8.64
Archie B. Fleming, Sr. Warden
Charles K. Tuttle, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 8.64
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master
Russell M. Giles, Past Master
San Pedro.......................No. 332....Andrew D. Miller, Master...·-··········- 44.28
Robert W. Long, Sr. Warden
Alta.......,........- ................No. 333 .... Henry L. Killian, Master....- .............. 46.42
George C. Delury, Jr., Sr. Warden
John D. Murphey, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Covina..·-··:···-··············--No. 334.... Robert W. Estep, Sr. Warden.......... 44.52
West Gate.............·-··· ... No. 335 ... .]ulian N. Cole, Master........................ 42.72
·
Clyde H. Kettering, Sr. Warden
Fruitvale ..................- ..... No. 336....Fritz Schuler, Master
George R. Gehring, Sr. Warden
Rudolph Jenny, Jr. Warden
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Harry Bercovich, Past Master
Julius Otto Zuboly, Past Master
John Cameron McEwen, Past Master
John Hugh Morris, Past Master
Clarence B. Dickson, Past Master
Lawson Howatt, Past Master
Roddy C. Black, Past Master
James E. Parish, Past Master
Arthur A. Barber, Past Master
Henry Carl Schwinn, Past Master
William G. Thornally, Past Master
Gustav A. Lindh, Past Master
Harvey K. Taylor, Past Master
William I. Day, Past Master
Carquinez................ - ......No. 337....Richard Parry Jones, Master....- ... - 1.80
Donald E. Dick, Sr. Warden
Jacob E. Hughes, Past Master and
Inspector
Thomas E.dwards, Past Master
James Smith, Past Master
James King, Past Master

376

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Jacinto..................... No. 338.... Hardus Sorkness, Master.................. 50.10
Fullerton ..........•..•........... No. 339.... Archibald M. Edwards, Master ........ 44.52
John Wm. Ritterbusch, Sr. Warden
William C. Stanford, Jr. Warden
Henry C. MacMaster, Past Master
. and Inspector .................................... 44.52
Oxnard ............................No. 341....Roy George Scannel, Master.............. 37.92
· Luther P. Nicholsen, Sr. Warden
San Fernando.................No. 343....Christen L. Christensen, Master ........ 41.16
Starr King ....................- No. 344....Albert Chas. Wollenberg, Master
N. McN. Ellsworth, Sr. Warden
Haiman L. Wayne, Jr. Warden
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Herbert D. Bendheim, Past Master
Charles 0, Clausen, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
and Inspector
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Brentwood ......................No. 345....George K. Anderson, Past Master
and Jr. Warden........................-...... 4.44
Palo Alto........................ No. 346.... L. Harold Anderson, Master............ 2.76
Leonidas K. Doty, Sr. Warden
A. N. Umphreys, Past Master
Newton W. Glaeser, Past Master
George E. King, Past Master
McKinley..,.........•...........No. 347 ....Raymond W. Walker, Master
Rolla L. Eubanks, Sr. Warden
Oscar E. Erickson, Jr. Warden
Alexander Dawson, Past Master
A. C. Curtis, Past Master
San Bemardino..............No. 348.... Walter B. Gafford, Master .................. 46.92
George Feetham, Past Master and
Inspector ...............................:............ 46.92
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 42.72

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

377

Sequoia............................No. 349.... Raymond D. Laughrey, Master
Chas. M. Cowell, Sr. Warden
Arthur G. Smith, Jr. Warden
Charles Husband, Past Master
Charles Chubb, Past Master
W. W. Kergan, Past Master and
Inspector
J. F. Mote, Past Master
G. W. Bacon, Past Master
Earl Warren, Past Master
C. L. Herrman, Past Master
A. D. Beuttel, Past Master
C. L. Irish, Past Master ·
James C. Cole, Past Master
J. F. MacGreger, Past Master
E. M. Fant, Past Master
E.T. Hughes, Past Master
John Snape, Past Master and Grand
Chaplain ............................................ 42.72
Palestine..........................No. 351....William Turner, Master .............·-······ 42.72
Walter F. Haas, Past Master ............ 42.72
Sunset... ...........................No. 352.... Horace L. Trafford, Master.............. 42.72
Rollie W. Miller, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 42.72
Loyd C. Campbell, Past Master........ 44.64
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 42.72
Pinole.............................. No. 353 .... Henry N. Witherow, Master.............. 1.32
Robert J. Stafford, Sr. Warden
Presidio...........................No. 354....Caston Pope, Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector
Charles A. Luck, Past Master
Louis E. Boivin, Past Master
Frank G. Watson, Past Master and
Grand Tiler
Hollywood ......................No. 355 ....James A. Fraser, Master .................... 43.32
Neil Tate, Sr. Warden
Stephen E. Wilson, Jr. Warden
William B. Ogden, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 42.72
D. F. Black, Past Master

378

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

379

South Pasadena...._.......No. 367....Andrew C. Heintzelman, Master...... 42.72
Braeme E. Gigas, Sr. W arden
*
Horace E. Vedder, Past Master and
Inspector ·········-..········-···················· 42.72
George D. Bragonier, Past Master

Mill Valley.......... -~-----No. 356....Francis G. Burt, Master...·-················ 1.44
Frederick A. Penn, Sr. Warden ·
Carl F. Fennema, Jr. Warden
Kent J. C. Seymour, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 1.44
Alonzo Coffin, Past Master
Thomas S. Watters, Past Master
J. J. Monzingo, Past Master

Unity....................·- ··-···No. 368....Hugh E. Merriam, Sr. Warden........ 43.62
Dwight W. Stephenson, Past Master
and Inspector ........................................ 42.72

Buena Park.................. _No. 357....John Wm. McLauchlin, Master........ 44.28

Ocean Park.....................No. 369....David G. Vail, Master........................ 44.28

Golden State..................No. 358....A. B. Dittman, Master........................ 42.72
Chas. C. Kuert, Sr. Warden
J. Frank Bourne, Past Master and
Inspector ....- .........·-····-·······.........-- 42.72
Ben G. Wright, Past Master............ 42.72

Amity..........- ..........- .......No. 370.... Elmin T. Benzhaf, Master
Neil Budd Pierson, Sr. Warden
Nathaniel 0. Slate, Jr. Warden
William E. Wood, Past Master
W illiam B. Curtis, Past Master
Le Progres
de l'Oceanie................No. 371....Percy G. H. Deverill, Master..........250.00

Loyalton......................-..No. 359....Alf Nikolai Dimmen, Sr. Warden.... 31.74
San Francisco................ No. 360....Frederick Wm. Neuman, Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master
Alton V. Fuller, Past Master
V. E . Perry, Past Master
Fort Bragg..........- .........No. 361 ....Walter Stump, Sr. Warden................ 23.98
Norman Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector .................,........................,... 23.98
Oiarity..........- ..............- No. 362....Harry C. Smith, Master.................... 3.36
Ira R. Abbott, Sr. Warden
Berkeley.........".................No. 363....David C. Jones, Sr. Warden
E. DeWitt Smith, Jr. Warden
0. M. Hardie, Past Master
F. C. Bishop, Past Master
E . C. Forbes, Past Master
R. P . Arnold, Past Master
G. E. Warren, Past Master
Julian J . Benton, Past Master
Willits...........- .............- . No. 365....0tto H. Roelle, Sr. Warden.............. 10.48
Arthur B. Guslander, Past Master
and Inspector ····- -·-·- ··..····-............... 10.48
Las Palmas..........- .........No. 366....Christian P. Jensen, Sr. Warden...... 19.56
James R. Erskine, Past Master
Ernest M. Myers, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 19.56
Andrew W . Horn, Past Master
Herbert F. Briggs, Past Master

Gardena....- .....................No. 372....Edward W . Miller, Sr. Warden...... 43.68
Veteran.........·-- ··-·--···No. 373....Sardi L. Frazier, Master .................... 43.92
Jewel...·--··-··········..........No. 374....Chas. Crawford, Master
Jesse P. Rundell, Sr. Warden
Louis P. Mayer, Jr. Warden
William D. Williams, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Curtis Benton, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Richmond ................"-··~No. 375....James L. Halley, Master
James H. Conner, Sr. W arden
Roy T. Bauer, Jr. Warden
G. F. Sand, Past Master
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
W. E . Bidwell, Past Master
W m. C. Johnson, Past Master
E. L. Fischer, Past Master
Francis Drake................ No. 376....Richard M. Zembke, Sr. Warden
Artesia.........·--··-····-·-· No. 377....Roy Stone, Master_.._................- ..... 44.04
}.{izpah.....::..................... No. 378....Rodney J. Putman, Sr. Warden...... 42.72
Wm. Jos. Disteli, Jr. W arden
Clyde N. Driskell, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

380

381

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fillmore.......,.................. No. 379....Arthur Clyde Price, Master.............. 39.12
Leo C. Harmonson, Sr. Warden
Lesley G. Burson, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach......... No. 380.... Nathan Lemert, Master...................... 45.72
O.s car Dean Wright, Sr. Warden

Balder.............................. No. 393 .... Percy G. Peterson, Master
Ingemar E. Hoberg, Sr. Warden
Byron H. Martin, Jr. Warden
Walter Joel Matson, Past Master
A. S. Stohl, Past Master
Emil Hogberg, Past Master
University;...................... N:o. 394.... Amasa Henry Lyman, Master .......... 42.72

Oceanside........................No. 381....A. N. Eschwege, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 50.04
George A. Otis, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 50.04
Highland Park............... N<i. 382....John E. Gillooly, Sr. Warden .......... 42.72
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Orosi................................ No, 383 .... Chas. C. Applegate, Master.............. 26.40
El Centro........................ No. 384....Willard S. Sylvester, Master............ 66.86
·
Cicero B. Herring, Sr. Warden
Charles E. Sones, Past Master.......... 66.86
L. P. Alexander, Past Master
John S. Ross, Past Master and Past
Grand Master .................................. 42.72
Dinuba............................. No. 385 ....Arthur M. Tripp, Jr. Warden .......... 21.72
Clarence L. Fraser, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 21.72
J. H. McCracken, Past Master

Turlock........................... No. 395....Jos. C. Gotobed, Master...................... 7.92
H. 0. Carlson, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 7.92
Apollo.............................. No. 396....John Alfred Harris, Master
Oscar R. Presco, Jr. Warden
Henry L. Weichhart, Sr. Warden
Chas. B. Greeley, Past Master
Elbert N. Clintsman, Past Master
Rising Light................... No. 397.... Chas. J. Dossett, Master .................... 42.92
John Richards, Past Master
Fraternity....................... No. 399.... Ralph E. Weaver, Sr. Warden........ 3.00
Burlingame..................... No. 400....Werner Wm. Stahl, Master.............. 1.68
Patrick P. R. Rorke, Sr. Warden
George B. Flagg, Jr. Warden
Samuel L. Hawken, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 1.68
Charles J. Orman, Past Master

Palos Verdes.................. No. 389.... Samuel F . Benton, Master.................. 44.28
Thomas F. Merrick, Sr. Warden

Bay View........................ No. 401....Robert B. Walden, Master
Dante R. Blade, Sr. Warden
Eugene D. Sellers, Jr. Warden
E. W. Hickman, Past Master
Chas. Kimble, Past Master
H. M. Bankhead, Past Master
F. W. Wetmore, Past Master
R. B. Girdwood, Past Master

Imperial.......................... No. 390....John H. Morgan, Master.................... 66.86

Brawley........................... No. 402.... George R. Butters, Sr. Warden ........ 64.24

East Belt......................... No. 391....Nash Glau, Master.............................. 15.36

Yerba Buena..................:No. 403....]ohn Nelson Morris, Master
Samuel J. Chase, Sr. Warden
Frederick Wm. Mahl, Jr., Jr. Warden
Charles E. Powell, Past Master
Preston E. Snook, Past Master

Coalinga. ......................... No. 387.... Chas. A. MacAleece, Sr. Warden.... 27.18
Parnassus ....................... No. 388....John P . Mohring, Master
Kenneth B. Hoppe, Sr. Warden
George F. Haag, Jr. Warden

West Lake...................... No. 392.... Guy F. Bush, Master.......................... 42.72
William A. Reynolds, Sr. Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master ........ 42.72
William T. Osterholt, Past Master
Chas. E. Listenwalter, Past Master

382

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Inglewoo1C............ ~.......N~. 421....Kenneth R. Cresswell, Master.......... 43.60
Frank R. Wolter, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master and ·
Inspector .......................................... 43.60
Frank A. Taylor, Past Master

Glendora...............·-····-- No. 404....George Hutchinson, Sr. Warden...... 44.76
Moneta............................ No. 405....Edward H. Suppe, Master................ 42.72
.Otto A. Stoltz, Sr. Warden
Burbank.....·-········-··-··-No. 406....Leon Earl Rope, Master.................... 41.88
·
John J. Griffiths, Sr. Warden

Eagle,Rock. .......;............ No. 422....George W. Winther, Master.............. 42.72
York......~.............."......•....No. 423.•..Lawrence E. White, Master.............. 42.72
·.
'
Wiliiam Chisnall, Past Master

La Mesa..................- ...... No. 407....E. R. Clayton, Jr. Warden..........:····· 55.28
Sierra Madre..........- ......No. 408....Rudolph R. Hartman, Master.......... 43.68

Exeter.:..~..- ..:...............No. 424....Robb Roy Young, Master.................. 23.40
Louis R. Coole, Sr. Warden
Robert B. Montgomery, Jr. Warden
Frank W. Mixter, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Warden.................... 23.40

Honolulu.........................No. 409....Francis Wm. S. MacKenzie, Past
Master and Representative...........250.00
Charter Rock. ... _........... No. 410....Wm. C. Juergens, Master
Wm. D. Wisdom, Sr. Warden
George T. Babcock, Jr. Warden
·
L. A. Dunlap, Past Master
Laurence R. Chilcote, Past Master
Albert M. Poulsen, Past Master
Thomas H . Beatty, Past Master
Max Plumb, Past Master

383

•

Holtville...."......................No. 425....Waiter M. Williams, Master......·...... 67.22
. . . James R. Snyder, Sr. Warden
C. H. ·Eckert, Past Master
J. K. Fahring, Past Master

Perris...............·-·-·-·-·-·No. 411....Leonard M. Kirkpatrick, Master...... 48.46

Midway........................... No. 426....Norman F. Main, Master.................. 33.30
·
J. M. Monroe, Past Master and Inspector ····-····-·····························:···· 32.90

Calexico...............·-··-···· No. 412... _John P. Duncan, Master...·-·············· 66.86
Marcus W. Bates, Sr. Warden

Chino Valley..:............... No. 427.... Harry H. Holmes, Master................ 45.60

Arlington........................ No. 414....Chas. E. Coif, Master........................ 42.72
. Carl F. Peters, Jr. Warden

SanDimas................,._.. No.428.... Stanley W. Plummer, Sr. Warden . 44.88
.
.
Walter E. Tangeman, Past Master
and Inspector ······················-············ 44.88
Wm; J. Gregg, Past Master

Silver Trowel........._..... No. 415.... Homer C. Green, Master.................... 42.72
Howard W. Wells, Sr. Warden

Pittsburg....:....................No. 429....Archie V. McFaul, Past Master and
Representative ................................ 3.60

Lindsay............................No. 416...:Adna Horace Askin, Master.............. 23.88
·
Christian Weber, Sr. Warden

McCloud....,..........,......... No. 430.... Er~est A. Flathmann, Master............ 32.10
Mark E. Lambert, Sr. Warden

Qovis...........·-·--·~·-··-····No. 417....Milton S. McMurtry, Sr. Warden.... 20.52
Luther E. Weldon, Past Master

Alpha........................_.....No. 431....John W. Lee, Master
Frank C. Shallenberger, Sr. Warden
George McK. Clarke, Jr. Warden
William P. Self, Past Master
Edgar C. Clark, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master
Everett C. Lambrecht, Past Master
John W. Smiley, Past Master
John McGrath, Past Master

Waucoba.........................No. 413....Norman R. Schalten, Sr. Warden.... 58.64

Elysian............................ No. 418....John P. Filbert, Master............·-······ 42.72
. .
. James L. Chilson, Sr. Warden . ·
Henry E. Phister, Jr. Warden
Robert F. Callender, Past Master
Upland...... _________......No. 419....Ray W. Gage, Sr. Warden................ 45.72
Kerman...........·-····-····-·N;o. 420....Fred A. Smith, Past Master and
Representative ................................ 19.55

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

385

Hammonton...............-... No. 433 ... .Edward I. Quick, Past Master and
Representative ················-·············· 10.50

La Puente....................... No. 446....Frederick T. Louth, Sr. Warden ...... 44.16

Maricopa........................:N-0.434.... Earl Grover Walters, Sr. Warden.. 32.94

Torrance.•........•... ·-·····-·No. 447.... Earl Wesley Babcock, Master.......... 43.92

Fairmount...·-·-··-····-···No. 435 .... Russell G. Pollitt, Jr. Warden
Denman S. Wagstaff, Past Master
P. A. DeVrics, Past Master
Henry F. Harwood, Past Master
George Pollitt, Past Master
· George R. Schwitzer, Past Master
Ralph W. McDonald, Past Master
Oaremont..__ ,.....•..•.......No. 436.... Myron F. Powell, Master .................. 45.36
W. Howard Tooker, Jr. Warden
Colin A. McLean, Past Master
Lancaster......... _ .. _____ No. 437... .Robert Baumheckel, Jr. Warden and
Representative ................................ 36.96
Acacia....................•.- ......llfo. 438.... Arthur &hramm, Master.................. 42.72
Karl .L. Ratzer, Past Master and
Inspector -······--······························ 42.72
Tyrian............- ..•.........•..Wc. 439.... Andrew J. Whitaker, Master............ 5.76
Standard......................... No. 440.... Charles B. Olds, Master
DeMitte M. Campbell, Sr. Warden
Wesley P. Rolfe, Jr. Warden
Clarence H. ·Brown, Past Master
Henry W. Pleitner, Past Master
Coronado.............-....... _ No. 441....Edward C. Nevins, Master ................ 53.02
Peter MacKenzie, Sr. Warden
Blackmer... ·-··········-·--N~. 442. ...Ralph J. Virden, Master...........·-······ 53.02
Harry Ross Atwood, Jr. Warden
Warren E. Libby, Past Master and
Senior Grand Deacon...................... 42.72
Schofield....- ..•............... :~fo. 443 ....Victor H. White, Master....................250:00
Carpinteria...·-········----N-0. 444.... Thornton M. Shorkley, Master........ 34.50
Leonidas C. Kirkes, Sr. Warden
Wilshire..........................tfo. 445 .... Edgar E. Mason, Master.................... 42.72
Frank B. Belcher, Past Master ........ 42.72
T. A. Dille, Past Master and Inspector ··········-···································· 42.72
Will H. Fischer, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 42.72

'

Mount Diablo....-····-·····No.448....William Charlesworth, Master.......... 3.24
·
J. A. Kasch, Past Master and Inspector ····-····-····························-······ 4.20
Park.........·-···--········-···N'o. 449.... Reginald Duden, Jr. Warden
Foster G. Dyer, Past Master and
Inspector
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Van Nuys ...... _...._._ .......No. 450.... William G. H. Russell, Master ........ 41.52
Herbert W. Walker, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 41.52
Montebello......................No. 451....Vivian E. Gardner, Master................ 42.72
San Pasqual.................... No. 452.... Donald G. White, Master .................. 43.68
Clyde V. McMasters, Sr. Warden
Walter F. Kress, Past Master
Bethlehem....................... No. 453....Chas. R. Cosby, Master
Crocker......................_... No. 454... .]ohn Mitchell, Master
Alfred L. Stockton, Sr. Warden
George C. Chamberlain, Jr. Warden
James G. Allan, Past Master
Kenneth McLean, Past Master
Angus Campbell, Past Master
Golden West................... No. 455.... Clarence V. Farley, Master
William Murray, Sr. Warden
Chas. F. Muller, Jr. Warden
Ramona ...·-····-····-·······-No. 457....Jack E. Anderson, Sr. Warden........ 42.72
Wilbert J. Stewart, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 43.68
Henry S. Orme .............. No. 458.... Lewis Dent Collings, Master............ 42.72
Fred C. Warner, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 42.72
Otto K. Werner, Past Master
Riverbank....................... No. 459.... Marvel R. Howard, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 7.56
Mount Oso...................... No. 460.... Alfred J. Monnich, Sr. Warden...... 4.68

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Argonaut.........·-··········-No. 461....Joseph Bernard, Master
Daniel M. Goulter, Sr. Warden
Walter R. Bowden, Past Master
Charles A. Rice, Past Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Paul Revere....................No.462....John Campbell Oslin, Sr. Warden
Earnest A. Stewart, Jr. Warden
William A. Gerder, Past Master .
Morgan Hi11................... Np. 463....John Telfer, Sr. Warden.................... 4.44
Alta Vista..........- ........... No. 464....Arthur E. Hewit, Master
James Hutcheon, Sr. Warden
Francis Jos. Herz, Jr. Warden
Rae C. Newman, Past Master
H. L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Center..............................No. 465....Melvin K. Gibbs, Sr. Warden.......... 19.56
Libertas...................._.....No. 466....Gerald T . Fowler, Master_······-····- 28.86
Raymond G. Taylor, Sr. Warden .....,
Leonard V. Balfanz, Jr. Warden
Arthur E. Overton, Past Master
and Inspector ····-····-········- ············ 28.86
Culver City.........·--··-_.No. 467....George Thomas Allen, Master.......... 43.92
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
and Inspector ··········-······-········-···-· 42.72
Rockridge.....;....- ...........No. 468....Fred George Switzer, Master
Charles W. Campbell, Sr. Warden
Samuel F. Stockum, Jr. Warden
F. R. Templeton, Past Master
R. R. Beggs, Past Master
George W. Miller, Past Master
W.W. Shea, Past Master
Yorba Linda................... No. 469....George F. Plumb, Master.................. 44.64
Lincoln...............:.........._, No. 470....George A. Hannan, Master
Sylvain D. Leipsic, Sr. Warden
Eldon B. Spofford, Jr. Warden
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Arthur Joel, Past Master
David L. Wolf, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA

387

Delta....- ..........,.•.,..,........No. 471....]ohn Alexander Rogers, Master...... 5.76
·
Archibald L. Luck, Sr. W arden
George Wm. Lytle, Jr. W arden
Maqi.........................,_.,_No. 472....Wilson Cannon, Sr. Warden...........266.70
Blythe......................,...:...No. 473....E. B. Trent, Past Master and Representative ····-·································· 65.56
Victory.....·-···•"•·········-··No. 474....Roy E . Hagerman, Master
Chas. H. Manning, Jr. W arden
America.......................... No. 475....Gilbert B. Carr, Jr., Master.............. 42.72
Wm. A. Schreider, Past Master
and Inspector ····-····················- ······ 42.72
Coachella.•.......,..-·-···- ·· No. 476.... Albert E. Cavanaugh, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 59.52
Temblor........·-···- ····-··· No. 477.... Arthur E. Hawthorne, Master.......... 33.90
Thousand Oaks..............No. 478....Raymond B. Giles, Master
Herbert J. Watt, Past Master
Harry Pughe, Past Master
Golden Rule....................No. 479....Morris Jensen, Master........................ 3.00
J os. P . Boschken, Past Master
Fellowship...................... No. 480....W aiter W. Madison, Master
'
Florentine Wm. Schubkegel, Sr.
W arden
Joseph W . Holleman, Jr. Wa rden
Chas. F. Nichols, Past Master
Emil P. Ziegler, Past Master
W m. G. Ewing, Past Master
J ohn B. Warner, Past Master
W m. J. McNally, Past Master
Alvin N. Labold, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ................. No. 481.... Alfred Harris Nicoll, Master
Joseph H. J orgenson, Sr. Warden
Clarence F. Smith......... No. 482....W illiam W. W ilson, Master.............. 42.72
Edward Cooke, Sr. W arden
·
Frank G. Falloon, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 42.72
Bell................- ..•......,.'......No, 483....William Sweigart, Master................ 42.72
· Lloyd J. Kellum, Sr. Warden
H arold Comaford, J r. Warden

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Albert Pike..................... No. 484.... Roy 0. Padgett, Sr. Warden............ 42.72
Chowchilla ..........-.......... No. 485.... Carl D. Clausen, Past Master and
Representative ................................ 10.92
Caledonia........................ No. 486.... George McHugh, Master.................... 28.86
Lee Jacob Crain, Sr. Warden
N orval D. Cleghorn, Past Master
dyde E. Mallachowitz, Past Master
Vallejo............... :..... -..... No. 487.... Wm. W. Youngman, Master............ 2.04
Casper G. Crane, Sr. Warden
Patterson........................ No. 488.... George L. Bettencourt, Master........ 6.60
East Bay..·-···-······-No. 489.... Clifford B. Marker, Master
Grant V. Wallace, Sr. Warden
Herbert V. Green, Jr. Warden
Roy H. Parkinson, Past Master and
Inspector
Loren A. Painter, Past Master
Boyd L. Wilson, Past Master
Corcoran.........................No. 490....Frederick C. Carroll, Master............ 22.98
Woodstock................. _. No. 491....George F. Kohler, Master
Chas. J. Rundstrom, Sr. Warden
Chas. A. Nesmith, Jr. Warden
T. S. Hersey, Past Master
C. 0. Siverlsen, Past Master
S. A. Choice, Past Master
N. W. Parkinson, Past Master
Garvanza........................ No. 492....Julius G. Hansen, Sr. Warden.......... 42.72
Earl Thaxter, Past Master
Nathaniel M. Hill, Past Master
Atascadero...................... No.493 ... .]ohn J. McDaniels, Master................ 15.84 .
Fred Chas. Hess, Past Master
Acom................_.,......... No. 494.... Arthur L. Nelson, Master
Jos. L. Miserez, Sr. Warden
Bertram E. Hahn, Jr. Warden
Harry B. Wells, Past Master
Clarence M. Lake, Past Master
Asa G. Kazebeer, Past Master
Arthur R. McPhail, Past Master
Irvin L. Gracier, Past Master
Samuel F. Warswick, Past Master
Chas. M. Herkenham, Past Master
Harold M. Nash, Past Master
Robert H. Wright, Past Master
Reginald V. Joste, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

389

Lmanoo......................-.. N.o. 495 .... Harold S. Stein, Master
Albert Stevens, Sr. Warden
Monroe I. Markuse, Jr. Warden
Riverdale ............- ......... No. 496....Angus Mc Vicar, Sr. Warden. ........... 21.60
Fresnont..... - .................. No. 497.... Albert E. Gracie, Master
Cyrus L. Rossi, Sr. Warden
Homer A. Buck, Jr. Warden
Chester Morris, Past Master and
Inspector
George H. Dalmas, Past Master
Stockton---·-···--·-····No. 498.... Hy Greenberg, Master........................ 5.76
Frank C. Rountree, Sr. Warden
Lester 0. Wisler, Past Master
Capitol Ci1Y--···-· No. 499.... Frederick J. Pribble, Master............ 6.12
Roosevelt........................ No. 500....0tto C. Huth, Master
·
Nils E. Johnsson, Sr. Warden
Ernest J. Armando, Jr. Warden
Westwood ....................... No. SOL.George N. Peltier, Master .................. 32.76
Harbor..........--........ ,....• No. 502.... Thomas A. Deadrich, Master
George W. Ellis, Sr. Warden
Lowell R. Sears, Jr. Warden
L. E. Jones, Past Master
Point..........................-.... N.o. 503.... George F. Imbach, Master
<;:has. E. Bennett, Jr., Sr. Warden
Cyrus M. Nielsen, Jr. Warden
Mark W. Hoover, Past Master
Alfred S. Petersen, Past Master
·seaside............... _ .......... No. 504.... Wm. T. Corbusier, Master................ 44.28
John L. Kelly, Sr. Warden
Silver Cord-................iNo.. 505....Cassius "E. Paul, Master.................... 45.12
Mount Olive.... _ .......... No. 506....Zacarias Rodriquez, Master.............. 42.72
Thomas H. Moore, Sr. Warden
El Segundo.................... No. 507....Frank Jos. Cullen, Master.................. 45.12
Jcmpa............................... No. 508....John H. Waachter, Jr. Warden........ 19.32
Benjamin Franldin...... No. 50'.L.Karl N. Eckers, Master...................... 42.72
Donald D. Cunliff, Past Master

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF C,<\LIFORNIA

Cupertino..............:.........'No. 510....Walter C. Hecox, Master.................. 3.40
John Montgomery, Sr. Warden
Wm. W. Sharpe, Jr. Warden

Catalina Island.............. No. 524.... Herbert A. Wegmann, Sr. Warden 47.22
James C. Davis, Jr. Warden

Sunnyvale....................... No. 511....Jos. B. Kehl, Jr. Warden.................. 3.36

George Washington..... No. 525....John Johnston, Master
Ralph E. Price, Sr. Warden

Palms .........'.......... :...........No. 512.... Alexander Young, Jr. Warden.......... 42.72
Cahuenga..........- ............ No. 513 ....Roy C. Bryan, Master........................ 43.32
Hoyt M. Garman, Sr. Warden
Argonne.......................... No. 514.... Harold W. Skillman, Master
.
Sam H. Hardin, Sr. Warden
Clarence A. Nelson, Past Master
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Vermont Square........... No. 515 .... Frank Shirley, Master ...................... ~ 42.72
Robert V. Aldrich, Sr. Warden
Taft................................. No. 516....Joseph E. McMillan, Master............ 33.30
Marcus E. Kinnebrew, Sr. Warden
Harry W. Beatty, Past Master
Mount Vernon.............. No. 517.... Chas. R. Bermel, Sr. Warden
Harold W. Chaunce, Past Master
La Jolla.......................... No. 518.... Paul J. Davidson, Master.................. 55.28
Samuel T. Gillespie, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 55.28
Luther Brown, Past Master ·
Euclid.............................. No. 519....Jesse C. Hagin, Sr. Warden .............. 42.72
James T. Montano, Past Master
.
..
lonic................................. No. 520.... Isador Moore, Master........................ 42.72
Joseph Korsen, Sr. Warden
Piedmont. ....................... No. 521....Chas. C. Crosby, Master
Carl P. Goemmer, Sr. Warden
Verne R. Pentecost, Jr. Warden
Richard H. Chamberlain, Past Master
E. J. A. Watts, Past Master
Sunrise............................ No. 522.... Stanley G. McDonald, Sr. Warden .. 42.72
Bellflower....................... No. 523.... Erich Henry Fredericks, Master...... 43.32
Wm. E. Gladstone Chalmers, Sr.
Warden
Albert V. Heaman, Jr. Warden

391

Bay City.............. :....-:.. No. 526.... Edward N. Jackson, Master
Sol Gross, Sr. Warden
Covenant... ...................... No. 527... .James A. Mew, Sr. Warden.............. 42.72
·
Leonard H. Welte, Jr. Warden
Beverly Hills ................. No. 528 .... Lawrence Hegler, Master.................. 42.72
Joe Bookman, Jr. Warden
Albert L. Hitchens, Past Master
Loyalty............................ No. 529.... Samuel W. Berliner, Master ............ 42.72
Sun Gard~ ....... ,., ....,..... No. 530.... Herbert J. Bartram, Sr. Warden ...... 19.56
Alexandria...................... No. 531....Kenneth Farley Cable, Master
Frank G. Hobbs, Past Master and
Asst. Grand Secretary
Smyrna...... ;.....................No. 532.... Arthtir L. Harris, Master..................

7.32

Azure............................... No. 533.... Howard E. Carley, Master ................ 44.52
Ben Hemmerling, Sr. Warden
Forest Hills ................... No. 534.... Louis Jos. Douat, Master
Emory W. Eskew, Jr., Jr. Warden
Clarence 0. Patten, Past Master
Alexander Hamilton.... No. 535 ... ,Howard B. Berry, Sr. Warden ........ 42.72
Utopia.............................. No. 537.... William Bald, Master ........................ 42.72
Ascot.........................,......No. 538.... Samuel Lythgoe, Master .................... 42.72
Byron Lester Sackett, Sr. Warden
Belvedere.......................:No. 539.... Perry P. Long, Master ...................... 42.72
Elton. A. Randolphs, Sr. Warden
Sherman John Wilson, Jr. Warden
Queen Beach................... Nb. 540.... George E. Towner, Master ................ 44.28

392

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Henry Morse
Stephens...................... No. 541....Jos. S. Fairchild, Master
Wm. Robertson Ralston, Sr. Ward~n
Fred A. Flanders, Jr. Warden
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master
Hal Arntzen, Past Master
Jos. L. Banville, Past Master
Edward A. Reinke, Past Master
Charles F. Shaw, Past Master
Merle Randall, Past Master
Lankershim.................... No. 542.... Thomas H. LaVelie, Master............ 41.88
Signal.............................. Ne. 543 .... Edward K. Hulburt, Master.............. 44.28
Chas. B. Shotwell, Sr. Warden
Reginald S. Roussel, Past Master
Glendale.......................... No. 544.... Ralph Waldo Martin, Master............ 43.62
Leroy R. McMillan, Sr. Warden
Jonathan...... '····-··-······--Na. 545....David W. Moar, Master
Christopher T. Powell, Jr. Warden
James G. Ansley, Past Master
San Gabriel... ....... _, __ .. No.546....George D. Dake, 'Master............- ....-.43.44
Arcadia.......................__ No. 547... .Alfred N. Verner, Master................ 43.92
Triangle. ....·----········Na. 548....Clair W. Older, Master...................... 44.28
Justice......................- ......lifo, 549.... Milton F. Conklin, Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Seaport................- .......... No; 550.... Arthur H. DeGuire, Master
Frank A. Lindeburg, Sr. Warden
Benjamin L. Canning, Jr. Warden
John Alpers, Past Master
John G. Wullschleger, Past Master
Lakeshore....................... No. 551....John R. McKalip, Master
John Lawrence Sale, Jr., Sr. Warden
Wm. W. Yocom, Jr. Warden
W. E. Pitcher, Past Master
A. W Baker, Past Master
S. H. Gyle, Past Master
T. M. Lewis, Past Master
W. D. Ford, Past Master
W. E. Johnson, Past Master
J. R. Wood, Past Master
J. A. Sullivan, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

393

Semper Virens .............. No. 552....Stacy F. Rittenhouse, Master.......... 31.98
Golden City................... No. 553 ....Howard J. Van Kirk, Master
Walter G. Swanson, Sr. Warden
Peter L. Taix, Jr. Warden
Educator.....................-.No. 554....Fulton S. Lee, Sr. Warden
G. C. Atwell, Past Master
White Pine.....................No. 555 ....Jack W. Goddard, Master .................. 30.54
Fairfax............................ No. 556.... Porter L. Bliss, Sr. Warden............ 1.32
Earl S. White, Jr. Warden
William H. W. Stine, Past Master
Hermosa......................... No. 557....James M. Lingwood, Sr. Warden.... 44.28
Point Firmin..................No. 558....Arthur V. Anderson, Master............ 44.28
Albert S. Crossfield, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 44.16
Craftsmen. ..................... No. 559.... Frank R. Bray, Master ...................... 42.72
Lowell K. Askew, Sr. Warden
PlyD10Uth ........................ No. 56<>....Herbert A. Adams, Master
Walter I. Kuykendall, Sr. Warden
William C. Rawson, Jr. Warden
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
Chas. K. Baxley, Past Master
Charles L. Rakestraw, Past Master
Neal F. Plunkett, Past Master
Edward K. Woods, Past Master
Herbert R. Mathiesen, Past Master
East San Dicgo............. No. 561....Gustav B. Carlson, Sr. Warden ...... 53.02
Pyramid..........- ......._..... Ne. 562.... Harry C. Meeker, Sr. Warden
Southpark............... -.•... No. 563 .... Newton D. High, Master.................. 42.72
Foothill... ......................... No. 564....Harry C. Jordan, Master
Mertin C. Ketels, Sr. Warden
George A. Murphy, Jr. Warden
Wm. H. Folbarth, Past Master
Bert J. Hoffman, Past Master
Laurence McD. Osborn, Past Master
Ben J. Small, Past Master
James A. Garfield .......:No.566.... Warrert E. Carey, Master .................. 42.72
Walter V. Empie, Sr. Warden
Walter E. Pinney, Jr. Warden

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

395

Searchlight:.................... No. 567....Baline Smith Posten, Master...........: 44.28
George G. Hutton, S~. ~arden

Pl-ogressive........:..........: No: 578.... Seymour D. Crout, Master........_______ 42.72
Kenneth ·H. Vail, Jr. Warden ·

Park Boulevard............ No. 568....William D. Ingraham, Master
Benjamin W. Bours, Sr. Warden
John M. Drew, Jr. Warden
John McSweyn, Past Master
James C. Hammond, Past Master
C. H . Adams, Past Master
James A. Gilfillan, Past Master

Warren G. Harding..... No. 579....William Pauli, Sr. Warden.............. 6.12

Chateau Thierry........... No. 569....Carl E. Hagstrom, Master
Charles Veale, Sr. Warden
Robert M. Miller, Jr. Warden
David L. Babcock, Past Master
William C. Heim, Past Master
Ralph M. Smith, Past Master
Harry. B. Roderick, Past Master
M. C. Ball, Past Master
Military Service............ No. 570.... Frank L. Lambertson, Master
Arthur A. McGill, Sr. Warden
Fred L. Somers, Jr. Warden
August Siedler, Past Master
Alvin I. Gundred, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck.....N o. 571....Maurice E. Post, Master
William J. Smith, Sr. Warden
Wm. J. Connell, Past Master
L. H. Castlia, Past Master
Frederick Wallace McCollough,
Past Master
Ralph Boyd, Past Master
James Madison.............. No. 572....Steadman G. Smith, Master,....,,.,....: 42.72
Hiltcrest.......................:..No. 573....Ralph R. Vawter, Master
Stanley W. Cosby, Sr. Warden
·S. W. Hackett.:............No. 574....Lawrence C. Beers, Sr. Warden...... 53.02
Fort Crook.................... No. 575....Simon F. Smith, Sr. Warden............ 34.12
Otho Stewart, Past Master

Santa Maria...................No. 580,...Percy E. Johnson, Master.................. 57.38
Erwin H. Schlink, Sr. Warden
Security....-.,................... No. SSL.Ludwig F. Diebel, Master.................. 28.86
.
. Frederick H. Neergard, Sr. Warden
Nelson A. Woods, Jr. Warden
Chas. B. Bradford, Past Master
Rialto................:.-.....:.....No. 582.... Nels R. Benson, Master...................... 46.80
James 0 . Weller, Sr. Warden
Wasco..............:..:.............No. 583.... Herbert P. Pritschke, Sr. Warden.. 27.22
Harding.......................... No. 584....Alexander Hannum, Sr. Warden.... 42.72
Manchester...... _...,.........;No, SSS....Linden L. Commins, Master.............. 4~.72
Garden Grove................ No. 586....Leland E. Mitchell, Master................ 44.38
Valley Forge..................No. 587.... Rocky Chandler, Master.................... 42.72
Walter F. Rogers, Sr. Warden
.El $ereno..........- ......,......No. 588....August J. Bendler, Sr. Warden........ 42.72
Kauai... ..................:.........No. 589....John Wm. Bertrand, Jr. Warden....272.00
Compass............_............No, 590....John F . Boileau, Master.................... 45.24
Hal Norris Byers, Sr. Warden
Escalon....,.........,..........._N·o. 591....Theodore E. Lundgren, Master......... 7.20
Tujunga.......................... No. 592....Robert R. Hendrix, Master.............. 42.24
All States.~ ..•.:...:............ No. 593....Thomas A. Gregory, Master............ 44.28
Francis B. Harnett, Sr. Warden
Servjce.............................No. 594.... Eugene John Londers, Master.......... 44.28
Alexander Graham
Bell..............:......."........ No. 595....Eugene Brockow, Master .................. 42.72
Guardian......................... No.. 596....Thomas J. Kitts, Master.................... 42.72

El Cajon......................... No; 576....Gilbert C. Embleton, Sr. War<len.... 5528

Truth............................:.:No. 597....Wilbur H . Lollier, Master................ 42.72

Slinnyside.........................No. 577....Carl F. Olsen, Master.......,..............., 42.72
Chas. A. Houchin, Sr. Warden
'

Pearl Harbor....:............No. 598....Arthur Townsend, Past Master, Inspector and Representative............250.00

396

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

397

Carmelita.......____... No. 599....Leonard Wm. Collins, Master.......... 43f8

Lynwood.~·-······-··········-~Wo. 600....Horace Clay Coe, Master.................. 4428
Grizzly...·-··········-····-···· No. 601....Alfred N. Waite, Past Master and
Inspector ··································-···- 2922
R._0. Roehn, Representative............ 29.22
MeJrosc..............._______ No. 602....Thomas Arnold, Master.................... 42.72
Albert E. Willumsen, Sr. Warden
James L. Goode, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 42.72

Thtee Pillars................. No. 613....Herbert G. Pink, Master.................. 6.12
~mont........:.-........- No. 614....Jesse J. Boswell, Master ..................-

42.72
Geo. P. Salm, Past Master and Inspector ····-····-····························-···· 42.72

Hemct..................- ..........No. 615....Henry C. Grinager, Master....- ........ 49.92
Seal Beach......................No. 616....Irvin C. Smith, Master....- ................ 44.12
Roy J. Greene, Sr. Warden
Big Bear.........·-···-···•-No..61'~--Elij.ah D. Pierce, Sr. Warden.........: 59.78

Dimond...............·---···- No. 603....Frederic E. Smith, Master
Clark B. Stroud, Sr. Warden
Hal A. Belyew, Jr. Warden
Carlton W. Seeley, Past Master
"]. F. Buscelle, Past Master
Frederic Smith, Past Master

Southland....-···-·······---No. 618.... Clifford D. Sandland, Master...·-····- 42.72
John W. Pringle, Jr. Warden
William Hoovis, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 42.72
David Fletcher, Past Master

Jubilce............................. No. 604....George Mull, Sr. Warden.................. 45.12
Jack Kahler, Jr. Warden

Neptune......................- ...No. 619....Calvin E. Demarest, Master............ 44.28
Elmer B. Gaunt, Sr. Warden
Percy Hanewinckel, Past Master

Glassett Park................:No. 605.... George E . Henryson, Master............ 42.72

Point Loma..........- ........No. 620.... Milton Schachtebcck, Master............ 53.02

Sojourner... _ ......;...__..No. 607....Edgar W. Parmelee, Sr. Warden.... 44.04

The Gardcns.................. No.621....Will DeBord, Sr. Warden..............- 42.72

·Granada....-......:...- .........No. 608....Kent Potter Stone, Master................ 43.44
Cornelius J. Bach, Sr.. Warden
E. S. Woodard, ·Past Master
Warren D. Gill, Past Master and
Grand Pursuivant ··········-·············· 42.72

Atwater.·--····-····--··-···No. 622....Reginald J. Simpson, Master............ 42.72

Provident...................... _No. 609....Leslie E. Wood, Past Master and
Inspector ·····-·········-··--···············- 6.12
James A. L. Wells, Past Master
Roscoe L. Oark, Past Master

Menorah--····--····- ····..No. 623....Nathan Hagen, Master...................... 42.72
Fortitude......................-.No.624....Tracy E. Clark, Master
Hector A. Legault, Sr. Warden
Olof E. Anderson, Jr. Warden
A.H. Van Eck, Past Master
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Clifford M. Gates, Past Master
Fred L. Shaw, Past Master
E. L. Steele, Past Master
B. N. Newman, Past Master

.Elmhurst.......................•No. 610....Julius E. Hood, Master
Elvin J. Lewis, Sr. Warden
James C. Thompson, Jr. Warden
Fred L. Brous, Past Master
George R. Peters, Past Master
Carl E. Boorman

Chula Vista....................No. 626....Clifford C. Griefe, Sr. Warden........ 53.02
Howard L. Carrell, Past Master

Canoga............................ No. 611....ArthuT L. Kaup, Master.....·-············ 40.92
Carl .I. Fink, Sr. Warden

Lamanda Park..........- ...No. 627....Clinton R. Webster, Master.............. 43.68
Chas. E. Church, Past Master

Temple City...................No. 61-2...."Hcney F. Antoine, Master................ 42.72

Beacon of the West...... No. 628....Louis T. Graner, Sr. Warden.......... 42.72

Angeles Yesa................ No. 625.... Edward L. Tobias, Master....- .......... 42.72

\
398

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

)

Fairview..........................No. 629....William C. Hudnall, Master ............ 460
Rudolph C. Engleken, Sr. Warden
Arthur W. Billings, Past Master

I

Ingleside.......................... N o. 630.... Adam H. Krage!, Master
William W. Bovyer, Sr. Warden
Frank A. Morr<;l.w, Jr. Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Master and
Inspector
Benevolence.................... No. 631....Thomas A. Ray, Master.................... 42.72
Samuel J. Ross, Past Master

\

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

399

f-omita ....-....................... No. 644.... Chas. S. Pedersen, Sr. Warden and
j
Representative .. :............................. 42.72

A. F. E. Irwin...............No. 645 .... 0rrin P. Lookinland, Master ............ 44.28
Eric E. Mattson, Sr. Warden
Metropolitan.................. No. 646 ....George Eisen, Past Master and
Representative ······························- 42.72
Hawthorne..................... No. 647....Leslie G. Mangun, Sr. Warden ........ 42.72
Damascus ........................ No. 648.... Harry S. Hill, Master ........................ 46.92

Normal Heights ............ No. 632.... Frederick H. Schneider, Master...... 53.02

Florence.......................... No. 649 .... Fred W. Kennett, Master .................. 42.72
Ralph N. Merrill, Jr. Warden

Poinsettia..................- .... No. 633.... Royace A. Maddox, Master.............. 37.20
Fred J. Whitchurch, Sr. Warden
Victorville...................... No. 634....J. R. Demaree, Past Master and
Representative ................................ 45.46

La Brea. .......:................. No. 650.... Russell L. Ray, Master ...................... 42.72
William T. Wheeling, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 42.24
William H. Parcels, Past Master .... 42.72

Riverside ......................... No. 635 .... Earl J. Lamke, Master ...................... 46.92
Thomas F. Flaherty, Sr. Warden

Menlo Park.................... No. 651....John Ross Hardy, Master.................. 2.64
Reginald Milward, Sr. Warden

John Marshall... ............ No. 636.... Arthur T. Hun.tley,. Master.............. 43.32

Crescenta Valley........... No.-652....Ray Peck Mathews, Sr. Warden...... 42.24

Palisades ......................... No. 637 ....James Matthew~, S_r. Warden. ......... 44.28
Ira D. Wheeler, Past Master

Fontana...........:............ _.No. 653 .... Richard E. Jacques, Master .............. 46.56

Indian Rock ...................No. 638.... John R. M~Kee, Master
Frederick G. Phelps, Sr. Warden
William Watts, Past Master
Fred T. Herrick, Past Master
Arthur N. Hall, Past Master
Harry W. Carlson, Past Master

J<>rdan~ ........- ................-No. 654.... Chas. Henry Burge, Master.............. 42.72

Monte Vista.........,.....- ...No. 655 .....f\rthur Lee Jones, Master.................. 44.28
Citrol................ _............. No. 656.... Chas. A. Sullivan, Master .................. 44.64
Lester Todd, Sr. Warden
John D. Spreckels ........No. 657 ....Percy ·E. Ball, Master........................ 53.02

Composite..........- ........... No. 639.... Abraham S. Goldberg, Master.......... 42.72

Livingston.......................No. 658....Eddie F. Chance, M.aster.................. 8.64

Veritas............................No. 640.... Albert J. Callahan, Master
Leonard S. Leavey, Past Master
and. Inspector

La Ha:bra........................ No. 659.... Wm. Weaver, }.faster........................ 44.40

James A. Foshay.......... No. 641 .... Henry F. Starbuck, Past Master...... 42.72
·
·
· Theo. R. Pfalsgraf, Representative
'
.
La Cumbre..................... No. 642....Leonard C. Miles, Master.................. 33.66
' '
Wistar D. Hays, Sr. Warden
Ward Johnston, Past Master
w, W. McKee, Past Master ............ 35.26
Alta Loma........•.............No. 643,... Guy Hinkle Nowell, Master.c...,........ 44.28

Baldwin Park................ No. 660.... Nicholas Grisaffi, Sr. Warden.......... 44.28
Malta....- ......................... No. 661.... Hays Bryce Eckert, Master .............. 42.72
Henry Knox ................. No. 662.... Howard B. Worne, Jr., Master........ 42.72
.Ojai................................. No. 663....Wm. T. Fredrick, Master.................. 38.76
Oasis................................No. 664.... Bert Linn Major, Sr. Warden.......... 66.86
Otto J. Bradshaw, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 66.86

I/

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

400

401

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Kaweah ........................_.No. 665....William L. Starns, Master....- .......... 23.88

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS

Reseda......................- ..-No. 666....William K. English, Master.............• 43.08
Meridian.....·-··-·-··········No. 667.... Alvin G. Low, Master........................ 43.62
San Gorgonio.·--··-·······No. 668....DeRoy H. Gates, Past Master and
Inspector ················-····-····-····-······ 49.08
Walter S. Hathaway, Representative 49.08
John P. Jarman.............No. 669.~ ..Eber E. Carter, Master...................... 3.00
Harry F. Rediker, Sr. Warden
Wm. J . Penberthy, Jr. Warden
H. Pritchard, Past Master

The Grand Master announced that the annual election
of officers was now in order. Teliers were appointed, and
the result of the election was as follows:
The R.". w:. Frank W. Mixter of Exeter Lodge No.
424 was elected Grand Master.

R:. w:. James B. Gist of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202 was
elected Deputy Grand Master.

San Clemente.................No. 671....Trafford Huteson, Sr. Warden........ 47.24

R:. W:. William A. Sitton of Washington Lodge No.
20 was elected Senior Grand W arden.

Laguna Beach....- ..........No. 67L.Don Leon Helwig, Master................ 47.88
Wm. John Harris, Jr. Warden

The W. ·. Randolph V . Whiting of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260 was elected Junior Grand Warden.

Greenleaf......................- No. 670....Delbert H. Pemberton, Master....-- 44.16

Far W est...·-·-·--··-·--Noi 673....Albert S. Sandell, Master
George B. Quamby, Sr. Warden
Nante W. Anderson, Jr. Warden
Dean Wilson, Past Master
Los Cerritos..........- .......~ 674....Harry. Louis Cohn, Master.·--·········· 44.28
Herbert C. Goldman, Past Master
and Sr. Grand Steward...·-··········- 44:28
M.'odesto...........................No. 675....Chas. A. Tobey, Sr. Warden.:........... 6.96
Wi!low G!en.......... _....-No. 676....William B. Puterbaugh, Master...... 3.00
Harry Burres, Past Master
Liberal Arts...................No; 677....0ias; H. Dodds, Sr. Warden............ 42.72 ·
A1tadena..........................No. 678....Robert H . Peddycord, Master.......... 43.68

v:. w:. William P. Filmer of King Solomon's Lodge
No. 260 was reelected Grand Treasurer.
v:. w:. John Whicher of King David's Lodge No. 200
was reelected Grand Secretary.

V:. w:. Thomas J. Baker of Union Lodge No. 58 was
reelected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of
appointive officers as follows :
Grand Chaplain-John Snape of Sequoia Lodge No. 349.
Grand Orator-Oakley K. Morton of Evergreen Lodge
No. 259.
Assistant Grand Secretary-Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria No. 531.
Grand Marshal- H~ry G. Mathewson of Argonne
Lodge No. 514.

402

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Standard Bear~r-Percy King of Yount Lodge
No.12.
Grand Sword Bearer-Wallace R. Farrington of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
Grand Bible Bearer-Harry Horne of Redlands Lodge
No. 300.
.
Senior Grand Deacon~W arren E. Libby of Blackmer
Lodge No. 442.
..
Junior Grand Deacon-Sidney B. Force of Eden Lodge
No. 113.
Senior Grand Steward-Herbert C. Goldman of Los
Cerritos Lodge No. 674.
Junior · Grand Steward-Andrew Whitney of Solano
Lodge No. 229.
Grand Pursuviant_:Warren D. Gill of Granada Lodge
No. 608.
Grand Organist-Chas. E . Anderson of Jewel Lodge
No. 374.
Grand Tiler - Frank G. Watson of Presidio Lodge
No. 354.
M." · W .". John Stewart Ross, Past Grand Master was
. a,ppointed Mast.e r of Ceremonies, .a nd the officers-elec~ and
appointed, excepting the Grand Treasurer, Grand Standard
Bearer, Grand Bible Bearer, Senior Grand Deacon and
Grand Sword Bearer, were installed by the retiring Grand
Master in due and ancient form .
. Past Grand Master Wollenberg, in his usual happy manner, presented to Past Grand Master Gaylord, in . behalf of
Grand Lodge, a magnificent Herschade chime clock.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

403

John M. Ross of Hakalau, speaking for his brethren of
the Hawaiian Islands, presented to the retiring Grand Master a royal lei, with the Aloha of his brethren.
The newly installed Grand Master was fairly taken off
his feet when Harry Beattie, in the name of the Lodges and
brethren of South San Joaquin valley, presented a gold gavel,
the messenger who actually placed the gavel in the hands of
the recipient being the son-a Past Master of Exet~r Lodge
-of the Grand Master. Incidentally it may be noted that
four sons and one son-in-law of Brother Mixter, all Masons,
were present.
Grand Master Mixter announced the appointment of
Samuel E . Burke as a member of the Board of Trustees of
the Masonic Homes, vice self, term expired.
The Grand Master clothed the retiring Grand Master
with the apron of his present rank, and also presented him
with a diamond studded lapel button of a Past Grand
·Master.
The usual interchange of lapel jewels, with felicitations
usual to the occasion, followed, and at 2 o'clock p. m., all
· business being now completed, Grand Lodge was closed in
Ample Form.
FRANK W. MIXTER,
Grand Master.
JOHN WH ICHER,
Grand Secretary.

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Constitutional Committees

lurispnulence-Dat1a R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles; John D. Murphey, Courthouse, Oakland ; Benjamin F. Bledsoe, 639
Roosevelt Building, Los Angeles; Francis V. Keesling, deYoung Building,
San Francisco; Bradford Webster, 360 29th Street, Oakland; George
L Jones, Nevada City; Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco.
Policy and General Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South
Spring Street, Los Angeles; George F. Rodden, 177 Post Street, San
Francisco; William A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery Streets, San
·Francisco; Albert E. Boynton, 155 Montgomery Street, San Francisco;
Will H. Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles; William H. Waste, State
Building, San Francisco ; Claude H. Morrison, First National Bank, San
Diego.
Grievances-Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los
Angeles; _Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco;
Earl Warren, Courthouse, Oakland; Arthur Brouillet, Humboldt Bank
Building, San Francisco; Frank B. Belcher, 510 Spring Street, Los
Angeles.
Finance-William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Frank C. Ruppel, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Joseph M. Argabrite,
321 West Third Street, Los Angeles; Gustav A. Hutaff Dunsmuir ·
Arthur
Crites, Bakersfield.
'
'

s:

Board of Control-David]. Reese, Ventura ; James R. Erskine, Box
974, Fresno ; Eugene Elkus, 833 Market Street, San Francisco; Frank
M. Wise, 324 Tenth Street, Santa Monica ; Robert F. Callender, 1128 ·
West Kensington Road, Los Angeles.
Credentials-Walter L. Berger, 4509 Arlington Street, Los Angeles;
Irving Magnes, Easton Building, Oakland; Chester H. Warlow, Security
First National Bank, Fresno; chas. T . White, Crocker Building, San
Francisco; Chas. E . Sones, El Centro.
Chariers-Bruce Wale, 440 Sansome Street, San Francisco; Henry
Eissler, Bakersfield; Earl Lee Kelley, Redding; Watson S. Clawson,
Exeter; Newton Van Why, Los Angeles.
By-Laws-Arthur Joel, Mills Building, San Francisco; Victor McLucas, 506 Adelaide Drive, Santa Monica; John Robinson, Sacramento;
Franklin Padan, 1700 South Second Street, South Pasadena; Julius
Gabriel, 250 Broadway, San Francisco.
Pay of Members- John McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento; Joseph
Block, 156 Fourth Street, San Francisco; W. W. McKee, 326 Chapala
Street, Santa Barbara; Benj. G. Wright, 740 South Olive Street Los
'
Angeles; Fred Snidecor, Corona.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

405

Accounts-( All San Francisco)-Louis Sutter, Anglo California
Trust Company ; Paul Nathan, 311 California Street ; Edward Conn, 27
Clay Street; Otto G. Freyermuth, 209 Post Street ; Leonard S. Leavy,
City Hall.
Returns-Robert E. Allan, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco; Jacob
Bashor, Monrovia; Thomas Foree, Van Nuys ; J ohn S. Corey, Grass
Valley; Clarence H. Eckert, Holtville.
Gorrespondence-Jesse M. Whited, Phelan Building, San Francisco ;
Martin L. Griffith, 265 East 43rd Street, Los Angeles; Byron F. Hillhouse,
Woodland; Trustom R. Dinsmore, Eureka; . Martin Ortlieb, 7th and C
Streets, San Diego; C. M. Hickman, Placerville ; Henry Mottett, 1030
Leavenworth Street, San Francisco; Chas. Ziegler, Harris and Frank
Building, Los Angeles; Bion S. Gregory, Hearst Building, San Francisco; A. Cogliandro, 622 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
Necrology-William H. Parcels, 1121 Detweiler Building, Los Angeles; Max A. Plumb, 5836 Lawton Avenue, Oakland ; William H .
H olbrook, 439 South Hill Street, Los Angeles.
Committee on Grand Lodge Wee-k Activities-To be appointed later.
Committee on Masonic Homes Endowment Board-To be appointed
later.
Financing Building Projects - William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston
Street, Los Angeles; William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco; Edward Rienke, 780 San Luis Road; Berkeley.
Library-Denman S. Wagstaff, 1703 Broderick Street, San Francisco : John E. Houston, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco;
Rudolph Rosenberg, 742 22nd Avenue, San Francisco; Ralph L Garnier,
1330 South Van Ness Avenue, Los Angeles; Clayton St. John Hale,
867 Villa Avenue, San Jose.
Special Committees .

Ritual- Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San F rancisco ; Dana
R. Weller, F inancial Center Building, Los Angeles ; W illiam P . Filmer,
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
·
Endowment-George M. Perine, 789 University Avenue, Palo Alto ;
Thomas Flint, Hollister; Ezra Decoto, 392 Bellevue, Oakland ; Washington I. Kohnke, 686 Sacramento Street, San Francisco ; Lemuel L. Test,
360 Oakland Avenue, Pasadena; Harry L. Simon, 512 Folsom Street,
San Francisco.

406

Public Schools Week-Chas. Albert Adams, Chairman, Humboldt
Banlc Building, San Francisco.
Northern Section....,.-Walter L. Bachroot, City Schools, San Jose;
Roy W. Cloud, 155 Sansome Street, San Francisco; Will Crocket, 2521
Central Street, Alameda; Elias Ellison, 1931 Santiago Street, San Francisco; W. E. Givens, City Schools, Oakland; Jos. M. Gwirin, City Hall,
San Francisco; 0 . S. Hubbard, City Schools, Fresno; George C. Jensen,
Asst. Supt., City Schools, Sacramento; Wesley W. Kergan, Russ Building, San Francisco; Wm. G. Padan, Supt. City Schools, Alameda ; Lewis
W . Smith, Supt. City Schools, Berkeley.
Southern Section- Robert A. Odell, 524 Van Nuys Building, Los
Angeles; John B. Beman, Pacific. Southwest Banlc Building, Los Angeles;
Melvin Bowman, 331 West Pedregosa Street, Santa Barbara; Arthur H.
Chamberlain, 437 South Hill Street, Los Angeles; L. E. Chenoweth, Supt.
City Schools, Bakersfield; A. L. Clifton, 132 North BrOadway, Los Angeles; Walter V. Goodfellow, Guaranty Building, Hollywood ; F. A.
Henderson, Burbank; Walter R. Hepner, City Schools, San Diego; ]. L.
House, El Centro; Frederick F. Martin, Supt. of Schools, Santa Monica;
James T. Montano, 375 Hargrave Street, Inglewood; Chas. A. Teach,
Supt. City Schools, San Luis Obispo.
Masonic History-Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco;
Mark Sawrie, 1061 Mariposa Street, Berkeley ; David Tulloch, Oakdale;
Roscoe L. Clark, 609 Forum Building, Sacramento t Albert F. Ross,
Redding; Chas. E. Haas, Dept. 42, Superior Court, City Halt, Los Angeles.
Tn1stees of Masonic Hom.es-Chas. M. W ollenberg, President, Relief
Home, San Francisco; James B. Gist, Vice-President, Guaranty Office,
Security First National Bank, Los Angeles ; Charles Albert Adams, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; Johri Stewart Ross, 756 South
Spring Street, Los Angeles; Samuel E. Burke, 649· South Olive Street;
Los Angeles; and the Deputy Grand Master and Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens.

N

00
(])

' SUOS'llJ\l
~~S'llJ\l

IO

.J

·sana ('llUUUV

<

'UO)t'lll(UJV

mi ea4

00
),

..,:l
llill

rn~

t.)

G>

i:l "'

<IS

.<l
jl:

8>
G>

3

~

c
0

II)

<IS

:e

~ .s:....
G>

z .....
~ .s:
~ ..
~

0

H

Q

II)

2

.c
E

00

:e

~

G>
G>

'ti

~

c

<IS

0 G>
8 a:l
00

II)

~

...

!., .

c
:ac

..

~

H

Committee on Clandestine Masonry-William A. Schreider, Mutual
Life Building, Los Angeles; John Alpers, 547 Alvarado Street, San Francisco; Orla A. Pratt, Calexico; Harold I. Sholefield, care of Perkins Co.,
Sacramento; Harry W. Beatty, Taft.

407

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ri
G>
G>

II.

..
..

ri

....G>
<IS

.s:

.

0

0

G>

....<IS
'ti

• .s:
....

~

.Q 't:l

!l

" ,!l

.,

~

A

::;
!I=

d
.,.,
. :: ::

...<
.,.,

~·

..... :: ::

a.~.

ll

j:l,•

~c

.

.,., .

,,)

c;j

"". :: :: :: :: ~· ::
:: ~· :: :: ~·
~~.

~·

:: <CJ~. :: ,,:in. :: :: :

.:

r;; .,.,~.
~

I>.
I>.
r>0 os.
r>
o• :
:: :: z·
~: :: z;:i;J· : : : : ::

:: ::
fD... lt::i...::

:

: :

.

:!
County

Yolo ............ 81 Yolo ............... Yolo .............. .
Vesper • • . • • • • • • • 84 Red Bluff •••••••••• Tehama ••••••••••••
Naval ...•.•••••• 87 Vallejo ••••••• ~ •••• Solano ••.••••••••••
Rose's Bar •••••• 89 Smartsville .•••••••• Yuba ............ ..
North Star ...... 91 Fort Jones ......... Siskiyou .......... .
St. Helena ••••..• 93 St. Helena ••••••••• Napa ••••••••••••••
Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek ........ Amador ........... .
Hornitos • • • • • • • • • 98 Hornitos ••.•••••••• Mariposa ......... ..
Y o$emite •••• ; , , , 99 Merced • • • • • • • • • • • • Merced ••••••••••••
Clay •.•••••••••• 101 Dutch Flat , •••••••• Placer •••.•••••••••
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ......... , .. Butte ............. .
Lexington ....... 104 El Monte .......... Los Angeles ...... ..
Arcata •••••••••• 106 Arcata ••••••••••••• Humboldt •••••••• , •
Pajaro ........... 110 Watsonville ........ Santa Cruz ........ .
Chico ........... 111 Chico .............. Butte ............. .
Summit •••••••••• 112 Knight's Ferry • • • • • Stanislaus •••••••• ~·
Eden ............ 113 San Leandro ••••••• Alameda .......... ,
Concord ••••••••• 117 Sacramento • , •••••• Sacramento ••••••••
Clinton •••••••••• 11!1 Igo ••..••••• , •••.•• Shasta •••••••••••• ,
Fidelity ••••••••• 120 San Francisco ••••.• San Francisco •••• • •
Alamo ........... 122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ...... .
Sotoyome •••••••• 123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma ........... .
Table Mountain •• 124 Cherokee ........... Butte ............. .
La Fayette ..... -.-.126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma ........... .
Hermann •••••• • .127 San Francisco • • • • . • San Francisco ••••••
Visalia •••••••••• 128 Visalia • • • • . .. • • • • .. Tulare ........... ..
Nicob.us ••••••••• 129 Wheatland ••••••••• Yuba ••••••••••••••
Woodbridge ...... 131 Woodbridge ........ San Joaquin ....... .
Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville ......... Plumas ••••••••••••
Vacaville ........ 134 Vacaville .......... Solano ............ .
Valley •••• : •••••• 135Linden ••••••••• , ••• San Joaquin •••••••
Pacific •••.•••••• 1311 San Francisco • • • • • • San Francisco
Crockett •••.••••. 139 San Francisco ..•..•. San Francisco

I

54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86

Town

Places of Location

Ban Diego • • • • • • • 35 San Diego ••.•••••• San Diego ........ ;
Howard • . . • • . . • • • 37 Yreka • •• • .......... Siskiyou ••.•.••••••
Santa Cruz • • • • • • 38 Santa Cruz •••••• ~ •• Santa Cruz •••••.•.•
Sacramento •••.• 40 Sacramento •••••••. Sacramento •• ; •••••
Martinez ........ 41 Martinez ....... ; ... Contra Costa ...... .
Los Ange1es • • • • • 42 Los Angeles ••••.••• Los Angeles ••••••.•
Hiram . . . . • • • • • • 43 El Dorado ••••••••.• El Dorad-. •••••••.••
Mount Moriah •••• 44 San Francisco •••••. San Francisco ••••. ;
Crescent ........ 45 Crescent City ....... Del Norte ......... .
Texas •....••.•.• 46 San Juan •••••••••. San Benito ••.••.•••
Forbestown . . • • • • 50 Forbestown •.•••••. Butte ••••••••.•••••
Illinoistown • • • • • 51 Colfax ••.••.••••••• Placer ••••••..•••••
Suisun
. • • • • . • • 55 Suisun •• • .•.•••••• • Solano •.•••••••••••
Volcano • • • . . • . . • 56 Volcano •••••••••••. :Amador ••••• ; •.••••
Santa R.o.~a •.•••• 57 Santa Rosa •••••••.• Sonoma ••••••••.•••
Union ..•••••.••• 58 Sacramento •••••••. Sacramento ••••••.•
Gravel Range .... 59 Campton ville ....... Yuba ........ ; .....
Plumas • • • • • . . • • 60 Quincy •••••••••••. Plumas ••••••••••.•
Live Oak • • . • . . . • 61 Oakland ...••.••••.• Alameda •..••.•••••
Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ............. Sacramento ...... ..
Amador .••••••.. 65 Jackson •••••••.••.• Amador ••..•.••••. ,
Forest . . • • • • • • • • 66 Alleghany ••.••••••• Sierra •••...•••••••
Morning Star ••.• 68 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ....... .
Enterprise . • • • • • • 70 Yuba City ••••••••• Sutter •••••••••••••
Bear Mountain •.• 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras ......... .
Calaveras • ,, •••• 78 San Andreu ••••.•• Calaveras ••••.•••••
Humboldt . . . .. .. 79 Eureka ............ Humboldt ......... .
Ione • . • • • . . . • • • • 80 Ione •.••••••• , ••••• Amador •••••.•••. ,

:z;

=

a

~

26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
· 35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53

Names of Lodges

"11,
s.

II

6,
3,

"
"

"

1853.
1854.

. "

"

1855.

"

"
"

"

May
May

If

.

"
"
"
"
May
"
"

""

May

..
..

"
"
"

18t'i0.

.

"

"

10, 1860.

11,

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
" '
"
"
"
"
15,
"
14, 1857.
" "
"
"
" "
" "
15,
"
13, 1858.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"14, 1859.
13, "
"
"
"If
"

"

"

•f

8, 1856

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
May
"
"

1856.

May

"
"
"
"
1855.

"

4,
1,
8,

"
"
"
"

" i"i
"
" "
" "
"2, "
"
" "

"2,
"

4,
3,

July
May

..

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

i1

..
".
.
"

. ..." """

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

May
May

was hsued

D1Lte When Charter

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued •

5

5

10

3
IO

55

5

5

6

5
6
10

50
100
100

12
20
25

5

20
8

50
s
60 5
75 ......

1
50
50

75 5
80 1
50 ..... .

80

30
100

75

12
9
15

12

10
16
9

12

12

9

9
9
9
9

12
9
9
18
9

12

9
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
9

12

9
9
9

!I

9
9
12

12

15
12

!l

<"'
J2

"'

~

A

12

9
12,
121

9,

9
9
9
9

161
69
800
773

Ul

93
114

198
272
313

9
9

708
138
189
91

266
42

Sil
41
221

267

!?18

282
184

ti4

227

56
74

103

41

607
41

69
179

77

421

475
227
83
102

52

84

123

1034

103

45
543
136
50
58
78
158
27
422
561
34

8:n

578
209

361

697
223

H
••

:is;ii

12
12

9
9
15

9
12

10 12

l

55
50
50
50
80

5

50

60 ..... .

50 .... ..

56

50
1
60 ......

35

50 ..... .
50 10
50
5

50 .... ..

75 .... ..
50 .... ..

50

80
8
50
1
80
1
100 10
50 ......
JOO 10
75 20
100 10
50
6
30
1
30 ..... .
50 .... ..
50 ..... .
30
5
75
5
75 10
55 ......
50 2.50
100 25
50
5
50 .... ..
50 .... ..
80 ..... .
50
5
50
3

~!
i==:
r..113
<

i::

.. Q
o~

.... .... ~

.s ~

....

0

.......

~
>

~

C'l

trl
0
"l

8

t"

ztl

Cl

~

~

>3

~

rn

~~

~
0

00

0

1

County.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

................

.............
···········

.........

..........
...........

........

...........

"

"

"
"
"
"

"

Oct.

.............

...

..

.............. Oct.
"
·············
......... ""
...........

·········

........

"
"
"
"
Oct.

May

"
"
Oct.

"
.......... May
"
.............

........

"
May

... ..... .....

···········

······ ·· ····

.............

...........
...........

············· ·

"

1862.

1864.

1868.

.."""

"
1870.
"
"

"
"

..

1873.

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
1872.
"
"
"
1912.
18,

"

"
"
12,

11,

"

..

"
"
"

"

"
"
" "
" "
14, 1871.

14,

"

" "
"
"
"
"14, 1869.
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"

"

1869.

14,

"

"

"

" "
15, 1868.

15,

"
"
"
"

"
"
" "
"
"
10, 1867.

11, 1866.

13,

"
"
"

"
"
"
" "
" "
13, 1865.
"
"
12, 1865.

" "
14, 1863.

15,

"
"
16, 1861.
" "
" "
"
"
17,

I
Cloverdale ••••••••. Sonoma ....•...•••• May
10, 1860.
Town.

Pl.a.Ce& of Location.

1 Knights Landing .••. Yolo
3 Courtland •••••••..• Sacramento
4 San Francisco •.•••. San Francisco ••••••
i 'Bl'ilomfield .•••••...• Sonoma ••••..•.••••
; Ukiah ••••.••.••.•.• Mendocino ••.••.•••
·Fortuna
Humboldt
I Susanville ••••.••••. Lassen
I Tehama •..••...•... Tehama ••.•••••••••
i Woodland ..•.••..•. Yolo ..•.•.••.••••••
1 Milton .••••••...... Calaveras .•••••••••
.!, Sierra City ......... Sierra . •.....••.••••
i San Francisco •••••• San Francisco , .•• ••
1 Centerville
Alameda •••••••••••
I Redwood City ••••.• San Mateo •••••••••
I Sau Francisco •••••• San Francisco ••••••
: Elk Grove ••••••••.• Sacramento
"'Plymouth •......... Amador ••......••••
i Antioch •••.•.•...•• Contra Costa •.•••••
I San Bernardino ••... San Bernardino .....
I Mendocino .......... Mendocino
I Petaluma
Sonoma ••••••.•••••
1 Windsor
Sonoma •••••••••.••
~Arbuckle ...•••.... Colusa •••• •.•• . , •••
I Lower Lake ........ Lake
.!, Sierraville
Sierra
i Point Arena ••••••.• Mendocino
i Etna Mills ......... Siskiyou

z

::s

E

,D.

..

115 Keith ..•••••.••• 187 Gilroy
Santa Clara ••.••••• Oct.
116 'Oakland .•••••••• 188 Oakland
Alameda ••••••• .
"
117 Northern Light ••• 190 Millville •.••••••••• Shasta · •.••.••••.••• Oct.
118 Marin •• '•••••••.. 191 San Rafael •••••.••. Marin
"
119 Santa Barbara .••• 1!J2 Santa Barbara ••••• Santa Barbara •••••
"
120 Ferndale ••••• ••. 193 Ferndale
Humboldt .......... Oct.
121 Mountain View ••. 194 Mountain View ••••. Santa Clara ••.•••••
"
122 Buckeye ......... 195 Winters
Yolo •..•• .•.. ..•• .•
"
123 San Simeon ••••••• 196 Cambria •••••.••••• San Luis Obispo . . ..
"
124 Wilmington ••• , •. 198 Wilmington ••••.••. Los Angeles ... .. ... Oct.
125 · Hartley ••••••••• 199 Lakeport •••••••••. Lake ••••••••••••.•
"
126 Truckee .••••.••. 200 Truckee ••••••••••.. Nevada ••••.•••••••
127 Silveyville •••.••. 201 Dixon
Solano •••••••..• •••
"
128 Pentalpha •••• ••. 202 Los Angeles ••. • •• •. Los Angeles ...•..••
"
129 Confidence .•••.•. 203 Castroville ....... : • Monterey •••••.••.•
"
130 Salinae .......... 204 Salinas
'Monterey •.••.•••••
"
131 Olivet ... ••.•..•. 205 Corning ••.•••.••••• Tehama ..•••••••.. :. Oct.
132 Stanislaus . •.. ••. 206 Modesto •.••.••..•. Stanislaus ..........
"
133 Anaheim . . • • • • • . 207 Anaheim
Orange .............
"
134 Rio Vista ••.•.•.. 208 Bio Vista ...•.•..••. Solano •.••.••.•••••
"
135 King David 's •••. 209 San Luis Obispo .. ... San Luis Obispo •••.•
"
136 Friendship .••..•. 210 San ·Jose ..•.....••• Santa Clara •..••••• Oct.
137 San Benito .•••••. 211 Hollister . .•• ......• San Benito ...••••••
"
138 So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco .•.... San Francisco •....•
"
139 San Buenaventura.214 Ventura . •. •.• •.. . . • Ventura ••.•••••••••
"
140 Oak Grove ....... 215jAlameda •.•...•.• . . Alameda ••••.•••• • •
"
141 Doric .....•.••••. 216JSan Francisco ...... San Francisco .•••.•
"
142 Monterey • ~ ••.•.. 217 Monterey ...•... .. • Monterey ..........
"
143 Mosaic ...... . •.. 218 Livermore •... ...... Alameda .•....•... ; Oct.
144 Speranza Italiana. 219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..•..•
"
145 Downey .....••.. 220 Downey ...•.. •...•. Los Angeles ••. •..•.
"
146 Inyo •.... ; ....•. 221 Independence •..• : .. Inyo ..•....••. ... ••
"
147 Roseville ••.• ..•. 222 Roseville ............ Placer ........•••.• Oct.
148 Baker~field •...•. 224 Baitersfield ......•.. Kern
Oct.
149 Brooklyn . . ....• . 225 East Oakland •..... . Alameda .• ....••. ..
"
150 San Mateo ..••... 226 San Mateo ..•. .•••• San Mateo .....••. ,
"
151 Athen~ ....•..... 228 Oavi11
Yolo ..............•
"

g

Names of Lodges

.,ai..

List of the Suoordinate Lodges, etc.-Conttnued.

35

3

1

1gg1 30

9
9
18
12
9

75 ......
50
5
75
1
100 25
30
1
50
8
50 ......
60 12
50
1
50 ......
30 10
30
5
80 10
. 50
5
80
1
100
5
50 10
50
5
50
5
55
3
50
5
80
5
50
1
50 · 1
55 10
50 ......
50
5
50 ......

.8

12
9
12
12
20
12
121
9
12
12
9
20
12
12
12
18
9

9

9
12
9
9
12
9
g

9

9
9
12
9
12
9

15

15
12
9
12

!)

147
293
290
628
603
161
132
401
215
77
270
48.'i
648
288
125

544

177
920
87
470
300
161
206
110
92
334
174
127
136
696
32
275
107
336
3111
91
292

8
5

2
:21
04

:o

l'J
l'J
tl

......

.....
......

Ii;'.

z

,,

0

~
Iii

()

tl
0
l'J
0
"l

t"
0

tl

z>

0

,,

~

0
".2
8

m

0

z

(')

0

"

'ti

0

9
12
9
12
9
12
12
18
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
12

:i;l)l

II

12

=

~

A

-<=

""E

o-

"O

<

...~

o"'

.. .. ·ii .. .. ..=
"':i
it i~ i ....

......
""'
0

,.,,.,~
E
z"

Town.

..........

..........

"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
,,"

Oct.
Oct.

..

"
"

........
.............

1876.

1882.

"

"

.

"
"
11, 1883.
" "
"H,,
188•.
" ••

12,

15, 1881.

" "
"
"11, 1877.
" "
" "
10, 1878.
" "
" "
18, 1879
"
"
"
"
" "
15, 1880.
" "
" . ""
"

12,

" "
16, 1874.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
14, 1875.

1873.

1885.

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
".,

"
"

Oct.

. "....

"
"
"

" "
" "
" "
" "
11, 1888.
" "
" "
" "
" "
10, 1889.
" "
" "
" "
"
" 1890.

"
"
"

"

14,

Oct.

1886.
1887.

..""" """

16,

Oct.

"
"
"i'

16,

Oct.

gg

......
......

······
......

......
......

......

a

1
9
50 12 · 9
100 15 12
12
3
9
30
5
9
30
1
9
00
30 10 12
3
9
50
20
50
9
55
30 ...... 12
9
80 25
12
50
12
50
1 12
75
50 ...... 10
...... 12
i2·
80
I 50
...... 12
50
9
50 ......
9
50 ......
9
401······ 24

9
9
9
9
18
9

9

12

1

119

215

153
261
114
51
72
688
208
37
640
331
81
114
194
662
157
191
65
57
162
73
120
138
80
95
887
320
219
221
124
138
62S
229
242
409

9

@04

4
2 1
1 6
2 4
I 7
5 4

2

163
5 0
265
2 2
5 8
1 3
:J 6
5 6
l 23

I
,4
2

6
5

,!)

6

4 8
1 6

.. 51

~~

1
2
5

12
12
12

g

ll

9
15
9
12
9

g

9
18
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
15
12
9
18
12

<=

~

A

.;

" .s.. =

.,.;

......
10
60 ·······
1
30
10 ...... 12
U!
a 12

30

50

.

<

50 10
50 ......
40 ......
50
1
55
5
50 10
1
30
80 ......
50 10
50 ......
1
100
3
75
5
70
75 10
50
5
50
3
3
80
1
40
70 ......
1
50
50
8
50 ......
50 ......
30
3
50 .....
80 15
50 ......

l'<A

"" &:ii

:~ ,,_$

.. i::
..fl ~~

. "•• ir,4." ~

"
"

Oct.

"

"
Oct.
"

"

Oct.
Oct.

..

........... . ""
"
Oct.
.......... "
"

.............. Oct.

Lompoc, .•••••••. 262 Lompoc , ••••••••••. Santa Barbara •••••
Hesperian ••••••• 264 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara •••••
Orland .......... 265 Orland ............. Glenn ..............
North East ....... 266 Port Bidwell ••••••• Modoc •••••••••••••
Galt ••••••••••••• 267 Galt ••••••••••••••• Sacramento
Durant •••••••••• 268 Berkeley ••••••••••• Alameda •••••••••••
Olive Branch ••••. 269 Tulare ••••••••••••• Tulare
Snow Mountain ••. 271 Stony Ford ........ ColUBa •••••••••••••
Pasadena •••••••• 272 Pa1adena
Los Angele• •• ,, •• , •
Anchor •••••••••. 273 Compton ••••••••••• Los Angele• ••••••••
Arroyo •••••••••. 274 Arroyo Grande ••••. S&D Luis Obispo •••• ,
Oakdale ••• , ••••. 275 Oakdale ••••••••• , .. Stanislau1 ••••••••• ,
Selma ••••••••••• 277 Selma •••••.••••••• Fresno .............
Southern Calif.... 278 Los Angeles •••••••. Los Anreles ••••••••
Hanford ••••••••. 279 Hanford ••••.•••••• Kings ••••••••••••••
Madera •••••••••• 280 Madera .••••••••••• Madera ••••••••••••
Mount Shasta •••. 281 Anderson
Shasta ••• , •••••••••
Callayomi ••• , ••• 282 Middletown •••••••. Lake ••••••••••••••
South West ••••••• 283 National City •••••• San Diego ..........
San Miguel. ...... 285 San Miguel ........ San Luis Obispo •••••
Paso Robles •••••. 286 Paso Robles •••••••• San Luis Obi1po •••••
Winno.dumah ••••• 287 Bishop ••••••••.•••• Inyo ••••••••••••.••
Maxwell ••••••••• 288 Maxwell •••••••••.. Colusa •••••.•••••••
Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore •••••••• , •.• Riverside ••••••••••
East Gate, ••••••• 290 Los Angeles ...••... Los Angeles ••••••••
Santa Paula .••••. 291 Santa Paula •••••••• Ventura •••••••••••
Los Gatos •••••••. 292 Los Gatos •••••••••• Santa Clara ••••••••
Orange Grove ••••. 293 )range ..•.••••••••• Orange ••••••••••••
Traver ........... 294 Kingsburg ......... Fresno ••.••••.•.• , •
Mt. Jackson .••••. 295 Guerneville •.••••••. Sonoma ••••••••••••
Silver Gate •••••. 296 San Diego ••••••••.• San Diego ..........
Dunsmuir •••••••• 297 Dunsmuir •••••••••• Siskiyou •••••••••••
Liberty •••••••••. 299 Santa Clara •••••••. Santa Clara ••••••••
Redlands ........ 300 Redlands •••••••••.. San Bernardino •••.•
Ontario ••••••••. 301 Ontario ••.••••••••• San Bernardino •••.•
Santa Lucia ...... 302 Kings' City ........ Monterey ............

..........

~

..............
.............

..............
...........
...........
.. ........

............

..........
..........

.............. "
............. Oct.
"
............ ""

North Butte •••••. 230 Gridley •••••••.•••• Butte
Covelo .......... 231 Covelo ....... ; ..... Mendocino •••••..••
Janesville ....... 232 Lassen ..••••.•••••. Lassen
Napa ..............
Calistoga •••••••. 233 Calistoga
Plumas
Hope •••.•••••••. 234 Beckwith
Surprise Valley ••. 235 Cedarville .......... Modoc .............
Hill 's Ferry •.•••. 236 Newman ••••••••••• Stanislaus ..........
Guadalupe ••.•••. 237 Guadalupe ......... Santa Barbara •••.•
Colusa ••••••••••. 240 Colusa ••••••••••••• Colusa ••.••••••••••
Santa Ana .••••••• 241 Santa Ana ••••••••• Orange .............
Magnolia •••••••• 242 Santa Barbara ...... Santa Barbara ......
Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards •••••••••• Alameda •••••••••••
Alcatraz .•••••••• 244 West Oakland •.•••. Alameda •.•••••••••
Laurel .......... 245 \\'illows •••••••• , • ~. Glenn ..............
Los Angeles •.••.•••
Pomona ••••••••. 246 Pomona
FFesno .......... 247 Fresno ••••••••.•••• l'resno .............
Alturas •••••••••. 248 A.ltura1 .••••••••••• Modoc •••••.•••••••
Modoc •••••••.•••••
Adin •••••••••••. 250 Adin
Yolo
Landmark ••••••. 253 Esparto
Shasta •••••••.•.•••
Reading ......... 254 Redding
Kings
,
Welcome ........ 255 Lemoore
San Joaquin ••••••••
Lodi •••••••••••• 256 Lodi
Penrhyn ••••••••• 258 Penryn
Placer .............
Riverside
Evergreen ..•••.• . 259 Rivenide
King Solomou. 's ... 260 San Franci1co ••••• San Fr11onci1co ••••••
Tusean •••••••••• 261JWilliam1 •••.••••••• Colusa ••••.••••.•••

179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192
193
194
195
196
197
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211
212
213
214

153
154
155
Hi6
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178

18,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

County.
I
152 Solano •••••••••. 229 Vallejo ............. ·Solano ............. Oct.

Names of Lodires.

Places of Location.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

t:J

~

~

00

Q

......
c.o

..

>

z

6
:a

>
....t"

Q

'zJ

0

t:J

Q

ti

t"
0

ti

z

~

Q

z

~
~

~0

~

......

..

11

Town.

Places of Location.

...........

..........

241 . Kilauea. •• , ...... 330 Hilo ••••••••••••... Ha.waiian Ter.•..•.. \
242 Pacific Grove ••••. 331 Pa.cific Grove •••••.. Monterey , • ••• , ••••
243 San Pedro ....... 332 Sa.n Pedro .......... Los Angeles • ~· .. , ••
244 Alts. ••••.•.•••.. 333 Bridgeport .......••. Mono •.••••••••..••
245 Covina ••.••••••• 334 Covina •.••..•••.•.. Los Angele11 •••••.••
246 West Gate .••.••. 335 Los Angeles ••.•••.. Los Angeles •••••.•••
247 Fruitvale •••••• , .336 Oakland •• , •••••.•. Alameda •••••••••. ,
248 Carquinez ....... S37 Crockett •••••••• , •• Contra Costa ..... ..
249 San Ja.cinto ...... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ........ ..
250 Fullerton ••••••.. 339 Fullerton ••••.••••. Orange ••••••••••••
251 Oxnard .. .... .... 341 Oxnard ............ Ventura .......... .
252 San Fernando . ••. 343 Fernando •..••••••• Los Angeles ••. , , •••
253 Starr King .•••••. 344 San Francisco •••••. Sa.n Francisco •..•• •
254 Brentwood ••••••. 345 Brentwood •.•••••.• Contra Costa •••••••
255 Palo Alto ..... : •. 346 Palo Alto .......... Santa Clara ....... .
256 :M:cKinley ....... 347 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ...... .
257 San Bernardino .•. 348 San Bernardino • • • . San Bernardino •••.•
258 Sequoia ••••• , • : : 349 Oakland ••••••••••• Alameda ......... ..
259 Palestine ••• , •• , .351 Los Angeles •••• ••.• Los Angeles •••••
260 Sunset ••.•• , •• , . 352 Los Angeles •••••••• Los Angeles ...... ..
261 Pinole •••...•••.. 353 Pinole .•.••.•••..•• Contra Costa •••••• ,
262 Presidio •••••.••. 354 San Francisco •• •••• San Francisco • •••• •
263 Hollvwood • , • ••• . 355 Hollywood • •• •• • .•. Los Angeles •.••••.•
264 Mill° V a.lley .• ; •••. 356 Mill Valley .•....•.. Marin ........... ..
265 Buena Park ••• , , • 357 Buena Park ...••.•. Orange •.. ••• .•.• ••
266 Golden Gate .••••. 358 Los Angeles ••.••••. Los Angeles ••••••••
267 Loyalton : •• , ••.. 359 Loyalton : ..•••..•.. Sierra •• ...••••.••••
268 San Fra.·ncisco .••. 360 San Francisco •••••. San Francisco ••.•••
269 Fort Bragg ....... 361 Fort Bragg ••••.•••. Mendocino ........ .
270 Charity .......... 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara ....... .
271 Berk11ley ........ 363 Berkeley .......... . Alameda .. .... ... ..
272 Willits ••.••••••. 365 Willits •.....•..•.. Mendocino .•.•• • •••
273 Las Palmas •••.••. 366 Fresno .•...••...•.. Fresno ...•.••••••••
274 South Pasadena •. 367 South Pasadena .•.. Los Angeles ••.• , •••
275 Unity ........... 368 Glendale . .......... Los Angeles •..••.• .
276 Ocean Park •••••. 369 Ocean Park .•...•.. Los Angeles ..••.•••
277 Amity ••••••••• • . 370 San Francisco • ..... San Francisco •••.•.

·············

..............
...........
............

Fresno ....•••.•••.•
216 Reedley .•.•••••• 304 Reedley
217 Azusa ·.• .••.•.••. 305 Azusa ••........... Los Angeles ...•••..
218 Ashlar ••.•.•..•. 306 Colton .••.••....... San Bernardino •.•..
219 Santa Monica. •••• . 307 Santa Monica •..•.. Los Angeles •.......
220 ' :M:onrovia •...•••. 308 Monrovia ; •••.••.•. Los Angeles •.••..••
221 Delano .......... 309 Delano
Kern
222 Sisson ..•....•.•. 310 Mount Shasta ...•.. Siskiyou
223 Los Banos ..•..•.. 312 Los Banos •••••••.. Merced
224 Tehachapi ••••••• 313 Tehachapi .......... Kern ...............
225 Temescal • • . • • • • . 314 Corona •.•••••.... .• Riverside
226 N orwulk ....•• • .. 315 Norwalk •.•••••••• . Los Angeles ..... . . .
227 Sanger •.••.••... 316 Sanger ...••.•..... Fresno .............
228 Fallbrook •••••.•. 317 Fallbrook .......... San Diego ••.•••.•.•
229 Emmanuel ••..•.. 318 Biggs ...•.•••.•.•.. Butte •......•.••.•.
230 Hollenbeck •.•... 319 Los ·Angeles •.•..... Los Angeles ••.••••.
231 South Gate ...•••• 320 Los Angeles •••.••.. Los Ap.geles •..•••••
232 Aliaal ••••••••••. 321 Pleasanton ••.•••... Alameda. ..• , ..••••.
233. Alh&r!lbra. •••••.•. 322 Alhambra ..••••.... Los Angeles ••.••.•.
234 · Whittier , ••..••.. 323 Whittier .......... Los Angele11 ••.•••..
23[; Corona .••••.•... 324 Pasadena. •••••••••. Los Angeles ••......
236 · Consuelo •••••••. 325 Escondido ••••••..•. San Diego •..••••••.
237 Needles ......... 326 Needles ....••••.•.. San Bernardino , .•.•
238 Long Beach •••••. 327 Long Beach •••••••. Los Angeles ••••••••
239 Redotido ........ 328 Redondo ........... Los. Angeles ••.••••.
240 ' Vallee de France .. 329 Los Angele• ••.••... Los Angeles ~ • , ••.•.

"
"
"
"

''

1901.
1902.

1903

10,
15,

16,

Oct.
Oct.

Oct.

12,

Oct.

''
'',,
''
''
"
1905.
''
1904.

"
"

''

"
''

''

ti

If

...."" '',,""
. "
,,
.." '' ,,

13,

"

Oct.

"

." ''''" ''''"
.." ,,'' ,,''
"
"
'' "
".
... ''"''" ''''''''
"
'' ''

'' "
" ''
'' ''
11, 1900.

1898.
1899.

"
"
"
Oct.

''

1897

14,
14,

"

15,

Oct.
Oct.

"
"

.
" ''
"

"
" "
11, 1893.
" "
" "
" "
"
"11, 1894.
" "
"
"
" "
11, 1895.
"
"
"
"
13, 1896.
" "
15, 1897.
"
"

"

Oct.

I I'

Oct.

Oct.

"
"
"

"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
Oct.

"
"

Oct.

Oct.

"
"

" "
" "
" "
" "
12, 1892.

"
"

"

16,
14,

Oct.

1890.
1891.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

County.
I
215 Porterville .•••... 303 Porterville •..•••... Tulare ••....• . ...•.
Oct.

Names of Lodges.

'

List of the Subordinate. Lod~, etc.-Continued.

..

Cl).~

"

....

...A . .s"
~Sl
"" ::a)!
<"

50 ..... . 12
9
75 ..... .
105 ..... . 12
9
53
5
80 ..... . · 9
80 .... . . 18
100 ... . .. 12
50 .. ... . 12
9
50 ..... .
75 ..... . 12
50
1 12
50 .... . .
9
100 1(J 12
30 .. .... 12
9
55 4%
75 ..... .
9
9
55
5
80
1 12
100 10 12
75·..... . 18
50 ..... . 12
75 15 12
100 10
9
100 · ····· 15
30 ..... .
9
9
80 ··· ···
50 ..... .
9
100 ..... . 12
50
5
9
75 ..... .
9
80
5 12
50
1
80
3
9
80 15 10
90 ...... 12
80 ... ... 12
100 25 12

I

613
140
fi83
537
490
390
517

120

157
067
45
242
856
802
158
114
448
248
24 1
1154
106
518
328
527
979
655
511
141
63 1
1183
359
146
1015
73
418
106

221

50 ......
9
304
50 ......
9
143
12
50 ......
168
50 ......
9
J97
80 ······ 12
358
50 ...... 12
283
50 ......
9
180
2 ' 9
50
67
75 ...... 12
132
1
75
9
177
2 12
50
161
9
30 ......
136
50 ......
9
161
5
9
30
67
5
50
9
75
100 10
9 1458
100 15
788
9
50 .. ... .
117
9
80 .. ....
455
9
55
3
510
9
70
8 12
646
50 .. ....
9. 162
75
222
1 12
130
716
9
80 ...... 12
265
100 12 12
H9

<4

~~ ~ii

.,

.. .=
oO
~~ -:P
Q)

.;

.....
""'
c:n

ii>-

~

~

~

~

()

0
...,

~

Q

0
t"'
0
0

z

11>-

~

Q

t<J

:i:: .

>'3

..,0

l1J

Q

z

0
....

t<J

~

0

~

.,,

.....
""'
""'

...........
..........

...........
...........

Town.

I

"

1908

"

15,

"

"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"

80
80

1910.

''"
''
"
"

13,

'',,
"

Oct.

"
"
"

It.

((

II

"

''

"
"

"
"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

Oct.

. ~· ~'

"
"·

'' ~ '
11, 1911.
'' "
" "
'' "
12, 1912.
" "
" "
'' "
" ''
'' ''
'''' ,,"
'' "

''
''

''
"

C(

II

''
q

"

12
12
12

12

9
18
12
151
12
12
12
12

12
9
12
12
12
12
9
12
15
9
9
12
15
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
12
12
18
12
12

75 .... ..
100 ......
50 .. ....
55 .. ... .
75
1
50 ... . ..
75 .... ..

!)() •. • •• •

80
3
80 ......
80 ;.....

SQ. . ....

10
12
10
9
12
12
9
9

9

9
15
12

50

9

5 · 10

3

80

30
s 9
75
5 12
30 ... ... .... :.
105 .. ;...
9
75
5 12
50 ······
9
50 ... :.:
9

5

10

75 10
50 ..... ·.
50
3

60 ......

''14, 1909.
''
"
Oct.

..,, ..'''' ''..''

1909.

14,

50 ... .. .
:50 ... .. .
105
1
100
5
80 25

''

1908

15,

,,

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

i::
i::

<
<

i:e

"'~

;;

~
.....

~

133
114
446

538
167
61
346
307
173
168
113
391
64
115

166
233

386

377

z>

~

.....
_,

~

;ti

;

0
".I

t.:i:J

ti
t"
0
ti
Q

Q

103

;ti

~
l'l

"1

0

~
8
~en

(')

'ti

CD

261
495
86
178
41

368
166
432
112
759
249
133

448

427

682
650
80
64
1250
562
643
182
408
539

281

406
163
230
180
646
199
111
525
177
324
123
543
114
246
185

$i::

""' .....
.,ii
....
" ::a)!

.;

A

.... ";j

...
i::
o.0

80 JO
100
5
75
3
100 30
50 . 10
75
5
50 ......
50 . 15
50
1
50 ......
50 ······
100 20
50 ......
100 10
50 .. ....
100 ......
100 10
125 ······
50 10
5
!iO
50 50
100 20
100 ······
80 ......
1
75
75 ......

"'ea
i:~

.... f

...0 .;4'

"
Oct.
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"

.. "

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

..

10,

"
"
"
"

1907.

.. .."
"
" ..

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"

"
.,.,

"
"
"
"

". "
"
"
" "
" "
" "

12,
10,

Oct.
Oct.

1905.
11106.

Date when Charter
was Issued .

.......... ..

...........

···········

County.

Le Progres de
I 'Oceanie ••.... 371 H onolulu •.••••••••• Hawaiian Ter.••••••
Los Angeles .••.••••
Gardena ••••.•••. 372 Gardena
Los Angeles ••••••••
Veteran ••••••••. 373 Sawtelle
Jewel • •••••••••. 374 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco ••••••
Rich::nond •••••••. 375 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco ••••••
Francia Drake •••. 376 South San Francisco. San Mateo .••.•••••
Artesia • •.• • •.••• 377 Artesia •••••••••••. Los Angeles ••••••••
Mizpah ....••••.. 3 78 Los Angeles ••••..•• Los Angeles ••••.•••
Fillmore ...•••••. 379 Fillmore •••••••.••• Ventura •.••••••••••
Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach •• Orange ••••••••••••
Oceanside ....•... 381 Oceanside ••.•.....• San Diego ••.•••••••
Highland Park •••. 382 Los Angeles ..•..•.•• Los Angeles .••••••• •
Orosi . • •• .. •• • • • . 383 Orosi •••• • .• • •••• • • Tulare • • •• •• ••••• •.
El Centro . .• : .•••. 384 El Centro .••.••..••. Imperial
Dinuba . • .. : ••••. 385 Dinuba ••..••••.•••• Tulare •..••••••••••
Coalinga ••. ; •. ; •. 387 Coalinga •.••••••••. Fresno •.•.•• , •••• • •
Parnassus • ...•••• 388 San Francisco ••••••. San Francisco .•••.••
Palos Verdes ••.•. 389 Long Beach .••....•• Los Angeles ••••.••• ,
Imperial ••..••... 390 Imperial
Imperial
East Belt • • •••.•. 391 Tuolumne
Tuolumne •••••••.••
West Lake ..••••. 392 Los Angeles .••••••• Los Angeles ..••••••
Balder •.. .•• •••. 393 San Francisco ..•.••. San Francisco, ••••••
University .•..••. 394 Los Angeles .••••••.• Los Angeles .••••••••
Turlock ..••.•.•. 395 Turlock ••••..•.•..• Stanislaus
Apollo .... • •••••. 396 Alameda ..••••••••.• Alameda ••••.••••••
Rising Light ..•.. 397 Huntington Park ...• Los Angeles ..•..••••

z"

E

.0

Places of Location.

304 Fraternity ••••• • • 399 San Jose . • ••• •• ••• ; Santa Clara ..•. • •••
305 Burlingame ••.••• 400 Burlingame ••••••.. San Mateo ••• • .••.•
306 Bay ·View •••••••• 401 Oakland ••••••••••• Alameda •••••••.•• ;
307 B!"!twley •••••••• . 402 Brawley ••••••••••• Imperial ••••.••••••
308 Yerba Buena ••.•. 403 0akland•••••••••••• Alameda .• • • • ". ·..•• : .
309 Glendora ••••• • ••. 404 11Glendora ••••••••••• Los Angeles .••. : : .;
:no Moneta •••••••.•• 405 jLos Angeles •••••••• Los Angeles ...•••••
311 Burbank ..••••••. 406Burbank ••••••••••• Los Angeles .•••••••
312 La Mesa ••••••••• 4071La Mesa ............ San Diego . • ••...•• ;
313 Sierra Madre ••••. 408 Sierra Madre •••••••. Los Angeles ...•••• ;
314 Honolulu •.•••••. 409 Honolulu • • • • • • • • • . Hawaii . •.. •. .• ; ••••
315 Charter Rock •••• • 410 Berkeley ••••.••••.. Alameda ••••.•...•.
316 Perris ••..••••.•. 411 Perris •••••••••••.• Riverside .•• • .•• • ••
317 Calexico ••.. • ••• •412 Calexico •••••••••.. Imperial ••••.•... ; .
318 Waucoba ..•••••. 413 Big Pine .•••••••••. Inyo ..•.... . •..•..•
319 Arlington ••••••. 414;Los Angeles .•••••.. Los Angeles . ...... •
320 Silver Trowel. •••. 415 Los Angeles .••. • ••. Los Angeles . • • . .•. .
321 Lindsay ••••••••• 416 Lindsay •••••••. • . . Tulare ••...• .• •• ; •
322 Clovis •.••••• • ••. ~17 Cl<>via ••••••.• • .... Fresn.o · .•• ..• • ... .•
323 Elysian , ••••••••. 418 L&11 Angelea ••.••••. Los • Angeles: . •.••..
324 Upland .••.••.••. 419 Upland •••.••.•.•.. San BMnardmo . .•. •
325 Kerman · •••• • •••. 420 Kerman ••••••.••... Fresno .... . .• •• ...• •
326 Inglewood . •; ••• •421 ngiewood ••••••..•.. Los Angeles . ·•••..• .
327 Eagle Rock; ••••• 422 Eagle Rock ••••..•.. Los Angeles ... . • . ...
328 York ... ·.••• ; •••. 423 Watts •..••••...•... Los Angeles .. .• .•••
329 Exeter -;-:- •• : •• • •• 424 Exeter ••-. : :-. :-• . . • . Tulare ....... • .••••
330 Holtville ••••••• .425 Holtville ••..•.•.•... Imperial ..•. . . • . •• •
331 Midway ••••••••. 426 Taft ••..• • •.•••.•.. Kern .......... . .. •
332 Chino Valley ••••. 427 Chino ......••.•..•. San Bernardino .....
333 San Dimas .•••.• , .428 San Dimas .•....•.• Los Angeles ..... . .•
334 Pittsburg ••••..•. 429 Pittsburg •......•.. Contra Costa ; .. .. . •
335 McCloud .... • •••. 43"0 McCloud . .....•. . . .. Siskiyou .....· ... •. •
336 Alph3 . . .•.•..... 431 Richmond . ........ . Contra Costa .. . . . • •

279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303

278

Names of Lodaes.

.;

.,...

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

"'E
::J
z

...

,f:J

Town.

Places of Location.

County.

l

"
"
"
"

...........

·············

..............

............
..............

Riverbank • , .•••. 459 Rh-erbank •..••• , .• Stanislaus , , ...••••• · Oct.
San Joaquin •••••••. Oct.
Mount Oso ••••••. 460 Tracy
Argonaut •.••..•. 461 San Franci9co ..•.•. San Francisco ••••.••
"
Paul Revere .••.•• 462 San Francisco ....•. San Francisco .••••••
"
Morgan Hill •••••. 463 Morgan Hill .•...••. Santa Clara ..•..•••
"
Alta Vista ••••••. 464 San Francisco ....•. San Francisco ..•..••
"
Center .......... 465 Fresno .•.••...•.••. Fresno
"
Libertas ••••••••• 466 Bakersfield ••.•••••. Kern
Oct.
Culver City .•••••. 467 Culver City ......... Los Angeles .•••••••
"
Rockridge ....... 468 Oakland ..••••••..• Alarn"eda •••••••••••
"
Yorba Linda •••••. 469 Yorba Linda .•.•.•.. Orange ••.•••..•••.
Oct.
Lincoln ......... 470 San Francisco ••..•• San Francisco , . , • , .
"
Delta ... . ........ 471 Stockton
San Joaquin ••.••..
"
:M:aui •••••••••••. 472 Kahului •.•...•••.•. Hawaiian Ter. • •.••
"
Blythe ..••••..••. 473 Blythe ..•..•.••••.• San Bernardino ..... Oct.
Victory ....••.•. 474 San Francisco .••••• San Francisco ..•..•
"
America • ~ •..•••. 475 Los Angeles .•....•. Los Angeles ••.•••• , Oct.
Coachella •••.••. .476 Coachella · •...•••... Riverside ..........
"
Temblor ••••••••• 477 Fellows •• , .••. , .••• ern • . •••.• , •••• , ,,
"
Thousand Oaks .•. 478 Berkeley •..••••. • •• Alameda ••....•••..
"
Golden Rule •• •••• 479 San Jose ·........... Santa Clara •..•.••.
"
Fellowship .•• ; .• .480 Oakland •••.•..•.••• Alameda ••••..•••..
"
Mt. Davidson •••.. 481 San Francisco ••••••. San Francisco ••.••.
"
Clarence F, Smith.482 Los Angeles ••.•••.• Los A ngelea •••.•••.
"
Bell ............. 483 Bell ...•....••...••. Los Angeles .•••••..
"
Albert Pike ••.•• .484 Los Angeles •.•.•... Los Angeles ••.•••••
"
Chowchilla •.•••.. 485 Chowchilla ..•...... Madera •..••••••••.
"
Caledonia ....... 486 Bakersfield •••.••.•. Kern
"
Vallejo .......... 487 allejo .•••••••..•.• Solano .• ....••..•. .
"
Patterson .• • ••.• .488 Patterson ......... . Stanislaus .••...•••.
"
East Bay ••...••. 489 South Berkeley ...•• Alameda •••••••.•••
"
Corcoran •.••..••. 490 Corcoran ••••••••••• Kings •.•••••••••••.
"
Woodstock ••••.. 491 Alameda ..••••••••• Alameda ...•••••..•
"
Garvanza • . ..•••. 492 Los Angel.tis ........ Los Angeles .•.••••.
"
Atascadero •.••.. 493 Atascadero ........ .. San Luis Obispo .••••
"
Acorn . .. .••.•••. 494 Oakland .. . .•..•••. Alameda .•..•......
"

..

...........
.........
··········

···········

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

Oct.

362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397

.........
.........

Claremont •.••.•. 436 Claremont
Loe Angeles •••••••
Los Angeles •••••••
Lancaster ••••••. 437 Lancaster
Acacia ......... ".438 Los Angeles ••.•••. ~oe Angel~e •••••••
Tyrian .......... 439 Manteca .....••.••. isan Joaqum ..•••••
Standard · • • •••... 440 C>akland
Alameda .•.••• , ••••
CoTonado ••••..•. 441 'oronado .•••....•. ~an D~ego .........
Blackmer ••••..• .442 ;,.n Diego ......... isan Diego •..••••.•
Schofield •••••.••. 443 ~~hofil:)ld Barracks·... Hawaiian Ter •••••••
Carpinteria •••••• 444 :arpinteria ........ Santa Barbara •••••
Wilshire .•. • ••••• 445 ',os Angeles ...•... Los Angeles ••.••.•.
La Puente .•.••••. 446 'nente .......•.... Los Angeles ••••..••
Torrance •.•••••• 447 'l'nrrn.nl'e .••.••.••.• Los Angeles .•.•••.•
Mt. Diablo ..••••• 448 Conl'ord
Contra Costa •••••••
Park ............ 449 '"n Francisco .••... San Francisco ..••••
Van Nuys .••••... 450 \7Rn Nuys
Los Angeles ••••••.•
Montebello ...... 451 Montebello •.•••.••.• Los Angeles ••••••••
San Pasqual •••••. 452 Pasadena
Loe Angeles ••••••••
Bethlehem ••••• ~ .453 San Francisco .. , .••• San Francisco ..•••••
Crocker •..••••••• 454 Daly City ........... San Mateo .•••••••••
Golden West .•••• .455 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ••••.••
Ramona ••••••••• 457 Monterey Park ..•... Los Angeles ••.•••.•
Henry S. Orme ••. 458 Los Angeles ...•••••• Los Angeles ••.••••.

340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
36Q
3,61

1913.

"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

.. "

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
11, 1917.
"
"
"10, 1918.
"
"
"
"
"
"16, 1919.
"
"
·14,
" 1920.
"
"
" "
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
" "

19Vi
1916

..
"
" "
.." """

22,
12,

" "
" "
"
"
" "
" "
" "
15, 1914.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
14, 1915.
" "
" "
" "
" "

16,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

I
337 Hammonton •••••. 433 Hammonton •••••••• Yuba ••••.••••••••• Oct.
338 Maricopa ........ 434 Maricopa .......... Kern ..............
"
339 Fairmount ••••••. 435 .San Francisco •••••• San Francisco ••••••

Names of Lodges.

,;

List of the Subordinat.e Lodges, ete.-COntinued.

o-

di

~

.,

so

......

......
......
......
......
......
······

~

......
...
······
......
......
......

......

9
9
12
.9
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
16
24
9
15
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
15

-<"'

9
12
12
12
9
12
9
80 ..
12
100
12
50
100 10 12
12
50
100 10 12
12
80
li 12
110
9
75 .. li
10 12
75 . 25 . 12
9
75
15
50
5 15
100
75
9
l
12
80
18
105
9
80
9
85
75 15 12
12
I
50
100 ...... 12
9
60 10
75
2 12
12
80
75 10 12
liO
1 12
9
80 10
100
5 12
80 10 12

50 ; .....
80
6
80
.100 10
1
50
105

......

......

50 ......
100 ......
100 ......
50
······5
55
100 10
80 ......
80 10
50 ······
80 ......
80
5
75
50 ......
1
50
80
5
80
70 10
3
80
3
75
70 Hfll
75 15
80 10
105 10
100 ......
100 ......

-<

r..iS :e "'"'

3l bO 0>.!

0"'

-f;!

"O

.. ., .....= "'"'

183
38ll
585
95
314
345
265
239
391
142
316
320
120
3tl
228
410
89
137
361
325
223
326
290
195
195
60
155
253
74
284
92
165
172
53
293

71

70
643
81
205
159
505
263
. 255
382
382
273
536
230
664

206

119
341
178
514

111

64
189
589
110
134

~::

"'"'
"'"'
=~

,,..

~

....,,..
"'

>

z

~

0

~........,

...,0

lxJ

Q

t'
0
ti

zti

0

lxJ

~

>3

~

00

~

~

~

0

~

.,,

....
00

Town

I

County

i

..........

jo-~i-,

..........

·········

Lebanon ••••••••. 495 San Francisco ....••. San Francisco .. •...•
Riverdale •.•••••• 499)Riverdale .••..•.... Fresno .....•. .. ....
Fremont •••••• u .497 Oakland •..• : •••.•.• Alameda ....•......
Stockton •.•• :: •• 498 !Stocl_don .••...•••.. San Joaquin .........
Capital City •• :~· •• 499 Sacramento . ,.·•••... Sacramento .. •. ....•
Roosevelt .... .. ... 500 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .•.. ..•
Westwood ••. : .•. 501 Westwood
Lassen •. . . . ... .....
Harbor •••••••••. 502 Richmond .••..•.... Contra Costa .••.....
Richmond
...•••..•.
Contra
Costa .• .....•
Point ••••••• : • • • .51)3
Seaside •.• • •••••.004 ~ .l3each •••....•. Los Angeles.........
Silver Cord •• •• , •• 5!)5 Santa Ana ..• , ·, •.••• Orange ...... •. ....•
Mount Olive • ••••• 606 Los Angeles .••••...• Los Angeles ...••..•.
El Segundo ••••••. 507 El Segundo ..•...... Los Angeles ....••.•.
Joppa •••••••• .-;.508 San Joaquin.:••.••.. Fresno .....••.•....
Benj. Franklin •• : .509 Los Angeles ..•..••.. Los Angeles ...•.•.••
Cupertino •••••• : .510 Cupertino •• ·..•....• Santa ()Iara ......•.•
Sunnyvale •••• •';'.511 Sunnyvale . :.•..•...• Santa Clara ......•.•
Palms •.••.•••• ;,. •.512 Palms ..• ." ...•••••.. Los Angeles ...••..••
Cahuenga •••••• : .513 Los Angeles .•••••... Los Angeles ...••...•
Argonne ••••••••• 514 San Francisco . ••••. San Francisco •..•.•
Vernon Square •••• 5J5 Los ~ngeles ••..•. Los Angeles ..•....•
Taft ............ 51~ Taft •..........•.• . Kern ..•...•..•..••
Mount Vernon •••. 5J7 San Francisco .•••.. San Francisco .•...•
La Jolla .•••••••. 518 San Diego .•••....•. San Diego ..•..••.•
Euclid ........... 519 Los Angeles •••.•••. Los Angeles .•••..••
Ionic •••••••••••. 520 Los Angeles • .' ••.••• Los Angeles •.••••.•
Piedmont ••••••.. 521 Piedmont .•.••••.•. Alameda .....••••••
Sunrise .......... 522 Los Anireles ...... : . Los An2eles ........

:.:

"'B"'cs

Place• of Location

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
1923

It

"
"

II

"

"

"
'°
"
11,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Hl22
12,

"

.,,"

"
"
"
"
"

12, 1922

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

..

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

13, 1921

Oct.

"
"
"
,,"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"

Oct.

Date when Charter
was !!sued

426 "Bell:!lower •.••••. 523 Bellnowcr ...•••... . Los Angeles ..•••••• October
427 Catalina &land ••. 524 Avalon .•........•.. Los Angeles ...•. , . ,
"
428 Geo. Wuhington .525 San Francisco •..•.. San Francisco ..• , , •
"
429 Bay City ••••••••• 526 San Francisco ..•••. San Franohico . .• . , ,
"
430 Covenant •••••••• 527 Los Angeles ...•..•. Los Angellltl •.......
"
431 Beverly Hills ••••. 528 Beverly Hills ......• Los Angelea , .•...•.
"
432 Loyalty ••••••.•• 529 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ••......
"
438 Sun Garden , ••••• 530 Fresno ....•...••.•. Fresno -.~ .......... • "
434 Alexandria ••.••. 531 San Francisco •..... San Franeiaed ••..•.•
"
435 Sm~na ••••••••. 532 Ceres ...••..••••••• Stanislaus
"
436 Azure· ........... 533 Fullerton
Orange ·~· ...•.•.•.
"
437' Forest Hill ....... 534 San Francisco •...•. San Francisco ......
"
438 Alex. Ha~ton .. . 535 Los Angeles ...•.... Los Angeles ....••••
"
439 S~ Rock ••••.• : '.536JSan Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
"
441> Utopia .•.•..•••. 537 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....••. •
"
«I AllCQt ~·· ......... 538/Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...••.••
"
44! Beivedeote ... , ••.. 539 Belvedere ......... Los Angeles .•......
"
441-- Queen Beach ••••.. 5401Long Beach ......... Los Angeles ...•..•.• October
«4 Henry Morse
Stephens ...... 541Berkeley ..•.....•... Alameda ...•.•••••.•
"
445 Lankershim ..•••• 542JNorth Hollywood .... Los Angeles .•••.•••.
"
446 Signal .......... 5-0Long Beach ......... Los Angeles ...•.....
"
447 Glendale ...•••• ,544·Giendale ... ...•..•. . Los Angeles ..•......
"
448 Jonathan ........ 545 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...••.•
"
449 San Gabriel ...... 546 San Gabriel. ........ Los Angeles ..•••••••
"
450 Arcadia ......... 547 Arcadia .•..•.•. ; ••• . Los Angeles .•.••.• , .
"
451 Triangle ......... 548 Venice .••.• "' .•..••. Los Angeles ..•••••..
"
452 Justice ..••• • •••. 549San Francisco ...... . San Francisco .•.••••
"
453 Seaport ..•••••••. 550 San Francisco .•.•••. San Francisco ...••••
"
454 Lakeshore ••••••. 55l!10akland ............. Alameda ..•••••.•..•
"
455 Semper Virens •••. 5521Eureka ... : •..•••.... Humboldt._. .••••••••
"
456 Golden City •••••• 5538an Francisco .•••••. San Francisco .••••••
"
457 Educator ·•••••.•. 5541San Francisco .•••••. San Francisco ..••••.
"
458 White Pine .•••••. 555 Weed .. ....•.•••.••. Siskiyou .••.••.••.••
"
459 Fairfax •••••••••. 556 Fairfax. . . . . • • . • . . • • Marin .•...•••• •• ••..
"
460 Hermosa •.••••••. 557[Hermosa Beach ..... Los Angeles .•.•• ,._•..
"

40&
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425

405

398
399
400
401
402
403
404

Mames of Lod1r6B

~

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.--Oontinued.

O·~

.. 0

"'cs

A
di

80
5
100
5
80 ......
60
5
80
5
20
55 .....
75
5
80 26
100 2.5
100
5
75 ......
5
' 80
· 8 .......
2
55
50 ......
80 10

100 10
80 5
10010

......
·so ······

......

100 10
55 2Y2
80 1
80 ......
7510
80 5
5510
i5 ......
75 .... :
80 ......
100 1
125 10
50 ......
35 ......
50 ......
50
50 ......
50 4Yz
100 10
100 5
80 ······
100 ......
80 10
.100

IZ.A

270
233
309
408
178
150
106
118
169
171
214
119
80
177
91
101
161

9
9
12
12
12
9
12
15
12
12
15
12
12
12
9
12
211

12
8
12
9
12
9
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
9

171
120
297
208
300
237
201
340
134
61
192
110
124
113
450
229
210
113

85
108
215
324
354
342
191
219
125
286
296
2U
193

240

318
66
214
122
154
151
182
147
115
309
255
364
178
49

~£

:ii~

»

12
9
15
12
12
9
9
12
10

!!

12
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
9

12

121

~

"'.,.,"" &:ii< "cs
"

-i::

0.,

... :_g" ., ...."'"

....
....""

>

z
....

6
:i:i

....~

C'.l

".I

v

llJ

Q

t"'
0
t:1

I:)

z>

:i:i

Q

~
llJ

"I

0

rn

Q

z

t:1

t.zJ

~

"d
:i:i
0

....
""0

:<;;

i
, Town ·

·

I
County

484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496
497
498

~

.6rnj

I

Security ••••. ; •• ,~81 Bakersfield ..•••• , ••. Kern ....... : .. •. •..
Rialtc ........... ~82 Rialto .............. . San Bernardmo .•...
Wasc!> ••.•••• , ·, •• fi83,Wasco . •.•••••.••••. Kern ...•... :··· •.. ••
Harding • ; ....... ~84, Los Angeles ........ . Los Angeles .•..•..•
:Manche.s ter · . ,; ••. 585'Los Angeles ......... Los . Angeles ....... .
Garden .G rove ••••. &86 Garden Grove .•... .. Orange •.... . ; • . ' •.•
Valley Forge ..... $871Los Angeles ..... ; ... Los Angeles ........ .
El Sereno ........ 588 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
Kauai •••• , •••••. ~89 Lihue .•........••.•. Kauai, T. H •..• •.. .•
Compass ••••••••• ~90,Pomona ..•.••...•... Los Angel~s ....•.• . .
Escalon • , • , ••• •, ,591 Escalon ...........•. San Joaqum •••.•••.
Tujunga •• , ...... 592 Tujunga ............. Los Angeles ........ .
All States;,,, •• •• •?93,Long Beach . ........ Los Angeles ..... ... .
Service ; •.••.• • '1594Long Beach .... .•.. . Los Angeles ........ .
Ale:ir;11nder, Gr11·ham·
. BeU .... '''. • . ',5951Los Angeles ••••• ,, •• Loa Angeles ........ .
499 Guardian · •; •, • • • di96 South Gate .. ... •• , . . Los A.ngeles ....•....
:iOO Truth •• • •• : .••• :597/Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ ·.
501 Pearl Harbor ..... 598,Honolulu ............ Oahu, T. H ........ ..
502 p.armelita. • :.: : : • ,599PW1adena .•••.... .... Los Angeles . . ...... .
503 i...y!'-wood •.. • •• • .600ILynwood .... ....•.. . Loe Angeles ...... . . .
504 Grizzly ..... : .. "601 Portola ............. Plumas ........... ..
50~-: . ~elrose .. " " .. • 609 Loe Angeles ........ Loe Angeles ....... .•
506 Dimond .... " • ... 603, Oakland ........... Alameda .......... .
507 Jubilee ••.•• • .. • .604 Santa Ana ......... Orange . ...... .......
508 - GJassell Park:.-; •. 605,Los Angeles •••••••• Los Angeles . •.•••.•
509 Sojourner •••••••. 607j:Monrovia .•.•••• ••• Los Angeles .•...•••
510 Granada .•••••••. 6081Alhambra ...••••..• Los Angeles ••. , ••.•
511 Provident ••••••. 6091Sacramento ........ Sacramento •• · ~ .. ..
512 Elmhurst ........ 6I010akland ............ Alameda ......... ..
513 Canoga ...••••••• 611 Canoga Park .•..... Los Angeles
1
514 :!l'emphr-Ci~ .•. -~ •
'1Jemple .•.•••.• • ••• Los Angeles
515 Three Pillars .•••. 613 Sacramento .••••••• , Sacramento
516 Larchmont ·•••.•.. 614 Los Angeles •...•••. Loe Angeles

Point Firmin .•••• 558' 8an Pedro ..•..••••. Los Angeles .•.•.....
Craftsman ....... 559 Los Angeles .•• : .... ·. Los Angeles ........ .
Plymouth •.••.••. 560 Oakland .• . .. :.: ••... Alameda ..•••••.• ::.
East San Diego ••. 561 East San Diego; .••. San Diego .••••...•..
Pyramid ..•••••.• 562 San Francisco ..••.•. San Francisco .•••...
South Park ••••••• 563 Los Angeles .. ,r, •••• Los Angeles ..•••.. •.
Foothill ......... 564 Oakland., .......... Alameda .. ......... .
West Adams .•.•.. 565 Los ·Angeles •••••.•• Los Angeles ..••••.. .
James A. Garfield. 566 Los Angeles ...••.• : Los Angeles ...•••••.
Searchlight ...... 567 Long Beach .•..•.... Los Angeles .........
Park Boulevard .•• 56 Oakland ....•.•...•• Alameda . .• ••••.••..
Chateau Thierry •• 569 Oakland ......•.•••. Alameda ...•.••••...
:Military Service .. 57 San Francisco ••••••. San Francisco .•••.•.
Fra!lcis K.
•
!1·
. n: · ·
Shattuck · ...... 571! Berkeley.'......·... ~', Alameda .......... ..
475 Jiimes Madison; •. 579Los Angeles ..•...••• Los Angeles ..••..••.
476 Hillcrest ........ 57 Berkeley .... ·... .'.: .. Alameda .......... ..
477 S. W. Hackett .... 574 San Diego .......... . San Diego ........ ..
478 Fort Cro·o k ••••••• 57 Fall River Mills .. ,~ Shasta ..•..•.•..••••
479 . El -Cajon Valley .. 576 El Cajon ... : .... .'... San Diego ........ ..
480 Sunnyside •••• ·••. 5n Los Angeles.;:. ;; .. . Los Angeles . •••••••.
481 Progressiv-e· •••••. 57 Los Angeles.; . • :.;.: Los Angeles .• •..•.• .
482 Warren G.
·
·· ·
.
Harding ....... 579 North Sacramento ... Sacramento ..........
483 Santa Maria •••••. 580Ramona ............ 1 San Diego .••...•••.

461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474

N &mes of Lodires

• Places 0$ .i.oca tion

1924

"

16

"

"

.JJ~

II

"c't
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

II

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
,·,·

"

I I

,,''
''

II

''''
''
''
,,''
''

''

''
''"

I I

I I

~ r CI

' I I

"
·" •:!

"
"
''
''
" "
'' "
'' "
" ''
'' ''
''· ,,
''
.,,
" ''
'' ''
'' "
'·' ''
'' "
'' ''
'' ''
15, 1925
'' ''
''
,, ''''

i6, 1924

''
"
,,''

0<'t.

..
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

l\!23

11

Oct.

Was Issued

Date when Ch&rter

List of Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

..

gj

....

~

~
160
243
12

9
9
12
9
12
12
12
9
75 5
8010
80 ... . .
80 .... ..
50 1
50 ..
lCO 4 ~
. 100 15

9

9
9

12
12
12

9

12
12
12
9
9

91

121

s

12
12
12
12
12
so...... 12
50 IO
9
100 1() . 12
60 1
12
l()() 1 .
9
80 ......
9
50 ...... 12
80
9
1S 10
9
80 1
12
75 1
9
so .. .. 12
7510
9
751 1
18

80
9S ......
130 so
80 15
70 ... ;;.

s

80 ......
75 ......

so......
so 3

80
75 10 ·
70 2

8012~

80 .. :...
105 25
8020
so 1

SS.:....

100 ......

501...... 1 12

•••••• 1 ••• •• • 1.-•••••

Ul

191

146

189

89
116

124

110
23ii
120
135

244

155

187

....
N
...,

>

z

~

".I

~

>

(')

139
160
125 .
.• !:14

95

~

l:rJ

!j)

g

c-

lj

z

~

!j)

t'l

~

~

228

148

86
313
303

69

211
130
90
142

106

249

169

88
102

195

. 130
50

60
20\J
6!l
70
282
257

174

175

224

(')

l:i:J

194

323

352

"d

:0
0

164

133

263
2:?5
178
210

:ii:a

., c

......

-o
.,

12
9
12
9
25
9
12
12
9
9
12

c
<

~R

A

80 ..... .
75 .... ..
8010
60 ......
8010
80 .....:
80 5
65 .. ....
100 30
80 ......
80 5
80 1
lCO 10

~~ iij
<

.,1o11

c

_~~.. -..o ,51.....

.......

N

::

z
Town

I

Places of Location

..........

County

~

..

.

'"

j

''

W11& ljl¥uei!

' when,~
Date

List of Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

all: ...

h ..

"

II

Oct.

'·'
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"
"

"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"

.. ,.

......

751 ......
75 ......
60 ......
"
80 5
100 25
"
80 3
"
55 5
"
"13, 1927
55 4~
100 10
" "
75 4~
" "
55
" "
5510
" "
75 ......
"
50 ......
" "
50 1
"
80 ......
" "
50 ......
" "
50 ......
" "
50 ······
"11, 1928
"
80 ······
50 10
" "
75 .....
" "
100
" "
75 ......
" "
75 ······
" "
75 ......
" "
75 1
" "
50 5
" "
55 ······
" "
100
"10, 1929
"
1
50
75 10
" "
80 ......
" " ' 50
......
"16, 1930
"
50 ......
80 ......
" I"I
80 ······
"

14, 1926

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

'

Oct.

.,

,u
., "

.

100
1
80 23
105 ......
80 ......
60 ......
100 ......
55 .....
50 ......
80
5
80 ......
.
5
80
100 10
100 10
105 ......

50 ......
65 ......
80 30
100 ......
75 ......
75 ......
75 ......
75 ......
105 10
80
1
65
5
75
1
80 15

~~

$=

...

9
9
9
12
12
12
9
9
10
12

l~

15
12
9
12
12
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
9
12
12
12
15
12
12
9
9
15
12
10
9

12

12

9
24
12
12
20
9
9
9
12
12
12

u

9
9
12
9
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
12
12

<

Q
Q

~

~

::i:

z

6

t<
....

~

0
"l

llj

0
0

0

t<

0

0
::d
ii>

l'J

>'3

l:zj

0

~rn

t:J
0

Q

"ti

N

"".....

62
57
113

99

....
.,.""

::d
62
74 ' ~
ii>
136
38
49
90
71

178

133
100
63
172
170
182
68
102
83
142.
217
180
261
65
124
69
105
118
49
68
46
67

99

69
265

113
100
105
146
190
194
95
119
108
183
89
116
75
'17

79
59
3-i
18!1
127
72
171
150
217
114
341
127
114

~"'

.! §

....
~ ::i::;I;
i:A

i:=

O";::

.. o
ej
., .. ..

.,.,

Total membership, 1932 returns . • •••••••.••••••••• '140,636

544 La. Cumbre ••••••. 6421Santa Barbara ..•.•.. Los Angeles ....... ..
545 Alta Loma ••••••. 643 Signal Hill. . . • • • • • • . Los Angeles .•..•.•••
546 Lomita •••••••••. 644 Lomita ..•....••.•.. . Los Angeles ...•••.. .
547 .A. F. E. Irwin •••. 645 San Padro •.••.•••.• . Los Angeles .•..•. • . .
548 :M:etropolitan ••••. 646 Los Angeles •••••••.. Los Angeles ...••... .
549 Hawthorne ••••••. 647 Hawthorne .•... •••• . San Bel'nardino .•••.
550 Damascus •••••••. 648 San Bernardino . .•... Los Angeles . ••• .....
551 Florence ••••••••• 649 Florence ..•.••••.... Los Angeles ....••..•
552 La Brea ••••••••• :650 Los Angeles •••• • .••. San Mateo .•.•..•••.
553 :M:enlo :Park ••••.. 651 enlo Park ••••.• ..• Los Angeles .••••.••.
554 Crescenta Valley •• 65 :M:ontrose ............ San Bernardino .. .• ..
555 Fontana. •••••..•. 653 Fontana .•..••..•.... Los Angele$'; •.•••.. •
556 Jordan . ••••••.•.. 654 Los Angeles .. . ...... Los Angeles: ........
557 :M:onte Vista .• ·, ... 655 Long Beach .. ·..•.••. Los Angeles f • •••••••
558 . Citrol • ;·; .•••••••. 65 Brea .... ,_. ... ; ...... Orange .... ~· .......
559 '' Johnµ. Spreckels.657San Diego ..••••••••. San Diego:~·,-.. •......
-.560 . Livingston ••••... 658 Livingston .•.....•• . :M:erced ••• i~ •• ~ • ·; •••
561 La Ha.bra ......... 659 La Habra .••••.••... Orange; . .•..• .. . ...
562 Baldwin Park •• ~ .. 660 Baldwin Park .•.. ... Los Angeles. ; ~; :·~ ...
563 Malta . . . . . . . . . • 661 Los Angeles •••••... l Los Angeles .• ; ••••..
564 Henry Knox. . • • . 662 Los Angeles .••••• .. . Los Angeles .•.••....
565 Ojai ,. . .. . . .. .. .. 663 Ojai. ... ..... .... ... Ventura ..•. ... ..... .
566 9a.si~ . ' ......... 664 El Centro ........... Imperial. : .. : .......
567 Ka~eah . .. . . .. . 665 Woodlake ....... .. . . Tulare ........ .•.•. .
568 . Reseda. . . . . .. .. • 666 Reseda ... ... . ....... Los Angeles ...•.....
569 . ¥eridian . . . .. . . 667 Glendale ............ Los Angeles . .. . .•.•.
570 San <!orgonio. . . . 668 Banning ............ Riverside ...........
571 John P. Jarman . . 669 San Jose ............ Santa Clara ....•.•.. .
572 Greenleaf ....... 670 Whittier : . ..... .•..• Los Angeles .•. . t ...
573 San Clemente. • • • 671 San Clemente ..•. . •. Orange . .. ........ ..
574 Laguna Beach • . . 672 Laguna Beach ...•••. Orange ...•.•• •.• ."•••
575 Far West •.•.•••• 673 San Francisco ....•.. San Francisco .• :".:. ; •
576 Los Cerritos ..•• : 674 Long Beach . •••••..• Los Angeles .•••.•. •.
577 :M:odesto ....... ; 675 Modesto ...•••...••• Stanislaus ..•..••.. • .
578 Willow Glen .••••. 676 Willow Glen •••.•••• Santa Clara .••..••.•
579 Liberal Arts •••••. 671 Los A11geles ..• •• •••. Los Angeles .•••• • •..
580 Altade1111i ••••••••. 678 Pasadena ..••• •••••• Los Angeles .••••••.•

517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524

Hemet •...••••••. 611!~ Hemet . . . .•••••.•.• Riverside
Oct. 15, 1925
Seal Beach ••••••. 616 Sea.I Bea.ch ......... Orange . .......... ..
"
" "
Big Bear ", .. ·, •• . 617 Pine Knot ...... : .. San Bernardfoo ....
" " "
Southland , •••• • • 618 Los Angeles .••••.• • Los Angeles ••.•.•.•
" " "
Neptune •••.•••• , 619 Long Bea.ch .•••..• • Los Angeles .•••• •••
" "
"
Point Loma, •••••. 620 San Diego .••.••••. San Diego ...........
" " "
The Gardens .••••. 621 Los Angeles •..•••.• Los Angeles . •.. ·... : :
" " "
Atwater •••.••••. 622 Los Angeles .....••. Los Angeles .•.·; •.•.•
" " " ,.. ,,
~5 :M:enora.h ••••••••• 6~3 LQs Angeles .•.••..• Los Angeles •. 'i: • •••
"
" "'' a;
5.116 Fortitude , •..•••• 624 Oakland ..•....••. • Alameda ...•. :: •. :.
"
"
521 ....Angelus Mesa. ...... 625 Los Angeles .......• Los Angeles ... i ; ...
" " "
528 ~ula Vista.. :., : • • 6~6 Chula Vista .. .... .. San Diego ..... ;. f ...
" " "
529 hnianda Park .••. 627 Pasadena ••.•••.•••. Los Angeles ........
"
" 1. '"
i
530 &aeon of the
Oct.
14, 1926
West •••••••••••. 628 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ••.•
531 Fairview •••••••. 629 Inglewood .•....••.• Los Angeles .... :;-• •
"
''
''
532 Ingleside •••••••• Mo San Francisco •.•... San Francisco •• ,"..), . . "
''
"
'J•
533 ·- Benevolence •.••.'631 Los Angeles . • ••••••• L os Ai;ige1es ••.••• ~.
"
'·' "
534 Normal Heights •• , 632 San Diego .••........ San Diego .• ,,, .•••.
"
535 ·. Poiasettia ••••••• 633 San Buenaventura ••.. Ventura ......•.• ;f;
• :'"fl
''
"
536 V~orville •• , •••• ~4 1 Victorville . .••• •• •.• S~n Be.rnardino. ,.,¢..!'..
S37 R erside ••
635 Riverside .•..•••••.. R1vers1de .....•••.~. •
~.
'' "
538 Johtt Marsh
••• 636 Los Angeles •••••••• • Los Angeles .•..•.•. ;
' ~ . ' ' ",;
539 Palisades •• .-·.· ••• ;637 Santa :M:onica .••••••. Los Angeles ....••.•• " '' ~~. . "
" . ·' " ""
540 Indian Rock ••••• i638 BerkP.ley ••.•• • ...••. Alameda ......•..•.•
II
541 Composite •...•••. 639 Los Angeles .••••.... Los Angeles ...••..•• · II
"
,{ .
542 Veritas .•• .• ••••.• 640 San Francisco ••••••• San Francisco .•• , •••.
" "
543 James A. Foshay •• 641 Los Angeles .•• • .••.. Santa Barbara ..•.•••
"
" "

..

Names of Lodges

..

"'

.8
~

"'

Name

Location
County· ·

Chartered.

I Became Extinct

EXTINCT LODGES
Remarks

Corinthian ••••••• Marysville ...... Yuba ......•••.. May

69

Unity •.••••••••• Orleans Flat ..... Nevada .....••.• May
Quitman .•••••••• North Bloomfield. Nevada .....••.• May
Polar Star. , • , , •• ,. Poorman 'e Creek. Pl um as ..•.••.•. May
Aeaeia· .•••••• , •• Coloma ••••••••• El Dorado ••••••• May
88
88
90
92

97

Jefferson ....•••••. La Porte ••••...•• Plumas .•..••..... May

94 .Mount Hermon •••• Elizabethtown .•• Plumas .....••.•• May
96 .'3t. John's ........ Yreka ........... Siskiyou ......... May

Qi! Caymus· .•••••••••.. Yountville ••.•.• Napa ....••.•••. May

Saint Louis .•••••• Howland 's Flat .•. Sierra ..•..•.••• May
86

82 Mountain , .•.•••. Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne ....... May
83 Rising Star ....... Forest Hill .••.••• Placer • . • • • • . . . • May
8.5 India·n Diggings ••• Jndian Diggings .. .El Dorado .••••.. May

Nebraska •••••••• Michigan Bar . ••. Sacramento .... .• May
E. K. Kane ....... Nevada ...•..•.. Nevada .....••.• May
Tyro •••••••••••• Drytown •. ...... Amador .....•..• May
Franklin • , .•••••. Meadow Valltiy .•• Plumas ......... May
74 Wisconsin Hill .••• Wisconsin. Hill ... Placer ....... , , • May
75 Mountain F-0rest .. Eureka North. ·, .. Sierra ........... May
77 Petaluma ...••••. Petaluma ..•. ..•.. Sonoma ...•.•..• May

71
7'2
73

Minnesota ••••••• Minnesota ...•.•. Sierra .••..•..... .May
Ind. Royal Arch •• Marysville .....• Yuba ..•..••.•.. May

67
69

4
6
7
7
11

N~ 15~

~

~

".!
~

o

l".l

Q

ti

b

z~ti

Q

EJ

0
".!
"l

00

ti

zO

(')
~

.,,

,,.""

Cl>

""'
~

8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
~
8, 1856 May
13, 1910 Consolidate.d with Nevada, No. 13. ~
8, 1856 Oct.
8, 1858 Surrendered.
t'l
8, 1856 May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No. :;
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
8, 1856 IOct.
St. Helena.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
8, 1856 jDee.
8, 1924 Consolidated with Howard No. 96,
3, 1854 IDec.
as Howard No. 37.
8, 1856 July 19, 1926 Consolidated with Forbestown
No. 50.

14, 1859 Su.r rendered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
69.
1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
2, 1855 \Dec.,
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
2, 1855 lct.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
2, 1855 Dee.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dee.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
15, 1857" • . • • • • . . . • . . . . Charter never issued.
3, 1855
ug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
8, 1856 IMay 18, 1861 Surrendered.
2, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16.
8, 1856 Sept.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
8, 1856 Oct.
115 as St. Mark's No. 85. ·
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
8, 1856 \Nov.,

2, 1855 \.M.ay
2, 1855 May

*, ............. .

Name changed to Jennings.
4 . Berryman ... , ..... Sacramento· · · · · · · Sacramento.,., ... April 19, 1850
6, 1853 Charter surrendered.
J enningli .......... Sacramento· · · · · · · Sacramento ... , ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · May
6, 1853 Surrendered.
Butter ....... - •... Sacrame~t? · · · · · · · Sacramento ..• , , .. May
7, 1850 May
Davy Crockett ..•. San Fra!!-c1sco. · · · San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 18, 1852 Name changed to San Francisco.
Ban Francisco ..•. San Francisco.··· San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
1851 Traneferred to jurisdiction of
Willam·e tte ..•.•.•. Portland.·······• Multnomah ....... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
Oregon.
15 La Fayette •••..•. !La ·Fayette, Ore .. I.......•......... !May
9, 1851 JNov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
Charter never issued.
Nashville .•••.•.•• Nashville.······· ·EI Dorado .... .'.'.. Dec. 24,. 1851
Pacific ............ Valparaiso ....... Chili ............. May
5, 1853· .............• Charter never issued.
26 Palmyra .••••••••• Placerville.·•···· El Dorado ...• ,.,. May 6, 1853 Oct. 10, 1929 Name changed to El Dorado.
5, 1853 Oct. 15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
28 Columbia ..•.••..• ?olumbia .. · ·· ····Tuolumne., .. ,, .. May
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
5, 1853 Oct. 18, 1873 Surrendered.
29 Diamond ..•..•.•.. Diamond Springs· · El Dorado .....•. . May
5, 18.53 Oct. 13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
31 Mokelumne ....... Mokelumrie Hill.·· Calaveras ..... .... May
No. 78.
5, 1853 Oet. 15, 1887 Revoked.
34 Santa Clara .... .' •. Santa Clara .. ···. Santa Clara .... :. May
3, 1854 Sept. 3, 1864 Surrendered.
36 Butte ............. Bidwell .......... Butte ............ May
3, 1854 June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
39 Yuba ............. Marysville, ...... Yuba., ...•...... May
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
47 Michigan City .••. Michigan Bluff. . . Placer.' •••••.•••• May
3, 1854 Oct. 15, 1897 Surrendered.
6, 1856 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May
48 Grass Valley ..•... Grass Valley •.•... Nevada. . • . ... . . . . May
49 Lebanon .... , ..... San Francisco .... . San Francisco ..... May
3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
3, 1854 Nov.,
1864 Surrendered.
52 Rough and Ready .. Rough and Ready. Nevada .... ,_ .•..• May
3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
53 Franklin ..•..•...•. Sacramento .•..... Sacramento ..••... May
2, 1855 Feb. 20, 1875 Surrendered.
54 Saint James ..•. ;. Jamestown .. ...•. Tuolumne .......• May
3, 1856 Sept. 15, 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
62 Geo. Wiishington.',• . Chinese Camp ..... Tuolumne ..•..... May
63 Iowa Hill ....... : . Iowa Hill. , • • . . . . Placer ...•......• May
3, 1855 Oet. 29, 1857 Surrendered.

No.

··'

Name.

I

I

I

Uounty. . .

Mount Jefferson .•. 'J tarrotte •.•.••••. JTuolumne ....•••. JMay

Meridian ........ Arbuckle
182
189
197

1

Latrobe • , , ..•••.• Latrobe . , •... , •.. El Dotado ....•.. Oct.
Paradise ..• .. .•.• Haywards .. .•.•• Alamed~• . . •..... Oet.
Rocklin ... •• .. • •• locklin • • ••.... • Placer ,............ July
!13 Bodega . . ..... . . . Bodega . . . . .••. , Sonoma .; ..... . . . Oct.

185 Arenas .....•.•••. P unta Arenas .... Mendodno . • ... • Oct.

....... Colusa,_ •..•.••..• Oct.

Arcturas ••••••••• Petaluma .•••.••• Sonoma. . . . • . . • • • Oct.
180

152
153
15•
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
I70
171
172

.1'emarks.

..·,
~'. - oil!!lf _.r

.,

..·t-i

..; .

'

' '

a~·.: l t''

~I
. "·: .-,).'•'~-

>

l'.I

:i:

..,"l

o

~
rn

!:l

l'.I
l'.I

g

'ti
ld

00

""'
""

""'""
.,,,

2, I865 8urreiidered "
I7, I86I Charter not i88ued.
IO, I902 Consolidated with El Dorado .No.
'
26 as Palmyra No. 26. '
I5, I862 Oct.
11, I864 Surrendered.
'1
15, 1862 July 16, I864 Surrendered.
,,
I5, I862 Jan. I6, I865 Transferred to juri1diction of Nevada.
I4, 1863 Aug. I6, I872 Surrendered.
· .
o
I4, 1863 Jan.
I6, I865 Tranaferre? to juri1dlction of Nevad~. ~
I4, I863 Oct.
15, 1908Consolf~~ ted with Jefferson No.9• . z
I4, I863 Sept. 28, I864 Surrend~ed.
t:::i
14, 1863 Dec.,
I898 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
t<
I4, !863 Jan.
I6, I865 Transferred to iuri1diction of Nevada. §
I5, I863 Jan.
I6, I865 Transferred to-juri1diction of Neva~a. , c;l
I3, 1864 Jan.
16, I865 Transferred to juiedlctlon of Nevada. l'.I
I3, I864 Jan.
16, I865 Transferred to juri1diction of Nev"°da. 0
I3, I864 Jan.
I6, I865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. "l
I4, I864 Jan.
16, I865 Transferr~d to jurl1diction of Nevada. -~
25, I864• Oct.
I, I864 Charter b.ever issued.
t< "';.
12, I865 .••••. .• · ·• • · · Name changed to Antioch.
I;;
12, 1865 Oct.
16, I879 Surrende~ed .
.
0
11, I866 Mch. 25, I882 Transferred t<t .jurisdiction of
~
Arizona.
11, I866 IDec.,
I898 c onsolidated ' ith Petaluma No
77 as No. 1SO.
IO, 1867 Oct.
16, 19I9 Name changed. to Arbuckle.
IO, 1867 . .. ......• . . . . Name changea to Claiborne.
I5, I868 Dec.,
I884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
I4, I869 July 20, I872 SurrendeTed.
.
30, I870• . . ...• .. ...•. . Charter nev er iBBue.d.
I4, I871 Oct.
12, 1889 Rev oked.
Ban Luis Obispo .• · 1San Luis Obispo . . •S&L Luis Obispo.· 1May 16, I86I 'Dec.
Doric ...... . ... ... North Fork ....• • !Trinity ... . ..... . . Jan. 11, I86I May
Palmyra •. . .••••• Placerville •....• El Dorado ....••• May 16, 1862 Oet.

I

Josephus ......... Brush Creek ..• • .• Butte ..•.. 3::.•••• May
Rising Sun .•••••• Brandy City .•..• Sierra ....•,; .... May
Carson .•..••.•••• Carson City ...••. Nevada Ter ..•... May
Mount Carmel. .••• Red Dog . . • .....• Nevada • · ~ · · ·t.•· .. May
Washoe .....••.•• Washoe City ..•.. Nevada ~~ "~' ••. May
Gibsonville .••..• Gibsonville •.•••• Sierra . ~; .. ._: cJ .••• May
Gilroy ..•.....••• Gilroy ..•..•.... Santa Clara>. .•..• May
Pilot Hill. .....•.• Pilot l!ill . .... . .. El Dora!l§ . ...... May
Virginia City ...•• Virginia Cit)-••••• Nevada 're,. . ...•. May
Silver City ..•.••. Silver City ....•.. Nevada : Ter .... . . May
Silver Star ..•••.. Gold Hill .•...••• Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Esmeralda .•••••. Aurora .•........•• Nevail.a Ter ...... Oct.
Escurial •••••• • ·. Virginia City •.• • Nev ada Ter ....•. Oct.
Lander •....•.•••• Austin •..... • •.. Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Alpme ..•..•.•••• M.arkleeville • • .• Alpme .. , i • • • . • • May
175 Claiborne •.••.••• Anti~ch ...•.•... Contra C,Qs~a . .... Oct.
176 Merced •• , •.••••. Snellmg ......... Merced _·..... . ...• Oet.
177 Aztlan •.••.•.•••• Prescott . •. ..•••• Arizona Tef. . .... Oct.

15I

1•8

.,

137 Oro Fino ......... ,Oro Fino ..•..•.•• ,Siskiyou .. : : : .• ,May
138 Violet ••••••••••• Spanish Flat ..••• El Dorado ..• , •• May
142 Colusa ••••••••••• Colusa . : ••.•.••• Colusa •.•.••. .• May

Dibble ••••••••••• Omega .....•• : •• Nevada ........• May
Mt. Zion ••••• , , , Grizzly Flat ••• ; • El Dorado .•••••• May
Saint Mark 'a •• , •• Fiddletown •.•..• Amador , , , . , , , , , May
Windsor ••••••••• Windsor ••• , ••.• Sierra .....·.· •.•. •.•.·.· May
Folsom ••••• , •••• Folsom •••••••••• Sacramen.to.•. , , . , Feb.
us Vallecito ........ Vallecito .••••••• Calaveras . , •• ,, •. May
l2I Ionic ' ••.••••••••• ,Iowa Hill ....•••• Placer ••. , .. : ..• May
125 ProgreBB ••••••••• San Francisco .•.. San Franci!l~9 ...•
130 Unity .•••••••••• San Bernardino .•• San Bernardi1,10 .. May
133 Yosemite •••••••• Coulterville •.••• .!Mariposa ..•••••. May

109
114
ll5
116

108 OweR .......... , • lott 's Bar: .• : • • • iskiyou ...•.•..• May

107

102 Manzanita ••••••• ,North S~n Jul\n. :/Nevada ..•. : . : : : 1May
105 Siskiyou ••••••••• Henley . , ••••••• Siskiyou .•..•••• May

1

Became Extinct

8, 1856 ...••......... Name changed to Hornitas.
9, 1856 Oct.
16, I9I3 Name changed to Yosemite No.99.
8, I856 Oct.,
I898 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
8, I856 jOct.
I3, I9IO Consolidated with Nevada No. I3.
I5, I856 Oct.
11, I876 Consolidated with St. John 'a
No. 37.
14, I857 IOct.
11, I876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol·
umne No. 8.
I4, I857 IOct.
I5, 19081 Consolidated with North Star
No. 91.
.
I4, I857 Sept. 27, I879 Surrendered.
I4, I857 Oct.
11, I911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26.
I4, I857 June 26, I89f Revoked.
14, I857 May IS, I861. ilurrendered.
14, I857* a.a.
28, I858 Charter never issued.
I3, I858 Jan.
5, I859 Surrendered.
I3, I858 Oct.
8, I905 Surrendered.
I858 Oct.
14, I870 Revoked.
I3, I859 May I3, I863 Revoked.
I3, I859 Oct.
I6, I9I3 Consolidated with La Grange No. 99.
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
I862 Surrendered.
IO, I860 /June,
IO, 1860 Oct.
I6, I879 Surrendered.
IO, I860 April
1, I88S Consolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.

Chartered.

98 Quartzburg ••••••• Quartzburg ••.... !Mariposa •....... May
99 La Grange ········1Merced , •.•.•••• /Merced ... ,, ••.. May
100 Campo Seeo .••..•. Campo Seco ...•.• Calaveras •.. • ... May

No.

.
Location.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

433

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

432

Year
Elected.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Maater.

Senior
Grand Warden.

1850 •Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt.,...... •Caleb Fenn¢r.
1861 •John A. Tutt ............. •Benjamin D. Hyam .. •E. F. W. El!la.
1852 •Benjamin D. Hyam ..•••• •Charlee M. Radclltf~. •Adolphus
"·~'· 1863 •Charles M. Radc!ltf...... •Towns~nd A. Thomas •John R:' C~i!all.
1864 •Wllllam H. Howard ..... •Nathaniel G. Curtis.-. •Rector' Ir.-eole.
1866 •Wll!lam H. Howard .•... *Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Raymond.
1866 . •Wllllam H. Howard ..... •John A Raymond ..... •Lemuel Lyon.
1867 •Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Charles Marsh .. • • • • • •Aaron D. Park.
1868 •Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shepheard. •William McCormick.
1869 •Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shepheard. •Ebenezer Lane.
1860 •Nathaniel G. Curtis...... *Philip W. Shepheard. •wmtam C. Belcher.
1861 •James L. Eng!lsh ..•••••. •Wl!llam C. Belcher .. •John W. Harvllle.
1862 •Wllllam C. Belcher ..•... •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •John W. Harville.
1863 •William C. Belcher ...... •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •Louis Cohn.
1864 •Wllllam C. Belcher ....•• •Gilbert B. Claiborne.. •w1111am A. Davies.
1865 •Gilbert B. Claiborne... .. •William A. Davies... •Isaac S. Tltua.
1866 •Gilbert B. Claiborne. •.• . • •Henry H. Hartley.... •wm. H . Peterson.
1867 •wmtam A. Davies ....... •Henry H. Hartley .... •Thomas Beck.
1868 *Charles Marsh .. ,........ •Leonidas E. Pratt .... •Theodore G. Cockrill
1869 •Leonidas E. Pratt ........ •Isaac S. Tltue ........ •John S. Ward.
1870 •Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isaac S. Titus .. :..... •Charles L. Wiggin.
1871 •Leonidas E . Pratt.. .. .. .. •Charles L. Wiggin.. . •Benj. H. Freeman.
1872 •Leonidas E . Pratt........ •Benj. H. Freeman... *George C. Perkins.
1873 •Isaac S. Titus........... •George C. Perkins.
•John M. Browne.
1874 •George C. Perkins ........ •John M. Browne ..... •Wllllam B. Parker.
1876 •John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... *Wiley J . Tinnin.
1876 •John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •Wll!lam S. Wells.
1877 •John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •William W. Traylor.
1878 •John M. Browne ......... •wmtam W. Traylor .. •William H. Crane.
1879 *William W. Traylor ....•. •Samuel C. Denson .... *Clay W. Taylor.
1880 •Samuel C. Denson., ..... •clay W. Taylor ...... •John Q. -Ad,ii"rn\,;:;.
1881 -•Clay W. Taylor .... , ..... •Jol'm Q. Adams ...... •Jonathan D."-'ffinji(.
1882 ~Clay .W:·.;raylor."......... •Joriii.t)'a n 0 .. Hlnes .. : ···•Edmund· "C. Atii'ittifon.
1883 .,•Jonathan'. D. Hines ...... •Wiley J. Tinnin ...... 0Edmund C. Atkinson.
1884 ~. -•JonaUian D. Hines ...... "Wiley J. Tinnin ...... •Edmund C. Atkinson.
1886 ' •Wiley J. Tinnin .•.•..•••• •Edmund C. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
1886 •Edmund C. Atkinson ..... •Hiram N. Rucker .... *Morrie M. Eatee.
1887 •Hiram N. Rucker ..... ,.. •Morris M. Estee..... •Alvah R. Conklin. ,
1888 •Morris M. Estee ......... "Alvah R. Conklin .... •Wiiiiam Johnaton
1889 •Morr!• M. Estee . .• •...•• •William Johnston.... •Charle• R. Gritman.
1890 •Alvah R. Conklin. .. ...... •William Johnston.... •Charles R. Gritman.
.891 •w1111am Johnston ... ..... •Charl~s Ray Gritman. •Henry S. Orme.
1892 •Charles R. Gritman , . ;.. . *Henry S. Orme... .... •James B. Stevens.
1893 •Henry S. Orme .•••... ;·;.. •Jainea B. Stevens .• ,. •Edward M. Preaton.
1894 •James B. Stevens ........ •Edward ' M. Preaton .. .*William T. Lucas.
1&96 "Edward M. Preston ...... *William T. Lucas.... Thoma• Flint.

·Y9>lib.

*Deceased

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer

Grand
Secretary.

•Sashel Wooda ....••.• •Levi Stowell ...••. . . •. •John H . Glhon .. •• ...
•Benj. S. Olda ..••••.•• •Townsend A. Thomas. •Levi Stowell .. ••· ... • •.
•John R. McConnell ... *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... ·
•Richard F. Knott .. .. •Addison Martin ....-.. •Levi Stowell ............
•Robert N. Wood ... • • •Addison Martin ... •.• •Levi Stowell.•••· .. • ••
•Samuel A. Merritt ... •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Peter W . Randle ..... •Addison Martin .... .. •Alex G. Abell .. • .... .
•John B. Hope ........ •Addison Martin ...... *Alex. G. Abell ...... ··
•James W. Bicknell ... *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
*Thomae P. Hawley .. •Addison Martin .. ... . •Alex G. Abell ....... ·
•Alvlnza Hayward .. .. •Addison Martin ...... *Alex G; Abell ....... ·
•Caleb E. Wllcoxon ... •Jamee Laldley ....... . •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John B. Hewson ..... •James Laldley . ...... . •Alex G. Abell. • .... ..
•William A. Davies ... •James Laldley ... : .. •. •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Iaaac S. Tltua . ...... . •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ..... .. .
•Henry H. Hartley .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell: ..... ..
•Thomas Beck ....... •James Laldley ...... .. •Alex G. Abell . ...... .
•Leonidas E. Pratt .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G . Abell ...... ..
•Frederick F. Barss ... •James Laldley ........ "Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Richard Dale ........ •Jamee Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Bsnj. H. Freeman ... •James Laldley ...... .. •Alex G. Abell .... .. ..
•Geo. C. Perkins . ..... •James Laldley ...... .. •Alex G. · Abell .. .... ..
•John M. Browne .••• . •James Laldley ........ •Alex ·G. Abell.··· •• · ·
*Chas. E. Mitchell .... •Jamee Laldley.. .... .. •Alex G. Abell ..... . ! . ·
•Wiley J. Tinnin ..... •James Laldley........ •Alex G. Abell . ...... :
•J'acob; H; Nell ........ •James Laldley ........ •Alex. G . Abell ....... .
•Solon W. ,Craigue .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell.· .... · :
•wm. H. Crane ..••••• . •Moses Heller ••.••.•.• •Alex. G. Abell.·· : ····
•Robert .. C. Broder.;·;, •Moses Heller ....... .. •Alex. G. Abell .• : : . .. .
•John Q. Adams ...... •Moses Heller ...... .. . •Alex. G. Abell . · .... ..
•Orrin W.· Hollenbeck. •Moses· Heller ......... •Alex.. G . Abell ...... ..
•Thomas 'J• Bowers ... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... · '
•George Hinds ........ •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell .... . .. .
•Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ... .. . "
•Hiram N. Rucker . • •. •Moses ·Heller'. •..•• •. .- •Alex. G. Abell.···:.··
•Henry H. Knapp .... : •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. . G. Abell ... :-... •
•Alvah R. Conklin .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... ·
•Wm. Johnston ... .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Marcus D. Boruck ... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .... .. ..
•Henry S. Orme ..•••. •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .• . ·••··
•Henry s. Orme .... .. •Nathan W. Spaulding, •George Johnson ..... ·
•James B. Stevens .•.• •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson .·· · ··
*Edward M. Preston .• •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson.· ·· · ·
•wm. T. Lucas ....... •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... ..
Thomae Fllnt ........ •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... ··
•Frank M. Angellotti .. •Edw·ard Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... ·

•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

434

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF' THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
18TH

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Year.

435

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Grand Ma.ter.

Deputy
.Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

1896 *William •r. Lucas ....... .
Thomas Flint .••••.•• •Frank M. Angellotti.
1897 Thomas Flint......... _ .. . •Frank M. Angellotti. •Charles L. Patton
1898 •Frank M. Angellotti .... . •Charles L. Patton.... •James A. Foshay.
1899 •Charles L. Patton .••••••• •James A. Foshay. .... •William S. W:ells.
1900 •James A. Foshay ..•...•.. •William S. Wells . ....
Orrin S. Henderson.
1901 •William S. Wells .•••..••. Orrin S. Henderson .. •Charles W. Nutting.
h02
Orrin S. Henderson ...... "Charles W. Nutting.. •George W. Hunter.
1903 •Charles W. Nutting .•..•• •Geor&"e W. Hunter. • • *Motley H. Flint.
1904 •George W. Hunter .•••••• *Motley H. Fl!nt...... •Edward H. Hart.
1905 *Motley H. Flint. ••••••••• •Edward H. Hart..... George M. Perine.
1906 "Edward H. Hart ........ . Geo. M. Perine .•••••• •Reuben H. Lloyd,
1907 George M. Perine ....... . •Reuben H. Lloyd..... Oscar Lawler.
1908 Oscar Lawler ••••....•.•• *W. Frank Pierce.....
Dana R. Weller.
1909 •w. Frank Pierce •.•..•••• Dana R. Weller ••.•... •Alonzo J. Monroe
1910 Dana R. Weller ......... . "Alonzo J. Monroe.... Wm. P. Filmer.
1911 •Alonzo J. Monroe ...•.•.• Wm. P. Filmer ....•• John D. Murphey.
1912 Wm . P. Filmer ...•...••• John D. Murphey .•.• Benj. F. Bledsoe.
1913 John D. Murphey ••••. ~ •• Benj: F . Bledsoe ..... •Albert G. Burnett
1914 Benj. F. Bledsoe ..•••..•• •Albert G. Burnett. ..• Francis V. Keesling.
1915 •Albert G. Burnett. ...••.. Francis V. Keesling . . Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
1916 Francis V. Keesling ..•... Wm. Rhodes Hervey. Bradford Webster.
1917 Wm. Rhodes Hervey •..•• Bradford Webster ••• Charles A. Adams.
1918 Bradford Webster •••••.•• Charles A. Adams .•.. George F. Rodden.
1919 Charles Albert Adams .•• George F. Rodden .... Samuel E. Burke.
1920
George F. Rodden .••••••.
Samuel E. Burke ..•.
William A. Sherman
1921 Samuel E. Burke •••••••••
William A. Sherman.
Arthur S. Crites.
1922 William A. Sherman .••••
Arthur S. Crites .... .
David J. Reese.
1923 Arthur S. Crites .••••.••.
David J . Reese ..... ..
Albert E. Boynton
1924
David J . Reese ......•.•. Albert E. Boyn ton. '. George L. Jones.
1925 Albert E. Boynton ••••••. George L. Jones .•••• Will H. Fischer.
1926 George L. Jones ..•••.•....
Will H. Fischer ..... . Gustav A. Hutatt
1927 Will H. Fischer ..••••.•..
Gustav A. Hutafl' .. .. Chas. M. Wollenberg.
1928 Gustav A. Hutaff ........
Chas. M. Wollenberg
John Stewart Ross.
1929 Chas. M. Wollenberg ••••• John Stewart Ross ..•
Robert B. Gaylord
1930 John Stewart Ross ...... . Robert B. Gaylord .••• Frank W. Mixter.
1931 Robert B. Gaylord ...... . Frank W. Mlxter ... . James B. Gist.
1932
Frank W. Mlxter ......••
James B. Gist ...... .
William A. Sitton.

•Deceaaed.

Junior

Grand Warden.

DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 6850

Grand Treaaurer.

Grand
Secretary

Grand
Lecturer.

•Charles L. Patton .... •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .•.•••
•James A. Foshay ..•• •Edward Coleman .•••• •George John11on .••••.
•William S. Wells .... *Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .• .• .••
Orrin S. HendeNJon .. •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ......
•Charles W. Nutting .. *Edward Coleman .•••• •George Johnson .••..• •Wm. H. Edwards.
•George W. Hunter .... •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson...... •Wm. H. Edwards.
•Motley H. Fl!nt.
*Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .•.••• •Wm. H. Edwards.
•Edward H. Hart ....• "Edward Coleman .•••• •George Johnson .••••• •wm. H. Edwards.
George M. Perine .... *Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .•••.. •Wm. H. Edwards.
•Reuben H. Lloyd .... •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .•...• •Wm. H. Edwards.
Oscar Lawler ....... *Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... . •Wm. H. Edwards.
•w. Fr1»nk Pierce .... •Edward Coleman •••• •George Johnson ..... . Thomas J. Baker.
•Alonzo J. Monroe ...• •Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J, Baker.
William P. Filmer ... *Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
John D. Murphey .... *Edward Coleman..... J'ohn Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
Benj. F. Bledsoe .... *Edwara Coleman .. •.. John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
•Albert G. Burnett... *Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
r'rancls V. Keesling.. Wm. P. Filmer .. ,.... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J, Baker.
'N. Rhodes Hervey.. Wm. P . Filmer...... . John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J, Baker.
Bradford Webster... Wm. P. Filmer ..... ·• John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J'. Baker.
Chas. Albert Adams. Wm. P. Filmer .. ·.... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J'. Baker.
George F. Rodden... Wm. P. Filmer .. ··•• . John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J, Baker.
Samuel E. Burke.... Wm. P . Filmer ...... • John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J, Baker.
Wllllam A. Sherman. Wm. P. Filmer ....... John Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J'. Baker.
Arthur S. Crites..... Wm. P. Filmer ...... · John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
David J. Reese ....... Wm. P. Filmer ....... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
Albert E. Boynton..
Wm. P. Filmer ... · .. • John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker
George L. Jones...... Wm. P . Filmer....... John Whlcher ...... . Thomas J'. Baker
Will H. Fischer ...... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ..... .. Thomas J. Baker.
Gustav A. Hutaft.... Wm. P. Filmer...... John Whlcher ...... . Thomas J. Baker.
Chas. M. Wollenberg. Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J. Baker.
John Stewart Ross... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J. Baker.
Robert B. Gaylord.... Wm. P. Filmer...... John Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J. Baker.
Frank Wilber Mlxter. Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J. Baker.
James B. Gist ........ Wm. P. Filmer .... ~.. John Whlcher .••••••• Thomas J'. Baker.
William A. Sitton.... Wm. P . Filmer ...... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J'. Baker.
Randolph V. Whiting Wm. P. Filmer...... John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.

•nece&11ed.

436

PROCEEDINGS OY THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta ..•••...•• ', ••••• J. H. W. S. Kemmis .••••.• Calgary
BrazilThe Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of the State of Panahyba
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paula
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Para
British Columbia ....... W. A. DeWolf-Smith ...... New Westminster
Canada (Ontario) .......Wm. M. Logan ........... .Hamilton
Chili ...••....... ; .•..•.Rudolfo C. Oliveira ..•.•••• Cassila No. 2867
Santiago, Chili
ColombiaN atiq.n,al Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena
The Gra~d 'L~~ge of the Republic at Bogota
Costa Rica .•. •• ••.•• : •. G. F. Bowden .•..••••.•.•• San Jose
Cuba ......•.... . ...... Dr. Jose F. Castellanos ... . . Habana
Czecho-SlovakiaThe Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia
Both Seated at Prague.
·
Denmark ..... ·• .. ... .• . P. O. Rosenorn . . •• ._ •..••.• Blegamsuej 23,
..
Copenh_agen
Ecuador •..•.....•.. .Jose de la Cuadra ...•....Guayaquli
Egypt ..... ·: .... : . .... Abd El Maguid-Younis ..... Freemason's Hall,
6 Fouad 1 St.,
Cairo.
England •.•• ·. ...........l'. Colville Smith ......... London
France (Grand Lodge of)Auguste Viet ............. 8, rue Puteaux,
Paris
Intlepende11t·National G. F. Beaumont, 42 ...••••. Rue D RocheGrand Lodge of France
caouart, Paris
German Grand Lodges
National Mother Grand Lodge of the Three Globes
Grand Lodge of Ham burg
·
Mother Grand Lodge of the Eclectic Union
Grand Royal York Lodge of Friendship
National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons
Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" Bayreuth
Grand Lodge Saxony
Grand Lodge Concord at Darmstadt
Grand Lodge German Fraternal Chain at · Leipzig

437

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Guatemala ..••••••••••• Francisco Salazar ••••••.. Guatemala
Honduras .••.•••••••••• M. F. Rodriguez ..• • ...... Tegucigalpa
Ireland .. ••••••.••••.•• Henry C. Shellard ... ...... Dublin
Holland (Netherlands) ..A. E. L. Faubel. .••••.••.. Fluweelen
Burgwal 22
. . '. . The Hague
Manitoba . • ••.••••• • ••• J. A. Ovas. , .•••.•••.•.••.Winnipeg
Mexico (York Grand
Lodge) •.•..••..••.. A. Percival Hughes ...••• • . ApartadQ 1?86,
Mexico7"""
Mexico Clty; . M~xic~ •. D. F.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific.
.
Mtxico, D. F.
,
.qr,; . ir. • ,-:'
Postal 20, Gl\~Y.-~as, ~onora.
.;.; }~ew B~11-p.swick • . ••. • •. ~. 'l'win1Jig Hartt , • • •. ~._~ ~t. John
·• New South Wales .•. • . , Arthur H. Bray • ••......•. S'ydney
New Zealand .. , . . ••.•••George Barclay ...••••• . •• .Christchurch
Norway ....•. • •.•. • ••. .E. Lowig-Hansen .... . .•..• Oslo
Nova Scotia ..•..•..••• James C. Jones .• • .•• ••• • • Halifax
Panama •••.•.•.•.••••• .Jose Oller .. • .•. ~ ••••. • ••. Panama
Peru ... ............. . ..Gerardo Alania •...••.• • .. Lima
Philippine Islands .••••• Newton C. Comfort . .•..•.. Manila
Porto Rico ...••• • ••....Jose G. Ginorio .••.••••••• San Juan
Prince Edward Island .• E . T. Carbone!. .•.• • .••.. • Charlottetown
Quebec •.. . .•• • •.•••••• .W.W. Williamson ..•..•.•. Montreal
Queensland .............Chas. H. Harley .•••••••••. Brisbane
Salvador •...•••.••.. Salvador Grand Lodge .•• Cuscatlan
Saskatchewan •••••••••• W. B. Tate ••••••••••• • •.• Regina
Scotland . • ••.•..• . ••..• ThomaeG. Winning .•••••••Edinburgh
Berbes, Croatee and
Slovenes •• •..•.•••.• S. Chokorah •....•..• ; .. , .Bttqwd, Jugo-

4

.•

1

••

•

• •

~

.. .. ,. I), .. . ... tl&Via

,.,.iti'

e_ av~,.}·

Soutii"".A~~t.~alia ..•••••• Cliii... R. J. Glover. ~ , •... .': Ad~Ta141 '

Sweden .••. . ...•..•..•. Yneve G. Wisin .•• •••••• •• Frimurarelogen,
Stockholm
SwitzerlandThe Swiss Grand Lodge-Alpina
Arnold Raschle, Grand Se_cy., Zurich, 18
Tasmania . .• : ....• ; .... W. H. Strutt ............. Hobar~
Victoria .. : ............ .W. Stewart ............... Melbourne
Vienna .. ...•........ • . Wladimir Misar •• •• •. •. • •• 1 Dorotheergasse, •\1
12, Vienna.
Western Australia .•••.•J. D. Stevenson ...••..•.•. Perth

't

438

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.

No.

Post 01'1'.lce.

County. , . " '

A. E. F. Irwin •••••• 645 San Pedro ..•......• , ..• Los Angeles.
Abell •..••••••••••• 146 Ukiah •.•.••.••••••••••• Mendocino.
Acacia •.•..•••• : • •• 438 Los . Angeles ••.••••••••• Los Angeles.
Acorn • • . • •.••••••• 494 Oakland •••••••••••••.•• Alameda.
Adin •••••••••••••• 250 Adin ..•••. •• ••••• ·•••••• Modoc.
Alaino . • •••.••• • •••• 122 Walnut. Creek •••••..•.• Contra Costa.
Alameda · •.••• •• •••• : 167 ' Centerville •·• • : •• •••• • •• Alameda.
Albert . Pike • . •• •••. 484 Los Angeles ••. •..•••• ~ . Los Angeles.
Alcatraz • : ••••••.• , .244 Oakland ••••••••••••••• Alameda.
Alexandria ••.•••••• 531 San Francisco •••••••••• San Francisco.
Alexander Graham
Bell • •.•.••• • ••••. 595 Loa Angeles .. . ......... Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton.535 Los Angeles •.••• ••• ••• •Los Angeles.
Alhambra •••• • •.••. 322 Alhambra • • ••·•. •• .•••••. Los Angeles.
Alisal ••••••••• ."••• •321 Pleasant(tn •• • •• •• • • ••••. Alameda.
All States ..••• ; •• ; . 593 · Long B~ach . ~ . ·. :: . : ... _. _. Los Angeles.
Alpha ••.••••••.••• 431 Richmond ••••••••••••••. Contra Costa.
Alta. • • •••••.•••.••. 333 Bridgeport ••••• • • • ••••• Mono.
Altadena •.....•..••. 678 Altadena • •••...•. • ..••• Los Angeles.
Alta Vista ••..••••. 464 San Francisco ••••.•.•.•. San Francisco.
Alta ~.oma •.•••••••• 6« Signal Hill ••••.•.•..••• .Los Angeles.
Alturas ••.•••••.••. 248 Alturas •• ••. •. •.. •• .• • •. Modoc.
Amity • .••. ••••.••. 370 San Francisco •. •• .. • ••• San Francisco.
Amador ••• • •• .•••••• 65 Jackson .. • •.• . •.•..•.•• Amador.
America ••••••.•••• 475 Los Angeles .. .••••• • •. •. Los Angeles.
Anaheim ••••.•••••• 207 Anaheim ,., .. ~ • . ._••••..... Orange.
Anchor •.•••••••••. 273 Compton .. . ......•.. . . . , Los Angeles.
Angeles Mesa .••.... 6!5 Los Angeles . ..•• • . •.•... Los Angeles.
Antioch •• •••• • . : ••• 175 Antioch . ... .• .... . .. •. . .. Contra Costa.
Apollo -: . • ~ ••• ~ •• : •. 396 Alameda . . . . .. . . ; •.• •.. • Alameda.
Arcadia . . • •• •• •• •• 547 Arcadia . .•... .• . . .• • .•• ·Los Angeles.
Arbuckle • .• • ••.•• •182 Arbuckle .... . ....• • .•... Colusa.
:Arcata •••.• • ••• • • •106 Arcata .... •• . •.••• ; ••.•. Humboldt.
Argonaut ••••.••••• 461 San Francisco .. . .. • .... San Francisco.
Argonne •• • .••••••. 514 San Francisco ....•••.... San Francisco.
Arroyo ••. • •• . ••••• 274 Arroyo Grande .•.•.•... •San Luis Obispo.
Arlington . . • • .••.. 414: Los Angeles .•. •. ~ ••.... Los Angeles.
Artesia .....••..••• 377 Artesia •. , .•.• . •.•...•... Los Angeles.
Ascot • ....• . • • • • : . . 538 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar ..... . ......... 306 Colton ••.•.•••••.•.•••.• San Bernardino.
Atascadero ; .•••• .- .493 Atascadero .•••••. •• .••.. San Luis Obispo.
Athena ••.••.•••••. 228 Davis ................... Yolo.

Lodge.

No.

Post 01'1'.lce.

439
County.

Atwater .••. . • •••••• 622 Los Angeles ••.•.•••.•••• Los Angeles.
Azure •••••••.•••••• 533 .Fullerton .•.•••.•.•••••. Orange.
Azusa •.••••••• . ••. 305 Azusa . •••.•••••••••••••• Los Angeles.
Bakersfield .. • .• . •• . 224 Bakersfield • ..•·•. . • ...•. Kern.
Balder •.... . ••. • .. . 393 San Francisco ... ..•. . . . San Francisco.
Baldwin Park • •••••• 660 Baldwin Park ..•••• •• •.• Los Angeles.
Bay City .• . .•••••• 526 San Francisco .••. • •.••• San Francisco.
Bay View •.. ••• .•• • . 401 Oakland .. ·....•... •• . •• Alameda.
Beacon of the West .• 628 Los Angeles .•••••••••• , Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain . . .•:.-. 76 ·Angels Camp .. •.. •..•. .• Calaveras.
Bell ..•...... . • ••.. 483 Bell ... ..• ...... • ...•• . Los Angeles.
Bellfiower • , ...••.. 523 Bellfiower •••..•••••••• Los Angeles.
Belvedere ••.••••••. 539 Los Angeles ••••••••• , •• Los Angeles.
Benevolence •••••••• 631 Los Angeles .. . •••..•• • • .Los Angeles.
Benicia • •• . . . . . . . • • 5 Benicia •. . ....•..•..... Solano.
Benj. Franklin . . •... 509 Los Angeles....•.. . ...• •Los Angeles.
Berkeley . ...... . ... 363 Berkeley • ...•.•...• • • •• Alameda.
Bethlehem . . . . •..• . 453 San Francisco ..••.... ••. San Francisco.
Beverly Hills .••••• 528 Beverly Hills .•••••.••• Los Angeles.
Big Bear ••.• •• ••• •. 617 Pine Knot ••••••••••••• San Bernardino.
Blackmer . . .• ... •• .442 San Diego .. ........• •...San Diego.
Blythe ..•.. . . •. .••. 473 Blythe . .•... . . •.. .... . . San Bernardino.
Brawley • . . • .. • . . • . 402 Brawley . , ....... : ..•• . Imperial.
Brentwood • • • , . .... 345 Brentwood : ...• . : 1 •• .••• Contr a Costa.
Brooklyn • ... ... .. . 225 E ast Oakland .. .. • •• . •• • • Alameda.
Buckeye .. .• .. . . . , .195 Winters ..•.. : . . ••.••• • •Yolo.
Buena Park...•. •. .. 357 Buena Park ...•.••.. . .• Orange.
Burbank .... . ..•• • . 406 Burbank .••....•.. .• • . •L!JS Angeles.
Burlingame • .• • .•.. 400 Burlingame . .•..•.••••• San Mateo.
Cahuenga .• .•1.'. i •• • 513 Los Angeles .. ~ .•..• , ••• Los Angeles.
Caledonia .. .. ... • .. 486 Bakersfield •..•... . •... . •Kern.
Calexico . .. . . • . , . . •412 Calexico .. •.. : ..•..•.•• Imperial.
California . . • . . . . . • • 1 San Francisco . . . ..••... . San Francisco.
Calaveras ...•.. . •. . 78 San Andreas . ... . •. ••.•• Calaveras.
Callayomi ..• .. •.. . . 282 Middletown .. • .. .• ..••• Lake.
Calistoga •••..••.•. 233 Calistoga ••...••..• .•.• Napa.
Canoga • ... . . ..•... 611 Canoga Park ..••..• ••. Los Angeles.
Capital City•. .. .. .•• 499 Sacramento ........ . . • •Sacramento.
Carmelita .• . • •• • ••. 599 Pasadena . .... . .. .. •... • Los Angeles.
Carpinteria ••.• • •• •444 Carpint eria •. . • .. • . . ...• Santa Barbara.
Carquinez ..• •• ..•.. . 337 Crocket t ... . ... . .... : . ; •Contra Coiita.
Catalina Island ••••. 524 Avalon ••••••••••••.••• Los Angeles.
Center . . ...••• • .. .. 465 Fresno ••••• • .... . ••• •• F resno.
Charity .•.••.••.•.. 362 Campbell .•.• • . .• . .•.... Sant a Clara.

440
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE· OF CALIFORNIA

P .R OCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Post Olflce.

County.

Charter Roek •...•. . 410 Berkeley .•....•...•..•.• Alameda.
Chateau Thierry •••• 569 ·Oakland ..•....••••••••. Alameda.
Chico .....••....••. 111 .. Chico ...•.. ·•·· ........•. Butte;
Chino Valley •.•.•• .427 Chino .•...•.........••• San Bernardino.
Chula Vista ••.••••. 626 Chula Vista •.•..•••••• San Diego.
Citrol .............. 656 Brea ..••••••.•...•.. ; .•.Orange.
Claiborne •...••••.. 185 Point Arena ......•..... Mendocino.
Claremont ••.••..•• 436 Claremont •.•......•.•. Los Angeles.
Clay ............... 101 Dutch Flat ............. Placer.
Clear Lake .•.••••..• 183 Lower Lake ......••....• Lake.
Clinton •.••••••• , •. 119 Igo .................... Shasta.
Clovis _••..•....•••. 417 C}ovi11 . , .. , •.. , •••....• Fresno.
Coachella , .•.•...••. 476 Coachella .••... • •.....• Riverside.
Coalinga •.•.....••. 387 Coalinga ...• , ..••.....• Tulare.
Compass ..........• 590 Pomona .......•.•. , ..••. Los Angeles.
Concord •..•..••...• 117 Sacramento .••••••••••• Sacramento.
Confidence ..•.••... 203 Castroville •......•....• Monterey.
Consuelo ..•...•••.. 325 Escondido ..•.....•.... San Diego.
Corcoran •...•••.... 490 Corcoran •.•.•...• , . ; •.. Kings.
Colusa •..•.••••.... 240 . Colusa ..•..•..•..•..••. ('olusa.
Comp<1site •••••• • ••• 639 Los Angeles .••••.•....•.Los Angeles.
Corinthian • • . . . • . . . 9 Marysville •.....•...... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena .............. Los Angeles.
Coronado .......... «1 Coronado •..... . •.... .'•. San Diego.
Covelo ............. 231 Covelo ................. Mendocino.
Covenant •..••••••• 527 Los Angeles •.••.••••.• Los Angeles.
Covina ............. 334 Covina ................. Los Angele&'.
Clarence F. Smith •. .482 Los Angeles .•••..••••.. Los Angeles.
Craftsmen ••••.•••• 559 Los Angeles .•••..•••.•• Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley •••• 652 Montrose '·· ............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ..••..••••'. 45 Crescent "City . ......•... Del Norte.
Crocker ........•... 454 Daly. City............... San Mateo.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco .. . . ....... San Francisco.
Culver City ..•...•. .467 Culver City • . ......... . •Los Angeles.
Cupertino .•..•..• .'.510 Cupertino .....••...•••. Santa Clara.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ..•.....•..•. Sonoma.
Chowchilla ••....•. .485 Chowchilla .•....•.•••.. Riverside.
Damascus •••••••••. 648 San Bernardino •••.••••• San Bernardino.
Delano ............. 309 Delano ..•..• • ...•..•• : .Kern.
Delta •...••..•.•••. 471 Stockton ..•.....••.••.. San Joaquin.
Dimond •••..•••••• . eos Oakland •••.••••••••••• Alameda.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba ................ Tulare.
Doric ..•..••.•..••. 216 San Francisco ......•..•• San. Francisco.
Downey .....•.•••.. 220 Downey .•...••••......• Los Allgelee.

Lodge.

No.

Post Ol'tlce.

441
County.

Drytown ........... 174 Plymout h .....• . •..•••• Amador.
Dunsmuir .•••.•••.. 297 Dunsmuir •.••..•...•... Siskiyou.
Durant .. . ..•.••... 268 Berkeley ...•..•..•..•• , .Alameda.
Eagle Rock •.••••••. 422 Los Angeles ..••.•..•. :•• L~s Angeles.
East Bay .••..••.•.. 489 Berkeley •..•••••••••••. .A.lamP.da.
· East Belt .......... 391 Tuolumne •.•..•... • ....• Tuolumne.
East .Gate ..•..•••.. 290 Los Angeles ..•....•••... Los Angeles.
East San Diego ••••• 561 East San Diego ..••.. ·•· .San Diego.
Eden ..••.•••..••.• 113 San Leandro ..•........ Alameda.
Educator • .•••• •••• 554 San Francisco .•••.•• • •• .San Francisco.
Eel River ..•.•••..••• 147 Fortuna •...... ..• .••.. Humboldt.
El Cajon Valley ..... 576 El Cajon ...... , ........ San Diego.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ...•..•...•.... Imperial.
El Dorado • • . .. • • .. • 26 Placerville •••••••••••••• El Dorado.
Elk Grove ..•..•...• 173 Elk Grove .....•.....•.. Sacramento.
Elmhurst .••.•.••.. , 610 Oakland •..•.••••••••• Alameda.
Elsinore ......•...• 289 Elsinore ...•....•.. • ... Riverside.
El Segundo ....•••.. 507 El Segundo ............. Los Angeles.
El Sereno ..••...••. 588 Los Angeles ......... .. . Los Angeles.
Elysian •.....••.••. 418 Los Angeles ~ ••......•. Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ..•..•.•........•• But te.
Enterprise .•••••••. 70 Yuba City .............. Sutter.
Escalon ••....•••••. 591 Eecalon ....•.•.••.•••• ·. .San Joaquin.
Eucalyptus •.•..• . .• 243 Haywards •••..••••••••• Alameda..
Euclid •.•••••••• : : . 519 Los Angeles ••••••..••• Los Angeles.
Eureka •.. . .•.•. . .. 16 Auburn •.••.• .• • .. . .•••. Placer.
Evening Star •.•.• ·•. 186 · Etna Mills .. , ......•..• Siskiyou.
Evergreen ..... : : • :259 Riverside ....••........ Riverside.
Excelsior . .• .•.• : . : .166 San Francisco . .' . . ..••... San Francisco.
Exeter ............. 424 Exeter . . •......... 1.• • •• Tulare.
Fairfax .. ; .•••••••. 556 Fairfax ............ : ... .Marin.
Fairview •••••••••. 629 Inglewood • .•..•••••.••. Los Angeles.
Fairmount ..•.. . •. . 435 San Francisco .•... . • • ..• San Francisco.
Fall.b rook ..••.•..•. 317 Fallbrook . . ... .• ...... . San Dieg9.
Far West .•••••••• , •673 San Francisco .•••..•• • •. San Franci1co.
Fellowship '' ....•.... 480 Oakland .............. . Alamed&. .. :.
- ~.. Ferndale .... ~ ·· .... 193 Ferndale ................Humboldt.
Fidelity •... ".''~·;;: ·•.. 120 San Frllncisco .•.• .. ...•. San Fran.Gisco.
Fillmore ....... : ..• 379 Fillinor~ .. , • .••., ........ Ventura.
Florence ••••••••••• 649 Florence.::: .: •••.••••• .Los Angeles.
Fontana ••• , ••••••• 653 Fontana ••••••••••• , ••• San Bernardino.
Foothill ••••••••••• 564 Oakland .....•..•..•.••. Alameda.
Forbestown • • . • • . . . 50 Forbestown •••••••• , ••• Butte.
Forest •.•.••.•••.•• 66 Alleghany .•..••••• , ••• Sierra.
Fort Bragg •..•.••. 361 Fort Bragg .....•..•.. ; .Mendocino.
Fort Crook ••••• , ••• rms Fall River Mills ...••••• Shast a.

442

•

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
Fortitude ••....•••• ,624 Oakland •.••.••••••••• Alameda.
Franklin ...•.••.•.. 143 Courtland ..•.....• .' ..•• Sacramento.
Francis Drake ...... 376 South San Francisco . .... San Mateo.
Francis K. Bhattuck.371 Berkeley ..•.. . ••.•.•..• .Alameda.
Fraternity ••. ·..•... 399 San Jose ••. ..•• ..•.•... Santa Clara.
Fremont : ••••.••••• 497 Oakland ............... Alameda.
-Fresno .••.••..•.... 247 Fresno ................. Fresno.
Friendship ......... 210 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .....•.•.. 336 Oakland ••......•..•... Alameda.
Fullerton •••..•...• 339 Fullerton •...••.. ·. ..•.. Orange.
Galt .....••....•.•. 267 Galt .......•............Sacramento.
Garden Grove ..•... 586 Garden Grove . ...•.•....Orange.
Gardena •••..••..•• 372 Gardena ......•.•.....• Los Angeles.
The Gardens ••••.••. 621 Los Angeles ..•••..•.••• Los Angeles.
Garvanza • : ...•• ". . .492 Los Angeles .••..•...•.• Los Angeles.
Georgetown • • . • . . . • 25 Georgetown ............ El Dorado.
George Washington .. 525 San F:ancisco ..•..•..•. San Francisco.
Glassell Park ....... 605 Los Angeles •.•.••••••• Los Angeles.
Glendale •.••••••••. 544 Glendale ..••.••.••.••.. .Los Angeles.
Glendora ....•.••... 404 Glendora .....•......... Los Angeles.
Golden City ••••••••. 553 San Francisco .•••••...• .San Francisco.
Golden ·Gate. . . . . . . . 30 San Francisco ..•..•..... San Francisco.
Golden Rule ........ 479 San Jose . . .. ... ....•... Santa Clara.
Golden West ..•..•. 455 San Francisco ...•.... . • San Francisco.
Golden State ...•.... 358 Los Angeles ...•...... . . Los Angeles.
Gold Hill ........... 32 Lincoln •......•........ Placer.
Grafton .........•.. 141 Knights Landing .••••. Yolo.
Granada ............ 608 Alhambra •••.••.•••.•• Los Angeles.
Gravel Range ..•...• 59 Camptonvllle ......••.. Yuba.
Greenleaf ••..•....• 670 Whittier .....•..••.•..••Los Angeles.
Grizzly ........... . . 601 Portola •.•.••••.•.••••• Plumas.
Guadalupe ..... ; : •. 237 Guadalupe •..•..• .• . • •• Santa Barbara.
Guardian .... . . : • : .596 South Gate .. . .......... Los Angeles.
Hammonton : ....... 433 Hammonton ..•.•...•.. Yuba.
Hanford ..•..•...•. 279 Hanford ................ Kings.
Harbor ..••...•.• .' .502 Richmond .....•... : .... Contra Costa.
Harding ..•....•... 584 Los Angeles .. .......... Los Angeles.
Harmony ..•..•.... 164 Sierra City ............·.Sierra.
Hartley .•••...•••.. 199 Lakeport •....•........ Lake.
Hawaiian ••.•....... 21 Honolulu ...••......... Hawaiian Ter.
Hawthorne ......... 647 Hawthorne ..............Los Angeles.
Hemet ••••••••••••• 615 Hemet •...••.•••••• : •• Riverside.
Henry Clay .. ; .•• ••• 95 Sutter Creek .....•...... Amador,
Henry Morae
Stephens ....••••. 541 Berkeley •••••••••••••• Alameda.
·I" . . . .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Lodge.
No.
Post Ottlce.
County.
Henry Knox ..••...• 662 Los Angeles ••..•••.•••• Los Angeles.
Hermann ; • .. .. ..... 127 San Francisco ....... . .. San Franciseo.
Hermosa ••••••••••• 557 Hermosa Beach ••••••• Los Angeles.
Hesperian .•••..•..• 264 Santa Maria .....•..•• . • Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..•... 3~2 Los Angeles .......... .. Los Angeles.
Hillcrest •.•.••••••• 573 Berkeley •.•..•..•...... .Alameda.
Hill 's Ferry......... 236 Newman ..... . •.• .. .... Stanislaus.
Hiram . . • . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado •..•.•••....•. El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme ..•. •458 Los Angeles ..•..... .. .• Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck .....•.. 319 Los Angeles .......••.•• Los Angeles.
Hollywood ....•.... 355 Hollywood ........•.... Los Angeles.
Holtville · •....•.... 425 Holtvi~le .••••••••••••• Imperial.
Honolulu ....... . ... 409 Honolulu . . ..•....•...• Hawaiian Ter.
Hope ..•..• ..•. .•.. 234 Beckwith .•...........• Plumas.
Hornitos .. ... ...... 98 Hornitos ........ ... .... Mariposa.
Howard •.••••••..•• 37 Yreka ..•.............. Siskiyou.
Humboldt • . . . . . . . . . 79 Eureka •............... Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beach ...... Orange.
Illinoistown ..•..•.. 51 Colfax ................. Placer.
Imperial ..•........ 390 Imperial . .. ...........• Imperial.
Ingleside ...•..••••. 630 San Francisco •.••••••• San Francisco.
Inglewood ....•... .421 Inglewood ..•......•.•. Los Angeles.
Fairview •••• , •.••. 629 Inglewood ••..•••••.• Los ·Angeles.
Indian Rock ••...•.. 638 Berkeley •..•.•..••.•... Alameda.
Inyo ....... . .. . .... 221 Independence .......... Inyo.
Ione ...•.. . ..•.. , . . 80 Ione .. . . . •·•...•..•.... Amador.
Ionic ......•......• 520 Los Angeles .•••••..•.• Los Angeles.
James A. Foshay .•.• 640 Los Angeles .•••••••.•••.Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield ..• 566 Los Angeles ..••..••. .· .. Los Angeles.
James Madison .• .••. 572 Los Angeles ...••••..••• Los Angeles.
Jefferson • . • • . . • • • . 97 Laporte •••..••••••••••• Plumas.
Janesville ••. ; ••••. 232 Lassen .•••....•..••.••• Lassen.
Jewel ••• , •.••••••. 374 Ban Francisco .••••••••• San Francisco.
John Marshall ••••• •636 West Hollywood ..•••..•• Los Angelea.
John P. Jarman .•• •. 669 Ban Jose .•..••.••..•...• Santa, Clara.
Jonathan ..••..•••• 545 San Francisco ••.••••••• San Francisco.
Joppa. .••..•..••... 508 San Joaquin .•••.••.••• Fresno.
Jordan •••••••••.••• 654 Los Angeles .••.••..•••. Los Angeles.
Jubilee ............. 604 Santa Ana> .............. Orange.
Justice •.••••••..•• 549 San Francisco .•••..••.. San Francisco.
Kauai .••• . •.•...• • 589 Li hue' •.•••..•••.••••••• Kauai, T. H.
Kaweah ............ 665 Woodlake ..•..•..••.•..• Tulare.
Keith .••.•••..•.•• 187 Gilroy ....•• " .••••••••• Santa> Clara.
Kerman ••••. •• ..•• 420 Kerman ••.....••••••••• Fresno.
Keystoae •••.••••.• 161 Milton ••••.•••••••••••• Calaveras.

443

444
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Post Otrlce.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
County.

Kilauea . . ...•..••. 330 Hilo ••... .....•..••• ; ; •• Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ....•. 209 San Luis Obispo ..••.. .. . San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's ..•. 260 San Francisco .•..•••••. San Francisco.
Knox, Henry ........ 662 Los Angeles ............•Los Angeles.
La Brea ..••....•••• 650 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
La Cumbre .•.•..••. 642 Santa Barbara .........• Santa Barbara.
La Fayette .•..••.. 126 Sebastopol •...•.......•• Sonoma.
Laguna Beach ..•••.. 672 Laguna Beach ..•..•.••.. Orange.
La Habra ••......•. 659 La Habra ..........•..•.Orange.
La Jolla .....•...•. 518 San Diego •..•••..••••• San Diego.
Lakeshore ......••. 551 Oakland .•...•...•••••. Alameda.
Lamanda Park ..••. 627 Pasadena . . ....•••••.•.. Los Angeles.
La Mesa ... •.. ..•.. 407 L11; Mesa ..•.••••.••••••. San Diego.
Lancaster ..•..••. .437 Lancaster ......•..••••• Los Angeles.
Lankershim ....•... 542 North Hollywood ...••.•. Los Angeles.
Landmark .. .... ... 253 Esparto · •..•..••..••.••• Yolo.
La Puente ••....... 446 Puente ...... ... .•••.•.. Los Angeles.
Larchmont ...•...... 614 Los An.geles .......•...• Los Angeles.
Las Palmas •... .... 366 .Fresno ••.... ••.• .••••.. Fresno.
Lassen .......•.... 149 Susanville . •...•..••••.• Lassen.
J,aurel ... .• .....•.. 245 Willows .. . ....•.•....•. Glenn.
Lebanon .•......... 495 San Francis.co .••.•••••. San Francisco.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu .• •..•.• ••.•••. Hawaiian Ter.
· Lexington .•.•..... 104 El Monte .... .. ....••••• Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts . .•••••• 671 Los Angeles ..•..•.• .•.•• Los Angeles.
Libertas ........... 466 Bakersfield .....•.••••. Kern.
Liberty •..•..•..••• 299 Santa Clara ...•........ Santa Clara.
Lincoln ...•......•. 4 70 San Francisco ..•••••••. San Francisco.
Lindsay ••... . ...•. 416 Lindsay .••.....••••••.. Tulare.
Live Oak ...••..••. 61 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Livingston ••••••••. 658 Livingston ••.••.•.••••. Merced.
Lodi ' ..... .. .. • .••. 256 Lodi ••.•..•..•.•..•.••• San Joaquin.
Lomita ••.•..••.... 644 Lomita .......•....•..•. Los Angeles.
Lompoc ... ......••. 262 Lompoc ....•.•..•••• H .Santa Barbara.
Long Beach . .••.... 327 Long Bep.eh ..•...•••••• Los Angeles.
Los "Angeles . . . • • • • • 42 Los Angeles . . ..•••.. .'. •Los Angeles.
Los Banos .....•... 312 Los Banos .••••.••• • •••• Merced.
Los Cerritos •.. : •.•• 674 Long ~each ..•..• : •...•. Los Angeles.
Los Gatos .. :·.• •. •. . 292 Los Gatos ....•••••.•.•• Santa Clara.
Loyalton ..• : •. • ... 359 Loyalton . : ••...••.•••.• Sierra.
Loyalty ...• ••...• . 529 Los Angeles ..•••..•••• ·Los Angeles.
Lynwood • ......•••. 600 . Lynwood .•••••• • •••••• ·Los Angeles.
Madera . ... ..•..... 280 Madera ...........•... -Madera.
Madison .. .• ....... 23 Grass Valley .....•..•.. Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ......•... Santa Barbara.
Malta .. . ... ....... 661 Io0s Angeles ............ Los Angeles.

Lodge.

No.

Post Otrlce.

445
County.

Manchester ••...•.• 585 Los Angeles .......• .... Los Angeles.
Maricopa .......•.. 434 Maricopa .............. Kern.
Marin ... . ........• 191 San Rafael ....... . .•• , .Marin.
l\{ariposa . ... .... .. 24 Mariposa .....•..•.. : .. Maripo~a.
Martinez . . . . . . . . . . 41 Martinez ... : .........• Contra Costa.
Maui ............•. 472 Maui, Kahului. ........• Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell .....•...•. 288 Maxwell ...... . ... . .... Colusa.
McCloud ........... 430 McCloud .............•. Siskiyou.
McKinley .. ........ 347 Richmond ...... ....... • Contra Costa.
Melrose •........... ,602 Los Angeles ...•...•••• Los Angeles.
Menlo Park ••.••••• 651 Menlo Park . .....••••.. . San Mateo.
Menorah ....•....•. 623 Los Angeles •.•.•••• •• • Los Angeles.
Mendocino ....... . . 179 Mendocino .. ..... .....• Mendocino.
Meridi11;n • , •..••.•• 667 Glendale .....•.. . ..•... • Los Angeles.
Metropolitan ••..••• 646 Los Angeles......•••.••• Los Angeles.
Midway . .• ..... ... 426 Taft .. .............. , . . Kern,
Military Service .•.. 570 San Francisco ..•...•.• ..San Francisco.
Mill Valley ..•....•. 356 Mill Valley ...... .•.. . •. Marin.
Mission ...•...•.... 169 San Francisco . ......•.. San Francisco.
Mizpah .. ......••.. 378 . Los Angeles .....•..•... Los Angeles.
Modesto •••••••••.• 675 Modesto ..•...••••.••.•. Stanislaus.
Molino ...•.... . ... 150 Tehama ............... Tehama.
Moneta ..... .. ... . . 405 Los Angeles ....•... . . • . Los Angeles.
Montebello •..... .. . 451 Montebello . . ..........• Los Angeles.
Monrovia . . •.... ... 308 Monrovia .. ........ .... Los Angeles.
Monterey . .... ..... 217 Monterey ...........•.. Monterey.
Monte Vista •.•••••• 655 Long Beach .•..••••..•.. Los Angeles.
Morgan Hill ........ 463 Morgan Hill ............ Santa Clara.
Morning Star . . . . . . • 68 Stockton ..•.•..•....•.. San Joaquin.
Mosaic .....•...... 218 Livermore . . .......•.. ,Alameda.
Mount Davidson .... 481 San Francisco .........• San Francisco.
Mount Diablo ...... .448 Concord ..•.........•.. Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson .. •.. 295 Guerneville ... ... . .. . .. Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ...... 44 San Francisco .... ... . . •San Francisco.
Mount Olive •...• ... 506 Los Angeles ... ....... .. Los Angeles.
Mount Oso ........ .460 Tracy .. . . . .... ....... . San Joaquin.
Mount Vernon •..•.• 317 San Francisco ..•.•..••• San Francisco.
Mountain Shade ..... 18 Downieville •........... Sierra.
Mount Shasta .. . . . . . 281 Anderson ........• , .. .. Shasta.
Mountain View. .. •.• 194 Mountain View . . . • .. ... Santa Clara.
Natoma . ..• . .. .. ... 64 Folsom .....•....•.•... Sacrament o.
Naval .••.. •• .....•• 87 Vallejo ...........•••.. Solano.
Needles .........•.. 326 Needles ..•............ San Bernardino.
l'feptune •..•.•..••. 619 Long Beach .•..••••••• Los Angeles.
Nevada •........... 13 Nevada City .. ...•.. .. . Nevada.

446

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post OITlce.
County,
Newville ..... . . ... . 205 Paskenta ......• ....... Tehama.
Nicolaus . . ......... 129 Wheatland ........•. . . . Yuba.
Normal Heights .•••. 632 San Diego . ••...••••.•• • San Diego.
North Butte .... .... 230 Gridley ...............• Butte.
North East ...•..... 266 Fort. Bidwell ..•....•.... Modoc.
Northern Light...•.. 190 Mill ville •..........•... Shasta.
North Star•..•...... 91 Fort Jones ....•......... Siskiyou.
Norwalk .... . ...... 315 Norwalk ....•..•.••.•.. Los Angeles.
Oakdale .. . .. .. ..... 275 Oakdale . .. . ..• ........ Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .... ... .. . 215 Alameda ..... .. .... . . • :Alameda.
Oakland .. ... ...... 188 Oakland ..•..• ·. . •...•.. Alameda.
Oasis ........ .. .... 664 El Centro ........•....• Imperial.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco .... .. .... San Francisco.
Ocean Park ......... 369 Oceanpark .. •-. : ·........ Los Angeles.
Oceanside ......•... 381 · Ocealll!ide .. . , . ·. ~;; •.i .. ;, , ·.'San Diego.
Ojai •...•..•....... 663 Ojai. .......••.•. .•.'• • ••• Ventura.
Olive Branch .. ... .. 269 Tulare .. .. ............ :Tulare. '
Olivet ............. 205 Corning ................Tehama. ·
Ontario •.........• . 301 Ontario ................ San Bernardino.
Ophir .............. 33 Murphy's .............. Calaveras.
Orange Grove .. .' .•.. 293 Orange ................ Orange.
Oriental ..•........ 144 San Francisco ...._...... San-Frandsco.
Orland . ........... 265 Orland ....... . ........ Glenn.
Orosi .........•.... 383 Orosi . .. .... .....•....• Tulare.Oroville ............ 103 Oroville . .......• ... . .. Butte.
Oxnard .....•...•.. 341 Oxnard ... . ....•·•...... Ventura,
Pacific ...... . ...... 136 San Francisco . .. .. .... . San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....•.. 331 Pacific Grove .•••.... .... Monterey.
Pajaro •. ._ ......•... 110 Watsonville ......... .. . Santa Cruz.
Palestine ••......... 351 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Palisades •...•..... 637 Santa Monica .. •• •.•...• Los Angeles.
Palms ............. 512 Palms ........•. ... .... Lo11 Angeles.
Palo Alto. . ....•.... 346 Palo Alto . . ....... .. . ... Sar.ta Clara.'
Palos Verdes .... . . .. 389 Long Beach •......... .. Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union .... .. 17 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Park •.•.......... .449 San Francisco •...• • .... San Francisco.
Park Boulevard.'"" .568 · Oakland ..•...•.•.•.•.•. Alameda.
•Parnassus .. . . .. , .-. .388 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Pasadena ......... . 272 Pasadena .... ........ .. Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles .. .. . ........ San Luis Obispo.
Patterson •.•..•... .488 Patterson .......... , ... Stanislaus.
Paul Revere ........ 462 San Francisco . ·... ... ... San Franci.sro.
Pearl Harbor ...... 598 Honolulu .... ........... Hawaiian Ter.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

447

Lodge.
No.
Post OITlce.
County.
Penrby11 ........... 258 Penryn •••••....•...•.. Placer.
Pentalpha .......... 202 Los Angeles . . ••.•.••..• Los Angeles.
Perris •.•.•• ...... .. 411 Perris .. . ........... . .. Riverside.
Petaluma •.• .•• •••. 180 Petaluma ••. , ••.....••. Sonoma.
Phoenix •• .... • ••.. 178 San Bernardino •..• , .•.. San Bernardino.
Piedmont •••••••••. 521 Piedmont ••• , •••••••••. Alameda.
Pinole ._............ 353 Pinole . ........ ........ Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .......... 429 Pittsburg .............. Contra Costa.
Plumas . • • • • • • • • • . • • 60 Quincy ••••••• •• •••••••. Plumaa.
Plymouth .......... 560 Oakland ................ Alameda.
Poinsettia .• •••••••• 633 Ventura •••••••••••••••• Ventura.
Point ......... .. ... 503 Richmond ............... Contra Coata.
Point Firmin ... ... . 558 San Pedro ••••.•••.••••• Los Angele3.
Point JAma .•••••••• 620 San Diego .•• , .••.••••.. San Diego.
Pomona ••.•.•.•••.• 246 Pomona •.•••....•••••••. Los Angeles.
Porterville ••••••• , .303 Porterville • , , ••.•• , ••••• Tulare.
Presidio ••••••••••. 354 San Francisco ..•••.••• ,San Francisco.
Progressive •••••••• 578 Los Angeles •••• ~, ••.••• Los Angele11.
Provident ...... . ... 609 Sacramento .... ......... Sacramento.
Pyramid •••••••••• ,562 San Francisco ••••.••••• San Francisro.
Queen Beach ... . ... 540 Long Beach ............ ,Los Angeles.
Ramona ............ 457 Monterey Park ......... Los Angeles.
Heading ••••••••••• ,254 Redding ••••••.• , •• , , •• ,Shasta.
Redlands ....... ... ,SOO Redlands .............. ,San Bernardino
Redondo ••. , .•• , • , • ,328 Redondo ••••.•.•• , , •• , .• Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City . ..... . .... San Mateo.
Reedley ..... , ••••• ,304 Reedley ................ Fresno.
Reseda .••.•••••••• 666 Reseda ..•.••...•....••• Los Angeles.
Rialto •..••••••••••. 582 Rialto •••• • ••.••••••• , • ,San Bernardino.
Richmond .......... 875 San Francisco .......... San Francisl'o.
Rio Vista ........... 208 Rio Viat& ............... Solano.
Rising Light ..... ,.397 Huntington Park .. .. ... Los Angeles.
Riverbank . ........ 459 Riverbank .. ............ Stanislaus.
Uiverdale ••••••.••• 496 Riverdale •••••••.••••••• Fresno.
Riverside .......... 035 Riverside ............... Riverside.
Rock ridge .......... 468 Oakland ................ Alameda.
Hoosevelt ........... 500 San Francisco .......... San Fr11ncisco
Rose '1 Bar .......... 89 Smartsville .... . ........Yuba.
Roseville ........... 222 Roseville ................Placer,
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ................ Sonoma.
Sacramento .. • .. • • • 40 Sncramen.to .............Sacramento.
Saint Helena •·...... 93 St. Helena .............. Napa.
Salinas .. . ....... . . ,204 Salinas ••..•.. , ......... Monterey.

448
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Post Office.

449

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

County.

San Benito ••.•••.•. 211 Hollister .........•.••••. San Benito.
San Buenaventura .• 214 Ventura .....•..••...••• Ventura.
San Clemente .•. ·~ •• 671 San Clemente .....•..•.• Orange.
San Diego • . . • . • • • . . 35 San Diego .•...•.•...••• San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas .••..••••••••• Los Angeles.
San Gabriel ••.•.... 546 San Gabriel .•.......••. Loe Angeles.
San Gorgonio ....•.. 668 Banning .......••..•..•• Riverside.
Sanger .•..•..•.•.•. 316 Sanger •.• : ..••.•••••.•• Fresno.
San Bernardino .... 348 San Bernardino ..... .• .•. San Bernardino.
San Fernando •....•. 343 Fernando ..........•.••. Loe Angeles.
San Francisco •.•.•. 360 San Francisco ••.•.••••• San Francisco.
San Jacinto ...•..•. 338 San Jacinto .•.•.•••...• Riverside.
San Joaquin .•.••••• 19 Stockton •............•. San Joaquin.
San Jose .•....••.•• 10 San Jose .•...•••••••••. Santa Clara.
San Mateo ••...•.•. 226 San Mateo ••••.••••••••• San Mateo.
San Miguel ..•..••.. 285 San Miguel. ....•..•..•. San Luis Obispo
San Pasqual ......•. 452 Pasadena ......•.•...•. Los Angeles.
San Pedro ....•...•. 332 ·san Pedro ...•..•....... Los Angeles;.·
Santa Ana .....•.... 241 Santa Ana .....•....•••. Orange.
Santa Barbara ....•. 192 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz • ." .....•. 38 Santa Cruz .....•....•.. Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia~ .•...•. 302 Kings City ............. :Monterey.
Santa Maria ....•..• 580 Ramona .................Ban Diego.
Santa Monica ..•.... 307 Santa Monica .........•. Los Angeles.
Santa Paula...•..•.. 291 Santa Paula ........•..• Ventura.
Santa Rosa ...•...•• 57 Santa Rosa ...........•. Sonoma.
'3an Simeon ...••.•.. 196 Cambria ....... : ..•...• San Luis Obispo.
Schofield .....•.•... 443 Schofield Barracks ...... Hawaiian Ter.
Seal Beach •••••.••. 616 Seal Beach ..•...• , •••• ,Orange.
Seal Rock ••..•.•.•• 536 San ~'rancieco •.•• , ••.•. San Francisco.
Searchlight .••..••• 567 Long Beach ...•....••...Los Angeles.
Seaport •.••.••••••• 550 San Francisco'· ..•. • •.••.San Francisco.
Seaside •..•..•..... 504 Long Beach ....•....... Los Angeles.
Security ••.•••••••• 581 Bakersfield ....•..•..... Kern.
Selma ............. 277 Selma ..........•..•... Fresno.
Semper Virens •••••• 552 Eureka ..•.••..•.. ,., .•.• Humboldt.
Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland .......•...••.. Alameda.
Service .••••••••••• 594 Long Beach ..•......... Los Angeles.
Sierra Madre .•..•.. 408 Sierra Madre .. , ........• Los Ange}e\I.!" ·
Sierra Valley •••.••. 184 Sierraviile .....•..!..... Sierra.
Signal ••••••••••••. 543 Long Beach ...•.••.•••..Los Angeles.
Silveyville ••••••••. 201 Dixon •..•.....•..•...• Solano.
Silver Cord ..•••••.. 505 Santa Ana ..•....•...•.• Orange.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Silver Gate .••.•••.. 296 San Diego •.•.••••••... San Diego.
Silver Trowel. ••••.. 415 Loe Angeles •.• , .•••..•• Loe Angeles.
Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville •••.•••••.••. Plumas.
Sisson ••••••••••••• 310 Mount Shasta .•••••••••• Siskiyou.
Smyrna •••••••••••• 532 Ceres ••••••••••••••••• Stanislaus
Snow Mountain ...•• 271 Stony Ford ...•...•••••. Colusa.
Sojourner .......... 507 Monrovia •••..••••••••• Loa Angeles.
Solano •••••.•••••.• 229 Vallejo .•••••.••..•.•••• Solano.
Sotoyome ••.•••.••• 123 Healdsburg •••••••••••• Sonoma.
Southern California .. 278 Los Angeles ....... • .. · ·Los Angeles.
South Gate .......... 320 Los Angeles .....•..•..• Loa Angeles.
Southland .......... 618 Loa Angeles ••.••••••• •Loa Angeles.
South Park ••••••••• 563 Loa Angeles .•.•.•..•.• • Los Angeles.
South Pasadena ..••. 367 South Pasadena ....••.. ·Los Angeles.
South San Francisco.212 San l!'rancisco .......... San Francisco..
South VVest ..•.•.••. 283 National" City ......••..• San Diego.
Speranza Italiana .•• 219 San Francisco . : . •••. •.·.San Francisco.
John D. Bpreckel11 ••• 657 Ban Diego •••••••••••••. San Diego.
Standard J' ........ .440 Oakland· •.••....•.....• Alameda.
Stanislaus ·..•••••.. ·.206 Modesto ••...•••....•.• Stanislaus.
Starr King: ..••..••. 344 San Francisco ..••.•..•. San Francisco.
Stockton .••.••••.. .498 Stockton •..•..••..•••. San Joaquin.
Suisun .•••..••.•... 55 Suisun ...•..•.....•.... Solano.
Summit ............ 112 Knights Ferry •.......•• Stanislaus.
Sun Garden •••••••• 530 Fresno •••••••••••••••• Fresno
Sunnyside''.:· ••••••• 577 Loe Angeles ••••.••••••• Los An,Mee.
Sunnyvale •.•. : . .•.. 511 Sunnyvale ..•.......•.. Santa Clara.
Sunrise •.•..•.•.••. 522 Loe Angeles ••••••••••• Los Angeles.
Sunset ••..•••..•... 352 Los Angeles .....•..•..•• Loe Angeles.
Surprise Valley ••... 235 Cedarville ..•........•. Modoc.
B. VV. Hackett ••.••• 574 Ban Diego .............. San Diego.
Table :Mountain .•••. 124 Cherokee ............... Butte.
Taft .•.•••••••••.••• 516 Taft •••••••.•••••.•••• Kern.
Tehachapi •..•...... 313 Tehachapi .....•..•..•. Kern.
Tehama . . .• .•. •. . . . 3 Sacramento .....•.•.... Sacramento.
Temescal •.• •· ..••.. 314 Corona .••......••••.•. Riverside.
Temblor .......... .477 Fellows ................ Kern.
Temple City, ••• .:•· .612 Temple •••••••••••• , •••••Loa Angeles,
Temple ••.•••.....• 14 Sonoma ....•.......•... Sonoma.
Texas ••..•..•..•.•. 46 Ban Juan ..•.....•..•... San Benito.
Thousand Oaks .••.• 478 Berkeley •••••••••••••• Alameda.
Three Pillars ••.•••. 613 Sacramento ••••••••••• Sacramento.
Torrance ...••...•.. 447 Torrance .•.•..•...•...• Los Angeles.

450

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Traver ..•••.••••••• 294 Kingsburg ••• . •...••... Fresno.
Triangle ••••••••••• 548 Venice •. ~ ••.••••••••••• Los Angeles.
Trinity ...•..•.•.•• 27 Weaverville ............ Trinity.
Truckee ...•..•••..• 200 Truckee .••.••...•...•. Nevada.
Truth ••.•.•••.•••• 597 Los Angelea ..•.•..••... Los Angeles.
Tujunga ........... 592 Tujunga ................ Loa Angeles.
Tuolumne . . . .• .• . . . 8 Sonora .•.••..• • ..••... Tuommne.
Turlock •..•...•.... 395 'l'urlock •.••.••..•..•••. Stanislaus.
Tuscan ...••...•... 261 Williams .•••••..•.•••• Colusa.
Tyrian •...••••.. . .. 439 Manteca ..•.....•...••. San Joa.q~.
Union ...•.•. , •.... 58 Sacramento .•...••.••.• Sacramento.
Unity . ............. 368 Glendale .•......•.••••. Los Angeles.
University •.•••.••. 394 Los Angeles ..•.•..•.•.. Los Angeles. ,
Upland_ .•.•......•.•• 419 Upland •...••..•.•..••• San Bernardino.
Utopia ........ "> " .537 Los Ani1eles •• , •••••••. Loa Angeles.
Vacaville ...... ·:·. '. -.134 Vacaville ••••.•..••.... Solano.
Vallee de · ~.ance. :.·.'.329 Los Angeles .••••••••••• Los Angeles.
Vallejo 'J"'"'·~:
487 Vallejo .... . • . ... , •••.. Solano.
Valley ..•.......... 135 Linden . ··~· •.....••••• San Joaquin.
Valley F~rge •••••• 587 Los Angeles ..•.•.••..•. Los Angeles.
Van Niiyl! ~-~ .• . .•... 450 Van Nuys .••...•••.•••. Los Angeles.
Veritas •• : ••••••••. 640 San Francisco ..••••• , ••. San Francisco.
Vermont Square . ~ ... 515 Los Angeles .•••••.•••• Los Angeles.
Vesper .... :•• r, ••••.• 84 Red Bluff ............... Tehama.
Veteran ...•.•.•...•. 373 Sawtelle •••.••• . ••••••• Los Angeles.
Victo~ ••••••••. 634 Victorville ••••••••••••••San Bernardino.
Victor,.- ............... 474 San Francisco . • •.•.•••• San Francisco• .
Visalia .•••••.•..... 128 Visalia •.•.•.••..••••••• Tulare.
Vitruvius ..•••••. . . 145 Bloomfield ..•••.•••••••Sonoma.
Volcano ............. 56 Volcano •.• •• ••..•••••. AmadDr.
Warren G. Harding.579 North Sacramento.'......Sacramento.
Wasco ..••••••• ·.... 583 Wasco ...................Kern.
Washington •.. . .... 20 Sacramento . . •. . .... .• •Sacramento.
Waucoba .......... 413 Big Pine ..•..• . .•..•..• Inyo.
Welcome ..••....... 255 Lemoore ............... Kings.
West Adams .••..••. 565 Los Angeles • .•••••••••• Los Angeles.
Western Star ; . . . . . . 2 Shasta ................ Shasta.
W•est Gate~ .•.••.... 335 Los Angel01 •...•.•.•••• Lo& A11.~le11.
West Lake~~•....... 392 Los Angeles • ..•••..•..• Los Angeles.
Westwood . ;~.•. • .... . 501 Westwood •.•..•. . ••..• Lassen.
White Pine ......... 555 Weed ...... . ............Siskiyou. ' .. ·
Whittier . + ••.•••••.. 323 Whittier •.•.•••••.•••• .Loa Angele1.
Willits ...•...•••.. . 3.65 Willits ..... . .......... Mendocino.

....... .

451

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Willow Glen ..•••••. 676Willow Glen ..•••..••..• Santa Clar!l'.
Wilmington •...•... 198 Wilmington ........•.•• Los Angeles.
Wilshire ••...••..•. 445 Los Angeles ...• • ..•...• Los Angeles. ·
Winnedumah •••.••• 287 Bi.shop .••.. • ......•.•• Inyo.
Woodbridge •••.•... 131 Woodbridge •........••• San Joaquin.
Woodland ....•••••. 15.6 Woodland ..•••....•••• Yolo.
Woodstock •••.•.••. 491 Alameda ....•.........• Alameda.
Yerba Buena .••••••. 403 Oakland •........•....• Alameda.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo ••....•••..•..••.• Yolo.
Yorba Linda ....... 469 Yorba Linda ........... Orange.
York •.••••••••••• .423 Watts .•••..••••••••••• Los Ange!P.s.
Yosemite •.••••••••• 99 Merced •••.•..••••••••• Merced.
Yount .............. 12 Napa .................. Napa.

452

GRAND L O DGE OF. CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Post {llflce.

LOCATION OF LODGES

Lodge.

No.

Berkeley .•••..••••••..••.••• ·• •• Francis K. Shattuck . . .• ••.••••• . 571
''
''

Alphabetically Arranged

Post Office.

Lodge.

453

.N''·

Adin ••••.•. .' .•.•..•..•••••••• .". Adin •••....•••••••••.•••••••••. 250
Alhambra •..•.•.••..•.•••••••.• Alhambra ••••..••••••••••• : •••. 322
''
.......•.. ..•..••.•• •• Granada ..••••••••••••••••••••• 608
Alameda ••.•..•.•••••••••••••••• Oak Grove ••••••••••••••.•••••• 215
"
••.•••••••••• • •••••••••• Apollo ...... .. .......... ·~ •••••. 3911
''
................•..•.... Woodstoek .. . ........... • ....... 491
Alleghany ••. : • •••....•..••••.••• Forest ' .......................... 66
Altadena ..•.••..• • .••••••••••• Altadena •.••••.•..••.••••••••.• 678
Altur&B ......................... Altur&B ..•.••••••...•••••••••••. 248
Anaheim ......••.•••••••••••••• Anaheim ••..••••.•••••••••••••. 207
Anderson ••.•••.. •·..•..•••••.• ••• Mount Shasta ••••••••••••••••••. 281
Angela Camp ••....••••.•••••••• Bear Mountain • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 76
Antioch ........................ Antioch . . . .............. : .... .. 175
Arroyo Grande .•.•••.•.•. ; ...... Arroyo .....•••••••.••.••••••••• 274
Au bum •••..•.•••..••.•••••••••. Eureka ......................... 16
Arbuckle ••...•.••.•.•••••••• • •. Arbuckle ...•••••.•••••.• ••••••. ·182
Arcadia •••••••••••••••••••••••• Arcadia ••••••••••••••••••••••• 547
Arcata .......... .. . . ............ Arcata ...••.••••••...••• ~ •••... 106
Artesia ••••••••.•.•.••••••••••• ,Artesia ...•••.•••••••••••••••••• 377
Atascadero ......... ... ......... At&Bcadero .... .. ........... .... 493
Avalon ......... ...... .......... Catalina Island ••.••••••••• . •• . 524
Azusa .......... .. .............. Azusa ......................... 305
Bakersfield ••••.••••.••••••••••• Bakersfield , .••.•.•.•••••••••••. 224
"
..................... Libert&B ... ..................... 466
''
..................... Caledonia ...................... 486
''
.................... . Security ....................... . 581
Baldwin Park •••••• •• •••••••••• Baldwin Park ••••• , •••••••••••. 660
Ba·n ning ....•••.• .••. ..••• •.••• .San Gorgonio .••••••.•• • •. .•• .. 668
Beckwith ••••.•... •.•••••••••••• Ho.pe •.. •• •.•...•••••.••• .. ••••. 234
Bell ............................ Bell ...•.•.•.•.•.•••••••.•••••• ,483
Bellflower .•..••..•• •• • • .••••••• Bellflower ...•. • .•••••••••• • .•• ,523
Belvedere Gardens ••.••••••••••• The Gardens ..••••.•••••••••••• 621
Benicia ••••.•.•••.•••.•••••••••• Benicia .. ••..•.••.•. , • • • • • .. • • • 5
Berkeley ........ .. ............. Durant ••.•••••.•.•••••••••••••. 268
''
...............•.••.. .. Berkeley ... ................... . 363
''
...... . ..............•. Thousand Oaks ................ . 478
''
...................... . Charter Rock ...........• . .... . 410
''
...................... . East Bay ...................... . 489
''
......... , ......... ~ .... Henry Morse Btephena . ..... . .... 54:1

........... , .. .......... Hillcrest .................. .. .. .·573
............... •,• .... ..·Indian Rock ..... ....... ....... 638
Beverly Hills ................... Beverly Hills ................... 528
Big Pine .•.....•..•.•.••••••••• Waucoba .•..........••.•••••.• ,413
Biggs •.......•..•...•••••••••.. Emmanuel ...... . ..•..... ..••.•. 318
Bishop ...••••..•.•.•.•.•••••••• Winnedumah ~ .•... . •.. .• .•.• ••. 287
Bloomfield ...•••. ..•••••• .. .• ••• Vitruvins .•.•....•...••.•.••.•. 145
Blythe ••.•...••....••••••.••••• JUythe .•.. •......•••.•...•• •.••. 473
Brawley •. .• •..•. ..•..•••• •• ••.• Brawley . .••......••.•. . ••.•. •.. 402
Brea ••.• •. •••••.••...•••• ••••. Citrol ••••.•••••••••••••.•••••• 656
Brentwood . . ....... ....... . .... Brentwood ...................... 345
Bridgeport .••.•••.••••••••••••• Alta •.•..•• •••.•.• • •.•.••. • • •. 333
Buena Park ••..••....••• • .•.... Buena Park .•............•..•. ,357
Burbank •.. ••.... .. ..•..• ••• . •.• Burbank ..•....•......•...•..•. 406
Burlingame . ... ...•.••..• •••• •. . Burlingame .....•. . .•.. ...• .• , .400
Calexico ........................ Calexico ...•.....•.•...•...•. .'•• 412
Caiistoga · ...................... Calistoga . .. •.•...•.•.••.•.. .•.. 233
Cambria •.•.......••••.... . • . •••San Simeon .........•.•.•....... 196
Campbell . •... . •••. . .••••• •••.•. Charity •..•.•••••...•.......... 362
Camptonville ................... Gravel Range ..••.•............. 59
Canoga Park •..••••••••••••••• Canoga ••••••••••.••••.•..••.• 611
Cl!il'pinteria. .................... Carpinteria. ..................... 444
Castroville .••.. .... . ••...•• .••• Confidence .•.......•...•.•..... 203
Cedarville •.••.•...••••••..•.••. Surprise Valley .••..••..• . •.• ; .235
Centerville .•..••••..•.••...•.• , l\.lameda .•..•••..•••••••.•••.••. 167
Ceres ••...•. •.•.•.•••••...••.•. ,Smyrna ...•...•.•.•.•.•••.•.•• ,532
Cherokee .•.•.•. •• ••.••••••••••• Table Mountain ••.•.•....••..• , 124
Chico •.•...•..•.••••••••• ••••• •9hico .••••.......••..•.....•..•. Ill
Chino ...... ....... ............. Chino Valley .•••.•.•.•.......•. 427
Chowchilla ..................... Chowchilla •...•.••••...•.•.• .. •485
Chula Vista .••....•.••..•••••• ,.Chula Vista .•.•. • ••.•....••.•. ,626
Claremont •••••.••••••••••••••• ,Claremont •..•••.•.•.•. •.•. • .•. ,436
Cloverdale .....................Curtis ................... , .•..• ,140
Clovis • ~ ........................ Clovis .•••.••.••••..•••••.•..••. 417
Coachella ....................... Coachella ....................... 476
Coalingai .............. ; ......... Coalinp ....... ........... ..... 387
Colfax .•.•.••••.•••.••••••••••• ,Illinoistown . •.•• •• •.•••...•.•. . 51
Colton .••••••••••••••••••••••••• Ashlar •••• •.••••.•.•.•••. .•... , 306
Corcoran ••.•.•.•.•• •••• ••••••• ,Corcoran ...•.••••••••....•.•.• ,490
Coron11; .... ........ .. ... ........ Temescal .. ..................... ,314
Courtland .•• •.•.•••• • •• • ••• ••• ,Franklin ••• ••.•....••• •..•.•.• , 143
Covelo • •.• .•••••••••••••••• , ••• Covelo .....•••••.••........•... 231
Colusa ... ........ ....... .......Colusa .•.•..••••..••.....•...... 240

454
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Covina ••••.•••.•••••••••••••••• Covina ..•••..•.•••••.•..••.•••. 334
Compton ••••••••••••••••••••••• .Anchor ........................ 273
Concord ••.•••••.••••••••••••••• Mt. Diablo •• ·•..•••.•••.•••.•••. 448
Corning •..••••••..••.•••••••••• Olivet .......................... 205
Coronado ..••.•..•.••••••••••••• Coronado •..•..••...•••••••••••. 441
Crescent City .•.•••...••• , •• , •.• Crescent ••..••.•••••••••.•.•.•• 45
Crockett ••••.•...••..•••••••••• Carquinez •...••••.••..••.••• , •. 337
Culver City ..•..•.•.••••••••••• Culver City .•..•.•••.• , •..••••• 467
Cupertino ..•..•... , ••.•.••••••• Cupertino ••.••••••••....•.•• , •• 510
Daly City •••••..•••...•••.• , ••• Crocker .....• , .••••..••.••••••. 454
Davis .•••••.......•..••• , , , ..•• Athens .•.••..••• ~· .••••.. , ••.••. 228
Delano ••••.•••..•.••••••••••• Delano •.•••• , •••.• , ••• , , , •••. 309
DiJ1.uba ••.••••••.•.•.•••••••• , Dinuba •••••• , ..••••• , •• , •••••• 385
Dixon .•..•••.••••••..•••••••• Silveyville •••••••••••••••••••• 201
:Downey ..••••••..••••••.•••••• Downey .••••••••••.•.••••••••. 220
Downieville ..•.•••••••••••••• , Mountain Shade •••.•••••••••• 18
Dutch Flat .......•.....••••••• Clay •.••••••••••.••••••••••••• 101
Dunsmuir ••••••••.••••••••••• :Dunsmuir ..•••••.••••••••••••• 297
~l Cajon ..•.•••••.••••••••••••• El Cajon Valley .••••••••••••••. 1>76
East San Diego .•••.•••••••••••• East San Diego .••••••••••••• ~ .561
Elk Grove ....•....•.••••••••• Elk Grove •••••.•••••••••. , •••• 173
El ·Centro ••..•.•••••..••••• , •• El Centro •••••••••••• , • , •••••. 384
''
..................... . Oasis ........................ . 664
El Dorado ••••.••••.•••••••••• ·Hiram • . . . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 43
El Monte •.••••.••.•••• , •••••• Lexington •••.•••.••••.•••••••• 104
El Segundo ..••••..•..•.•.••••• El Segundo ..•....•......•••.•• 507
Escondido • • • . • . . • • . • • • • • •••• CoJ1.suelo. •••.••• , •. , , .•.••••••• 325
Elsinore ••••.•.••.••. , ••••• , • , , Elsinore ••••..•••••••••• , ••••• 289
Escalon ............•......•...• Escalon .•...•.•••....•..••.••. 591
Esparto .•••••••••••••••.• , •••• Landmark •••••••.•••••••••••. 253
Etna Mills •••••.•.••••..••••••• Evening Star ••••••••••••••.• , .186
Eureka •••.••••......••.••••.•• Humboldt • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 79
''
...................••..• . Semper Virens ..............•.. 552
Exeter •••••.•....••••.•••••••• Exeter ••••••.••.••.•••••••••• 424
Fairfax ..•••.•••••••.•••••••••• Fairfax ••••••••••••••••••••••• 556
Fallbrook •••••.••••••••••••••• Fallbrook ••• ~ •••.••••••••••••• 317
Fall River Mills .••••••••••••••• .Fort Crook ••••••••••••••••• , , .575
Fellows ••••••••••••••••••••••• Temblor ••••..•.••••••••••••••. 477
F&ndale •••.••.••••••••••••••. Ferndale •...••••..•••.•••••••. 193
Fillmore .••••..••.•••••••••••• Fillmore ..•••.•••••••••••••••• 379
Florence .•.••••.••••• ~ ••••••••• ,Florence •••••.•••••••••••••••• 649
Forbestown ••••.....•..•.••••• Forbestown • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • 50
Folsom ••..••.••..•..•..••••••• Natoma •...••••• ,·•.••••••••.• , 64
Fontana ..•..•.••••.•.••..•••.. Fontana •...••.•••••••••••••• , .653

Poat Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

455

Lodge.

No.

Fort Bidwell ••.••..••••.•••••• North East ••• ·••.•.•••.••..••• 266
Fort Bragg •••..••.••••.••••••• Fort Bragg •••.••••.•.•••••••• 361
Fort Jones .................... North Star .................... 91
Fortuna •.•..•••...•••.•.•••••• Eel River .•••.•••••••..•••••••• 147
Fresno ••.•...•.•......••..•••• Fresno ••..•••.•.•.••••••••••. 247
''
........ , .............. . Las Palmas .................. . 366
''
''

........................ Center ....................... . 465
........................ . Bun Garden ................... . 530

Fullerton ••••••.•..•..••.••••• Fullerton ••••••.•••••••••.••••. 339
''
.................... . Azure ......................... . .333
Galt ••..••.•..••••.•..•••••••• Galt ••.••••••.••.•...•..•••••. 267
Garden Grove .•........•...•.•. Garden Grove •.•.............. 586
Gardena ..•.•.•..••••••••••••• Gardena- ••.••••.••••••.•••••••. 372
Georgetown ••••••••••••••••••• Georgetown • • • • . • . • • • • • • . • • • • • 25
Gilroy ••••••.•.•••••.••..••••• Keith ••..•.•••••..•••••.••••• 187
Glendale ••...•.••.••••••.••••• Unity ••••••••.••.••••.••••••• 368
''
•••••••••.•••••••••••••• Glendale ••••••.••••••••••••••• 544
"
...................... Meridian ...................... 667
Glendora ••..••....•••.....•••• Glendora ••••••••.•••.••••••••• 404
Grass Valley ••.••••••.•••••••• Madison •.••••.••••••••••••••• 23
Greenville ..•.••••••.•••.••••• Sincerity ••••••••••.••.•••.•••• 132
Gridley ••.•.....•.••.••••••••• North Butte •••.•••••••••••••. 230
Guadalupe •.•••••••.•••...••••• Guadalupe .••••••.•.•.•.•••..•• 237
Guerneville •......•.•........•• Mount Jackson ••...•..••••••.• 295
Hammonton •••.•..•••••••••.•• Hammonton •••...•••..•••••••• 433
Hanford •..••••••.•••••••.•••• Hanford .••• , ••.••.•••••••..•. 279
Hawthorne ..................... Hawthorne .................... 647
Haywards ....•.••..••••.•..••• Eucalyptus ..••. ~ •..•.••••.•••. 243
Healdsburg •••••..•••••..••••• Sotoyome ••••..•......••••.••• 123
Hemet ••.•••••.•.•..•••••••..••• Hemet .•••..•..•.•...•...•.•••. 615
Hermosa Beach .•.•••.•••••• , ••• Hermosa. ••..••...••••...•.•••• ,557
Hilo, T. H ..•••••••.•••••••••••• Kilauea ••..•••••••.•.••••••••. 330
Hornitos ••.•••••...••••••.•••• Hornitoa •••.••.•••.••.•••••••• 98
Hollister •••••••.•••••••••••••• San Benito ••••••••••••.••••••• 211
Hollywood .................... Hollywood .................... 355
Holtville •..•.•••••••.•••.•••••• Holtville •••••••••••••.•••••••• 425
Honolulu, T. H ..••.•••••••••••• .Hawaiian •••••••••••••••.•••••• 21
"
................ le Progres de l 'Oceanie ......... 371
''
................ Honolulu ..................... . 409
..............•. Pearl Harbor ....•...•........ 598
"
Huntington Beach ••••••••••••• Huntington Beach ••••••••.•••. 380
Huntington Park •.•••••••••••• Rising Light •••••.•..••••••••. 397
Igo ••••••••••.•..•..•••••••••• Clinton •.•••••.••••••.•••••••• 119
Imperial •.••..•••••••••••••••• Imperial •••••.•.•.....•••.•••. 390

456
Post Oll'ice.

PROCEEDINGS OF THill
Lodge.

No.

Independence •.•••..••••••••••• Inyo ..••••....••...•.•••••.••. 221
Inglewood ••••••.••••••••••••• Inglewood ••••••.•••.•••.••••• 421
''
................•... . Fairview ..........•... : ...... . 629
Ione •••••••••••.•••••••••••••• Ione . • • • • • . • • • • . . • . • • • . • • • • • • • 80
Jackson .•..•••.••••••..••.•••• Amador •••.•..•••••.••••••••• 65
Kahului, T. H .••.•.••••.••.•••• Maui .••••••••••.••••••...••.. 472
Kerman •••••••..••••••••••••• Kerman ••..•••.•.••..••••••.•. 420
Kingsburg ••••••..•••••••••••• Traver •••.••.••..•••.••••••••. 294
King City •••..••••...•..••.•••.Santa Lucia •••..•••••••.•••••. 302
Knights Ferry .....•..........•. Summit •••••..•••••••••••.•••• 112
Knights Landing ....•.......••• Grafton •••............••....•• 141
La Habra .••••....•••••••••••• La Habra ••••••..••••••••••.•• 659
Laguna Beach .•••.•.••••.•.•••• Laguna Beach •....•.....•••••. 672
Lakeport ..••••..•..•.....••... ; Hartley ••..•.•.•••••••••••••• 199
La Jolla .•.......•....•.•...•••• La Jolla ••.........••.•.•...•.. ;n8
La Mesa •••••••••••..••••••••• La Mesa •.•••.•••••••••••••••. 407
Lancaster ••••••••••••••••••••• Lancaster ..•...•..•.••••••.••. 437
Lassen ••••••.....•..•.•••••••• Janesville ..••...•.••••••••.••. 232
Lemoore •••.•••••••..••.•••••• Welcome •.•..•.•.•••••••••.••. 255
Lihue .......................... Kauai ..•.•......•............ 589
Lincoln ••.•••.•••••••••••••••• Gold Hill • . . . . • • • • • • • • . . • • . • • • 32
Linden ••••••••••.•••..•••••••• Valley •••..•...••••...•••••••• 135
Lindsay •••••••••••••••••••••• Lindsay •••••.•.•••.•••.•••••. 416
Livermore •••••••...•••••• , •••• Mosaic ••••••••• , ...•••••••••.. 218
Livingston •.••••.••••••.••••••• Livingston •.•..•••.••..••••••.. 658
Lodi •••••••• , ••••••••••••••••• Lodi ••••••.••..••••••••.•••••. 256
Lomita .•.•••••.••••••••••••••••Lomita •••••••••••••.•••••••••. 644
Lompoc ••••••••• ; ••••••••••••• Lompoc ••••••••••••••••••••••. 262
Long Beach ••••••.••••.••••••• Long Beach ••.•.••.••••.•••••. 327
''
................... Palos Verdes ................. 389
''
................... Seaside ....................... 504
'' ·
.................. .Queen Beach ................... 540
•••••••••••••••• '.!.Signal •••.•••••.••••• .• •••••••• 543
"
"
•••••.•••••••••••• .searchlight •••••.•••.•••..••••. 567
•'
................... All States ..................... 593
"
•..•.•...•.......•• Service .....••••..•..••....•.. 619
''
................... . Neptune ....................... . 619
''
.................. . Monte Vista .................. . 655
''
.................. . !Joe Cerritos .................. . 674
Los Angeles •.••••.•••••••••••• Los Angeles • • . • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • 42
''
...............•... •Pentalpha .................... 202
''
.................... Southern California ........... 278
''
.•................. East Gate .................... . 290

Post Oll'ice.

.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

467

Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles ••.••••••••••• , ••• , Hollenbeck ••.••.••••••..•••••• 319
•••••••••.••••••••• South Gate •.•.•••••.•••••.•••• 320
• •••••••••••••••.•• Vallee de France •••••••••••••• 329
"
••.•.•••.•••••••.••
West Gate •••••••••••.••••.•••. 335
"
••••••••.•••••••••• Palestine ••.•.••••••.•••••••••. 351
"
••••••.••••••••••.• Sunset •••••••••.••..••.••••••• 352
"
.•••••••••••••••••• Golden State •••..•••••••••••••• 358
"
•.•.......••....••. Mizpah •••..•••••••••.••..••.. 378
"
•.•.•....••.•...•.. ·Highland Park ................. 382
"
...... • ......•••.•. West Lake .................... 392
"
••..•• • •••••••••••• University ••••.•.•••.•••.••••• 394
"
••••.••.••••.•••.••
Moneta •••.•••••.••••..••••••• 405
"
•.••••••••••••••••• Arlington •..•••••..••••.•••••• 414
••...•••••••••••.•• Silver Trowel •.•••.•••.••••••• 415
••.•••••••••••••••• Elysian ••.•••..••••.•••••.•••• 418
..•.......•...••.•. Eagle Rock .....•••......•..•. .422
•••.•.••••••••••••• Acacia ••••.•.••••.••••••••.•. 438
"
•••••••.••••••••••• Wilshire ~ ••••••.•..•.•••••.••• 445
"
•••...•••••••••••• • Henry S. Orme .•••••••••.••••• 458
"
•••••....•••.•..••.. America •.•.••.••••••••••••••. 475
"
•.•••••.••••••••••• Clarence F. Smith •••••••••••••• 482
.................... Albert Pike ................... 484.
"
•••.••••••••••••••• Garvanza •.•.••••••...•.••.••. 492
"
................... Mt. Olive •••••••••.••.•••••••• 506
"
••..•.••••••••••••• Benj. Franklin •• , .••••.••••••. 509
......... , ......... Cahuenga ••••.........•••..••. 513
.. , , .• , . , ••••• , •••• Vermont Square .••••••••••••••• 515
.............. , •.• ,Euclid ......................... 519
"
•• , ................ Ionic .......................... 520
"
••••.•.•.•• , ••••••• Sunrise •••.•••••..•.••••••.•••. 522
•••.•• , •••••• , ••• , .Covenant ••••••••••.•..•••.•••• 527
"
•••.••••••• , ••••••• Loyalty ••••.••••••••.•••.••.•. 529
• .................. Alexander Hamilton ............. 535
• .•••••••• , •••••••• Utopia ......................... 537
• , , ••• , •••••••••••• Ascot ......................... 538
••••••••••••••• , • , .Belvedere .•••...•....••. , .•.•• ,539
"
• , •• , ••••••••••••••Craftsmen •••• , ••••••••.••••••• 559
"
,
• , ••••••. , , •••••••South Park •••••••••••••••••••• 563
"
, •• , • , , ••.•••••• , • ,West Adams •••.•••••••••••••• 565
"
, •• , •••• , •••••• , • , .James A. Garfield •.•••.•••••••. 566
"
, , ••••.•••• , ••• ,., •• James Madison .•••••••••••••••. 572
"
• , , •• , ••••••••••• , .Sunnyside • , .•..•.••.•••••••••. 577

....
..

..
..

.

....
....

..

458
Post Otfice.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.

No

Los Angeles .................... Progressive .................... 6"'~
''
• · · • · • • · · · · ....•.•• Harding ...•.••....•..•...•.•.. 584
''
.... · ............. . Manchester ................... . 585
''
• · · · · · • · · · · ........ Valley Forge ................. . 587
''
· · · · · · · · · · · ..... · .. El Sereno ..................... 588
''
• • · · · · · · · · · ····· ... Alexander Graham Bell ......... 595
''
· • • • · · · · · · · · ··· .. · .. Truth ........................ . 597
''
· · · · · · · · · · · ........ Melrose ........................ 602
''
· • · · · · · · · · ......... Glassel! Park .................. 605
''
· · · · · · ............. Larchmont .................... . 614
''
· · · · · · . · ........... Southland ...................... 618
''
· · · · · . · ............. The Gardens . .................. 621
''
· · · · · .............. Atwater ....................... . 622
''
· · · ................ Menorah ...................... . 623
· · ................. Angeles Mesa .................. 625
''
''
................... Benevolence ..•................ 631
''
· · .................. Beacon of the West . ........... 628
''
................... Composite ..................... 639
''
· ................. . James A. Foshay ............... 641
''
· ................. . Metropolitan .............. .... 646
''
.................. . La Brea ...................... . 650
''
· .................. Jordan ........................ . 654
''
................... . Malta .......................... 661
''
................... Henry Knox . .................. 662
''
.................. ,Liberal Arts ................... 677
Los Banos .................... Los Banos ..................... 312
Los Gatos •••••••••••.••••• , ••• Los Gatos ................•.••. 292
Lower Lake •••••••••••••••••••• Clear Lake ••••.•••••••.••••••. 183
Loyalton ....................... Loyalton ...................... 359
Lynwood ..•...••..•......•...•• Lynwood ....•..•.......••..••.. 600
Madera ••.••••.•••••..•..••••• Madera •••••..••.••.•.•••••••• 280
Manteca ••••••••.••.•••••••••• Tyrian ••.•...•..•..•.•••..•••• 439
Maricopa •••••••••••••••••••••• Maricopa •..•...•.•••..•••.••• 434
Mariposa ••••.••••••••••• , •••• Mariposa • . • • • • • • • • . • . • • • • • • • • 24
Martinez •.••••.••..•.••••••.•• Martinez • • . • . • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • 41
Marysville ••••••••.•.••••••••• Corinthian . . . . • . . • • • . • • • • • • • • • 9
Maxwell •••••••.•••••••••••••• Maxwell ...••••••.•••••.••..•. 288
McCloud ••••.•.••••••••••••••• McCloud •••••.••..•.•..•...••. 430
Menlo Park ••••••.•••••••••••• Menlo Park .•.••••••.••••.•.••. 651
Mendocino •••••.•••••••••••••• Mendocino •...•..•.••••••••••• 179
Merced ••••••••••••••••••••••• Yosemite • • . . • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • . • • 99
Middletown •.•••••••••.••••••• Callayomi ..•••.•.•.•..•••••••• 282
Milton .•• : ••••••••••.••••••••• Keystone ....•.••••••••••••••• 161
Mill Valley ................... Mill Valley .............. , ..... 3511

Poat Oll'ice.

GRAND LODUE OF CALIFORNIA

459

Lodge.

No.

Millville •••••••••••••••••••••• Northern Light •••••••••••••••• 190
Modesto •••••••••••••••••••••• Stanislaus ••••••••••••••••••••• 206
''

..................... . Modesto ....................•.. 675

Monrovia ••••.•••••••••••••••• Monrovia ••••••••••••••••••••• 308
''
•••••••••••••••••••••• Sojourner ••••••••••••••••.••••• 607
Montebello •••••••••••••••••••• Montebello •.••..•••••••••••••• 451
Monterey ••••••••••.•••••••••• Monterey ••••••.•••••••••••••• 217
Monterey Park .......•..••••... Ramona •. ·•....•..••..••...•.•• 457
Montrose •••.•••••••••••••••••• Crescenta Valley ••••• , •••• , •••• 652
Morgan Hill •••••••••••••••••• Morgan Hill ••••••••••••••••••. 463
Mount Shasta ••.••••••••••••••• Sisson •• .' ••••••••••••••••••••• 310
Mountain View •••••••••••••••• Mountain View •••••••••••••••• 194
Murphy's ••••••••••••••••••••• Ophir • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 33
Napa ••••••••••••••.•••••••••• Yount •• , ••••••••••••••••••••• 12
National City ................. South West ................... 283
Newman •••••••.•••••••••••••• Hill's Ferry ••••••••••••••••••• 236
Needles •••••••••••••••••• • •••• Needles .•••••••••••••••••••••. 326
Nevada City •••••••••••••••••• Nevada •.••••••••••••••••••••• 13
North Hollywood .•••••••••••••• Lankershim ••••••••••••••••••• 542
North Sacramento .••••••••••••••Warren G. Harding ............. 579
Norwalk •••••..••••••••••••••• Norwalk •••••••••••••••••••••• 315
Oakland •••••••••••••••••••••• Live Oak ••••••••••••••••••.••• 61
''
''
''
''

...................... Oakland ................•.... . 188
...................... Brooklyn ...................... 225
........... . _•......... Sequoia ...................... . 349
..................... . Alcatraz ..................... . 244

"
"
"
"

•••••••••••••••••••••• Fruitvale ••••••••••••••••••••. 336
•••••••••••••••••••••• Bay View ••••••••••••••••••••• 401
•••••••••••••••••••••• Yerba Buena •••••••••••••••••• 403
•••.•••••••••••••••••• Sta:adard ••.•••••••••••••••••• 440
••..••••.••••••••••••• Rockridge •••••••••••••••••••• 468
•••••••••••••••••••••• Fellowship •••••••••.•••••••••• 480
••••••••.••••••.•••••• Acorn •••••••.•••••••••••••••• 494
•.••••••..•.•••••••••• Fremont •••••••••••••••••••••. 497

"
"

"
"
"

......•.•.••..••••••••• Lakeshore ..................•.. 551

"
"

•.•••.••••..•.••••••••• Plymouth ..••••••••••••••••••• 560
•••••.•••••••.•••••.•• .Foothill ••••••••••••••••••••••. 564

''
''
''
''
''

•..................... .. Park Boulevard .............. , .568
.......•.............. . Chateau Thierry .......... , ..... 569
........................ Dimond ..... , ..... , , ...... , .... 603
............. ~ .... , .... Elmhurst ...................... . 610
....................... Fortitude ...................... 624

Oakdale • ·•.••••••••••••••••••• Oakdale •••••••••••••••••••••• 275
Oceanpark ••••••••••••••••••••• Ocean Park ••••••••••••••••••• 369

460
Poel Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Oceanside •••••...••••.•••••••• Oceanside .•••••••••••••••.•••. 381
Ojai. •.•.•.•.•••..•.....•..•.••.Ojai • .•....•••.•..•.••••..•••. 663
Ontario •••••••.• .. ••••••••••.• Ontario .••••••••..•..••••••••. 301
Orange •.••••.••••..•.•..••••• Orange Grove .................. 293
Orland' ••..........•..•••....•. Orland •••..••.•••••••••••••••. 265
Orosi ••••••.•..••••.••...••••• Orosi •••.••....•.••. •• ••.••.•. 383
Oroville ••.•••••.•.•.• . ..•••••• Oroville ••••. .•.•.••••.•.•• ·•.•• 103
Oxnard •....•.....••..••.•••.• Oxnard •••.•••••.••..••• • ••••. 341
Pacific Grove ••..••••..••••••• Pacific Grove .•....•..••••..••. 331
Palms .•••.••••..•..•.•••.•••• Palms ••••.•..•...•.•..•••••.• 512
Palo Alto •.••.•....••••••.•.•• Palo Alto •.•......•••..•••..•. 346
Pasadena. •..•• • ....••.•....••• Pasadena ..••••••.•••••.•••••• 272
.•••..••...•••••••••• Corona .••••.•.••.•.•••.••••••• 324
"
•.................... San Pasqual .•••••..•••...•••. 452
"
••••••••.•••••••••••• Carmelita ..........•..•.....•. 599
"
''
.................... . Lamanda Park ................ . 627
Paso Robles ••..•..•••••••.•••• Paso Robles .................... 286
Patterson ••.. •. ..• ... ••••.•.•• Patterson .....•...• .. •.....•.. 488
Penryn ••.••.....• .. ••••..•••• Penrhyn. : . •••.••.....•... • ••.. 258
Perris ..••••••••.•..•..••••••• Perris •••.....•..•.•...•..•••. 411
Petaluma ••••...•••.••••.•••••• Petaluma •.........•..•..•.••• 180
Piedmont ....................... Piedmont •....•••..•.••..•.•••. 521
Pine Knot ............ . ......... Big Bear .........•••••.....•... 617
Pinole •••...•.....•.•••••••••• Pinole •.....•.•..••••••....••• 353
Pittsburg •• • •.•..... ..•• •••••• Pittsburg ••..••••.••.••••••••. 429
Placerville ..•.•••..•...•.••••• El Dorado . . • . • • • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • 26
Pleasanton •...•..•.••••••••••• Alisal ••..•••... ..•...•.. • . .•.. 321
Plymouth •••••••.....•.••.•••• Drytown •••.••••.•••.••..••••• 174
Point Arena .•••....•••••••••• Claiborne •...••...•••.•••••.•• 185
Pomona ••••••..•.••..•.•..•••• Pomona ....••. , ••.•..•••..•••. 246
''
....... .. .... . ......... Compass ........... .. ......... 590
Porterville ....... ••..•••• .•••• Porterville ..•.••. • •.•••.•.•••• 303
Portola .•..•••.•...•••..•••••• Grizzly ... ..••............•••.•. 601
Puente ••.•••••••.•...•.••••••• La Puente •....••..•..•...••••. 446
Quincy •••.••....•.•••.••••..• Plumas . • • • • . • • • . . • . • . • • • . . . • • . 60
Ramona .•.•..•..•..•...•••.•••• Santa Maria .•.. ..• ••.•.•..••.. 580
Redondo •...••••.•.•....•••••• Redondo •...•....•••.•.•..•••. 328
Redding •..•••• : ...•.••.•..••• Reading •.•..••...•.•..••..•.• 254
Redla·nds ••••.......••.••••••• Redlands •••....•..•••.•••.••.. 300
Reedley .••••••.•..•...•..••••• Reedley .... •. ••••..••••••••••• 304
Redwood City •.•.•..•.•.•••••• Redwood City .•.•••••••••.•••• 168
Red Blutf •••...•.•... . ..•..••• Vesper • • • . • • • . • • • . • . . • • . • • • • . • 84
Reseda •••....•.. . • .....• .•.. .•. Reseda ••...•..•••••••.....•... 666

Poal Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

461

Lodge.

No.

Rialto .. .. ..•..•..... .... ....••.Rialto .••..•..•.••..•.••••..•. 582
Richmond ••••......••.•.•••••• Alpha ..•••.••.•••••.•••.•••••• 431
''
................... .. McKinley ......... .. .......... . 347
·''
...................•. Harbor •...................•. . 501
''
....................... Point ................ ......... . 503
Rio Vista ..•••• • •••.•••••••••• Rio Vista ••••••••.•••••••••••• 208
Riverbank ....•.• ..•••• , '• •••••• Riverbank •••••••.••••••••••••• 459
Riverdale • • ....•.• , ••.•....••• Riverdale ••••••.•••••••••••••• 496
Riverside ••••••• , • .••..••••••• Evergreen ••••••••••••••••••••• 259
''
...... . ................ Riverside ..................... 635
Roseville ••..•••.••••••••••••• Roseville •••••••••••••••••••.•. 222
Sacramento ...•..••••••••••••• Tehama •••••••••• : • • • • • • . • • • • • 3
''
..... . ............. Washington ................... 20
''
.................. . Sacramento ................... 4:0
''
................. .. Union ......................... 58
''
.................. . Concord ...................... . 117
''
.. . .. , ............ . Capital City ......•........... . 499
''
..... , ......... , .. . Provident ..................... . 609
•'
....• . ............. Three Pillars ................... 613
Saint' Helena •••..•.••.•••••••• Saint Helena •••••••••••••••••• 93
Salinas ....•••••••.•.•.••••••••• Salinas ••••••••••••••••••••••• 204
San Andreas •••••••• • ••••••••• Calaveras • • • . . • • . • • . • • . • • • • • • • 78
San Bernardino •••••••••••••.•• Phoenix •••••••••••••••••••••• 178
''
.........•...... San Bernardino .......• ·....... . 348
''
.. . ...... . ...... Damascus ..............•....•. 64:8
San Clemente ................. . .San Clemente •••••••••••••••••. 671
San Diego ••••••••••••••••••••• San Diego • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 35
''
..................... Silver Gate .................... 296
''
............. , ......... Blackmer ..................... 44:2
''
..•..••.. , •••. , •••••• S. W. Hackett ........•.... , .... 574:
''
....... . ............ . Point Loma ............ . ....... 620
''
........... . ......... . Normal Heights ................. 632
''
....................... . John D. Spreckels ... ..... ...... 657
San Dimas .••••••••••••••••••• ,San Dimas .••.••••••.•••.•••••. 428
· San Fernando ••.•••••••••••••••.San Fernando •••••••••••••.••• 343
San Francisco ••••••••••••••••• California • • • • • • • • . • • • • • • • • • • • • 1
••••••••••••••••• Parfaite Union •••••••••••••••• 17
"
••••••••••••••••• Occidental • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 22
"
•.•..•••...•..••• Golden Gate • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • 30
"
.•••••••••••••••• Mount Moriah • • • • • • • • . • • . • • • • • 44
"
. •.•••••••••••••• Fidelity ••••••• • ••••••..••••••• 120
"
•••••••••••••••••. Hermann •••••••..••••••••••.• 127
"
.•••••••••••••••• Paci1ie ••••••••.•••••••.••••.•. 133
"

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

462
Poat Office.

Lodge.

GRAND LODGE ·oF CALIFORNIA

No.

San Francisco .••.•••••••.••••• Crockett ••••••••••••••••.••••. 139
•..••.•••••••.••• Oriental •••.•••••••••••••••••.•• 144
"
•..••••••• : •••••• Excelsior .•••••••••••••••••••• 166
"
...•••••••••••••• Mission .•.••••••.••••••••••••. 169
. ..•..••.•••••••• South San Francisco •.•••••.••• 212
"
•••.••.••••• , ••• : Doric .•••.•••••••••••.•••••••. 216
. ..••••••.••.•••• Speranza Italiana ••••.•••••••• 219
. .••..••.•••••••• King Solomon 'a ••••••...•••••. 260
"
...••.••.•••••••• Starr King ••••••••.••.••••.••. 344
. ................. Presidio ..•••••••••••••..••••• 354
"
....••••..•••••••
San Francisco ••••••••••••••••. 360
"
•••.•.•.••••••••• Amity .•••••.••••••••.••••• • •• 370
"
•.• , •••• , •••••••• Jewel •••••.••••••••.•••.••••• 374
"
...••.••.•••.•••• Richmond ••••••••••••.•.•••••. 375
"
••.•.••••••••.••• Parnassus ••..•••••.••..•.•.••• 388
"
••••.••••.••••••• Balder ••••••••••••••••••.••••• 393
"
••..••••••••••••• Fairmont ••••••.•••••.•.•••••• 435
"
.•.•.•••••••••••• Park •••••••••••••••••••.•••.• 449
"
••..•.•.••••••••• Bethlehem •.•••.••••.••••..••• 453
"
..•..•.•••••••••• Golden West ••••••••.••••••••. 455
"
.•..•.••••••••••• Argonaut •••••••••.•••••••.••• 461
"
.....•••••••••••• Paul Revere •.••..••••••••••••. 462
"
.•.••.••.•••••••• Alta Vista •..••••••••••••.•••. 464
"
....••••••••••••• Lincoln •••••••••••••••.••••••• 470
"
....•.••.•••••••• Victory ••••••••••••••••••••.•• 474
"
.................
Mt. Davidson ................. 481
",,
..•.••.•••••••••• Lebanon ••.••.•••••••••.•••••. 495
...••.•..•••.•••• Roosevelt •.•.••••••••.•••••••• 500
"
....•.•.•••.••••• Argonne •••.••••.•••..•..••••••• 514
"
.......•••..•.••• Mount Vernon ••.•••••...•.••.• 517
"
••..•.•.•••••••••
George Washington •.••.•.••••• 525
"
•..••.••••••.••••
Bay
City ••••••.•.••..•••••.• •• •526
"
................. Alexandria ••• •• ••••..•.•••.•••• 531
"
..••.•.•.....•••.Forest Hill ..................... 534
"
•..•••.•••..••••• S'eal Rock ..••••.•••••••••••••• 536
"
•.••.•••••••••••• Jonathan ••••.•.••••••••••••••. 545
"
.•.••.•••••• •• ••.• Justice • •••. • .• • • • ••.• • •••.• • .. 549
"
•......•••• • •• • • • Seaport •....• • •• • ...••.• • • ••.. 550
"
•••••..•.•••••••• Golden City ••••••..••.•.••.••. 553
"
••••.•••..••••••• Educator •••••••••••...•..••••. 554
"
.•••...•• • ••••••• Pyramid .•• •• •• ••..•.. ..•..••. 562
• •••••••••••••••• Military Service .••••..•..••••. 570
"
•.••.......•••••• Ingleside •.••••••.•••.••••.••.. 630

.
..
.

..
"

Post Office.

Lodge.

463
No.

San Francisco .... .,... .• .. :..... .• Ver~tl!-s ............ : : •• , •...•• 640
''
......... . . ........ .·.Far. West .......... .. ........... ,.. 673
San Gabriel. ... •. •••••.••••••••• San Gabriel • • ..•.•. , •. ;-•...••·.. 546
Sanger .....•••••.••...• .• ••..••• Banger ..•..•••..•••.•••.••.•... 316
San Jacinto ................... San Jacinto .. ....... ....... .... , •. 338
San Jose .•. ...•..•.•..•..•.• ...• -San Jose •...•..•••..•.•.••..•• 10
''
...... .... .............. . Friendship ..... ·-· ................ . 210
''
......................... Fraternity .................... : . 399
''
. ......................... Golden .Rule . ... .... ... '"" ........... ~ .479
'' . ....................... John P. Jarman ................ 669
San Joaquin .................... Joppa ........................ 508
Sa'n Juan Bautista .••..••..•••.• • Texas . ............. ... .. ......... 46
88.n Leandro •......•..•..•••.. Eden .• ...... ..••••••........•.. 113
San Luis Obispo .•..•.•.•••••.• King David's •.........•.•...•. 209
San Mateo ..................... San Mateo ..................... 226
Ban Miguel ••.......•..••..•.•• San Miguel ••..••..•..••..••.. 285
San Pedro ..•........•..•.•••••. San Pedro .•.•................... 332
:1
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •• Point F'irmin . ................. . 558
''
.............. .. ....... , A. E. F. Irwin . .. ............... 645
8an Rafael ..•• ••••••. •• ••••.• Marin •.•. , ••••.••..•••.•.•..••• 191
Santa Ana •• ; ••..••••••...•••• Santa Ana .•• .••.••••.....•••.•. 241
''
..................... , Silver Cord ................ .. ... 505
''
... . ............... . Jubilee .......................... . 604
Santa Barbara •.. .• ..••.••••••• Santa Ba.rba.r.a. • ...•.••..••. , .• 192
''
.................. Magnolia. ................ , .... 242
La Cumbre ................... ,642
Santa Clara ...................... Liberty •.•....•.•.•.•..••.•.••.• 299
Santa Cruz .....•..•................. .: • Santa Cruz ....................... 38
Santa Maria . .......•.....•••.. Hesperian •• •••.. • • .•.•..••••... 264
Santa Monica ... .. ...... .•..••• , ... Santa Monica ...•••••...••••.. 307
''
................... .Pali!11~des ....... ................ . 637
Santa Paula ................•• Santa . Paula •. ., •.••...•••..•.. , .291
Santa Rosa ...................... Santa Rosa . . . . . . . . . • • •. . . • . . . • • 57
Sawtelle ...........•.....•.•.• Veteran •......... ... ..... ...••• 373
Seal Beach .... ... ..... ...... .... Seal Beach ........... .• ........ ,616
Schofield Barracks .•....•.••.•.•• Schofield .•................. ... •443
Sebastopol .... .• ... ... .....•..... • La Fayette ......•.....•......•• 126
Selma . .. ...•. .. ......•..•...• , . , Selma ........................• 277
Shasta ...................•..••• Wes tern Star . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Signal Hill,,,., .• .•• , •....•..•• Alta _Loma ..................... 643
Sierra City ....•...••.....•..••.• Harmony .............•...•.•• 164
Sierra Madre ..•...•.......••• , Sierra Madre •................. 408
Sierraville •.......•......•. · ...• Sierra· Valley ... : .. : ....... : ..• 184
''

A

• • .,. , • • • • • • • • • . • •

,

464
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.

No.

Smartsville ••...•..•..•••••••• Rose's Bar • • . . • . . • . . • . . • . . . • • • 89
South Ga~ ..••............•....Guardian •.......•.•........... 596
South Pasadena •.•.••••••••••• South Pasadena ••..••••• . .•.... 367
South San Francisco ••.••.•.•• Francis Drake ••. , ...•••..•.... 376
Sonoma. ••..••..•..•.•••••••••• Temple • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • . • • . . . . . 14
Sonora ••...•••••.•.•.••••••••. Tuolumne • . • • . . • . . . • • . • . . . . . . • 8
Stockton ..•.••.•••••.••••• : • .. San Joaquin ....• •. .••• . ....•. 19
''
...................... Morning Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
''
...................... Delta ........................ . 471
''
...................... Stockton ......... ·...... . ..... 498
Stony Ford ••.•..•.••••..•••••• Snow Mountain .•••••.•. .. .•••. 271
Sunnyvale .................... Sunnyvale .................... 511
Susanville ••..••.•••...•.•••••• Lassen •••.••.••..••••••...... 149
Sutter Creek .•••...•...••••.•. Henry Clay . . . . . • • . . • • • . . • . . . • 95
Suisun •...•..•••••.•..•••••••. Suisun . . • . • • • • . • • • . • • . • . . . . . . . 55
Taft ••.•.•..••...•••••••••..•• Midway ....•..•....•.•.... ... 426
'' .............. . .......... . Taft ................... ... ... .. 516
Tehama •......•.••••••.•••.... Molino ............•..•.....•.. 150
Tehachapi ..... . ............... Tehachapi •...•......•......... 313
Temple •......•.••....•.•.•.•... Temple City •.••••••••... . ..... 612
Torrance ..•.••.•••..•.. , •••••• '.L'orrance •...•.•••.•.•....••.. 447
Tracy .......................... Mt. Oso ••....••..•.•..•..•.... 460
Truckee ••...•.••..•••...••.••• Truckee .••..•...••••.•••.•.•• 200
Tujunga ••...•.•.•...•.•••••••• Tujunga •........••.••• . ....•. 592
Tulare •....•....••.•..•.••.•••. Olive Branch ...•...•.••.•.••.. 269
Tuolumne .........••...••.•••• East Belt ~ ...••...•.•••.••.... 391 .
Turlock ....•.•..•••...••••.••• Turlock ••....•• .• •.•••..•..•.•. 395
Ukiah ••..••..•...••.••..••••• Abell •...•.•...••.••••••.....• 146
Upland •..••...••...••••••••• , . Upland •••..••...••••••••.•••. 419
Vallejo ....................... Naval ........................ 87
''
....................... Solano ....................... . 229
''
..................... .. Vallejo ................ . ..... . 487
Vacaville •...•••.•••.•.••••••• Vacaville .•••....••.•......... 134
Van Nuys ..................... Van Nuys ............... ... .. 450
Venice .• ..••• .•••.•.••••.•••••• Triangle ••••..••.••••••.•••.•. 548
Ventura •.•...•.•••••.•...••.• San Buenaventura ..•.••...•... 214
''
....................... Poin.s ettia ..................... 633
Victorville .•••••..•. •. ••••••••• Victorville ...••..•.••• • ..•.•.. 634
Visalia •.... • •.•••...•.••••••• Visalia . ...•...•.•• •. .•..•..•.. 128
Volcano ...•••••••••.••.••••••• Volcano . . . • . . • • . • . . • • • . . . • . . . 56
Walnut Creek •••••••••.•..•••• Alamo ....•..••••.•..•..••... . 122
Wasco ••..•••••••.•••••••••••• Wasco .•.. ••..•• • • . ..•.•. • •.•. 583
Watsonville ........ .. ......... Pajaro .•...•..•.•.••••... . ...• 110

Post Office

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

465

Lodae

No.

Watts •. .....•...•.••.•••••••• York •.......•..•.•..•..•.•... 423
Weaverville .....•••••••••••••• Trinity •....... .. ........•.... 27
Weed . .... . ..........•...••••• White Pine .••••..... . ..... ... 555
West Hollywood .••...•.•..••••• John Marshall •••..•••.••...... 636
West Los Angeles .••. •• .••..•••• Veteran ..................•.... 373
Westwood • ...•..•........•...• Westwood · ........ ..... ..• . ... 501
Wheatland ..........•.••••.•.• Nicolaus ........ . .. .... ....•.. 129
Whittier ......... . ......•••••• Whittier ..... . .••. ... . .• ...... 323
''
· ..................... .Greenleaf ........ ...... ..... .. 670
Winters ................ ." • ••. •• Buckeye .. . ................... 195
Willits .....................••• Willits ................•..•.... 365
Willow Glen ....... : • ..•..•.•..• Willow Glen ................... 676
Willows .. . . .....• .. .... ...•.•. Laurel • .• .... .. . .....••.•...•. 245
Windsor .....................• Russian River ............•.... 181
Williams •......... .... ...•...• Tuscan .... ....... .. ..... ..... 261
Wilmington ............ .. ..... Wilmington .. ....... .......... 198
Woodbridge ....•••..•.••.••••• Woodbridge ................... 131
Woodlake ... . .. . .. .. ........... Kaweah ...... .. ............... 665
Woodland ......... ... . .......• Woodland . .... ..... .• ......... 156
Yolo .......................... Yolo ...•......... ... ......... . 81
Yorba Linda .................. Yorba· Linda ......... ., ....... 469
Yreka; •....... ... ... .. ... ••.• . • Howard ••.......... .. .• •.... . . 37
Yuba City . ..... ... .. . ..... ..• Enterprise . .... ... .. ......... . 70

Grand Lodge F. & A" M. of California
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE
October, 1932
BY JESSE M. WHITED

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
Herewith is submitted my TweUth Report as Chairman of the
Correspondence Conunittee. As usual, the views expressed under
the various topics are the individual ideas of the Chairman.
The author of the saying that "there is nothing new under the
Sun" never had the opportunity of serving as Chairman of a Correspondence Committee. One would think in an Institution as old
as the Masonic Fraternity practically every question had been considered or legislated upon, but a review of the Proceedings of some
sixty-eight jurisdictions decisively negates this idea. Generally the
same fundamental questions occupy the attention of Grand Lodges.
These continue to produce interesting features that keep them alive
and shows the inquiring or inventive turn of mind of the individual.
In considering the Fraternity at the present time, and questions
involved in its present or future, it is perhaps well to ask whether
we are to think our organization is a Fraternity, a Philosophy or
an Institution. Unfortunately for some reasons the three are so
interwoven that discussion as to any one of them must take into
consideration one or both of .the others.
In 1717 when the first Grand Lodge was established Masonry
was a Fraternity pure and simple, and its development for some
was along that line. Then came the efforts to prove the organization
the direct descendant of the Ancient Mysteries and with it came
the development of the Ritual. Then came the expansion along the
institutional line. This resulted in quantity production brought about
by the World War and change in modern business ideas and conditions. Whether or not it will ever be possible to return to the original
idea of being a Fraternity is a question.
Masonry in England, Ireland, Scotland and the British Commonwealths has continued more or less along the Fraternal plan.
While they also have their problems they do not seem to be as acute
as the ones affecting the Grand Lodges of the United States. They

REPORT ON CORRESPONDJ!lNCE

2

3

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

have not been vexed with such problems as to co-ordinate Bodies,
Financial Problems threatening their Charitable Institution, Ritualism, multiplicity of Laws, and other conditions with which we are
confronted.
A solution for us we believe is contained in the words of our
Grand Master, Robert B. Gaylord, speaking before the Grand Masters Conference in Washington, when he said:
"I believe, Brethren, if we thought less of degrees, if we thought
less of direct charity, and if we would go back more to the day
when we came together in our Lodges for fellowship, when we came
there because we found men whom we could trust, men whom we
loved, when we came to Lodge, because we loved going to Lodge
and extended charity, because we loved the Brothers, when we come
back to that day, our problems as to attendance, and our problems
in the future for Masonry will be solved. You had it in the pioneer
days in your States. We had it in the pioneer days in California and
to my mind it is the ideal thing for Masonry to go back to the spirit
of pioneer Masonry."
Some of the topics or conditions that have arisen during . the
past year which are not embodied in the general body of this Report
may be briefly summarized as follows:
ATTENDANCE: Indifference and lack of interest, as evidenced
by attendance at Lodge meetings where there is business or otherwise, we do not believe can be chargeable to any one cause. Those
who join through curiosity, have had that satisfied and are now only
members or left. The same applies to those who petitioned for business or social reasons. Those who are actuated by an admiration for
the Fraternity, its teachings and its works as such, are in the minority. Added to these causes must be the counter attractions of the
present, such as the automobile, the radio, the talkies and other
entertaining attractions. These possess a greater drawing power than
the average Lodge meeting.
One Grand Master advocates the idea that the test of a member's eligibility to remain in good standing in a . co-ordinate Masonic
Body would be his record of attendance in his Blue Lodge. In the
past some Jurisdictions made it obligatory upon members to visit
their Blue Lodges a certain number of times during each year. Even
this did not prove effective. The size of a Lodge is also a determining
factor. There is no doubt but what the small Lodge, where the mem- ·
bers know each other has a greater incentive for attendance than in
large Lodges.
BUSINESS MANAGER: The Grand Lodge of Wisconsin now
has before it for action at their next annual communication the ques-

~ion .o f appointing a Business Manager. He is to be all that the name
1mpbes as far as financial and business matters of the Grand Lodge
are concerned. When one peruses the financial statements of the
larg~r Jurisdictions it would appear that such a system possesses
considerable merit, particularly if we expand along financial and
institutional lines.

C~NDID~TES: ·we believe that now is the time wP.en perhaps
regulat1?ns designed t~ secure a higher class of petitioners should
be. considered. There .1s lack of Candidates at the present time. It
mig~t ~e well to consider whether, unless the standard is· raised and
adm1ss1on requirements made stricter, there will not be a tendenc
to recoup. our losses in membership and finances by again
for quantity rather than quality.
Some of the safeguards that might be adopted would be the
appea~ance of .the candidate and his proposers before an ex-officio
committee of the Lodge, composed of elective officers and Past
M~sters for examination. In other words if this investigation was
satisfactory the petition could then be presented to the Lodge and
the regulation investigation committee. Some Jurisdictions have mad
a standing committee of the Lodg:
itself, and .requ1~e .the petitioner and his sponsors to appear before
~~~· . A time bm1t between the election ol the candidate and his
m1t1ation, and also a limit between each degree would undoubtedly
have a beneficial effect. "That which is easily gained is lightly held"
and. a .~aiting list for candidates would be desirable if based ~n
des1rab1bty rather than numbers.

strivin~

~he Investigati~g Commi~t~e

ETHIC~: Whether or not Masons generally have departed
from the Ethics of Masonry as embodied in the Ancient Landmarks
and the ritual is a question asked by some Grand Masters as well
as the student of present conditions. One Grand Master went so far
as to say that in his opinion one of the causes as to why fewer men
were seekin~ admission was due to the fact that the general public
had .lost their res~ect for the Masonic Fraternity by reason of "the
horrible. example~ of some members. Masons, both in high and low
places, m ~om.e instances ~av~ forgotten the duty that they owe to
the Orgamz~hon along this hne. The world is prone to judge by
such exceptions. These regrettable instances undoubtedly tend to
lower the esteem with which the profane regard the Fraternity.

EDUCATION-MASONIC: It does not appear that this problem has been satisfactorily solved by any one Grand Lodge that has
undertaken it. As Chairman Allen of North Carolina says: "In fact
the term Masonic Education is one just now to produce yawns. Ou;
Brethren as a rule do not want it; it does not either appeal to their

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

imagination or inspire them. But after all is said and done the fact
remains that something is badly needed."
As stated in previous reports, we believe that if a Candidate at
his initiation was presented, as they do in some Jurisdictions, with
a work dealing with the evolution of the Fraternity, its history and
ideals, and before being raised, required to state that he has at
least read the volume, it would produce practical results. There is no
doubt but the newcomer is curious and anxious to learn everything
possible regarding the Organization. That is the proper time to
furnish him the details regarding it. There will, of course, always
continue to be students of Masonic History, symbolism, etc., but
they are in the minority and their own initiative will solve the problem for them.

RECORDS: The experience of Committees or individuals
engaged in writing Masonic History shows that through lack of care
the early records of a number of Lodges have been lost or destroyed.
One of the Jurisdictions provides that Lodges must keep these in a
a fireproof vault. Another provides that they should be sent to the
Grand Secretary for safe keeping. Another Jurisdiction goes so far
as to send only the Lodge a photostat copy of its charter, retaining
the original
Official books, records, documents and original papers not in
current use we believe could be protected in no better way than
placing them in th~ custody of the Grand Secretary and stored in
a place where there would be no possibility of destruction. To the
present · membership they perhaps have little interest, but as time
goes on they become more and more valuable to the Fraternity
generally.

EDUCATION-PUBLIC: "Public Schools Week" of our Jurisdiction is an example of how Masonry can assist in the work of
preparing the future citizens of our country. While the~e is some
question as to whether this is a function of the Fraterruty or not,
still we believe perhaps "the end justifies the means." It does not
infringe upon the Ancient Charge that we should not concern ourselves with politics or religion. The Grand Lodges of Tennessee and
some of the other Southern States have interested themselves in the
education of the youth, and from the reports it \woul~ appear that
they are doing a worthwhile work and do not retret it.
0

FUNERALS : A number of the Jurisdictions have revised the
funeral ritual to eliminate the doleful and melancholy form in which
it was once written. There is a tendency to make the Masonic Funeral more of a private affair than a public function, which we believe
is commendable.
Two interesting cases arose recently. In one Jurisdiction, the
Grand Master prohibited a Lodge from holding a Masonic Funeral
over the body of a member who had confessed his guilt and committed suicide after being indicted for the murder of his wife. In
another Jurisdiction, a member maintained a "love nest" and his wife
learning of this went to the apart.ment, laid in wait for him and on
his arrival promptly shot and killed him. The newspapers gave great
publicity to the case. The family insisted on a Masonic funeral, an.d
under the laws of that Jurisdiction the Grand Master ruled that it
must be held. As he stated in his message, "What an advertisement
for Freemasonry." From the record there is no statement as to why
such a member whose character was generally known, was permitted to contin~e his membership. The outcome of the affair was a
change in the law which made a reoccurrence of such an affair
impossible.

6

TRIALS-MASONIC: There are three common methods of
handling Masonic trials. First by the entire Lodge, acting as the
Jury; second, by Committee selected by the Lodge, and third, by
special committee appointed by the Grand Master for each individual
case. The last method is growing in favor; it possesses the advantage of having experts who are familiar with many of the technical
details involved in Masonic trials, and furthermore would be uninfluenced by local conditions or prejudice. It also has the added merit
of greatly reducing the number of appeals and reversals, thereby
lessening the labors of the Committee on Grievances and Appeals,
and saving the time of the Grand Lodge by shortening the reports
of that Committee.
VISITATIONS: There seems to be a difference of opinion as
to the legality or propriety of a Lodge of one Jurisdiction visiting
the Lodge of another and exemplifying their ritual, either on one
of their own candidates or one of the home town. Some Grand
Masters permit and encourage it, while others take the 'position that
no ritual can be used except that one adopted by the Grand Lodge
where the work is done.
Lodges of California and Nevada have interchanged visitations,
and we believe with good results. It does make for fraternalism.
As the Chairman of the Vermont Correspondence Committee stated,
"We feel it to be a good thing for some of our Masons to realize
· that Vermont work is not the same as was used 'at the building of
King Solomon's Temple', and that wherever it came from it differs
in various localities."

6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

LATE ARRIVALS: We regret that the 1932 Proceedings fr~m
West Australia, Rhode Island, Mexico, Saskatchewan, ~ew Mexico,
Virginia, Canada and Prince Edward Island were received too late
to be included in this Report.
As heretofore we desire to acknowledge our obligation to. the
writers of reports, Editors of Masonic publications a~d · other writers 1
from whose lectures we have borrowed the material or thoughts
which are directly or indirectly contained in this R~~ort. Whether
or not anything herein stated is educational, enterta~nmg or of any
value whatsoever depends upon the reader. The function of the Committee perhaps may be best expressed in the follpwing:
Drop a pebble in the water
Just a splash and it is gone,
But there half a hundred ripples
Circling on and on and on;
Spreading, spreading on out from the center
Going on out to the sea,
·.
And there isn't any way of telling
Where the end is going to be.
Sincerely and fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman.

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited
Martin Griffith
Byron F. Hillhouse
Trustom R. Dinmore
Martin Ortlieb
C. M. Hickman
Henry Mottet
Charles Ziegler
Bion S. Gregory
A. Cogliandro

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

7

ADVERTISING
Advertising of all kinds, whether for financial or other reasons,
still continues to be a matter of legislation and opinion. Insurance
companies advertising as operating "for Masons only" have borne the
brunt of criticism. We hold no brief for such a practice, but of all
classes of business wherein this question may arise it seems to be
the only one that is under any supervision whatever. Such companies are regulated by National and State laws and subject to National
and State supervision.
An exception is made in. various Jurisdictions by allowing magazines, hospitals, supply houses, ce~terie6, etc., to use the word
Masonic. These are operated for private gain, and to be fair it
would appear that they should be subject to the same regulations as
insurance companies.
The placing of Masonic emblems on automobiles and business
literature and the display of emblems by an individual are open to
criticism and have been the subject of legislation. If the custom
prevalent in the Jurisdictions of the British Empire of individual
members wearing no emblems at all would ever become fashionable
it would have a good effect.
Publicity given to Masonic affairs has gone to such an extent
that there is practically little secrecy left regarding our Institution
~nd its activities. That at one time was a source of our strength.
Colorado (1931):
(Masonic Officers Association}: The Worshipful Masters and
Wardens of the Denver Lodges, associated together in the Denver
Masonic Officers Association, desire to call your attention to a most
discreditable practice which has grown up among the membership
and to curb which there appears to be no law in the Book of Constitutions under which we proceed for the protection of our membership.
This is the solicitation of our membership and our candidates for
all manner of commercial propositions such as insurance (supposedly
based on Masonic membership), magazine subscriptions for so-called
Masonic magazines, sales of Masonic encyclopaedias and many other
items.
This practice has grown to such proportions as to endanger the
peace and harmony of our Lodges and has threatened the sanctity of
the ballot.
Our candidates have been solicited for Masonic magazines and
talked to in such a way that they were afraid that, did they not pay
for the subscriptions, they faced the possibility of being blackballed

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

in the Lodge, and have appealed to the Lodge for prote<;tion from
such solicitors. And in some cases this discreditable solicitation has
been made before the committee of investigation of the Lodge has
been able to call on the candidate and make any kind of an investigation, the result being that the first word a candidate receives that has
any bearing on Masonry after his application is a solicitation for a
subscription.
Our Brethren, and in some cases candidates, have been solicited
for insurance, having as a requisite membership in the Masonic Fraternity, with such tenacity as to be terribly embarrassing, and when
the solicitation takes place while the Brother is standing on the
Entered Apprentice or Fellowcraft degree, places the Brother in a
most awkward position as he is afraid to refuse for fear of the .blackball. All of the Lodges have frequent complaints about this matter
and can find no laws under which it is possible to stop the practice.
Connecticut (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master of Illinois
rightly ruled the wearing of a Masonic emblem by the son of a
Mason as "very improper." 0. K. But we knew of a case where a
Mason naively gave his identification card to his daughter when she
set out on a trip. With equal naivette, she affected surprise when told
it was illegal.
Iowa (1931):
(Grand Master):. I think that the attention of the Craft should
be called to a situation, amounting to a real evil, which is found in
greater or less degree in all the jurisdictions. I refer to. the abuses
that have developed in connection with the activities of organizations
of a commercial or quasi-commercial character which limit their
membership and activities to Masons. These organizations vary
greatly in their nature-cemetery associations, insurance companies,
book and periodical publishing concerns. Agents not infrequently
take advantage of uninformed new-made Masons, persuading them,
for example, to buy insurance in the belief that it is a part of their
Masonic obligation to do so. The unfairness and the un-Masonic
character of this is clear. It seems to me that our members and the
interest of the fraternity should be protected against such abuses. At
least the new brother who knows nothing about Masonic law, traditions and usages should be protected. I urge upon the Brethren, and
particularly upon the officers of Lodges, that they inform new members that they are under no Masonic obligation whatever to buy
anything from anyone. Let us use our influence to prevent the commercialization of Masonry, and to protect its good name from injury
at the hands of selfish, profit-seeking men.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

9

Iowa (1932):
We are wondering just what sound reason there is why there
should not appear upon such card the names of the Brethren who
were to receive the Master's Degree. We must confess that we know
of no reason why a candidate should be ashamed to let the world
know that he is becoming a full-fledged Master Mason.
Maine (1931):
One resolution adopted by Grand Lodge reads as follows:
"Resolved, that as to all publications which have been or hereafter may be authorized by the Grand Master to be made and issued
by any subordinate Lodge, it shall be the duty of, and the responsibility is placed upon, the Master of the Lodge granted such authority,
to supervise and control the conduct of such publication and all matters of every kind and nature therein published."
Maine (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A decision of the Grand
Master (Missouri) relative to using Masonic emblems on the front
of an automobile is as follows: Legitimate to use them on pleasure
cars, but not on those for business or commercial purposes. He then
suggests that it is a question of fitness and good taste. Our own
thought is that such a display is a kind of revelation of the kind of
Masonry which is in the Brother:
Minnesota (1931):
Dispensations to issue a monthly publication were granted to
three Lodges, with the understanding that no political advertisements
of any character would be included, and that no political controversies
or discussions be engaged in.
Missouri (1931):
(Grand Master): Other Grand Masters have had experiences
similar to mine with so~called Masonic papers. In the light of all
that has transpired, my own opinion is that the publishing of so-called
Masonic papers by individuals or private enterprises ought to be
prohibited and that if any such paper is published, it should be published by the Grand Lodge. Such papers as are now published are
a constant source of trouble and annoyance, resulting year after year
in controversies and arguments between the editors and the executive officers of the Grand Lodge, and do far more harm than good.
The constant temptation to publish a lot of stuff that has no
place in a Masonic paper in order to increase the revenue of the
publisher is irresistible.

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonic directories also are bad. They are used too commonly
as "sucker lists" by scheming and unscrupulous men.

that the way of the Masonic magazine might be made hard, or even
impossible, in the matter of advertisements. Any advertiser, of course,
is seeking to attract the Masonic reader. Perhaps it is not exactly in
accord with our way of doing things, to go after the Masonic sector
to sell them iceless refrigerators; or the Masonic sector to sell them
clothing; or the Masonic group to sell them real estate. The Masonic
advertiser for votes does not, perhaps, make his bid any more pointed
in seeking to sell his personality as a political candidate, than these
others who seek to sell commodities. By a logical reasoning the
only field for proper advertisements in magazines would be pass
cases, Lodge furniture, uniforms, and a few other items; and by that
time the Masonic publication would have been driven from business.
It would seem to us that the nature of the appeal would govern the
sort of advertising to be accepted, rather than the character of th.e
item to be sold. Would he omit undertakers' advertisements? They
are seeking to handle Masonic funerals.

New Jersey (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Under "Decisions" (Virginia, 1931) we find a painstaking effort to standardize the wearing
of Masonic jewelry by the female members of a Mason's family,
which we are told is a well-established custom in Virginia. Again
we turned to the report of the Committee of Past Grand Masters
to ascertain their views on this subject. Curiously enough our search
revealed no reference to this decision. Was it an oversight on the
part of this distinguished committee, or a silent reminder that the
less said about the pin-wearing Mason the better, and as for attempting to legislate on where, how, or when the members of the female
sex should wear jewelry or any other adornment, the committee
may have felt as did a great man when asked to discuss the personality of the Deity, "that the wisest reply was a respectful silence."
New York (1932):

(Committee on Law Enforcement): The usual number of cases of
improper advertising has been dealt with. "Once Tried-Never
Denied" still remains a favorite. In one case, where this slogan was
used on the window of a cigar store, the proprietor removed the
word " denied,'' making the sign read "Once tried-never." One might
suppose that "One smoke, sure choke" would be equally effective,
but if the offenders are satisfied. with this new device, we may be
equally so.
One of the latest was of "Club L," a card giving a Harlem address and bearing the square and compasses enclosing the letter G and
an all-seeing eye. This was turned over to a proper agency for investigation the day it was received but the Club had moved to parts
unknown.
We must confess a slight mystification as to how so many improper advertisements from Harlem reach the hands of our rural
Brethren.
North Carolina (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): .G rand Master William K .
Gill found that certain Masonic magazines (not under Grand Lodge
control) were running the advertisements of candidates for public
office in their columns, which fact he interpreted to be a direct bid
for the Masonic vote as such. He therefore directs certain Lodges
to desist from the use of these magazines unless and until the acceptance of those advertisements is discontinued. It rather seems to us

11

Pennsylvania (1931):
(Grand Master): Recently, Secretaries of subordinate Lodges
have been enclosing with the Lodge notices separate slips or cards
announcing all kinds of social, musical, etc., functions. Some of these
notices have announced dances to which both sexes have been
invited. The present rulings that a Lodge notice shall contain nothing
of an outside nature have been grossly violated. I, therefore, decide
that hereafter notices of Lodge meetings shall be confined to strictly
Lodge matters, and no card or slip shall be inserted which shall contain any announcement which is not strictly a Lodge matter. No
information concerning card parties, dances, musicales, and entertainments of var.i ous natures, particularly where mixed audiences are to
be present, is permitted.

• • • • •

The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania does not recognize such a
thing as Masonic life insurance. The Secretary of a Lodge, in his
official capacity as Secretary, has nothing to do with making proof
of death for the purpose of collecting life insurance. The Seal of the
Lodge is not to be used in attesting the death of' a member holding
a life insurance policy in a so-called Masonic life insurance company.
Virginia (1931):
(Grand Master): I have been deeply concerned during the year
to find that the Craft have been persistently circularized for business
and commercial purposes and I am satisfied that the wishes and action
of the Grand Lodge in this respect are being disregarded. During the
past few years, there have grown up in our Jurisdiction certain busi-

12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ness enterprises which, in the main, have been maintained and operated by members of the Craft who seek to do business with Masons
only, and appeals, both expressed and implied, are made to the
Masonic relationship. As I am advised, for the most part these activities have been confined to so-called insurance schemes, which are,
as a rule, conceived and born in an atmosphere of selfishness and
have for their ultimate object financial return to some individual or
group. In the first place, there is grave doubt of the soundness of
these schemes from an economic or actuarial standpoint and these
efforts are fraught with embarrassment and detriment to the parties
who may become interested in them and to the fraternity and to the
Grand Lodge whose duty, as I conceive it, is to protect the Craft and
to preserve the spirit and purposes of the institution. In the second
place, I am advised that there is grave doubt of the legality of these
activities from the standpoint of the laws of the Commonwealth
governing and controlling such enterprises, and we cannot afford as
Masons to become involved in doubtful practices.
Western Australia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Publications professi~g to
be Masonic, and bearing the name of the Craft, are foun( inserting
advertisements for the election of candidates to the legislature or
public office, and in these advertisements the Masonic standing of
the candidate is set forth in the most bare-faced and, therefore, improper style. Yet, the conductors of those journals see nothing objectionable in the practice, and if Grand Lodge authorities in those places
do, one does not find them taking the very strong measures well
within their competence to discipline, not only the Masonic conductors of the journals, bl!t also the Brethren who either authorize
or permit the insertion of these objectionable notices. Mere fulmination is not enough.
Three "public installations" were attended by the Grand :tfaster.
What about "our secret arts and hidden mysteries"?
Ohio has i~s "spurious ritual" trouble. The trouble included the
circularization, by an enterprising publishing house, of Lodge candidates before they had taken their M. M. degree, offering to ~upply
these rituals. This drew from the Grand Master, "How does this
house secure the names of these candidates?" If Lodge meetings
together with the business of the meetings, are advertised in th~
secular press of Ohio, as they are in many United States Jurisdictions
to say nothing of Masonic magazines, with which this writer becam~
familiar during five years' sojourn in the Republic, M. W. Bro. Morgan's question is not difficult to answer. To an Australian Mason
the publicity given in the United States journals to Masonic matter~
is probably paralleled only in Scotland.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

13

BUDGETS
The financial affairs of Grand Lodges and constituent Lodges
are governed by the same inflexible rules as in any other walk of
life. Some of the Jurisdictions have started at the ground fioor and
endeavored to place the affairs of the constituent Lodges on a business basis by insisting expenditures be put on an annual budget.
They in turn have followed the same example. Others are living
in the hopes that necessity will produce the same effect, rather than
direct legislation. Some have been wise enough to reduce the expenses of non-essentials, thus setting a good example. There is one
thing certain that any Fraternal ocganization to succeed must conduct its financial affairs on business lines. We marvel at the fact
that the constituent Lodges in some Jurisdictions are able to survive
on annual dues ranging from $2.00 to $5.00, with low initiation fees.
Illinois (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Committee on Legislation, among other things, reported and had approved an amendment
to the by-laws extending the powers of a Committee on Lodge
Finances, so that every chartered Lodge would be examined and
reported upon annually and a budget prepared to be followed by
the Lodges. The committee was also empowered to consult with the
Lodges on the erection of temples, financing plans and other incidental measures.
Michigan (1931):
(Grand Master): No Lodge has a right to ask the other Lodges
of Michigan to carry its financial burden, in addition to their own.
We know that Brethren cannot all pay their dues, in a period of
depression, and we are willing to make allowances, but it is an interesting fact that a number of our Lodges went to their town banks
and borrowed money to meet their obligations to Grand Lodgeand if a Masonic Lodge lacks sufficient standing in the community
to secure credit at its bank, there is at least room for doubt that it
should continue to struggle along.
Mississippi (1932):
(Finance Committee): During our deliberations and in our troubles when we have tried to reach these conclusions, it was a consolation to us though no surprise that our Worthy Grand Secretary
appeared before us and out of the heart of love for Masonry said to
us: "Reduce my salary 25% and every employee of my office the same
amount and if you Brethren expect to save the serious situation, make
somewhat of a similar reduction in every department."
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

14

15

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nebraska (1932):
(Grand Master): In many instances I believe our Lodges are not
collecting sufficient dues from the membership to properly meet
future financial demands and obligations. We have fifty-eight Lodges,
the dues of which range from $2.75 to $4.50 per year. Many of them
have no surplus funds or relief funds, but are apparently collecting
only sufficient to cover limited current expenses. Brethren, this
matter should be given very serious consideration. With the passing
of time, our Lodges will more and more be called upon for financial
relief to their distressed Brethren; and while we are not an alms-giving
institution, we do have a duty toward the welfare of our Brethren
and their dependents and when the need is manifest our Lodges
should be in a financial position to respond to such need, and not be
compelled to say we have no money for welfare use. · I firmly believe
that no Lodge should collect less than $5.00 annual dues, which ,
after paying Grand Lodge dues leaves only $3.00 for local use. I
recommend that the minimum dues collect,ed by Nebraska Lodges
shall be five dollars per member per year.
North Carolina (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): This Grand Lodge of
Georgia feels the need for retrenchment. The expenses of the Chairmen of a great number of committees have been paid by the Grand
Lodge; some eighteen of them, we believe. This number is very
much reduced this year by abolishing committees and giving their
duties to others. The · Finance Committee reduces the appropriations
for the expenses of the Grand Master from three thousand dollars to
two thousand dollars. It did not recommend any appropriations for
the director of Masonic Welfare at all. It recommended that "the
Foreign Correspondent confine his reviews of Grand Jurisdictions to
a report not to exceed one printed page in the Proceedings, for each
jurisdiction reviewed."
But we notice that $15,500 is set aside for the mileage and per
diem of the officers and Past Masters of Lodges who attend the
Grand Lodge; and they still spend $500.00 for a Past Grand Master's
jewel, while chopping off a hundred dollars from the honorarium
of the Committee of Foreign Correspondence. They also provided
$600.00 for the use of the Committee on Proverbs, to be used as
prizes to boys who have read and learned the Proverbs; the committee bought and paid for ten thousand copies of the book of Proverbs
also.

* * * * *
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Here is another Grand
Lodge (Missouri) that has to cut expenses-all of them have to do it

'

now for that matter as well as all of us individuals. Well, you will
agre'e that Grand L;dges have to cut expenses, if you did. But it is
interesting to see what they do to cut down expenditures; how wild
they get sometimes. Take Missouri, for instance. Grand Master
Gentry takes a crack at the Foreign Correspondence Report and
recommends that they refuse to print excerpts from other books; goes
on to rub it in by saying, "I recommend that this committee (Dr.
Corona H. Briggs) be requested to so abbreviate this report as to
leave out everything but correspondence." What he meant by "correspondence," he alone knows. The interesting matter that appeals to
us is the fact that Grand Master Gentry ought to know that there
are in other states some men who can and do write things that are
far more valuable at times than what Corona H. Briggs could or did
write-or what J. Edward Allen could or did write. It's our business
to give to our readers what we know to be most forceful, interesting,
useful, inspiring and generally valuable to Masonry and to those who
pay the bills. The Grand Lodge has a perfect right to tell any of us
how many pages the maximum that it can print of our work will be;
but when it presumes to tell us what to leave out, it is meddling
into something which is supposed to be handled· by one chosen by
the Grand Lodge because he knows how. Reminds us of the time
when the farmer was driving a mule hitched to a buggy; the mule
did a mean piece of kicking, kicked the dashboard off the buggy,
and eventually got both hind feet into the buggy, whereupon the
farmer is said to have remarked, "If you dang fool are going to get
into this buggy, I think it is time for me to get out."

* * * * *
(Chairman Corresponde1ice Committee): It may be said in passing
that the same Grand Master who fusses about the correspondence
report being too long, uses 45 pages of six-point type for his official
address. If he wants us to tell him how to make that shorter--- - - ! And then, about cutting down expenses in the Grand Lodge
of Missouri--Let's see! They paid out $18,990.40 in mileage and
per diem for this one session. The Grand Master not only gets his
expenses of $1,500, but a salary of a thousand dollars as well. The
Grand Secretary gets a salary of five thousand, which is somewhat
more than the average man is getting these days for a year's work;
and the Grand Lecturer $4,200. They pay the Foreign Correspondent
$750.00 for writing the report limited to 150 pages, which he richly
deserves but which is twice as much as goes for the work in North
Carolina. The attendance of representatives at the George Washington Memorial meeting and the Grand Masters' conference cost
them $400. And so on. All of which suggests that Grand Master
Gentry might have looked around him for other things to take a kick

16

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

at, rather than "excerpts in the Foreign Correspondence report." We
give it to him for one other thing-he started the Annual Communication Tuesday morning, September 29th, 1931, at ten o'clock, and closed
it on the following day, so that delegates drew mileage for only two
days instead of the usual three--. And that was nothing short of
cold-blooded, hardboiled premeditation, too; for the World's Series
baseball games were being played in St. Louis those three days, and
the boys wanted to see them. The local committee were flooded with
requests from delegates to get tickets in advance.

the pendulum swung in the other direction; restrictions and economy
became the order of the day; jobs disappeared as by magic, and with
them the means with which to meet the installments on a whole
herd of white elephants-and dues could not be paid. Wise old
Plutarch is said to have been responsible for the statement of a fact,
the significance of which many of us have not appreciated: "Nothing
is cheap," he said, "which is superfluous, for what one does not need
is dear at a penny."
Involved in these conditions, it seems to us, · is that elusive
"American Standard of Living," about which we hear so much in
certain quarters, and which seems to mean the purchase of everything (on the installment plan) an undisciplined fancy may desire,
and a grim determination not to be outdone by neighbors may
demand, This orgy of spending could have but one ending, and
Dam«:.Experience is making very plain what that ending is.

North Dakota (1931):

(Gr<!nd Master): Masonry is not a cheap organization. It is going
to be more and more expensive, as it increases in usefulness. Talk
of economy is in order, but of retrenchment never. I am firmly of
the opinion that Lodges and Grand Lodges must be better financed
than they are at present and that Grand Lodges are going to take a
deeper interest in seeing that Lodges are sufficiently well financed
so that they are not handicapped in doing the things which Masonry
should do. In a very small measure increased dues will result in
suspension, but those who drop out of Masonry because they are not '
willing to pay for its proper support are of no value to the organization. Masonry will be stronger without them.
Philippine Islands (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): From year to year we
have been observing a tendency to adopt system and business methods
in Grand Lodge and Lodge administration. Many of the annual addresses of Grand Masters reviewed this year contain references to
the budget system, the proper application of the receipts of the
Lodges, and other features of Lodge finance. A few-too few, we
believe-emphasize -the necessity of a petitioner for the degrees
carrying life insurance or comment upon the folly of admitting men
apt to become sooner or later a burden to the Fraternity.
Utah (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We suspect that among
_o ther causes of such losse;; might be mentioned the intensive campaign carried on for so long, in which the changes were rung on:
"Buy! buy! buy! your credit is good. Enjoy the use of this, that
or the other article while you are paying for it." And people very
generally did buy and many things they did not need, ·and assumed
a veritable flock of obligations-while times were prosperous, then

17

Vermont (1931):
(Jurisprudence Committee): Come your Committees on Jurisprudence and Finance and with respect to the second Article in the
Grand Master's recommendations, have to report that said Committees, having fully heard and considered the matter, recommend
that an advisory committee for the Subordinate Lodges, consisting of
the Grand Master, Deputy Grand Master and Grand Senior Warden,
be appointed to serve for the period of one year for the purpose of
advising Subordinate Lodges in relation to their financial matters, to
suggest and prepare operating budgets whenever requested, and to
aid and help, by study and suggestion, in all Lodge financial matters.
The Committee further report and recommend that a Committee, to
be known as the Budget Committee, composed of the Grand Master,
Grand Wardens and the Finance Committee be authorized and instructed to prepare and present to our next annual Communication
and each annual Communication thereafter a clearly defined budget
of income and outgo of the general fund of this Grand Lodge, and
that the budget so presented or as amended in Grand Lodge be
adopted and that expenditure of money other than as stated in such
budget be prohibited.
Western Australia (1931):
(Chairman CMrespondence Committee): The need for annually
budgeting their revenue and expenditure, and for the adoption· of
ordinary business methods in Lodges is appealing to a considerable
number of the American Jurisdictions, Canadian and the United

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

States. At one time-even within the reviewer's Masonic recollections, there was a fairly general belief that it was impossible to run
a Lodge, Grand or subordinate, on business lines, except in the ideas
of impracticable doctrimiaires, those whose theories only looked well
on paper. Today, the business idea is not only treated with respect,
but has been adopted in some quarters, and, what is more promising
for the realities of Masonic service, is becoming increasingly popular.
To the same recognition of the value of business principles in Masonic administration must be attributed the largely shared opinionin many cases translated into action-that the creditably enthusiastic
desire of Lodges for temple-building must be regulated by their respective Grand Lodges in the interests of the Lodges themselves, in
order that the usefulness of the latter may not suffer from financial
embarrassments. In introducing these . reforms, the Grand Bodies
are performing a wonderful service to the Craft, one that in the course
of a decade or so should prove greater than the sanguine anticipations
of their advocates, provided sufficient tact is exercised to prevent
friction, and "grandmotherliness" is avoided.
Wisconsin (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Conmiittee): A Grand Lodge can no
more continue to function without funds than can a bank, or any
commercial institution. There is great danger that Grand Lodges
may become too charitable and thereby create in their ~embers the
feeling that it is not at all necessary that they should be frugal and
saving in order to provide for their old age, but that the Masons will
care for them. The burden may become so great that a Grand Lodge
cannot m eet it.
DEPRESSION
Some one has said that "the optimist. is a person who does not
care what happens as long as it does not happen to him, and that
a pessimist is one who lives with an optimist." This seems to be
the present condition of a large number of us. Everyone has an
opinion as to the Cause, Effect and the Remedy. The excerpts under
this heading perhaps may not be considered seriously, but they will
help perhaps to cheer us up.
If we would adopt the practice of comparing our own lot with
those worse off, rather than those supposed to be better fixed, it
might tend to make us more contented.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

19

Arkansas (1932):

(Grand Master):
TOO M U CH TALK
We have too much cotton and too much wheatMore than we can wear and more than we can eat.
There is too much silver and too much lead,
And if you have an oil well, you'd better be dead.
There's too many boosters with too many faults
And too much money in the safety vaults.
There's too many railroads to make things pay
And too many motors on the broad highway.
Too many troubles from a common causeToo-inany people and too many laws.
But, for one of our troubles, we could win in a walk,
And that's the common trouble of too much t alk.
Iowa (1932):
(Deputy Grand Master): I like the depression. No more prosperity for me. I have had more fun since the depression than I ever
had in my life; I had forgotten how to live, what it meant to have
real friends, what it was like to eat common every-day food. Fact is,
I was getting just a little high hat.
I like the depression. I have time to visit my friends, to make
new ones. T wo years ago when I went to a neighboring town, I·
always stayed at the hotel. Now I go home with my friends, stay
all night and enjoy home cooking. I have even spent the week-end
with some of the boys who have been kind enough to invite me.
It's great to drop into a store and feel that you can spend an
hour or two or three, or a half day, just visiting, and not feel that
you are wasting .valuable time. I like the depression.
I am getting acquainted with my neighbors. I n the last six
months I have become acquainted with folks who have been living
next door to me for three years. I am following the Biblical admonition, "Love your neighbors." One of my neighbors has one of the
best looking wives. I have ever seen. She is a dandy. I am getting
acquainted with my neighbors and learning to love them.
Three years ago, I ordered my clothes from a merchant tailortwo and three suits at a time.· All my clothes were good ones. I was
always dressed up. But now I haven't bought a suit in two years. I
am mighty proud of my Sunday-go-to-meeting clothes. When I dress
up, I am dressed up and I don't mean maybe. I like the depression.
Three years ago I was so busy and my w ife was so busy that
we didn't see much of each other, consequently we sort of lost in-

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

terest in each other. I never went home for lunch. About twice a
week I went home for dinner-at 6:30 o'clock. I never had time to
go anywhere with her. If I did go on a party, I could never locate
her. Since there was always a "blond" or a "red-head" available, I
didn't worry about it. My wife belonged to all the clubs in town.
She even joined the young mothers' club. We don't have any children,
but she was studying-and between bridge and going to clubs, she
was never at home.
We got stuck up and hifalutin. We even took down the old
family bed and bought a set of twin beds-on the installment plan.
When I would come home at night, if my wife was at home, she
would already be in her bed and I would crawl in mine. If I came
in first it was vice versa.
We like the depression. We have come down off our pedestal
and are really living at my house now. The twin beds are stored in
the garage and the old family affair is being used. We are enjoying
life. Instead of taking a hot water bottle to bed these cold nights,
she sticks her heels in my back just like she did before Hoover was
elected.
I am feeling better since the depression. I take more exercise.
I walk to town and a lot of folks, who used to drive Cadillacs, are
walking with me. I like the depression.
My digestion is better. I haven't been to see a doctor in a year;
I can eat anything I want to.
I am getting real, honest-to-goodness food. Three years ago,
we had filet mignon once a week, now we have round steak and flour
gravy. Then we had roast breast of guinea hen, now we are glad to
get sow-bacon with the buttons on it.
I like the depression. My salary has been cut to where I can't
afford to buy lettuce, spinach and parsley, and we can't afford to
have sandwiches and frozen desserts and all that damfoolishness,
which has killed more good men than the World War.
I like the depression. Three years ago, I never had time. to go
to church. I played golf all day Sunday and, besides, I was so darned
smart that there wasn't a preacher in West Texas who could tell me
anything. Now I am going to church ·regularly, never miss a Sunday.
And if this depression keeps on, I will be going to prayer meetings
before long.
I like the depression.
DEPUTY GRAND MASTERS
The functions of a District Peputy Grand Master, Inspectors,
Custodian of Work, Grand Lecturers, etc., are amply covered in the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

21

Report from Wisconsin. While it is necessary that the organization
be handled along certain lines and through certain Officers, one of

the results of the present system is the standardization of every form
of activity of a Masonic Lodge, and following the letter rather than
the spirit of the law. The attempt to initiate new ideas is often practically nullified by such a system. It should be possible to strike a
happy medium.
Wisconsin (1932):
(Committee on Deputy Grand Masters): Your Committee appointed
by Grand Master William R. Graves to study and report on the
question of District Deputy Grand Masters submits the following
findings:
Questionnaires were mailed to fifty-seven Grand Jurisdictions
with which this Grand Lodge has fraternal rela!ions. Of these, all
but six responded.
Eighteen of those that responded do not use the District Deputy
Grand Master system.
Thirty-three use the system in some form.
In but one Jurisdiction (Kansas) is the appointment made by
other than the Grand Master. In this case the selections are made
by the Council of Administration or the Deputy Grand Master.
In all other cases the Grand Master appoints, although in Alberta
the nominations are made by the Lodges in each district and the
Grand Master confirms the appointments. The same holds true in
Quebec.
In thirty Jurisdictions the term of office is for one year, or at
the pleasure of the Grand Master. In two cases, Connecticut and
South Dakota, the term of office is for two years.
As to compensation, in Vermont the District Deputies receive
two dollars plus actual expenses from the Lodges visited. This is
the only Jurisdiction reporting compensation.
In twenty-one Jurisdictions expense money is paid, usually by
the Lodges visited: In eight Jurisdictions no expense money is paid.
The number of Lodges in each district varies greatly. The
smallest number in a district is reported by Texas where one district
has but one Lodge. In a number of states that are districts having
but three Lodges. In some cases it was found that districts have as
high as twenty-nine Lodges. The average seems to be from ten to
twelve Lodges in each district .
. In twelve Jurisdictions the District Deputies act as Grand Lecturers.

23

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In all but three Jurisdictions employing the system, the office
of District Deputy, or its equivalent, carries with it no preference
or precedence as to the Grand Lodge line. Connecticut reports that
the office does carry preference, but c!oes not amplify the answer.
North Dakota answers "yes" and explains that the system affords
an excellent means of determin.ing a man's ability and that from that
standpoint it does carry preference. In Rhode Island, advancement
is made from "first deputy" to Grand Junior Warden.
It is illuminating to discover that in many instances District
Deputies have become Grand Masters.
In Alberta all but four Grand Masters have served as District
Deputies.
In British Columbia twenty-three Grand Masters were District
.Deputies.
In California nine District Deputies have become Grand Masters in the past thirty years.
In Canada "nearly all" of the Grand Masters have been District
Deputies.
In Connecticut all but three Grand Masters were Deputies.
Summarizing, we may report Florida, "several"; Idaho, seven;
Illinois, "most of them" have been Deputy; Louisiana, "very few, if
any"; Maine, "perhaps half"; Manitoba, "several"; Maryland, none;
Massachusetts, "most"; Minnesota, none; Missouri, eight or ten in
the last twenty-five years; New Hampshire, "several"; New Jersey,
fourteen; New Mexico, "quite a number"; New York, "most"; North
Dakota, five; Nova Scotia, three; Oklahoma, four; Oregon, two;
Pennsylvania, eight since 1894; Rhode Island, "nearly all"; South
Carolina, "only a few"; South Dakota, none; Texas, none; Vermont,
twenty-two.
In all cases District Deputies must be Past Masters. Other
qualifications are: Leadership, proficiency in law and ritual, executive ability, ability to inspect, devotion to the Fraternity.
Designations in some cases differ from that of District Deputy
Grand Master. In Minnesota they are called "District Supervisors";
in Iowa, "Special Representatives of the Grand Master"; in Maryland, "District Grand Inspectors"; in a majority of cases they are
termed District Deputy Grand Masters.
Michigan once had District Deputies but the· system was discontinued more than fifty years ago.
In a large majority of cases the report was highly laudatory of
the system. The good points expressed were principally that it affords a contact betweeh the Grand Lodge and the constituent Lodges,
which is much needed. The Grand Master is relieved of much

detail. Whete Lodge books are inspected the system results in
better reporting to the Grand Lodge. One report was " We could
not keep house without it."
Adverse comment was sought by your Committee, as well as
praise. It appears that some fear the possibility of the District
Deputies forming a "political machine." Others said the principal
difficulty was in finding men who would function. " It is necessary,"
says one, "that the Grand Master should have courage to appoint
the right men."

22

ELECTIONS
As stated under the excerpts from Kansas, and from decisions in
our own Jursidiction, it would appear to be impossible to make a
regulation that can absolutely prevent electioneering. The question
as to whether nominations are proper or desirable is becoming an
issue in some Jurisdictions.
It seems strange that the Mother Grand Lodge and Jurisdictions
in the British Empire, where the form of government is along the
lines of a monarchy or autocracy, permit the practice, while in the
United States, where a representative or democratic form of government is the standard, the practice is generally prohibited. Nominations for office at least would have the merit of presenting the qualifications of an aspirant. Mackey states the practice is permissible.
In one of the Australian Grand Lodges when the Grand Secretary died they advertised for his successor. The new official was
chosen from among nine who had presented their qualifications
through this method.
Connecticut (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): As Sir H ore-Ruthven
was the only nominee, he was declared re-elected Grand Master of
South Australia. Connecticut has an old-adopted decision declaring
with owl-like solemnity that "nominations are un-Masonicl'' In view
of the fact that British, Colonial, and even several United States
Grand Lodges allow nominations, there must be a large section of
the Fraternity indulging in " un-Masonic" practice. This scribe
frankly confesses that in our own Grand Lodge he has violated
this law. Bah !
Indiana (1932):
(Grand Master): A motion directing the Treasurer to cast the
unanimous ballot for a Brother for Secretary was not in order, and
that such an election was not a legal election; that the word "ballot"

25

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

means secret voting by balls, cubes or ticket, and that under the
by-law quoted each officer named therein must be elected by such
secret ballot.

the Annual Communication who are never present at any other, he
is able to entrench himself in the office, much to the detriment of
the Lodge or the Grand Lodge. In such cases there is some justification in electioneering for office so long as it is not carried to
an extent where it will destroy the peace and harmony of the organization.

24

Iowa (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Maryland is the state of
the perpetual Grand Master. There is something to be said on both
sides of this system. In its favor lies the fact that there is always an
experienced officer presiding over the destinies of the Masonic institution in that State. Also, there cannot be quite so much Grand
~o~ge politics where it is understood that the same Grand Master
1s to continue in office during life.
On the other hand, it robs the individual Mason of any ambition
he. may have to so conduct himself that he may become worthy of
bemg elected to this high office, and the perpetual Grand Master
may in time b~come something of a tyrant and despot, knowing that
the settled policy of the Grand Lodge is to continue him in office.
Kansas (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The subject of "Lodge
Elections" receives attention of the Grand Master of Iowa and we
take pleasure in quoting the following:
"It is doubtful whether a · provision of law could be drafted
which w?uld dr~w the line at exactly the right point and prohibit
the. practices which clearly are objectionable and permit those things
w~1c~ are helpful and at times essential, if competent Lodge. leadership is to be assured. In my opinion each Lodge should be and
actually is, responsible for the conduct of its members in conn~ction
with Lodge elections. In a broad, non-technical sense, the legality
of any act or procedure in this matter depends upon its effects. Any
act that causes or tends to cause strife, discord or dissension within
~ Lodge, or to bring Masonry into disrepute, is un-Masonic and
11legal. D~finite statutory provision to this effect is not necessary.
The unwritten law of Masonry undoubtedly stands against such
practices."
.
While ~e submit that the practice of electioneering for office
m a Lodge 1s most reprehensible, yet there is another side to this
question which is of equal importance to the Craft in general and
it not only applies in the local Lodge, but likewise in the Grand
Lo.dge. In many instances a Brother is elected to an office in some
cases receiv~ng co~pen~ation fo~ his work, yet he is totall; unqualified to fill it, but m view of his contact with the membership on
account of his being an officer, and the further fact that many attend

Manitoba (1932):
(Chairnwn Correspot1dence Committee): The election of the Grand
Master in New Zealand is different to the method we use. The choice
seems to be made by the Board of General Purpose and only confirmed by the Grand Lodge. This would appear to be the plan used ·
also in the election of the Pro. Grand Master. I fear that we in
Western Canada would hardly agree to this method.
New Hampshire (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): When it came to the election of officers it was stated 987 were entitled to vote. Their Grand
Master in Massachusetts is elected from the floor-he does not reach
that office by a course of promotion up the line. The ballot was
· unanimous-and it was by ballot. We think that that was a won-

derful fact.

•• • • •

In Victoria they nominate for office, a thing that with us is
prohibited. Only one nomination was made for Grand Master, and
he was immediately declared elected, without a ballot.
The treasury balances exceed a million dollars.

Philippine Islands (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committe~): A resolution was presented amending their laws so as to eliminate the provisions prohibiting nominations of candidates for office and to permit nominations
being made; it was referreq to the Committee on Jurisprudence to
report next year.
Scotland:
In Scotland the membership of the Grand Lodge has more say
in • nominations for office than in most En9lish-speaking Grand
Lodges. Almost everybody, from the Grand Master down, is nominated and elected in Grand Lodge. At the Quarterly Communication
in August they . nominated the Grand Master, the two Wardens, two
Chaplains, two Deacons, the Grand Architect, the Grand Jeweler,
the Grand Bible-Bearer, the Grand Director of Ceremoni.es, the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

26

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Grand Bard, the Grand Sword-Bearer, the Grand Director of Music,
the Grand Organist, the Grand Marshal, the Grand Inner Guard,
and the Grand Tyler.
Vennont (1932):
(lurispnuience Committee): The following question was asked
the Grand Master and answered as follows:
1. H~s any Brother the right, in annual meeting, to address the
Lodge .with remarks for or against any other Brother who is in line
for office or who may be considered by the Brethren for election?
If not, has the Master authority to stop such remarks when attempted?
. Decision. It is of immemorial custom in our Order that no nominating remarks be indulged in during election of officers, and this I
construe to carry on to speeches relative to fitness of those Brothers
who may be considered for office. I therefore rule that it is improper
~o present candidates for office by nominating remarks or to discuss,
1~ open Lodge, by remarks addressed to the Lodge, any of the candidates who are considered for office.
The Worshipful Master has authority to cause any such attempted speeches or discussions to stop, and his decision cannot be
appealed from.
Which Decision your Committee approves.
Wisconsin (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Constitution of the
Gran.d Lodge of Philippine Islands provides that no nomination for
cand1d~tes for any office will be permitted. This was assailed by a
res.o!ut1.on ..presented by several delegates declaring that such regulat10n is anomalous, undemocratic and absurd, and deprives the
members of a Lodge of the right of choice as to who should be
elected as officials of a particular Lodge." The rule thus roundly
cond:mned has always been the rule in the Grand Lodge of Wis~onsm an? has never been productive of any such dire results. It
is condu.cive !o harmony and prevents ill will and discord. If a
Brother ~s desir?us _of b~ing elected to an office and a Brother places
another m nommat1on, 1t would tend to make a strained feeling between the t-:Vo that_ might breed a lack of harmony in the Lodge.
Wh~re ~and1da.tes are brought out by an informal ballot, without
nommahons bemg made, this is avoided. The resolution was referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence, who asked that they be permitted to report thereon at the next Annual Communication.

GRAND LODGE
The custom of some Jurisdictions in having a Grand Lodge discuss and ratify measures previously passed upon by a Board of G~n­
eral Purposes has the merit at least of saving time. In those Junsdictions there is a shortening of the Session, an absence of detail and
a greater opportunity for sociability.
In the United States in a large number of cases the Proceedings
of Grand Lodge resemble very much the minutes of an annual meeting of a corporation. The members meet as stockholders, and _perform no other function than to ratify the action of a board of directors.
Connecticut (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Michigan's Correspondent's
comment on a Masonic dignitary, "a good man, though a lawyer,"
shows that your reporter is not alone in viewing the legal craft
with suspicion.
Montana (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : In looking over the several
"photos" of the Grand Lodge (~entucky) office.rs fo~~d. i~. t~e
volume we note that all those posmg had on a smile or grm ' did
we say' "all" ?-yes, all but one, and that is the one of the Gra.nd
Treasurer; he may be a banker, and they (bankers) do not smile,
for· fear someone may think they are "easy marks."
New Jersey (1932):
(Grand Master): Frequent are the applications for dispensa.tions,
many of which are without the saving grace of a real necessity. to
warrant the time and the work involved in their issuance. For mstance one Lodge wrote our Grand Secretary, asking that he present
to the' Grand Master its request for a special dispensation to open
a stated communication fifteen minutes earlier than the usual hour,
in order that work might be started on the Third Degree. To grant
this entailed, among other things, the writing by the Grand Master
of a Jetter to the Grand Secretary, one to. the Secretary of the Lodge,
the preparation of the dispensation, and the maki?g of a~ entry i.n
the book of dispensations-to provide a problematical savmg that. is
readily nullified through failure of some of the Brethren to arrive
on time. This request was the second from the same Lodge for the
same .reason.

* * * * *

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

28

29

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Among other matters to which the Grand Master (Texas) directed attention was the small amount of annual dues Lodges were
charging, with resultant financial embarrassment which is not surprisi~g when in some cases they were as low ~s 12s. 6d. a year;
~he inadequate arrangements of Lodges for financing temple building, and the need for a properly defined policy as to who should be
the owners of such buildings, iristead of the system of dual ownership obtaining in some places; and the advisability of constituting
a permanent committee on "Purposes and Policies of the Grand
Lodge." To British Empire Masons, unfamiliar with American
Maso~ic administration, the need for such a committee may appear
questionable, although the object aimed at is commendable. In
most Grand Jurisdictions in the Empire, all matters other than
benevolence are generally considered and reported upon to Grand
Lodge by the one body-the Board of General Purposes which in
the fi~s.t instance, takes care of Grand Lodge policies, Gr~nd Lodge
exercising the right of accepting, amending, or rejecting the Board's
recommendations. The system is so marvelously simple and works
so effectively, that the Mother Grand Lodge and th~ Daughter
Grand Lodge achieve results unsurpassed by any other system of
Masonic administration in the world. Besides, great reliance is
placed on the Masonic lex non scripta, that large body of established
usages and customs which constitute the Masonic common law. In
the United States of America the system is entirely different. The
work done by British Boards of General Purposes is parceled out
among numerous committees, each wearing a more or less highsounding title, and each reporting and recommending to Grand
Lodge. All these committees are constitutionally provided for, and
there seems to be a tendency in most Jurisdictions to form other
committees to do something else that has more or Jess suddenly
~ropped up. Moreover, their Books of >Constitutions are in many
instances crowded with original clauses, amended clauses, substituted clauses, et hoc genus ornne, all conceived with the best intentions, and supplemented by decisions, rulings, edicts, etc., until one
is given to wonder how many Worshipful Masters seriously attempt
to u~derstand this mass of law, to say nothing of the complicated
machinery of Mason.i c administration already referred to. The Empire sys.tern may not be so scientific as that of the Republic but to
this writer it has always appeared better adapted to achieve ~uccess
which is, or should be, the main object.
'
Philippine Islands (1931):
(Jurisprudence Co·mmittee): The resolution proposing ~he amendment of the Constitution by substituting the word "constituent" for

the word "subordinate," in. describing the Lodges, has been referred
to this Committee for consideration and report. ·
The word "subordinate," as used in our Constitution, means
1
•
"placed in a lower order, cIass or rank " and th e word " cons t'tuent"
means "serving to form, compose or make up; component or constitutive~" (Webster's New International Dictionary.)
We are of the opinion that the word "subordinate" is the proper
word and expresses the· relation of the Lodge to the Grand Lodge,
which is the Supreme Masonic power in the Philippine Islands.
The Grand Lodge is not composed of Lodges, but is made up
of Masters, Wardens and Past Masters of Lodges under the juris·
diction of the Grand Lodge.
We are of the opinion that the word "subordinate" is the proper
word to be used in connection with a Lodge in its relation to the
Grand Lodge, and that the word "constituent" would not be the
proper word to be used in that connection. ('Adopted.)
V'ennont (1931):
{Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Considering that the afternoon of the first day of the session of Grand Lodge (Nova Scotia)
does not furnish any form of entertainment to a large majority of
those who attend, the Grand Master suggested that some program
should be devised. Well, perhaps the suggestion is a good one but
for our part we always thought the Brethren attended. Grand Lodge,
not to be entertained, but both to give and to get Masonic knowledge
and assist in the important work of Grand Lodge, but probably we
are mistaken.
Western Australia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Commillee): Should a Grand Lodge
Communication afford "any form of entertainment to a large majority of those who attend" on the afternoon of the first day of the
sessions? Grand Master Greene, whose words appear above between the "quotes,'' appeared to think that it should, for . he suggested to his successor "that he give due consideration to having
one or more degrees conferred at that time by such Lodges as he
and the Grand Lecturer may select." While fully admitting a certain educational advantage in witnessing su~h a ceremony, this reviewer has never, so far, regarded the solemn ceremony of a degree
as an entertainment, although free to confess that the American
Third Degree, as he has seen it " put over,'' to use an Americanism •.
in some United States Lodges, is impressively reminiscent of the
old Adelphi drama. We, in Western Australia, like the great ma-

31

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

jority of Empire Lodges, are able to ge.t our Grand Lodge Communication over in a couple or three hours-certainly not more than
four at the Annual Installation. Somehow or other, British Empire
Grand Lodges seem to hold a position for matter-of-factness that
would have delighted the souls of those very practical Dickensian
characters, Mr. and Mrs. Meagles. British Masons have no welcome
for Field Marshal Red Tape or Brigadier-General Pipeclay.

The Brother who is soon to stand in my place is well acquainted
with conditions and needs and is thoroughly competent to do his
own thinking. I shall not hinder his incoming administration with
a mass of recommendations. I extend to him my sympathy rather
than offer him my recommendations.

30

Wisconsin (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): And again this Grand
Lodge exists for the Craft in Wisconsin, and not the Craft for the
Grand Lodge. It should be responsive to and expressive of the best
thought, s~ntiment and ideals of the Craft and of you, the official
representative of the Craft in our State. Bear in mind then that
this is your Grand Lodge. Your active participation in its proceedings will be welcomed. If you have anything to offer which you
consider will promote the interest of Masonry within our Jurisdiction, do not hesitate to advance it. You will receive a courteous
hearing.
.
To expedite th.e transaction of the bu.siness of Grand Lodge, it
is necessary that its routine work be systematically arranged for
orderly and effective presentation, otherwise our Communication
would be drawn out to impractical lengths. This fact is not intended
to and does not preclude any member from proposing an amendment
or change in the order or method of the presentation of any subject, or of introducing for consideration any pertinent matter outside
the routine business.
·
GRAND MASTERS
The results of the administration of a Grand Master are largely
reflected in the character or ability of the Officer himself. Results
are based upon his individuality and popularity. There is a tendency at present to deny dispensations to make exceptions to existing
laws or regulations . . The practice of asking the Grand Master for
rulings on matters covered by existing laws still continues a common practice.

Alabama. (1932):
(Grand Master}: There is an old saying that "advice is mighty
easy to give but mighty hard to take." There is much that needs to
be improved in our Grand Lodge and among our Lodges, and many
conditions which could be changed for the better, but as I am not to
take any of this advice, I shall refrain from administering.

Alberta (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Approval was given to
the recommendation to form a Past Grand Masters' Association
(Florida), "first within our own jurisdiction, and then with similar
organizations in our sister jurisdictions, and these in turn united as
a federal body of consultative capacity." This would be somewhat
analogous to our Annual Conference of Grand Masters, which also
has no legislative or judicial powers, being merely deliberative.
Arkansas (1931):
(Grand Master) : Let me pass the always pleasant topic of Visitations by remarking that some one has said that "All that glitters is
not gold." One day I received a nobby looking letter from the
Secretary of one of our Subordinate Lodges. The subject matter
necessitated ·the passing of several letters in which it became necessary for me to call the Brother's attention to "the law in the case."
Whereupon I received this reply:
"I think our present Grand Master is too small for his job as
Grand Master of Arkansas." While this was a hot brick and struck
me squarely betwe·e n the eyes, and the wounds chafed and smarted
for some time, I have nearly, if not quite, reached the same conclusion as the Brother Secretary.
British Columbia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We have ourselves pointed
out that a Grand Master should not be expected to visit all the
Lodges in his Jurisdiction; and in fact it is only a question of time
when it will become physically impossible to do so. Whether the
appointment of a Pro Grand Master would solve the difficulty, we
are not prepared to say, but we fancy that the visitation of Lodges
might very well be left to the District Deputy Grand Masters. We
venture the opinion that if this custom were inaugurated the dignity
of the office of District Deputy Grand Master would be greatly
increased.

•••••

Reference is made to the presentatioa of a silk hat to the Grand
Master of Alberta in recognition of the fact that he was not called
upon to make any rulings, the reviewer commenting as follows:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

32

33

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The Grand Master had packed into five pages-with four stanzas
of a. poem extending over on the sixth page-all that he desired or
felt it necessary to bring to the Brethren! And we have, this very
year, worked our tiresome way through addresses of Grand Masters
in which, under single topic, were sixty-five or seventy "Opinions,"
together with the ·correspondence on both sides pertaining thereto!
Five pages! And he a Grand Master, with an opportunity to
fill endless pages with extended (and distended) opinions, or rulings,
nine-tenths of which were already amply covered by the Code! Five
pages! Say, right here and now in spirit we stretch out our hand
over the miles of sage brush and desert and mountains and prairies
which separate us, to "you-all" in sincere admiration and grateful
appreciation. You have established a most pleasing record; your
niche in our Hall of Fame is secure-may you not be alone therein,
too long.

"We have heard of presenting a pair of white gloves to the
presiding judge on the opening of the court, when there were no
criminal cases on the docket, but this is the first time that we have
met with the presentation of a silk hat to a Grand Master when he
had no rulings to make during the year. We confess that we rather
like the idea. Perhaps if it became general among the Grand Jurisdictions we would have less rulings, which is rather to be desired.
We suspect that the Chairman of th.e Committee, M. W. Brother
Burd, had something to do with the originating and carrying out
of the idea."
We'll tell the world.

a

Manitoba (1932):
(Committee on Grand Master's Address): Your Committee would,
in a last word, point out that these fine addresses of Grand Masters
from year to year are absolutely lost to scores and scores of the
Brethren through the jurisdiction. These Brethren have not the great
pleasure and privilege of attending Grand Lodge, and the Proceedings, in which the addresses are printed, are in all likelihood not
seen by them. The Committee, therefore, strongly suggests that by
direction or instruction or recommendation from the proper authority, all constituent Lodges should read in open Lodge at the fj.rst
regular meeting following the Communication of Grand Lodge, the
address of the M:.w:. Grand Master from the Proceedings; and
in the event of the Proceedings not being in hand for the first meeting,
then at the first regular meeting thereafter when they have been
received by the Secretary.

. Vermont (1931):
{Chairman Correspondence Committee): Too many officers of
Lodges, especially Masters, feel themselves above the need of being
courteous to Grand Lodge officers. Why should they? When they
gather for the Annual Communications of Grand Lodge, they are
often told by Grand Masters that "this is your Grand Lodge and it
is governed by your votes." They go home with an exaggerated
sense of their own importance, seeming to feel that Grand Lodge
and Grand Master are but their servants, ~o whom no obedience is
necessary. They need occasional sharp reminfiers of the power of
Grand Lodge and Grand Master to beget in them the respect they
lack.

New Hampshire ( 1932) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master's
(Florida) first page of his address is a wee bit different, so much so
that it attracts our attention. He does not ring the bells of time or
give evidence of fraternal distemper. He had tried to serve, as best
he ·could, all the year, appreciating the dignity of his position. We
like his approach, his handling of his oratorical start.
Utah (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Master W. T.
Denman of Mississippi gave us a surprise. In fact we were so incredulous that we ran through fifteen or twenty pages following the
close of his address to satisfy ourselves that portions of that document had not been misplaced by the printer or some other disposition made of them. And this was the cause of our amazement:

'

'

Vermont (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In reporting his fraternal
visitations to other Grand Lodges, the Grand Master of New Jersey
used the term "Brother Jurisdictions,'' saying he did so out of deference to the Grand Master of New York, who, he says, has expressed
himself as failing to understand why a "he-man" organization should
refer to its Lodges and Grand Jurisdictions as "Sister." Well, we
would merely call attention to the fact that what a man thinks most
of he has always feminized: his gun, his boat, his machines. The
usage is based on long practice and has excellent sponsors; and it
seems to us is in good taste. we disapprove the application of the
term "Brother" to a collection of the Brethren, not alone for its rarity
but for its lack of grace.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Washington (1931):
(Grand Master): The work required of a Grand Master cannot
be fully delineated. At every meeting some Brother or committee
has some problem to be solved. Advice is sought for temple plans,
or building material for a hall. Help by way of opinion has been
asked for Lodges which built temples beyond their financial ability.
The usual run of insurance agents have pestered, hoping for the
bars to be let down. Profanes sought to cheapen the Order and
enrich their pocket books by seeking a message from the Grand
Master to help sell what was termed a Masonic Log. Profanes endeavored to foster what they termed to be the "Masonic Review"
and their agents represented ads would be read twice a month in
local Lodges.

At this' distance it is well-nigh impossible to say to what extent
the officers of an American Grand Lodge come in contact with the
subordinate Lodges, or what is the precise nature of the supervision
which most of those Grand Lodges exercise through their executives.
Most of the American States are large in area, but only a small
number as large as Western Australia. The supervision is satisfactory, and no necessity is seen to constitute our Grand · Master a
sort of intinerant supervisor. Wherever he pleases to visit, he is
welcomed as the Chief Ruler in our Craft, but the Lodges 'have no
idea of regarding him in any other light. Realizing that he cannot
be expected to visit every Lodge, we have a system whereby present
and Past Grand Officers visit the subordinate Lodges as his representatives, and we have no such experience as Brother Phoenix indicates-unwillingness to accept a substitute for the Grand Master.
"The collar carries you everywhere" is a saying of which all of us
who have attained Gr·a nd Lodge rank experience the truth in the
pleasantest way possible-a warm and hearty welcome.

34

• • • • •

We see that Canada is discussing methods for relieving the
Grand Master from some of the burden which he now bears. Just
what form it will assume does not now appear, but it is evident that
some means will have to be devised, or those men upon whom the
duties of that high office devolve will have to be selected not from
the most able, but from those who are willing to accept it. Th.e
work is enormous and demands more than most men are able to
give it. We sincerely hope that they will solve the question so as
to retain the guiding hands of the able men who have until now
accepted the office.
Western Australia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Florida volume of
Proceedings is not a large one, according to the United States
standard (Masonic). Less than four hundred pages, as a matter of
fact, of which 176 are devoted to Proceedings and exactly the same
number to Fraternal Correspondence, and there are about two score
other pages. But the Grand Master-that is, the Most Worshipful
Brother who presided over the 1930 Annual-signalized his year of
office by singing his little swan song (annual address) of eighty-three
pages, of which just under thirty-two contain his rulings and decisions, these, in nearly every instance, being set out with all the
fullness of a Supreme Court judgment. Of course, everyone does
not believe in the counsel of Mr. Justice Hawkins-to "give your
decision and not your reasons"-but when one reads, in another part
of the Grand Master's address, that it is "the duty of the Worshipful
Master to absorb the contents of the Annual Proceedings as best
he can, and impart the same to his Brethren as best he can," one
can only hope that his powers of absorption are equal to digesting
thirty-odd pages of rulings and decisions.

• • • • •

35

GRAND ORATORS
Some one has stated that the American public is being talked to
death. The statements under Connecticut and Maryland show that
those Jurisdictions are immune, and from the expressions of opinion
of some of the Correspondents it would appear that perhaps the general membership of Grand Lodges would welcome a change. Perhaps if a Grand Orator was chosen for his ability to talk and knowledge of Masonic history, law and customs, and could be available to
constituent Lodges during the year in an educational capacity rather
than only be allow;d to function at the Grand Lodge Session, some
good would result.
If some of the annual orations · are an index to the education of
the speaker along Masonic lines they would place him in the category of Artemus Ward's brother-in-law. Ward said that individual
knew less about more things than any man living.
British Columbia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Brother Sanford (Nebraska) chides the Orator of the Grand Lodge of California for
suggesting the desirability of forming a Grand Lodge for the whole
of the United States, and for making the statement that "Masonry
is committed to the ideal of a Federal Department of Education."
The idea of a General Grand Lodge for the United States has been
mooted on several occasions, and has been definitely rejected by
practically every Grand Lodge in that country, while the Californian

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Orator's reference to education is only a sample of the wild assertions made by speakers who, however eloquent they may be, are
not grounded in the fundamental principles of the Craft.
Connecticut (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : As did Connecticut many
years ago, many Grand Lodges adhere to the custom of having an
"oration" at each annual. Occasional ones are worth close attention
and evoke thought on the part of the listener, but many were empty
verbiage or deal with trite and well settled matters, and are not
worth the time wasted in their delivery.
The advocates of this custom frequently put forward the pettifogging bluff: "This has been so long the custom that it has the
force of a landmark." To the thinking man, such plea is the rankest
nonsense.
Under present-day conditions of widespread enlightenment, the
busy man will waste no time listening to the prolix verbiage of long
speeches, sermons, etc. The present age is more a reading than a
listening one.
Maine (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The report of the Grand
Correspondent, Bro. George A. Kies (Connecticut), is of the usual
high order. He opens his review with a foreword on varied subjects.
We like especially these words regarding alleged Masonic "Orations": "OccasionaJ orations are worth close attention and evoke
thought on the part of the listener, but many are empty verbiage or
deal with trite and well settled matters, and are not worth the time
wasted in their delivery. The advocates of this custom frequently
put forward the pettifogging bluff: 'This has been so long the custom
that it has the force of a landmark.' To thinking men, such plea is
the rankest nonsense. Under present-day conditions of wide-spread
enlightenment, the busy man will waste no time listening to the
prolix verbiage of long speeches, sermons, etc. The present age· is
more a reading than a listening one.'' To which your Maine Correspondent cordially agrees, "sermons" and all.
Maryland (1931):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In the Grand L odge of
Maryland we do not have official orations and no doubt we are
thereby saved a great deal of suffering as well as loss of time.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

37

New Jersey (1931):
(Chair- Correspondence Committee) : Many Masonic Orators
resort to all inclusive statements. Unfortunately there is no evidence
to the knowledge of the writer to support this contention. Through
Masonry run many threads that can be traced to deep and organic
connections with various primitive religious beliefs and characteristic
racial ceremonials, but by no authority of even oratorical licenses
could these primitive rites be classed as Masonry.
Western Australia .(1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Most Grand Masters in
the United States and Canada find much to speak about when de livering their annual addresses. Outside America, there are Masons
who sometimes express doubts whether those addresses are given
in full to Grand Lodge in session. So far as the writer can speak from
-actual personal experience, they are, and at times their excessive
length taxes the patient endurance of the listener. Maryland's Grand
Master believes ·in brevity. Knowing that officers and committees
of Grand Lodge have reports to present, he confines his address to
a couple of pages of what may be aptly styled a foreword or general
introduction, which certainly makes for a business-like despatch of
the matters on the agenda-paper.
HUMOR
That the printed proclledings of the various Grand Lodges are
not always as dry and uninteresting reading as might be expected,
is evidenced by the following flashes of wit and humor which appear
in some of them. They at leaa relieve the monotony for the Reviewer, even if some of them have been heard many times before.
As a prelude, the Grand Master arranged that the Grand Matron
of the Eastern Star, with her associates, should make a call upon
them previous to opening. As the l_adies came in the men sang "Praise
God from Whom All Blessings Flow.'' What could have been more
appropriate? This over, the Governor of the State and others made
speeches, after which the Grand Matron made reply. She must have
been quite overcome, but recovered sufficiently to state tha t the Star,
instead of presenting a bunch of flowers to the Grand Lodge, as has
been the annual custom, proposed to present a cow to the Masonic
Home. Whether or not the aforesaid bovine was literally present,
in the Lodge room; to pass through the change in ownership from
the Star to the Home, is not revealed in the record. We may only
surmise. This is an intensely choice story-but it would be difficult
for anything more practical, helpful, to have been done, within the
cost limitation.

• ••••

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

I am reminded of. a lady member of the congregation who complained to her parson that he always addressed his brethren but not
his sisters. He replied, "My dear young lady, I thought it was uqiversally understood that the brethren embraced the sisters." This
matter of the proper mode of address is really quite an intricate one.
I remember attending a meeting of clergy in Prince Albert 35, 37, 38
years ago, at which a newly ordained young padre said that he never
was sure of the proper way to address the dignitaries of the church.
Archdeacon McKay (old John A., as we used to call him) said:
"Very simple, my dear sir. It is the Most Reverend-the Archbishop;
the Right Reverend-the Bishop; the Very Reverend-the Dean, and
the Rather Reverend-the Rural Dean." As I happen to be a "Rather
Reverend Rural Dean" myself, I can tell the story and enjoy the joke.

On another occasion I found a Book of Constitutions of the
Grand Lodge of Scotland on the dais inst.ead of that of the United
Grand Lod~e of Queensland. Of course, I had to send the Director
of Ceremonies o~t to procure one. I trust the several Brethren will
understa?d. the importance of this matter, and do their utmost to
see that 1t 1s properly carried out. In fact, it must be carried out.

38

• • • • •

The Grand Master of Illinois said: "Sometimes events occur in
such a way that the scales are swept from our eyes and we suddenly
see just how wrong we have been in our estimates. An old maxim
has it that 'if only one person seems disagreeable to you, .give him
medicine, but if everyone seems disagreeable to you, take the medicine yourself.' I have discovered that when I think everyone else
has the wrong kind of ideas, it is frequently I who need the mental
purging."

• • • • •

While Grand Master Cooke (Maine) stated in his address that
there was nothing unusual or sensational to report, yet the very
absence of those things is worthy of mention, and the quiet but substantial progress which our Brethren in Maine evidence from year
to year is one of the highly complimentary things that the world of
Masonry has come to expect from this jurisdiction.
Once in four years the citizen voters of Maine emerge from
relative obscurity into nation-wide prominence by their disclosure
to an expectant nation of the probable results of the presidential
election. This, of course, is accomplished by the casting of their own
ballots. In like manner, the experience of Maine in things Masonic
may serve to disclose to the fraternal world the advent of better
times, for Maine reports evidence of growth and a renewed interest.

• • • • •

I do trust the Brethren will realize the importance of this m;i.tter: Just recently when visiting some of the country Lodges I was
rather shocked on one occasion to find that there was not a Book
of Constitutions in the Lodge room, when the ceremony of inst;i.1lation was being conducted, and the ceremonial had to stop whiist
one of the members went to procure one. That occurred actually in
my presence.

39

• • • • •

E~erson tells a story of a meeting of the Atlantic Club "when
the copies of the new number of the AtlanJic being brought in every
one rose. ea~erly to get a copy, and then each sat down and r~ad his
~:~ !r!1c~e ! The same sage of Concord (Mass.) also declared:
it is sa~er to be blamed than praised." Safer, possibly-but
who would deliberately choose "safety first" in such a test?

• • • • •

I g~eet you here this morning. If I am able, I wish to express
the. feeling that has be~n expressed in this story of Mark Twain.
It is told of ~ark Twam. that he was somewhat of an addict to the
use ?f profanity. On this particular occasion his wife realized he
was m the act of shaving when she heard one of those voluminous
outbursts ~f profanity, whereupon she decided to try to break him
of t~e habit. She planned, as soon as he had finished his task f
sh~vmg, to reti~e to an adjoining room and repeat the. words he h:d
said. As ?e finished his shaving and came from the room where he
w~s shavmg and sat down, she stepped into another room and
re.iterated the same profane blast. He came in quietly and in his
friendly ~nd lo.vable way said, "Ollie, you've got the words. all right
but you Just am't on the tune."
'

•••••
The Grand Orator, describing a Brother in his address, said:
"Yo~ know it is said that a fellow one ' time, a bright young fellow, a.pplied and was elected and took the Entered Apprentice degree
He did n~t come back for his Fellowcraft. He went on and wa~
gone and m .twenty years a man with gray hair showed up at the
Lodge and said he came to get his Fellowcraft; and they looked back
and fou~d, away back ~wenty years ago, he had received the E'n tered
Apprentice degree. And they said: 'Why have you waited twenty
years to come back her~ for the Fellowcraft?' He said: 'Brother, it
has ta~en me. all that time to learn to subdue my passions and improve myself m Masonry',"

• • • • •

I ~hough.t .o.f the old Methodist local preacher years ago before
we had proh1b~tion and before we had' temperance societies. In the
town where this old Methodist local preacher lived they were going
to have a temperance meeting, and so they were looking for a speaker
and they came to the old local preacher and asked him if he wouldn';

. 41

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

speak at their temperance meeting. He said he wanted a . week to
consider the matter. So at the end of the week they came to him,
and he said he had been considering the matter about speaking on
temperance, and had been reading the Bible, and he said the Bible
had a lot to say about drinking wine. He said: "It tells when Jesus
performed His first miracle in -Canaan of Galilee He added to the
festivity of the occasion by changing water into wine." And then
he said: "When He organized His great Sacrament he made wine
one of the elements of the Sacrament." And then he said: "Paul
said to Timothy, 'Take a little wine for your stomach's sake.'" And
he said: "I find a lot in the Bible about wine, but I don't find anything about water, except about Qne man, and all he wanted was
a drop of water, and he was in Hell where he ought to have been."

There comes to memory an occasion when I saw the salutation
sign of Master Mason given in public inadvertently, but naturally.
The scene was the District Court room. The presiding judge was
the late Nathan Kingsley, an eminent Mason, a Past General Grand
High Priest · of the General Gra~d Chapter of the United States.
The grand jury had · come in to make their report. "Gentlemen, have
you anything to report?" came from the bench. The foreman, a
seasoned Mason, arose, saluted with the Master Mason's sign, delivered his indictments and sat down. The giving of that salutation
sign, done wholly unconsciously, suggested to me the impression,
deep in that foreman's mind, that in fulfilling his part in the administration of justice he was performing his duty as taught by M:lsonry.

40

• • • • •

•• • • •

I am mighty glad to meet with you today. I don't know any
good stories. I do know how Justice Lester and myself lost our hair.
I discovered this by accident. I brought in an opinion one day in
Supreme Court Conference--didn't either one or any other member
of the Court understand it, therefore I couldn't get it approved. I
walked out and somebody said, "How come Lester and Phelps to
be bald-headed?" I just remarked, "Ideas slipped off their heads
and wore them slick."

• • • • •

Back in 1828 the school board of Lancaster, Ohio, refused a
permit for the use of the school house for the discussion of the
question as to whether or not railroads were practical. They stated:
"You are welcome to use the school house to debate all proper
questions in, but such things as railroads and telegraphs are impossibilities and rank infidelity. There is nothing in the word of God
about them. If God has designed His intelligent creatures should
travel at the frightful speed of fifteen miles per hour, by steam, He
would have clearly foretold through His holy prophets. It is a device
of Satan to lead immortal souls down to hell."

......

Besides the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Home and the
Custodians of the Work, the Grand Lodge has at least eighteen
standing committees. One of these is a committee "To Promote the
Study of Proverbs." This should be a fascinating occupation for a
winter's evening, and much profit could be derived from a discussion
of the proverb:
"Teach not a parent's mother to extract
The embryo juices of an egg by suction;
That good old lady can the feat enact
Quite irrespective of your kind instruction."

• • • • •

•

You know we are laboring under the difficulty that so many of
our members know very little of what Freemasonry actually is; its
background, its present possibilities and its future possibilities. I
heard of a man who came to the minister one morning after the
sermon and he said to him, "Say, Dominie, did you say that Dan
and Beersheba ·were two cities?" "Yes," said the Dominie, "of
course they are." The man said, "That's funny, I always thought
they were brother and sister, like Sodom and Gomorrah."
The amount of knowledge that some of our Masonic members
have with regard to Masonry is, of course, very deplorable. I heard
of a young woman who was asked on a certain examination to tell
about Magna Carta. Well, she had heard the name, but it did not
mean very much to her, so in ~riting the reply to the question she
said that Magna Carta was the name of a soldier in the Revolutionary' Army; that he was shot at the battle of Lexington and his
wife, seeing him fall, rushed forward, seized his musket and said,
"Shoot, if you will, this old gray head; but I am going to fight it
out along this line if it takes all summer." I am afraid there are a
great many of our members, if they were to be asked what Masonry
is, or to define Masonry, or to give any sort of intelligent statement
of what it is all about, they probably would have about the same
mix up of history that that young 'w oman had in her mind.

•• • • •
In .the afternoon of the first day's sessions of Grand Lodge of
Philippine Islands, the Grand Secretary was instructed to send " a
cablegram of sympathy and best wishes" from the Grand Lodge to
Past Grand Master Manuel L. Quezon who, it appears, was at
Monrovia, California, for the benefit of his health. This was done
and reply received ..

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In the lntermountain Catholic, published in Salt Lake City, under
date of May 9, 1931, was the following, on the front page, "boxed":
"Interesting Items
"Quezon, Philippine Senate Pr~sident, Returns to the Church .· ·
"Ma_nila, May 7.-Ascribing his com:ersion to fourteen readings
of the life of St. Theresa, and prayers offered for that intention
~resident Manuel Quezon of the Philippine Senate, one of the lead~
mg statesmen of the Philippine Islands, has formally retracted
Mas?nry. 'I am the happiest man in the world,' he commented, as
he signed the paper that brought him back to the Church."
Tnat is indeed an "Interesting Item"!

• • • • •
Whatever is the cause, whether it is indigestion or false views
of life, that produces such an expression, we must get at the cause
and remove it. In days gone by, there were bitter controversies between religious bodies. Bigotry, ·jealousies and religious prejudices
too often produce facial expressions that lack both confidence and
cheerfulness, but great progress has been made since the time when .
the Baptist used to sing about the Methodist:
"I'd rather be a Baptist
And wear a shining face
Than be a shouting Methodist
And fall away from grace."
And when the Methodist sang about the Presbyterian:
"I'd rather be a Methodist
And talk about free grace
Than be a hard-shelled Calvinist
And damn near half the race."
And when the Presbyterians sang about all others:
"We are the faithful few.
Let all the rest be damned.
There's lot of room in hell below
We can't have heaven jammed."
LEGISLATION
In Grand Lodges, as in our civil life, the practice still prevails
that "THERE SHOULD BE A LAW AGAINST IT." Former
Vice President Thomas Marshall once said that he thought the
Country would benefit if all the laws were repealed and the Ten

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

43

Commandments and the Declaration of Independence be enacted
into positive law and lived up to in connection with the Constitution.
As conditions change, necessarily there must be a revision in
regulations, or new enactments. This is doubly so in this era by
reason of increased specialization.
•
Statistics show that in 1920 there were 122,579 lawyers in the
United States; in 1930 there were 160,605. Grinding out laws, good,
bad and indifferent, at least furnish a means of livelihood for some
of them.
British Columbia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Speaking of rulings, or
decisions, as they are called in Alabama, the Grand Master ( Oklahoma) professed to be "willing to assist the Brethren," and to answer
any questions that he could, but " the many questions asked show
only too plainly that the Brethren do not know the law and do not
study the Manual." He should not feel too badly about it, however,
for that complaint is universal.
Connecticut (1932):
(Cha.irman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master
(Maine) reminds the Lodge representatives that they are the responsible members of Grand Lodge . and should act thoughtfully and
judiciously on all matters before them. This ought to be a trite
truism, but unfortunately it is not. Some years ago, we heard a
Lodge representative say: "I always vote without question for everything advocated from the platform." We were sorry for him. The
only saving thing lies in the fact that there is often marked variance
of individual opinions on "the platform." The latter is composed of
'-'has-beens" who are responsible only to themselves. But the Lodge
repres~ntatives are responsible to their Lodges and even more to the
Craft in general.
Florida (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master (Wisconsin) was surprised· to learn that many Lodges were not supplied
with a copy of the latest revision of the Laws and Edicts, and he
found "some Masters quite ignorant of the fact there is such a
volume."
Kansas (1932):
(Chairman Correspo1ul.ence Committee) : From our somewhat limited experience as a Grand Secretary for thirty-six years we are

44

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

constrained to believe that our good Brethren of Indiana will have
to amend their laws and provide for two Grand Secretaries instead
of one, · as it will unquestionably require the services of one of these
officers to comQly with the following recommendation, which was
approved by the Indiana Grand Lodge:
"For the purpose of furnishing a better system in keeping the
records of the Grand Lodge, l recommend that the Grand Lodge
By-Laws be amended so that each Subordinate Lodge is required
to send to the Grand Secretary a complete copy of its by-laws, either
printed, typed or written, and an extra copy of all amendments to
by-laws sent for approval, so that the Grand Secret:i.ry may retain a
copy for his files. This will save a large amount of correspondence
both on the part of the Lodge and Grand Secretary,' prevent confusion, and make a unifor.m record of all by-laws."
Maryland (1931):
"(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We commend the following to certain of our local (Masonic) law-makers, who labor under
the impression that a Grand Lodge Constitution should cover every
contingency that may arise:
"Illinois has a compendious Code of Masonic Law and the
Brethren in that Grand Jurisdiction seem to take a good deal of
enjoyment in their efforts to embrace within it the minute treatment
of every question that might, c~uld, would or should arise like unto
'Crook's Digest' of the Grand Lodge of New York. Far be it from
us to criticize in a hostile spirit the desire thus manifested of 'making
crooked things straight' (no pun intended), but we can only state
we prefer our common law method of procedure concerning our
Masonic Law about which we have spoken in our Correspondence
Report for the year 1929 and appearing in the Proceedings of that
year."
Michigan (1931):
(Grand Master): It is difficult to determine when a pronouncement of a Grand Master is a decision and when it is a mere ruling.
It is. hoped that the Jurisprudence Committee will be able to make
a determination and as a Code Commission incorporate in the appendix only those that are really vital.
New Hampshire (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We reckon that for one
department the record is for Florida, with sixty-nine decisions reported. We do not expect that the time will ever come, anywhere,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

45

when the interpretation of law will not be needed, not be sought.
But this avalanche, down south, is extraordinary. It at least has
served to clear the atmosphere of a lot of doubtful things, because
through them the Grand Body has taken its position, which is final.
New Jersey (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The great dissipation of
America is laws. Someone has said: "Thousands of them are made,
hundreds understand them, and a few individuals live by them."
Grand Lodges are not free from criticism in this respect. Every
year sees many new laws made and many others changed. Our
Brethren on the other side of the world yield to no one in the purity
of the ritual, the earnestness of their purpose, and their adherence
to the fundamentals· of the Craft, yet seldom indeed is a new law
made, or an old law modified.

* • * * *

The Grand Master of Michigan spent an evening of the Grand
Lodge session in an open discussion of finances. He was convinced
that the Grand Lodge should curtail its activities, confining them to
strictly Masonic functions, such as the laying of cornerstones and
the dedication of temples. And he urged that local self-government
on the part of the Lodges be encouraged. This is a sound doctrine
and preached all too infrequently. After all, the fundamental unit
of Freemasonry is the local self-governing Lodge. The present trend
is all toward the weakening of the individual Lodge and the centralization of power and activity in Grand Lodges. The loss of interest
on the part of the members of local Lodges, as a result of this tendency, should be given more serious consideration.
Saskatchewan (1931):
(Grand Master): I find that a number of Lodges are ignoring
certain approved rulings. The only conclusion I can draw is that
these rulings do not meet with favor, and that they were approved
without sufficient consideration on the part of the members of Grand
Lodge. I suggest that on matters directly affecting the internal government of constituent Lodges the vote for appr6val or non-approval
be not taken until the following annual communication of Grand
Lodge. This will allow the members sufficient time to become familiar with each ruling.
Utah (1932):
.
(Chairman Correspondence Committet): To save the Craft from
hasty and ill advised legislation, the Grand Master of Texas recom-

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

mended that all resolutions affecting the policy of Grand Lodge, and
all proposed new laws, be filed with the Grand Secretary thirty days
prior to the convening of Grand Lodge. Utah has long had a similar
law, but this requires that all decisions by the Grand Master as well
as all proposed standing resolutions and amendments to the Grand
Lodge By-Laws shall be submitted to the Grand Secretary thirty- ·
five days before Grand Lodge meets, and that the Grand Secretary
thirty days before such meeting shall transmit to the Secretaries of
the several Lodges and to the Jurisprudence Committee, copies of
all such matters, together with a memorandum of unfinished business.
This requirement has served a good purpose with us.
OBLIGATIONS
The penalties of our Obligation were taken from those of Common Law actually inflicted on pirates in olden days. In the early
part of the 18th Century they were abandoned, but Desaguliers wrote
them into the ritual and they have been there ever since. P. G. M.
Melvin M. Johnson of Massachusetts was the first to present the
matter of elimination or changing them to his Grand Lodge. New
York is the first Jurisdiction to take steps to teach a candidate that
the penalties are symbolic only.
Under the Grand Lodge of England Ritual, when a man receives
the Entered Apprentice Obligation, he is told in the Obligation itself
that the penalty is a symbolic penalty only.
Illinois (1931) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): During the past ,Year, in
at least two Grand Lodges, the subject of our obligations was given
attention. Of course for a long time there have been those who. have
contended that the obligations of Masonry were too long, that they
should be shortened, and that they were full of tautology, and a lot
more things that self-constituted reformers in the Fraternity project
simply because they thought they were smarter than anybody else
and wanted to stir things up. Then one Grand Master came out this
year and took. a fling at the penalties of the obligations. He told his
Grand Lodge that the penalties were of no use, for when the instructors taught the obligations to candidates they told them that
these penalties were not to be taken seriously and that they were
merely relics of the dark ages. The result was, according to this
Grand Master, that candidates being thus instructed construed the
interpretation to apply to the entire obligation, and for that reason
they disregarded their obligations after they had taken them, for the
reason that they understood that they were not to be considered

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

47

seriously. The Grand Master bri~ging these criticisms suggested
that the penalties be omitted from our obligations. In another Grand
Lodge there was a plea set up for the shortening of the obligations
and it was even suggested that one obligation might very well suffice
for all three of the degrees. The writer is frank to say that he believes that this revision of obligations might well apply to some of
our so-called higher degrees, but so far as the. obligations of Ancient
Craft Masonry are concerned, they should remain unmolested and
be handed down to future generations in their present form. The
present Masonic age seems to be characterized by a disposition to
want to change things-to remodel Freemasonry so as to make it
fit into this jazzy, joy-riding, luxurious, high-geared, speed-loving
generation. But, my dear Brethren, just the moment you do that
there will be no more Freemasonry. What we will have in its place
will be simply a social organization like our country clubs, our golf
clubs and our city clubs. If we are going to set aside our ritualism,
then we will have to put something in its place, and the only thing
that we can substitute will be poker games, because men won't play
any kind · of a game of cards that they can't play for money, and
other forms of amusement which Masonry now frowns upon. Now
it is true that the penalties of the obligations are barbarous in the
extreme. They are simply borrowed from an age that long ago
passed out of existence. There is no inclination whatsoever to inflict
them upon individuals. The person taking an obligation simply says
that rather than violate his obligation he would suffer certain things
to be done. The writer believes in the preservation of the old form
and language of the fraternity. Somebody said the other day that
the ritual of Masonry should be rewritten; that a lot of obsolete expressions should be deleted and the whole thing put into twentieth
century language. Whenever this is done the peculiar charm of
Freemasonry which has caused it to continue for two hundred years
will be lost, and the Fraternity will sink to the level of those organizations which pander to popularity and exist to no purpose.
New York (1931):
(Grand M a.ster): This reference to Obligation leads me to a subject that for several years has interested many men and Jurisdictions.
I refer to the penalties of the Obligations. Members and initiates
alike know that these penalties are not to be taken literally, and yet
they follow Obligations that are to be .taken literally. It' is not sufficient answer to say that the Obligation is literal and the penalty
symbolical. Such a reply weakens the whole procedure. Withou't in
any wise eliminating the ancient penalty, I would respectfully recommend that consideration be given to such a change as, by the introduction of a few words, would indicate that the penalty is not to be

49

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

taken as literal and that the binding factor is in another part of the
recital by the candidate. As this is a matter of considerable importance
and requires careful study, I would suggest that the subject be referred to an existing or new committee, to make a recommendation
at the next session of Grand Lodge.

The attempt to raise money through lotteries is now occupying
the attention of the U. S. Government, and has been attempted in
some Jurisdictions. This shows "that the world do move," as there
is in existence lottery tickets signed by George Washington. If we
remember correctly, in the early days one of the Masonic Temples
in the South was built with funds raised by this method.

48

New York (1932):
(Custodians of the Work): Your Committee further submits that
it has carefully considered the recommendation of the· Grand Master
regarding the penalties of the Obligations. These penalties have
become so closely woven into the fabric of the Ritual that the removal or the alteration of them would destroy the Standard Work;
therefore, in order to impress upon the candidate that the Obligations
are literal and the penalties symbolic, we submit the following:
RESOLVED: A paragraph be added to the esoteric work of
each degree, said paragraph to be printed in the M omtor • • •. The
paragraph for the Entered Apprentice Degree is to read as follows:
"The penalty of this Obligation comes down from a time when such
punishments were inflicted on heretics, pirates and traitors. Free
and Accepted Masons are now taught that this penalty is not literal
but symbolic of the physical suffering an honest man would undergo
rather than violate his solemn vow. The true penalty for violation
of this Obligation is to incur the contempt and detestation of all
honorable men." The paragraph for the Fellowcraft Degree is to read
as follows: "The penalty of this Obligation comes down from a time
when such punishments were inflicted on heretics, pirates and traitors.
Free and Accepted Masons are now taught that this penalty is not
literal but symbolic of the physical suffering an honest man would
undergo rather than violate his solemn vow. The true penalty for
violation of this Obligation is to be branded as a perjured wretch
void of all moral worth." The paragraph for the Master Ma.son Degree
is to read as follows: "The penalty of this Obligation comes down
from a time when such punishments were inflicted on heretics, pirates
and traitors. Free and Accepted Masons are now taught that this
penalty is not literal but symbolic of the physical suffering an honest
man would undergo rather than violate his solemn vow. The true
penalty for violation of this Obligation is to be ostracized as unw<;>rthy the fellowship of upright men and Masons."
OFFENSES
Unfortunately, like every other human institution, the Fraternity
has "its black sheep," and too often the general public judge the
entire organization by those "undesirable citizens" whose Masonic
connections are broadcast in connection with his offenses.

District of Columbia (1931) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In the matter of discipline, the Grand Master of Nebraska was inclined to be somewhat
severe, vide a case where a Brother had been convicted in the civil
courts of possession of seven-eighths of a gallon of liiquor, and had
been suspended by his Lodge for a year as a result of the conviction,
he remanded the case for reconsideration, whereupon the Lodge
voted for indefinite suspension, although no sale of liquor had been
alleged. Seems rather a severe penalty for keeping a little wine on
·hand for the stomach's sake, and we sadly fear if every Brother who
might be found in like case so far as the possession of a modicum of
liquor is concerned, were to be subjected to a like penalty, reason
for losses in membership would be found without extended search.
Manitoba (1932):
(Chairman Corresp0'4dence Committee): A Brother in British Columbia having falsely represented himself as a Master Mason in good
standing for the purpose of gaining admission into Royal Arch Masonry, a commission appointed by the Grand Master withheld judgment because they were not sure that the offense was Masonic. The
committee, however, held that it was and recommended expulsion.
This judgment seems bizarre. The only offense against Blue
Masonry was an extra-mural deception no worse than that by which
an office boy gains leave to go to a baseball match, or many a man
gets an evening out. The real offense was against the Royal Arch,
probably induced by importunate solicitation on the part of its members, and one which they should have prevented by reasonable investigation. Unless Grand Lodge has legally constituted itself the
protector of the Royal Arch, the committee's ruling seems unwarranted.
Michigan (1931):
(Grand Master) : Despite all that has been said, and very plainly
said, too, about the misuse of the square and compasses in advertising, in promotion and in uncalled-for display, the Grand Master has
been obliged to rule this year, on more than one occasion, against

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

50

61

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

movements designed to connect Masonry with events from which
the promoters, either for personal gain or personal satisfaction, apparently intended to derive benefits which might not come to them
under normal circumstances. The Grand Master has ruled that
there can be no such thing as a Masonic prize fight, an all-state
Masonic bowling tournament, and like events which, commendable
perhaps in themselves, should not be hooked up with the institution
of Masonry.
·
The way must not be left open for men, of Masonic affiliation
or otherwise, to save their pet schemes, good or bad, by pinning a
Masonic emblem upon them.
Nor does the Grand Master favor a Lodge resorting to ballyhoo
methods to replenish its own exchequer or to unduly influence young
men in the community to take out petitions. The greatest appeal of
Masonry lies in its simple dignity and its rather awesome mystery.
There still exists the thick-skulled Brother who thinks it 'smart to
fill the candidate's mind with fears of "the goat"-to encourage him
to expect horse-play which he soon will find out has no part in
Masonry. To a lesser degree, perhaps, but almost as deadly, is that
type of humor which causes some Masons to look for things to
laugh at in connection with the Master Mason degree. The Master
Mason degree is not comedy; it is tragedy, One guffaw can in an
instant ruin for the Worshipful Master and his Lodge all the fineness
that has been built into the candidate's conception of Masonry. And
because the candidate, hoodwinked and doubly susceptible to what
he hears, registers the whisper or the giggle or the "haw-haw" of
some misguided Brother, he comes back to the next third degree
prepared to whisper, to giggle or to "haw-haw" at something, he
knows not what.
The Grand Master would greatly like to inject a paragraph in
regard to the popular habit Brethren in most, if not all, Lodges
have in rushing the door the moment a Brother is "raised," lest
they be caught and held, against their will, to hear the lecturt{sthe lectures which the Worshipful Master and his officers have
worked so hard to perfect and which means so much to the candidate who is seeking "further light" in Masonry. But this would be
sheer folly, for one cannot preach or legislate . men, even Master
Masons, into doing the right thing. There is a rather complete and
inspiring education in the various degrees of Masonry and it would
not hurt the average Mason if he were forced to hear this lesson of
the third degree once a month for the whole tenure of his life. Yet
the average Master Mason, having once heard the lectures, seems
much like the chorus girl who, when asked if she didn't want a
book for Christmas, answered, "Oh, no! I have one."

Missouri (1931):
(Grand Master) : I regret to note a growing tendency in some
Masonic Lodges to give boisterous picnics with baseball games,
races and other sports on Sunday. I recognize fully the right of
every Mason to choose his own religious views. But while individual
Masons whose religious views permit them to do so, may attend and
participate individually in such affairs, and I have no right to say,
and would not presume to say, that they shall not do so, I do strongly
feel that it is very bad policy for any Masonic Lodge to sponsor such
affairs or allow its name to be used in any way in connection ther_ewith. The church is the ally of Freemasonry. It is well worth while
for us to have the good will of ministers of the Gospel and church
officers and Sunday School teachers and superintendents. No good
can possibly come from incurring their ill will. They can be help~ul
to us in many ways. Many churches seriously object to Sunday picnics. When a Lodge gives a picnic on Sunday, it takes away from
the church and Sunday School many men, women and children who
are accustomed· to attend such services, and the inevitable result is
criticism of the Lodge and a feeling on the part of those who should
be our strong allies that we are opposing them, and that will surely
result in prejudicing them against Freemasonry. The slight degree
of pleasure gained by such Sunday picnics is more than offset by the
danger of arousing ill feeling where good will would be most helpful
to us. Many Lodge members are church members who disapprove
of such affairs on Sunday and are shocked by them. This tends to
cause division in a Lodge that gives such a picnic. I believe it
cheapens Freemasonry to give such affairs on Sunday.
Thus it will be seen that the traditions of our Order are strongly
against the doing of anything by any . Lodge on Sun?~Y except performing funeral services. Expediency and our traditions ahke are
against Sunday picnics in the name of a Masoni~ Lodge. Let us
refrain from the practice. There are other days m the week open
to us when we can give picnics to our hearts' content without offending anybody. Let us choose one of them for our Lodge frolics.
New Zealand (1931):
(Grand Master): Attention of Brethren is drawn to the fact that
a spurious and clandestine Masonic organization, known as Co-Masonry is operating in the territory. This body professes to work the
three' degrees of Craft Masonry, to admit women, confer sig!1s and
secrets and endeavors in different ways to copy the practices of
Freemasonry, and from time to time members of the Craft are. invited to attend the meetings. Brethren must not attend any meetings

52

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of · this Co-Masonic body, as by doing so they will be violating their
obligations and will render themselves . liable to Masonic discipline.
South Carolina (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Grand Master Fraser
(Nova Scotia) issued a circular letter to the Lodges throughout the
jurisdiction warning against the conducting of lotteries as being a
violation of the Constitution. It is a sad commentary upon Free•
masonry that such a letter should be provoked anywhere. We are
glad that it is very unusual. Freemasonry should not be cheapened
by the practice of raising money by any sort of cheap method, much
less by a questionable method. If the spirit of loyalty, brotherhood
and charity does not prevail sufficiently to guarantee sufficient funds,
why perpetuate a spiritless cause? The sooner it dies, the better. It·
is the spirit behind the most insignificant gift that thrice blesses.
Mere money is worthless. "Not what we give, but what we share:
for the gift without the giver is bare."
Tennessee (1932):
(Grand Master): Masonry does not conflict with good citizenship. The judge, juror, witness in court, citizen, ruler, official, or
voter can find no warrant in our law or ritual for the slightest disregard of the rights of neighbor or townsmen, or disloyalty to society,
state or nation, because he is a Mason; quite the contrary, and because he is a Mason, one is under special obligation to adhere to
those fundamental principles of justice, equal rights and integrity
which are the glory and safety of the state and nation, as well as of
honor, and for the protection to the individual. The common law,
and Masonic law as well, are in full accord upon the all"impor.tant,
far-reaching proposition, namely, that the rights and privileges of
every man are bounded on all sides by the rights and privileges of
his neighbors, and by a line clear and straight, and to that line he
must hew.
Utah (1932):
(Clwirm.an Correspondence Committee): Humans, at best, are
strange creatures. Tell them they must not do a certain thing and
at once they proceed to do that very thing, or raise Cain in trying
to do it. Arouse their insatiable curiosity by hinting at something to
which they have no other clue, and at once they feel that they have
been deprived of something essential and dissatisfaction disturbs an
otherwise perfect day. To what end these remarks? We are told that
a certain Ph. D . delivered a twenty-minute address on "economic
conditions confronting the people of the State of Montana," and

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

53

further that "by direction of Grand Lodge, the address is not printed!"
It was all right perhaps for Byron to declare: "I loathe that low vice
--euriosity," but then Byron said a lot of things, as did others, some
of which, at least, we cannot approve.

•••••

We have sometimes speculated on what must be the point of
view of members of a Lodge who decide that one of their number
is not guilty of a Masonic offense when that individual is serving
time in the State penitentiary for crimes of which he was convicted
in the Courts of the State. How a man sentenced to serve not less
than eight years in the penitentiary for embezzlement of public funds,
could be held to be a Mason in good standing, is too much for us.
And no one Jurisdiction has a monopoly on such cases.
0

Vermont (1932):
(Grand Master): I regret that I am forced to allude to an incident of the past year which, to express it mildly, was most unfortunate.
A Masonic club in our jurisdiction which was probably over 90
per cent identical in membership with the Lodge in its home town,
conceived the idea that a substantial payment could be made on the
Lodge's newly acquired temple if the practices of a body claiming
. Masonic membership in the Islands to the southeast of our country,
and another body, the members of which are Masons, were put into
operation. This club proceeded to act and sent to every Lodge Secretary in the United States a book of tickets with promises of fabulous
prizes to the holder of the lucky number.
Up to this point I knew nothing of the scheme. My first knowledge of it came in letters from various Grand Masters and Grand
Secretaries, some of whom courteously inquired as to our regulations
and others flew off the handle with sharp and unmerited criticism
before they knew whether or not the recipient of their letters was
really the sort of Mason they intimated him to be. The Lodge in
which this club existed was immediately notified and directed to
cause the club to call in all tickets sent out, refund any money received, and call the whole scheme off, and I notified every Lodge in
Vermont and every Grand Lodge in the United States of the situation. The club in question at once convened and voted to do all
they had been instructed to do, and the matter lapsed, dead of its
own wrong conception.
I was surprised and rather upset that any body of Masons in
our State should even contemplate resort to such unmasonic, unethical, and actually illegal method of raising money as a lottery,
and the scheme started could be called by no softer name. We have
no specific legislation on the subject of lotteries and it seems to me

54

REPORT ON CORRESPOND.ENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

we ought not to need such legislation nor the stating in black and
white of so clear a matter of Masonic usage. Our oath requires us
to uphold and abide by the laws of our land and this ought to be all
the legislation needed to control and prevent any repetition of the
unfortunate incident.
I am not suggesting any discipline because; I feel that the fault
on the part of our Brothers in the club in question was more thoughtless than intentional, but Masons in Vermont should ever remember
that lotteries are frowned upon and should never be resorted to for
any purpose in which Masonry participates.
Western Australia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Bootlegging amongst
Masons was severely condemned by the Grand Master and he
pointed out a regrettable fact that, in so~e cases where a Mason had
been convicted of the offense in court, and afterwards, on trial in
his own Lodge, had either been aoquitted or, if found guilty, no
sentence was inflicted and it was left to the Master to reprimand
him. Brother Freet pointed out that Masonic law in Nebraska made
the record of the court trial and conviction prima facie evidence of
guilt at the Lodge trial, and sought to have the offender declared
guilty on the court record. The Jurisprudence Committee expressed.
the opinion that if effect were given to the recommendation, it "would
destroy one of the fundamental principles of the Craft-the right of
the accused Brother to a fair and impartial trial, and deprives the
triers of the right to inflict such punishment as in their judgment is
justified under all the facts." Well, in Western Australia, the Board
of General Purposes reports to Grand Lodge the court conviction
and sentence, and recommends the Masonic punishment. Grand
Lodge either accepts the recommendation or fixes the punishment
itself. In either case there seems to be less possibility of miscarriage
of justice at the hands of an experienced legal tribunal, than where
the case is heard in a Lodge, where legal experience is about as inconspicuous as something which isn't where it ought to be. Moreover, the "fairness" and "impartiality" of a Masonic trial, such as
the Grand Master points to, does not seem to set up a right whose
destroyal should be followed by weeping, copious or limited, on
behalf of "fundamental" principles.
Iowa (1932):

(Grand Lodge B11lletin)
"Department of Justice Warns Against Lottery Tickets"
Under date of June 10 the Grand Secretary of Iowa received a
communication from the Department of Justice at Washington,

55

D. C., calling attention to the criminal statutes of the United States
pertaining to lotteries. It appears that the attention of the Department of Justice has been called to lottery schemes being promoted
among fraternal organizations. It has become a common practice
to distribute books of numbered tickets purporting to entitle the
purchaser to attend some type of entertainment and to receive, if
such purchaser happens to obtain a winning number, a cash prize.
Inasmuch as only recently two so-called Masonic institutions, or
institutions claiming Masonic affiliation, have circularized Iowa
Lodges seeking assistance in distribution of lottery tickets, this is a
timely warning. Such schemes are covered by the circular above
referred to. It might be well to cite Section 213 of the Criminal Code":
"No letter, package, postal card, or circular concerning any
lottery, gift enterprise, or similar scheme offering prizes dependent
in whole or in part upon lot or chance; and no lottery ticket or part
there.of, or paper, certilicate, or instrument purporting to be or to
represent a ticket, chance, share, or interest in or dependent upon the.
event of a lottery, gift enterprise, or similar scheme offering prizes
dependent in whole or in part upon lot or chance ; and no check,
draft, bill, money, postal note, or money order, for the purchase of
any ticket or part thereof, or of any share or chance in any such
lottery, gift enterprise, or scheme; and no newspaper, circular,
pamphlet, or publication of any kind containing any advertisement of
any lottery, gift enterprise, or scheme of any kind offering prizes
<lependent in whol.e or in part upon lot or chance, or containing any
list of the prizes drawn or awarded by means of any such lottery, gift
enterprise, or scheme, whether said list contains any part or all of
such prizes, shall be deposited in or carried by the mails of the
United States or be delivered by any· postmaster or letter carrier."
POLITICS
Of course, the Ancient Landmarks prohibit the participation of
the Craft as such in Religion or Politics. We do not believe that
indulging in politics from the partisan standpoint will ever be
attempted. If it should happen it would have disastrous results, as
evidenced by the fate of other fraternal organizations that have gravitated into that practice. As Masonry becomes more and more of an
Institution rather than a Fraternity or Philosophy, the consideration
of PUBLIC QUESTIONS that are actively before us at the present
time will furnish a field for good work. The work of Tennessee,
California and some other Jurisdictions in connection with the Public
Schools is an example of what we would class as politics not prohibited by the Ancient Charges.

56

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Arizona (1932):

(~rand Master): It has come to my attention that in some Lodges
there is a tendency to imitate chambers of commerce and luncheon
clubs by passing and publishing resolutions relative to local and
civic problems. Any such publication is a violation of a fundamental
principle of Masonry and should under no circumstances be permitted.
Canada (1931):

(Board on Condition of Masonry): Your Committee has found a
little evidence in some localities of practices which must not continue
if Masonry is to be useful and respected as in the past. It has been
the pride of Canadian, as of English, Masonry that partisan politics,
whether national or municipal, have never been allowed to enter our
portals; and that sectional propaganda has found no place there. To
permit candidates or others to use our Lodges or their association
with Masonry for political or sectional purposes, by any method
direct ~r indirect, is contrary to the whole spirit of Masonry and is
most d1sloyal to our Order. There has been very little of this sort
of thing; it should be stamped out ruthlessly. Worshipful Masters
who permit it should be brought to realize the seriousness of the
offense; and the actual offenders should be made to feel the full
force of Masonic discipline. ·
Equally foreign to the spirit of helpful and self-respecting Masonry is the desire for publicity which has led in some cases to the
reporting in the press of the proceedings of private Lodges, even to
the names of candidates for the various degrees. Our Lodges should
be as safe from publicity as our homes. It cannot be too often repeat~~ that Masonry, at its best, ·is reticent and retiring; parade and
pubhc1ty are harmful to it; like charity, it vaunteth not itself.
Florida:
. . .one Lodge having endorsed a certain educational bill now pending m the Congress of the United States, sent copies of the resolution
. to. the t"'.o Flori~a Senators. The Grand Master approves the patrioti~ .motives behmd th~ action, but ruled that such action implied
political and controversial matters and had no proper place in the
proceedings of a Masonic Lodge.
In or~er to make ~ublic where Grand Lodge stands concerning
the question of education, probably also to obviate for the future
such action as the Lodge referred to had taken, the Grand Master
submitted a resolution which, after reference to the Committee on
Masonic Jurisprudence, was reported for approval and was adopted.
It reads as follows:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

67

"Whereas, Masonry from its earliest origin and throughout its
entire history has been the pioneer and defender of systems of education that would make possible a. diffusion of knowledge and general
culture to the masses;
"Be it Resolved by this Grand Lodge, in Annual Grand Communication, that the Grand Lodge of Florida is in sympathy with
every lawful effort directed toward promoting the interest of the
public school system, to the end that every child may enjoy a minimum of equal educational opportunity."
Florida (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The attention of the Grand
Master was called to the fact that one of their subordinate Lodges
by a resolution had endorsed an educational bill pending in Congress,
and sent a copy of the resolution to the Senators from that State.
The Grand Master applauded their motives, and ruled that the question was political, and ordered the Worshipful Master to a·bate all
Proceedings pertaining to the bill. His attention was also called to
the fact that one of the Lodges had adopted a resolution amending
excerpts from a public speech made by an Assistant United States
Attorney General, and the Grand Master ordered that this resolution
be abated.
Iowa (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): When is a thing "politicks"
and when is it a genuine measure for human welfare * * *? When
is a thing politics and when is it patriotism? Isn't it true that if we
like it we call it "patriotism," and if we hate it we call it "politics"?
Iowa (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committe.e): We regret that we cannot for one single moment agree in the sentiment thus expressed.
Brother Kies (Connecticut) would have the institution keep its hands
so severely off of everything in the nature of public support of worthwhile movements and institutions, that the institution would itself
become in time worth nothing. An institution that teaches loyalty to
the seven liberal arts and sciences, that preaches ever the duty to
bring light out of darkness, can hardly afford to sit back with folded
hands when the fate of our public schools is at issue.
Yet Brother Kies would have it that the interest of our Brethren
of the California Grand Lodge in public education makes them appear ridiculous. So far as we ai:e concerned, if such a public position
is ridiculous, we should be glad to see every Grand Lodge simply
riot in being ridiculous.

58

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Kansas (1931):
(Grand Master): There appears to be a feeling on the part of
some of the officers of our Lodges that the Lodge must justify its
existence by engaging in an organized way toward solving local
social problems, and I have found it necessary to remind them that
the floor of the Lodge is not a proper forum for the discussion of
problems which do not and should not concern Masonry. There is
no place in Masonry for organized action in connection with these
matters. The primary business of the Lodge is that of making
Masons, and if our membership rightly understand the principles
upon which Masonry is founded, they will be inspired to exercise
the highest ideals of citizenship. From the nature of our institution,
Masons are aligned on both sides of all public prO'blems and therefore
it is highly improper and a prolific source of discord to introduce
such questions for discussion upon the floor of a Lodge. It is true
that society will doubtless be benefited to the greatest extent where
the ideals of Masonry are translated into deeds through organized
effort, but the Lodge as such, or Masonry as an organization, is not
the proper medium through which these ideals are to be translated
into action. Masons will readily find in their several communities
other organizations through which they may fulfill their desire to
be of greater service to their fellow-men. I am persuaded that the
church is the logical medium through which every Mason should
seek to translate the ideals of Masonry into deeds, and thereby fulfill
his duty to God and to society.
l'daryland (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Freemasonry cannot indulge in politics but it should stand four-square for those principles
established as far back as the Magna Carta of June 15, 1215, as
brought to this country by the first English settlers and upon which
this government was based. It should seek to return to those principles of freedom and liberty which the early founders wrote into
the Constitution of these United States and which are being taken
away one by one so that at the present time Washington, Adams,
Jefferson and their confreres would not recognize the government
they founded. We are now almost a commission form of government-many of the commissions, Federal and State, having the most
despotic power-and the volume of sumptuary laws and minute regulations of personal conduct appall the law-abiding citizen. The federal
power has engulfed States' rights and the local government of early
days so dear to the hearts of the founders has been so usurped that
even Alexander Hamilton, who believed in a strong central government, would be aghast. Bureaucracy is looming large and the wasteful extravagance of governing assemblies is a cause for the gravest

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

59

latest efforts to invade the rights of ~he Stat.es
concern. One of the
d b"ll r bills (Capper-Robison leg1swas evidenced by. the proposeh t ' .o t f re with local educational
lation) in which it was ~o.ug t to m er e
boards by Federal superv1s10n.
.
le
M
h Id endeavor not only to retam for the peop
We, as ason~, s ~u
h
left but to seek to re-establish
'
·
h few hberties we ave
at Iarge t e
.
h . r
ble heritage (or should be mthose rights which are t e ma .1ena
alienable) of the citizen.
Texas (1931):
.
Grand Master of
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The
Georgia quotes from their Code:
.
d
.
ement looking towar s
"A Lodge may actively support a mov
h
th Boy
.
t f oung people-sue as
e
development and imp:ov;;en o . y on-sectarian and non-political,
Scout movement. Whtie asonry ts n
t for the uplift of
it is proper for Masons to support any movemen
humanity."
.
.
.
he Grand Master,
This seems to warrant, m the est1mat10~ of t .
h
f
.
f h" office and m t e name o
his active participation, by v1rftue o
is lied and presided over by
·
rious con erences ca
Grand L o d ge, m va
t While the purposes
f d
rtments of the State governmen .
h .
like that of the Shrine in Toronto, are
. heads o epa •
of each of these gat de~~gs~ fit place for the good citizen· and indiworthy and commen a e,
d
is but to commit organvidual Mason, participation by .G.ran? L~ ge
.
rtical-if not
. d Masonry to partisan part1c1pat1on m questton.s P~ I
dd
di in administration. We view it as a sa ay
tze . .
in prmc1ple, most assurek y
I th role of militancy to the extent
when Masonry underta. es .to P. a; th: discussions and administrative
of entering as an orgamzat1on m o
. . 1 ·nacts belonging to civil govern~ent, be the purpose or prmc1p e t
. .
volved ever so high and ennobling.
. d" "dual we are as persistent and determined as it is
A s an m 1v1
'
f " · led
ossible for Brother Taylor to be, in the proper care o .~rip~ t
Ph'ld
" "child's health" and the activities of t~e State ..agams
c di ltre·7iiteracy" But as activities of State, quest10ns poht1cal abre
a u 1
·
h
a . olicies to be settled, taxes to e
involved at ev~r~ ste~ of t ~ wh yd PNo place for organized Masonry.
voted and admm1s~ra~on to e o~d· way every high principle involved

H~e s~~ste~~;t~ ~~e e~~~n p~rfectly equipped citizen for thhe per~
an se
f II
h duties without let or hindrance on t e par
formance o a sue
•
of Masonry as an organization.
Washington (1931):
hairman Correspondence Committee): Grand M~st~r _of . C_onC
I
.
d a letter to the Lodges under his JUrtsd1ctton,
necticut a so issue

f

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

60

61

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

warning them against having anything to do with resolutions in
favor of or against measures pending in Congress.
That such a letter was needed is conclusive evidence of the need
for real Masonic education. The more firmly we hold to the wise
custom of holding entirely aloof from political or religious controversy, the better it will be for Masonry. We can understand how
enthusiastic individuals, who are entirely sincere in their political
desires to further certain proposed legislation, so easily lose sight of
the wise limitations of the Masonic institution concerning such matters, but a little thinking on their part ought to convince them that
it is upon this very rock that French, Spanish and Italian Masonry
has split and lost much of its moral influence. If the Masonic institution is to stand secure it must forever put the taboo upon the
introduction of such matters into the Lodges of Freemasons.
Western Australia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): This Masonic evergreen
(politics) continues to flourish in some American Jurisdictions to
the vexation of Grand Masters' souls. Not only is it noticeabl; in
commercial enterprises, insurance undertakings, and the like, but the
Cr~ft is openly associated, as a Craft, with politics, despite what
reviewers may assert to the contrary. Publications professing to be
Masonic, and bearing the name of the Craft, are found inserting
advertisements for the election of candidates to the Legislature or
public office, and in these advertisements the Masonic standing of
the candidates is set forth in the most bare-faced and, therefore, improper style. Yet the conductors of those journals see nothing
objectionable in the practice, and if Grand Lodge authorities in those
places do, one does not find them taking the very strong measures
well within their competence to discipline not only the Masonic
conductors of the journals, but also the Brethren who either authorize
or permit the insertion of these objectionable notices. Mere fulmination is not enough.

• • • • •

During his year of office, Brother Freet (Missouri) was constrained to officially notify the Lodges that electioneering cards and
other campaign publicity of candidates for public office must not
be used in Masonic buildings nor in connection with Masonic gatherings. "It is entirely proper for a Freemason as an individual to
take an active part in politics," he says, "but a Masonic Lodge should
not be used to further the personal fortunes of any candidate for
office." Perfectly correct, but one cannot wonder that such things
happen so frequently in United States Masonry, when many Masonic
journals do the same thing, and that such ~odies as the Shrine and

the Sciots, which base their membership on the Masonic qualification, permit their members to use their membership in commercial
advertising.
PROHIBITION
The good and bad results of the 18th Amendment are reflected
in a small degree at least in the Fraternity, and particularly in the
Reports of the Committee on Grievances and Appeals. What occurs
on November 8th may perhaps be a start to settle this question.
British Columbia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Comm4ttee) : In the address ?£ the
Grand Master of Idaho is a copy of a long letter on the subJec.t ~f
prohibition, which the Grand Master sent to his Lodges. In it 1s
the rather remarkable statement that " the bootlegger transgresses
the laws of the land as well as the laws of Masonry." As to the laws
of the land, yes; but we demur to the stat~men.t tha.t t~e la~s of
Masonry prohibit anyone from selling or usmg mtox1catmg liquor.
The Masonic law of Idaho may prohibit it, but the laws of Masonry
do not.

• • • • •

In all my travels I have been very forcibly struck with the lasting
impression created among the Craft by many of my predecessors.
Not many years ago no banquet in honor of a Grand ~as.ter was
considered complete without spirit uous liquor. In one D1str.1ct apo~­
ogies were tendered to me for not giving expression to their hospitality in that time-honored custom. I was informed that it had been
discontinued since Most Worshipful Brother
had so
strongly shown his displeasure. In a London gallery hangs the
famous picture "Night" by that great artist and moralist, Hogarth.
He there depicts a characteristic night scene in the Lo~don stre.ets
of his time. Among the typical specimens of depraVlty hauntmg
these ill-lit ways, Hogarth has held up to the derision of all time
the figure of a Free Mason, staggering home drunk, still wearing
his apron and assisted by the Tyler of his Lodge.
No true Mason can regard this picture without a burning sense
of shame and without registering a resolution to redeem the Craft
from this stigma. I am sure that it is the prayer of every Mason
that we never relapse into that chaotic condition from which we
have emerged. It is my personal opinion that this gradual chan~ge
which is taking place among our people is not the result of prohibitive legislation, but of education.

Missouri (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Wise men differ in· their
opinions of the ~olstead Act. But so far as we have been able to

62

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

discover, none of its opposers has proposed anything in its place that
commands respect. The Eighteenth Amendment is here to stay. Its
enemies can secure its repeal about the time a place with a much
warmer climate freezes over. The writer travels thousands of miles
every year and has met in his travels two drunken men in ten years.
There is drinking going on but the amount is small in Missouri as
compared with former years. We have many corrupt officials, but
we are landing some of them in Federal penitentiaries. Springfield's
former Chief of Police is serving a year at Leavenworth. Our Mayor
is under a two years' sentence. He was convicted on the testimony
of bad men and his appeal which is pending may release him. There
are good men who believe he is riot corrupt, but, like Old Dog Tray,
he got in bad company.
Two or three years ago nearly a quarter of a million of automobiles were stolen in one year in this country. Shall we repeal
our laws against theft? Wait till the Volstead Act has a fair chance
in an honest effort to enforce it by competent and honest officials.
To repeal the Volstead Act now, without substituting a more
efficient law for the enforcement of the Eighteenth Amendment,
would be a surrender to the criminal classes.
North Carolina (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee:) We note the following
statement as to British Columbia:
At the regular meeting of Zarthan Lodge, held on January 8,
1931, an account, "Entertainment, D. D. G. M.," $32.65 was received
and referred t<? the Finance Committee, and if in order, an order for
the amount to be drawn on the Treasurer. The account was duly
passed for payment and has been paid from Lodge funds.· The expel!diture was for the following items:
Liquor ........................................................$28.50
Napkins ...................................................... 2.75
Cigarettes .................................................. 1.40
$32.65
A certain member protests the payment of this bill, because the
by-laws state that "The Stewards * * * shall have the arrangement
and ordering of refreshments, provided always that no intoxicating
liquors be allowed in connection with the same."
But the W. M. ordered that the bill be paid when approved by
the Finance Committee. His order was based on the fact that the
liquors were ordered by "the Board of General Purposes on the
occasion of the visit of the District Deputy and others, and not by

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

63

the Stewards"; and that the Lodge By-Laws direct that Lodge funds
are "to be paid, applied and disposed of as the majority of the
Brethren shall from time to time, in due form, direct." Everybody
voted to pay for the liquors except the one Brother who objected.
Doubtless the liquors were good liquors. The W. M. wants the
ruling of the Grand Master, "for our future guidance," he declares;
they expect to have the District Deputy there again, and the boys
want him entertained, we' doubt not.
The Grand Master does not waste words. Says he, "The Master's
ruling was correct."
The Grand Master visited that Lodge, too.
North Dakota (1931):
(Grand Master): One of the unpleasant duties of the Grand
Master is the issuing of orders of suspension of members who have
been convicted of a crime.
No good purpose would be served by reviewing the cases.
• There is cause for comment, however, in the fact that most of
them are for violation of our liquor laws.
By tradition and by our ancient regulations, Masonry stands
four square for law and its enforcement. "A Mason is a peaceable
subject to the civil powers-and is never to be concerned in plots
and conspiracies against the peace and welfare of the Nation." "If
a Brother should rebel against the State, he is not to be countenanced
in his rebellion."
The situation in regard to the Eighteenth Amendment throughout the Nation has come to the point where it would appear that
there is a conspiracy among many of our people to disobey the law
themselves, and to advocate and encourage its disobedience by others.
This is rebellion. Whenever a body · refuse to obey the law of the
land, it is as truly rebellion as though they took up arms against it.
This attitude upon the part of many of our people leads to disrespect
of all law, and tends toward anarchy.
Brethren, Masonry stands squarely for the upholding of the
duly constituted powers in the enforcement of all laws, including
the Eighteenth Amendment.
Your Grand Master calls upon you as Free Masons, and as
citizens of this State and this Republic, in your private life to observe
the law in spirit as also in letter, and by your word and deed to
uphold the officers of the law in their efforts to enforce the law.
This does not limit the right of any man to advocate the repeal
of any law which he considers unwise or to use every legitimate

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

method to obtain its repeal. Masons will differ, as other men will
differ, on the wisdom or the effectiveness of the law. But Masons
cannot differ upon the proposition that so long as the Eighteenth
Amendment is the law of the land, then they must personally obey
the law and support the government in its enforcement.
South Carolina (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The question of qualification of candidates for the degrees of Freemasonry, affected by the
connection of the individual with the government Liquor Commission, is being raised in Nova· Scotia; and Grand Master Fraser was
called upon twice to decide whether or not a man who was employed
by the Liquor Commission could be accepted as a candidate. He.
very properly decided that he was eligible. However, we may differ
as to the disposition of the question of the legislation concerning,
and the use of, alcoholic beverages, we cannot condemn the character
of a man who is in the employ of the government of the country in
which we live. Moreover, if the government, by majority vote of
its citizenship, is endeavoring sincerely to cope with a great problem•
through government control, how can such government hope to
realize its objective if honorable men refuse to accept positions of
trust in such a cause? And if such men are willing to lend their
efforts, why should they be condemned and disbarred from the fellowship of honorable men? We are offering no defense of alcohol,
but we recognize the democratic principle of government and the
righteousness of honest endeavor.
Vermont (1931):
(Clwirman Correspondence Committee): His review of Vermont
was short but inclusive. No, Brother Briggs (Missouri) , we are not
hoping for the return of the saloon. We would not have it back for
anything. We are not, nor ever have been, a drinking man. But we
still think the Volstead Act, as a reasonable interpretation of the
Eighteenth Amendment, is a piece of monumental assininity, which
will some day be superseded by more reasonable legislation. Under
it, the evils of drunkenness have been multiplied. Without it, we
could not be worse off.
Western Australia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): That the · Eighteenth
Amendment and the legislation, Federal and State, passed to make
it operative, was in advance of the times and frail humanity, in its
present condition, is frequently contended. In connection with the
Craft in the United States, however, it has to be borne in mind that

65

it has been officially dry for many years, and to the maintenance of
this official dryness Brethren are pledged, both as Masonic, lawabiding Masons, as well as pledging themselves to obedience to the
laws of their country. It is possible that the Masonic part of this
compact might not have been so largely violated but for the passage
of the E ighteenth Amendment. The stand taken by Idaho has been
greatly approved of, not only within the State but by Grand M<!.sters
of other Jurisdictions. The "dry law" is part of the civil law of
the United States, and, as Brother Mumford says, obedience to the
civil law is incl&ded in the 0. B. of a Mason.

READING-INTERESTING
The various Grand Lodge Proceedings furnish topics of interest
to the Masonic student. The following are well worth perusal:
Title
Jurisdiction-Year Page
History of Grand Lodge..........................- .. Arizona (1931)
631
Annual Oration ········································- ··-··Arkansas (1932)
58
The Building of Brotherhood......•............._Colorado (1931)
86
History of Grand Lodge...........................•.... Delaware (1931 )
58
Service - ·-···················--··········-············- ·-····Illinois (1931 )
119
Impressions by the Way................................ Illinois (1931)
C.C.R.
Annual Oration ············································-··Kansas (1932)
326
Annual Oration ............................................._Louisiana ( 1932)
129
History of Freemasonry in Louisiana........ Louisiana (1932')
955
The Indestructible Character of Masonry.. Manitoba (1931 )
397
Grand Chaplain's Address.............................. Manitoba (1932)
691
Robert Burns .................................................... Maryland ( 1931)
2'94
Masonry-in a W orld of Depression.......... Minnesota (1932)
66
Supremacy of the Great Light.................... Mississippi (1932)
180
The Worshipful Master.................................. Montana (1931 )
77
Address ·-··························································· Montana (1931)
110
The Power of Ideas..........................,............. Nebraska (1932)
143
Cornerstone Address ..............................•....... Nevada ( 1932)
9
Annual Oration ············-······························-··Nevada ( 1932)
34
Was Anderson Right? Who Was He?...... NewYork (1932)
184
Foreword Correspondence Report.............. North Carolina (1931)
5
Pillars and Scrollwork.................................... Nova Scotia (1931)
12
Cincinnati as a Masonic Center..........•....... Ohio (1931 )
164
Annual Oration ···········································-··· Oklahoma (1932)
256
Type of Manhood Needed Today.............. Oregon (1931)
2'9
Grand Chaplain's Address.·-··-···-·········-······ Quebec (1932)
68
Committee on Masonic History.................. Saskatchewan (1931 )
78
Great Light of Masonry ..........·-·······-··········South Dakota (1931)
455

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Educational Committee Report .......,. ............ Tennessee ( 1932)
Dedicatory Address ........................................ Vermont (1931)
Grand Lodge of South Carolina.................. Virginia (1932)
Grand H istorian's Report.............................. Washington (1931)
Designs upon the Trestle Board ................ Washington (1931)
The Philosophy of Krause.......:.................... Wisconsin (1932)

67

'

107
11
128
74
108
271

RITUAL
The result of too much attention to Ritual, now that the Fraternity generally has had a breathibg spell through lack of candidates,
is a question that is receiving serious consideration. Ritualism in a
number of Jurisdictions has become a fetish. As it reached its present
importance through evolution, undoubtedly any change, either in the
work itself or the basic ideas regarding its value, can only be had
through changing conditions and education.
Connecticut (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): This, under California,
would show that, like us, he has no use for "degree teams":
"In other cases the degree teams were composed of men belonging to organizations which require that petitioners for membership therein shall be Master Masons. In one instance, at least, after
the Third Degree had been conferred, the newly-raised Brother was
presented with an application form, post-dated six months, for membership in the organization to which the degree team belonged."
Indiana (1932):
(Grand Master): At my request our Grand Lecturer has during
the last few weeks been making a report to me as to how often the
Ancient Charges have been read by the Lodges visited by him in
his official capacity. The reports develop an astounding set of facts.
He reports that one Worshipful Master said that' as long as he had
been a member of the Lodge he had never heard the Ancient Charges
read in the Lodge. His report on another Lodge stated the officers
reported they had never heard the Ancient Charges read in their
Lodge. He reported on another Lodge that the offic.e rs reported that
the Ancient Charges were seldom read in their Lodge. In another
report Brother Tolle reports that none present at the meeting had
ever heard t'he Ancient Charges read in their Lodge. These are just
samples of reports turned in in response to this inquiry made by our
Grand Lecturer.
What the situation is over the State with reference to this matter, I do not know, but I am of the opinion that the Ancient Charges

have not been read in a great many Lodges for a long i;>eriod of
years, and yet no doubt the Lodges wherein the Ancient Charges
have not been read are among those who are complaining of a lack
of interest in Masonry.
Masonry seems to have digressed from fundamentals and become
imbued with the commercial and social spirit of the age, and many
Worshipful Masters and Brethren have forgotten the true functions
of Freemasonry. The fundamentals of Freemasonry have not been
changed and the work of the Lodge is to confer the degrees in an
intelligent manner so that the candidate will be inspired to live a
well rounded Masonic life, and when this is done in the L odge the
officers of the Lodge will find that the Brethren will at once take
more interest in Masonry.
It is high time that we cease these excursions into outside affairs
and . that Masonry as set out in "The Charges of a Freemason extracted from the Ancient Records of Lodges Beyond Sea" be regularly .brought to the attention of the Brethren throughout the State
of Indiana for their Masonic instruction.
Kansas (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Having had the pleasure
of several very pleasant talks with Brother Gentry (Missouri) during
his visit to our Grand Lodge last February, we fee l free to offer a
little criticism to some of his views as expressed in his splendid address, and we note that he recommended that the usual Charge which
is delivered at the conclusion of the Lecture be withheld until the
candidate had passed the required examination in the Lecture of
the preceding degree, believing it would be more impressive and
valuable to the candidate.
We submit that there is some merit in his argument in favor of
such a 'change; however, if all Grand Masters were permitted to
recommend changes of this kind, would it not totally disorganize
our whole system of work? The Committee to whom t his subject
was referred by t he Committee on Grand Master's Address, reported ·
that nothing had been referred to them and therefore they had no
report to make. Just what became of this portion of the Grand
Master's ad'1ress we are unable to state.
Michigan (1932):
(Grand Master): There seems to be considerable question as to
just what is the proper salute to the flag in the Lodge room. I took
this up with the War Department in Washington, and find there is
no ruling on this question by this department. It is a matter for each
Lodge to decide for itself.
0

69

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Most Lodges use the right hand salute but a few salute by placing
the right hand over the heart. Personally, I get a much greater thrill
when "Old Glory" passes by raising my hand. to my head than by
placing it over my heart, but if another Brother feels he is more
patriotic by saluting the flag that way, I feel he should be permitted
to do so.

or for misinformation to candidates which leads to a fear of the
ordeal of initiation. When these things are attempted they should
be dealt with severely.

68

Nevada (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Under "Visitations," the
Grand Master of Arizona states in part in regard to the rendition of
degree work: "We do not expect that our officers will be 'letter
perfect' in this respect." We agree with him and even venture to
say that we don't believe there is "any such animal." A great many
officers do their work in what we would term a faultless manner,
but if any man can give fifty-odd thousand words of Masonry without
changing a word once in a while, he deserves a monument far
greater than the one they are erecting in Virginia now.
New Hampshire (1932) :
(Grand Meister) : So far as I can discover the Grand Constitution
is silent upon the question of our ritual. There is in the archives of
Grand Lodge an official ritual and the Grand Lecturer for the State
has a ritual which is generally known as the official ritual of the work
of the three degrees in this jurisdiction. The Grand Lecturers for
the several districts are also furnished rituals which are supposed to
be official. No rituals are furnished to the subordinate Lodges. The
officers of a subordinate Lodge are thus supposed, at least theoretically, to have the work handed down to them by wor~ of ~outh
from past officers. It is well known, however, that written rituals
are in every Lodge, and in constant use. None of them has any official sanction. I regret also to say that printed rituals published
and sold by a commercial publishing house outside the State frequently find their way into the hands of officers of Lodges, although
containing many inaccuracies. Many warnings have been issued by
the District Deputy Grand Masters and by the Grand Lecturer, but
the evil persists. It is a difficult matter to handle.
New Jersey (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is unfortunate that
Masonry at times has to suffer from the ill-advised entl1usiasm of
some of its members who try to incorporate a slapstick sort of
farce common to some other organizations, into the serious business
of Masonry. There is no place in the Masonic ritual for clowning

Nova Scotia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): ~rother Kies (Connecticut) does not appear to be satisfied with our reply to his query as
to why the conferring of the degrees should be limited to W. M.'s
and P. M.'s. Well, we have always been taught that when work of
this kind was to be done, such as conferring degrees-in other words,
making Masons-it required a Master in the Arts and Sciences to
do the work-in other words, a Ruler of the Craft. Mastecs and
Past Masters are, or are supposed to be, Rulers of the Craft and
better able to do this work, and for this and possibly other reasons
is why in our Jurisdiction we limit the conferring of the degrees to ·
these Brethren. To us it would appear incongruous to make a Mason
one evening, and the next meeting see him confer, say, the Master
Mason's degree. Is that your opinion, Brother Kies ?
Virginia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): M. W. J osiah H . Drummond told the writer in 1899, and he later on made the same statement
in a brief address to Grand Lodge of Virginia in Alexandria, "that
Virginia had retained the Webb ritual, as agreed upon at the Baltimore Convention of Grand Lecture/s in 1843, in all its purity; that
his and other Grand Jurisdictions had made a few departures in
efforts to 'shorten the work'." He also stated that, "with these exceptions, Massachusetts was probably nearer than any of the older
Jurisdictions in keeping to the Preston-Webb forms."·
Like any development or departure from custom and practice,
some Lodges in Virginia were occasionally conferring the E. A.
Degree with the use of a feature that the Baltimore Conference
agreed to om:t, nearly fifty years after 1843. Florida and a few Jurisdictions still retain this feature.
Wyoming (1931):

(Grand Master): Reports have come to me that some Lodges
go back to their old method of doing work and inject novelties or
changes when I am not present. Naturally, these would not be done
when I was present. Such practices, if they are being done, should
be discontinued, not only because they are a violation of Section 255
of our Masonic Code, ·but for the simple reason that it tempts the
younger members to add further innovations to our work and mar

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

its impressiveness. I was told by an officer of one Lodge, where a
visiting Lodge had put on the Third Degree, that the work in the
second section was nothing but a farce owing to the way the candidate was handled. These things make it hard work to maintain
uniformity, and destroy the lessons we teach. I have visited a f~w
Lodges unexpectedly, when the officers were conferring a Third
Degree. I wish I had the time to describe to you the twentieth century paraphernalia that was used to put on a scene that took place
some thousand year·s before Christ was born. I sometimes · wonder
why they do not have a "police ambulance," a "mortician" and use
an up-to-date "auto hearse" in that part of the degree work.
The practice of some members scaring candj.dates for the degrees and making them believe they have to go through some awful
ordeal, should be severely condemned. It ru '. ns the impressions that
the candidate should get out of the work, as his mind is more on
what is to happen than on paying attention to what is being said,
and the Senior Deacon has to drag him from one station to another.
There is no place in our organization for foolishness or the joking
of candidates, and any attempt in so doing should be dealt with
by very decisive measures.

began, have gone home, or have gone out to the social room to visit,
smoke and swap yarns with each other, and only the officers and a
bare handful of members remain in the hall while the candidate
stands and listens to a long charge.
Throughout these charges the average candidate's tired mind is
unable to grasp what is said in the charge, often delivered near midnight, and he is wondering when it will end.
I think it would be far better to omit the charges at the close
of the degrees, and deliver them just after the candidate has passed
his proficiency lectures. When he is examined on the proficiency
lecture in the First Degree, leaves the hall, is voted proficient, and
ls brought back and stands at the altar while the' Worshipful Master
tells him that he has been found proficient, would be a fine opportunity for the Worshipful Master to deliver the charge in the First
Degree. The same course could be followed as to each of the other
lectures. The candidate would certainly get much more out of the
charges under such an arrangement than he could get as the charges
are now given. It is early in the evening when the examinations
occur; everybody, including the candidate, is wide awake, and a good
audience furnishes an incentive to the Master to do his best and a
candidate would thus receive a far better impression than he does
now.
I think some of the charges could be greatly improved by
shortening them. In some, a sentence here and there could well be
eliminated and in the charge in the Second Degree a whole paragraph might well be stricken out.

70

RITUAL-REVISION OF
The recommendations of various Grand Masters, including that
of our own, that the Ritual of the present day should be shortened,
will as time progresses, we believe, gather momentum and result in
positive action. Our present Work has been changed and added to
until it bears slight resemblance to the source from whence it came.
Originally the Ritual played a small part in Masonry, but at present
it has assumed an importance out of all proportion to what it was
intended to accomplish through its rendition.
If it could be materially abridged, a time limit placed between
Degrees, and the candidate instructed regarding the Fraternity itself
as he progresses through the Degrees, benefits would result. That
plan would have a tendency to bring us back to the idea that we are
a Fraternity with Philosophy and Institutional activities playing
minor parts.
Missouri (1931):
(Grand Mast er): In each of the three degrees the charge to the
candidate comes at the close of a long ceremony, the candidate is
weary in body and mind, very frequently (I regret to say) nearly all
the Brethren who were in the hall when the conferring of the degree

71

New Zealand (1932):
R.". w:. Brother Harris said the thanks of Grand Lodge were
due to the Committee which had this work in hand. Its task had
proved much more onerous than had been anticipated. The fact that
500 suggestions had been received, of which 300 had still to be dealt
with, showed that revision of ritual was a question very prominent
in the minds of Brethren throughout the territory.
R.". w:. Brother J. W. Ellison, P. Prov. G. M., asked whether
it was a proper course to issue a printed ritual. He was in possession
of one copy that had been rescued from a second-hand dealer's shop.
It was not right that our Lodge work should be put into a book
which anyone outside the Craft could purchase.
v:. w:. Brother Harris thought the real question was that of
dealing with a member who would allow his ritual book to get . into
a second-hand dealer's shop.

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

North Dakota (1931):
(Grand Master): I have talked rev1s10n of the ritual in many
meetings in the State. I have suggested that it is time that the penalties should be changed, that some of our claims to a very ancient
history should be eliminated, and that for the middle chamber lecture
be substituted a lecture on citizenship from "the ancient charges"
concerning "the civil magistrate supreme and subordinate."
I am not prepared to make any recommendation in regard to
such revision at this time, except that the Brethren give the matter
serious thought. I feel strongly that Masonry will benefit much by
such changes. There is nothing sacred about our ritual. It has been
revised many times. The things which are sacred are the eternal
truths upon which Masonry is builded. They are as true today as
when first given, a nd in all the revisions which have taken place
they have remained unchanged.
0

• • • • •
(Custodians of the Work): While we probably would not agree
with the Grand Master in his suggestions with reference to changes
and revisions in the Ritual, we do heartily approve of his efforts to
bring to the attention of the Craft a more complete understanding
of the fact that our Ritual comes from a time, centuries back, when
possibly historical accuracy was not emphasized so freely as now.
The discussion has brought clearly to the minds of the Brethren
that the thing which appeals to most men in our Ritual is its antiquity.
There is an aroma of the past in its language and diction. You can't
rewrite Shakespeare, neither can you rewrite our Ritual.
The purpose of Preston's Middle Chamber lecture was not so
much to present scientific, mathematical accuracy but to direct the
attention of the Craftsman to his need of knowledge and education
and give him a bird's-eye view of the then known field of knowledge.
It would be destructive to remove this lecture from our work.
Your Custodians are sympathetic with the Grand Master's attitude with reference to the penalties. This is an attitude now being
taken by many Masonic leaders. Grand Master Charles H. Johnson
of New York, last month, urged the preparation of some explanatory
statements with reference to the penalties.
There was prepared som.e years ago by the Grand Secretary a
preliminary lecture to be given prior to the preparation of the candidate. This was adopted by the Grand Lodge and is found on pages
56, 57, 58 and 59 of our North Dakota Monitor. We believe that a
brief explanatory statement can be included in the lecture which will
clear up satisfactorily any misunderstanding with respect to the penalties and still preserve intact and unimpaired our obligations. We

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

73

recommend that the Custodians of the Work be authorized to prepare such statement and report the same to the next communication
of the Grand Lodge.
Pennsylvania (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Furthermore, the Grand
Master (Michigan) would like to find a way to prevent the Brethren
from "rushing the door the moment a Brother is 'raised,' lest they
be caught and held, against their will, to hear the lectures." He is
quite convinced, and we agree with him. that "it would not hurt the
average Mason if he were forced to hear this lesson of Third Degree
once a month for the whole tenure of his life."
Vl/'ashington (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Bo~rd of Custodians
(Utah) made a long report on why Lodge attendance is falling off.
They say that the reasons given in answer to a questionnaire which
they sent out to the Lodges vary so much it is impossible to come
to any definite conclusion. The prevailing reason given seems to
be the great number o( counter attractions available today. It was
also suggested that by shortening the ritual some relief could be
obtained.
This is to be ac.c omplished by leaving out of the lecture of the
Second Degree all explanation of the orders of arch'.tecture and those
of the seven liberal arts and sciences, also that an explanation of
some of the emblems of the Third Degree be omitted. But it has
been suggested that the remedy for the Brethren leaving in _large
numbers before the lectures begin does not lie in the omission of
anything, so much as in having someone who can give the lectures
w"th feeling and expression. With this last we heartily agree. To
be obliged to listen to a slip-shod and perfunctory delivery of these
lectures does become tiresome to those who have heard them innumerable times, and we cannot blame the Brethren for not wanting
to hear them poorly given.
Omission of these lectures will only add to the ignorance of the
Brethren. It seems to us that the secret of keeping up interest in
the work of the Lodge room lies more in the social side of Masonry
than anywhere else. But why repine? Lodge work is not intended
to entertain so much as to teach. And it is in the selection of the
proper candidates, those who are of serious minds, and who have
formed the habit of thinking for themselves about serious subjects,
that we must look for Masonic interest. The jazz-loving, frivolous
minded individual makes a poor subject for sound mental growth at
any time, but more especially is it so in Masonry.

76

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ally it can be asswned the membership do not feel the outlay. The
records show that the suspensions are greater in these Jurisdictions
than those where high fees prevail Perhaps the main reason for
the large number of suspensions is due to the change in objective
of the Fraternity itself, as given in Grand Master Gaylord's statement quoted in the introduction.

ing to the receptive mind of our initiates the social, educational and
vital things which Masonry affords. We are not practising true ·
Masonry when we permit this class to be suspended for N. P . D.
Our obligation is to strengthen and nourish them Masonically so
that their minds and hearts may become imbued with nobler thoughts,
higher ideals and better impulses, and then they will appreciate the
silent mysterious workings of the Craft, which is constantly striving
for a common brotherhood and fo r a purer and higher plane of
living. The financial position of all of our delinquent members should
be our first consideration. A Brother who is in circumstances of
distress should not be permitted to take his demit for finan cial
reasons, nor should he be suspended for N. P. D . That is the time
when he needs all the comfort and consolation which Masonic membership affords.

Arkansas (1931):
(Grand Master): We are now entering the hardest year the
farming industry has experienced during my recollection, and I believe I could truthfully say during the life of the State, for I can
remember the last sixty years of its history. I want this Grand
Lodge to grant an extension to the Lodges that fail to make a report
this year, if their lack of finances is the cause. I want to go further
and say to all the subordinate .Lodges that it is for the good of ·
Masonry for the Lodges to get on their rolls all the living Masons
who have been suspended for non-payment of dues ; go to them and
beg them to come back; promise them that if they will come and
attend the Lodge meetings, that the Lodge will meet them half way,
or go 50-50 with them on unpaid dues, or even better than this. They
have no Masonic benefits while suspended and those who die during
suspension are not entitled to a Masonic funeral, nor are their families
entitled to any Masonic consideration or benefit ; so why should we
exact of them full amount of dues? If they are not good Masonic
material we should not have taken them in, and if they will not come
back when we make liberal concession to them they are not worth
much as members.
Canada (1931):

(Grand Master): The most sedous problem facing many of our
Lodges is an old one, but it may become acute with us, and has in
some parts of the Masonic world, and that is the great loss suffered
each year through demits and suspensions for N. P. D. There are
many causes for this annual wastage, and it should not be attributed
solely at this time to the present economic conditions.
I strongly urge that all our Lodges should have an active representative committee to investigate the circumstances of all members
who are in arrears for their annual dues. A thorough investigation ·
will indicate, I believe, that we in some instances admitted those
who have not the mental and moral fibre to appreciate Freemasonry.
The casual and indifferent Mason adds no strength to the Fraternity,
and we need not be concerned if his name is dropped from our roll
of membership. A diagosis of our members will, however, indicate
that suspensions in s<;>me c;ase~ are trac;ea,l;>le to 01u neglect in bring-

'1'1

Illinois (1931 ):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : There is nothing whatsoever wrong with Freen{asonry. The institution is just as stable
and just as vital as it has ever been. Its principles are founded upon
eternal truths which are as firmly established today as they were in
the beginning, and they are just as needful in the world as they
have ever been. It is now generally conceded by all that we are
passing through a period of readjustment. Individuals and institutions are slowly ·but surely coming back to normal. The trouble has
been, particularly in the United States, that we have suffered from
inflation. Corporation and business interest s, lured by the "will o'
the wisp" prosperity, were inflated beyond all reason. Because wages
and salaries were good !Oday, the individual took no thought of the
morrow and inflated his credit without any thought of the coming
day of reckoning. A going business had dreams of expansion and
erected new buildings to double its capacity. The individual bought
many things on the installment plan, all of which he is now striving
to pay for. It will take a little while for things to come back to
their former status, but the present indications are that the trend
is in that direction.
The whole trouble with Freemasonry was that along with other
things it suffered from over-inflation. During prosperous years Lodges
had but one idea, and that was to inflate the Lodge-to get all the
petitions possible without taking due consideration of the ability of
the applicants to understand and assimilate Freemasonry. Many new
Lodges were formed without any thought concerning the reorganization and elimination of many Lodges which were merely eking
out an existence, and which were no credit either t o their Grand
Lodge or themselves. Throughout all this there has been an element

Rl!JPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

78

79

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of selfishness and self-indulgence. Grand Lodges have been reporting a large number of suspensions and dimissions. In a majority of
cases it isn't because these members cannot pay their dues. It has
been because they would rather spend the money for something
that would cater to their whims and caprices. The present period
of depression has been seized upon by many as an excuse to defer
the payment of just debts.
As has been said by this writer in these articles time and again,
there is no appeal in Freemasonry for the majority of men. Masonry's appeal is only to that individual who appreciates the higher
and more ethical things of life. Masonry is already commencing to
write a new history. It has profited from what has already transpired, and its future promises glorious possibilities.

Kansas (1931):
(Grand Master): The officers of the Lodges are not required to
be exhorters to those whose interest, from one cause or another or
from no cause whatever, may lag. A responsibility rests on the
Brother himself and the matter of interest is personal. If, therefore,
a name is dropped from the roll of members because the Brother
fails to display the interest necessary to keep it there, we may well
conclude that we have not suffered injury by such loss.
The suggestion made by the Administration to subordinate
Lodges that every reasonable effort be made during the depression
to collect dues, or meet the needs of worthy Brethren unable to
pay, brought a challenge to the Grand Lodge to assist in this effort.
Lodges could not remit dues unless the Grand Lodge could wait
for a part of its tax.
After considering our situation and needs, it was decided to
permit our Lodges to retain 4-0c of the $1.10 tax to a convenient
date not later than June 1, 1932. Many expressions of appreciation
have been received, and the report of the Grand Treasurer will
confirm our belief that the financial situation of the Grand Lodge
would be unimpaired.
Maine (1931):
(Grand Secretary): I wish to say a word in defense of the Secretaries of our Maine Lodges in regard to the charge so often made
here and in other Grand Jurisdictions, that Secretaries are very
largely, or entirely, responsible for suspensions for non-payment of
dues. I honestly believe the charge wrong and unjust. I sent a
questionnaire to every Secretary asking how many of the suspended
Brothers lived out of town, and how many within easy personal con-

tact. All except nine Secretaries reported and the replies showed
that over 78 per cent of those suspended lived out of town or out of
the State and that 96 per cent of them had been given one or more
mail notices of amount due before action .was taken by t~e Lodge.
The Secretaries of Maine are not responsible for suspension losses.
New Jersey (1931):
(<;hairman Correspondence Committee) : In the matter of suspensions, the Grand Master (Minnesota) finds, as so many othe~s have
in the past, that many of the losses are due to our own fail~re to
explain and study with our newly raised B~ethren. the meamng of
our Ritual and the purposes of Masonry. Without m the least questioning the value of the splendid educational pro~ams th~t ar.e
being promoted by most Grand Lodges, yet the writer q~esbons 1f
education has, or has had, much effect upon membership. Grand
Lodges with the best organized and most carefully thought-o~t e?ucational programs extending over a number of years are expenencmg
the same proportion of suspensions. In our opinion the cause of
suspensions lies far deeper, but Masonic education improves an~
interests the Mason who is attracted to it, and for that purpose, if
for no other, it should be pursued diligently.
Pennsylvania (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Perhaps the most .discussed question of the year was the increased number of su.sp~n~1ons
for non-payment of yearly dues which in a number of Jurisd1ct1ons,
with the losses by death, more than offset the fairly well maintained
average number of initiations. Although this situation. ~ay be partly
due to present economic conditions and othe~ ca~ses, 1t. 1~ not wholly
unrelated to another momentous matter which 1s rece1vm~ more or
less attention by Grand Lodge officers, viz. : a more exact1.ng examination on the part of Committees investigating the merits of petitioners for initiation.
One Grand Master, in commenting on this questi.on, sai~ greater
care must be taken by constituent Lodges to ascertain definitely the
true physical and financial conditions of applicants.
What family dependencies have you? Have you aged parents
or other dependents? How much life ins~rance hav~ you and how
long have you had it, and in what companies?· What 1s your present
income? .
Th~se are all pertinent questions that lnvestigatin~ C~mmitt~es
should have no hesitation in asking, if we are to mamtam a high
standard of membership.

80

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Philippine Islands (1932):
(Grand Master): Again we have to report a decrease in membership, due to the large number of suspensions for non-payment of
dues and the small number of petitions for the degrees. We are
faced by the same problem as nearly all the Grand Jurisdictions of
the United States. There, too, much poor material was taken into
the Fraternity during the inflation period of the World War and
t~e _Lodges are now purging themselves of the dross. In most jurisdictions, the officer_s of Lodges and special committees appointed by
th.em are en?eavormg to prevent the loss of good material together
with the poor. This is as it should be. It has been shown in the
industrial field that about half of our production is needed to replace
actual waste of material. However, that such a large amount of
indifferent material was admitted during a certain period seems to
us much more alarming than any amount of suspensions for N. P. D.
could be. The idea of taking in both the grain and the chaff and
waiting for a gale of wind such as the present economic depression
to come along and remove the chaff, appeals to me as ruinous for
an. in~titution like Masonry. The Institution may come out on top
this hme; but I feel that we should exclaim with Pyrrhus: "One
more such victory and we are utterly undone."
. Let me sound a note of warnin.g to all Lodges of this Jurisdiction: guard the outer door more carefully than ever. Do not lower
the bars and admit ·poor material because the Lodge funds are at
an ebb. And above all, <lo not solicit! Strive instead to reclaim the
good material that has been lost through suspension for non-payment
of dues, and to hold the members you have. Results at the end of
this year will show good or poor work on the part of your Master;
it is he who must direct this work.
W estem Australia (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : To begin with-and it is
an unpleasant subject-the signs of the troublous time through which
the worl<i is passing are reflected in most of the Grand Jurisdictions
which is only to be expected. Freemasonry, no more than any othe:
human institution, can be immune from the effects of world-wide
depression.· Those effects are witnessed in lessened revenues not
only in dues and the resultant exclusions, but in the contrib~tions
which are made to Masonic benevolence which seriously affects the
beneficent work which is carried on so generously in the Masonic
Homes, hospitals and kindred institutions. For the last-named, it
has been found necessary not only to practice rigid economy wherever possible, but in many instances to increase the assessments laid
upon jurisdictional memberships. As .to annual subscriptions, or
dues, which a~e being increased in many instances, it may happen

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

81

that the need for this is really a blessing in disguise in the United
States where, only too often, Masonry is so cheapened as to open
its portals to a type of candidate of questionable worth. Naturally,
high fees and dues cannot necessarily keep out the unworthy,
especially those whom small payments enable to spread their money
over the Blue, the Red, and indeed the entire gamut of Orders, to
say nothing of the appendant organizations which depend on the
Masonic qualification for membership. Still, high fees a·nd dues
possess a deterrent value which compels appreciation, and does assist
the investigation committees.

• • • • •

Suspensions for non-payment of ·dues continue to exercise the
best minds in the different Grand Lodges. Among some leaders of
Masonic thought there seems to be an impression that even this,
which most of us regard as regrettable, may be a blessing in disguise,
and that it can well be left to itself, if it be an evil, to work its own
cure. Those who entertain this view appear to regard exclusions as
a kind of purifying fire that will eliminate "dead timber," and by
the law of the survival of the fittest, provide the best material. Such
a view loses sight of the duty of caring for the uncaring, and answers
the question, "Am I my brother's keeper?" in the negative. It is
comforting to realize that a kindlier view is taken by the larger
number, and they are seriously seeking for both cause and remedy.
So far, the indications point to a larger realization of the need to
interest the Brethren-especially the younger men on whom we
must depend for the future of our Lodges-in something more than
mere ceremonial. That a sitting Master and his officers find nothing
wearisome in ritual repetition is regarded as natural. But, as was
wisely contended by one of the American Masonic Education Committees last year, Masonry must realize that twentieth century forms
of recreation are in competition, and that the facilities for obtaining
it are always ready to hand. And it is urged that Masters may yet
recognize that if the Craft is to hold its members, especially the
younger, rulers of Lodges must reduce the number of their ceremonies
and provide for the Masonic education pf their members, instead of
calling upon them at every meeting to endure a ceremony which, by
its frequency, has begun to pall.
West Virginia (1932) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The subject of non-payment of dues is commented on so generally without remedy that we
venture a suggestion that inasmuch as cards showing receipts for
dues are today requested so generally for admission of visitors to
Masonic Lodges and by some concordant Bodies, that if those concordant Bodies would require exhibition of receipt for dues to the

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonic Blue Lodge as well as to the concordant Bodies, it might
result in retaining members in the Masonic Lodge instead of permitting Brethren to demit from the Blue Lodge and while standing
on demit to obtain his card showing payment of dues in the concordant Bodies, as sometimes occurs. How often, unknown.
GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL
This project was started with the idea of erecting a fireproof _
building costing $100,000 to house the George Washington relics
belonging to Washington Alexandria Lodge. It was figured that
voluntary contribution of $1.00 per member would accomplish the
end. To May 12, 1932, the various Grand Lodges advanced $3,545,367.00, with additional contributions from other sources, making
a net total of $3,881,251.48. California has paid $158,290.70, or 111.1 % ,
based on a $1.00 per capita tax.
A year ago the plan was changed so that if the Memorial was
to be completed and an endowment fund established, the quota
would ha.v e to be raised to $1.70 per capita. Some Jurisdictions
pledged themselves to make such payment, prnvided all the other
Jurisdictions would follow suit. On the basis of $1.70, our Jurisdiction with its contribution of $158,290.70 is 34.6% under such an
allotment.
The Memorial has been dedicated, but whether or not it will
be possible to secure the additional funds to carry out the existing
plans is to our mind a very grave question. We have always held to
the belief that if this money had been used to endow a National
University it would have served a greater purpose and been a more
satisfactory memorial to the Father of Our Country.
British Columbia (1931):
(Chairman Corresponden.ce Committee) : The reviewer could not
agree with the statement of the Grand Master of Illinois (1928) in
regard to the George Washington National Masonic Memorial that
"the Masons of the United States have undertaken the erection of
this memorial-they must complete it,'' and observed:
"To those of us who are familiar with the organization from
its inception we cannot allow a statement of this kind to go unchallenged, as the Masons of the United States were not a part of the
few who assembled in Washington some years ago and took it upon
themselves to carry forward this work. They were self-constituted
and 'the Masons of the United States' should not be blamed for the
mistakes made, and we ·a ll admit there were many of them."
If we had said this we would have been accused of antagonism
to the Masonry of the United States.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

83

Illinois (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Once in a while as we go .
through life, we come across a man who has the courage of conviction. We are most of us disposed to follow the crowd and to
agree with the majority. It is a human trait to want to ride in the
band wagon, even if we can't toot a horn. But sometimes there
comes along a fellow who doesn't want to ride, and says that he
believes that he will go along by himself. Now such a man is Daniel
]. Muri, Grand Master of Montana. In his annual address to h is
Grand Lodge he had something to say about the George Washington Memorial. In substance it was this: He said that in the building
of this monu.ment to George Washington the Masons had lost their
heads and had allowed the heart to govern common sense. He
granted that it was to be a most beautiful Masonic monument to
an illustrious Mason, but he thought that a more useful memorial
could have been planned. Instead of putting $5,000,000 'into stone
and marble for people just to go and look at, there could have been
worked out a memorial that would have been of practical benefit
· to coming .g enerations. Brother Muri points out that the structure,
which is being completed, will involve continual expense with inadequate returns (except sentimental journeys for the appreciation
of beautiful architecture and relics). He thinks that a program might
have been devised which would have carried the respect for George
Washington, and which at the same time might have resulted in
some' human benefit. Brotlier Muri emphasizes the fact he is just
as full of sentiment as anybody else, but he thinks that more could
have been accomplished if a little common sense had been used as
an ingredient along with the monument. Well, there are a lot of
us who have thought the same thing, but we just didn't have backbone enough to stand up and say it. The writer was present at the
first meeting at Alexandria, Virginia, when it was proposed that a
building be erected ' to house certain relics of George Washington,
which would cost in the neighborhood of $100,000. I t was expected
that this building, in addition to the museum, would have a Lodge
hall which might be a replica of the old hall in Alexandria, and
which would furnish a home for Alexandria Lodge, which, of
course, would be custodian of the building and the Washington
relics contained therein. It was a simple idea and practically everyone present at that ~eeting was in accord w ith it. Then others
came along with more exaggerated ideas and the proposition was
to erect a building costing $500,000, and then others came along
and a-dded to the amount until now it has reached the grand total
of almost $5,000,000; $5,000,000 invested at five per cent would yield
$250,000 per year. The average school course costs around $1,000.

84

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

What a wonderful thing it would have been to take this amount of
money, select 250 young men from the best Masonic families in
America, send them to Washington University in Washington, D. C.,
and train them in special courses of citizenship and patriotism and
then send them back to their communities to allow the leaven to
work. What greater monument to the memory of the Father of his
Country than this?

problems of extending and providing relief to afflicted human beings
as we see them every day in New Mexico, so much so that I did
not rejoice or have much pride in the accomplishment of the Masons
of the United States in piling up four or five millions of dollars to
lay idle in a monument, even if it is to that great man and Mason,
George Washington. I believe that if he could see his distressed
fellow-citizens as we see them, he would question his being a party
to such a monument, and that if a monument was necessary, that
it be built in a shape to benefit mankind, as well as serve as a
memorial. I was very much surprised and almost stunned when the
chairman of the Association recommended an endowment fund of
$1,500,000. Just think what ·some hospitals could have done with
that endowment fund for unfortunate human beings.

Kansas (1932):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master (Arkansas) also presumes to castigate the Grand Jurisdiction of Kansas
for not having contributed its quota to the George Washington
Memorial. If the Grand Master of Arkansas had taken the time
to post himself on this memorial proposition, it is not likely that
he would have presumed to criticize the Grand Jurisdiction of Kansas for not contributing what he terms its "quota" to this enterprise.
We rise to ask under and by what authority a quota was established
for Kansas? When this proposition was first started the Grand
Lodge of Kansas contributed what was then termed its "share" toward this enterprise. Two of our other Grand Bodies likewise made
small but voluntary contributions. If the Grand Master of Arkansas
will post himself on this subject we believe he will realize that ·he
has done his Brethren in Kansas a great injustice.
Maryland (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We are in favor of the
George Washington Memorial and in sympathy with efforts to make
this structure worthy of Freemasonry, provided, however, the contributions are not forced upon the Brethren and do not work a
hardship by unduly depleting the funds of a Jurisdiction so that it
interferes with local Masonic effort for charitable purposes.

• • • • •

(Grand Master): This memorial has been largely financed by
several wealthy Jurisdictions and, in view of this, the Association is
requesting all Jurisdictions to contribute the amount of $1.00 per
member raised since the last contribution was made. It is my humble
judgment that this memorial will either be the most out8tanding
monument to Masonry or else the evidence of the most colossal
failure.
New Mexico (1931):
(Grand Master): I attended the meeting of the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association held in Alexandria,
Va., February 21, 1930. My heart was burdened with cares and

85

Vermont (1931):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Of the Annual of the
Washington Memorial Association, the Grand Master (West Virginia) said: "I cannot see how it is possible for anyone to attend
one of these meetings without being an enthusiast and devotee to
the principles for which this memorial is being erected." But the
fact is that only a few Masons can attend these meetings. The rank
and file have to take their enthusiasm second-hand.
Wisconsin (1932):
'(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Our Brother from North
Carolina seems to imply that Wisconsin has been derelict in the
performance of a duty to support this Masonic venture. We must
remind him that the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin never requested
the erection of this Memorial, and never became a member of the
Association. Whatever Wisconsin has given is purely voluntary.
We must determine for ourselves our obligations and our ability to
contribute. It is evident to all that there has been a lot of lavish
expenditure in connection with the Washington Memorial. It started
out with the avowed intention of expending only one hundred thousand dollars and has expended in excess of three millions of dollars,
and is still planning the expenditure of some two millions more.

• • • • •

(Grand Master): I have thought that you might be interested
in a statement of the expenses in the erection of this Memorial and
how the money to defray those expenses has been and is being
raised. The Memorial is situated on Shooters Hill, Alexandria, one
of the highest and most prominent points along that stretch of the
Potomac River. The site consists of nearly 37 acres of land, which
the Memorial Association owns in fee. There has been expended

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

for purchase of land and landscaping, furnishings for the auditorium
etc., the sum of $4~7,340.41, and for the construction of the building:
$3,205,664.56, making a total expenditure to date of $3,643,004.97.
Th.ere h~s been received from all sources the sum -0f $3,881,254.48.
It .1s .estimated that there will be required for the completion of the
building and for landscaping of the grounds the sum of $750,000.00
to $1,000,000.00. In addition to this, it is planned to have an end~wme~t fund from the income -0f which the building will be maintained m the future.
. 1;he enterprise has been financed by voluntary contributions,

P~mc1pally from Grand Lodges. About $350,000.00 has been con-

~ributed by other Masonic and affiliated bodies. The complete financing of the Memorial will require practically $1.70 per member of all
the Masons of this country. Some of the Grand L odges have exceeded that quota. Most of them are below it. This Grand Lodge
has contributed $12,294.25-about twenty cents per member.

. !o

my mind and from my conception of George Washington,
this is not the kind of memorial that he would cherish. He was not
a ma? of pomp, s.h~w and ostentation. Those qualities had no appeal
for him. The spmtual needs of humanity appealed to him. It ma
be unfo~tunate that this Memorial was conceived and pushed fo:_
ward without more deliberate consideration of its appropriateness
and that its construction was undertaken and commenced without
~ definite conce?tion of the completed whole and full knowledge of
its cost and satisfactory plans for the raising of the funds to meet
that cost. But unfortunately it is now too late to discuss those
matters. The project is nearing completion. Our Grand Lodge was
not consulted a~ t~ the a·dvisability of erecting such a Memorial.
We h.ave been invited to share in bearing the expense of its construct10?, and are told what we are expected to contribute. We
~a~e n~1ther accepted nor· declined that invitation. It seems to me
in Justice ~o ~u~selves .and out of courtesy to the Masons of othe;
Gra~d Junsd1ctions with whom we maintain the closest fraternal
~e!ations, ~e s~ould definitely accept or decline their invitation to
Join them in this common enterprise.

* * * * *

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We have been saying the
substance of Brother Darrah's opinion in our humble way for man
years. We may not have said it so emphatically or forcefully a~
have Brother Darrah and Brother Muri, but yet we have sai.d it so
~ffectually that the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin has never enrolled
itself as a member of the Association or pledged itself to the payment of any set sum. From time to time we have made donations
to the fund, but we have always felt that the expenditure of so much

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

87

money for a granite monument on a Virginia hill, which not one in

a thousand of our members will ever see, and which will not in the
least contribute to the relief of a single Mason in distress, is a great
mistake. We never could recommend it.
YOUNGER GENERATION
Regardless of what we may think of boys and girls they ar e
stubborn facts. They have been with us from time immemorial and
will continue to be. Whether Masonry should interest itself with
them in the formative period of their lives is a question. Regardless
of the viewpoint, Secretary of Agriculture, Arthur M. Hyde, summarizes the difficult:es as follows:
"Boys and agriculture are equal and parallel sufferers from a
plethora of advisers, whose numbers, good intentions, and volubility,
as well as output, cannot be excelled by any other industry. Advice
on both these themes has increased in geometric ratio to the population, multiplied by the increase in means of communication. In
the case of both boys and agriculture, that advice makes Jeremiah
look like a dumb neophyte-or, as we modernly put :t-a piker.
The lamentations poured out upon the heads of both boys and
farmers are firmly rooted in sorrow and look to a future of complete
darkness through which no star of hope dares stab a single ray.
"Another point of similarity lies in the antiquity of our respective industries. It is said that King Tut, when his sleep of centuries
was rudely disturbed by archeologists, held in his hand a clay tile
upon which was written a farewell address, which began with the
lamentation that the boys of that day were ruining the country, and
wound up with copious advice upon the farm problem. * * *
"No matter how ornery or low-down our boys may be at times,
we nevertheless shall continue to rear, berate, cherish, castigate, forgive, and eternally to love 'em. Our devotion is instinctive and
universal. We cannot help it. Consciously or unconsciously we see
in the boy the man who will carry on what was passed down to us,
and finish what we have started. We advise them copiously and
inconsistently against the very errors we personify. We lecture
them sternly against our own shortcomings. This is because we want
them to be better men than we are. We expect them to straighten
out into 'homers' all the foul balls that have glanced off our bat."
Any organization that has for its object educating the boy of
today, who is to be leader in the years to come, is not merely serviceable but a necessity.
South Australia and Victoria appear to have adopted the "Progressive" idea. The statistics of the Order of DeMolay show only

89

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

a loss of 4!>00 in their membership for the year 1931 out of an active
members~1p of_ 112,000.. This would indicate that the average American. b~y is taking an ~nterest in an organization based upon Clean
Thinking, Clean Speaking and Clean Living. The records of the Boy
Scouts and other youth movements are along the same lines.

ma! y pense," the motto of the Order of the Garter. But there
weren't even garters in this case, and of sex-appeal there was surely

88

Iowa (1931):
(Chairmmi Correspondence Committee): Not so many moons since
I was sentenced to deliver the main address at a banquet given b;
a Congress or Conference of the De Molay Order for Boys. I was
~eft t? choose my own subject, restrained only by the admonition
~t it sho~ld be one that could be seriously and earnestly dealt
with. I decided to speak to the young men on the subject of "True
and False Patriotism."
.
W ~II, I had some experience. I shall not tell you when and
:h~re. it occurred, for like the Irishman on the hand car, I shall
mintlon no names."
Now, . I ?ave ever ~een one of those wl}.o has persistently refused to d1~mfy the Devil by believing in him. For me he has never
been anything more t?an a personification of the principle of evil,
so~t of a symbol as 1t were. But if· "Auld Hornie" ever had an
existence I surely felt his presence in the banquet hall that night.
~he consm~ption of a bounteous repast was proceeded with to
the Jingle, the Jolt, the jangle and the jar of a jazz orchestra.
When this din finally died away, the next number on the program was o~e contributed by a couple of "Rainbow Girls," the "Sisters Something or Other," who staged a dance number. It was sure
some roseate perform.ance. A couple of flippant flappers arrayed as
to nether .garments in some very brief, skin-fitting black trunks,
some da_n~1~,g pu~ps on their feet, and as the Latins say, "praeterqu~m ~uhtl,
which last, my brethren, is a Roman phrase which
being interpreted meaneth "besides that nothing."
W~s it a "wow"? I'll say it was. The applause was deafening
drowning out t?e jazz. Cries of "More! Mo-o-o-re!" from the lust;
throats ?f flaming youth, and not until the duality of damsels had
bee~ twice more ~ersuaded to parade their display of plump pulc~ntude to gleaming eyes, could order be restored. Some of you
will recall the posters that graced (?) the billboards ,·ust b f
"Blac k C rook" s h ow b roke loose in town Well thos
e ore a
f Id
·
·
'
e coryp h ees ·
o o en times had "nothing on" these Rainbow lassies, when it
came to costume-or the lack of it.
Perhaps ·I am
Perhaps I am purblind, an d cannot
· old-fashioned.
· h ·
see th e case in its rig t light. Perhap.s it is a case of "Honi soit qui

a-plenty.
Now, do I hear you say, "What's all this got to do wi.th Masonry?" Perhaps nothing. Perhaps everything. If you know the
place where this thing was pulled off, you might do some serious
thinking. Perhaps it were appropriate in these sultry days to paraphrase the old pacifist song and make it read, "I didn't raise my
boy to be a psycho-analyst."
But, after all, can· we really blame these kids until we ourselves
set them a better example? I was at a Shrine Ceremonial one time
-well, never ~ind about Jhat. Least said is soonest mended.
Whither are we drifting, anyway? What about the books we
read? Ever go through the weekly New York Times Book Review
and read the ads of the new books? Nine out of ten of them saturated with sex-appeal.
Last fall I drifted into a theatre in a great mid-western city.
I was out to kill time and didn't previously inquire what the play
was about. But it dealt with some of the most delicate problems
of domestic life, dealt with them crudely, coarsely, frivolously, and
a packed house of empty-headed men and women sat there and
roared at the salacious sallies from the stage.
And nqw to cap the climax come ancient Sodom and Gomorrah
back to .e arth, only now it's called Reno, Nevada. Gambling legalized-120 "divorces" a week- booze and prostitution aplenty"libido" and license everywhere. A nasty, festering cancer on the
fair face of. America!
Has Masonry any interest in this sort of thing, or is its preaching of morality merely a sham and a pretense-a posture and a
gesture-that and nothing more?
But I must be fair to those kids. Looked as though I was facing
an atmosphere wholly hostile to the consideration of any serious
subject, let alone a high and holy one like the love of country. But
I determined I'd try. I did and they responded. How they responded I Rose en masse to their feet at the end of my appeal, with
round after round of applause that had no false note in it. Crowded
about me afterward with eyes ashine with something utterly different from self-indulgence. Those boys were made of the stuff that
both dies and lives for the fatherland, without counting the cost.
They made me feel that I had blotted from their minds all recollection of the dancing dollies, and that they were going home believing that looseness was after all not the thing most worth while
in human life.

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nevada (1931):

Address of De Molay Joseph Jackson, Jr., Before the
Members of the Grand Lodge
.
It is a steadfast spirit such as DeMolay's which calls to a boy
m the adolescent stage of his life, when he may make of his career
anything he chooses, regardless· of what his past life has been, no
matter what his immediate surroundings may be. Mainly he has
two courses. He may cast his character, on the one hand, in the
scraggly mold of unworthiness, shiftlessness, and selfishness. He
may so fashion his purpose that it will never permit him to lift a
. finger to help his fellowman. He may meet people with a shifty'
eye and a limpid handclasp. On the otlter hand, he may cast his
character in the dye of genuine worthiness, making his main forces
the pursuance of public service, truth, and loyalty, making himself
a man who can look the whole world straight in the eye, one of
whom any father should be proud to say "Son."
We do not claim that we can accomplish all of this character
moulding process. We do not presume to say that any boy cannot
develop such a desired character if he fails to enter our ranks. But
we do say this: "Give us a boy who shows even a remote· leaning
towards following out the principles for which the name DeMolay
stands, and we will so direct him throughout the adolescent stages
of his life, so aid him in his gropings for truth, that it will be infinitely . much more easy for him to be a better man than had he
stayed out of our order altogether, and it is fairly certain that his
feet will never stray far from the path along which our teachings
have sent him.
It has never been our purpose to seek out tarnished stones so
set i.n the rut of indifference that they cannot be pried apart.' so
unmmdful of the better purposes of life that we should be tarnished
in our associations with them. Neither do we set up to be reformers
nor is it our desire to be looked upon as simon-pure, snobbish and
aloof. Snobbery is probably the last thing to which a DeMolay could
stoop. It is the task of a DeMolay to dig deep down into the soil
seeking out diamonds in the rough, so that they may be subjected
to a thorough grinding process, and turned out beautiful polished
gems of manhood.
.
The third lesson teaches cleanliness of the mind and body. Here
the growing boy is aided in crossing the pitfalls of immorality and
degradation. He learns to let alone the star-dust which so often
traps unguided youth. Next comes the lesson of devotion to God
and to the service of the universal brotherhood. This is followed
by the great lesson of love for country, aiding youth to hear the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

91

clear call for intelligent citizenship, and the following out of dem~
cratic ideals. In this lesson is taught the true value . of the public
school with the deep-seated learning that knowledge 1s power only
when lntelligently, actively and loyally applied.
I said before that there were two reasons for the growth ?f t~e
Order of DeMolay. You have heard the first. The seco~d hes m
the wonderful stalwart backing given us by. the Masonic Order.
Masonic inter;st is all that we could hope for it to be, and much
more. That you have labored with us, toiled with us, often at great
sacrifice of personal time and comfort, asking for no return, makes
us indebted to you in a way we shall probably never be able to repay.
Still youthful, perhaps, yet you have passed beyond the period
of preparation for manhood. You have ta~en you~ feet fro~ the
threshold, and have passed on into your precious heritage of w1sd?m
and experience. You have learned to apply the lessons ?f devotion
and sacrifice of service and loyalty. You have established yourselves as citi~ens. Yet, having done all this, you are n~t conten.t to
rest idly, having instead chosen to turn back a?d build a bridge
across which those who come after you may pass m safety.
!And now in closing, I am going to paint for you a picture, a
picture of a i'nan standing on a lofty pedestal, his right. hand extended slightly f~rward and downward. His fingers stretch out
towards a small plodding figure, which climbs slowly. upwards. T~e
eyes of the figure are glued to the platform on which ~he man. is
standing, and he is drawn irresistibly onward by the light which
reflects from that face. The man represents the Order of Masonry,
the small figure represents the Order of DeM olay.
Thus we have it, age and wisdom on the one hand, youth ~nd
inexperience on the other, both with lofty ideals, one already ~av~ng
reached its station, the other mounting ever higher towards a s1m1lar
pedestal, that both may labor together for a ~ommon good, an~ now
separated only by those last few steps, which mark the period of
preparation which all youth must surmount before it enters the ranks
of manhood.
South Australia (1930):
(Grand Master}: It is not our custom to advocate any particular
activity of this kind, but for once I am going to ?e bo_ld enough to
5 uggest a possible outlet for our efforts. There 1s a little ?rotherhood in existence which has the same ideals, the same aims and
objects as we ourselves-I refer to the Boy Scout movement. We
have only to read the solemn vow wh~ch a S~ou.t tak.~s when. he is
·nvested to see how our ideals and ob1ects comc1de- I promise on
~Y honor to do my duty to God and the ,,King, to help other people
at all times, and to obey the Scout Law.

92

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

If _any of you have time to read the Scout Laws you will see
how ahke they are to the ideals and principles of Freemasonry. The
Boy Scout movement, like ours, is world-wide, it is open to every
class: color, an~ creed; both are founded on the strongest principles
of piety and virtue, both stand solidly for morality and strength
and character.

Therefore, the good Boy Scout of today cannot fail to become
a good Freemason of tomorrow, and what better service could we
do for our country or our Craft, than to take an active interest in
the character training of our youth, the boys who soon, as men,
will bear the responsibility of the well being of our country.
, There . are many ways in which anyone who wishes can help.
We can give moral and material support to our local organizations
and show the value we place on the movement. Some can take a
more active part.
We have thousands of boys waiting to be led and anxious to
b_e led, but unfortunately the supply of boys has outgrown the
supply of suitable leaders. There can be no better leaders of youth
than those who believe in an<l practice the principles of Freemasonry.
The Boy Scout movement is one which I have very much at
heart and in which I can see enormous possibilities for the future
of mankind. ·
I feel that it is so closely allied to Freemasonry in its objects
and its ideals that I am justified in commending it to the Brethren
for their personal consideration, although it may not be possible for
the Craft to give any official or organized recognition to the movement.
Victoria (1931):
(Grand Master) : But what I shall miss most is being able to
thank Brethren generally for their splendid support to the Boy
Scout movement. A letter I have received says: "At Korumburra
three new Troops have been staffed by Masonic Brethren." . Isn't
that glorious? Bring up the boys. " In as much as ye have done it,"
etc. From every point of view it is worth while. So thank them
from me; their reward will be great.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

93

BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS
As usual under this caption we have an opportunity to see ourselves as others see us. Our Grand Lodge and its Officers and
Committees generally receive praise from the hands of the Chairman of the various Correspondence Committees, which is of course
a source of satisfaction to those engaged in the acti_ve work of the
Fraternity in California.

Slst Annual Communication, Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.,
San Francisco, California.
Charles M. Wollenberg, Grand Master
October 14-17. 1930
Alabama:
It is always a hard task for me to review the proceedings of the
Grand Lodge of California. They carry on such a wonderfully well
organized work and report it in such an interesting way that I cannot
do it justice with a review limited to the space allotted me.
The Grand Master's recommendation in regard to the Grand
· Secretary was approved. I am glad to see a ·g ood Grand Secretary
get public approval.
The Grand Orator, William C. Hassler, delivered a very scholarly
address on "Why We Need Masonry Today." It is well worth reading
but is too long to include in my brief review.
The~e is an interesting report on Masonic History.
The Report on Correspondence is written by Jesse M. Whited
and is his tenth review and, as usual, is written in topical form. It is
a fine report. I would like to attempt one in topical form if I had
time but writing my reports at odd moments in the midst of an otherwise busy life I find it more convenient to stick to the usual form.
He quotes several times from our 1929 Proceedings, for which we
thank him. There are a number of extracts from this report that I
would like to include in this review.
Alberta:
The annual address of the Grand Master was not only an extended
report of his official acts and activities throughout his year of office
but was a powerful presentation of the Grand Master's views on many
of the outstanding problems facing Masonry on the North American
Continent at this time.

94

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
HEl'OR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE

The Annual Oration of the Grand Orator, Bro. William C.
Hassler, was a learned and at the same time interesting discourse on
Masonry, the speaker having a fascinating method of transporting
his hearers back and forth between ancient and modern times with
very exhilarating as well as instructive effects. It is an oration which,
if carefully studied, is highly provocative of real thinking along
Masonic lines.
The report of the Committee on Masonic History in this juris~
diction is a very interesting report.
The report of the Board of Control, as in other years, sets forth
a splendid record of work done by the Boards of Relief throughout
this jurisdiction. This work is magnificently organized, and is achieving wonderful .success in finding employment and several forms of
relief for Brethren who are out of work or in need of a helping hand.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence is again presented by a committee of nine, headed by Brother Jesse M. Whited.
It is on the topical plan, and is indeed a very informative report. It
is followed by a very interesting Appendix giving statistics on many
Masonic subjects. Under the topic "Reading-Interesting" there is
set out for the attention of those interested, and who have access to
the Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges, a list of orations, papers
and reports which are deemed either entertaining, worthy of examination, or valuable for reference. There are thirty-five in number.
One is taken from the Alberta 1930 Proceedings, two from the Saskatchewan 1929 and two from the Saskatchewan 1930 Proceedings.
This list is printed in full as an appendix to this report and we are
indeed indebted to Brother Whited for this summary, which in itself
constitutes a small Masonic Library.
Colorado:
The Committee on Clandestine Masonry reported at length, giving as much precise information as possible about irregular bodies.
Delaware:
An interesting report on Correspondence is submitted by R:.w:.
Brother Jesse M. Whited. It is in topical form and contains much
valuable information.
Georgia:
A rather unique method is followed in the Review of Foreign
Jurisdictions; it is done topically.

95

Idaho:
The annual oration was delivered by R:.w:. Broth.er .Wil_H~m
C. Hassler, Grand Orator, who was commended for his mspmng
address.
The 23d Annual Report of the Grand Lecturer shows that a v~ry
satisfactory condition exists in the Jurisdiction. Lodges are domg
splendid work.
The Committee on Public Schools Week in its interesting rep?rt
of 11 pages stated the eleventh annual observance from every .pomt
of view was the most successful ever held.
The tenth annual report of the Committee on Foreign Cor~e­
spondence, presented by Brother Jesse M .. White?, the a?Ie Ch~1r­
man, furnished much good Masonic i~formation. which was mstruchve
and entertaining and will be read with much mterest by many Masonic students, officers and members.
Illinois:
·
The Proceedings under review
ma k e a ve r Y voluminous document.
A most excellent record was made by the Grand Master in
visiting Lodges.
The. financial tables which appear in the Proceedings are elaborate
I
th fact that the Grand Lodge of California operates on
d
an d.1sc ose e
f .d · ·
·di
a large scale. The fraternity has business men o w1 e v1s1on gu1 ng
its affairs as is evidenced by the various financial reports.
A number of amendments to the constitution we~e offer~d, sh~w­
ing that there are those in California who are not satisfied with existing laws, but think that various changes are necessary.
A long and exhaustive, but interesting report comes from the
Committee on Clandestine Masonry. It gives a clear idea as to the
situation concerning this very annoying subject.
.
The Correspondence Report is written by Jesse M. Whited, .and
· t · I There are numerous quotations taken from the Proceedmgs
is op1ca .
f
d't'
thr ugh
of Illinois. He opens his review with a resume o con 1 ions
o
out the Masonic world, as he observed them.
·
Iowa:
The following, which we find. in Brother W ollenberg's addre~s
under the head of Degree Teams, clearly demonstrates how easy 1t
is for Masonry to run wild.
The report of the Committee on Clandestine Masonry covers
five closely printed pages. It shows that there are oodles of these
nasty things in the Golden State.

* * * * •

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

96

97

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

One of the greatest things ever accomplished by Californian
Masonry was its great campaign 'on behalf of what was called "Public Schools Week."
· We hope the day will come when within every Grand Jurisdiction the Fraternity will indulge in a like righteous crusade.

• • • • •

The following paragraph from the report of Brother Thomas J.
Baker, the Grand Lecturer, makes interesting reading.

• • • • •

· The report of the Educational C~mmittee shows that it has been
doing great and good work.

• • • • •

The Masonic Home for Children, at Covina, is a very ably managed institution.

• • • • •

The report of the committee having in charge the eleventh annual observance of Public Schools Week makes marvelously fine
reading. From every point of view the latest observance was the
most successful ever held.
The work of the committee left California all afire with enthusiasm for and loyalty to its public schools.

• • • • •

Brother Jesse M. Whited submitted a Report on Fraternal
Correspondence giving clear evidence of the enormous amount of
painstaking work he had spent in its preparation. In his review of
Iowa he quotes Grand Master Tripp at length and says that our
two efforts dealing with "The Soul that Saunters" and "The Late~t
Fashions in Atheism" are well worth reading. For this we are duly
grateful.
Kentucky:
We question the wisdom of a law that authorizes a Grand Master
to prescribe a penalty for a member of a Lodge or to order the
restoration of such a member. From the able address of the Grand
Orator, Brother William C. Hassler, we quote the paragraphs: • • •
The Report on Correspondence is by Brother Jesse M. Whited.
It is topical and exhaustive and interesting.
Maryland:
Bro. Jesse M. Whited presents his Report on Foreign Correspondence in a topical form and introduces the various subjects by
his own views on the different questions involved. While we do not
agree with a number of his conclusions yet his compendium is an

interesting one and the statistical tables appended to his Report are
valuable. We take the liberty of using the table of the times of the
meeting of a number of Grand Bodies as the various Grand Representatives would no doubt desire to see it.
Mexico:
The Committee on Public Schools Week reported from every
point of view the latest observance was the most successful ever
held. Read pages 186-196 and learn what Masonry can do for the
good of everybody by combined enthusiastic cooperation.
There is a very fine report by the Committee on Clandestine
Masonry.
Report of Committee on Correspondence by W.'.M.'. Brother
Jesse M. Whited, as usual is unique-·there is only one of this kind,
the topical form-extracts from all .forisdictions. It is the Tenth
Extract. Our space is too small to give quotations, but we are
"mighty" pleased to see a number of our items included, for which
many thanks. • • • Thanks again. (Entertaining, worthy of examination and valuable for reference.)
Mississippi:
Jesse M. Whited, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence,
submits the report which is his tenth. It is a topical review and while
it is a well written document evidently collaborated with much time
and patience yet this Scdbe is not partial to this form of review.
Missouri:
The Report of 154 pages was made by Jesse M. Whited. As we
noted a year ago he treats of various Masonic subjects "from the
cedar tree that is in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth
out of the wall."
He quoted a page from Grand Master Bigger concerning trouble
that had developed in the Eastern Star, and about as much more from
the same address where Judge Bigger tells .of calling other Grand
Officers to confer with them over important matters. He even ventures to quote some things this Scribe wrote concerning dancing and
gives our comment on his report of one year ago.
The salt of our Order is very much needed in a State whose
Supreme Court has decided that the Bible is a sectarian book and
whose Attorney General has ruled that the Lord's Prayer is sectarian.
Montana:
The "Message" of Grand Ma!;iter Charles M. Wollenberg was a
very fine document.

98

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Grand Orator William C. Hassler did not entitle his oration,
which was a masterful piece of eloquence.
The Report of the Committee on Clandestine Masonry is a
"stunner"; six printed pages show a surprising list of illegitimate
Masonic bodies of Mexican and other lineage, and they are scattered
from h--1 to breakfast all over California.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presented his tenth Correspondence
Report which, like its predecessors, is topical.
A complete resume of the addresses, orations, committees' report
such as we have essayed in the foregoing, is utterly impossible in a
topical review only.
The life-story for the year of a jurisdiction could not be severed
into parts· and mingled with others, in order to do it any sort of
justice. But then-we have no business to comment as to how another
likes to cook his meals, particularly as primarily it is supposed to be
for home consumption.
North Dakota:
In addition to an ambitious program of Masonic education, the
Grand Lodge some years ago established an annual "Public Schools
Week," having for its purpose the fostering of a greater interest and
knowledge by the public in their schools. Every Lodge is supposed
to arrange public meetings for this purpose and apparently the movement is an unqualified success.
To us in North Dakota this looks like real Masonic work, although
we opine that it will rub against the grain with Van Patten of Washington and Fly down in Texas.
The Committee on Masonic History presented a highly interesting report of Masonry in the early days of the state. While in no
way detracting from the noble work of the pioneers of the fraternity,
there are interesting items included which would indicate that being
a Mason in those days did not make every man a saint.
The Correspondence Report, which is Brother Jesse M. Whited's
tenth, is in topical form and in it he thoroughly covers the leading
questions which are being considered by Grand Lodges today.
Ohio:
The Foreign Correspondent, Bro. Jesse M. Whited, submitted
his tenth Report on Correspondence. He says that consideration of
the same general questions and conditions that have been before the
Craft for a number of years are practically along the same unchanged
line. • • • The report of Bro. Whited is a valuable production.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

99

Oregon:
The presiding Grand Master has a worthy and interesting record.
The efforts of the Grand Lodge of California and its Committee
on Education to develop a satisfactory and beneficial educational
work on behalf of Lodges and their members have not realized fully
their objective, though much has been accomplished in the fact of
more or less apathy and indifference. Cooperation from the Lodges
seems to be lacking.
Brother W illiam C. Hassler, Grand Orator, delivered an address
showing historical research and yet practical for our daily lives.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence was submitted
by the Chairman, Brother Jesse M. Whited.
His is a topical report with the opinions from various jurisdictions
on a given topic of Masonic interest quoted under that topic.
South Carolina:
The repor t of the Committee on Masonic H istory is one of the
most interesting that we have read thus far with reference to the
gathering of historical data. The Grand Lodge of California is going
about the matter in a serious manner.
Californ ia continues its educational efforts with unabated zeal
and purpose. The Committee gives a detailed repor t of the yeaT's
work, and the report breathes the spirit of progress a nd optimism.
Brother Jesse M. Whited continues to furnish a splendid review
of the doings of F reemasonry throughout the world. He sticks to the
topical form and culls the best things from each jurisdiction on a
given topic. Under "Correspondence" he quotes nine paragraphs
from the South Carolina report. We have read his contribution with
much interest.
Washington:
Speaking of the Grand Secretary the Grand Mas ter says: " Grand
Masters come and go, •b ut it is fortunate that our beloved Grand
Secretary goes on forever."
In fact the. Grand Secretary is the one man in the Grand Lodge
who is always on the job, and his ability and knowledge is always at
the service of all Grand Masters, and of the Grand L odge as well.
The repor t of the Grand Secretary is full and circumstantial, and
gives many items of interest to the Brethren of California.
Their Grand Orator, Brother William C. Hassler, gave a very
readable paper.

100

J:tEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

·
·
· ed by Jesse M.
The report on. Correspondence ts agam sign
f the im- .
. .
ical form In it he takes up many 0
Whited, and !s m top
G.
d Lodges and quotes freely from
ortant questions now before ran ·
· '
~rand Masters, Committee Reports and Correspondence.
West Virginia:
d · bl
tion
W'lr
C Hassler delivered an a m1ra e ora
Gr~nd Orator t tam lo~ to incorporate herein, too good to
occupying ten pages, too I g
th
hole is of great interest to
readily permit of excerpts a oMne as e : yet we cannot omit all and
the historian and the zealous ason, an
uote the following: * * *.
q
.
p bl' S h ols Week eleventh annual observance,
Committee on u tc c 0
'
render a fine report.
.
.
M Whited furnishes another interesting review, or
Br~. J esse
.
.
f other Grand Jurisdictions, and we trust
symposmm, of Proceedings o d'
h
been duly received by Bro.
that West Virginia's Procee mgs ave
Whited.
Wyoming:
.
.
he S anish Conquistadores
California derive~ its . nam~ from v:r n:ar an earthly paradise,
being the name of aEn i7ag~~ar~ ist;;!anceyof chivalry written in the
in :'Las Serges de sp an ian, a
otto of the state is "Eulast decade ?f t~.e fiftee~th c~ni~~~y~ni'~~en:tate flower is the Golden
reka," meanm~ I hav~ ?,uGn Id ' "
"El Dorado" and has an area
p
Its nickname ts
o en, or
51
k'
·1
Th 1930 population was 5,677,2 ' ran mg
oppy.
of 158,297 square ':'' es. I ~ . 1 420 062 ranking sixth, and there
sixth. The Masonic popu atton ts '
'
'
. orres ondence is by Brother Jess.e M. Whited,
are 580 Lodges.
The Report on C
p. A
I his views are in topical form.
who submits his tenth report. s usua ' .

82nd Annual Communication, Grai_id ~dge, F. & A. M.,
San Francisco, California.
John Stewart Ross, Grand Master
October 13-16, 1931
Connecticut:
·
h t the spent
Report of Committee. on Madsonic HihstoryApsph~r':~t~ya the i.odges
.
· ·
tigatton an researc .
much time m mves d he had to search out many outside records.
I'
ire committee and can show
were of small help an t Y
It would appear that they are a ive w
effective results.

HEPORT ON CORRES.PONDENCE

101

Brother Jesse M. Whited presents his usual review on the topical
plan, plus statistics. He reproduces a number of items from this
scribe's "hot air." Of just what interest these can be to California is
not apparent. Probably most, if not all, will find dissent. However,
if they only arouse thought, they may serve a good purpose, even if
they educe conclusions directly opposed to our own.
Florida:
So voluminous was the business ·of the Grand Lodge of California
that four days were required to transact the same, and over a thousand pages to report the proceedings, and no list of membership
either,
The address of Grand Master Ross was an exceptionally comprehensive record of devotion to the Craft, evidencing him to be a "just
and upright man and Mason." Only a few of the high spots of his
constructive administration can be mentioned.
It is a long way from the Golden Gate to Sunny Florida, and it
is not surprising . that Grand Master Ross did not know that the
corner stone of a church in Tampa was laid March 2, 1928, at night,
and by the Masonic Fraternity; and also that the corner stone of the
new Temple of Hillsborough Lodge, also in Tampa, was laid June
18, 1928, at night, by Grand Lodge as well, and under more colorful
conditions, including radio broadcasting, and so far as ye scribe
knows, was the first time in the history of Masonry that the corner
stone of a Masonic Temple had been laid at night.
R.' .E.". Jesse M. Whited presented the Report of the Committee
on Correspondence, which is in topical form. It is an excellent compilation of comments and selections, largely from the addresses of
Grand Masters and reports of committees. It is as interesting and
readable as it is informative. Five of the extracts are from the
Florida Proceedings. An Appendix names twenty-three Chairmen
of Committees on Correspondence in California, of which Bro. Whited,
the last, has already served eleven years. The California committee
has ten members, but apparently Bro. Whited does the work.
During the past four years the Grand Lodge has been gathering
data for the History of Freemasonry in California and which, when
completed, will, no doubt, be the largest and most extensive history
undertaken by any single Grand Lodge.
Indiana:
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits his usual excellent Report on
Correspondence in topical form.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

102

103

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Iowa:
The Grand Master in his re·p ort took himself very seriously and
worked hard and earnestly at his job. He dug up more new stuff
in reference to Masonic operations and administration than we could
ever have imagined could exist. In fact he sets forth fifty solid pages
of most interesting reading upon the subject.
Taking up the subject of the present utilization of Masonic
charity funds, Brother Ross delivers himself of one of the best and
one of the most profitable discussions of the . various phases of Masonic charity that it has ever been our good fortune to read.
. Discussing one of the so-called Masonic barnacles, or side
orders, Brother Ross permits himself the use of the following vigorous language: * * *
We admire him greatly for the fine, strong stand he had taken
and for his ringing denunciation of one of these organizations which,
if allowed to continue, would soon destroy and rot away the life
of genuine Masonry.

• • * * *

Brother Leslie E . Learned (well named, indeed!) delivered the
annual oration, and a very good one it proved to be.

* * * * *

The Report on Fraternal Correspondence is by Brother Jesse
M. Whited. It shows that he has done a lot of hard work, for his
report is a very creditable one.
Kansas:
In submitting his annual address the Grand Master rather indicates that he is a little disposed to question his own ability and his
service to the Craft, stating that he has not measured up to .the full
standard set by the honored dignity and importance of the office. He
has nothing to offer in this portion of his address.
Referring to a Masonic History of California the Grand Master
recommends that the Committee on History be continued. If our
good Brethren of California depend upon a committee t? .write a
History of Masonry in their jurisdiction we are of the opm1on that
information now obtainable will have vanished ere this work is accomplished. When work of this kind is placed in the hands of a
Committee it is a case of "What is everybody's business," etc.
We take pleasure in quoting from the annual oration delivered
by Brother Leslie E. Learned.
The Report on Correspondence was again prepared by Brother
Jesse M. Whited in its usual topical form.

Louisiana:
Public Schools Week is an institution in the California jurisdiction and is resulting in much good.
Masonic History is receiving its share of attention in California.
Not only is the Grand Lodge Committee compiling a history of
Masonry in that state, but each Lodge has a committee at work compiling and preserving a history of the Lodge. The Grand Master finds
that great interest is stimulated thereby.
The reviews are presented by Bro. Jesse M. Whited and are in
topical form.
These are just a few of t he good things we find in Bro. Whited's
Reviews. Space will not permit further excerpts.
Maine:
Public Schools Week, an annual feature of California Masonry,
was observed with practically all Lodges taking part in their respective localities. Your Maine correspondent receives under separate
cover each year a full and detailed account of this observance by t he
Masons of California. It seems to us a worthwhile activity for Masons
as .good citizens but probably as a Lodge activity it wo.uld be viewed
a little ask~nce. But this correspondent, knowing something of the
need of real support and interest in our public schools on the part of
an intelligent citizenry, would not find it in his heart to oppose even
Lodge activity for such a noble cause.
Among the Grand Master's decisions is one allowing liberal construction of physical defects on the part of otherwise worthy applicants.
The annual Oration was delivered by R.".W.". Brother Leslie E .
Learned, Grand Orator. It deals with the vital realities of the Order,
the symbolic significance of its lessons and the great objective of enfleshing truth in personality. A readable, informing essay, rather than
a mere oration.
The Homes are efficiently managed and conservatively administered by outstanding Brethren of the Grand Lodge.
An interesting, readable report by the Committee on Masonic
History contains innumerable incidents· in the early pioneer days and
especially of Masonic relations with the Indian tribes. The account is
filled with moving, almost hair-raising stories, of these gold digging
days and Indian warfare times.
The 'u sual topical report written by W.".M.". Brother Jesse M.
Whited was the contribution of the Committee on Correspondence.
Brother Whited's foreword is an illuminating commentary on various

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

mooted questions of the Masonic world of today, dealt with in a few
graphic words. We have enjoyed Brother Whited's review which is
one of the best of the year.
Manitoba :
A considerable portion of. the Grand Master's address fa taken
up with decisions, principally to do with the Constitution, consequently of little interest to Brethren on this side of the line.
Michigan:
The Grand Master's frank and outspoken stand for the right as·
he sees it has won for him the respect and admiration of his fellow
citizens as well as his Brethren in Masonry.
The dispatch displayed in the publishing of the proceedings is
emin~ntly commendable.
Twenty-seven pages of the 52 of the M:.w:·. Grand Master's
address are devoted to "Decisions and Recommendations." Here is
evidence of specialized work which consumed a maximum of time
and a wealth of ability. Most of the decisions and recommendations
are of local importance and value but furnish interesting reading.
A few suggestions, wisely made, with respect to the "Best Utilization of Masonic Charity Funds."
Organizations, the prerequisite of membership wherein is that a
person be a Master Mason, come in for a hot blast from the pen of
this ardent Grand Master. He makes the Sciots his official target.
There is no pessimism in the M:.w:. Grand Master's outlook.
The topical review of Brother Jesse M. Whited is fully up to
its usual standard of excellence. It is a feast of fat things. In a
leisure hour information, edification. What a pity the circulation js
so limited! How few, comparatively, get the chance to read it. Some
who have the chance, decline, to their distinct loss. The correspondence, carefully read and diligently studied, helps to make a well-informed Mason.
Michigan receives liberal notice in the consideration of the various
topics. For which our thanks!
Minnesota:
The message of the Grand Master was an exceptionally fine
presentation of the excellent work of his administration, disclosing a
sincere and lively interest in the affairs of Masonry, in his duties as
Grand Master and in the welfare of the Fraternity.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

105

Bro. Ross made a serious and painstaking study of the conditions
that have been contributing to the suspensions of members for
N. P. D., and gave Grand Lodge the benefit of his research and conclusions. It would be profitable to quote his entire address on that
subject,' but we will include only the following.
A wonderfully interesting and instructive report was made by
the Committee on Public Schools Week.
The Grand Orator, Bro. Leslie E. Learned, delivered a plainspoken and very forceful address concerning the imponderable and
eternal significance of the Masonic degrees.
Bro. Jesse M. Whited filed his 11th annual report as chairman of
the Correspondence Committee, framed on the topical plan and prefaced by a splendid statement as to the principal subjects included in
the topical review.
Nevada:
The representation at Grand Lodge certainly shows that Masonry
in California is not being neglected by any means.
v:.w:. Brother John Whicher, Grand Secretary, filed his
twenty-fourth consecutive report. It is complete and instructive as
usual.
Brother Leslie E. Learned, Grand Orator, delivered a very fine
address on the significance ·of the degrees in Masonry. ·
The Commiteee on History turned in another interesting and
instructive report and asked that the committee be continued and
money appropriated for its maintenance.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presents his eleventh report as Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence.
It is the topical report and Nevada is cited no less than eight
times through its pages, which is co~siderably mor~ than the average,
for which we are duly thankful.
A scrap book of his own comment on each of his subjects would
be well worth anyone's time for study.

New Hampspire:
You see, even Freemasonry is big in California, like about everything else.
The Grand Lodge held twenty-eight special communications.
That exhibits the fact that they are very much alive.
For twel-,.fe successive years they have had what they call Public
Schools Week. It is a California project, of which great things are
related.

106

n.l!:PORT ON CORRESPONDENCI!:

107

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

It does our heart a real good to say that they gained 360 members.
Their Grand Lecturer has held that office for twenty-four years.
He makes a report that disclosed activity.
There is a vast amount of things in this big book from California.
We have been greatly interested in reading most of it. In it lies the
evidence of the greatness of Freemasonry.
. . The co.rre~pondence represents much labor, both in writing and

~n its comp1lahon. Everything is by topic, not by Jurisdiction. Even

m that way New Hampshire gets into it, largely through the "issues"
of her correspondent.
·

New Jersey:
The volume from California is one of the most interesting that
comes to our desk. Reading it we are conscious of a different Masonic
outlook. The fundamental concepts are there with no values lost but
in their process of adaptation to the needs of the brotherhood o~ the
coast a different goal seems to have been reached, and different
methods seem to have been employed. Perhaps the reason Jays in the
very isolation of California in the old days when the wagon train or
the long sea trip were the only methods of communication, for this
was the formative period of California Masonry. In any event Cali~ornia. is refreshingly different. They have met the common problems
m their own w.ay. The volume itself is well arranged and the various
messages, reports and addresses are so well assembled that they form
a readable and entertaining narrative. For this excellent result we
are probably indebted to Grand Secretary John Whicher.
There is sageness and soundness in Grand Master Ross' statement concerning the best utilization of Masonic charity funds.
We find in the Grand Master's outstanding address a new
thought on the much discussed subject of suspensions.
California's competent and active History Committee is gathering
and preserving data contained in the records and archives of the old
Lodges, weaving it into a fascinating story of Masonry in the far
West. All the material is interesting; some is uriique."
·
. The Correspondence Report is presented by Brother Jesse M.
Whited, Chairman of the Committee. According to custom, the arra?gement is by topics, instead of Grand Lodges, subject headings
bemg Attendance, Cipher Rituals, Dues, Funerals, etc. Under each
heading the words of Grand Masters of the various jurisdictions relating to these subjects and the reports of committees are assembled.
It is exceHently done and evidences much time and effort.
Practically the only reference to our proceedings comes under a
heading called "Bouquets and Brickbats," which is made up of ex-

cerpts from the various correspondence reports where the reviewers
have commented on California. We were glad to find our writings
classed as a bouquet. This is quite as it should be, for we are very
deeply interested in the doings of our Brethren "on the Coast" and
are anxious to interpret them accurately to' our New Jersey readers.

New York:
An astounding record is back of the Grand Master's Message.
California is a leader in more than one Masonic field. The twelfth
annual observance of Public Schools Week, as its pr~decessors did,
offered opportunity to keep the people of the state informed concerning public education, "to combat destructive criticism, to aid in correcting errors which may creep into the system, and to insure the
close contact between the . public and its schools so essential to a
continuance of the friendship, faith and confidence upon which they
necessarily depend."
What the Grand Master says anent the utilization of "Masonic
charity funds" is sound and practical.
Another great source of trouble, which few have had the courage
of M.'. W:. Bro. John Stewart Ross to point out in straightforward
terms, is found in the multiplication of organizations feeding upon the
membership of the Lodge.
Any way, American Masonry is greatly indebted to John Stewart
Ross for having had the courage to state the case plainly and thereby
give others something to think about for the good of the reputation
of the Craft.
·
California's w.o rk of relief is steadily gaining in favor among
those who want to help.
The Masonic Clubs in the Universities of California at Berkeley
and Southern California at Los Angeles continue to supply much
appreciated comfort and social. op\>ortunity in their spheres of influence.
Bro. Jesse M. Whited again presents a collection of Masonic experiences and opportunities, gathered from Proceedings and classified
under appropriate headings, with the object of placing at the service
o.f students of Masonic law and pra~tice timely material and suggestions in convenient form. Brother Whited incidentally gives glimpses
of the trend of things in the several Masonic Jurisdictions which are
enumerated in a special alphabetical index added to the report.
North Carolina
The Grand Master is emphatic in his account of the Sciots. Remarking that "that organization buys full pages qf our daily newspapers," he describes some of these advertisements.

108

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

\

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

109

In the course of time we find the report of the Superintendent
of the Masonic Home at Covina. There are two paragraphs in this
report which challenge our attention and are worth reading by any
Mason wlio is interested in Masonic charities.
One of the outstanding features of the Masonic Program in
California is the program of the Grand Lodge for Public Schools
W~ek. This has been universally observed for a number of years,
and appears to have been very successful. The co-operation of officers
and organizations is freely given.
We desire to commend the Committee on Jurisprudence upon
superior wisdom of this report on the Eastern Star. We have seen
the matter handled in a different manner elsewhere by those who had
no desire to be at all accommodating,' and who simply took the position that there is no authority to give a certificate of good standing to
the Eastern Star Order.
The Foreign Correspondence Report is again topical, and is the
best topical report that we have had opportunity to read.

Pennsylv,nia:
Our California Brethren through the medium of their Grand
Lodge Proceedings present so much in the way of variety that we
are at a toss just what to include in our limited three page survey.
In the first place, Grand Master Ross has establishe~ such.a pre~­
edent for thoroughness of action that his successors m office will
have difficulty in "making the grade" in the record of service which
he has established.
The Committee on Masonic History which is engaged in the
laudable work of collecting and preserving historical data concerning
the early history of Freemasonry in California, presented a report full
of interest to the Craftsmen of all Jurisdictions. When the research
work is completed, which it is expected will be within the coming
year, its publication will follow.
The Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence presented
his usual highly interesting report in topical form which may well be
termed encyclopedic in its range of subjects of interest to Freemasons.

Nova Scotia:
A portrait of John Stewart Ross, the sixty-fourth Grand Master
of Masons in California, and a very interesting biography of whom
is given, makes a fitting introduction to this year's Proceedings.
In the "foreword" of his eleventh report as Chairman of the
Correspondence Committee, Brother Jesse M. Whited, in very interesting and most instructive manner, · deals with many matters of
general Masonic interest. But while we agree with many things this
distinguished Brother said, and said so well, we have our doubts
whether he hit the crux of the trouble, but perhaps to a certain extent
he did. Again, Brother Whited naturally refers to the financial situation and very truly says, "You cannot run Masonry on emotion,''
and we guess he is right, but what is the use of opining, for there
are brighter and better times ahead. At least we think so in God's
country, the fair Dominion of Canada.
At the close of the "foreword" we were sorry to learn that the
proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia, with some others,
were received too late to be included in the main body of the report,
but this did not prevent same being referred to under the heading
of "Bouquets and Brickbats." As has been the custom for some years
past, the topical system of reviewing is used and, while no doubt it
has its advantages, we are free to admit we like the old style better,
but "you pays your money and you takes your choice." Howeve~,
the work is well done and displays much care and thought in preparation, just such a treatise as one would naturally expect from the
facile pen of such a. well informed Masonic student as Brother Whited.

Quebec:
The Grand Master makes several useful suggestions as to the
best utilization of Masonic Charity Funds with all of which we
cordially agree.
In concluding a most Interesting and instructive add~e~s the
Grand Master expresses his belief that the general cond1t1on of
Masonry within the Jurisdiction is better than it has ever been at
least in recent years.
Brother Leslie P. Learned as Grand Orator delivered a most
inspiring and. forceful address upon the inner and. rea!, m~aning ?f
Masonry and its teaching; Brother Learned called 1t a plam talk. m
blunt language about Masonic obligations." We feel better for havmg
read it.
South Australia:
In the Report on Correspondence, various subjects are dealt
with and comments by other Grand Lodges published.
A valuable book of "interesting reading" is published with the
titles of the Orations or Reports in which the subjects are dealt with,
and the Jurisdictions which gave them birth. They are certified to
be entertaining, worthy of examination and valuable for reference.
South Australia is not mentioned under any heading, but the
many excerpts showing the activities of other Grand Lodges during
the past year are worthy of perusal.

110

REPORT ON CORRJ!:SPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Victoria:
These proceedings are unusually concise and modest in get-up.
~he life of an American Grand Master may be short, but it is
certainly strenuous.
From the fact that there is a "Committee on Clandestine Masonry," it would appear that the soil of California is fertile in other
things than fruit.
Undue persuasion was exercised to cause Brethren to join, and
even the Chapter was not innocent." He denounced an order called
the .Sciots, of whom, happily, we know nothing-not even how to
pronounce it.
Wisconsin:
We have the usual topical report on Correspor{dence by Brother
Jesse -M. Whited. Liberal quotations are made from the Proceedings
of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin'. One feature of his report is, what
he terms "Bouquets and Brickbats," which shows that while topical
reports are not in favor, Brother Whited gets credit for making the
most of the method employed. Of course, a brickbat might be wrapped
up in a bouquet and the wrappings so great as to disguise the heart of
the missile. Like other Reviewers we dislike the topical form of a
review, but admire the skill and ingenuity displayed by Brother
Whited in carrying out the plan.
.
To our way of thinking it lacks in the essential feature of a Review, in that it does not present a picture . of what is being done in
each Grand Jurisdiction. It makes good reading, however.

"NEWS FLASHES"
One of the objecti~ns to the topical" form of review used by this
Committee on Correspondence is that it does not furnish a statement as to what is taking place in other Jurisdictions. Every Chairman writes for home consumption and we are no exception to the
rule. We believe that the Masons of California are more interested
in the general trend of Masonic thought than in the purely detail
work or statistics of any other Jurisdiction.
Under this heading we have gathered some of the outstanding
things occurring in other places. We believe they will be entertaining
as well as instructive and supply the want of details lacking in our
form of report.

111

Alberta:
· With reference to our relationship to other jurisdictions, there
is every evidence of a growing desire to draw more closely the
bonds of Masonic friendship . . . . I would like to see the day when
some association of Past Grand Masters might be formed, first
within each jurisdiction and these in turn united in a federal body
of consultative capacity.. .. As I see the things of life today we
are a lamen tably disunited organization without any collective inftuence whatsoever... . What an effect -we might have on the physical
economy of the world if our Freemasonry definitely established its
thought towards directing the minds of peoples to peace and away
from war!
Connecticut:
Each Grotto of Veiled Prophets in the State furnished a room
at the Home, and the State Association of Grotto has pledged $250.00
per. year to the Endowment Fund.
Costa Rica:
A new Lodge has been constituted in the City of Alajuela, under
the name and number " Prospero Fernandez No. 12," so named in
honor of the President of Costa Rica who expelled the Jesuits and
other similar Orders from the country many years ago.
Czecho-Slovakia:
Eleven Lodges, 547 members; net gain, 65.
The comparatively small number of Brethren is due to extreme
care exercised in the admission of candidates. Each application must
be acted upon by the Lodge and then approved by the Grand Council
of Grand Lodge. In Czecho-Slovakia popular prejudice against Masonry has been kept alive for two centuries and is deep-seated in
some quarters, hence the Brethren feel they must constantly be on
their gu~rd and admit o·n.l y men under the tongue of good report,
preferably men known to and respected by the general publicgovernment officials, professors of universities, artists, leaders in
finance and industry, etc. Moreover, each member is required to b.e
present at every communication of his Lodge. Those who are absent
without reasonable excuse are suspended.
England:
There are two Masonic Lodges in London which work without
warrant or charter. They are two of the four Lodges which helped

112

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

-

I

to form the Grand Lodge of England in 1717. I am told th4t English
Lodges limit their membership to 100, and when they e.tceed that
number a new Lodge must be· formed. Brother Robert I. Clegg, in
the Masonic Digest of California, says:
"An American visitor was invited to participate in a picnic
outing of an English Lodge, held on. the upper floor of a quaint
wayside tavern. He was impressed by the jovial spirit and general
enthusiasm with which everyone entered into the impromptu entertainment.
"How many members have you in this Lodge?" he inquired of
the Secretary, who sat at his elbow.
"Thirty-six," the Secretary replied, "and they are all here."
The American gasped. His name was on a Lod.g e roster that
bore several thousand others.
''With a congenial, happy lot of Brethren like this, I should
think you would initiate more members,'' he ventured.
"Well,'' replied the Secretary, "we usually have half a dozen
candidates in prospect. We initiate at least one a year, because the
officers naturally want to show they know how.. But, as to making
many more members--well, what for?"

•• • • •

Arising out · of an enquiry received by the Grand Secretary, the
Grand Lodge Solicitor was asked to express his opinion upon the
liability in law attaching to a Lodge in case of an accident happening to its Tyler, either during his actual attendance at the Lodge
meetings, or whilst journeying to .and fro between his residence and
the place at which the Lodge is held. The Grand Lodge Solicitor
is of opinion that there is no doubt that the Lodge would be liable,
as an employer, in the event of an accident to its Tyler in the circumstances.

• • • • •

The Pro Grand Master moved that £300 a year be paid to Lady
Robbins, widow of R.".W.". Brother Sir Alfred, who for eighteen
years was President of the Board of General Purposes. Lord Ampthill said:
"Just as the Public Service recognizes that it is right that pensions should be provided for widows, so we may well do likewise for
the widow of one who voluntarily gave us services which were invaluable to Grand Lodge and the Craft at large, and enabled us to steer
a safe course at !Dore than one highly critical period." The motion
was carried unanimously.

• • • • •

113

English Freemasonry has, during 1932, voluntarily subscribed
to the three Royal Masonic Institutions the gigantic sum of £280,-

798, whi\:h is just about sufficient to carry on the current work of
these institutions. This sum was collected by 12,270 Stewards operating in over 46 Provinces. The City of London contributed over
£65 per Lodge to the funds, or a total of more than £73,624.
Considering the fact that Great Britain has severely suffered
from the economic depression, the amount raised for English Masonic charity is surprisingly high and means that no doubt a great
deal of personal sacrifice was made on the part of the English
Brethren, in the name of humanity.

Iowa:
The Grand Lodge Library reports that the accessions have
passed the 40,000 mark. Work continues to form the most complete
machinery for Masonic research. Br.other Charles C. Hunt, who has
rendered notable service in this direction, suggests the need of
greater uniformity in the organization of Masonic libraries in this
country, such as is to be found among public libraries. As long as
each Grand Lodge goes its own way, it is next to impossible for
Masonic libraries to help one another.
Ireland:
Lodge 13 is the proud possessor of the oldest Masonic Jewel
extant, dated · 1519, and consists of a small brass square engraved
with the words:
" I will live with love and care.
By the level and on the square."
It was found by a workman when Baals bridge, crossing the
Abbey River, Limerick, was demolished in the last century, and
apparently had been built in among the masonry.

• • • • •

!reland has five Military Lodges.
Kentucky:
The Eastern Star presented to the Grand Master a check of
$500.00 for the Masonic Widows and Orphans Home.

• • • • •

Thieves entered your Grand Master's home and, among other
things stolen, was his handbag, in which he carried the Grand Lodge
Jewel.

• • • • •

Kentucky calls its Correspondence Committee the "Committee
on Doings of Other Grand Lodges."

114

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Louisiana:
· Such things as a Secretary wanting to know whether he could
sign his name with a typewriter, facsimile stamp, or must it be done
by hand, is one of the inquiries. Another wanted to know what to
do after they had elected a F. C. to the M. M. degree without his
examination. Another Lodge was in a quandary when they found
they had raised a man in their Lodge who had never even petitioned
or been elected.

* • • * •
Louisiana has a -unique Lodge. Its activities are essentially to
relieve distress. As might be expected, a large number of cases
were handled last year, but reimbursements were secured for more
than 70 per cent of the amount expended-an evidence of careful
administration.
Manitoba:
How would it be if one of the other Grand Lodges, such as
Ne~ York or Pennsylvania, took the initiative and issued a suggestion that delegates from all Grand Jurisdictions in the world
should meet annually on a certain date for the purpose of fraternizing? The delegates might be volunteers sanctioned by their Grand
Lodges and paying their own expenses. There would surely be some
who could and would do this and even if the assembly at first were
purely of a social nature, it might be that good would result.
Maryland:
Speaking of the Washington Memorial, the Grand Master says:
"It is my humble judgment that this Memorial will either be the
most outstanding monument to Masonry or else the evidence of the
most colossal failure."
Massachusetts:

In 1804 Massachusetts abandoned the system of numbering its
Lodges. This was done on account of the confusion of numbers
that came about by the union in 1792 of a "St. John's Grand Lodge
of Massachusetts," which was founded in 1733 by Brother Henry
Price, and the "Massachusetts Grand Lodge" which was founded in
1769 under Scottish authority.

* ••••

The term "Grand Jurisdiction" has a significance in Massachusetts quite beyond the realm of Masonic nomenclature for the
jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge extends to the Canal Zo~e where
t~ere are .seve.n Lodges; to China where there are eight Lodges;
and to Chile (1n South America) where there are three Lodges.

\

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

115

Mexico (York Grand Lodge):
The Grand Master of Mexico recommended a standard uniform
receipt for Lodge dues. No visitation should be permitted without
presentation of such due card. (Texas' suggestion is that such a
card stating exact size and color with all other details be registered
or copyrighted to avoid any possibility of forgery and imitation.)
Michigan:
The Grand Master reports that one Lodge asked the Grand
Master to apologize because he demanded that it make its returns
in April that had been due in January. The ap_o logy was not made,
however.

• • • • •

At Michigan State College, a group of young men, members of
the Masonic Order, formed an organization known as the Kha Ble
Tu Fraternity. This organization is trying in many ways to be of
service to the Masons attending school at East Lansing. Its membership is confined entirely to members of the Masonic Order.
Mississippi:
Miss Esther Speed, who had for several years served as a clerk
in the office of the Grand Secretary, was injured in an automobile
wreck. In view of her long service she was retired on a salary of
$75.00 per month-to the credit of the Grand Lodge.
M:iasouri:
The Grand Lodge adopted amendments to its Code so as to
permit the payment of the initiation fees on the installment plan.
This is permitted in many Grand Jurisdictions.

• • • • •

"Herewith find check for one thousand dollars, which is the
amount of the salary paid me by the Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M.
of Missouri, for my year's services as Grand Master.
"With the greatest pleasure I present this sum to the Masonic
Home of Missouri, an institution that is dear to my heart.
"I attach but one condition to this gift-it is to be kept in a
separate fund to be designated as 'The First Cottage Fund,' and
applied to the cost of the first cottage built at the expense of the
Home for the use of its children on any part of the land given by
Mrs. Huthmaker to the Masonic Home of Missouri."
Montana:
Grand Chaplain George W. Findlay (Manitoba) delivered an
address and he evidently took for his subject, although he did not

116 '

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

designate it, the greatness and wonders of Manitoba; it reads almost
like a Southern California climate "ad," only it is Manitoba and
not California. The address was delivered in June, doubtless a warm
month, and * * * "Manitoba geographically is the hub, or better
still, the heart of Canada, for the hub is dead but the heart means
life," etc.
Nebraska:
The Gold Jordan Medal, which is awarded to the oldest Nebraska Mason from length of membership, was presented to Brother
0. A. Abbott, a charter member of Ashlar Lodge No. 33 of Grand
Island, who was made a Mason in 1864. The previous wearer was
Brother Owen W. Cotton.

* * * * *

The Grand Master points out that many Lodges have dues
altogether too low. In fifty-eight of them the dues range from $2.75
to $4.50 a year. As a re~ult many have no surplus funds nor anything to supply immediate relief. He holds that no Lodge should
collect less than $5.00 per year. Such sum, after paying Grand Lodge
dues, would leave $3.00 for home use. By a thoughtful proportioning
of the $3.00 the Lodge would have opportunity to establish a neces- .
sary relief fund.

* * * * *

For several years there has been a plas before the Grand Lodge
to purchase the logs that were supposed to be part of Sarpy's trading
post at Bellevue where -the first Masonic Lodge in the territory h~d
its first meeting. A committee that investigated the matter found
that the logs in question were at one time part of quite a different
historic building which, however, had no relation to Masonry.
Newfoundland:
There are two District Grand Lodges in Newfoundland. One
under the English Constitution takes in eleven Lodges, the one of
Scotland takes in seven. The former publishes its Proceedings from
time to time. A review of the latest one was given last year:
Eleven Lodges, 1,272 members; net gain, 19.
New Mexico:
A trip was made to Carlsbad caverns and a meeting was held
some 765 feet underground.
New York:
The Grand Jurisdiction of New York expended $9,200 to conduct its Foreign Correspondence Department and collect this tre-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

117

mendous fund of digested information. Nothing so extensive is done
along this line in any other jurisdiction.

* * * * *

The .Grand Master reports that during this year of economic
depression the Masons of New York have expended the enormous
sum of $1,279,500 for relief; "not only for needy Brethren, but also
for the relief of distress among our fellow citizens, without regard
f~r race or creed."
New Zealand:
A link between England and New Zealand was forged when
New Zealand Lodge was consecrated in London. The membership
of this Lodge is confined to those men who were either born in
New Zealand or had been residents there.
Besides their greetings, Grand Lodge presented the new Lodge
across the seas with a set of gavels.
North Carolina:
The Grand Lodge of North Carolina has issued a charter to a
Lodge to be known as the North Carolina Lodge of Research, No.
666, Monroe, North Carolina. It is claimed to be the first of its kind
in the United States. It will meet twice a month, when original
papers will be read on important subjects of Masonic research.
Ohio:
On November 24, 1824, the Marquis de LaFayette was made
an honorary member of Fredericksburg Lodge, of Fredericksburg,
Va., the same Lodge in which George Washington was made a
member. The following Spring he visited Cincinnati and was present
at the institution of a Lodge bearing his name.
Oregon:
Instead of the former practice of rece1vmg a delegation of the
Grand Chapter 0. E. S. of Oregon, a letter of greeting and felicitations was sent to that organization. This was done after a conference ·
with the Worthy Grand Matron of the 0. E. S., on the understanding
that it had been deemed advisable to discontinue the former practice.
An amendment to the Code was recommended by the Grand
Master to do away with public installations of Lodge officers. Such
installations, he held, should occur only in the presence of the
Brethren and within the confines of a tiled Lodge. The recommendation was adopted.

* * * * *

118

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC1':
REPORT ON . CORRESPONDENCE

The Grand Master remarked that fools and the insane are not
supposed to be over-numerous in Freemasonry. But an avalanche
of chain letters satisfies him that investigating committees had been
derelict in duty.

• • • • •

Oregon has a traveling trowel. It is a facsimile of the 'one
used by Washington to lay the cornerstone of the National Capitol
and it is said this trowel was actually used by the Grand Master of
Oregon in laying the cornerstone of the George Washington Memorial. It is going from Lodge to Lodge in Oregon, ea.c h Lodge
presenting it to the next, with some special ceremony arranged for
the occasion. Some· of these ceremonies have taken the form of
plays, pageants, etc. Invariably much interest has been created and
large attendances have witnessed the presentations.
Pennsylvania:
The action of Valley Lodge No. 499, Pittston, in suspending
E. S. S. for non-payment of dues while mentally defective, thereby
being unable to comprehend a Lodge notice or summons, was declared null and void, and directed that he be restored to his former
standing and membership in said Lodge.

• • • • •

A Brother who does not wish to have his name mentioned left
$50,000.00 to Grand Lodge, the income to be used to help sons and
daughters of Master Masons obtain advanced education. Many
students have been helped from this fund. While the donor made
no conditions as to repayment, the Masonic Homes Committee decided that the allowances should be considered as loans and not as
gifts. The plan has worked well. All the money repaid . has been
placed in a new Higher Educational Fund. To it has · been added
voluntary donations which already aggregate $4,500.00.

• • • • •

Once more we wade through over 100 pages of printed Proceedings to tell the story of the magnificent charitable funds which
involve over $6,000,000, in addition to which there are many property investments used for charitable work which cover another
· $90,000;000. It costs our Brethren of Pennsylvania over $80,000 a
year to run their magnificent Philadelphia Temple. In the libraries
in their several Masonic Homes they have volumes aggregating over
18,000 in number, and at their great Home at Elizabethtown they
have marvelous farms which are simply rolling in live stock.

• • • • •

When the Grand Lodge started work on its Masonic Home it
enacted a law that all candidates for Masonry in the Grand Ju;is-

119

diction of Pennsylvania be required to pay $20.00 into the Masonic
Home Endowment Fund. This amount was added to the fee charged
by the Lodge of which the applicant became a member. This proved
so successful and satisfactory that a few years later the amount was
increased to $40.00 and it certainly has not retarded the growth of
Masonry in Pennsylvania.
Philippine Islands:
"Be it Resolved, That it is hereby declared to be unlawful for
any Lodge or a member to request or permit any candidate for the
degrees to furnish refreshments or to provide the money for obtaining refreshments for the Lodge at any time during the period
that he shall be receiving the degrees."

• • • • •

The outstanding charity of Freemasonry in the Philippines •. the
Masonic Hospital for Crippled Children, is not u~der the d1r~ct
control and supervision of the Grand Lodge, but has 1~s most cord1~l
and enthusiastic support and approval. The corporation, formed m
1924 has for the last five years been operating a Masonic Ward for
Crip~led Children in one of the local hospitals, wit~ splen~id
results. It is slowly accumulating a fund for the construction, eqmpment and operation of a hospital of its own. Its officers are. performing their duties with a disinterestedness, zeal and efficiency
which are admirable.
Porto Rico:
Adelphia Lodge No. 1 openly defied the Grand Master by. refusing to require each and every candidate to kiss the Holy Bible,
as commanded by the ritual and insisted upon by the Grand Master.
To the shame of the Lodge mentioned be it said that they took the
case to the civil courts and it is now pending decision in the Supreme
Court.

• • • • •

The office of Grand Historian was created, and it is made his
duty to report at each Annual Communication. His first real work
is also to prepare a history of Masonry in Porto . Rico. The Brethre.n
are to assist by furnishing any historical Masomc documents for his
perusal.
Queensland :
At the December Quarterly Communication the President of
the Board of General Purposes, inter alia, recommended the discontinuing of the Armistice Day Anniversary·, because of the very
small attendance which it called out.

• • • • •

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

120

121

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

· The _B oard of General Purposes considered the vacancy in the
Grand Secretaryship owing to the death of M.".W.'. Brother C. H.
Harley. The Board also decided that applications for the position
from competent Brethren should be called by advertisement in the
daily press of Brisbane,. Rockhampton, Townsville and Cairns, and
that a recommendation for the appointment of Grand Secretary be
made to ·Grand Lodge at its next Communication in December. The
advertisement to state that nominations, accompanied by the consent to the nominees, can be made also at this Communication.
Saskatchewan:
There were twelve Brethren present who were present at the
·formation of Grand Lodge, twenty-five years previous. They were
especially received and complimented.
Scotland:
It is legal in Scotland for an applicant to apply to two Lodges
at the same time, but steps are being taken towards preventing a
second application being made until his first has been disposed of:
There is no residence qualification necessary.

Tennessee:
h'
0 motion it was voted that there be paid for attendance at t is
Annua~ Comm~nication of the Grand Lodge, $7.00 per day and seven
cents per mile one-way.

• ••••

A Lodge failing for two successive. co~m~nications to be repre=
sented in Grand Lodge automatically forfeits its charter under Ten
nessee regulations.
Texas:
receive
Arrangements were made with Library. of Co~gress to
k on Masonry which is published. Ordered a
one car d f or each boo
· · L'b
f
complete set of approximately fifteen hundred entr.1es m I rary o
Congress cards to have as a depository on Masonic works.
Victoria:
.
B h
We notice the following statement : "The followmg . re.t ren
have been excluded by the Supreme Grand Chapter of ~1ctor1a :~r
non-payment of dues, and are automatically excluded rom ~ e1~
respective Craft Lodges under the provisions of Rule 184 of the oo
of Constitutions."

South Carolina:
During the year our South Carolina Brethren saw the completion of their cherished project-a building erected at the State Park
Sanitarium for women afflicted with tuberculosis. It is described as
a thoroughly modern structure with ~ beds for patients. The building was turned over to the State Board of Health and named by that
body, "Du Rant Hall," in memory of Past Grand Master Charlton
Du Rant, chairman of the committee that raised the funds.

•• • • •

In order to prevent being "called down" for putting 1787 at the
heading and then stating that it was the 194th Annual, I will explain,
for the benefit of the Nevada Brethren, that a Provincial Grand
Lodge was formed in South Carolina by the Grand Master of England on St. John's Day, 1737, and Lodges were put to work under it.
But not until 1787 did those Lodges form the independent Grand
Lodge of Ancient Freemasons of South Carolina.

•••••

They elect the Grand Chaplain in South Carolina. We reckon
that South Carolina is the only Grand Lodge that does it that way.
·Tasmania:
The Grand Secretary voluntarily reduced his salary allowance,
as from 1st July last, by £50 per annum, in view of the financial
depression existing, and probable decrease in Grand Lodge revenue.

• • • • •

Last month saw the passing of Dame Nellie Melba, a wonderful
· n such pleasure to
.
h h
and talented great Australian, w o as give
.
.
thousands of listeners in Australia and many musical centers m
E
e She had great sympathy for Freemasonry and had expressed
h:rr~~t~ntion to help forward our hospital movement, fo~ ~le; la~~
father, David Mitchell, was a Freemason and was the UI er
1885 of our Masonic Hall property.
Virginia:
d
Grand Secretary Clift is working on the stupendous task o~ car f
indexing all the members of all the Lodges sii°~edthe ;o;;i;;:;o;he~r
the Grand Lodge. He reports 29 Lodges comp e e an
present membership and partially for their former.
Wisconsin:
A Speakers' Forum has been developed by the Lodges of Milwaukee County. Its success has been beyond anticipation. Its purpose
is to encourage joint meetings of Lodges, to develop speakers a.n:
to inspire a greater zeal for Freemasonry. The Forum was .carr1e
..
ittee of Past Grand Masters under the Committee of
on .,y a comm
.
L d
Research. Speakers' contests were held m every o ge.

•••••

122

123

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Joseph M. Lowndes, Grand Secretary and Chairman of Correspondence, has introduced an interesting feature in his report. The
first paragraph of each review is devoted to such matters as the
derivation of the name of the State whose boundaries define the limits
of the Jurisdiction, the motto, State flower, nickname, area, population and Masonic population and rank-information which must have
taken time to gather.

I th t
r Clement XII condemned
enter societies of Freemasons. n a yea
b
d b oath
our organization on the ground that its members were oun
yh
t to disclose its practices, and since that time many popes ave
no
h
t d The Catholic objections to Freemasonry are
taken t e same s an ·
. D' ·
" pub ·
1
d
. el stated in "The New Catholic ictionary
c.lear Y .an 19~~nc~hTch says: "Masonic Bodies are really sec~arian
~~~~:s l~aving ~heir fo~mulas of belief about God, t.he ~oul, conscience,
t
~d have their own secret as well as pubhc ritual, so that a
e c., a
.
b
t them any more than he may
Catholic may not consistent1y e1ong o .
,,
·
be a member of any other church than his own.

• • • • •

The Grand Secretary answers an inquirer asking where the nine
classes of emblems can be found by saying they are mentioned in the
Bible as follows :
The Pot of Incense, see Matthew 5 :8.
The Bee Hive, John 9:4:
Sword Pointing to a Naked Heart, Luke 2:35.
That All-Seeing Eye, Psalm 11 :4.
The Anchor and Ark, Heb. 6:19.
The 47th Problem of Euclid, Proverbs 19 :8.
The Hour Glass, St. John 5:25.
The Scythe, Isaiah 38:10.
Miscellaneous:
Many Masonic Lodges are named after saints, those most commonly used being St. John and St. Andrew. In the United States,
fourteen Lodges have names derived from St. John, fifty-six from
St. Andrew, and eighty-nine from other saints .

• • • • •

The custom of Masons computing their time by adding 4,000 to
the current calendar year goes back to the first Book of Constitutions,
prepared by Dr. James Anderson, and published in London in 1723.
The title page of the volume carried the date: "In the year of Masonry, 5723: Anno Domini, 1723." Anderson himself explained this
in the second edition of the book in 1738 by saying that the world
was 4,000 years old at the birth of Christ, and as Freemasonry really
begun when God said, "Let there be Light," the year of Masonry
should be computed by adding 4,000 to the current date, therefore a
Masonic date when so written stands for "the year of Light," which
in Latin is "Anno Lucia"-hence we have the initials "A. L." preceding the figures.

• ••••

Many times we are asked why Masons ban Catholics from becoming members of their organizations. Catholics are not prohibited
from becoming Masons by any tenets of our Order, and some Catholics do become Masons, but since 1738 Catholics have been strictly
forbidden by their church, under penalty . of ex-communication, to

•••••
The use of the terms "subordinate" . and •:constituent" Lodge
results in a difference of opinion. Among Maso~1c students th~ :~;~
constituent is quite generally used, bu~ the offi~1al language o
.Y
Grand Lodges use subordinate, and nme constituent.

• ••••

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

124

.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

APPENDIX

126

James W. Anderson, Pacific No. 136, 1885-1886, 1888-1889, 1893.
· 5 years.
Grand Lecturer, 1889. State Snperintendent of Public Instruction,
1890. Author Anderson's Digest, etc., of California. Grand Lodge
laws.

CHAIRMEN OF THE COMMITTEES ON
CORRESPONDENCE
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
John H. Gihon, California No. 1, 1850.
Grand Secretary 1850, Druggist, Author of Annals of San Francisco. Opened a book store in the Masonic Temple. Died during
the War in Louisiana.
Levi Stowell, California No. 1, 1851-1855. 5 years.
Carpenter. First Master of California No. 1, Grand Secretary
1851-1855.

William A. Robertson, King Solomon No. 260, 1890.
Teacher, Lincoln Grammar School, San Francisco.
James M. Ellis, Fidelity No. 120, 1891.
William H. Edwards, Pacific No. 136, 1892.
School teacher. Grand Lecturer, 1896-1906.
William A. Davies, San Joaquin No. 19, 1894-1906. 13 years.
.
County Clerk, San Francisco~ Grand Master, 1867. Promment
in Knights Templar.
.
.
James B. Stevens, Yount No. 12, 1907.
Grand Master 1894. United States Customs Service.

Alex G. Abell, California No. 1, 1856-1860. 5 years.
Grand Secretary 1856-1889. 34 years. ·

Alonzo J. Munroe, Humboldt No. 79, 1908.
Grand Master 1911. Attorney.

James L. English, Sacramento No. 40, 1861.
First Master of Lodge. Attorney, State Treasurer 1856.

Edward H. Hart, Live Oak No. 61, 19()C)-1917. 9 years.
Grand Master 1906. General Agent Insurance Company.

William C. Belcher, Corinthian No. 69. 1862.
Grand Master 1862-1864.

John D. Murphey, Alta No. 333, 1918.
Grand Master 1913. Superior Judge Alameda County.

Gilbert B. Clairborne, San Joaquin No. 19. 1863-1864. 2 years.
Grand Master 1865-1866.

John Franklin West, Pasadena No. 272, 1922.
Teacher.

Henry H. Rhees, Marysville No. 9, 1865-1866. 2 years.

James Lewis Matthew!, C<;>vina No. 334, 1925.
Newspaper Editor.

Lawrence C. Owens, Golden Gate No. 30, 1867.
Served for a number of years as Assistant· Grand Secretary.
William H. Hill, Marin No. 191, 1868-1873, 1876-1882, 1884, 1887.
15 years.
·
Printed a paper in Albany, N. Y. Episcopal minister. Chaplain
at San Quentin Prison, County Superintendent of Schools at
Sacramento. As Grand Chaplain delivered eulogy over Thomas
Starr King.
William H. January, San Jose No. 10, 1874-1875. 2 years.
Printer . in 1849, State Treasurer 1883-1884. Tax Collector for a
number of years of Santa Clara County.
Thomas H. B. Anderson, Los Palmas No. 366. 1883.
Minister at Fresno. Served as Grand Chaplain.

Jesse M. Whited, California No. 1, 1919-1921, 1923-1924, 1926-1932.
12 yearlf.
Insurance Manager.

• • • • • •

Twenty-three have held the position.
Three Grand Secretaries served on this Commit tee.
Seven Past Grand Masters.
Two Grand Lecturers.
William H. Hill was appointed for 1888, but on account of eye
trouble James W . Anderson wrote the report.
James B. Stevens made no report while .chairman in 1907..
Term of Service-Hills, 15 years ; Davies, 13 years; Whited, 12
years; Hart, 9 years; Stowell, Abell and Anderson, 5 years each.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

126

127

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENC'E

ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS-MONTH OF MEETING

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY

January-Minnesota, Tennessee, Utah, Philippine Islands.

The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are
· generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly
speaking, they should be termed the American Rite and the Scottish
Rite, for the one commonly called York is peculiar in its organized
proceedings only to the United States.

February-Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.

The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.

April-Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Australia,
Mexico (York), Porto Rico.

The symbolic degrees are conferred in a lodge and are the
Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They
are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is
by symbols.
·

May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York,
Rhode Island, New Zealand, Wes tern Australia.

The Capitular degrees are conferred in a Chapter and are the
Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent Master and the
Royal Arch. The supplemental and honorary degree of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of ·High Priests upon those who have
been regularly elected to preside over a Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons. They are called Capitular because they are conferred in a
Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning "done in a Chapter."
The ·C ryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the
Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called "Cryptic" because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the
temple at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the
33rd, inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States
(which includes all territory south of the Ohio River and west of
the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and
the degrees conferred by them, are: Lodge of Perfection, 4• to 14°,
inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, ts• to 1S0 ; Council of Kadosh, 19°
to 30° Consistory, 31° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.
In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes all States north of
the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River) the degrees conferred are: Lodge of Perfection, 4• to 14°, inclusive; Council Princes
of Jerusalem, ts• and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and 1S Consis·
tory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33•.
0

;

March-Arizona, Cuba, New Mexko, South Carolina.

· June--Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, Nort~ _Dakota, O~egon, ~outh
Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Alberta, British Columbia, Mamtoba,
Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan, Queensland.
July-Canada, New South Wales.
August-Montana, Wyoming, New Brunswick.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri.
October-California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio,
West Virginia.
November-Arkansas, Maryland, Wisconsin.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.

129

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

AMERICAN GRAND BODIES

MASONIC CALENDAR

General Grand Chaptec, Royal Arch Masons-John W . Nelson, ·
General Grand High Priest, Concordia, Kansas; Chas. A. Conover,
General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Mich.; 42nd Triennial, Washington, D. C., October 11, 1933,

Ancient Craft Masons-Commence their era with the creation of
the world calling it Anno Lucis (A. L .), "in the year of light."
Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 4000---5923.

128

Grand Chapter of California~Carl Barnard, Grand High Priest,
Santa Rosa; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple,
San Francisco, 79th Annual Convocation, Riverside, April 18, 19,
1933.
General Gran4 Council, Royal and Select Masten-Walter L.
Stockwell, General Grand Master, Fargo, N. D.; 0 . Frank Hart,
General Grand Recorder, Columbia, S. C., 18th Triennial Assembly,
Washington, D. C., October 9, 1933.

Scottish Rite-Same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
Add 3760 to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 3760-5683. After
September add another year.
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the ye~r the second .~.emple was
commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno Inve.ntioms. (A. Inv.), m the year
of discovery."
Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and 530-2453.

Grand Council of California-Edward B. Spencer, Grand Master,
Los Angeles; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder; Masonic Temple,
San Francisco. 73r<l Annual Assembly, Riverside, April 17, 1933.

Royal ·and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the
Temple of Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.) ,
"in the year of the deposit."
Add 1000 to the common time. Thus: 1923 and 1000---2923.

Grand Encampment of Knights Templar (U. S. A.)-Harry C.
Walker, Grand Master, Binghamton, N. Y.; Adrian Hamersly, Grand
Recorder, Indianapolis, Ind. 39th Triennial Conclave, San Francisco,
June 7-13, 1934.

Knights Templar-Commence their era with the organization
of their order. Anno Or<linis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
From the Christian era take 1118. Thus: 1118 from 1923-805.

Grand Commandery of California-Arthur S. Crites, Grand
Commander, Bakersfield; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. 75th Conclave, Riverside, April 20, 21,
1933.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. (Southern Jurlsdiction)-John
H . Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander; H. W. Witcover,
33°, Secretary General, House of the Temple, Washington, D. C.
Meets biennially third Monday in October, Washington, D. C.,
William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, Sovereign Grand Inspector General, District of California.
(Northern Jurisdi<:tion)-Leon M. Abbott, 33°, Sovereign Grand
Commander; Charles H. Spilman, 33°, Secretary General, 299 Broadway, New York. Meets annually the third Tuesday in September,
Boston, Mass.

Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year of the b.le~sin~
of Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Bened1ct1oms
(A. B.), "in the year of the blessing."
To the Christian era add 1913, the year of blessing. Thus: 1923
and 1913-3836.

130

131

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

CALIFORNIA STATISTICS

GRAND LODGES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED

(As usual the most complete set of statistics compiled are to be found in the
Report of J. Edward Allen, Correspondent for North Carolina. We have space only
for those applicable to California.)
Average Average Calif.
in U.S. in Calif. Ranks
Number of Master Masons per million of population ...... 26,175
24,353
26
197
Number of Master Masons per Lodge.•.••·-·-··············-····
245
13
Number of Master Masons per hundred square miles....
91
91
29
Percentage of net gain .•.·-····· -- -··
1.06
10
.25
Percentage of Raisings to MembershiP- ···-····-·- ···- ······- -2.66
12
3. 13
N umber of Suspensions and Expulsions per hundred ......
2.34
1.86
28
13.32
Number of Deaths per thousand ......•· -·- -··- ··-·····-12.40
38
Percentage of Affiliations to Demission& ....._ ......••.•.. ______
93.41
106.01
17
Percentage of Raisings to Suspensions...·-··-··-······--·- - 114.41
168.81
16
Percentage of Master Masons that are R. A:. Masons....
26.77
44
18.60
Percentage of Master Masons that are R. & S. Masons
9.54
6. 72
28
Percentage of Master Masons that are Knights Templar
12.83
10.31
37
Percentage of Master Masons that are 14 ° Masons_____ _ 18.02
24.80
12
Percentage of Master Masons that are 32° Masons ........
16.40
20.44
12
Percentage of R. A. Masons that are R. & S. Masons ..
35.66
36.12
17
Percentage of R . A. Masons that are Knights Templar
47.92
55.44
20
Percentage of 14° Masons that are 32° Masons.............•
90.96
83.29
38
Percentage of 14° Masons that are 18° Mason•·-··-········
93.66
86.90
42
Percentage of Knights Templar that are 32° Masons ......
78.21
50.48
42

Consolidated Statistics from Latest Information Available
United States
Number
Members
Symbolic Lodges ········-························16,3723,224,695Cbapters (R. A. M.) ............................ 3,879874,398Councils (R. & S. M.) ..................... _ 1,5 26
311,417Commanderies (K. T.) .... _.................... 1,692416,110Lodges (A. & A. S. R.)...................... 276+
588,511Chapters (A. & A. S. R.).................... 240+
551,366Consistories (A. & A. S. R.).............. 192+
535,747Knights Commander Court of Honor 3,621
Thirty-Third Degree ....................•......... 3,949

+ Denotes gain in membersh ip, and -

a loss.

California
Number Members
580
140,641130
25,563339,02565
14,07115+
35 ,327+
is+
30 ,843+
14+
29,120+
356
208

JESSE M. WHITED,
Chairman Committee on Correspondence, 1932

Alabama ............................................ .
Arizona ............................................. .
Arkansas ............................................
California..........................................
Colorado .............................................
Connecticut ........................................
Delaware ........................................... .
District of Columbia .•.....................
Florida ..... ··-·-··································

rde.%r.~:::::::::::::::::::::::.·_·:.-.-.-.-:::::::::::::::::

Illinois ............................................... .
Indiana ............................................. .
Iowa ................................................... .
Kansas ...........•...................................

~~~[~~~~:::::::::::::::::::·.::::·.-.:::·.:·.·..··_·.-.·.:·.·_-_·

Maine .................................................
Maryland ...........................................
Massachusetts .................................. .
Michigan. .......................................... .

~\~~~~'.::::::::::::::_:_:::::::::::::::::::::::_:_::

Montana ........................................... .
Nebraska............................................
Nevada .............................................. .
New Hampshire ............................... .

~=: {f~~~~o-::::::::::::::::.-.-.·_-_-_-.-_-_-_-_-_-_-.-.-.-:::::.-.
New York.....•.·-··-······························
North Carolina ..................................
Nor th Dakota....................................
Ohio ................................................... .
Oklahoma .......................................... .

~i~~~~~;~~E:::::::: : : : : : ·:·:·:·:·:·:-: ·: : : ·:

South Carolina ................................. .
South Dakota ....................................
Tennessee .....- .... ._ ............... ............... .
Texas............·-···································
Utah ..............•.....................................

~1;:;~r::.-:::.-.-.~.-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.

~f
:t~!ri'.~~~::::::::::::::::::::::_: .:-:-:-:-:-:-: -: :
Wyoming ..........•.......................•.........

When
Organized
June 14, 1821
Mar. 25, 1882
Nov. 21 , 1838
April 18, 1850
Aug. 2, 1800
uly
8, 1789
une 6, 1800
ec. 11, 1810
July 5, 1830
bee. 16, 1786
Dec. 16, 1867
April 6, 1840
n. 12, 1818
an. 8; 1844
ar. 17, 1850
Oct. 16, 1800
July 12, 1812
uly
1, 1820
uly 31, 1783
uly 30, 1733
Sept. 14, 1844
Feb. 24, 1853
July 27, 1818
April 21, 1821
Jan. 24, 1866
Sept. 23, 1857
an. 16, 1865
uly 18, 1789
ec. 18, 1786
A'ug. 6, 1877
Sept. 5, 1781
Jan. 14, 1771
June 12, 1889
Jan.
7, 1808
Nov. 10, 1892
Aug. 16, 1851
Feb. 2, 1764
June 25, 1791
Mar. 24, 1787
July 21, 1875
Oct. 14, 1813
Dec. 20, 1837
Jan. 16, 1872
Oct. 14, 1794
May 6, 1777
Dec. 9, 1858
May 11, 1865
Dec. 18, 1843
Dec. 15, 1874

~

ll
~

~

Annual
Communication
December
March
November
October
September
February
October
December
April
October
September
October
May
June
February
October
February
May ·
November
December
May
January
February
September
August
June
June
May
A ril
filrch ,
May
April
June
October
February
June
becetnber
May
March
une

~
~

anuary
ecember

anuary

une
ebruary
June
October
June
August

Proceedings
Reviewed
1931
1932
1931

iii3i

1932
1931
1931
1932
1931
1931
1931
1932
1931-32
1932
1931
1932
1932
1931

19ii:J2
· 1932
1932
1931
1931
1932
1932
1932
1932

1932
19·32
1931
1931
1932
193"1
1931
1931
1932
1931
1932
1931
1932
1931-32
1931-32
1931
1931
1932
1931

132

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

133

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL APPENDIX
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
When
Annual
Proceedings
Organized
Communication
Reviewed
Alberta ............................................... Oi:t. 12, 1905
1931
June
British Columbia .............................. Feb. 22, 1832
1931
June
Canada ............................................... Oct. 10, 1855
1931
July
Manitoba ........................................... . May 12, 1875
1932
June
New Brunswick............................... .. Oct. 1O, 1867
August
Nov a Scotia....................................... Jan. 21, 1866
1932
June
Prince Edward Island ..................... . June 24, 1875
1931
June
Oct. 20, 1869
February
1932
~~.'ic~ii;:;;~-;;_··:::.-.-.~:.-.-.-.·.:·.-.-_-.-_-_-_._._._._._-_-_-_:-.-.-.-. Aug.
9, 1906
1932
June
New South Wales ............................ .. Dec. 3, 1877
July
Naw Zealand ..................................... April JO, 1890
May
1931
April 25, 19CM
1931
June
.
~::;:~~~t~~i;·~-.-.-.:-:.::::::::::::::::::::::::::: April 16, 1884
April
1932
June 26, 1890 June & December
1931
'{,i~~:i1.~:::.-.-.-.-.-:.-.:·:_·_-_-_-_-_._._:·.-.:·.-.-:.:::::·_·.:::::::: April 16, 1884
uarterly
1931
West Australia ..................................
1899
uarterly
1931
2
Quarterly
1717
1932
fr~f!~'d~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::· i~~ll :: 1731
December
1932
1736
February
1932
1832
June
France (Grand Orient)................... Dec. 24, 1772
January
France (Grand Lodge) .....................
1803
Cuba.................................................... Dec. 5, 1859
March
Mexico (York) ..................................
1861
April
1931
Philipl'ine Islands._ ......................... Dec. 19, 1912
January
1932
Porto Rico.......................................... Oct. 8, 1885
April

·

~~!~~~:::::::·:.-.·:.-:.:·.-.-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::. ~~: ~~:

Panama..............................................

•··•n·• ·· ····• • •... . .•

8

Prepared by Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary Emeritus and Grand
Recorder Emeritus, Kan•as Correspondent. February, 1932.
Grand
Lodge
Alabama .................................................

!~~~ :s~s -::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::::::
0

California ..............................................
Colorado ................. ~ .............................

Connecticut ·······-·· .. ····-····..................... .

Delaware ·-······················-···-········-··•
District of Columbia ..............................
Florida ·····-·-·-·········-··········-·-··········
Georgia ..................................................
Idaho ......................................................
Illinois ....................................................
Indiana ..................................................
Iowa ........................................................
Kansas ··········-···-·-····...............................

t~~l~~~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Maine ............................................................ .

48,354
6,685
35,474
142,422
33,962
46,351
6,154
23,161
29,892
61,859
10,396
289,359
129,380
85,395
78,848
60,760
31,174
43,885
34,215
124,705

Maryland ............................................_..
Massachusetts ........................................
Massachusetts and Rhode Island ........
Michigan ···---·············--··...................... 150,107
Minnesota .....................................,. ........... . 61,378
33,804
~l::~s~~f P~... :::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 111,172
Montana .................. - ............................ 20,915
Nebraska ............................................... . 42,027
Nevada ................................................... .
3,105
New Hampshire ............ ,.......................
N cw Jersey ............................................ 97,080
7,063
New Mexico .......................... _ .............. .
New York ............................................. . 345,986
North Carolina ...................................... 39,466
North Dakota ....................................... 15,333
Ohio ........................................................ 209,707
Oklahoma ................................................ 66,506
Oregon ........... .,....................................... . 30,623
Pennsylvania ······-···········-········ .. ··-·····-·· 214,592
Rhode Island .......................................... 19,060
South Carolina ...................................... 28,092
South Dakota ........................................ 19,843
Tennessee .................................................. . 49,655
Texas •·o·•···········-··································· 137,740
5,196
Utah ........................................................
Vermont .................... - ....................... _. __
19,709
Virginia .................................................. . 48,577
49,135
34,534
62,588
Wyoming ................................................
8,477

~f:r~~,~~i~'.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Grand
Chapter
11,410
1,400
7,384
26,501
7,820
16,463
1,860
6,041
6,862
13,984
2,591
86,965
31,564
21,196
18,221
16,235
7,754
17,057
9,602
40,110

Grand
Council

Grand
Comd'y

3,468
563
1,236
9,574
2,285
10,539
227
1,399
1,676
5,107

7,305
766
2,582
14,906
4,566
6,541

44,629
16,759
6,683
30,207
4,483
8,118
670
5,393
19,651
1,968
69,087
6,734
3,675
78,558
11,787
6,761
60,759
10,130
4,526
5,441
10,020
41,210 .
1,266
5,811
17,314
9,005
11,829
26,284
2,213

13,820
2,981
3,770
9,531
885
3,227
148
3,322
3,737

22,494
19,051
6,301
5,269
4,240
1,464
8,067
4,827
14,504

i2;s7o

1,894
838
44,418
4,320
2,033
14,754
5,499
3,160
1,104
2,405
35,955
477
1,831
2,855

·9;787

3,129
5,029
6,885
1,534
34,9H
12,699
11,073
13,427
7,808
2,943
9,261
4,731

is;o66
15,302

7,453 •
3,667
15,305
2,484
4,346
303
3,128
7,592
1,370
36,444
4,986
2,198
33,236
6,916
3,651
42,189
3,236
3,421
4,610
17,641
927
3,461
7,212
4,948
6,764
11,388
1,574

Totals .............................................. 3,253,901
General Grand Chapter
Subordinates ···········-····•···········•
General Grand Council
Subordinates ..............................
Grand Encampment
Subordinates ..............................

871,991

United States Totals .................... 3,253,901
Foreign Totals .............................. 1,120,701

874,398
167,621

309,161
2,256

433,158
16,589

1,042,019

311,417

449,747

Grand Totals ..............•..

4,374,602

4 .............

307,615

430,937

2,407
1,546
2,221

134

FOREIGN GRAND BODIES
Grand
Lodge

Grand
Chapter

Alberta .......••••........•.........................•••...• 14,226
British Columbia ····-···························· 15,577
Canada .................................................••• 116,998
Canada (Eastern Jurisdiction) ..........
Canada (Western Jurisdiction) ..........
Chile ........................................•...............
5,800
908
Colombia ·········································-···343
13,178
550
Ecuador ..........•.••...:....•....·-···········-·····England ···················-····-················-····· 310,000
England and W ales ·····-···················-··
606
Guatemala ···········································-·
Honduras ............•..................................•
225
Ireland ···········································-······· 50,000
Manitoba ............•................................... 12,477
937
Mexico. (York Grand Lodge) ·····-·····
New Brunswick ..•.•........................•.....•
6,058
New· South W 'a les .........•••.•.............•.•...• 71 ,095
New Zealand •..............•......••..•..•.......... 26,954
Nova Scotia ••.................•....................••
9,973
Panama ....................•....•..•.•..........•.....•..
394
630
Peru ------····---········----~---------·----------··········
Philippine Islands ...........................•....
6,452
Prince Ed ward Island .........................•
1,248
3,880
Puerto Rico ··- ········'···························"··
16,114
21,951
141
Salvador, C. A. ··············-·-·····--······
Saskatchewan ........................................ 14,941
Scotland ................................................ 260,000
South Australia ................•...........•......• 15,341
3,988
'{,[~~:i~ia ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 50,725
Western Australia •...•..•.....•.........•••.•..••
8,991

2,837
2,847
25,904

Grand
Council

Grand
Comd'y
12,481

699
597

g~b~a ~-~~-~.'..:.:..~:..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

8~~~~1a~d····::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

*82,000
4,108

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS FOR THE UNITED STATES
AND CANADA
The figures below represent the annual compilation of Masonic
membership statistics, as derived from figures submitted by the
various Grand Secretaries, or taken from the official publications of
Grand Lodges. It will be noted also that of the fifty Grand Jurisdictions of the United States, ten gained in membership, while forty
lost. In the Canadian Grand Jurisdictions but two gained in membership while seven Grand Jurisdictions lost membership during the
past year. These figures are furnished through the courtesy of the
Iowa Masonic Library.

*25,000
1,812

Comparative Statistics of Grand Lodges in United States

*1,597
3,725
4,188
2,473

Year-

Lodges

Member s

Increase or
Decrease•

3,837
3,000

1927
1928
1929
1930
1931
1932

16,465
16,536
16,529
16,579
16,416
16,372

3,226,774
3,273,495
3,303,629
3,304,305
3,287,153
3,224,695

60,597
46,721
30,134
.
676
17,152*
62,458*

2,663

t
4,834
904

Totals .......................•...............•••....1,120,701
United States Totals .........••.••..._.3,253,901

167,621
874,398

2,256
309,161

16,589
433,180

Grand Totals •••.•.......•.•.•..•........•...4,374,602

1,042,019

311,417

449,769

•Approximate membership.
tNo record of membership kept.

135

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

136

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

UNITED STATES 1931-1932

CANADA

States

Date

Alabama ..................................... Sept.

5, 1931

~1~~~i~-::::-:-:-:-:-::-:::-:::::::::::-:.:::-:-:-:-:-:-::g11~
.J l: lH l
3

Colorado.................................... une 30, 1931
Connecticut.. .............................. Dec. 31, 1931
Delaware .................................... June 24, 1931
District of Columbia ...............Sept. 30, 1931

lil!=IJ!l Iii

1111

Massachusetts ........................... Aug. 31, 1931

~l~~i:.:;,~~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::g~: U:

m:

~ ~~~<l~1'.:'.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~·~~: :~:

m~

M1ss1ssq>pt.. ............................... Aug, 31, 1931
Missour1.. ......................,..............Sept. 30, 1931
Montana ..................................... June 30, 1931
New Hampshire ......................... Apr.
New Jersey................................. Dec.
New Mexica.. .............................. Dec.
New Yorkt ................................. Dec.
North Carolina ...........................June
North Dakota .............................bec.

· 8;1~~~~::::::::::::-:-:-:-:-:-_:::::-:-:-:-:-:-_:_::-_::-:-:-.:J:?:

15, 1931
31, 1931
31, 1931
31, 1931
30, 1931
31, 1931
3

~: m~

Pennsylvania ..............................Dec. 27, 1931
Philippine lslands .................... Nov. 30, 1931
Rhode lsland ............................. .Apr. 30, 1931
South Carolina .......................... .Jan.
1, 1932
South Dakota ............................. June l, 1931

~E~I~~:~~l~~~l~: :;J? !lt !ii

Washington ................................ Dec. 31, 1931
West Virginia ............................ Aug. 31, 1931
Wisconsin ...................................Dec. 31, 1931
Wyoming .................................... July
1, 1931

tExcluded duplication by Dual Membership.

Lodges

Increase or
Membership Decrease•

554
38
511
580
148
128
22
44
244
579
81
1,014
555
556
449
579
265
207
122
330
508
310
368
652
135
292
24
81
276
57
1,028
395
129
618
450
172
568
104
43
284
179
447
974
26
103
350
266
166
312
49

43,663
6,727
33,700
142,422
33,962
45,795
6,123
22,777
27,522
62,426
10,396
289,359
127,086
83,401
78,848
58,467
28,751
43,250
34,165
124,755
145,423
60,352
30,507
111,172
20,688
41,359
3,105
15,323
96,631
7,070
342,189
37,584
14,866
208,559
63,857
30,114
212,768
66,399
19,060
26,246
19,843
47,962
134,552
5,103
19,706
47,583
48,159
34,145
62,298
8,477

4,691*
42
4,720*
360
20•
556•'
31*
384*
2,370*
567
6
4,652*
2,294*
1,994*
2,090*
2,293*
2,427*
634*
so•
50
4,684*
1,026*
3,297*
1,999*
225*
668*
46
142*
417*
s2··
3,797*
1,882*
580*
1,148*
2,649*
509*
1,832*
53•
72*
1,846*
5
1,693*
3,188*
93•
34
l,ooo•
835*
389*
290*
4

16,372

3,224,695

63,572*
1,114

Net Decrease

62,458*

Grand Lodge
Alberta ........................................ Dec.
British Columbia....................... Dec,
Manitoba .................................... Dec.
New Brunswick......................... Dec.
No.va Scotia................................Mar.
Ontario ....................................... Dec.
Prince Edward Isle ................. Apr.
Quebec .........................................Dec.
Saskatchewan .............................Feb.

Date
31, 1931
31, 1931
31, 1931
27, 1930
31, 1932
31, 1931
30, 1931
31, 19 31
29, 1932

137

Increase or
Decrease*

Lodges

Membership

156
116
106
43
82
568
15
93
199

14,226
15,519
12,414
6,035
9,875
116,163
1,248
16,091
14,588

15
58*
68*
22•
98*
837*
6
23*
364*

1,378

206,159

1,470*
21

Net Decrease

1,449*

139

REPORT ON CORRE SPONDENCE

138

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS OF
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
(Gathered from Latest Reports Received .by the Committee on
Correspondence of New York, 1932)
LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS
Number
of
Lodges

Grand Lodges

Member·
shi,

1 Yr's
net
gain

1 Yr's

net
loss

Mexico
York Grand Lodge..............................
12
12
937
Costa Rica..............................................
7
340
Cu ba ....................................:.................
197
13,700
Guatemala ............................................
19
500
Panama ...................................................
370
9
Salvador : Cuscatlan ..........................
4
230
Chile ......................................................
5,000
77
Colombia : Bogota ...............................
5
8,927
Ecuador ................................................
8
603
P eru ......................................................
38
2,000
Venezuela ........ '" ..................................
31
Reliable up-to-date statistics of other
Latin-American cou ntries could not
be obtained. Our best judgment is
that as far as membership is concerned, the
Total for Latin-America is approximately..............................................
Total for North America..................................................................:.......

45,000
3,467,421

Total for all Americaa...............---·-·-···- ····---·-................................

3,5 12,421

21
2

Number
of
Lodges

Membership

~~:~hs~~~tr~ii~···::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
'{:.i~:~iaia ..:::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.·:.::·.:::::::::::

71,095
27,259
22,196
15,341
3,988
52,054
8,991

1,580
305
245
298

West Australia ..........................................

590
299
350
149
44
474
142

Total for Australasia ......................

2,048

200,924

3,85 1

New South Wales ..................................New· Zealand ................_ ............................

1 Yr' s

net

gain

Number of

Drei · W eltkugeln ................................
Eintracht ............................................ ..
Eklektischer Bund ..............................
Prussia ....................... - -····················-··
Grosze Landesloge ............................ ..
Hamburg ............................. .

~~E~:~--('~:;~~:~:::-5~~~~:i;:::::::::::::::::::::::::

1 Yr's
net
loss

48
1,329
94
48

Lodges

Memberabip

f..~r!~:;d ..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: s,~~g
883

340,000*
54,000*
85,ooo•

Total for Great Britain and Ireland............................ 6,902

479,000

Scotland ................................._.............................................._

GerB:uncfe~ket!e ........................................ ..

Greece ........................................................
Holland ......................................................

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND
Grand Lodges

Grand Lodges
~ -(G. L. of Vienna) ..................... .
Bulgaria ......................................................
. .
Czechoslovakia
Lessing zu den Dr~1 Ringen................
National (Nar odm ) ............................
Denmark ....................................................
Finland ........................................................
France (National Grand Lodge) ............

~~~:y cs;;·~,.··::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::

AUSTRALASIA
Grand Lodges

CONTINENT AL EUROPE

~imated. The total recorded membership of England, Scotland and Ireland

includes brethren who belong to more than one Lodge within the Jur!sdiction. The
estimated figures probably are about correct. There has been noticeable change
in recent years.

Spain (Grand Lodge) ..............................
Sweden ........................................................
Switzerland ................................................
T urkey ........................................................
Egypt .......................................................Northern China ..................................,.... .
Syria ................,...........................................

N umber
of
Lodges

Membership

1 Yr's
net
gain

25
11

1,843
455

37
8

24
11
21

1,034
400 (Est.)
7,1 56
311
1,146

3
26

s

31

10
176
10
26
108
177
56
47
40
58
137
22
28
17

so

44
39
21
73
12
7

1,803
22,400
853
3,000
10,568
21,005
4,500
6,461
3,744
4,000 (Est.)
7,738
835
10,050
869
1,800 (Est.)
23,101
S,000
1,800 (E st.)
6,500
917
282

1 Yr's
net

loss

48
28
406
819
292
161
17

52
49

140

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

CHAIRMAN OF COMMITTEES ON FOREIGN
CORRESPONDENCE-OCTOBER 1, 1932
STATE

NAME

141

.KEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ADDRESS

Alabama------------------·····-·-············William R. Clemmons .................... Geneva.

~~~~:~~::::~::::::::.:-::::::::::::.-:::::::::w~~~~:!~::l~~:::::::::~::::::: :_::::_:J~~~:~~~k.

British Columbia ....................... Dr. W. A. DeWolf-Smith ..............New Westminster.

~~~~S i_S~-;~§)~?::g-~=~;~;i,f~~

District of Columbia .............._] ames A. West ............•................... Washington.

GRAND SECRETARIES
Grand Lodirc

Grand Secretary

Postoffice

Date
When Service
Began

Alabama ..................... Guy T. Smith ............ --------------- -Montgomery ................. Nov. 16, 1931
Alberta ..................•.- .. ]. H. W. S. Kemnis ............... Calgary .........................~nc 14, 1928
Arizona .............. - ..•..•. Harry A. Drachman ...............T~cson .......................... uly 27, 1928
Arkansas ...............•._..Fay Hempstead ......................... L1ttlc Rock ................_ ov. 23, 1881
British Columbia ....... Wm. A. _DcWolf-Smith ......... I'.'cw West!"inster.....•.Junc 22, 191J
California ....................] ohn Wh1cher ·····-·····-····--········· San J.'.ranc1sco ............ -Aug. I, 1908
Canada (Ontario) ..... Wm. McGregor Logan ........... Ham1lton ...................... Oct. 9, 1918
Colorado ..................... William W. Cooper..... - .......... Denver.......................... Mar. I, 1921
Connecticut................ Winthrop Buck. ........................ Hartford ....................... Fcb. 7, 1929
Costa Rica ................. George F. Bowden ....................San Jose .................. ____ Nov. 28, 1924
Cuba ............................J ose F. Castellanos ................. Havana......................... Dec. 2, 1926
Delaware ..... -------------·· John F. Robin_son ..................... W 1lmington.................. Oct. 2, 19 l 9
Dist. of Columbia ...... }. Claude Ke1per ..................... Was)jmgton ............... .. June 30, 1924
England ...................... P. Colville Smith..................... London ..._. ..................... Sept..... , 1917
Florida ..................•..... Wilber P. Webster...................Jacksonvtlle .................. Jan. 17, 1896
Georgia ....................... Frank F. Baker....................... Macon ........................... Nov. I, 1916
Guatemala--............- Francisco Meindl.. ................... Gu~temala .................... Dec....., 1926
Idaho ...........................Curtis F . Pike............................Bo1se_............................. Sept. 14, 19U
Illinois ......................... Richard C. Davenport ..- ......... Har.nsburg................... Jan. 2, 1929
Indiana ....................... William H. Swintz .................... Ind1anapohs .............. -.Sept. 13, 1920
Iowa
.. ...
.Charles C. Hunt.. ......................Cedar Rapids ............... i:"n. 21, 1925
1

~=~as~E:::::::::::::::::::::~1~~~ f." ~~~ l~~~:::::::::::::::::::i?~;~~':;::::::::::::::::::::::::."se~". g: g~~
Kentucky .................... Fred W. Hardw1ck..............•.. LoU1sv11le..........,...........~an.

1, 1923

kr~i~s::~.:::::::::::::::::::::~~~v~;.T~~m~~~h:::::::::::::::::::~~~1~n'J~.~-~::::::::::::::.::D~~: 19; ~~~~

New Hampshire .................... - ... Harry M. Cheney........................... Concord.

~~~ ~\~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~ ·---------&
: ~ ~~~~~¥.F~~,J~~F;~:~~:~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~ ~ ~:~: f~~t~que.

North Carolina .................

Edward Allen ............................... Warrenton.

j~~~~~~~~~~C~;~~~?:~~~;~;~-~~:~~~,m.
Philippine Islands ..................... Newton C. Comfort ........................ Manila.

~F.it~:-~ii5a~~:::::::::::::: : :::::::: : ~'.1~'."J!-:t~~~~-~i::::::::::::::::: : : : : : ;~r1E~n~~~y·

~outh Australia.............·-·····- E. E. Robilliard .............................. Adelaide.

, outh Carolina ..........•............••.. George T. Harmon .......................... Columbia.
South Dakota ....·-···········-···---Arthur H . Tufts .............................. Sioux Falls.

~~~~{~~~~~~~~~;]~~~~]~~~-~-~::;~~icy
Western Australia .................... ._T. W. E . Archdeacon .............:.... :::Perth.

~~i~;~;~'.~:~~:::::::: : : ·: : : ·::::::~Jit~ td::-:~:~::::::::::::::: : : : : g~~~~ti:;.g.

Manitoba .................... ] am es A. 0 va•---·--····-·····----···· W mmpeg...................... J une 14, 1900
Maryland .................... George Cook. ............................ Baltimore..................... :Fcb. 1, 1911
Massachusetts ........... Frederick Vf. Hamilton ......... Bost?n....._. .................... Mar. 10, 1915
Mexico, Valle de ........ Cesar :qom1nguez Ramos ....... Mex!co C!ty ................. Mar. 10, I'll ''
Mexico, York ............. A. Perc1va) Hughes ..................Mex1co C1tr-·····--·····-···Apr. 14, 1927
Michigan .................... .Lou B. _W1nsor.........: ................Grand Rap1ds ............ ..Apr. 30, 1~03
Minnesota .................. John Ftshel... ............................. St. ~a~l.......................•.June 11, I 07
Mississippi... ............... Edward L. Faucette................ Mend1a!'···········-···------·Scpt. 24, 1921
Missoun ...................... Arthur Mather ..........................St. Lou1s ....................•. Sept. I, 1927
Montana .............•.... _.Luther T. Hauberg ..................Helcna ........................•. Aug. 20, 1925
Nebraska .................... Lewis E . Smith ....................... Omaha ........................ -~un.e .... , 1930
Nevada ....................... .V. M. Henderson ..................... Ca;son City................. une -··• 1930
New Brunswick.........}. Twining Hartt ............ - ........Samt John .................. - une 8, 1897
New Hampshire ........ Harry M. CheneY------·----·------·TConcord ........................ ec. 13, 1909
New J ersey .................Isaac Cherry.............................. renton ......................•. Apr. 19, 191 7
New Mexico ............... Alpheus A. Keen ..................... Albuquerque ................ Nov. 19, 1884
New South Wales ..... David Cunningham ................. Sydney .......................... Junc II, 1924
New York .................. Charles H. Johnson ................ New York .................... May 5, 1932
New Zealand ............. George Barcfay.......................... Well!ngton ................. .. May 11, 1921
North Carolina.......... John H. Anderson ... .-................Rale1gh ....................... .. Aug. 8, 1928
North Dakota ............ 'w alter .L. Stockwell................Far~o ............................ Mar. 31, 1910

~hi.:'_~-~~~.'.~_:-.:·.:·.-.:-.-:.-.::: it:;; <§-. 1.J~~;~;;:::::::::::::::::::~i~~~~-:i"ti:::::::::::::::::::::k;;;; ··9; 1924
Oklahoma ................... b1all'ef A. ~~urgeon ................. ~utfiric;j""· ·····--····--·--···-T cc.
9

n· i

~~~

~:~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::M-aca~i~ Soli~~~:.:::::::::::::::::::::p~~a~a ci_ty:::::::::::::~:r:~:. Io: 1928

Pennsylvania .............. Tohn A. Perry ........................... Ph1J~delph1a ................. Oct. 25, 1911
Philippine Islands ..... 'Newton C. Comfort ................. Mamla ........................... Dec. 19, 1912
Porto Rico .................. _Tose G. Torres ......................... San Juan .......................Apr. 27, 1930
Prince Edward Is ..... Ernest Kemp ............................. Charlottetown ..............June 27, 1923
1

s~=~~i~;;;r.-.:-_::·.-.:·.::·.:~};. ~. J"..~t~a~-~~~::::::::::::::::::: ~ ri::.~~~---:·.::·.-_-_-_-_:·.::·.-.:·.::·::n~-.· 1930
Rhode Islan-d ............•.Harold L. McAuslan ................Pro~idence ..................-May 16, 1927

-3;

~~~~J~~:-~~=~::::::::::::_~ho!~.Ttr-w1;;;;;;ji::::::::::::::: ~~~~~-;gh·_-:.-.-:.-:.-.-.-_·_-.-:.-.-.-_~F~h-_- ··4: I 9?r.

South Australia ......... Charles R. J. Glover ............... Ad•latd~--········--····--·-·--Oct. 20, 1909
South Carolina ........... O. Frank Hart ......................... C!Jlumhta ...................... Dec. 14, 1910
South Dakota .............wor~e ~ - Pettigrew ............... ~o~x falls ...................M...... . ~g1~

1

~~~~~~B~~~-c:_:-:~~~lt~~~~~;~i~ if Ill!

Washington ................ Horace W. Tyler ..................... Tacoma ......................... June 14• . 1906
Western Australia ..... ~- E. Jenson ............................ Perth ...........................•.May 28, 1931
West Virginia ............ G,onre S. J,aidley ................... C~arleston .................. _Feb. 24, In
Wisconsin ................... Willi~m F . Weiler ................... M1lwaukee.................... Nov. 8, 1927
Wyoming....................] oseph M. Lowndes ................. Casper ........................... Mar. 9, 1915

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Page
Advertising .................................................................................................... 7
Affiliates ........................................................................................................ 74
American Freemasonry ...........................................................................•.. ~26
Attendance ········-········································'············································--.2, 74
Bouquets and Brickbats .............................................................................. 93
Boy Scouts .................................................................................................... 87
Budgets ······································.·r······························-·························2, 13, 18
Business Manager •........ ,......................................................................2, 13, 18
Chairmen-Correspondence Committee ........................................ 12'4, 140
Calendar-Masonic ......................................................................................129
Candidates ......... ,.......................................,......................;....................- ...3, 74
DI Molay-Order 0£.................•.........................................................'......._ 87
Bepression ...........................................................•........................................ 18
Directory- •
Cor~spondence Committee ...................................................... 124, 140
Co-ordinate Bodies ...................................................................... 126, 128
Grand Secretaries ...................................................................•.........•.. 141
District Deputy Grand Master.................................................................. 20
Education-Masonic ..................................................................3, 35, 65, 110
Education-Public ........................•..... :.......................................4, 65, 87, 110
Elections ........................................................................................................ 23
Ethics ··································:··········································································· 3
Finances ..................................................................•............................. 2, 13, 18
Funerals ........................................................................................................ 4
Grand Lodge ..........:..................•,...........................................................27, 127
Grand Master ................................................................................................ 30
Grand Orators ....................................................................•.....................35, 65
History ..............................................................................5, 110, 124, 126, 129
Humor ............................................................................................................ 37
Inspectors ...................................................................................................... 20
Legislation .................................................................................................... 42
Meetings-Grand Lodges ·······································································--12'1
Membership ···························-···································3, 74, 133, 134, 135, 138
''News Flashes" ............................................................................................ 110
Nominations .................................................................................................. 23

I NDEX-1932

INDEX OF SUBJECTS-Continued
Page
Obligation: ························-·········································································· 46
Offenses __.....___·-········-····-···················-····················-···~---: ...5, 7, 48, 61
Politics -·----··---····--····-.:.-··········-···········-··········-·············.23, SS
Prohibition ········-·······-················································································· 61
!'ublicity -··················-·····-····--··--·····················-·····-········"·············-····- 7
Readings-Interesting ····················································-·························· 6S
Records ········································-·········--·································-·················· S
Revision of Ritual .._... :........·-··-···············--······:_·····················--·······- 70
Ritual ···········-····--·-·-···-··-······-·····-·-·······-····-··-~---····-············4• 6, 46, 6S
Sojourners ······-····························-································································ 74
StatisticsCalifornia ········-·-··--······-····-··--·······--············-·······;;.........-···-·····130
Co-ordinate Bodies ·······-·····-----····--·········-·····-.:···-----133, 134
Grand Lodges ············--······-·-·····-······················-········'··-···--.--135-138
Suspensions ··-······-····-·-······-·-·-···•................--:..--.;._.._.3, 18, 74, 7S
Trials-Masonic ··································································-······················ 5
Visitations ...................................................................................................... 6
Washington Memorial ····························-·················································· 82
Younger Generation ········-·-···-·-·············-······--················-·····-······81, 90

Page

A
Abbreviation of. ritual..~·--'--·····-..·····················•···-············--·····-······-60, 324
Accounts-Report of Committee on ...............·--····-······--··········-········ 20
Activities Committee-Appropriation f.or-····-············-·-~·-·•;•-····-········35r
Report of Committee Dn---··-·-··--..;...,.i..-.:..••.:..... ~--···-·-····~········345
Advancement, Objection to•.- ••.:.....•...·-······-'···-·-········-~:: .....••.....•.•...:.~. 337
Affiliation, death pesadisag...........·-········-·····-·······-············-·-·············36, 337
Form of application changed ..3......................................-...........62, 324
May sign by marlj:, when.·-····-·-,·i··-c·-·········-··-··-·-··················31, 336
Amazons and Acre Grand ' Lodge request for recognitic;m ..................334
An_derson,_Th~mas_.:.:Appointed Grand Standard Bearer._............•..·.. 6
Annual Address of Grand Master-~ ....:.-······'·-···•'·"'-··-·-·····--···········-·· 13
Angellotti, Frank M.-Eulogy by Dana R. Weller...•-·-···-·······-······269
Tribute of Grand Master..........................................•......................... 18
Annual election of officers of Grand Lodge....,.·-·-··,-····-·······-·······--·-4-01
Annual . Or_a tion-By James T. Fraser_, ___,__.___,.....,.;...; ~ ..-.i,.,..~-..--.1.12
Annual Returns-Forms for, changed .............-.,.. ;..... -.~--·········-·······--25~
Omission of certain matter-·--················-····.-···-... ·.-·-·····--~·-······-33)
Appeal-Dues pending ····- ···-·--····-·--···-··············-·····•·······-,·····41, 337
Apportionment of work to Grand Off11ters..-.-.·-··'··•·-·:·········--,······-··· 14
Appropriations ----~---··---·----;,._.,. ____ .....; __ ..._...._.•._.346
Assets of Grand Lodge ___ ,..,_······-·········-"-'"'·;···-"'··········-·············:•...~ .. l<tl
Automatic expulsion, requirement for...;..~·.....:-......._;. ___ :......'........:37, 337
Avouchment ················-··········'.···························-··-········-······················ 35

B
Bakersfield Board of Relief-Reimbursement to.,·•....:•..• _,. ......•...........346
;Ballot, election of officers hY--··-·-·········--_:__.:_.~.-;.,.---····-·-..aP• ~35
Board of Control-Grand Master's comments-.......................·.........23, 317
Report of ~·:·································-·········:_-···-~·-····················-········: .....2'/3
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes.:......:.:.....31.7
Boards of Relief-Reimbursements to.·-············--····-························--·~
Boynton, Albert E.-Tribute to George Washington.......................... 7

ii

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Page

D

Budget of Finance Committee........:.................•...................'.•.................... 353
Building Projects-Report of Committee on........................., ............- ..119
Burial plot-Dedication ceremony recommended........:......................... 60
Burke, Samuel E.-Reappointed Trustee Masonic Homes................403
By-Laws-Amendments by Grand Lodge, self-executing............49, 338
Amendments proposed ··························--··-,-·-······-·-······62, 63, 324
Amendments reported in the year.·-································-···········.100
Grand Master's recommendations to change............................62, 324
Not necessary to amend, when...:... _.~···-···-~----·--·············-49, 338
Report of Committee on-·-----···-····~·-···-·-···-········-·---····-·.251
Uniform Code declared inflexible.........- ..··-···-·-····-···············-- 48

Decisions of Grand Master-Reports on..............~····-···························335
Deacons-Proposed to make office elective............................225, 226, 322
Degrees-By courtesy on crippl£....--·-································'·-·····32, 337
Conferring in another jurisdiction......-······-·········---··················'51, 338
Degree teams-Grand Master's ruling.·-···-·--·-·····--····-··············.48, 318
Delinquents, duty of Secretary to announce....................................29, 336
Devotional service ··············································-········································ 6
Digest of Decisions-Commendation of Grand Master...................... 17
Divine services- Right of Lodge to attend......•..•............................42, 338
Donations to Masonic Homes.....:........ _...........................- .................:...... 129
Dual members, number of. ___ _._., __.___•••..:...:.:.......:..;_......•..- ........................ 91
Dues-Exemption of fifty year members......•................................. 56, 331
Non-payment, Grand Master's comments ...................................... 27
Of one expelled and restored ...•....·-···············-······-·················--45, 338
Pending appeal from judgment of expulsion............................41, 337
Resolution to relieve Lodges, who have lost funds
by bank failures ..............................................................................271
Refund of unearned....................-...................................................63, 323
Unpaid by Lodges............ ,~.·-···~········--···········•······························92, 347
Dunsmoor, John M.-Tribute to memory bL........................................262

c
Cash receipts and disbursements.................................................- .......... 102
Charges-Duty of Junior Warden to prefer............... ·-······~···-·-···38, 337
Master's discretion as to reception of......- .....:................................- 40
Penal jurisdiction after suspension..•........................................~39, 337
Charity-Obligation of Lodge limit~d ...._.-·······-····························43, 320
Church attendance by Lodgc.............,........ _:...:..........._..................~..42, 338
Clandestine Masonry-Report of Committee on...................·--·······J3Z
Commercial activities of Lodgc1.............:.........................................•.:64, 323
Committees of Grand Lodge-List of......................................................464
Concord, Grand Lodge of, recognized........................................- ............333
Constitutional amendments, Section 35 lost............................................322
Sections 37f to 37n (new) Ad<>pted........................"...................~ ........343
Section 79-Adopted --··-·---··-··--······-----··-.;......- •.:...us, 342
Section 87-Adopted ··············-·············•·······'-···--....:....•__,......-336; 328
Section 88-Adopted ··-······-,.·---------··--;-·~----..342
Section 128 ······-·················-·······-·····-········································-·····~5
Section 129-Adopted ··········--···-·-··················································340
Section 135 ························-·······,··························································225
Section 161 .................................i....•••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••- •••.225
Section 200 ·················;···-,·······;·-······-···:-·-··----····-······-··:--..-225. 261
Section 2010 ..........................................................................................225
Section 206-Adopted .....:....:..........~·-······································-···-'······341
Cornerstones-When should not be laid................:.........................47, 319
Courtesy degrees on cripple...................................,...........:_.•..............32, 337
Credentials-Report of Committee on.................... ·-·············-··-·····-·····3S6
Cuscutlan, Grand Lodge of, recognized...... ·-··-···············,-············93, 333

iii

E
Educational Committee-Recommendation of Grand Master......52, 325

'

Election of Officers by ballot.,,_:..•.--·-····-········-·..·············-···..--.-29, 335
Ellis, Arthur M.-Tribute to Memory oL.-------··--···-····-·.215, 262
Emergency Relief Fund-Disposition of..--··············-···:··-····-···-····104
Employment Bureaus-Appropriations for ...·-····-··················-·····-·····347
Endowment Board-Appropriations for ..................................................352
Creation of ···········'··························-····!·····-·············'··················343, 352
Report of Committee on Plans for ....................................................259
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes................332
Endowment Fund-Masonic Homes........................................................ 25
Report of Committee on ......................................................................226
Evidence at Masonic tr~ls ...........,................................................ - ......39, 339
Expenses of officers of Grand Lodge.......·-········-··-·..··-·····-················· 70
Expulsion, automatic-Requirements for--··-·-·-·················37, 337
Dues of one reatorcd ............·-·-····-·····-····-·----···-···-:-·-·····45, 337

iv

INDEX

INDEX
Page

F
Fees, reduction of discouraged.·-············--········-·······-··.:..····-······-··'··:- 26
Fifty-year members-exemption from dues proposed.................... 56, 331
Finance Committee-See Reports of Committees................................346
Financial conditions-Recommendation of Grand Master.................. 54
Foreign Grand Lodges-Requests for recognition........................93, 333
Forms-Report of special committee on........ ·-···········-···········-··-·-····.239
Fort Crook Lodge-Duplicate charter issued...... ·-·-·····--········-·-- 92
Permission to meet in temporary quarters-······'··········-··········.42, 337
Fraser, James T.-Annual oration of..•..·-·--···----··-··-·-··-···-·-·112
French Masonry-Tribute to George Washington.....................·-····- 19
Fresno Board of Relief-Reimbursement to.....·-···--··--·····-··-··.,-346
Funds of Lodge-Funeral expenses of widow .....·-··-················--·50, 338
Investment of ·······-·-·-··-----·---··----··--····-·""'""-"'-57, 325
Limitation on refreshment allowance.......................-·······•-···-46, 338
What constitute ······························································-···················· 46
Funeral expenses of widow...................,..- .....................:..-......:..:....._50, 338

G
.George .Washington Bicentennial-Grand Master's report on.......... 18
Report of Committee on Bjcentennial.........................................:....227
Tribute to ................................................................................................ 7
German Grand Lodges recognized ............................................................333
Grand Lecturer's Rep0rt ......... ~---·························-··-···-············-········-····118
Report of Committee on Report of..:...................•··-•········-············.272
Vacation for ·-··---····----·--:.···--------·····-~----··.;..;..119
Grand Lodge relief-Recommendation of Grand Master.............54, 325
Grand Master's Message-·--·····-·-···----...----··· ---·---·-·-·· 13
Angellotti, Frank M.-Tribute tO---····~·····---·-···-··- 18
Apportionment of work to officers of ~rand Lodge·-········- ······ 14
Board of Control......-·········--··-·-·-·-····--···-··---··-·-·-···· 23
Dues, non-payment of-·······--..·····-····~···-·-··---·--- ....··----···· 27
Conference of Grand Masters .....·--············--·······-·····················- 19
Decisions -···············································································--············ 29
Advancement, objection to.·-·······-··················-············-····.33•. 337
Automatic expulsion, requirements for ....- ........................37, 337
Affiliate may sign by mark, when.................................. -.31, 336
Avouchment ······-·················································-···············•···-·· 35
Ballot, interpretation of.., __________.....- .•~--···--··"'-·-···....29• 335

v

Page
By-laws, amendments by Grand Lodge self-executing..49, 338
Candidate's payment for Masonic Homes-..........:...................338
Charges, Junior Warden's duty -·········--···-·······.:···--··-.38• 337
Charity-Obligation of Lodge ··--··-·-··········-··..:... .•:_____4J, 320
Church service in Masonic clothing...·--··················:.....•...42, 338
Conferring degrees outside our jurisdiction...:.:................- .. 51
Cornerstones, when should not be laid..............;...............47, 319
Court records in Masonic trials.·-······-············-··-'--···-'-.39, 339
Criminal conviction as evidence at trials~ ..........- ... :_.......... 39
Death pending affiliation ·-··-·-····--·--'-··-·........:.•. _ ....36, 337
Degree teams ................................................................................ 48
Degrees by courtesy,· limitation on ...:..... _.:'--·····-·······--337, 338
conferring in another jurisdiction.............:................... 51, 338
on cripple ________,_.__...••....•..:..-.:.._.•:....... - ..... 32, 337
Delinquent dues of one ~lled..·-········-·····'·-····=-:.. :.........- .. 45
Del~quents, report of by Secretaries.-... ...: ......;.................29, 336
Destruction of hall and dispensation for temporary
quarters--···-······--'-···-······-·-··-·····.:.··-····:..._.......42, 337
Dispensations approved -·---·-·-·····-·······•····-···....-·············341
Dues of expelled Mason.·-·-····-··-·····-·····-·············-·······45, 338
Dues pending appeal --··-···-··----····'"··-·--···--~----41, 337
Duty of Junior Warden to prefer charges .....:..................38, 337
Election by ballot·---····-····.:.·--·-···-·-···········--················ 29
Financial returns of Lodges -·•······---h•-·.:.···-·-·····-·.43, 338
Funeral expenses of widow...•.......·-·········-··············-··········50, 338
Life membership funds, investment oL............. 55, 56, 328, 339
Life membership resolution, when must be amended ........ 47
Masonic Club at Decoto Home-Permission to open
Lodge denied ...................·-···········-~······'········-·················· 42
Master's discretion as to acceptance of charges....- ............ 40
Payment to Masonic Home by petitioner.....-~, ..•..........46, 338
Penal jurisdiction after suspension.-...............;...........•.......39, 337
Permission of Lodge to meet in temporary iquarters ... .42, 337
Physical qualifications of ofticers_.......................:.............30, 336
Physical qualifications of petitioners ···-~·-··-··:·-··---.:..-31, 336
Public appearance of Lodge-.......................................•...- ..42, 338
Refreshment fund ····-····-········--··--·····-·······;·-·-····.:..··-·-46, 338
Salary of Treasurer -·········-·····--:.:-..•···--·-'··-··-···-·-45, 338
Treasurer, salary of..•.:..•...••.•.. ~········-··-··--··········:..•. ;:...:._.45, 338
Trial· postponement pending civil action ...;..... - ............... ..41, 340
Uniform Code of By-Laws declared inftexible ...................... 48
Vacancies in office ··--··:.....:....;..:.:. ___ _:.: ........:.-..:... - - •......•30, 336
Wardens, status of when Master's office is vacant ........ 30, 336

vi

INDEX

INDEX

vii

Page

Page

Digest of Decisions, commendation of.-···--·····--·'-'-·····~·········· 17
Fees, reduction of discoa:raged...- ..···-·-····:·-·········--··· -············· 26
George Washington, Bicentennial.._.........•......- ..·······-··-··············· 18
Masonic keys prohibited-·······-·····-······-;_···-···--······························ 28
Masonic Homes endowment··························-·································· 25
Masonic Research Society-Claim oL·----····-·-:---·····-·········· 28
Necrology .........................................:....................·-······························· 17
Per diem of representatives:........·-················-··--····-······-········26, 319
Political circulars by Masons...........·-·······-··:...,....- ..·········-··········· 24
Portrait ordered -··--·---·······:........;.~---···-··-······-····-··········350
Presentation of clock to......................................·-·····-··---······•····402
Public Schools Week·-·-····.:.··--···~·-··-··---·········--··-·-20, 241, 271
Recommendations ................................................................................ 52
Abbreviation of ritual ---···---··-·-·--·••·~·-················60, 324
By-Laws, amendments proposed·-·····-··················-··········62, 324
Commercial activities of Lodges....................-·-····-·-~·-·····64, 323
Dedication ceremonies-Grand Secretary to compile.......... 60
Dues, refund of unearneL----·---·- -·-·-··············63, 323
Educational Committee -------.:...•-•----~-··•,.·-···'····52, 325
Exemption from dues, fifty-year members........................ 56, 331
Expenses of officers of Grand Lodge.~··''············-············· 70
Financial conditions ····················-············································· 54
Form of petitioUS----------··-·······-·····-·····-'·--·····62, 324
Funds, investment oL-..·---··---·--·-·--··-·······-········57, 325
Grand Lodge relief.·-··-······-:........................:..._...~·-···-·-''-·····54, 325
Inspectors, letter paper for·-·'·····-·-······--····--···········•······57, 353
Investment of funds in temple associations..- .................. 57, 325
Life membership funds ..- .......:.........·········-·······-···- ···55, 56, 328
Lodge rosters ············-·····-·················•-·->·····-·-·················67, 318
Lodge trustees, limit action of power............·--·-···-··59, 326-8
Maintenance of Masonic Homes....-·····················-·-·············· 68
Moving pictures of Grand Masters.................................... 53, 320
Ritual, abbreviation o'--·-··-··········-········-················-·····60, 324
Study of pioneer Masonry.......................................................... 60
Report of Committee on Message....................................................108
Sciots, reference tO---·--····-······-·······-··-····-··········-··-············ 88
Shrine lottery ·- -----·--·-····-··-···:••.:..•.·-····--····-······-····..71, 315
Special communications ·········································•············-·············· 16
Tribute to Washington by French Masonry.................................. 19
Unemployment ...................................................................................... 22
Visitations ··············-···················································-···················-····· 16
Weidner, Perry W., Tribute to_ .•......•....:..:...,....- ........--··-············· 18

Grand Secretary's Report, Amendments to by-laws reported ..........100
Cash receipts and disbursements......................................................102
Charter for Fort Crook Lodge jssued.............- ............................. 92
Conference of Grand Secretaries...·-·····-·········-············-···-········-···31?
Dispensations issued .......................·-····-··············-····....·-··-············· 99
Emergency relief fund. ..... _..............................,..........................._.,...• 93
Fifty-year buttons issued.'.......................................·-························· 94
Life memberships in the year .............................................................. 99
Membership .......•.................................................................................. 91
Recommendation of Grand Masterw-···················-·····················:.. 19
Recommendation to reduce salary............................................._..... 93
Report of Committee on Annual Report oL....""··'-·····---·-···111
Requests for recognition .........................................................,............. 93
Trial records ·································-·······-····- ················-····················· 96
Unpaid dues .......................................................................................... 92
Grand Treasurer's Report, Assets of Grand Lodge..............................107
Cash receipts and disbursements ...................................................... 106
Grievances-Report of Committee un ......................................................304
Right of members to attend tri,als_ ................ _..,...........................342
Trial records .......................................................................................... 96

H

,

History, Masonic-Report of Committee on Policy and General
Purposes..........·-·-··•········-·····-······-······-•·····-··-···-······•·····-·······321
Report of Committee on............................"--·-··;··----·······-·-..--····215

I
Inspector's letter paper for ........:.............:__ .......................................57, 353
No Lodge should have one of its own for ...................................... 57
Investment of life membershi_p iunds............-........................ ,............... 56

J
Junior Warden-Duty to prefer cb~rges ..........................................38, 337
Jurisprudence Committee-See reports of Com~ittees ......................335
Jurisdiction, penal, over suspended Mason••.•.........•........................39, 337

K
Keys, Masonic, prohibited..................... ;.,._._,,._.•,.•,,_,,,,...•- .................... 28

viii

Ix

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Page

L
Legacies to Masonic H.ontes-..:.···-·········-·····-····--···-··-··········-·····-···129
Library, Report of Committee on..........- ...................:.....•··-········-·······241
Life Membership resolutions adopted in the year .......... :..................... 99
.Life Membership funds, investment of by Grand Lodge .. 55, 56, 328, 339
Life Membership r~solutions-When must be amended ......._..:........ 47
Lindsay Lodge No. 416-Permission to purchase. buitding................ 121
Lin~nger, Michael D.-Tribute to memory oL.: ......_:_ .......:.............. .262
Lodges-Commercial activities discouraged .....,...........•..•...............64, 323
Financial reports in annual returns ...- •............................................ 43
List of ..~ ..;.........·-··-·······················---···~---·····::._...:......:......................407
Los Angeles Board of Relief-Reimbursement tci..............·-······-····-346.
. .Lottery, Shrine-Report of Gran·d Master............................................ 71

M
Madison Lodge No. 23-Permission to purchase lot ............ ·;············120
Marin Lodge No. 191-Reimbursement to ...·--····································347
Martinez Lodge No. 41-Reimbursement to.....·-·····----····-····-······347
Masonic Beginnings in California and Hawaii-Grand Master's
recommendation ········-··•··:························-··-~----··'···-·····:····-·········· 60
Masonic History-Report of Committee on................:....:....'....- .. 215, 321
Masonic keys prohibited-...................................:.-............ :....- ....~ ....:...... 28
Masonic Homes-Annual Report of Trustees................................- ......124
Cash receipts in the year........................................·-·······-··········---104
~- . - - Donations and legacies -·-·······-··········-,..,.._.•,.,,.......,.,,~ ....•,...,.,.,.....J29
~
Donations to Covina lipme.-.~..... :.:.. ~ ...,,.____.:.:....:.....:.:......:.... 185, 193
Donations to Decoto Hom~ ...,.·.•.....•......:....,..........:.....,.,...............157-1§4
· Donations to Scholarship
:.:.~
~::.~:
:'.-.:.:.~:.;:~::J 29
Endowment Board-Appropriation for ······-··-·-····-···-····-··-····352
Creation of -···---··-.L.---·-··················-········--··-·····.ZS, 343
: Endowment Fund, conditfo11 .of:,-·,·:·····.'.,..·:··::•········•:~!. 137, -~~'~' .147
Fees ·of candidates no j>art of Lodge funds., .. ;.~~ ..'.:...:...:........ :.. :~338
Field worker-Employment of.... _::....- ....-...~ ....;...'..:.....:..~~.:.: ... :.:.::.:125
Finances ·---······-····-·---.:.:_.:._:_;____ ;____ .....:..............;...:._.:.•.......:.... 1~
Grand Master's recommendation .................................·-··········-······ 68
List of outside beneficiaries.:~·-·········································--····173, 197
Motion picture of Covina ltome......................-························-····127
(:
Nam es of residents-Covina .................:.:.~~.;.•:.:.:.:;....:~:.:.,.:.:..~ .. 193'-199

Fund......... ..:.... ...:..:.:..

Name~ ~f residents-Decoto .........................:.......... :......::.. _.:... 165~1'2

New forms for -applic~tions .................... _............................-;.;........dl26
Operating expenses --·············--·····~···~-"'"·•···--··"··-'-•.;...•··-····~.u ...:14.8
Outside care ··--·-············"---·•... .,..,•.,....:.;......,....._,.....1.,•..,..._,..;.....• .,,.-r-r-r'1l~
Per capita tax for ..~----·············-····: ...................~····~.··-.··:···r·······-.,-··3.Sp
Permission of club to open Lodge denied'............~ ......................... 42
Receipts and disbursemcnts ......,............·-··········································133
Report of Superintendent, Co\:ina .......................................- .......... 178
. Repor.t of Superintendent,
' ' .
" ' . Decoto
'' ·--······
, . . ....······-····-··-······---····1~
•. . .
1Scholarships -.·-.·---···········r····--·-·,-·-"'"·-····:·····r:······-···-····. i<.Y, 130

S

' ·Jt

..

>. ,_ r

. ""

"

" • :. " . " 133

s:~~:~:i~ s ~lr~.-=::·=::::::::=::=::::::::::=::::;:=::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::A:PJ

State aid and tax relie{:. ...,. ..r..._.;.1.• ~ ...-"•·-··-·······•·····•; ••.~·->-·..i...::-~ ••l'a<I
Status of the $25.00 payment by candidate ..................-:--·······'···-.- 47
Transfer of funds ordered.::-·•·:.······.:-,-·---..:;._.....,. __ ..................354
Mas.onic Research Society-Claim of_,_,,.,~--...--· ..,,.;__,~.,,.,. ...;. .......,. 28
Masonic Temple stock-Authorization to vote-······--············-~····-342
•Masonic Temple-Report of...... - ...........:..__ ......,.f-··-··-....-.....,..,.:... -~,.;_;,~3
Master of Lodge-Discretion as to reception of charges of
.
unmasonic conduct ···················-·····.,-···········-···-··········-···-····· 40
Failure ·to be installed ....:.: ........... .'.,..........,_...:.'....: ............ '.........'.:..~, 336
Time limit for installation ...... :..................... :..:.:........'....:...........'..30,-336
McLees, James B.-Appointed Junior Grand Steward........................ 6
Membership in jurisdiction··-···························-·····································- 91
Milliken, -Theodore ].-Tribute to memory oL............. ~: .........~ ......~ ...262
Mixter, Frank W.-Presentation to ....~:..... :.:....:.:.'.........:... :...................'.463
Motion picture of Co~ina Hoine....~ ...............:.-......;......... ,....... .'.:·····:.:.....127
Moving pietures of Grand Masters .......... ~ ..: .........'....:...',.:._.:,... ·-·····~·.53, 320
.
.
.
.

N
Necrology-Committee of Grand Master.......................... :................... 17
.. . ~~po_rt of Commit~ee ?.~-::'.·:·:::~'.-·:-:"-~,- ...::7 ........,. .. "!~~~t•·:··::·:ri:~1
Nicaragua, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition ................93, 334
Nuevo Leon, Grand Lodge of-R:equest for recognition ..................334

0
; Oakdale L()dge NC>, .2?5:-:-:Purchase_.,of .lot ~-i~~ral{ed.:·:--·:·':"u~·-;, .• 123
· -Oakland- BoaT<t of Relief~Reimbursement _t~:....~,t-+··1"":';: •. -.-1•. :. ::. ~
Objection to advancement---··········~·-···········-·:: ...._..................:_..33, 337

x

INDEX

INDEX
Page

Occidental Mexicana Grand Lodge-Request for recognition....93, 334
Office-Who eligible to hold....................-·········-········- ..·- ·······-··---····336
Officers, physical qualifications ·-·····-······················-··-··-···;..,...•_30, 336
Officers of Grand Lodge-Expenses of.........,..........:...'......................:•.• 70
Oration, Annual-By James T. Fraser..................................·- ······-···112

p
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331-Permission to lease its building...... 119
Palestine, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition..........................334
Paraguan, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition ......_................334
Past Master degree-Proposed ritual for...:.......- .........................--25, 321
Pay of members-Appropriation for ........................................................351
Report of committee on.....·-·-······---········································273, 335
Penal jurisdiction after suspension......,.....................................................337
Per diem of reprnentatives..................................................................2'6, 319
Petitions-Form for changed..............................................................62, 324
Petitioners, physical qualifications............................................................ 31
Physical qualifications of officers................•....., ..........................:.. ,...30, 336
Physical qualifications of petitioners.·-··--·-·····~······-········"················ 31
Pinole Lodge No. 353, permission to erect hall.................................... 123
Policy and General Purposes-See reports of Committees..............315
Political activities by Lodges .................................................................... 24
Portrait of Grand Master-Provision for ........•-······-··················-·······350
Public Schools Week-Communication from School
Superintendents ···························-·- ···········-·················.".............271
Grand Master's comments.................................................................. 20
Report of Committee on....................................................................241

Q
Qualifications of candidates........................................................................336

R
Refreshment Fund-What constitutes.................................................... 46
Refund of unearned dues ·····································································-····323
Relicf--Appropriation for worthy Brother...........................................,..352
Relief by Grand Lodge-Recommendation of Grand Master.... 5-4, 325

xi
Page

Relief Fund-Transferred to General Fund.·--·-·······-----··········· 93
Relief, outside, by Masonic Homes.......·-····························'·-···············.125
Report of Board of ControL......................................................................273
Report of Committee on Accounts....................................................:.....200
Reports of Committees-on Activities---- -·-·-··--·-··--·-············345
On By-Laws ...•....................:_ __ .._···-··-·----·-----~············251
On Clandestine Masonry ··--·······-·-····- ··- - ··- ··- ··············232
On Credentials ·······•·····················-··--··.....-•...........,..,.,...,....•..,............356
On Endowment .........................•....... ~~-·-·...-·-~-·-....,.·t·1············226
On Finance, Activities Committee-Appropriation for ............351
Audit of accouo.t:i-··-··--··-·-·-·-·--·-·--··-·············349
Boards of Relief, reimbursements to.........·- -····················346
Budget ···········-···-•··-··-~---··--·-......_..,..................3_53
Employment Bureaus, reimbursement to...._ .........................347
Grand Lodge tax ___.:_···--·-··· · -····-.----·--"'"············352
Grand Secretaries' conference.........- ·······-....:.·--·-···············351
Masonic Homes E ndowment Board-····-··-·-···- -'··············352
Masonic Homes- Transfer of fuuds ....- ····-····- ·- ·-············354
Pay of members............................-....._.............__ ,.,.._............351
Portrait of Grand Master.·-·-- - ·----..---·--··················350
Reimbursement to Lodges and Boards of Relief..................346
Relief for worthy brother-····--··--·--·-·-..--:.- ...............352
Salaries fixed ·································---·--·--·--·.-···········350
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, petition denied ..............349
San Francisco Lodge No. 360, reimbursement......................349
Sta tionery for Inspectors..........~··········-······-·-···-···-·-··--·353
Traveling expenses of officers of Grand Lodge....- .............350
U . C. Clubs-Appropriations for_···-··-······-·-·······-·······-····348
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues .............·--····- ··-···-·----·:············347
On Financing Building Projects -····---- ··- --··- - ·•···-·············-.1 19
On F orms for Various P urposes..........................·- - - · -············239
On George Washington Bicentennial.-............:............... _............227
On Grievances ...........;•.....:......... ~-··········-·····------·········96, 304
On Jurisprudence, advancement, objection t0................................337
Amendments to sections 79 and 88..·-·---··--·····················342
Automatic expulsion ...........:............- - - - - -···- -··..········- -337
Ballot-Interpretation of · - - · - - ··--·--···..........-··•······- ··335
By-Laws, not necessary for Lodges to amend, when ........338
Church attendance in Masonic clotbing................_;..........42, 338
Conferring degrees in another jurisdiction............................338
Court records in Masonic triala.... _.....:......--··-···-··-·······39, 339
J:?eath pending affiliation .......--......... ___,_...,....___ ....•..,.._337

~iii

IND.EX

INDEX
Page

Page

Decisions of Grand Masteru •.:....- ...:. .........:....-······-······:.......l.....335
Degrees by courtesy, limitation oh.·-···-······-·····-·---·····~-..;..337
Delinquent-Report of Secretary required .."'················-······336
Destruction of hall and dispensation for temporary
quiu'teri............-_ .......,..,.,....-,........_......-.~·········~·-···.·······:·--··337
Dispensations· approved ··-·························;:.......·--·····-··--·341
Financial returns of Lodges ... :...- ............~.:.. :....... - ................338
Funeral expenses of widow............~ ..... :.~...:................·-·········-·338
Dues of expelled Mason............ ;........................................:........338
Dues · pending ap1,>eal .._.,:.....:.......--., ..,:.:,-......__'.'...'..- ...._.:_.'...4'1, 337
Duty "of Master as to .qualifications of candidates..:............. 336
Junior Warden's duty to prefer_ch~ges .....~ ....,.........._. ..._38, 337
Life membership funds, investment of.....................- .............339
·Masonic Homes; Endowment Board .........;--···············-··-··343
· Masonic Home fees::::......:___ ....................... :.:............... _....46, 338
Master, time limit for installation .......~ .....:...........::..:..............336
Penal jurisdicti"on following suspension .........................-.39, 337
Physical qualifications of officers ......:.:...............- .. ~- ....30, 336
,.
Refreshment fund ·.:, __ ~!. ....:...:.:.:;~.:_:-····-·--·;.; ______________46, 338
Salary of Treasurer -···-~..:............:...--·-····L:.. :..~·-·····--45, 338
Temple stock, authorization to "yote .................:........................342
Trial postponement pending civil action..........................41, 340
Trials; right of members to attcnd ..........................................342
I •
· Vacancies it). office_.................--·················-~·-···························336
On Lihrar:Y ····--'..,...~:. __·- ······-···--····--·: ...:.. :_.:,..'..... _........... _____ .241
·On Masonic History .... :..·-·········-·····'··-' ·······-···:....., ......................'...215
·On Necrology :;~ ....:,.:..:......~ ......, ...:,...:__ ···-·········:··········-·············-···261
On Pay of Members ...........-:.:.... - .... :..:........ - ................:........213, 335
On Policy and General Putposcs............:...... :................- -............315
Board of Conttot..-::·····-······.-::.......~ ......,..:.. - ::······:.. ~ ...... .,.:: ......- ....317
'.t
.•
By-Laws, amendments fo....::........................~.:.......:............- ....324
··Charity ...... :......... :....._;;:.::.!_:·. :::Ef..·.~ ...:.'.. :.~., ••.•••,-.,•••.•••••:••• ::_'.•••.•••••320
Commercial activities o'f Lodges.:_..:...................'.......,,..:..,~. 323
\ · Cornerstones ~::~.:···-:--:•····· .... :...:.._............ -;... ................. ____ :. _.....:. ...:~_47, 319
Deacons, election 91................. :............- ...'............ :.............225, 322
..... :
··Degree · teams .~.:.... ~ .............:.... :..-...:.. :........:___ ......_..:........48, 318
Dues; exemption from;.;....,........'...."...:... ~;..:.. :......... -.-.....:.. _.... 56, 331
· Due~; · refund of u~camcd ..................: .... :.:..............::........-.63, 323
.E ducatlof/al committees .. :..,:.. ..._:'.- ...:..._:........:...- ...... - .........52, 325
Endowme~~~- F~~d Com.~ittec ......... ;·:·~:...._. ..........:.i.:: ..•••.....•...... 332
!H
··Forms of petltrons
......
: ....:....................
_................
:........
- ..- 62, 324
•
•
•
•
•
"
I" • ' .. •
• •
- · ·Forms of annual teturns::..._. ....:.,._. .....-..:.:·········-·=·--·.:,,.---········331
· Foreign Grand Lodgcs........ .'.'.!.'.•••::.':••::.:: •.--..••.•:•..••~ .••••.•.•••••••••333

Funds, investmep.t. oi...::>.-~.;.;..,•.1.:._,•• ,-. ••.:.......~ ....,.,............,..,.,1.,~--~
Grand Lodge relief .. -··-·-····-······.,·········-..,,.,,..f..~~2$
Grand Secretary _........ . .. .. . .. ..... .. ....................... ····- -· ·····--· ..317
Life Membership funds ....... ·-···--···-···-····-:···~·······-·······_,..,....3~
· ·
' '
·
· •·
· · , ..,., -3-18
Lodge rosters ··-··-·····--···:·······:~·;·.--·····-.-~·-··:-·-··::···-···~,
·Masonic history -······-·..:.:....'.... _.. :~:....::...::_::_..:.:.:..:..~:.. :...21S; 321
Moving pictures of Grand Masters.........................:.••...~.:.. 531 320
Per diem of represcntative11..,._·•...•.... ..:...•-:.... - ..:........ --.•-:26.·3.19
Ritual, abbreviation ·of ....,..:._,..:... __.,.. -"'·f·-·-.,...·~··•·n'"-·'-· ..•f.. W1i 324
Ritual for Past Master degree .... .'·-········-··-~·-·········.'._...25J, 321
Shrine lottery _: .....::..:_..::.::..::.:::.:...:...:'.:_·-······-·--··-·.:....71, 315
Trustees of Lodges, duties of..~..........:.....::....._~.'- ........;..:......:......-'m
On Plans for Endowment ___ :....:.-...:.-...::..l ••::.i•. -:.,.~ ••..:...••• ..U.•.l..::..:..:.-:8
On Returns :...:................:.M..-....•~..:._ .......;.•...•.... ;,~-............:..,.. _..•.-:.1~.•.200
On Segregation ~....;.....·~·--···;.-._•.~••...!.,....,...:...,.~ ..... , ....;~,......,... U)tl
On Public Schools W eek----.:."'•:-r- 1,.1 -··':..ri~···--,-•,t- .... ~.µ,
Report of Directors of U. C. L. A. Masonic Glub.......................,...."°.ZS-5
Report of Grand Lecturer . . . ..... .... ....... .. .............. .... -----·-··;··········118

~

Report of Grand Secretary_······-·-;-·-····-··'··'····-'·····--- .... '"·~h··-"T" 91
Report of Grand Trea~urer ...;..•......,., ... ..,.:..---·-·•·.. -~.=,.... ;,,-..f--..;.,i.IJ6
Report of Masonic Temple Association ........ --······-······························303
Report of Trustees U. C. Masonic 'Club .......................................... - ....252
Reprimand-By whom to be administered .................... ,.... _ ....:...........341
Returns, Report of Committee
:.:.~:·.::.:::~:.:
::.:?Q()
·Rising Light Lodge
397, rel~burse~e~t to_ ..::...'... ~ ........"..... ~ .•...::347
Ritual, abbreviation o f _. .
.... • •.. ... ......•....... . ..
. .60. ·324
_Ritual · fo~ Past Master degree i;)r~poseci..~:., ..:..:'....._.T"·: .....,..:..::..~Sf; ~21
Riverbank Lodge 'No. 459, permission to purchase buitdiog.:...... ._.: .• t~
.
•
.. ) .. .
1
.
'
J''" 'lA,
Ross, John M., presentation of lei by..........,.......... --.... ...,....... .....,....T-"W
Ross, John Stewart, Master of Cereinoniea..:..•.... :.-··~···-··::::., ....... :r:~.40~
Rosters of Lodges, recommendation to prol:iibit.. _,"......:···:·······::···67,.318

..

No.

on:...:...:. __....

..........,.........

I&

s
Sacramento Board of Rellef-Reimbursem.e nt tQ.i-."'·~····;- ... :r.:..:..~-. ...346
Salary of. Treasurer of Lodge not pertnissible.•.. ,,......•....•....,... _.,4'5, 338
Salaries of officers of Grand Lodge,...._..;.__ ··--~.;; ...-~ ..•.- ..:.__._.._.__,350
San Bernar<lino Board of Retief-Reimburs~ment to: .. ~ ..:..~ ..<.:~.~.: 347

.....

xiv

INDEX

INDEX

Page

Page
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214--Petition for remission of
dues denied -········-·····•··-····-················•·············································349
San Francisco Board of Relief-Reimbursement to............................346
San Francisco Lodge No. 360-Reimbursement to................._...........349
San Jose Board of Relief-Reimbursement to·--································346
Santa Monica Board of Relief-Reimbursement tl>........·-··-·············346
Saxony-Grand Lodge of recognized ..- ..................................................333
Schofield Lodge No. 443, permission to erect hall..............................121
Sciots-Commendation of ·······················································-················· 88
Secretary, duty to announce delinquents·-······-····- ···--·················29, 336
Shrine lottery-Report of Grand Master--···-·-····-···-..····-.·+·7l, 315
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes............315
Silveyville Lodge No. 201-Permission to remodel hall....................120
Snape, John-Devotional service by........................................................ 6
Spain, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition ..........................93, 334
Stockton Board of Relief-Reimbursement to....................................:~3'46
Suspended Mason-Penal jurisdiction over......:...............................39, 337
Sutter, Louis, appointed on Finance Committee................................- 6

xv

u
U. C. Masonic Club-Report of Trustees..............................................252
U. C. L. A. Masonic Club-Report of Directors..................................255
U. C. Club Houses-Appropriation for ....................................................348
Unemployment-Letter to the craft thereon ................................·-······ 22
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues .................................- .......................................347
Uruguay, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition..........................334

v
Vacancies in office................_...................:................ ~..............., ...........30, 336
Vacation for Grand Lecturer.........................................................._.....-c..119
Vallee de Mexico, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition..........334
Venezuela, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition......................334
Vera Cruz, Grand Lodge of-Request for recognition......................334
Vesper Lodge No. 84--Permission to erect hall...............................~.:122
Veterans' Buttons issued in the year ...................................................... 94
Visitations of Grand Master...................................................................... 10

T

w

Tax on Lodges ·····························································-··········-·······-··········jS2
Temple Association-Investment of funds in ······················-········57, 325
Thanks to East Bay Brethren....................................................................346
Traveling expenses of officers of Grand Lodge..........................- ........350
Treasurer of Lodge-Salary not permissible......................•...........45, 338
Trial records-Reports of Grievance Committee................................304
Trial Postponement, pending civil action........................................41, 340
Trials-Criminal conviction as evidence -········-······························39·, 339

Wardens, status of when Master dies or resigns ..........................30, 336
Washington-Report of Committee on Bicentennial..........................227
Tribute to by French Masonry.....................- .................................7, 19
Weidner, Perry W.-Tribute to................................................................ 18
Weller, Dana R.-Appointed Chairman Jurisprudence Committee 6
Eulogy by, on Life of Frank M. Angellotti....................................209
Widow-Funeral expenses of..............................................................50, 338
Willits Lodge N o. 365-Permission t o erect hall................................ 120
Wollenberg, Charles M. -Presentation of gift to Grand Master
Gaylord ........................................- ..........................................................402

Trials-Dues pending appeal ····················-····································:.:41, 337
Penal jurisdiction following suspension................................•...39, 337
Postponement pending civil action ............................................41, 341
Reprimand, how to be administered................................................341
Right of members to attend..............................................................342
Value of Court records in.·-·--··-··--·-····-····---···-··-....39•339
Trustees of Lodges-Amendment to section 87·--···-- - ·--·-····326, 328
Spirit of paternalism cleaied.-··---·-·-···-·--··-··-···-··-···-·-· 59

Frank Wilber Mixter
Grand Muter 1932-1933

Our Sixty•six~ Grand Master, pharmacist, soldier, banker, State
Senator, was ushered into this world on the 30th of December, 1873, at
Pekin, Illinois. His father was Horace L. Mixter, and his mother's
maiden name was Mary Katherine Sumner.
He received his Masonic craft degrees in Visalia Lodge No. 128 in
February and March, 1902, and withdrew in 1911 to join in the formation
of Exeter Lodge No. 424, being the first Senior Warden under dispensa·
tion and Master in 1912. The degrees of the Royal Arch were conferred
upon him in Visalia Chapter N'O. 44 in June and July, 1902, he subsequently affiliating with Exeter Chapter. No. 122, in which body he served
in every office, including that of High Priest. The Council degree~. were
received in 1917 in Fresno. He was dubbed a Knight Templar in November, 1'902, in Visalia Commandery, and the Scottish Rite,' 32°, conferred
in 1918-19 at Fresno. He is also a member of the Eastern Star, Shrine
and Sciots.
Brother Mixter has been active in craft Masonry from the date of his
raising. He served as Inspector of the Masonic district in which he resided
from February, 1917, until his elec.tion as Junior Grand Warden. In 1915
he was appointed Junior Grand Steward. At the annual election, October,
1929, the brethren of Grand Lodge, in recognition of his zeal and ability,
elected him to the office of Junior Grand Warden; in 1930, Senior Grand
Warden; in 1931, Deputy Grand Master; and in October, 1932, Grand
Master.

411 FRANK
4111

WILBER

Grand Master

MIXTER
19'.lll

lit
"

In all affairs looking to the welfare of the public our distinguished
brother has always been active. From May, 1889, until the present time
he has followed his profession as a pharmacist, broken only when he
donned the uniform of a soldier in the service of his country as Second
Lieutenant, E Company, Sixth California infantry, during the SpanishAmerican war. His business career includes service as director of the

Frank Wilber Mixter
Grand Master 1932-1933

Our Sixty-sixth Grand Master, pharmacist, soldier, banker, State
Senator, was ushered into this world on the 30th of December, 1873, at
Pekin, Illinois. His father was Horace L. Mixter, and his mother's
maiden name was Mary Katherine Sumner.
He received his Masonic craft degrees in Visalia Lodge No. 128 in
February and March, 1902, and wi·thdrew in 1911 to join in the formation
of Exeter Lodge No. 424, being the first Senior Warden under dispensation and Master in 1912. The degrees of the Royal Arch were conferred
upon him in Visalia Chapter No. 44 in June and July, 1902, he subsequently affiliating with Exeter Chapter No. 122, in which body he served
in every office, including that of High Priest. The Council· degrees were
received in 1917 in Fresno. He was dubbed a Knight Templar in November, 1'902, in Visalia Commandery, and the Scottish Rite, 32°, conferred
in 1918-19 at Fresno. He is al§o a member of the Eastern Star, Shrine
and Sciots.
Brother Mixter has been active in craft Masonry from the date of his
raising. He served as Inspector of the Masonic district in which he resided
from February, 1917, until his election as Junior Grand Warden. In 1915
he was appointed Junior Grand Steward. At the annual election, October,
1929, the brethren of Grand Lodge, in recognition of his zeal and ability,
elected him to the office of Junior Grand Warden ; in 1930, Senior Grand
Warden; in 1931, Deputy Grand Master; and in October, 1932, Grand
Master.

•

41

FRJlNK

WILBER

Grand Ma•ler

MIXTER lit
1932

•

In all affairs looking to the welfare of the public our distinguished
brother has always been active. From May, 1889, until the present time
he has followed his profession as a pharmacist, broken only when he
donned the uniform of a soldier in the service of his country as· Second
Lieutenant, E Company, Sixth California infantry, during the SpanishAmerican war. His business career includes service as director of the

First National Bank of Visalia, 1911 until 1928; vice-president of that
bank, July, 1928, until November, 1929; chairman of the advisory board
of the bank until November, 1930; and at present vice-chairman of the
board of the Visalia branch of the Bank oi America, and member of the

"ratt~ 14n~ge of Qhtlifnrttia

board of the Exeter branch of th~ bank.
For many years our retiring Grand Master has been active in the
political affairs of his district. In November, 1924, he was elected to represent the people of Tulare coutity in the lower house of the State Legisfature; re-elected in 1926 and again in 1928. At the general election in
No-vember,. 1930; he was elected a member of the State Senate to represent
the 32nd Senatorial district, for the four-year term commencing January 1,

I, JoH N WHICHER, Grand Secretary of the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do hereby
certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful transcript of
the proceedings of that body at its Eighty-fourth Annual Communication,
commenced at the City of San Francisco on Tuesday, the tenth day of
Oct?ber, A. L. 5933, and terminated on Friday, the thirteenth day of
October, A. L. 5933.

W31.
The domestic life of Brother Mixter has been a particularly happy
one. On June 23, 1897, he was joined in marriage with Miss Oliv~ Pogue,
a most charnting woman who has been a help-meet, indeed. Six children
ha-ve blessed their union-:-Norbert W ., Francis E., Willard l:l~ Thomas B.,
Melvina Olive, :tnd Chester F. Four of these sons are Master Masons;
Chester doubtless will become a member when he attains his majority.

1Jn mrattmony ·~rrrof,
I have hereunto appended my official signature and have affixed
the seal of the Grand ~ge of
the jurisdiction of California, at
the office of the Grand Secretary, in the City of San Francisco, this twenty-eighth day of
October, in the year of Light,
Five Thousand Nine Hundred
and Thirty-three.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M:.W:.GRAND LODGE
OF

111rrr anh ·i\rrrptrh ila.ann.a
'.

OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Eighty-fourth Annual Communication.
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

' Tuesday, October 10, A. D._ 1933, A. L 5933
AND TERMINATING ·ON

Friday, October 13,' A: D. 1933, A. L. 5933 ·

SAN FRANCISCO
A. F. Heuer, 509 Sansom.e Street

1933

GRAND OFFICERS
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
.For the Year Commencing October, A. L. 5933
Grand Master__ :..:-··························~-·-~···--················James B. Gist (202)
Security First National Bank, Guaranty Office, Los Angeles
Deputy Grand Master_············-·:·-··- ····- ······-Ra.odolph V. Whiting (260)
Monadnock Building, San Francisco
Senior Grand Warden.................................·- ··········-············Earl Warren (349)
Court House, Oakland
Junior Grand Warden..........................................- .... ~ ... Rollie W. Miller (352 )
Associated Realty .Building, Los Angeles
Gr and Treasurer...............................- ......................... William P. Filmer (260)
330 J ackson Street, San Francisco
Grand SecretarY-·······························-··············-··········- ·--·John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Lecturer..........·-·················-······························--Thomas J. Baker ( 5!!)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Chaplain........................................- ..- Rev. Dr. Herbert P . Shaw (630)
2520 Bush Street, San Francisco
Grand Orator·-·····························'··- ..·······-················Reynold E. Blight (677)
756 South Broadway, Los Angeles
Assistant Grand Secr~tary...................:..........................Frank G. Hobbs (531 )
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal........................................................Henry G. Mathewson (514)
State Building, San Francisco
Grand Standard Bearer............................_................................Percy King (12)
Napa
Grand Sword Beare~............,.........................................Walter C. Shields (21)
Honolulu, T. H.
Grand Bible Bearer................·-··········-······-··~····-·········-MllJTJ' Horne (300)
Redlands
Senior Grand Deacon...........·-··················-·············•····Sidney K. Lehman ( 42)
649 South Olive Street, Los Angeles
Junior Grand Deacen......................_..................Theodore T. Spurgeon (202)
1834 West Eightieth Street, Los Angeles
Senior Grand Steward......................................................Ralph Merriam (272)
723 Pacific Southwest Building, Pasadena .
J unior Grand Steward.......................- ...................... Walter D. Adriance (209)
San Luis Obispo
Grand Pursuivant...............................:................- ............Warren D . Gill (546)
Edison Building, Alhambra
Grand Organist.........·-················-···-·······-··- - ·- ······· Chas. E. Anderson ( 374)
1717 Cabrillo Street, San Francisco
Grand Tiler .....................................:.......................... _....Frank G. Watson (354)
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco

G·RAND

LODGE
OF

1fl'itt anh .Arrepteh .tlaBntt&
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Eighty-fourth An.~ual Communication
The Most W orshipfo1 Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of t he Jurisdiction of California commenced
its Eighty-fourth Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, Van Ness Avenue and Oak Street, San Francisco,
on Tues.day, October 10, A. L. 5933, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
Officers of Grand L odg e

w-:.

FRANK W. Mixni .......................................................GrOHdMaster
R .•. w... ]AMES B. GrsT.....,............................................Def'uty Grand Master
R._. w._. RANDOLPH v. WHrTING................................./tmior Grand Warden
v..· W •• ·JOHN Wmc:1111:a....-........•..•............•.............•......••._Gf-Olfd Secretary
v.: w._. T H OMAS J. BA:KER........·-··································- ·······Grand Lecturer
v .. .R.; JoHN SNAPE................................................................ GrOHd Chaplain
w._. OAKLEY K. MORTON...- .•..........•....•.•.......•...•..•...:••..•••... Grand Orator
W .. ·FRANK G. HOBBs ................................•- ...A.rsistant Grand S ecretary
HENRY G. MATHEWSON •..•..... _ ...•.......•........•..•...••. - ... Grond Marshal
PERCY KtNG....••..............•...................... - ..... G,.and Standard Bearer
W · : HAR.RY HoaNE..... -·········:······················-··-····- ···Grmsd Bible Bearer
W. ·WARREN E. LIBBY....... -························-········.Snfflw Grand Deacon
W. :- SIDNEY B. Foace.........:.....·-············-··············.J.,.w,, Grand Deacon
W •• • HERBERT C. GoLDMAN....................................Selfio,. Grand Steward
ANDREW WHITNEY .•.•••.•............•......•......•..••.Junior Grand Steward
W •• • WARREN D. Gru..........-........................:................G1"a.d· Pursuivant
w._. CHARLES E. AKDDl90N..•- •. ·"·····································Gnmd Organist

M-:·

w...
w...

w._.

W •• FRAN K G. WATSoN •...•.•..•••..·-················-·········-·············-Gr.ed Tiler
(471)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

473

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

472

PAST GRAND MASTERS

w:.

M.".
ORRIN s. HENDERSON
M.". w:. DANA R. WELLER
M.". w:. JOHN D . MURPHEY
M:.,w : . BENJ. F . BLEDSOE
M.·.:,w.·: wu.u:A.M RHoDEs
HERVEY
M." . w:. BRADFORD WEBSTER
M.". w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.". w:. GEORGE F . RoDDEN
M.". w:. SAMUELE. BURKE

w:.

M.".
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN
M.". w:. ARTHUR s. CRITES
M.". w:. DAVID J. REESE
M.". w:. ALBERT E. BOYNTON
M.". w:. GEORGE L . }ONES
M.". w:. WILL H . FISCHER
M.".
GUSTAV A. HtJTAFF
M.". w:. CHAS. M. WOLLENBERG
M.". w:. JoHN STEWART Ross
M.". W.".RoBERT E. GAYLORD

w.:.

And 1415 offiCers and representatives from 567 chartered
Lodges.
·
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the following appointments:
Senior Grand Warden, George F. Rodden, Past Grand Master.
Grand Treasurer, James T. Fraser.
Grand Sword Bearer, Sidney K. Lehman.

And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with
music, and prayer by the Grand Chaplain.

DEVOTIONAL SERVICE
The V.". R.". John Snape, Grand Chaplain, conducted an
inspiring devotional service, preceded by the good old song,
'' Open . the Gates of the Temple," by the· choir .
. Dr. S.riape spoke as follows:
Most Worshipful Grand Master and brethren: Man's noblest aspiration is the quest of God; his deepest, purest affection, the love of God; his
sublimest ·c;ipacity, the worship of God. Goethe says that before a reader
may criticize an author he must be clear within. In the twilight a very
plain writing is illegible.
· The fool hath said in his heart, "There is no God," and he was right:
There is ·none-for a fool. He is not cleat' within, and there never will be
a God for him so long as he persists in remaining a fool.
No God? Then the Bible is the product of disordered brains. No
God·? · Then· the prophets were monomaniacs and their messages idle
utterances. No God? Then the Apostles were impostors and the Gospels
fairy: tales. No God? Then prayer is merely soul soliloquy and bdngs no
answer save the wild whisperings of. the wind. No .God? Then suffering

is insanity and suicide a virtue. No God? Then the fight against temptation is a fool's fight and might just as well end in sinful and selfish -indulgence. No God? Then. the belief of our craft is a false belief. No
God? Then David, sleeping in the wilderness, with stones for a pillow
and stars for a quilt, pursued by the usurper, and crying out in exultation,
" Oh God, Thou art my God," was a sentimentaHst carried away by false
hope. But just because there is a God, we that are here today would not
be here if t here were no God.
The trouble with Russia is that Russia is attempting to build a civilization with God left out; and it may be that that is the trouble with
America. We have lost the sense of God, and we should stand forth and
should make this our creed. As members of our !>¢loved craft we must
stand together and hold to Him. Our fraternity might well lead the nation
back to a sense of God, until men ever.ywhere shall recognize what was
meant by the poet :
"Every bird that sings
· And every flower that. stars the elastic sod, .
Every breath the radiant summer brings .
To the spirit is a word of God."

A telegram was received from Past Grand Master Kees-·
ling, now in Chicago, regretting his absence and wishing for
Grand Lodge a successful communication, where its deliberations may result in strengthening an Institution needed
now more than ever.

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MESSAGE OF GRAND MASTER
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
We have assembled here today for the eighty-fourth Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California. During the days of this
week we shall experience the joys and satisfactions of the renewal of
fraternal friendships and form new acquaintances to become the basis of
enduring friendships in the years to come. We shall hear and give consideration to the reports of those to whom was delegated the duty of
carrying on the activities of our fraternity in this Grand Jurisdiction
during the recess of the Grand Lodge, to review the work of-the past year,
to summarize its effect, and to plan for the future.
Responsive to the mandate of our Constitution, it is my duty to present
at this time a written message; setting forth my official acts during the
year, exhibiting the general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction,
and recommending such legislation as may be deemed necessary or expedient for the welfare of the craft.
Entering one year ago upon the duties of this office, the highest within
the gift of the brethren of California to beitow, I did so with a recognition
of its importance and a genuine desire to be of service to the craft. It has
been my constant endeavor to administer the affairs of the office fairly
and impartially, with due regard to adherence to our fundamentals. I
appear before you today in all humility, cognizant of the fact that I have
not measured up to my own anticipations or the standards I had set for
myself ; but all my thought, energy and physical strength have been directed
toward the fulfillment of the purposes for which it was your pleasure to
select me to seek to accomplish.
It has been a strenuous year. Beset with adverse economic conditions
the world over, our Lodges have not escaped the evil results which have
obtained in connection with the problems of unemployment and depletion
of income from business, industrial and professional activities.
For the second time in our history the report of the Grand Secretary
will show that we have suffered a net loss in membership and how this loss
was incurred. While regrettable, this is not of itself so much a matter for
concern, and it is my hope that with a return of more favorable conditions,
which I believe we may confidently expect, these losses should cease. It is
a matter of concern, however, that so many of our Lodges are unable
to pay their Grand Lodge dues. This situation is at once reflected upon our
ability to make adequate provision for financing our Homes as well as
other normal activities of the Grand Lodge. During the present com-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

476

munication we shall find many difficult problems to be sctlved. I solicit
your earnest attention thereto for the reason that they will be of such
nature as to challenge your best thought and fraternal co-opera.tion.
Special Communications
For the purposes of the record, I insert the following compilation of
special communications occurring since the last annual communication of
Grand Lodge :

By the Grand Master:
At Riverbank, October 19, 1932, to dedicate the Masonic hall of
Riverbank Lodge.
At Williams, October 2-0, 1932, to dedicate the Masonic hall of Tuscan
Lodge No. 261, and to install W:. Brother Percy King as Grand Standard
Bearer.
At ·Knights Landing, October 21, 1932, to dedicate the Masonic hall
of Grafton Lodge No. 141.
At Lindsay, October 22, 1932, to dedicate the Masonic hall of Lindsay
·
Lodge No. 416.
At Willits, November 2, 1932, to dedicate the Masonic hall of Willits
Lodge No. 365.
. At Pomona, November 11, 1932, to lay the come~ stone .of the State
Armory at that city, and to install w:. Brother Warren E. Libby as
Senior Grand Deacon.
At San Francisco, December 5, 1932, to install the v: · w: · William P. Filmer as Grand Treasurer.
At Palo Alto, December 17, 1932, to lay the corner stone of the
United States post office at that city;
At Red Bluff, January 13, 1933, to dedicate the Masonic · hall of
·
Vesper Lodge No. 84.
At Sanger April 29 1933 to dedicate the Masonic hall of Sanger
'
,
,
"
Lodge No. 316.
, . At Vallejo, April 15, 1933, to lay the corner stone of the Post Office
Building at that city.
At Napa, May 27, 1933, to lay the corner stone of the Post Office
Building at that city.
. At Napa, May 27, 1933, to dedicate the Masonic hall of Yount Lodge
No. 12.
· At El Centro, May 30, 1933, to lay the corner stone of the Federal
Building at that dty.

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

By the· Deputy Grand Master:

At Inglewood, July 22; 1933, to lay the corner stone of the Masonic
·
Temple at that city. ·
By the Senior Grand Wardm: .

.

At Merced, April 29, 1933, "fo lay the corner stone of the Federal
Building at that City. · ·
·
. At Redlands, July 22, 1933, to lay the corner stone of the Federal
Building at that city, by Warren E. Libby, Senior Grand Deacon.
At Oroville, February 11, 1933, to lay the corner ·stone of the United
States post office at that city, by Albert E. Boynton, Past Grand Master.
Visitations
. "W_~re I to ·atte~pt to enumerate t·he visitations made and receptions
given m my honor as Grand Master, there would be room for little else in
this report. My only regret is that because of my legislative duties during
the early months of the present year, it was 'not possible for me to visit
each of the districts in our grand jurisdiction. And yet, referring to the
above period, I find that .I made visitation to some thirty-seven districts
and thereby contacted brethren representing one hundred and seventy-five
of our Lodges. By · far the greater number of the districts have been
visited during the year, and through those visits has come to me much of
the pleasure of the term. Elsewhere I make reference to a visit of inter.jurisdictional nature to Medford, as the guest of the Grand Master of
Oregon, and to my visit to our Lodges of the Hawaiian Islands. Everywhere I h_ave be~n received with the utmost courtesy and fraternal consideration, and on each occasion was there evidence that the brethren were
pleased to meet and greet the titular head of the craft. I am deeply
grateful for the wonderful courtesy and consideration displayed. I have
found the brethren uniformly charitable of my lack of oratorical ability
a~d g'ra~ious listeners to my efforts ~o tell t~em of some of the problems
with which we are' collfronted, and some of the practical questions which
are before us.
Interjurisdictional Visitation
In response to a most cordial invitation from ¥.'. W.'. Walter C.
Winslow, Grand Master of Oregon, it was my privilege to attend as his
gues_t, ~ . fine meeting of the Masons of Southern Oregon, at Medford.
Leaving Sacramento on the. eve~)ng· of April 6th, accompanied by Mrs.
Mixter, I journeyed to Medford, to arrive in that thriving little city Saturday morning. The afternoon was spent in sight-seeing in company with
the R.'. W.'. Senior Grand Warden, Brother Wilson, and his wife, some
hours being spent in viewing the interesting environs of the .community.
Late in the afternoon the Grand Master, accompanied by several of the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

477

officers of the Grand Lodge, arrived, following which all adjourned tp the
Masonic Temple, first to partake of a .splendid banquet and later to
participate in a fine meeting full of fraternal good-will a.pd good:;f crllowship. Brother Winslow delivered an eloquent and forceful address .to the
brethren after which I was introduced and endeavored to express my
apprecia~ion for the courte~y of the inylt~_tio~ which had rriade possible
my attendance, and to felicitate the bret}Jren upon their goodly attendance
in -honor of their Most Worshipful Grand.Master. It was a .most ple'asant
occasion, and I was very happy at being able to be present.
A very cordial invitation to attend the Annual Communication ·of the
Grand Lodge of Nevada was received,_. but much to m:r regret, .beca~se of
engagements previously made for meetings in our own jurisdiction, I. could
not accept. One of our Past Masters who had the privilege of attending,
reports a fine meeting, one replete with constrnct ive achievement.··
I have the feeling that much of mutual fraternal benefit can result
from interjurisdictional visitations, particularly with those grand ·jurisdictions bordering upon our own state; a:nd I commend this thoµght to
future Grand 'Masters of the Grand Lodge of California.
The Hawaiian· Islands and Their ·L odges
Out of a year of most strenuous activity ·I took the·.time· to .visit our
Lodges of the Hawaiian Islands, and I am truly thankful that I did so.
Accompanied by Mrs. Mixter, I sailed on July 29th and .arrived in Honolulu on the morning of August 3rd. Some time before we 4ocked, B.rother
John A. Madden, Inspector ot' the 103rd Mas.onic district, h:o<!..!ped the
steamer from a launch, and we were thenceforth · in the hands of .friends
and brethren who spared no pains · to make our visit. the .sequence of
delights ft proved to be. Carefully worked out itineraries enabled. me t-0
visit eac;:h of the eight Lodges of the Islands, to discuss with ·'".arious
officers such matters of Masonic interest as. were presented,~.?s. ·'\Veil as
to enjoy the physical charms of that wonderland and th~· inimitable: hospitality of the brethren and their ladies.
· ·
The several Lodges are in healthy·· condition, one of them having
shown a modest net gain for the past year. All of them are excellently
officered, and their interest in and dev-0tion to our fraternity is quite
manifest. For the benefif of our brethren· hete who may not be informed,
five of these .Lodges are located on 'the·· rsland of Oa:hu;;upon which
Honolulu the Territorial Capital, 'is' situated. These · Lodges 'are: Hawaiian N~. 21, Le Progres de !'Oceanic No. 371, Pearl Harbor (l:!fo. 598,
· Honolulu No. 409 and Schofield No. 443, the others being Kilauea ·Na. 330,
at Hilo, on the Island of Hawaii; Maui No. 472, at Kahului, on the' Island
~f Maui, and Kauai Lodge No. 589,"at Lihue, on the Island of Kauai. The
men comprising the Masonry of the islarids:·a re outstanding irt the fraternal, civic and social affairs of their respective communities, and they

479

GRAND LQDG E OF Cft.LJFORNIA

4'78

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonic History
desetYe great credit for their zeal and enterprise in keeping to the fore·
front the banner bf Masortry in those distant outposts of the Pacific. His
RXceflert<:y, Brother Judd, Governor of the Tertitory, is an honored member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409, and his kindness to me will long be
cherished as one .of the very pleasant memories of our visit. I have
mentioned Brother Madden, who was kindness and thoughtful~ss personified. It was a real pleasure also to renew acquaintance with Brother
Charles A. Shepherd, at Hlto, Inspector of the 102nd district, comprising
the Lodges on the Islands of Hawaii, Maui and Kauai, who did so much
to make our visit enjoyable, and Brothers John T. Moir and John M.
R~s, both Past Masters of Kilauea Lodge No. 330 at Hilo, and Brother
Charles C. Pittam, of Honolulu, who have honored this Grand Lodge by
serving as officers thereof. To these splendid brethren, the Masters, War·
dens of the several Lodges, and their ladies, we owe a real debt of gratitude fot their untiring efforts to make our short stay the delightful
octa~ioft it was. My only regret in connection with our visit was that
because <>f the serious Illness of Brother Wallace A. Farrington, whom it
was my privilegtt to apll(>int Grand Sword Bearer at the time I assumed
the duties of Grand Master, I was denied the pleasure of seeing him.
I sincerely trust that hiJ illness may have passed and he is now on the
way to complete recovery.
One might devote much space to a description of. the beauties of the
!stands, only to fail to convey to his hearers anything by which their
charms could be visualized. With some geographical, geological and other
natural elements common to a11 of them, each possesses its own individual
set of attractions, which one must see in order to enjoy. One thing, however, is common to all the islands, and that is the unfailing generous
hospitatlty of the people. Snrely, if kindness could destroy, we must have
petisht!d before our stay had been completed. Long after the memories
of the beauties of the "Paradise of the Pacific" shall have faded from . our
minds, there will remain the recollection of the kindnesses 'bestowed upon
us. My Aloha to yon, my brethren and your ladies of the Islands.
Necrology
The Grim Reaper has again inYaded our ranks and removed from our
midst a large number of our brethren. Two of· our Inspectors, Brothers
Cral.is Dexter, o.f the 20th district, ·and Samue! T. Gillispie, of the lllth
di~triet, have gone to that bourne whence no traveler returns. These
brethren were capable and efficient officers, and in their passing this Grand
Lodg~ has sustained a distinct loss. To the bereaved families we tender
out sincere and heartfelt sympathy.
The Committee on Necrology will at an appropriate time furnish its
report, which will contain the details of our regrettable losses.
·

A service of most valuable eharacter has been performed by our
C0J11mittee on Masonic History in coll!!eting hlstoricat data pertainiog to
the Lodges of California. My visitations throughout the jurisdiction have
brought to me the conviction that the 5qbject is c;me of great interest to all
our Lodges, and that a compilation and publication of our hi?tor.y would
be received by the craft with genuine satisfaction. This comm1tt~, hea~
by Leon 0. Whitsell as c~irman, has given genero1UIY of time and .p er·
sonal funds in the promotio11 of this work, and they have spared no .eff9r:t
to obtain reliable informatio11 in regard to matters of h~torical ipter.es1
from virtually every Lodge in the jurisdiction. Because of what I jeel to
be the importance of this activity and the kn.own interest of the brtthreq,
I desire to recommend the continuation of the committee,
Grand Lodge last year aµthorized the incoming .Gr4pd MflSter ·to
appoint a special committee to make survey. as to cost of c?mpiling and
publishing a Masonic History of Califorma. The following brethren
were named to serve thereon :
Leon O. Whitsell, San Francisco; Pavid J . Reese, Ventura ·; Mark A.
Sawrie., Berkeley.
.
This committee will present its report for your consideration tomocrow, and to it I invite your earnest consideration.

a

S-pecial Letter to the Craft
Prior to the recessing of the California Legislature as of MilY 12th,
that body had made provision fOf' a special electioo ~ ior June Z7Ul,
at which the people of California were to vote upon a group of important
questions: Inasmuch as this election was a special one and tne time
allowed for consideration of the questions to be decided very short, I felt
justified in sending a communication to the craft, calling .their. attentio.u ~9
some of the matters to be decided, giving a brief e~planatio» of their
effect, and urging that they be given careful consider•tiwi and that they
go to the polls on election day and vote.
It is my belief that we may with propriety, engage ·iR sueh activit:r
so long as no effort is made to influence the vote of. any mem~r upon
either side of any question which might be controversial. Ours 1s a venerable and conservative lostitulion, and it has attained its present position
by strict adherence to certain fundamental principks: I w~ld Jlot ~o.Jlllt~­
nance any procedure that smacked of participation m partisan pohbcs m
our fraternity nor would I condone any activity in or on the part of our
Lodges wher:in as a result of proper discussions of q~estion of ~u.blic
interest 4ttempts .should be made to an:ive ·at c011Clus1oos or decmons
through the adoption of resolutions or by .other similar means. f:lut I
do feel that within the Lodge questions of public interest may ha~e d1scus-sion and consideration for the enlightenment of our members, who, after

..

480

PROC~EDINGS

OF .THE

all, are citizens of the nation and the state, and who should have the
opportun.i ty -to I>\!. informed upon matters of concern 'to them.
The text of the communication referred to will be found in the
appendix hereof. .
Unemployment
-, Many of ·our brethren have, during the past three or four years, been
faced with the problems growing out of unemployment and its attendant
embarrassments. Curtailing of public and private enterprises in construction, ·retrenchments in commercial, · industrial and other activities have
conspired to increase' the number of those for whom there has been
opportunity for gainful occupation, and many members of our fraternity
have · felt the effects of this condition.
In the belief that the situation could with propriety be called to the
alteritioii of our Lodges, I addressed the following letter to the craft:
San Francisco, June 10, 1933.
To the Masters and Brethren of the Lodges of this Jurisdiction:
~ne of the vital problems confronting our Lodges today is that
resultmg from unemployment of large numbers of their members. The
effect of this condition has been a reduction in the ability of many brethren
to pay their dues and a very· considerable increase of appeals for relief.
Last year M.'. w:. Robert B. Gaylord, then Grand Master addressed a
communication to you in which he set forth his views upo~ the problem
of unemployment and strongly urged the appointment of competent and
energetic committees by all Lodges. I do not know the extent to which
the Lodges responded generally, but from information at hand, I feel that
much ·constructive good was accomplished. Believing that much can still
be done to relieve our unemployed brethren, I take this means of bringing
this impor~ant matt~r to Y?Ur a~tention and to urge that it be given your
·
prompt and energetic consideration.
. The following plan, in use by some of the Lodges and which has
proven successful, is recommended:
Two active committees are appointed in each Lodge : one on registration, the other on contact.
The duty of the registration committee is to list all unemployed
members · on a special card, noting such particulars as age, occupation,
f.lSjleri~nce, etc.
·
.. ,.·.The duty of the contact committee is to contact every employer pos~ibte, endeavor to enlist his co-operation and take note of his needs, if any,
a_nd· the · cham::es for preseht or future employment. It is, of course, partl-cttla'l'ly desirable that care should be used in the selection of the personnel
Qf. :these ,committees, because the contact committee particularly will be
y~.sted .. '¥~th the responsibility for selling the employer upon the idea of
co~operat10n.
·
,,' !,h~/iJ)ove is suggested because it is a plan now in use, and which is
prov1ltg ~trccessful. Other plans doubtless have been or will be worked
out. · The plan' or system devised is not so important as is the matter of
securing practical results, and I shall be very happy to be advised by any

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

481

Master as to what his Lodge is doing and what is being accomplished.
The important thing is that the need of our unemployed brethren is imperative and that we should feel it to be our duty as Masons to make it
possible for him to help himself by doing everything to aid him in obtaining employment.
Sincerely and fraternally,
FRANK W. MrxTER, Grand Master.
I am very happy to advise you that a great number of responses were
received and there is reason to feel that a large number of our Lodges
have by various means been instrumental in aiding unemployed members
in securing work. I commend to you, my brethren, the thought that we
should put forth every effort in the direction of helping a brother to find
a job. and thus put him in a position to help himself. Our Employment
Bureaus have done and are doing a splendid piece of work in this connection. The value of this service can be materially augmented by the
willing co-operation of the officers of Lodges and, in smaller communities,
through the appointment of a committee to carry out the purpose of a
program designed to be helpful in this respect.
Transfer of Trials
It is my duty herein to report transfers of trials to Lodges other
than those wherein the charges originated :
A case originating in George Washington Lodge No. 525 was transferred to Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
A case developing out of a retrial of a member of Live Oak Lodge
No. 61 was, upon the request of the Master of said Lodge, transferred
to McKinley Lodge No. 347.
A case originating in Big Bear Lodge No. 617 was, by order of Grand
Lodge at its communication last year, remanded for retrial. The first
trial having been held in Redland Lodge No. 300, I ordered the retrial to
be held therein, same to be presided over by Brother Oakley K. Morton,
Past Master of Evergreen Lodge No. 259, he having presided at the
former trial.
The case originating in George Washington Lodge No. 525 was made
the subject of extensive inquiry by me before ordering the transfer .
Finally, because of certain local elements in connection therewith being
of political character, I reached the conclusion that it would not only be
impossible to secure a fair and impartial trial in the Lodge of which the
accused was a member, but that the trial should be removed from the
immediate environment of the Lodge itself. With the feeling that the
interests of justice would be best served through such removal, I ordered
the trial transferred to Live Oak Lodge No. 61. I believe my action to
have been justified by the facts presented to me, as well as the authority
conveyed by Section 511, Digest of Decisions.

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The other cases perhaps require no further comment, as they were
retrials. The first of these was transferred at the request of the Master of
Live Oak Lodge. The sec-0nd was -0rdered held before the .same Lodge,
and the same presiding officer was requested to officiate thereat.
Earthquake
Early in the evening of March 10th, I was startled to receive the
news that an earthquake of consi'derable intensity had occurred in the
soutru;rn part of our state, the shock being felt m-0st heavily in Long
Beach and other nearby_ communities. Being at the time in Sacramento
in attendance upon the Legislature, I conferred with Brother William A.
Sitton, Senior Grand Warden, and as soon as possible thereafter established communication with Brother James B. Gist, our Deputy Grand
Master, in Los Angeles. As I was unable personally to visit the scene of
the earthquake, I requested Brother Gist to represent me in taking charge
of any matters affecting the welfare of our brethren which might be
brought to his attention. He immediately took steps to ascertain what
relief, if any, was needed and in other ways gave constructive assistance
to the working out of the problems involved. While there was reported
a most regrettable number of casualties resulting from the temblor among
residents of the stricken area, I am happy to be able to advise that none
of these were reported from among our membership.
Fotlowing my contacts with the Deputy Grand Mastei", I secured communication with the Grand Secretary by long distance telephone and
requested that he set up plans for taking care of emergency relief, should
soch become necessary. This was confirmed by telegram, and Brother
Whicher took the steps suggested; but no direct requests appearing, the
only contribution found to be desirable was that made to the Red Cross
in the amount of five hundred dollars.
With rare courage and enterprise, the citizens of the localities affected
entered almost at once upon a program of rehabilitation, and I am informed that this activity is making satisfactory progress.
It having come to my attention that a number of our Lodges had sustained damage to buildings or equipment, I appointed the f.oUowingnamed committee to make a survey of the situation and to advise me as t-0
the extent of the damage to Lodges :
Herbert C. G<>ldman, Los Angeles, chairman; Fred R. Pardee, Inglewood; Clark H. Shaw, Long Beach; Truman Van Dyke, Los Angeles;
Albert S. Crossfield, Wilmington.
This committee has filed its report, the result of some weeks of work
in assembling the desired information, and I desire at this time to express
my deep appreciation for the fine co-operation shown by Brother Goldman
and his committee for the energetic and intelligent manner in which they
approached and carried on tlte difficult task assigned to them.

I shall not here enter into details as to the extent of the damage and
financial losses incurred, this being left for the consideration of the
Finance Committee. Herewith, however, is a list of the Lodges, showing
their several locations, which were included in the report of the above
committee:
Torrance, damage to building.
Wilmington, damage to ·building.
San Pedro, damage to building.
Compton, total loss of building.
Seal Beach, damage to building.
Santa Ana, damage to building.
Huntington Park, damage to building.
Long Beach, damage to both Temples.
Whittier, damage to buildings.

483

Other Lodges suffering damage with respect to which reports were
filed were:
Norwalk No. 315.
Artesia No. 377.
York (Watts) No. 423.
Bellflower No. 523.
Lynwood No. 600.
Inglewood, two Lodges.
Bell No. 483.
Florence No. 649.
It is to be expected that some of the above Lodges, by reason of the
misfortunes which have befallen them, will of necessity apply to this
Grand Lodge for relief. Should this be done, I feel confident that when
their respective needs are determined and recommendations made by the
proper committee, a helping hand will be gladly extended and the necessary
aid be made available.
As one of the results of the disaster, many of our Lodges were
rendered homeless and a number of requests for permission to meet in
temporary quarters were received, a portion of these being accompanied
by requests for permission to change the dates of meetings for the time
being. Fully cogninnt of the provisions of the Constitution with respect
thereto, but recogniiing the fact that a situation amounting to a genuine
emergency existed, and acting under what I believed to be the general
powers of the Grand Master, the requested permissions were granted,
with the proviso, however, that when such other quarters were to be
occupied the same should first be approved by the District Inspector.
I would indeed be remiss if I should close my reference to the earthquake without informing Grand Lodge of the numerous offers of financial
aid coming from other grand jurisdictions. This manifestation of truly
Masonic spirit is appreciated in a way beyond my power to express. Among

l

484

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the messages received from the Grand Masters or Grand Secretaries
proffering assistance were telegrams, radiograms and long distance telephones from :
The M.". w:. Grand Master of Oregon.
The Grand Lodge of Ireland.
The M.". w:. Grand Master of Ohio.
The M. ·. w. ·. Grand Master· of Utah.
The v:.
Grand Secretary at Bahia.
Brother Carl H. Claudy, Executive Secretary, Masonic Service Association, Washington, D. C.

w:.

Appropriate acknowledgment was made in each case by either the
Grand Secretary or myself, and I desire here to record my personal
gratitude for the assistance so generously offered.
Grand Master's Conference
With a keen sense of personal disappointment I realized early in January that it would, because of my duties as a member of the Senate of the
State Legislature, be impossible for me to attend the Conference of (;rand
Masters at Washington. I therefore invited Brother James B. Gist, the
Right Worshipful Deputy Grand Master, to go in my stead; and he, at
considerable personal sacrifice, consented and attended the conference.
Brother Gist informs me that the meeting was replete with interesting
discussions and experiences and that much of benefit w<!-s gained through
contacts made with the Grand Masters of other jurisdictions and the opportunity thus created for an exchange of viewpoints and discussions of
many matters of interjurisdictional interest. The experience of Brother
Gist and those of our Grand Masters who have in the past attended these
conferences has been such as to lead me to express the hope that Grand
Masters in the future will attend in order that they may participate in the
deliberations to be had for the general benefit of all concerned.
For the information of the brethren I submit herewith the agenda of
the topics discussed at the conference. These cover a wide range of subject
matter and reveal some of the problems with which other grand jurisdictions are concerned:
1. What should be the attitude of Grand Lodges regarding the activities
of non-Masonic bodies, membership in which depends upan· Masonic
affiliations? What control, if any, may be exercised over such bodies
and how may such control be made most effective?
Discussion to be opened by Grand Masters Thad B. Landon of Missouri and Walter C. Winslow of Oregon.
2.

INTERJURISDICTIONAL RELIEF.

What are the best methods of procedure to secure effective and uniform action in extending such relief?
Discussion to be opened by Grand Masters Louis E. Anderson of
Michigan and George A. Luxford Of Colorado.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3.

485

SUPERVISION DY GRAND LODGES OF THE FINANCIAL AFFAIRS OF CONSTITUENT LODGES.

.
(a) Is centralization in "such matters desirable?
Discussion to be opened by Grand Master C. C. Mollenhauer
of New York.
(b) What control should a Grand Lodge exercise over Masonic
Temple building projects of Lodges?
Discussion to be opened by Grand Master Wm. B. Clarke of
Georgia.
(c) Should Grand Lodges prescribe in detail regulations governing
payment of dues to Lodges and procedure with reference to
suspension for non-payment thereof?
Discussion to be opened by Grand Master S imeon Nash of
Ohio.
4. Organization for Grand Masters' Conference. Is it desirable to set
up some kind of an advisory or planning board for the conference
to insure continuity of program?
.
Discussion to be opened by Grand Master Curtis Chipman of Massachusetts.
·

5. OPEN FORU M.
(If time permits, matters of general interest to the fraternity · may
be presented and discussed under this topic.)

6. Time and place of next conference.
Public Schools Week
Conforming to established custom and precedent, I caused to be issued
on January 16th of this year a proclamation for the fourteenth annual
observance of Public Schools Week in California. This constructive
activity,· originated by Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams during
his year as Grand Master, has shown constant, consistent progress as to
its observance and the very desirable results attained in bringing to the
attention of the citizens of ·our commonwealth the importance of that
greatest of all our institutions, our public schools. T)'ie proclamation
referred to above will be found in the appendix to this message. Because
o.f the character of the comment therein contained, certain parts thereof
might justify its rereading.
The report of our able and efficient Committee on Public Schools
Week will be presented to you during this communication,. and I would
strongly urge that you give it your eamest attention. You will learn from
this report, as I have learned from personal observation and inquiry, that
the observance this year was probably the most successful in point of
general interest and. attendance at the various meetings of. any heretofore
promoted. One of the reasons for this was the efficient and intelligent
manner in which details were worked out by the committee headed by its
splend:d chairman, Past Grand Master Adams. Another was that because

486

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of adverse economic and financial conditions so generally prevailing, as
a result of which the public were brought to a. realization of the fact that
our public school system was in danger, not necessarily of disruption but
in a position whereby to seriously jeopardize its efficient functi~ning
because of lessened ability to meet costs of support.
Therefore is it particularly gratifying to learn that the observance last
April was oustandingly success.ful, and I now express to the chairman and
the members of his committee the grateful appreciation of Grand Lodge
for the very excellent results attained.
Officers' Associations
My observation during the past year has convinced me of the usefulness of this type of organization. These associations are functioning in
most of the districts of the jurisdiction and in my opinion have amply
demonstrated their worth. I have found that in many of our sparsely
settled districts, where the Lodges are at considerable distances apart,
many of the officers travel many miles in order to attend the meetings
there to discuss matters of interest, to exchange experiences and in many
ways to receive the benefits of the contacts with their brethren which are
thus afforded. I desire to express the hope that this movement shall continue, and that in districts where these associations have not yet been
formed, steps be taken to effect an organization, because I feel sure that
the carrying out of such program will return splendid dividends in the
satisfactions and fraternal benefits to accrue from this activity.
Our Masonic Homes and the Trustees
This afternoon you will have the opportunity to listen to the report
of the Trustees of your Homes. The report of the Board will be the
story of how the affairs of the Homes have been administered during
the past year. It will be a story containing much of human interest, as
well as one bringing to you the manifold problems connected with the
functioning of this important activity of our fraternity. I commend to
your earnest attention the reading of this report, not only for the interesting material it contains, but also for the reason that during this communication you are to be faced with the discharging of a difficult and perplexing
responsibility, that of making provision for adequately financing the support of our Homes for the coming Grand Lodge year. You need not be
~minded of the period of economic distress which has prevailed during
the past four years. The· effects of those conditions are, alas, too well
known. Individuals, firms, corporations, and, naturally, our Lodges, have
participated in the general situation to such extent as to make impossible
escape from a definite knowledge of their attendant effect. But through it
all our Trustees have shouldered the tremendous burden of carrying on
through adverse conditions in such way as to inspire us all with admiration for their constructive achievement in the face of great difficulties and
for their unselfish and untiring efforts to bring happiness and contentment

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.. 87

to our guests at Decoto and Covina. I feel that we owe to the.se brethr~u
a debt of gratitude we can never hope to repay. Our Homes are well managed by the respective superintendents and their able staffs, and my personal observation leads me to believe that in the main the residents are
happy and co~tented. During the past year I have, when addressing the .
brethren, told them of their Homes, because I have learned that e.xcepting
for the officers of Lodges and soine of the brethren who are members of
Lodges near Decoto or Covina, relatively few are informed regarding
them. Great interest in this subject prevails generally, and I hope that our
brethren will evin<:e more and more interest as the years go by. Here is
the gre":test and most important individual .activity of our fraternity.
Hence, how important it is that we should acquaint ourselves with more
of its details. I urge you, my brethren, to visit both these Homes in order
that you become better informed regarding the manner in which they are
being conducted; to talk with the residents and receive from them. as I
have, their impressions of their environment. I assure you that the time
taken for such visitation will be well spent and that you will come away
with a better appreciation of what Masonry means.
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund Board

In connection with the consideration of the problem of suitable provision ·for financing our Homes, the growir:ig conviction has obtained that
our present system j.s unsound, unsafe and, therefore, unsatisfactory frotn
many angles and for many reasons. It is unsound because it fails to insure
a dependable source of revenue not subject to the fluctuations of varying
economic conditions. It is unsafe for the same reason and for the further
reason that the experience of the past four years has demonstrated that
when assailed by adverse economic conditions, additional and unprecedented
demands for aid and relief come to us for attention and consideration at
a time when, because of those conditions, the craft is but illy prepared to
meet them. Realization of the fact that a most important problem was
present in this situation and an appreciation of the necessity that prompt
and constructive · action be had, inspired Grand Lodge, at its eighty-third
communication, to adopt the report of a special committee previously appointed to study the subject and to submit its recommendations. The
adoption of this report, and that of the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes, was followed by the enacting of appropriate legislation by which
the incoming Grand Master was authorized. to appoint a Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund Board of fifteen members and to name the chairman
thereof. After due consideration of the purposes for which the Board
was to be appointed and an appreciation of the desirability that the geo-.
graphical distribution of its members should be rather widespread, I
appointed the following named ·brethren to serve thereon :
William P . Jeffries, Los Angeles, chairman; William Rhodes Hervey,
Los Angeles; Rollie W . Miller, Los Ange1es; Reynold E. Blight, Los

488

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

Angeles; Leon 0. Whitselt, San Francisco; David W. Schick, San Diego;
Ed~und A. Lockett, Pasadena; Louis C. Drapeau, Ventura; Arthur S.
Crites, Bakersfield; Robert B. Gaylord, San Francisco; Earl Warren,
Oakland; Gus A. Hutaff, Dunsmuir; James T. Fraser, Eureka; John F.
Pullen, Sacramento; Eugene Elkus, San Francisco.
.. These brethren were selected also because of their well known business
ability and experience, their loyalty to the fraternity and their appreciation
of the need for constructive action. Following the appointment of this
Boar.d, the first meeting· thereof was held in San Francisco, at which
meet1~g the terms of the respective members were fixed in accordance with
Constitutional provision, and rules and regulations were adopted. The
month of May was designated by me to be "Masonic Homes Endowment
Month" for 1933. During this month a great number of meetings in furtherance of the purposes of the endowment program were held. Inasmuch
a.s the c?mplete report of the Board will be presented ·f or your consideration d~rmg the pres~n~ communication, I shall mention some of the larger
gatherings I was privileged to attend. Outstanding among these was the
meeting held in the Shrine Auditorium in Los Angeles. This beautiful
room has a seating capacity in excess of five thousand persons, and so
thorough had. been th~ work of the committee in charge of the publicity
for. the ?ccas10n that 1t was packed to the doors by Master Masons and
~e1r ladies, and I was later informed that fully ;is many as gained admiss1?n were turned away for lack of space. A delightful program of entertam~ent was rendered in connection with the addresses given by Brother
Jeffries and other brethren, who explained the purposes of the meeting
and drew the attention of the audience to the program initiated by Grand
Lodge designed to build up an endowment fund for the benefit of our
Homes. Great interest was manifest also at the meetings held in the
Scottish Rite Temples in San Francisco and Oakland and the Masonic
Temple at Fresno, at all of which I was JJresent. I am informed that a
very fine meeting of this type was held in Pasadena this gathering too
being marked by reason of the excellent attendance ~nd -the keen in~eres~
displayed.
.
To Brother Jeffries and the members of his Board is due the gratitude
. of the Grand Lodge for the work they have done in laying the foundation
for this most constructive enterprise, .that of building an endowment fund
of sufficiently substantial proportions that in the years to come the revenues
from such fund shall be a guarantee of our ability to carry on the noble
work so effectively performed during the past thirty-five years. I hope
that the experience of the years to come shall -demonstrate the wisdom of
this undertaking. We should keep in mind the. fact that this is a job not
alone for today and tomorrow, but for years in the future apd that its
importance is such as .to justify the active, intelligent and sympathetic
co-operative effort of all our brethren.
·

489

Board of Control and Boards of Relief
I feel that I should call to the attention of Grand Lodge the splendid
and constructive work being done by our Board of Control and the several
Boards of Relief. Under the capable and efficient functioning of the Board
of Control and Boards of Relief our program of administering relief
has gone forward throughout the year in most satisfactory fashion.
Numerous reimbursements for funds expended in behalf of distressed
brethren from other jurisdictions have been secured through the activities
of the Board of C-Ontrol which in all probability would not have been
received otherwise. The powers and duties of this Board under our Constitution are extensive, and properly so, because of their very nature. T he
report of this Board will be presented for your consideration next Thursday morning, and I invite your close attention thereto, because of the
interesting and important nature of this document.
The annual meeting of the Masonic Relief Association of the United
States met in Cincinnati October 5th and 6th this year. Feeling that the
presence of a representative of our Grand Lodge at the meeting of this
association could be productive of much benefit to the craft in California,
I requested Past Grand Master Reese, chairman of the Board of Control,
to represent us thereat. I recommend that his necessary traveling expenses
incurred in attending said meeting be paid by this Grand Lodge.
Our Boards of Relief are doing a fine work, and like the Board of
Control, are entitled to the sincere commendation of Grand Lodge for
the able and consistent manner in which their duties are being performed.
These Boards are well officered, and I am happy to be able to say, following considerable opportunity for personal observation, that they are performing a distinct service to our fraternity.
During the past year two <>f our Lodges attempted to withdraw from
the Boards of Relief in the cities wherein they were situated, but the
Board of Control disapproved the proposed action and submitted the cases
to me for attention. After carefully reviewing the entire matter, I approved the action of the Board of Control because I felt that to countenance such withdrawal would be a violation of the established policy of
this Grand Lodge, and for the further reason that the Board of Relief is
the only agency whereby the type of relief contemplated can be carried on
in orderly way in cities or communities having several Lodges within their
confines.
3.2 Beer
Under date of June 10, 1933, I addressed the following communication
to the craft:
To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren of the Lodges of the Jurisdiction~
of California:
Many inquiries have come to me relative to 3.2 per cent beer since this
beverage was declared legal by Congressional enactment . The prevailing

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

legislation has not yet been made th
b.
·
pebending such determination, beer whichec=d1i.~t o\hCo1!~tl d~gr~, hence,
held to be non-intoxicating.
s wi sa1 eg1slation must
Such legislative declaration cannot h0
r
as Masons in the observance of the ' 1!-'~yer, re 1eye us as to our duty
coodoct. Nor can it conv an
P.rop~1e ies as evidenced by our own
forget the admonitions wi'hav~ ::thonzahon, ~ea! or .implied, that we may
scribing our desires.
peatedly received with respect to circumI therefore direct that until th
Grand Lodge, in October i933 th e nt;xt a:;:iual ~ommunication of our
3.2 per cent beer in any Masonic h~lfervmg, l~p.ensmg or use of the said
or other rooms connected therew"th' or the dmmg, banquet, refreshment
hereby forbidden. It is our manife1st 'dot at ~Y Masonic gatherings, is
o?rselves. Any Mason, therefore en u Y as. asons p~operly to conduct
disorderly or any other conduct in' con~agt~d ~h any ~usmes.s, who suffers
to cast disrepute upon the fraternity e~Jt°~ erewbe1th, "'.h1ch would tend
of unmasonic conduct.
' WI a ways
subJect to a. charge
Fraternally yours,
FRANK W. MxxTli:R, Gra11d Master

subj~~i::~~h was t~ken. only after very considerable consideration o~ the

d
be
e rea 1zation that some pronouncement
only desirable but necessary pending final action by G a~~ar; toF not
co~ment at . this time is perhaps unnecessar I fe ran o ge. urth~r
subiect, and that of other liquors is of u~ .
~I, however, that this
careful attention, and that this Gr~nd Lods e ~~~n~d1mportance t~ justify
with respect thereto b declari
. g
u . talce a definite stand
lation I th f
Y
ng a policy and enacting appropriate legis•.
ere ore recommend . that this matter be reported b th

==~t~~;:t~C:d :~a~::dh ~oodmmitftees sub'.11dit th~ir recommend~ion: ~~o~:
ge or cons1 erat10n.

Pay of Members
This subject has recurrent!
d b f
of Grand Lod f
· Y appeare e ore annual communications
existing plan h~: ~:ns:~e~e~: trst'. bhut n~· deviation f~om. the hitherto
.
e e1g ty-t ird communication of Grand
Lod th t bod
~e a
Y adopted' a resolution in the following form:
Resolved, that the incoming Grand M
be
.
a committee of five to study the matter of aster . bulthorized to appoint
an equ1ta e system of pay of
members in attendance at Grand Lod
communication."
ge, to report at the next annual

ed
Pursua.nt to the above, I appointed the followin
serve on said committee:
g nam brethren to
Sidney K. Lehman, Los Angeles; Frank G. Falloon Los A I .
F re d R Pard"ee In I
od H
,
nge es ,
bert J. Stewart, San g~:r~no.; orace E. Vedder, South Pasadena; WilThis committee will present its report f
the present communication.
or your consideration during

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

491

Masonic Education
In his message to the eighty-third annual .corrununication of Grand
Lodge in 1932, Grand Master Gaylord recommended that .a committee of
not less than three nor more than five be appointed by the incoming Grand
Master to study this question, and to report its conclusions at the next
communication of Grand Lodge. This ·recommendation was approved by
the Committee on Po-licy and General Purposes and adopted by Grand
Lodge. In conformity therewith I appointed the following committee:
Irving Magnes, Oakland; Jesse M. Whited, San Francisco; Lee T.
Mullen, Los Angeles; Ira F. Thampson, Los Angeles; A. Heber Winder,
Riverside.
The report of this committee, made after many months of intensive
study, will be rendered during the present communication. It is my sincere
hope that in the report of this committee there shall be found that which
can be made the basis for a constr11<;tive and intelligent program for the
use and benefit of the Lodges of this jurisdiction. I feel that there is
great need for something of this kind. In my addresses to the brethren
during the past year I have repeatedly stressed the importance of having
an activity of this type, authorized and carried on by Grand Lodge through
a proper agency, whereby our Lodges may be enabled to have as a part of
their regular operation, something of a nature to instruct, interest, entertain and educate (Masonically) the brethren. There are many reasons,
in my opinion, why this should be done. If we are to survive as a great
fraternity, striving always to attain those objectives pertaining to the
uplift and upbuilding of mankind for the betterment of humanity, and to
continue to foster and promote those precepts and ideals so intimately
interwoven in the fabric of our great Institution, we must do that which
will give promise of guaranteeing its permanency, instead of permitting its
possible lapse into lethargy and inactivity,
In connection with our consideration of this subject it should be
remembered that we are living in an era vastly different from that of only
a short generation ago. Development in facilities for transportation, communication, entertainment and in many other important matters has been
of such nature as to produce an environment and conditions vastly different
from those in which our fathers lived. It should be borne in mind that
the competition for the time of men is much greater than was the case
only a relatively few years ago, and that if we are to hold the interest of
the members of our fraternity we must do that which will keep alive in
them the allegiance they owe to their Lodges, to keep alive in their hearts
the desire to attend their Masonic meetings and-to lend their aid in carrying
on the functioning of our Institutian. For a long period of years following
the close of the World War our Lodges were busily employed in conferring the degrees of Masonry upon those who knocked at our doors and
were accepted. We did this almost to the exclusion of all else, and now

492

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that there has come through the effects of the most serious economic
debacle in our history, a respite as it were, there is presented in the situation prevailing today an opportunity which we must not overlook to do
that which will keep our ·great fraternity in the forefront, where I am
su~e we all £:el i.t rightfully belongs. So it is my earnest hope that during
th.is co~mumcat1on there shall be ad?pted a policy and program dealing
with this matter, to the end that we may prevent the evil effects of inaction.
Reduction of Fees for the Degrees
In his message to Grand Lodge last year Grand Master Gaylord commented upon the fact that while no change in fees had been made by the
great _majority of our Lodges, there had nevertheless been a substantial
tendency toward such reduction, evidenced by the number of Lodges which
had submitted amendments to by-laws to that effect. During the first few
months of my incumbency as Grand Master, amendments to by-laws of
Lodges providing for reductions in the fees for degrees were submitted
for approval in such number as to appear to me to be a cause for real
concern. After giving this matter much consideration I addressed a communication to the several Lodges, calling attention to ~hat I felt to be the
evil ~ffect of this policy. This communication will be found in the appendix
to this report. All the amendments to which reference is made were 1 when
properly.certified, approved by me because I realize that it is solely within
the provmce of the Lodge to decide these questions. I felt however and
still feel that possibly in many cases due consideration as' to the effects
?£ red~ctions of this kind were not had, and for that reason felt justified
m callmg to the attention of the Lodges my views upon this subject. This
letter sets forth my viewpoint in such a way as to make it unnecessary here
t? repeat what was said therein. I would, however, again draw your attention t_o my comment upon this question in the hope that there may be found
therem enough .of merit to justify its rereading and consideration.
Consolidations
Throughout this report will be found many indications that a number
of our Lodges are not in the best of condition, and there is much reason
for the belief that little hope for improvement can be held out as to some
of them. I refer particularly to certain Lodges in metropolitan areas
small in membership, whose income has been found to be insufficient t~
me~t current expenses, and in many of which a condition approaching stagnat10n seems to prevail. I have always looked with favor upon the small
Lodge as being in many respects the most desirable type because of the
greater opportunity for better acquaintance among the members with the
result that generally a greater d~gree of fraternal spirit obtai;s and the
individual member secures more of pi;;r~on~l satisfaction thereby. But
Lodges, as all other forms of organizatiqn, can~ot overlook the practic~l
?r business side of affairs, and the Lodge that cannot° function within its
mcome might fail to justify its continued existence. It is my belief that

493

such Lodges should give careful consideration to the thought of effecting
a consolidation with another Lodge similarly situated, to the end that
through such consolidation a better Lodge, able to carry on as a useful
Masonic unit, could take the place of two weak and inefficient organizations.

Special Relief Cases
During the past year several cases were brought to my attention
wherein ~he desirability for prompt action seemed imperative. In regard
to each of them advice was sought from other officers of Grand Lodge,
Past Grand ,Masters and other brethren, and where the requested relief
was granted it was tendered only after careful inquiry and investigation,
and the conclusion had been reached that the expenditure of our funds was
fully justified. In this connection I have submitted to the Finance Committee the details, showing the names, amounts and the purposes for which
special relief expenditures were authorized.
For some of these matters we appear to have no well defined provision
for prompt and expeditious attention. It is my belief that the Grand
Master should be authorized to appoint a special committee when in his
judgment the same might to him be deemed necessary or desirable to assist
in the study of such cases of special nature as might be brought to his
attention. I refer to those cases of special character which do not at
present a~pear to fall within the purview of the Trustees of the Homes,
the Boards of Relief or the Board of Control to administer. I recommend
this for the consideration of this Grand Lodge. I further recommend that
so far as may be possible and advisable with respect to relief cases of
special nature, in so far as their requirements may be ascertained in advance, definite provision be made for same by this Grand Lodge for the
information and guidance of the incoming Grand Master.
Decisions
Many requests for rulings or decisions upon questions covering a wide
range of Masonic jurisprudence have been received during the past year.
A careful review of my files reveals the fact that in only one of these cases
was the question not already covered either in our Constitution or Ross'
Digest of Decisions, second edition. M,any were asked for the purpose of
clarification as to interpretation, in cases where the writer was genuinely
in doubt. Others, unfortunately, indicated either lack of search and study,
or inability to understand. In some cases questions were asked by a Past
Master or by an officer other than the Master, and in my opinion could
have been answered by the Master or the Inspector of the District without
reference to the Grand Master. I believe this has to a considerable extent
been the experience of many of my predecessors, and I feel that much time
resulting from inevitable delay in connection with correspondence of this
character could be saved through careful study of our Constitution and

494

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that wonderful work of Past Grand Master John Stewart Ross, his Digest
of Decisions and Regulations. For the reason that I deem it inadvisable
and unnecessary to encumber the record with repetitions, I shall here
report the matter referred to above because it developed out of an affirmative action by Grand Lodge at its communication last year.
At the communication held in October, 1932, the Grand Lecturer was
directed to require of Inspectors· due certification of the jlroficiency of
Senior Deacons. .
Following the installation of the officers of one of our Lodges late in
December, 1932, the District Inspector reported to me that the ·Senior
Deacon thereof had been installed as such officer by a Past Master of the
Lodge in spite of his, the Inspector's protest, that the brother had not
qualified as to his proficiency and had therefore not been certified.
I directed the Worshipful Master of the Lodge to suspend the Senior
Deacon, thus illegally installed, from functioning as such officer until such
time as he should qualify as to his proficiency before the Inspector of the
District.
In my judgment I was justified in taking this action becaus~ Grand
Lodge had clearly adopted the policy and notwithstanding the fact that
no legislation was completed.
We should either revoke the action establishing the policy, or enact
appropriate legislation appertaining thereto. If the policy is to continue,
I recommend that Sections 54 and 137 be amended to conform therewith.
Arrest of the Charter of Fairmount Lodge No. 435
Within a few days following my installation as Grand Master, a group
of Past Masters of Fairmount Lodge No. 435 called on me and, during
a detailed discussion, revealed the presence of a situation existing in said
Lodge as to be a cause for real concern. The statements made indicated
that for a considerable period of time rejections of petitions for the degrees
had reached a high percentage of those .received, that there was evidence
to support the belief that something in the nature of a conspiracy was
afoot as a result of which to unseat certain officers of the Lodge, and
further, a condition of inharmony which was threatening the peace and
fraternal well being of the Lodge as a useful Masonic unit. I thereafter
took steps to cause investigation to be made and learned that for some
years there had been prevalent rumors to the effect that this Lodge was
having internal strife and that its affairs had been made the subject of
study upon the part of some of my predecessors. Later, at my request, a
group of some twelve of the Past Masters of the Lodge, together with the
District Inspector, Brother R. G. Guyett, met with me to confer upon the
situation. As a net result of this conference I reached the conclusion that
the affairs of this Lodge were in such condition as to virtually preclude

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

495

possibility of adjustment without somewhat drastic action. Other stu~ies
carried on in various ways assisted me in arriving at the abo~e conclus.1on.
As a result of these investigations and studies l became convmced that·
There are two groups or factions among the members of the Lodge,
each faction desirous of directing the affair5 thereof.
That members of the Lodge have expressed the fear t~~t should they
present the petitions of friends for the degrees, such pett.t10ns would be
rejected in the ballot by a member or members of the opposmg group. .
That there had been a planned campaign for the purpose of unseatmg
certain officers of the Lodge at the annual election in December, 1932.
·
That there is some evidence to support the belief that a similar activity
was being initiated for the purpose of unseati?g certain other officers at the
forthcoming annual election in December this year.
Further, that a relatively small number of members are responsible
for the conditions prevailing in the Lodge; also,
That for the period of five and one-half years prior to July 1, 1?33,
more than forty-nine per cent of all the ~titians for the degrees received
by the Lodge had been rejected, notwithstanding the fact that the committees of investigation thereon had made full or full and favorable
reports.
Finally, being satisfied that there was little, if any, possibi~ity of the
rehabilitation of the Lodge from within, I caused the arrest of its charter
until the eighty-fourth communication of Grand _Lodge, and addres~ed the
following Jetter to the Worshipful Master, Brother Fred A. Watkms:
Fred A. Watkins, Master, and Wardens and Brethren, Fairmount Lodge
No. 435, F. & A. M., and
To Whom It May Concern:
.
A most intolerable condition exists in your Lodge m that the harmon~
which is essential to the proper conduct of a Lodge of Free andk.Ac~epte
Masons is and for a period of at least five years, has been lac mg, c~n­
tentions e~ist as between members ; factions have been formed. .Inactt".e
members have been solicited to attend Lodge at an annual .election, evidently for the sole purpose of disrupting the orderly success10!1 of apt;hrerttly worthy officers. The ballot has been abused; the re~ord discloses at
nearly fifty per certt of all petitions for the degrees durmg the five and a
half years last past have been rejected.
.
I have patiently endeavored to induce a condition of harmony m_your
Lod e without success. And it now appearing tha:t the good name of our
frat:ntity will be in jeopardy by a further contmuance of the work of
our Lodge I therefore order that Fairmount Lodge No. 435 do no:-v
~ease from ~11 Masonic work and activities, and that the chart~r o.f sa1~
Lodge be and is hereby arrested until the next annual commumcatton o
the Grand Lodge.
.
.
I further order that the charter of said Lodge be forthwith delivered
to the custody of the Grand Secre~ary.

496

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

All the financial affairs, the books of account, registers, and all other
property of the said Lodge is hereby placed in the care and custody of the
Master, Treasurer and Secretary. The collections of dues shall continue
as usual by the Secretary, who shall remit any and all such collections to
the Treasurer.
Fraternally ·yours,
.FRANK W. MIXTER, Grand Master.
In audition, the Grand Secretary forwarded a letter to be in turn
transmitted to the members of the Lodge, informing them of their status
and with suggestions in connection therewith.
Shortly thereafter I asked three of our Past Grand Masters to act as
a special committee for the purpose of further investigating th~ affairs of
the Lodge and after doing so to recommend to Grand Lodge with respect
to final action to be taken. This special committee will report its findings,
recommendations and c~nclusions at the first opportunity during the' present
communication.
Recommendations
Information reached me during the past winter which indicated that a
number of our Lodges were in unsatisfactory condition with respect to
finances, that unsound and unbusinesslike methods of handling the financial
affairs prevailed to some extent, and that the general situation was one to
justify some inquiry in regard thereto. Following some careful consideration, I invited three of our Inspectors, one of whom is a certified public
accountant, to serve as a special committee to analyze the financial statements of a considerable number of Lodges. This committee worked several
months and has filed its report, indicating that the statements of more
than one hundred Lodges had been analyzed and that this examination disclosed the presence of conditions of such nature as to warrant their consideration by this Grand Lodge. Among the conditions referred to may
be mentioned those growing out of the following causes :
( 1) Inadequate budgetary provision and in many cases no such provision.
(2) Amounts paid for rent wholly out of proportion to the normal
income of the Lodge. This includes leases in some cases made
apparently without proper regard to probable ability to comply
·
with the terms thereof.
(3) Some Lodges pay the Secretary a salary not warranted by income
and others spend too much money for a testimonial for the retiring Master.
(4) Life membership funds have in some cases been invested in the
stock of Temple Associations which are now in a condition' of
insolvency and from the assets of which there appears to be little

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

497

hope of salvage. This fund has in some cases been thus wiped out,
and the affected Lodges are .in no position to restore the same.
(5) Quite a number of Lodges include in their setting up of revenues
for the current operating expenses thereof, the funds received for
the degrees, a practice which I feel is open to question as to its
soundness.
I therefore submit for your consideration the following recommendations:
{l) That a new section be added to Article X of the Uniform Code
of By-Laws, requiring that the incoming Master in each year
appoint a Budget Committee whose duty it shall be to prepare a
budget on forms approved by the Grand Master and present the
same to the Lodge and the District Insp~tor.
:(2) That a new section be added to Section 150 of the Constitution,
requiring the Secretary to prepare a financial statement of the
Lodge each year as of December 31, and also an operating statement for the preceding year on forms approved by the Grand
Master.
(3) That all Temple Associations be required annually to prepare, on
approved forms, and to present to the Finance Committee of
Grand Lodge a budget for the succeeding year and a financial
and operating statement for the preceding year.
( 4) That no Lodge shall be permitted to enter into a lease of property,
real or personal, without the approval of the Finance Committee
of Grand Lodge, or that of the Special Committee on Building
Projects.
(5) That Section 88 of the Constitution be so amended as to limit the
expenditure of -Lodge funds for the purchase of a testimonial for
the retiring Master to $150.00.
(6) That Section 2 of Article VI of the Uniform Code of By-Laws
be amended to limit the salary of the Secretary to ten cents per
member per month.
Under our Constitution the Lodges are required to pay their dues. to
the Grand Lodge within fifteen days after the first day of · August each
year at the time the annual report of their transactions is submitted. Lodges
operate under a provision of the Uniform Code of By-Laws by which the
dues of members are payab1e quarterly in advance. While it is probably
true that many members pay their dues annually in advance, generally at
the first of the year, yet it is ~qually true that a majority of members pay
in quarterly installments. The requirement that the Grand Lodge dues be

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

paid in August works some hardship upon many of our Lodges, for the
reason that the Lodge must pay its dues at a time when its receipts are at
lowest ebb.
I therefore recommend that the Constitution be amended in such way
as to provide that the annual dues of Lodges to the Grand Lodge may be
made in two installments, one with the filing of the annual report, the
other on or before some definite date in February of each year.

accomp~nied me on many long trips at considerable personal sacrifice, and

498

The Grand Secretary
For something over a quarter of a century the manifold and complex
duties of the Grand Secretary's office have been ably administered by our
genial friend and brother, John Whicher. Twenty-five Grand Masters
have come and gone during that period. They have, each in their turn,
received from our Grand Secretary, as I have received, that full measure
of co-operation, support and consideration it has been his delight, because
of his nature, to render. His genial and courteous disposition, his comprehensive knowl~ge of Masonry and its jurisprudence, and his unfailing
willingness to aid and assist "his less informed brother" have made smooth
many rough spots in the road during the past year. These qualities have
endeared him to all my predecessors, and it is with sincere and genuine
gratitude that I here express my lasting appreciation for the privilege of
having for the past year been so closely associated with that wonderful
man and Mason, John Whicher.
Long and consistent service should properly entitle the on~ performing
it to a respite. In my opinion our Grand Secretary is entitled to a rest,
both for his own well being and in order that at its conclusion he may
return to us with renewed vigor, health and energy, ready to resume his
duties.
I therefore recommend that Brother John Whicher be granted a three
months' leave of absence by this Grand Lodge in order that he may enjoy
a real vacation, and that such leave be made available to him at his pleasure
during the coming winter or early spring.
The Grand Lecturer
Our capable and efficient Grand Lecturer, Brother Thomas J. Baker,
·has completed the twenty-sixth year of his tenure as the custodian of the
esoteric work of this grand jurisdiction. So ably and conscientiously has
his work been done that we may well take full measure of satisfaction
in the knowledge that for purity of rendition and faithful adherence to
our forms and ceremonies our Lodges are uniformly most excellent.
I desire to express my deep appreciation for the splendid assistance
and the fine co-operation consistently accorded me during the term of my
office just closing by our Grand Lecturer. He has at all times been ready
and willing to give me the benefit of his knowledge and experience, has

499

has in every way given evidence of the possession of those sterling qualities
we all so much admire. I congratulate our Grand Lecturer upon his long
term of constructive service to Masonry, and felici tate this Grand Lodge
upon having received a service so ably performed.
Inspectors
Fortunate, indeed, is the Grand Master who serves through his year
with the co-operation of that fine body of men whom we know as our
District Inspectors, when that co-operation is manifested in the degree that
has obtained during the past Grand Lodge year. I know that the same
degree of fine co-operation has been the privilege of all my predecessors
to enjoy. Knowing most of these splendid Masons personally, I realize it
could not have been otherwise. Our Inspectors give unstintingly of their
time, their energy and even of their personal funds in carrying on the
important duties of their positions, and they do this without hope of fee
or reward, because of their love of and devotion to the principles of our
great fraternity. During the past year the assistance of this group has
been of inestimable value to me in the administration of the affairs of my
office, and I desire here to express my grateful thanks and sincere appreciation for their loyalty and the whole-hearted and unselfish support they
have so generously accorded me. My high regard and fraternal love to
you, my brethren of the corps of Inspectors of California.
Appreciation
It is with real pleasure that I give expression to my feeling of genuine
gratitude to the officers of Grand Lodge who have given me such unwavering, loyal and helpful aid and support during my term as Grand
Master. Many of them have, at considerable personal sacrifice, accompanied me on various journeys and in other ways have given abundant
evidence of their co-operation and interest. To enumerate them would be
but to submit the roster of the officers of Grand Lodge, because on every
hand there has been indicated on their part a sincere desire to render a
service in the giving of which they have contributed unstintedly of their
time and energy. To my fellow officers of Grand Lodge I offer my sincere
thanks for the truly wonderful assistance they have accorded me. This
manifestation of the true spirit of Masonry stands out most prominently
among the delightful experiences of the past year.
Conclusion
The stewardship with which you invested me one year ago is almost
ended, and in a few short days I shall transfer the mantle of authority and
hand the gavel to my worthy successor. May I bespeak for him the same
full measure of courtesy, consideration and fraternal regard it has been
my privilege to receiye at your hands. We are now about to engage upon

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the transaction of the business for which we have assembled, and we have
behind us the record of eighty-three years of com1tructive acbieveinent by
this Grand Lodge. May the record of this communication add another
bright page to that history. May we in the days to come use our best
endeavors to work together in a spirit of fratern:il concord and harmony,
so that when our labors are completed we may return to our respective
places of abode with .the satisfied consciousness that in all that was done,
the spirit of our great fratc:rnity was uppermost in our minds and hearts,
and that in all our actions we had been inspired by the principles of the
Golden Rule.
Yesterday is behind us; let us prepare for tomorrow. Let us look to
that Great Divinity Whom We Adore for inspiration and guidance in
attending to the important mattel"S before us. May we have faith in God,
faith in our institutions, and faith in our fellow men. And thus inspired
by faith, may we have the courage to look with confidence toward the
morrow and the fulfillment of its brighter promise.

APPE.NDIX
PROCLAMATION

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

501

time o.f financial dislress, any expendi.ture, however desirable, which may
be safely and reasonably deferred unlll a more favorable economic cooditio11 pcevails. But he will not make this an excuse for withholding such
support as is necessary to preserve our public school system intact and
to insure its functioning satisfactorily.
It is such a time as this .that it is espe~ial!y i~portant that the people
every~here shoald have .defin1t~ and. authoritative information with. respect
to tbeu .schools. Here m Calif~m1a the Fourteenth Annual Observance
?f Pubh.c Schools Week furnishes an opportunity for acquiring that
tn formation.
It is therefore my request and direction:
l .. That PubH~ Schools Week, commencing on Monday, the 24th
day of April, 1~33, be observed by all our L~ according to
custom.
2. !hat no "wo:k" be done in any Lodge on the night on which there
is any gathering for the observance of Public Schools Week in the
city or. town in which the Lodge Is located; and that if it can be
convemently done, every Masonic Lodge in the jurisdiction remain
·"dark,. during that week.
3. That this proclamation be read in full at the next succeeding stated
meeting following its receipt.

Dated at San Francisco this 16th day of January, 1933.
Attest:

FRANK W. MrxTER, Grand Master.

]OH N WHICBER, Grand S ecr.eM¥y.

Fourteenth Annual Observ<M1ce Public Schools Week

To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren of the Several Lodges of This
I urisdiction :
The genesis of the Annual Observance o.f Public Schools Week was in
the crisis with which public education in the United States was then
confronted.
And now again schools are being closed or maintained with shortened
terms ; children, particularly in rural districts,. are being denied the education to which they are entitled; educational service heretofore considered
absolutely essential to a modern American school system-such as the
maintenance of kindergartens, night schools, and special classes for mentally and physically handicapped children.---is being discontinued or materially curtailed; vocational courses and manual training for the "hand
minded" boy are being abandoned, and the opportunities suited to the
varying needs and capabilities of individual boys and girls are being materially restricted. In some respects the situation is not dissimilar to that
which immediately followed the World War, but with an entirely different
cause.
The Nation is in the throes of an acute social and economic disturbance. Every governmental activity is being rigidly scrutinized; and the
universal demand for a reduction in public expenditures has naturally
affected school budgets.
No real friend of our public schools wilt countenance waste and extravagance in their operation; nor will he view with complacency, in this

San Francisco, April 3, 1933.
To the Lodges of the Jurisdiction:
. Almo~t d":ily I am rec.cdving letters from Masters, inquiring if it is
advisable, m v11:w of what 1s generally termed "the depression " to reduce
'
fees for the degrees.
It is not the province of the Grand Master to dictate to Lodges what
f~es should. be. charged; but it may be proper that I should disclose my
v1e'Ys on this .important question. I heartily approve the remarks on this
subject as delivered at the last annual communication in the Message of
Grand Master Gaylord:
"I believe it ~ a mi.stake for our Lodges to reduce fees even during
~e present. financ1":l strmgency. The reduction of fees tends to cheapen
our fraternity, a!1d m the long run do~s nott I believe, result in any advant~e to the ~~icvla~ ~dge. Expenence m the past in our own and its
allied organizations md1cated that a reduction in fees tends to tower the
standard of ~mbership and ultimately has tended even to reduce the
number of petiti.oners. I do not believe. that the man who will be deterred
from members~1p because of :1 small difference in initiation fee should be
~ncouraged to JOm the fraternity. In a modified sense Masonic membership
is a ltJ?C~Y. a~ no man should expend his money for that purpose if the
ne~e~s1tles of h1m~elf and his f:imily are such that a small difference in the
ongmal charge will prevent his presenting a petition."

502

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The old rule bv which petitioners were measured is good today, that
no man should seek the privileges of Masonry unless he has not only a
sufficiency for himself and family, but likewise has something to spare for
works of charity and mercy.
We have had in the past many periods of severe business depr~ssi?n,
and we have invariably had full recovery. At the annual commumcation
of 1871, Grand Master Leonidas ·E. Pratt, in his annual message, used
these words: "It would be a false and hollow pretense to congratulate
you today on another season of abundance and prosperity. The year has
not been one of general prosperity to this coi;nmonwealth, as idle h~ds,
diminished incomes and unusual calls for charity, have too often testified;
and I do not prop~se to mock your intelligence, nor .my own sense _of
truth and propriety by the assertion of ample rewards for honest mdustry." And at th~ next annual communication, 1872, this same Grand
Master opened his address to Grand Lodge by saying that "For twelve
months past we have been. the recipients of bounties uncle.served, :ind ~he
surroundings of today are m marked and happy contrast with the situation
a year ago. I could not then, without mockery of truth, congratulate you
on a season of material prosperity; but today the land is burdened with
the weights of surpassing harvests, and rich beyond precedent with its
wealth of fatness. Then we could rejoice at nothing save the doubtful
blessing that our lives had been prolonged to behold another annual festival· but today no wealth of gratitude can be in excess of what we owe the
ben~ficent Father, Whose paternal hand has given us all."
Our Lodges, it is true, are not increasing in members~ip, but a n:iere
increase of names on the rosters is no cause of congratulation at any time.
I fear we are overburdened with members with no lofty ambition to keep
faith with that first declaration required of every novitiate before he ever
enters a Lodge room, that he seeks the privileges of Masonry because of
a sincere wish of being serviceable to his fellow creatures. Better far that
our Lodges should secure a few men who may become workers in the
Masonic vineyard, who will be given intelligent attention by the officers and
the older brethren, who are able. to support themselves and their families
and yet have something for works of charity and mercy, than that fees
should be reduced merely for the accommodation of petitioners and the
doubtful propriety of an immediate accumulation of money which later
will almost of a surety be required for the relief of those who may be
induced to join because of reduced fees.
FRANK W. MrxTER, Grand Master.

San Francisco, May 25, 1933.
Dear Sir and Brother:
A Special Election will be held in California on Tuesday, June 27,
1933 at which the voters will express their sentiments with respect to
elev~n propositions submitted to the people by the direction of the State
Legislature.
All are important measures, but reference is herein made to only four
of them.
No. 1 is a constitutional amendment calling for the repeal of the
present taxing system and proposing what is generally known as the Riley-

GRAND LODGE 0~' CALIFORNIA

'

503

Stewart Tax Plan. If adopted it will provide a different basis of support
for public education in our state and will ameliorate the burden now
imposed on real estate.
No. 3 is a measure to legalize betting on horse races under the parimutuel plan.
No. 4 is a constitutional amendment which would increase the amount
of property not now subject to taxation by exempting private and parochial
schools. It would apply to all private educational institutions of less than
collegiate grade not conducted for profit and would exempt not only buildings and equipment with grounds not exceeding ten acres in area but
also all securities and income used exclusively for the purposes of' education.
The proposition with respect to the repeal or retentim1 of the Eighteenth Amendment will appear on a separate election ballot.
As a good citizen it is your duty to vote at this election; and if you
are not to be at home on election day you should avail yourself of the
absent voter's p.rivilege by making your application to the County Clerk
(or Registrar of Voters) not more than twenty, nor less than five days
·
'
before the election.
The Masonic Fraternity makes no effort to influence the judgment
or control the action, of any of its members; and how you vote must b~
determined by the dictates of your own conscience. It is, however, hoped
that every brother will carefully study the various measures in order
that he may be fully informed and advised with respect to the consequences of the adoption or rejection of any proposition.
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
FRANK W . MrxTER, Grand Master.

The Deputy Grand Master referred the message to the
following Committee on Segregation:
Foster G. Dyer, Sidney K. Lehman, and Donald H. Fisher.

5-04

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
T,() the M.". W.". Grattd Lodge ef California:
I have the honor to present herewith my twenty-sixth annual report,
with a statement of all moneys received for account of Grand Lodge, the
Masonic Homes, and the Endowment Fund, for the fiscal year ending
July 31, 2933, and a summary of disbursements, together with a statement
of funds i-eceived from August 1 to and including September 30, 1933.
The -detail of all receipts and disbursements has been placed with the
Finance Committee.
Membership
For the second time in our history we show a loss of membership
and an unusually large number of remissions of dues. No new Lodges
were formed in the year. The ·following taOle indicates the work of the
two last years.
1932
1933
Membership ] uly J1...--·····-·--···-------··------·-···---136,<i9i
Initiations ·-·····-····-····---····-·-··-···----···············-1.810
Passed -········-···--·--·········-·····--·····---··---·--··-1;8'11
Raised ·-······-------···------··-···-·····-·--··········-···-· 1,997
Affiliated from other j.w-.isdictions..................... _,__
172
Affiliated from California LG4ges....._.....................
618
Dual members ..............................................................
4
Restored -·-··--·-·-----'-----------·-----------~ ..-..............v----··--·--·302
Gained by error in Lodge reports............................
12

140,?36
2,{)99
3,018
3,230
312
718
12
284

76

Gross gain ·--·-··----···----------··---··------··--·------- 3,105

4,632

Withdrawn -·-·-----·----·-·---·-·- ------·-----··-···--·--·---·--·-· 1, 110
Suspended, non-payment dues.·-·····-·-···-·-···--···-·--···-· 3,992
Expelled and suspended for cause.....---··---·-·-----·-·---29
Died ----·-·--·-·-·-·----·--···---·-·--·---·--··----·-·---·---··-----··-··-·····--··· 1,897
Loss by error in Lodge reports..................................
19

1,171
3,173

Total loss........---···--··-··········---·····--······-····---· 7,047

6,418

Membership July 31 ......................:.............................136,694
Net loss in the year...................................................... 3,942
Dues remitted ................................................................ 7,904
Total dual members....................................................
26

140,636
1,786
4,941
22

37
1,901
136

Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
Last year fifteen Lodges failed to pay their full dues to Grand Lodge,
and by resolution presented by the Finance Committee and adopted, the

605

delinquent Lodges were requested to execute notes for the amounts due,
payable six months after October 14, 1932. These notes have been paid
with- the exception of six amounting to $1,587.20.
For the year ended July 31, 1933, fifteen Lodges have made partial
payments, the balance due being $5,973.80. Twenty Lodges have made no
payments, the delinquency amounting to $7,869.75. The .t otal of unpaid
dues by Lodges is $13,843.55. This delinquency is largely because ef frozen
funds in closed banks and building and loan associations, and not by
reason of depleted treasuries.
Ceremony for Dedicating Burial Plot
Pursuant to the· recommendation of Grand Master Gaylo1'd at the
last annual communication, I have compiled a form of ceremony for the
dedi~ation of Masonic burial places, a copy of which has been filed with
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
Conference of Grand Secretaries
At the last annual communication Grand Lodge recommended that
th~ Grand Secretary should attend the annual conference of Grand Secretaries at Washington, D, C., and appropriated five hundred dollars to
cover the expenses of the trip. This action by Grand Lodge was much
appreciated by me, but inasmuch as it appeared that our revenues should
be conserved, I took the liberty of declining to make the journey and left
the full amount of the appropriation in the treasury.
Duplicate Chat"ters Issued
The hall of San Simeon Lodge No. 196 was destroyed by fire January 17, 1933, all paraphernalia, including the charter, being lost. By
order of the Grand Master a duplicate of the original charter was issued:
Blackmer Lodge No. 442 reported that on December 16, 1932, . its
charter was missing. Diligent search and inquiry failed to locate it, and
under date of April 13, 1933, by order of the Grand Master, a duplicate
of the missing warrant was issued.
Representatives Appointed
Under date of December 19, 1932, a commission was issued to R. W.
Raymond F. Brooke as Representative of our Grand Lodge near the
Grand Lodge of Ireland, vice Col. Claude Cane, deceased.
On February 5, 1933, Brother Erwin J. Kosak, an active member of
Lodge Union No. 1, was commissioned as our Representative near the
Grand Lodge of Guatemala.
January 8, 1"933, to Germano Fritz Hupsee as R.epreS<1ntative near
the Grand Lodge of Bahia.
June 5, 1933, to Clarence E. Stickney as Representative near the
Grand Lodge of New Hampshire.
August 8, 1933, to William. E. Crawford as Representative near York
Grand Lodge of Mexico.

506

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Budget
The budget compiled last year by the Finance Committee estimated
the receipts for the current fiscal year would be $127,849.00, and the disbursements, including appropriations, would be $122,628.60. The actual
receipts were $127,242.16, and the actual disbursements were $123,599.88.
The assets of Grand Lodge as of July 31, 1933, amounted to $12,392.11 in
cash and $165,089.80 in sound securities, besides 58,955 shares of Masonic
Temple stock, now paying a small dividend. The net increase in Grand
Lodge assets over last year was $3,350.82.
Tokens for Veteran Masons
The demand for fifty-year buttons fqr those of our brethren who have
reached the half-century mark in Masonry continues. In the year last
past 110 of these tokens have been issued, making a grand total of 891
since the inauguration of the custom in our jurisdiction. The dean of the
veterans _this ~ear is James Harrison Henry, San Jose Lodge No. 10,
wh~ received his Master's degree April 27, 1869, in Lincoln Lodge No. 199,
Blairstown, Iowa, and affiliated with San Jose Lodge August 5, 1889. This
vetera~ bro~her ~as for many years one of the outstanding business men
of Cahforma. His home now is at Portland, Oregon.
Following is a list of the recipients of buttons for the year:·

Name
Raised
Alexander, Jules.........................t:.Nov.,
1882
Ames, Ruel Freemont.................. Aug. 28, 1882
Andrews, Walter H ..................... May 5, 1882
Archer, George.............................. Aug. 16, 1883
Armstrong, Charles D . ................Jan. 13, 1883
Armstrong, George R. .................. May 26, 1883
Ashby, Nathan James.................. July 21, 1883
Backus, Charles ............................ Nov. 3, 1882
Baldwin, Hugh J ohn.................... Nov. 14, 1882
Bane, John Loraine....................... Jan. 1, 1883
Baughman, Noble Henry............ Aug. 10, 1881
Benedict, Edward L..................... May 6, 1883
Bowman, Benjamin F ................... July 16, 1880
Bowman, Thomas H ..................... In 1883
Byce, Lyman C............................... Feb. 22, 1883
Brown, Bernard Chas................... July 5, 1883
Cameron, John Wm..................... Jan. 30, 1883
·Childs, Clarence E ......................... Oct. 21 1881
Clifford, James B........................... Feb. 28: 1883
Clinch, Charles Edw..................... Dec. 19, 1882
Coleman, Theodore ...................... Apr. 15, 1871

Lodge
Lassen No. 149
San Joaquin No. 19
Upland No. 419
East Belt No. 391
Madera No. 280 ·
Excelsior No. 166
Hermosa No. 557
Golden Gate No. 30
San Diego No. 35
Rockridge No. 468
Union No. 58
Alisa! No. 321
Durant No. 268
Exeter No. 424
Petaluma No. 180
Fidelity No. 120
Pacific No. 136
Palo Alto No. 346
Pacific No. 136
Madison No. 23
Pasadena No. 272

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Raised
Coltrin, Francis D ......................... Apr. 17, 1883
Conant, Edward.............................. May 31, 1883
Condra, Aaron M......................... Feb. 9, 1883
Corson, Charles H ....................... May 24, 1883
Cory, Francis Marion.................. Mar. 6, 1883
Davison, J . Weliington................ July 3, 1882
Deering, Frank Prentiss.............. Jan. 25, 1882
Dillman, Thomas Milton.............. Sept. 20, 1882
Doidge, Thomas ............................ Apr. 7, 1881
Dorr, Lev1 Lewis.......................... ~ar. 14, 1883
Dougan, Andrew............................ Sept. 13, 1876
Euler, John...................................... ln 1882
Ford, George Oscar...................... Apr. 24, 1883
Frazier, Frank O ........................... May 22, 1883
Given, Horace Robert... ............... Feb. 10, 1883
Gillis, Dougald H ......................... Jan. 4, 1883
Goddard, George Henry.............. Nov. 28, 1882
Gregory, John M........................... Sept. 23, 1882
Grey, Frank Sidney...................... N:ov. 21, 1882
Hale, Prentiss Cobb...................... J an. 25, 1882
Hanscome, Henry Irving............ May 12, 1883
Heard, J ohn Henry.....................~Jan. 19, 1883
Henry, James Harrison................ Apr. 27, 1869
Heriot, David ................................ Nov. 18, 1882
Heriot, Robert A. .......................... Dec. 30, 1882
Herman, Henry Elmer................ Feb. 24, 1883
Hobarth, Charles H ..................... Jan. 8, 1882
Hobson, Iven Benbow.................. Feb. 22, 1883
Hornbeck, Edson A ....................... July 21, 1881
Keiner, Herman ............................ Mar. 10, 1883
Kennedy, Silas Ely........................ Mar. 6, 1883
Kesler, John Calvin...................... Mar. 17, 1883
Kidder, Ethan P ............................. Mar. 20, 1883
Knittel, Henry................................ Apr. 25, 1883
Lank, Samuel James.................... Aug. 15, 1883
Lewis, Samuel Jos......................... May 22, 1880
·London, Henry ..............................July 10, 1881
Lund, Andrew John...................... Mar. 26, 1883
Marcucci, Paolo ............................ Mar. 13, 1883
McCord, Thomas .......................... June 28, 1882
McCoy, Benton.............................. Mar. 28, 1883
McFarland, John .......................... Apr. 18,.1883
McLean, James T ......................... June 13, 1883
McMinn, James L ......................... Dec. 5, 1882

507

Lodge
Fullerton No. 339
Humboldt No. 79
Malta No. 661
Lodi No. 256
Table Mountain No. 124
Long Beach No. 327
Excelsior Ntl. 166
Norwalk No. 315
Long Beach No. 327
Excelsior No. 166
Long Beach No. 327
Standard No. 440
Pentalpha No. 202
Covina No. 334
Trinity No. 27
Washington No. 20
Golden Gate No. 30
Parnassus No. 388
Berkeley No. 363
Sacramento No. 40
Alhambra No. 322
San Joaquin No. 19
San Jose No. 10
Hope No. 234
Friendship No. 210
East Gate No. 290
Redlands No. 300
Santa Cruz No. 38
Silver Gate No. 296
Fidelity No. 120
Wilmington No. 198
Mt. Shasta No. 281
Temescal No. 314
Marin No. 191
Excelsior No. 166
Calaveras No. 78
Excelsior No. 166
San Joaquin No. 19
Amador No. 65
Live Oak No. 61
Wilmington No. 198
Mt. Moriah No. 44
Marin No. 191
Bellflower No. 523

I

508

GRA~D· J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Raised
Mellon, William James................ Apt. 10; 1883
Merrill, Elwood G., Sr-···-··········Apr. Hi, 1883
Metcalf, Charles W ..................... May 5, 1881
Millen, George B...·-····-············Dec. 2, 1882
Mitchell, John Samuel.................. Dec. 23, 1882
Miller, William Henry................ May 5, 1883
Mohr, Henry•PaUl........................ May 13, 1883
Moore, Phillip Bn:ree.................... Aug. 7, 1882
Morrisey, Thomas F~···-··········--AUg. 4, 1882
Mossholdet, Wm. J'Ohn................ June 22, 1883
Neff, Edwin D .........---··············-- Feb. 10, 1883
Pinchower, Simon ····-··················Apr. 8, 1882
Radcliffe; George ··········-····-····--Dec. 12, 1882
Randall, Francis Marion.............. Ang. 17, 1882
Righetti, Robert ····-·········-···········May 2, 1883
Roullard, Joel ····-······················---JUly 27, 1883
Ruggles, John 'Evetett.................:Apr. 23, 1883
Rush, Benjamin Franklin............ Apr. 21, 1883
Scalmanini, Giovanni................-.. Apr. 20, 1883
Schwoerer, Louis Martin............ May 5, 1883
Searle, James John........................ Mar. 8, 1883
Shanahan, Thaddeus W. H ......... Mar. 10, 1883
Shields, James Robert.................. Jan. 20, 1883
Slack, Charles Wm....................... Nov. 25, 1882
Smith, Alexander ........................ Mat. 17, 1882
Smith, Almon ················-··············Mar. 4, 1882
Smith, Olarles Robt. .................... July 25, 1883
Smith, Clarence Stewart .............. Dec. 23, 1882
Smith, John Gabriel ,..................... Jan. 26, 1883
Smith, Thomas John ....................Mar. 18, 1870
Stafford, John .......................:........ Mar. 10, 1883
Stewart, James Atphens.............. Mar. 4, 1882
Taylor, John Moss........................ Apr. 19, 1883
Thompson, Ashley ........................ Jufy 3, 1879
Thompson, Edward M................. May 29, 1883
Tiffany, William Zobe1................ Nov. 29, 1882
Tombs, Samuel Ben....................... Sept.,
1883
Wapple, ~rge....- ........................ Apr. 21, 1883
Ward, William Burchard............ Nov. 26, 1882
Watson, Frank Gcorge..........-.... Apr. O. 1883
Wells, Thomas W ......................... Ju1y 29, 1882
Wheeler, Cornell Harry.............. Oct. 16, 1882
White, Harry Darius.................... Mar. 17, 1883
Wilson, Thomas Jefferson.......... Nov. 24, 1882
Wood, William Bell...................... June 21, 1879

Lodge
Table Mountain No. 124
Suisun No. 55
Santa Ana No. 241
Marin No. 191
California No. 1
Chico No. 111
Alisa! No. 321
Fullerton No. 339
Molino No. 150
San Diego No. 35
Corona Nu. 324
Curtis No. 140
Presidio No. 354
Silver Gate No. 296
Pentalpha ND. 202
Fresno No. 247
San Joaquin No. 19
Suisun No. 55
Speranza Italiana No. 219
Sacramento No. 40
California No. 1
Mt. Shasta No. 281
Liberty No. 299
California No. l
Olivet No. 205
North Butte No. 230
Excelsior No. 166
Howard No. 37
Tyrian No. 439
Ashlar No. 306
Silver Gate No. 296
San Joaquin No. 19
Liberty No. 299
Union No. 58
Pacific No. 136
Exc:elsior No. 166
Fresno No. 247
San Benito No. 211
Francis K. Shattuck 571
Presidio No. 354
Tuolumne No. 8
San Jose No. 10
Chico N.o. 111
Nicolaus No. 129
So. Pasadena No. 367

509

Trial Records
No. 767-A member of Dimond Lodge No. 603. Expelled October fi,
1932.
N 0 . 768-A member of Point Firmin Lodge No. 558. Expetled October 5, 1932.
·
.
N 0 • 769-A member of Oakland Lodge No. 188. Tried by Sequ01a
Ludgc No. 349 and sentenced to reprimand October 4, 1932.
No. 770-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Suspended October "· 1932.
No. 771-A member of Jubilee Lodge No. 604. Found not guilty
November 3, 1932.
No. 772--A member of Argonne Lodge No. 514. Expelled Novem.
ber 4, 1932.
No. 713-A member of Anaheim Lodge No. 207. Suspended November 4, 1932.
·
No. 774--A member of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Expelled Novem.
ber 1, 1932.
No. 775-A member of Faii:mount Lodge No. 435. Expelled November 1, 1932.
No. 776-A member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409. Expelled December 12, 1932.
No. 777-A member of Vermont Square Lodge No. 515. Expelled
.
January 3, 1933.
No. 778---A member of James Madison Lodge No. 572. Reprimand
January 5, 1933.
No. 779-A member of Selma Lodge No. 277. Expelled Janua!"y 13,
·

1933.
. d 0
No. 7!m-A member of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202. Acqmtte
ctober 4, 1932.
No. 781-A member of Welcome Lodge No. 255. Acquitted August 6,
1932.
No. 782--A membe~ of Jonathan Lodge No. 545. Expelled January 3,
1933.
No. 783-A member of Fraternity Lodge No. 399. Suspended
March 1, 1933. Appealed by the a~used April 29, 1933.
.
No. ~A membe.r of Seaside Lodge No. 504. Sentenced to reprimand Mar<:h 7, 1933.
.
No. 785-A member of Molino Lodge No. 150. Sentenced to expulsion
January 13, 1933.
No. 786--A member of Fullerton Lodge No. 339. A~uitted April 4,
1933. Appealed by the accuser April 17, 1933.
.
No. 787-A member of George Washington Lodge No. 525. Tned by
Live Oak Lodge No. 61 and suspended April 7, 1933. Appealed by the
accUsed.

I

•

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 788-A member of Long Beach Lodge No. 327. Expelled October 6, 1932.
No. 789-A member of Live Oak Lodge No. 61. Tried by McKinley
Lodge No. 347 and expelled June 1, 1933.

1933~0. 790-A member of Berkeley Lodge No. 363. Expelled July 6,
1933~0. 791-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355. Expelled July 6,

1933~0. 792-A member of Caledonia Lodge No. 486. Acquitted June 14,
1933.No. 793-A member of Humboldt Lodge No. 79. Expelled July 6,
No. 794-A member of Plumas Lodge No. 60. Expelled April IO, 1933.
No. 795-An Entered Apprentice of Olive Branch Lodge No 269
Expelled August 2, 1933.
·
·
No. 796---An Entered Apprentice of James Madison Lodge No 572
Expelled August 6, 1933.
·· ·
·

1933~0. 797-A member of Belvedere Lodge No. 539. Expelled June 1,
No. 798-A member of San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214. Suspended
June 6, 1933.

1933~0. 799-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421. Expelled August 5,
1933.No. 800-A member of Hawthorne Lodge No. 647. Expelled July 11,
No. 801-A member of Ascot Lodge No. 538. Suspended September 6, 1933.
No. 802-A member of Northern Light Lodge No. 190. Expelled
September 9, 1933.

1933~0: 803-A member of Keystone Lodge No. 161. Suspended May 6,
No. 804-A member of Solano Lodge No. 229. Expelled September 11, 1933.
No. 713-(Retrial.) A member of Big Bear Lodge No. 617. Tried
by Redlands Lodge No. 300 and suspended.
.
No. 752-Petition for restoratfon. A member of Mission Loe! N
169. Reprimand June 2, 1932, and fixed at expulsion by Grand Lo~e ?·
October, 1932.
.
ge m
No. 723-(Retrial.) A member of Paul Revere Lodge No~ 462. Expelled January 8, 1932.
No'. 738-(Retrial.) A member of F ort Crook Lodge No. 575. Tried
by Madison Lodge No. 23 and suspended May 3, 1932. Charges dropped
by Fort Crook Lodge May 22, 1933.
No. 564-Petition for restoration. A member of Standard Lodge
No. 440. Expelled January 6, 1928.

anAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

511

No. 678-Petition for restoration. A member of Highland Park
Lodge No. 382. Sentenced to reprimand January 5, 1931, and modified
to suspension by Grand Lodge.
No. 743-Petition for restoration. A member of Ocean Park Lodge
No. 369. Expelled April 5, 1932.
No. 652-Petitions for restoration. (Two members.) Tried by
Southern California Lodge No. 278, and sentenced at reprimand April 2,
1930; fixed at expulsion by Grand Lodge.
No. 688-Petition for restoration. A member of San Francisco
Lodge No. 360. Expelled April 6, 1931.
o. 766---(Retrial.) A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519. Tried by
Cla ce F. Smith Lodge No. 482 and suspended August 2, 1933.
o. 185-Petition for restoration. A member of La Parfaite Union
No . Expelled September 3, 1915.

~

Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life memberships as follows : .
Durant Lodge No. 268, providing for investment of funds; Chateau
Thierry No. 569, $150 ; Sunnyvale No. 511, $125.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master approved requests for special dispensations, for
various purposes, as follows:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:
Benicia No. 5; Illinoistown No. 51; Volcano No. 56; Yolo No. 81;
Vesper No. 84; Rose's Bar No. 89; Woodbridge No. 131; Wilmington
No. 198; Anaheim No. 207; Oak Grove No. 215; Calistoga No. 233;
Elsinore No. 289; Orosi No. 383; Chino Valley No. 427; (2) Yorba
Linda No. 469; Seal Rock No. 536; Justice No. 549; Military Service
No. 570; Security No. 581; Wasco No. 583; Tujunga No. 592; Beacon
of the West No. 628.
To re-ballot on candidates rejected within twelve motiths:
La Parfaite Union No. 17; Foothill No. 564; Military Service No. 570.
To receive and act upon petitions from members of the Army and
Navy who did not have the required residential qualifications:
Schofield No. 443 ; Searchlight No. 567; Service No. 594.
Amendments to By-Laws
bicreasing dues: Sanger No. 316, to $12; Hollywood No. 355, to $12;
Lindsay No. 416, to $12; Riverbank No. 459, to $12; Southland No. 618,
to $12; Fairview No. 629, to $12.
Decreasing d1uis: North Butte No. 230, to $12; West Gate No. 335,
to $15; Inglewood No. 421, to $12; Holtville No. 425, to $9; Carpinteria

I

I
513

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 444, to $9·; San Gabriel No. 546, to $9; Ingleside No. 620, to $12;
Crescenta Vatley No. 652, to $9.
Decreasing fees: Sacramento No. 40, to $75; Los Angeles No. 42, to
$50; Grafton No. 141, to $30; Excelsior No. 166, to $50; Antioch No. 175,
to $50; Pentalpha No. 202, to $50; Roseville No. 222, to $50; Landmark
No. 253, to $35; Oakdale No. 275, to $50; East Gate No. 290, to $50;
Redlands No. 300, to $75; Hollenbeck No. 319, to $50; South Gate No. 320,
to $50; West Gate No. 335, to $75; Palestine No. 351, to $75; Golden
State No. 358, to $50; Unity No. 368, to $75; Highland Park No. 382,
to $75; El Centro No. 384, to $75; Imperial No. 390, to $50; University
No. 394, to $50; Bay View No. 401, to $80; Brawley No. 402, to $15;
Sierra Madre No. 408', to $50; Calexico No. 412, to $50; Arlin~ton
No. 414, to $75; York No. 423, to $50; Acacia No. 438, to $50; Tor~ance
No. 447, to $50; Bethlehem No. 453, to $50; Ramona No. 457, to· $60;
Henry S. Orme No. 458, tq $75; Riverbank No. · 459, to $30; S!ythe
No. 473, to $50; Santa Maria No. 480, to $30; Bell No. 483, to $65; Bell
No. 483, to $50; Caledonia No. 486, to $75; Vallejo No. 487, to $50;
Atascadero No. 493, to $50; Westwood No. 501, to $35; Silver Cord
No. 505, to $50; Mount Olive No. 506, to $75; Cahuenga No. 513, to $50;
Vermont Square No. 515, to $50; Euclid No. 519, to $50; Ionic No. 520,
to $75; Sunrise No. 522, to $50;: Loyalty No. 529, to $75; Alexander
Hamilton No. 535, to $75; Ascot .N.o. 538, to $50; Belvedere No. 539,
to $50; San Gabriel No. 546, to $50; Triangle No. 548, to $50; Justice
No. 549, to $75; Hermosa No. 557, to $60; Craftsmen No. 559, to $50;
South Park No. 563, to $50; West Adams No. 56S, to $50; Hillcrest
No. 573, to $50; Progressive No. 578, to $75; Manchester No. 585, to $55;
Valley Forge No. 587, to $50; El Sereno No. 588, to $50; Tujunga
No. 592, to $35; Guardian No. 596, to $75; Guardian No. 596, to $50;
Lynwood No. 600, to $50; Melrose No. 602, to $50; Jubilee No. 604,
to $50; Glassell Park No. 605, to $50; Granada No. 608, to $50; Hemet
No. 615, to $30; Seal Beach No. 616, to $45; Big Bear No. 617, to $50;
Southland No. 618, to $75; Southland No. 618, to $50; The Gar-dens
No. 621, to $50; Menorah No. 623, to $75; Angeles Mesa No. 625, to $50;
Chula Vista No. 626, to $50; Lamanda Park No. 627, to $70; Beacon of
the West No. 628, to $50; Ingleside No. 630, to $50; John Marshall
N~. 636, to $50; Metropolitan No. 646, to $50; La Brea No. 650, to $50;
Menlo Park No. 651, to $50; Malta No. 661, to $50; Ojai No. 663, to..
$45; Oasis No. 664, to $75; Reseda No. 666, to $50; Altadena No. 678,
to _$70; Los Cerritos No. 674, to $50.
Increasing .affiliation f ee: Oakland No. 188, to $25.
Reducing affiliation fee : Cahuenga No. 513, to $5; Justice No. 549,
to $10.
Eliminating affiliation fee: South Gate No. 320; Highland Park
No. 382; El Centro No. 384; Acacia No. 438; Ascot No. 538 ~ Hermosa

No. 557; South Park No. 563 ; James . Madison No. 572; El Sereno
No. 588 ; Melrose No. 602; Metropolitan No. 646.
Changing time of stated meetings : Trinity No. 27; Howard No. 37 ;
Santa Cruz No. 38; Clear Lake No. 183; Hartley No. 199; El Centro
No. 384; York No. 423; Riverdale No. 496; Benjamin Franklin No. 508;
Sunrise No. 522; Bellflower No. 523; Forest H ill No. 534; Meridian
No. 667.
Excepting holidays as stated meetings: Hawaiian No. 21; Golden
Gate No. 30 ; Mount Moriah No. 44;. Fidelity No. 120; Pacific No. 136 ;
Crockett No. 139 ; Oriental No. 144; Roseville No. 222; Magnolia
No. 242 ; Consuelo No. 325 ; Sequoia No. 349; Sunset No. 352; San
Francisco No. 360; Ocean Park No. 369; El Centro No. 384; Perris
No. 41•1; Arlington No. 414 ; Upland No. 419; Exeter No. 424; Pittsburg
No. 429; La Puente No. 446; Victory No. 474; Garvanza No. 492;
La Jolla No. 518; Forest Hill No. 534; Sunnyside No. 577; Menorah
No. 623; Fortitude No. 624; La Brea No. 650; Jordan No. 654; Far West
No. 673; Altadena No. 678.
Resolutions providing fair change of meeting place : V esper No. 84;
Hills Ferry No. 236; Pinole No. 353; Standard No. 440 ; Joppa No. 508;
Bellflower No. 523 ; Sun Garden No. 530; James A. Garfield N o. 566 ;
Beacon of the West No. 628; Livingston No. 658.

512

Unfinished Business
Right of Masons to be present at Masonic trials. Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence. Proc. 1932, pp. 310, 342.

Report of Auditors

Finance Committee, Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
In ac.cordance with your author ization, we have audited the accounts
of the Grand ·L odge, F . & A. M. of California, for the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1933, and submit herewith the following financial statements: .
Exhibit A: Grand Secretary's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements-General Fund.
Exhibit B : Grand Secretary's Report of Cash R eceived for Account
of Masonic Homes.
Exhibit C: Grand Treasurer's Report of Cash Receipts and Disbursements-General Fund.
Exhibit D: Grand Treasurer's Report of Assets on Hand July 31,
1933.
The audit covered the cash funds received during the· year ended
July 31, 1933, from the annual returns for the fiscal year ended July 31,
1932. Funds received· and on hand at the date of our audit from annual
returns for the fiscal year 1933 were not included in our examination.

{

I
514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements, with exception as to the stated value of the securities on hand, set forth the condition
of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California at July 31, 1933, and that a
proper accounting has been made of all receipts and disbursements.
RucKSTELL & LAND, Certified Public Accountants,
By FLOYD T. WEBB.
Exhibit A

515

Cash received by Grand Treasurer:
B\k interest ...................................... ....,......................$
660.44
Bond interest ................................................................ -. 7,673.79
Dividends ....................................................................... . 3,222.75
Bond redemption ....................................................:....... 13,060.50

~

Total cash received direct by Grand Treasurer ..........

24,617.48

Total cash to account for ................................................. . $146,376.68

Report of the Grand Secretary
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
YEAR ENDED J ULY 31, 1933

Cash disbursed on Grand Secretary's Warrants:

General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1932.......................................................... $ 12,029.84
Dues from Lodges ........................................................$102,483.80
Dispensations .................................................................. .
80.00
Collections for Secretaries' and Treasurers' bonds .. 2,227.90
Interest from Lodges on notes ....................................
52.55
Sales of supplies :
Constitutions ..........................................$1,444.85
Monitors .................................................. 432.60
Lodge receipts ........................................ 814.75
Blanks ...................................................... 241.90
Small diplomas ....,................................. 325.50
Large diplomas ...................................... 136.25
Past Masters' diplomas........................
82.95
Card cases and Lodge lists..................
28.25
Digests of decisions.............................. 314.00
Installation services and proceedings
29.75
Bound volumes and funeral services..
85.75
Masonic Law and Custom and sundry 203.59
Uniform systems of accounting..........
68.25
4,208.39
Refunds and reimbursements :
San Francisco Board of Relief ............$ 160.48
San Jose Board of Relief... .................
30.00
Sacramento Board of Relief.. ........... .
25.00
Relief-Order of Grand Master ........ . 30.00
Long Beach earthquake relief ..............
5.00
Burial expense-Western Star No. 2 132.00
Appropriations ..................................... .
11.00
Representatives'. payroll... ..................... 283.24
676.72
Total cash received direct by Grand Secret'.lry..........

109,729.36

Grand Secretary's office expense :
Salaries and clerical hire ....................$14,260.00
Rent ................................................,....... 3,900.00
Postage ..................................................
531.05
Printing and binding............................
489.00
Telephone and telegraph....................
194.78
Employers' liability insurance..........
37.88
Safekeeping of securities....................
125.00
Auditing ................................................
100.00
Supplies and sundry expense..............
306.41

---.;$ 19,944.12
Salaries-Grand Lecturer, Grand Organist, etc ....... 6,250.00
Printing and binding-Proceedings, etc .................. . 5,205.64
Printing and binding-supplies for sale .................... 2,624.73
Postage-shipping supplies ...................................... ..
531.04
Expenses-Grand Lecturer ........................................
948.63
Expenses-Grand Treasurer ......................................
350.00
Relief-Order of Grand Master ............................... . 2,747.67
Representatives' payroll ............................................ .. 20,006.93
42.83
Committee on Masonic Education ............................. .
Committee on Masonic History..................................
26.28
843.16
Committee on Board of Control... ............................. ..
663.60
Committee on Public Schools Week......................... .
Special Endowment Committee................................ ..
110.75
Inspectors' stationery ................................................... .
749.07
Annual Grand Lodge Week (including annual
communication and activities) ........................... . 4,106.90
Gold buttons-Fifty-year veterans ........................... .
424.00
119.73
Traveling expenses-Grand Lodge officers .............. ·
Grand Master's conference........................................ ..
50.00
Premiums on Secretaries' and Treasurers' bonds .. 2,324.90
500.00
Long Beach earthquake relief.. ....................................
Burial expense-}. J. Terry (refund contra) ..........
132.00
Reimbursement Mt. Diablo Lodge No. 448 ............
90.00
648.80
Miscellaneous expense ................................................. .

516

PROC'.EEDINGS OF THE

617

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Appropriations:

Cash Receipts, August 1 to September 26, 1933
1933
1932
Home maintenance .....,..................................................$ 92,028.75 $ 65,563.40
Home building ..............,................................................. 61,352.50
65,563.40
$25.00 Home tax................._........................................ 14,325.00
20,775.00

Boards of Relief and Lodges............$ 4,490.70
Employment bureaus .......................... 10,300.00
Traveling expenses-Grand Master,
1933 ················································ 3,500.00
Traveling expenses-Grand Master,
1932 ................................................ 1,000.00
Masonic Club hoaS"CS............................ 13,162.60
George Washington National Memorial ........................................... . 13,162.60
Masonic Endowment Board.............. 2,789.34
Relief of Past Grand Master............
600.00

Total collected for Honwes............................$167,706.25 $151,901.80
Grand Lodge general ftmd.......................................... 77,515.70

99,218.60

Total paid to Treasurer................................$245,221.95 $251,120.40

............_..
1,810
Initiations ----.....
Passings ·········- ·····-·-····-·-- ..---·..- - - - - - - · - - - 1,897
Raisings .................................................................................. 1,997

$118,446.02

-~--

Cash disbursed by Grand Treasurer:

Securities purchased ···········-···················-···········-·····--········-···-·

________

Analysis of Annual Returns
FOR THE YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1933

49,005.24

15,538.55

Total degrees conferred at $1.00 each............................ $ 5,704.00
Total Master Masons, August 1, 1933............................136,694
Less members whose dues were remitted........................ 7,904

Total disbursements .......................................................... $133,984.57
Cash balance, July 31, 1933:

Total Master Masons at 60c per capita............ 128,790

Funds with Grand Treasurer........................- ....$ 11,892.11
500.00
Funds with. Grand S·etretary................................

Total due Grand Lodge.............................................--.· $ 82,978.00
128,790 Master Masons at 50c Building Fund............................
64,395.00
128,790 Master Masons at 75c Maintenance Fun<L...................
96,592.50
1,810 Initiations for the yea.r
172 Affiliations from outside jurisdictions
12 E . A. and F. C. from outside jurisdictions
4 Dual members from outside jurisdictions

$ 12,392.11
Exhibit B
Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes
YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1933
Per capita tax-135,695 Master Masons :
Maintenance fund :.-..- ................-···--········----$ 67,847.50
Building fund ........................................................ 67,847.50
Total tax due..........................................................$135,695.()0
Amount r emaining unpajd at July 31, 1933......
720.1-0
Cash received during the year......·--··-·
$134,974.90
Initiation tax:
852 initiates, fiscal year 1932..............................~ 21,300.-00
1401 initiates, fiscal ye«r 1933.............................. 35,025.00
Overpayments (refunded by Masonic Homes)
250.00
56,575.00
Total cash received for Masonic Homes and -turned
over to the Grand Treasurer.................................... $191,549.90

77,274.00

•

1,998 Upon whom the $25.00 H ome tax is payable ......'--·-·······---~···-·..----·-· ·--···-...$ 49,950.00
Less $25.00 Home tax paid in three quarters prior
to Annual Returns ......................,........................... 35,075.00
Total $25.00 Home tax co11ected on Annual Returns ..........................- ......:.........$ 14,875.00
Total $25.00 H ome tax co1lected on over225.00
payments ..................................................
Net $25.00 Home tax collected on Annua.,...l_ _ __
Returns ........................................................................
15,100.00
Total due Grand Lodge and Masonic Homes on
Annual Returns .......................................................... $259,065.50
JOHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

518

519

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit C

Exhibit D

REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER

Schedule of Assets

Cash Receipts and Disbursements

JULY 31, 1933

YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1933

General Fund
Cash in banks...................................................................................... $ 11,892.11 '

General Fund
Cash balance, August 1, 1932.......................................................... $ 11,529.84
Receipts:
From Grand Secretary.................................................. $109,729.36
Bank interest ..................................................................
660.44
Bond interest .................................................................. 7,673.79
Dividends ........................................................................ 3,222.75
Bond redemption ............................................................ 13,060.50
Total receipts ......................................................................

134,346.84

Total cash to account for ..... :.......................................:.. $145,876.68
Disbursements:
Grand Secretary's warrants ........................................$118,446.02
Bonds purchased ............................................................ 15,538.55
Total disbursements ..........................................................

133,984.57

Cash balance, July 31, 1933 :
The San Francisco Bank...........:..........................$ 11,284.16
Wells Fargo Bank & Union Trust Co...............
512.12
Crocker First National Bank.............................. 1,645.85*
Bank of America....................................................
377.20
Anglo California National Bank........................ 1,364.38
$ 11,892.11

*Book overdraft, paid.

Bonds at cost:
$ 6,000 Southern Pacific Co., First Mortgage
4%, due 1955 ............................................$
10,000 Southern Pacific Co., 40%, due 1981
9,000 California Gas & Electric Corp., Refunding Mortgage 5%, due 1937........
8,000 Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co.,
First and Collateral Trust 5%, due
1937 ..........................................................
2,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., First
Mortgage 5%, due 1939.. _....................
4,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., General Mortgage 50%, due 1943............
5,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., General Mortgage 6%, due 1942................
5,000 Southern California Gas Co., First
Mortgage 50%, due 1952....................
9,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First
Mortgage 50%, due 1952....................
5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., General
Mortgage 5%, due 1942........................
4,000 California Oregon Power Co., First
Mortgage 50%, due 1955....................
5,000 San Joaquin Light & Power Co., Refunding Mortgage 5%, due 1957..:.....
5,000 Central Arizona Light & Power Co.,
First Mortgage 5%, due 1960............
10,000 New York Telephone Co., General
and First Mortgage 40%, due 1939..
5,000 Mercantile American Realty Co.,
First Mortgage 5%, due 1951..............
5,000 Brooklyn Edison Co., General Mortgage 5%, due 1949..................................

5,580.00
9,565.00
8,550.00

8,000.00
1,860.00
3,935.00
5,068.75
4,787.50
8,946.25
4,720.00
3,970.00
4,912.50
4,812.50
10,000.00
4,912.50
5,250.00

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND DODGE OF CALIFORNIA

10,000 Philadelphia Electric Co., First Lien
40%, due 1967.·--················-················ 9,925.00
5,000 Union Electric Light & Power Co.,
General Mortgage 4%%, cfue 1957.... 4,938.55
4,000 U. S. A. Liberty Loan of 1917, 30%,
due 1947 .................................................. 4,000.00
1,000 U. S. A. First Libe~ty Loan, converted, 4.l4%, due 1947.......................... 1,000.00
45,300 U. S. A. Fourth Liberty Loan, 4y.j%,
due 1933-38 ............................................ 45,356.25

lht °'ranh ljnhge
AFTERNOON SESSION
Tuesday, October 10, 1933.
160,089.80

Stocks-at cost:

58,955 shares Masonic Temple Association......$589,300.00
200 shares Pacific Gas & Electric Co., First
Preferrtxl 50% ················-·····-··············· . 5,000.00
0 0 0 0 00 0o0 o O Oho0H0000000oooOOooo ooo0oHoo0000000000000 o Oo0- o OOOOooooo

Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURE R
594,300.00

Total assets

521

$766,281.91

WILLIAM P. FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

At 12 :15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until
2 o'clock p. m.

w. ·.

To the M. ·.
Grand Lodge of CoUfornia:
Another year has just closed. I he1-ewith 'submit my twenty-sixtti annual
report, giving an account ·of my activities. It has been quite similar ·in
many respect~ to the last few years. While most of the Lodges have done
!mt Utt1e degree wcirlr, they ·have all ·been doing their Masonic duty in
taking care of -the wants of their needy brethren as they should. Many
of the brethren have had a hard time in the payment of their dues, but
most (J}f the LOOges have met this situation by allowing the members to
pay on the installment plan, which !<ias .proven very satisfact©ry and has
been the means of getting dues that they possibly would not have gotten
otherwise. Many brethren have been suspellded. I am sure that some -0f
these could have been saved had the proper investigatkm been made of
each case.
I have visited almost every district in the State, ·arid have found the
Lodges 1n fairly good position, most of them ta.king advantage of the
opportunity in providing· social and .educational programs for their ·members. T!Ms -is highly commendable, and has also a tendency to ina-ease
attendance.
'
I have reports from all ·t he Inspectors, and they report the Lodges
under their supervision, most of them at least, in fine style in spite of the
hard times. This speaks well for the stabiiity of the Lodges, although
some of them have had to resort to their reserve funds. I am quite sure
that a bright future awaits us shortly, which wiU be most gr~tifying, and
we will soon forget the lean years.
I have made quite a number ·of visits with the M. ·. w. ·. Grand Master
this year to the LOO~s and have attended many Grand Lodge ceremonies.
All have been much appreciated by the brethren. These contacts with the
brethren and Lodges have produced. good res1dts.
Much has been said in the past about .the cond.i.tcting-of funerals. This
is, however, a very important subject, and one that each Master should

522

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

consider very carefully, for it is one of the Masonic ceremonies that is
done before the public, and should always be well done. There are more
favorable comments on this ceremony when well conducted, not only from
the brethren, but from the public. Masters should ask some Past Master
or a member of his Lodge, who has a good voice and a good appearance,
to act for him in case he does not.feel competent or capable of doing the
ceremony nicely. The performance of this not only reflects on his Lodge
but on the fraternity as well. The public is not always as charitable as
they might be in their comments. This is not a criticism, but merely
calling the attention of the Master to a very important subject. I trust
that each Master will give due consideration and act accordingly.
Two of my earnest and enthusiastic Inspectors have been called to
their reward: Dr. Samuel Tilden Gillispie, Inspector of the lllth district,
died June 23, 1933, and Cralis Dexter died July 3rd. Dr. Gillispie had been
Inspector for about four years. He was a very conscientious man and
Mason and beloved by his brethren. Brother Dexter had been in ill health
for a year or two. He was a good man and Mason, a devoted husband and
loving father. He had been Inspector for more than ten years, a competent
and efficient one. Both these brethren will be greatly missed by the Grand
Lodge and by their Lodges. May their souls rest in peace.
I desire to express my thanks and appreciation to Brother Whicher,
Grand Secretary, and his assistant, Brother Hobbs, for the many courtesies
extended .to me in ·his office during the year.
There is quite a problem confronting some of the newer and small
Lodges, that vitally affects their existence. With comparatively no candidates for some time and many of the members unable to pay dues, and the
funds of the Lodge getting low, they are in real distress. This could
largely be avoided by consolidation. Of course, I realize that most of these
Lodges, for sentimental reasons, do not desire to lose their existence, but
you cannot maintain a Lodge on sentiment alone. I believe that some of
the Lodges would be willing to consolidate, at least for awhile, thereby
saving the upkeep and overhead expenses; then when times improve they
could form another Lodge, if desired. I believe this is the only solution
for some of the Lodges; at least it is worthy of consideration.
Many thanks are due the Grand Lodge and the brethren for the leave
of absence accorded me last Grand Lodge. I had a most enjoyable vacation on my trip East. May I again express my appreciation to the Grand
Lodge for their continued confidence in me as your Grand Lecturer.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS

J. BAKER.

Referred to the following committee: William B. Ogden,
·
Lloyd E. Wilson and Alfred F. Breslauer.

523

ANNUAL ORATION
October, that delightful montdh kof t~e y:a; ~~g~~;~:!i:~~ch~v:~:
time and telling us to forget har
noc s a
work, finds us again assembled in annual conference.
"Season of mists and mellow fruit~ulness! .
Close bosom-friend of the maturmg sun,
. .
C onspirmg
w1'th Him how to load and bless
h •
"
With fruit the vines that round the thatc eaves run.
(Keats.)
·
· .
The majority
of representatives
here are approa chingf the conclu. and
. of lea ders h'Ip an d responsibility.d Years d'o service
of human
sion of a per10d
.
t e d yo u with a . fund of un not
erstan
mg men not
experience have mves
Masons
h
f 'lt'es
Many times men,
'
1
needs and uman rai
·
h
· d
ent I value have
'
t
loose talk men w ose JU gm
given to extravagan or
. f '
't .
e of the greatest con0
said to me that the Masomc raterm y l~iti~ns I agree with their
structive forces to steady pr~se~t-da;h con the M~sonic Grand Lodge
opinion. In annual comm~mcat10n, en, I ment of the worth-while
of California is indeed an tmport~nt comp e
and fundamental citizenship of this great State. .
d
d't'
of
dd
n the glories an tra I ions
ust meet the challenge
I am not equipped to a r~ss ~u o
Masonry of the past. ~ feel t at d a~onryti:ughts I will submit for
of the present and commg year, an t ese
your consideration.

.
d a phenomenal
t
decades we have w1tnesse
During the past wo
f the opinion that human underscient.ific development. Many I~r::w requires a brain-trust to even
standmg has not kept pace. d
omic problems created largely
attempt a soluti~n of pr~sen.t- ayC~~~~go's Century of Progress Exby over mechamcal pro. uc~ion.
t In comparing the two
Position has aided in brmgmg us up to da e. .
ch1'tecture· "33" is
'd "93" was a poem mar
•
.
.
Chicago fairs, one :vnter Sal .
w·1r McKinley at Buffalo in his
a university education. Pres1~~nt
I iatmh timekeepers of progress."
t ted. "Expositions are
e .
dd
last a ress s a
·
.
.
ith new theories of governWe also find ourselves experl1~_entmgE:periments are necessary, but
ment, business and human re a '~~~·successful results it must remain
in all progress and dev~p~:~tln our fraternity the important fundatrue to fundamentals.
~ h' Thereby comes the challenge to
mentals of huma~ ~elahonsd !~deals ropounded by our rituals and
Masonry. The prmc1ples an . t 1
Pe sful and happy life. Misfor.
mplify a prachca , succ s
ceremomes
exe . . occur w h en th ose principles are forgotten or
tunes and advers1t1es

525

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ignored. In the merciless competition of the present active American
life we must therefore apply our code.
I am convinced that in the reconstruction work of our country
the first admonition of Freemasonry must be applied if we are to
endure as a powerful nation. It appeals to me as reasonable to expect
the members of that organization to exercise that doctrine and endeavor to influence others to
likewise. "No man should ever enter
upon any great or important U'1dertaking without first invoking the
blessing of God," is an admonition just as important to a nation's
life as to a Masonic life. Remember, it is the combination of a competency of Divine Wisdom and the pure principles of Freemasonry
that make him the ideal man and Mason. A republic can be no better
than its citizens. History is replete with examples of nations who
experienced a rapid dedine when they abandoned their spirituat faith.
"Where there is- no vision the people perish" is a maxim never successfully contradicted. True, our part in the drama of life is· brief. If
you feel otherwise, wander around through the big trees· of California,
which average 3000 years of age, or study the water hi-story of this
State as interpreted by the geologists. You will be surprised >iow you
diminish in size. Keep in mind, however, that we are building for the
fuhtre, and our children will carry on the lofty ideals we instiII in them.
A beloved American leader told us: "The things of the bol!ly are good;
the things of the intellect better; but best of all are the things of the
soul; for, in the nation as in the individual, in the long run it is character that counts.-" "Chihlren do as their parents do. not as they say."
Juvenile p.roblems will decrease in this generation and those to come
when all adults keep in mind that we should be building a spiritual
temple and fitting our minds as living stones to be used in that eternal
home.. Then will come success and prosperity, because spiritual faith
brings confidence, which Cicero defines:

do

"Confidence is that feeling_ by which the mind embarks in
great and honorable courses with a sure hope and trust in itself.'"
It is not startling to realize that in transportation verbiage the
world is getting smaller. Inte:r-conummication is now a matter of
minutes, and we listen to.world events and addresses on international
issues almost daily. How is this enlarged picture affecting us? The
numerous frictions and "isms" of the OM World are infecting our
public life more and more. It is human nature to learn rapidly the
words of songs one hears sung freq11ently. The need for a 100. per cent
Americanism is therefore a vital one. Our brother, that outstanding
Am.erican of all time, Theodore Roosevelt, aptly phrased it when he
proclaimed "There is no place in this country foe hyphenated Americans." The Declaration of Independence and the Constitution of the

. 1:inciples embedded there by our foreUnited-States breathe M asomc p
. .
l'fi d loyalty
fathers, and we of this fraternity must ms1st on a_n un:ua t ed f one
.
us
refresh
our
hearts
with
t
e
wor
s o
to our go:v-tlrnm ent· Let
dd
sh' gton'-~nor in February. In his farewell a tess
a
m .
we annua11 Y ,..,
.
· t
one people is
.
. h
· 'd· "The unity of government which eomshtu es yo~
sa1 •
. • ti so for it is a mam pillar m t e
also now ti ear to you. 1t 18 JUS Y '
our tran uillity at
edifice of your real independence, the support of Y
·~ f that
hmne,. your pea~e abrnad, of. your s~fety, of i~~; ::~:~:tte •;oment
very libert.Y wh!A!h you! so ht'1ghaltye t~e1~~~e~se value of your national
Id
tha •• yo u should proper. y es 1m
d · d' 'd· aJ happiness· that you shou
·
t
r colleehve an m 1v1 u
'
u~10~ ho yo':w.1 habitual, and immovable attachment te it; accustomc ens a cor
' h' k
d speak of it as of the palladium of your
ing yeurselves to t Ill an .
.
f
't
reservation with
political sa~ety and cp·r?speri:;; b:~~c~;n:hoi~: ~t apcommon country,
jealous ailXle.ty; ·- · · ttlzens Y
·
"
that country has a right to concentrate. your affections.
We have further discovered th.at we cannot evade _the fact that
we are our brother's keeper. Even though prosperous times b:~eu~~~
us independence and pleasures, yet ?ur persons and pr~t~:Y a: unfair

w

safe. Crime prnspered i_n pcoportion ~~ s~1;;icf:~:~~ m:ke it worth
advantage was tolerated if the profit w
ff .
d finally when
th:

:~~~~e ~o t~:dg~:~r;:;e~~a~:c:i~e: ~~~e~ t~~ti::;r~_~nding enviro~-

:en t was not at all to our lik~ng. D_~ring the ~~e e::e:v~:~n;e t~
1
t7e
\fe. To get this picagam . e.ve op ~ .
few of the Citizens Conservation Corps camps.
n who had nothing to do except walk
. ture v1v1dly, ~ISlt a

cen~er~d

co~7~dro~:c::: h~=~~~a~=~~k:

~he:;r:e~~ :~ ;:~Jn~u~i! :::1 American spirit and. regainin~ strong
t e
l't'
h1"ch enact the thought of the followmg verse.
persona 1 1es w
"Life is but one long vacation,
To the man who loves to work;
Life's. an everlasting effort,
To the man who- likes to shirk.
"To the earnest faithful worker,
Life's a story ever new;
Life's just what we try to make itWhat is life to you?"
.

With bad elements _present in the neighborhood: no horn~ therein
f We cannot separate our children or our mterests mto one

;~u~: ~arcel and ignore s!:~t!~:e~;s~~o~: ~~:::;r~; b~~~~:r;\7~:::
Diseas~ germs are no hre
e "No man' liveth unto himself alone.''
Moral mfluences are t e sam ·

526

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In the vast orchestra playing the symphony of life each can express himself through his chosen instrument. The tones he produces
however, n:iust blend into the harmony of the music. If played alon~
or out of time the effect is discordant. Many who placed their all in
mater!al wealth and lost have committed suicide. The collapse of
mat_enal va.lues has left many people unbalanced in numerous ways.
Social readJustment must follow as our citizenship regains its natural
balance. As this balance is regained it will develop a new social life.
~asonry i~ ~urely a social relationship, teaching men the right principles of hvmg. The opportunity is here for it to do a wonderful
work. In Masonry there is no question but what I am my brother's
keeper. Why not endeavor to stamp this new social life with those
fundamental principles of our Institution which have proven so worthwhile to us?
Today's challenge, then, to our fraternity is to apply more completely its principles within our ranks; that duty we owe to God,· that
loyalty we owe to our country, that fellowship we owe to our neighbor
and brother. That doctrine, in real action, will influence scores of
others beyond the boundaries of our organization, not only of the
present generation but also the coming generation. We are charged
to assume that leadership in the present recovery program.
"We are all blind until we see
That in the human plan
Nothing is worth the making if
It does not make the man.
"Why build these cities glorious
If man unbuilded goes?
In vain we build the world unless
The builder also grows."

On motion of Past Grand Master Burke, Brother Morton
was requested to furnish a copy of his oration to the Grand
Secretary, who was directed to cause it to be printed and a
copy sent to each Lodge in the jurisdiction.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

527

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
The committee to which was referred the segregation of the various
matters contained in the address of the Most Worshipful Grand Master
reports as follows :
The message which the Most Worshipful Grand Master has submitted for your approval is a complete and comprehensive report of his
stewardship during the year just past. It is full of the kindly spirit of true
brotherhood which characterizes the sterling qualities of our Grand Master.
A study of his address makes us realize immediately that the deliberations
of this communication of Grand Lodge have been launched with a message
·which instills in us renewed hope and a determination to carry on the high
principles for which Masonry stands.
The various matters contained in the address will receive the attention
of Grand Lodge through its regular committees, and we therefore recommend that they be"segregated and referred as follows:
To the Committee on policy and General Purposes, we refer those
portions of the address under the headings :
3.2 per cent beer.
Masonic education.
Special relief cases.
Recommendation No. !-referring to amendment to Article 10 of
the Uniform Code, concerning the budgets for subordinate Lodges.
Recommendation No. 2-referring to addition to Section 150 of the
Constitution, concerning annual financial statement of subordinate
Lodges.
Recommendation No. 3-referring to annual budget and financial
statement of temple associations.
Recommendation No. 4-referring to lease of property, real or personal, by subordinate Lodges.
Recommendation No. 5-referring to amendment to Section 88 of
the Constitution, limiting expenditure of Lodge funds for purchase of testimonial.
Recommendation No. 6--referring to Section 2 of Article 6 of the
Uniform Code of By-Laws, concerning an amendment to limit
the salary of the Secretaries of subordinate Lodges.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence, we refer those portions of the
address under the headings :
3.2 per cent beer.
Recommendation concerning the changes in Sections 54 and 137 relative to qualifying Senior Deacons.
Arrest of charter oJ Fairmount Lodge No. 435.

628

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the Committee on Finance, we refer that portion of the address
under the heading :
Board of Control and Boards of Relief, referring to the financing of
the trip to the meeting of the Masonic Relief Association of the
United States, held at Cincinnati, Ohio.
That portion of the Grand Master's address, under the heading, "The
Grand Secretary," wherein ·he recommends that the Grand Secretary be
granted a three months' leave of absence during the coming year, in the
opinion of the committee is worthy of the earnest consideration of Grand
Lodge, and we refer this matter to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes for their recommendation.
In closing this report, we desire to compl4ment the Grand Master on
the brevity of his decisions, and the graciousness of his manner in .the
conduct of the affairs of Grand Lodge.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, the brethren of this Jurisdiction
express to you their sincere and lasting appreciation.
To this committee was also referred the report of the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary, and we recommend the segregation of the several
sections of the report as follows :
To the Committee on Finance:
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues.
Ceremonies for dedicating burial plot.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purpmr~s:
Conference of Grand Secretaries.
Financial report of the Grand Secretary.
To the Conimittee an Jurisprudence:
Duplicate charters issued. ·
Life memberships.
Dispensations issued.
Unfinished business-<:onceming right of Masons to be present at
Masonic trial.
To tlie Committee on Grievances:
Trial records.
To the Committee on By-Laws:
Amendments to By-Laws.
We have carefully studied the complete and concise report of our
Very Worshipful Grand Secretary. It reflects that efficiency and skill
which increase as the years of service pass. The Grand Lodge of California is fortunate in having had the services of our beloved Brdther John
Whicher for lo these many yeaTS. His reputation as a Graad Secretary

GRAND LODGE OF CAl,IFORNIA

529

extends far beyond the boundaries of this grand jurisdiction into other
grand jurisdictions of Masonry throughout the world.
We commend him for his loyalty and devotion in the discharge of his
duties in this high position of trust.
Respectfully submitted,
FosTER G. DYER,
SIDNEY K. LEHMAN,
DONALD H. FISHER.

Adopted as read.

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO CONSTITUTION
The following proposed amendments to the Constitution
were all referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes:
Resolved: That Section 43, Article I, Part II be amerided by adding ·
a new section to be numbered l?th, as follows :
12th. To furnish to each Inspector and the Master of each Lodge
not later than sixty (60) days preceding the annual communication of
Grand Lodge, a printed statement in concise form of all decisions and
recommendations then available to be presented at Grand Lodge for
consideration at such annual communication.
CHAS. R. BERMEL,
Master, Mt. Vernon No. 517.
Resolved, that Section 41 of the Constitution be, and it 'is hereby,
amended by striking out of the second sentence of the last paragraph of
sub-section 3rd the words, "the stated meeting in July of the calendar year
in which such tax would be otherwise payable," and inserting the · following: · "Any stated meeting held during the year for which report is made."
.
.
The sentence will then read: "Provided, nevertheless, that no contribution of any sort, in the nature of a per capita tax, shall be payable by
a Lodge upon any Master Mason who has been exempted from payment
of dues by reason of his having been a member in good standing of a Lodge
in this jurisdiction for a period of forty years or more as provided for in
Section 128 or upon any Master Mason whose dues at any stated meeting
held during the year for which report is made, shall· have been remitted
for the next preceding twelve months period, because of the inability of
such Mason to pay such dues."

J. E. HUGHES,
Inspector, 30th Masonic District.

530

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Rerolved: That Section 41, Article 9, Part I be amended by adding
a new section to be numbered 4th, as follows :
4th. All sums of money becoming due from subordinate Lodges
to the Grand Lodge as prescribed in thi~ section shall, at the option.
of the subordinate Lodge, be payable in one sum at the time of rendering the annual report, or in four equal installments, the first installment of which shall be paid at the time of rendering the annual report.
The other installments shall be paid on the first day of November,
February and May next following.
CHAS. R. BERMEL,
Master, Mt. Vernon No. 517.
Resolved, that Masons in the military or naval service of the United
States, while stationed within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California, be permitted to affiliate in dual membership without the payment
of any fee for the Masonic Homes ; such affiliation without fee to continue only so long as the brother remains in active service within the
jurisdiction. In the event that he retires and remains within this jurisdiction, or severs connection with his home Lodge, then he would be
required to pay the full Home fee for affiliation.

A s. HARRINGTON,

Master, Schofield Lodge N-0. 443.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

631

entitled to or may receive from the Grand Secretary a certificate of
that fact, which certificate shall have the same effect as the regular
recommendatory certificate of withdrawal issued by an existing
Lodge; provided, however, that if said Lodge shall have outstanding
indebtedness at the time said charter is arrested, surrendered or revoked, the Grand Lodge may direct the members of said Lodge to
pay to the Grand Secretary, or such other person or persons as may
be designated by the Grand Master, annµal dues as provided in the
By-Laws of said Lodge until such time as funds shall be accumulated
to pay the outstanding indebtedness of said Lodge in full or in part,
as the Grand Lodge may direct. Said order of payment, however,
shall not apply to life members of said Lodge or to such members
whose dues shall be remitted by the Grand Lodge. The Grand Secretary shall withhold the issuance of said certificate as herein provided
and as provided in Section .}JJ of the .Constitution until said debts
be paid and until such other orders as the Grand Lodge may make be
fully complied with. The Grand Secretary, or such other person or
persons as may be designated by the Grand Master, shall issue receipts
for all moneys paid under the provisions of this section, which receipt
shall have ·the same force and effect, except for the purpose of affiliation, as though issued by a regularly constituted Lodge.
LAWRENCE KELLEY,

Wkerea.v, there is apparent a very marked resistance to the paying
of the $25 fee for the California Masonic Homes Fund required of "out
of the State Masons" when applying for affiliation with California
Lodges; and
Whereas, it appears that the present system deprives California Masonry of the support of many members it might acquire by .affiliation ; and
Whereas, we believe that California Masonry as well as the California
Masonic Homes would greatly benefit by the elimination of this requirement from "out of the State" Masons on affiliating. Be it therefore ·
Resolved, that the Grand Lodge of California is hereby petitioned to
set up a system whereby it will be possible for subordinate Lodges to
~cept affiliations from "out of the State" Masons upon payment 0£ the
regular $1 affiliation fee only, such members to be carried on the rolls as
"Non-participating Members," to be issue~ a special form of dues receipt
until such time as they may elect to pay the $25 fee for the Homes and
thus avail themselves of the possible privileges of the California Masonic
Homes.
JUBILEE LooGE No. 604, F. & A. M.
Resolved: That Section 160 of the Constitution be amended to read
as follows:
Section 160. All Masons who are members in good standing of a
Lodge at the time of the revocation or surrender of its charter are

Inspector, ·84th District.

Resolved, that Section 216 be rewritten to read as follows:
Any proposed amendment to .this Constitution shall be presented
at an annual communication if such amendment shall have been filed
in the office of the Grand Secretary on or before the 15th da¥ of
August immediately preceding such annual communication, and the
Grand Secretary shall have on or before the 25th day of August
mailed a copy of such proposed amendment to each subordinate Lodge,
providing that any proposed amendment which has not been so filed,
and of which said notice has not been given, may, nevectheless, be
presented at an annual communication with .the written approval of
the Grand Master or a majority vote of such annual communicatiO(I;
all proposed amendments so presented shall be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, who shall report before a vote thereon shall
be taken.
WESLEY W. KEilG.AN,

MAX A. PLUMB,

w. R. RALSTON.

532

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
TRUSTEES REPORT
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Trustees herewith submit the forty-second annual report of
the property, condition and operation of the Masonic Homes for the
fiscal year ended July 31, 1933, as required by the Constitution.
Immediately after ·t he close of Grand Lodge in October 14, 1932,
the Board organiz~d as follows:
President, Charles M. Wollenberg, term expires 1934;
Vice-President, James B. Gist, Deputy Grand Master;
Chas. Albert Adams (1933);
.
John Stewart Ross (1935);
·s .a muel E. Burke (1936);
William A. Sitton, Senior Grand Warden;
Randolph V. Whiting, Junior Grand Warden;
William P. Filmer, Treasurer ex officio;
John Whicher, Secretary ex officio.
We reporte4 to you last year that "it was not necessary to remind
you of the business situation nor of the difficulties incident to a proper
maintenance of the Homes, other than to report that the increase of
dependents of Lodges and the decrease of our revenues have added
burdens to the conduct of our business as your agents charged with
relieving Lodges of the care of their indigent members, to an extent
never before experienced." In the year just closed, 118 adults and 84
children have received outside aid at a cost of $45,000; 29 children
and 90 adults have been admitted to the Homes. On the 31st of
August, 1933, the Home at Decoto had 359 wards of the Lodges, a
net increase for the year of 18. Death took its usual toll of the old
folks at the Home, 66 of whom passed away. There were six departures from Decoto, and 17 children were honorably dismissed from
the Coviria Home.
Responsibility of Lodges to Children
Last June 17 children were honorably dismissed by reason of
graduation from 'high school, or because of having attained the age
of 18 years. In every instance the Lodge was notified and requested
to, provide employment for such children, and in no instance was
employment secured. It is the age-old truism, "Out· of sight, out of
mind." But the members of our Lodges ought to assume some of the
responsibility for the future of those of its wards who, until graduation

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

533

from the Masonic Home, are cared for through your Trustees· by the
entire fraternity; and it does not reflect credit on the individual members of Lodges to shirk the duty of taking a fatherly interest in the
boys and girls of deceased brethren. These children are dismissed at
an age when they seriously need a warm and welcome friendship on
the part of the brethren; they need employment; they need the fostering assistance of friends who can be trusted to direct them in paths
of good conduct; they need to be directed in their new environment
to keep good company. They stand in truth "where the brook and
. river meet,'' and will become good and usefu) men and women, real
ornaments to society, if given the _personal attention of the brethren
of their respective Lodges. The converse is, that without this personal
attention they are too apt to become discouraged and fall into evil
ways. Every Lodge should take special pride in securing employment
for its dependent children.
Responsibility of Lodges to the Aged
In numerous annual reports we have referred to the evident
efforts of Lodges to shirk responsibility to their aged members and
to their endeavors to attempt to throw the care of such members
on to the entire fraternity-that is, on to the Homes. In our annual
report for the year 1925 we stated that "Your Trustees are embarrassed at times by being compelled to deny applications for admission,
although the widest latitude is accorded to all Lodges, consistent with
w)lat we conceive to be our duty to the whole membership of the
jurisdiction," then citing an instance of a brother and his wife who had
been denied admission to the Home on the ground that the applicant
had received his· Masonic degree only two years prior to application,
at the age of 72, and had been suffering from a severe heart ailment
for seven years before he became a Mason We took the view that
the responsibility for the care of this distressed member and his wife
belonged not to the entire fraternity, but solely to the Lodge, and
denied the application.
It is with some hesitancy that this lack of Lodge responsibility
should be again referred to, because the brethren who compose our
Lodges are rightfully to be assumed as being far-seeing men of sound
judgment. But cases such as are noted above continue to be brought
before us. Only three months ago four applicants were denied admission, all of them doubtless being worthy men. One was the case
of a brother who was made a Mason at the age of 68, who owned no
property at the time of his admission and carried no life insurance.
The second case was that of a member who carried $5,500.00 life
insurance and was in receipt of State aid in the sum of $30.00 a month.
He lived with a daughter, but as the report of his condition disclosed,
"he had a tendency to complain regardless of what is done for him."

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The third case was that of a man 55 years of age, married to a
capable woman, nothing seriously the matter with him physically,
but who had been out of employment for a considerable time. The
Board is in full sympathy with this man, as well as with the thousands
of ·other men and women who are unable to secure employment
through no fault of their own; but it is obvious that the Masonic
Homes cannot admit those whose only distress is that of temporarjr'
lack of gainful empl<Jyment. The care of this brother is properly the
problem of the Lodge and the community in which he lives.
The fourth case was that of a member who was received by dimit
from another jurisdiction in July, 1929, at the age of 69. At the time
of his election to membership he was holding a political job at a
salary of one hundred dollars a month, with no other resources.
Now, it was not a pleasant task for your Trustees to deny the
applications of the Lodges for these brethren. They doubtless needed
help, yet we adhere to the proposition that Lodges must take note of
the probable liability that attaches to every member, and not try to
shift the burden of relief to the fraternity at large.
These problems and embarrassments are presented that you may
be informed of the manifold and pressing demands made by the
Lodges. We are endeavoring to faithfully administer the wonderful
trust assumed by us as the agents of this truly sympathetic and
generous jurisdiction-the fifth largest in the United States and the
sixth largest in the world-and as stated in our report for the year
1926, "in the hope that Lodges. may realize that the Homes are maintained by you for the purpose of caring for those of our brethren who
are actually dependent, their wives, wid<Jws, mothers and children,
and not for mere convenience." And, too, the individual Mason should
not forget that he has obligations to relieve the distresses of his lessfavored brethren, and that all relief work should not be. left to the
Lodges or the Homes.

Home General Fund-Legacies
Frank L. AHey estate................................................................$4,000;00
Patrick Welch~-·····-·····························-·-··--·········---·-·· 1,207.98
Lucy G. Stevens estate..............................................- ............_ 603.60
Elizabeth Hawk estate............................................................
500.00
John H . Rawe C'Stllte....................- ..............- ......................___
250.00
August Schleicher estate....- ....-............................................
500.00

534

Donations-Scholarship
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection........................................$ 750.00
Melville E. Eddy estate.......... _................................................ 1,000.00
Frank G. Wat11on..............................................................:......... 105.00
Masonic Temple Association dividend..................................
5.00

$1,860.00

535

$7,061.58
Finances
Applications for admission to the Homes and for outside relief
continue to increase, and revenues-particularly from fees of initiates
-have decreased. In the year just dosed, Lodges remitted the dues
of nearly eight thousand members, with a consequent unavoidable
loss of Homes revenue. Ten years ago, with a membership of one
hundred thousand, and a twenty-dollar fee from each initiate the
cash receipts from that source alone amounted to $173,320, wlth a
~u.r~lus of funds for building purposes. This last year, ~ith a tax on
1mhates of twenty-five dollars, the receipts from the same source
amounted to only a little over $56,000.
.Many ~odges have not paid Home dues. Six Lodges are still
partially delinquent for dues that should have been received at the
close of the fiscal year July 31, 1932. For the fiscal year just closed,
twenty-four Lodges have made only partial payments, and thirty-two
_Lodges made no payments at all! This failure to pay was due in most
1~st~nces to frozen assets in closed banks and building and loan assoc1at10ns, not because of depleted treasuries and in the course of
revived business will be received. Yet with ~II this we are in much
better condition than many other jurisdictions. For instance, in one
Gran? Lodge with a membership last year of 140,000, three hundred
and e1ghtee~ ~od~e~ defaulted in their dues to the amount of $160,000.
One large JUnsd1ct10n showed a deficit this year of $215,000 in its
Home fund.
We are fully aware of the difficulties and financial embarrassment of some of our Lodges, and of their loss of revenue occasioned
by the non-payment of dues by unemployed members; of their frozen
assets by reason of closed banks, and the reduced numbers of applic~nts for memb.er.ship: We are in full sympathy and understanding
with all these d1fficulhes, and of the desire on the part of numerous
Lodges to have Grand Lodge reduce the per capita tax. But the cold
fact remains that we all have serious obligations to the poor of our
fraternity .which cannot be evaded and which should be squarely
faced. It is not necessary to remind our brethren that it requires
money to conduct the Homes; but what Mason is there who will not

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

freely and cheerfully give something-even at some sacrifice of pleasures or luxuries-to enable our great fraternity to suitably maintain
the aged men and women, wards of the craft, whose evening days
would be in gloom and despair without the helping hand and the
willing purse of their brethren? What Mason is there who can view
the dependent children under .our care without a pull at the heartstrings and a moistening of the eyes, and a feeling of thankfulness
that he is permitted to be one who has assisted in part in bringing
happiness to the many boys and girls who, except for the fostering
care of the Masonic fraternity, would be wards of public institutions
or roaming our streets as vagabonds. Our giving to these Homes is
truly a benediction.
Your Trustees, with the hearty co-operation of the employes of
the Homes, have instituted many economies during the past year,
and have brought the budget down to a point where the income from
the per capita tax, fees of initiates, and sundry other revenues, will
undoubtedly balance the necessary expenditures.
Notwithstanding mounting costs, we feel that the present per
capita tax should not now be increased, and that it will meet all the
requirements for the conduct of the Homes. We therefore ask that
the same be fixed at seventy-five cents for the ensuing year.

Report of Auditors
To the Board of Trustees, Mas01iic Homes of California:
Pursuant to your authorization, we have made a general audit of
the books of account of the Masonic Homes of California, giving
particular attention to the verification of the Balance Sheet as at
. July 31, 1933. We present herewith the following statements:
Statements of Accountability for Funds and Properties
Exhibit A: Statement of cash receipts and disbursements (2
pages).
Exhibit B: Balance Sheet, July 31, 1933 (2 pages).
Exhibit C : Statement of net worth.
Schedule B-1: Summarized statement of Entertainment Fund.
Schedule B-2: Summarized statement of Students' Loan Fund.
Schedule B-3: List of securities, notes receivable, and insurance
policies-General Fund (2 pages) .
Schedule B-4: Composition of residents' deposits and trust funds.
Statements of Operation (Statistical)
Exhibit D: ·Summarized statement of revenue and expense.
Schedule D-1: Distribution of operating expenses in detail (2
pages).
Schedule D-2: Statement of per capita loss.
We certify that, in our opinion, the attached statements, with
exception as to the stated value of the securities on hand, and the
actual values of the fixed properties at Decoto and Covina, set forth
the condition of the Masonic Homes of California at July 31, 1933.
From a general review and examination of the records~ we are of the
opinion that all receipts and disbursements are properly stated.
All of the general securities listed under Schedule B-3 have been
donated, with the exception of ten shares of stock of the Glendora
Water Company stated on the books at cost. The stated, ~r book
value, in the case of donated securities represents the value placed
upon the securities at the time of donation. Where such value has
been difficult to determine, because of its being an unlisted or closely
held security, or of uncertain value, then the par, face, or a nominal
value is entered on the books solely as a matter of record. Notes
receivable values represent the unpaid portion of notes receivable on
hand. Insurance policies are listed on the books at the face or value
recoverable upon death of the insured, as a matter of record.
The securities contained within the Students' Loan Fund, Schedule B-2, are stated on the books at cost, with the exception of the
100 shares of Masonic Temple Association received by donation and
valued on the books at par.
RucKSTELL & LAND, Certified P11blic Accountants.
By FLOYD T . WEBB.

536

C. M. WoLLENBURG, President;
]AMES

B. GIST, Vice-President;

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
JOHN STEWART Ross,
SAMUEL E. BURKE,
WILLIAM A. SITTON,
RANDOLPH V. WHITING,

Trustees.

537

538

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Secretary's Report

Dis burse1ne11ts

Exhibit A
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1933

General Fund
Cash balances, August 1, 1932:
In banks _____:.,_···-·-····.-·········-····-··········-···---.$ 6,299.63*
Petty ca5'h, Covina and DecotD_______________________ 1,000.00 $ 5,299.63*
Home maintenance tax-annual returns.........:........._..$(;}',556.45
Home building tax-annual returos..............·-·- -···-· 67,556.45
$25.00 Home t&x----------·--·-····-·--·-······-···- 56,575.00
General maintenance ······························-·····-·····-········ 25,283.09
Maintenance, subordinate lodges, Decoto.........._______ 1,422.00
Maintenance, subordinate lodges, Coviia__,____________ 3,237.00
Endowment fund interest.................·-····-················-·· 23,665.53
Interest ······-··············································-····················799.98
Farm produce sales, Decoto.........................·-···-········
71.69
Farm produce sales, Coviua.......·-··········-·--·-·-·-····-· 1,987.47
Farm rent, Dccoto...•_....................-···················-·--····38.95
Salvage and miscellaneous___________________________________·-······53.80
Refunds and reimbursements :
Funeral expense ......................................$5,274.96
Insurance .................................................. 171.16
Outside relief ............................•............. 195.00
Merchandise purchases, Covina............ 4,341.13
Sundry maintenance, Dccoto..................
78.50
Sundry maintenance, Covina.................. 403.31
---10;464.06
State aid, Covina.........·-·······························'·················· 2,992.00
Entertainment fund ........................................................ 4,946.12
Students' loan fa'nd ...................:...................................... 3,928.51
Students' loan securities redeemed................................ 5,000.00

Maintenance, Decoto ··········-··············-········------····--·$91,86l.59
Maintenance, Covina -··-················································ 88,730.76
General and other expense :
Outside relief ··································-························ 40,283.50
Outside care of children----·-········-·······-············ 4,518.83
Interest -····-················-··········- ······························973.72
Insurance .................................................................. 1,347.50
Taxes ············-··········-··········-----·-··--················ 3,644.53
Secretary's salary ··········- ··································-···· 1,524.99
General office a<nJmJtinr---·········--·-······--·- ·-·
832.50
Trustees' expense ....................................................
693.25
Miscellaneous expense ................:...........................
92.28
Funeral expense ···-················································· 5,197.32
Safekeeping of securities and safe deposit box
266.50
rental -··············································- ················
Auditing - - ----································-········-··-····
250.00
Federal excise tax......·-··- ··································-····
68.10
Refund $25.00 Home tax.............·-··-·-··---- ·-····-······
250.00
Refund Home Maintenance and Building funds........
138.00
Furniture and fixtures, Decoto...................................... 1,658.15
Tractor, Covina ····-········································-·············· 1,175.00
General maintenance ······-·············································· 4,617.76
Entertainment fund - ······················································ 2,175.94
Students' loan tunll--···························-······················-·· 2,996.25
Notes payable ··--······- ················································ 25,000.00
Students' loan securities purchased.........·-····- ··········- 5,000.00
Total disbursements ................................

283,298.47

Overdrawn July 31, 1933..........................................

$ 13,020.00*

Composition of Balance

Total meipts......~·-················-······················-

'275,578.10

Total to account for........................................................

$270,278.47

*Red.

639

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Anglo-California. Trust Company (commercial account) •U·---------····-··················-·························...$lo,,2S9.25•
Security-First National Bank of Los Angeles
(commercial account) ............................................ 5,338.71•
Anglo-California Trust Company (endowment) interest account... ...............$11,742.53
tLess: Due Endowment fund............ 11,000.00
742.53

540

~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Security-First National Ban1c of Los Angeles,
Pasadena ....................................................................
835.43
Petty cash funds, Decoto and Covina........................ 1,000.00
Total ....................................................................

541

Farm Investment, Decoto"l..
Camp Tucker :
$ 13,020.00*

_

~ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tTransfer was made from General fund to Endowment fund in
August.
. *Red.
Exhibit B

12,749.00
Land ················- ············'·······························
Improvements .............................................. . 12,347.00
Automobiles -····························-································ ·
Stores and Supplies :
Decoto ..................................................................
Covina

25,096.00
1,482.78

309.30
2,084.18
2,393.48

BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1933

$2,501,729.34

Total assets ................................................

Assets
Cash:
In banks ··········-···················································-$
Petty cash, Decoto:.............................................
Petty cash, Covina..............................................
Securities:
General .securities ·(Schedule B-3) ..................
Students' loan fund securities..........................

---$

2,577.96

42,692.73
41,000.00

Decoto Home :
Land ......................................................................
44,969.90
Buildings .............................................................. 1,480,246.37
Building equipment ........................:...................
56,452.55
48,411.26
Improvements ......................................................
Power plant and laundry..................................
75,177.83
Furniture and fixtures .....:..................................
71,728.50
Farm equipment ..................................................
5,406.00
Covina Home:
Land ................................................•... ,,................
Buildings ·········,·:-:·············:.-·········:.......................
Building equipment ............................................
Improvements ........,.............................................
Laundry machinery ............................................
Furniture and fi:11:tures ........................................
Hospital building ................................................
Farm improvements ..........................................
Farm equipment ..................................................

Liabilities

1,577.96
500.00
500.00

83,692.73

Payables:
Bank overdraft ..............................$ 15,597.96
Notes payable-Endowment fund 225,000.00
$240,597.96
Fund Accounts :
Entertainment fund (Schedule
B-1) ........................................ 4,313.15
Students' loan fund (Schedule
B-2) ,....................................... 39,979.17
44,292.32
284,890.28

Total liabilities

:

$2,216,83'9.06

Net Worth (Capital Account) ............
1,782,392.41

(Reference: Analysis Exhibit C.)
.

. 24,300.00
474,330.09
7,956.49
20,000.00
. 6,609.80
14,517.66
53,999.09
1,205.85
1,175.00

.

Note : The following items are not included in this statement: Donated real ~state and securities received by the Secretary are not r~corded . .: .
on the books in the case of securities having little or no value, and in case ·
of real estate, the value of which is uncertain. Upon realization of donated
real estate in cash, entry of cash realized is entered in books, as the first
.
book record of the donation.
No depreciation on fixed properties is reflected on the books or in the
above balance sheet.
604,093.98 .

.

~

PROCEED<NGS OF TH.,,/

642

Exhibit C . /
ST~TEMENT OF NET WORTH (CAPITA~,y;wuNT), JmY 31, 1933

Capital account balance, August 1, 1932..- ....................................$2,636,660.12
Add: Adjustment to close and transfer the
following account to the general fund in
accordance with resolution of Board of
Trustees dated October 14, 1932.
Special Rule No. 16...·--········································$123,24?.43
Special Rule No. 16 securities deposited.......... 40,692.73
Residents' deposits ................................................ 10,000.00
173,940.16
Capital account, as adjusted..........................................
Add: Excess of revenue over expense for the
fiscal year ended July 31, 1933................... .

$2,210,600.28

Capital account balance, July 31, 19.U......................

$2,216,839.06

6,238.78

Schedule B-1
SUMMARlZED STATEMENT OF ENTERTAINMENT FUND
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1933

Balance, August 1, 1932 (due from general fund) ..•......--···'········.$1,542.97
Receipts during the year-··-···---··························································· 4,946.12
Total ·----················-··-·······················································.$6,489.09
Disbursements during the year ..................................~···············'· ····· -·· 2,175.94
Balance, Jtriy 31, 1933 (due from general fund) ......... ;...·-········---.$4.313.15
Schedule B-2
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF STUDENTS' LOAN FUNb
FOR. THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1933
Balance, August 1, 1932:
Cash (due the general fund) ................$ 1,953.09*
Securities .................................................. 40,986.50
.
$39,033.41
Adj11stmertt of securities' coft................
13.50
- - - $39,046.91
Receipts During the Y car :
Cash:
Earnings on securities ....................
1,899.76
1,860.00
General contributions ··············'·······
Securities redeemed ........................
5,000.00
8,759.76

Total

$47,806.67

.

~LODGE

6~3

OF CALIFORNIA

Disbursements During th€-xeac:
"\
Cash:
For education -············'-··················
Securities purchased ······-··············

2,827.50
5,000.00
7,827.50
$39,979.17

Balance, July 31, 1933.................- .................
Composition of F1111ds

Cash (due the general fund) ......................... .
Securities:
Bonds:
5 $1,000 Sugar Pine Lumber
Company 6% First Mortgage,
due 1939 4-·········-····-············-$ 5,000.00
1 $1,000 Yosemite Lumber Company 60% First Mortgage,
due 1940 .................................... 1,000.00
5 $1,000 Broadway Department
. Stores, Inc., 6% Sinking
Fund Debenture, due 194L.. 5,000.00
5 $1,000 Blue Diamond Company
6% First Mortgage, due 1942 5,000.00
5 $1,000 Los Angeles Railway Co.
5% First Mortgage, due 1938 5,000.00
Stocks:
100 shares Masonic Temple Association ··········-·---················· 1,000.00
527 shares Pacific Gas & Electric
Co. 6% Prefen1tML.......--······ 14,000.00
250 shares Southern California
Edison Co., Ltd., 6% Preferred ····················-······-······-·· 5,000.00
Total
*Red.

$ 1,020.83*

41,000.00
$39,979.17

544

PROCEEmNGS OF

T~

/

'

LIST OF SECURITIES, NOTES RECEIVABLjl, AND INSURANCE POLICIES

31, 1933

.

No. of Book
Shares Value

Stocks:
Consolidated Metals Corporation.................. 25 $ 25.00
Graton & Knight Co. Pref.............................
4
400.00
10.00
Graton & Knight Co·-······························-····- 10
Kolster Radio Corporation............................
4
240.00
Kolster Radio Corporation............................ Scrip
6.20
National Leather Co. Pref.............................
1
100.00
5
National Leather Co.......................................
50.00
Transa!llerii;a Corporation ............................
7
175.00
Transamerica Corporation ............................ 2/10
10.00
Glendora Water Co. ....................................... 10 2,000.00
California Prune & Apricot Growers' Association .......................................................
4
14.68
Kern County Mutual Building & Loan .
Association ········"············-························ 15 1,500.00
- - - $ 4,530.88
$500.00 Clift Realty Co., First Mortgage 6%
Bond ................................'.................................. .
500.00
500.00
Building and Loan Certificates:
California Mutual Building & Loan Association ................................................... .
500.00
San Jose Pacific Building & Loan Associ~
ation ........................................................... .
151.21
Columbia Building & Loan Association ... .
202.81
Pacific States Building & Loan Society ... .
250.00
Pac4fic States Building & Loan Society... .
750.00
San Jose Building & Loan Association ......
300.00
2,154.02
N ates Receivable :

Date
Made

~AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

545

'

Schedule B-~
GENERAL FUND-JULY

\

Unpaid

Balance
A. D. Curtiss.......................................... 2/5/1932 $ 272.00
Geo. H . and Esther Hoag................... .12/18/ 1929 2,050.00
Wallace D. and Bernice Swanson...... 2/19/1931 2,374.20
.J. B. and Esther Anthony.............~ ...... 3/23/1931 2,934.88
Samuel Leask ........................................ 1/1/1931 2,775.00
Mildred A. Logan.................................. 5/8/1933 2,610.81

J. Donald McCrea~----· ······················ 7/1/1926
Morris L. and Lois M. ·Cooley............ 4/4/1933
P. G. Little and wife.......\.; ............. :... 6/23/1926
W. H . and Ruth Peck. ......................... 9/10/1931
H. J. and Ida Johnston .............. :......... 5/1/1929
Emilie Fleeger ...................................... 9/7/1930

500.00
546.41
2,500.00
554.86
387.40
1,488.27
18,993.83

Insurance Policies :
Book Value
The Phoenix Mutual Life Insurance Co., No.
284323 ................. :....................................................$ 700.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., No. 30555452...... 147.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., No. 30538768...... 102.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., No. 30627500......
90.00
Western States Life Insurance Co., No. 58434 ........ 1,000.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., No. 22627............ 500.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund (Aahmes Temple) .... 1,500.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund (Aahmes Temple) .... 1,500.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund (Aahmes Temple) .... 1,500.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund (Aahmes Temple) .... 1,500.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund (California Bodies,
A. & A. S. R.) ........................................................ 1,000.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund (Islam Temple) ........ 1,000.00
Widows' and Orphans' Fund (Aahmes Temple) .... 1,500.00
The Homesteaders' Life Association, No. 64312 .... 1,000.00
Grand International Auxiliary Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers, No. 2865........................ 500.00
Grand International Auxiliary Brotherhood of
Locomotive Engineers, No. 2866...........-........... 500.00
National Life Insurance Co. of the U. S., No.
17865 ········································································ 1,000.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., No. 1015118........ 1,000.00
Metropolitan Life Insurance Co., No. 1366705........ 237.00
~etropolitan Life Insurance Co., No. 44577............ 238.00
16,514.00
Grand Total ............................. ~ ..................... .

$42,692.73

Nate: The estimated cash surrender value on the above policies
amounts to $1,630.00.

546

~ltAHt) LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Schedule B-4
COMPOSITION OF RESIDENTS'

Revenue from Opemtion.._ of Homes :
·
Farm produce sales..."\,.....................$ 5,526.49 $ 7,104.67 $ 12,631.16
Farm rent ............................................
38.95
38.95
Salvage ................................................
13.80
13.80

/

DEPOS~Allll TRUST FUNDS

JULY 31, 1933

Residents' Deposits
*Cash on hand and in bank.............,.....................................$2,424.84
Total ........................................................................

Total
$2,424.84

$2,167.55

*Cash in bank is in separate bank account apart from the general
funds of the Masonic Homes of California.
Exhibit D
SU MMARIZED STATEMENT OF REVEN U E AND EXPENSE (STATISl'JCAL)
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR E N DED JULY 31, 1933

Revenue
Revenue from General Sources :
Decoto

Covina

Total

Maintenance Fund :
$25.00 Home tax..$56,325.00
Building fund ........ 67,487.45
Per capita tax........ 67,487.45
General maintenance ·-··-·······--······
Maintenance, subordinate Lodges....$ 1,422.00 $ 3,237.00
State aid ·····························-·······-······
2,992.00
Funeral expense, Decato (net) ........
Interest on endowment fund securities ..............................................
Interest on bank deposits ..................

··········:-····-····:··- ············-..$ 5,579.24 $ 7,104.67 $ 12,683.91

Total revenue from all sources........$ 7,001.24 $13,333.67 $245,419.46

Expense

Trust Funds
Gloria Swanson, cash in the San Francisco Bank..........$1,411.21
Eunice Botts, cash in the San Francisco Bank................ 756.34
Total ················-··-····-··········,·······- ·-·-··-······-

547

$191,299.90
9,241.50
4,659.00
2,992.00

77.64
23,665.53
799.98

Total ····-·-·'································-$ 1,422.00 $ 6,229.00 $232,735.55

Maintenance ····-········ (Schedule D-1)
Hospital ...- ................. ( Schedule D-1)
Farm .......................... (Schedule D-1)
Laundry ...................... (Schedule D-1)
Payroll ........................ (Schedule D-1 )
General expense ·-····-(Schedule D-1 )

$48,099.18 $36,817.42 $ 84,916.60
15,415.66
11,142.48
4,273.18
4,477.57
8,838.10
13,315.67
5,326.49
3,188.73
2,137.76
34,226.13
13,650.71 20,575.42
16,654.64 15,195.95
31,850.59

Total '"··-·----·..·····- ··················-$97,213.31 $87,837.83 $185,051.14
Connnon Expense (Undistributed) :
Outside relief ····--···-···- ····-··'······················-·················-·-..--···-$ 40,088.50
Outside care of children, C<>vina ..............·-····- ····-····..··········-· 4,518.83
Insurance ·-·············-····- ·- ··························································•·· 1,176.34
Taxes ................................................................................................ 3,644.53
Secretary's sala.ry ····-- ········- ··- ····························..·-···········- ······ 1,524.99
General office accounting..............................................................
832.50
Interest ················································-~·-········································
973.72
Trustees' expense ..........................................................................
693.25
Auditing ......................- ...............................................·- ················
250.00
Safekee))ing of secUt"ities and safe deposit box rental..........
266.50
General expense ...........................................·-······························
92.28
Federal excise tax. ....·-···~···-·····..·············--···············..·······•···-·:
68.10
Total common expe&f!t...................................- .•·-·······-····-$. 54,129.54
Total e<epense ·-····-~........._ ........................................................$239,.180.68
Excess of Revenue Over Expense......................................................$ 6,238.78
Schedule D-1
DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENSES IN DETAIL (STAT ISTICAL)
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR E NDED JULY 31, 1933

Expenses
Maintenance Expense
Decoto
Covina
Total
Groceries ········-···································-$ 7,085.04 $ 9,206.25 $16,291.29
2,911.23
7,698.19
Meat ...................................................... 4,786.96

548

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decato/
Fish ........................................................
599.41
Provisions ............................................ 1,330.53
Fruit and vegetables............................ 3,731.05
Butter, milk and eggs.......................... 9,401.53
Bakers' supplies .................................. 3,514.95
Medical supP,lies and drugs ......:.........................
Dental expense ....................................
783.00
Clothing ................................................
847.80
Shoes ......................................................
361.10
Bedding ...........................................'.......
479.26
School supplies· .................................... ................
157.35
Repairs and maintenance....................
Kitchen and dining room:
Operating and miscellaneous expense ...................................... 5,631.82
Payroll .......................................... 9,389.38

/

Covina
75.00
512.75
2,487.98
6,633.24
1,812.31
388.20
1,073.82
2,086.74
1,618.46
209.31
99.72

2,721.12
4,981.29

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total
674.41
1,843.28
6,219.03
16,034.77
5,327.26
388.20
1,856.82
2,934.54
1,979.56
688.57
99.72
157.35

8,352.94
14,370.67

Total maintenance ......................$48,099.18 $36,817.42 $84,916.60
Hospital Expense
Miscellaneous expense ..._. ....................$ 3,891.48 $ 2,694.88 $ 6;586.36
1,578.30
8,829.30
Payroll .................................................. 7,251.00
Total hospital expense................$11,142.48 $ 4,273.18 $15,415.66
Farm Expense
Tools and equipment..._.......................$ 256.78 $ 232.43 $ 489.21
86.98
Seeds ·········'·····•······································
86.98 ................
5,395.48
Feed ........................................................ 2,303.27
3,092.21
General expense ..................................
621.54
2,368.08
2,989.62
Payroll .................................................. 1,209.00
3,145.38
4,354.38
Total farm expense......................$ 4,477.57 .:$ 8,838.10 $13,315.67
Laundry Expense
Expense ................................................$ 632.73 $ 463.26 $ 1,095.99
Payroll .................................................. 2,556.00
1,674.50
4,230.50
Total laundry expense................$ 3,188.73 $ 2,137.76 $ 5,326.49
Payroll Expense (Other than Farm, Laundry, Mai1itenance and Hospital)
Wages ..................•.................,.,.............$ 8,790.71 $17,335.42 $26.126.1:',
Salaries .................................................. 4,860.00
3,240.00
8,100.00
Total payroll expense..........................$13,650.71 $20,575.42 $34,226.13

549

General Expense
Decato
Covina
Total
Light, heat, power, and water ............$10,525.57 $ 7,421.52 $17,947.09
Plant repairs and maintenance.......... 1,574.84
1,630.48
3,205.32
Freight and express.................·-··········
120.83
372.33
493.16
Traveling .............................................. ................
1,104.11
1,104.11
Printing and office supplies................
299.47
1,150.57
1,450.04
Replacements of furniture and fix460.13
tures ................................................
216.93
677.06
Improvements to grounds ..................................
1,447.98
1,447.98
603.99
Telephone and telegraph....................
476.23
1,080.22
1,627.30
Miscellaneous ...................................... 2,818.31
4,445.61
Total general expense..................$16,654.64 $15,195.95 $31,850.59
FooTNOTE (Statistical only):
Total expense exceeded direct revenue from Home operations as
follows:
· Decato
Covina
T otal
Expenses distributed ................................$97,213.31 $87,837.83 $185,051.14
Add: Common expense (undistributed) ................ ................
54,129.54
Total expense ..............................................
Deduct : Revenue direct from H ome
operations ............................................ 5,579.24

$239,180.68
7,104.67

12,683.91 .

Excess of expense over direct Home
revenue ...........,....................................$91,634~07 $80,733.16 $226,496.77

•

=
[
.,'"'

c.

.,~:. 3""'

g
..,

-

(N

~
._,

[.

~

~

~

~
tn

.= ::

5· ;

"' ::
:::;.·

'8 l

(")~
0 :
3 :

C. IO

~

t:l '<"'

<..
'l

(N

(..,

IO

"'

"';:;.

u;·
c

c.

;:r

(J\

n

OJ

"C

c..,

n

= l (").
= l ',....." .:ol"' ,..... "' ~

~

......... o n

'"' R ::r f'> -· .. - · n "

~i~!~ ~

:o;- ......

:

0

~ ·.....

~R

!!l. ~ :o;- ~ !'I" gi ~ gi ~ ~-

.

~

""'"

~

-

~

:t

g!:::

~ ;:J::. ::i:: "Ij ~
t7j...,. !!l §
- • " c.

(IJ

~
~
~ w
.....
~~
::O"'
n"' >-l"' tl:l>u::On" ti
0 ;:r n"'
..,, ;:r "'"'
0 ;:r 0 ;:r ..,, ;:r 0 ., '< - · 0
-·
~ ~ :s ~ . 2: . ~ r;- ~ :s Q. . ~ ~ ~
~ ~ n ~ ~ ~ '!: ~ a:i ~ c. ~ tl:l s· ci ~
o
<S<
;:J::.
.,
Oon ..
0
0
nrs::·
r.n >u"' "C"'> ci
"'
"'
0
.,,g~.,"<;ll..,;:r,,,
.,.P-_tt.~'I

N

>-l
0

Ntn

;..... N

c..

1..

IO

-

.y,

bl

(N
0

8

0

'l

~ !

(N
(N

i

8

.,...
-

"'

8

0

8

(N

r;· i ~

8

0
~

"(;ll.

8

- &- ~

0tn

;· l r;· "!
.,...

g

>-l

...

g

g

g

s

"'

c
c.

~

(,,
IO

~

~ ~

t

i

:'

0

"'

~:

g..,,

E.

-= 'a"'
"';:r

~

FL

r Ii.i [/ii i!f ~!~I
1.
I

!

~.

0

"'

~
..,,

?I

'"'

..,,

0

Ii ::-.

~

~
..,,
'E."'

-=.", =.,=

,..... ;:r

"'
:;d

-Q

8

§

0:

0

0

., 0

Cl
~· ;;
g
~
.., (oj ..,

t.."':. OiJ

~o:-;
§§§
888

e. l ! ~

0

"l'j
'"'

i ~

tl:l :: ::

r;· i

1

a
:s
... c.. : (/)

t:ltl:l!"S.

c.g_

~

f<oOO~,,

"'otl:l§ff

s:.,1

2. : ~ &. ::n

0

0

-

"'

(N
(N

"'
t'l

:;:::

IO t'l

(N

"'"'

ls

~

-i

"'

--

I"'

"'c:
..... =
• :»

;ii: 00 0

._, Ni ;...

l'1

c:
z

"l

z
-i

t'l

:;:::

~

0

t::

"' "'
< ....
~

"' >"'
gi
..... z

~ ~

z
~

-<
:»
t'l t'l
> ('l
t'l

:»

I"'

"1

-i
0

z

~

-i
t'l
:;:::
t'l

u; ('l
('l >

t'l
"1

ti:

-i

:»

"1

~ > "'= z

.

-

>
c
Oil
c
~

.P-

~

:r

=

0

Q
"'
. ;:r

306.26
25.52

:J: IO 00

-;:~ ~

-

I!~i

~ ~
; !

~ i

l

'" {
•
I

ll

tii

..,!

fti

.,,:

n ! ~·
...,
~! ..

~
..... Ij ~"'

~
n ,

g
(/)
.6· t ~

t.n3~~=-·

n"ai;r

;:;: c. ::::;: o·

01--1-

~
~'<~'<=

nn

=

::0 tl:l {/) t:i
n>t>Co
c.
::l
..,, .0
c c. .,

Average cost per child per ,.ear..............................................·-····················-····························-···········-·········································
Average cost per child per month.........................................................·-··-··································································""···················

[.
>

><
;:r

~

25.10

15

~:f:r~~.f';!'~ea°L~~~~.~~-~--~~~~--~~~-~'.~~:..~~~~~'.~~--~~~~~--~~~.--~~~--~-~~~~~'.'.'.~..::::=::~~::::::::::::::=::.-.::::::::::::::::$3,oU.64 $4,518.83
301.25

Average cost per rcsi·
38.54
45.59
42.24+
39.67+
43.77
46.10
49.18
46.71
40.21+
39.34
dent per montl) ............
Average cost per resident per da7..........-....
1.5(}1.391,26+
1.38+
1.441.516
?.61+
1.53+
1.32+
l.29
Avg. No. of employees..
19
2223
25
28
3(}z9+
28+
23
21
*The maintenance cost includes General Maintenance,. Farm, Laundry, Payroll and General Expense less farm produce sales and all
other credits appertaining to the direct operation of the nomes.
NOTE: This statistical report bas ~en prepared by the oflice of the Masonic Homes of California and is inserted for information
purposes only.

Cwina
1924
1930
1931
1932
1933
1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
Co.st of maintenance•....$61,828.90 $73,002.73 $76,313.93 $79,036.83 $90,351.04 $101,803.18 $109,184.26 $95,295.06 $84,458.51 $80,733.16
Avg. No. of residenu....
113
144
165
166
172
184
185+
170
175
171
Average operating cost
per month-···-···-···-$ 5,152.41 $ 6,083.56 $ 6,359.49 $ 6,586.40 $ 7,529.25 $ 8,483.59 $ 9,098.69 $ 7,941.25 $ 7,038.21 $ 6,727.76
A:verage cost per day.__
169.40
200.00+ 209.07
216.54
247.53
278.91
299.13
261.08
231.40
221.18
Average cost per resi506.96
462.50
476.12
525.29
553.27
482.62
472.12
547.16
590.18
560.56
dent per ,.ear......_ .......

1925
1926
1927
1928
1929
Deco"'
1924
1930
1931
1932
1933
Coat of maintenance•-..$68,675.52 $81,375.86 $81,932.83 $80,839.22 $S8,282.75 $92,974.69 $106,151.35 ~.2!10.30 $93,698.59 $01,6'4.07
Avg. No. of residenta._
165
194
213
224
242
260 ·
281+
314+
333
35Q
Average operating coat
$
7,747.89
$
8,845.94
$
8,274.19
$
7,808.21
$
7,636.17
per month ·-·······-·····-$ 5,722.96 $ 6,781.32 $ 6,827.73 $ 6,736.60 $ 7,356.89
Average cost per day..-188.15
222.94
224.47
221.47
241.87
254.72
290.82
272.03
256.70
251.05
Average cost per resi·
419.46
384.66
360.89
364.80
316.21
281.37
dent per year -·-··-··414.55
357.59
317.76
261.81
Average cost per resi34.54
32.05
34.95
30.07
dent per month.........-.
30.40
29.79
31.48
26.35
23.45
21.81
Average cost per residen~ per day........-._,...1.135
1.15
1.053
.98
.99
.98.)'1
.866
1.03+
.17+
Avg. No. of emplo7ees..
24
26.5
27
28
31
30.J
34
38
40
38
*The maintenance cost includes General Maintenanc!', Farm. Laundry, Payroll and General Expense less farm p;oduce sales and all
other credits appertaining to the direct opcratinn of the nomes.

Schedule D-2

Secretary's Report-Statement of Per Capita Costs (Stati1tical)

Masonic Homes of California

.,.
"".....

>

~

g

~
~
~
...,

l;!J

8

t"
0

~
zt;;

G')

t:<J

=

>-!

~

~

~z

~

"d
:ll

0

en
en

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit B

Face
Value

COMPOSITION OF ENDOWMENT FUND
JULY 31, 1933

Endowment Cash (Savings Account):
Crocker First Federal Trust Company................$ 330.48
999.94
American Trust Company........................................
Anglo California Trust Company.......................... 9,799.63
Bank of America (French American Branch).... 1,074.32
Bank of America (Humboldt Branch) ................ 1,796.24
San Francisco Bank. ................................................. 10,469.63
*Due from General Fund (Anglo California
Trust Company, endowment interest bank .
account) .......................................................... 11,000.00
Total Endowment cash..............·........................

$35,470.24

*Transferred to Endowment Fund in August, 1933.
E11dowment Bonds:

Book
Face
Maturity Interest
Rate
Value
Value
Date
City of Ashland, Water......$ 9,000.00
1959
5 % $ 9,000.00
California Gas & Electric
• Corp., Unifying and
Refunding Mortgage.... 9,000.00
1937
5 %
9,000.00
Cincinnati, Hamilton & Dayton Railroad Co............. 1,000.00
1937
880.00
40%
East Bay Municipal Utility
District Water .............. 5,000.00
1947
5 %
5,326.55
City and County of San
F r a n c i s c o, H e t ch
Hetchy ............................ 35,000.00
1963
10,000.00
48,267.94
1955
5~ %
Home Telephone & Telegraph Co. of Spokane,
First Mortgage Gold....
500.00
1936
5 %
500.00
Jonathan Club Building.Co.,
2nd Mortgage Lease1952
hold Serial Gold............ 1,000.00
7 %
1,000.00
Jonathan Club Building Co.
2nd Mortgage Leasehold Serial Gold............
500.00
1952
7 %.
500.00
Long Beach City High
1944
5 %
5,417.65
School District ············- 5,000.00

•

Los Angeles County ·Flood
Control District Serial 2
Los Angeles Railway Co. of
California First Mortgage Gold ..~ .....................
Northern California Power
Co. Convertible and Refunding Mortgage..........
Achoco Irrigation District,
Deposit Certificate ........
Oroville Union High School
Dis tr ic t, County of
Butte, Gold......................
Oroville Union High School
District, County of
Butte, Gold......................
Pacific Gas & Electric Co.,
First and Refunding
Mortgage, Gold..............
Pacific Gas & Electric Co.,
General and Refunding
Pacific Gas & Electric Co.,
First and Refunding
Mortgage, Gold..............
Pacific Telephone & Telegraph Co., First Mortgage and Collateral
Trust Sinking Fund......
City of Richmond, Municipal Improvement ..........
City and County of San
Francisco, Sewer............
City and County of · San
Francisco, Municipal
Improvement, Street
Railway ..........................
City and County of San
Francisco, City Hall......
. City and County of San
Francisco, Water ..........
City of Santa Barbara..........

553

Maturity Interest
Rate
Date

Book
Value

10,000.00

1950

5 %

10,720.64

5,000.00

1938

5 %

5,000.00

1,000.00

1948

5 %

1,000.00

3,000.00

1930

1,000.00

1935

. 5 %

1;038.21

2,000.00

1936

5 %

2,076.42

2,000.00

1941

6

%

2,000.00

5,000.00

1942

5

%

5,000.00

1,000.00

1941

6 %

1,070.00

17,000.00

1937

5 %

17,000.00

4,000.00

1934

5 %

4,000.00

10,000.00 1945-1947 . 5 %

10,000.00

3,000.00

5 %

1,000.00

21,000.00 1939-1960 5 %

21,000.00

30,000.00 1933-1942 40%
11,287.50 1934-1944 40%

30,000.00
11,287.50

1,000.00

1934

554

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

555

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Face
Value

Maturity Interest
Date
Rate

Book
Value

City of Santa Barbara, Municipal Impr!m!ment,
Water .............................. 1,000.00
1948
4)4%
1,000.00
U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan.. 182,850.00 1933-1938 4~% . 182,850.00
U. S. Fourth Liberty Loan.. 11,700.00
1947
4~%
11,700.00
University Masonic Temple
Association, 2nd Mortgage (registered) ..........
100.00
1949
6 %
100.00
City of Upland, Municipal
Improvement.................. 3,125.00 1935· 1942 6 %
3,125.00
Anderson Cottonwood Irrigation District, First
Issue No. 7...................... 1,000.00
1937
6 %
1,000.00
Donna Irrigation District
Hidalgo County.............'. 1,000.00
1950
5 %
1,000.00
Imperial Irrigation District
Issue No. 4.'·······-·······-~ 1,000.00
1938
6 %
1,000.00
West Okanogan Valley Irrigation District, Oro·
ville, Wash. .................... 1,000.00
1945
6 %
1,000.00
Oroville Wyandotte Irrigation District, County of
Butte ................................ 1,000.00
1953
6 %
1,000.00
Palo Verde Irrigation District, County of Riverside, Calif. ...................... 1,000.00
1949
6 %
1,000.00
Pecos County Water Improvement District
No. 1, State of Texas
First Refunding Cou~
pon .................................. 1,000.00
1934
6 %
1,000.00
Pick Barth Holding Corporation Five-Year Note.. 1,000.00
1935
6 %
1,000.00
State of Arizona, Queen
Creek Irrigation District ·-·····-·······- -············ 1,000.00
1949
6 %
1,000.00
Reclamation District, No.
1660, County of Sutter.. 1,000.00
1943
6 %
1,000.00
Terra Bella Irrigation DisFirst
Iuee..............
1,000.00
trict,
1945
6 %
1,000.00
Total bonds ....................

$414,859.91

No.of
Endowment Swcks:
ShaYes
American T~lephone & Telegraph Co. 10
Baker, Hamilton & Pacific Co., Pref... 1
Colma Land Co....._......._
________ 2S

Los Angeles Investment ~--·---· 79
Masonic Temple Assn. of Calif., Inc..
Mercantile American Realty Co., Pref. 5
Olympian Dredging Q>....·- -- -··- 5
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Pref._......· 108
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., Pref......... 208
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., PreL·-··· 50
Southern California Edison Co•.- 15
Southern California Edison Ce..._ ,_ 29
Southern California Edison Co.• Pref. 2
Taft Masonic Temple Associat.i<ln........ 2
Visalia Building & Loan Association.. 10
Bethlehem Steel Corporation, Pref..... 5
Bond & Share Co......,- ...·-···-··-~- 13
Broad River Power Co., Pref........._ 10
Calamba Sugar Estate ······-···--············ 24
Calamba Sugar Estate, Pref.............w . 61
California Packing Corporation~·-······· 9
Calwa Co. .:...................................._......... 7
Central India.Ila Power Co., Pref......... 10
Central Public Service Co., Pref......... 15
Central States Power & Light Corporation, Pref. ...........................,.......... 14
Central & Southwestern Utilities Co.,
Pref. .................................................. 5
Continental Oil Co................·-·- ····- ··-· 11
W. B. coon· Co., Pref............................. 5
W. B. Coon Co...............- ....................... 15·
Crocker First National Bank of San
Fraocisco .......................................... 2
Crown Willamette Paper Co.. First
Pref. ..........................................._...... 10
Eastern Public Service Corporation,
Class A, Pref....·--········- ····-··-·•· 5
Ewa Plantation Co........,.....______ • 12
Galland Mercantile Laundry Co........... 5
Guggenheim & Co., First Pref............. 16
Hawaiian Commercial & Sugar Co..... 20
Hawaiian Sugar Co.·- ····---···--- - 25

2329"

Book
Value
$ 1,066.00
100.00
25.00
790.00
23,292.50
330.00
500.00
2,700.00
4,914.00
1,050.00
370.35
70325
50.00
100.00
1,000.00
500.00
78.00
1,000.00
480.00
1,220.00
207.00
70.00
720.00
825.00

728.00
450.00
66.00
500.00
11.00
200.00
520.00
5.00
240.00
160.00
1,312.00
500.00
500.00

557

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.of
Shares
Honolulu Oil Corporation...................... 14
International Hydro Electric System.. 38
International Hydro Electric System..38/SOth
Oahu Sugar Co., Ltd............................... 5
Oklahoma Natural Gas . Coq>~ration.. 15
Onomea Sugar Co..................................... 42
Orpheum Circuit, Inc., Pref................. 3
Pacific American Fisheries, Inc............. 10
Pacific Gas & Electric Co....................... 47
Pacific Lighting Corporation ................ 29
Pantepec Oil Co. of Venezuela............ 9
People's Light & Power Corporation,
Pref. .................................................. 3
People's Light & Power Corporation,
Pref. .................................................. 7
Pig'n Whistle Corporation, Pref......... 68
Public Service Co. of Oklahoma, Pref. 2
Pineapple Holding Co., Ltd...,............... 28
The Pure Oil Co..................................... 5
Realization Co. ........................................ 2
Schulte United Sc to $1.00 Stores, Inc.,
Pref. .................................................. 10
Deep Rock Oil Corporation, Pref......... 17
Shell Union Oil Corporation................ 11
Shenandoah Corporation, Pref............. 15
Sinclair Consolidated Oil Corp., Pref. 5
Southern California Gas Corp., Pref. 6
Socony Vacuum Corporation................ 49
Splitdorf Bethlehem Electrical Corp. 10
Standard Oil Co. of Indiana.................. 4
Standard Oil Co. of California.............. 240
Standard Power & Light Corporation,
Pref. .................................................. 5
Standard Public Service Co., Pref....... 14
A. E. Staley Manufacturing Co., Pref. 15
The Sun Drug Co., Pref......................... 1
Telephone Investment Corporation...... 11
Tidewater Associated Oil Co., Pref..... 5
United Linen Supply Co......................... 4
United Stores Corporation...................... 2
United Stores Corporation, Pref........... 6
United Stores Corporation.................... 3

Book
Value
196.00
874.00
8.36
100.00
431.25
840.00
48.00
80.00
1,175.00
1,508.00
7.00

No.of
Shares

Universal Consolidated Oil Co............... 8
Universal Chain Theatres Corporation 10 .
Universal Chain Theatres Corporation,
Pref. .................................................. 10
West Ohio Gas Co., Pref....................... 7
Yosem_ite Portland Cement Corporation ...................................................... 15

B ook
Value
80.00
20.00

20.00
644.00
150.00

$ 70,051.71
Total stocks ......................................
Miscellaneo1,s:
Masonic Homes of California-Note 5% ..........$225,000.0J
Widows' and Orphans' Fund, Islam Temple...... 1,000.00
- - - $226,000.00

30.00
140.00
204.00
200.00
560.00
125.00
12.00
2.00
340.00
66.00
195.00
500.00
630.00
1,225.00
7.50
100.00
8,640.00
485.00
560.00
1,500.00
100.00
220.00
500.00
96.00
1.00
141.00
7.50

.

Grand Total Cash and Securities Endowment Fund

$746,381.86

JoHN WHICHER, Secretary.

558

PROCEEDINGS OF TH:BI

Report of Superintendent-Decoto Home

To the Board of Trustees:
I hereby present for. your consideration my twenty-fourth annual
report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home at Deco.t o, California,
for the year ending August 31, 1.933.
In making a report of the activities of the Decoto Home for the
past year, I find that there have been but few changes, · and the
management of the Home has been substantially the same as in
former years.
We have endeavored to maintain a social atmosphere in keeping
with the ideals of our fraternity and to bring to all the members of
our family Gs large a measure of contentment as possible into the
daily lives of alt who are enjoying the many comforts of our Home.
This has been a busy year, and the admission of new members
and the personal care given each one has created a splendid spirit
throughout the several departments of the Home.
Members-There are at the present time 359 residents-195 men
and 164 women. During the year 90 persons have been admitted, 48
men and 42 women. Sixty-six have passed away-33 men and 33
women. There have been 6 departures.
Health-The general health of the Home has been good, with
the exception of those who are infirm and feeble owing to advancing
years.
Hospital-There are now 50 of our members being cared for in
the hospital department. The facilities afforded there enable our
physician and nurses to give every care and attention to those who
are ill. Day and night nurses are in constant attendance. Additional
room, when needed, can be provided by the completion of the interior
of the second floor of the two wings of the hospital building.
Industrial-There has been a greater individual effort on the
part of the members of our large· family to interest themselves in the
general routine work and to contribute their part, according to their
strength, to the general well-being of the Home. During the past
year a large number of men and women residents have contributed
to the welfare of the Home by their services in the engine room,
carpenter, paint and barber shops, care of the garage, mail, passenger
and freight service, kitchen, pantry, vegetable room, laundry, storerooms, office work, library and reception room$, telephone switchboard, floral decorations, care of elevators, flower beds, watering trees
and shrubs, care of walks, roads and lawns, vegetable garden and
poultry yards, janitor work and many other light duties in a general

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

559

way. Dur.ing the year, all minor repairs have been attended to by
brethren of the Home. The women of the Home attend to the
making, marking and mending of linen, sheets, pillow slips, table
cloths and napkins, etc., also assist in the preparing of fruit and
vegetables in the kitchen and dining rooms, diet kitchen, clerical
work, attending telephone calls, showing visitors about the Home,
music room, care of their rooms, etc., and general light household
duties.
Farm-As heretofore, the greater part of the hill ranch has been
leased or on cash rental. The farm has supplied plenty of fruit, figs,
berries and nuts for table use, the surplus being dried and stored for
future use. The returns from the hay crop have been fair. The garden
has supplied a variety of vegetables, etc. The chicken ranch has
furnished all the eggs for table use, the surplus being sold or preserved for winter use. Our deep well pump continues to furnish a
plentiful supply of water for household, garden, irrigating purposes,
also for fire protection.
Library and Club Rooms-There are now 6000 books on the
shelves of our main library and branches located in the several departments of the Home. The Masonic Hill branch of the Alameda
County Free Library enables our family to obtain many of the latest
books and an ·opportunity for special ones. In addition, we are the
recipients, through friends and members of the fraternity, of daily
papers, magazines and periodicals, which are placed on the tables
of the library, club rooms, and the ladies' social halls.
Social Life-The social life has been greatly enriched during the
year by literary and musical entertainments given by generous volunteers from Oakland, San Francisco; and nearby towns. Our Assembly
Hall, with our modern stage and moving picture equipment, has
made possible ·the presentation of dramatic plays given by visiting
Lodges and friends, all of which has contributed to the pleasure of
the members of our-family. The evening programs often close with
dancing. Card parties are held in t he library and reception rooms
every Tuesday evening. Chorus practice on Friday evenings. Every
Sunday afternoon finds the residents of the Home with their visiting
friends congregated in the Assembly Hall for Sunday service, after
which a selected program is given by the Home orchestra.
All holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. The
specials are those held on New Year's Eve, New Year's Day, Lincoln's Birthday, Washington's Birthday, Easter, Memorial Day,
Fourth of July, Halloween, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas. All
these programs are prepared and presented by the mem bers of the
Home.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GKANU L.ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The croquet grounds are well patronized during the day.
A reading class for the blind and those with failing eyesight meets
daily in the reception room, at which time the daily papers, etc., are
read to them by one of the ladies of the Home.
A number of the members have radio sets in their rooms. This
privilege is particularly appreciated by those who are blind, and by
those being cared for in the hospital department. The club rooms
and the reception room also have radios, and can be enjoyed _at any
time during the day or evening.
Arrangements are made whereby members of the family, a few
at a time, may enjoy an outing to nearby places of interest, also an
occasional visit to nearby Lodges and Eastern Star Chapters. During
the year many trips were made to Oakland, San Francisco, and
towns in the vicinity of the Home.
Grand Master Frank W. Mixter, officers and members of the
Grand Lodge have made a number of visits to the Home during the
year, and a large number of brethren from various Lodges have
spent many pleasant hours with us. The number of visits this year
shows increasing interest in the welfare of the Home family.
I desire again to thank the members of the Board of Trustees
for the kindly consideration always given in meeting the varied problems of the Home, which has in no small degree shaped and moulded .
the moral and spiritual strength of our family life.

Visitations to Decoto Home

560

FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.

561

September 17, 1932, Parnassus Chapter No. 269, 0. E. $. Stage
·play, "The Story Grew." Dancing.
September 24, 1932, Live Oak Lodge No. 61 and Charter Rock
Lodge No. 410. Miscellaneous program.
October 2, 1932, Aahmes Temple, A. A. 0 . N. M. S. Band concert.
October 10, 1932, annual visit of the officers and delegates of the
Grand Lodge.
October 15, 1932, Foothill Lodge No. 564. "Georgia Minstrels."
October 19, 1932, Alameda Lodge No. 167, Alisa! Lodge No. 321
and Eden Lodge No. 113. Moving pictures.
October 21, 1932, Fruitvale Bethel No. 14, Job's Daughters. Mis·
cellaneous entertainment. Ritualistic work.
October 29, 1932. Halloween Night. Miscellaneous program.
November 2, 1932, Oakland Assembly No. 11, Order of Rainbow
for Girls. Degree work.
November 3, 1932, Francis Drake Lodge No. 376 and Burlingame
Lodge No. 400. Stage play, Peninsula Players, "Hells Bells."
November 6, 1932, Presidio Lodge No. 354. Miscellaneous program.
November 12, 1932, Stanislaus Lodge No. 206. Third degree.
November 18, 1933, Hayward Chapter No. 331; 0. E. S. Sewing
club. Musical program.
NQvember 19, 1932, Friendship L odge No. 210. Band concert.
November 24, 1932, stereopticon views and slides of the Cahadian
natural parks.
November 25; 1932, Thanksgiving program by members of the
Home.
December 3, 1932, Old Time T heatrical Club. Miscellaneous
entertainment.
December 11, 1932, pupils from O'Bryan's Studio, San Fraileisco.
Vocal music.
December 31, 1932, New Year's Eve. Program by members of
the Home.
January 21, 1933, Charity Lodge No. 362. Students from ·Campbell High School. Miscellaneous program.
February 14, 1933, Washington Chapter, Order of De Molay.
First degree.

562

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

February 25, 1933, Washington's and Lincoln's Birthday program, given by residents of Home.
March 5, 1933, Argonaut Lodge No. 461. Stage play, "Caught
in a Harem."
March 9, 1933, Mrs. Mildred Schanbacher, Most Worthy Grand
Matron of the General Grand. Chapter, O. E. S., visited the Home.
March 12, 1933, Mount Oso Lodge No. 460 and Joaquin Chapter
No. 348, 0. E. S. Miscellaneous program.
March 19, 1933, musical recital given by visiting friends.
March 24, 1933, Amador Valley Joint Union High School. Operetta, "Jerry of Jericho Road."
March 26, 1933, Hayward Bethel, Job's Daughters. Drill team.
March 27, 1933, Tracy Teachers' Association. Stage play, "Fresh
From California."
March 31, 1933, San Jose Chapter, Order of De Molay, and San
Jose Assembly No. 5, Order of Rainbow. Miscellaneous i:ntertainment.
April 16, 1933, Easter Services given by members of the Home.
April 17, 1933, Players Club, Pleasanton, California. Stage play,
"Three Live Ghosts."
April 30, 1933, Scottish Rite Bodies of San Francisco. Stage
play, "Fast Workers."
May 2, 1933, Washington Union High School. Operetta, "The
Toreadors."
May 5, 1933, Oakland Bethel No. 1, Job's Daughters. Stage play,
"A Perfect 34."
May 13, 1933, Friendship Lodge No. 210. Musical program.
May 14, 1933, Stockton Pyramid of Sciots No. 7. Band concert.
May 14, 1933, Santa Cruz Lodge No. 35. Members and their families visited the Home.
May 20, 1933, Tracy Grammar School. Program by school
orchestra.
May 27, 1933, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225. "Seth Parker Show."
May 28, 1933, San Francisco Chapter, Order of De Mo1ay, and
San Francisco Assembly, Order of Rainbow. Mothers Day program.
June 3, 1933, Parnassus Chapter .No. 269, 0. E. S. Miscellaneous
program.
June 9, 1933, illustrated lecture, "Carlsbad Caverns."
June 10, 1933, Oakland Chapter No. 140, O. E. S. "The Tulip
Troopers." Miscellaneous entertainment.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

563

June 11, 1933, The Juveniles from Oakland. Musical program.
June 17, 1933, San Rafael Chapter No. 213, 0. E. S. Minstrel
show.
June 18, U>33, program given by Raymond Feste, pianist, and
Irene Sabota, vocalist.
June 21, 1933, Jewel Lodge No. 374. Band concert.
June 23, 1933, San Jose Lodge No. 10. Minstrel show.
June 28, 1933, Miss Belle Butler's class of dancing gids.
July 1, 1933, Past Matrons and Past Patrons of Santa Clara
Valley, and Central California Past Masters' Association. Stage play,
"Toe Flyi.1>1g Grandmother."
July 8, 1933, Thousand Oaks Chapter, 0 . E. S. Stage play,
"Meet the Countess." Dancing.
·
July 9, 1933, Concord Lodge No. 117. Visit of officers and members to the Home.
July 10, 1933, San Jose Department of Adult Education gave a
musical program by the San Jose Gleemen.
July 15, 1933, Engiish ritualistic work. First degree.
August 6, 1933, San Francisco Pyramid of Sciots No. 1. Band
concert.
August 19, 1933, annual visit of the East Bay Past Matrons'
Association, accompanied by the Worthy Grand Matron and the
Worthy Grand Patron. Vocal and instrumental program.
August 20, 1933, selections on the violin, given by Miss Doris
Thomassen.
August 26, 1933, Oakland Lodge No. 188. Miscellaneous program. Dancing.
August 31, 1933, Foothill Lodge. Second degree.
Donations to Decoto Home
George L. and Lillian A. Grant-A Brombach baby grand piano aod
bench, 1 sheet music cabinet, 3 large leather rockers, 1 large
leather chair, 2 upholstered rocking chairs, 1 fern stand and 3
ferns, 1 tabouret, 3 rugs, 1 18-inch terrestrial globe, 1 bureau,
1 chiffonier, 1 sewing rocker, 1 small center table, I large iardiniere and plant, 30 potted plants, bedding and pillows, 28 Victor
records. 32 vols. miscellaneous books, 7 bundles of assorted magazines, 5 Japanese maple trees.
Dr. C. C. Marches, 144 West Carlos Street, San Jose-I mahogany
Victor Electrola with amplifier, 8 record books, 56 records.

564

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

East Bay Past Matrons' Association, Oakland-97 table scarfs, 30
hospital night-gowns, 23 ladies' night-gowns, 10 dresser scarfs,
IS comforters, 30 large cakes, 2030 glasses of jelly and jam.
Estate H. G. Martell, San Francisccr-10 suits of clothes, 3 overcoats,
20 neckties, S hats, 8 pairs of shoes, 12 shirts, S vests, 2 bathrobes,
3 silk scarfs, 12 handkerchiefs, 6 suits underwear, 4 suits pajamas,
12 collars.
E. Faber-I boxwood plant, 1 brass jardiniere.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. A. M.-S gals. ripe olives.
Sarah Coyne-1 piece of tapestry.
H. W. Chaunce, 18S Twenty-first' Avenue, San Fra~cisccr-1 large
package of magazines.
Morgan Hill Lodge No. 463-49 jars of jelly and jam.
Stockton Pyramid of Sciots No. S, Homo Chapter No. SO, Golden
Poppy Chapter No. 3SS, Stockton Chapter No. 3SS, O. E. S.;
Loyalty Court No. 38, Order of Amaranth-100 cigars, lS gals.
ice cream, 3S large cakes.
· Oroville Lodge No. 103-S gals. ripe olives.
John M. Corse-I radio.
Oakland Chapter No. 140, 0. E. S.-3SO paper flowers.
John A. Clover-1 large armchair.
O;ikland Crematorium-12 jig-saw puzzles.
P. A. Anderson, Jewel Lodge No. 374-46 vols. miscellaneous books.
Harold Crow-1 box periodicals.
Chas. Leckenby- 1 large chest of carpenter tools.
Southern California Lodge No. 278-SO vols. miscellaneous books,
1 large box of periodicals.
C. W . Mann, San Francisccr-1 large American Flag.
Friendship Lodge No. 210-SSS glasses of jelly and jam.
D. H. Redinger, Big Creek, California-I Sequoia tree.
F. Housman, 20SO Divisadero Street, San F rancisccr-30 packs playing cards,
Alf Souls Church, Los Angeles--00 hymn books.
Oakland Assembly, Order of Rainbow-1 large cake, 4 qts. jelly,
·
1 basket of fruit .
.~fr; _and Mrs. F . . J . Breckenridge, 2108 Menlo Avenue, San Fran.· ·· ~isc~·National Geographies for 1930-1931.
1931 Warders' Club, 0. E. S., 8S7 Warfield Avenue, Oakland-10 vols.
books.

G RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

565

John Whicher, San Francisccr-SO vols. miscellaneous books.

J. G. Burt, 662 Longridge Street, Oakland-12S vols. miscellaneou~
books.
Joseph Tarvelli-3 boxes apples, SO lbs. walnuts.
Alameda Lodge ~o. 167-2S lbs. cookies.
Coachella Lodge No. 476-2S lbs. Coachella dates.
_S eymour C. Gifford-I large American Flag.
Estate Julia Engstrom-I box of clothing and comforters, 2 trunks
of women's clothing.
Mill Valley Chapter No. 196, 0 . E . S.-7 jars of preserved fruits.
Alameda Chapter No. 386,. 0. E . S.-40.boxes of candy.
G. B. Grendel, San Francisccr-262 pipes (assorted siz~s).
Martinez Lodge No. 41-99 Christmas packages.
Tillie C. Carpenter-390 table favors.
Modesto Lodge N o. 67S-4S qts. preserved fruits.
Frank E. Quilty-12 vols. miscellaneous books.
W. M. J ohnson-1 Rembler radio.
Jarman Chapter No. 493, 0. E. S.-20 jars jelly and jam.
Hayward Chapter No. 331, 0 . E . S.1 Sewing Club---8 dresser scarfs.
A. J. Watson-1 ash tray and stand, 3 suits of clothing, 3 pairs shoes,
6 shirts, S suits of underwear.
Sunnyvale Lodge N o. Sll-78 glasses of jelly, SO qts. preserved fru its.
Solomon Basker-1 armchair, 1 footstool, 1 floor lamp.
Selma Lodge No. 277-3 boxes raisins, 1 .box prunes, 7 cans of frui t,
·
1 can honey.
.Harry Membres, Brooklyn Lodge ~o. 22S-1 registered Irish setter
dog.
·
E. B. Haven, Oakland-3 suits clothing, 1 overcoat, 100 cigars.

666

Lodge
Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home

No.
Lodge
.Acorn ............................494
Alameda ......................167
Alamo ........................
Alcatraz ......................244
Alexandria ····-············531
Alisa! ............................321
Alpha ······················-···.431
Alturas ················-····-248
Amador ........................ 65
Amity ...............'.............310
Antioch ........................175
Apollo ..........................396
Argonaut ....................461
Argonne ......................5J!4
Artesia ........................37'1
Ashlar ··-······················306
Atascadero ..................493
Athens ··········-··············228'
Azusa ............................305
Balder ········-·····-·········393
Bay City ......................526
Bear Mountain............ 76
Berkeley ......................363
Blackmer ········-··········442
Brooklyn .•....................225
Buckeye ........................195
Burlingame ..................400
Cahuenga ....................513
Calaveras .................... 78
Caledonia ....................486
California .................... 1
Callayomi ....................282
Carquinez ....................337
Charity ........................362
Charter Rock ..............410
Chico ....- ..:................... 111
Clay .............................. 101
Clinton ........................ 119
Coalinga ......................387
Colusa ..........................240
Concord ........................117

_lza

Amt.
$10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
7.50
25.00
5.00
10.00
8.50
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

No.
Lodge
Confidence .'.................203
Corinthian ····-············ 9
Corona ········-··············324
Coronado -··················441
Covenant ......................527
Cre~cent .........,............ 45
Crockett ......................139
Cupertino ....................510
Curtis ·······-·-·········-·····140
Delta ······-·······--·····-.471
Doric ··-······-···············.216
Downey ........................220
Dunsmuir ...................:29'!
Durant ..........................268
East Bay --····-······-·-489
East Gate ............- .....290
Eden ·-····-···--····-········l l l
Eel River ....•...............147
El Centro ....................384
El Dorado .................... 26
Elmhurst ......................610
El Segundo -··--·-·--··507
Elsinore ·····-·······-··-···'289
Enterprise .................... 70
Eucalyptus ..................243
Eureka .......................... 16
Evergreen ....................259
Excelsior ··········-·······.166
Fairmount ..................A3S
Fallbrook ....................317
Far West ············-······673
Ferndale ....................- 193
Fidelity ........................ 120
Forest .......................... 66
Fort Crook ····-············575
Francis Drake..............376
Franklin ......................143
Fraternity ....................399
Fremont ......................497
Fresno ············-···········.247
Friendship ..................210

667

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amt.
10.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
12.50
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
7.30
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00

No.

Fruitvale ················-·...336
Galt ..............................267
George W ashington....525
Golden Gate ................ 30
Golden Rule ········-····..419
Gold Hill .................... 32
Hammonton ................433
Hanford..........- ............279
Hartley ......................-199
Hawaiian .................... 21
Henry Clay ................ 95
Henry Motse
Stephens ..................541
Henry S. Orme............458
Hermann ·····-·····-········121
Hesperian ....................264
Hill's Ferry ................236
Hiram .......................... 43
Hotlenbeck ................•.319
Hollywood ..................355
Holtville ......................425
Honolulu ··········-··········409
Howard ........................ 37
Humboldt .................... 79
Illinoistown ................ 51
Indian Rock ................638
Ione .............................. 80
Jewel ............................374
Jona than .......................54'5
Justice ..........................549
Kaweah ........................665
La Brea ........................650
Lake Shore ..................551
La Jolla ........................518
Landmark ...........•........ZSl
La Parfaite Union ...... 17
Las Palmas ..................Yi6
Laurel ..........................ZJfS
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..................371
Libertas ........................466
Liberty ........................299
Lincoln ........................470
Live Oak .................•.... 61

Amt.
5.00
7.50
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
15.00

Lodge

No.

Lodi ····················-·-···.256
Long Beach ................327
Los Angeles ................ 42
Los Gatos ....................292
Madera ················-·····280
Madison ........................ 23
Malta ............................661
Maricopa ····-······-·-- ··.434
Marin ··'·······------191
Martinez ········-·····--·- 41
McKinley ··- ·-·---.347
Mendocino -··---··-179
Midway ·······-··-·--··426
Military Service....- ....570
Mill Valley ·······-·-····356
Molino ···-····-··--·····-·J.56
Monterey ···-····-·-······.217
Morgan Hill ..............463.
Mosaic ·········-·---218
Mountain View............ 194
Mt. Diablo ····-·····-···-448
Mount Moriah ............ 44
Mount Vernon -··········51?
Natoma Lodge ............ 64
Naval ···············-··········· 87
Nevada ........................ 13
Nicolaus ···-··············--129
Norwalk ····-················3lS
Oak Grove ········-·······215
Oakland ........................188
Oasis ........................._()M
Occidental .................... 22
Ocean Park -····-········36~
Olive Branch .............2~
Ontario ........................301
Oriental ........................144
Orland ····- ····-···-----26.S
Oxnard ........................341
Pacific ..........................136
Pacific Grove ..............331
Paj..aro ···················-·····lU~
Palisades ......................637
Palo Alto ....................346
Palos Verdes - ·- ·-····..389

Amt.
10.00
15.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
..S.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
12.50
25.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00

568

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge

No.

Park ···········-·····-········-449
Parnassus ....................388
Pasadena ············-·······.272
Paso Robles _..............286
Paul Revere ................ 462
Penrhyn ..•...................258
Perris ............................411
Petaluma ...................... 180
Phoenix ···-··················.178
Piedmont .•..................521
Pinole ··········-··-·······-·353
Pittsburg ····-·········-··.429
Plumas .......................... 60
Point ......... ...:.... - .......... 503
Point Firmin ..............558
Point Loma ..................620
Pomona ........................246
Presidio ····-··················354
Ramona ........................457
Redwood City ............168
Richmond ....................375
Rio Vista ....................208
Rising Light ................397
Riverside ......................635
Roosevelt .................... 500
Roseville ......................222
Russian River .............. 181
Sacramento ................ 40
Salinas ··········-·············204
San Benito ..................211
San Bernardino ..........348
San Diego .................... 35
San Dimas ..................428
San Francisco ............360
Sari Gorgonio ..............668
San Jacinto ············-····338
SanJose ...................... 10
San Mateo ····-············226
San Miguel ..................285
San Pedro ....................332
San Simeon ................196
Santa Barbara ····-······192 ·
Santa Cruz .................. 38
Santa Rosa .................. 57

Amt.
7.50
20.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
. 5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
1.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50

Lodge

No.

Seaport ····-··················550
Security .....•..................581
Semper Virens ............552
Sequoia ..................•.....349
Silver Gate ..;...............296
Silver Trowel ............415
Silveyville ····-··············201
Sincerity ...................... 132
Snow Mountain ..........271
Soutliern California....278
South Pasadena ..........367
South San Francisco ..212
Speranza Italiana........219
Standard ......................440
Starr King ..................344
Suisun ················-········ 55
Sunnyvale •................... 511
S. W. Hackett ............574
Tehachapi ....................313
Tehama ........................ 3
Temblor ......................477
Texas ............................ 46
Thousand Oaks ..........478
Truckee ........................200
Tuolumne .................... 8
Union ............................ 58
Vacaville ...................... 134
Veritas ........................640
Victorville ..................634
Victory ··-··············-····474
Visalia .....:.................... 128
Washington ................ 20
Wes tern Star .............. 2
White Pine .................. 555
Willow Glen ..............676
Wilmington .-··············198
Winnedumah ..............287
Woodbridge _.............. 131
Woodland ..................-156 ·
Woodstock ..................491
Y erba Buena ..............403
Yolo .............................. 81
Yosemite ...................... 99
Yount ...·-······················ 12

Amt.
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
25.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
2.50

569

Chapter
No.
Antioch ........................ 65
California .................... 5
Chico ............................ 42
Coalinga ..:................... 114
Colusa .......................... 60
Crown .......................... 72
Cyrus ............................ 15
Ferndale ...................... 78
Fidelity ........................ 96
Fresno .......................... 69
Grass Valley .............. 18
Hanford ...................... 74
Howard ........................ 14
Huntington Park........ 127
Inglewood -········-·······.131
Keystone ...................... 56
La Purissima .............. 104
Los Angeles ................ 33
Marin ............................102
Martinez ...................... 41
Mill Valley .................. 1Cl8

Chapters, R. A. M.
Amt.
Chapter
No.
$10.00 Modesto ...................... 49
10.00 Nevada ........................ 6
10.00 Oakland ........................ 36
Petaluma ...................... 22
5.00
5.00 Plumas .......................... 107
5.00 Redondo ...................... 101
5.00 Sacramento .................. 3
1
10.00 Salinas .......................... 59
5.00 San Diego .................... 61
5.00 San Francisco ............ 1
2.50 San Jacinto .................. 87
12.50 Santa Cruz .................. 38
10.00 Searchlight .................. 133
1.00 Siloam .......................... 37
5.00 Sonora .......................... 2
2.50 South Pasadena .......... 112
10.00 St. Helena .................. 63
5.00 Sutter .......................... 11
5.00 Temple ........................ 41
5.00 Wilmington ................ 141
10.00 Woodland .................... 46

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00

Commandery
No.
Auburn ........................ 52
Berkeley ...................... 42
California .................... 1
Calvary ·············-········· 62
Chico ............................ 12
Colusa .......................... 24
Eureka ........................ 35
Fresno .......................... 29
Golden Gate ................ 16
Mount Olivet .............. 20
Mount Shasta ............ 32
Naval ............................ 19
Nevada ........................ 6

Commanderies, K. T.
Amt.
Commandery
No.
$ 2.50 Oakland ...................... 11
10.00 Oroville ........................ 5
10.00 Pacific .......................... 3
7.50
Pasadena ...................... 31
10.00 Sacramento ................ 2
5.00 San Francisco ............ 41
5.00 San Jose ...................... 10
5.00 San Pedro .................... 60
12.50 Santa Cruz .................. 44
2.50 St. Bernard ····-··-········ 23
5.00 Vacaville ...................... 38
5.00 Watsonville ................ 22
5.00 Woodland .................... 21

Amt.
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00

No.
.Council
California .................... 2
Imperial ...................... 34
Pasadena ...................... 16

Councils, R. & S. M.
Amt.
Council .
No .
$10.00 Pomona ........................ 21
5.00 Siskiyou ........................ 24
5.00 Valley .......................... 27

Amt.
5.00
5.00
2.50

570

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodges of Ptrfection

Names of Residents-Decoto Home

Lodge
No.
California .................... 10
Fresno .......................... 6
Oakland ........................ 2

Amt.
$25.00
25.00
10.00

571

Lodge
No.
Sacramento .................. 4
San Francisco ............ 1
San Diego .................... 8

Amt.
25.00
25.00
25.00

Following is a complete list of residents of the Decoto Home, the
date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number
of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such Lodges,
complete to August 31, 1933:

Pyramid, A. E. 0. S.
No.
San Luis Obispo............................................- ...............~................. 29

Amt.
$5.00

MEN, 195. Average age, 74.90

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Buena Vista ................364
Mercedes ...................... 1Z6
Miguelito .................... 176
Mill Valley ..................Z19

Amt.
$ 5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

Chapter
No.
Mira Monte ........:....... 141
Plumas ........................ Z46
San Rafael ..................215

Amt.
5.00
2.00
10.00

lndivicfoals and Miscellaneous
Breckenridge, F. J ., Hollywood No. 355....................................................$ 1.00
Burrows, Mr. and Mrs. Henry G., Coalinga............................................ 20.00
Helig, Mrs. L................................................................................................... 5.00
Masters', Wardens' and Senior Deacons' Club, 39th District............ 10.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club.·...:............................................................:.......... 5.00
Watson, Frank G..............................................................._ ......................... 10.00
Santa Clara Valley Masonic Officers' Association.................................. 10.00

Name
Admitted
Aiken, William N .....- .... Dec. 28, '32
Akerly, James C. S .... _...July 26, '31
Alderman, Alfred H .........Oct. 6, '26
Allison, Thomas S ...........J an. 23, '33
Anderson, Alfred ............June 1, '20
Anderson, Julius ......- ....Aug. 19, '30
Ansley, James G............. Feb. 28, '26
Atwood, Ira A ............;.... Sept. 7, '31
Bader, Henry .................. Nov. 28, '28
Baker, John L .................Sept. 23, '32
Bane, Paul D.--..............July 20, '32
Bang, Anders ············-···-Jan. 29, '30
Bailey, William ]...........Dec. 25, '28
Baker, Napoleon L......... May 25, '31
Bane, John L ................... Nov. 13, '29
Barnett, Joseph ..............July 23, '33
Barker, Henry W ...........July 23, '28
Barnes, Joshua D ...........June 10, '28
Barnes, Albert .................. Ma,y 7, '28
Battle, Joseph D ...............Dec. 9, '30
Bell, John H ................... Aug. 28, '24
~eek, Herman H ...........Aug. 28, '24
Bernstein, Jacob A ........ _June 26, '24
Bentley, Isam H .............. _Jan. 31, '31
Boehm, Hiram J .............July 19, '31
Bonde, Hans P ...................July 6, '32
Brown, Wallace C. ........ May 27, '33
Brooks, William W .......Sept. 25, '31
Buckner, Andrew B .......Mar. 27, '32
Bush, Elmer E .................Jan. 13, '30
Burkett, Thomas R ....... Aug. 22, '24
Bull, Clint M ................... Aug. 11, '21
Carden, William L......... Nov. 27, '30
Carey, William F ....... _..Sept. 16, '31
Casterline, Myron N ..... Nov. 16, '32

Lodge
No.
Eureka .................. 16
Live Oak .............. 61
Corinthian ............ 9
Golden Gate.......... 30
Gravel Range...... 59
King Solomon's ..260
Jonathan ..............545
El Cajon Valley ..576
King Solomon's ..260
San Jose..........-..- 10
Orland ..................265
Fresno ..................274
Callayomi ............282
Waucoba ..............413
Rockridge ............468
Livingston ............658
San Pedro ............332
Golden Gate ........ 30
Hawaiian .............. 21
Stanislaus ............206
Lomita ..................644
Nicolaus ..............129
Berkeley ..............363
Oakdale ................275
Big Bear ..............617
Alisa! ....................321
El Dorado ............ 26
Fresno ..................247
Welcome ..............255
Alturas ................248
Woodbridge ........131
Moneta ..................405
Charter Rock ......410
San Pedro ............332
Oceanside ............381

Town
Age
Eureka ..............82
Oakland ..........72
Marysville ......71
San Francisco..60
Camptonville ....82
San Francisco..89
San Francisco..71
El Cajon. ...........71
San Francisco..69
San Jose............74
Orland ..............69
Fresno ········-····74
Middletown ......84
Big Pine............81
Oakland ............74
Livingston ........76
San Pedro ........ 56
San Francisco..83
Honolulu ..........87
Modesto ............73
Lomita ..............73
Wheatland ......79
Berkeley ..........79
Oakdale ............73
Pine Knot... .......70
Pleasanton ......70
P lacerville ........80
Fresno ..............71
Lemoore ..........77
AltW-as ..............71
Woodbridge ....84
Los Angeles ....56
Berkeley ..........67
San Pedro .....:..63
Oceanside ........68

572

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Chase, Lloyd W .............Nov. 14, '32
Chase, Willls S ...............Mar. 19, '22
Clemenson, Newton E .....June 2, '28
Closson, Harry J ...............May 4, '31
Collins, Nelson W ......... Sept. 12, '19
Cole, George W ...............June 23, '33
Cowan, John S .................J an. 22, '28
Cowan, William H .........June 27, '28
Crill, Howard ..................Dec. 1, '28
Crystal, William ............Nov. 20, '32
Daly, Samuel J ....'.............May 26, '33
Dillon, Robert ................July 28, '32
Dineson, Jacob N ............. Nov. 1, '32
.Dirks, John A. ................ Dec.19, '29
Dodds, Thomas ..............Dec. 24, '28
Dolan, John C...................Aug. 4, '31
Downs, Benj. F ...............June 28, '32
Elder, George W .....- .... Sept. 18, '28
Engle, William H ........... Dec. 12, '31
Ernst, Cuno A. ...·-····-····Aug. 26, '32
Fender, Andrew J .............Dec. 5, '30
Fish, Chas. E ..................... Apr. 2, '30
Fisher, Homer C.............May 28, '32
Fitting, Hans H ............. May 27, '33
Fraser, Garnet W ........... Oct. 19, '32
Franck, Isadore .......,...~-Jan. 10, '16
Gibbs, John W .................Aug. 5, '30
Gifford, Seymour C.......]une 29, '31
Gleave, Samuel J ..........:Mar. 28, '31
GDdfrey, James --~·-···-······Jan. 13, '32
Goodrich, Edward .......:.. Aug. 8, '31
Goodman, William H .....Oct. 20, '32
Gordon, Luther D...........Feb. 12, '28
Grant, George L.................Oct. 6, '32
Greaves, Walter ............Oct. 18, '32
Green, Phillip ....................Feb. 9, '31
Grimshaw, Fredk. C. ......June 24, '32
Hamilton, Hiram M ..... Mar. 15. '32
Harms, Herman ............ Mar. 16, '31
Harrison, John .................. Sept. 5, '30
Harris, Louis................... .]an. i3, '23
Hardage, James M......... Mar. 13, '17
Harpster, Harry W ......... Nov. 5, '30

Lodge
No.
Vallejo ................487
Turlock ................395
Marin .:....- ....!....... 191
Tuolumne ............ 8
CaHstoga ..............233
San Benito ..........211
Morgan Hill ........463
Friendship ............210
Valley ..........,.......135
So. San Fran.......212
Mission ................169
Liberty ..................299
Live Oak .............. 61
So. San Fran.......212
Brooklyn ...........:..225
Redlands ..............300
Silver Gate ..........296
Corinthian ............ 9
Pentalpha ............202
Tehama :............... 3
Northern Light....190
Vesper .................. 84
Janesville ............232
San Bernardino....348
California ............ 1
LaParfaite Union..17
Berkeley ..............363
San Joaquin ........ 19
La Mesa ..............407
Nevada ................ 13
Fresno ..................247
Fraternity ............399
Carquinez ............337
Georgetown ........ 25
Apollo ..................396
San Miguel ..........285
Western Star...... 2
California ............ 1
Acacia ..................438
Hollenbeck ..........319
Los Angeles ........ 42
Sunset ····-············352
Tehachapi ............313

Town
Age
Vallejo _.,..........74
Turlock ............83
San Rafael........76
Tuolumne ........64
Calistoga _........71
Hollister ..........83
Morgan Hill ....79
San Jose............79
Linden ...."..........72
San Francisco..69
San Francisco..83
Santa Clara......81
Oakland ............71
San Francisco..78
Oakland ............83
Redlands ..........68
San Diego ........67
Marysville ....:...82
Los Angeles......63
Sacramento ......70
· Millvilie ............70
Red Bluff ........81
Janesville ..........60
S. Bernardino..84
San Francisco..59
San Francisco..85
Berkeley ..........73
Stockton ..........77
La Mesa ..........67
Nevada City ....65
Fresno ..............78
San Jose............79
Crockett ............78
Georgetown ......71
Alameda ..........64
San Mig\ie! ......79
Shasta ..............63
San Francisco..80
Los Angeles......80
Los Angeles...... 74
Los Angeles......57
Los Angeles......92
Tehachapi ........66

Name
Admitted
Hathaway, John S~---···:.Aug. 7, '30
Haupt, Oscar............... ~...June 28, '30
Haviland, Emerson ........May 10, '31
Hazard, Emil J ...............Aug.10, '25
Herford, William B.........May 9, '31
Herndon, Edward M .....Mar. 19, '33
Hirlinger, Chas. M.........Aug. 30, '31
Hotchkiss, Marshall ......June 11, '30
Hughes, Eugene F .........Mar. 11, '33
Hulsizer, John H ........... Mar. 31, '32
Humphreys, Thomas........Mar. 9, '30
Hyde, George....................Dec. 22, '.30
Jack, David...-...................June 1, '31
Jensen, James L...............Mar. 2, '33
Johnson, Daniel F ......... Sept. 16, '29
Journal, Philip S .............Mar••6, '27
Kellogg, Irving M.............Dec. 2, '30
Kesner, James P ...........Nov. 14, '23
Kiesling, Henry..- .......... Aug. 31, '33
Kimball, John C.............Mar. 27, '33
Lagomarcino, Giacomo..May 12, '22
Lange, Edmund W. R .....May 20, '33
Laton, Edward L~ ............f.pr. 23, '32
Lee, Abraham ···········-····May 1, '30
Lehmann, August H .....Dec. 14, '28
Lewis, Fredk. M.............June 10, '33
Libby, Chas. F .................Dec. 18, '31
Lockwood, Tom ............Feb.13, '28
Lund, Andrew J ..;..........Sept. 29, '27
MacMurdo, Wirt R. ......Feb. 23, '25
Martien, Joseph G......... Aug. 31, '33
Martin, Benj. R. ..............May 15, '24
Martin, Henry W ...........June 29, '32
Marsh, Chas. P .................Oct. 10, '31
Matson, Martin B...........Dec. 15, ·27·
Maxwell, John ..............Nov. 28, '29
McDonald, Frank ........Nov. 21, '26
Mcdain, Chas. A ......."....Jan. 26, '33
McCulley, Wm. B.............June 2, '31
McRae, Alexander ........Oct. 20, '30
Merrill, Chas. H .............July 29, '30
Mensch, William A .........]une 17, '27
Meuser, Alfonso ...........•Sept. 19, '26

Lodge
No.
Van N uys ............450
Naval .................... 87
Temple City ........612
San Jose·-····-····-· 10
West Gate............335
Mountain View....194
Bell ····-·:····-·-·····483
Santa Cruz............ · 38
Phoenix .:............-178
Phoenix ................178
Forbestown .......... 50
Mill Valley ..........356
McKinley ............347
Texas .................... 46
Dinuba ..................385
Sequoia .......c••••••••349
Chula Vista..........626
Nicolaus ..............129
So. Pasadena........367
Mt. Moriah .......... 44
Speranza Ital.......219
East Bay ..............489
La Fayette............126
Pacific Grove........331
Santa Monica ......307
Hawaiian .............. 21
Mission ................169
Pacific ··-········-····136
San Joaquin ........ 19
Bakersneld ..........224
Chico ....•.............-111
Santa Cruz...~ ........ 38
Eden ············-········113
South Gate............320
Eden ...•.........:....:...113
Hollywood ............355
South Gate............320
Mosaic ................-218
South Gate............320
Laurel ....~...........-245
East Gate..............290
Hollywood ............355
Palo Alto ............346

573

Town
Age
Los Angeles,.....88 ·
Vallejo ..,...........70·
Temple City......74
San Jose............69
Los Angeles......80·
Mount'n View..71
Bell ·········'····-···$'
Santa Cruz ....-70
S. Bernardino..80'
S. Bernardino.c89
Forbestown ......96
Mill Valley _____74 ,
Richmond ........69
S. J. Bautista..71
Dinuba .............c82
Oakland ............82
Chula Vista......78
Wheatland ....- ..88
So. Pasadena....84
San Francisco..76
San Francisco,.77
Berkeley ·......-.71
Sebastopol ........68
Pacific Grove....84
Santa Monica ..74
Honolulu ..........75
San Francisco..74
San Francisco..81
Stockton .:..- ....77
Bakersfield ......81
Chico •...............85
Santa Cruz........68
San Leandro ....80
Los Angeles......70
San Leandro _..76
Hollywood ..c•••70
Los Angeles......79
Livermore .,......79
Los Angeles.....•80
Willows ·-·······..69
Los Angeles......72
Hollywood ......84
Palo Alto ........79

\.

674

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

N1Jme
Admitted
Meyer, Wiltiam D.........Aug. 31, '12
Milisch, Chti&toforo..........Od. 5, '31
Millar, David S.................Apc. 2, '32
Mitler, John W- -- ............J.ui. 22, '30
Miller, Samuel C...........May 16, '29
Morrison, Geo. D...........Mar. 20, '30
Mocrison, Wm. F ...........June 27, '32
Morris, Harry 8 .............Nov. 28, '30
Murden, Robt. J.............Mar. 26, '28
Myers, Wm. P ................... Feb. 1, '32
Nannestad, Henrik .......... Mar. 8, '23
Newell, Eben P .................<kt. 6, '27
Newman, Adolph ............June 4, '29
Nice, Henry W ............... July 11, '32
North, Edwin R................ Apr. 2, '29
Olesen, Peter .................. Aug. 30, '33
Otto, Fred A .....................Feb. 23, '30
Owen, William L...........Aug. 12, '22
Parker, David N ...........Mar. 14, '33
Parsons, Fredk. D.............Feb. 5, '32
Plowman, Alfred R.......Jan. 17, '30
Porter, Fred ....................Aug. 29, '33
Potter, Loyal A...............Jan. 21, '30
Prosser, Th()&. J ...............Scpt. 6, '31
Quilty, Frank E .................Feb. t, '33
Rawlings, Levi ................July 11, '33
Rhodes, Eustace H .........Feb. 22, '32
Rickard, Wiltse W ........... Dec. 7, '32
Righetti, Robert ..............Mar. 9, '18
Risher, Chas. B .............Aug. 24, '29.
Rolfe, Ernest ..................Oct. 17, '23
Roscoe, Thos. H ...............Jan. 13, '32
Rouland, Neils P .............Feb. 25, '28
Russell, William H .........Apr.:. 22, '32
Rummetsburg, Alex ..,.....July 10, '33
Sangster, Donald ..............Od. 4, '32
Schmidt, Edward :........... Aug. 1, '32
Senestrari, Jacob T .......Mar. 29, '33
Sill, George W .................Feb. 22, '33
Smith, William C........... Apr. 25, '28
Smith, Charles ..........:....:Sept. 2, '31
Sniffen, Samuel t ...........Jait. 31, '33
Spencer, Sheldon ..........Sept. 15, '31

Lodgt
No.
Mountain View .... 194
Speranza ltal... ....219
So. California......278
El Dorado ............ 26
Mt. Diablo ..........448
Golden State........358
Solano ..................229
LaFayette ............126
Alcatraz ..............244
Las Palmas ..........366
Doric ....................216
Occidental ............ 22
Antioch ................175
Alhambra ............322
Vesper .................. 84
Los Banos ...........312
Lassen .................. 149
Mission ................169
Pasadena ..............272
Bay View..............401
Consuelo ..............325
Hartley ................199
Union .................... 58
S. W. Hackett...... 574
Friendship :...........21-0
Northern Light.... 190
Laurel ..................245
Parnassus ............388
Pentalpha ............1i02
Redlands ..............300
Hermann ..............127
Oroville ................103
Southwest ............283
Antioch ................175
Oxnard ..'..............341
Mendocino ..........179
Golden Gate.......... 30
Monterey ...........217
Pajaro .._. ...............110
Oakland ................188
Georgetown ........ 25
West Lake............392
Ione ...................... 80

I
Town
Age
Mount'n View..72
San Francisco..69
Los Angeles......75
Placerville ........87
Concord ............tl7
Los Angeles......69
Vallejo _,__ ..........1l
Sebastopol ........69
Oakland ............67
Fresno ..............64
San Francisco..87
San Francisco..77
Antioch ............89
Alhambra ........67
Red Bluff ........76
Los Banos ........71
Susanville ....,...61
San Francisco..74
Pasadena ..........86
Oakland ............68
Escondido ........80
Lakeport ..........74
Sacramento ......74
San Diego ........82
San Jose............80
Millville ............66
Willows ......,.....7"1
San Francisco..76
Los Angeles......81
Redlands ..........69
San Francisc-0..73
Oroville ............71
National City....9l
Antioch ............67
Oxnard ............19
Mendocino ......77
San Francisco..65
Monterey ..........69
Watsonvilte ......77
Oakland ............73
Georgetown ......73
Los Angeles......78
lone ..................84

~

"\

\

\

GRAND LODG E OF CALIFORNIA

\

Name
\
Admitted
Standeford, Wm. B.~\.. Nov. 12, '29
Starbuck, Henry F ......,.Feb. 24, '32
Starkw~ther, Reuben ....\fay 28, '29
Stevens, Charles D ...........!\pr. 6, '32
Stewart, Wesley G ......... Mar. 12, '32
Swaffield, Thomas W .......Feb) 4, '29
Swain, George _, ............. Nov. 29, '31
Swedburg, Eric ..............Oct. 19, '29
Smith, Roland A .............Jan. 29, '27
Taylor, George McC. ......July 14, '25
Thomas, William E ....... Apr. 27, '33
Towzey, William J ........... Mar. 9, '32
Travelli, Joseph ............Sept. 24, '32
Trenschel, August F ..... Sept. 18, '25
Trost, John H ..............:..Mar. 15, '32
Tucker, Ira W .................May 12, '33
Viles, Charleston H .........Oct. 24, '29
Walker, Chas. C...............Jan. 21, '30
Watson, Matthew P .......May 16, '25
Watkins, David K. ........ Nov. 29, '31
Weston, Frank ..................Mar. 4, '33
Whitaker, George A .......Jan. 30, '32
Wigginton, James W .....July 15, '29
Wilhelm, Fredk. G.........Oct. 25, '27
Willard, Thomas............ Aug. 23, '27
Wilson, Charles.............. Sept. 22, '32
Williams, William J .........May 8, '32
Witcosky, John A ......... Sept. 16, '30
Wood, Uriah S.....,......... Aug. 21, '31
Yarrington, James T ..... Feb. 26, '29
Young, Lars G................... Apr. l, '23

Lodge
No.
Live Oak .............. 61
James A. Foshay..641
Corinthian ............ 9
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Concord ....-......-.117
Apollo ..................396
Durant ..................268
Reading ................254
Callayomi ............282
Excelsior ..............166
San Diego ............ 35
Las Palrr!QL.......366
Oakdale ................Z'5
Live Oak .............. 61
Ferndale .........- ... 193
San Jose................ 10
Abell ....................146
Palo Alto ........:...346
Long Beach..........327
Paul Revere..........462
St. Helena............ 93
Caledonia ............486
S. W. Hackett. ...574
LaParfaite Union 17
Petaluma ..............180
Parnassus ............388
Fortitude ..............624
Amity ..................370
Mount Os~ ............460
University ............394
Oak Grove............215

571i

Town
Age
Oakland ............66
Los Angeles......83
Marysville .......HJ
Santa Rosa ......&a
Sacramento ......59
Alameda ..........86
Berkeley .........ZJ
Redding ............78
Middletown ......73
San Francisco..71
San Diego ........79
Fresno .............El
Oakdale ............71
Oakland ............al
Ferndale ..........7~
San J ose............si;>
U kiah ..........,...76
Palo Alto , .......22
Long Beach......&1
San Francisco..61
St. Helena........73Bakersfield ......77
San Diego .....,..76
San Francisco..79
Petaluma. ..........72
San ·F rancisco..65·
Oakl~nd ............61
San Franci.sco.. 54
Tracy __............16'
Los Angeles......71
Alameda ..........83

WOMEN, 164. Average age, 73.60

Name
Admitted
Albrecht, Ruth R ...............Jan. 5, '33
Armentage, Theresa A .....Jan. 5, '19
Atwood, Ida !.~................:Sept 7, '31
Ayers, Sarah A ............... May 14, '32
Bane, Florence A: .......... Nov.13, '29
Bane Annabell E .............July.20, '32
Bartl'm, Annie Nancy.... Aug. 27, '33
Becker, Elizabeth A .........Jan. 5, '31
Beebe, Annie L .................Mar. 1, '28

Lodge
No.
Selma :................:Zl7
Needles ................326
Et' Cajon Val-ley.. 576
Hanford ..............279
Rockridge ............468
Orland ..................26-5·
Truckee ................20(}
Santa Ana ............241
Porterville ..........30J

Town
Atff
Selma ..............7'1
N ecdles ............16
El Cajon............68
Hanford ..........74
Oakland ...........JM
Orland .............."6
Truckee ............Ill
Santa Ana ........76Porterville ......82

576

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Bell, Florence C...............July 30, '33
Bemis, Ellen J .................June 26, '29
Berge, Lilly B................. Sept. 30, '26
Bernstein, Cornelia ........June 26, '24
Billings, Martha V ......... Apr. 30, '33
Blinn, Sophia W ...............Jan. 20, '30
Bradley, Nannie ............ Apr. 30, '25
Brassfield, Maggie E ..... Feb. 11, '28
Brown, Rosal_ind V ....... Mar. 27, '24
Buzzo,. Octavia ................June 26, '33
Carlson, Laura L ............. Feb. 10, '20
Carroll, Margaret R ....... Feb. 12, '33
Carey, Laura E ............... Sept. 16, '31
Carpenter, Tillie C. ........ May 30, '30
Cash, Mary E ...............:... Oct. 25, '26
Cash, Anna ........................July 7, '22
Cassidy, Lottie ................ May 30, '33
Cass, Mary K.;..................July 7, '28
Charbonneau, Elizabeth .. Apr. 3, '33
Copeland, Wilhelmina ....July 11, '32
Cope, Ida L .....................Nov. 19, '32
Cosner, Lydia C............... May 3, '30
Cohn, Sarah .................... Sept. 8, '22
Collister, Mary L.............Jan. 19, '30
Cook, Becky L. ..............Mar. 27, '30
Cowley, Cerita J ............. Sept. 18, '25
Coyne, · Helen M ............. Nov. 27, '32
Crawley, Nellie G........... Dec. 19, '27
Crill, Flora A. .................... Dec. 1, '28
Crystal, Agnes................ N ov. 20, '32
Davis, Grace G................c}uly 25, '16
Davis, Eliza A.................July 26, '17
Dickson, Alice W ...........June 11, '21
Dougherty, Lucy H ........... Apr. 3, '26
Dryden, Sarah S .............Feb. 26, '26
Dunn, Annie C. .............. June 22, '25
Elder, Ellena R ............. Sept. 18, '28
Evans, Mary J ...•..............Dec. 28, '23
Everett, Charlotte............ May 9, '33
Fanshaw, Mary E ........... Oct. 22, '29
F<;lter, Eli:i;a D.................July 24, '23
Fitting, Alice M............. May 27, '33
Fprbes, Louisa S ........... Mar. 14, '33
Fortriede, Augusta E ..... Apr. 24, '25

Lodge

No.

Standard ......~
.......44
Dinuba ..................3
West Gate ........... 35
Berkeley ......... ..363
l)rytown ............ 174
Truckee ................200
Oriental ··~············144
Santa Barbara...... 192
Natoma ................ 64
Natoma ................ 64
Excelsior ............ 166
Crockett .............. 139
San Pedro ..........332
King Solomon's ..260
San Jose................ 10
South Gate............320
Silver Gate .......... 296
Sisson ..................310
Carmelita ............ 599
Golden Gate.......... 30
Charter Rock. .......410
Colusa ..................240
Los Angeles.......... 42
Vitruvius .............. 145
Hollenbeck ..........319
Berkeley ..............363
Union .................... 58
Willits ..................365
Valley .c•••••••••••••••• 135
So. San Fran .......212
Naval .................... 87
Keith .............: ...... 187
Pacific .................. 136
Parnassus ............388
Tyrian ..................439
Oroville .......... ,..... 103
Corinthian ............ 9
Whittier ..............323
Mount Moriah .... 44
Los Angeles...... :... 42
King Solomon's ..260
San Bernardino....348
Petaluma .............. 180
Crockett .............. 139

Town
Age
Oakland ............72
Dinuba ..............83
Los Angeles......79
Berkeley .......... 74
Plymouth ..........69
Truckee ............73
San Francisco..65
Santa Barbara..79
Folsom City...... 78
Folsom City...... 72
San Francisco,.70
San Francisco..71
San Pedro ........62
San Francisco .. 70
San Jose ............ 84
Los Ang'eles ......74
San Diego ........ 72
Mt. Shasta........77
Pasadena ..........67
San Francisco..60
Berkeley .......... 73
Colusa ..............83
Los Angeles.:.... 76
Bloomfield .... :...79
Los Angeles......77
Berkeley .......... 77
Sacramento ...... 79
Willits ..............73 .
Linden ..............66
So. San Fran ... 65
Vallejo ..............79
Gilroy ............ ~ ..86
San Francisco..73
San Francisco .. 72
Manteca ..........92
Oroville ............86
Marysville ...... 74
Whittier ..........79
San Francisco..71
Lo~ Angeles ....... 93
San Francisco ..71
S. Bernardino.:63
Petaluma ..........82
San Francisco.. 56

Name
Admitted
Foster, Nellie G........\: ...June21, '30
Garland, Susan C....... \Aug. 18, '25
Gifford, Kathryn ......... ~une 29, '31
Godfrey, Jennie ...............J\n. 13, '32
Goodman, Orpheus O ..... Oct. 20, '32
Gordon, Isabel C. ............ Feb. 12, '28
Gordon, Mary J .............. .]uly 13, '27
Grant, Lillian A................. Oct. 6, '32
Grant, Hattie H ................. Feb. 6, '22
Greaves, Margaret I..:.... Oct. 18, '32
Gregg, Letitia .................... Dec. 4, '32
Gregory, Emily ................June 6, '33
Harris, Louise C............. Feb. 19, '33
Halek, Albertine C.........Dec. 29, '32
Hattersley, Emily K. .... Aug. 19, '33
Hazard, Marie................ Aug. 10, '25
Heitman, Evelyn S ......... Apr. 3, '33
Heith, Catherine ............Oct. 16, '10
Hibbard, Elizabeth.......... Mar. 22, '30
Hodgson, Mary A ......... Apr. 19, '29
Hollis, Ella A. ....................Oct. 7, '31
Hipkins, Sue B. ...........:.. Mar. 16, '30
Hill, Barbara M., .............July 26, '27
Hughes, Laura H ........... Mar. 11, '33
Humiston, Isaphene ...... Sept. 11, '24
Irvine, Ad~laide H ........... N ov. 4, '31
Jack, Mary ..:...... ;..............June 1, '31 ·
Jackson, May R. ............Aug. 27, '25
Jenkins; Mary E ............. May 21, '31
Johnson, Julia H ............. Aug. 23, '31
Kalfus, Sarah W .............Jan. 29, '19
Kellogg, Lillie F .............".. Dec. 2, '30
Keenan, Effie .:............ :::!July 17, '33
Kidd, Millie A....:: ........... Aug. 21, '32
Kiesling, Caroline ........ Aug. 31, '33
Kimball, Camelia . L. ...... Sept. 19, '26
Kimball, Lila M............. Mar. 27, '33
Kimball, Annette C ......... Aug. 3, '32
Knapp, Lizzie T .............;... Aug. 5, '33
Langworthy, Martha E ...July 23, '26
Laufman, Anna ·.............. Aug. 27, '24
Leonard, Lois ....................June 7, '30
Lightner, Sarah ] ..........:..Oct. 9, '~8

Lodge
No.
Berkeley ..............363
Consuelo ..............325
San Joaquin ........ 19
Nevada ................ 13
Fraternity ............399
Carquinez ............337
Board of Relief ........
Georgetown ........ 25
San Jose ................ 10
Apollo ..................396
Durant ..................268
Concord ................ 117
Pacific .................. 136
Victory ................474
Henry Clay .......... 95
San Jose ................ 10
Union .................... 58
Fresno ................. 247
Oakland ................ 188
Santa Rosa............ 57
Dunsmuir ............297
Thousand Oaks ... .478
Brooklyn ..............225
Phoenix ................178
Mountain View .... 194
Sacramento .......... 40
McKinley ............347
Lompoc ................262
Durant ..................268
Patterson ............488
San Jose ................ 10
Chula Vista .... ;.:...626
Jewell ....................374
Amity ..................370
So. Pasadena ........367
San Francisco...... 360
Mount Moriah .... 44
Enterprise ............ 70
Sequoia ............c•••349
San Pedro ............332
Sincerity .............. 132
Oroville •.......,........103
Starr King ............344

577

Town
Age
Berkeley ..........70
Escondido ......:.84
Stockton ..........71
Nevada City......61
San Jose ............79
Crockett ............59
San Francisco.. 84
Georgetown ......60
San Jose ............60
Alameda .....:....53
Berkeley .......... 77
Sacramento ......65 .
San Francisco.. 58
San Francisco.. 69
Sutter Creek. ... 73
San Jose ............63
Sacramento .:..,.77
Fresno .......:......87
Oakland ..... ,...... 76
Santa Rosa ...... 84
Dunsmuir ........66
Berkeley ........:.88
Oaldand ............70
S. Bernardino.. 78
Mount'n View..79
Sacramento ...... 84
Richmond ........66
Lompoc ............74
Berkeley .......... 63
Patterson ..........63
San Jose............70
Chula Vista......77
San Francisco.. 56
San Francisco .. 66
So. Pasadena....81
San Francisco .. 68
San Francisco.. 62
Yuba City..........71
Oakland .........:..74
San Pedro,....... 63
Greenville ........80
Oroville ............80
San Francisco ..73

578

PROCEEDlNGS OF THE

Admitted
Name
LiHie, Amelia F .............-May 23, '32
Longfellow, Sarah J ..... Nov. 15, '31
MacDuffie, Dorothy F ..... Mar. 7, '30
Martien, Alice -··············Aug. 31, '33
McDowell, Alice M .......Mar. 24, '32
McGuire, Mary .............'. July 14, '26
McKinnon, Mary A ....... Dcc. 31, '01
Maddrill, Mary L...........Apr. 15, '32
Mann, Bertha M .............June 10, '33
Martin, Arethusa G.......June 29, '32
Mast, Frances C............. Aug. 31, '12
Matthews, Louise L.........Aug. 7, '22
Meyer, Mary ···-·············Apr. 13, '28
Mitchell, Eliza ................Nov. 3, '29
Mills, Kate D.................Mar. 21, '28
Morrison, Louise B.......Mar. 20, '30
Moore, Mary S-···············May 9, '33
Newman, Susanna .....:.._June 4, '29
Nielson, Mary V •.......... Nov. 21, '27
Noble, Grace FieuL.........July 4, '32
Nourse, Florence A.........Dec. 7, '26
Nutter, Martha L...........Mar. 25, '23
Pankow, Catherine ........Apr. 29, '29
Parker, Calista A ...........Mar. 14, '33
Percival, Hannah D .......Dec. 29, '29
Perry, Mary C.•...- ..........May 12, '30
Phi.llips, Sarah J .............Feb. 22, '32
Proctor, Caroline A .........May 5, '30
Quilty, Flora S...................Feb. 1, '33
Rackerby, Eliaabeth ......Mar. 29, '30
Rassette, Sarah B ...........Mar. 12, '31
Richardson, Julia A .......Mar. 13, '16
Rickard, Jennie S .............Dec. 7, '32
Risdon, Imogene B ...........Feb. 3, '27
Risher, Louise E .............Aug. 24, '29
Rogers, Leonora ................Oct. 6, '25
Roscoe, Nettie P ...............Jan. 13, '32
Root, Emma F....:____________ Dec. 2, '32
Sandell, Selma S .............Dec. 31, '31
Sawyer, Ella B .............:.Sept. 18, '13
Seiler, Alice C.................Aug. 24, '31
Shearin, Eliza E .............Mar. 16, '31
Sniffin, Eugenia B...........Jan. 31, '33

Lodgt
No.
Woodland ...........•156
Truckee ................2(15
Foothill ...............J(,4
Chico .........~---··+.111
Alcatraz .........:.....244
Alcatraz ····-······-244
Morning Star ...... 68
Madison ·····-········· 23
Naval .................... 87
Eden ···-·····---·--113
Yosemite .............. 99
Yount .................... 12
Acorn .....:-..........494
Fresno ..................247
Santa Cruz............ 38
Golden State........358
Redwood City......168
Antioch ····-········-.175
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Trinity .................. 27
Natoma ................ 64
East Gate..............290
Crockett ············--139
Pasadena .............:02
Liberty ·······-·······-299
Mendocino .......... 179
Mission ......•.........169
Pajaro •................. 110
Friendship ............210
Crockett ·········-----139
San Francisco......360
Live Oak .............. 61
Parnassus..............388
Consuelo ..............325
Redlands ..............300
King David's........209
Oroville ................ 163
Occidental ............ 22
Martinez .............. 41
Natoma ................ 64
Mount Moriah .... 44
Pajaro ········-···.....110
West Lake............392

IIr

own
Age
Woodland .,......IU
Truckee ............66
Oakland ............m
Chic<> .............,..20
Oakland ............51
Oakland ............79
Stockton ··-······85
Gras~ Valley ....68
VaHejo ............65
San Leandro ....72
Merced ·-··········88
Napa ..............-18
Oakland ............79
Fresno ····-········84
Santa Cruz........73
Los Angeles......69
Redwood City..76
Antioch ............71
Santa Cruz-...- ...72
Weaverville ....73
Folsom City ....78
Los Angcles......78
San Francisco..6&
Pasadena ····-----1'>
Santa Clara ....90
Mendocino ......66
San Francisco..79
Watsonville ......98
San Jose............7&
San Francisco..75
San Francisc<>..75
Oakland ............83
San Francisco..78
Escondido ........80
Redlands ..........61
S. L, Obispo....69
Oroville .......-,..~
San Francisco..68
Martinez .........,61
Folsom Ciiy ....83
San Francisco..76
Watsonville ....78
Los AngeleL...77 .

GRAND LODGE OF C,..LIFORNIA
\

679

\

Name
\
Admitted
Soale, Carl B..............,.... May· 15, '32
Starbuck, Catherine S ... Feb. 24, '32
Stevenson, Sarah ...........June 30, '33
Stevens, Isabella A ........... Apr. 6, '32
Stevens, Mary H .............. .]uly-8, '32
Stewart, Mary ..............Mar. 12, '32
Surface, Emma ..............Aug. 19, '16
Tate, Sarah A.................Aug. 29, '31
Teall, Lena ......................Aug. 22, '32
Terrill, Cynthia E ......... Sept. 15, '27
Thomas, Ida ....................Nov. 23, '32
Thurling, AngeliM.......... Dec. 22, '26
Torr, Georgina R.............J~n. 14, '33
Walker, Emma O .............June 1, '28
Walton, l<la M ...............J une 22, '25
Waterhoo.se, Flora E ..... A1'£. 20, '29
W eigcl, May L ...............Apr. 10, '32
West, Eva L·-···- ········-····Aug. 9, '23
West, Henrietta B. ........May 10, '30
White, Martha J ...............Oct. 2, '30
White, Clara M<:G.............Oct. 8, '31
Williams, Llllia...............May 8, '32
Withers, Phoebe ............Jone 13, '27
Wooten, Mary A ............. Dec. 26, '26
Yarrington, Grace M ..... Feb. 26, '29

Lodge

No.

Corona ··········-······324
Jas. A. Foshay....641
California ............ 1
Santa Rosa .......... 57
Golden Stat'e........358
Concord ................ 117
Iooe ...................... 80
Brooklyn ..............225
Golden Gate.......... 30
Yosemite .............. 99
Bear Mountain.... 76
Argonaut ..............-461
Elmhurst ..............610
Roseville ..............222
Oakland ................188
Or.oville ................ 103
Marin ................•... 191
Mission ................ 169
Santa Rosa............ 57
Natoma ................ 64
Mission ................169
Fortitude ............624
East Belt ..............391
Mill Valley ..........356
University ............394

Town
Age
Pasadena ..........76
Los Angeles......62
San Francisco..89
Santa Rosa ........76
Los Angeles......77
Sacrament<> ....63
Ione ..................80
Oakland ............70
San Francisco..70
Merced ............78
Angels Camp....64
San Francisco..79
Oakland .........•..67 ·
Roseville ..........75
Oakland ............74
Oroville ............71
San RafaeL. .....68
San Francisco..79
Santa Rosa........81
Folsom City......81
San rFrancisco..68
Oakland ............62
Tuolumne ........80
Mill Valley ......87
Los Angeles......63

Outside Relief-Ad11lts
Monthly
Date began
Name
Lodge
allowance
Dec. 7, 1928 Mrs. John J . Terry............ Western Star No. Z............$25.00
Feb. 28, 1931 Mary J. Willgeroth.......... Hawaiian No. 21.........~ ...... 25.00
July 28, 1932 George Watson ..................San Diego No. 35.............. 30.00
June 28, 1933 Sarah M. Watson.............. San Diego No. 35.............. 15.00
May 28, 1929 Silas A. Williams.............. Forbestown No. 50............ 30.00
Jan. 28, 1927 Rebecca A. Sherwood...... N.aval No. 87...................... 30.00
Mar. 10, 1932 George W. SdimidL....... St. Helena No. 93...........~ .. 25.00
June 9, 1925 Frances M. Jack................ Chico No. 111........:............. 30.00
Mar. 28, 1924. G. W. Forsyth.................... La Fayette No. 126............ 30.00
June 28, 1932 Mrs. B. L . Whitehead...... Woodbridge No. 131.......... 15.00
April 20, 1932 Minnie McFarland ............ Franklin No. 143...........:.... 15.00
Aug. 28, 1930 Kittie May White.............. Excelsior No. 166................ 25.00
Sept. 25, 1930 Mary E. Grant....................Santa Barbara No. 192...... 20.00

580

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Monthly
Date began
Name
Lodge
allowance
June 28, 1932 Ellis P. Moore and wife .. Santa Barbara No. 192.... 30.00
Aug. 28, 1931 J. A. M. Vonk................. _.Rio Vista No. 208.............. 30.00
Feb.. 27, 1929 Adolph Isaac ····-·...-.......... Doric No. 216...................... 30.00
Feb. 13, 1931 Mrs. Iva B. Llewellyn...... Reading No. 254................ 30.00
Dec. 28, 1930 James S. Smithson....-...... Reading No. 254................ 20.00
Oct. 27, 1925 George W. Buchanan........ Lodi No. 256................ _ .... 30.00
June· 29, 1929 James A. Bowen..............-Lodi No. 256........................ 30.00
Jan. 28, 1932 Rupert Shaw and wife...... Evergreen No. 259............ 30.00
Jan. 28, 1932 John A. Spencer....- .........,Tuscan No. 261.................. 25.00
Feb. 1, 1927 Cora Lee Bennett.............. So. California No. 278...... 25.00
Feb. 29, 1932 ]. Wm. Rumbek.................. Mt. Jackson No. 295 .......... 25.00
Mar. 28, 1928 Walter J. Siµith ................ Sisson No. 310.................... 40.00
Nov. 28, 1923 Daniel R. Ballinger .......... Needles No. 326........- ........ 30.00
Feb. 29, 1932 Christopher D. Metcalf....Redondo No. 328................ 10.00
Dec. 31, 1931 Ella Yuker Shanks ............ Hawaiian No. 21................ 25.00
June 28, 1929 H. Truitt ................ _.......... Fruitvale No. 336.............. 30.00
Nov. 28,1930 Margaret K. Williams...... Fruitvale No. 336.............. 30.00
Nov. 28, 1931 William Dean .................... Palo Alto No. 346......... ~ .... 25.00
Jan. 27, 1929 John M. Keeley.................. Sequoia No. 349.................. 30.00
May 28, 1931 Theo. Wetzel and wife....Presidio No. 354................ 60.00
Sept. 1, 1931 Mrs. Julia W. Allison...... Las Palmas No. 366.......... 25.00
June 28, 1929 William T. HufL ............. Ocean Park No. 369.......... 25.00
Oct. 30, 1925 Nathaniel Black ................ Palos Verdes No. 389........ 30.00
Oct. 28, 1931 Daniel DeBarrows, wife .. Balder No. 393 .................... 25.00
Dec. 1, 1930 James E. Adams................ Perris No. 411.................... 20.00
Feb. 7, 1931 Wm. Henry Corbett.......... Exeter No. 424.................... 25.00
Dec. 28, 1929 John W. Moore and wife .. Exeter No. 424.................... 40.00
Mar. 8, 1929 George F. GeibeL. ............. Fairmount No. 435............ 30.00
April 28, 1932 Wm. H. Curtiss .................. Blackmer No. 442.............. 20.00
Dec. 31, 1931 · David S. Gittings.............. East Bay No. 489................ 25.00
Feb. 20, 1931 Mrs. Wm. Judd ..............:... Sunrise No. 522.................. 12.50
July 29, 1931 Robt. E. Mims and wife .. Citrol No. 656...................... 40.00
April 28, 1931 Martha Jane Snyder.. ........ Lassen No. 149.................... 20.00
Oct. 28, 1931 Mrs. Min ]. Fitzgerald.... Sotoyome No. 123.............. 25.00
May 28, 1931 Wm. A. MacLeod.............. EI Dorado No. 26.............. 30.00
July 31, 1931 Edw. H. Silsby.................. Palos Verdes No. 389........ 20.00
Jan.
7, 1932 Elizabeth Fuqua ................ Table Mountain No. 124.... 20.00
Feb. 28, 1930 Mrs. Clara Scott................ So. California No. 278...... 15.00
July 31, 1931 Robt. A. Martin................ Eden No. 113...................... 25.00
Dec. 4; 1930 Mrs. Addie Cohn................ Monterey No. 217.............. 30.00
Sept. 13, 1926 Guy Fallai .... _.................... Silver Gate No. 26............ 25.00
Aug. 4, 1932 Selina L. Dewey...... :......... California No. !.......·-······ 15.00

Monthly
Name
Lodge
allowance
Frank Ridell ...................... Redwood City No. 168...... 25.00
Susan Ridell ...................... Redwood City No. 168...... 25.00
Claude Willson .................. Drytown No. 174................ 15.00
Emma Irish ........................ Truckee No. 200................ 25.00
Christian Dahl .......... ~....... So, California No. 278...... 15.00
Chas. H. Pfeiffer.............. Le Progres No. 371.......... 25.00
Helen A. Pfeiffer.............. Le Progres No. 371...:...... 25.00
Mrs. Manford Tucker...... Midway No. 426................ 20.00
Archibald M. McArthur
and wife ............................ Henry S. Orme No. 458.... 45.00
Sept. 28, 1932 Carrie E. Goodfriend........ Sun Garden No. 530.......... 15.00
Sept. 28, 1932 · Arthur M. Stillwell... ....... Washington No. 20............ 30.00
Mar. 28, 1933 James Briggs and wife.... Canoga No. 611.................. 40.00
Jan. 28, 1933 Ernest A. W. Fromme ...... Fontana No. 653.................. 25.00
Dec. 28, 1932 Ellen Nutting .................... Yolo No. 81... ..................... 30.00
Nov. 28, 1932 Thomas and wife.......,...... Santa Ana N-0. 241............ 30.00
Nov. 28, 1932 Oppenheim and wife ........ Santa Ana No. 241............ 30.00
Nov. 28, 1932 Toppel .................... :........... Santa Ana No. 241... ......... 15.00
Mar. 30, 1933 Harry E. Bunger.. ............ Ontario No. 301.................. 25.00
Feb. 28, 1933 Isaac I. Bories and wife .. Starr King No. 344............ 50.00
Feb. 27, 1933 Beulah M. Fitch ................ Hqllywood No. 355............ 25.00
Dec. 28, 1932 Wm. F. Alexander, wife .. Charity No. 362.................. 40.00
Feb. 28, 1933 Wm. Whiteside and wife .. Amity No. 370.................... 30.00
Oct. 18, 1932 Anna E. Curryer.............. _Elysian No. 418. ................. 25.00
Oct. 17, 1932 Herbert G. Middlemist....Seal Rock No. 536.............. 30.00
Feb. 28, 1933 Albert H. Kimmeritz........ Signal No. 543.................... 30.00
Sept. 28, 1932 George H. Shapiro............ Oakland No. 188..........:..... 25.00
Jan. 28, 1933 Stella M. Jewell.. .............. Riq Vista No. 208............... 25.00
Dec. 29, 1932 Catherine E. Kinney ........ Benicia No. 5........ _..-........ 25.00
Dec. 1, 1932 Albert Fonte and wife...... Libertas No. 466......... :...... 45.00
Dec. 28, 1932 Rachael Van Nest..... ~ ........ San F~ancisco No. 360...... 25.00
Sept. 29, 1932 Mrs. Mabel C. Gupton...... Reading No. 254.................. 15.00
Dec. 28, 1932 McCoy Fitzgeraid ............ Reading No. 254.................. 15.00
April 28, 1933 Benj. G. Ross ...................... Ione No. 80.......................... 15.00
May 28, 1933 George L. Fleming............ La Fayette No. 126......, ..... 25.00
June 28, 1933 Martha L. Fortin .............. Oakland No. 188............. :.. 30.00
July 28, 1933 Joel N. Terry...................... Golden State No. 358. ....... 12.50
June 1, 1933 Milford H. Mincey, wife .. Upland No. 419.................. 30.00
Aug. 30, 1933 Lydia Cartwright ............ East San Diego No. 561.... 15.00
Aug. 30, 1933 Arthur G. Cartwright...... East San Diego No. 561.... 30.00
June 29, 1933 James F. Price.................... Bellflower No. 523.............. 25.00
May 28, 1933 George M. Russell, wife .. Beverly Hills No. 528........ 35.00
Date began
Aug. 10, 1932
Aug. 10, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932
Aug. 29, 1932
July 8, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932
Sept. 8, 1932
Sept. 10, 1932

581

582

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date began
July 28, 1933
April 28, 1933
June 28, 1933
April 27, 1933
May 28, 1933
June 28, 1933
May 29, 1933
June 30, 1933
Sept. 1, 1933

Monthly
Name
Lodge
allowance
Wm. H. Lipphard.............. Utopia No. 537.................... 25.00
Mrs. James Taylor............Glendale No. 544................ 25.00
Sarah C. Stoudt.................. Emmanuel No. 318............ 10.00
Ida Schwartz ............._....... Hespcrian No. 264.............. 25.00
Stewart McClure .....'......... Calaveras No. 78................ 25.00
John A. Lundey.................. Yolo No. 81...................:...... 30.00
Edgar L. Lewis.................. Hawaiian No. 21... ............. 30.00
Maud Tucker .................... Tehachapi No. 313.............. 25.00
Otto Rumage ....................West Gate No. 335............ 25.00

Admitted during the year, Men, 48. Average age, 74.60
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Albrecht, Albert --·-······-···_Jan. 5, '33 Selma ....................277
Allison, Thomas S ...........Jan. 23, '33 Golden Gate.......... 30
Aiken, William N ........... Dec. 28, '32 Eureka .................. 16
Baker, John L..............._Sept. 23, '32 San Jose................ 10
Barnett, Joseph ............ _July 23, '33 Liviniston ..........658
Bell, John H ..........- ............May 1, '33 Lomita ......... _. _____644
Brown, Wallace C...........May 27, '33 El Dorado ............ 26
Casterline, Myron M..... Nov. 16, '33 Oceanside ............381
Chase, Lloyd W .............Nov. 14, '32 Vallejo ................487
Cole, George W ...............June 23, '33 San Benito ..........211
Crystal, William •......... Nov. 20, '32 So. San Fran.......212
Daly, Samuel J .................May26, '33 Mission ................169
Dineson, Jacob N .............Nov. 1, '32 Live Oak .............. 61
Fitting, Hans H ............... May 27, '33 San Bernardino ..348
Fraser, Garnet W .....-....Oc:t. 19, '32 California ............ 1
George, Elias O .................N ov. 1, '32 Live Oak .............. 61
Grant, George L...............Oct. 6, '32 Georgetown .......... 25
Goodman, William H ..... Oct. 20, '32 Fraternity ............ 399
Greaves, Walter ..............Oct. 18, '32 · Apoll-0 ..................396
Herndon, Edward M.....Mar. 19, '33 Mountain View ....194
Hughes, Eugene F ......... Mar. 11, '33 Phoenix ................178
Jensen, James L...............Mar. 2, '33 Texas .................... 46
Kiesling, Henry ............ Aug. 31, '33 So. Pasadena........367
Kimball, John C.............Mar. 27, '33 Mount Moriah .... 44
Lange, Edmund W. R. .. May 20, '33 East Bay ...........:..489
Lewis, Fredk. M.............June 10, '33 Hawaiian ............ 21
Martien, Joseph G......... Aug. 31, '33 Chico .................... 111
McClain, Chas. A ..........-.Jan. 26, '33 Mosaic --···---···-·····218
McCalley, James L......... Mar. 24, '33 Unity ....................368

Town
Age
Selma ................75
San Francisco..60
Eureka .:............82
San Jose............74
Livingst-0n ........76
Lomita ..............73
Placerville ........80
Oceanside ........68
Vallejo ..............74
Hollister ..........83
S-0. San Fran...69
San Francisco..83
Oakland ............71
S. Bernardino ..84
San Francisco.. 59
Oakland ............85
Ge-Orgetown ......71
San Jose....... ...79
Alameda ..........64
Mount'n View..71
S. Bernardino ..80
S. J. Bautista....71
So. Pasadena....84
San Francisco..76
Berkeley .......c••71
Honolulu ..........75
Chico ._.............85
Livermoce .......,79
Glendale ...........70

Name

Admitted

Olesen, Peter --··············.Aug.30, '33
Parker, David N .............M:ar. 14, '33
Porter, Fred ...................Aug.ll, '33
Quilty, Frank E .................Feb. 1, '33
Rawlings, Levi ................July 11, '33
Rickard, Wiltse W ...........Dec. 7, '32
Rummelsburg, Alex.......July 10, '33
Sangster, Donald ..............Oct. 4, '32
S<;nestrari, Jacob T ....... Mar. 29, '33
Shephard, Harry W .....Ma.r. 11, '33
Sill, George W., ...............Feb..22, '33
Sniffen, Samuel T ...........Jan. 31, '33
Thomas, Sullivan E ....... A~. 27, '33
Travelli, Joseph .......... Sept. 24, '32
Tucker, Ira W .................M8¥ 12, '33
\Veston, Frank ................Mar. 4, '33
Wilson, Charles ............Sept. 22, '32
Woods, Albert J .................Qd. 2, '32
Watson, Arthur J ........... Nov. 21, '32

Lodge
No.
Los Banos ............312
Pasadena ---·---··Z12
Hartley ___ ..........199
Friendship ..........210
Northern LighL..190
Parnassus ............388
Oxnard -·-··---··-···341
Mendocino ··-------179
Monterey ..............217
F ruitvale __.........-336
Pajaro ----··--·····uo
West Lake............392
San Diego ............ 35
Oakdale -···--·---··-275
San Jose..............- 10
St. Helena ............ 93
Parnassus ............388
·Woodbridge ........131
Humboldt ............ 79

583
Town
Age
Los Banos ___ ..ii
Pasadena ...........86
Lakeport ..........74
San J ose:...........20
Millville ..........66
San Francisco..76
Oxnard _....,.....79
Mendocino ...--77
MontereY, ..........£/J
Fruitvale .........SJ
Watsonville ......17
Los Angeles......78
San Diego ........79
Oakdale -···-----71
San Jose ..........80
St. Helena ---·--·73
San Francisco..65
Woodbridge ....87
Eureka .............M

Admitted diwmg the year, Women, 42. Average age, 71.50
T own
Age
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Selma
................
77
Albrecht, Ruth R. ..............Jan. 5, '33 Selma ......- ............277
Truckee
...........
.&1
T
ruckee
................
200
Barton, Annie N ............. AHg. 27, '33
Oakland ............72
Bell, Florence C....·--···-·July 30, '33 Standard ..............440
Plymouth ........69
Drytown
..............
114
Billings, Martha V ...- .... Apr. 30, '33
Folsom City......72
Buzzo, Octavia ·····-·······June 26, '33 Natoma ···-······----·· 64
San Francisco..71
Carroll, Margaret R._ .... Feb. 12, '33 Crockett ..............139
San Diego ........72
Silver
Gate
..........
296
Cassidy, Lottie .......- .......May 30, '33
Pasadena ..........6'J
Charbonneau, Elizabeth .. Apr. 3, '33 Carmelita ............599'
Berkeley ..........?3
Charter
Rock.
.......
41fi
Cope, Ida L..·-·······-·······Nov. 19, '32
Sacramento ......19
Coyne, Helen M.............Nov. 27, '32 union ····--····-······-··ssSo. San Fran...65
So.
San
Fran
......
.212
Crystal, Agnes ·······-······Nov. 20, '32
San Francisco..71
Everett, Charlotte ..........May 9, '33 Mount Moriah .... 44
S. Bernardino ..63
San
Bernardino
..
348
Fitting, Alice M .............May 27, '33
Petaluma ..........SZ
Petaluma
..............
180
Forbes, Louisa S .............Mar. 14, '33
San J ose............79
Goodman, Orpheus O .....Oct. 20, '32 Fraternity ............399
Georgetown ......60
Georgetown
........
25
Grant, Lillian A .........- ......Oct. 6, '32
Alameda ..........53
396
Apollo
..................
Greaves, Margaret L ...-Oct. 18, '32
Berkeley ..........17
Gregg, Letitia .-.................Dec. 4, '32 Durant ..................268
Sacramento ......65
Gregory, Emily ·····---·.:.•June 6, '33 Concord ................tl7 San . Francisco..58
Pacific
..................
136
Harris, Louise C...............Feb. 19, '33

585

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

584

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
·Hattersley, Emily K. ....Aug. 19, '33
Halek, Albertine C. ........ Dec. 29, '32
Heitman, Evelyn S ........... Apr. 3, '33
Hughes, Laura H ........... Mar. 11, '33
Kiesling, Caroline .... -.... Aug. 31, '33
Knapp, Lizzie T .........•...-Aug. 5. '33
Keenan,. Effie ..................July 17, '33
Kimball, Lila M .............Mar. 27, '33
Logan, Ellen M............ :.... Sept. 4, '32
Mann, Bertha M...........June 10, '33
Martien, Alice ................ Aug. 31, '33
Moore, Mary S ................. May 9, '33
Parker, Calista A........... Mar. 14, '33
Pope, Ida M ....................... Nov. 1, '32
Quilty, Flora S...................Feb. 1, '33
Porter, Isa M ...................Jan. 18, '33
Rickard, Jennie S.............Dec. 7, '32
Root, Emma F ................... Dec. 2, '32
Sniffen, Eugenia B. ........Jan. 31, '33
Stevenson, Sarah ............June 30, '33
Torr, Georgina R. ............ Jan. 14, '33
Thomas, Ida .................. Nov. 23, '32

Lodge
No.
Henry Clay .......... 95
Victory ..................474
Union .................... 58
Phoenix ................ 178
So. Pasadena ........367
Sequoia ................349
Jewell ....................374
Mount Moriah .... 44
Live Oak .............. 61
Naval .................... 87
Chico ....................111
Redwood City...... 168
Pasadena ..............272
West Lake ............ 392
Friendship ............ 210
Oakland ................ 188
Parnassus ............388
Occidental ............ 22
West Lake............392
California ............ 1
Elmhurst ..............610
Bear Mountain .... 76

Age
Town
Sutter Creek....73
San Francisco.. 69
Sacramento ......77
S. Bernardino .. 78
So. Pasadena....81
Oakland ............74
San Francisco.. 56
San Francisco..62
Oakland ............6:J
Vallejo ..............65
Chico ...... ,..........80
Redwood City.. 70
Pasadena ..........79
Los Angeles......75
San Jose ............78
Oakland ............74
San Francisco..78
San Francisco.. 68
Los Angeles ......77
San Francisco..89
Oakland ............67
Angels Camp....64

Died during the year, Men, 33. Average age, 75.18
Name
Age
Albrecht, Albert ............75
Barton, Timothy G.......60
Basker, Solomon ..........70
Berge, Carl T. E ...........75
Buckley, Peter ..............86
Burtchael, Geo. T ...........79
Byrd, Thomas J .............98
Cheesebrough, C. E .......84
Clover, John A...............84
Corse, John M...............88
Craig, David C. .... ·-·-····73
Delzelle, Wm. R. .......... 73
DePenne, Frank L. ........58
Fink, Conrad ..................94
Foltz, George .,..............66
Freeman, Isaac t ...........73
Gallet, Henry W ...........67

Lodge
No.
Selma ................277
Union ................ 58
Mount Moriah .. 44
West Gate ..........335
Hawaiian .......... 21
Oakland ............ 188
Gravel Range.... 59
Pajaro ................ 110
Excelsior .......... 166
Tuscan ..............261
Pacific ... :.... ;....... 136
Excelsior .......... 166
Moneta · ..............405
Hermann .......... 127
Phoenix ............ 178
Elk Grove ....... .173
Excelsior ..........166

Date
Mar. 9, '33
June 3, '33
Feb. 2, '33
Aug. 22, '33
Jan. 24, '33
Nov. 29, '32
Nov. 1, '32
Jan.
3, '33
Nov. 13, '32
May 29, '33
May 20, '33
Sept. · 30, '32
Oct. 15, '32
Apr. 26, '33
Sept. 7, '32
Jan.
9, '33
Mar. 14, '33

Buried at
Oakland
Decoto
San Mateo Co.
San Mateo Co.
Decoto
Oakland
Camptonville
Decoto
San Mateo Co.
Colusa
Decoto
Decoto
Los Angeles '
San Francis.co
Decoto
Elk Grove
Decoto

Age
Name
George, Elias 0 .............85
Gough, William G.........73
Griffin, Francis L...........73
Guerra, John ..................79·
Haile, John W ...............86
Hocker, Jos. L ...............87
Jensen, Alfred T ...........70
Johnson, William M.....72
McCalley, James L. ......70
Miller, George N ...........77
Shephard, Harry W ..... 57
Smith, Harry B.............79
Sollner, John B...............72
Starbuck, Edward 1.....62
Watson, Arthur J .........64
Woods, Albert J ...........•.72

No.
Lodge
Live Oak .......... 61
Pacific ................ 136
Summit .............. 112
Francis Drake..376
Suisun ................ 55
Summit .............. 112
Palestine ............351
Fresno ................247
Unity ..................368
Selma ................277
Fruitvale ..........336
Oriental ............ 144
Sisson ................310
Santa Monica .... 307
Humboldt .......... 79
Woodbridge ...... 131

Date
Dec. 12, '32
Dec. 19,'32
Apr. 20,'33
5, '33
Jan.
May 26, '33
Feb. 13, '33
Jan. 17, '33
Sept. 27, '32
June 12, '33
Oct. 8,'32
May 19, '33
Aug . 3, '33
Jan . 5, '33
Oct. 6, '32
Jan. 17, '33
5, '33
Jan.

Buried at
Deco to
Decoto
Decoto
San Francisco
Deco to
Oakdale
Decoto
Deco to
San Francisco
Decoto
Deco to
San Francisco
Decoto
Indiana
Decoto
Tulare

Died during the year, Women, 33. Average age, 75.87
Buried at
Date
No.
Lodge
Age
Name
Alderman (Jeffries)'
Decoto
Viola H .......................81 Los Angeles ....... .42 Apr. 11, '33
Alexander, Ida E ...........74 El Centro ..........384 Sept. 5, '32 Decoto
Anderson, Mary J .........78 Naval ················ 87 Aug. 1, '33 Vallejo
Oakland
Artz, Mary A .................84 Foothill .............. 564 June 13, '33
Decoto
7,
'32
Nov.
Barnes, Sallie B.............72 Hawaiian .......... 21
Oroville
30,
'33
Aug.
San
Joaquin
......
19
Blumenthal, Eliz. B.......75
Birmingham, Isabel ......79 California ········ 1 July 14, '33 Deco to
San Mateo Co.
Boyd, Isabelle L .............76 Mount Moriah.. 44 Mar. 11, '33
Carden, Alice M.............61 Charter Rock. ...410 June 10, '33 Deco to
Chillcott, Marion E ....... 83 Redwood City ..168 Sept. 20, '32 Oakland
Dowling, Emily ............73 York ..................423 Nov. 19, '32 Los Angeles
Benicia
Estey, Catherine A. ......73
B~nicia •···········'· 5 Jan. 11, '33
Golden Gate ...... 30 Apr. 27, '33 Decoto
Hoffman, Sarah J .........91
So. San Fran .....212 Nov. 20, '32 Deco to
Johnson, Hattie E .........71
Katzenstein, Jennie........70 Penrhyn ............258 Aug. 14, '33 Deco to
Lane, Laura M ....... ;.......84 McKinley ..........347 Apr. 5, '33 Deco to
S. F. Bd. of Relief Mar. 31, '33 Deco to
Lawrence, Lucy P .........71
Lee, Alice L.. .................75 Pacific Grove....331 Apr. 2, '33 Pacific Grove
Logan, Ellen M.............63 Live Oak .......... 61 June 6, '33 Deco to
Loughery, Adelaide G... 74 Amity ................370 Dec. 31, '32 San Francisco
McGavic, Georganne ....83 Board of Trustees Aw.g. 9, '33 Decoto
N yhuis, Maria H ........... 82 Naval ..................87 Nov. 20, '32 Decoto

686

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Naffle
Age Lori!Je
No.
Peck, Sarah A ...............75 Madera ..............~
Pohlman, Mary .... _......7J Portervi-lle .... _..303
Pope, Ada M .............-.)S West Lake ........392
Porter, ha M .................74 Oakland ............188
Pro11, Anna R. G...........7-4 K'g Solomon's..260
Reid, Katherine ....- ......78 Porterville :.......JOJ
Schwa.in, Mary ...
79 Bakersfield ......224
Templeton, Phoebe ......91 San ·Mateo ........226
Wikox, Louise ... ~ .........74 Sequoia ..............349
. Williams, Laura A .....-..72 Chico ..................1H
Wise, Adelaide H...........66 Occidental ........ 22
K

.........

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Date
Buried at
May 28, '33 Decoto
Mar. 2, '33
Porterville
Jan. 23, '33
Los Angeles
Feb. 6, '33
Mountain View
July 22, '33 Dec-0to
May 22, '33
Decato
July 31, '3.J Decato
June 23, '33 San Mateo Co.
·
July 6, '33 Oakland
Dec. 21, '32 Oakland
June 22, '33 San Francisco

Report of the Superintendent-Covina

Departures dnring the year, 6
Name
Age
Holmes, Chas. T .................15
Lee, Sarah V.......................75
Lipphard, William A._......71
Shapiro, Geo. H .................60
Wilber, Anna ......................65
Onslow, Frank ....................66

Date
Sept. 23, '32
Sept.
5, '32
July 13, '33
Aug. 27, '32
Oct. 25, '32
1, '32
Oct.

Lodge

No.

Mt. Diablo ··----...- ............448

Eucalyptus ..........................243
Utopia ................................537
Oakland ..............................188
Maui ....................................472
Mission ......- ......................169

587

.

To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes:
During another year the Covina Home has carried on its appointed
work of protecting and caring for dependent children of Masons in
this jurisdiction. A little boy in the Home had heard about the
depression, and that it would probably have some effect on what he got
for Christmas. Christmas came, and with it many toys and playthings. Surveying his gifts he said, "I hope there'll be another depression next year." In spite of the depression the w°"k of the Home has
gone on. It has been a year of retrenchment of expense, of doing
without many things which we would like to have had, but the essential mission of the Hom.e has continued to be accomplished.
The buildings an<l furnishings have been maintained in the best
repair possible with a reduced budget, though they are beginning to
show the result Of several years during which practica1ly no replacements of furniture or floor coverings have been made, painting reduced to the minimum, and many other repairs postponed.
D~ring the past summer, in order to reduce· expense, the use of
the summer camp, Camp Tucker at Balboa, was greatly curtailed.
Instead of moving the whole membership of the Home to the Camp
for two months, small parties were sent there for stays of from one
to three weeks. Fortunately there was little oppressively hot weather
at Covina this summer, and the children got along very happily. In
this connection the splendid swimming pool at the Home, donated
three years ago by Mrs. Almina Runyon, was a life-saver. No part of
our equipment is so much used or enjoyed as this pool.
No material change has occurred during the year in the mode of
operation of the Home or its plan of handling the children. The
accommodations for boys are taxed to the limit; there are a few
vacancies for girls. For some reason there is a tendency for our aid
to be demanded more frequently for b-Oys than for girls. Of the last
100 admissions, 58 were b-Oys and 42 were girls.
Our chief aim continues to be to give the boys and girls who
come to us a real home, a place of abode where they can have those
privileges of happiness, security, and training which are accorded to
the child in a good private family. It can be truly said that we have
little institutional repression and discipline. We think it better to
have too little discipline than too much. Yet abundant evidence comes
to us that our children are well behaved. They are welt thought of
by the townspeople of Covina, and they have exce11ent rating in the
public schools where they attend with other chifdren. They do well
after they leave us. In some instances, perhaps, th~y temporarily
show the effect of "too much good treatment" in the Home, but, on

588

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the other hand, they exhibit unusual adaptability and capacity to
adjust themselves to the hard necessities of life.
One of the best measures of what we are doing for the children
is found in their own comments after they have left us and seen
something of the outside world. Last year a 15-year-old girl was
withdrawn from the Home by a wealthy aunt, and placed in an
excellent and high-class boarding ·school in the East. After being
there for a time she wrote to one of her friends in the Covina Home:
"I have told everyone here that I come from the Home and
have shown them pictures I have of it, and they all look at me and
ask why I ever left such a place and came here. I am beginning to
wonder that, too, because you can't imagine the difference between
the Home and this. It is lovely here, and not strict at all, but there
is something missing that we had in the Home-so appreciate it
while you can."
The relationship of the children in the Home to the fraternity
which is maintaining them is both interesting and important. We do
not refer to the children as either "guests" or as "inmates," but
rather as "members" of the Home. They know .that they are here
as the wards of California's 140,000 Masons. They are entitled to a
feeling of securi.ty a~d of being the objects of solicitude. Yet they
must not be spoiled. Tqey must not get the idea, "The Masons are
going to take care of us till we're 18;'' or as has happened in some
instances, "The Masons have got to take care of us." As they reach
the later years of their membership in the Home it is important that
their thinking on their relationship to the Masons shall be reasonable
and just. The help given them is a charity, and not the result of an
insurance contract. They must know this and yet their self-respect
must not be destroyed.
Our instruction to them is that the Masons have voluntarily undertaken their care, have assumed a parental relationship to them
with its attendant expense, for .the satisfaction of seeing them become
worthy men and women and good citizens. The relationship between
themselves and the Masons, we tell them, is not one-sided but reciprocal. They as well as the Masons have a part to do; their part is to
make the best possible use of their opportunities and not to make
unnecessary demands upon those who are maintaining them. If they
do this, when their time comes to depart they can leave us with no
sense of diminished self-respect by reason of the fact that their rearing
was in a Masonic rather than in a natural home.
Thousands of Masons visit the Home each year. This contact is
a not unimportant factor in shaping the children's thinking as to their
relationship with the Home and the fraternity. Sometimes, unfortunately, visitors show a patronizing or pitying attitude toward "the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

589

poor little inmates of the orphanage." In some cases they want to
distribute largess in the form of gifts or coins; in other cases, to
tip the girl who has been asked to act as hostess and show them about
the Home. On the other hand, visitors who are wiser or more
thoughtful will assume the attitude of kindly and interested elder
friends, and will leave those children with whom they have talked
feeling encouraged, inspired, and built up in their self-respect. I am
glad to say that in general the visitations of Lodges to the Home have
been so conducted as to have a beneficial effect upon the children.
We need a better system of follow-up of the children who have
left the Home. These young folks going out into life need more
guidance and aid than is given them in many instances. Lodges differ
greatly in the amount of interest and help they give their wards who
leave the Home. Some make a serious and effective effort to get the
youngster started in life; others express interest but do nothing
effective; still others take 1;10 interest.
The boy or girl who leaves us has at most a high school education, but no specific vocational training. Between the time they leave
us and the time they become self-supporting there is a transition
period when they need guidance and help which in some instances
they are not receiving. There should be a more systematic and
effective scheme of after-care.
A recent study of the home conditions of the children in our
care shows the following:
. Ten per cent of our children are full orphans, 81 per cent half
orphans, while 9 per cent have both parents living. The 81 per cent
who are half orphans are made up of 48 per cent whose fathers are
dead and 33 per cent whose mothers are dead. The children whose
parents are both living represent ten families. In seven out of the
ten cases, there has been a moral failure on the part of one or both
of the parents; in the other three, physical invalidism is the cause of
the child's dependency. Compared with other institutions for dependent children, a very small proportion of our cases origina~e from
what are known as "broken homes."
We find it necessary and desirable to keep in touch with the relatives or families of the children in our care. If we are to do intelligent
work we must know them not only before the child comes in, to
determine whether he should come, but after he comes in, to determine how to handle him and how long the need for our care continues.
In this connection the work of our field worker, Miss Noel, has been
invaluable during the past year.
The number of children in outside care under our supervision is
now 56. Nine of these are in foster homes; 47, representing 20 families, are with their o~n mothers.

590

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We have problem cases. In any large group of children there are
bound to be some who do not progress in the environll'N!nt which is
suitable for the average. If they are very far out oi line they may
interfere with the progress of .the others. For some of our problem
cases we have during the past year been utilizing the aid of the California Child Guidance Clinic. Their aid in study, diagnosis, and recommendation as to procedure has been valuable. During the coming
year we shall have in residence at the Home two graduate students
of the Claremont Colleges, who will help by making psychologi.cal
examinations and in bringing the difficult cases to and through the
Child Guidance Clinic. They will also help in furnishing skilled recreation leadership, ·a thing of which we have long been in need.
During the past year the Boy Scout Troop in the Home has been
in flourishing condition. It has attained the greatest degree of efficiency in its history. It continues to have the faithful and devoted
leadership of Brother William Hoogendy~ as Scoutmaster.
This report would be incomplete if it failed to mention the work
of our staff of employes, especially those who live and work in direct
contact ·with the children. On these latter we must depend for success
in bringing up our children. They must be on duty Sundays and holidays, and often from six in the morning until nine at night. Theirs is
taxing work, calling for patience and understanding and all the finest
qualities of character.
Staff meetings of this group of employes are held each Monday
forenoon, at which time through conference and discussion we s·e ek
to clarify our vision and to gain new inspiration for our great work.
JoHN M. DOWNEN, Superintendent.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

591

Visitations to Covina Home
August, 1932:
13-14-Board of Trustees met at the Home.
September, 1932:
11-Golden State Lodge No. 358 visited the Home, bringing an
entertainment.
18-University Lodge No. 394 visited the Home.
All States Lodge No. 593 visited the Home.
20-Hollywood Chapter No. 209, 0. E. S., visited the Home,
bringing their lunch, and holding their regular meeting in
the afternoon.
25-Jordail Lodge No. 654 visited the Home.
October, 1932:
2-James Madison Lodge No. 572 visited the Home.
12-Electa Social Club of Glendale Chapter No . . 422, 0. E. S.,
spent the day at the Home sewing for the children.
16-Southwest Masonic Officers' Association visited the Home,
pr~senting a program.
30-South Park Lodge No. 5<>3 visited the Home.
November, 1932:
5-6--B.oard of Trustees met at the Home.
6-Loyalty Lodge No. 529 visited the Home.
13-Mizpah Lodge No. 378 visited the Home.
Corona Lodge No. 324 visited the Home.
14-Whittier Chapter No. 444, 0. E . S., spent the day at the
Horne sewing for the children.
20-Valley Forge Lodge No. 587 visi~ed the Home.
December, 1932:
4-Citrol Lodge No. 656 visited the Home.
January, 1933:
15-Huntington Park Chapter, Order of De Molay, visited the
Home.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506 visited the Home, giving an entertainment.
22-Pasadena Commandery visited the Home.
29-Fullerton Lodge No. 339 visited the Home.
February, 1933:
·
16--Covina Chapter, 0. E. S., spent the day at the Home sewin,g
for the children.
24-San Fernando Chapter No. 398, 0. E. S., spent the day at the
Home seWi';lg for the children.

592

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

March, 1933:
8-Social Club, Lyra Chapter No. 144, 0. E. S., spent the day
at the Home sewing for the children.
12-Pasadena Lodge No. 272 visited the Home.
16-Covina Chapter, 0. E. S., spent the day at the Home sewing
for the children.
23-Covina Chapter, 0. E. S., spent the day at the Home sewing
for the children.

December, 1932:
8-California Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals
furnished a program in the evening, showing films of animal
life. Lady Cameron, English writer of travel books, gave an
interesting account of her experiences in Africa and Alaska.
17-Melita Chapter No. 467, 0. E. S., visited the Home in ·the
evening, entertaining the children with ·music .and a play.
19-Monrovia Lodge No. 308 gave its annual Christmas party for
the children. All the children were taken to Monrovia and
entertained at the Masonic Temple with a program, Chris.tmas tree and refreshments, and each child received a gift.
23-The Los Angeles Masters' and Wardens' Assodation visited
the Home in the evening and presented a splendid program
by professional entertainers. Each child in the Home at
Christmas time received a gift.

May, 1933:
2-Baldwin Park Lodge No. 660 visited the Home.
14-Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595 visited the Home.
21-EI ·Petrol Chapter No. 507, 0. E. S., visited the Home.
Composite Lodge No. 639 visited the Home.
•
28-Mar Vista Chapter No. 511, 0. E. S., visited the Home.
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 visited the Home, bringing a
program of an orchestra and singer.
June, 1933:
3-Bethel Chapter No. 34, Job's Daughters, visited the Home.
4-Eastgate Chapter No. 225, 0. E. S., visited the Home, presenting a program.
10-South Pasadena Lodge No. 367 visited the Home.
11-Santa Monica Palisades Lodge No. 637, and Santa Monica
Palisades Chapter, O. E. S., visited the Home.
U!)land Lodge No. 419 visited the Home.
18-Rising Light Lodge No. 397 visited the Home, presenting a
program.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0. E. S., visited the Home.
25-Southwest Officers' Association visited the Home, presenting
a program.
July, 1933:
16-Alhambra Lodge No. 322 visited the Home.
23-Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674 visited the Home, a team from
the Lodge playing a ball game with a team of Home boys.
Entertainment, Covina Home
September, 1932:
11-Golden State Lodge No. 358 visited the Home in the afternoon, showed a moving picture, and gave a program".
October, 1932:
16-Southwest Masonic Officers' Association visited the Home,
and presented a program by dancers and a magician.

593

January, 1933:
13-Gilmore Oil Co. sent their representative, H. C. Boyd, who
showed motion pictures and lectured on "The Pacific Empire."
15-Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506 visited the Home in the afternoon,
and showed ten reels of talking pictures, latest productions,
specially selected for children; also gave a program of other
entertainment. A wonderful day for the children.
,22-Pasadena Commandery, Knights Templar, visited the Home
in the afternoon, and presented a concert by students from
several Pasadena Junior High schools, consisting of orchestral and vocal numbers. •
February, 1933:
3-Illustrated lecture on "Alaska" by Edward G. Kunkel of
Fairbanks, Alaska. Very interesting motion pictures of Alas- ·
kan ' life, which had been taken by the speaker.
10-A dance was held at the Home, the music being supplied by
a most excellent ten-piece orchestra from March Field at
Riverside, under command of Lieut. ]. H. Bundy of the
U. S. Army, formerly a ward of the Home.
·
March, 1933:
25-A dance was given at the Home. Music was furnished by
the orchestra of the Pasadena Fire Department, through the
kind interest of Brother H. de Waard oj Pasadena. Guests
on this occasion were a number of members of the Order of
De Molay, invited through the co-operation of Brother Chas.
Emory Wright.

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31-Mr. Ronald Taylor of Covina presented motion pictures
which he had taken, showing many interesting scenes of
California; the pictutes were accompanied by an instructive
lecture.
May, 1933:
28-Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 visited the Home and presented a program by an orchestra and singer.

Beacon of the West Lodge No. 628-Treat, $10.40.
Bettina Chapter No. 399, 0. E . S.-4 qt. fruit, 3 qts. 4 pts. jam, 13
glasses jell.
Bieber, Mrs. Henry-7 qts. fruit, 3 pts. jam.
Bradley, Geo.-1 set boxing gloves ..
Burgen, Mrs. F.-3 qts. 3 pts. jam.
Byrkit, G. Palmer-10 pairs pigeons, house and equipment.
Cha~bonneau, Mrs. Elizabeth-Books, linens, rugs, dishes, utensils,
Jams and jellies, jewelry and miscellaneous small articles.
Clapp, Ralph-Current magazines.
Clark, Roy V.-75 popcorn balls.
Coachella Lodge No. 476---1 box dates.
Cohen, Edward-18 cases ml:lrmalade.
Compo7ite Lodge No. 639_:_13 glasses jell, 46 qts. 12 pts. jam, 2 qts.
fruit, 12 boxes chocolate bat's, 50 jig-saw puzzles, 6 balloons.
Corona Lodge No. 324-Painted walls and ceiling of room No. 6,
Senior Girls building; 4 qts. 58 pts. jam, 2 qts. fruit, 13 glasses jell,.
15 lbs. almonds, 15 lbs. dates, 4 boxes apples, 2 boxes grapes,
3 boxes onions, 1 crate celery.

June, 1933:
4-Eastgate Chapter No. 225, 0. E. S., visited the Home, presenting a program for the children.
10--A dance was given at the Home, music being furnished by
an orchestra brought to the Home by Silver Trowel Lodge
No. 415.
18-Rising Light Lodge No .. 397 visited the Home and presented
a musical program.
25-Southwest Officers' Associatio.n visited the Home, presenting a musical program.
July, 1933:
9-A musical entertainment was given by Stanley Z. Feher,
"The Wonder Boy," of Alhambra, together with recitations
by Brother Lynde of El Sereno Lodge No. 588, and Miss
Virginia Krummel.
16---Alhambra Lodge No. 322 and Alhambra Chapter No. 193.
0. E. S., came to the Home for a visitation, playday, and
ball game. Many races and "stunts" entertained and amused
the children most pleasantly.
23-Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674 visited the Home. A ball game
was played between Masonic Home boys and a team from
the Lodge.
The Pasadena Community Playhouse donated tickets for
parties of children to attend the following plays at the Playhouse: "Alice in Wonderland," "Cricket on the Hearth,"
"Little Lord Fauntleroy," "Uncle Tom's Cabin." These were
furnished through the good offices of Brother William
Abrams of Pasadena, and the generous interest of Mr. Tom
Sanson of the Pasadena Playhouse organization.
Donations to Covina Home
All States Lodge No. 593--8 cans fruit, 14 qts. 10 pts. jam, 5 glasses
jell.
Angeles Vista Chapter No. 516, 0 . E. S.-16 scrapbooks.
Appleton, Mrs. vV.-14 scrapbooks.
Baker, B. T.-90 Flame trees, 6 paper plants, 2 rose bushes.

695

Damascus Lodge No. 648-19 qts. fruit, 31 qts. 12 pts. jam, 6 games,
1 doll, 3 lbs. candy.
J)aughenbaugh, Mrs. Clara B., and Dolores Madison-10 stuffed
balls, 10 cloth dolls, 8 scrapbooks.
Day, J ohn-9 pts. jam.
Downey De Molay No. 1020--1 qt. 3 pts. jam, 1 can corn, 1 can
salmon.
Eastgate Chapter No. 225, 0. E . S.-26 qts. 30 pts. jam, 59 glasses
jell; 9 qts. fruit, 1 qt. peanut butter, 1 child's sewing machine.
Electa Auxuliary, Glendale Chapter, O. E. S.-197 napkin holders.
Ellen Reed Cafe-7 boxes asstorted Easter candy.
El Petrol Chapter No. 507, 0. E . S.-3 pts. honey, 10 glasses jell,
10 qts. 15 pts. jam; 2 qts. fruit, 2 cans vegetables.
Falvella, Mrs. Maris A.-1 used player piano.
Farley, Frank-2 tennis balls, 4 baseballs, 1 football, 1 table tennis,
·
2 baseball bats.
Fillmore Lodge No. 379 and Fillmore Chapter No. 361, O. E. S.92 half-gallon jars tomatoes, 45 qts. tomatoes.
Flynn, Tom, and Wilson Wes tern Sporting Goods Co.-Miscellaneous lot of used athletic goods.

596

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fox Film Co. Masonic employes-16 pairs bedroom slippers, 14 pairs
roller skates, 2 footballs, 2 indoor baseballs, 3 indoor baseball
bats, 3 Scout knives, 2 football pumps, 6 neckties, 14 shirts,
2 fountain pens, 3 flashlights, 6 doz. pairs sox, 6 sets combs,
brushes, mirrors, 12 dolls, 3 princess slips, 3 shorts, 4 tennis
racquets, 4 racquet covers, 4 ;acquet presses, 1 doz. tennis balls,
1 doz. autos, trucks, etc., 1· Howard Jones football game, miscellaneous games, jig-saw. puzzles, etc., ball protector, magazines.
Franklin Chapter No. 20, R. & A. M.-2 buckets olives.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339-2 boxes candy, 1 bag apples.
Gifford, Mrs. B.-lSO candy novelties.
Glen Eyrie Chapter No. 237, 0. E. S.-189 napkin holders, 8 qts.
28 pts. jam, 21 qts. canned fruit, 23 glasses jell.
Golden State Lodge No. 3S8--Fresh grapes, pears, apples, Sq qts.
24 pts. jam, 3S glasses jell, 17 qts. fruit, 3 qts. pickles, 1 qt. peanut
butter, 26 qts. fruits and vegetables, 3 boxes potato chips, SO
books, box clothing.
Griffith, Elbert B.-1 electric train and track.
Hemmelman, Mrs. C. A.-1 doz. empty quart jars.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319-129 half-gallon jars peaches, 106 qts.
peaches.
Hollywood Assembly No. 38, S. 0. 0. B.-19 cans fruits and vegetables.
Hollywood Chapter No. 209, 0. E. S.-22 glasses jell, 16 qts. jam,
3 cans vegetables, 1 qt. honey.
Ireland, R. A.-1 carcass of deer.
James Madison Lodge No. S72-2 lbs. walnuts, 2 qts. canned fruit,
S pts. jam, 3 cans tomato juice, 1 can beans.
Jasmfoe Chapter No. 14S, 0. E. S.-150 boxes home-made candy.
Jeffries, R. E.-1 carcass of deer.
Jensen, J. C.-1 sack walnuts.
Jordan Lodge No. 6S4-9 qts. 7 pts. S glasses. jam, 2 pts. 7 glasses
jell, S cans fruit.
Kahl, 0. H.-7 pts. jam.
Kelley, Mr. and Mrs. 0. D.-1 toy aeroplane.
Kellogg Sales Co.-100 cases Wheat Krispies.
L. A. County Forestry Dept.-1 carcass of deer.
Los Angeles Soap Co.-1 case White King soap, 1 box Mission Bell
soap.
Los Angeles Tennis Club and Community Laundry-2SO used tennis
balls.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

697

Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674-3 qts. 2 pts. 10 glasses jams an.d jellies.
Loyalty Lodge No. S2-S cases jam.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0. E. S.-5 boxes glaced fruit.
Lynch, Misses A. and E.-2 qts. canned fruit, 2 pts. jam.
Lyons Ice Creain Co.-8 gals. sherbet.
Martinez Lodge No. 41-27 games, puzzles, paper dolls, paint boxes,
19 toys, automobiles, balls, aeroplanes, 2 dolls, 3 boxes marbles,
3 stuffed dolls, 2 bean bags, 7 handkerchiefs, 2 purses, 1 necklace,
1 sweater, 1 toy traveler kit, 2 Christmas stockings, 3 pencil
boxes, 4 boxes candy.
Mar Vista Chapter No. Sll, 0 . E. S.-1 quilt, 3 qts. 8 pts. jam.
Masters' and Wardens' Association-2 cartons chocolate bars.
Mills, H. G.-1 carcass of deer.
Mill Valley Chapter No. 219, 0. E. S.-1 qt. canned fruit, 6 qts.
8 pts. jam.
Mt. Olive Lodge No. 506-Candy, 20 qts. 36 pts. jam, 66 glasses jell,
3 qts. fruit, 12 qts. apple butter, 5 qts. peanut butter, 4 lbs. dates,
7S balloons, 1 doll, doll bed, game, 2 bathing caps, 1 pair beach
slippers.
Myers, E. B., & Co.-22 jumpe~ gym suits, 3 gym bloomers, 2 gym
shorts.
Myhoser, Mrs. L.-12 lugs peaches.
N euschwanger, C. L.-S qts. jam.
Pacific Wholesale Grocery-SO lbs. candy.
Pas.a dena Commandery No. 31, K. T.-16 pkgs. candy.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272-14 qts. 4 pts. canned fruit, 17 qts. lS pts.
jam, 14 glasses jell, 2 glasses catsup, 1 can milk, 5 lbs. sugar,
2 lbs. cocoa, 2 lbs. almonds, 20 lbs. candy, 1 bottle candy, 1 bag
apples, 1 handkerchief, 1 thimble holder, 1 bubble set, 2 jig-saw
puzzles, 2 games, 1 kite, 5 composition books, magazines, box
sewing pieces.
Pentalpha Chapter, 0. E. S.-1 qt. canned fruit, 11 pts. jam, 3 glasses
jell, S lbs. walnuts, 3 lbs. almonds.
Pentalpha Club of Security Chapter No. 426, 0. E .S.-1 comforter.
Peters, Carl F.-288 bars Milky Way candy.
Pomona Chapter No. 110, 0. E. S.-2 cans fruit, 9 qts. fruit, 10 pts.
4 glasses jam, 1 salt and pepper shaker.
Prisk, Chas. H.-2 subscriptions to_Pasadena Star News and Post.
Produce E xchange of Los Angeles-30 doz. eggs.
Ramona Lodge No. 457-200 candy canes.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Reseda Chapter No. 505, 0. E. S.-14 qts. 16 pts. jam.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397 and Rising Light Chapter No. 286,
O. E. S.-11 qts. 10 pts. jam, 3 qts. 1 pt. fruit, 7 glasses jell, 1 qt.
pickles, 1 quilt, 4 pieces print.
Rouch, Alva-4 boxes grapefruit, 1 box peaches, 2 boxes raisins.
Sackrider, Dr. J. R.-50 books, National Geographic Magazines.
San Gabriel Valley Humane Society-1 guinea pig, 4 white rats.
San Gorgonio Lodge No. 668 and San Gorgonio Chapter No. 515,
O. E. S.-23 qts. fruit, 8 qts. 3 pts. jam, 10 lbs. prunes, 10 lbs.
apricots.
San Pasqual Lodge No. 452-40 qts. 30 pts. jam, 25 qts. fruit, 50
glasses jell, 10 lbs. nuts.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307 and Palisades Lodge No. 637-11 qts.
9 pts. jam, 19 glasses, jell, 8 qts. fruit, 1 qt. olives, 7 books, sack
of toys, 1 gal. cream.
Selma Chapter No. 11, R. & A. M.-1 sack walnuts.
Selma Lodge No. 277-30 cans peaches, 35 lbs. raisins, 5 lbs. almonds,
15 lbs. dried peaches, 1 book paper dolls.
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415-4 qts. 8 pts. jam, 4 glasses jell.

University L odge No. 394-17 cans fruit, 9 cans vegetables, 2 pts.
crab meat, 3 cans milk, 1 box graham crackers, 8 qts. 2 pts. jam,
1 bag pears, 1 bag apples.
Vorsanger, Geo.;--Sweater.
York, Mrs. Florence Thiessen-Treat, $5.00.
Young, R. ].-Treat, $3.00.
Zaney, Grace-1 doll.
233 Club of Hollywood-23 celluloid dolls, 23 celluloid rattles, 13
Chinese animal sets, 27 cloth dolls, 43 cloth dogs, 27 large cloth
animals, 9 doz. harmonicas, 2 doz. rubber footballs.

598

Smith, C. D.-i Wee Wee Golf Game.
Social Order of the Beauceant-15 qts. 11 pts. jam, 7 glasses jell,
7 qts. 8 pts. canned fruit, 3 qts. canned tomatoes, 12 checkerboards.
South Park Lodge No. 563-29 qts. canned fruit, 1 qt. 14 pts. ja~,
12 glasses jell, 1 qt. tomatoes, basket of fruit and nuts, bag fruit.
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367---6 qts. 15 pts. jam, 11 glasses jell,
10 cans vegetables, 2 cans fish.
Southwest Masonic Officers' Association-18 qts. canned fruit, 1 qt.
honey, 40 qts. 95 pts. 71 glasses jams and jellies.
St. John, Wm. A.-5 kaleidoscopes.
Stroman, C. D.-50 lbs. walnuts.
Sullivan, Mr. and Mrs. F. L.-10 lbs. candy.
Thorpe, Mrs. Ben., and Mrs. Mary Shiffer-3 comforters.
Torn and Glasser-1 box prunes.
Traver Lodge No. 294-50 lbs. dried peaches.
Tucker Studio-Frame for graduation picture.
Twinklers Club, Siloam Chapter, 0. E. S.-Lanterns for junior boys
and juniQr girls.
Unemployed Workers' Association of Brea-14 qts. fruit, 58 glasses
jam.

599

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations-Covina Home

Lodge
No.
Acom ..........................494
Alamo ..........................122
Alexandria ..................531
Alisa! ............................321
Alpha ............................431
Alta Loma ..................643
Amador ........................ 65
Argonaut ......................461
Arg'onne ......................514
Artesia ........................377
Ashlar ..........................306
Antioch ........................ 175
Atascl!dero ..................493
Athens ..........................228
Azusa .......................... 305
Balder ..........................393
Bear Mountain............ 76
Bellflower ....................523
Blackmer ....................442
Buckeye ..........:...........195
Burlingame ................400
Callayomi ....................282
Calaveras .................... 78
Caledonia ....................486
Canoga ........................611
Capitol City ................499
Carquinez ....................337
Center ....................,.....465

Lorqes
Amt
Lodge
No.
$10.00 Charity ........................362
10.00 Charter Rock .......... ..410
5.00 Chico ............................111
10.00 Clay ..............................201
5.00 Clinton ........................119
10.00 Coalinga ......................387
5.00 Confidence .................. 203
10.00 Corcoran ...........:..........490
10.00 Corinthian .................. 9
5.00 Corona ........................324
5.00 Covenant ....................527
5.00 Crescent ...................... 45
5.00 Crockett ...................... 139
5.00 Cupertino ....................510
5.00 Curtis ..........................140
12.50 Delta ............................471
5.00 Doric .......:....................216
5.00 Downey ........................220
10.00 Dunsmuir ....................297
5.00 East Bay .......... :...........489
10.00 East Gate ....................290
5.00 Eden ............................ 113
5.00 Eel River ....................147
7.50 El Cajon Valley.......... 576
12.00"' El Centro ....................384
10.00 Elmhurst ......................610
10.00 El Segundo ..................507
10.00 Elsinore ......................287

Amt.
8.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

600

GRAND LODGE OF CAL!FORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.
Lodge
Enterprise .................. 70
Eureka ......................... 16
Evergreen ....................259
Excelsior ..............:.....166
Fairmount ..................435
Ferndale ····-····-·········.193
Forest .......................... 66
Fort Crook ····-············575
Francis Drake ............376
Franklin ············- ·······.143
Fraternity ·-···············:.399
Fremont ············-·······.497
Friendship ..................210
Fruitvale ......................336
George Washington....525
Golden Rule ................479
Gold Hill ····-·············· 32
Hammonton ................433
Hartley ........................199
Henry Clay ................ 95
Henry Clay (omitted
last year) ................ 95
Henry Morse
Stephens ..................541
Hermann ··········-········127
Hesperian ....................264
Hills Ferry ................236
Hiram .......................... 43
Hollenbeck ..................319
Holtville ···-·············,...425
Honolulu ......................409
Howard ··················- ···· 37
Humboldt .................... 79
Illinoistown ................ 51
Indian Rock ..............638
Justice ..........................549
Kaweah ····- ··················665
-La.Brea ........................650
La Jolla ··············-······-518
Lakeshore ....................551
Landmark ...................253
La Parfaite Union.... 17
-Las Palmas ................366

Amt.
5.00
2.50
12.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.30
5.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50

2.50
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

L odge
N o.
·Laurel ..........................245
Lexington ....:...............104
Libertas ......................466
Liberty ..............:.........299
Lindsay ···············-······.416
Lindsay (omitted last
year) ·····-················.416
Live Oak ····················- 61
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie : .................371
Lodi ····-····················-..256
Lompoc -··········-·········262
Long Beach ................327
Madera ......................- 280
Madison ...................... 23
Malta ······-······-····-······661
Maricopa ....................434
Marin .............,.:..........191 ·
Mariposa ...................... 24
Martinez ...................... 41
Mendocino ..................179
Midway ........................426
Military Service..........570
Mill Valley ····-····-····356
Mission ·-·····················169
Molino ..........................150
Monterey ········- ·········.217
Mountain View............ 194
Mount Diablo ............:...~8
Mount Moriah ............ 44
Naval ............................ 87
Nicolaus ··········-·······--129
Norwalk ......................315
Oak Grove ..............,...215
Oasis ............................664
Occidental .................... 22
Ocean Park ................369.
Olive Branch ····-········269
Ontario ........................301
Orange Grove ............293
Oriental ......................144
Orland ·····- ··················265
Oxnard ........................341

Amt.
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
19.50

44.75
15.00
15.00
10.00.
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
12.50
25.00

Lodge
N~.
Pacific Grove ..............331
Pajaro ················-···..... 110
Palestine ......................351
Palisades ......................637
Palo Alto ....................346
Palos Verdes ..............389
Park ..............................449
Pasadena ........:.............272
Paso Robles ............:...286
Penrhyn ......................258
Perris -·-·····:............:..411
Phoenix ·····-~·-·-··········178
Piedmont :...................521
Pinole ..:.-....................353
Pittsburg ....................429
Plumas ........................ 60
Plumas (omitted last
year) ........................ 60
Point ............................ 503
P oint Firmin ..............558
Point Loma ..................620
Pomona ........................246
Presidio ...... ,.................354
Progressive ................578
Redwood City ............ 168
Rio Vista ....................208
Rising Light ..............397
Riverside ....................635
Rockridge ....................468
Roosevelt ....................500
Roseville ......................222
Russian River ............181
Sacramento .................. 40
Salinas ..........................204
San Bernardino ..........348
San Diego .................... 35
San Dimas ..................428
San Francisco ............360
San Gorgonio ..............668

A mt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
7.50
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
2.50

Lodge
N o.
San Mateo ....................226
San Miguel ..................285
San Simeon ................196
Santa Ana ..................241
Santa Barbara ............ 192
Santa Cruz .................. 38
Santa Rosa .................. 57
Seaport ........................550
Sequoia ........................349
Silver Gate ..................296
Silver T rowel ............415
Sincer ity ......................132
Snow Mountain ........271
South Pasadena ..........367
South San Francisco ..212
Standard ......................440
Suisun .......................... 55
2.50 Sunnyvale ....................511
5.00 S. W . Hackett............574
10.00 Temblor ......................477
5.00 T emescal ... ~ ..................314
15.00 Texas ............................ 46
12.50 Truckee ........................200
15.05 T ujunga ··············-······592
10.0il Unity ......·......................368
9.00 Vacaville ...................... 134
1.00 . V ictorville ..................634
5.00 Victory ........................474
12.00 V isalia ······················- ··178
5.00 -Washington ................ 20
5.00 White Pine ................555
5.00 Willow Glen ..............676
10.00 Wilmington ................198
5.00 W innedumah ..............287
5.00 Woodland .................... 56
25.00 Woodstock ..................491
25.00 Yerba Buena ................403
15.00 Yolo .........................,.... 81
10.00 Yount ............................ 12

601

Amt.
10.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
12.50
25.00
5.00 .
2.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
6.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
2.50·
5.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
2.50

602

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapters, R. A. M.
·Chapter
No.
California .................... 5
Coalinga ......................114
Crown .......................... 72
Cyrus ............................ 15
Dixon ............................ 48
Ferndale ...................... 78
Fidelity ........................ 96
Grass Valley .............. 18
Hanford ...................... 74
Huntington Park ........127
Inglewood .................... 131
Keystone ...................... 56
Los Angeles ................ 33
Marin ..........................102
Martinez ...................... 31

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
5.00

5.oo·

10.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
12.50
1.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00

Chapter
No.
Plumas ........................ 107
Redondo ......................101
Sacramento .................. 3
San Francisco ............ 1
San Jacinto ................ 87
Santa Cruz .................. 38
Searchlight ................ 133
Signet .......................... 57
Siloam .......................... 37
South Pasadena ..........112
St. Helena .................. 63
Sutter ............................ 11
Temple ........................ 41
Wilmington ................ 141
Woodland .................... 46

Amt.
2.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
2.50
5.00
5.0tl
5.00

Co111ma11deries, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Calvary ........................ 62
Eureka .......................... 35
Golden West .............. 43
Los Angeles ................ 9
Mt. Shasta .................. 32
Naval ............................ 19
Oroville ........................ 5

Amt.
$ 7.50
5.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

Comma11dery
No.
Pasadena ...................... 31
San Pedro .................... 60
Santa Cruz .................. 44
St. Bernard ................ 23
Vacaville ...................... 38
Watsonville ................ 22
Woodland .................... 21

Amt.
5.00
2.50
2.50
2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00

Cou11cils, R. & S. M.
Coimcil
No.
Imperial Valley .......... 34
Los Angeles ................ 11
Pasadena ...................... 16

Amt.
$ 5.00
10.00
5.00

Co1111cil
No.
Pomona ........................ 21
Siskiyou ........................ 24
Valley .......................... 27

Amt.
5.00
5.00
2.50

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Amapola ......................119
Atascadero ..................344
Buena Vista ................364
Fidelia .......................... 56
Jewel ............................238
Marysville .................. 55

Amt.
$10.00
5.00
5.00
12.75 .
10.00
20.50

Chapter
No.
Mercedes ...................... 126
Miguelito ....................176
Mira Monte ................141
Plumas ...:....................246
San Rafael ..................215
Santa Clara ................195

603

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.
10.00
5.00
5.00
2.00
10.00
10.00

Miscellaneous
Name
Amt.
A. E. Blood.................................................................,.....................,..............$ 2.00
F. J. Breckenridge..................•................................... _.................................. 1.00
L. A. Ry. Square and Compass Club.........................................................~ 41.35
D. E . McKillip...................- ..........................................................:..-.......... l .00
Oakland Scottish Rite Bodies...................................................................... 10.00
John O'Rielly ................................- ·················-················-·····-······-············· 3.00
F. A. Parr............................................................................·-······--··············-· 1.00
Peninsula Line Officers' Association....:..................................................... 5.00
San Diego Lodge of Perfection, Scottish Rite Bodie~···············--········· 25.00
San Gabriel Masonic Club.:.....................................-·······-······-·············--···· 5.00
San Luis Obispo Pyramid, A. E. 0. Sciots No. 29........................:....... 5.00
Frank P. Sentous.......................................-.................................................. 5.00
Mrs. A. Sherer.................·-·············--··········--·····-·······················-····-··········· 5.00
Frank G. Wat90Cl..·-···-···-·······-························-····-····························"·········· 15.00
Clifford T. Weismeyer.......... ~---························-···-········-···························· 10.00
T. E. Williams...........................................-···--·········································- 20.00
Fred J. Martin.......·--····--·······························-'···- ················-······-················· 1.00
j

Children at the Covina Home, July 31, 1933
BOYS-94
Name
Admitted
Athan, Byron ..................Dec. 29, '27
Baker, Kenneth H ............. Aug. 3, '28
Baker, Philip ....................Aug. 3, '28
Bayer, Oscar ..................Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Roy Charles........ Aug. 27, '33
Bergman, Roy ..................Dec 30, '29
Blair, Arthur .................. Sept. 13, '31
Blair, James .................... Sept. 13, '31
Blair, Theodore .............. Sept. 13, '31
Bounds, Edward ............Sept. 14, '31
Bounds, :Wallace ............ Sept. 14, '31
Boyer, Clarence................Oct. 15, '30
Breinin, Lawrence..........Aug. 11, '29
Brown, Robert ····-·······--···Dec. 8, '29
Brown, Wm. D ................... Dec. 8, '29
Burgen, Fred A ............. Aug. 23, '32
Carroll, Chas. E ...............Mar.17, '28
Chapin, Philip R............... Oct. 30, '25

Lodge
No.
Petaluma ..............180
Westlake ..............392
West lake ..............392
Palestine ..............351
Palestine ..............351
Mizpah ................378
Maui ....................472
Maui ....................472
Maui ....................472
Fullerton ..............339
Fullerton ..............339
Alhambra ............322
San Bernardino ..348
Los Angeles .......... 42
Los Angeles.......... 42
Alhambra ............322
Pentalpha ............202
Redwood City ......168

Location Age
Petaluma ..........15
Los Angeles...... 8
Los Angeles...... 11
Los Angeles...... 8
Los Angeles...... 5
Los Angeles......13
Kahului, T. H.,.13
Kahului, T . H ... 12
Kahului, T. H ...10
Fullerton .......... 11
Fullerton .......... 13'
Alhambr~ ........12
S. Bernardino .. 8
Los Angeles ...... 7
Los Angeles...... 9
Alh~mbra '........ 13
Los Angeles...... 14
Redwood City.J7

604

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name

Admitted

Chapin, Robert D. ..........June 22, '22
Clark, Harry S ...............May 29, '32
Cooksey, John E .............Aug. 27, '32
Countryman, Robert... ... Nov. 20, '30
Crawford, Robt. H ...........Oct. 1, '32
Cuniberti, Elby................ N'ov. 18, '28
Cuniberti, Remo.............. Nov. 18, '28
Davis, Frank...................... Aug. 5, '28
Davis, Harold
Nov. 8, '32
Dearman, Walter Ed..... Dec. 18, '32
Enslow, Lawrence C.........Jan. 6, '30
Falkenrath, John A .........Jan. 21, '32
Fasshauer, Jacob C.........June 12, '28
Firgens, Herbert J ......... Apr. 28, '32
Gee, Hubert James..........Oct. 26, '32
Gittings, George C......... Sept. 16, '29
Gorbett, Wm. H ............... Nov. 4, '28
Greene, Wm. R. ..................Oct. 3, '26
Hall, H. Warren................Oct. 7, '32
Hocks, Russell O ...........June 23, '27
Jewell, Donald W .........Sept. 12, '31
Kathan, Frederick E .........Jan. 2, '32
Liddell, Ernest D ...........Aug. 29, '31
Lips, Wallace L .................Jan. 3, '33
Lord, Edmund J . ............._July 27, '29
Lord, Raymond P .............July 27, '29
Lord, Richard B ...............July 27, '29
Lord; Robert J .................July 27, '29
· Mark, "John J .....................Aug. 6, '29
Maxwen, Allen A .............Mar. 4, '32
Maxwell, Martin L ........... Mar. 4, '32
McFarland, Robert F ..... Oct. 30, '32
McFarland, Wallace P ...July 30, '32
McKinley, Douglas S ... Aug. 31, '21
McKinnon, Jack ............ Dec. 16, '24
McLean, Norman H .......Jan. 20, '32
McNamara, Edw. C .......Apr. 23, '30
Micheletti,. Alfred A ....... Feb. 14, '32

J.................

Monroe, James L.............Jan. 21, '31
Monroe, Preston A .....- ..Jan. 21, '31

Lodge

605

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Redwood City......168
So. Cali fornia ......278
North Star............ 91
Occidental ............ 22
-Pentalpha ............202
Speranza
Italiana ............219
Speranza
I taliana ............ 219
Golden State ........358
Tujunga ..............592
Fullerton ..............339
Reading ...............254
Larchmont ..........614
Durant ..................268
Monrovia ............308
Covenant ..............527
Silver Gate ..........296
Ontario ................301
Temple .................. 14
Sunnyvale ............511
Grand Lodge........
Rio Vista ............208
Security ................581
Pasadena ..............272
Lankershim ........ 542
Golden West... .....455
Golden W est........455
Golden W est........455
Golden West ........455
Whittier :.....~ .......323
Albert Pike ...:......484
Albert Pike ..........484
Fairmount ............435
Fairmount ............435
Vacaville .............. 134
Sequoia ................349
Mount Moriah .... 44
Humboldt ............ 79
Speranza
Italiana ............219
Orland ..................265
Orland ..................265

Location

Age

Name

Redwood City.. 18
Los Angeles...... 6
Ft. Jones ..........12
San Francisco..14
Los Angeles...... 9
San Francisco.. 16
San Francisco.. 13
Los Angeles......16
Tujunga ..........13
Fullerton ..........14
Redding ..~.........15
Los Angeles......14
Berkeley .........J6
Monrovia ........12
Los Angeles......14
San Diego ........ 17
Ontario ............14
Sonoma ............18
Sunnyvale ........10
............................14
Rio Vista ........ 13
Bakersfield ......12
Pasadena ..........12
N. Hollywood.. 12
San Francisco.. 13
San Francisco.. 14
San Francisco.. 8
San Francisco.JO
Whittier ..........13
Los Angeles...... 8
Los Angeles ...... 10
San Francisco.. 7
San Francisco.. 5
Vacaville ...~ ......16
Oakland :...........13
San Francisco.. 8
Eureka ..............12

'

Lodge

No.

Location

Age

Amity ..................370 San Francisco.. 11
Silver Gate ..........296 San Diego ........13
University •...........394 Los Angeles...... 9
University ............394 . . Los Angeles......15
University ............394 Los Angeles......13
Las Palmas ..........366 Fresno .............. 16
Montebello ..........451
Montebello ......12
Montebello ..........451
Montebello ...... 9
East San Diego.. 561
San Diego ;...;;..15
Lynwood ..............600 Lynwood ........-11
South Park ..........563 Los Angeles......14
Sisson ..................310 . Mt. Shasta........15
Live Oak .............. 61
Oakland ............12
Mt. Davidson ......381
San Francisco.. 15
Golden State........357 Los Angeles......14
Amity ..................370 San Francisco..12
Amity ..................3i'O San Francisco..14
Traver ..................294 ·Kingsburg ........16
Traver ..................294 Kingsburg ........13
Mariposa .............. 24 Mariposa .......... 6
Mariposa .............. 24 Mariposa .......... 8
Lompoc ...............262 Lompoc .....;......14
Military Service.. 570 San Francisco.. 9
Los Angeles.......... 42 Los Angeles...... 14
L os Angeles.......... 42 Los Angeles......12
Sebastopol ..........126 Sebastopol ......11
Santa Ana ............241
Santa Ana ........17
Ocean Park..........369 Ocean Park...... 16
Woodstock ........491 Alameda ..;,..:...14
Woodstock ........491 Alameda ..........17
San Jacinto ........338 San Jacinto ~....14
Oakland .............. 188 Oakland ............16
Winnedumah ....287 Bishop .............. 9
Winnedumah ....287 Bishop .........- ...11
American .......... 475 Los Angeles......12
Orosi ..................383 Orosi ................ 8

GIRLS-82

Name
San Francisco.. 11
Orland ....:.........10
Oriand ............. ~ 8

Admitted

Morgan, John W .............Mar. 2, '31
Morris, Thomas E .............]uly 1, '33
Myers, Harvey R. .......... Aug. 23, '32
Myers, Lawrence S . ...... Aug. 23, '32
Myers, Wilbur H ........... Aug. 23, '32
Nelsen, Nels.................... Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Alva Lee ............Oct. 23, '30
Nelson, Calvin C. ............Oct. 23, '30
Norell, Richard ..............Sept. 13, '31
Ogden, Allen C......,........ Aug. 31, '31
Plaster, George R. .......... Aug. 23, '32
Prewett, Norman H .........J an. 4, '28
Reynolds, Ivan G............... May 7, '28
Richards, Langton..........May 17, '30
Richardson, Jos. A ......... Nov. 18, '28
Riddell, Edwin B . ..........May 29, '30
Riddell, Robert M ...........May 29, '30
Rouch, Herbert A ............. May 4, '26
Rouch, Melvin R ............... May 4, '26
Rowland, James .............. Aug. I, '33
Rowland, George..............Aug. l , '33
Runkle, Robert................June 15, '25
Schultze, Frank................May 11, '28
Schwartz, Adolph .......... Apr. 27, '30
Schwartz, Joseph............ Apr. 27, '30
Short, Ralph C.................Aug. 4, '28
Shoupe, Billie B .............Sept. 10, '27
Simon, Teddy..................Sept. 22, '26
Taylor, Floyd S ...............Oct.19, '22
Taylor, Lauryn H ......... Aug.29, '21
Thacker, Marvin H .......June 18, '32
Traxler, Arnold C...........June 8, '29
Walline, Cleon M .............Jan. 31, '30
Walline, Harold M . ........Jan. 31, '30
Watts, Jack D ...................Feb. 7, '32
Williams, Thos. w;........July 12, '30

Admitted

Bailey, Anita ..................Sept. 10, '25
Bailey, Alberta G............. Feb. 17, '31 .
Bailey,' Haroldine ......... _June 22, '31

Lodge

No.

Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ..........371
Redondo ..............328
Redondo ..............328

Location

Age

Honolulu .......... 17
Redondo .......... 11
Redondo ..:.......14

606

Name

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted

Bayer, Blanche F ...........Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Carol Josephine.. Aug. 27, '33
Benjamin, Gloria.............. Mar. 9; '30
Bowser, Verna L. ............ Sept. 9, '27
Brown, Alberta ................July 16, '24.
Brown, Eleanor E .............Dec. 8, '29
Brown, Virginia ................ Dec. 8, '29
Burgen, Marie A. ............ Aug. 23, '32
Burton, Carol .:................Alig. 27, '33
Clark, Dorothea O .........June 15, '26
Clark, Frances N . ..........June 15, '26
Clark, Josephine N ......... Apr. 23, '27
Clark, Phyletha B...........June 15, '26
Clay, Betty Jo................_Feb. 12, '33
Clay. Billie Kathryn .... _Feb. 12, '33
Colby, Maxine...........:.... Nov. 28, '29
Countryman, Barb. J.-..Nov. 20, '30
Cox, Emily P ...................May 16, '26
Crawford, M. June............Oct. 1, '32
Davis, Georgiana S ......... Nov. 8, '32
Ede, Thelma R...............Aug. 24, '26
Eremin, Zenith ................Oct. 16, '27
Ernst, E. Marion............ Sept. 14, '31
Ernst, Gladys L .................Jtme 6, '31
Fahripger, Helen J .........Feb. 10, '29
Falkenrath, Frances M ...Jan. 21, '32
Firgens, Margaret M ..... Apr. 28, '32
Fowler, Alice M .............June28, '27
Gee, E . Jane......................Oct. 26, '32
Germond, Dolly J ........... Nov. 12, '24
Germond, Ramona ........ Nov. 12, '24
Gittings, Helen S ........... Sept. 16, '29
Gorbett, Ruth A ............... Nov. 4, '28
Harris, Annabel... ...........June 24, '23
Hedrick, Bernice M .........J an. 22, '29
Hildebrand, Marjorie _...July 4, '32
Horr, Margaret E ........... Jan. 27, '30
Jordan, Dorothy H .........May 28, '27
Jordan, Mildred E ........... May 28, '27
Kahl, L. Pauline ............Nov. 12, '32
Kahl, Patricia C............. N ov. 12, '32
Lewin, Rosetta ................Aug. 23, '33
Lips, Janice M . ..................Jan. 3, '33
Mark, Elizabeth S . ..........Aug. 6, '29

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Palestine ..............351
Palestine ..............351
Manchester .......... 585
Lexington ............ 104
Dunsmuir ............297
Los Angeles.......... 42
Los Angeles.......... 42
Alhambra ............322
Buena Park. .........357
So. California......278
So. California....-278
Antioch ................ 175
So. California......278
Bakersfield ..........224
Bakersfield ..........224
Covenant ..............527
Occidental ............ 22
Center ············-···.465
Pentalpha ............202
Tujunga ..............592
Hope ······-····-······234
Los Angeles.......... 42
Yosemite .............. 99
Yosemite .............. 99
Ascot ····- ··············538
Larchmont ..........614
Monrovia ............308
Traver ..................294
Covenant ..... ~ ........527
Pasadena .......:.....272
Pasadena ····-·······.272
Silver Gate ..........296
Ontario ................301
Oakland ........:.......188
Tujunga .............. 592
Las Palmas ..........366
Military Service..570
Justice ..................549
Justice ..................549
Chowchilla ......... .485
Chowchilla ..........485
University ............394
Lankershim ..........542
Whittier ..............323

LocatioH

Age

Los Angeles ...... 11
Los Angeles...... 9
Los Angeles ...... 10
El Monte ..........:16
Dunsmuir ........ 13
Los Angeles ......17
Los Angeles ...... 14
Alhambra ..:..... 15
Buena Park...... 4
Los Angeles ......10
Los Angeles...... 12
Antioch .......... _16
Los Angeles ...... 11
Bakersfield ...... 12
Bakersfield ...... 10
Los Angeles ...... 12
San Francisco.. 12
Fresno .............. 11
Los Angeles...... 13
Tujunga .......... 12
Beckwith ..........16
Los Angeles ...... 11
Merced ............ 15
Merced ............ 13
Los Angeles ...... 15
Los Angeles...... 9
Monrovia .:...... 13
Kingsburg ...... 17
Los Angeles ...... 12
Pasadena .......... 14
Pasadena ..........16
San Diego ........ 16 ·
Ontario ............ 12
Oakland ............17
Tujunga .......... 17
Fresno .....~ ...., ... 14
San Francisco.. 10
San Francisco..10
San Francisco.. 14
Chowchilla ...... 14
Chowchilla ...... 13
Los Angeles ......14
N. HollywoocLll
Whittier ·"···"··15

Name

Admitted

Mark, Martha R. .............. Aug. 6, '29
Miller, Anna Mae .,........ Apr. 29, '28
Miller, Ruth Ellen.......... Apr. 29, '28
McNamara, Anna ..........Apr. 23, '30
Nelson, Lillian ................ Nov. 27, '27
Nelson, Ina May.............. Oct. 23, '30
O'Connell, Alice L. ........ Nov. 18, '23
Odell, Betty .................... Mar. 12, '23
Ogden, Ruth E ...............Aug. 31, '31
l''arbery, Alice V ........... Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Catherine E..... Mar. 26, '31
Parbery, Phylli.s E ......... Mar. 26, '31
Plaster, Elizabeth ..........Aug. 23, '32
Prim, Maxine J ............... Nov. 15, '28
Reed, Lila .......................... Dec. 2, '28
Reynolds, Juliette ............ May 7, '28
Rouch, Doris E ...............Sept. 11, '31
Runkle, Jean A ............... Nov. 13, '22
Schulte, Helen.................... Apr. 2, '25
Shaw, Loraine ············-···-Jan. 13, '23
Short, Beth Marie............ Aug. 4, '28
Short, Dorothy.................. Aug. 4, '28
Tyler, Barbara J .................Jan. 9, '26
Tyler, Dorothy A ...............Jan. 9, '26
Wall, Eleanor Jean ..........Apr. 5, '32
Walline, Lois C...............Jan. 31, '30
Warren, Ruth E ............. Sept. 28, '26
Washabaugh, Doris M ... Dec. 18, '32
White, Marjorie ..............Jan. 18, '31
Willgeroth, Eleanora...... Feb. 25, '32
Willgeroth, Wilhelmina.. Feb. 25, '32
Williams," Dorothy ..........July 12, '30
Williams, Irene ..............Aug. 28, '27
Williams, Patricia ........ Aug. 28, '27
Zbinden, Shirley ............Sept. 14, '31

Lodge

607

No.

Whittier ..............323
Durant ..................268
Durant ..................268
Humboldt ............ 79
Las Palmas ..........366
Montebello ......... .451
Silver Trowel......415
M izpah ................378
Lynwood ..............600
Excelsior .............. 166
Excelsior .............. 166
Excelsior ..............166
South Park .......... 563
H oltville ..............425
Ionic ......................520
Live Oak .............. 61
Traver .............:....294
Lompoc ............... .262
Hermann .............. 127
King David's........209
La Fayette .......... 126
La Fayette ..........126
Palo Alto ............346
Palo Alto ............346
Monrovia ............308
Winnedumah ......287
A lhambra ............322
Francis K.
Shattuck ..........571
Fairmount ............435
Hawaiian ............ 21
Hawaiian ............ 21
Orosi .:..................383
Downey .....:..........220
Downey ................220
Artesia ..................377

Location

Age

Whittier ..........17
Berkeley .......... 12
Berkeley .......... 14
Eureka ..............10
F resno .............. 14
Montebello ...... 7
Los Angeles ...... 13
Los Angeles ......16
Lynwood .......... 10
San Francisco.. 9
San Francisco.. 6
San Francisco.. 7
Los Angeles...... 6
Holtville .......... 13.
Los Angeles ...... 17
Oakland ······-···.14
Kingsburg ...... 12
Lompoc ............ 16
San Francisco.. 15
S. L. Obispo......16
Sebastopol ........ 12
Sebastopol ........13
Palo Alto ........ 11
Palo Alto ........ 15
Monrovia ........ 8
Bishop .............. 15
Alhambra ........15
Berkeley .......... 10
San Francisco.. 11
Honolulu .......... 10
Honolulu .......... 11
Orosi ................ 13
Downey ............16
Downey ............ 13
Artesia .....:...... 11

Outside Relief Under Care of Covina H ome
August 31, 1933

Name

Lodge

No.

Date began

*Andrews, Doris..........:..............•........ Lassen .............:.......... 149 F eb. 12, '31
*Botts, Eunice.....................................~ Dinuba .......................:385 Oct. 8, '32
Burns, Janice Helene........................ Veteran ......................373 Apr.
'30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name
Lodge
No. Date began
·Burton, CaroL.......•- ·········-············- Buena Park ..............357 Oct. 1, '32
*Day, John .l\-·-··- --.,-.................... Lompoc ......................262 June 20, '32
'30
*Hayward, Kirkland S....................... Burlingame ................400 June
'29
*Helwig, Benjamin C. ........................ Orange Grove .......... 293 Dec.
*Herbert, Fred ································-·· Artesia ··-··················-377 June 20, '32
*Hei;bert, Josephine ............................Artesia ············-···-~ .....377 June 20, '32
'29
*Holbrook, Frances D.....- ................ King David's ............209 Sept.
*Liddell, Samuel T ..... ,....................... Pasadena ....................272 Sept. 9, '31
*Williams, Robert JI..·-··············-·-- Artesia ........................377 July 23, '33

Admitted to the Covina Home

608

*Previously cared for in the Home.
Departed During the Year

September 1, 1932-August 31, 1933
BOYS-11
Name
Admitted
Allen, Orin........................July 16, '23
Arthur, PauL ..................]une27, '28
Chetham., Alfred ............ Aug. 31, '24
Dent, George....................Apr.14, '27
Ede, Clarence .................. Aug. 24, '26
Gains, Burton .......:............June 6, '29
Greene, William ..:.............Oct. 3, '26 ·
Runkle, Thos. E ............. Nov. 13, '22
Simon, N orman.............. Sept. 22, '26
Taylor, Vaughn. ............. Aug. 29, '21
Wi!liams, Robert R. ......May 27, '25

Departed
Returned to father ......._.June 15, '33
Returned to father .......... Sept. 2, '32
Returned to mother ........July 14, '33
Returned to mother ........ Oct. 23, '32
Returned to mother ........June 17, '33
Placed in outside care....Sept. 12, '32
Placed in outside care....Sept. 10, '3Z
Returned to mother ........June 17, '33
Returned to father ............July 2, '33
Returned to father ..........July 26, '33
Returned to sister ............July 23, '33.

GIRLS-9
Departed
Name
Admitted
Placed in outside care ........Oct. 8, '32
Botts, Eunice.........:............May 2, '31
Bowser, Irma ;................... Sept. 9, '27 Returned to mother ........June 19, '33
Gains, Marjorie............... .Oct. 14, '29 Returned to mother ........Dec. 28, '32
Hartman, Betty Jane......Mar. 6, '26 Returned to guardian .... June 17, '33
O'Connell, Pauline .......... Nov. 18, '23 · Returned to mother ........June 26, '33
Primm, Virginia. ............. Nov.15, '28 Returned to mother........June 24, '33
Small, Marie.................... Aug. 12, '28 Returned to father ............July 1, '33
Tripp, Geraldine.... ,. .......... Nov. 8, '27 Returned to mother ...... Sept. 27, '32
Williams, Lucile.............. Sept. 10, '31 Returned to father ..........June 18, '33

609

September 1, 1932-August 31, 1933
BOYS-16
Lodge
No .
Name
Admitted
Bayer, Oscar....................Aug. 27, '33 Palestine _......351
Bayer, Roy Charles ........ Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ........351
Crawfor.d, Robt. Hudson..Oct. 1, '32 Pentalpha ..... .202
Davis, Harold James ........Nov. 8, '32 Tujunga ........ 592
Dearman, Walter Edw...Dec. 18, '32 Fullerton ........339
Covenant ........527
G~. Herbert J ames ........ Oct. 26, '32
Greene, Wiliiam.............. June 23, '33 Temple ............ 14
Hall, Henry Warren....... :oct. 7, '32 Sunnyvale ......511
Lankershim .... 542
Lips, Wallace LeRoy....... .]an. 3, '33
Lord, Robert ].:.,.............June 17, '33 Golden West ..455
Morris, Thomas Eugene..July 1, '33 Silver Gate......296
McFarland, Robert F ..._Oct. 30, '32 Fairmount ..... .435
McFarland, Wallace P ...July 30, '33 Fairmount ......435
Rowland, George G.........Aug. 1, '33 Mariposa ........ 24
Rowland, James E ..........,Aug. 1, '33 Mariposa ........ 24
Schultze, Frank................July 22, '33 Mil. Service.... 570

Location
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Tujunga
Fullerton
Los Angeles
Sonoma
Sunnyvale
N. Hollywood
San Francisco
San Diego
San Francisco
San Francisco
Mariposa
Mariposa
San Francisco

GIRLS-13
Lodge
No.
Name
Admitted
Palestine ........351
Bayer, Blanche F .......... :Aug. 27, '33
Bayer, Carol J ...............Aug. 27, '33 Palestine ........ 351
Burton, Carol :...•............. Aug. 27, '33 Buena Park ....357
Clay, Betty Jo ...... ,...........F¢b. 12, '33 Bakersfield ... .224
Clay, Billy Catherine...... Feb.12, '33 Bakersfield ... .224
Crawford, Marion June ....Oct. 1, '32 Pentalpha ...... 202
Davis, Georgiana Sue ...... N ov. 8, '32 · Tujunga ........ 592
Gee, Ethel Jane.......... ~ .....Oct. 26, '32 Covenant ........527
Kahl, Lydia Pauline ...... Nov. 12, '32 Chowchilla ... .485
Kahl, Patricia Claire ...... Nov. 12, '32 Chowchilla ....485
Lewin, Rosetta .............~Aug. 23, '33 University ......394
Lips, Janice Marion ..........Jan. 3, '33 Lankershim ....542
Washabaugh, Doris' M ... Dec. 18, '32 Francis K.
Shattuck. ..... 571

Location
Los Angeles
Los Angeles
Buena Park
Bakersfield
Bakersfield
Los Angeles
Tujunga
Los Angeles
Chowchilla
Chowchilla
Los Angeles
N. Hollywood

Berkeley

610

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

611

011tside Relief-Children-by Trustees
Monthly
Name
Lodge
allowance
Follette (three children). ... Bear Mountain No. 7L ...$20.00
Wear (two children) .......... Excelsior No. 166.............. 40.00
Cornett (two children) ........ Santa Ana · No. 241... ......... 40.00
Clifford A. Stewart .............. Elsinore No. 289................ 10.00
Wisler (two children) ........ Porterville No. 303 ............ 30.00
Bone (four children) .......... San Pedro No. 332.............. 65.00
Bayer (four children) ........ Palestine No. 351... ............. 30.00
Greider (two children) ........ Palestine No. 351... ............. 40.00
DeNike (two children) ...... Presidio No. 354.............. c••• 25.00
Smith (two children) .......... Ocean Park No. 369 .......... 30.00
Curtis N. Langford .............. Fraternity No. 399 .............. 20.00
Pearl 0. Vincent... ............... Yerba Buena No. 403 ........ 10.00
Shay (three children) .......... Upland No. 419.................. 40.00
Phillips (four children) ...... Mount Oso No. 460.......... 60.00
Abraham Ottenberg.............. Lincoln No. 470.................. 20.00
Hitch· (two children) .......... Point No. 503 ...................... 40.00
Maas (three children) ........ Cupertino N-0. 510.............. 60.00
Reese (two children) .......... Sunnyside No. 577 .............. 30.00
Todd ( two children) ............ Palisades No. 637................ 30.00
William Chandler ..:.............Alpha No. 431... ................... 20.00
Mary Lota· Bibby .................. Ocean Park No. 369 .......... 30.00
Raymond Sherrer .................. Veteran No. 373 .................. 30.00
Havlin (two children) ........ Le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371.............................. 30.00
Jan. 28, '27 Carlisle (two children) ...... Schofield No. 443 .. _.......... 40.00
Feb. 17, '30 Hazel D. Wagner .................. St. Helena No. 93 .............. 15.00
Jan. 29, '31 Robert C. Lavender .............. Orosi No. 383 ...................... 25.00
Feb. 7, '31 Jerome E. Zahn.................... San Francisco No. 360...... 20.00
Oct. 28, '31 Johnson (two children). ..... Point Firmin No. 558........ 30.00
Feb. 13, '31 Audrey T. Llewellyn ............ Reading No. 254 ................ 30.00
Sept. 28, '32 Geraldine Tripp .................... San Jose No. 10.................. 20.00
Feb. 27, '33 Bowen (two children) ........ Arlington No. 414 .............. 30.00
Mar. 28, '33 Henley (four children) ...... Schofield No. 443 ................ 30.00
Mar. 28, '33 Lader (two children) ......,... Schofield No. 443 ................ 20.00
Aug. 16, '33 Beauchamp (two children) .. Fullerton No. 339................ 40.00
July 28, '33 Harold J. Samson, Jr ......... Durant No. 268.................... 15.00
Apr. 28, '33 Vaughn E. Hayes .................. Monrovia No. 308 .............. 25.00
May 28, '33 Casabian (two children) .... Sunset No. 352.................... 35.00
June 14, '33 Edmund B. Nutting.............. Evening Star No. 186........ 30.00
Aug. 30, '33 Donald H. Jarvis .................. Dunsmuir No. 297 .............. 25.00
Date began
July 28, '32
Aug. 28, '28
June 28, '31
Nov. 28, '30
Mar. 3, '30
Nov. 28, '30
July 28, '32
Feb. 7, '31
Mar. 28, '30
Aug. 28, '30
Mar. 10, '32
May 5, '27
Sept. 18, '31
June 28, '29
Apr. 28, '28
Sept. 28, '28
Mar. 31, 32
Dec. 31, '31
Oct. 9, '30
Feb. 4, '26
Aug. 28, '31
Feb. 28, '27
Nov. 13, '25

The report was adopted as read, with the exception of
the request for per capita tax, which was referred to the
Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK ON FOURTEENTH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Fourteenth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week was
not only the most successful, but with the possible exception of the
first, the most important ever held. And the recognition of its importance, by both the general public and those in charge of the
arrangements in the various communities, was undoubtedly responsible for the unprecedented success achieved.
In the arrangement of the pr<J¥rams, apparently more thought
than ever before was this year given to the fact that their primary
purpose is the dissemination of information, and not mere entertainment. And from the reports it would likewise appear that never
before were the people so eager to avail themselves of the opportunity
afforded for obtaining first hand information of what the schools are
actually doing.
The widespread interest was undoubtedly due to the critical situation of public education throughout the nation generally, as well as
in this state. There was general knowledge of the bills which had
been introduced in the Legislature for the curtailment of expenditures
for public education, and of the charges and counter-charges bandied
back and forth in the discussion of the proposed legislation. On the
one hand, it was being said that the schools were inefficient and were
wastefully and extravagantly administered; and in reply there came
from the school people the direct charge that on the score of economy,
and taking advantage of the financial depression, there was an organized drive of national scope to seriously cripple the public schools,
and to discredit and imperil public education. The parents of the
children and the patrons of the schools were dazed and bewildered.
They wanted to know the truth; and, fortunately, in the observance
of Public Schools Week there was provided an opportunity for
obtaining the facts.
It has come to be very generally understood that the best way of
· learning what is being actually done in and by the schools is by personal visits; and there were few programs this year which did not
·. include this as a feature of the observance. One school reported
being visited during the week by 3500 parents. In many instances
there were the usual special programs prepared for the visitors; but
in others they saw only the daily routine of the school. In connection
with the visits to the schools, there were distributed printed or mimeographed sheets containing interesting and informative facts and
figures, such as the nuri1ber of children in average daily attendance

613

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in that particular community, the increase over a period of years, the
cost of maintaining the schools, salaries paid the teachers, comparison
with costs in other communities, and much information of like nature.
There were also short articles concerning the so-called "fads and
frills"-explaining the reason for their being included in the school
curriculum.
It will be perhaps remembered that in our report last year in
describing the types of exhibits of school work, reference was made
to "livi; exhibits" in show windows of children actually at work under
the direction of a teacher. One report this year included an account
of a demonstration school installed in a downtown building with the
classes and teachers being changed twice daily. The school was carried on not only during the usual school hours, but as well during the
evenings from seven o'clock until ten, and on Saturday from eight
in the morning until four in the afternoon; and as a 11art of the exhibit
there were several reels of motion pictures of actual work being done
in the schools. Needless to say, it attracted an extraordinary amount
of 4ttention and served a two-fold purpose. It was not only fine
publicity for the week's observance, but what is far more important,
made it possible for a large number of people who did not have time
to visit a regular school to acquire that information which could not
otherwise be obtained.
The instances in which "open house" was held in the schools were
even more numerous this year than heretofore. In one large city
where in the past the evening meetings were the main feature of the
week's observance, every school in the city sent out special invitations
to the parents to make a personal visit; and arrangements were made
so that parents might confer with their child's teacher. The success
of this feature of the observance was due primarily to the splendid
efforts of the principals and teachers; but fine co-operation was received by each school from the Parent-Teacher Association connected
with it.
'
·
'

It is our desire to make this report very much shorter than is
usually presented; and we shall therefore not make extended mention
of even the most notable of the observances reported. We cannot,
however, forbear a very brief reference to three; and the reason in
each case will be obvious.
The first is that of a little mountain Lodge of about fifty members, heid in the face of what might have seemed to be unsurmountable
obstacles. Fire had destroyed the hall in which the meeting was to
be held, and there was no other hall in the community. The nearest
possible meeting place was five miles distant, with the intervening
road blockaded by snow from three to six feet deep. Volunteer snow
shovelers labored for three days to open the road, and an extraordinarily successful meeting was held.
From time to time in these reports have appeared references to
what at the time were· unique features of an observance, some of
which were' thereafter, and very properly, incorporated in other programs. This year in one community Public Schools Week was inaugurated with an unusual service which had been arranged by the
pastor of one of the churches. He had on the platform with him two
boys---one from the grammar school and the other from the high
school, whom he introduced as representing the youth of the community, with their lives before them but not knowing what was to be
done with them. He then called for bids for the services of the youth.
Four men responded by each giving a five-minute talk on his particular occupation or profession as a good investment ior the lives
of these boys and explaining what, in· his judgment, were the necessary qualifications for success. It was a splendid illustration of the
necessity for that guidance and counsel which have become a part of
the work of the modern school system.
Much of the criticism of the present day school on the part of
parents is due to their failure to take into account the extraordinary
progress in the soda!, economic and industrial life of the nation,
which has necessitated a change in the currkulum as well as in the
methods of instruction. In one community this year progress in
public education was graphically portrayed by means of a pageant
presenting a series of scenes giving glimpses of types of educational
opportunity from the period when education was left to philanthropic
effort, religious motive or private initiative, down to the present time.
There were three characters who carried on a dialogue furnishing
the connection between the scenes, and explaining the aim of each
period from the time the pupil learned to read in order to be able to
read the Bible, until today when the modern progressive school is
characterized by participation in, rather than by preparation for, life;
and by ideals of energy, originality and initiative.

612

As has been already indicated, the people ever;where enthusiastically and in extraordinarily large numbers availed themselves of
the opportunity to obtain first hand information of just what the
. schools were or were not doing. In a report from one city the number
was estimated at "not less than 60,000"; and in another it was said
that "somewhere near one-half of the entire population went to school
during Public Schools Week." In addition to those who visited the
schools and were in attendance at the public meetings, thousands had
information with respect to the schools brought to them in their
luncheon and service clubs through speakers detailed for the purpose.
In one of the reports are listed forty-eight different organizations to
which speakers were sent.

615

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In connection with our reference to the change in the type of
programs, mention should be made of the improvement in the character of the addresses given at the public meetings. There were but
comparatively few instances this year in which the speakers indulged
only in glittering generalities about that "little red schoolhouse" and
the advantages of education, instead of detailing the facts so eagerly
sought by the people. As was to be expected, and as was proper and
desirable, considerable attention was devoted. to school expenditures,
and the reasons for the increased cost.
There were several reports this year of public meetings at which
the principal addresses were delivered by high school students who
were able to speak with personal knowledge of the worth of the
modern school. And in this connection we think mention may properly here be made of the fine work done by one of our Island Lodges
in fostering an essay contest among the pupils of the public schools,
in which the writers, mostly of foreign parentage, told what the
schools are doing for them. The following quotation from one of
the prize winning essays would seem to be an answer to the complaint
not infrequently heard that "fundamentals" are being neglected for
"frills and fads":
"A high school is not merely a school where only textbooks are
used. It is also a sort of government and community. Here I am
given various chances to develop my executive abilities, if I have any.
I learn to plan, lead and also use my own judgment in many affairs.
As a citizen of the community I am thrown into a melting pot where
I know ,how to work and associate with people of different races."
It is difficult for anyone who has not had an opportunity to read
the reports received by our committee and the mass of newspaper
clippings constituting a part thereof to realize the amount of information with respect to the schools that must have been acquired by the
people during Public Schools Week. The extent of newspaper publicity, by the way, is almost unbelievable. In one community there
was received from a single newspaper a total of 275 column inches-an
equivalent of over one and a half full eight-column newspaper pages.
And this was typical of the situation throughout the ~tate generally.
Again this year there were published a large number of special articles
of the sort ordinarily appearing in only educational publications; and
during the week there was much information published concerning
the local schools which perhaps would not have appeared at any other
time. There were several newspapers which ran a series of contributed
articles; and it is interesting and significant, too, that some of the
articles were written by pupils in the schools. There were also, of
course, a large number of editorials both in the metropolitan and rural
press. Many of the news stories were illustrated with photographs
and cartoons.

The broadcasting stations were likewise exceedingly generous in
the amount of time devoted to the observance; and this, as will be
readily apprehended, was not the least valuable method of disseminating the desired information concerning the schools.

614

The complete success of the observance in the accomplishment of
its purpose is perhaps best indicated by two widely differing comments to which we here call attention. One commends and praises
while the other criticizes and condemns; the difference being accountable to their origin. The first is a quotation (with the permission of
the writer) from a personal letter from the Superintendent of Public
Instruction to a member of pur committee; and the other is an
excerpt from "The Monitor," the official organ of the Archdiocese
of San Francisco. Superintendent Kersey writes:
"The schools were being tried before the tribunal of the
people. Upon every hand we had individuals asserting themselves
as authorities concerning education. These powerful stabilizing
forces that joined with us who are in the profession and supported
our contentions for the children of the state, represent the great
strength in this state that is, after all, the driving force for the
welfare of civilization as it is accomplished through education.
"Public Schools Week in 1933 came at a most opportune time
for the advantage of our schools and in the spirit of that week,
which for 1933 was the same spirit that has always prevailedfathers, mothers, citizens and taxpayers accepted the invitation to
enjoy an opportunity of real looking-in on education. California
parents have never been wrong long about anything that affected
their children, and once we were able to get the parents in the
spirit of a great public urge to come to the sanctuary where their
children daily met with the teachers, then it seemed that the
whole tide of bitter opposition to education began to turn.
"We in education attribute to Public Schools Week great
credit for its contribution to the public schools of California during days of crisis, for schools can run without everything but
pupils, teachers and the approval of parents.
"There are major issues confronting education which we
must continue to consider together. No longer can educators
solve their problems without collaboration of citizens. We need
to plan amply in advance the program of Public Schools Week for
1934 so that in keeping with the difficulties ahead all forces interested in public education may speak the same language and unite
strength for the same common purpose."

616

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~he writer of the article in "The Monitor," . after referring to
certain propaganda which he terms a menace, continues:
"A case in point is the organization sponsoring 'Public
Schools Week.'
"Neither newspaper editors nor legislators will make a just
appraisal of American school problems as long as this kind of
~hing is countenanced. A secret society; the philosophy of which
is naturalism, sponsors a week of propaganda for schools the
religion of which is naturalism, for nowhere in such ·schools may
the supernatural be recognized.
"Operating with this secret society is a group of professional
educational politicians; who, through the manipulation 0 ( parentte~c?er asso~iations, are able to supply publicity to papers and
eff1c1ent lobbies and claques to legislatures." ,
Now, accepting the ·definition of propaganda as a plan for the
propagatio~ ·of a doctrine or system of principles, we are, of course,

propagandists for our system of public education. As Masons we
u.n~ualifi~dl! subscribe to the belief that an educated and enlightened
c1t1zensh~p is the first great care of a progressive state, and that upon
our public schools depends the hope for the perpetuity of a free and
unt~ammeled democracy. And we cannot but believe that the professions we make as Masons demand that as citizens of the commonwealth we take an active and intelligent interest in all matters affecting
public education.
The school is the door of the future. From it will flow in an everwidening stream the ideals, the institutions, the civilization of the
ftiture-of our future. That this spontaneous and widespread interest
may ·be enlightened, strengthened and preserved, that the energies
and aspirations to which it has given rise may be usefully directed is
the purpose of Public Schools Week.
'
. Such necess'.ty for channelizing common interest and energies by
~ctlve and organized movement has been finding expression, especially

1? the last two decades, in a growing tendency toward the organization of those interested in the various phases of our social ci~ic and
economic life. Pe.rsons mutually interested in a commo~ problem
have thus been enabled to contribute their efforts in research and
study, to share in the results of the research and study of their fellow
members, and to exercise the function of collective effort. In modern
business and its relationship to. the social and economic world in cultural activities, we find the tr.e nd toward council and co-ci~eration
between various agencies whose special fields of interest seem at first
glance not necessarily related.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

617

In .r ecent years the public schools have been called upon to take
over many functions formerly exercised by the home and other institutions. The growth of our great centers of population has resulted in
the disappearance, in a large part, of the type of home which, even
as late as thirty years · ago, could accord to its children a valuable
education of its own-in handicraft, in homemaking, in social arts and
mutual responsibility. Technical advancements, niechartical invention,
political and economic evolution, call for an intensive and specialized
instruction and training which throw a heavier burden on the school.
This burden cannot be lightened by merely striking from the list of
subjects taught these later additions to the curriculum. The community is inexorably bound, in self-protection if not in honor, to make
provision for its children's future and its own.
Adequate provision demands first of all a firm basis of knowledge
of existing facilities, their aims and purposes, their cost, the probable
result of their curtailment pr the substitution of possible alternatives.
Such knowledge can never be gained by desultory and occasional
visits at graduation time or to clear up some difficulty encountered by
a child. The closest co-operation between the school, the home and
the community as a whole is most essential. The great parent-teacher
organization affords a splendid point of contact between the school
and the home, the value of which it would be difficult to over-estimate.
But the community as a whole has a tremendous investment in the
schools. These last few years have taught us the painful lesson that
the safety of many of our investments depended upon factors as to
which we had neglected to inform ourselves. In many cases these
factors were not accessible to our knowledge, and with the bes.t will
in the world, we were perforce kept in ignorance. Not so as to our
school investment. Every phase of school activity, from business
manager's report to kindergarten maypole dance, is available to our
inspection; and in any fairly complete Public Schools Week program
there is afforded an opportunity for the citizens of that community
to obtain the knowledge which should determine their attitude toward
their schools.
Yes, we are propagandists for our public schools. And so, too,
are those thousands in the Parent-Teacher Associations, the service
clubs and the" other social and civic organizations who, with the school
people, so eagerly and cordially join each year in the undertaking in
·which we are engaged. And no less so are those owners, publishers
and editors of newspapers, and the directors and managers of broadcasting systems and radio stations, without whose sympathetic aid
and wholehearted co-operation that undertaking would not have attained its present proportions.
·
This does not mean, of course, that we believe (and much less
that we endeavor to persuade others to believe) that our schools are
the best that could be devised, or even as good as perhaps they can

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

618

619

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

be made. We do believe, however, that much of the criticism to
which they are being, and always have been, subjected is more than
likely due to a lack of information which is readily accessible. Of
course, criticism of our schools is inevitable. And it is perhaps
desirable-certainly at least in so far as it is constructive and made
with a knowledge of conditions. And even destructive criticism, if
honest and sincere, as it frequently is, may result in bringing about
commendable changes.
The nature of the propaganda in which we are engaged would
probably be best indicated by the following quotation from the proclamation issued by Grand Master Mixter, requesting that the Fourteenth Annual Public Schools Week be observed by all our Lodges
according to custom:
"The genesis of the Annual Observance of Public Schools
Week was in the crisis with which public education in the United
States was then confronted.
"And now again schools are being closed or maintained with
shortened terms; children, particularly in rural districts, are being
denied the education to which they are entitled; educational service heretofore considered absolutely essential to a modern American school system-such as the maintenance of kindergartens,
night schools and special classes for mentally and physically
handicapped children-is being discontinued or materially curtailed ; vocational courses and manual training for the 'hand
minded' boy are being abandoned, and the opportunities suited
to the varying needs and capabilities of individual boys and girls
are being materially restricted. In some respects the situation is
not dissimilar to that which immediately followed the World
War, but with an entirely different cause.
"The Nation is in the throes of an acute social and economic
disturbance. Every governmental activity is being rigidly scrutinized ; and the universal demand for a reduction in public expenditures has naturally affected school budgets.
" No real friend of our public schools will countenance waste
and extravagance in their operation; nor will he view with complacency, in this time of financial distress, any expc!nditure, however desirable, which may be safely and reasonably deferred until
a more favorable economic condition prevails. But he will not
make this an excuse for withholding such support as is necessary
to preserve our public school system intact and to insure its
functioning satisfactorily.
"It is in such a time as this that it is especially important that
the people everywhere should have definite and authoritative
information with respect to their schools. Here in California the
Fourteenth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week furnishes
an opportunity for acqui.ring that information."

In closing this report it is appropriate, if not requisi~e, that ':e
mind Grand Lodge that the crisis to which reference 1s made m
;~e Grand Master's proclamation is not yet a thi~g of the pas_t. ~n
the September issue of the official organ of the ~ff1ce of E~u.cation 1~
Washington there is a summarized tabulation of School Crisis Facts
prepared by the Department's specialist in scho~I finance; an~ the
prospect for 1934 is not a very hopeful on~; And 1~ ~h~ current 1ss~e
of the "Literary Digest" is an article on The .C~1s1s m Our Public
School System" which shows that a sharp curtatl~ent of state ex- .
penditures has threatened the educational structure ~n_ all b~t ~ very
few areas. The following quotation should prove mterestmg.
"In the West schools are closed in New Mexico and a few in
Idaho. Conditio~s are bad also in Arizona, while Wyoming a?d
Nevada schools will struggle along with heavy though not ~rip­
pling budgets. California schools are best along the (Pacific)
coast with the situation bad in Oregon."
We ~re wondering if it is only a coincidence that ~ere in California the people availed themselves of the op~ortunity afforded
through Public Schools Week to learn the t~uth with respect to wh~t
was being said about their schools. Super1~t.endent dKers~y s~ys it
was then that the whole tide of bitter oppos1t~on to e ucatlon e~an
to turn. And there can be no question that 1t was about th.at time
that there began to be voiced a public opinion in. ~ccord with that
expressed by President Hoover in January at the Citizens Confere~ce
in Washington when he said: "In the rigid governmental economies
that are requisite everywhere, we must not encroach upon the schools,
nor reduce the opportunity of the children through the school :o
dev-elop adequate citizenship. There is no safety for our republic
without the education of our youth."
All of which is fraternally submitted,
ROBERT A . ODELL,

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

JoaN B. BEMAN,

WALTER L. BACHRODT,

MELVIN BOWMAN,

RoY W. CLOUD,

FREDERIC JosEF BRuDI,

WILL CROCKET,

ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,

ELIAS E . ELLISON,

L . E. CHENOWETH,
A. R. CLIFTON,

JosEPH M. GWINN,

DR. WALTER

v. GOODFELLOW,

F. A. HENDERSON,

w. E. GIVENS,
C. BURNHAM HERYFORD,

0. S . HUBBARD,

c. JENSEN,
w. KERGAN,

WALTER R. HEPNER,

GEORGE

J. L. HOUSE,

WESLEY

.FREDERICK F. MARTIN'

WILLIAM G. PADEN,

w. SMITH, •

JAMES T. MONTANO,

LEWIS

CHARLES E. TEACH,

VAUGHAN MAcCAUGHEY.

Report adopted.

620

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCING '
MASONIC BUILDING PROJECTS
To the M.' · W.' . Grand Lodge of California:'
During the year ending September 30, 1933, thirteen Lodges or temple
associations have conducted correspondence with your committee but the
'
majority of these were of minor importance. ·
The_commi.ttee reviewed the following projects:
Oakdale Lodge No. 275, F. & A . M., situated at Oakdale:
On January 16, 1933, this Lodge was given permission to loan to
Riverbank Lodge No. 459, situated at Riverbank, the sum of $700 to assist
them in paying the remaining obligations contracted in remodeling their
building, with the understanding that at least seven of the members of
Riverbank Lodge, financially responsible, endorse the note, and that repayment be made monthly or semi-annually.
Oakdale Lodge reported that they had sufficient · funds on hand to
make such loan without impairing their ability to meet their obligations.
Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, F. & 4. M., situated at Los Angeles:
On February 17, 1933, this Lodge was given permission to purcha~e
from its members, for retirement, $6,000 notes, at par, said notes being
the obligation of Hollenbeck Masonic Temple Association.
The financial statement furnished your committee showed that Hot-.
lenbeck Lodge had sufficient funds on hand, and that they were the owner
of all capital stock of the Hollenbeck Masonic Temple Association · that
the only indebtedness of said temple association as of December 31, '1932,
was $42,022, represented by the outstanding notes of said association and
that these notes, during the past seven years, had been reduced from
$64,760; and that Hollenbeck Lodge had, from time to time, purchased
these notes so that the same might be retired.
Holtville Lodge No. 425, F. & A. M., situated at Holtville:
On May 22, 1933, this Lodge applied for permission to purchase a
building in Holtville for the sum of $10,000, but as the Lodge did not
have on hand, nor available, sufficient funds to finance 'the purchase the
application was denied.
'
Anaheim Lodge No. 207, F. & A. M., situated at Anaheim:
On May 1, 1933, this Lodge was given permission to purchase five
shares of stock of the Anaheim Masonic Temple Association, at $50 per
share (par value $100), or a total of $250.
It wa.s r_eported that the stock had paid 6 per cent dividend during
the past eight years, that the total number of shares issued was 470, and
that the Lodge was the owner of 279 shares.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

621

Co~linga Lodge No. 378, F. & A . M., situated at Coalinga:

On March 8, 1933, this Lodge was given permission to purchase all
of the remaining outstanding 396 shares of stock of the Coalinga Masonic
Temple Co., and issue its notes, due on or before January 1, 1950, at
6 per cent, signed by the Trustees, in payment therefor.
The Temple Co. had issued 656 shares of the par value of $50 per
share, or a total of $32,800. The Lodge was the owner of 260 shares, or
. a total of $13,000, and desired to purch~se the 396 shares held by Coalinga
Chapter, Order Eastern Star; Coalinga Chapter, R. A. M., and members
of the Lodge.
The statement of Coalinga Masonic Temple Co., for the year ending
December 31, 1932, showed that the net profit from operation was $2,040.39,
and that it had, during the past year, paid substantial dividends.
Your committee required that Coalinga Lodge, at a stated meeting, of
which its members should have due notice, pass a resolution authorizing
said purchase, and the copy furnished by the Lodge to your committee
is as follows :
"That the Trustees of Coalinga Lodge No. 387 be and are hereby
instructed to issue notes for the outstanding certificates of the Coalinga
Masonic Temple Co., payable on or before January 1, 1950, to bear interest at not to exceed 6 ·per cent per annum, said notes to be placed in
escrow with Trustees, and they giving receipts to holders for same."
Your committee felt that, as the property was on a paying basis, permission should be given to proceed as above.

Pinole Lodge No. 353, F. & A. M ., situated at Pinole:
On June 24, 1933, this Lodge was given permission to enter into a
lease for a period of five years at a rental of $150 per year, for a building
situated in the Township of Hercules, same being within one mile of the
former meeting place of the Lodge.
For a number of years, Pinole Lodge had corresponded with your
committee relative to building a new building, but it was finally able to
negotiate a good lease without the investment of any funds, and your
committee was glad to grant their request.
Inglewood Lodge No. 421, F. & A . M., situated at Inglewood:
On August 2, 1933, this Lodge was given permission for the erection
of a two-story building in the Town of Inglewood, the Lodge being the
owner of all shares of stock in the temple association.
The Inglewood Masonic Temple Association owned lots 27-28-29-30
in block 321, in the Townsite of Inglewood, said property being 107 feet
by 137 feet and fully paid for. Said temple association proposed to build
a building to cost $11,450, for which they had a firm bid.

622

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The Lodge proposed to turn over to the association, $6,000 of their
funds in the bank, and to pledge building and loan certificate for $6,817,
thereby providing enough funds to entirely complete the building without
indebtedness. The Lodge was to receive the note of the association until
the building was completed, at which time the building would be deeded to
them. It was contemplated that no stock would be issued to any individual.

Alta Loma Lodge No. 643, F. & A; M., situated at Signal Hill:
On August 29, 1933, this Lodge was given permission to · enter into a
five-year lease at a rental of $75 per month, for a building situated at
Signal Hill, being the same location as their former hall, which had been
destroyed by earthquake in March, 1933.
Kaweah Lodge No. 665, F. & A. M., situated at Woodlake:
On August 31, 1933, this Lodge was given permission to enter into a
lease for a term of ten years at a rental of $20 per month, for the second
story of a modern brick building at Woodlake, and to expend $200 of their
funds for remodeling the premises.
Their financial condition indicated that they would be able to make
this investment without any financial difficulty.
Correspondence was also had with
Mt. Shasta Lodge No. 281, F. & A. M., situated at Anderson;
Garden Grove Lodge No. 586, F. & A. M., situated at Garden Grove;
Riverdale Lodge No. 496, F. & A. M., situated at Riverdale;
Searchlight Lodge No. 567, F. & A. M., situated at Long Beach,
but no permission was granted for the expenditure of any funds.
Your committee again congratulates the Lodges and temple associations on the excellent manner in which they have handled those financial
problems which have been submitted to us.
We have received full co-operation from all of the brethren in their
effort to comply with both the spirit and letter of the Constitutfon governing the investment of funds and assuming obligations on leases.
Respectfully submitted,
COMMITTEE ON FINANCING BUILDING PROJECTS.
WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES, ChaiYman,

Report adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

623

REPORT OF MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT
BOARD
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of Califomia:
The Grand Lodge at its eighty-third annual communication, recognizing the necessity for the stabilization of some system for financing the
support of our Homes, by unanimous vote adopted the report of the Committee on P olicy and General Purposes, thereby establishing such policy;
and later, by similar vote, adopted the report of the Committee on Jurisprudence, enacting the legislation creating the Masonic Homes Endowment
Board.
The Grand Master having named the newly created board of fifteen
members, ·a s provided for in the amendment to the Constitution, said
board convened in San Francisco at the Masonic Temple, at 10 o'clock
A. M., on Saturday, February 11, 1933.
The members drew lots for the one-, two- and three-year terms, with
the following results :
T ertns Expiring
Terms Expiring
T e-rtns Expiring
October, 1934
October, 1933
October, 1935
Robert B. Gaylord
Earl Warren
Arthur S. Crites
Wm. Rhodes Hervey
Eugene Elkus
W. P. Jeffries
Edmund A. Lockett
Leon 0. Whitsell
Judge J ohn F. Pullen
David W. Schick
Louis C. Drapeau
Rollie W. Miller
Reynold E. Blight
Gus A. Hutaff
James T. Fraser
As provided in the Constitution, the Grand Master appointed Brother
William P. Jeffries as Chairman, and the following officers were then
elected:
Earl Warren, Northern Division, Vice-Chairman.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Southern Division, Vice-Chairman.
Wm. P. Filmer, Treasurer.
Rollie W. Miller, Secretary.
The following rules and regulations governing the deliberations and
modes of procedure of the board were presented by Brother Drapeau
and seconded by Eugene Elkus, and unanimously adopted :

WILLIAM P. FILMER,

R U LES AND REGULATIONS OF THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD

EDWARD E. REINKE.

OF CALIFORNIA, ADOPTED FEBRUARY 11, 1933

I. Origin and Purposes
The Grand Lodge of California at its annual communication in 1932
created the Masonic Homes Endowment Board of California, to consist
of fifteen members appointed by the Grand Master. The purpose of said
board shall be to study, devise and carry out plans for securing an adequate
endowment fund for the Masonic Homes of California; to issue appeals

624

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for contributions to the fund ; to establish contacts with such persons as
may be disposed to aid in the creation and maintenance of such a fund;
and to carry on a systematic and continuous effort in this behalf until an
endowment has been created which will provide an income sufficient to
support the Masonic Homes of California and thereby lessen or entirely
relieve the burden now imposed upon Grand Lodge and the subordinate
Lodges of this jurisdiction, and . to perform such other duties as are
prescribed by the Constitution.

II. Members
The Masonic Homes Endowment Board shall consist of fifteen members appointed by the Grand Master and shall serve for three years ;
provided, that those first appointed shall draw lots so that five thereof
shall serve for one year, five for two years and five for three years.
Thereafter each succeeding Grand Master shall appoint five members of
the board to serve for three years. Any vacancy on the board shall be
filled by the Grand Master, the appointee to serve for .the remainder of
the unexpired term.
III. Powers of the Board
The endowment board shall have power:
Subject to the approval of the Grand Master, to adopt and from time
to time change or amend, such rules and regulations governing its deliberations, modes of procedure and its activities, as may be required and shall
best ·enable it faithfully, efficiently and successfully to carry out the true
spirit and purpose of its creation.
2. To collect funds, subscriptions and pledges to said endowment fund
and to initiate and stimulate every proper effort in that behalf ; to secure
such bequests and devises as may be obtained from charitably disposed
Masons and others; and to encourage gifts by way of life insurance,
annuities and otherwise.
3. To invest, in conjunction with the Grand Master and ·Grand Treasurer, the funds and moneys contributed to or inuring to said endowment
fund and at least annually to cause the income therefrom to be paid .to the
Trustees of the Masonic Homes for use in the maintenance and operation
of the Masonic Homes. To manage, care for, conserve, liquidate, exchange, sell and otherwise handle in conjunction with the Grand Master
and Grand Treasurer, for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, any real or personal property belonging to said endowment fund or to which said fund is entitled by reason of any legacy,
devise, gift or transfer.
4. To delegate duties to, or apportion responsibilities between, subordinate sections of the board, committees or members.
5. To appoint, and remove at pleasure, all officers, agents and employees of the board and to prescribe their duties and fix their compensation.

625

JV. Officers
1. The officers shall be a Chairman, appointed by the Grand Master,
two Vice-Chairmen, a Secretary and such Assistant Secretaries as may
from time to time be designated. The Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of
California shall be ex-officio the Treasurer of the board.
2. The Chairman shall preside at all meetings of the board. He shall
have general supervision and direction, subject to the authority ~nd control
of the board, of all the activities and business of the board. He shall sign
all contracts and other instruments for and on its behalf when authorized
by the board, and shall perform such other duties as are incident to his
office or may be properly required of him by the board or the Grand
·
Master.

3. One of the Vice-Chairmen shall be a resident of the north half of
the State of California and the other of the south half thereof. In the
absence or disability of the Chairman a Vice-Chairman shall take his
place and perform his duties. Each Vice-Chairman shall, in the part of the
State designated by the Chairman, take a leading and active part in assisting tl)e Chairman to further the efficiency and progress of the work of
the board.
4. The Secretary shall issµe notices for all meetings, keep accurate
minutes thereof, sign with the Chairman such instruments as require attestation, conduct the correspondence of the board, file and safely keep
all papers belonging to .the board, and perform such other duties as are
incidental to his office or may be properly required of him by the board.
He shall receive and receipt for all moneys and property payable to the
board,. keeping an account thereof, and shall forthwith turn the same· over
to the Grand Secretary for .the Grand Treasurer.
The Secretary, and any officer having control of property, shall furnish to Grand Lodge a good and sufficient bond to be approved by the
Grand Master and in such sum as shall be approved by this board.
5. The Treasurer shall have the custody of all moneys and securities
belonging to the endowment fund and he shall hold them in the same
manner as are the funds of Grand Lodge held by him as Grand Treasurer·
provided, that the endowment money and securities shall be kept separat~
and distinct from all other funds and that correct books of account of
said endowment fund be kept by him. He shall perform such other duties
as are incidental to his office or which may properly be required of him
by the board.
·
6. The Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties as may be from
time to time prescribed by the board.

V. Meetings
1. Regular meetings of the board shall be held quarterly at such time
.and place as the board may determine and the Chairman in the call therefor may designate.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

626

2. Special meetings of the board may be held at any time upon the
call of the Chairman or of five members of the board, the place of the
meeting to be fixed by the Chairman, or in his inability to act, by the
Grand Master.
3. The annual meeting of the board shall be held on the last day of
the annual communication of Grand Lodge at a time and place fixed by
the Chairman.
4. Five members of the board shall constitute a quorum for the
transaction of business.
5. Notice of all meetings shall be given in writing and mailed by the
Secretary to each member of the board not less than ten days prior to
the date thereof; provided, that a meeting can be had at any time without
notice if all the members are present thereat, or if the absent members
sign in writing a waiver of notice of such meeting, which waiver is made
a part of the record of such meeting.

VI. Funds
1. No part of the endowment fund heretofore accumulated or hereafter acquired shall ever be used for any purpose other than the maintenance and operation of the Masonic Homes of California, and all the net
income from the endowment fund shall be paid to the Masonic Homes of
California for its use in maintaining and ~perating said Homes.
2. The members of the board shall be entitled to their actual expenses
necessarily incurred in the performance of .the duties devolving upon
thent as herein provided, claims for which expenses shall not be paid out
of the endowment fund but shall be presented to the Grand Master, after
approval by the Chairman, for approval and payment from the general
fund of Grand Lodge.

VII. Finance Committee
The Chairman shall appoint three members of the board as a Finance
Committee, to act conjointly with the Grand Master and Grand Treasurer
in making investments of endowment funds, in making exchanges of securities and in making sales of securities belonging to the endowment fund.
The Finance Committee shall also keep a record of all transactions in connection with the handling and investment of said funds and shall report
thereon at each meeting of the board.

VIII. Committees
1. The Chairman shall appoint from time to time such committees as
are necessary or proper for the transaction of the business of the board
and for the solicitation and collection of moneys and property for the
endowment fund.
2. The Chairman shall appoint such committees as may in his opinion
be necessary to co-operate with the Inspectors, with the Masters of the

627

Lodges, and the brethren of this jurisdiction, with the primary objective
that in every Lodge a special Endowment Committee, consisting of not
less than three nor more than five members, shall be appointed which shall
foster the interest of the endowment fund and see that its merits are
brought to the attention of every member of this jurisdiction and any other
persons interested.

IX. Endowment Fund Month
One month in each year shall be designated by the Grand Master as
"Masonic Homes Endowment Month" and, unless the Grand Master otherwis_e designate~, the month of May in each year shall be set aside, duri~g
which. the vano~s subordinate Lodges of the jurisdiction shall bring to
the minds of their members and other persons interested, the claims of the
endowment fund for their sympathetic attention to the purposes for which
the same is to be used.
The Chairman shall appoint suitable committees to direct the work
of Endowment Month so that the fullest benefits may be derived therefrom.
X. Amendments
These rules and regulations may be amended, altered or repealed in
whole or in part by a majority vote of the entire board at any meeting
thereof, provided, that no amendment thereof shall be effective until the
same is approved by the Grand Master.
The board inunediately issued to the Master of every subordinate
Lodge in the _jurisdiction a copy of their "Introductory Message," with a
letter requesting that they immediately appoint in their Lodge an Endowment Committee consisting of not less than three nor more than five
~emb!!rs, as provided in the rules and regulations, and that they also furnish to the board a selected list of their members to whom the board might
·
send literature concerning the endowment f11nd.
Up to the .t ime of filing this report, more than flve hundred of the
Lodges h_ave appointed an Endowment Committee and have f1.1rnished a
selected list of members. The board had printed and mailed 30 000 of 1"t
d esc~ip
. t"!Ve . boo kl ets, ."Homes That California Masons Built," ' and hq,ves
received many comphmentary letters on the effectiveness of this publication.
The Grand Master designated the month of Mq,y as "Masonic Homes
Endo~men! ~onth," and during that month and early in June many
effective meetings were held, at which the cause of the. endowment fu!ld
was presented.
During the fiscal year ending July 31, 1933, the endowment fund was
.
increased, through contributions and bequests, in the amount of $14,971.62
'
as follows :

628

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

James C. Johnson, South Park Lodge No. 536....................................$
5.00
Bear Mountain Lodge No. 16.·----··--······--····---·---~:...................
25.00
R. C. E. Weber-····-··-·-········..···- ····-..········-··..··········- -··--···..-···..······3.10
Frederick J. Smith, Arlington Lodge No. 414.................·-······-····-···
5.00
Glen W. Brace, Clarence F. Smith Lodge No. 482.....·-····-·········..···
50.00
A. Johnson, Doric Lodge No. 280, New York....................-.~ ..··- -·· 100.00
Mrs. Max Koffman (through Loyalty No. 529)................................
25.00
Christine Breon Estate...·---············--·-····-········-····-····--··-····-··- 1,373.34
Frank de Connick Estate....·-··--·-·-·····-····-········..-···········-·-········· 200.00
Lewis Chamberlain, Mission Lodge No. 169......·-················-·········-· 100.00
John A. Gustafson Estate...·-··-····-·-·······--··-················-··--··-·-- 5,070.90
Emil Cohn Estate...............~····-·-·-··-···-····-··········-····-··-····-··"'······· 1,999.28
Frank G. Watson, Presidio Lodge No. 354 (Grand Tiler)............ 105.00
John and Lena Luckenbach Estate.............·-····-·-·····························- 4,800.00
You will note a contribution from Brother A. Johnson, a member of
Doric Lodge No. 280 in New York. Brother Johnson attended a meeting
of Presidio Lodge No. 354 when the endowment need was presented, and
the nex.t day he went to the Grand Secretary's office and made inquiry concerning the fund, and said that as he had sufficient money for his present
needs, he would be glad to contribute $100, although not a member of the
Jurisdiction of California, which amount he left with the Grand Secretary.
In addition to the above, and during the month of August, Brother
Clifford W. Richter, of Las Palmas Lodge No. 366, insured his life for
$500 in favor of the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund, and advised the
board that he expected to pay the annual premium on the .policy. Also,
Brothers F. W. Marhofke, and F. E. Dayton, of Salinas Lodge No. 204,
each contributed $5.00.
·
During the year, your board expended, for printing, traveling expenses, clerical help, postage, etc., practically its entire appropriation made
at the last session of Grand Lodge of $5,000.
Your board hesitates to make a request for a definite appropriation,
in view of the curtailment of income of Grand Lodge for the coming
year. However, they feel that if this work is to be continued as has
alr.eady been mapped out, they should have an appropriation of $5,000, and
they request. the Finance Committee to give full consideration to the work
and aims of our board.
The campaign of the Masonic Hornes Endowment Board of California
is not a hasty or a temporary thing-it is an educational campaign which
it· is hoped will extend over all the years to come.
Many of the well-to-do and even wealthy members have never had
the matter of endowment of our Hornes brought to their attention, and
while the Hornes have had a few bequests, made largely on the initiative

629

of the giver, it is our conviction that many others would aid if the matter
was brought to their attention in the proper way. It is the hope of your board that the need for adequate endowment
shall be heard by every Mason throughout our grand jurisdiction not only
this year, but in all the years to come.
'
Fraternally submitted,
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT B OARD.

W. P. JEFFRIES, Chairman.

. A~opted,. excepting that portion requesting an appropnat10n, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF MASONIC TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:

T~e following is a summary of the receipts and disbursements of the
Masomc Temple Association of California, Inc., for the fiscal year ending
September 30, 1933:
Receipts:
October 1, 1932, balance on hand (cas~ and securities) ............ $ 52,395.98
From rentals ...................... _:::..•..,............................$45,650.00
interest on ·bank balances........,................._
26.44
440.54
interest, savings banks................................
interes! on bonds......- .................................. _ 2,303.65
refund on taxes............................................
189.30
955.39
premium on sale of bonds..........................
250.00
rent in advance.....................................:........
48,815.32
$102,211.30

Disbursements:
Taxes ····-······-··--'··:-··-·········································•....$ 8,316.00
Current expense ...................................................... 5,442.03
Repairs and improvements...................................... 2,791.34
Superintendent and salaries....................- .............. 10,203.45
Accrued interest on bonds bought........................
105.24
Insurance ..................................................................
363.92
Dividends ····-···········-................................................ 4,662.43
Notes payable ..........................................................
100.00

31,984.41

Balance on hand September 30, 1933 (cash and securities)...... $ 70,226:89

F: C.
Adopted.

R U PPEL, S ecretary.

630

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

631

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
In accordance with Constitutional requirements, your Committee on
Accounts met the last Saturday of each month at the office of the Grand
Secretary, and audited and approved all bills and demands that were in
order.
We recommend that .this Grand Lodge reaffirm Decision No. 6 of the
Committee on Jurisprudence in 1929.
Respectfully submitted
Lours SUTTER,
PAUL NATHAN,

E. E. CONN,
OTTO FREYERMUTH,

1Jn "ranll ~oC.ge
MORNING SESSION
Wednesday, October 11, 1933.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.
The minutes of Tuesday's · sessions were read and approved.

Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LIBRARY
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

At 4:15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10
o'clock Wednesday morning.

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Library beg leave to report its inactivities during
the year just passed, with these comments, as follows: In the unprecedented days of a depressing season, the Library has remained in rather
a comatose condition. It has not "passed out" of this grand jurisdiction,
but like the "eternity" of material creations, will again assume in due
time that condition of normality in which its usefulness will again assert
itself unimpaired.
DENMAN S. WAGSTAFF, Chairman.

Report adopted.

PROPOSALS TO REDUCE EXPENSE
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Resolved: That the Pay of Members Committee be instructed to compute the amount needed to reimburse representatives to this session of
Grand Lodge on the basis of one and one-half first-class railroad fare,
together with steamer or stage fare and cost of berth in sleeper when
required, and further, that Section 6 of the Constitution be amended in
accordance therewith.
That the traveling expenses of Past Grand Masters be no longer paid
from Grand Lodge funds unless they are a chairman of a standing committee, or a member of the Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes,
Grievance, Finance, Credentials, Pay of Members, Charters or By-Laws
Committee, and further, that Section 71 of the Constitution be amended
in accordance therewith.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

632

633

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

That creating of new committees be curtailed and that the Committees
on Jurisprudence, Policy and General Purposes, Charters and By-Laws
be instructed to review and analyze the work of all committees and recommend such reductions in the number of committeemen as in their judgment
seems proper.
That the Grand Secretary receive but one salary from any activity
of Grand Lodge, and · that salary not to exceed $5,000 for year ending
July 31_, 1934.
That the Grand Lodge discontinue sending the Grand Secretary to any
meeting as representative of Grand Lodge of California for year ending
July 31, 1934.
That the Grand Lecturer's salary be reduced to $3,600 per year and
his expenses to be held to actual expenses paid, with a maximum of $500
per year, July 31, 1934.
That the Assistant Grand Secretary be paid only one salary and that
salary not to exceed $2,400 per year.
That the Grand Tiler shall not be paid in excess of $100.
'.fhat the Grand Organist shall not be paid in excess of $50.
That the chairman of the Committee on Correspondence shall serve
without remuneration for the year ending July 31, 1934.
That any other salaries paid and not herein mentioned shall be adjusted
in keeping with the purpose and intent of this resolution.
That the traveling expenses of the Most Worshipful Grand Master
and Grand Lodge officers shall be repaid only as as actually incurred and
the total amount allowable for the purpose shall not exceed a maximum
of $1,000 for year for all.
.
That all traveling by any representative of Grand Lodge be materially
reduced and only actual expense incurred to be repaid.
That no expense to be incurred by any Grand Lodge visitation to the
Hawaiian Islands for the year ending July 31, 1934.
That no expense be incurred for any Grand Lodge representative to
attend any convocation, meeting or assembly of any nature whatsoever
held without the boundaries of the State of California for the year ending
July 31, 1934.
That the Masonic Clubs of the University of California at Berkeley
and Los Angeles be placed on a self-sustaining basis and that no appropriation exceeding five cents per member be recommended for year ending
July 31, 1934.
That a maximum amount shall be designated for expense of painting
portrait of the Most Worshipful Grand Master.
That Grand Lodge Activities Committee shall keep their expenses
within a maximum appropriation of $1,000 for the Grand Lodge session
of 1934.

That no moneys for relief of Past Grand Lodge officers shall be appropriated by Grand Lodge unless their own Blue Lodge is unable to
·
extend relief.
That no money shall be appropi;-fated for the year ending July 31 ,
1934, for Masonic History or Educational Committees.
That the cost of printing and binding the report of the Eighty-fourth
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of California for 1933 shall
be materially reduced, and the Finance Committee is instructed to review
this report and recommend just what should be eliminated in order to
materially reduce cost of printing and binding same. All contracts for
supplies of any kind shall be made on a competitive basis.
That no money shall be paid inmates of the Homes a t Decoto and
Covina while they are residents.
That the Finance Committee is instructed to analyze costs and expenditures of the Homes at Decoto and at Covina with a view to reducing
same, and report their findings together with recommendations at the next
convocation of Grand Lodge.
That a maximum cost of maintenance per inmate, of both adults and
minors, shall be recommended by the Finance Committee and the Masonic
Homes Committee at this session of Grand Lodge.
That any additional funds needed for maintenance of the Hoines at
Decoto and Covina for year ending July 31, 1934, other than the seventyfive cents per member voted last year plus fifty cents per member for the
building fund, is to be withdrawn from Grand Lodge reserves and no
additional assessment is to be levied on our membership.
That any interest computed at 5 per cent on Lodges defaulting in
payment of their Grand Lodge dues for year ending July 31, 1932, and not
now paid be remitted, and that any interest rate provided for the year
ending July 31, 1934, to be paid by Ledges in default shall not exceed a
rate of 4 per cent per anuum.
.
That the total per capita tax for the year ending July 31, 1934, shall
not exceed $1.50 per member.

GEO. M. D ONOVAN,
THOMAS H. EWERS,
CARL PETERS.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, which committee on Thursday morning reported back
the resolutions, recommending t hat they be referr ed to the
Committee on Finance; and it w as so ordered.

634

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Masonic History begs leave to submit the following report of its activities during the past year.
Your Committee, since the last annual communication, has been engaged in the continuation of its work carried on during the past five years.
We have actively assisted the History Committees of local Lodges in
searching records and in the final preparation of their reports. Many personally written narratives dealing with the activities of our "Fifty Year
Masons" have been prepared and filed. Numerous human interest stories,
heretofore obtained, have been carefully checked and verified. Some very
interesting records and manuscripts having to do with the lives of early
day Masons have been received. Some new material has been discovered
and preserved, dealing with the following pioneer Masons: Sam Brannan,
who played a leading role in the early life of San Francisco; James F.
Reed, the only Mason of the ill-fated Donner party to reach Sutter's Fort;
Mark Twain, whose Masonic activities in the West have been considered,
until recently, to have been confined entirely to the Lodge at Angels Camp.
Some interesting sidelights on Peter Lassen, whose personal life has been
somewhat shrouded in mystery, have come to our attention.
We have collected some stories of the early activities of our first
Grand Master, which will materially contribute to a better understanding
of his eventful career.
We have had occasion to investigate and study the proceedings of the
San Francisco Vigilante Committee of 1856 and preserve the constructive
records of the members of that organization who were affiliated with
Masonry.
The committee at present is engaged in an effort to obtain a full and
complete history of Isaac Roop, who during the early days took an active
part in northern California Masonry.
During the past year some interesting facts, connected with the lives
of the Masons who took a leading part in the formation of California's
first Constitution, have been obtained.
We have also, during the past year, earnestly endeavored to gain
access to the personal papers of Abel Stearns, the first Mason to come
to California. In this matter we are attempting to follow up the work of
Brother Arthur M. Ellis, who spent considerable time in an effort to obtain
for Grand Lodge the records of that colorful Masonic chara~ter.
We have also, through careful investigation, been able to correct many
inaccuracies of fact which inadvertently were incorporated in the reports
filed by some of the local Lodge committees.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

635

The members of your committee have also undertaken the task of
laboriously going through the forty-one volumes of Grand Lodge proceedings and properly indexing interesting material and facts contained therein
which may be used in the ultimate preparation of our history.
In the reports of our Past Grand Masters, we find some very interesting and instructive Masonic data. The grand orations are a veritable storehouse of eloquent delineation and interpretation of Masonic principles and
ideals. Carefully chosen excerpts from the Grand Master's reports and
from grand orations should be incorporated in the final volumes of our
history. We venture the asser.tion that not one Mason in five hundred has
had the opportunity or occasion to peruse their cop.tents and enjoy the
pleasure or benefit which more fortunate brethren have received who have
dug out the nuggets of eloquence and wisdom contained in the reports and
orations. If these gems are made a part of our written history, the entire
body of the craft may greatly profit thereby. With this in mind, your
. committee at present is pursuing the work of carefully picking out and
indexing this material for future use.
Many local Lodge History Committees have not as yet filed their
reports, and we respectfully urge that they endeavor with all reasonable
despatch to complete their labors and forward same to the committee or
the Grand Secretary.
For the sake of brevity, we have not seen fit to follow our custom
in past years and give in detail in this re!)Ort the many human interest
stories which have been received during the year. Most of them were
received too late to enable tlie committee to fully verify them ; therefore,
we deemed it advisable to omit their recital herein.
In view of the fact that there is still additional work to be perfected
before the final draft of our hist~ry is completed, we recommend that the
Committee on Masonic History be continued.
LEON 0. WHITSELL,
MARK A. SA WRIE,
DAVID TULLOCH,
RoscoE L. CLARK,
CHAS.

E. HAAS,

ALBERT F . Ross,
History Committee.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

636

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLICATION OF
MASONIC HIST ORY
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California·:
Your committee, appointed with instructions to investigate the most
feasible ·and economic plan for the preparation and publication of a history
of Masonry in this State, begs leave to submit the following report:
The preparation of the history and its publication are distinctly different phases, and will be discussed separately in this report.
In our investigation of the proper plan to be adopted for the preparation of the historical manuscript that would be in desirable form and ready
for the printer, we have had the benefit of the advice and co-operation of
many of the best informed members of this Grand Lodge. We have consulted numerous active members of the California Historical Society and
members of other organizations majoring in California history. We have
also discussed the matter with other members of the craft and distinguished
citiz.ens of this State who are recognized authorities in this line of literary
endeavor. As a result of such investigation and study, we feel that we
have selected a plan which will vouchsafe a reliable and interesting history
at a minimum of cost.
We are of the opinion that a work of this magnitude should be under
the general direction of one competent writer. He should be a member of
the craft, and his reputation for accuracy should be beyond all question.
He should be given full authority and responsibility and should be in a
position to personally write the major portion of our history.
We feel that in thus placing respons'ibility in one directing head of the
writing staff we will assure correlation and continuity which are vitally
essential to the successful perfection of a history covering so wide a range
of time and territory. We believe also that certain phases or period~ of
our history can be best prepared by certain outstanding members of the
craft who are peculiarly conversant with the local history of certain parts
of the State.
We are further impressed with the fact that it would be highly desirable that there be· incorporated in the text of the work certain historical
data and information having to do with the pioneer members of the craft
aside from their purely Masonic activities. Many of our early-day Mason~
played a most conspicuous part in the settlement of our State, the formation of its government and the development' of its institutions. Historical
events with which our membership has been closely identified should be
treated in some detail, that a proper background may obtain and that the
lives and activities of these brethren may be better understood and inter:.
preted. This requirement calls for authorship with a comprehensive know!-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

637

edge of Californi history as well as Masonic history. The person chosen
to undertake this r ponsibility should be authorized to edit and finally
pass upon the materia used.
We have here ·brie outlined the procedure which we deem advisable
in the proper preparation of our history. We have not definitely determined upon the personnel of a staff such as is suggested by the foregoing
conclusions. · However, we have carefully canvassed among the members
of the fraternity for the best available talent to undertake this work.
A number of competent members of Grand Lodge have expressed a willingness to prepare certain phases of our history with which they are familiar.
Their services will be without compensation and as a contribution to the
craft.
The matter of finding a competent individual who could devote the
necessary time to writing the major portion of this history and in supervising the preparation of all material, is somewhat difficult. Such men as
we have found are not in a position to give the necessary time without some
compensation. One brother, who has had years of experience as· a Masonic
writer and who at one time prepared a very creditable history for one
grand jurisdiction, would gladly undertake the work, but would be unable
to perform the service without sufficient remuneration.
As heretofore stated in this report, one of the most important phases
of the preparation is what is technically known as "editing" and finally
passing upon the manuscript before publication. This is work of ·prim;iry
importance, and we feel that we are exceedingly fortunate in having found
a Masonic brother who is most competent to assume this responsibility and
who is willing to perform this service without remuneration and, as he
modestly terms it, this will be his "slight contribution to Masonry:"
The brother to whom we refer is Francis Farquhar. He is a writer of
historical works of wide-spread circulat ion. He sustains a reputation for
historical accuracy which places him almost in a class by himself. He has
had years of experience in editing historical material. H is final approval
of a work of this character will be a guarantee to the critical student of
California history that scrupulous exactitude has characterized its preparation.
We find that at least one year will be required for the proper preparation of a history along the lines that are suggested by our findings and
recommendations. We therefore . suggest that Grand Lodge approve the
selection of Brother Francis Farquhar as the one to edit and pass upon
the final manuscripts before publication. We also suggest that certain
brothers of the craft be authorized to proceed with the preparation of
individual .phases of our history, as recommended by the committee, upon
the approval of the Grand Master.
Your committee fully appreciates the financial stress and strain under
which Grand Lodge is Row laboring, and in view of the lack of funds at

•

/

/
/

638

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

/

prcsen: available with which to engage a proper person. .f.~ write the gene1'.11 h1sto~y and to co-ordinate the work of the individual brethren who
will contribute their services, we feel that the seleclfon of such a writer
must.~ deferred until soi:ie future time. In view ,df the general financial
cond1~ns, we have refrained from presenting any specific re~olution requestm~ fund~ for this purpose. Vfe feel that not less than $1,000 would
req~1red thts year. Therefore, in lieu of presenting a resolution requestm~ this sum, ':'e suggest that the matter be referred to the Finance Comm1.tte.e o~ Policy and General Purposes. However, in the event an appropnat10~ ·Is made, we then recommend that the Grand Master be authorized
~o a~pomt a competent per~on to write our history along t11e lines suggested
m this report.
. Since at least a year would be required for preparation of the n1anusc~1p~, we ~av~ made only a preliminary investigation of the question of
pr~n~mg, bmdmg and distribution of the finished h1story. It is our
op1mon that ~ most comprehensive history of Masonry in California can
be. presented m three volumes. These books would be substantially bound,
printed on good paper, generously illustrated by interesting pictures and
could be sold at a su~ approximating $12 per set, based on present · ~tices
of labor and material. We also believe that at this price a sufficient
volume of sets could be sold which would pay the full cost of preparation
publi~ation and delivery and also return to Grand Lodge a substantiai
sum m r~turn for the appropriations expended by the committee in its
w;ork durmg the past five years in collecting and preserving our early
history.
I~ i~ evident that we could not possibly consider the definite question
of prmtmg ~nd publication within the coming year, therefore it is the
recomm~ndation of your committee that the work of the committee on
preparation and publication of the history be continued during the ensuing
year. .
Respectfully submitted,
LEON 0. WHrts£LL
MARK A. SAWRIE, ,

?e

DAVID

J. REESE,
Committee.

Referred to Cotnmittee on Policy and General Purposes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPO

639

OF U. C. BERKELEY CLUB HOUSE

T o the M.". w:. ~na Lodge of Califo-rnia:
During the past "X_ear, although the Trustees of the Masonic Club of
the University of Cali~rnia, Inc., and the management of the club house
have been compelled to'.cut all operating costs to the bone, and have
greatly reduced the cost of activities in connection with its social service
work, the institution has, during this period, more than justified the faith
of the fraternity in maintaining it.
Several hundred students of Masonic affiliation and connection at the
university, like the great majority of the student body, have been_existing
on curtailed allowances for their support. Consequently, the activities of
the Masonic Club have been a tremendous factor, not only in sustaining
the morale of our own students, but , as testified to by the officers and
faculty of the university and student leaders, in contributing· in equal measure. toward preserving the morale of the student body as a whole. The
influence of several hundred students constantly in contact with the beneficent surroundings of the club has proved a stabilizing force to the
entire student body.
Nothing has happened during the year to disturb the peace and goodfellowship which have prevailed at the club, and the quiet, dignified and
efficient leadership of Mrs. J. }I. Quinn, the hostess, has continued with
renewed affection and confidence on the part of our student body. The
activities of the club have been. carried on·as best they could be with the
decreased budget allowance made one year ago. No happening of special
interest has occurred at. the club that is worthy of note at tbis ~ime.
The Trustees of the club have submitted to the Finance Committee the
result of the annual report of the club for the year ending September 30,
1933, prepared by Messrs. MacEachern & Macintyre, certified public
accountants of San Francisco, and present herewith the proposed budget
for the next ensuing Masonic year. The auditors' statement has been
personally verified by the Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Trustees, including a check of the bank balance and bills payable,
as reported.
As is shown by the audit, the social ser~ice expense at the club has
been reduced to such an extent as to make the Trustees and the management feel they have been almost niggardly in that respect. In . view of
the times, however, the Trustees and the management cheerfully met the
situation, with the result indicated.
The proposed budget fo r the .ensuing year is within a few dollars of
the proposed budget presented last yea r. The Trustees feel that the club
house, managed in the same careful manner as during t)1e past year, can
be maintained even with the greatly reduced contribution t oward social

\

\
640

\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

service work among the Masonic constituency at the uni ersity, which,
after all, is the real justification for the club's existence.
We respectfully request that the budget for th ensuing year be
allowed as presented.
Actual
Proposed
Proposed Budget 1933-1934
1932-1933
1932-1933
Resident hostess ........................................ $1,500.00
$1,500.00
$1,500.00
Superintendent .......................................... 1,200.00
1,200.00
1,200.00
Bookkeeper ..............................................:. 240.00
240.00
240.00
50.00
Club service ..................-............................
45.00
200.00
351.25
Attendants ················································- 350.00 .
300.00
Heat and light .......... - ........:..................... 600.00
600.67
565.00
Telephone ............................................•. .'..... 100.00
99.61
125.00
Water ...'.......................................................
95.00
93.17
60.00
14.45
20.00
Garbage ······--····-·······-·····························
15.00
3.45
Office supplies ·······~······-····························
25.00
32.00
Janitor 'supplies .......................................... 115.00
117.41
100.00
Laundry ......................................................
55.00
55.33
45.00
Gardener ...........:...........:...........:.................. 120.00
120.00
120.00
Miscellaneous ............................................ 150.00
120.71
150.00
Repairs and replacements.......................... 500.00
404.66
50.00
Newspapers and periodicals...................... 100.00
111.77
80.00
Taxes .......................................................... 2,240.00
2,239.17
2,600.00
223.71
Insurance ····-·············································· 225.00
300.00
$7,680.00

$7,540.36

$7,687.00

Summary for 1932-1933:
Total income ····--········-··························--···································-* 6,986.18
Actual expenses as above ................... ·-·····································'······ 7,540.36
Net loss, 1932-1933....................................................................$ 554.18
WILLIAM H.

w ASTE,
President;

CHARLES

ALBERT ADAMS,

.

Secretary;
ALBERT E. BOYNTON'
MILTON

T. FARMER,

WILLIAM P. FILMER,
WILLIAM B. HERMS,
WALDO F. POSTEL,
GEORGE F. RODDEN,
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN.

Adopted, with the exception of request for an appropriation, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

641

REPOR-}\)F U. C. ~OS ANGELES CLUB HOUSE
To the M:. w:. ~nd Lodge of California;
Your Board of hjrectors of the Masonic Club of the University of
California at Los Anglijes, fraternally submit their report for the year
ending September 30, 1933.
The financial statement is reflected by the report of Brother Reynold
E;. Blight, certified public accountant, which is made a part hereof and
which has been filed with the Finance Committee. We, however, direct
attention to the following items:
First: Referring to the deposit in the United States National Bank
in the sum of $8,473.49, which represents the balance there deposited at the
time that institution was closed, and which has heretofore been mentioned.
It will be remembered that last year we reported a dividend of 25 per cent.
Since then we have received a dividend of 10 per cent, and we are informed
that a third dividend of 25 per cent will shortly be paid, making at the time
of its payment a 60 per cent recovery. The reports concerning the possibility of being repaid all of the remainder are somewhat conflicting, and
the prospects may best be described as problematical.
Second: There ~ill be noted an item for improvements in the sum of
$1,589.74. This not only represents a minor alteration for the improvement
of the supervision and control of the club house, and certain furniture for
the better equipment of three rest rooms, but also the replacement of the
roof. For some time we have had trouble with storm waters leaking
through. At one time, it will be recalled, we found it necessary to waterproof the exterior walls. Then it was discovered that, due either to a
rather severe earthquake which shook this section two or three years ago
or to some defective construction, the concrete slab underneath the tile
was permitting the rain to filter through. If we were to save the interior
plaster from ruin it was deemed necessary to remove all the tile, repair
the concrete and insert water-proofing between it and the tile and refasten
the tile by a system invented since the original roof was laid. This was
done, and a twenty-year guarantee protects against a recurrence of the
trouble.
Third: It will be observed that as a ·result of the last item our disbursements for the year were the sum of $8,258.92, the sum received from
the Grand Lodge $6,581.30, and other receipts $710.20, making an excess
of disbursements over receipts of $967.42. We think attention should also
be directed to this item for the.purpose of illustrating the wisdom, when
Grand Lodge is again able to do so, of setting aside a reasonable sum to
represent depreciation of building and furniture in order to care for just
such unexpected emergencie!I'. Also, it should be observed in this connection that we decreased the salary of the resident hostess from $1,800

/
642

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to $1,500 per annum, and in the other items we have
ercised strict
economy. Also, since receipt of the audit, my attention · called by telegram to two additional items to be added to the $500 et to be paid for
relaying the roof, and found under the heading of ccounts payable as
follows: for water-proofing $212, and taxes $536. , the latter of which
1
is not payable until November.
Fourth: The campaign or capital fund increased by the sum of
$364.42, that sum being made up of voluntary payments on time subscriptions in the sum of $63.50, the balance representing interest on bank balances and reserve investments and being included in the receipts mentioned
in the preceding paragraph.
With respect to the budget for the coming year our estimate is as
follows:
Salaries:
Resident hostess ........................................................................................$1,500.00
Superintendent of building........................................................................ 720.00
Janitorial assistance .................................................................................. 500.00
Gardening .................................................................................................... 120.00
Office assistance .. :..................................................................................... 500.00
Bookkeeping ................................................................................................ 100.00

Service Charges:
Heat and J,Wht..,..........................................,.................................-•..•...•...
Telephones ..................................................................................................
Water ..........................................................................................................

750.00
150.00
60.00

Supplies:
Office
Postage ........................................................................................................
Janitor's and gardener's............................................................................

200.00
50.00
150.00

General Charges:
Taxes ............................................................................................................ 1,000.00
Insurance .................................................................................................... 530.00
General upkeep .......................................................................................... . 1,000.00
75.00
Newspapers and periodicals..................................................., ................
Miscellaneous expense .............................................................................. . 500.00
Furniture replacement reserve ...........................................................:.... 500.00
Depreciation of building fund ...:...............................:.............................. 750.00
Total ....::...............................,.................:........:•............;........., ....$9,l~,OQ
It is safe to say, although we should operate as economically as possible, that with the decreased allowance from Grand Lodge by reason of
lowering the per capita tax last year, that we shall be compelled to .use

/

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

643

a good portion \>f that which remains in the maintenance fund from a
year ago without ~duction therefrom for emergencies as already indicated.
Early in this ~r the Most Worshipful .Grand Master appointed
Brother Dan G. Brow'nstein to the place otl the board made vacant by the
death of our beloved member, Brother Perry W. Widener. In addition he
reaptiointed five members whose terms expired in May. With the addition,
therefore, of Brother Brownstein the board remains as it was last year,
to-wit : Past Grand Masters John Stewart Ross, Will H . Fischer and
Dana R. Weller; Brothers Frank X. Pfaffinger, Chas. H. Dodds, Elmer E .
Beckman, Marco .R. Newrriatk, Walter L. Berger, Thomas B. Buchan,
William S. McFadden, C. H. Robinson, Clyde C. Shoemaker, Ben G.
Wright and Ira F. Thompson,
It would not be proper to close this report without saying to you a
word concerning the work which you are doing at these two divisions of
the State urtivl!rsity. In these days of uncertainty it is of the utmost value
that we may miilister to a degree to the mental hunger of these young
people who are looking for solid earth upon which to g round their feet.
Mrs. Kempton, excellent woman, continues in her quiet and attractive way
to win and hold their affection and respect. As evidence thereof, during
the yeat better than 30,000 visits were made by students to the facilities
you have provided. There is no way of adequately measuring the contribution we are making to the cause of mankind by the maintenance of
the two club houses.
We recommend that such provision be made for suptiort and maintenance during the year 1933-1934 as will be adequate for that purpose.
IRA F. THOMPSON, Chairman.

Adopted, with the exception of the recommendation for
maintenance, which was referred to the Committee on
Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND LECTURER'S
REPORT
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge vf California:
Your committee to whom was referred the twenty-sixth annual report
of the Very Worshipful Grand Lecturer beg leave to report as follows:
Seldom is a Grand Lodge so favored as to listen to the twenty-sixth
annual report of any officer. It should be a sourcl of much gratification to
our M.". w:. Grand Lodge that it has been thus favored.
Through long years of service, lovingly rendered, it has been the sole
purpose of our beloved Grand Lecturer to instill in the officer s and members of the constituent Lodges of this jurisdiction, not only accuracy in

/
/

I

644

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
•

I

the rendition of our ritual, but also a zeal and desire to ev'r gain greater
accuracy, an aim and purpose in which he has largely supteeded.
As a teacher Brother Baker has all the essential patience .;md skill
required of one in such a position, and has endeared himself to offi~ers and
members throughout California and the Hawaiian Islands by his gracious
disposition and smiling countenance. Having exceeded a "{!uarter century
in our service, we shall watch with .interest the approach toward the half
century.
The Very Worshipful Grand Lecturer refers to the conditions of the
day, and their effect upon our Lodges and membership. We recommend to
the Masters and Wardens of constituent Lodges careful consideration and
action upon that portion of the report wherein it deals with suspensions
and the possibility that some suspensions might have been ·avoided had a
proper and timely investigation been made.
Your committee agrees with the V.".W.".Grand Lecturer in his remarks
concerning the manner in which funeral services are conducted. Such
solemn occasions, largely attended by the profane, make' opportunities for
criticism, not only of the officer conducting the service, but of Masonry
itself, unless the services are rendered in the manner befitting the occasion
and as directed by the Ritual Committee, and we approve the recommendations made in the report.
We recommend that the matter of the deaths of our beloved brothers,
Dr. Samuel Tilden Gillispie and Cralis Dexter, be referred to the Committee on Necrology.
Y o~r committee is very keenly cognizant of the indefatigable zeal and
assiduity of our Grand Lecturer, not only as evidenced by the report of
his activities during the past year, but from a long and most happy
acquaintance with this beloved man and Mason.
WM. B. OGDEN,
LLOYD E. WILSON,
ALFRED

F. BRESLAUER,
Committee.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
FAIRMOUNT LODGE
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
After receiving from the Most Worshipful Grand Master letters
designating us a committee to investigate the condition existing in Fairmount Lodge No. 435, we proceeded to meet and consider the situation as
it existed in that Lodge at the time of the order of arrest of its charter.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

645

Very slight investigation quickly disclosed a condition of affairs that
was most lamentable and unfortunate. For a period of over six years, two
small groups, together totaling not more than twenty to twenty-five members, have been in active opposition to _each other.
We have not deemed it necessary to determine ·the merits or demerits
of the various contentions advanced by the two factions, for we felt that
the situation now is such that it is no longer a question of who was right
or who was wrong, and that nothing could be gained by an investigation
which would perhaps only intensify the antagonisms already existing between the two groups. We further believed that one solution of the whole
matter, other than dissolution of the Lodge, would be the withdrawal, if
possible to procure, of the leaders of the factions, thus permitting the
remaining large majority on the Lodge's roster to retain their memberships in the Lodge, and to further retain the assets of the Lodge, which
are of no small amount.
The members of one of the factions, with but little hesitancy, announced their willingness to comply with the proposal, but the members
of the other group set up conditions which preclude a satisfactory solution
of the matter at this time, if at all, and it would seem that the "radical
operation" of dissolution of the Lodge should follow if the trouble is to be
definitely ended. We are not yet ready, however, to see the rights of over
five hundred Masons so seriously affected by the actions of a very small
number, for it must be kept in mind that among the majority of the
members of this Lodge are many Master Masons who are well along in
years and who, with others who may be, in some other way, unfortunately
situated, could probably not gain membership in other Lodges. The loss
of a charter brings in its train many unfortunate results, and we therefore
felt that the brethren should be willing to play the role of "martyrs" and
seize the opportunity to save the charter and the assets of the Lodge for
the many brethren who otherwise are made the victims of the factional
strife on the part of a limited few; but our efforts along the lines of the
plan .suggested have not met with the success hoped for.
We are not impressed with the suggestion of a division into two
Lodges. The sentiment against the formation of any additional Lodges
in San Francisco is too strong to be overcome at this time, and, further,
two Lodges created under the conditions existing would each lack the true
spirit of Masonry which should characterize a Masonic Lodge.
We would therefore report and recommend as follows:
We believe that the order of the Grand Master in arresting this
charter should be appr~ved without hesitancy. Drastic action became
necessary, and the Grand Master was justified in taking this step to terminate a condition which could not longer be tolerated.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

646

647

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We recommend :
1st. That the charter of Fairmount Lodge No. 435 be continued under
arrest until the next ahnual communication of Grand Lodge, unless
sooner restored by the Grand Master in the manner herein suggested.
2nd. That the incoming Grand Master be authorized to appoint a
committee of three members to continue the investigation of the conditions
in the Lodge and to make such recommendations fot the restoration of
the charter as It shall deem likely to restore harmony in said Lodge.
3d. That the Grand Master be and he is hereby authorized to restore
the charter of the Lodge_ under such terms and conditlohs as he may deem
necessary to itrtpose.
4th. That if the Grand Master shall determine that it is not for the
interest of Masonry to restore the charter, then he shall direct that charges
be preferred against the Lodge, looking to a revocation of said charter. '
GEORGE L. ]ONES,
CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

c. M . WOLLENBERG,

Committee.

R. G. Guyett, Inspector for the 41st Masonic district,
then presented the following:
Be It Resolved: That the twenty-three brethren of Fairmount Lodge
No. 435, F. & A. M., named in a set of resolutions dated October 6, 1933,
and signed by one hundred and forty-three ( 143) members of said Lodge,
be, and they are hereby ordered by this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge to
absent themselves from any and all meetings, or other activities of Fairmount Lodge, from and after this date, and until such time as this order
is rescinded or otherwise amended. And they are further directed to refrain
froln taking any part, directly or indirectly, in the election or appointment
of any officer of the Lodge; or of attempting, directly or indirectly, by
letter or otherwise, to influence or induce any member of the Lodge to do
any certain thing that might tend to disturb the peace and harmony of the
Lodge, on pain of being deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct.
That the said twenty-three brethren are directed to keep themselves
in Masonic stahdihg by paying their dues to the Secretary of Fair~ount
Lodge on receiving proper notice.
·
Further, that they be permitted to apply for Masonic relief 1 whenever
necessary, through the San Francisco Board of ~elief, of which Fairmount
Lodge is a member, and that any relief so granted shall be considered
a charge against Fairmount Lodge.
That in the case of any of the above mentioned brethren who is a
life member of Fairmount Lodge, joining any other Lodge in this grand

jurisdiction, Fairmount Lodge shall return to him the amount paid for
such life membership, less the amount of $1.00 for each month he has
been a member since paying for such life membership.
That these brethren be permitted individually to apply in writing to
Fairmount Lodge for certificates of good standing wbeneyer they may desire to apply to any other Lodge for admission to membership, and that
upon their election into any other Lodge, the usual dimit will be granted
by Fairmount Lodge.
And Be It Further Resolved : That the Grand Master is hereby requested to return to Fred Abbott Watkins, Master of Fairmount Lodge,
the charter of the Lodge, together with th8 necessary instructions for the
resumption of full .activities. It being understood that the restoration is
temporary, and that at the next annual communication of Grand Lodge the
charter may be permanently cancelled, providing a satisfactory showing
cannot be made that peace and harmony have been fully restored.

No action was taken on the resolutions of Inspector
Guyett, and after full discussion the report of the Grand
Master's special committee was adopted as read.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
Tenor solo, "Trust in the Lord" (Handel's Largo), by Benjamin
Liederman, Fidelity Lodge No. 120:
The Lord is my shepherd ; I shall not want.
He maketh me to lie down in g reen pastures : he leadeth me beside
the. still waters.
He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness
for his name's sake.
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death,
I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they
comfort me.
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies :
thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my
life: and I will dwell in the house of the Lord for ever. ·
We humbly submit to the decrees of our Divine Father, being sure
that our brethren still live. Let us then pause, amid the turmoil of this
busy life, to pay a tribute to the memory of these stalwarts in the ranks
of Masonry.
·
It is fitting that we take a little time from the business of this Grand
Lodge to recall the virtues and attainments of these departed brethren
whom we have loved and lost awhile.

648

649

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

One hundred and sixty-four members of this Grand Lodge have
crossed the river to that country which we must all explore when we have
finished our stewardship on earth.
Among these departed brethren were several who rendered exceptional
service to thi.s Grand Lodge.
' Friendship Lodge No. 210 reports the passing of . Delos W. Smythe.
Brother Smythe served his Lodge ·as Master in the early years of this
century, and was later appointed Inspector, which position he filled with
credit to himself for several years.
Charles P. Lyndall, a Past Master of Arlington Lodge No. 414, passed
on in April of this year. Brother Lyndall served the Grand Lodge as an
Inspector in the City of Los Angeles for ten years, and was greatly belbvetl
by all who knew him.
·
Death has again invaded the official family of the Gran4 Lodge. Two
of our Inspectors, Brothers Samuel T. Gillispie of the lllth district and
Cralis Dexter of the 20th district having gone to their rewards since the
last annual communication. It is unnecessary for me to elaborate on the
quality of service performed by these two brethren. The successive reappointment of these brethren by our Grand Masters of recent years is
satisfactory evidence of their devotion to the fraternity.
The Lodges of Imperial Valley suffered a distinct loss in the passing
of Clarence H. Eckert of ·Holtville Lodge.. Brother Eckert was a kindly
man and was loved by all who knew him, wh~ther or not they were members of the craft. He served this Grand Lodge as Senior Grand Deacon
in 1931.
Santa Monica Lodge and the Lodges of souther~ California suffered
a great loss in the passing of Victor R. McLucas. Brother McLucas was
a highly respected member of the Appellate Department of the Superior
Court of Los Angeles county. His devotion to Masonry is best illustrated
by a brief recitation of his Masonic history. He received his degrees in
Evening Sta~ Lodge No. 43, A. F. & A. M., in Winter5et, Iowa, in 1903.
In 1906 he dimitted to Capitol Lodge No. 3, A. F. & A. M., of Omaha,
Nebraska, and in 1922 he affiliated with Santa Monica Lodge. He became
Master of Santa Monica Lodge in 1926, and since that time served on the
By-Laws Committee of the Grand Lodge, . being a member of that committee at the time of his death.
On the eve of the opening of Grand Lodge, we suffered the loss of
Most Worsh\pful Past Grand Master George .M. Perine. The Most Worshipful Grand Master ·h~s designated Brother Harry K. Wolff to d~liver
an eulogy to his inemo ry.
·
Two days prior to the passing of Brother Perine, the Grim Reaper
saw fit to deprive us of our Worshipful Grand Sword Bearer, Brother
Wallace R. Farrington. Brother Herbert S. Bowen, Worshipful Master

of Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie, has been selected to review the Masonic services of this much beloved brother.
The names of our deceased brethren and the Lodges to which they
belong are as follows :

0

California No. 1
William Crocker, died September 3, 1932.
Robert McMillan, died May 16, 1933.
Tuolumne No. 8
Nils L. Knudsen, died January 5, 1933.
Nevada No. 13.
John A. Curnow, died April 22, 1933.
Eureka No. 16
Robert F. Rooney, died December 21, 1932.
Washington No. 20
George W. McCoy, died June 26, 1933.
John J. McKinnon, died June 29, 1933.
Hawaiian No. 21
John G. Rothwell, died May 8, 1933.
Wallace R. Farrington, died October 5, 1933.

S~n Diego No. 35
John W. Thompson, died August 31, 1932.
Howard No. 37
Roy J. Schoen, died March 25, 1933.
Mount Moriah No. 44
Thomas C. Conmy, died May 30, 1933.
Illinoistown No. 51
George Edward Wesi, died December 12, 1932.
Santa Rosa No. 57
Henry C. Cline, died February 26, 1933.
Live Oak No. 61
John A. Park, died February 23, 1933.
Frederick G. Wight, died May 12, 1933.
Amador No. 65
James Harris, died October 21, 1932.
Forest No. 66
Ezra L. Crafts, died October 3, 1932.
Thomas J. Murray, died December 17, 1932.
Morning Star No. 68
Frank S. Israel, died September 26, 1932.
Enterprise No. 70
Dallas D. Green, died June 14, 1933.

GRAND LODGE OF CAJ..lFORNIA

650

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bear Mountain No. 76
Marius Hansen, died December 15, 1932.
Calaveras No. 78
George C. Graves, died May 20, 1933.
Humboldt No. 79
Thomas B. Cutler, died June 28, 1933.
Naval No. 87
Joseph E. Wilson, died November 9, 1932.
William H. Mitchell, died January 1, 1933.
Donald Munro, died July 21, 1933.
Henry Clay No. 95
William H. Gunsolus, died November 25, 1932.
Walter E. Downs, died March 17, 1933.
Chico No. 111
William J. Costar, died November 9, 1932.
Summit No. 112
Frank A. Morgan, died February 8, 1933.
Joseph L. Hocker, died February 13, 1933.
Francis L. Griffin, died April 20, 1933.
Eden No. 113
William A. Clark, died October 27, 1932.
Concord No. 117
Louis W. Matthias, died January 25, 1933.
Visalia No. 128
Ben M. Maddox, died May 9, 1933.
Darius E. Perkins, died April 3, 1933.
Woodbridge No. 131
Cralis Dexter, died July 2, 1933.
Vacaville No. 134
Sterling P. Dobbins, died June 3, 1933.
Valley No. 135
William E. Boroff, died January 1, 1933.
Pacific No. 136
.
George M. Perine, Past Grand Master, died October 6, 1933.
Crockett No. 139
Thomas Rowlands, died January 14, 1933.
Hugh McBirney, died June 19, 1933.
Curtis No. 140
Ernest B. Thompson, died March 23, 1933.
Grafton No. 141
Albertis Kimerer, died November 9, 1932.

Franklin No. 143
Alfred T. J. Reynolds, died February 13, 1933.
Oriental No. 144
Stroh G. Noyes, died July 31, 1933.
Redwood City No. 168
Gilman B. Merrill, died January 22, 1933.
Mission No. 169
William C. Oraway, died December 13, 1932.
Elk Grove No. 173
Isaac L. Freeman, died January 9, 1933.
Drytown No. 174
Amuel C. Boni, died November 1, 1932.
Antioch No. 175
Henry D . Franzen, died July 6, 1933.
Phoenix No. 178
George H. Seager, died November 28, 1932.
Mendocino No. 179
William Henry, died June 11, 1933.
Oakland No. 188
Don F . Harris, died June 5, 1933.
Mar.in No. 191
David Duncan, died October 23, 1932.
Santa Barbara No. 192
Winfield B. Metcalf, died July 30, 1933.
Ferndale No. 193
Ray H. Edwards, died October 17, 1932.
Wilmington No. 198
William H . Barker, died December 27, 1932.
Hartley No. 199
Albert M. Reynolds, died April 19, 1933.
Truckee No. 200
Charles R. McLellen, died August 29, 1932.
Charles H . Barton, died February 8, 1933.
Stanislaus No. 206
Benjamin F. Surryhne, died July 19, 1933.
Anaheim No. 207
E. H . Metcalf, died February 1, 1933.
A. S. Bradford, died April 1, 1933.
Friendship No. 210
Delos W . Smythe, died March 8, 1933.

651

652

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

South San Francisco No. 212
Richard Neilan, died April 20, 1933.
Oak Grove No. 215
Frank Billington, died March 17, 1933.
Doric No. 216
Ludwig M. Hoefler, died November 16, 1932.
Mosaic No. 218
·
Joseph 0. McKown, died April 27, 1933.
Solano No. 229
Henry D. Lazelle, died October 19, 1932.
North Butte No. 230
James T. Galbreath, died November 8 1932.
Marcus J. Bigelow, died June 8, 1933. '
Covelo No. 231
Charles H. Hurt, died August 8, 1932.
Harry S. Lovell, died November 11, 1932.
Callstoga No. 233
William K. Buxton, died September 9, 1932.
John W. Siemsen, died October 30, 1932.
Guadalupe No. 237
LeRoy F. McClellan, died April 28, 1933.
Santa Ana No. 241
James H. Hall, died January 10, 1933.
Alcatraz No. 244
William J. Lawry, died November 10, 1932.
Arthur R. Attebery, died June 6, 1933.
Laurel No. 245
William Watson, died December 5, 1932.
Pomona No. 246
Everett H. Welch, died October 13, 1932.
Alturas No. 248
John R. Bonner, died May 26, 1933.
Reading No. 2M
George H. Sechrist, died September 18, 1932.
Lodi No. 256
Charles M. Ferdun, died August 31, 1932.
Hesperian No. 264
William H. Tunnell, died September 8, 1932.
Pasadena No. 272
Frank Walton, died December 21, 1932.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Selma No. 277
John L. Mitchell, died May 2, 1933.
Paso Robles No. 286
Charles J. Trussler, died December 27, 1932.
Sidney E. B!etherton, died April 25, 1933.
East Gate No. 290
David Martin, died April 12, 1933.
Luke Hubbard, died June 28, 1933.
Santa Paula No. 291
Merrill I. Akins, died January 12, 1933.
Los Gatos No. 292
Moses F. Blank, died December 15, 1932.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Stephen S. Kent, died March 10, 1933.
Azusa No. 305
Samuel A. Ellis, died May 10, 1933.
Santa Monica No. 307
Victor R. McLucas, died July g, 1933.
Sisson No. 310
John B. Sollner, died January 5, 1933.
Temescal No. 314
William C. Barth, died February 17, 1933.
Alisa! No. 321
James H. Cope, died November 29, 1932.
Alhambra No. 322
Henry I. Hanscome, died June 1, 1933.
Corona No. 324
Robert L. Watson, died September 15, 1932.
William H. Holland, died May 29, 1933.
Long Beach No. 327
George C. Flint, died August 14, 1932.
Redondo No. 328
William J. Cleghorn, died December 15, 1932.
Joseph C. Gillespie, died December 27, 1932.
Pierce S. Venable, died January 16, 1933.
Valle de France No. 329
Urbain Taix, died May 7, 1933.
Pacific Grove No. 331
· Edwin S. Johnston, died January 16, 1933.
Carquinez No. 337
George Jones, died January 2, 1933.

653

654

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Starr King No. 344
George C. Wolfenden, died December 18, 1932.
Palo Alto No. 346
Charles Wm. Decker, died September 25, 1932.
Sequoia No. 349
James C. Gilbertson, died December 18, 1932.
Palestine No. 351
Arthur B. Copeland, died January 23, 1933.
Sunset No. 352
David M. Sutherland, died December 27, 1932.
Pinole No. 353
Edward W. Robinson, died January 19, 1933.
Presidio No. 354
Herman Locks, died December 8, 1932.
Mill Valley No. 356
James Newlands, Jr., died August 13, 1932.
Charles H. Huntoon, died December 31, 1932.
San Francisco No. 360
Hubert R. Stovel, died February 5, 1933.
South Pasadena No. 367
Walter T. Aitken, died October 10, 1932.
Gardena No. 372
W. E. McCarrell, died June 21, 1933.
Veteran No. 373
Thomas Price, died November 27, 1932.
Artesia No. 377
Fred H. Purdy, died November 9, 1932.
Orosi No. 383
Frank N. Bump, died July 8, 1933.
El Centro No. 384
Robert L. Graham, died March 5, 1933.
University No. 394
Gilman Bean, died May 8, 1933.
Fraternity No. 399
Raymond B. Leland, died May 5, 1933.
Bay View No. 401
Frank E. Davis, died December 25, 1932.
Glendora No. 404
Volney A. Spalding, died April 25, 1933.
Moneta No. 405
Charles M. Marleau, died July 10, 1933.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

La Mesa No. 407

Joseph A. Parks, died Fe.bruary 7, 1933.
Charter Rock No. 4-iO
Ernest S. Page, died October 13, 1932.
Arlington No. 414
Charles P. Lyndall, died April 27, 1933.
Holtville No. 425
Clarence H. Eckert, died April 19, 1933.
Midway No. 426
· Arthur H. Davis, died September 14, 1932.
San Dimas No. 428
Lewis A. Hawk, died September 28, 1932.
Lancaster Nb. 437
Warren E. Mills, died January 5, 1933.
Standard No. 440
George H. Wellington, died September 25, 1932.
Schofield No. 443
William A. Kinney, died November 7, 1932.
Morgan Hill No. 463
Andrew Mosegard, died March 14, 1933.
Center No. 465
Dennis Nelson, died October 6, 1932.
Thousand Oaks No. 478
Henry N. Bakken, died December 23, 1932.
Caledonia No. 486
Alexander I. Fraser, died October 6, 1932.
Patterson No. 488
Walter H. Anderson, died July 19, 1933.
Fremont No. 497
Ira E. Prosser, died October 27, 1932.
Palms No. 512
John S. Guthrie, died May 9, 1933.
La Jolla No. 518
Samuel T . Gillispie, Inspector, died June 23, 1933.
Ionic No. 520
Charles R. Craig, died December 1, 1932.
Bay City No. 526
Milton Davis, died October 21, 1932.
Park Boulevard No. 568
John McEwing, died August 13, 1932.

655

657

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

656

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

El Cajon Valley No. 576
Arthur L. Ballantyne, died September 8, 1932.
· Alexander Graham Bell No. 595
.
George W. G. Litherland, died December 11, 1932.
Seal Beach No. 616
James A. Graham, died February 6, 1933.
Southland No. 618
Walter J. Johnson, died March 22, 1933.
The Gardens No. 621
Mark M. Ludlow, died October 23, 1932.
Beacon of the West No. 628
Charles D. McPherson, died October 4, 1932.
Veritas No. 640
Louis T. Cranz, died July 25, 1933.
Crescenta Valley No. 652
Rory Q. MacDonald, died April 11, 1933.
Los Cerritos No. 674
Harry L. Cohn, died March 23, 1933.
The following were omitted from last year's report by the Secretaries
of the various Lodges:
Chico No. 111
Richard Phillips, died January 4, 1932.
Grafton No. 141
Robert H . Leathers, died July 22, 1931.
Ramona No. 457
Royal F. Richards, died July 14, 1930.
Grizzly No. 601
S. H . Crow, died July 21, 1932.

"There must be something after death
Behind the toil of man,
There must exist a God divine
Who's working out a plan.
And this brief journey that we know
As life, must really be
The gateway to a finer world
That some day we shall see."
Life would scarcely be worth the living if death were the end of all.
The Great Architect sets us to find out this plan, and work out as much
of it as possible in our short· year; and when our day is done, we feel
sure that He will not let it be the end.
"There is a mystic borderland that lies
Just past the limits of this work day world:
And it is peopled with those we met
And loved, a year, a month, a week, a day,
And parted from with aching hearts, yet knew
That through the distance we must lose the hold
Of hand with hand, and only clasp the thread
Of memory. But still so close we feel this land,
So sure we are that these same hearts are true,
That when in waking dreams there comes a call
That sets the threads of memory aglow,
We know that just by reaching out our hand
In written words of love, or book or flower,
The waiting hand will clasp our own once more
Across the silence in the same old way."
WM. H . PARCELS,
MAX A. PLUMB,
WILLIAM H . HOLBROOK,

Committee;
Song, "Crossing the Bar."

The virtues of good Masons who have answered the call of the Great
Architect leave us sweet memories and an inheritance of good examples.
These are among the most precious treasures of our Institution.
Man's life is too short to allow his full development in this earthly
life. Materially, he buds and blooms, and bears his fruit, but his soul
and spirit must require more time than this short span of life for its
fruition. Is it conceivable that this brief period ends all, and that our
lives then fade into nothingness?

658

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

Eulogy in Memoriam George Mairs. Perine
By Harry K. Wolff, Past Master, Pacific Lodge No. 136
Most Worshipful Gr.and Master of Masons of California, 0 fficer s and
Members of Grand Lodge, and Visiting Brothers:
In obedience to the command of this honorable body, this memorial
hour has been appropriately set aside during the present convocation as a
Masonic monument of respect and honor to the memory of our dearly
beloved brother, Past Grand Master George M. Perine, whose mortal
being passed from this earthly sphere on October 6, 1933. His entire life
was ever devoted to the promotion of the welfare and best interests of the
craft. May his soul rest in peace.
·
A great scholar in Masonry admonishes us :
"Death is the great teacher-stern, cold, irresistible-whom the collected might of the world cannot stay or ward off. The breath that, parting
from the lips of king or beggar, scarcely stirs the hushed air, cannot be
bought, or brought ·back for a moment, with the wealth of empires. What
a lesson is this, teaching our frailty and feebleness, and an Infinite Power
beyond us! It is a fearful lesson that never becomes familiar. It walks
through the earth in dread mystery, and lays its hands upon all. It is a
universal lesson that is read everywhere and by all men. Its message comes
every year and every day. The past years are crowded with its sad and
solemn mementoes; and death's finger traces its handwriting upon the
walls of every human habitation.
"It teaches us duty; to act our part well; to fulfill the work assigned
us. When one is dying, and after he is dead, there is but one question :
Has he lived well? There is no evil in death but that which life makes."
It is both fitting and wholesome that we, the living, should fondly and
reverently recall to mind the life and nobleness of character of our friend
and brother who has been called to his eternal reward. We would that the
world may see his good works and glorify not him but the Great Architect
of the Universe whose instrument he was. Imbued with this spirit, may
we translate into our own lives his exemplary character and exalted friendship, which should prove to us a nourishing source of strength, constantly
purifying ·our minds and inspiring the heart to nobler living and diviner
thinking.
Our beloved brother, Past Grand Master George M. Perine, rang
down the curtain of mortal existence at the mellow age of 81 years,
having lived a full and honorable life, truly·squared by the ideal tenets of
Freemasonry. He was raised to the sublime degree of a Master Mason
on June 25th, 1889, in Pacific Lodge No. 136, Free and Accepted Masons
of California. In the year 1892 he graced the Oriental Chair of his
mother Lodge, and served with dignity and honor to himself and to the

659

fraternity. Thereafter and in the month of October, 1907, he ornamented
this august body by officiating as Grand Master of the Masons of California, the highest honor that can be conferred upon any man at any time
by our fratern ity, and the obligations and responsibilities of which he fully
and admirably carried out in a true Masonic spirit. Subsequently, and in
the month of October, 1913, in recognition of the extraordinary and
valuable services rendered by him to the Masonic Fraternity, and to
Scottish Rite Masonry, in particular, and humanity in general he was
selected by the Supreme Council of the 33° for the Southern Jurisdiction
of the United States for the honorable degree of Knight Commander of
the Court of Honor, and on December 11th, 1915, he was crowned Honorary 33° member of the order.
Our friend and brother had many ennobling and lovable characteristics which, when viewed through the mirror of truth, prove that he lived
according to the pattern of the prophet of old who said, "I carry the
world in my heart." Brother Perine had the refreshing touch of a kindly
heart. He was imbued with a high sense of public duty, and was ardently
patriotic. He was not without a fair share of self-assertion, and yet he
was one of the most unselfish of men. He was by nature warm-hearted
and magnanimous. He exemplified the characteristics of a true Mason by
constantly abstaining from all profanity; he was temperate in all things;
. he dealt honestly with all men, and was always ready, willing and anxious
to help the distressed whithersoever dispersed-a true lover of his fellowman. He was a loyal and devoted husband, and a true friend.
More cannot, aye, more need not be said of any man. Let us who
are living emulate him.
Members of the craft:
Again our line has been broken ; again the vacant chair;
Again a true and loyal brother has left us for service over there.
Again we bow in sorrow1 but let us not despair,
For we shall meet-Tomorrow--0ur brother 'over there.
Yes, 'twill be but Tomorrow, and e'er we are aware
Till we shall all be leaving for servic~ over there. '
Oh, in that great Tomorrow, if for it we prepare,
We'll meet our absent brother and greet him over there!
Then farewell, friend and brother, your qualities so rare
Have fitted you for Heaven, and service over there.
You have the life immortal, we have the vacant chair;
Your heritage the richer, for God is over there.
With God and Heaven, and free from pain and care,
Who would not leave this mortal life for service over there?
So good-bye our dear, absent brother,
P: · G.' · M: · George M. Perine ; our sorrow we must bear
Until the grand reunion which awaits us over there.

660

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Eulogy in Memoriam Wallace Rider Farrington
By Herbert S. Bowen, Master, Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371

Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
It has become my sad duty to review briefly for you the life of our
friend and brother, Wallace Rider Farrington, who on October 5, 1933,
was raised to the celestial Lodge above.
Wallace Rider Farrington was born in Orono, Maine, May 3, 1871.
He was educated in the public schools and was graduated from the University of Maine in 1891 with the degree of Bachelor of Science.
In 1894 he went to Hawaii as managing editor of the Pacific Commercial Advertiser. He later affiliated with the Evening Bulletin as its editor
and subsequently became publisher of the present Honolulu Star Bulletin.
Wallace Rider Farrington was appoint&d Governor .of Hawaii by
President Hard.ing in June, 1921. He served in the highe~t office of the
Territory µntil 1929, when he was retired at his own request.
Governor Farrington's record of accomplishments is so brilliant that
time does not permit a complete review of them. Governor Farrington
was a civic minded, tireless worker for the good of the community in which
he lived. The Territory of Hawaii had a strong friend in Wallace Rider
Farrington, and he did much for the Territory; as Governor he was able
to get federal aid for his Territory, and he was instrumental in having
Congress acknowledge the intent of the Kuhio, which meant rehabilitation
for the Hawaiian race through homestead help.
The educational facilities of the Territory were also greatly increased
during the Farrington regime, and it was largely due to his efforts that
the College of Hawaii was raised to the standard of a university.
The present territorial budget system, the territorial retirement and
pensions systems are due directly to Brother Farrington's efforts.
The outside contacts of the territorial government were also greatly
developed under Governor Farrington, and it was during his regime that
Hawaii became the center of many of the outstanding affairs of the
Pacific in the way of international conferences, trade meetings and educational gatherings. As an honorary officer of the Pan-Pacific Union he did
much to encourage pleasant relations and promote better understanding
among the peoples of the Pacific.
To us, of course, his Masonic activities are particularly brilliant and
outstanding. He was a Past Master of Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie
No. 371, and at his death an officer of the Grand Lodge of California.
Governor Farrington was a deep student of the history of Masonry in
Hawaii and its progress there. He had an intimate personal knowledge
of most of the outstanding Masons of Hawaii and their Masonic activities.

661

Aside f~om his _P?litical and newspaper career, Mr. Farrington played
a large part m the c1~1c and s.oc~al life of Hawaii. He was presdient of the
Hono~ulu Merchants Association in 1913 and 1914 and assisted in the
founding
the ~onolulu Chamber of Commerce, which organization he
~erved as v1ce-pre~1dent until 1915. He served two terms on the Territorial
oard. o~ Educat10n and was chairman of the Territorial School Fund
Comn11ss1on from 1909 until 1911.

o!

0

. ?uring the World War he was a member of the War Relief Comm1ssron, served as one of the Advisory Committee of the American Red
Cross and was territorial dire~tor for the United States Boys' Working
;eserve. In 1921 he was chairman of the Executive Committee of the
ress Congress of the World held at Honolulu.
His splendid achievements for the Territory of Hawaii and its pea le
were done to the glo.ry of God, as Wallace Rider Farrington was a sinc:re
and ardent worker m the c~ntral Union Church of Honolulu.
. '('e have lost a kind and thoughtful friend, an outstanding citizen
a Pl 1.ar of th~ church, and a conscientious Mason. His many virtues wili
remam fresh m ?ur memories, however, and the kindness. service charit
~n? .tolerance which h<; practiced daily will remain in our ~inds a beautifui
ivmg monument to his ivemory.
'

Song, "Aloha."
Benediction, Grand Chaplain.
Sofo, "Taps," with trumpet obl1°gato b y ·
mount Lodge No. 435.
· Y ictor C. Kress, ] r., Fair-

At 12 :25 o'clock p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until
2 o'clock this afternoon.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

662

lJn "rauh 1£ohgr
AFTERN90N SESSION
Wednesday, October 11, 1933.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master presiding.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
EDUCATION
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California7
At our last communication the Grand Master was authorized to appo~t
a committee "To study the question of Masonic education and to report its
conclusions at the next communication."
The undersigned committee was appointed by our Grand Master pur.
suant thereto and respectfully presents herewith its report.
The conunittee begs to call your attention to the fact that all o.f its
e bers have had opportunity to consider the elements of an educational
;r;ram both from a theoretical and practical standpoint, by reason of the
fact that all of them have at one time or another been members of former
educational committees.
The committee has approached the study of the question of Masonic
educat.ion in the light of the experience of its members and also by reason
of contacts with members of our order during the past . several mo.nths.
The committee has likewise e.x amined programs of educat10nal comm.1tt~es
in other jurisdictions. We find very little in the programs of othe~ JUr~s­
dictions which differs from those heretofore in operation in Cahfo~ma.
By reason of the intimate contact which the men:ibers of .this committee
have had with educational programs in the past, this co~1ttee feels th~t
it may safely draw certain deductions from such observation and ex~n­
ence, and these deductions now represent the conclusions of the comm!ttee
on the question involved.
They are as follows :
.
1. The existing members probably do not desire to expend any considerable amount of time on educational programs as such.
2. The members are willing to receive information but, ~ith the exception
of intermitte~t groups, are not anxious to work for tt.
3. The officers, generally speaking, have enthusiastic intention~ with respect to an educational program but apparently do not follow it through.

663

4. When Grand Lodge or Grand Lodge officers lead or direct with respect
to the programs, the subordinate Lodge officers follow the same.
5. Notwithstanding the probable attitude of present membership above
referred to, it does not follow that nothing should be done by Grand
Lodge and that all programs of educational activity should be left to
the Lodge; on the contrary, it would appear that although certain types
of programs, such as the presentation of papers and of speakers, may
be left to the Lodges, in the matter of the type of program which might
well be used by every Lodge such program should be required by Grand
Lodge.
6. The candidate is the logical individual with whom to start and through
whom, .i n the course of years to come, to build up a more extensively
informed body of members. This committee feels that instruction and
information in addition to and in elaboration of the present instruction
and information furnished by the ritual is desirable.
7. A program of instruction to candidates would succeed if:
a. It were made a prerequisite for the candidates' advancement.
b. By direction of Grand Lodge, the Grand Lecturer and through him
the Inspectors and Masters were made no less responsible for the
program than they ~re for other of their present duties.
8. Such a program need entail no considerable expense, if indeed any at
all.
·
Your committee, of course, is aware of the many other phases of an
educational program but feels that all such phases other than that of
instruction to candidates should be left to the individual Lodges.
The foregoing represents the "conclusions" of this committee, based
upon its study, observation and experience. For the purpose, however, of
presenting the matter for action by Grand Lodge, your committee recommffi~:
·
a. Adopting the principle of voluntary action by subordinate Lodges on
. all phases of an educational program except that of instruction to
candidates.
b. Adopting the principle of a program of instruction to candidates, and
authorizing and d·i recting the Grand Master to appoint a committee to
formulate and promulgate such program:
1. Making the use of such program compulsory and requiring proficiency as a prerequisite to advancement.
2. Charging the Grand Lecturer, Inspectors and Masters with the
duty of instituting and executing the program.
c. That no program as to candidates dependent on voluntary execution by
subordinate Lodges be adopted, and hence

664

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF. CALIFORNIA

d. Unless the compulsory method be adopted, no action be taken as to
such compulsory program; and
e. If · the compulsory method as to candidates be approved, then appropriate legislation with respect to amendments to the proper sections
of our constitution be adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
.

IRVING MAGNES,
IRA F. THOMPSON,
JESSE M . WHITED,

LEE T . MULLEN,
A. HEBER WINDER,
Committee.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CLANDESTINE
MASONRY
To the M. ·. w. ·. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Clandestine Masonry begs leave to report as
follows:
In our report of 1932, your committee enumerated ten central organizations pretending to be Masonic.
We have not obsered much activity among the Filipino Lodges. Their
members are largely transient at their places of residence, and consequently
their Lodges may be very active at one time and at another dormant.
The clandestine negro Grand Lodge called "M.'. W .'. Hiram of
Tyre,'; which was formerly M.'. w:. R. J. Fletcher Grand Lodge, is
practically dead. We have been unable to discover any signs of its activity.
The other negro Grand Lodge known as the "M.' · W.' · Sovereign
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.,'' also known as "Prince Hall Masons,'' has
maintained its existence, held its annual communication, though many of
its Lodges are in precarious condition.
The largest body of clandestine Masons in California heretofore reported as "Rito Nacional Mejicano" has had great difficulty in holding
its Lodges together. A number of its subordinate Lodges have passed out
of existence, and we are informed that an attempted reorganization is
being brought about. It is said that this Rite has yielded up its charter
from the Grand Orient of Mexico City and is attempting to organize a
purely independent Rite in California. The former Inspector General,
Professor Cristobal Aguillon, has resigned. His successor is one Isaac
Romero of Tia Juana and San Diego. We are further informed that

666

Professor Aguillon is urging the reorganization of these Mexican Lodges
into an independent American Rite and that they have held a meeting in
the City of Los Angeles on October 6th and 7th for this purpose. We
have no advice as yet as to the result.
Much fragmentary information has come to your committee, but we
have been unable to get very much that is concrete and specific of the
activity of certain isolated Masonic bodies. For instance, we are informed
that a clandestine body is operating in Los Angeles known as "University
Lodge, F. & A. M. No. 106."
Also, a negro Lodge known as "Sunset No. 26" is operating in Los
Angeles. · We have been unable to learn its affiliation, but it is probably
active in the neighborhood of San Diego.
A benefit certificate issued by a M.'. W.'. King Solomon Grand Lodge
of Ancient and Accepted York Masons of the State of California has
been handed to your committee. This is said to be operative in the City
of Oakland, and the beneficiary certificate bears date, September 13, 1926.
This Lodge may not now be operative.
The Co-Masonic Lodges have continued to be quite active. A district
meeting of all of their organizations was held in Ojai, April 23rd. The
Ojai Lodge of this order was organized in 1926, and the present Master
is Mrs. Mary Goldy, with Mrs. Susan Cooper as Senior Warden. and
Mrs. Diana Gillespie as Junior Warden. A chapter of Rose Croix is
headed by Mrs. Grace Hall. Mr. John Royne of Ojai is the District
Deputy over all the Lodges of sout~ern California.
While most of the clandestine Lodges heretofore reported upon are
dormant at the present time, an improvement in economic conditions will
undoubtedly revive their activity. Therefore, we believe that your committee should be continued and further watchfulness maintained.
WILLIAM A. SCHREIDER,

Chairman;
]OHN APERS.

The report and recommendation to continue the committee were adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Name of
Lodge

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M:. w:: Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Returns herewith submits its annual report:
In the report of the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary will be found
the complete statistics of the gains and losses for the year. The gains in
membership by initiation, by affiliation and by restoration to membership
have decreased very much, while there have been increases in the numbers
lost by withdrawals and by suspension for non-payment of dues.
The membership, as of July 31, 1933, is 136,694, which shows loss

a

~~~~~

.

We would draw attention to the fact that 1,110 withdrew from membership and only 618 affiliated from California Lodges, showing that 492
h~ve dropped their membership.
· We would also point out that the report for the year 1932 shows 3,173
members were suspended for non-payment of dues, while this year's report
shows only 302 were restored to membership; less than 10 per cent. This
may be one of the results of mass production. Whatever the cause, the
figures are worthy of serious consideration.
It is to be noted that while the net loss of membership for the year
.
1s 3,942, the loss from suspension for non-payment of dues is 3 992 which
is 50 more than the total net loss. This is a tremendous wasta~e a~d furnishes grave food for thought.
. Lodge members are still feeling the effects of the depression, as
shown by 7,904 having had their dues remitted. But it shows charity is
not dead. There is hope.
Herewith follows the list of Lodges and the amounts due from each:
Name of
Lodge

667

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

666

Number

California ........................ 1
Western Star .................. 2
Tehama ............................ 3
Benicia ............................ 5
Tuolumne ........................ 8
Cor.inthian ...................... 9
San Jose .......................... 10
Yount .............................. 12
Nevada ............................ 13
Temple ............................ 14
Eureka ............................ 16
La Parfaite Union ........ 17
Mt. Shade ...................... 18

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

$404.40
48.80
275.80
96.80
135.80
198.40
274.40
153.20
89.20
80.40
123.40
104.40
27.60

Total

$ 75.00
25.00
100.00
25.00
100.00
100.00
100:00
50.00
75.00
75.00
25.00
25.00
75.00

$1,303.15
171.30
929.55
313.05
502.05
684.65
916.90
511.95
335.45
304.15
403.40
340.65
141.35

$494.25
58.50
332.25
114.75
159.75
231.75
325.50
185.25
102.75
89.25
153.00
126.75
23.25

$329.50
39.00
221.50
76.50
106.50
154.50
217.00
123.50
68.50
59.50
102.00
84.50
15.50

Number

San Joaquin .................... 19
Washington .................... 20
Hawaiian ...................:.... 21
Occidental ...................... 22
Madison .......................... 23
Mariposa ........................ 24
Georgetown .................... 25
El Dorado ...................... 26
Trinity ............................ 27
Gol<jen 'Gate .................... 30
Gold Hill ........................ 32
Ophir ····- ·························· 33
San Diego ...................... 35
Howard .......................... 37
Santa Cruz ...................... 38
Sacramento ····-·············· 40
Martinez .......................... 41
Los Angeles .................... 42
Hiram .............................. 43
Mt. Moriah .................... 44
Crescent .......................... 45
Texas .............................. 46
Forbestown .................... 50
IUinoistown .................... 51
Suisun .............................. 55
Volcano............................... 56
Santa Rosa ...................... 57
Union .............................. 58
Gravel Range ................ 59
Plumas ............................ 60
Live Oak .......................... 61
Natoma ............................ 64
Amador .......................... 65
Forest .............................. 66
Morning Star ................ 68
Enterprise ........................ 70
Bear Mt. ........................ 76
Calaveras ........................ 78
Humboldt ........................ 79
Ione .................................. 80
Yolo ................................ 81
Vesper .............................. 84
Naval · .............................. 87

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

361.40
331.60
226.80
549.00
100.60
105.80
33.00
113.20
49.80
472.80
63.00
25.80
372.60
115.60
182.80
311.40
145.80
471.80
25.80
311.20
89.60
28.60
39.00
49.00
86.00
19.80
222.40
334.20
23.40
69.00
584.60
80.00
47.40
33.00
254.60
136.80
47.40
55.80
221.40
47.80
39.60
110.40
395.60

125.00
175.00
100.00
275.00
50.00
150.00
50.00
50.00

434.25
390.75
268.50
630.00
120.75
103.50
33.75
136.50
62.25
568.50
78.75
32.25
428.25
143.25.
216.00
385.50
159.75
568.50
32.25
376.50
102.00
34.50
41.25
56.25
105.00
21.00
269.25
399.00
21.75
75.00
709.50
90.00
59.25
37.50
312.00
159.75
59.25
69.75
273.00
54.75
49.50
130.50
435.75

289.50
260.50
179.00
420.00
80.50
69.00
22.50
91.00
41.50
379.00
52.50
21.50
285.50
95.50
144.00
257.00
106.50
379.00
21.50
251.00
68.00
23.00
27.50
37.50
70.00
14.00
179.50
266.00
14.50
50.00
473.00
60.00
39.50
25.00
208.00
106.50
39.50
46.50
182.00
36.50
33.00
87.00
290.50

125.00

275.00
25.00
50.00
25.00
125.00
100.00
100.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
100.00
125.00
50.00
75.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
75.QO
75.00

25.00
25.00
75.00
400.00

T otal

1,210.15
i ,157.85
774.30
1,874.00
351.85
428.30
139.25
390.70
153.55
1,545.30
194.25
79.55
1,361.35
379.35
592.80
978.90
537.05
1,519.30
79.55
1,038.70
334.60
86.10
157.75
• 192.75
286.00
79.80
771.15
1,124.20
109.65
269.00
1,867.60
280.00
146.15
120.50
849.60
478~05

146.15
172.05
701.40
164.05
122.10
402.90
1,521.85

668

PROCEEDINGS OF TBE

Name of
Lodge

Number

Roses Bar ........................ 89
North Star ---------------------- 91
St. Helena ······················ 93
Henry Clay
9S
Hornitos ···········--···-·······-- 98
Yosemite ·---.. ................. 99
Clay ------------·---------------------101
Oroville ----------- -------------103
.. __________ ________ 104
Lexington
__ __________________ ________ __ 1()6
Arcata
_____________________110
Pajaro
Chico -----------·----·----·----111
Summit -------··-·-----.. -----.-.112
Eden ----------·-·--·------------ --113
Concord ............ .:.............. 117
Clinton ------·----·--·----------... 119
Fidelity -------------·--------------120
Alamo ----------------·····--··-··--122
Sotoyome ..... ___________________ 123
Table Mt. -----------·------------124
LaFayette ........................ 126
Hermann ........................ lZi'
Visalia .................. :........... 128
Nicolaus .......................... 129
Woodbridge ______.......:...... 131
Sincerity .. __________________ ______ 132
Vacaville --------------............ 134
Valley --------------------------.... 135
Pacific --------------------.. ------.. 136
Crockett ...,... __________ ________ 139
Curtis ____________.. ____ .. ,, ........ 140
ooo o o o o o o o O O o o o o o o H

---~--

Grafton -----------------........... 141
Franklin .......................... 143
Oriental ........... ---·-----------144
Vitruvius ........................ 145
Abell .................... __,_________146
Eel River ............... ,........ 147
Lassen .............................. 149
Molino .............................. 150
Woodland ........................ 156
Keystone .......................... 161
Harmony ........................ 164
Excdsi9r ,.., .• ,, .... ,., .., ..., ... 16<i

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

24.00
31.20
60.60
32.80
41.40
140.00
3S.40
152.60
96.40
126.80
lSS.40
234.40
26.40
131.80
161.80
23.40
399.60
78.40
103.60
57.60
114.20
164.80
19S.20
S6.40
70.60
68.40
105.00
4S.80
437.20
453.80
40.20
36.80
51.40
289.80
52.20
109.60
110.00
117.20
84.20
151.40
23.60
12.00
346.00

30.00
31.50
68.25
39.75
Sl.7S
168.7S
44.2S
184.50
lll .7S
148.SO
186.75
269.2S
29.25
1S9.75
197.ZS
29.25
488.2S
93.00
128.25
68.ZS
136.50
193.SO
222.7S
66.7S
83.ZS
78.00
120.00
Sl.00
530.ZS
531.00
50.25
39.75
63.00
339.75
57.75
124.50
127.50
136.50
95.25
179.25
23.25
11.25
416.ZS

20.00
21.00
45.SO
26.50
34.SO
112.50
29.SO
123.00
74.SO
99.00
124.SO
179.50
19.SO
106.SO
131.50
19.SO
32S.SO
62.00
. 8S.50
45.SO
91.00
129.00
148.50
44.50
SS.SO
52.00
80.00
34.00
353.50
3S4.00
33.SO
26.50
42.00
226.50
38.50
83.00
8S.OO
91.00
63.SO
119.50
15.SO
7.50
277.50

669

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
$25.00
H ome Tax

S0.00
S0.00

2S.OO
25.00
2S .OO
S0.00
50.00
17S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
150.00
S0.00
2S.OO
25.00
25.00
S0.00
17S.OO
2S.OO
25.00
S0.00
75.00
25.00
100.00
17S.OO
S0.00
25.00
125.00
S0.00
50.00
75.00
S0.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
2S.OO
75.00

Total

74.00
133.70
224.3S
99.0S
127.6S
446.25
109.15
48S.IO
307.6S
424.30
Sl6.6S
8S8.15
100.lS
398.0S
SlS.SS
72.15
1,363.35
283.40
342.3S
196.35
366.70
S37.30
741.4S
192.65
234.3S
248.40
380.00
155.80
1,420.95
1,513.80
123.9S
1S3.05
181.40
981.05
198.45
367.10
397.SO
394.70
317.95
550.15
87.35
SS.75
1,114.75

Name of
Lodge

.

Number

\
Alameda ---:··----.. ·----------·-·:
Redwood City ·--··---------'Mission .......- ......- ..........-1
Elk Grove ·-·-------~-----------113
__________________________ li4
Drytown
Antioch ------·----·----------------liS
Phoenix ---------------------:..... 178
Mendocino ·---- ----------------119
Petaluma ----·---·--·--------.. --.. 180
Russian River .. ,---- --~---- -181
______________________ 182
Arbuckle
Clear Lake ·---·-----------------183
Sierra Valley ______ ____________ 184

Claiborne ....-----·----------------185
Evening Star ····-·-·----·---.. 186
_______________________________187
Keith
__________________ ________ 188
Oakland
Northern Light _____________J90
_____________________________191
Marin
Santa Barbara ________________ 192
Ferndale ·.......................... 193
Mt. View ---·-··-.....:......... 194
Buckeye ......... ·----------------·.195
San Simeon _____________ _____ __ 196
____________________ 198
Wilmington
..............
______________ 199
Hartley
____________________ _______ .20()
Truckee
Silveyville ______ .... _. ____________ 201
____________ ____________202
Pentalpha
Confidence ---------------------·203
Salinas ------------------------------204
______________________________ 205
Olivet
____ .. ___ ________ ___ ____2()6
Stanislaus
Anaheim -------------------·-·-.. .207
Rio Vista ........................208
King David's ..................209
Friendship ----·-------------------21()
______________________211
San Benito
South San Francisco......212
San Buenaventura ..........214
Oak Grove ·---------------------215
Doric ..... _________________________ ..216
Monterey ---------·-·------·-------217

Home
General
Home
Fund Maintenl!11ce Building

86.40
17S.80
45S.60
67.20
13.20
94.80
282.40
89.40
18S.40
80.60
S3.00
31.40
22.80
43.20
27.00
97.80
S42.60
48.80
289.40
177.80
91.20
120.60
63.60
9S.60
199.80
94.80
7S.20
79.20
397.20
21.60
172.40
62.20
192.60
192.20
S3.60
180.40
346.80
92.80
167.40
138.80
358.00
365.80
113.00

108.00
212.2S
S5S.7S
80.2S
16.SO
114.7S
321.75
ll l.7S
224.25
79.SO
63.75
36.7S
28.SO
42.7S
33.7S
122.2S
664.50
58.SO
344.2S
204.7S
114.00
147.00
7S.7S
75.7S
227.2S
114-7S
87.7S
99.00
474.00
23.2S
198.00
72.75
233.25
222.75
64.SO
213.00
399.75
107.2S
205.50
167.2S
423.7S
429.7S
120.00

72.00
141.50
370.SO
53.SO
11.00
76.SO
214.SO
74.50
149.50
S3.00
42.SO
24.SO
19.00
28.SO
22.SO
81.SO
443.QO
39.00
229.SO
136.SO
76.00
98.00

so.so
so.so

lSl.SO
76.SO
58.SO
66.00
316.00
15.50
132.00
48.50
155.50
148.50
43.00
142.00
266.50
71.50
137.00
111.50
282.50
286.50
80.00

$25.00
Home Tax

S0.00
7S.OO
25.00
2S.OO
lS0.00
7S.OO
12S.OO

7S.OO

7S.OO
100.00
125.00
S0.00
2S .OO
27S.OO
lS0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
25.00
lS0.00
2S.OO
100.00
2S.OO
25.00
75.00
7S.OO
27S.OO
7S.OO
25.00
50.00
lS0.00
150.00
12S.OO

Total

266.40
S79.SS
l,456.8S
22S.9S
40.70
311.0S
968.6S
27S.6S
634.IS
338.10
1S9.2S
92.6S
70.30
189.4S
83.ZS
301.SS
l,72S.10
146.30
963.IS
644.0S
281.20
41S.60
214.8S
496.8S
728.SS
311.0S
271.4S
269.20
1,337.20
85.3S
602.40
208.45
606.35
638.45
161.10
610.40
1,288.05
346.SS
534.90
467.SS
1,214.25
1,232.0S
438.00

670

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

671

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Name of
Lodge

Number

Mosaic ..............................218
Speranza Italiana ..........219
Downey ............................220
Inyo ····-···························.221
Roseville ····-··········-·······.222
Bakersfield ......................224
Brooklyn ..........................225
San Mateo ..........:..........226
Athens ..............................228
Solano -··-························229
North Butte ....................230
Covelo ····-····-·················.231
Janesville ............•.............232
Calistoga ··········-···········:..233
Hope ................................234
Surprise Valley ..............235
Hill's Ferry ....................236
Guadalupe ........................237
Colusa ..............................240
Santa Ana ---··············-····241
Magnolia .............:...........242
Eucalyptus ················-···243
Alcatraz ··················-·····244
Laurel .............................245
Pomona ............................246
Fresno ..............................247
Alturas ............................248
Adin .................................250
Landmark .......................253
Reading ...........................254
Welcome ..........................255
Lodi -································256
Penryhn ············-·············258
Evergreen ........................259
King Solomon's ....•.......260
Tuscan ............................261
Lompoc ·-·····················-··262
Hesperian ........................264
Orland ..............................265
North East ......................266
Galt ····-················-·········.267
Durant ..............................268
Olive Branch ..................269

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Buildi11g

$25.00
Home Tax

82.20
255.80
132.80
46.40
155.40
267.80'
378.00
147.40
68.80
252.60
75.20
22.20
35.40
54.80
49.00
42.60
53.80
40.40
93.60
265.40
153.20
127.20
322.00
96.20
216.20
337.60
76.00
38.60
54.00
111.80
77.80
171.80
67.80
313.00
458.00
60.20
82.20
153.80
76.20
39.80
49.80
400.40
118.20

50.00
200.00
150.00
25.00

95.25
291.00
144.75
55.50
194.25
317.25
446.25
175.50
81 .00
308.25
80.25
27.75
44.25
66.00
56.25
53.25
62.25
44.25
117.00
318.00
166.50
147.75
397.50
114.00
241.50
398.25
90.00
45.75
67.50
129.75
92.25
204.75
84.75
375.00
558.75
65.25
99.00
178.50
84.00
39.75
51.00
494.25
132.75

63.50
194.00
96.50
37.00
129.50
211.50
297.50
117.00
54.00
205.50
53.50
18.50
29.50
44.00
37.50
35.50
41.50
29.50
78.00
212.00
111.00
98.50
265.00
76.00
161.00
265.50
60.00
30.50
45.00
86.50
61.50
136.50
56:50
250.00
372.50
43.50
66.00
119.00
56.00
26.50
34.00
329.50
88.50

125.00
150.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
100.00

25.00
50.00
25.00
125.00
150.00
. 125.00
25.00
175.00
200.00

75.00
75.00
125.00
75.00
100.00
25.00
125.00
75.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
100.00

Total

290.95
940.80
524.05
163.90
479.15
921.55
1,271.75
514.90
253.80
816.35
308.95
68.45
109.15
164.80
167.75
131.35
207.55
139.15
288.60
920.40
580.70
498.45
984.50
311.20
793.70
1,201.35
226.00
114.85
166.50
403.05
231.55
588.05
209.05
1,063.00
1,464.25
268.95
272.20
576.30
291.20
156.05
159.80
1,249.15
439.45

Name of
Lodge

\

umber

Snow Mountain .............271
Pasadena ..........................272
Anchor ····-························ZJ3
Arroyo ················-···········Zl-4
Oakdale - ··"'····-···············.275
Selma ··········-····-····-·······:m
So. California ................278
Hanford ··········-·············Z79
Madera ............................280
Mt. Shasta ......................281
Callayomi ........................282
South West ····-··············283
San Miguel ......................285
Paso Robles ....................286
Winnedumah ····-···········2£,7
Maxwell ..........................288
Elsinore ·········-················.289'
East Gate ........................290
Santa Paula ....................291
Los Gatos .:......................292
Orange Grove ................293
Traver ..............................294
Mt. Jackson ....................295
Silver Gate .......................296
Dunsmuir .......•,...............297
Liberty ...........................299
Redlands ........................-300
Ontario ············-··············301
Santa Lucia ....................302
Porterville ......- ..~ ..........303
Reedley ............................304
Azusa ····-·········--·~············305
Ashlar .................:............306
Santa Monica ................307
Monrovia ........................308
Delano .............•................309
Sisson ··························--··310
Los Banos ..:.....................312
Tehachapi ........................313
Temescal ..................•........314
Norwalk ·····················-·-.315
Sanger ................•.............316
Fallbrook ........................317

Home
Home
General
Fund Maintenance Building

21.00
368.20
196.80
67.60
69.20
103.80
380.40
94.40
112.00
37.20
34.80
114.00
42.00
72.60
79.60
39.00
48.80
523.80
189.40
138.80
115.40
70.20
87.80
406.60
131.20
140.40
226.60
106.40
67.20
183.40
89.40
111.40
101.20
175.80
165.40
109.00
38.80
82.20
98.20
88.20
81.80
115.60
45.20

26.25
440.25
238.50
· 60.75
84.00
129.75
468.00
104.25
138.75
42.75
39.75
116.25
52.50
83.25
94.50
45.00
54.75
636.00
224.25
159.75
141.75
87.75
99.75
432.00
155.25
171.75
263.25
126.75
80.25
205.50
104.25
126.75
117.75
212.25
190.50
127.50
43.50
95.25
110.25
106.50
92.25
120.75
50.25

17.50
293.50
159.00
40.50
56.00
86.50
312.00
69.50
92.50
28.50
26.50
77.50
35.00
55.50
63.00
30.00
36.50
424.00
149.50
106.50
94.50
58.50
66.50
288.00
103.50
114.50
175.50
84.50
53.50
137.00'
69.50
84.50
78.50
141.50
127.00
85.00
29.00
63.50
73.50
71.00
61.50
80.50
33.50

$25.00
Home Tax

125.00
50.00
125.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
175.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
75.00
150.00
100.00
75.00
100.00
500.00
25.00
25.00
150.00
25.00
25.00
175.00
50.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
175.00
25.00
25.00
50.00
75.00
25.00
75.00
125.00

Total

64.75
1,226.95
644.30
293.85
20').20
320.05
1,185.40
343.15
393.25
133.45
126.05
482.75
129.50
261.35
262.10
139.00
215.05
1,733.80
663.15
480.05
351.65
216.45
354.05
1,626.60
414.95
451.65
815.35
342.65
225.95
700.90
313.15
422.65
347.45
554.55
657.90
346.50
136.30
290.95
356.95
290.70
310.55
441.85
123.95

672
Name of
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Number

Emmanuel ·--············-.... .318
Hollenbeck ······-----...........319
South Gate ....... _.;...........32!l
Alisal ................................321
Alhambra ........................322
Whittier .......... _,,_, .........323
Corona .............. - .............32'4
Consuelo ... ,.................... _J2S
Needles ............................326
Long Beach ....................3'ZJ
Redondo ..... ;:.....................328
Vallee de France ............ 329
Kilauea ............................330
Pacific Grove ..................331
San Pedro ...................... 332
Alta ..................................333
Covina ............. ;................334
West Gate ......................335
Fruitvale ..........................336
Carquinez ..........................137
San Jacinto .................. _.. 338
Fullerton .... ;.....................339
Oxnard ........... :................ 341
San Fernando ................ 343
Start' King ......................344
Brentwood ...................... 345
Pafo Alto .:.,,.. ,................346
McKinley ..................... :.. 347
San Bernardino .............. 348
Sequoia ....................... :.... 349
Palestine ..........................351
Sunset ..............................352
Pinole ..............................353
Presidio ............................354
Hotfywood ..................... :355
Mill Valley ......................356
Buena Park ...,................357
Golden State ..................358
Loyalton ..........................359
San Francisco ................360
Fort Bragg ....................361
Charity ............................362
Berkeley ..........................363

Hoi

General
Home
Fund Maintenance Bui! ng

43.80
857.00
407.00
73.40·
250.00
291.40
361.60
92.40
137.00
373.80
149.60
88.60
136.40
107.20
355.00
32.00
149.80
452.20
478.80·
99.20
47.00
234.80
149.20
162.60
384.20
74.20
289.20
186.40
252.00
550.60
355.00
300.80
88.40
383.80
631.20
198.80
84.20
611.00
39.00
245.80
58.20
64.20
355.40

54.75
1,038.75
483.75
81.75
300.00
355.50
428.25
111.75
161.25
463.50
173.25
105.75
160.50
117.75
412.50
33.75
174.75
519.00
557.25
110.25
56.25
283.50
174.00
184.50
462.75
80.25
327.75
228.00
292.50
672.00
431.25
351.00
96.75
459.75
751.50
246.00
99.00
735.00
48.75
287.25
72.75
76.50
419.25

I

I

I

I

I

6~2.50

673

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$25.00
Home Tax

36.50
322.50
54.50
200.00
237.00
285.50
74.50
107.50
309.00
115.50
70.50
107.00
78.50
275.00
22.50
116.50
346.00
371.50
73.50
37.50
189.00
116.00
123.00
308.50
53.50
218.50
152.00
195.00
448.00
287.50
234.00
64.50
306.50
501.00
164.00
66.00
490.00
32.50
191.50
48.50
51.00
279.50

/

250.00
225.00
75.00
125.00
125.00
225.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
125.00
50.00
100.00
325.00
225.00
100.00
75.00
75.00
100.00
125.00
100.00
225.00
25.00
100.00
125.00
125.00
150.00
100.00
150.00
300.00
25.00
50.00
125.00
125.00
25.00
200.00

Total

135.05
2,838.25
1,438.25
284.65
875.00
1,008.90
1,300.35
303.65
480.75
1,171.30
513.35
264.85
478.90
403.45
1,167.50
138.25
541.05
·1,642.20
1,632.55
382.95
140.75
782.30
514.20
570.10
1,280.45
. 307.95
1,060.45
591.40
839.50
1,795.60
1,198.75
1,035.80
349.65
1,300.05
2,183.70
633.80
299.20
1,961.00
120.25
849.55
179.45
216.70
1,254.15

Name of
Lodge

Home
Fund Maintenance Building Home Tax
~umber General

Willits .............................. ~
Las Palmas .................... JIJti
South Pasadena ............ 361
Unity ................................368
Ocean Park .................... 369
Amity ................................ 37<1'
le Progres de l'Oceanie .. 371
Gardena ............................J72
Veteran ............................ 373
Jewel ................................374
Richmond ........................375
Francis Drake ................ 376
Artesia .............................. :r17
Mizpah ............................378
Fillmore ..........................379
Huntington Beach ......... 380
Oceanside ........................381'
Highland Park ..............382
Orosi ................................383
El Centro ........................384
Dinuba .............................. 385
Coalinga ..........................387
Parnassus ........................388
Palos Verdes .................. 389
Imperial ..........................390
East Belt ........................391
West Lake ......................392
Balder .............................. 393
University ........................ 394
Turlock ............................395
Apollo ..............................396
Rising Light .................... 397
Fraternity ........................399
Burlingame ..................... .400
Bay View ........................4m
Brawley ............................ 402
Yerba Buena .................. 40'3
Glendora ..........................404
Moneta ............................405
Burbank ..........................406
La Mesa ..........................407
Sierr~ Madre ................ ..468
Honolulu .......................... 409

89.80
410.00
328.20
249.80
205.20
292.40
234.60
100.20
124.40
93.40
400.20
117.40
62.40
292.40
102.00
178.80
95.20
300.00
65.20
140.60
107.80
168.40
412.40
337.40
42.40
40.20
659.60
341.40
386.40
96.20
252.40
308.80
258.60
257.20
217.00
82.20
258.40
69.40
421.20
147.60
96.80
45.60
153.00

99.75
480.00
387.75
298.50
219.00
351.75
267.00
114.00
145.50
115.50
474.00
134.25
78.00
359.25
123.75
204.75
95.25
352.50
69.00
165.75
129.75
201.75
490.50
404.25
48.00
46.50
735.75
408.00
445.50
95.25
295.50
362.25
308.25
301.50
262.50
99.00
295.50
81.75
492.75
162.00
92.25
57.00
183.75

Home

$25.00

66.50
320.00
258.50
199.00
146.00
234.50
178.00
76.00
97.00
77.00
316.00
89.50
52.00
239.50
82.50
136.50
63.50
235.00
46.00
110.50
86.50
134.50
327.00
269.50
32.00
31.00
490.50
272.00
297.00
63.50
197.00
241.50
205.50
201.00
175.00
66.00
197.00
54.50
328.50
108.00
61.50
38.00
122.50

75.00
225.00
200.00
100.00
225.00
75.00
175.00
75.00
75.00
175.00
100.00
50.00
75.00
150.00
175.00
125.00
100.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
150.00
125.00
50.00
25.00
800.00
200.00
225.00
150.00
150.00
200.00
75.00
175.00
50.00
25.00
175.00
225.00
175.00
200.00
50.00

Total

331.05
1,435.00
1,174.45
847.30
795.20
953.65
854.60
365.20
441.90
285.90
1,365.20
441.15
192.40
941.15
383.25
670.05
428.95
1,012.50
280.20
466.85
349.05
554.65
1,379.90
1,136.15
172.40
142.70
2,685.85
1,221.40
l,353.90
404.95
894.90
1,112.55
847.35
934.70
704.50
272.20
925.90
205.65
1,467.45
592.60
450.55
140.60
509.25

674

PROCEEmNGS OF THE

Name of

Lodge

i.

General
Home
Ho
Number Fund Maintenance Bui ·

Charter Rock ................410
Perris -··············-···········...411
Calexico ············-··········-412
Waucoba .......................-413
Arlington ····--··-············414
Silver Trowel ····-········..415
Lindsay ..............•.............416
Clovis ······-··--·--··············.417
Elysian ····--··-···········-·--418
Upland -··························419
Kerman ····-······················420
Inglewood ......................- 421
Eagle Rock ......................422
York ..............................-423
Exeter ········-••·d·•···········-424
Holtville ..........................425
Midway ····-····-··········-··..426
Chino Valley ..................427
San Dimas ......................428
Pittsburg ....•.................-429
McCloud ····-····················430
Alpha .............................. -431
Hammonton ....................433
Maricopa ........................-434
Fairmount ........................435
Claremont ........................436
Lancaster ...................... -437
Acacia ..............................438
Tyrian ················-············439
Standard ..........................440
Coronado ··········-··············441
Blackmer ...:..................-442
Schofield ........•.................443
Carpinteria ....:..• _............444
Wilshire ····-····················445
La Puente -······················446
Torrance ····-······'············-447
Mt. Diablo ......................448
Park ..................................449
Van Nuys ........................450
Montebello ......................451
San Pasqual ................... .452
Bethlehem ........................4S3

288.60
S0.40
9S.20
21.20
193.60
209.60
90.20
142.00
284.40
90.40
34.20
198.20
178.00
99.40
90.60
60.20
20S20

37.80
69.60
8S.20
69.80
2S8.00
40.80
117.00
324.60
67.20
8S.60
64.00
71.20
1S9.00
118.40
336.40
lS0.60
40.20
327.00
42.60
124.80
100.00
287.80
lSS.40
14S.40
254.40
229.20

3S3.2S
SS.SO
117.7S
20.2S
240.7S
2S2.00
106.SO
168.7S
3Sl.7S
111.7S
39.00
237.7S
206.2S
ll9.2S
109.SO
72.7S
2S2.7S
47.2S
83.2S
99.00
81.00
303.7S
47.2S
142.SO
398.2S
76.SO
94.SO
7S.OO
87.7S
191.2S
130.SO
38S.SO
143.2S
S0.2S
386.2S
S3.2S
148.SO
112.SO
343.SO
179.2S
1S6.7S
280.SO
267.7S

23$.SO
37.00
78.SO
13.SO
160.SO
168.00
71.00
112.SO
234.SO
74.SO
26.00
1S8.SO
137.SO
79.SO
73.00
48.SO
168.SO
31.50
SS.SO
66.00
S4.00
202.SO
31.SO
9S.OO
26S.SO
Sl.00
63.00
S0.00
S8.SO
127.SO
87.00
2S7.00
9S.SO
33.SO
2S7.SO
3S.SO
99.00
7S.OO
229.00
119.SO
104.SO
187.00
178.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$25.00
Home Tax

2S.OO
S0.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
S0.00
100.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
lS0.00
S0.00
2S.OO
S0.00
2S.OO
2S.OO
S0.00

so.oo
17S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
S0.00
100.00
S0.00
S0.00
100.00
200.00
32S.OO
2SO.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
100.00
lS0.00
17S.OO
275.00
17S.OO

Name of
Lodge
Total

920.3S
192.90
291.4S
79.9S
619.8S
704.60
292.70
473.2S
970.6S
301.6S
124.20
694.4S
671.7S
348.lS
298.10
181.4S
676.4S
141.SS
233.3S
300.20
2S4.80
939.2S
119.SS
379:50
1,013.3S
244.70
343.10
239.00
217.4S
S27.7S
43S.90
1,178.90
714.3S
123.9S
l,220.7S
131.3S
422.30
362.SO
960.30
604.lS
S81.6S
996.90
8S0.4S

Number

Crocker ..........................:.454
Golden West ..................45S
Ramona ............................457
H. S. Orme..................... .4S8
Riverbank ........................459
Mt. Oso ............................460
Argonaut ...........,-............461
Paul Revere ....................462
Morgan Hill ..................463
Alta Vista ··········-··········464
Center ····-·········-·············465
Libertas ............................466
Culver City ..•.................467
Rockridge ····-··················468
Yorba Linda ..................469
Lincoln ............................470
Delta ................................471
Maui ................................472
Blythe ..............................473
Victory ............................474
America ...........................475
Coachella ........................476
Temblor ..........................477
Thousand Oaks ..............478
Golden Rule ....................479
Fellowship ......................480
Mt. Davidson ..................481
c. F. Smith......................482
Bell •.................................483
Albert Pike ....................484
Chowchilla ......................485
Caledonia ........................486
Vallejo ............................487
Patterson ........................ ..488
East Bay ........................489
Corcoran ..........................490
Woodstock ......................491
Garvanza •......... :.............492
Atascadero ......................493
Acorn ................................494
Lebanon ..........................495
Riverdale ........................496
Fremont ..........................497

675

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

171.00
328.20
129.00
373.40
49.40
112.40
211.20
328.60
70.00
187.00
202.80
1S3.40
14S.80
223.20
71.40
179.40
194.20
76.40
20.40
139.40
214.20
49.20
76.40
196.60
22S.OO
128.00
200.40
1S2.60
100.60
124.60
33.60
91.80
147.80
42.00
173.60
S4.00
119.00
114.00
32.80
189.20
189.80
30.40
187.60

12S.OO
100.00
12S.OO
300.00

19S.OO
399.00
lS0.00
434.2S
SS.SO
126.7S
2S6.SO
398.2S
71.2S
213.7S
242.2S
186.7S
174.7S
267.7S
89.2S
220.SO
230.2S
89.2S
2S.SO
164.2S
260.2S
61.50
8S.SO
22S.7S
2Sl.2S
1S3.7S
239.2S
177.00
120.7S
13S.7S
34.SO
103.SO
174.7S
S2.SO
199.SO
63.7S
123.7S
131.2S
36.00
222.7S
216.00
36.7S
199.SO

130.00
266.00
100.00
289.SO
37.00
84.SO
171.00
26S.SO
47.SO
142.SO
161.50
124.SO
116.SO
178.SO
S9.SO
147.00
1S3.SO
S9.SO
17.00
109.SO
173.SO
41.00
S7.00
lSO.SO
167.SO
102.SO
1S9.SO
118.00
80.SO
90.SO
23.00
69.00
116.SO
3S.OO
133.00
42.SO
82.SO
87.SO
24.00
148.SO
144.00
24.SO
133.00

so.oo
100.00
S0.00
7S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
100.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO
2S.OO
7S.OO
7S.OO

so.oo
S0.00
2S.OO
7S.OO
lS0.00
lS0.00
2S.OO

so.oo
12S.OO
2S.OO
12S.OO
2S.OO
7S.00
7S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
2S.OO
17S.OO
100.00

so.oo
7S.OO
12S.OO
225.00

Total

621.00
1,093.20
S04.00
1,397.lS
191.90
423.6S
688.70
·1,067.3S
313.7S
643.2S
706.SS
489.6S
Sl2.0S
744.4S
220.lS
S71.90
6S2.9S
300.lS
62.90
463.lS
697.9S
176.70
293.90
722.8S
793.7S
409.2S
649.lS
S72.60
326.8S
47S.8S
116.10
339.30
Sl4.0S
1S4.SO
606.10
18S.2S
S00.2S
432.7S
142.80
63S.4S
674.80
91.6S
74S.10

676
Name of
Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Number

Stockton ... :......................498
Capital City ....................499
Roosevelt ........................500
Westwood ........................501
Harbor ............................502
Point ................................503
Seaside ··········-··,·············564
Silver Cord .................... 505
Mt. Olive ........................506
El Segundo ····-··············507
Joppa ................................508
Benjamin Franklin ........5o<J
Cupertino ........................510
Sunnyvale ····················-··511
Palms ..............................512
Cahuenga ........................ 513
Argonne ..........................514
Vermont Square ............ 515
Taft ..................................516
Mt. Vernon ...................... 517
La Jolla ............................ 518
Euclid ..............................519
Ionic ..................................520
Piedmont ........................521
Sunrise ............................522
Bellflower ........................ 523
Catalina Island ..............524
George Washington........ 525
Bay City ..........................526
Covenant ..........................527
Beverly Hills .................. 528
Loyalty ............................ 529
Sun Garden ....................530
Alexandria ...................... s:n
Smyrna ............................532
Azure ................................5.13
Forest Hill ......................534
Alexander Ha,milton...... 535
Seal Rock ......................-536
Utopia ..............................5.17
Ascot ................................538
Belvedere ........................539
Queen Beach ·..................540

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

81.80
90.60
89.40
109.00
82.60
68.00
172.40
138.60
245.80
111.00
34.00
150.80
49.20
76.40
126.20
164.40
201.60
220.20
105.00
136.40
109.60
150.20
200.20
125.60
109.60
102.00
81.00
173.80
138.40
167.80
121.20
132.00
207.80
83.40
24.60
103.40
66.40
79.40
81.00
282.00
145.00
107.80
73.00

88.50
113.25
104.25
127.50
98.25
75.00
205.50
173.25
272.25
131.25
37.50
167.25
61.50
81.75
147.75
201.75
237.00
241.50
127.50
160.50
98.25
174.00
219.00
147.00
120.75
116.25
90.00
189.75
153.00
204.75
144.00
138.75
242.25
96.75
30.75
126.75
78.00
93.00
78.75
311.25
168.75
133.50
82.50

59.00
75.50
69.50
85.00
65.50
50.00
137.00
115.50
181.50
87.50
25.00
111.SO
41.00
54.50
98.50
134.50
158.00
161.00
85.00
1-07.00
65.50
116.00
146.00
98.00
80.50
77.50
60.00
126.50
102.00
136.50
96.00
92.50
161.50
64.50
20.50
84.50
52.00
62.00
52.50
207.50
112.50
89.00
55.00

$25.00
Home Tax

75.00
75.00
50.00
25.00
75.00
50.00
25.00
275.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
125.00
50.00
50.00
100.00
225.00
25.00
50.00
300.00
100.00
250.00
75.00
175.00
150.00
75.00
150.00
150.00
75.00
50.00
275.00
75.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
100.00
150.00
250.00
100.00
25.00
75.00

Total

304.30
279.35
338.15
371.SO
271.35
268.00
564.90
452.35
974.55
379.75
146.50
529.55
151.70
337.65
422.45
550.65
696.60
847.70
342.50
453.90
573.35
540.20
815.20
445.60
485.85
445.75
306.00
640.05
543.40
584.05
411.20
638.25
686.55
294.65
75.85
364.6_5
221.4o
334.40
362.25
1,050.75
526.25
355.30
285.50

Name of
Lodge

Number

H. M. Stephens................541
Lanker shim ....................542
Signal ............................ _,54J
Glendale .........................~
Jonathan ..........................54.S
San Gabriel ······.-··········-·546
Arcadia .........................•..5-47
Triangle ..........................548
Justice .•..............••............ S<W
Seaport ............................ 5~
Lakeshore ........................ 551
Semper Virens ................ 552
Golden City ....................553
Educator ..........................554
White Pine ...................... 555
Fairfax ............................556
Hermosa ..........................557
Point Firmin ..................558
Craftsman ......................559
Plymouth .......................... 560
East San Diego .............. 561
Pyramid ..........................562
South Park ....................563
Foothill ............................564
West Adams ..................565
James A. Garfield.......... 566
Searchlight ......................567
Park Boulevard ..:.........568
Chateau Thierry ............569
Military Service ............570
F. K. Shattuck................ 571
James Madison ..............572
Hillcrest ..........................573
s. w. Hackett................ 574
Fort Crook ......................575
El Cajon Valley, .............576
Sunnyside ........................ 577
Progressive ....................578
Warren G. Harding...... 579
Santa Maria .................... 580
Security ............................ 581
Rialto .................,............582
Wasco ..............................583

677

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

162.40
138.00
165.60
217.60
112.40
104.60
62.20
71.00
94.60
126.60
132.60
79.80
42.00
102.60
63.00
63.20
79.20
174.40
133.20
124.20
129.00
114.80
199.00
149.20
130.20
96.80
207.40
138.00
107.60
186.20
110.80
106.60
31.80
126.40
50.40
43.80
138.60
173.40
92.80
30.20
112.20
50.20
74.40

25.00
75.00
75.00
125.00
75.00
125.00
100.00
50.00
50.00
175.00
150.00
75.00
50.00
125.00
50.00
25.00
50.00
200.00
125.00
125.00
225.00
125.00
150.00
250.00
100.00
100.00
100.00
250.00
100.00
400.00
50.00
125.00

194.25
161.25
195.75
252.00
130.50
117.00
69.00
82.50
109.50
132.00
143.25
88.50
48.75
113.25
67.50
72.75
95.25
194.25
151.50
136.50
135.00
122.25
232.50
147.75
147.75
99.75
246.75
142.50
120.75
181.50
126.00
120.75
39.75
145.50
51.75
51.00
173.25
186.75
99.75
35.25
129.00
57.75
74.25

129.50
107.50
130.50
168.00
87.00
78.00
46.00
55.00
73.00
88.00
95.50
59.00
32.50
75.50
45.00
48.50
63.50
129.50
101.00
91.00
90.00
81.50
155.00
. 98.50
98.50
66.50
164.50
95.00
80.50
121.00
84.00
80.50
26.50
97.00
34.50
34.00
115.50
124.50
66.50
23.50
86.00
38.50
49.50

100.00
75.00
25.00
225.00
50.00
50.00
50.00
25.00
150.00

Total

511.15
481.75
566.85
762.60
404.90
424.60
277.20
258.50
327.10
521.60
521.35
302.30
173.25
416.35
225.50
209.45
287.95
698.15
510.70
476.70
579.00
443.55
736.50
645.45
476.45
363.05
718.65
625.50
408.85
888.70
370.80
432.85
98.05
468.90
211.65
153.80
427.35
709.65
309.05
138.95
377.20
171.45
348.15

678

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Name of
Lodge

General
Home
Home
$25.00
Number Fund Maintenance Building Home Tax

Harding ..........................584
Manchester ......................585
Garden Grove ................586
Valley Forge ..................587
El Sereno ........................588
Kauai ................................589
Compass ..........................590
Escalon ......:.....................591
Tujunga ..........................592
All States ........................593
Service ..............................594
Alex. Graham BelL......595
Guardian ..........................596
Truth ................................597
Pearl Harbor ................598
Carmelita ........................599
Lynwood ..........................6()()
Grizzly ............................601
Melrose ............................602
Dimond ............................(i()J
Jubilee .............................:604
Glassell Park ~ .................(i()5
Sojourner ........................6'11
Granada ............................(J()8
Provident ........................(i()9
Elmhurst ........................610
Canoga ............................611
Temple City ....................612
Three Pillars ..................613
Larchmont ......................614
Hemet ..............................615
Seal Beach ......................616
Big Bear ..........................617
Southland ........................618
Neptune ............................619
Point Loma ....................620
The Gardens ..................621
Atwater ............................622
Menorah ..........................623
Fortitude ....................~.....624
Angeles Mesa ................625
Chula Vista ....................626
Lamanda Park ..............627

101.40
192.60
60.20
136.00
87.60
S6.60
88.20
39.40
49.40
183.60
201.00
84.00
140.20
60.20
122.00
111.20
68.00
60.60
79.20
121.00
91.20
1S6.20
S3.60
1S9.20
81.40
84.00
7S.60
54.60
79.80
114.20
47.60
27.00
18.00
121.60
74.40
S8.80
108.00
92.80
1S9.60
76.40
211.40
71.40
66.80

11 l.7S
177.00
72.7S
142.SO
94.SO
64.SO
102.7S
44.2S
S9.2S
207.00
213.7S
101.2S
162.7S
6S.2S
108.7S
114.00
82.SO
64.50
87.7S
131.2S
110.2S
170.25
60.7S
177.7S
85.SO
97.SO
90.7S
60.7S
88.SO
12S.2S
S7.00
33.7S
22.SO
143.2S
93.00
S4.7S
123.7S
107.2S
158.2S
81.7S
224.2S
89.2S
77.2S

74.SO
118.00
48.SO
9S.OO
63.00
43.00
68.SO
29.50
39.SO
138.00
142.SO
67.SO
108.50
43.SO
72.SO
76.00
SS.00
43.00
S8.SO
87.SO
73.SO
113.SO
40.SO
118.SO
57.00
6S.OO
60.50
40.50
59.00
83.SO
38.00
22.50
lS.00
9S.SO
62.00
36.50
82.SO
71.50
lOS.SO
S4.50
149.SO
S9.SO
Sl.50

100.00
42S.OO
200.00
lS0.00
7S.OO
50.00
2S.OO
125.00
27S.OO
S0.00
17S.OO
75.00
300.00
lS0.00
25.00
7S.OO
100.00
lS0.00
50.00
22S.OO
S0.00
22S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
75.00
S0.00
7S.OO
100.00
2S.OO

12S.OO
100.00
12S.OO
7S.OO
325.00
125.00
27S.OO
2S.OO

Total

387.6S
912.60
181.4S
S73.SO
39S.10
239.10
309.4S
138.15
148.lS
6S3.60
832.2S
320.7S
S86.4S
243.9S
603.2S
4Sl.20
230.SO
243.10
32S.4S
489.75
324.9S
664.9S
204.8S
680.45
323.90
321.50
301.8S
20S.8S
302.30
422.9S
167.60
83.25
SS.SO
48S.3S
229.40
250.0S
439.2S
346.SS
748.3S
337.6S
860.lS
220.lS
220.S5

Name of
Lodge

Number

Beacon of the WesL....628
Fairview ..........................629
Ingleside ..........................630
Benevolence ....................631
Normal Heights ............632
Poinsettia ................,.......633
Victorville ......................634
Riverside ..........................63S
John Marshall ................636
Palisades ..........................637
Indian Rock ....................638
Composite ........................639
Veritas ..............................640
Jas. A. Foshay................641
La Cumbre ......................642
Alta Loma ......................643
Lomita ............................644
A. F. E. Irwin..................64S
Metropolitan ..................646
Hawthorne ......................647
Damascus ........................648
Florence ..........................649
La Brea ·............................650
Menlo Park ....................6Sl
Crescenta Valley ..........652
Fontana ............................653
Jordan ..............................654
Monte Vista ....................6SS
Citro! ................................656
J. D. Spreckels................6S7
Livingston .....................-658
.L a Habra ........................6S9
Baldwin Park ................600
Malta ................................661
Henry Knox ..................662
Ojai ..................................663
Oasis ................................664
Ka\Veah ............................665
Reseda ..............................666
Meridian ..........................667
San Gorgonio ................668
J. P. Jarman....................669

General
Home
Home
Fund Maintenance Building

76.60
S0.80
48.60
109.60
12S.20
92.40
60.00
86.20
67.60
110.60
63.00
76.00
S2.80
47.40
43.80
153.80
58.20
89.60
70.60
33.00
114.20
131.00
lOS.20
35.40
66.80
Sl.60
90.00
138.80
9S.20
173.00
47.80
71.20
42.00
61.20
82.20
2S.20
4S.60
27.60
49.20
101.80
46.80
68.20

79.SO
62.25
60.7S
113.25
129.00
104.2S
63.7S
84.00
72.00
128.2S
67.SO
86.2S
S4.7S
SS.SO
Sl.00
178.50
S4.00
98.2S
68.2S
41.2S
12S.2S
123.7S
121.SO
44.2S
77.2S
60.7S
101.25
1S2.2S
117.7S
191.2S
47.2S
76.SO
48.7S
76.SO
91.50
31.SO
49.SO
34.50
S0.2S
111.00
47.2S
6S.2S

S3.00
41.50
40.SO
7S.SO
86.00
69.SO
42.50
S6.00
48.00
8S.SO
4S.OO
S7.50
36.SO
37.00
34.00
119.00
36.00
6S.SO
4S.SO
27.SO
83.SO
82.SO
81.00
29.SO
SI.SO
40.50
67.50
101.SO
78.SO
127.SO
31.50
Sl.00
32.SO
Sl.00
61.00
21.00
33.00
23.00
33.SO
74.00
31.SO
43.SO

679
$25.00
Home Tax

l S0.00
25.00
12S.OO
150.00
100.00
7S.OO
17S.OO
100.00
7S.OO
7S.OO
50.00
7S.OO
2S.OO
2S.OO
100.00
125.00
7S.OO
12S.OO
100.00
32S.OO
S0.00
7S.OO
2S.OO
S0.00
lS0.00
2S.OO
250.00
7S.OO
100.00
2S.OO
l S0.00
S0.00
100.00
12S.OO
7S.OO
lS0.00

Total

3S9.10
179.SS
149.8S
423.3S
490.20
366.lS
241.25
401.20
287.60
399.3S
2SO.SO
269.75
219.0S
164.90
153.80
S51.30
273.20
328.3S
309.3S
101.75
422.9S
662.2S
357.70
109.lS
270.SS
177.8S
308.75
S42.SS
316.4S
741.75
201.S5
298.70
148.2S
188.70
384.70
77.70
128.10
85.10
232.95
411.80
200.SS
326.9S

681

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

680

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name of
L odge

Number
........................@()

Greenleaf
San Clemente ..................671
Laguna Beach ................672
Far West ..~ .....................6'73
Los Cerritos ....................674
Modesto ........................ ;.675
Willow Glen ..................676
Liberal Arts ....................677
Altadena ..........................678

General
Home
H ome
Fund Maintenance Building

$25.00
Home Tax

111.20
19.20
34.80
83.80
48.60
68.40
44.00
60.60
96.20

200.00

102.75
24.00
39.75
73.50
53.25
74.25
48.75
49.50
87.75

68.50
16.00
26.50
49.00
35.50
49.50
32.50
33.00
58.50

50.00
225.00
25.00
75.00
25.00
150.00
275.00

T otal

482.45
59.20
151.05
431.30
162.35
267.15
150.25
293.10
517.45

Total Annual Returns
Due ..................................$82,978.00 $96,592.50 $64,395.00 $49,950.00 $293,915.50
R. E. ALLAN, Chairman.

Report adopted.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CHANGING
SYSTEM OF PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California :
At the eighty-third annual communication, the Grand Master was
"authorized to appoint a committee ·of five to study the matter of an equitable system of pay of members in attendance of Grand Lodge, to report ·
at the next annual communication."
·
Your committee has carefully studied and considered several plans
offered as a substitute for our now existing system, and is thoroughly convinced that our present system, from the viewpoint of Grand Lodge, the
constituent Lodges, and the delegates, is the most equitable that can be
devised.
We therefore offer the following resolution, and move its adoption.
Resolved: That no change be made in our present system of pay of
members.
SIDNEY K. LEHMAN,
Chairman;
HOMER E. VEDDER,

w. J. STEWART,
FRED R. p ARDEE,
FRANK G. FALLOON.

Report and resolution adopted.

TO REDU CE EXPE NSE OF PROCEEDINGS
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of Califorwia:
Your Committee on Finance, in casting around for ways and means
of reducing expenses of Grand Lodge, has come to the conclusion that a
material saving can be effected in the cost of printing and distributing the
Proceedings of Grand Lodge.
The report of the Grand Secretary disclosed that this cost for the
year 1932 was $3,213.95. In addition to this cost is the expense of mailing,
which will be less if the size of the copy is reduced .
In the Proceedings is included the complete reports of all committees.
Many reports contain statistical information which it is desirable to have
placed before Grand Lodge and is helpful to committees and members in
their deliberations, yet which it is believed could be eliminated from the
printed report without taking away fr om those Proceedings but little, if
any, value and ·interest. A casual study of the 1932 copy seems to indicate
that at least one hundred pages or about one-sixth of the volume could be
dispensed with in this manner. Like the reports of other committees, the
complete report of the Committee on Correspondence is included. F or the
preparation of this report Grand Lodge pays $500, and in the 1932 Proceedings its printing required 141 pages, or one-quarter of the entire
volume. There is also printed 800 advance copies of the report for distribution at Grand Lodge during the session.
Your Fi~ance Committee is of the opinion that Grand Lodge should
g·ive consideration to the entire elimination of the correspondence report,
thereby saving the expense of preparation as well as of printing and distributing, a total saving of probably $1,000.
It has been the policy to mail to each Lodge two copies of the Proceedings. It would seem to this committee that one copy would suffice,
thereby saving the cost of about six hundred copies.
Your committee recognizes that all of these items are matters of policy
for this Grand Lodge to determine.
It therefore is bringing in this preliminary report, with the recommendation it be referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
w. P. JEFFRIES,
F.

c. R UPPEL,

ARTHUR

s. CRITES,

JOSEPH M. ARGABRITE,

G. A. H U TAFF,

Committu.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, which committee subsequently reported, approving
the recommendation of the Finance Committee, and it w as
adopted.
At 3 :15 o'clock p. m. Grand Lodge was called off until
10 o'clock Thursday morning.

682

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1Jn "ran1' 1£n1'gr
MORNING SESSION
Thursday, October 12,, 1933.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessibns were read and approved.
A letter from Frank K. Ebbitt, representative of this
Grand Lodge near the Grand Lodge of Canada, was read, .
in which· fraternal greetings were extended.

RESOLUTION TO REDUCE SALARIES
Resolved, that the maximum compensation to be received by the Grand
Secretary, from all sources, shall not exceed $5,000 per annum; that the
maximum compensation to be received by the Assistant Grand Secretary,
from all sources, shall not exceed $2,400 per annum ; that the maximum
compensation to ·be received by the Grand Lecturer shall not exceed $3,600
per annum; that the maximum compensation to be received by each of the
two employees in the Grand Secretary's office shall not exceed $1,200; and
be it further resolved, that the Most Worshipful Grand Master is hereby
authorized to appoint a special committee for the purpose of conducting a
survey of the salaries received by the employees of the Decoto and Covina
Homes, and that such committee is hereby authorized to make such reductions in any or all salaries received by these employees as it may deem just
and proper.
THAYER B. THOMAS,
Master, King Solo_mon's Lodge No. 260.

683

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M: . w:. Grand Lodge of California:
your committee has had before it resolutions of various Lodges, providing for changes in their by-laws, substantially as follows:
N umber of
Resolutions
•
• • •
•
&
104
Decreasing 1n1tiat1on .aeel·-········-····-········-·············-········
Excepting holidays from stated meetings.............,.......... 32
Changing time of stated meetings..........- ....:...-.............. 13
. place o f meet mgs
•
Ohangmg
...................·-·························· 10
Increasing dues ··--····-····-········-···-··-·-·······················-- 6
Increasing affiliation fee .......·-································.··········- 1
Eliminating affiliation fee ...·-····-·-···········-················-···· 1
Total resolutions ······-··--····-··--····-·······-·.;······--····167
We have found the resolutions in order, and we recommend their
approval.
Early this year the Grand Master directed a. letter to th~ Lodges of
the jurisdiction, disclosing his views on the question of reducing fees for
the degrees, and approving the spirit of the message of Grand Master
Gaylord in 1932 to the effect that the reduction of fees tends. to cheapen our
fraternity. We quote from the letter of Grand Master M1xter:
"The old rule by which petitioners were measured is good today,
that no man should seek the privileges of Masonry unless he has ?ot
only a sufficiency for himself and family, but likewise has something
to spare for works of charity and mercy."
Over one hundred Lodges, however, exercising their discret~on, have
resolved to decrease their initiation fees during the Masonic year JUSt past.
Let us hope that no evil effects will be hereafter suffered ·by reason of these
decreases, and that the fraternity will maintain the high standard of membership that has been its boast throughout the years.
·
.ARTHUR J OEL,
JULIUS GABRIEL,
FRANKLIN PADAN,
JOHN R OBINSON,

Referred to. the Committee on Finance.

Committee.

Adopted.

684

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of Coliiornia:
In presenting its annual report to Grand Locjge in accordance with the
provisions of Article VIII-A of the Constitution, the Board of Control
desires to express its appreciation ~f the helpfulness, the co-operation, and
the sympathetic understanding of our' Grand Master, which have contributed so materially to whatever measure of success and accomplishment
your board is able to report at the close of this trying year. Our Grand
Master has attended our meetings;. he has demonstrated a marked interest
in our proceedings and our problems ; and he has -promptly responded to
our appeals. His many courtesies and his helpful suggestions have made
a pleasant duty of .what otherwise might have been an arduous task.
His splendid indorsement in his annual message gives evidence of
understanding and approval of the work of the Board of Control.
Our Deputy Grand Master, our Grand Secretary, and other grand
officers have been helpful and co-operative.
Our Boards of Relief, through their Secretades and officers, generally,
have acted in' greater harmony and accord with the Board of Control than
ever before. During the 1932 communication of Grand Lodge, conferences of 'the Secretaries of Boards of Relief and the Board of Control were
held at Oakland. At that time, and long before N. R. A. had ever been
heard of, our Boards of Relief established a code of ethics and procedure
with which they have religiously complied ever since. Another conference
has been held this year which has been equally beneficial.
The Board of Control's difficulties, if it has had any, are no longer
with the Boards of Relief. They are complying with the provisions of the
Constitution and the regulations of the Board of Control, with very few
exceptions. If there be lack of understanding and co-operation in the
matter of administering relief, it is now with the Lodges and their officers.
It must be admitted, however, that the Board of Control and Grand Lodge
are not and have not been generally approached to relieve their burdens.
The Lodges in most cases assume their supposed rsponsibility without
question and discharge it without appeal. This is genero~s and magnanimous, but it should not be.
Born of the practices that were instituted in the days of old ; because
of the prosperous conditions that then prevailed; because Lodge finances
have been ever at the command of the membership when relief appeals
have been presented, our Lodges, governed by the principle that "Masonry
takes care of its own," have administered charity without let or hindrance,
regardless of whether the applicant was of the California or a foreign
jurisdiction; regardless of authorization or d-i rection; and often, regardless
of the brother's standing in his own Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

685

The time has come, however, when our Lodges cannot, ,at least should
not continue these practices. More and more of our sister jurisdictions are
declaring that they will not make reimbursement for relief extended without express authorization. Our Board of Control during the year 1931,
wjth the consent and approval of Grand Master Ross, issued a warning to
all Lodges and Boards of Relief to grant only nominal relief and no extended relief to any applicant without first notifying the brother's Lodge,
and receiving instruction and authorization before further relief is granted.
But still this unauthorized and often unwarranted relief work goes on.
In many cases, Lodges make no effort to recover ; to be reimbursed. Perhaps it is all very well for us to say that if the Lodges do not care to protect
themselves it should not be our concern. But we should not say it. How
best can we safeguard our Lodges is then the question. The Board of
Control recommends that it be done through education; that some questions
on, Masonic relief be made a part of the examination of the Master-elect
each year; that we secure the co-operation of our Inspectors through their
district officers' associations.
Few of us realize the full extent of our Masonic relief expenditures.
The Board of Control has made a compilation of the yearly expenditures
for the ten-year period from 1924 to 1933, inclusive. The total reaches an
enormous figure. In that ten-year period the seventeen Boards of Relief
expended the total sum of $960,5li. And it must be noted that only eight
of these boards have been in existence for the full ten-year period ; two
have been in existence for nine years ; one for seven years,; one for six
years; one for five years; two for two years, and two for one year each.
One Board of Relief, Los Angeles, has expended $354,834 in the tenyear time. San Francisco paid out $221,550, and East Bay $156,970 in the
same period.
But this does not take into consideration the moneys paid out for relief
by the many Lodges within and without the Boards of Relief. Each and
every Lodge in the jurisdiction is called upon each and every year to contribute its funds for charity. Without laborious effort it is not possible to
know what this total sum for relief amounts to, but it is safe to say that
it reaches into the thousands-perhaps hundreds of thousands of dollars.
A table showing the total amount of Board of Relief expenditures for
relief alone is appended to and made a part of this report.
Reimbursements
The Board of Control is pleased to report that the amount of money
which Grand Lodge is called upon to pay to reimburse Lodges for relief
extended and for which no reimbursement has been made by foreign
jurisdiction Lodges, is Jess this year than it was the preceding year. The
amount has been lower each succeeding year since the Board of Control
has been in existence. The total amount this year is $2,091.67.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

686

687

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

For the ten-year period we have taken to illustrate, the amount of reimbursement by Grand Lodge to Boards of Relief and Lodges is as
follows:
Boards of
Relief
Lodges
Total
1924............................$13,095.90
$1,758.74
$14,854.64
1925....................•....... 15,457.14
1,101.01
16,568.15
1926............................ 9,052.38
1,441.88
10,494.26
1927............................ 9,050.05
1,316.88
10,366.93
These are the four years before the Board of Control began its services.
1928............................ 8,544.17
1,670.12
10,214.29
1929............................ 7,178.77
372.77
7,551.54
1930............................ 6,571.67
310.00
6,881.67
1931............................ 5,972.95
503.77
6,486.72
805.94
4,428.68
1932_··-··-················· 3,622.74
1933.........................._ 1,816.34
275.33
2,091.67
There is not much probability of further reduction. There will always
be certain Lodges in our sister jurisdictions that will not reimburse our
Boards of Relief, and there will always be Lodges in our own jurisdiction
whose ·finances are such that they cannot make provision for their own
brethren and, therefore, cannot reimburse others who do care for them.
In this connection, we desire to again impress upon Boards of Relief,
and Lodges as well, the necessity and importance of reporting to the Board
of Control, without delay, all cases in which there is difficulty of whatever
nature, in securing reimbursement. If the Board of Control is to be of
ser~ice to a Lodge or Board of Relief it must have the case, with all its
details and correspondence, at the earliest .possible moment. The Board
of Control, within the past few weeks, has received a case from a California Board of Relief, in which the board was authorized by the Grand
Secretary of New York two years ago, to care for and ship the remains
of a brother to his New York City Lodge. The claim amounted to $200.
The duty was discharged, but the claim was never presented. The fault,
however, is not with the present officers of the board. Now comes the
Board of. Relief to the Board of Control, appealing for reimbursement.
Imagine the consternation of the New York Lodge, which, perhaps, has
been under the impression all the time, that the California Board of Relief
was generously assuming the expense. Grand Secretary Kenworthy, who
authorized the expense, is dead.
The officers of the Lodge have changed. No one connected with the
case is on duty. The particulars of the case have been forgotten. .The
California Board may receive reimbursement from New York; if it does,

it will be long delayed. The new Grand Secretary of New York knows
nothing of it, but he assured our representative at the Cincinnati meeting
that he would give the case immediate attention. Of course, our Grand
Lodge cannot reimburse the Board of Relief under such circumstances.
Grand Lodge has approved our recommendation that Boards of Relief
refer all such cases to the Board of Control at once, but some of our boards
still hold them to the end of the year. .
Meetings
Your Board of Control has held five meetings during this year. These
meetings have seemed necessary to dispose of controversial matters that
have arisen, of business that has accumulated during the year. The first
was held at San Francisco, November 19, 1932; the second at Los Angeles,
February 18, 1933; the third at San Francisco on May 20th; the fourth
at San Francisco, August 19th, and the fifth during this session of Grand
Lodge in San Francisco. At each of these meetings conferences have been
held with representatives of the respective Boards of Relief, who have
come to the meetings to seek guidance and information. We believe that
with ·the work of the Boards of Relief so splendidly co-ordinated and
standardized, it will not be necessary to hold as many meetings next year.
But the meetings do not tell the ·s tory of the work of the Board of Control.
With the exception ·of the Homes Board, the Board of Control is the only
continuing committee of Grand Lodge.
Every day brings to the Board some new problem to consider. The
correspondence connected with it is voluminous. Up to the end of the year
114 cases had been turned over to the board by Lodges and Boards of
Relief. Each of these cases has required from five to twenty letters. The
Grand Master, sensing the situation, directed and authorized the board to
secure the services of a part-time stenographer. Each case is filed and
all correspondence kept together. T he chairman has briefed each one of
· the 114 cases and has furnished copies of same to the members of the
board and t~ the grand officers.
Withdrawals From Boards of Relief
Notwithstanding the constitutional amendment enacted in 1929, which
provided (Sec. 37) "that the Board of Control shall, with the consent and
by direction of the Grand Master, have power to compel any Lodge within
this grand jurisdiction to become a member of the Board of Relief nearest
its place of meeting," and Sec. 83, amended in 1928, which prescribed the
same requirement in connection with all concurrent jurisdiction Lodges,
two Lodges in this jurisdiction this year have adopted resolutions providing
for resignation and withdrawal from their respective . Boards of Relief.
In each case, the Board of Control, after thorough investigation, has
expressed its disapproval ; and the Grand Master, after ascertaining all the

688

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF · CALIFORNIA

facts, has sustained the Board of Control and has directed the Lodge to
continue its affiliation with the Board of Relief, quoting the Constitution
and declaring:
"May I respectfully call your attention to Section 370 of our Constitution and suggest that in view of the construction of said section
I feel unwilling at this time to approve the withdrawal of your Lodge
from the San Diego Board of Relief. I can appreciate the fact that in
these times of economic stress, situations arise which are extremely
difficult and embarrassing, but I feel that because of this we should all
put forth more strenuous effort to work together in a spirit of cooperation and harmony, to the end that the ideals and objectives of our
Institution may be preserved intact so far as possible."
Disagreement With Uniform Compact :ind By-Laws
In the Grand Lodge communication of 1929, the Board of Control
presented and recommended the adoption of a uniform compact and
by-laws for the government of all Boards of Relief. Grand Lodge unanimously adopted that report and recommendation. Boards of Relief are
now generally working under the uniform compact and by-laws. Nevertheless, in two instances, certain Lodges, members of Boards of Relief,
have refused to accept or to be parties to the said uniform compact and
by-laws. In the first case, the Board of Control sought opinion from the
chairman of the Jurisprudence Committee, who, referring to the recommendation and decision, stated:
"I construe this as meaning that the uniform compact must be
adopted by all Boards of Relief except Los Angeles and San Francisco. It therefore requires affirmative action by the several Lodges
of a Board of Relief, or such action is mandatory. I believe that under
this legislation the ·several Lodges in a Board of Relief must enter into
this uniform compact."
Masonic Relief Association of United States and Canada
By direction and authorization of our Most Worshipful Grand Master, the chairman of the Board of Control was afforded the opportunity
and privilege of attending the sessions of the Masonic Relief Association
of the United States and Canada, which were held in Cincinnati, October 4,
5, and 6, 1933. It was a privilege and an experience well worth while, not
alone for the chairman, who came into intimate contact with the relief
administration of this country and Canada, but for our Board of Control
and for our Grand Lodge as well, because, by reason of those contacts,
we believe we have established a better understanding, a closer affiliation,
and a relationship between our jurisdiction and our sister jurisdictions that
will be of permane~t benefit.
The personnel of the convention exceeded our highest anticipations.
Here were gathered the representatives of more than twenty grand juris-

689

dictions; men prominently identified with the relief and with relief proc·edure of their organizations for many years; veterans of the order, who
have grown gray in relief service, and among them four Grand Masters
eight Grand Secretaries, a number of Past Grand Secretaries, a Sovereig~
Grand Commander of the Scottish Rite and chairman of Boards of Relief
including the head of the oldest Masonic relief organization in the United
States, Master of Louisiana Relief Lodge No. 1, founded in 1848. Your
chairman was impressed with the sincerity and purposefulness of these
men; the· seriousness and the dignity of the proceedings. Theirs was no
joy ride or pleasure junket, etc.; there were no parties or reunions or
entertainments. The delegates were there to get the most out of their
meeting. It was a business convention. The chairman of your Board of
Control was accorded the courtesy of presenting a paper on the relief work
of California and the history of the Board of Control. This afforded us
the opportunity of recounting the work that has been done by our relief
organizations since the founding of our first Board of Relief in 1856, and
of the organization procedure and purposes of our Board of Control.
Particularly did we stress the problems in relief that confront our
Lodges and Boards of Relief ; the problem of the transient Mason, or
rather, of the thousands of them who came to our jurisdiction without
means of support and then come to us for relief; the problem of our too
frequent inability and failure to secure response to our communications by
our sister jurisdictions, as well as the refusal or ignoring of our requests
for reimbursement; in many cases after authorizing our Lodges or Boards
of Relief to extend relief.
It is worthy of note that the presentation of our situation and our
problems met with a responsive reception. It is quite evident that our
eastern jurisdictions, engrossed with their own troubles and problems, have
given little attention and less concern to our problems. Certainly, we do
not desire to annoy them with our problems, only in so far as those problems concern the unfortunate brethren Of their own jurisdictions to whom
our Lodges and Boards of Relief extend aid and relief. Then do we
demand and insist that they give consideration and response. We conferred with the representatives present of those jurisdictions with which
our Boards of Relief and our Board of Control have had unsatisfactory
negotiations during the past year. In every case, we found them sympathetic, willing to co-operate with California. They deplored the lack of
Masonic courtesy; the denial of responsibilities by many of the respective
Lodges, and gave us assurance that they would investigate and endeavor to
·
bring about more and better co-operation.
As a result of our appeal, we were able to present, through M.", W.".
Walter Stockwell of North Dakota, who is a great friend of California
Masonry, and to secure the unanimous adoption of the following resolu"
tion:

690

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

"Resolved, that it is the sense of this meeting that it is the duty of each
Lodge of Masons to take care of its own members and, as well, of their
widows and orphans in distress, wherever they be may ; and that in case
of its inability so to do, this duty devolves upon the Grand Lodge from
which it holds its charter, provided that the Lodges furnishing relief shall
in no case go beyond actual necessities, without the expressed authority
from the Lodge to be charged."
That our Eastern brethren have a high appreciation and regard for
California Masonry is evidenced by the following excerpt from the annual
address of M.". w:. Brother Nash, Grand Master of Masons of Ohio,
which will be presented at the annual communication of the Ohio Grand
Lodge in session this week, a copy of which was presented to us at the
convention.' It reads: ·
"On the 12th day of March, 1933, the daily press carried the news of
a disaste.r in and about Los Altgeles, and particularly Long Beach, California. Not knowing the extent of the suffering, and real.izing that. at all
times there are many sojourning Masons in that locality, on the next day
I wired the Grand Secretary of California as follows:
"'The Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of Ohio, desiring to do its part in
relief of distressed Masons of southern California, we will send to you
as soon as banking conditions permit, in a few days, one thousand .dollars
for your relief fund. More will be available if necessary. Request advice
as to necessities of the situation.'
"I promptly received a wire from M.". w:. Brother Frank W . Mixter, Grand Master of the Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California, as
follows:
" 'Deeply thankful for ·proffered assistance, but so far no outside
money needed. If further survey develops demand for aid we will advise
you. Damage at Los Angeles mainly from broken glass. Long Beach
damage very heavy.'
"Later on I received from M.". w:. Brother Frank W. Mixter,
Grand Master of California, a copy of the report of the loss of the
Masonic Fraternity, which was considerable, but for which no outside aid
was accepted. I here again express the sympathy which the Masons of
Ohio had for our California brethren in this disaster, and add that we
honor them in their desire and ability to meet and care for their own
problems. I recall to you the fact, which is recorded in our Proceedings,
that the beginning of our present emergency fund was a fund returned to
us, from contributions made ·by the Grand Lodge of Ohio, at the time of
the San Francisco fire in 1906 to the Grand Lodge of California for relief.
After meticulously accounting for all receipts and expenditures, the Grand
Lodge of California returned to the Grand Lodge of Ohio $2,184.60. Grand
Master Lewis P. Schaus reported this to the Grand Lodge of Ohio (Pro.

691

1906, page 31 ) , and recommended the establishment of an emergency fund
by the Grand Lodge of Ohio; and following that recommendation our
emergency fund was established in that year in the sum of $2,184.60."
. The~e two inc_idents, the careful accounting by the Grand Lodge of
Cahforma at the time of the San Francisco fire, and the desire today of
the Grand Lodge of California to meet its own problems is indicative of
the character of California Masonry. The Grand Lod~e of Ohio here
records the admiration of the Masons of Ohfo for the strength and vitality
of the Masonic Fraternity of the great State of Califo rnia.
. Our atte_nd~nce and participation in the convention of the Masonic
Re~1ef Assoc1atwn was altogether satisfactory from our standpoint. We
be.he~e that the association is a worth-while institution and that it is accomphshmg a great work for Masonry. Its principles and operation are sound
and. prac~ical, and it deserves support and encouragement. We believe that
Cahforn1a should become a member of the Association that there may be
a better understanding of our problems by our Easter~ brethren and that
we may secure active co-operation and support from them.
Requests for Reimbursements
Your. Board of Control has considered the reque~ts for reimbursement
f~om various Boards of Relief and Lodges, and has recommended to the
Fmance Committee the granting of the following reimbursements :
For
Comparison

Bakersfield Board of Relief... ...- ..····-···························-$ 100.00
Fresno Board of Relief.......·-·-,- ....................................
10.00
Los Angeles Board of Relief......................:................... 414.34
Oakland and Berkeley Board of Relief........................ 410.00
San _Francisco Board of Relief.............·- ········-··- ······-·· 882.00
Mann Lodge No. 191.........................._·······•-··-······- ·- ··· 180.33
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38...·- ······················- ·······- ······
95.00

1932
$ 10.00
22.50
567.13
655.00
1,891.97

488.10

T otal _for 1933..············-····-····- ····-····-····-····---·$2,091.67
$4,428.68
Reports ol Boards-Statistics
.
The Board of ~ont_rol feels that further progress has been made in
~ts work of standard1zat1on and the bringing about of further betterm t
m procedure, thereby assisting in holding to a minimum the amountseno;
money requested from the Grand Lodge as reimbursements.
The board finds that statistical information continues to be extrem I
valuable for comparative purposes and as a basis for future guidance. e Y
The practice is being continued by each Board of Relief of h ·
avmg an
. f ·
annuaI aud 1t o its accounts made by a certified accountant 0 't
·h h
r 1 s own
.
aud 1tor wit t e approval of the Board of Control. Reports made on

.

692 •

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Board of Control forms, supported by these audits, have been promptly
filed by the Boards of Relief. The following review of the operations of
the respective Boards of Relief covering the twelve months ending July 31;
1933, is based upon the reports of the board officers and the audits mentioned.
Alameda: Board of Relief is composed of Masters of the three
Lodges aild meets monthly. No salaries are paid. No per capita assessment
during the year. Three funerals were conducted by Lodges of board. No
funds advanced for funerals. Uses personal automobile.
Balance on hand last repert•..·-··········-····-·····-···-·;·············-·-·- ······- $ 82.85
Receipts During the Year
California Lodge ...........................................:............................$ 84:00
Foreign Lodges ·············································-····························· 50.00
Funeral reimbursements ················-·········································· 11.50 145.50
Total receipts and balance............................................,........... $228.35
Disbursements
For relief :
California Lodges ·················•·····-··-,..,.........b..$. 84.00
Foreign Lodges .................................................. 50.00
Funeral disbursements, etc................................. 15.00 $149.00
Miscellaneous........................................................
Total disbursements ........................................,...........

3.16
152.16

Balance July 31, 1933........................................:....................................... $ 76.10
Bakersfield: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Senior
Wardens of four Lodges and meets quarterly. Per capita· assessment during year, 35 cents.
There is one paid employe, the secretary, who receives $25 per month.
The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum of $500 each.
Four funerals were conducted by Lodges, auspices board. Advances
for funerals during year, $160. Total refunded. Total cost of funeral
$155, which includes plot, grave and marker.
Balance on hand last repe!'t. .....:.........._......................- ..···-·················· $120.06
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of Califomia...................................................,....$ 10.00
California Lodges ······················-················································ 289.90
Other Lodges in United Statesc................................................. 455.00 ·
Foreign Lodges '··········································································· 10.00 764.90
Total balance and receipts.................... :................................... $884.96

693

·Disbursements
For relief :
California Lodges ····-····················'············'-·····$ 10.00
Other Lodges in United States........................ 519.65
Foreign Lodges .................................................. 10.00 $539.65
Salaries ·····················'······-······.·····························•········ 2.75.00
Miscellaneous ............:........,........................................ 33.98

308.98

Total disbursements ..................................................................

848.63

Balance July 31, 1933....- ....'...................................................................... $ 36.33

Balance Owing to B oard of Relief at Close of Year
From California Jurisdiction,.....................................................................$169.75
From other Lodges in the United States.................................................. 120.60
Fresno: Board of Relief is composed of three members each of four
Lodges and meets monthly. Per capita asses~ment d~ring year, SO cents.
There is one paid employee, the secretary, who receives $150 per
month. The secretary is bonded in sum of $1,000. Fidelity insurance and
compensation also carried.
Nineteen funerals were conducted by the Lodges. No funds advanced
for funerals, although under auspices of board.
Balance on hand last report.................................................................. $ 466.08

Receipts During the Y ear
Grand Lodge of California............................................. ~ ...$ 22.50
California Lodges ..................................................................
54.00
Other Lodges in United States............................................. 922.00
Lodges and supporting bodies.............................................. 1,810.75

2,809.25

Total receipts and balance...............-................................... $3,275.53

Disbursements
For relief :
California Lodges ......................................$ 47.00
Other Lodges in United States................ 940.50 $ 987.50
Salaries ................................................................ 1,800.00
Miscellaneous ......................................................
61.27

1,861.27

Total disbursements ..............................................................

2,848.77

Balance July 31, 1933............................................................................ $ 426.56

695

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

694

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at .Close of Year
. Junau.,.....,...······--············
..,_..,....:_
.
From Cal1'f orma
..·····-·····-··············..················$ 5.00
From other Lodges in the United States..........- ....- ........- ....................- 8.00
From individuals ....~-·····-·······-· ..-·-·····...........................................- ..- ........ 25.50
Honolulu: Board of Relief is composed of members of four Lodges
and meets monthly. No per capita assessment during year.
There are no paid employees. The treasurer's bond is in the sum of
$500.
Five funerals were conducted by the Lodges. No funds advanced for
funerals, although under auspices of board.
Balance on hand last report..................-...--..···-··..··-····-····---··-····- $1,414.25
Demand note, 6%, H . Waterhouse Trust Co., $2,000.00.
Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ....- ..···········-······-··...............$ 268.38
Other Lodges in United States........................
11.00
Foreign Lodges.........,................_........................
11.00 $ 290.38
Interest on notes ...............................c.................. 106.67
Sale of demand note.......................................... 2,000.00

2,106.67

2,397.05

Disbursements

Investments-2 Pacific Gas & Electric Bonds,
1960, 4~'}'o ....................................................

1,949.80

00000 0•0• 0 -00000~ 0 00000 H 0 0•0 0 00 0 0• o • o •• 0 00 0 000000 000 ••o 00 ;0 00

20.84

5,509.60

Total receipts and balance.................................................... $6,521.64

For relief:
California Lodges .......................;................$ 30.00
Other Lodges in United States.................. 22.00
Foreign Lodges....-........................................ 19.30
Individuals-<ionations ................................ 50.00 $ 121.30
129.33

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges ..............................................$3,.294.56
Other Lodges in United States........................ 1,999.50
Funeral reimbursements.................................... 194.70 $5,488.76
Interest

Total receipts and balance.................................................... $3,811.30

Printing and stationery........................................ 76.40
Miscellaneous ........................................................ 52.93

Long Beach: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and Wardens
of each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year,
from 6 to 7 cents.
There are two paid employees: the secretary, who receives .$150 per
month, and assistant, $15. The secretary and the treasurer are bonded in.
the sum of $500 each. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One
automobile is used.
Thirty-nine funerals were conducted by the board. Advanced for
funerals, $275. Amounts refunded by Lodges and individuals, $194.70.
Average cost to board per funeral, $1.00. Actual cost of funeral, $150.
Balance on hand last repol't.. .................................:...........---·····..-·... $1,012.04

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ................- ....................$ 316.00
Other Lodges in United States ................ 1,916.50
Funerals ..................- ..........:....................... 275.00 $2,507.50
Telephone ............................................................
97.25
Salaries ................................................................ 2,369.50
Rent ...................................................................... 180.00
Miscellaneous, auto, exp., audit. .....:............... 117.26
Printing and stationery.:....................................
36.13

2,800.14

Total disbursements................................................................

5,307.64

Balance July 31, 1933.....................................................:..................-... $1,214.00

Total disbursements............:..._....................................- .......;

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
Froni other Lodges in the United States................................................$234.00
2,200.43

Balance July 31, 1933..........,.....- ......................................-.................. $1,610.87
Also owns two Pacific Gas & Electric Bonds, 4}4% •.mentioned above.

Harold Kemp, chartered accountant, reports : "In addition to the
figures shown on the report, I find that the Board of Relief should be
credited with the sum of $350, consisting of various amounts expended
for relief which were forwarded direct to the individuals by their respective Lodges after having been investigated and passed upon by the
Long Beach Board."

696

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GH.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Los Angeles: Board of Relief is composed of members from each
Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year, 48 cents.
There are three paid employees : a secretary at a salary of $250 per
month, a typist or clerk at a salary of $100 pe·r month, and a field man at
a salary of $175 per month. The secretary and the treasurer are bonded
in the sum of $2,000 each. Fidelity .insurance and carrier, and compensation
and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Thirty-two funerals were conducted by local Lodges under auspices
of board, and 219 by Funeral Committee. Total number of funerals, 251.
Funds advanced for funerals, $2,857.02. No refunds. Average cost to
board per funeral, $13.05. Total cost of funeral, $113.05.
Balance on hand last report...........................·-·································· $ 6,390.57
Receipts per capita assessment-Bush Estate, etc......................... 14,440.17

Receipts Diiring the Year
Grand Lodge of California..............................................$ 576.63
California Lodges .............................................................. 7,478.03
Other Lodges in United States ........................................ 29,451.79
Foreign Lodges .................................................................. 2,658.87

40,165.32

Total receipts and balance....................................:............. $60,996.06

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ................................$ 7,710.93
Other Lodges in United States.......... 29,312.22
Foreign Lodges...................................... 2,646.27
Funerals committee services.............. 2,857.02
Board work ..........................................
207.04 $42,733.48
Clearing house and postage........................
247.34
Salaries .......................................................... 7;676.15
861.25
Rent ................................................................
Telephone and telegraph ..............................
588.98
Postage ..........................................................
365.42
Printing and stationery................................
291.50
743.65
Auto expense ···-·······-.............................,.....
Audit ..............................................................
100.00
888.57
Miscellaneous ..............................................

697

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
From California Jurisdiction....................................................................$· 612.58
From other Lodges in the United States............._. ................................ 2,025.32
Oakland and Berkeley: Board of Relief is composed of members
from each Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the
·
year, 48 cents.
1

There are two paid employees (permanent) : a secretary at a salary
of $2,012.50 per annum; assistant secretary, $600, and a typist or clerk
(occasional), $170.73. The treasurer is bonded in the sum of $2,000. Compensation and auto insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Four funerals were conducted by local Lodges under auspices of
board and 56 by Funeral Committee. Total ·number of funerals, 60. Funds
advanced for funerals, $1,236.42. Amount refunded; $1,273~35. Cost of
funerals to board for services, $546. Average cost to board per funeral,
$9.10. Total cost of funeral, $125.
·
Balance on hand last report................................................................ $ 8,353.42

R eceipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California........................$ 655.00
California Lodges........................................ 6,170.59
Other Lodges in United Stat.es.................. 9,631.95
Foreign Lodges..............................................
455.00 $16,912.54
Funeral reimbursements .............................. 1,273.35
Individual reimbursements ........................ ..
773.10
Grand Lodge advances refunded by
Lodges or individuals..........................
55.00
Local Lodges as per capita.......................... 5,471.48
Interest ..........................................................
275.12
Miscellaneous .................................................
39.61
Transfer account employment fund ..........
500.00

8,387.66

25,300.20

Total receipts and balance.................................................. $33,653.62

11,762.86

Total disbursements..............................................................

54,496.34

Balance July 31, 1933............................................:.................................$ 6,499.72

Disbiirsements
For relief:
California Lodges ..................... ~ ..........$ 6,683.41
Other Lodges in United States.......... 10,908.46
Foreign Lodges ....................................
536.68
Funerals ................................................ 1,236.42
Funerals committee service................
546.00
Individuals-donations ......................
36 00 $19,946.97

698

Salaries -··---·--·-·-···-····-----·---·-·---·-·--·---·--·--···---- 2,783.23
Rent ................................................................
300.00
Telephone and telegraph................:...........
264.83
Postage .............................. :.......................... .
75.62
Printing and stationery................................
59.55
Office supplies ............................................. .
59.39
142.67
Auto expense .................................. :........... ..
Miscellaneous ................................................
270.30

Salaries ................................................................
Miscellaneous ................... :..................................

943.92

Balance July 31, 1933................................................................................$ 678.15
Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Ckise of Year
From other Lodges in United States..................................... ~ ....................$75.00

3,955.59
23,902.56

Balance July 31, 1933.......................................................................... $ 9,751.06
Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
From California Jurisdiction ..................................................................$1,189.50
~rom other Lodges in the United States..........:.........,........................... 1,753.78
From Foreign Jurisdictions ·.......................................................................
31.53
Pasadena: Board of Relief is composed of members from each Lodge
and meetings are held as called. Per capita assessment during the year,
25 cents.
There is one paid employee, the secretary who receives a salary of $75.
The secretary is bonded in the sum of $500. Auto insurance is carried. One
automobile is used.
Four funerals were conducted by local Lodges under auspices of board
and 32 by Funeral Committee. Total number of funerals, 36. Funds advanced for funerals, $326.63. Amount refunded, $301.63. Average cost to
board per funeral, $5.00. Total cost of funeral, $125.
Balance on hand last report.................................................................. $1,049.10
Receipts During the Year
_Grand Lodge of California................................$ 857.19
California u:idges .............................................. 323.58
Other Lodges in United State~ .......... .,............ 928.57 $2,109.54
625.00
2.13

900.00
43.92

Total disbursements................................................................ · 3,107.42

Total disbursements..............................................................

Per capita contribution......................................
Interest ............................................................... .

699

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·

627.13

2,736.47

Total receipts and balance.................................................... $3,785.57
Dis bursemen ts
For relief:
California Lodges ...... :...............................$1,202.43
Other Lodges in United States................ 816.07
Funerals ...................................................... 145.00 $2,163.50

Richmond: Board of Relief is composed of officers of each Lodge
and meets at call of president. Per capita assessment during the year,
5 cents.
There are no paid employees.
Nine funerals were conducted by local Lodges under auspices of board.
No funds advanced for funerals.
Balance on hand last report.. .. ~ .....................................- ...................... $ 53.70
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge advances refunded by Lodges or individuals ..$51.85

51.85

Total receipts and balance.............................................................. $105.55
Disbursements
For relief:
Other Lodges in United States..........................................$53.00•
Miscellaneous ··················-----------------·----------··-----------·--'------------------- 2.24
Total disbursements..................................................................

55.24

Balance July 31, 1933.......................................................:........................ $ 50.31
Sacramento: Board of Relief is composed of three members from
each Lodge. Per capita assessment during the year, 36 cents.
There is one paid employee, a secretary, who receives a salary of
$45 per month. The secretary is bonded in the sum of $500.
Eleven funerals were conducted by the Funeral Committee. Funds
advanced for funerals, $373. Amount refunded, $195. Average cost to
board per funeral, $8.00. Total cost of funeral, $163.
Balance on hand last report ............................ _................................... $2,232.23
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ..............................$ 349.00
California Lodges .............................................. 1,249.06
Other Lodges in United States ........................ 1,186.60
Foreign Lodges ..................................................
5.00 $2,789.66

\
700

\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Funeral reimbursements----------·-.---------.. -----------lndividual .reimbursements----------.--------------------lnterest ----·------------------·----------------------------------------

195.00
111.60
61.82

368.42

3, 158.08

Total receipts and balance.. -------------------------------------------------------- $5,390.31

701

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

\
Disbursements
For relief: \
California ·Lodges ................................................$101.73
Other Lodg~ in United States........................ 289.69 $391.42
Audit, auto expen~e, miscellaneous ......................................

76.02

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges·--·-······---~-----··-············-.$ 199.59
Other Lodges in United States________________ 881.00
Funerals ··--··--······························-·-·······-···-· 373.00 $1,453.59
Salaries -------------------·--··---················-····················
Telephone and telegraph ................................... .
Printing, .stationery and office supplies ......... .
Typewriter ·····················-···········-············-···········
Miscellaneous ..................................................... .

640.00
111.64
33.65
30.00
124.85

Total disbursements·············-··-·········································-······

Balance July 31, 1933.... -•-········-~---·························································· $ 6.77

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
From California Jurisdictio1L ....................................................................$ 55.73
From other Lodges in United States........................................................ 61.87
From individuals ............................................................................................ 273.82

940.14

Total disbursements................................................................

2,393.73

Balance July 31, 1933............................................................................ $2,996.58

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
From other Lodges in United States ... .'.....................:....................... ,........$215.00
From iridividuals ............................................................. ,...• ~---·····················-~---73.00

San Diego: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year, 75 cents.
There is one paid employee, the secretary, who receives a salary of
$200 per month. Fidelity ·insurance and carrier is carried. One automobile
is used.
Fifty funerals were conducted by local Lodges under the auspices of
the board and thirty conducted by Funeral Committee. Total funerals, 80.
Funds advanced for funerals, $497. Amount refunded, $509.80.
Balance 09 hand last report............................................ -.................... $ 899.44

San Bernardino: Board of Relief is composed of members of each·
Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita -assessment during the year, 10 cents.
There are no paid employees. No funerals were conducted during the
year.
Balance shown ~n statement as on hand July 31, 1932...................... $214.13

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges and supporting Lodges
per capita .............. :......:............................. .$3,802.62
Other Lodges in United States ........................ 4;039.63 $7,842.25

Receipts_ During the Year
Grand Lodge of California ......................................$104.73
California Lodges........................................................ 57.20
Other Lodges in United States................................ 16.70
Foreign .Lodges .............,.............................................. 48.00 $226.63

Funeral reimbursements ................................................... .

·Donation ........................................................................
Individual reimbursements........................................

33.45

509.80

8,352.05

Total receipts and balance.................................................... $9,251.49

.9.1
32.54

467.44

260.08

Total receipts and balance..............................................•....... ,. $474.21

Disbursements
For relief:
California Lodges ......................................$1,058.73
Other Lodges in United States ................ 3,986.75
Foreign Lodges .................:..........................
15.00
Funerals ...................................................... 497.00
Funerals committee services.................... 123.65 $5,681.13

.702

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAN.D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Salaries ................................................:............... 2,400.00
Auto expense......,................................................. 180.00
Travel, audit, miscellaneous............................ 170.92

/
2/50.92

Total disbursements .............................................../................

Rent --··-·······--- ··········-·····-····-·····-··-···..·-·······--·

8,432.05

Balance July 31, 1933....................,.....................- .........J.'..._.···-···-··· $ 819.44

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
From California Junsdiction.....................~·-···-··-·····-··········-·······-·······$ 40.10
From other Lodges in United States.............·-······································ 130.00
From Foreign Jurisdictions········-······················-··············--···················· 15.00
San Francisco: Board of Relief is composed of Master or representative of each Lodge, and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during
year, 25 cents.
There are two paid employees, a secretary who receives a salary of
$250 per month, and a typist or clerk who receives $40 per month. The
secretary and treasurer are bonded in the sum of $2,000 each. Fidelity
insurance and carrier, and compensation insurance are carried. One automobile is used.
Seventy-eight funerals were conducted by local Lodges under auspices
of the board. Average cost to board per funeral, $100. Total cost of
funeral, $100.
Balance on hand last report......-........................................................ $ 2,615.86

Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California........................$ 1,891.97
California Lodges........................................ 9,409.40
Other Lodges in United States.................. 6,207.30
Foreign Lodges ............................................ 1,221.53 $18,730.20
Assessments from local Lodges, int., etc...................

7,850.31

For relief:

California Lodges ····················-····-····$ 9,629.51
Other Lodges in United States.......... 5,491.09
Foreign Lodges ....................................
952.50
Repayment to Grand Lodge of Calif.
160.48
Contributed to employment service.. 1,200.00 $17,433.58

5,454.54

Total disbur-.nents........................................_..··········---··-

22,888.12

.1...................................................._................$ 6,308.25

Balance July 31, 1933..

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
. Jurt'sd'ICt'.....
From Ca l1'forma
1.........- ..................................---········-··.·-·.....$ 835.55
From other Lodges in United States........................................._..;........ 1,115.15
San Jose: Board of Relief is composed of Masters and_ Wardens of
five Lodges and meets quarterly. Per capita assessment durmg the year,
24 cents; Chapter and Commandery, 18 cents.
There is one paid employee, the secretary, who receives a salary of
$50 per month. The secretary and treasurer are bo~de? in the amount of
$500 each. Auto insurance is carried. One automobile 1s _used.
.
Eleven funerals were conducted by local Lodges under ausp-1ces of
board. Funds advanced for funerals, $100. Amount refunded, $100. Average cost to board per funeral, $100. Total cost of funeral, $100.
Balance on hand last report... ........................:······.............................. $ 796.67

R eceipts During the Y ear
Grand Lodge of California.......................•......$ 245.00
California Lodges .............................................. 872.43
Other Lodges in United States........................ 898.00 $2,015.43

26,580.51

Total receipts and balance.............................._.................... $29,196.37

Disbursemen ts

Salaries ...... .................................................. 3,995.00
360.00
Telephone and elegraph..............................
174.44
Postage .............. ..........................................
108.48
Auto expense ................'...............................
600.00
216.62
Audit, miscellaneo -····························- ····

703

Funeral Reimbursements ..................................
Per capita contributions....................................
Interest .......,........................................................
Miscellaneous ......................................................

100.00
577.76
17.26
102.84

797.86

2,813.29

Total receipts and balance.................................................... $3,609.96 .

Disbursements
For relief :
California Lodges ......................................$1,012.63
Other Lodges in United States................ 903.00
Funerals ..................- .................................. 100.00 $2,015.63

704

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Salaries
Audit and miscellaneous................................- ..

600.00
135.88

7 .88

Total disbursemt!nts................................................... ............

2,751.51

Receipt s During the Year
Grand Lodge
California..............................$ 25.00
California Lad
61.00
Other Lodges in nited State5........................ 567.11
Foreign Lodges ..... ...........................................
10.00 $ 663.11

Balance July 31, 1933........................._. ................................./............... $ 858.45

\

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
From California Jurisdiction ..................................... ,...............................$55.00
From other Lodges in United States.........·-·-····-······-·························· 55.00
From individuals ··········-·················································································· 60.00

Supporting Lodges per capita assessment.. ... .
Funeral reimbursementlia...................................
Charity ball, flowers.............................................
Donations ............................................................

· Santa Barbara: Board of Relief is composed of members from each
Lodge and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during year, 20 cents.
There are no paid employees. No funerals were conducted.
No balance on hand July 31, 1932.

Receipts During the Year
California Lodges-total receipts..··············-···········'··············- - ·········-- $147.16

Disbursemen ts
For relief:
Other Lodges in United States............................$15.50 Funerals .................................................................... 3.00 $18.50
Supplies and postage..................................................................

705

GRAND LODG E OF CALIFORNlA

15.44

Total disbursements .··································································

33.94

Balance July 31, 1933......,...............................................-........................ $113.22

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year
From other Lodges in United States............................................................$9.00
From individuals ···········································-··········-················-··-··············· 6.50
Santa Monica: Board of Relief is composed of members. from each
Lodge and holds three meetings per month. Per capita assessment during
the year, 25 cents.
There is one paid employee, a secretary who receives $280 per annum.
The secretary and treasurer are bonded in the amount of $500 each.
Two funerals were conducted by local Lodges under auspices of board,
and 50 funerals were conducted by the Funeral Committee. Total funerals,
52. Funds advanced for funerals, $353.23. Amount refunded; $335. Average cost to board per funeral, 35 cents. Total cost of funeral, $100.
Balance on hand last report.................................................................. $ 92.42

460.00
335.00
686.00
37.00

1,518.00

2,181.11

Total receipts and balance.................................................... $2,273.53
Disbursement s
For relief:
California Lodges ......................................$ 51.00
Other Lodges in United States ............... . 617.11
25.00
F oreign Lodges............................................
Funerals ...................................................... 353.23
79.36
Contributed to employment service........
Flowers ........................................................ 200.95 $1,326.65
Salaries ······························-································
Rent ··························- ··········································
Postage ................................................................
Printing and stationery......................................
Field representative expense.................·- ······Audit, miscellaneous.......-·-······························

280.00
50.00
110.39
80.88
120.00
118.54

759.81

T otal disbursements...................... ~·-·····················-················

2,086.46

Balance July 31, 1933.............................................--························-·· $ 187.07
Stockton: Board of Relief is composed of members of each Lodge
and meets monthly. Per capita assessment during the year, 10 cents.
There is one paid employee, a secretary, who receives a salary, including expenses, of $70 per annum. One automobile is used.
Ten funerals were conducted .by local Lodge~ under the auspices of
the board. No funds advanced for funerals. '
Balance on hand last report .....................~........................................:..... $ 26.87
Receipts During the Year
Grand Lodge of California.................................................... $ 97.14
California Lodges .................................................................... 180.00
Other Lodges in United States.....................:........................ 404.50 681.64
Total receipts and balance........................................................ $708.51

706

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Disbursements

I
I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Franc~ ····----~···-·······.: :~~~~;

San
....
East Bay ...... \.................................
Los Angeles ...\.,............................
San Diego ............:...........................
Long Beach .....................................
Santa Monica ··········-·····················
Sacramento ......................................

For relief:
California Lodges .....~--·--··--···-··················-$ 30.00
Other Lodges in United States........................ 537.2?
Foreign Lodges.................................................... 17.fQ
lndividuals-<lonations ........,.......,.......-............ 4lf.00 $632.76
Secretary's salary, including rent, auto, and miscellaneous ····································································-··········-

\

70.00

Total disbursements..................................................................

1,600.00
2,800.00
1,000.00
2,000.00
300.00
600.00

$10,300.00

702.76

707

Requested Recommended
$ 2,400.00
$2,000.00
1,600.00
2,500.00
2,800.00
2,800.00
1,200.00
800.00
2,000.00
1,800.00
600.00
864.00
600.00
$12,364.00

$9,600.00

DAVID]. REESE,
ROBERT F. CALLENDER,

Balance July 31, 1933..................................-;.........:.....................-.......... $ 5.75

]AMES R. ERSKINE,

Balance Owing to Board of Relief at Close of Year·
From California Jurisdidions ...................................·-······················-····Nothing
From other Lodges in United States............................................- ........$132.76
From Foreign Jurisdictions....................•.............- .......:....•........·-··········- 17.50
From individuals ··········································--························-····-············· 48.00

EUGENE ELKUS,
FRANK M . WISE,

Committee.

Report adopted, with the exception of the request for
appropriations, which was referred to the Committee on
Finance.

Employment Service
To" record all the achievements of our employment service this year
would require more space than is allotted. Uniform records and application
forms have been adopted and put into use in all offices. Economy and
efficiency have been stressed. Results for 1933 exceeded those of 1932 by
735 more positions ·secured for the past year.
.
Average cost per placement in 1932 was $3.48 and for 1933 $3.20. We
urge brethren to carefully study the statistical report submitted herewith
and made a part of this report.
Appropriations for Employment
The matter of allocating Grand Lodge funds for the Employment
Bureaus is still difficult of scientific solution. The Board of Control has
taken into account in each case the capacity of each community to support
the work, the need and the service rendered in the past, a swell· as the
expectations for the future.
Relieving unemployment economically is also important. Having all
these things in mind, we recommend. the follpwing appropriations :

At 12 o'clock noon Grand Lodge was called off until

2 o'clock.

708"

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

709

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES

11 tt ~ranh 1£ohge

To the M.". W.": Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances recommend that the petition of J. R. B.
(trial record No. 752, from Mission Lodge No. 169) be denied without
prejudice.

AFTERNOON SESSION
· Thursday, October 12, 1933.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

Adopted.
We recommend that the petition of W. E. F. (trial record No. 564,
from Standard Lodge No. 440) for restoration to the rights and privileges
of Masonry be granted.

Adopted.
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON PAY OF
MEMBERS
To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee charged with the duty ·of aS{:ertaining cost of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the jurisdiction
to the place of meeting of Grand Lodge and return, and of reportin~ su~h
cost of transportation as the sum due to the officers or representatives m
attendance from each Lodge, as well as grand officers, Past Grand Masters, chairmen and members of standing committees, and Inspectors, for
their necessary expenditures to and from Grand Lodge, report that they
have carefully discharged the duty and submit the following state~ent:
Grand Lodge officers ..................................................$ 293.16
Past Grand Masters .............................................. :..... 356.64
Committees .................................................................. 564.32
Inspectors .................................................................... 2,350.44
Representatives ........................................................ 15,950.14

$19,514.70
In addition it suggests the appropriation of the sum of $33.86 to reimburse Evening Star Lodge No. 186, covering loss of check for like amount
issued at last communication.
Respectfully submitted,
]No. H . McGEHEE,

F . E . SNEDECOR,
Jos. BLOCK,
BEN G. WRIGHT,
Committee.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

We recommend that the judgment of La Cumbre Lodge No. 642 (trial
record No. 760) in expelling C. D. G. be approved.

Adopted.
In the matter of the petition of F. A. J. (trial record No. 652, from
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389, tried by Southern California Lodge No. 278)
for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, we find that
p~titioner has· complied with our constitutional requirements; that there
are numerous letters of recommendation from prominent members of the
fraternity; that there are also letters protesting restoration. Considering
the seriousness of the offense of which the accused was found guilty and
the short time which has elapsed since his expulsion, your committee is not
prepared to recommend his reinstatement. We therefore recommend that
the petition of F. A. J. for restoration be denied without prejudice.

Adopted.
At the last annual communication, trial record No. 738, from Fort
Crook Lodge No. 575, was remanded for a new trial, the evidence presented at the trial being insufficient to sustain the judgment of conviction.
It now appears that the Lodge at a stated meeting held May 9, 1933, voted
unanimously to drop the charges. We recommend that the action of the
Lodge in this respect be approved.

Adopted.
We recommend that the petition of E. M. G. (trial record No. 678,
from Highland Park Lodge No. 382) for restoration to the rights and
privileges of Masonry be granted.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 786, from Fullerton Lodge No. 339, relates to an
acquittal by the trial commission, from which judgment the accuser ap-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

710

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

pealed. We see no reason to reverse the decision of the trial commissioners,
and recommend that the action of acquittal be affirmed.

Adopted.
In trial record No. 780, Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, an appeal from a
judgment of acquittal was taken by the accuser. We find no serious errors
in the record, and .believe the evidence amply sustained the verdict of
acquittal. We therefore recommend that the judgment of acquittal be
affirmed.

Adopted.
The petition of F. F. T., Jr., formerly a member of La Parfaite
Union Lodge No. 17, and expelled (trial record No. 185), is approved by
the Lodge by unanimous vote taken at a stated meeting held July 7, 1933;
and it appearing that petitioner has been living uprightly, that he is honest,
and is considered as a high-grade citizen, we recommend that h.e be restored
to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances recommend that the accused in trial
record No. 770, from Hollywood Lodge No. 355, who was suspended, be
reversed and remanded for a new trial, for the reason that the accused
was not served with due notice of the time and place of trial.

Adopted.
In trial record No. 778, from James ~fadison Lodge No. 572, being
the case of the Secretary of Melrose Lodge No. 602, who was charged
with embezzling certain funds of the Lodge, and for which the accused was
found guilty and sentenced to reprimand, we are not satisfied with the
sentence pronounced by the trial commission. Certainly a member who
misappropriated Lodge funds with which he is intrusted deserves more
than a reprimand after having. bee'n found guilty. We therefore recommend that the finding of guilty be affirmed, but that the penalty be fixed
at expulsion.

Adopted.
Trial record No. 801, Ascot Lodge No. 538, disclosed a peculiar quirk
of mind on the part of the trial commissioners. By unanimous vote they
found that the accused was not guilty of the charges filed against him,
but was guilty of un-Masonic conduct! We recommend that the action of
the Lodge in finding the accused not guilty of the specifications be affirmed,
but that the action imposing a penalty be reversed.

Adopted.

711

As to trial record No. 784, from Seaside Lodge No. 504, wherein the
Lodge found the accused guilty and fixed the penalty at reprimand, we
feel that the accused should have been acquitted of the charges against
him; and in order that he be cleared of the unwarranted conviction, we
recommend that the judgment of the trial commission be reversed.

Adopted.
The petition of J. C. P. for restoration to the rights and privileges
of Masonry (trial record No. 688, from San Francisco Lodge No. 360)
has been given careful consideration by your committee. The accused was
expelled in 1931. The matter was carefully reviewed at the annual communication of that year, and Grand Lodge sustained the action of the trial
commission and affirmed the penalty. There is now no showing that would
warrant this committee in going contrary to the action of Grand Lodge '
and of petitioner's Lodge, which recently voted that the petition be denied.
We therefore recommend that the petition of J. C. P. for restoration be
denied without prejudice.

Adopted.

J. K., formerly a member of Ocean Park Lodge (trial record
No. 743), who was expelled April 5, 1932, has filed a petition for restoration. In view of the seriousness of the offense with which he was charged
and convicted, and the short period of time which has elapsed since his
expulsion, it is the opinion of your committee that the petition for restoration should be denied without prejudice.
Adopted.
W.W. S., formerly a member of Lassen Lodge No. 149 (trial record
No. 684), who was suspended by Grand Lodge at the annual communication of Grand Lodge in 1931, has filed a petition for restoration. His
petition is supported by all the elective officers of Lassen Lodge, by several
Past Masters and other prominent Masons of his county. On August 1,
1933, by a two-thirds vote, the Lodge recommended his reinstatement. We
therefore recommend that W. W. S, be restored to all the rights and
privileges of Masonry.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
.No. 787, tried by Live Oak Lodge No. 61, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused, one E. L. P., was charged with un-Masonic conduct, as
set forth in seven specifications. He was found guilty on each of these
specifications, also found guilty of the charge of un-Masonic conduct, and
the penalty was fixed at suspension. The accused has appealed.

712

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

This record, and the points raised on appeal, present some very troublesome questions. In order to adequately present these questions to you it will
be necessary to present the matter in some detail.
The first specification alleges that the accused addressed a circular
letter generally to the members of George Washington Lodge. This letter
reads as follows :
.
"San Francisco, September 2, 1932.
"To the Members of Geo. Washington Lodge.
"Dear Sir and Brother :
"There are three proposed amendments to the charter of the City
and County of San Francisco governing municipal employment, now
being circulated for signature, which, among other things, would
drastically and permanently cut wages and salaries and seriously affect
the pension system.
"The following members of Geo. Washington Lodge No. 525,
F. & A . M., are city employees whose incomes would be seriously
affected should these amendments take effect :
"Thomas M. May,
Paul F. Kiesow,
Maurice N. McCreary,
Thomas B. Johnson,
Geo. F. Staff,
Cleveland Sturke,
}. J. Burns,
Eugene L. Packard,
John Johnson,
Thomas Patterson.
"In addition to the abave, it is estimated that there are 1500 to
2000 Master Masons in the service of the City and County of San
Francisco.
"Aside from the injury to these brothers, there are other important objections to the proposed amendments.
"In the first place, the amendments will undoubtedly delay the
return of prosperity to San Francisco because every wage cut means
reduced purchasing power. Business needs increased not decreased
purchasing power in order to revive.
"Secondly, these amendments propose permanently to reduce the
standard of living of 13,500 families to a level fixed on the basis of
the worst depression in our history and will make that lower standard
the excuse for still further lowering of wages and salaries paid in
all fields of private employment.
"Thirdly, these amendments will not save any money to the taxpayer. If any amendment is carried to reduce the wages of municipal

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

713

employees, it will automatically stop the voluntary contribution of
$1,500,000 now being given by them to the Unemployed Relief Fund.
The burden of making up that $1,500,000 will then fall directly upon
the shoulders of the taxpayer . .
"This is a request that you refuse to sign or support in any way
·any petition for charter amendments affecting municipal employment;
and, in the event you have already signed petitions for these amendments, that you kindly write to the Registrar of Voters, City Hall,
withdrawing your name from such petitions.
"Sincerely and fraternally yours,
"(Signed) EUGENE PACKARD,
"Office Phone WE st 0191."
The accused freely and frankly admits the mailing of this letter to
the members of his Lodge. The finding of guilty, therefore, of the facts
alleged in the first specification is correct. This does not determine, however, that these facts constitute un-Masonic conduct.
The second specification reads as follows :
"Second. That the charter amendments referred to in said letter
were, at the time of the issuance of said letter, a matter of controversial politics engaging the attention of the citizens of the City and
County of San Francisco, State of California."
The evidence with reference to these proposed charter amendm~nts is
to the effect that petitions were being circulated for the purpose of having
same placed on the ballot; the proposed amendments were never placed
on the ballot and were not submitted to the electorate of San Francisco.
A copy of the proposed amendments was not placed in evidence at the trial
and is not incorporated in the record.
The gist thereof may, however, ·be inferred from the letter above
quoted. By the finding of guilty under the second specification the trial
commission held that these proposed charter amendments were matters of
"controversial politics."
The third specification alleges that by the issuance of said letter the
accused sought to influence the political action and discretion of the members of his Lodge by an appeal to the selfish interest of said members, and
that the accused sought to promote the selfish interest of himself and such
other members by an appeal to the members of his Lodge.
No direct evidence was introduced in support of this specificatiqn. The
letter sent out by the accused to the members of his Lodge, of course
speaks for itself, and undoubtedly makes clear the purpose which inspired
its mailing.
The fourth specification charges that the accused in issuing said
letter, used the official roster of the Lodge for the purpose of obtaining a

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

list of the names and addresses of the members of the Lodge to whom
the letter was sent. The accused admits this to be the fact, and the finding
of guilty of the facts alleged in the fourth specification was therefore
entirely proper. This, also, does not amount to a determination that such
use constituted tin-Masonic conduct.
The fifth &pecification charges that the issuance of said letter tended
to bring controversy into said Lodge and the Masonic Fraternity into
disrepute.
The accuser introduced no evidence to directly support this specification and left the determination thereof to such inferences as the trial commission might draw from the nature and character of the letter itself and
the matters therein referred to. On the other hand, there was direct
evidence introduced by the accused by several members of the Lodge to
the effect that the sending of the letter did not create any controversy
within the Lodge or among its members. The trial commission, nevertheless, found the accused also guilty of this specification.
The sixth specification is quite long, somewhat involved and charges
several different matters, in substance that concurrently with the issuance
of the letter above quoted, similar letters were sent to members of two
other Lodges by a member in each of said Lodges and which said letters
differed in form only, that the names specified in the letters were in each
instance the names of the members of the Lodge in which the respective
senders held membership. It further alleges that the accused and the other
two Masons sending out such letters were active in promoting the issuance
thereof. The sixth specification then alleges that the then Grand Master
summoned the accused, together with the other two brothers, to jointly
appear before him on the 6th day of October for the purpose of investigation by the Grand Master of the issuance of the letters and the numbers
and names of the Lodges in which similar letters had been circulated. It is
then charged that the accused conspired with the other two brothers to
evade appearance in response to the summons by postponing the date of
appearance to a date after the expiration of the term of office of the then
Grand Master, to the end that it would not be possible for the then Grand
Master to take action upon the matter. Of this entire specification the
accused was found guilty.
In order to properly present the matter it is necessary to review in
some detail the facts which occurred. The Grand Master did issue a summons to the three brothers involved, to appear at his office on October 6th.
In response to the summons the accused addressed a: letter to the then
Grand Master in which the accused asserted that it was impossible . for
him to absent himself from his office at the time mentioned, and suggesting
a date one week later, the letter ending with the phrase, "Trusting this
will not inconvenience you in any way and assuring you that my presence is

yours to command I am sincerely yours, E. L. P." The other two brothers
also summoned ~fore the then Grand Master sent letters to him, in one
of which it was asserted that the brother summoned would be out of the
city on city business on the date mentioned, and in which the other set
forth that he had certain reports which had to be completed by the 12th
of the month and that by reason thereof he could not attend at the hour
fixed by the Grand Master.
·
It is vigorously urged by counsel for the accused that no authority
rests in the Grand Master to issue a summons directing a Mas!er Mason
to appear at his office. Your committee feels that it
unnec_essary for
Grand Lodge to determine here this particular question. Thi~, for the ·
reason that it appears that the then Grand Master, after receipt of the
letter from accused by telephone arranged for the accused to call at
5 :15 p. m. of October 6th, instead of at 2 p. m. This appointment ":as
kept by the accused, as well as by one of the other. brothers involved with
whom a similar arrangement had been made. In view of the fact that _the
Grand Master who issued the summons arranged .and agreed to the appointment at the later hour we are of the opinion that this constituted a retraction of the summons'. at least as to the hour named therein, and that
accused having kept the later appointment cannot now be held to have
refused to obey the summons.
The other matter of importance alleged in specification six, relates
to the alleged conspiracy to avoid appearance in response to the summons.
While the accused freely stated that he had talked with one of the other
brothers involved with reference to the receipt of the summons from the
then Grand Master, it was vigorously denied that there was any conspiracy
or any attempt to evade appearance in response thereto. The accused
likewise vigorously denies that he had in mind that th~ then Grand "¥aster
would go out of office within a short time. There 1s no other evidence
supporting the conspiracy.
In view of the foregoing facts we feel that the finding of guilty under
the sixth specification cannot be sustained.
The seventh specification alleges that between the 30th of September
and the 14th of October the then Grand Master requested the accused on
several occasions to iss~e a letter to the members of 'the Lodge to whom
the previous letter had been sent, reciting the impropriety of the former
Jetter and that the accused persistently declined so to do.
The then Grand Master propcised that the letter to be sent out to the
members of George Washington ' Lodge by the accused, should be in the
following form :

714

715

!s

"To the Members of George Washington Lodge:
"We recently caused to be issued to the members of the Lodge
a letter requesting them to oppose three proposed amendments to the

716

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Francisco Charter, upon the ground that their adoption would
reduce the salaries of members of George Washington Lodge whose
names were listed in the letter, and salaries of other San Francisco
Masons, as well as for other reasons stated in the letter.
"We ar·e advised that this was grossly improper, both because of
its attempt to use Lodge membershi>p and the Lodge roster to promote
the financial interest of individual members, and also because of the
political character of the circular; We issued the circular without
authority from the Lodge, and take this means of apologizing to the
Lodge and its members for having engaged in the activity; Masonic
affiliation should not influence their action in such matters.
"Fraternally yours, .. ."
In response to this, the accused, in November, wrote a reply of great
length in which he tOC'Jk the position that the letter proposed by the Grand
Master, and who in the meantime had become a Past Grand Master, made
him confess that the letter sent out by him was of a political character,
whereas he had consistently taken a contrary position. In this letter the
accused points out that he had consulted various prominent Masons, among
them a. Past Grand Master, who concurred in his views· that the original
letter was non-political in character. He further stated that he felt it
would be un-Masonic for him to admit guilt where he felt there was
none. He, however, proposed to publish in his Lodge bulletin a statement
as follows:
"I was advised by Grand Master Gaylord that the letter I mailed
to the members of George Washington Lodge was ill advised and
improper, but I do not agree that I have committed any un-Masonic
act in sending out this letter which was to protect those members of
George Washington Lodge employed by the city from a reduction of
wages for all time, and also to protect their pension when they had
reached the age of 70. Inasmuch as it has created a controversy, I am
sorry I sent it out, and I trust the brethren will understand my position."
He closed the letter by stating as follows: "I would submit to such fair
modification of this · letter that you might suggest, but .beyond this I
cannot go."
Your committee is of the opinion that the accused should have been
found not guilty of the seventh specification, because we can see no
Masonic offense involved therein. The sending of the letter of retraction
or apology was proposed by the Grand Master for the purpose of correcting the harm which he conceived had been done; in which event, undoubtedly, the matter would have been permitted to drop; in fact, the Grand
Master so indicated. If the accused desired to stand upon the position

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

717

which he had taken and declined to make a retraction except in the form
proposed by him, we feel that he had a right to do so, and that the
question of whether he had then been guilty of any un-Masonic conduct in
the first instance could accordingly be determined,
U Grand Lodge concurs in the views which we have heretofore expressed, this matter then narrows itself to a consideration of the questions
as to whether there was un-Masonic conduct on the part of the accused
in sending to the members of his Lodge the letter above quoted, and in
using the Lodge roster in so doing. The gist of the entire matter is involved
in these two questions.
There may well be a diversity of op1mon as to whether the letter
sent by accused fo the members of his Lodge involved a matter of controversial politics. To define what is and what is not political in character
involves many and varied difficulties. The line of demarcation between
things political in character and matters merely of civic interest, is not at
all well defined. The accused has consistently maintained that his letter
did not involve a matter of controversial politics, but that it related only
to a matter of civic interesL In support of his position he pointed out in
his letter to the Grand Master that Grand Lodge had heretofore approved
the policy of a prior Grand Master wherein he proclaimed the belief that
there is no higher duty devolving upon us as Masons than t>he duty we owe
the State as citizens; " ... and taking a part in politics-not political in
that sense of artful and dishonest efforts to secure the success of party
schemes ... but politics in that broader and larger sense."
The accused has further shown that prior to sending out the letter in
question he consulted with various Masons as to the propriety thereof,
among whom was included the Master of his Lodge. In each instance the
letter was approved. In this the accused is fully corroborated. Unfortunately, most, but not all of the Masons so consulted were city employees
whO' would be directly affected by the charter amendments referred to in
the letter.
Your committee is thoroughly convinced that the accused acted in the
best of faith, and that he is sincere in the position, consistently maintained,
that he has ·not violated any of the laws of Masonry. Our conclusion in
this respect is verified by the · fact that it was stipulated before the trial
commission that the accused had no intention of violating any of the
laws of Masonry.
As previously pointed out, we feel that the finding of guilt in failing
to respond to the summons cannot be sustained. It impresses us that it is
quite probable that this was viewed by the trial commission as the most
serious offense charged. We are exceedingly doubtful if they had found
the accused not guilty of this charge, as they should have done whether
the penalty in any event would have been more than a reprimand.

719

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

718

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We are in accord with the attitude of the then Grand Master that the
act of the accused in sending out a letter of this sort addressed generally
to all oI the members of his Lodge was ill advised and that there were
improprieties in his so doing. We also feel that when doubt exists as to
whether a matter is or is not political or controversial in character, the
doubt should be resolved against intermingling such a matter with
Masonry. We recognize the right of every Mason to address his brethren
individually on any proper subject, political or otherwise, but feel that
matters controversial in character should not be brought so intimately in
contact with our Lodges, or their membership as a whole, that the peace
and quiet thereof and the good-fellowship of Masonry may be disturbed.
In this particular case, we must consider the unquestioned good faith
of the accused; the fact, unquestioned and stipulated, that the accused had
no intention of violating any Masonic law; the fact that the accused sought
and obtained advice before sending out the letter, and the further fact that
from ·the record, the matter does not seem to have created any dissension
or discord in the Lodge. Viewing these several facts, we are of the
opinion that suspension is not at all warranted. We also feel that when
the then Grand Master very forcibly pointed out to the accused the improprieties of his act and the accused expressed his" regret and sorrow,
therefor all was accomplished in this case which the circumstances
required.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Be It R esolved, that the finding of guilt of the accused in the above
matter, and the fixing of the penalty at suspension, be, and the same is
hereby reversed.

Adopted as read.
Omnibus Report
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the hereinafter
mentioned trial records, hereby reports as follows:
That after examining said records, in each of which no appeal was
taken, we find no serious errors committed at the trials of the accused,
and that substantial justice has been done in each instance, and we therefore
recommend the approval of the same, to-wit:
No. 767-A member of Dimond Lodge No. 603.
No. 768-A member of Point Firmin Lodge No. 558.
No. 769-A member of Oakland Lodge No. 188.
No. 771-A member of Jubilee Lodge No. 604.
No. 772-A member of Argonne Lodge No. 514.
No. 773--A member of Anaheim Lodge No. 207.
No. 774-A member of Alcatraz Lodge No, 244.
No. 775-A member of Fairmount Lodge No. 435.

No. 776-A member of Honolulu Lodge No. 409.
No. 777-A member of Vermont Square Lodge No. 515.
No. 779-A member of Selma Lodge No. 277.
No. 781-A member of Welcome Lodge No. 255.
No. 782-A member of Jonathan Lodge No. 545.
No. 785-A member of Molino Lodge No. 150.
No. 788-A member of Long Beach Lodge No. 327.
No. 789-A member of Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
No. 790--A member of Berkeley Lodge No. 363.
No. 791-A member of Hollywood Lodge No. 355.
N' o. 792-A member of Caledonia Lodge No. 486.
No. 793--A member of Humboldt Lodge No. 79.
No. 794-A member of Plumas Lodge No. 60.
No. 795-An Entered Apprentice of Olive Branch Lodge No. 269.
No. 796-An Entered Apprentice of James Madison Lodge No. 572.
No. 797-A member of Belvedere Lodge No. 539.
No. 798-A member of San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214.
No. 799-A member of Inglewood Lodge No. 421.
No. 800-A member of Hawthorne Lodge No. 647.
No. 802-A member of Northern Light Lodge N o. 190.
No. 803--A member of Keystone Lodge No. 161.
No. 723--A member of Paul Revere Lodge No. 462.
No. 766-A member of Euclid Lodge No. 519.
No. 713--A member of Big Bear Lodge No. 617.
No. 783--A member of Fraternity Lodge No. 399:
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resolved that in each of the above enumerated cases the action of the
trial commissioners be and the same is hereby approved and the respective
judgments therein be and the same are hereby affirmed.

w ALTER F. HAAS,
EARL w ARREN'
OLIN L. BERRY,

A. w. BROUILLET,

FRANK B. BELCH ER,

Committee.

Brother Earl Warren, deeming himself disqualified to
pass on trial records No. 774 from Alcatraz Lodge No. 244
and No. 790 from Berkeley Lodge No. 363, d id not participate in the foregoing report insofar as the same deals with
said two cases.

720

G RAND LODGE 01!' CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON POLICY
AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Past Grand Master Hervey, chairman of the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes, reported verbally that no
report would be made this year relative to Masonry in other
countries.
Grand Master's Recommendations
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered the
recommendations numbered 1 to 6, contained in the message of the Grand
Master, and with regard thereto respectfully reports as follows:
1. The proposal that the uniform code of by-laws be amended by
requiring the appointment of a Budget Committee, whose duty it shall
be to prepare a budget on approved forms, was made because of well
founded complaints that the financial affairs of some of the subordinate
Lodges are managed .very poorly and inefficiently.
Your committee is informed that it is the practice of the Lodges to
receive and act upon the reports of the Secretary· and Treasurer rendered
annually in December and in some Lodges rendered semi-annually, .and
that such reports reflect the transactions of the Lodge, and advise the
members thereof. At the stated meetings of the Lodges, .bills are approved
by vote of the members for disbursements of the preceding month, and
in this way those members who attend Lodge are kept somewhat conversant
with its running expenses. The proposed budget, however, is intended to
reflect the financial requirements for the future and the revenues which
would satisfy those requirements.
The items for the salaries of the Secretary, Tyler and Organist, for
rent, light, heat and similar expenses, are fairly fixed and are necessary
expenses whether stipulated in a budget or not. The remainder of the
Lodge expenses, cqnsisting of Grand Lodge dues, charity disbursements,
and unexpected and non-recurring expenses, are not certain and can only
be guessed at. The matter of revenues is also speculative and, if placed in
a budget, must necessarily be the result of a guess or a hope. No Lodge
can foresee the amount of fees that would be received during the year
from candidates for the degrees, nor the amount of dues that will be paid
by the members. It seems unwise to require by law the setting up of a
budget unless such -budget can be relied upon as showing an approximation
of expense and income. We think that instead of having such a fixed law, ·
that the situation would be better met by leaving to the Lodges the responsibility of the management of its financial affairs, with the earnest recommendation that the Master himself, or through a Budget Committee or
otherwise, make up an estimate of ex11enditures and revenue, and endeavor

721

to· manage the financial affairs of his . Lodge as nearly in conformity to
such estim:rtes as may be practicable and expedient. T his is a businesslike
method of procedure. The Inspector of the district has the power to investigate the action of the Master in regard to this matter, and to report
to the Grand Master any laxity or inattention to the business of the Lodge.
Your Committee also is of the opinion that in the event the law required the making of a budget, it should go further and require that the
Lodge conform to the budget prepared and adopted, for it would seem
nugatory to require a budget if it could be cast aside and made inoperative.
It would be unwise to require by law adherence to a budget which admittedly must be speculative, both as to expense and income.
It has been repeatedly held that all of the funds of a Lodge are charity
funds, and as such can be used in the same manner as income, if the calls
for charity demands such use. Yet it would be improper to set up all the
assets of the Lodge in a budget as proper resources with which to discharge
the expenses shown in the budget.
Your committee also strongly recommends to every Lodge in the
jurisdiction that at the annual meetings in December of this year, when
we are entering upon another year which may be lean and beset with much
financial distress, that the items of fixed expenditures, such as the Secretary's salary, T iler's salary, Organist's salary, rent, etc., be carefully
reviewed and that the same be divorced from sentiment and placed upon
a businesslike basis for the financial good of the Lodge and its members.

Adopted.
2. The observations of your committee regarding the budget requirement apply with equal force to the proposal that Section 150 of the Constitution be amended to require the Secretary to prepare a financial statement of the Lodge at the end of each year, and an operating statement
for the preceding year. At the stated meeting of December, the Secretary
shout~ prepare a financial statement ; and in most cases, if not in all, that
practice is now being followe~. This annual statement, if incomplete,
should receive· the attention of the Master and the Inspector, to the end
that the members may have a complete and proper financial report.

Adopted.
3. The recommendation that all temple assoc1at1ons be required to
prepare and present to the Finance Committee of this Grand Lodge,
budgets for the succeeding year and a financial and operating statement
for the preceding year, does not meet with the approval of the committee,
for the reason that this Grand Lodge does not assume or admit any liability
with regard· to the operations of such ~emple associations. Since sub()rdinate Lodges are usually financially interested in such associations, they

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

have the right to demand of the temple association in which they are interested, such reports of the activities of the association and such financial
plans contemplated by the association as they may need or desire.
The Finance Committee of Grand Lodge also has the r ight to call
upon any or all of the temple associations for such information as it
desires. Since Grand Lodge has not assumed jurisdiction over or responsibility for the acts of the temple associations, it would, in our judgment,
be inappropriate to pass legislation directing the manner in which they
should conduct their .business.

location on a second floor of a building, that in some cases it is necessary
for the Lodge to take over the entire building and to risk the hazard of
renting or otherwise profitably employing the first floor thereof. The
special committee would act as an elder brother in such cases and be a
restraining influence against undue enthusiasm.

722

Adopted.
4. With regard to the recommendation that no Lodge be permitted to
enter into a lease of property without the approval either of the Finance
Committee or Special Committee on Building Projects, your committee
recognizes the evils the Grand Master desires to remedy . .Many of the
Lodges are paying too much rent on leases made in prosperous times and
prior to the cataclysmic decline in realty values and rentals. In such
cases, a Lodge should take every honorable means to secure a reduction of
rent, but cannot afford to repudiate the sanctity of its solemn contractual
agreement. There are cases in which Lodges, in an hour of enthusiasm
and optimism, have entered into agreements inconsistent with the ability
of the Lodge to perform the same. In the one case the situation of the
Lodge is unfortwiate, and in the other, the situation is the result of improvidence. It is difficult to secure alleviation from either misfortune or
improvidence by substituting legislation for common sense and business
prudence.
Your committee is of the opinion that a Lodge should be permitted
to transact its internal financial affairs according to its best judgment, and
that such judgment should not be interfered with by this Grand Lodgt?
even though a Lodge may sometimes make a mistake. Even Grand Lodge
has been known to err.
The experience of the past three years will probably be a better deterrent and a more salutary warning to the Lodges than any legislation
casting in rigid form limitations on the financial transactions of the Lodges
that we could adopt.
However, with regard to the renting or leasing of real property, not
to be used or occupied by the Lodge, some restriction should be imposed
by this Grand Lodge because of the .speculative nature of such transactions. Therefore, your committee respectfully recommends that no Lodge
be permitted to enter into a hiring or leasing of real ·property without the
previous approval of the Special Committee on Building Projects, if such
hiring or leasing is of property not to be used or occupied by the Lodge.
Your committee has in mind the fact that in order to secure a Lodge

723

Adopted.
5. The Grand Master recommends that Section 88 of the Constitution
be so amended as to limit the expenditure of Lodge funds for the purpose
of procuring a testimonial for the retiring Master to the sum of $150,
and your committee concurs in such recommendation, and recommends that
the Constitution be so amended.
·

Adopted, and the recommendation referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
6. The Grand Master recommends that the uniform code of by-laws
be amended to limit the Secretary's salary to 10 cents per member per
month. The reason for this recommendation doubtless is that some of the
Lodges are paying excessive salaries to the Secretaries. In such cases, the
Lodges should carefully consider the subject matter and should reduce
the salary to meet the necessities of the situation. A Lodge should not pay
more than its resources and income will reasonably permit for the services
of its Secretary, but at the same time it should recognize the right of the
Secretary ·to be reasonably compensated for his services. It is difficult,
if not impossible, to fix a just rule for a salary scale to apply to the Secretaries of 580 Lodges. These Lodges range from a small body, with probably an unpaid Secretary, to Lodges having more than one thousand mem~
hers. The services of a Secretary fall under three general heads:
First : He is to attend the meetings of his Lodge, record its transactions, make up reports for the Lodge, and prepare and transmit reports
to the Grand Secretary, and otherwise act as the recording officer of the
Lodge.
Second: He is the cashier and fiscal agent of his Lodge, collecting
dues of the members and keeping accounts thereof, issuing receipts, ordering supplies and paying the bills of the Lodge. In this capacity he is a
bookkeeper, auditor, a receiving teller, a paying teller and the financial
agent of the Lodge.
Third : The Secretary is the right hand of the Master in the performance of his administrative duties. He should be active in the relief
work of the Lodge, the contact man with the membership, an invaluable •
special aid to the Master, and if the Lodge holds property or outside
interests, he will find tenants, collect r entals, and other wise render indispensable services.

724

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A good Secretary, in the opinion of your committee, is active, . alert
and zealous in :his ser;vice .to the Lodge and its members, and earns his
salary. A .poor Secreta.ry is a poor .in.vestment, no matter what salary is
paid to him. If it were PGJSsihle to set a standard Qf duties, r.esponsibilities,
ability and adaptability for Secretaries, then it .might be possible to set .a
just and uniform standard of compensation. Since this is not possible, it
seems to your committee that the matter of salaries should be left to the
sound .discretioo of the Lodge, which should be charg;ed, if not with a
legal duty, with the moral and Masonic .duty of keeping its expenses within
due bounds and .avoiding payment ·of e:8:c-essive salaries to its Secretary, -its
Tyler, its Organist or any other person .employed by it. It may be that
a scale of 10 cents per member per month would be a fair standard to set
for the average case, from which exception could be made upwards or
downwards to fit particular situations. We are unable to say that this
is the fact, and until further advised, we ar-e satisfied .fo leave, foi: the
present, the question of salaries to the sound discretion of the Master, with
the advice of the Inspector and to the ultimate action of the respective
Lodges.

Adopted.
Installment Payment .o f Dues
Your Committee on Policy and General Fur-poses !has ohad under consideration the recommendation of the Grand Maater that the Constitution
be amended to prov.ide that the annual dues of Lodges to -the Grand
Lodge may be made in two instaHments, •payable in August and February,
subsequent to the end of the fiscal year ; and a:J.s0 the -resolution af
Charles R. Bermel, Master ·of Mount Vernon Ledge 'No. 517, providing
that ·such dues be payable -in four equal installments, payable in August,
November, February and May, subsequent to the -close of the fiscal year.
The effect of the ·proposals ·is -to pest-pone .for a considerable Jleriod
beyond the close of the fiscal year the ·payment -0f ·dues to Grand Lodge.
The object probably is to appropriate the revenues af a futur-e period for
the payment of a debt which has fully accrued and has not been paid. We
think the principle is unsound. On August ls.t of each year a .certain and
definite then e::dsting indebtedness io Grand Lodge is ascertained and reported, and such indebtedness is based upon the business of the year which
has ended. The Ledge has had the entire year in which to -provide for
the payment of the annual dues, and it would seem poor .business practice
to absorb revenues .of the following year to pay the same in whole or in
part. The subsequent year car.r.ies its burden of dues which must be paid.
Such hardship as may e:>cist is .not .alle:viated by the postponement of payment, because after the first interval of del<i¥ the burden of payment
will fall regularly and imperatively.
If a Lodge desires to make partial payment of its dues to Grand
Lodge, it has the privilege of so doing, and remittances monthly, quarterly

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

725

or semi-annually w~uld be gladly received by the Grand Secretary. Where
a Lodge can do so, 1t would be prudent and busines·slike to make payments
on account of dues at intervals during the year and thus materially reduce
the amount payable on August 15th.
Your committee recommends that the Constitution be not amended as
pr.oposed.

Grand Lodge concurred in the r-eport.
Masonic Education
. Y ~ur Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had under consideration the report of the committee appointed at our last communication
to study the question of Masonic education.
. This subject has been debated for many years in Grand Lodge and
owmg to ·the very intangibility of its objective, has never been solved
successfully. We commend the manner in which the committee •has analyzed the whdle subject and presented to Grand Lodge the possibilities
now confronting it.
The .committee recommend:
(a) Adopting the principle of voluntary action by subordinate Lodges
on a.II phases of an educational program except that of instruction to
candidates.
(b) Adopting the principle of a program of instruction to candidates
and authorizing and directing the Grand Master to appoint a committee t~
formulate and ,promulgate such program.
(:A--1) Making the use of such program compulsory and .r.equiring
proficiency as .a prerequisite to advancement.
(A-2) Charging the Grand Lecturer, Inspectors and Masters with the
duty of instituting and executing this program.

. (c) That .no program as to candidates dependent on voluntary execu~
t10n by subordmate Lodges be adopted; and hence,
'(d) Unless the compulsory method be adopted, no action be taken as
to such compulsory program, and

(e)_ If the. c~pulsory method as to candidates be approved, then
appropnate l~g1~lat10n with respect to amendments to the proper sections
of our Const1tut10n be adopted.
"':our committee is in accord with that portion of the report which

pr~v1des for voluntary action by subordinate Lodges in all phases of educational work, except as to candidates. The history of such efforts shows
general apathy on the part of Masons to educational efforts, and we agree
that such work should be left to the discretion of the officers A th' ·
th
·
. S IS IS
~ prac~1ce now, we a re of the opinion that there need be no action on
this port10n of the report.

726

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We are in sympathy with the opinion of the committee that the ritualistic instruction to the candidate should be supplemented by other forms
of instruction. There are many ways by which the candidate can be enlightened as he learns his ritual. However, we cannot agree that such
instruction should be made compulsory and a condition precedent to
advancement in the several degrees. There are many sides to Masonic
education. There is the symbolism which could be explained outside the
ritual. The historical side of Masonry is very important. A study of o\ir
form of organization and our Constitution is well worth while, and the
philosophical side of Masonry should not be ignored. These and many
other phases could well be used in instructing the candidate. The same
candidate might not be interested in all of them, just as many of us are
not interested in all phases of Masonry.
We are not asked to approve the adoption of any particular system
of education, but merely to approve the principle of compulsory instruction.
We do not favor the adoption of any compulsory plan. Once in the Constitution it would be practically as unchangeable as our ritual, and we do
not believe that Grand Lodge is ready to adopt an innovation which is at
variance with our established custom. We believe that any educational
plan adopted should be voluntary and adapted fo the individual need of
the candidate.
However, your committee does not believe that the subject of further
instruction for candidates should be dropped by Grand Lodge. We believe
that it is a very vital question and that much can be done in the way of
supplemental instruction at present, when the Lodges have more time to
give to their candidates. This, however, ·should be voluntary on the part
of the Lodge and the candidate. A coach who is well grounded in the
history and philosophy of Masonry should have no difficulty in giving
instruction suited to the needs of the individual candidate. There should
be a committee appointed by Grand Lodge to which a Lodge could turn
for assistance in this work.
We therefore propose the following resolution and move its adoption :
Resolved, that the committee to study the question of Masonic education be continued during the coming year. That that committee consider
the means and methods of supplementing the ritualistic instruction now
given the candidate. That it consider only such methods as may be adopted
voluntarily by the Lodge and the candidate, attempting to arrive at some
standard practice which can be used by all Lodges desiring to adopt the
plan. That this committee be instructed to report at the next annual
communication.

Exemption of Affiliates. From Home Tax
. Y~ur Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had un
.
s1deration the resolution offered by Jubilee Lodge N 604
de: conexempt affiliates from the payment of the $25 H
of
p.roposm~ to
as they desire or are able to
.
.
om~s ee until such time
carry
them on
.
.
.
pay
it,
and
m
the
meantime
to
the roll s as non-participating
be
W
also, the proposal of Brother ; e ; i{s. . e havef had under considera·tion,
to exem . .
. . . . arrmgton o Schofield Lodge No. 443
the sameptHserv1cefmen affihatmg from other grand jurrsdictions, also from
•
omes ee.
Nd eithker of t~ese proposals would eliminate the Homes fee but each
wou! ma e certam exempfon
d
'
.
I
s, an consequently we are considering them
m one report.
.

z~~: :~;~=~~!r;;s wi~rth~ stat~ment

that probably the Homes
fee
o~ a. iatmg with California Masons. Whether
or not this is a
.
that the Hom nf un~1xed evil, is largely a matter of opinion. It may be
become burde:: t:eo~: s~:~::at a protection against affiliates who might
olicHyoowf ever,. ~eithHer of these proposals would change the Grand Lodge
P
requmng omes fees Q
Id
time as the brother could afford ~e w~~. defer the payment until such
carry him on a special list h ·1 or \ w1 mg to pay and in the meantime
;ould exempt entirely one class
of Masons, the service m~nw I~ eb a~~t
0
would have three cla
·
~ t es: proposals were adopted we
paid the Homes fee, ~:~s wo:ul~~:o:: m California: Th.os~ who had not
meantime would be entitled to all
pecte?
do so sometime and in the
of going to the H
.
.
of the privileges of Masonry except that
ome, service men who had n t
'd d
h h
? pai an would not be
expected to pay. and the rest 0 f
'
us w o ave paid the fee.
.
We were told when we came into Mason th
.
its burdens and responsibilities and entitled ry. at we were sub1:c.ted to
We believe that these burdens and resp
'b'~?.1ts ~nefits and privlleges.
by all, and that all should sh .
~~s1 .1 it:es s ould be borne equally
Your committee is of the . .are hequa Y m its benefits and privileges.
opm1on t at as long as Grand L d
.
to require the Homes fee from
ffil'
.
o ge continues
all.
some a iates, it should be required from

;r

:o

We therefore recommend that neither of .th

l
ese proposa s be adopted .

. Report concurred in.
Remission of Dues and Grand L d
T
.
o~
u
our Committee on Policy and General p
resolution offered by Brother J E H h I urposes has considered the
district, proposing that the la~ . ug /~ n~pector of .the 30th Masonic
be changed to permit ·the remis·s f:agef ~
ect1on 41 of our Constitution
n o ues and the consequent exemption
y

The report was adopted.

727

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

728

from Grand Lodge per capita tax at other stated meetings in addition to
the July stated meeting, as at present provided for.
Brother Hughes has stated to·tne committee that his object in proposing this resolution is to give the Lodges greater leeway in remissions
without forcing them to pay the per capita tax. He has given instances in
which he feels injustice has been-done in the collection of the per capita
tax when the remrssion should have been given at other periods, had the
law so provided.
Your committee is of the opinion that the law never was intended· to
relieve the Lodges entirely of the per capita tax in cases of remission of
dues. One standard time for the remission of dues is provided for-the
July stated meeting. This is the logical time for such remissions becau9e it
is the last date on which the Lodge can remit and secure exemption from
the per capita tax in the current year. In other words, Grand. Lodge has
adopted the most advantageous time for the Lodges to take advantage of
their privilege to secure exemption from the per capita tax by remission of
dues. There are of course certain borderline cases which eannot be covered
and in these cases Lodges must pay the per capita tax.
Your committee is of the opinion that the change proposed would make
the procedure more confusing and would not result in any widespread
advantages to the Lodges. It might result in the remission of dues which
are actually collectible and cause a consequent loss to Grand Lodge in per
capita tax.
Fmthermore', its adoption would open the way for· a possible conflict
with Section 128 of our Constitution, which provides that dues shall not
be remitted in advance.
Because of the law forbidding remission of dues in advance the legal
effect of a remission made at any stated meeting prior to July would place
the member whose dues were so· remitted in the position of owing dues at
tile time of the annual report and would impose upon the Lodge the per
capita tax.
We believe that the law as it stands is simple and understandable and
affords ample protection to the Lodges.
We therefore recommend that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Dedication Ceremony, Burial Plots
In accordance with a recommendation contained in the address of
Grand Master Gaylord at the eighty-third communication of Grand Lodge,
our Very Worshipful Grand Secretary, Brother John Whicher, has prepared and submitted a modification of our ceremony of dedication, particu-

729

larly designed for the dedication of burial plots. The ritual -for this
ceremony is beautifully written, replete with tender and inspiring thought.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had the proposed
ceremony under consideration and recommends its adoption.

Adopted.
History Committee
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends that
the History Committee be continued until the next annual communication.

Adopted.
Form of Dues Receipt
Brother Daniel M. Goulter, Master o.f Argonaut Lodge No. 461, has
submitted to the Grand Secretar;y a suggestion that Grand Lodge consider
the "advisability of changing our dues r.eceipt form to require tha:t the
age, weight, height and color of eyes and hair of member be shown thereon
in much ·the same manner as on a passport or hunting .and fishing license."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes ·has had the foregoing under consideration, and respectfully reports as follows :
The purpose of the suggestion is to aid in the perfection of identification either for visitation or relief. The adoption of such a plan, however,
would involve a great deal of additional labor on the ·part of secretar·ies
and the maintenance of records of the physical peculiarities of members.
While frau dulent identification is possible under our present receipt
form, and probably would be possible under any form we might devise,
your committee is reminded that the possession of a receipt for ·dues does
not constitute the sole test for Masonic recognition, the requirements of
which, particularly for purposes of visitation, are set forth in Section 124
of the Constitution. Officers of our Boards of Relief are thoroughly
experienced, and alert in the detection of imposters. While an unqualified
applicant may, in rare instances, have obtained relief, it is certain that very
little abuse of this sort has been permitted. The adoption by our Grand
Lodge of the form of receipt suggested would afford us no protection
against an imposter coming from other jurisdictions using the ordinary
forms. Finally, your committee has consulted officials actively 'interested
in our relief work, who express the belief that the suggested change is
unnecessary and ·not advisable.
Your committee therefore recommends that no change be made in our
dues receipt form at this time.

Adopted.

731

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Proposals to Print Decisions in Advance
Mount Vernon Lodge No. 517 submits a proposed new provision to
be added to Section 43, Article 1, Part 2, of the Constitution, relative to
the powers of the Grand Master. The proposed provision appears at page
529 of these Proceedings.
Wesley Kergan and others propose that Section 216 of the Constitution, relative to the presentation of amendments thereto, be rewritten.
This section now provides that proposed amendments to the Constitution
be presented at the Annual Communication. The rewritten draft prepared
by said brethren appears in earlier pages of these Proceedings.
While the foregoing proposals relate to different sections of the
Constitution, they have, in fact, a single purpose, which is to provide
Lodges and the officers thereof with more ample notice than is now available respecting matters which are to be brought before and considered by
Grand Lodge. They indicate that healthy and helpful interest in our legislation which is so prevalent throughout the jurisdiction. They have, therefore, been given very close consideration by your Committee on Policy
and General Purposes, which herewith reports as follows:
While ~he ends sought to be attained by the foregoing proposed
amendments command our sympathetic interest, we believe the working
conditions of Grand Lodge and the offices of Grand Master and Grand
Secretary are such as to detract from the practicability of these measures.
The Grand Master, busy with the discharge of his manifold duties as well
as with his numerous fraternal visitations, does not ordinarily review his
work and prepare his recommendations until the latter days of his term.
· His decisions, of course, are made from time to time and could, if necessary, be made available. They are, however, printed in his annual address,
which is distributed on the opening day of Grand Lodge. They are not
acted upon until the second day following, after review by the Committee
on Jurisprudence. It would seem, therefore, that all members of Grand
Lodge have ample opportunity to study these matters, together with the
Grand Master's recommendations, before being called upon to legislate
thereon.
With particular respect to the suggestion that proposed amendments
be first submitted to our constituent Lodges, your committee feels that
Grand Lodge, being a supreme body, would be unwise in limiting its own
power to take legislative action. Grand Lodge, according to Section 3 of
its Constitution, is composed of its own officers and past officers, together
with Past Masters of this jurisdiction, and the Masters and Wardens of
the several chartered and duly constituted Lodges, or the representatives
thereof duly elected. Constituent Lodges, as such, are not members of
Grand Lodge. They are represented, however, by the officers above mentioned, who are the only members of Grand Lodge and who alone exercise

legislative authority. Lodges may, however, instruct their officers or representatives relative to vo~ing. (Sec. 79.)
The additional suggestion that proposed amendments not submitted
to constituent Lodges by August 25th, may · subsequently be offered .bY
written consent of the Grand Master or by majortiy vote of Grand Lodge,
would, in the opinion of your committee, tend to nullify in practice the
entire plan. Neither the Grand Master nor Grand Lodge would be apt to
deny to any Brother the privilege of introducing a proposed constitutional
amendment ; and since it is a strong tendency of mankind to procrastinate,
we believe the bulk of proposed legislation would continue to be introduced
approximately at the opening of our Annual Communications, as at present.
For the foregoing reasons your committee recommends that the
amendments offered by Mount Vernon Lodge, through Brother Charles
R. Berm~!, its Master, and by Brothers Wesley W. Kergan, Max A. Plumb
and W . R. Ralston, be not approved.
In closing this report it may be stated that our discussions with the
foregoing and other brethren have impressed us with the conviction that
numerous members of Grand Lodge feel, at times, that an improved method
of procedure should be adopted whereby members might be acquainted more
in advance with matters which are to be brought before them. Some
brethren feel that they do not have sufficient opportunity to prepare themselves for the exercise of settled judgment respecting those measures
which may be complicated or controversial. It is, we are sure, much to be
desired that the fullest measure of information be supplied, and while a
number of conditions militate against the end we all have in view, it
nevertheless is possible that procedural improvement can be accomplished.
Accordingly, Past Grand Master W illiam Rhodes Hervey, chairman of
our committee, has engaged to take up a study along these lines in concert
with the Grand Master, Grand Secretary and chairman of other committees
in the hope that some practical and helpful suggestions may be forthcoming
· for consideration at our next ensuing Annual Communication.

730

Report adopted.
Serving of Beer at Masonic Gatherings
On the 10th day of June, 1933, in response to numerous inquiries, our
M.". W:. Grand Master forwarded a letter to all Lodges within the
jurisdiction directing that until Grand Lodge had passed upon the matter
at our present communication, the serving, dispensing or use of 3.2 per cent
beer be forbidden "in any Masonic hall, or the dining, banquet, refreshments or other rooms connected therewith, or at any Masonic gatherings."
On August 2nd, at its stated meeting, Bay City Lodge No. 526
adopted a resolution which, after reciting its adherence to the Grand
Master's direction, concluded as follows:

732

"Be it resolved, that this Lodge respectfulty petition Grand Lodge to
refrain from adopting the order of the M.". w:. Grand Master."
At its stated. meeting held September 1, Military Service Lodge No.
570 adopted a resolution identical w.ith that of Bay City Lodge.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had the foregoing mattero under consideration- and reports with respect thereto as
follows:
At our fifty-ninth annual communication" in 1908, Grand Lodge
adopted· a resorution by Past Grand Master Motley H. Flint, as follows:
"Resolved, that no spirituous,. malt or fermented liquors shall be
served at any Masonic banquet or gathering."
't'his policy was at that time· incor.po11ated into our law in the form of
a. proviso attached to Section. 89,. governing expenditures of Looge funds
for social purposes, the express language being as follows :
"Provided, that no expenditure whatever shall be made for spirituous,
malt,, or fermented liqUDrs,. nor shall any such liquors be used or served at
any Masonic banquet or gathering."
The foregoing law remained in our Constitution until the adoption of
national. pI'ohibition 1 when it was dropped, being superseded by the provisiol'ls of the Federatl Constitution. It exp11essed a policy adopted by
Grand· Lodge as the result of many years of experience and observation,
and was acce~ed, apparently with general satisfaction; by the craft
throughcmt the jur.isdietion. For a quarter of a century Masonry has
ftourished and prosl)er-ed in California, in conformity, first with its own
law and· latterly with the federal law.
The repeal of the eighteenth amendment of the Constitution of the
United States appears now to be imminent, after which the several States
will again make and enforce their own laws for the control of the sale and
use of l~quors and akoholic beverages of all kinds. It is- presumed that
henceforth the individua.l citizen of California wilt· be enabled legally to
purchase and consume liquors of either high or low alcoholic content.
Your committee, however, sees no reason to justify the abandonment of a
policy and practice applied by our Lodges for twenty-five years. We
believe that our Lodges shoutd continue to operate upon the highest plane
oi manifest propriety, thus observing the admonition so solemnly imparted
to every Master Mason: "To preserve unsullied the reputation of the
fraternity ought to be your constant care" ; and also -the injunction laid
upon every Master at his installation : "To avert the shadow of any scandal
or reproach. against the fraternity."
Regardless of the fact that 3.2 per cent beer is now legalized and that
high-content liquors will soon become legal, it should be remembered that
t;h(: introduction of alcoholic beverages into our assemblies would offend

733

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCl!JElDINGS OF THEl

the feeli~gs· of many thousands of our brethren and thus unnecessa.ril'y
establish causes· of discord and div,ision, and militate aga-inst that harmony
which is the strength and support of our society.
\four committ!ee therefore recommends; first,. that the action of the
Grand Master, as expressed by his. letter of June 10th, be approved, a~d,
secontl that in order to ensure the continued effect of our present practice
so Ion~ a.nd firmly established and so generally accepted by Masons, not
only of this jurisdiction but by those of our sister jurisdictions through?ut
the United States, Section 89 of our Constitution be amended by addmg
thereto the proviso formerly included, that "no· expenditure· whatever shall
be made for spirituous, malt or fermented liquors, nor shall any such
liquors be used or ser.ved at any Masonic banquet or gathering." .
WM. RHODES HiERVEY,
GEORGE F. RODDEN,
WmLIAM A. SHEltMAN,
ALBERT·E. BOYNTON,
WILL H. FISCHER,
WILLIAM H.

w AS'l'E,

CLAUDE H. MORRISON,

Committee.

The report was ad'opted, with the exce·ption of the recommendation to amend the Constitution, which. was referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence. That committee repor.ted that the· proposed· amendment was in for.m', and
Section 89 of the Constitution was therefore am.ended as
rec(l)mntended, by a five-sixths vote.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
Right of Member.s to Attend Masonic Trials
To the M.".

w.:. Gram! Lodge of CaUfo1'nJi.a:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence, t'o wliom, at our last annual communic-ation wmr referred· the report of tire Committee- on Grievances, with
respect to ;he right of Masons generally to attend Masonic trials ('Ret>ott
of' Proceedings, 1932, pp. J1Q:3H) gave the matter somewhat cursory
consideration at that annual communication (Report of Proceedings, 1932,
p. 3ij.Z)', but' suggested that it go over un~il this ~ear for d~finite a~tion.
fo this behalf we desire to call attention to an obvious error m the prmt'ed
record. Instead of the language actually appearing therein on page 34J2,
the committee intended to say and report that:
"It is· the unanimous opinion· of. this committee that it is contrary to
the spirit of our institution to declare, as a matter of law, that trials in a

736

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Lodge may be conducted in secret, and that properly avouched
Masons should not be admitted." The error lay in the unintentional omission of the word "not."
With the foregoing declaration we are still in complete concurrence.
That it may find reflection in our law, we now recommend that Section 202
of the Constitution of the Gran~ Lodge be amended by adding thereto at
the end thereof the following words :
"Any Master Mason in good standing may tie present at such trial;
provided, that the Master may, for good cause and in the interest of justice,
exclude from attendance any person whose presence is not necessary to the
actual conduct of the trial."
That possible abuse of this right, of the sort adverted to in the report
of the Committee on Grievances above referred to, may be avoided, we
also recommend that Section 200 be amended .by adding thereto, after the
word "trial" in the first sentence thereof, the words: "And see to it that
the trial is conducted in all respects · with due order and propriety."
In this behalf, further, we at'e constrained to suggest to the Grand
Lodge that certain requirements appearing in our trial procedure, originally
enacted when trials were usually held in the Lodges in which the charges
were preferred, under the system of transfer now frequently made use of
have become obsolete and unnecessary, and to simplify the procedure we
recommend that the following additional amendments to the Constitution
in reference to trial procedure be had:
Amend Section 205 by eliminating therefrom the entire sentence
beginning with the words "When the trial is concluded" and substituting
therefor the words: "Such record, so made, showing the result of the
actual vote had and rendered upon the various matters to be determined,
as above stated, shall thereupon be signed by the Commissioners there
present, duly attested by the Secretary and delivered to the Master for filing
for safe keeping in the archives of the Lodge. The Master shall thereupon
order the meeting opened for the entry of those lawfully entitled to admission and desirous of attending. And, they being admitted, the Master shall
read the record so prepared and signed. And at the next stated meeting
of the Lodge the Master shall announce the result and the Secretary shall
record the same as the judgment of the Lodge and file the record among
its archives."
These amendments do nothing other than make possible the announcement of the commission's determination immediately after the completion
of its labors and the elimination of the requirement that the announcement
of the result of the trial made in open Lodge shall be in the presence of
the members of the Lodge only.
We believe that the result of the trial should be communicated to those
interested as soon as possible and, that being done, there is no longer reason

for limiting the attendance in the Lodge to members of the Lodge, when
the announcement and entry of the judgment of the Lodge is made.

734

Report and recommendation adopted, · and Sections 200,_
202 and 205 were declared amended by a five-sixths vote.
Proficiency of Senior Deacons
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred the decision
of the M." . w:. Grand Master and his recommendation in connection
therewith, ·relating to the proficiency of Senior Deacons, have had the
same under consideration, and report as follows:
The Grand Master was undoubtedly correct in his action in causing
the suspenskm of a Senior Deacon who was not qualified, especially as
this Grand Lodge adopted the policy at its last communication that "such
officer should have the certificate of the Inspector of his district as to
his proficiency."
As the resolution adopting this policy at the last communication
reached this committee too late for consideration and action, we now present for your consideration the legislation necessary to make it operative.
We therefore propose the following amendments to our Constitution
and move their adoption:
That after the words "in the work and lectures," in Section 54, the
following be inserted :
"And also to examine Senior Deacons as to their proficiency, and
in particular as to the lecture of the second degree."
And that the following provision be added at the end of Section 137:
"No Senior Deacon appointed shall be installed until he shall have
produced to the installing officer the certificate o1 the Grand Lecturer
or the Inspector of the district in which his Lodge is situated, certifying that he has examined such Senior Deacon appointed, and that he
is duly qualified to give his work, and in particular the lecture of the
second degree."

Grand Lodge concurred in the report and recommendations, and Sections 54 and 137 of the Constitution were
accordingly amended by a five-sixths vote.
Testimonial for Retiring Master
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred the report
of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes, recommending the
amendment of Section 88 of the Constitution, relating to the expenditure
of Lodge funds for the purchase of testimonials to the retiring Master,

7-36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

have had the same under consideration, and pursuant thereto, propose the
following r.esolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that Section 88 of the Constitution be and the same is
hereby amended as follows :
Strike out all of the following:
"Provided, that a subordinate Lodge may in its discretion appropriate from its funds any amount for the purchase of a testimonial for
its retiring Master and for floral pieces for an ill or deceased :brother
or his family"
and insert in lieu thereof the following :
"Provided, that a Lodge may expend from its funds a sum not
exceeding $150 in any year for the purchase of a testimonial for its
retiring Master, and may also purchase from its funds floral pieces
for ill or deceased brothers or their families."

Grand Lodge did not concur, and the proposed amendment to Section 88 of the Constitution failed of ad0ption.
Dispensations Issued by Grand Master
Your Committee on Jurisprudence have examined the records .o-f the
issuance of dispensations for various purposes, and approval of resolutions
establishing life memberships, and .approval of amendment to life membership resolution by the Grand Master, and find the same to ,be .in accordance with law.
We therefore recommend that the action of the Grand Master in these
various respects be approved.

Adopted.
Rights of Members of Arrested Lodge
There have been submitted to your Committee on Jurisprudence two
resolutions prepared by the Grand Master's special committee on the affairs
of Fairmount Lodge No. 435, both of which we believe should be adopted.
We therefore recommend that Section 165 of the Constitution, as submitted
by said special committee, be amended by adding thereto the following: "Provided, however, that a member of a Lodge whose .charter
has been revoked, or who shall take his dimit while the charter of his
Lodge is under arrest, may keep himself in standing by making application for membership to a Lodge within the jurisdiction, and by
depositing, in addition to the affiliation fee, if any, required by such
Lodge, a suni equivalent to six months' dues therein, and if re}ected
the affiliation fee paid by him shall be -returned, and the amount paid
as dues shall be remitted to the Grand /Lodge and shall become the
property of the Grand Lodge; and he ·may then apply for membership

737

GRAND LODGE OF CALIJmRNIA

as a non-affiliated Master Mason to any Lodge within the jurisdiction
before the expiration of six months from the date of his prior application upon the same terms as above set forth, and, if necessary, may
continue to so apply at intervals not greater than six months."

Gra~d Lodge concurred, and Section 165 of the Constitution was amend~d as above set out by unanimous vote.
Suspension of Lodge Defined
Y.our -Commitree on Jurisprudence recommends that paragraph one of
Section 229 of the Constitution be amended to read as follows :
"Sec. 229. The suspension of a Lodge is an arrest of its charter
and a temporary prohibition to assemble or work as a legal Lodge,
until the charter is restored by competent authority, excepting that,
with the consent of the Grand Master and after notice to the brethren
who were members of -the Lodge at the time of the suspension, meetings o.f such brethren may be held for the purpose of granting relief,
paying bills or other obligations of the Lodge, granting dimits, or for
such other purposes as may be authorized by the Grand Master. The
places and stations of the officers at any such meeting shall be filled
by members of the Lodge designated by the Grand Master, and upon
the completion of the business for the transaction of which the meeting
was called, the brother acting as Secretary shall prepare and forward
to the Grand Master a statement setting forth the giving of the notice
of the meeting and the action of the members on the matter or matters
presented. On the approval of the proceedings by the Grand Master,
the regular Secretary of the Lodge is then authorized to draw such
warrants as are so approved, and upon the order of the Master, the
Treasurer shall pay .the same from the assets of the Lodge, and the
Secretary is also directed to issue such dimits, certificates or other
documents as may be authorized at such meeting, and so approved.
DANA R. WELLER,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,
BENJAMIN F . BLEDSOE,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
GEORGE L. JONES,
ROBERT B . GAYLORD,

Committee.

Recommendation concurred in, and Section 229 amended
by unanimous vote.
At 4 :15 o'clock p. m., Grand Lodge was called off until
9 :30 o'clock Friday morning.

738

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

lf u ~raub iljobgr
MORNING SESSION
Friday, October 13, 1933.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of Thursday's sessions were read and appr9ved.
Vacation for Grand Secretary
Grand Lodge adopted the recommendation of the Grand
Master, providing that the Grand Secretary be granted a
vacation.
REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
Expenses of Grand Lodge

To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:
This part of the report of your committee has to do with those two
resolutions presented in Grand Lodge---one by Thayer B. Thomas, Master
of King Solomon Lodge No. 260 of San Francisco, and the other signed
jointly by George M. Donovan, Master of South Gate Lodge No. 320;
Thomas H. Ewers, Senior Warden of Golden State Lodge No. 358, and
Carl Peters, Senior Warden of Arlington Lodge No. 414, all of Los
Angeles, both which resolutions deal with expenses of Grand Lodge and
contain mention of specific items and both which were referred to this
committee for report.
Every item mentioned in these two resolutions have had serious consideration by this committee, and long before the receipt of these two
resolutions, and every item will be dealt with in the general report of this
committee which follows.
It is to be commented that the items of expense to the reduction of
which these two resolutions are aimed, are the result of many years of
previous legislation of this Grand Lodge and that many of these items
were reported against at the time by this committee.
Your committee is of the opinion that expressions of this nature are
to be welcomed. They bring to Grand Lodge a better understanding of the

'

.739

burdens now being felt by our Lodges and brethren, a realization to the
various spending agencies of Grand Lodge of the need of the strictest
economy in the expenditure of . its funds, an opportunity to the various
spending agencies to present to Grand Lodge the justification of the items,
a better understanding of ·au of the efforts and services being performed
and the quieting of criticisms and rumors.
It is believed that a thorough discussion will bring to all a better
understanding of the institutions of Masonry and a greater pride in your
membership in the Order.

Adopted.
Reimbursements of Boards of Relief and Constituted Lodges
1. Your Committee on Finance has received and examined the report
of the Board of Control referring to reimbursements of Boards of Relief
and constituent Lodges, and concurs in its recommendations that the Boards
of Relief and Lodges be reimbursed as follows :
Bakersfield Board of Relief ..........- .. :.......................................:.......- ....$ 100.00
10.00
Fresno Board of Relief_·················-·························································
Los Angeles Board of Relief ......... - ...............:....................................... 414.34
Oakland and Berkeley Board of RelieL ...........................................- 410.00
San Francisco Board of Relief ................................................................ 882.00
Marin Lodge No. 191.......................................-··········-·····-···················· 180.33
Santa Cruz Lodge No. 38,.......................................................................
95.00
Tota:l.. ........ ~················································-········································$2,@l.67
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $2,091.67 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse Boards of Relief and subordinate Lodges in the amounts as above set out.

Adopted.
Masonic Employment Service

2:

Your committee, on the recommendation of the Board of Control,
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, that the sum of $9,900 be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of this Grand Lodge to be divided into the following donations,
to assist in maintaining employment bureaus:
San Francisco, Employment Service....................................................$2,000.00
East Bay, Employment Service.............................................................. 1,600.00
Los Angeles, Employment Service ..................................,..................... 2,800.00

740

741

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San :Eliego, Employment Se11Vioe:•..•.•.....••••....•.................•..•.•...•............ 800.00
Long Beach, Employment Ser~····················································-· 1,800.00
Santa. Monica, Employment Seniice: ........ -······················-··········-······· 300.00
Sacramento, Employment 5ei:vfue......................-····························-··'· 600:00

York · No. 423, Torrance No. 447 and Seal Beach No. 616) be given a
moratorium for six months in which to pay their dues. We offer the
following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that each of the subordinate Lodges whose names are set out
above, except Anchor No. 273, Rising Light No. 397, York No. 423, Torrance No. 447 and Seal Beach No. 616, execute a note in favor of the
Grand Lodge for the amount due by each of said Lodges in payment of
said Grand Lodge dues; said notes t0 become due on or before six months
from this date, with interest at 4 per cent per annum.

Total.. ......................................... ~·-····· ..·····-····-··································$9lQ.OO

Adopted.
Unpaid Grand Lodge Dues
3. The Grand Secretary reports that the Grand Lodge dues of thirtysix subordinate Lodges, amounting to- $13,843.55, which became due
August 1, 1933, and for various reasons remain unpaid as of this date,
October 12, 1933, are as follows:

Washington No. 20 ............$ 491.00
Union No. 58......................
999.20
Enterprise No. 70............. .
403.05
Humboldt No. 79 ..............
676.40
Concord No. 117............... .
245.00
Oak Grove No. 215 ........... .
514.25
Bakersfield No. 2Z4........... .
500.00
San Simeon No. l96........
496.85
S"an Buenaventura No. 214
417.55
Anchor No. 273..................
594.30
Arroyo No. 274..................
143.85
Traver No. 294~ ................ .
216.45
Redlands No. 300..............
712.35
Berkeley No. 363..............
379.15
Gardena No. 372: .. -........ :..
290.20
Oceanside No. 381... .........
303.95
Highland Park No. 382 ... .
887.50·
Rising Light No. 397....... . 1,037.55
Brawley No. 402................
247.20
Sierra Madre- No. 408 ..... .
140.60

York No. 423.........-·-·······-$
Torrance No. 447............ _
Alta Vista No. 464......•.....
Culver City No. 467......... .
America No. 475 ..............
Corcoran No. 490:............ .
Beverly Hills No. 52R .... .
Arcadia No. 547............... .
Progressive No. 578 ........
Warren G. Harding No. 579
Grizzly No. 601..................
Provident No. 609: .......... .
Larchmont No. 614........... .
Seal Beach No·. 61'6~ .........
Jam es A. Foshay N-0. 641

348.15
37-2.30
293.25
437:05
500.00
185.25
361.20
102.20
559.65
100.00
193.10
73.90
397.95
83.25
139.90

Total.. .......................... $14,003'.70
250.15

$13,843.55

A number of these Lodges have made partial payments on their
Grand Lodge dues, and the amounts as· above set out represent the balance
due. as of October 12, 1933.
Many of these Lodges have had their funds tied up because of the
closing of banks in which they, carried their accounts.
Your Committee on Finance feels that all Lodges should be treated
on the same basis, and they are recommending that the above Lodges
(with the exception of Anchor Lodge No, 273, Rising Ligh..t No. 397,

Adopted.
Remission of Grand Lodge Dues
4. Grand Master Mixter, in his Annual Mes-sage, reported that he
had appointed a committee consisting of Herbert C. Goldman of Los
Angeles, Fred R. Pardee of Inglewood, Clark H. Shaw of Long Beach,
Truman Van Dyke of Los Angeles and· Albert S. Crossfield of Wilmington to make a thorough survey of the damage incurred by Lodges in the
district which was affected by the earthquake March 10, 1933. This
committee was instructed by the Grand Master to ascertain:
a. Damage to buildings owned by Masonic Lodges.
b. Were there any mortgages on said buildings?
c. Whether the organizations had sufficient funds to restore their
property.
d. General financial condition of each Lodge or Temple Association
affected.
This committee filed a very comprehensive report, showing the condition of each Lodge or Temple Association whose property had been
damaged by the earthquake.
This committee recommended that the dues to the Grand Lodge which
became due July 31, 1933, be remitted as follows:
Anchor No. 273 •...................$ 594.30
Rising Light No. 397.......... 1,037.55
York No. 423........................ 348.15

Torrance No. 447................$ 372.30
Seal Beach No. 616............
83.25
Total .............................. $2,435.55

The committee's report is on file in the office of the Grand Secretary ·
and we call it to the attention of any brother who is desirous to read the
same.
Your committee concurs in this report and offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Reso/iled, that the dues to this Grand Lodge for the year ending July
31, 1933, of the Lodges. last above named, in the amounts as above set out,
be remitted.

Adopted.

743

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Loan to Seal Beach Lodge
5. The committee heretofore referred to also recommended that a
loan of $350 be made to Seal Beach Lodge No. 616 so they could pay for
the repairs on their temple. This is a very small Lodge and all of its
funds were tied up in a bank which had closed. Your committee concurs
in the recommendation and offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption :
Resolved, that the Grand Lodge loan to Seal Beach Lodge the sum of
$350 for a period of one year at 4 per cent.

This brother was entirely destitute and was being furnished transportation by the U. S. government back to New York, and rather than have
him land in New York without any funds, our brethren in the Canal Zone
advanced the brother $25.
Your committee feels that this money should be refunded, and we offer
the following resolution recommending its adoption.
Resolved, that the sum of $25 be appropriated from funds of this
Grand Lodge to reimburse Canal Zone Masonic Relief Association for
money advanced to Brother Wm. Baker, a suspended member of Glendale
Lodge No. 554.

742

Adopted.
Past Due Notes Given for Grand Lodge Dues
6. Of the notes which were given at the close of the 1932 session for
unpaid Grand Lodge dues all have been paid except:
Anchor No. 273....................$ 400.00 Beverly No. 528....................$ 200.90
Turlock No. 395.................. 230.40 Melrose No. 602.................. 301.60
Rising Light No. 397........ 214.70
Yorba Linda No. 469.......... 239.60.
Total... ...........................$1,587.20
The representatives of all these Lodges, some of which had ~!ready
paid their 1933 Grand Lodge dues, appeared before your committee and
assured us that these notes will be taken care of at a very early date.
Your committee therefore recommends that the above Lodges be
given an extension of six months in which to pay these past due notes.

Adopted.
Overpayment Grand Lodge Tax
7. The following Lodges have made overpayments to the Grand Secretary in the amounts due for Grand Lodge tax, and we recommend· that
the same be returned to each of the Lodges as set out below:
Athens Lodge No. 228 (1932 tax) ................................................................$1.70
Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331 ( 1932 .tax)................................................ 1.85
South Pasadena Lodge No. 367 (1932 tax) .............................................. 1.70
Tcital ....................................................................:................... :.................$5.25

Resolved, that the sum of $5.25 be appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge to reimburse the above Lodges in the overpayment of
Grand Lodge dues.

Adopted.
Refund Canal Zone Masonic Relief Association
8. The Canal Zone Masonic Relief Association extended relief in the
amount of $25 to Brother Wm. Baker, a suspended member of Glendale
Lodge No. 554 of this jurisdiction, in September, 1933.

Adopted.
Traveling Expenses of Grand Master Mixter in Excess of Amount
Heretofore Appropriated
9, At the last session of the Grand Lodge the amount of the Grand
Master's traveling expenses was placed at $3,500. We find that during the
year the Grand Master expended an amount of $1,125 in excess of the
amount heretofore appropriated. We feel that when a Grand Master gives
freely of his time in the interest of the craft he should not be called upon
to als9 furnish his own money. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum o'f $1,125 be appropriated from the funds of
Grand Lodge to reimburse Brother Frank W. Mixter for traveling expenses incurred in excess of the regular appropriation.

Adopted.
Masonic Clubs of the University of California at Berkeley and Los
Angeles
10. Your Committee on Finance has reviewed the reports of the
trustees of these club houses and their request for funds for maintenance
during the fiscal year 1933-1934.
Your Committee on Finance is very much pleased with the manner in
which these clubs are being conducted, and we feel they are operated on
an economic basis. Both of these institutions closed the year with a small
cash balance, and when the funds now on hand (approximately $13,000),
one-half of which will go to each club house, has been transmitted by
the Grand Secretary they will have sufficient money to meet their expenses
until the next annual communication of Grand Lodge.
Your committee, in an effort to reduce the per capita tax levied on
subordinate Lodges, will not this year recommend any tax for the support
of the club houses, but will at the next session of. Grand Lodge appropriate
sufficient funds to maintain them for .the year 1934-1935.

Adopted.

744

745

PHOCilll!JDINGS 01<' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Audit of Accounts
11. Your committee employed Rucks tell & Land, certified public
accountants, to examine the books and ·records of the Grand Secretary and
Grand Treasurer, as well as those of the Masonic Homes of California
and Endowment Fund. These accountants have certified that all books
and accounts are correct. This. audit certifies that the net worth of the
property of Grand Lodge July 31, 1933, was $766,781.91, and was made up
as follows:

Portrait of Grand Master
14. Your Committee on Finance recommends that the retiring Grand
Master, Brother Frank W. Mixter, have his portrait painted, and present
the bill to the Grand Secretary in an amount not to exceed $150, who is
authorized to pay the same, and that when the portrait has been painted it
be hung in the gallery of our Past Grand Masters.

Cash on hand and in :bank.... -~-····---·------·--·--···--·----·-·'----··-.$ 12,392.11
Bonds, government and corporate ...................................................... 160,089.80
Preferred stock -·····-············-····-····--····----·-·-···········--·········---·····-·····-·-·-·· 5,000.00
58,955-shares, Masonic Temple ............................................................ 589,300.00

Salaries
15. Your co~mittee has given consideration to the annual salaries of
the officers of Grand Lodge, and recommends that the salaries for the
following year be fixed· as follows :
Grand Secretary ~.: .....................................................$7,500.00
Grand Lecturer .......................................................... 5,400.00
Assistant Grand Secretary .................................... 2,700.00
Grand Tiler ................................................................ 200.00
Grand Organist ------·-··--·-··-····················'···················· 100.00
We also recommend that the traveling expenses incurred by the
Grand Lecturer in performing his official duties in visiting the various
Lodges within the State, and also the expenses incurred by Grand Lodge
officers, or members of Grand Lodge who may be traveling by authority of
the Grand Master, be paid as heretofore after same have been audited by
the Committee on Accounts.

TotaL ................................ :··--···---·-·--···-··:-.......... _.. _.. _.................. -.$il66,581.91
This shows an increase of approximately $3,000 over the amount
reported one year ago.

Adopted.
Expenses of David J. Reese, Chairman Board of Control
12. The Grand Master, in his Annual Message, reported that h~ had
instructed Brother David J. Reese, Chairman of Board of Control, to
attend the annual meeting of the Masonic Relief Association of the United
States which was held in Cincinnati October 5 and 6, 1933. Brother
Reese has presented a bill for expenses amounting to $198.75, which your
committee has approved, and recommends that he be reimbursed in this
amount. We offer the following resolution. and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $198.75 be and the same is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse David J. Reese,
Chairman of the Board of Control, for his traveling expenses in attending
the convention of the Masonic Relief Association held in Cincinnati in
October, 1933.

Adopted.
Traveling Expenses, Grand Master
13. During the year just closed the Grand Master, including an
additional appropriation, has spent in traveling expenses approximately
$4,500, and we are o.f the opinion the same amount should be appropriated
for the coming year. We there.fore offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of.$4,500 be and the same is hereby appropriated
from the fonds of this G~and Lodge to pay the traveling expenses for
the Grand Master during the coming year.

Adopted.

Adopted.

Adopted.
Pay of Members
· 16. The Committee on Pay of Members has submitted its report, indicating that it will require $19,548.56 to pay the traveling expenses of the
officers and _members attending this session. We therefore offer the
following. resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $19,548.56 be and it is hereby appropriated ·
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the purpose of paying the traveling expenses of officers and members attending this session.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Activities Committee
17. Your Committee on Finance is of the ·opinion, after thoroughly
reviewing this subject, that the limit of this appropriation should not
exceed $2,000, which was the amount appropriated for 1933.
We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

746

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolved, that the sum of not exceeding $2,000 be and the same is
hereby appropriated out of the funds of this Grand Lodge to defray the
expenses of the committee having in charge Grand Lodge Activities Week
for the annual communication to be held in 1934.

Budget
.
20. One year ago your committee prepared a budget on receipts and
d't e and we find in the main that it has been very car~fully
expen 1 ur s
· t
d pend1tures
followed and that the estimates set up bofu for rece1p s an ex
have been varied from only slightly.
The report of the Grand Secretary shows receipts from other sources
than those which we are taking into account. These are of such a charact:
that in many instances it is difficult to estimate the amount that. may
received and others that are offset by expenses incurr~, as, for msta~cd
the purchase and sale of supplies and the amount1i received and expen e
for surety bonds or officers of subordinate Lodges.
Therefore, these items are not included in this report and from past
experience they will have little bearing on the final resulL
The figures submitted are as follows:

Adopted.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
18. At the last session of this Grand · Lodge the Constitution was
amended to provide for a permanent Masonic Homes Endowment Board,
which board has functioned during the past year, and while the amount of
endowment actually raised .by this board was nominal, nevertheless a
tremendous amount · of educational work has been accomplished. Of the
$S,OOO appropriated one year ago, bills in the amount of approximately
$2,800 were paid prior to the closing of Grand Lodge · books on July 31,
1932. However, there was $2,200 of bills contracted which were not paid
until after the books were closed.
If the work of raising an endowment which has been so auspiciously
begun is to be continued, then the Endowment Board must have funds to
continue its work. We recommend an appropriation of $S,OOO in addition
to the $2,200 unexpended of the 1932 appropriation. We offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption :

Resolved, that the sum of $S,OOO be and is hereby appropriated from
the funds of ~his Grand Lodge to be paid to the Masonic Homes Endowment Board for their expenses for the year ending July 31, 1934.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Tax
19. By resolution presented by your Committee on Finance you have
voted a special tax for the
Maintenance of Masonic Homes of Califomia..........................................$0.75
In addition to this the Constitution provides
Grand Lodge General Fund..................................................,...,...................... .SO
Masonic Homes Building FwxL......- ....................................... _......:... ______·_ .SO
Total of Grand Lodge tax payable as of July 31, 1934..............$1.7S
You will notice this is a reduction of 10 cents per member over the
amount levied one year ago, the elimination being IO cents for the Masonic
club houses at Berkeley and Los Angeles, which is to be taken care of out
of the General Funds.

Adopted.

747

Receipts Year Ending July 31, 1934
Dues from Lodges,...................................·-·····:··········-···········:····-······:$ 7~·::~
Unpaid dues (General Fund)-.................·--···········..·-··..·················
's
00
Interest and dividend ........:................................................................... ~~, ~~:00
Cash on hand (July 31, 1933) .................................... _........................
'

3

---$107,330.00

Estimated Disbursements Year Ending July 31, 1934
S a Ianes
. -··-········.....,...._ ............,..---··-·-······-·-··--··-·····
....- -...$ 19,000.00
.
S 000.00
Printing and binding ...................................................................-.......
' 00.00
8
Traveling expenses, Grand Lecturer........................;....,... _..............
00
Office rent .................- .............................................................._....,....-.
Postage ..................._...........- ........................................... _.....................
200.00
Auditing ..............................................................,..................,_...........
2SO.OO
Telephones and t~legrams ................................................-.................. 3 000.00
Grand Lodge relief................................................................................
'7so.oo
Expenses, Board of Control..........................................- ....................
Public Schools Week .............................................- ............;:~ .. ·········-·
:-~
· Grand Lodge Activities Week..................- .......................- .................. 2, ·
SO-year buttons ......................................_................................................
~~-~
Traveling expenses, Grand Lodge officers........................................
·
3,000.00
Miscellaneous items .................,....................c....................... - .............._ _
__

i:::oo

$ 40,400.00
.
bers, 1933 session..
. ................................................
.
........
Pay of 111em
··. $ 19,S00.00
00
Reimbursement Board of Relief and Lodges.................................... ;:!~:oo
Employment bureaus ....................................- ................ _....................
SOO 00
Traveling expenses, Grand Master.................................................... 4• ·

749

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

748

Masonic club houses .............................................................................. 13,000.00
Masonic Endowment Boa.rd............................................................... . 5,000.00
Unexpended 1932 balance, Endowment Board ...................... _.......... 2,200.00

$ 96,600.00
Estimated incrune ··-······················:-······-····················~·--··---···········4'U>7,330,00
Estimated expenses ·····-···············-··-·····-···········-·······'--········-·····-· 96,600.00
Leiwing estimated surplus July .31, ~~34...........;..............·--·············$ 10,730.00

Adopted.
Masonic Homes
21. The report of the Trustees of our Masonic Homes has occupied
many hours of the time of your Finance Committee. This activity of
Masonry in California is the greatest manifestation of its generosities and
the largest justification of its worth, as well as making the greatest call
for its funds.
Realizing that if any reduction was to be made in per capita assessment, the greatest possibility lay in its largest item of expense-operation
and the maintenance of the Homes are calling for 70 per cent of the
revenue of Grand Lodge. The members of your committee have analyzed
~nd ?igested every item of expense-salaries, number of employes, food,
its kmd and. cost, -clothing, medical care, outside relief, costs of operating
the farms-m fact, no part of this activity has escaped their attention and
examination. They have also discussed with 'the Trustees of the Homes
ways and means of reducing the costs to Grand Lodge.
. Al~ this ana!~s'.s and examination have failed to disclose a single item
of _iust1fiable criticism. The Trustees are fully a:live to the need of the
strictest economy in operation.
Among the items given most consideration is the item of outside relie[
1:he Homes report shows this expense the past year was $44,802.33. Much
d1scussi?n was had with the Trustees over this item, and particulady a
suggestion that a maximum allowance to any one person-and considerably
below the average now being allowed-be fixed by resolution. I't appears
~at ali:iost without exception ihese are cases where some exceptional care
is reqmred, due to some malady, and in every case only the barest requirements are granted by the Trustees.
The result of all this effort is the conclusion of your commhtee that
the Homes are care.fully and economically administered.
. Your committee has also discussed with the Trustees the employment,
either by the Grand Master or by this committee, of some outside agency

to make an analysis of all features pertaining to the Homes. The Trustees
assure us .that .they will welcome such an analysis.
For the guidance of future committees, a statement of estimated
income for the coming year of the Homes is included in !his report. It is
as follows .:
Cash a1ready received for ma1ntemmce............................................$ 91,939.50
Cash already received for building ............-·-··-······················'········· ·61,293.00
Estimated receipts from '$25 fee of initiates.................................... 50,000.00
Estimated receipts from those admitted to the Homes.................. 15,000.00
Estimated income from 'Endowment Fund...................................... 23,000.00
Returns from 'farming operations...................................................... 12,000.00
State aid--estrm:rted ······-····································································

4,000.00

Estimated total receipts-·-································-··················$257 ,232.50
The total :receipts of operation this past year were $253,298.47. Due
to the many exigencies which confront us all, it is impossible to make any
forecast oi ~pens.es that wotild be of any value. The Trustees believe,
however', that the Homes can be maintained by the income which seems
available.
The per capita tax part of this report allows the Homes the same tax
as that of last year, a total .Qf $1.25 per member, 50 cents of which is provided for in the Constitution. Th.e remainder of the assessment must be
cared for by 5pecial resolution.
We .therefore .offer .the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Reso.l:ve.d, that a _per ·capita .t ax of 75 cents per member be levied, and
when paid in shall ·be .paid by the Grand Secretary to the Trustees of the
Homes for the operation and maintenance expenses of the Homes.

w. P. JEFFRIES,
ARTHUR

s. CRITES,

Gus A. HuTAFF,
JOSEPH M. ARGABRITE,

F. c. RUPPEL,
Committee.

Adopted.

750

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the M.'. W.' ..Grand Lod.qe of California:
Your Committee on Credentials have the honor to report that 1,415
members of Grand Lodge have presented their credentials and are entitled
to participate in its deliberation. .

wALTER L. BERGER,
IRVING MAGNES,
CHESTER H. WARLOW,
CHAS. T. WHITE,
CHAS. E. SONES,

Committee.
Mileage Allowed
Representatives
California........................... No. L.Lee Crawford, Master
Harold W. Cookson, Sr. Warden
Raymond W. Young, Jr. Warden
Harvey A. Marvin, Past Master
D. E. F. Easton, Past Master
J. M. ·Cody, Past Master
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Thomas Rolph, Past Master
Thornhill Carmany, Past Master
Harvey E. Teller, Past Master
Max J. Mertens, Jr., Past Master
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Western Star......- ......._... No. 2.... Chas. E. Brown, Representative and
Past Master ......................................$24.42
Tehama............................... No. 3.... Edward Adams, Master...................... 6.48
James Calvert, Sr. Warden
Andrew Sorenson, Jr. Warden
Chas. L. Pratt, Past Master
Chas. C. Schwartz, Past Master
Benicia..................- ............ No. 5.... Walter Nisbet Clarke, Master.......... 2.40
Tuolurnne........................... No. 8.... Ray L. Trabucco, Sr. Warden .......... 13.92
Corinthian.......................... No. 9.... Willard W. Will, Master.................. 9.00
James W. Robinson, Sr. Warden

761

San Jose........................... No.10 .... Curtner Wm. Zanker, Master.......... 3.48
Christopher H. Smith, Sr. Warden
Jos. S. Greenley, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 3.48
John H. McGehee, Past Master...... 6.48
Yount................................ No.12.... Hector D. MacLean, Master............ 3.00
Fred M. Williams, Past Master
Percy S. King, Grand Standard
Bearer and Past Master................ 3.00
Nevada......................... ~.... No.13 ....Thomas L. Jones, Sr. Warden ........ 19.22
Temple.............................. No. 14:... Walter Bruce Warren, Master........ 3.60
Eureka.............................. No. 16.... Sidney Wm. Bancroft, Master........ 9.12
John H. Jeffreys, Past Master
La Parfaite Union........ No. 17.... Ferdinand A. Vayssie, Master
Camille S. Lahanier, Sr. Warden
Paul Gros, Jr. Warden
Henry Mottet, Past Master
A. Huguenin, Past Master
M. E. Diebold, Past Master
H. Dragon, Past Master
C. H. Viguie, Past Master
Mountain Shade ............. No. 18....John Allen Reid, Sr. Warden .......... 25.00
San Joaquin .................... No. 19.... Bruce G. Hislop, Master.................. 6.12
H. M. S. Winton, Past Master
Washington...................... No. 20.... Fred Lester Clark, Master................ 6.48
Frederick P. Archer, Sr. Warden
Herman T. Silvius, Jr., Jr. Warden
Archibald M. Cameron, Pa~t Master
John J. Haken, Past Master and
Inspector............................................ 6.48
Norman C. Gregory, Past Master
Emanuel Hendricksen, Past Master
Eugene Benjamin, Past Master
Walter L. Dosch, Past Master
Frank M. Killam, Past Master
Hawaiian.......................... No. 21....Richard Gosling, Sr. Warden..........250.00
John A. Madden, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................250.00

752

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

OccidentaL ................... _.No. 22'. ... Spiro Mandich, Master
Leland A. Barber, Sr. Warden
Clayton S. Sherman, Jr. Warden
Rudolph Mohr, Jr., Past Master and
Inspector
William P. Humphreys, Past Master
Ralph K. Marshall, Past Master
Frederick W. Wish, Past Master
]'ohn R. Hermann, Past Master
Archibald ]. Cloud, Past Master
Madison............................ No. 23 .... Chas. A. Harris, Master .................... 18.92
John S. Corey, Past Master
Georg€ L. Jones, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Mariposa ........................ -.No. 24.... Richard M. Star.ns, Sr. Warden .... 28.28
James P. McEl!igott, Past Master
Fred C. Alexander, Past Master
Georgetown...................... No.25 .... Herman M. Youngson, Master ........ 15.76
El Dorado..... ·-····-·····-·-·No, 26.... Elwin L. Veerkamp, Sr. Warden .... 11.76
Golden Gate.................. -.NO-. 30.... Stanly S. Schlobohm, Master
Milton C. Iverson, Sr. Warden
Henry H. Schulz, Jr. Warden
Paul R. Bjick, Past Master
Edward C. C. Wellesley, Past Master
Fred S. Nobmann, Past Master
Chas. T. White, Past Master
A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Gold Jili!L ....................... No. 32.... Lowell L. Sparks, Master.................. 8.52
Ophir................................. No. 33 ... .]ohn T. Morby, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 18.46
San Dni&1'•·····-··············-·No: 35 .... Robert M. McDonald, Master .......... 51.08
William F. Bishop, Sr. Warden
Isadore Mallen, Jr. Warden
R. W. Belding, Past Master
James B. McLees, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 51.08
]. W. Bailey, Past Master
Claude H. Morrison, Past Master .... 51.08

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

753

Howard...... - ..................... No. 37.... George S. Ward, Sr. Warden .......... 34.70
·
E. A. Baumgartner, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 34.74
Santa Cruz .................... _.No. 38.... Harry Rhodes Turver, Master........ 8.52
A. C. Parsons, Past Master
Sacramento ...................... No. 40 .... Walton Elias Holmes, Master.......... 6.48
Alvin E. Clark, Sr. Warden
James B. Giffen, Past Master
Martinez........................... No. 41.. .. William E. Tompkins, Master........'.. 2.52
Leslie H. Sharp, Sr. Warden
Chester R. Arthur, Jr. Warden
L. Mittelman, Past Master · and Inspector ................................................ 4.20
Los Angeles.................. _.N o. 42.... Harry L. Kerr, Master.................... 43.08
Henry S. Cohen, Sr. Warden
Sidney K. Lehman, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Chas. V. Ecclestone, Past Master
Hiram..:..............c••••••••••. _.No. 43.... Roy H. Scheiber, Master.................. 11.16
L. E. Osborne, Past Master
Mount Moriah ................. No. 44.... Harold G. Hacke, Master
Garfield T. Murray, Sr. Warden
Rene A. V ayssie, Jr. Warden
T. W. Clancy, Past Master
E. P. Bergerot, Past Master
Roy C. Pratt, Past Master
Crescent............................ No. 45 .... Eustace R. Griffin, Sr. Warden...... 48.50
Forbestown...................... No. 50 ... .]ohn D. Vance, Master...................... 16.80
J. A. Vaughan, Past Master
Illinoistown...................... No. 51....W. J. Eddy, Master............................ 10.92
Suisun............................. _.No. 55 ... .]ohn H. Murray, Past Master
Harry Nelson, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 3.60
Volcano............................. No. 56.... Paul B. Procter, Representative ...... 15.12
Santa Rosa .................... _.No. 57.... Raford W. Leggett, Master.............. 3.96
Karl F. Stolting, Sr. Warden
George H. Lindemann, Jr. Warden
James T. Mailer, Past Master

755

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Union.............................. -J'io. SIL.George Adam Uhl, Master................ 6.48
Howard S. Mcintire, Sr. Warden
Themas J. Baker, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer
Chas. E. Hill, Past Master

Rose's Bar ..... :..... .....- ..... No. 89 ....Frank M. Dutra, Representative...... 12.00

754

Gravel Range...................No. 59.....Frederick J. Joubert, Master ............ 19.00
Julius E. Pauly, Sr. Warden
Plumas .............................. No. 60.... John Peter Smith, Master ................ 27.34
Live Oak.......................... N(l.61....Robert P. Gillham, Master
Clarence A. Severin, Sr. Warden
Rulo E. Minard, Jr. Warden
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Chas. E. Haven, Past Master
Wm. B. Joseph, Past Master
Natoma:··························--No. 64... .Immcr 0. Rice, Master.................... 8.16
Amador.....................·........ No. 65 .... Norman B. Bailiff, Master ................ 11.62
Forest... ..........................-.No. 66.... Ivan

R. Wood, Master ........................ 25.70

M-0ming St.ar.................. No. 68.... Asa Van Covert Martin, Master.:.... 6.12
Henry W. Bessac, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.48
Orin S: Henderson, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 2.28
Enterprise........................ No. 70 .... 0scar L. Harris, Master.................... 8.76
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain ............... No. 76.... James Girardi, Master ........................ 12.22
Calaveras ......................... No. 78.... Milan Dragomanovich, Rep ............... 11.12
Humboldt....................... -.No. 79.... Frank Smith, Master.......................... 29.40
James T. Fraser, Past Master
Ione.................................... No. 80.... Charles M. Bacon, Master................ 9.12
Yolo................................... No. 81....Lucius S. Foster, Sr. Warden.......... 6.60
Vesper............................... No-. 84.... Hugo C. Stolzman, Master ................ 20.40
NavaL.............................. No. 87.... Paul E. Meyers, Master.................... 2.40
Joseph Anderson, Sr. Warden
Mark T. Andrews, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Chas. E. Zander, Past Master

North Star.......:............ _.No. 91....Edward Goodwin, Representative.... 37.70
St. Helena ....................... No. 93 .... Wallace W. Everett, Jr. Warden.... 4.80
Henry ClaY-··:·-·····_No. 95 .... Charles Wm. Geller, Master............ 11.62
Hornitos .........................-. No. 98. ... Samuel H. Williams, Master ............ 20.18
G. L. Kling, Past Master
Yosemite........................... No. 99... .John E. Brown, Master...................... 10.08
George A. Jordan, Sr. Warden
True W. Fowler, Past Master
Roy E. Santy, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 10.08
Clay................................. No. 101....Herbert W. Haberkorn, Master...... 12.00
Oroville ........................... No. 103.... William 0. Thatcher, Sr. Warden .. 10.80
C. 0. Hamilton, Past Master
Albert E. Boynton, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Lexington...................... :No. 104.... Robert E. Tinker, Master ................ 44.16
John Weaver, Past Master
Robert F. Wolster;icroft, Past Master
Arcata............................. .No. 106.... James B. Palmer, Sr. Warden .......... 30.00
Pajaro............................. No. 110....Edward C. Angel, Master..................

7.08

Chico ................................No. 111....Stephen Del Gardo, Sr. Warden .... 12.24
Summit.. ..........................No. 112.... John B. Groh!, Master........................ 11.52
Eden ................................No. 113.... John S. Ferns, Master........................
Sidney B. Force, Past Master and
Jr. Grand Deacon

1.08

Concord...........................No. 117.... Chester E. King, Master.................... 6.48
Claus F. Lindfeldt, Sr. Warden
Benj. T. Maier, Jr. Warden
Robert L. Hery, Past Master
William F. Freiseke, Past Master
Cliuton ...................... :·····No. 119.... Marshall L. Gill, Master.. .................. 26.42

756

PROCEEDINGS O F THE
G RAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fidelity.......,....................No. 120....Leo S. Schoenfeld, Master
Jesse Rosenwald, Sr. Warden
Albert F. Neumann, Jr. Warden
Phillip Jacobovics, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Leon M. Loewenthal, Past Master
.Allyn S. Wexel, Past Master
George K. Manheim, Past Master
Edgar Coleman Levey, Past Master
Alamo..................- ..........No. 122....Elwood W. Glazier, Master............Jos. L. Silveira, Sr. Warden
Chas. G. Faisst, Past Master

3.84

Sotoyome...........·-·-·-····No. 123....Frederick Wm. McConnell, Master 4.92
Table Mountain...........No. 124....K. F. MacKenzie, Representative
and Past Master................................ 10.80
LaFayette.......................No.126.... Harold Baker, Master.....·-················ 4.44
Charles H . King, Sr. Warden
James G. M. Thompson, Jr. Warden .
Ernest J!i. Feaks, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 4.44
Hermann...........- ...........No. 127.... 0tto C. Von Borstel, Master
John Behren>, Sr. Warden
Hans E. Warncke, Jr. Warden
Louis Muller, Past Master and Inspector
Ernest Gentner, Past Master
Paul R. Schubert, Past Master
Hugo H. W. Stamm, Past Master
E. A. Neumarkel, Past Master
George A. Creon, Past Master
Richard H. Dachner, Past Master
Visalia.................,...........No. 128.... Jack B. Davis, Master........................ 23.28
Nicolaus..........................No. 129.... Lorel E. Middleton, Master.............. 9.00
Woodbridge....................No. 131....James A. Hammond, Jr. Warden.... 6.72

757

Pacific.....................:........ No.136.... Carl W. Miles, Master
Albert A. Axelrod, Sr. Warden
W m. J. Dawson, Jr. Warden
Thomas Anderson, Past Master and
Inspector
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Eugene S. Elkus, Past Master
Harold R. Jacobs, Past Master
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Charles E. Jackson, Past Master
George H. Raymond, Past Master
Harry K. Wolff, Past Master
Crockett.......................... No. 139.... William A.H. Fleischer, Master
B. S. Pederson, Past Master
P. Jorgensen, Past Master
Curtis.-............................ No. 140 .... Michael D. Franceschini, Master...... 6.24
Franklin..........................No. 143....Gordon Wight, Master........................ 6.40
Oriental......:.................. No. 144....Roy Norman Buell, Master
Edward F. Wall, Sr. Warden
Chas. R. Brown, Jr. Warden
Graham B. Pearson, Past Master
W alter Leonard, Past Master and
Inspector
Lawrence Hanson, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Volney Stamps, Past Master
William S. Wells, Past Master
William E. Connar, Past Master
H erbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Alfred J. Snow, Past Master
Wm. R. McHugh, Past Master
Chas. T. Clark, Past Master
Frederic R. Bowes, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master

Vacaville.........................No. 134....Harry M. Talbot, Master.................. 4.80

Vitruvius............- ..........No. 145.... Martin E. Mickelsen, Master............ 4.82
Wm. C. Ernshaw, Sr. Warden

Valley..............................No. 135.... Walter E. Freeman, Master.............. 7.12
Lester R. Pope, Sr. Warden

Abell................................No. 146.... William Robert Ford, Master............ 8.28
Henry Clay Spurr, Sr. Warden

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Eel River _________________ ,____ No. 147 ....Ralph J- Johnson, Sr. Warden .......... 30.00
W. G. Orman, Past Master and Inspector ·-·-··-·--·········-······-···-------··········· 25.20

Elk Grove......................No. 173 .... Dwight H. Stephenson, Master........ 7.80

758

Lassen .........................•... No. 149 .... David E . Edenholm, Master .............. 32.12
Ivar B. Clark, Past Master and In. spector .................. ~---················· ····· ···· 32.12
Forrest L. Holmes, Past Master

759

Drytown ........... :......•...... No. 174.... J. J. Myers, Past Master and Representative ........................................ 11.12
Antioch........................... No. 175 .... Bernard Mahr, Sr. Warden ................. 3.96
Phoenix ...........................No. 178.... Gus A. Eskew, Master ........................ 47.28
William Elmer Young, Sr. Warden
J. W. Curtis, Past Master

Molino .............................No. 150.... Frederick M. Clawson, Master........ 19.56
Hugh J. Moran, Sr. Warden

Mendocino......................No. 179 ....James Wm. Lilley, Sr. Warden ........ 26.38

Woodland ....................... No. 156.... Leonard G. F. Thatcher, Master...... 6.24
F. W. Weaver, Past Master
B. F. Hillhouse, Past Master

Petaluma.........................No. 180.... Duncan H. Olmsted, Master.............. 2.88
Rennie Fred Nelson, Sr. Warden
Arthur E. Owen, Past Master

Keystone ........................ .No. 1()1.. .. W. H. Watts, Representative............ 8.28

Russian River ............... No. 181.. .. Frank F. Welti, Master...................... 4.56

Harmony........................ No. 164.... Erne~t ·M. Innes, Past Master and
Representative ··················-··············· 36.38

Arbuckle. ........................No. 182.... Benj. E. Perkins, Master.................... 8.28
Clear Lake .....................No. 183... Henry Enderlin, Representative and
Pas\ Master ...................................... 13.90

Excelsior........................ .No. 166.... Arnold T. Brown, Master
Raymond T. Higgins, Sr. Warden
Rod G. Guyett, Past Master and
Inspector
James W . Crosby, Past Master
Samuel H. Perkins, Past Master
Ralph G. Curtis, Past Master

Sierra Valley .................No. 184.... Arthur E. Strang, Master .................. 34.98
Claiborne ........................ No. 185 .... Fred Hendrickson, Master .................. 26.08
D. W. Dunbar, Past Master
·
Evening Star................ No. 186 .... Benton A. MacLellan, Master.. .......... 36.86

Alameda..........................No. 167.... Franklin A. Brown, Master ............... . 2.40
Frank A. Katzer, Sr. Warden
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
Albert Norris, Past Master
Redwood City............... No. 168.... John D. McCrea, Master.. ................ ..
Raymond K. Maynard, Jr., Jr. Warden
L. A. Heiner, Past Master
Mission ........................... .No. 169... Willard R. Arnold, Master
John D. Marshall, Sr. Warden
Archibald Reid, Jr. Warden
John C. Strickler, Past Master
1,{obert E. Allan, Past Master
George A. Hansen, Past Master
John Hazlett, Past Master
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master
Chas. A. Day, Past Master

1.92

Keith ................................No. 187.... Grayd-0n B. Carr, Master ................... . 5.64
George H. Smith, Sr. Warden
Paul R. Colsoii, Past Master
S. M. Maze, Past Master
Oakland·............... :..........No. 188.... Ralph A. Kurtz, Master
Sophus Nelson, Past Master and Inspector
Thomas Irving Miller, Past Master
Wm. S. MacMurtry, Past Master
Arthur Mock, Past Master
Robert Gaylord, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Fred L. Arbogast, Past Master
Chas. E. Keyes, Past Master
Charles C. DeWolf, Past Master
Northern LighL. ......... .No. 190.... G. Silver, Sr. Warden .......................... 22.92

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Marin............ :.................No. 191....Herbert K. Walton, Master.............. 2.10
Fred E. Nutto, Jr. Warden
Jos. Block, Past Master
H . F. Merlink, Past Master
A. B. Derving
Chas. T. Smith, Past Master

King Davids................. No. 209....Fred H. Johnson, Master.................... 24.00
John Whicher, Past Master and
Grand Secretary
Robert W. Frazier, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 25.50
Walter .D. Adriance, Past Master

Santa Barbara.............. No. 192.... Arthur J. McAdams, Master.............. 34.02
Arthur W. Kincaid, Sr. Warden

Friendship...................... No. 210.... Lloyd R. Britton, Master.................... 3.48
Carl H . Nelson, Sr. Warden
Chas. V. Whalley, Jr. Warden
Darrell J. Sedgwick, Past Master
Edwin H. Kocher, Past Master
Albert T. Hollingsworth, Past Master
Claude C. Clark, Past Master

760

Ferndale.........................N o. 193.... Arthur L. Kercheval, Master............ 31.20
Mountain View............No. 194... .Joseph W. Lovejoy, Master................ 2.64
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Buckeye..........................No. 195.... Edgar L. Bryan, Master.................... 6.00
A. H . Manyan, Past Master
San Simeon...................No. 196.... Allen T . Doggett, Master... ............... 29.00
Wilmington................... No. 198....Glenn C. Merkley, Master .................. 44.52
John C. Shunk, Sr. Warden
Hartley...........................No. 199....Guido de Ghetaldi, Representative.... 12.32
Truckee.......................... No. 200....Wm. F. Wilkie, Jr., Sr. Warden...... 23.16
Pentalpha....................... No. 202....Constantine N. Perkins, Master........ 43.08
Robert M. Woodworth, Jr. Warden
Lawrence C. Kelley, Past Master .
and Inspector .................................... 43.08
James B. Gist, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Master...................... 43.08
W. P. Musaus, Past Master
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 43.08
Confidence......................No. 203 .... Walter C. Buttle, Jr. Warden............ 6.80
Christopher Dudley, Past Master
Salinas.............................No. 204....Arthur G. Howell, Master.................. 8.28
Fred A. Peck, Sr. Warden
Olivel.............................No. 205....Georg_e M. Morgan, Sr. Warden...... 12.96
Stanislaus....................... No. 206....David Eli Wellman, Sr. Warden...... 7.44
Anaheim..........................No. 207.... Elden R. Deering, Master.................. 45.00
A. B. Cross, Jr. Warden
Rio Vista....................... No. 208....George M. Augusto, Jr. Warden...... 4.40

761

San Benito.....................No. 211....Frank H. Wood, Sr. Warden............ 6.60
Max D. Ley, Jr. Warden
R. W. O'Bannon, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.60
H. A. Fleaderman, Past Master
So. San Francisco...... No. 212.... Sigvart C. Johnson, Master
Andrew D. Zanetti, Sr. Warden
Chas. H . Kispert, Jr. Warden
William G. Green, Past Master
Charles F. Hensel, Past Master
Cyrus H . Kramer, Past Master
Henry A. Kruger, Past Master
San Buenaventura.......No. 214....Courtland R. Strong, Master............ 37.56
Wm. J. Hewston, Sr. Warden
Jos. M. Argabrite, Past Master........ 43.08
David J . Reese, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 37.56
Oak Grove.................... No. 215....Henry C. Snead, J r., Sr. Warden
M. W. Garratt, Jr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Past Master
F. Howen, Past Master
Doric...............:...............No. 216....Edward M. Jaffa, Master
Paul R. Morrison, Sr. Warden
Jacob W. Ehrlich, Jr. Warden
M.anuel Lafee, Past Master
Monterey........................ N o. 217.... Chas. A. Watson, Representative
and Past Master................................ 8.88

.I

762

PROCEEDINGS OF THF

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mosalc.............................No. 218.... Charles J. Turner, Master.................. 3.48
M. J. Clark, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 3.48

North Butte.................. No. 230.... Wm. H. Stafford, Sr. Warden.......... 10.32

Speranza ltaliana.........No. 219....J chn G. Alioto, Master
Giovanni D'Ambrosia, Sr. Warden
Joe Climino, Jr., Jr. Warden
Pietro Capua, Past Master
John M. Icardo, Past Master and
Inspector
Antonio Cogliandro, Past Master

JanesviTie........................No. 232:... Lloyd D. Hoffman, Master ................ 36.12

763

Covelo............................. No. 231.. .. E. A. Gravier, Representative............ 21.86

Calistoga........................ No. 233.... Wilber R. Snow, Master.................... 5.40
John E. Williams, Sr. Warden
Nelson C. McArthur, Jr. Warden
Hope................................No. 234....Raymond A. Scolari, Master.. .......... 3120

Downey..................- .......No. 220....Richard C. Austin, Master ................ 43.92
John B. Womack, Sr. Warden

Hills Ferry...................No. 236.... Roy Cowdrey, Sr. Warden................ 7.92
W . S. Thompson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 7.92

lnyo................................. No. 221....Harold R. Bandhouer, Master .......... 55.86
Alex C. Krater, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 55.86

Guadalupe.......................No. 237....Herschel Scott, Sr. Warden.............. 25.68

Roseville......................... N o. 222....J oseph H. Fleming, Master................ 7.80

Santa Ana ...................... No. 241....Andrew A. Crawford, Master.......... 45.48
E. B. Trago, Past Master and Inspector ................................................. 45.48

Bakersfield..................... No. 224....Raymond E. Smythe, Master............ 29.34
Henry Eissler, Past Master.............. 29.34
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 29.34
J. R. Gist, Past Master
Brooklyn.........................N o. 225....Robert A. Smale, Master
Herbert D. Johnson, Jr. Warden
Irving Magnes, Past Master
Francis J. Rennie, Past Master
Howell P. Capsell, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo..................... No. 226.... Dona1d W. Tiddy, Master..................
Thomas C. Gunn, Sr. Warden
Hjalmar Johnson, Jr. Warden

1.32

Colttsa-.............................N o. 240.... Claude L. Houchins, Master.............. 9.72

Magnolia...............:........No. 242....Ralph C. Hine, Master........................ 34.02
Charles N. Allen, Past Master
Eucalyptus ..................... No. 243 .... Alfred B. Morris, Sr. Warden........
Otto C. Fink, Jr. Warden
George D. Hovey, Past Master

1.56

Alcatraz.......................... No. 244.... George K. Harry, Master
Herbert H. Harry, Jr. Warden
Ferdinand S. Smith, Past Master
Arthur H. Gawne, Past Master
Thomas Smillie, Past Mast er
William W. Neal, Past Master
Alonzo Waggener, Past Master

Athens............................ .No. 228.... Fred Kopp, Sr. Warden.................... 5.52

Laurel............................. No. 245.... Lyrel D. Bullard, Master.. .................. 10.92

Solano.............................N o. 229....Edward 0. Massey, Master................ 2.46
Henry A. Frahm, Past Master
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
John F . Walters, Past Master
Alford B. Cushing, Past Master
Andrew J. Whitney, Past Master
and Jr. Grand Steward.................... 2.40
Dempsey F . Dufour, Past Master

Pomona...........................No. 246.... Herbert B. Martin, Master................ 45.60
Nelson J . King, Sr. Warden
George ·c. Smithen, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 45.60
Joseph A. Allard, Past Master

764

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fresno............ - ............... No. 247.... George R. Lovejoy, Sr. Warden...... 20.04
Chester H. Warlow, Past Master.... 20.04
Donald H. Fisher, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 20.04
Harry F. White, Past Master
Alturas ............................ No. 248 .... Garland N. Wilson, Master................ 44.24
C. S. Baldwin, Inspector and Past
Master ................................................ 44.24
Adin................................ No. 250 .... L. C. Smith, Master ............................ 61.36
Landmark.......................No. 253 .... Flores E. Mast, Jr.' Warden..............

7.32

Reading ...........................No. 254.... George P. Rogers, Master .................. 22.92
Arthur 0. Peterson, Sr. Warden
G. C. DeForest, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 22.92
Albert F. Ross, Past Master
Welcome......................... No. 255 .... Walter N. Hubbard, Representative
and Past Master ................................ 23.16
Lodi................................. No. 256.... Edwin D, Emery, Sr. Warden.......... 6.48
Eldred E. Brown, Jr. Warden
Thomas G. Wright, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.48
Penrhyn.......................... No. 258.... Alfred A. Pilliard, Master..................
George Sanderson, Past Master
George C. Boller, Past Master

8.52

Evergreen...................... No. 259 .... Rufus G. Jones, Master ...................... 47.28
Willard G. Babcock, Sr. Warden
James Macdougall, Past Master
James H. Jordan, Past Master
Oakley K. Morton, Past Master,
Grand Orator, and Inspector ........ 47.28
A. Heber Winder, Past Master
King Solomon.............. No. 260.... Thayer B. Thomas, Master
Forrester J. Millar, Sr .. Warden
Randolph V. Whiting, Past Master
and Jr. Grand Warden
Edward E. Conn, Past Master
Tuscan............................ N o. 261.. .. Bert L. Fouch, Representative..........

765

Lompoc........................... No. 262 .... Perry H. Benson, Sr. Warden ........ 30.06
Hesperian.......................No. 264....Jacob B. Peck, Sr. Warden ................ 26.68
Orland.............................No. 265 .... Henry I. Tillotson, Sr Warden ........ 12.00
R. C. E. Weber, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 12.00
North East.................... No. 266.... Ross E. Routson, Representative ...... 53.20
Galt..................................No. 267.... T. D. Evans, Past Master and Representative ........................................ 6.48
Durant............... :............ N o. 268.... Roy V. Crowell, Master
George H. Irwin, Sr. Warden
Donald D. Graves, Jr. Warden
Niles 0. Millar, Past Master and
Inspector
Walter. W. Bradley, Past Master
Francis H. E. O'Donnell, Past Master
Wm. Harrison Waste, Past Master
Burton J. Rose, Past Master
Olive Branch................ No. 269 .... Andrew H. Terrill, Master ................ 23.28
Snow Mountain........... No. 271.. .. Charles Alexander, Representative .. 15.72
Pasadena........................ No. 272....Ralph T. Merriam, Master ................ 44.04
Kenneth H. Munroe, Sr. Warden
Anchor............................ No. 273 ....Joseph W. Littlefield, Master............ 43.92
Daniel H. Davies, Sr. Warden
Arroyo ..................... _.....No. 274.... William M. Houser, Jr. Warden ...... 24.90
· Harry A. Truesdale, Past Master
A. Harry Severson, Past Master
Oakdale........................... No. _275 .... B. F. Hoisholt, Representative and
Inspector ............................................ 8.52
Selma .............................. No. 277.... J. H. Wagner, Representative arid
Past Master ...................................... 21.24

9.12

Southern California .... No. 278 ....James E. Rogers, Master ......... :......... : 43.08
William P. Jeffries, Past Master.... 43.08
Dana R. Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 43.08
E. B. Spencer, Past Master

766

PROCEEDINGS O F THE

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

767

Han£ord..........................No. 279....Alvin H . Howell, Sr. Wuden.. ......... 22.56
John L. Sullivan, Past Master

Dunsmuir.·-···- ············No. 297....Jobn A. Martin, Master.·-······-········- 28.98
Gustav A. Hutaff, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 28.98

Madera...............·-·-···- ·No. 280.... Hart Nathan Cook, Master.............. 18.60
Frank Davis, Sr. Warden

Liberty............................ No. 299....Chas. A. English, Past Master and
Inspector ··········································- 3.48

Mt. Shasta......................No. 281....Wm. Chas. Gover, Master.................. 22.08
Edwin L. Story, Past Master
CallayomL._ .................No. 282....William L. Brooks, Master................ 9.90
South West..........- .......,.No. 283.... Theodore R. Miller, Master.............. 51.08
Carl S. Owen, Sr. Warden

Redlands .........................No. 300....Robert D. Baird, Sr. W arden., ......._. 47.88
Arthur P . Crim, Past Master and
I nspector ............................................ 47.88
Harry H orne, P as·t Mast-e r and
Grand Bible Bearer .......................... 47.88

San Miguel... .............- .. No. 285.... A. Logan Bachar, Master.................. 14.64

Ontario........................ :.. No. 301.. .. James Sanderson, Master .................... 45.96
S. M. H oyt, Past Master

Paso Robles_.. ................ No. 286.... Samuel T . Eddy, Sr. Warden............ 15.36

Santa Lucia...................No. 302....James R. Bengard, Sr. Warden........ 11.52

Winnedumah .................No. 287.... Arthur Ware Hess, Master................ 57.58

Porterville......................No. 303....Wm. H enry Tyrre:t, Master .............. 25.08
William C. Bradford, S r. W arden
E . R. Lawson, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 25.08
Logan L. Dobbs, Past Master

Elsinore...........................No. 289.... Harry Lewis, Sr. Warden.................. 50.08
East Gate.......................NQ. 290....Frank M. Smith, Master .................... 43.08
Ralph E . Smith, Sr. Warden
Santa Paula...................No. 291....Warren L. King, Representative and
Past Master ...................................... 38.76
Los Gatos.......................No. 292....Cecil R. Reynolds, Master.................. 3.72
Carl S. Balch, Sr. Warden
Thomas M. Widby, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.48
Orange Grov-e............... No. 293.... Daniel W. Gruwell, Master................ 45.48
·
Carl I. Thomas, Sr. Warden ·
Leon Whitsell, Past Master

Reedley .......................- .. No. 304.... Edmund W. Burr, Sr. W arden.......... 21.84
Azusa .................: ............N o. 305....Charles D. Briggs, Master .................. 44.88
Ashlar.............................NQ.- 306....Floyd E. J orgenson, Master........ ~ ..... 47.28
Santa Monica ...............No. 307.... Frank J. Moody, Sr. Warden............ 44.64
F rank M. W ise, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.64

Traver....·--···-·····-········No, 294....Stanley T . Nelson, Sr. Warden ........ 21.60
Claude F . Browning, Jr. Warden

Monrovia ........................No. 308....Claude T . Silcott, Master .................... 44.40
Wilbu r A. Treadwell, Sr. Warden
Leslie M. Ranaker, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.40

Mt. Jackson.................. No. 295....James Reade Watson, P ast Master
and Representative .......................... 5.40

Delano.............................No. 309....John M. Haberfelde, Master..:......... 27.06
Archibald Sheppard, Past Master

Silver Gate.....................No. 296....Earle H. Parkins, Master.................. 51.08
Edgar F. Cooper, Sr. Warden
Frederick S. Weed, Jr. Warden
Francis Mitchell, Past Master
Raymond P. Wakeman, P ast Master

Los Banos......................No. 312....J . E. Place, Representative................ 9.36
Tehachapi... ....................No. 313.... Charles Tomaier, Master .................... 31.82
T emescal........................ .N o. 314....William E . Loranger , Master............ 48.36
William C. H utchison, Sr. Warden
F red E . Snidecor, Past Master .......... 48.36

769

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODG E 01!' C A LIFORN I A

Norwalk.........................No. 315....Albert A. Kennedy, Sr. Warden ...... 44.28

San Pedro.......•..............No. 332.... Robert Watson Long, Master............ 44.64
Frank Edwin Kemp, Sr. W arden

768

Sangar............................ No. 316....William S. Landreth, Master ............ 21.12
Alta..........................- ..... No. 333 ....George C. Delury, Master .................. 46.42
Fallbrook.......................No. 317.... Elliott E. Staude, Master .................. 52.54
Emmanuel...................... No. 318....J. A. Foster, Representative.............. 10.56
Hollenbeck..................... No, 319.... Joseph A. Gilman, Master.................. 43.08
W. Denning Johnston, Sr. Warden
South Gate..............- .....No. 320....George M. Donovan, Master.............. 43.08
Wm. Benjamin Gage, Sr. Warden
Frederick E. Ussher, Jr. Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master
Atisal...............................No. 321....Robert E. Cope, Master...................... 3.00
Samuel D. Glassey, Sr. Warden
Stanley C. Smallwood, Jr. Warden
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master
Alhambra........................No. 322....Roy C. Armstrong, Master................ 43.68
Ora H . Portner, Jr. Warden

Covina.............................No. 334....Harry E . Cook, Sr. W arden.............. 44.88
Malcolm J . McCarthy, P ast Master
Westgate........................No. 335....Clyde H. Kettering, Master.............. 43.08
Edward Lee Kozberg, Sr. W arden
Felix J . Jonas, Past Master
Fruitvalc.........................No. 336....George R. Gehring, Master
Rudolph Jenny, Sr. Warden
Earl L. H owatt, Jr. Warden
Russell C. Horstmann, P ast Master
Fritz Schuber, Past Master
Carquinez.......................N o. 337....Harry Dinsmore, J r. W arden ............ 2.16
Jacob E , Hughes, Past Master
Thomas Edwards, Past Master
J ames King, Past Master
James Smith, Past Master

Whittier..............:._........No. 323.... Bernard F. Weil, Master .................... 44.52
Perry W. Schuyler, Sr. Warden
Roy I. LeFever, Inspector and Past
Master ................................................ 44.52

San Jaclnto.................. No. 338.:..Byron H. Johanse~, Master ................ 51.96

Corona............................N o. 324.... Aaron G. Marcus, Warden................ 44.04
David Lind Warren, Sr. Warden

Oxnard...........................N o. 341....Luther P. N icholson, Master ............ 38.28

Fullerton........................N o. 339.... W m. C. Stanford, Sr. Warden ........ 44.82
J oseph H Giltz, Jr. W arden

San Fernando............... No. 343 ....Shelby H . Pinkston, Master .............. 41.64

Consuelo.........................No. 325 ....Charles R. Wilkenson, Master.......... 52.82
Needles............................No. 326....Archie B. Kirkland, Sr. Warden ...... 57.80
Long Beach ...................No. 327....Edwin R. Nelson, Master .................. 44.64
Hugh R. Etzell, Sr. Warden
Edwin T . Date, Past Master
Redondo......:..........'.........No. 328.... William F . Seifert, Sr. Warden...... 44.64
Vallee de France..........No. 329....Charles Thornasset, Master................ 43.08
Kilauea ........................... No. 330....Walter A. Todd, Sr. Warden. ...........283.00
Pacific Grove................No. 331....Archie B. Fleming, Master................ 9.00
Wi!liam R. LaPorte, Sr. Warden
Chas. K. Tuttle, Inspector and Past
Master ................................................ 9.00
Edwin A. Cope, Past Master

Starr King.....................No. 344....Haiman L. Wayne, Master
Leland S. Bright, Past Master
Samuel Lippman, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
Alfred F. Breslauer, Past Master
and Inspector
Clyde C. H enshaw, Past Master
C. O. Munson, Past Master
Charles 0. Clausen, Past Master
Solomon Deutsch, Past Master
Albert C. W ollenberg, Past Master
Chas. M . W ollenberg, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Brentwood..........:..........N o. 345 ....George K. Anderson, Master ............ 4.56

770

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Palo A\to ...................... No. 346....Leonidas K. Doty, Master.................. 2.28
Robert L. Cody, Sr. Warden
Wm. L. Smith, Jr. Warden
Newton W. Glaeser, Past Master
A. N. Umphreys, Past Master
McKinley.............;..........No. 347.... Rolla Lea Eubanks, Master................
Oscar E. Erickson, Sr. Warden
Isaac McGuffen, Past Master

1.20

San Bernardino.............No. 348....Fred L. Bittke, Master........................ 47.28
George Feetham, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 47.28
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08
Sequoia............................No. 349.... Chas. M. Cowell, Master
Arthur G. Smith, Sr. Warden
Cyril W. McClean, Jr. Warden
Jesse F. Mote, Past Master
R. D. Laughrey, Past Master
E. F. Hughes, Past Master
Charles Husband, Past Master
Earl Warren, Past Master
C. L. Hermann, Past Master
A. D. Buettel, Past Master
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
and Inspector
John Snape, Grand Chaplain.............. 43.08
Palestine......................... No. 351...John M. Edgar, Master ...................... 43.08
Walter F. Haas, Past Master............ 43.08
Sunset... ...........................No. 352....Ronald H . Leonholm, Master............ 43.08
Rollie W. Miller, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Lloyd C. Campbell, Past Master ·
Wm. K. Schofield, Past Master
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08
Chas.·O. Miller, Past Master
Pinole.............................. No. 353 .... Robert J. Stafford, Master................ 1.68
Compton Gault, Sr. Warden
Frank E. Smith, Jr. Warden
C. S. Pierce, Past Master

771

Pt:esidio..........................No: 354.... Emil G. Wunner, Master
Max Wassman, Jr., Sr. Warden
Charles R. Cooper, Jr. Warden
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector
William A. Sherman, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
William G. Ackermann, Past Master
Edward H . Wilkens, Past Master
Frank G. Watson, Past Master and
Grand Tiler
o 355 .... Neil Tate• Master ................................ 43.08
H ()Hywo od...........•........N ·
Stephen E. Wilson, Sr. Warden
Wm. B. Ogden, Past Master and
Inspector ············································ 43.08
D. F. Black, Past Master
Mill Valley..................... No. 356.... Frederick A. Penn, Master................
Carl F. Fennema, Sr. Warden
Arthur F. Thomas, Jr. Warden
Kent J. C. Seymour, Past Master
and Inspector
Thomas F. Bagshaw, Past Master
Charles J. Brockhoff, Past Master
Keith McLellan, Past Master
Thomas S. Watters, Past Master

.96

Wm. 0. Malott, Master...................... 44.64
B uena P ark ....................No. 357....
Golden Sta4'.e................. No. 358....Charles C. Kuert, Master .................. 43.08
Thomas H. Ewers, Sr. Warden
J. Frank Bourne, Past Master and
Inspector ············································ 43.08
Arthur B. Dittman, Past Master
Alexander J. Watson, Past Master
Benj. G. Wright, Past Master.......... 43.08
Loyalton.........................No. 359 .... Hjalmar Mortensen, Sr. Warden ...... 31.98
San Francisco...............No. 360 ....George Weinhold, Master
Kenneth F . Saysette, Sr. Warden
Earle Freeman, Jr. Warden
John E . Rebard, Past Master
H. L. Bush, Past Master
Alton V. Fuller, Past Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Past Master
Victor E . Perry, Past Master
H. L. Alves, Past Master
Steve J. Simmons, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

772.

773

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fort Bragg................-.No. 361....Allen J. Albright, Representative.... 24.08
Norman G. Johnson, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 24.08
Charity...................:..- ....No. 362... .Ira Roger Abbott, Master.................. 3.72
Conrad E. York, Sr. Warden
Walker E. Vaughn, Jr. Warden
Berkeley.........................No. 363.... D. C. Jones, Master
A. M. Hardie, Past Master
R. P. Arnold, Past Master
Willits.............................No. 365....Clarence A. Robinson, Jr. Warden.. 16.08
A. B. Guslander, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 16.08
Las Palmas....................No. 366.... Ernest Dusenberry, Sr. Warden...... 20.04
James R. Erskine, Past Master
Andrew W . Horn, Past Master
Ernest Marvin Myers, Past Master
and Inspector .................:.................. 20.04
South Pasadena............ No. 367.... Braeme E. Gigas, Master.................... 43.38
Clinton M. Sampson, Sr. Warden
Franklin Padan, Past Master.......... 43.38
Horace E. Vedder, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.38
George D. Bragonier, Past Master
Frank H . Bush, Past Master
Unity............................... No. 368....Dwight W. Stephenson, Past Master, Inspector and Representative 42.60
Ocean Park................... No. 369.... Thomas D. West, Sr. Warden.......... 44.64
Amity.............................. No. 370....Nathaniel 0. Slate, Sr. Warden
Henry 0. Hammerich, Jr. Warden
Raymond Henry, Past Master
Richard Cain, Past Master
le Progres
de l'Oceanie...............No. 371 ....Herbert S. Bowen, Master ................ 250.00

Jewel.........·-··········----No. 374....Jesse P. Rundell, Master
Louis P . Mayer, Sr. Warden
Edgar M. Campbell, Jr. Warden
Charles Crawford, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Chas. E. Anderson, Past Master and
Grand Organist
John H . Adams, Past Master
Richmond .......................No. 375 ...James H. Conner, Master
Roy T. Bauer, Sr. Warden
Wm. C. Johnson, Past Master
James S. Halley, Past Master
Frank C. Ruppel, Past Master
C. L. Fischer, Past Master
George H. Bradner, Past Master
R. T. Haas, Past Master
Francis Drake..............N.o. 376.... Richard M. Zemke, Master
D. Wm. Duncan, Sr. Warden
Artesia............................ No. 377....0scar C. Zwinge, Master.................... 44.40
Franklin D. Caldwell, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 44.40
Mizpah. ........................... No. 378.... Rodey J . Putnam, Master.....,.............. 43.08
Wm. Jose Distelli, Sr. Warden
Fillmore..........................No. 379....Leo C. Harmonson, Master................ 39.48
Lesley G. Burson, _S r. Warden
Edwin S. Rice, Jr. Warden
Huntington Beach ........No. 380....0scar D. Wright, Master.................. 46.08
Eddie Dillon Harpold, Sr. Warden
Oceanside..............'..........No. 381....Courtland W. Shancks, Sr. Warden 51.08
Highland Park.............No. 382.... John E. Gillooly, Master.................... 43.08
Arthur S. Kirkpatrick, Sr. Warden
Millard M .. Mier, Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master

Gardena..................._.....No. 372....Lawrence A. Duncan, Sr. Warden.. 44.04

Orosi...............................No. 383 .... Albert D. Wrought, Master.............. 26.40

Veteran...........................No. 373....John M. Zuck, Master........................ 44.28
Orrin H. Tryon, Sr. Warden

El Centro............ :..........No. 384.... Cicero Benj. Herring, Master............ 64.08
Edwin N. D. Hatch, Sr. Warden
Charles E. Sones, Past Master........ 64.08
John Stewart Ross, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 43.08

774

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Dinuba............................ No. 385 .... Edwin G. Spaith, Master.................... 22.20
Clarence L. Fraser, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 22.20
Coalinga..........................No. 387.... Phillip W. Bable, Sr. Warden.......... 26.16
Parnassus..........- ...........No. 388...,Kenneth B. Hoppe, Master
George F . Haag, Sr. Warden
Vernon C. Richards, Jr. Warden
Joseph C. Durham, Past Master
Palos Verdes.................No. 389.... Thomas F . Merrick, Master .............. 44.64
Cornelius C. Burgess, Sr. Warden
Frank S. Thomas
Imperial................- ........ No. 390....Emil Krepela, Sr. Warden................ 64.08
East Belt.......................No. 391....Elmer E. McDown, Master................ 16.80
Ernest H. Hodge, Past Master
West Lake.....................No. 392....Wm. A. Reynolds, Master .................. 43.08
John E. Hill, Sr. Warden
Wm. T. Osterholt, Past Master
Walter L. Berger, Past Master........ 43.08
Chas. E. Listenwalter, Past Master
Balder............................ ~No. 393 .... Byron H . Martin, Sr. Warden
Donald J. Johnson, Past Master
F . 0. Sjogren, Past Master
N . S. Stohl, Past Master
University...................... No. 394....Frederick W. Green, Master ............ 43.08
Charles E . Gartman, Sr. Warden
Edward A. Brown, Past Master
Turlock.................. - ..- ... No. 395 .... Donald. B. Fowler, Master................ 8.40
Harold G. Lorentzen, Sr. Warden
Harry 0 . Carlson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 8.40
Ap-0110 ............................-N o. 396....Henry L. W richhart, Master
Oscar R. Presco, Sr. Warden
Rising Light.................N o. 397....Earl Clifford Dalrymple, Master ...... 43.38
Walter D. Piper, Past Master
John Richards, Past Master
Fraternity.......................No. 399....Ralph E. Weaver, Master.................. 3.48
Donald J. Mork, Sr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

775

Burlingame.....................No. 400....Patrick P . R. Rorke, Master............ 1.20
George B. Flagg, Sr. Warden
Walter C. Schafer, Jr. Warden
Wm. Henry Eddy, Past Master
Charles J. Orman, Past Master
Samuel Leslie Hawken, Past Master
and Inspector .
William Wilkin, Past Master
Bay View....- .................No. 401....Dante R. Blade, Master
Eugene D. Sellers, Sr. Warden
Elmer Wm. Hickman, Past Master
Fred W . Wetmore, Past Master
Charles Kimble, Past Master
Brawley..........--··········-.No. 402....George R. Butters, Master.................. 63.70
Giles C. Brownell, Sr. Warden
Yerba Buena.................No. 403 .... Samuel J. Chase, Master
Frederick Wm. Mahl, Jr., Sr. Warden
Albert B. Casad, Past Master
Turner McAllaster, Past Master
and Inspector
Moneta..................:......... No. 405....0tto A. Stoltz, Master........................ 43.08
Burbank. .........................l\l o. 406.... Herbert S. Sprinkle, Past Master
and Representative .......................... 42.24
La Mesa..........................No. 407....James L. Hobel, Master...................... 51.08
Sierra Madre.................No. 408.... Ralph W. Stewart, Master................ 44.04
Honolulu.........................No. 409....Wm. R. Foster, Past Master and
Representative ............................... .?50.00
Charter Rock. ................No. 410.... Wm. D. Wisom, Master
George T. Babcock, Sr. Warden
Frank W. Plant, Jr. Warden
Arthur L Patterson, Past Master
H. R. Braden, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Perris ..............................N o. 411....Harold B. Phillips, Master ................ 48.82
Calexico.......................... No. 412....Marcus W. Bates, Master ................ 64.08
Waucoba.....................,...l\lo. 413 ....0tto August Lange, Master ................ 58.72

777

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Arlington........................No. 414....Carl F . Peters, Sr. Warden................ 43.08
S. C. Briggs, Past Master

Alpha..............................No. 431....Frank C. Shallenberger, Master...... 1.20
George M. Clarke, Sr. Warden
·John W. Le~. Past Master
J. W. Smiley, Past Master
E. C. Clark, Past Master
W. P. Self, Past Master
E. C. Lambrecht, Past Master

776

Silver Trowel...............No. 415 .... Howard F. Wells, Master.................. 43.08
Henry C. Blanchett, Sr. Warden
· W. F. King, Past Master
Lindsay..............,....;.....,..Nb. 416... ."Christian Weber, Master.................... 24.36
Walter Wm. Baxley, Sr. Warden
·
Clovis ............,.................No. 417.... Robert E. Thomas, Sr. Warden........ 21.00
Elysian.......,....................No. 418....James L. Chilson, Master.................. 43.08
Henry E. Phister, Sr. Warden
Henry Dagett Coley, Jr. Warden
John P . Filbert, Past Master
R. F. Callender, Past Master
Upland........., .................. No. 419.... George V. Sleuman, Sr. Warden.... 46.08
Kerman...........................No. 420.... Fred A. Smith, Sr. Warden .............. 13.20
lnglewood.......................No. 421....Frank R. Wolter, Master.................. 43.08
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Eagle Rock. ....:..............No. 422....Charles S. Watkins, Master.............. 43.08
Thomas W. Connett, Sr. Warden
York................................No. 423....Jack 0 . Wilson, Master.....................~ 43.08
Exeter.............................No. 424....Louis R. Coole, Master...................... 23.88
William A. Waterman, Jr. Warden
Frank W. Mixter, Past Master and
Grand M!lster .................................. 23.88
Holtville......................... No. 425....James R. Snyder, Master.................... 64.08
Edson Smith, Sr. Warden
Matthew M. Sweeney, Jr. Warden
Midway........·-·····~····-···No. 426.... Samuel James Petersen, Master ........ 33.78
Chino Valley.................No. 427.... Alfred L. Kettering, Sr. Warden ...... 45.96
San Dimas...................,..No. 428....Chas. S. Wiggs, Sr. Warden .............. 45.24
A. E . . Tangeman, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 45.24
W. T. Gregg, Past Master
Pittsberg.........................No. 429....Warren G. Buchanan, Master............ 3.60
McCloud.........................No. 430....Charles S. Hogan, Sr. Warden ........ 32.46

Hammonton..............- ... No. 433.... Emory M. Phillips, Sr. Warden........ 10.50
Maricopa........................ No. 434....Ernest T. Smith, Sr. Warden............ 33.42
Claremont................:......No. 436....]esse C. Litwiller, Master.................. 45.72
Lancaster..........•·······:·····No. 437....Charies C. D . Nicholson, Master.... 37.44
Acacia..............................No. 438....Albert K iechle, Master...................... 43.08
0. K. Werner, Past Master
Arthur Schramm, Past Master
Tyrian....................- .......No. 439.... Elmer Frank Williams, Master........ 6.24
·
Henry I. Porter, Sr. Warden
Standard......................... No. 440.... DeMille M. Campbell, Master
Wesley P. Relfe, Sr. Warden
Russell W. Rogers, Jr. Warden
Chas. B. Olds, Past Master
C. H . Brown, Past Master
J. E. Brunzell, Past Master
William F. Wood, Past Master
Coronado.........................No. 441.... Peter MacKenzie, Master.................. 51.08
H . S. Clark, Past Master and Inspector ·····································-········· 51.08
E. C. Nevins, Past Master
Blackmer._.....................No. 442....Charles B. Frailey, Sr. Warden ........ 51.08
Warren E. Libby, Past Master and
Sr.. Grand Deacon ............................ 43.08
Schofield..........................No. 443.... Wm. J. Lanquist, Sr. Warden............250.00
Carpinteria............._. ....... No. 444....Leonidas C. Klrkes, Master ................ 36.36
Wilshire.........:...............No·. 445.... Robert P. Jennings, Master................ 43.08
T . . A. Dille, Past Master and Inspector ......,......,.,................................ 43.08
F. B. Belcher; Past Master................ 43.08
W. H. Fischer, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08

778

PROCEEDINGS OF ·THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

La Pucntc......................No. 446.... Earl S. Hall, Sr. Warden.................. 44.52
Torrance......................_.No. 447.... Wallace W. West, Sr. Warden........ 44.28

Henry S. Orme............ No. 458.... Howard L. Booker, Master ................ 43.08
F. C. Warner, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 44.88

Mount Diablo................No. 448.... Richard S. Hawkes, Master.............. 3.24

Riverbank. .......................No. 459....Albert A. Fletcher, Representative.. 7.92

Park................................No. 449.... Emile A. Plumtree, Master
'Reginald Duden, Sr. Warden
Floyd M. Elmore, Jr. Warden
Albert W. Stokes, Past Master
Foster G. Dyer, Past Master
G. G. Gisin, Past Master
Arthur W. Brouillet, Past Master

Mount Oso.................... No. 460....Levi Marion Patterson, Jr. Warden 5.00

Van Nuys ...................... No. 450....Henry W. Chaffee, Master................ 43.08
Herbert W. Walker, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... ·43.08
Montebello..................... No. 451....Percy Fink McCall, Master .............. 43.08
San Pasquale................No. 452....Clyde V. McMasters, Master............ 44.04
Nathaniel P. Moerdyke, Sr. Warden
Walter F. Kress, Past Master
Bethlehem.......................No. 453....Lloyd Hummel, Master
Robert G. Lauer, Sr. Warden
Kenneth M. Jenkins, Jr. Warden
Crocker...........................No. 454....Alfred L. Stockton, Master
George C. Chamberlain, Sr. Warden
Wm. Anthony Jaques, Jr. Warden
George E. Archer, Past Master
J. 0. Allan, Past Master
George T. Batz, Past Master
R. H. Turner, Past Master
George Watson, Past Master
James Syme, Past Master
John Mitchell, Past Master
Golden Wcst. .................No. 455....William Murray, Master
Frederic C. Haun, Jr. Warden
G. Robert Brockmann, Past Master
George E. Chapin, Past Master
Ramona...........................No. 457.... Jack E. Anderson, Master ................ 43.68
W. J. Stewart, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.04

779

Argonaut........................ No. 461....Daniel M. Goulter, Master
Oscar D. Ritchie, Sr. Warden
Ralph E. Pfeiffer, Jr . .Warden
Walter R. Bowdon, Past Master
J. A. Steinmetz, Past Master
Purcell Rowe, Past Master
S. · Pels, Past Master
John Andrew Evans, Past Master
Harry P. Rothermel, Past Master
J. A. Blackford, Past Master
Homer P. Thyle, Past Master
Paul Revere..................No. 462....John C. Oslin, Master
Earnest A. Stewart, Sr. Warden
W. A. Gerder, Past Master
L. D. Smith, Past Master
G. W. Kennedy, Past Master
J. W . Worshaw, Past Master
Philip Werner, Past Master
Morgan Hill.................No. 463....Thomas B. Beck, Sr. Warden............ 4.92
Alta Vista......................No.464....James Hutcheon, Master
Francis J. Herz, Sr. Warden
Glenn W. Clifford, Jr. Warden
Harry L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Arthur E. Hewit, Past Master
Center..........- .................No. 465.... Samuel C. Smallin, Sr. Warden........ 20.04
Libertas .......................... No. 466....Raymond G. Taylor, Master.............. 29.34
Oren H. Pearson, Jr. Warden
A. E. Overton, Past Master .and
Inspector ............................................ 29.34
Culver City................... No. 467....Allan W. Courtney, Jr. Warden........ 43.08
Truman Van Dyke, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 43.08

780

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Rockridge ______________________ No. 468 .... Charles W. Campbell, Master
Samuel F. Stockum, Sr. Warden
F. G. Switzer, Past Master
Ray R. Beggs, Past Master
George W. Miller, Past Master
Willard W. Shea, Past Master
Yorba Linda __________________ No. 469 .... Ernest R. Walker, Representative ____ 45.30
Lincoln____________________________ No. 470.... Sylvain D. Leipsic, Master
Felix Scheyer, Jr. Warden
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Arthur M. Joel, Past Master
Alexande_r Z. High, Past Master
Leslie E. Garren, Past Master
Delta _______________________________ No. 471....Archibald L. Luck, Master________________ 6-12
L. T. Newton, Past Master
MauL _____________________________ No. 472....William I. Wells, Sr. Warden _________ .266.70
George N. Weight, Past Master
Blythe........................,.... N o. 473....Lace C. Hemph,ill, Master __________________ 65.26
Victory..........................~.No. 474 .... Chas. H. Manning, Master
Chester Dalmas, Sr. Warden
Chas. A. Cooper, Jr. Warden
America ___ :______________________ No. 475 .... David J. L. Miller, Master ________________ 43.08
William A. Schreider, Past Master
and Inspector ······-··--·······------------------ 43.08
Coachella ____________________ .... No. 476.... Frank M. Rogers, Jr. Warden __________ 56.74
Temblor.......................... No. 477.... W. R. Andersen, Master ____________________ 34.38
Thousand Oaks ____________ N o. 478... _J ohn C. Allen, Master
Virgil P. Gibson, Sr. Warden
Otto L. Zeus, Jr. Warden
Leroy V. Hitchcock, Past Master
Golden Rule. __________________ No. 479....James Thomas Gum, Master______________ 3.48
Norman G. Henry, Sr. Warden
J. C. Borchen, Past Master
Fellowship...................... No. 480.... F. Wm. Schubkegel, Master
Edward T. Hackers, Jr. Warden
J.B. Warner, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

781

Mt. Davidson________________ No. 481-. .. Jos. H. Jorgenson, Master
Harold L. Fraser, Sr. Warden
Elmo N. Murphy, Jr. Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Master
James Murray, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith _______ No. 482 .... Edward Cooke, Master ________________________ 43.08
Paul J. Phillips, Sr. Warden
Frank G. Falloon, Past Master and
Inspector -------·--------·--------------------------- 43.08
BelL ............................... No. 483....Lloyd ]. Kellum, Master ____________________ 43.08
.
Harold C. Comaford, Sr. Warden
Albert Pike __________ ;........ No. 484.... Roy Otto Padgett, Master __________________ 43.08
Chas. Adam Dickhaut, Sr. Warden
Chowchilla _____________________ N o. 485 .... Carl Dewey Clausen, Master ____________ 11.40
Caledonia ________________________ No. 486 ... .Lee J. Crain, Master ____________________________ 29.34
Oscar L. North, Sr. Warden
George McHugh, Past Master
V. D. Cleghorn, Past Master
Homer Z. Myers, Past Master
C. E. Mallochowitz, Past Master
Vallejo ____________________________ No. 487.... Casper G. Crane, Master____________________ 2.40
Wm. T. Smart, Sr. Warden
T. B. Pollard, Past Master and Inspector ------------·---·-------·----------------------- 2.40
H. M. Rowe, Past Master
Frederick B. Hall, Past Master
Patterson·---·---··----···-·-····No. 488 .... Hartley R. Smith, Sr. Warden__________

7.08

East Bay..·--·-·-···-····-·--·.No. 489 .... Grant V. Wallace, Master
Arch C. Greely, Jr. Warden
R. H. Parkinson, Past Master and
Inspector
C. B. Marker, Past Master
Corcoran------··----·--··-·······No. 490.... George Wm. McBride, Master __________ 23.46
Woodstock..................... No. 49L.Chas. J. Rundstrom, Master
Charles A. Nesmith, Sr. Warden
Chas. W. Bennett, Jr. Warden
R. W. Parkinson, Past Master
S. A. Choice, Past Master
R. W. Merrich, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Garvanza .........................No. 492.... Julius G. Hansen, Master ........... ---······ 43.08
Ralph Glover, Sr. Warden
Earl Thaxter, Past Master

Seaside ............................ No. S04....John L. Kelly, Mast~r ........................ 44.64
Paul C. Perrin, Sr. Warden
W. T. Corbusier, Past Master

Atascadero .......... .-.......... No. 493 .... Andrew T. Stephenson, Master·-······ 16.20
Fred Chas. Hess, Past Master

Silver Corcf.................... No. SOS....Robert H. Birkhead, Master .............. 4S.48

782

783

Mount Olive.................. No. S06 .... Thomas H. Moore, Master ................ 43.08
Allan M. Watt, Sr. Warden

Acorn.............................. No. 494 .. :.Jos. L. Miserez, Master
Bertram E. Hahn, Sr. Warden
Roy L. Burgk, Jr. Warden
Irving L. Glacier, Past Master
Clarence M. Lake
Reginald V. Joste, Past Master

El Segundo .................... N o. S07 ....Jacob C. Bixler, Master ...................... 44.28
Joppa Lodge ................. .No. S08.... John Chas. Genik, Sr. Warden ........ 19.32
Benjamin Franklin ...... No. S09 .... Karl N. Eckers, Representative and
Past Master ...................................... 43.08

Lebanon.......................... No. 49S .... Monroe I. Markuse, Sr. Warden
George T. Black, Past Master
Louis Sockolov, Past Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Riverdale ........................ No. 496.... Henry H. Tooker, Sr. Warden........ 21.60

Cupertino ........................No. SlO.... John Montgomery, Master..................
William W. Sharp, Sr. Warden
Gilbert M. Aylesworth, Jr. Warden
Glenn L. Allen, Past Master

3.38

Sunnyvale ...................... No. SIL.Joseph B. Kehl, Sr. WardeR .............. 2.88
Fremont.. ........................ No. 497 ....Cyrus L. Rossi, Master
Homer A. Buck, Sr. Warden
Fred F. Morse, Jr. Warden
Chester C. Morris, Past Master and
Inspector

Palms .............................. No. S12.... Alexander Young, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08

Stockton......................... .No. 498 .... Frank C. Rountree, Master................ 6.12
E. H. Young, Past Master
Capital City................... No. 499 .... Harry W. Culbertson, Master.......... 6.48
Harvey P. Gay, Jr. Warden
Roosevelt ........................ No. SOO.... Nils E. Johnsson, Master
Edward Cereghino, Jr. Warden
W. F. Traverso, Past Master
Joseph J. Cuneo, Past Master
Westwood ...................... .No. SOL.Alfred T. Taylor, Master .................. 32.12

Cahuenga........................No. S13 .... Hoyt Garman, Master ........................ 43.08
Ralph E. Fulerson, Sr. Warden
Earle De i... Baker, Jr. Warden
Roy C. Bryan, Past Master
Argonne....... ,.................. No. S14 .... Sam H. Hardin, Master
J. Hugh Wheeler, Sr. Warden
. Chas. E. Barkis, Jr. Warden
John H. Turner, Past Master
Clarence A. Nelson, Past Master
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Vermont Square .......... No. SlS .... Elmer A. Torongo, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08

Harbor ............................ No. S02 .... George W. Ellis, Master....................
Lowell R. Sears, Sr. Warden
Frank H. Wilkins, Jr. Warden

1.20

Taft... .............................. No. S16.... M. E. Kinnebrew, Master .................. 33.78
C. McNutt, Sr. Warden

Point................................No. S03 .... Chas. E. Bennett, Jr., Master............
Cyrus M. Nielsen, Sr. Warden
A. S. Peterson, Past Master
Chas. J. Peterson, Past Master

1.20

Mount Vernon_ ..............No. S17 .... Chas. R. Bermel, Master
J. Franklin Briggs, Sr. Warden
Alva V. Sligar, Jr. Warden
H. W. Chaunce, Past Master

La Jolla.......................... No. S18....Frank C. Harmon, Master ................ Sl.08

784

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Eudid............. ·-··········---No. 519.... Deitrich Mohr, Sr. Warden. ............. 43.08
James T. Montano, Past Master

Alexander Hamilton ... No. 535 .... Elmer C. Asp, Sr. Warden ................ 43.08

785

Seal Rock. ..................... .N-o. 536.... Austin B. Wadman, Master
J. K. Wright, Past Master

Ionic .................................No. 520....Joseph Korsen, Master........................ 43.08
Harry J. Malerstein, Sr. Warden
Isadore Moore, Past Master

Utopia ......................... - .. .No. 537.... 0rville G. Moffett, Master ................ 43.08

Piedmont .................,...... No. 52t.'... Verne R. Pentecost, Sr. Warden
Pierre C. Crosby, Jr. Warden

Ascot... ............................ .No. 538 .... B~ron L. Sackett, Master .................. 43.08
Wm. E. Brown, Sr. Warden

Sunrise............................ No. 522 .... Stanley G. McDonald, Master .......... 43.08
Bellfiower .......................No. 523 ....William W. G. Chalmers, Master ____ 43.68
Albert V. Heaman, Sr. Warden
Erich H . Fredericks, Past Master
John H. Bra.dhoff, Past Master
Catalina Island............. .No. 524.... Herbert A. Wegmann, Master .......... 47.58
James C. Davis, Sr. Warden
P. S. Allen, Past Master

Belvedere........................ No. 539 .... Elton A. Randolph, Master ______ __ ____ .. _, 43.08
<E. C. Snidow, Past Master
Queen Beach................. .No. 540 .... Noble B. Dilday, Master .................... 44.64
Chas. E. Seeley, Sr. Warden
George E. Towner, Past Master
Henry Morse
Stephens......................No. 541....William R. Ralston, Master
Harold W. Conklin, Jr. Warden
Mark A. Sawrie, Past Master

George Washington.....No. 525 .... Ralph E. Price, Master
John Johnson, Past Master

Lankershim.................... No. 542 .... Frederick A. Timbers, Master .......... 43.08

Bay City .................... - .. lfo. 526 .... Sol Gross, Master
Henry Robinson, Sr. Warden
Wilfred A. Lerner, Jr. Warden
Edgar W. Meyer, Past Master

Glendale .......................... No. 544.... Leroy R. McMillan, Master .............. 42.60

Covenant... ......................No. 527....James A. Mew, Master ........................ 43.08
Beverly Hills ................ No. 528... _James Franklin, Master ...................... 43.08
Joe Bookman, Sr. Warden
Loyalty............................No. 529... _Joseph A., Visger, Master .................. 43.08
Sun Garden...................No. 530.... Glenn H. Winters, Sr. Warden ........ 20.04
Alexandria ..................... No. 531....Teofil Svoboda, Master
·
Herbert C. Schmidt, Sr. Warden
A. A. Arbogast, Past Master
F. G. Hobbs, Past Master
K. F. Cable, Past Master
S. Harry Hook, Past Master
Azure .............................. No. 533 .... Ben Hemmerling, Master .................. 44.82
Norman A. Richards, Sr. Warden
Forest Hills....................No. 534.... 0scar W . Britt, Master
Emory W. Eskew, Jr., Sr. Warden
Andrew L. Hanselman, Jr. Warden

Signal.. ............................ No. 543 .... Chas. B. Shotwell, Master.................. 44.64
Kenneth R. Lewis, Sr. Warden

Jonathan ......................... .No. 545 .... Christopher T . Powell, Sr. Warden
H. E. Stone, Past Master
San Gabriel... .................No. 546 .... Dougald A. Douglas, Master ............ 43.80
Harry 0. Brown, Past Master
Warren Gill, Grand Pursuivant... ..... 43.68
Arcadia ........................... No. 547... _James M. Nellis, Master .................... 44.28
Triangle ..........................No. 548 .... Frank Nurse, Master .......................... 44.64
Justice ............................. .No. 549 .... Ralph 0. Biedenbach, Master
Karl D. Smith, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
M. F. Conklin, Past Master
Seaport ............................ No. 550.... Frank A. Lindeburg, Master
Benjamin L. Canning, Sr. Warden
Anthony J. Spatafore, Jr. Warden
John G. Wellschleger, Past Master
W. Von Kansky, Past Master
John Alpers, Past Master
Otto A. Holtzen, Past Master

786

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lakeshore....................... No. 551....John Lawrence Sale, Jr. Master
John R. Wood, Past Master
John R. McKalip, Past Master
Semper Virens..............No. 552.... Theodore R. Wrigley, Sr. Warden.. 29.40

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

787

FoothilL..... :...................No. 564.... Martin C. Ketels, Master
George A. Murphy, Sr. Warden
Arthur M. Lyons, Jr. Warden
Wm. H. Follrath, Past Master
Lawrence M. Osborn

Golden City...................No. 553.... Walter G. Swanson, Master
. Peter L. Taix, Sr. Warden
Bion R. Gregory, Jr. Warden
Howard J. Van Kirk, Past Master

James A. Garfield........ No. 566....Walter V. Empie, Master.................. 43.08
Walter F. Pinney, Sr. Warden
Warren E. C,arey, Past Master

Educator...................._... No. 554.... Attilio J. Cristofani, Sr. Warden

Searchlight.....................No. 567....George G. Hutton, Master................ 44.64

White Pine....................No. 555....Joe P. Michell, Master........................ 30.90
Elmer W . Crockett, Sr. Warden

Park Boulevard............No. 568....Benjamin W. Bours, Master
John M. Drew, Sr. Warden
John McSweyn, Past Master
James E. Hammond, Past Master
and Inspector

Fairfax...........................No. 556.... Porter L. Bliss, Master...................... 1.32
Harry B. Hoskinson, Jr. Warden
Howard A. Graham, Past Master
Frank Hoppenberger, Past Master
Hermosa.........................No. 557....Harold J. McGuire, Sr. Warden...... 44.64
Point Firmin................ N o. 558....Ernest C. Stinson, Master.................. 44 64
Ira C. Berns, Sr. Warden
Albert S. Crossfield, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 44.52
Craftsmen......................No. 559....Lowell K. Askew, Master.................. 43.08
Edward E. Arnolt, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Thayer, Jr. Warden

Chateau Thierry..........No. 569....Robert M. Miller, Sr. Warden
Military Service.......... No. 570....Eugene Nichols, Master
Fred L. Somers, Sr. Warden
Otto Vogt, Jr. Warden
Frank L. Lambertson, .Past Master
A. Siedler, Past Master
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
F. A. Crawford, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck....No. 571....William J. Smith, Master
George S. Jennings, Jr. Warden
Bruce Bartholomew, Past Master

Plymouth........................ No. 560....Walter I. Kuykendall, Master
Wm. C. Rawson, Sr. Warden
Chas. K. Baxley, Past Master
H . A. Adams, Past Master

James Madison .............No. 572....Merton L. English, Master................ 43.08

East San Diego............No. 561....John W. Gunsallus, Sr. Warden...... 51.08

S. W. Hackett.............. No. 574....Lawrence C. Beers, Master................ 51.08

Pyramid..........................No. 562....Harry C. Meeker, Master
Thomas K. McNulty, Sr. Warden
Albert Wm. Archibald, Jr. Warden
Thomas E. Harris, Past Master
Howard H. Janssen, Past Master
Clifford R. Ward, Past Master

Fort Crook....................No. 575 ....George M. Vickroy, Sr. Warden...... 34.12
Otho Stewart, Past Master

South Park..:................. No. 563.... DeWitt T. Wayne, Master................ 43.03
Newton D. High, Past Master

Hillcrest......................... No. 573....Stanley W. Cosby, Master

El Cajon Valley........... No. 576.... Roy L. Fuller, Sr. Warden................ 51.08
Sunnyside.......................No. 577.... Charles A. Houchin, Master.............. 43.08
Thomas S. Beadle, Sr. Warden
E. Wesley Davies, Past Master
Progressive....................No. 578....0rval A. Richmond, Sr. Warden.... 43.08
Warren G. Harding.... No. 579....William Pauli, Master........................ 6.84
John R. Trusler, Sr. Warden

788

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Santa Maria...................No. 580.... Erwin H. Schlink, Master...............: 52.82
Percy E . Johnson, Past Master
Security...........................No. 581....Frederick H. Neergard, Master...... 29.34
Clarence R. Meikel, Sr. Warden
Rialto...............................No. 582....James 0. Weller, Master.................... 47.16
. Van Frank Dunlop, Sr. Warden
-

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIF"ORNIA

789

Mclrose.........................._N o. 602.... Albert E. Willumsen, Master.. _________ 43.08
J . Lynn Goode, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08
Dimond............................No. 603....Clark B. Stoud, Master
· Frederick E. M. Jones, Jr. Warden

Wasco.......·-·-···········-·····No. 5?3....Emil V. Oswald, Sr. Warden............ 27.70

Jubilec............................. No. 604....John Kahler, Sr. Warden.................... 45.48
Wilford G. Lewis, Jr. Warden

Harding...........................No. 584.... Henry W. Fitze, Sr. Warden............ 43.08

Glassell Park................ No. 605.... Winfield E. Weichardt, Master ..:..... 43.08

Garden Grove................No. 586....J. B. Hale, Master..................·-··········· 45.24

Sojourner...----------·-----No. 607....Joseph H. Tolle, Sr. Warden........ :... 44.40

Valley Forge.................No. 587....Walter F. Rogers, Master ................... 43.08
Chas. H. Hart, Sr. Warden

Granada..........................No. 608.... Cornelius J. Bach, Master.................. 43.68
Albert L. Deatrick, Sr. Warden
E . C. Woodard, Past Master

El Screno.......................No. 588.... Wm. A. C. Chenoweth, Sr. Warden 43.08

Tujunga... ·-·····-·-····-·--···No. 592.... Alfred E . Johnson, Master................ 42.60

Provident... ...·-······---··-···No. 609....Lawrence G. Sidener, Jr., Master.... 6.48
Theodore P. Pendleton, Sr. Warden
Frank S. Curtis, Past Master
Odia E. H owe, Past Master
Leslie E. Wood, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.48

All States.......................No. 593....Francis B. Harnett, Master................ 44.64
George W. Milligan, Sr. Warden

Elmhurst...................... _.No. 610.... Elvin J. Lewis, Master
James C. Thompson, Sr. Warden

Kauai... ...............---·····---.No. 589....John W. Bertrand, Sr. Warden......272.00
Compass..........................No. 590.... Rolla R. McCleary, Sr. Warden ........ 45.60
Escalon............................No. 591....Frank R. Enemark, Master................ 7.56

Service............................ No. 594.... Walter A. Ryerson, Master................ 44.64
Alexander Graham
BelL............................ No. 595.... William J . Murray, Master:............... 43.08
Guardian........................

No. 596....Thomas Mulligan, Master.................. 43.08

Canoga ............................No. 611....Carl I. Fink, Master............................ 41.28
Temple City.........______..No. 612.... Paul P. Lyon, Master.......................... 43.68
Three Pillars..... _. _______N o. 613.... Henry G. Thiele, Master.................... 6.48
Evon L. Wilson, Sr. Warden

Truth ...............................No. 597....T•homas Mawhinney, Sr. Warden.... 43.08
Ivan E. Wallace, Jr. Warden
W. H. Lollier, Past Master

Larchmont......................No. 614....Earl Harrison Marsh, Sr. Warden .. 43.08
George P . Salm, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43.08

Pearl Harbor.................No. 598.... Frank A. Lewis, Sr. Warden ............250.00

Hemet..............................No. 615 .... Andrew Rothas, Master...................... 50.28

Carmelita........................No. 599.... Asbury Bushnell, Master.................... 44.04

Seal Beach.....................N o. 616....Roy John Greene, Master.................. 44.64

Lynwood.........................1\fu. 600.... Gilbert F. Garbutt, Sr. Warden........ 43.48
Grizzly.............................'fo. 601....Roy A. Harrison, Master.................. 29.46
Harry S. Date, Sr. Warden
A. N . Waite, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 29.46

Big Bear_···-·---····---·----·No. 617....Henry De Bus, Representative ...~----·- 51.08
Southland ______ ··--····-·------·.No. 618....J ohn W. Pringle, Sr. Warden............ 43.08
William· L. Hovis, Past Master and
Inspector ·-·····-----············-··-····-·········-- 43.08
Neptune...........................No. 619.... Elmer Boone Gaunt, Master .............. 44.64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Point Loma ..............- ....N o. 620.... David R. Cobb, Master:······················· 51.08

Riverside ........................ No. 635 ....Thomas F. Flaherty, Master.............. 47.28
Truman A. Mitchell, Sr. Warden

790

The Gardens ..................No. 621....Will DeBord, Master .......................... 43.08
George V. Jameson, Jr. Warden
Atwater_.········-·····-·······No. 622 .... George E. Stott, Master ...................... 43.08
Menorah..........................No. 623 ..,.Harry Eskenasy, Master .................... 43.08
Robert I. Kronick, Sr. Warden
Fortitude........................ No. 624 .... Hector A. Legault, Maste~
Olof E. Anderson, Sr. Warden
Lionel B. Benas, Jr. Warden
Frederick L. Shaw, Past Master
A. Van Eck, Past Master
B. N. Newman, Past Master
C. M. Gates, Past Master
Frank Ziegler, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ................ No. 625 .... Gordon S. Duncan, Master ................ 43.08
Willard L. Sears, Sr. Warden
Walter R. Gentry, Jr. Warden
Chula Vista................... No. 626....Charles M. Whitaker, Sr. Warden .. 51.08
L amanda Park .............. N,o · 627 .... Gordon H. Wall, Master .................... 44.04
Beacon of the West.... No. 628 .... Ross Wm. Justice, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
Fairview ..........................No. 629....Rudolph C. Engleken, Master ............ 43.08
W. C. Hadnall, Past Master
Ingleside......................... .No. 630.... William W. Bovyer, Master
·
Adam H. Krage!, Past Master
Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Master and
Inspector
Mont E. Henderson, Past Master
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Herbert P. Shaw, Past Master ·
Benevolence................... No. 631....]ohn B. Clark, Master ........................ 43.08
Thomas A. Ray, Past Master
Byron A. Hatfield, Past Master

791

John Marsha!L. ........... No. 636.... Frank P. Chase, Master...................... 43.08
Palisades ........................ No. 637 ....Lewis Thomas, Sr. Warden .............. 44.64
I. D. Wheeler, Past Master
Indian Rock. ................. No. 638.... Lawrence F. Williams, Jr. Warden
Composite ................,. .....No. 639.... Morris N. Kroopen, Sr. Warden.... 43.08
Veritas............................ No. 640.... Percival F. Hiller, Master
Ralph V. Larsen, Sr. Warden
Leonard S. Leavey, Past Master and
Inspector
James A. Foshay ......... No. 641....Hugh C. Terwilliger, Master............ 43.08
Henry F. Starbuck, Past Master

La Cumbre ..................... No. 642 .... Wistar D. Hays, Master.................... 34.02
Alto Loma.....................No. 643 .... Arthur W. Pease, Representative
and Past Master ................................ 44.64
Lomita ............................ No. 644.... C. S. Pedersen, Master ........................ 44.64
Amos C. Towne, Sr. Warden
A. F. E. Irwin ..............No. 645 ....Eric E. Mattson, Master .................... 44.64
Henry C. Cantrell, Sr. Warden

Metropolitan.................. No. 646....]ames W. MacDonald, Master.......... 43.08
Hawthorne.....................No. 647.... Percy N. Hazel, Jr. Warden ............ 43.08
Damascus ....................... No. 648.... Myron D. Abbott, Master .................. 47.28
Florence..........................No. 649.... Sidney F. Buckets, Master ................ 43.08
La Brea.......................... No. 650.... Zellner 0. Hart, Master .................... 43.08
Wm. H. Parcels, Past Master .......... 43.08
William T. Wheeling, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 42.60

Poinsettia ........................N o. 633 .... Fred J. Whitchurch, Master.............. 37.56
Vernon E. Patterson, Jr. Warden

Menlo Park. .................. No. 651....Reginald Milward, Master................ 2.20
Gerald J. Owens, Sr. Warden
°Clyde A. Howard, Jr. Warden
]. R. Hardy, Past Master
T. B. Hunnell, Past Master

. t orv1·11 e......................No. 634 ....Bert Harruff, Master .......................... 46.28
V 1c

Crescenta Valley ..........No. 652.... Merrit P. Kimball, Sr. Warden ........ 42.60

Normal Heights ........... .No. 632 .... Clared?n Thomas Smith, Master .... 51.08

792

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fontana...........................No. 653....Joseph Kirk Sichley, Master............ 46.92
Jordan~............................ No. 654.... Frank Beach, Sr. Warden .................. 43.08

Monte Vista..................No. 655.... Lawrence H. Corrigan, Master........ 44.64
Citrol..................- .........No. 656... ) ..ester Todd, Master............................ 45.00
John D. Spreckels......... No. 657....Frederick Jos. Croxall, Master.......... 51.08
Livingston........- ............ No. 658.... Francis M. Ecclefield, ~faster.......... 9.12

La Habra.............._.......No. 659.... Homer Chas. Holzgrafe, Sr. War-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

793

Far West .......................No. 673.... George B. Quamby, Master
Nante W. Anderson, Sr. Warden
Carroll S. Locke, Jr. Warden
L. A. Gintzler, Past Master
Dean Wilson, Past Master
Howard 0. Taylor, Past Master
Albert S. Sandell, Past Master
Los Cerritos.................S o. 674....Morris Spitz, Master.......................... 44.64
H. C. Goldman, Past Master and
Sr. Grand Steward.......................... 43.08

den ...................................................... 44.76

Modesto...........................No. 675 ....Elwin J. Boundey, Sr. Warden.......... 7.44

Baldwin Park................No. 660.... F. T. Heintz, Sr. Warden.................. 43.78

Willow Glen....- ............ No. 676.... Almer Wm. Laederich, Master........ 3.48
Chester R. Moody, Sr. Warden
Louis A. Bergna, Jr. Warden
Harry Burres, Past Master

Malta...............................No. 661....Francis E. Welch, Master.................. 43.08
Henry Knox ..................No. 662....Robert S. Dicey, Master.................... 43.08

Ojai..............................-..No. 663.... Wm. T. Frederick, Master................ 39.12
Oasis................-.............No. 664....Bert Linn Major, Master.................. 64.08
John Ward Tyler, Sr. Warden
0. T. Bradshaw, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 64.08

Liberal Arts .................. No. 677.... Grant E. Meyer, Sr. Warden............ 43.08
Ira F. Thompson, Past Master
Reynold E. Blight, Past Master
Altadena.......................-.No. 678.... Alvin A. Kemper, Master.................. 44.04

Kaweah ...........................No. 665....Harry F. Goldman, Master................ 23.98
George Clausen, Sr. Warden
Reseda .............................No. 666.... Harry W. Van Derveer, Master........ 43.08
Meridian..........................No. 667.... John R. Moore, Master...................... 42.60
San Gorgonio................ No. 668.... Howard A. Osborn, Master................ 49.44
D. H. Gates, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 49.44
John P. Jarman ............No. 669....Harry F. Rediker, Master.................. 3.48
Wm. J. Penberthy, Sr. Warden
Nels H. Johnson, Jr. Warden
E. E. Carter, Past Master
Greenleaf....................... .No. 670....Charles 0. Kennedy, Master............ 44.52
William A. Wood, Jr. Warden
San Clemente................ No. 671....George E. Gill, Sr. Warden................ 48.58
Laguna Beach................No. 672....Wm. John Harris, Sr. Warden ........ 45.48

At 12 :15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :15
p. m.

794

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

795

lf n "ran1' 1J.jn1'gr

Grand Orator, Reynold E. Blight of Liberal Arts Lodge
No. 677.

AFTERNOON SESSION

Assistant Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria Lodge No. 531.

Friday, October 13, 1933.
Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :15 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

ANNUAL ELECTION OF OFFICERS

Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson of Argonne Lodge
No. 514.
Grand Standard Bearer, Percy King of Yount Lodge
No. 12.
Grand Sword Bearer, Walter C. Shields of Hawaiian
Lodge No. 21.

The Grand Master declared that the annual election of
officers was now in order. Tellers were appointed, and the
result of the election was a15 follows:

Grand Bible Bearer, Harry Horne of Redlands Lodge
No. 300.

The R.'. W.'. James B. Gist of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202
was elected Grand Master.

Senior Grand Deacon, Sidney K. Lehman of Los Angeles Lodge No. 42.

The R.'. W.'. Randolph V. Whiting of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260 was elected Deputy Grand Master.

Junior Grand Deacon, Theodore T. Spurgeon of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.

The W.'. Earl Warren of Sequoia Lodge No. 349 was
elected ·Senior Grand Warden.

Senior Grand Steward, Ralph Merriam of Pasadena
Lodge No. 272.

The W.'. Rollie W. Miller of Sunset Lodge No. 352 was
elected Junior Grand Warden.

Junior Grand Steward, Walter D. Adriance of King
David's Lodge No. 2o<J.

The V.'. W.'. William P. Filmer of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260 was re-elected Grand Treasurer.

Grand Pursuivant, Warren D. Gill of San Gabriel Lodge
No. 546.

The V.'. W.'. John Whicher of King David's Lodge
No. 209 was re-elected Grand Secretary.

Grand Organist, Charles E. Anderson of Jewel Lodge
No. 374.

The V.'. W.'. Thomas J. Baker of Union Lodge No. 58
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.

Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson of Pr_e sidio Lodge No. 354.

The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the names of
the appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. Herbert P. Shaw of Ingleside
Lodge No. 630.

The M.'. W.'. Dana R. Weller, Past Grand Master, was
appointed Master of Ceremonies, and the officers-elect and
appointed, excepting the Senior Grand Warden, the Grand
'1 'reasurer, Grand Sword Bearer and the Grand Marshal,
were installed by the retiring Grand Master in d1fe and
ancient form,

796

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Past Grand Master Wm. Rhodes Hervey, speaking for
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, then presented to Grand Master
Gist a gavel in the form of a pentagon, fashioned from wood
grown on the grounds of the Masonic Home at Decoto.
Inspector John A. Madden of Honolulu, in behalf of the
brethren of · the Hawaiian Islands, invested the retiring
Grand Master with two royal leis, with the aloha of his
brethren.
Inspector Edwin S. Lawson of the 64th Masonic district
presented the retiring Grand Master, in the name of the
Grand Lodge, a set of silverware.
The Grand Master then clothed his predecessor with the
apron of a Past Grand Master, and also invested him with
a diamond-studded lapel button indicative of his present
rank.
The usual interchange of lapel buttons was had, and
after the announcement of the appointment of Chas. Albert
Adams as Trustee of the Masonic Homes, vice self term
expired, at 5 :25 o'clock p. m., all business being now completed, Grand Lodge was closed in am pie form.
JAMES B. GIST,
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

797

Constitutional Committees of Grand Lodge

ft,ri.sprudence-Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles; John D. Murphey, Courthouse, Oakland; Benjamin F. Bledsoe, 639
Roosevelt Building, Los Angeles; Francis V. Keesling, deYoung Building,
San Francisco; Bradford Webster, 360 Twenty-ninth Street, Oakland;
George L. Jones, 9 Panoramic Way, Berkeley; Robert B. Gaylord, Russ
Building, San Francisco.
Policy and General Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South
Spring Street, Los Angeles; George F. Rodden, 177 Post Street, San
Francisco ; William A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery Streets, San
Francisco; Albert E . Boynton, 155 Montgomery Street, San Francisco;
Will H . Fischer, Edison Building, Los Angeles; William H. Waste, State
B~ilding, San Francisco; Frank W. Mixter, Exeter.
Grievances_.:.Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los
Angeles; Olin L. Berry, Bank of America Building, San Francisco; Ira
F. Thompson, State Building, San Francisco; Arthur W. Brouillet, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; Frank B. Belcher, 510 Spring Street,
Los Angeles.
Fina1ice-William P . Jeffries, 117 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Frank C. Ruppel, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Arthur S. Crites,
Bakersfield; Claude H . Morrison, First National Bank, San Diego.
Credentials-Walter L. Berger, 4509 Arlington Street, Los Angeles;
Chester H. Warlow, Security First National Bank, Fresno; Charles T.
White, Crocker Building, San Francisco; Charles E. Sones, El Centro;
Irving J . Mitchell, 1127 West Twentieth Street, Los Angeles.
Charters-Earl Lee Kelley, Redding; Henry Eissler, Bakersfield;
John R. Moore, Glendale; Sidney B. Force, 3021 Fruitvale Avenue,
Oakland; Lee T. Mullen, Security T itle Insurance Building, Los Angeles.

(By order of Grand Lodge, the Report of the Committee
on Correspondence will not be bound with these Proceedings. However, copies may be had on application to the
Grand Secretary.)

· By-Laws-Arthur Joel, Mills Building, San Francisco; John Robinson, Sacramento ; Julius Gabriel, .250 Broadway, San Francisco; Ira D.
Wheeler, Santa Monica; Warren E. Libby, 1015 Spring Street, Arcade
Building, Los Angeles.
Pay of Members-John H. McGehee, State Capitol, Sacramento;
Joseph Block, 156 Fourth Street, San Francisco; W. W. McKee, 326

\

I
798

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Chapala Street, Santa Barbara; Benjamin G. Wright, 740 South Olive
Street, Los Angeles; Fred Snidecor, Corona.

Accounts-(All of San Francisco)-Paul Nathan, 311 California
Street; Edward E. Conn, 27 Clay Street; Otto G. Freyermuth, 209 Post
Street; Elmo V. Perry, 71 Wawona Street; Max J. Mertens, 179
Eleventh Street.
Returns-Robert E. Allan, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco ; Jacob
M. Bashor, Monrovia; John S. ·Corey, Grass Valley; Loys T. Newton,
Stockton; George W. Marshall, 1444 West Fifty-third Street, Los
Angeles.
Correspondence-Joseph E. Morcombe, Humboldt Bank Building,
San Francisco; Martin L. Griffith, 265 East Forty-third Street, Los Angeles; Byron F. Hillhouse, Woodland; Trustom R. Dinsmore, Eureka;
Martin Ortlieb, Seventh and C Streets, San Diego; C. M. Hickman,
Placerville; Henry Mottett, 1030 Leavenworth Street, San Francisco;
Charles Ziegler, Harris and Frank Building, Los Angeles; Bion S.
Gregory, Hearst Building, San Francisco; A. Cogliandro, 622 Montgomer:y Street, San Francisco.
Necrology-William H. Parcels, 1121 Detwiler Building, Los Angeles; Ezra Decoto, Financial Center Building, Oakland; Karl Lobdell,
411 West Fifth Street, Los Angeles.
Committee on Grand Lodge Week Activities-Foster G. Dyer, chairman, and all San Francisco Inspectors.
Board of Control-David J. Reese, Ventura; Robert F. Callender,
1128 West Kensington Road, Los Angeles; James R. Erskine, Box 974,
Fresno; Eugene Elkus, 485 California Street, San Francisco; Frank M.
Wise, 603 Ocean Avenue, Apt. 1, Santa Monica.
Masonic Homes Endowment Board-William P. Jeffries, 117 Winston
Street, Los Angeles (1934); William Rhodes Hervey, 458 South Spring
Street, Los Angeles ( 1936); Frank M. Smith, 2808 North Sichel Street,
Los Angeles ( 1936) ; Reynold E. Blight, 756 South Broadway, Los Angeles (1934); Leon 0. Whitsell, State Building, San Francisco (1935);
David W. Schick, c/o Marston's, San Diego (1934) ; Edmund A. Lockett,
552 South Raymond, Pasadena (1936); Louis C. Drapeau, Ventura .
(1935); Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield (1935); Harry F. White, Fresno

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

799

( 1936) ;' Robert B. Gaylord, Russ Building, San Francisco ( 1934); Eugene
Elkus, 485 California Street, San Francisco ( 1935); Thomas Flint, Hollister (1936); James T. Fraser, Eureka (1935); John F. Pullen, State
Library Building, Sacramento ( 1934).

Financ·ial Building Projects-William P. Jeffries, 117 W inston Street,
Los Angeles ; William P. Filmer, 330 Jackson Street, San Francisco;
Herbert C. Goldman, 230 South Sycamore Street, Los Angeles.
Library-John R. Ruckstell, Claus Spreckels Building, San Francisco;
John E. Houston, Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco ; Rudolph
Rosenberg, 742 Twenty-second Avenue, San Francisco; Theodore M.
Wright, 19 North Second Street, San jose; Lee Crawford, Colonial Hotel,
San Francisco.
Trustees of Masonic Homes-Charles M. Wollenberg, President,
Relief Home, San Francisco ; Charles Albert Adams, Humboldt Bank
Building, San Francisco ; J ohn S. Ross, 117 West Ninth Street, Los
Angeles ; Samuel E. Burke, 649 South Olive Street, Los Angeles; Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San Francisco; Earl Warren,
Court House, Oakland; Rollie W. Miller, Title Insurance Building, Los
Angeles.

(/) 'Tj .,

.,

-

"

::-: V)

CJ

., "

.,n~~
"'..,..

t71*-::i::
_e: ~~,

::r: ~"' (j
. ., > S"
~ .~ ~ "'~
~ ()
'"'

~ 8.:; CiE!:::
Q..
(/)
8 ::r: B
.......... ct>
~
>
5. ~...... ., t'r1

Cll

•

~

>-3 iil i\; §

"

. ~

0

., =""

'8"' .,(/) ;:!=:

::!.~ ~

~ e:"

~ g:i ~
-'"1:!

..,

:::!.~~
.!b e;. (Q

-..
--·
., = """

~ .:- ~­

"

. .::;:CJ
(/) !!.
"' ;:!

:>;"

> :E
::;- .". . .

~

•.

., ..I:"" ...'"'
= CJ
~0 "
"'"""4
"'1

=

'

Pl

..... aq

..

~ to
.~ =
c
>
~
§:
..,
...,.
-·
aq Pl =

0
::;-""3 =

"O

~
;l !!!.~
ct> 0

-~ '.Tl·"'

"' ., aq
-·Pl
0..

-· 0

aq

=:.
.::a .a..3 :=
.,~ ..
...... .,~

Q.. SU

?' !:!l

ct>

~-::s..,
-· ~ i

= :EUJ"

...... - "'
a
f~ ~~~t
rn?fga
>.,.
-.
!:;

...... ~:::! <:!~

~

..~ .., ~

':-< .......
" E!:::

-· c

g 5· f

Vi

-..

•

b

c
0 (/) .....
., c
3
•I
:l E..

s· ~ . °""'.

:>;"

=
!::!.
.. ::a 0rf2-~~
•
' ... .....
0

l1ll •

t11

:;;..£0~
SU ~

.,
"'-~ ~
()

I:"" '.Tl ?!

£::a?"=

.:- ..... =::::: en

::r: 0: 0- 5·

°'3"

-~ !':I

'Tj

¥
:::3 .,=

3 ;;;·
8
'.'O ••

., n

-:E:::".-· .,=....

"rt

~

[ r.n

..

aq

5- '!3:1..

0

e.....

......"'..

3

15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25

H

13

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

z::I

E

J:>.

Town.

I

Places of Location.
County.

.........
.........
.......
······

... ....... ...

.........

..............

...........

..........

............

.........

........

...........

.............

············

. .......

. .........
..............
. .............

........

........

........

California
1 San Francisco •.•••• San .Francisco ••.•.•
W estem Star ••••• 2 Shasta ....••. .• •..•• Shasta •••..•.••.•••
Tehama
3 Sacramento
Sacramento
Benicia
5 Benicia ·, •...•....•• Solano •....•••...• ·•
Tuolumne
8 Sonora ...•.•..•.... Tuolumne
Corinthian
9 Marysville
Yuba
San Jose •••••..• 10 San Jose ...•.....•. Santa Clara •••..•.•
Yount ........... 12 Napa
Napa
Nevada •.••••. . • 13 N evada City ........ Nevada ..... . ......
Temple ........... 14 Sonoma ............ Sonoma ....•....... ~
Eureka ...•.•..•• 16 Auburn
Placer
Parfaite Union .. 17 San Francisco ..•.... San Francisco .••..•
Mountain Shade .. 18 Downieville •.....•. Sierra ............•
San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ....... ;
Washington ...... 20 Sacramento
Sacramento
Hawaiian •.•.... 21 Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter ..••..•
Occidental .....•. 22 San Francisco ....•.. San Francisco ......
Madison ......... 23 Grass Valley ••••••• Nevada
Mariposa ........ 24 Mariposa ........... Mariposa ...........
Georgetown ..... 25 Georgetown
El Dorado ...•....••
El Dorado ..••..•.••
El Dorado. . . • . . • • 26 Placerville
Trinity .......... 27 Weaverville ..•••..• Trinity ............
Golden Gate ..•.• 30 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•...•
Placer
Gold Hill .. .. .. .. 32 Lincoln
Ophir •..••.••••. 33 Murphy's
Calaveras

Names of Lodires.

...,...

5, 1852.
May

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
" "
"6, 1851.
"
" "
"7, "

"
"

"

"

"

"

"
"
5, 1853.
" "
"6, "
"
5,
"
" "
" "

"
"
"
"
20,

"
"
27,

"
"
"
"
Nov.
"
"
May
"
"
Nov.

"

19, 1850.

April

Date when Charter
was Issued.

20
6
10

-<

~IS

100
50
75
50 ......
2
75
50 ......
50 ······
60 ......
50 ......
2
40
50 . .....
100 15
30 ......
80 ......
75 10
80 10
100 25
53 ......
50
5
30 ......
50
5
50
5
100 10
1
50
4
50

~~

,..ci

,g :E · ~~
cv.$
~to .,_

....;

9
9

12
9
12
9
12
9
12
9
12
12
10
9
9
9
9
12

ll

12
9
9
12
9
9

-<

i::
i::

::I

~

A

~

.;

;:;i~

;3

4
0
6
6
9
05
3

..,.;

....
Bi=l
.,o

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 5933 .

~

~

::r:
c

~

::;·
3

.,g..

Y'

=

"'
0

I:"";:;·

aq
•

.. ·"
not:Jto
- · •• Pl c

•

.,>

0:

>

"' >-3
no

~...-

...., (/) °'-·"

'"" c ;;:

E

= .,

0

!2. ~ ..

(")

..
i!: e: ~

~

00
0

......

>

.....

z

:ll

.....
':::l
0

>
t"

()

0
':::l

~

t:l

t"
0

t:l

0

t;:J

::i:

0
':::l
>'3

rn

Q

z

~.....

0
t;:J

"d

:ll
0

Cll

'ti
n

= c ;r
...,

'Tj ...,

j;l to

;::i

.., n

., .. >-3 aq
- .., c: . .

:>;" ..... ..

.. .,"'

0

00
0

r;- .,td

~

(/)

., = ._
.
()

-· 0

() ;;J !!. (/)
0 3 .......
~ ct>"< a
....... !l ... . ct>

0- ., ( l
•
0- ::;-

~ e:

..,

~ ~ 3

~

..

?'

= "'
;;;·I
8
. .,()
::;-

='"'

(/) ~

(/)
~ ::;>-3
..... ( l

c 5· .. <;
?6~ . . . .
~- (/) to ~
o.,<>-

g:

wCi'.ri~

:-'" 3 ~ =
.;. to
0
,,,N 9. ~.

tJ ~ 5. I:""
.g='88

-< > :=:. §::

<·r.n

::r:~
~
~-0
~

.,

2. > >
~

-·
.I:"" Vt::::
Ul .;. p;·
g. '1 3

0- _;;i

:EI

-~

~ £. ~

~..,

.

"
>-3~>~

~-c:s~

~ Pl ~ E"·
to~··1'
~ ;:;·'Q E!:::

~

= - . "'
.c: > b §
!!'l ~

..... 0

Ci: ...

-· 5·-· "·

§

fn

<!;

cto "£::

~ •

::;- l ' ~ ~

8 5. ;:!

,... ;r
() .,
...Ci" "'

~

iil •. s: ;:!

•
~ 'Tj ~

n

._
~ ::0
SU .., ..-.

:>;"

~ :E
..

0

.,to
= '"1:!

() ~ ;o;- ~

..,

(/) E· to ~

e: ::a ~

ciil £ .,

~Pl...,

-· n

::s .., -·

~ 'Tj I:""

.:' = ..
3ct> 0.., oq5· ~:::·

to 0

..:E 'Tj~= .,=3t"IJ "':::·"'
"'
.....

O"

2.· E. ~
·" fr. PJ ~
~ciil & ;!
- • • . ;!

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

.

~- ~

,... .,
'< < 0- Q

.c: ;;· :;!

;r tJ !:?:: :::·

!:!l

ton;:!;:!

_. . . 2· ~ c

::t., E!:::
~ !!l ., CJ

/

/

z

::l

E
Town.

...............

Pla.ces of Location.
Do. te whev Chart.er
was Issued.

.........

...........

"

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

"

"
"

."
"

"

18!18.

"

15,

"

"

"
"
"

Oct.
Oct.

d

O·~

l
3

25

5

5(.1 •••• ••

50 ...•..

''
"
"

"
''

1873.

''

50 ..... .

105 35
30 .. ... .
50
5
50 2~
100 ..... .
BO ..... .

75
1
100 10
75 ... .. .

50 .. .. ..

12
12
20
12
12
9
12
12
9
20
12
12
12
18
9

501"'" "

9

12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12

9

15
12
9
12
15
9
9
12

!l

9
12
9
12
9
12
12
18
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
12

!J

9
9
18
12
9
12

-<

9

1872.

18,

A

]

9
9
12

~~ .....~

-

124

630
252

45~

169
905
88
470
286
159
202
105
102
323
155
122
J3S
662
31
271
105
334
319
90
290
546
145
282
271
612
598
164
129
401
196
76
268

34
160
471
154
310
107
85
49
38
59
45

109

68
65
91
47€
88
167
175
194
130
245
33
15
574
146
298
810

. ..
"'"' Bo=
=:i
~~
=
<=

.;

50 ... .. .
50 ..... .
50
1
BOj 1

50 ..... .

30 ..... .
80 ..... .
30 ..... .
60
5
60
5
50 20
4-0 ..... .
75 ..... .

50

80 ... .. .
75
5
50 ..... .
50 ..... .

50
100
35

75 ......
30
5
75
1
100 25
30
1
50
8
50 ......
60 .}2
50
1
50 ... ...
30 10
30
5
50 io
50
5
80
1
100
5
50 10
50
5
50
5
55
3
60
5
80
5
liO
1
50
1
55 l()
50 ......
50
5
50 .. ....

-<

.,i;. .,,!
~A
<!13
"'"' 1'"'~

....

"0
.,_.,,,
0"' ........

"
"
'' ''
'' "
12, 1912.

11,

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

"

"

"
"
"

"
Oct.
"
"

'"
"

Oct.

1869.

Oct.

14,

"

"15, 1868.
"
" "

"
"

"

"
"10, 1867.
"

1866.

11,

'' "
" ''
" ''
14, 1869.
" "
'' "
" "
'' "
'' ''
'' ''
14, 1870.
'' "
,," ,,"
'' "
14, 1871.
'' ,,
" "
'' "
'' ''''
,,
" ,, .

Oct.

"

"

Oct.

"

Oct.

..............
.............
.........
........... ""

········

..

"16, 1861.
" "
" "
" "
17,
"
15, 1862 .
" "
14, 1863.
"
"
13, 1864.

"
" "
" . "" "
"
"
"
"
"
13, 1865.
Oct.
"
" "
Oct.
12, 1865.

"
May
"
Oct.

......... ""
.......... May
............. "

"

........ May

Grafton . . . . . • . . . 141 Knights Landing .•.. Yolo
Franklin ........ 143 Courtland ..••..•... Sacramento
Oriental ......... 144 San Francisco .• • .•. San Francisco •..•••
Vitruvius .•....•• 145 BI .-omfield •....•.... Sonoma ..•..•..•.••
Abell ....•....•. 146 Ukiah •••••..••..•.. Mendocino
Humboldt
Eel River ........ 147 Fortuna
Lassen ...•....•• 149 .Susanville ...•..•... Lassen
Molino .......... 150 Tehama ....•....... Tehama ......•..•••
"\Voodland ...•.... 156 Woodland ..•....... Yolo •••••••••••••••
Keystone ...•.... 161 Milton .....•....... Calaveras .••••••.••
Harmony ...•.... 164 Sierra City ...•..... Sierra ....••.•••.••
Excelsior ...••... 166 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco ....••
Alameda .....••.. 167 Centerville ......•. Alameda •.••..•..••
Redwood City •••. 168 Redwood City ••.•.• San Mateo ......•••
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco .•••.. San Francisco •.••••
Elk Grove ........ 173 Elk Grove ••..•••.•• Sacramento
Drytown ........ 174 Plymouth .......... Amador •...•..••.••
Antioch ....•.... 175 Antioch ....•..••..• Contra Costa •.••• • •
Phoenix ....••... 178 San Bernardino •..•• San Bernardino •.•••
Mendocino ....... 179 Mendocino •.•••.••.• Mendocino ••..•...•
Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma •.•••..•• ·!Sonoma •..••.••••••
Russian River .••. 181 Windsor .••..•••••• Sonoma ••..••••••••
Arbuckle .•....•• 182 Arbuckle . . • • . • • . . • Colusa ••••.••••••••
Clear Lake ... ·••.. 183 Lower Lake •.••..•• Lake
Sierra Valley .•.•. 184 Sierra ville
Sierra
Claiborne ..••.... 185 Point Arena ••••••.• Mendocino
Evening Star .•... 186 Etna Mills ...•••••. Siskiyou

115 Keith ....•....•. 187 Gilroy . •. •..•.••... Santa Clara ....... .
116 Oakland ....••..• 188 Oakland •.••••..... Alameda • • • . • . • . .
117 Northern Light .•• 190 Millville •.••.•..•.. Shasta •.•••.•••....
118 Marin .••.•.••... 191 San Rafael ••••••••• Marin •.•••••..•..
119 Santa Barbara .•.. 192 Santa Barbara •••.• Santa Barbara .....
120 Ferndale •.••••.. 193 Ferndale •••.•••.••. Humboldt •........•
121 Mountain View .•. 194 Mountain View ..... Santa Clara ....... .
122 Buckeye ....•.... 195 \Viuters ...•.•..•.. Yolo •.......•......
123 San Simeon ..••••• 196 Cambria .•••..••••• San Luis Obispo ...•
124 Wilmington ..•... 198 Wilmington •..•.... Los Angeles ....... .
125 Hartley ..•..•..• 199 Lakeport ..•....•.. Lake .••••••.•.....
·126 Truckee ......... 200 Truckee ..•.....•... Nevada .•••••..... .
127 Silveyville ••.•••• 201 Dixon ...•.••.•.•.. Solano ••.•••.......
128 Pentalpha ..•.... 202 Los Angeles •.•..... Los Angeles ..•.....
129 Confidence •...... 203 Castroville .•....... Monterey ...•......
130 Salinas ....•.••.. 204 Salinas ....•....... Monterey .••......
131 Olivet ...••...... 205 Corning ..•••••••••• Tehama ............ .
132 Stanislaus ....••. 206 Modesto •..•.•••••. Stanislaus •....•....
133 Anaheim •..•.... 207 Anaheim .....•..... Orange ...........•.
134 Rio Vista ....... . 208 Rio Vista ...•...••.. Solano .•..........•
:;,35 King David's ••.• 209 San Luis Obispo .•••. San Luis Obispo •..••
136 Friendship ••.•.•. 210 San Jose .........•• Santa Clara •...•...
137 San Benito .•••... 211 Hollister ....•..•... San Benito ....•....
138 So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco ••...•
139 San Buenaventura.214 Ventura ........... Ventura ...........•
140 Oak Grove ..••... 215 Alameda ••••....... Alameda •.........•
141 Doric ....••..•••. 2161San Francisco ••.... San Francisco ..... .
142 Monterey ••.••... 217 Monterey ...... . ... Monterey •....•....
143 Mosaic ....•...•. 218 Livermore ••.•...... Alameda ......•....
144 Speranza Italiana.219 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco
145 Downey ......... 220 Duwney ......... .• . Los Angeles ..••...•
146 Inyo .........•.. 221 Independence •...... Inyo ...•...•......•
147 Roseville . . ...... 222 RoseYille ............ Placer •..•....•....
148 Baker~field ...•.. 224 Baiuirs:field .....•.•. Kern .........•....
149 - Brooklyn •.••.•.. 225 East Oakland •••••.. Alameda ...•.......
150 San Mateo •.••... 226 San Mateo ••••. • ••• San Mateo .......••
151 Athens .... ...... 228 Davis ............. Yolo ...•..........•

88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114

County.
I
87 Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale . . . . . . . . . l::lonoma ..•..•...••• .May
10, 1860 .

Names of Lodges

.;

.,"

,Cl

List of the Snnordinate Lodges, etc.-Cont1nued.

00
0

tel

00
0
C1l

>

z

~:0

~

0

tel
0
'%J

c;:i

ti
t"
0
ti

>
z

:0

c;:i

p::

>-j

~

Cl.l

·~

Sl

tel
tel

~
0
0

""

l

1
1
1
1

1

1

l

1

1

.,...
Town .

I

County.

l

··········

··············
············
··········

··············
···········
···········
...........

············
············

··········

··············
·············
·············

············

··········

··········

·········
········
·····
··············

··············

············

"

..........

.............

1878.

"
"
"

"

"

15, ' 1881.
12, 1882.

"
16, 1879
" "
" "
" "
15, 1880.
" "
" "
" "

"
"

"
10,

1877.

"
"

"

1876.

"11,

"

12,

..

"
Oct.

~

... ......

"
"..

"
"
"
II

II

"
"
Oct.

"
".
............. Oct
"
"
"
"
Oct.
··· ···········
"
"
"
"
.......... Oct.
"
"

"
1884.

Oct.

"

~1-·-~~
1

......

50 12
100 16
80
8
50
30 ......
5
30
1
50
80 10
8
50
50
55
30 ,
50 25
50

nO

30
1
701 .. ····
80 ......
6
35

1
50
50
1
50
2
.')
30
30 ... . ..

50 10
50 .... ..
40 ... ...
50
1
55
5
50 10
30
1
80 .. .. ..
50 10
50 ······
100
1
3
75
5
70
75 10
50
5
50
3
80
a
40
1
70 ···· ··
35
l
50
8
50 ······
50 ······
30
3
50 ······
80 15
50 ......

~A

9
12
12
12
9
9
9
12
9
20
9
12
9
12
12
12
10
12
12
12
9

9

12
12
12

9

18

9

ll
12
9
9
9

12·

12
12

\l

!J
!l

9
15
9
12

\l

-<=
ll
12
.9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
15
12
9
18
12

140
258
115
53
71
676
204
36
614
322
88
115
179
651
157
186
66
57
164
70
114
127
66
93
874
304
217
213
12:i
138
605
222
237
395
l!l5
111

3

4
3

""' .B.....=

A

"'iil
!l~ ~
"'"' ~!6
)l)j
""'
=
-<

....; ... d
0 ..
_.,
... .E~

.;

"
" "
......
" "
......
11, 1888.
... ..
" "
" "
......
" "
"
"10, 1889.
~~, .....i
50 ......
"
"
so;......
" "
" "
I
" "
l::i::::::
.: ....
" 1890. 50
75 .... •.
9
" "
50 ......
9
" "
" "
"°! ...... 24

"
"

" "
"
"16, 1885.
" "
" "
" .
" 1886
"
14, 1887.

"
16,

"
16, 1884.

" "
........ " . 11,
188.3.
........... Oct
"
" "
··-·········· "
"

"

Oct.
Oct.

."

1873.

" "
16, 1874.
" "
" "
" "
"
" "
" "
14, 1875.

18,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

no •.•••••••• 229 Vallejo ..............Solano ........•.•••
Oct.
h Butte .•.•.. 230 Gridley
Butte
"
lo • • . . • • • . • . 231 Covelo .....•.•..••• Mendocino
Oct.
sville ••••• • . 232 Lassen . ..•.••..•••.. Lassen
"
toga ••...••. 233 Calistoga
Napa
"
~ .••••.•.•••• 234 Beckwith
Plumas
rise Valley .•. 235 Cedarville •.•••••.•• Modoc •....... .. .•••
"
s Ferry .••••. 236 Newman ....•..•... Stanislaus .•.•••..••
"
lalupe •••.••. 237 Guadalupe •.••..••. Santa Barbara ..•••
"
1a ........... 240 Colusa •...••....••. Colusa .....•...••••
Oct.
1 Ana ..•.•.•. 241 Santa Ana ...•..••. Orange ...........••
Oct.
iolia· .•.•..•. 242 Santa Barbara •..... Santa Barbara ......
"
lyptus ••••. . 243 Haywards •...•..••. Alameda .........••
"
;raz .• • ...••. 244 West Oakland ••••.• Alameda •.••..•..•·• Oct.
31 •••.•••••. 245 Willows
Glenn .............•
"
1na ..•••.••. 246 Pomona
Los Angeles •..•...•
"
10 • • • . ••• • . . 247 Fresno •...•..•.•... l'resno .•••.•. '. ...•• Oct.
as •....••.•. 248 Alturas •....•...•.. Modoc ..••..•....••
"
• . • . .• • • • •• . 250 Adin
Modoc .... : ...... • •
"
mark ....... 253 Espa·r to
Yolo
Oct.
.ng ......•.. 254 Redding
Shasta ..........•••
"
1me ••••.••. 255 Lemoore
Kings
"
.•..•••••••. 256 Lodi
San Joaquin •....•••
"
1yn ••••••••. 258 Penryn
Placer
Oct.
rz-een ....... 259 Riverside
Riverside
"
Solomon's ... 260 San Francisco •.•.. San Francisco ...•.•
n •..••...•. 261 I Williams . , ......... Colusa ......... ; ....

z"

E

l:J

Places of Location .

179 Lomp<.oc .......... 262 Lompoc ....•....•.. :Santa Barbara .....
180 Hesperian ••..... 264 Santa Maria ••.••... Santa Barbara •••••
181 Orland· . : ....•••. 265 Orland •.•...•••••.• Glenn , •...• , ••.••••.
182 North East ...•..• 266 Fort Bidwell •••••.• Modoc ...•...•.•..•
183 Galt •..•...•..••. 267 Galt •.....•.•.•.••• Sacramento
184 Durant ........•. 268 Berkeley ••••••..... Alameda
185 Olive Branch ..••. 269 Tulare ......•... • .• Tulare
186 Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford ..•..•.. Colilsa ......••••.••
Los Angeles .•.•••••
187 Pasadena ...•...• 272 Pasadena
188 Anchor ......••.. 273 Compton ........••• Los Angeles •••.•..•
189 Arroyo ......... :274 Arroyo Grande ..•.. San Luis Obispo .....
190 Oakdale .•...•... 275 Oakdale .•.•........ Stanislaus ••••••.••.
Fresno
191 Selma ••.....•.•. 277 Selma
192 Southern Calif•.•. 278 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles ••••..••
193 Hanford ...••.•.. 279 Hanford •..•....•.. Kings ••••••...••.•.
194 Madera .••••••••. 280 Madera .•.•...•••.• Madera .•••••••.••.
Shasta •........•••.
195 Mount Shasta •••. 281 Anderson
196 Callayomi •.••.•. 282 Middletown ........ Lake
197 South 'West .•.•... 283 National City •..... San Diego ...•......
198 San Miguel. ...••. 285 San Miguel •.•..... San Luis Obispo .....
199 Paso Robles ..••.. 286 Paso Robles ........ San Luis Obispo •.••.
200 'Winn~dumah ••... 287 Bishop .•.•......... Inyo ••.•.......•.•.
201 Maxwell •••....•. 288 Maxwell ••......... Colusa .•........• ; •
202 Elsinore ..••.•.•. 289 Elsinore •...••..•... Riverside
203 East Gate .•..•••• 290 Los Angeles ....•... Los Angeles ••....••
204 S11nta Paul11o .•••.. 291 Santa Paula ....•.•. Ventura ..••.....••
205 Los Gatos ••...•.. 292 Los Gatos ...•..•..• Santa Clara ......•.
206 Orange Grov.e .•.•. 293 Orange .•••••••••••• Orange ••••.••...••
207 Traver ........... 294 Kingsburg ••••••••• Fresno •• • ••••••••• •
208 Mt. Jackson ..•••. 295 Guerneville ••...... . Sonoma ••.•...••.••
209 Silver Gate ••.•.. 296 &n Diego ••••••...• San Diego ••••..•.••
210 Dunsmuir •.•••••. 297 Dunsmuir ...••••.•• Siskiyou ...........
211 Liberty .•..•••••. 299 Santa Clara ••.•.••• Santa Clara •.••••••
212 Redlands •••••••. 300 Redlands .•••••••••• San Bernardino •••••
213 Ontario • • •• • • • •• 301 Ontario ••.•.••••••• San Bernardino . .,.•.
214 Santa Lucia ...... 302 Kings' City ••••.••• Monterey

1
1
1
1
1
1
1
l
1
1
1

1

1
1
1
1

Names of Lod~es.

.;

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

00
0
-I

>

z~

0

'%j

...>t<

0

'%j

0

t;:J

0

tj

t"
0

tj

~

~

0

l'l

:I:

0
'>!
>-3

Ul

Cl

z

tj

t;:J

~

~
0

°'

00
0

241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277

2
2
2
2
2

2

2

2

s"'
z"
Town.
. /

Cou.nty.

Places of Location .

'°r"'""m. ,, ,, ,, ,, ,

.c

f

'I

·1

............

...........
............

. .............

"

"
Oct.
"

Oct.

II

"

"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
Oct.
"

II

Oct.

"

"

II

"
"
"
"
Oct.

Oct.

Oct.

"

.
,,

1897

1899.

''

,,

''
'' ''
'' ''''
,,
''16, 1903
''
" ''
'' "
'' ''
" ''
'' ''
"13, 1904.
''
'' "
'' ''
'' ''
'' ''
''12, 1905.
''
'' "
'' ''
" ''
" ''
'' ''

C6

10, 1901.
15, 1902.

"
"

"
''
"
''11, 1900.

14,

"14., 1898.
''

"
''

15,

" "
"11, 1895.
"
" "
" "
13, 1896.
"
"
15, 1897.
" "

"

II

1890.
1891.

" "
"
"
" "
" "
12, 1892.
II
"
" "
" "
11, 1893.
" "
"
"
"
"11, 1894.
"

lti,
14,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Oct.
Kilauea .•••••••. 330 Hilo ............... Hawaiian Ter••.•••
Pacific Grove .•••. 331 Pacific Grove ••••••. Monterey •••••.•.••
"
San Pedro ••• : ••. 332 San Pedro •.••••••.. Los Angeles ••••.••.
"
Alta •••.•..••••. 333 Bridgeport ..•....... Mono ............. .
"
Oct.
Covina ••..•.•••. 334 Covina ••.••••...•.• Los Angeles •..•••.•
West Gate .••.••. 335 Los Angeles ••.•.•.• Los Angeles •••••..• Oct.
Fruitvale ••.••.•. 336 Oakland ...••••.... Alameda •••••••.•.•
"
Carquinez ••••••• 337 Crockett ••••.••••.. Contra Costa ••••.••
"
San Jacinto ..••.. 338 San Jacinto •..•.•.. Riverside ••..•.•..•
"
Fullerton •.•.•••. 339 Fullerton ••....•••• Orange ..•••.•.•.•• Oct.
Oxnard ..••..•.•. 341 Oxnard ••.•. , •.•••• Ventura .••••-. ••••• Oct.
San Fernando • • •. 343 Fernando ••••.••••. Los Angeles •••••••• Oct.
Starr King •••.••. 344 San Francisco ..••.. San Francisco ••••••
"
Brentwood ••••••. 345 Brentwood •••••.••• Contra Costa •••••••
"
Palo Alto ........ 346 Palo Alto ••.•..•••. Santa Clara . ....... .
"
McKinley ••••••. 347 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ...... .
"
San Bernardino .•. 348 San Bernardino ••• . San Bernardino ••••
"
Sequoia ......... 349 Oakland •.••••••••. Alameda ..••••••.••
"
P alestine •••••••. 351 Los Angeles ••••••.. Los Angeles •..•.•• Oct.
Sunset ..•..••.•. 352 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...•..••
"
Pinole ........... 353 Pinole ..••..••••••. Contra Costa •••..••
"
Presidio •.•••.••. 354 San Francisco •••••. San Francisco •.••.•
"
Hollvwood ...•.•. 355 Hollywood ••••••••• Los Angeles •••.•.••
Mili"Valley •.••••. 356 Mill Valley •••••••.. Marin •.•••••••••••
"
Buena Park •••••• 357 Buena Park ........ Orange ...•.••.••••
"
Oct.
Golden Gate ..•••. 358 Los Angeles •.•••••. Los Angeles •••.••••
Loyalton .••••.•. 359 Loyalton : ••.•••••.. Sierra •.• : .•• • .•••••
"
San Francisco .•.. 360 San Francisco • · · • • · San Francisco ••.•••
"
Fort Bragg .•••••. 361 Fort Bragg ••••.•••. Mendocino •.•••••••
"
Charity ...•.••.•. 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara ....... .
"
Berkt:ley •••••••. 363 Berkeley ...••••.•.. Alameda • • .••••••••
"
Willits ••.•••••.. 365 Willits •.....••...• Mendocino ••.••...• Oct.
Las Palmas •...••. 366 Fresno .••..•••••••• Fresno •..•.••.•••••
"
South Pasadena •. 367 South Pasadena •••. Los Angeles ..••••••
"
Unity ........... 368 Glendare •...••••... Los Angeles •..•.•••
"
Ocean Park .•.•.. 369 Ocean Park ... . .... Los Angeles •..•••••
"
Amity .•••••••... 370 San Francisco ..... . San Francisco •...•.
"

..........
.............

1sa ....•..•••. 305 Azusa •.......•..•. Los Angeles ...•... •
ila:r ••.....•.. 306 Colton •••••.•..•... San Bernardino .....
Lta Monica ..••. 307 Santa Monica •. . ... Los Angeles ........ '
nrovia ........ 308 Monrovia
Los Angeles .•••...•
!ano .......... 309 Delano
Kern
!OD ••••••••• :.310 Mount Shasta ...... Siskiyou
1 B~nos ........ 312 Los Banos ••...••.. Merced
1achapi ••••••• 313 Tehachapi •.•.•.•..• Kern ...•..•.......•
nescal ......... 314 Corona .•••.••...•.• Riverside
rwalk .....•... 315 Norwalk •••....•... Los Angeles •..•...•
tger •....•..••. 316 Sanger ...•.....•.. Fresno . . .. , ...•••.•
!brook ••...... 317 Fallbrook ••.••..... San Diego •.... , . ,,.
manuel .•.••.. 318 Biggs •............. Butte •.•.........••
llenbeck ..••.. 319 Los ·Angeles ••..••.. Los Angeles ·•...••••
tth Gate .....•. 320 Los Angeles ....••.. Los Angeles •.••••••
dal .....•••... 321 Pleasanton •....•••• Alameda ... , ••••••.
1ambra .....·.•. 322 Alhambra •.....•... Los Angeles •..•.••..
ittier .••..•. . . 323 Whittier ..••...... Los Angeles ..••••.•
·ona ..•....•.. 324,Pasadena •.•....••. Los Angeles ••.•...•
1suelo ••••••.. 325'Escondido ••••.. • ... San Diego .....•.•••
idles _....••••. 326iNeedles .....•.•.•.. San Bernardino •..••
1g Beach .•••.. 327 Long Beach ••••.•.. Los Angeles ••••....
fondo .•...•.. 328,Redondo ........... Los Angeles •.••...•
,Jee de France •. 3291Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •...•..•

,,idley
...m..••....•.
,, ,, ,, , 304 Reedley ...•..... . . Tw...
,, ,, ,, ,, ,, ,,
Fresno .....••••••••

..

Names of Lodges.

..

List of the.Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued
~

.;

=

~

A

I

9

9
12
9

9

9
12
12
9
9
9
12
12
18
12
12
9
15
9
9
9
12

12

12
9
12
9
9
15
12
12
9
12

10
751······
12
80 ...... 12
100 25· 12

50 ......
75 ......
1051......
5
53
80 ......
i5 ... ...
100 .. ....
50 .. ... .
50 ......
75 ......
50
1
50 ......
100 10
30 .. ....
55 4~
75 :.....
55
5
80
1
75 10
75...... .
50 .. ... .
75 15
100 12
100 ..... .
30 .... ..
50 ···· ··
50 ... ...
100 ......
50
5
75 .... ..
80
5
50
1
80
3
80 15

~.

......
.....

<=
50 ......
9
50 ......
9
50 ...... 12
50
9
80 ...... 12
50 .
12
50 ......
9
2
50
9
.
.....
75
12
1
75
9
2 12
50
30 ......
9
50 ......
9
5
30
9
5
50
9
50 10
9
DO
fee
50
9
......
50
9
80 ......
9
55
3
9
70
8 12
50 ......
9
75
1 12
130 ....
9
80 ...... 12
100 12 12

~

""~ ~113

..,

" . ..i::
.E $ ....oO
~ti al~
,.,.;

218
163
557
45
240
835
797
154
103
421
247
250
636
107
492
330
531
960
607
488
139
623
1133
338
141
1005
67
401
!l8
114
603
141
ti65
544
440
391
500

666
266
145

220

277
142
16!l
181
328
271
173
59
133
165
150
131
165
67
76
1407
742
117
429
504
603
159

)1~

:£

s<=

::0

00
0

""

i:;

~

I:"'

>

n

'1l

0
0
0
t'l
0

I:"'

0

>
z

0
::0

ti:
t'l

>cl

.,,0

00

0

z

0

t'l

t'l

g

,,

00

00
0

Town.

I
County,

Le Progres de
.
l 'Oceanie .•. ; .. 371 Honolulu •.••.•••••• Hawaiian Ter...••••
Gardena •••..• ••. 372 Gardena •........•• Los Angeles ••.•.•••
Veteran ••••.•.• ; 373 Sawtelle •..••••••. .• Los Angeles ••••••••
Jewel .•••••••••. 314 San Francisco .•.•.. San Francisco •.••••
Rich::nond •••••••. 375 San Francisco •.. .• .' .San Francisco ......
Francis Drake •••. 376 South Ban Francisco; San Mateo •••••••••
Artesia •..••.•••. 377 Artesia .•.•.•.•...• Los Angeles ••••• •••
Mizpah •.••.••.•. 378 Los Angeles •••••••. Los Angeles ••••••••
Fillmore ••••••••. 379 Fillmore ..•••••.• : . Ventura •••••••••.••
Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach •. Orange •....•• •• .•.
Oceanside ..•.•••. 381 Oceanside ••.••.••.• San Diego ••••..••••
Highland Park •••. 382 Los Angeles . •••• •.•• Los Angeles .•... • .••
Orosi ......••..•. 383 Orosi •..••••••••••• Tulare •...•••.•.••
EI Centro . ...••.•• 384 El Centro •••..••.•.. Imperial ....••..•••
Di1tuba .......... 385 Dinuba ••.•.••••.••. Tulare ...•••..•• • ••
Coalinga ..••.••.. 387 Coalinga ••••••••••. Fresno •...•••••••••
Parnassus ••..•••• 388 San Francisco. • . . • • • San Francisco ..•••••
Palos Verdes .•••• 389 Long Beach •.•.•••• , Los Angeles .••••••••
Imperial .•.••. •• . 390 Imperial .......... ~ Imperial .......... .
East Belt ...••..• 391 Tuolumne .••.••••••• Tuolumne ..•••••..•
West Lake .....•. 392 Los Angeles .••••••• Los Angeles . •. .. .. •
Balder .......... 393 San Francisco •••.••• San Francisco ... ... .
University .•..••. 394 Los Angeles .•••.••.. Los Angeles .. • •...•.
Turlock •........ 395 Turlock ..•••.••• ..• • Stanislaus •••.••..••
Apolio ......••••. 396 Alameda · ......... : . Alameda ....••••..•
Rising Light ..... 397 Huntington Park . .•. Los Angeles ..•.•..•.

"

E
Z .

.0

Places of Location.

.".

304
305
306
307
308
309
310

"

············

·············

···········
···········

············

··········

"

1908
.15,

'·'
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
" "
"
"
" "
"11, 1911.
"
" "
" "
" "
12, 1912.
" "
" "
" ""
"
" "
" "
" "
"
"

"
"

1910.
13,

" "
14, 1909.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"14, 1909.

''

''

''''
''
''

,,"
~·
''
. ,,
''

''"

"
"
"
"

''
''

''
''
''
''
''

''
''
''
'' ''
'' ''
'' ''
''
''
IO, 1907.
'' ''
,,'' ''''
'' ''
'' ''
'' 1908
''
15,

1905.
11106.

12,
10,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

Oct.
Oet.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Fraternity ••.••.. 399,San Jose ..•. •• ..• • . Santa Clara .....••. Oct.
Burlingame •• • ••• 400.Burlingame .••..•.• San Mateo ... . •....
Alameda ..... • ...•• Oct.
Bay View •••••••• 401 Oakland
Imperial
...• .. •..••
"
Br11-wley •••.•.••. 402 Brawley
"
Yerba Buena .••.• 403 Oakland.•.••••...•. Alameda ...••. .. ... •
Los
Angeles
.......•
"
Glendora •...•.•.. 404'.G lendora .....•... . .
"
Mone ta ...•••••• .405 Los Angeles •••..... Los Angeles . ....•.. Oct.
Los
Angeles
....••..
311 Burbank ..••.... .406 Burbank .. •. ••.•• .. San Diego ......•.•• Oct.
312 La Mesa .••.••••• 407jLa Mesa .....•••..•.
Los Angeles . ....•. •
"
313 Sierra Madre .••.. 408 Sierra Madre .•.••. .. Hawaii .•....•......
"
Honolulu
•.•••••
.409
Honolulu
314
··········
"
315 Charter Rock .•••• 410Berkelev ••..•..•... Alameda ... .. •.....
Riverside
"
316 Perris ..••. • ..•• .411 Perris
Imperial .•••••.••.•
"
317 Calexico ••• : ••••• 412 Calexico •••• .•..•.. Inyo ...•...••.••..•
"
318 Waucoba •.•••••. 413 Big Pine .••.•...•.. Los Angeles .•.. ••••
"
319 Arlington ••••.. .414\Los Angeles ..•..•.. Los Angeles . •••••• •
"
320 Silver Trowel. ..• .415 1Los Angeles .•••.• . . Tulare •.•..•••••.•
"
321 Lindsay •..•••••. 416Lindsay ...........
"
322 Clovis •..••.•..• .417 Clovis ············· Fresno
Los
Angeles
.•.•.•••
"
323 Elysian ••... •• ••. 418 Los Angeles .....•.. San Bernardino ..•.• Oct.
324 Upland .••• • ..••. 419 Upland ••• •• ••.....
Fresno .••.••••••••••
"
325 Kerman ••• ••••• .420 Kerman ••••••••..•. Los Angeles •••••• , •
326 Inglewood •. .••• .421 Inglewood ..•••••••.. Los Angeles ...•••.••
"
327 Eagle Rock •••••• 422 Eagle Rock •••••••.. Los Angeles ••.•.•• • Oct.
328 York .•..• •• ••••. 423 Watts ••••••••.•••.. Tulare ...••.•••••••
"
329 Exeter ..•••••.•• 424 Exeter
Imperial • .. .• .•••.•
"
330 Holtville •• .• ••• .425 Holtville ............ Kern .....•.•••.•••
"
331 Midway •.••••.. .4~6 Taft •..••..•••••.•• San Bernardino •••.•
"
332 Chino Valley •••• .427 Chino ....•••..•.••• Los Angeles • •••. • . •
"
333 San Dimas .•••••. .428 San Dimas .....•• . • Contra Costa •••.•••
"
334 Pittsburg •••••••. 429 Pittsburg •••.•... .. Siskiyou •••••••••••
"
335 McCloud ...•.••• .43'0 McCloud .•..•.•••. ..
"
336 Alph11. ..•••••••.• 431 Richmond ...•••.... Contra Coste, .••••••

279
280
281
282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303

2i8

Names of Lod&"eS.

.,f

~ .d

List of the Subordinate LOdges, etc.-Continued.

5

9

......
......

......
······
······
......

.

....

......

414
429
353
134
419
109
726
247
131l
92
260
485
78
165
42
349
358
157
236
509
156
55
321
296
175
157
103
380
63
114
135
11 6
440

176
404
509

60~

392
15i
204
173
639
194
105
498
168
279
130
512
95
243
180
274
670
554
66
65
1081)
548

::S::s

~~

,..;

~c

9
50
50 ..... . 18
1 12
80
5 15
75
80 25 12
60 ...... 12
75 10 12
50 ······ 12
3 12
50
50 ..... 12
10 12
5 12
80
s 9
30
5 12
50
......
30
ll
105 ......
5 12
75
,. 12
50
9
50 ......
5 1
80
3
9
50
..... 9
3 12
80
80 ...... 12
9
80
10
!)()
9
75
100 ...... 1ll
9
50
55 ...... 12
1 12
75
9
50
9
75

......

50 50
9
100 20 . 12
50 .... .. 12
80 ...... 18
75
1 12
75 ...... 12

llO

12
15
12
9
12
12
12
12

ll

12
9
12
12
12
12
9
12
15
9

<

&a< "cc

80 JO
100
5
75
3
100 30
50 10
75
5
50 ......
50 15
50
1
50 ......
50 ......
75 20
50 ......
75 uo fee
50 ......
100 ......
100 10
125 ......
50 10

&:~

.,.!!

gs .S"';l

.;

A

...,!;,.; I.. g ;;"'"
.E

tz.I

~

0
"'l

I'll

~

~

l'l

("J

~
0

.,.

,_.
"'
0

00
,_.
,_.

>

z
.....

~

.....
"'.!
0

>
t"

()

l'l
0
"'.!

Q

t1
t"
0
t1

>
z

~

Q

···········

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"

"

"
"
"
Oct.

"
"

"

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

22,
12,

191.)
1916

"
"

"
"

" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"
"
"14, 1915.

"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
15, 1914.
" "

16, 1913.

Oct.

Dare when Charter
was Issued.

... ......... ..

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1920.

"

14,

"
"
"
"
"16, 1919.
"

"
"
"
"
" "
"
" "
"
"
"
............ "
"
"
.. ..... ....... Oct. 11, 1917.
"
"
"
"Oct. "10, 1918.
"

Riverbank ••..••• 45!1 Rive rbank • . .•••. : • 8tanislaus . • .•••.•..
Mount Oso ••••••. 460 Tracy . •••• .••••.•. San Joaquin •.••••••
Argonaut •••••.• .461 San Francisco ..•••. San Francisco .•• •. .•
Paul Revere •.••• .462 San Francisco ..••• . San F rancisco .••••••
Morgan Hill ••••• .463 Morgan Hill .••. . .. • Santa Clara .••••..•
Alta Vista .••.••. 464 San Francisco .•..•. San Francisco . •• ...•
Center ••..•••••. 465 Fresno ••.••.•..••.• F resno
Libertas • ••• ..• • .466 Baker sfield ... ...... . Kern
Culver City .•.••• .467 Culver City ......... Los Angeles •.•••...
Rockridge •• •••. .468 Oakland ......•••.. '\.lameda •••••••••••
Yorba Linda ••••. .469 Yorba Linda ...••... Orange ••••••••....
Lincoln ••••••.• .470 San Francisco .•.... San Francisco •••...
Delta ••.....•••.. 471 Stockton
San Joaquin .•. • ...
Maui . ........... 472 Kahului •••.••••••.. Hawaiian Ter. • •• . .
Blythe •. •...• • •. .473 Blythe ........••.. . San Bernardino .... .
Victory •..••...• 474 San Francisco ...... San F r ancisco . .. . ..
America •..•.• • . • 475 Los Angeles •••..•.. Los Angeles . • ......
Coachella ..••.•. .476 Coachella .......... Riverside •..•......
Temblor •• .•• •••. 477 Fellows •.•.... • ..•. Kern ..••.••..... • ..
Thousand Oaks •• .478 Berkeley •.•.. • ....• Alameda .........•.
Golden Rule .•..• .479 San Jose ... .. ....•. Santa Clara ...••.. •
Fellowship •.• •• .480 Oakland ....••...... Alameda •.•..•.•...
Mt. Davidson •..• .481 San Francisco .....•. San F r ancisco ••...•
Clarence F. Smith.482 Los Angeles ••• . .••• Los Angeles .•..• ...
Bell ............ .483 B ell .....•.•••...••. Los Angeles ...•. .. .
Albert P ike .•• •• .484 Los Angeles •.• •• • . . Los Angeles . •. .....
Chowchilla ..•• •• .485 Chowchilla .. ..• .•• . Madera .. • .. •.•• •..
Caledonia . ..... .486 Bakersfield .... •.••. Kern
Vallejo . ...... ... 487 VRllejo ..•••••••.. • • Solano ..... . •... ...
Patterson ...•... .488 Patterson . .. • ••••• . Stanislaus ....• . . ...
East Bay .. •...• . 489 South Berkeley ....• Alameda ••. ..•• ••..
Corcoran .•.•.••• .490 Cor coran ••• • .•••••• Kings . ..•. . ...... . •
Woodstock ..••• .491 Ala meda . . ••••••••. Alameda .. ....... . .
Garvanza ...•.••• 492 Los Angeles ••••...• Los Angel es ... .. ...
Atascadero .. .. .. 493 Atascadero . .•• • ..... San Luis Obispo . .. . .
Acorn ..•... ••. • .494 Oakland • •.•••••••• Alameda •••.•.•••.•

I

County.

362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
370
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397

... ........
.........

········

···········
..........

.........
·········
.......

Town.

!

Hammonton ••.••. 433 Hammonton • ••••••• '.:i:'uba • ; •••••.••••••
Maricopa •••••••. 434 Maricopa •••••••••• Kern •••••• ••• ••• •.
Fairmount •••••• .435 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco ......
Claremont •.•••• .436 Claremont
Los Angeles • ; ••• • .
Lancaster • •• • • . • 437 Lancaster
Los Angeles •••.• •.
Acacia ••• • .••.•. 438 Los Angeles
Los Angeles •••••.•
Tyrian • . • • ••••• • 439 Manteca ..••••••••• San Joaquin ..•••••
Standard •••.•••. 440 Oakland
Alameda ••••.••.•••
Oo~onado •••••••• 441 Coronado
San Diego .... . ....
Blackmer •••••••. 442 San Diego •. • •.•.. • San Diego •.. .• ••.•
Schofield •• • •.•••• 443 Schofield Barracks • •• Hawaiian Ter ...• • .•
Carpinteria ••.•• .444 Carpinteria
Santa Barbara .••..
Wilshire ••• •••••. 445 Los · Angeles ••••.•• Los Angeles ....• . ..
La Puente •.•••.. .446 Puente •..•.•••..•• Los Angeles ..••. • ..
Torrance ........ 447 Torrance ...•••••••• Los Angeles ...•...•
Mt. Diablo ....... 448 Concord
Contra Costa .••.••.
Park . •• • ••• ...•• 449 San Francisco ••••.• San Francisco ••• .. .
Van Nuys ••• ••••. 450 Van Nuys
Los Angeles •.••..•.
Montebello ...... 451 Montebello • ••••••.• Los Angeles • •• ..• • •
San Pasqual .•.••. 452 Pasadena •••••••••. Los Angeles ••• • •.••
Bethlehem ••• • ••. 453 San Francisco ...••.. San Francisco •• ••.••
Crocker ....•••••• 454 Daly City ....... .... San Mateo . •. • ••••••
Golden West ••.•. .455 San Francisco ..•..•• San Francisco ... ••• •
Ramona •..••..•• 457 Monterey Park .. .... Los Angeles ••••.• .•
Henry S. Orme .• .458 Los Angeles ..••••.•• Los Angeles .••..•..

z

E
::s

.Q

Places of Location.

337
338
339
340
341
342
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
350
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360
361

Names of Lodires.

•.,....

I

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

-<

1
80
105 ······
80 ......
50 ......
75 15
50
I
75 ......
50 10
75
2
80 ......
75 10
r;o 1
80 10
50
5
80 10

i5 ......

......

......
......

80 ······
100 ......
liO ......
100 10
50
100 10
80
5
liO
5
50
80 IO
75 25
75 ......
50
5
100

50

1
105 ......

IO

80 ......

100

30 ......
80
6

50 ......
100 ......
100 ......
50 ......
5
55
50 10
80 ......
80 10
50 ......
80 ······
80
5
7Fi ......
50 ......
1
50
50 ......
5
80
70 10
3
80
3
75
70 11111
60 15
80 10
105 JO
60 ......
75 ......

~~

~

9

12
12
12
12
9
12
12

!!

12
12
12
12 .
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
l2
9
12
12
9
15
15
9
12
18
9
9
12
12
12

12
9
12
12
12
l::!
9
9
9
9
24
9
15
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
15

9

=
-<=

76
183
376
568
96
306
342
250
241
3i8
126
301
307
119
35
226
!182
90
132
349
335
218
329
281
192
187
55
151
245
72
273
85
171
175
50
297

65
190
564
107
129
104
117
329
179
520
207
68
628
73
198
162
497
260
239
386
369
268
534
211
628

dl<J

::.~

.....

.. =
....
.. .."' -o
f"' :ij3

.,
...0 ...,, ~§ A::s"'
-2;: ......

0

00

""'

....

>

z.....

0
:i:i

>
t'
::;;

()

"']

t.".I
0

c;i

t1
t'
0
t1

z

>

:i:i

c;i

t.".I

:x:

0
"'l
.-3

rn

0

z

l'J
t.".I
t1

()

~

00
....

""

8

z"

Town

Places of Loci<tlon

County

445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
456
457
458
459
+60

.....
······
··············

·········

...

...

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"

80
5
80 ......
55
2
55 ..... .
60 .....

75 ..... .

80
5
100
5
80 ..... .
5
60
80
5
50 20
55 .•...
50
5
75 10
100 2.5
100
5

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1923

"
"

"

55 ..... .
100 ..... .
100 10
100 10
80 ······
125
5
75 •IN
80 ......
80
5
70 ..... .
100 ..... .
50 10
75
1
50 10
75 10
50 II Ill
50 ..... .
80 ..... .

······

<

100 10
55 272
80 1
80 ......
75 10
80 5
35 10
75 ......
75 .....
80 ......
50 1
75 10
I
50 ......
I
50 lj
50 ......
50 .....
50 ......
50 47-f
50 5
100 5
50 ......
100 ······
80 10
100
50 ......
75 10
80 5
50 10

r...A

9
12
211

12

12
12
9
12
15
12
12
15
12
12

9

]2

9

9
12
9
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
9

12

9
12
8

12
9
15
12
12
9
9
12
10

II

12
121
12
12
9
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
9

<

....
""

'Tj

>

....

165

"'

00

z

~

177
211
120
74
166
90
100
155

~

~
~
~
t"

tJ

t"
0

~
tJ

~

0
".I
>'l

rn

!;}

z

tJ
......

t:t::

l'.l

(")

0

:c

00

269
2.28
279
390
177
157
95
113

173
120
301
206
298
215
210
331
129
51
185
106
131
117
451
2211
209
110

120
151
152
176
146
111
297
238
374
176
50
235
82
112
208
305
347
3;-11
190
219
132
276
302
207
176

t\l
210

309

a ::il::a

::l

.•.

i::
... ., o-'"O
0..,
_.,
0><=
-~
..
a;A I ~'""'51
., bO .,.,.,
"
""
~el "

1922

"

"
"

"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
12, 1922
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"

"

"

"

"
"
" / ""
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
Oct.

.."

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Bellflower ••••••• 523 Bellflower ..••...... Los Angeles •.....•• October 12,
Catalina Island .•. 524 Avalon •........••.• Los Angeles .•.•..••
"
"
Geo. Washington .525 San Francisco •..... San Francisco •..•••
"
"
Bay City ••••••.•. 526 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •....•
"
"
Covenant •••••••• 527 Los Angeles .•....•• Los Angeles ......••
"
"
Beverly Hills .•••• 528 Beverly IIills ....•.. Los Angeles ..••...•
"
"
Loyalty ••••••••. 529 Los .Angeles ...••.•. Los Angeles •... : .••
"
"
Sun Garden ...... 530 Fresno ............• Fresno ............ ,
"
"
Alexandria ...••• 531 San Francisco .....• San Francisco ..... .
"
"
Smyrna ..••••••• 532 Ceres .......•...... &'tanislaus ...•....•
"
Azure ....••.•.•. 533 Fullerton .•....•..• Orange ........... .
"
"
Forest IIill ....••• 534 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
"
"
Alex. IIamilton .•. 535 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
"
"
Seal Rock ..••..•. 536 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
"
"
Utopia ·....•..••. 537 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
"
"
Asco·G ••...•..••. 538 Los Angeles ......•. Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
Belvedere ........ 539 Belvedere ......... Los Angeles ....... .
"
"
Queen Beach .••... 540 Long Beach ..•.•... , Los Angeles ........ . October
11,
Henry Morse
Stephens ...... 541Berkeley ........•... Alameda ........... .
"
"
Lankershim ...... 542 North Hollywood .... Los Angeles ........ .
"
"
Signal ..••.•.•.. 50Long Beach ..•.•.... Los Angeles ........ .
"
"
Glendale ...••... 544Glendale ..•......... Los Angeles ...•.....
"
"
Jonathan .....•.. 545 San Francisco ..•..•. San Francis® ...... .
"
"
San Gabriel ...... 546 San Gabriel. ........ Los Angeles .....••.•
"
"
Arcadia ...••.•.. 547 Arcadia ..........••. Los Angeles .••.••...
"
"
Triangle •••...... 548 Venice ............. Los Angeles .•.......
"
Justice ...•..•.•. 549San Francisco ....... San Francisco ..•....
"
"
Seaport ...•••.•.. 550San Francisco ....... San Francisco .•.....
"
"
Lake shore .••••.. 551! Oakland ............. Alameda ....•.••....
"
"
Semper Virens .... 552 Eureka ............. . Humboldt .....•.....
"
"
Golden City •••••. 553 San Francisco .•..••. San Francisco ...... .
"
"
Educator ........ 554;San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
"
"
White Pine ....... 555 Weed ........•....•• Siskiyou ..•..•.....•
"
"
Fairfax .•.•..••.. 556Fairfax .....•..•..•• Marin .•...•.....•...
"
"
Hermcsa •........ 557IIIermosa Beach ..... Los Angeles ........ .
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

13, 1921

426
427
428
429
430
431
432
433
434
435
436
437
438
439
440
441
442
443
444

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

Riverdale ....•.•. 496 Riverdale
Fresno .....•.......
Frem.:mt ...•.•.. .497 Oakland ............ Alameda ...........
Stockton ....•.•. 498 Stockton ..•........ San Joaquin .........
Sacramento ..•..•...
Capit11ol City .••••• 499 Sacramento
Roosevelt •....•.. 500 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .....•.
Westwood ••..••. 501 Westwood
Lassen ...........•.
IIarbor •••.••.•.. 50~ Richmond ..•....... Contra Costa .•..•...
Point ..•••••..•.. 503 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ........
Seaside ....•..... 504 Long Beach ........•. Los Angeles .........
Silver Cord ..••••. 505 Santa Ana ........•. Orange . ...........•
Mount Olive ..••.. 506 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
El Segundo ......• 507 El Segundo ...•..... Los Angeles .........
Joppa ••••...•••. 508 San Joaquin ........ Fresno .............
Benj. Franklin .••. 509 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ....•..•.
Cupertino •.•••••. 510 Cupertino .•........ Santa (:Jara ...•.....
Sunnyvale ..••.•. 511 Sunnyvale ..•....... Santa Clara .........
Palms •••.••.•••• 512 Palms ..•..•........ Los Angeles ....•.••.
Cahuenga •.••.•.. 513 Los Angeles .....• : .. Los Angeles .......•.
Argonne •..•••••. 514 San Francisco
San Francisco ...•..
Vernon Square .... 515 Los Angeles
Los Angeles .•......
Taft . . • . . . . . • • • . 516 Taft
Kern ............••
Mount Vernon ..•. 517 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•....
La Jolla .•.•.•••. 518 San Diego .......... San Diego ......•..
Euclid ..•.••••••• 519 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles •.••.•.•
Ionic •••••••••••. 520 Los Angeles ...•..•• Los Angeles ..••••..
Piedmont •••••.•. 521 Piedmont •....•.•.. Alameda ..•..••...•
Sunrise •••••••••. 522 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles •.....•.

399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413
414
415
416
417
418
419
420
421
422
423
424
425

··········
........

was Issued

Date when Chaner

I
398 Leb!lnon ••.••••.. 495 San Francisco .....•. San Francisco ....... Oct.

Names of Lodges

,,,..."'

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

Town

I

County

·"r"··foy............ A,....... ...........

484 Security ......... 581 Bakersfield ........... Kern . ....•.. .....•..
485 Rialto ........... 582 Rialto. . . . . . . . . . • . . . San Bernardino .....
486 Wasco ...•••••••• 5831Wasco .........•••.. Kern .............. .
487 Harding ••.•••••• 584.Los Angeles .•....... Los Angeles ........
488 Manchester •.•••. 585,Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........
489 Garden Grove .••.. 586,Garden Grove ....... Orange .............
490 Valley Forge ••••• 587[Los Angeles ........ . Los Angeles .... '. . .. .
491 El Sereno ..•••.•. 588.Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .....•...
492 Kauai ..•••••.••. 589,Lihue ....... , ....... Kauai, T. H .........
493 Compass ••••••••• 590Pomona ..........•.. Los Angeles .•.......
494 Escalon ••.••••••. 5911Escalon ............. San Joaquin •...•. . .
495 Tujunga ......... 5921Tujunga ............. Los Angeles .........
496 All States .•..•••. 5931Long Beach ......... Los Angeles ........ .
497 Service ..•••••••• 594,Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
498 .Alexander Graham
Bell .......•... 595 1Los Angeles ••••••••• Los Angeles ....... ..
i99 Guardian •••••••• 596 Sou th Gate. . . . . .... Los Angeles . . .. .... .
500 Truth ...•..••••. 597,Los Angeles ........ . Los Angeles ........ .
501 Pearl Harbor .•••. 598Honolulu ... ........ . Oahu, T. H ..........
502 Carmelita •..••••. 599,Pasadena ........... . Los Angeles . .... ....
503 Lynwood ..••••.. 600[Lynwood ....... ..... Los Angeles .. . . . ....
504 Grizzly • ...•••••. 601 Portola ..... .' ....... Plumas ............•
505 Melrose ••.•..••. 6021,Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....••.•
506 Dimond .......... 603 Oakland ...... ... . . Alameda ...........
507 Jubilee . ..• ••• ••• 6041Santa Ana
Orange ............•
508 Glassell Park ..... 605,Los An~eles ·:::::::: Los Angeles . ..•.•..
509 Sojourner •••••••• 601 Monrovia .. ...•..•. Los Angeles ........
510 Granada. .. ••••••. 6081Alhambra .....•.•.. Los Angeles .. ......
511 Provident .•••••. 609, Sacramento .....•.. Sacramento .......•
512 Elmhurst ........ 610 0akland ............ Alameda . ..........
513 Canoga .......... 611 1Canoga Park ....... Los Angeles ........
514 Temple City ... •.. 612 11'Demple ............ Los Angeles ........
515 Three Pillars ••••. 613,Sacramento .....•... Sacramento .......•
516 Larchmont •...... 614 Los Angeles .. .. .•.. Los Angeles .....•. •

Hd'"''' .......

I

JI

Point Firmin .••.. 558 San Pedro ......... . Los Angeles .........
Craftsman •.•.... 559 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
Plymouth .•....•. 560 Oakland ............. Alameda ..•.........
East San Diego ••. 561 East San Diego .. ..• . San Diego ...........
Pyramid .......•. 562 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ..•....
South Park .•••••• 563 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ......•..
Foothill ..•...... 564 Oakland .........••. Alameda ..•..•......
West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ..• . .....
Jam es A. Garfield. 566 Los Angeles. . . . . . . . Los Angeles ...... • ..
Searchlight ...... 567 Long Beach ... ... .. . Los Angeles .........
Park Boulevard ... 568 Oakland .. .......... Alameda .....•..•...
Chateau Thierry .. 569j Oakland .. ....... ... Alameda .....•.....•
Military Service .. 57Q San Francisco ....... San Francisco . ......
Francis K.
Shattuck ...... 5il! Berkeley ...•........ Alameda ........•...
475 J ~mes Madison ... 579 Los Angel.es ..... • ... Los Angeles .••...•..
476
477 S. W. Hackett ..•. 574 San Diego .•......... San Diego ..........
478 Fort Crook .••••.. 57 Fall River Mills .... Shasta .....•.•.•.• •.
479 El Cajon Valley .. 576 El Cajon ........... San Diego ..•....•..
480 Sunnyside •.••••. 577 Los Angeles ... . . .... Los Angeles •......• .
481 Progressive •••••. 57jLos Angeles ......... Los Angeles .•.......
482 W.arren G.
Harding .....•. 579[North Sacramento ... Sacramento ..•.••••••
483 Santa Maria ...... 58 Ramona ..............San Diego ..........

461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474

Names of Lodges .·

Places of Location

.."
" .
..""
..""

"
"
"

"
"
Oct.

"
"
tt

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

O<'t.

" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
15, 1925
"n "
"
" "
" ",_.
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

75110
75 1

•....

. 75 10
80 1
·75 1

50 1
50 ......
50 ......
50 5

60 1

50 10
50 10

130 50
RO 15
70 .. ....
50 ......

5Q ......

80 5

75 .. ....

......
35 3
80 ......
~

50 .

9
18

12

12
12
12
12
12
12
9
12
12
9
9
12
9
9
12
9

.....

00

'1'

(")

148

00

.....
...,

>

z
....

:0

"'1
0

H

>
t"

"'1

96

164
116
94
143
181
148
235
103
2no
121
135
127
88
122
182

l'J
0

"

t:;j

ti
t"
0

:0

">z

:i:
l'l

'"3

"l

rn
0

c

...z

l'l
l'l
ti

(")

0

:0

al

147
226

172
88
104
159
251
104
206
128
87
131}
65
81
289
303

...... 121
......
...... i~I

75 10
70 .2

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

12
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
9
9
9

133
47

...so ::::.::l.. ·i·21

15
·~

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

1924

75

l CO

100
55
80
105 25
55 20
50 1
50 1272

"

"

71
69
270
254

so ·····

9
12
12
12
9

..

200

12

9
9

174
161
57

::O;!!'l

a>O:

""'
....

-:;:51

75 s
80 mfee
50
80 ......
50 1

<

=

~a

266
210
182
206
166
317
206
223
13\J
341
190
161
251

.....
"
"
"
"
"

"

.,..
A

80 ······ 12
50 ......
9
80 10
12
60 ......
9
80 1
25
50 ......
9
12
80 5
50 ······ 12
100 30
9
9
80 ......
12
80 5
80 l .....
100 10
12

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1923

<

a:"'"'
rz.A
"" r-,iil

., ,,o=
o;l
04'
""' ......
.......

16, 1924

16

Oct.

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

11

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

Oct.

Date when Charter
Was Issued

List of Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

z

1

Town

I

Places of Location

County

I

''

1926

Oct.

"
"
"

.."

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"

"
"

"
"

Oct.

"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

······

••

......

60 5
55 ······
100
1
.5 0
76 10
60 ....
I
llO ······

75 1

715

~3

.....
75 ......
75 ......
75 ......

50 ......
50 10

50

liO ......
50 ......

......

.....s

75, ......
75 .... . .
60 ......
80 5 .
liO
80
55 5
55 4~
50 10
50 4%
55 ......
64) 10
7[J
50 ......
50 1
80 ......

70

9

12

IO

12
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
9
12
12
12
15
12
12
9
9
15
12
10
9
12
12
9
9
9·
12
12
12
9
9

i~I1~

12
12
12
12
12

118
66
102
124
48
67
46
68
172
65
87
137
36
53
98
74
102
66
66
130

65

69
245
102
131
93
60
169
178
183
66
104
82
142
211
158
264

107
96
100
155
191
183
97
123
106
181
93
115
73
79
12
12
12
12
20
9
9

u

::a::ii

50
1
80 23
50 .... ..
80 .....
60 ......
100 .. ....
55 ... ..
50 ... ...
50
5
80 .. ....
80
5
100 10
100 10
105 ... ...

,

~

ala1

......

-o
.,

i8
57
31
1!14
126
74
lti7
151
226
110
321
126
115

~

g

~al

9
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
12
12

i.6

<

~E

~

"'
,Q

30 . . . . . .
45 . . . . . .
30 30
50 ......
75 ......
75 ......
50 .. . . .
75
75 ·· ·
80
1
50
5
50
1
70 15

~!

""'';i
...-

......
so
I
" " I ......

"
"
"
" "
11, 1928
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"10, 1929
"
" "
" "
" "
16, 1930
" "

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"13, 1927
" "

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"

14, 1926
Oct.

''
''
"
"
''
"
''
"
''
"
''
"
''
" ''
'' ''
" ''
" ''

"
"
"

14,

"

1925
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
..
"
''
"
"

f

0> llO

1-

.......
§
0 ~
Q"....

Total membership, 1933 returns ...•.•••••••••••••• 136,694

S44 La Cumbre ..••••. 642ranta Barbara ...... . Los Angeles .........
545 Alta Loma ••••••. 643 Signal Hill. . . . • • . • • . Los Angeles .........
546 Lomita .......... 644 Lomita ......•...... Los Angeles .•.......
547 A. F. E. Irwin .... 645 San Padro .....•.... . Los Angeles .........
548 Metr;ipolitan ••••. 646 Los Angeles •••••..•. Los Angeles .•.••....
549 Hawthorne ••••... 647 Hawthorne ...•..•... San Bernardino ••••..
550 Damascus ..•••••• 648 San Bernardino . • .•.. Los Angeles ....••...
551 Florence ..••••••. 649 Florence ......•..... Los Angeles .....•...
552 · La Brea .......... 650 Los Angeles ••.•..•• . San Mateo ••..•..•..
553 Menlo Park •.•... 651 Menlo Park •••••••.. Los Angeles ...•••••.
554 Crescenta Valley .. 652 Montrose ..•••••..... San Bernardino ......
555 Fontana ...••.... 653 Fontana ....••....... Los Angeles .••......
556 Jordan .......... 654 Los Angeles .••••.... Los Angeles .•..•....
557 Monte Vista ••.... 655 Long Beach .•..•..•. Los Angeles .........
558 Citrol . . ......... 656 Brea ..........•..... Orange .....•••......
559 John D. Spreckels.657 San Diego .•.••....•. San Diego ...•••.....
560 Livingston ••.•... 658 Livingston .••..•..•. Merced .••.•••••••••
561 La Habra .....•••• 659 La Habra .•...... • •. Orange ...........•.
562 Baldwin Park .•.•. 660 Baldwin Park ....... Los Angeles ....•....
563 Malta .......... 661 Los Angeles ....•.. ". . Los Angeles .•....•..
564 Henry Knox. . . . . 662 Los Angeles ....•.... Los Angeles ••....•..
665 Ojai ............ 663 Ojai. ............... Ventura .. . ..• . ......
566 Oasis ........... 664 El Centro .......... . Imperial. . . .........
567 Kaweah . ....... 665 Woodlake ........... Tulare ............. .
568 Reseda ......... 666 Resed a ............. . Los Angeles .........
569 Meridian . . . . . . • 667 Glendale ............ Los Angeles ...•.....
570 San Gorgonio. . . . 668 Banning ............ Riverside .......•...
571 John P. Jarman .. 669 San Jose ............ Santa Clara ......•..
572 Greenleaf . . . . . . . 670 Whittier ..•......... Los Ani:elee ........
573 San Clemente. • • . 671 San Clemente ...... . Orange ....•......•.
574 Laguna Beach . • • 672 Laguna Beach ....•.. Orange ......•..•••. .
575 Far West ..•••.•. 673 San Francisco ....... San Francisco . . , ....
576 Los Cerritos .. , • . 67 4 Long Beach .....•... Loe Angeles .•.......
577 Modesto . . . . . . . . 675 Modesto ....••••..•. Stanislaus .......•...
578 Willow Glon •••••• 676/Willow Gloo .••••••• S=ta c1..a ..•• , ••••
579 Liberal Arts ...... 677 Los Angeles .•••.•••. Los Angeles .•••••..•
580 Alta~ena ......... 678 Pasadena .......... , Los Angeles ......... 1

"
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
''
''
"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
..
''
''
"
"

15,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
''
"
"

Date when (,'barter
Was Issued

·1 Oct.
"

·...•.....
517 Hemet •....•.••.. 615 Hemet ............. Rivers1ae
518 Seal Beach ••..•.. 616 Seal Beach ......... Orange .•..•.....••.
519 Big Bear ...•..••• 617 Pine Knot ........ . San Bernardino .•..
520 Southland ..••••. 618 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .....•..
521 Neptm1e •....••.. 619 Long Beach .......• ·Los Angeles ....... .
522 Point Loma .....•. 620 San Diego ......... San Diego ... . ..... .
523 The Gardens ...... 621 Los Angeles ...... .. Los Angeles ....... •
524 Atwater ......... 622 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles • •......
525 Menorah ......... 623 LC1s Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
526 Fortitude .•...... 624 Oakland .......... . Alameda .......... .
527 Angelus Mesa ..... 625 Los An_qeles ........ Los Angeles . ...... .
528 Chula Vista ...... 626 Chula ista .' .... . .. San Diego .. . ...... .
529 Lamanda Park .... 627 Pasadena .......... . Los Angeles .. . .... .
530 Beaeon of the
West ..••........ 628 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles . . . .... .
.531 Fairview .•.•.... 629 Inglewood .......... Los Angeles . ...... .
5ll2 Ingl~side ......•. 630 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
533 Benevolence ...•. 631 Los Angeles .......• . Los Angeles ........ .
5:14 Normal Heights ••. 632San Diego ........... San Diego .. . ....... .
5ll5 Poinsettia •.••••. 633 San Buenaventura ... Ventura ............ .
536 V!ctor~ille •....•. 634 V!ctor~ille .......... S~n Be.rnardino ..... .
S37 R1vermde .... • .•. 635 R1vers1dc ............ Riverside .. . . . . . ... .
538 J obn Marshall .... 636 Los Anirnles .. . ..... . Los Angeles ...... . . .
539 Palisades ...•.... 637 Santa Monie a ..... . . . Los Angeles ........ .
540 Tnnian Rock ....•. 6381BerkP1ev ........... . Alameda ..... . ..... .
541 Composite . ....... 639 Los Angeles ........ . Los Angeles ........ .
542 Veritas .......... 640 San Francisco ....... San Franeisco ...... .
543 James A. Foshay .. 641 Los Angeles ........ . Santa Barbara ...... .

Name> of Lodgt!S

z:
~
§

List ot SuboTdinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

~

c;i

.....

""

00

>

z

:0

0

>
r
:;;

0

"l

0

l"l

r
0
c

ztj

c;i
ill

>

t;:J

::Q

0
rn
0
"'.I
8

z

....tj

tll

t;:J

()

0

'"d

00

.....

00

Location

County

Chartered

Nebraska .••••••• Michiga n Bar .... Sacramento .... . • May
E. K. Kane ••••••• Nevada ......•.• Nevada ......... May
Tyro .. , ••••••••• Drytown ........ Amador ........• May
Franklin ••••••••• Meadow Valley ..• Plumas ......... May
74 Wisconsin Hill ...• Wisconsin Hill ... Placer· .......... May
75 Mountain Forest .. Eureka North .... Sierra .. . ........ May
77 Petaluma •.•••••• Petaluma ... .. ... Sonoma .....•... May

Corinthian .•••••• Marysville ..•... Yuba .....••.... May

69

........... ......

Saint Louis .•••••• Howland 's Flat .. . Sierra ....... • •. May

Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown ... Plumas .. . .. : ... . May
St. John's ........ Yreka ........... Siskiyo11 . . ....... May
Jefferson .....•... . La Porte ••....... Plumas ... .• •.. .. . May

94
96
97

93 · Caymus ...••••• · !Yountville ...... Napa ........... May

88 Unity ........... Orleans Flat ..... Nevada ......... May
88 Quitman ...•••••• North Bloomfield. Nevada ...•..... May
90 Polar Star •.•..••• Poorman 's Creek. Plumas ....•.••• May
92 Acacia ..•••.•••• Coloma ••••••••• El Dorado .•••.•• May

86

82 Mountain ..•..••• Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne ..•..•. May
83 Rising Star .•••••• Forest Hill ....••• Placer . . . . . • • • • . May
85 India-n Diggings .•. [ndian Diggings .. E l Dorado .... . •. May

12
73

I
Remarks

6!1.

~

t:<.l

:i::

~

0
"l

rn

Q

z

.....

t!J
ti

"l:f
:i:i
0

~

00

.....
""

1874 Consolidated with Marysville No
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
15, 188i Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
2, 1855 Oct.
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 185~ Surrend!lred.
2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
Q
15, 1857* • • • . . • . . . . . . . . Charter never issued.
~
3, 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
zti
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No. t"
0
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
. ti
8, 1856 ,May
18, 1861 Surrendered.
Q
8, 1856 S ept.
2, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16. l".l
8, 1856 Oct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No. O
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
"l
8, 1856 !Nov.,
1882 Consolidated with Gibson ville,
~
No. 158.
t"
8, 1856 !May
.....
8, 1856 Name change.d to Quitman.
8, 1856 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13. 0"l
8, 1858 Surrendered.
8, 1856 IMay
~
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No. z
.....
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
>·
8, 1856 !Oct.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
St. Helena.
8, 1856 Dec.
24, 1859 Sunendered.
1
3, 1854 /Dec.
81 1924 Consolidated with .Howard No. 96,
as Howard No. 37.
8, 1856 JJuly 19, 1926 Consolidated with .F orbestown
No. 50.
00

2, 1855 /Dec.,

14, 18591Surrencered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.

..............
.. .. ... ·······

2, 1855 I.May
2, 1855 May

..............

Minnesota ••••.•. Minnesota ..•.... Sierra •.•..•..•.• May
Ind. Royal Arch .. Marysville • ..... Yuba •.•...•.••. May

71

..............

Became Extinct

Name changed to Jennings.
Berryman .....• •.. Sacramento ..•... . Sacramento .. ..• .. April 19, 1850
May
6, 1853 Charter surrendered.
Jennings ...•...... Sacramento .. • .... Sacramento ..•....
7, 1850 May . 6, 1853 Surrendered. .
Sutter ............ Sacramento .. .• ... . Sacramento ..•..• . May
Davy Crockett •... San ·F rancisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 18, 1852 Name changed to San Francisco.
Ban Francisco ..•. San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Willamette .••.•••. Portland ...•.•... Multnomah ..•.... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
Oregon.
9, 1851 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
May
La Fayette .•••••• La Fayette, Ore..
Oregon.
Charter never issued.
Nashville ..••••••• .'fashville ........ . El Dorado ........ Dec. 24, 1851*
5·, 1853·
Charter never issued.
Pacific .•••• , •••••• i7 alparaiso ....... Chili. ............ May
Palmyra •••••••••• Placerville ...•.•. El Dorado ....•... May 6, 1853 Oct. 10, 1929 Name changed to El Dorado.
5, 1853 Oct. 15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
Columbia ....•••.• Jolumbia ......... Tuolumne ........ May
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
5, 1853 Oct. 18, 1873 Surrendered.
Diamond .••.•••••. )iamond Springs .. El Dorado ....... May
5, 1853 Oct. -13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
Mokelumne .•••••• 'vf ok el um ne Hill .. . Calaveras ...... .. May
No. 78.
5, 1853 Oct. 15, 1887 Revoked.
Santa Clara •••..•. ~anta Clara ...... Santa Clara ...... May
3, 1854 Sept. 3, 1864 Surrendered.
Butte ......••..•.. ~idwell .......... Butte ........... . May
3, 1854 June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
Yub11; .....•.••..•. \farysville ....... Yuba ............ May
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
3, 1854 Oct. 15, 1897 Surrendered.
Michigan City . • .. M:ichigan Bluff ... . Placer .•......... May
3, 1854 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Grass Valley •..•.. :lrase Valley .... .. Nevada . . ....... . May
3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
Lebanon .......... San Francisco .. .. . San Francisco .... . May
3, 1854 Nov.,
1864 Surrendered.
Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ... .. . .... May
3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
Franklin .......... Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... . May
2, 1855 Feb. 20, 1875 Surrendered.
Saint James ...... .T amestown ....... Tuolumne ........ May
3, 1856 Sept. 15. 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. R
Geo. Washington .. Chinese Camp .... Tuolumne . ....... May
3, 1855 Oct. 29; 1857 Surrendered.
Iowa Hill ......... Iowa Hill ........ Placer ...... • .... May

Name

117
69

47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63

34
36
39

29
31

26
28

15

11

4
4
6
7
7

No.

EXTINCT LODGES

I
Location. '

\

Uounty.

Chartered.

Became Extinct I

~emarks.

Josephus ..••••••• Brush Creek . . ...• Butte ......•.•.• May
Rising Sun ....... Brandy City ..... Sierra .......... May
Carson ........... Carson City ...... Nevada Ter ...... May
Mount Carmel..,., Red Dog . ........ Nevada ......... .May
Washoe ..•..•.••• Washoe City ..... Nevada Ter ...... May
Gibsonville ..•.•• Gibsonville ...... Sierra ..........• May
Gilroy ........... Gilroy ...... . ... Santa Clara ...... May
Pilot Hill .......•• Pilot B:ill. ....... El Dorado ....... May
Virginia City ....• Virginia City..... Nevada Te" . ....• May
Silver City .....•. Sih·er City ....... Nevada Ter ...... May
Silver Star ....... Gold Hill ........ Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Esmeralda ....... Aurora .......... Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Escurial ..•...••• Virginia City .... Nevada Ter .....• Oct.
Lander .........• Austin .......... Nev1'da Ter ...... Oct.
Alpme .....•..•.. Mar1deeville .... Alpme .......... May
Claiborne ..•..... Antioch ......... Contra Costa ..... Oct.
Merced .....•..•. Snelling ......... Merced ......... Oet.
Aztlan ....••••••. Prescott ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct.
Arcturas ...•....• IPetaluma •...••• !Sonoma .•.....••. I Oct.
Meridian •••••••• Arbuckle ••••••• <iolusa ........ . • Oct.
Arenas .......•... ~ >unta Arenas . . .. )!endocino ..... . Oct.
Latrobe .......... Latrobe ......... El Dorado ....... Oct.
Paradise .....•... Haywards ......• Alameda ........ Oet.
Rocklin .......... :tocklin ......... ,Placer ........... July
Bodega .......... Bodega ..•..•.•• Sonoma ...•..•.. Oct.

180
11!2
185
189
197

2, 1865 Surrendered.
17, 1861 Charter not issued.
10, 1902 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 Oct.
16, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
15, 1862 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1872 Surrendered.
·
14, 1863 Aug.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Jan.
14, 1863 Oct.
15, 1908 Co nsolidated with Jefferson No. 97.
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Dec.,
1898 <'onsolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
14, 1863 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15, 1863 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1864 .Tan .
25, 1864* Oct.
1, 1864 1Charter never issued.
12, 1865 ........... · · · Name changed to Antioch.
12, 1865 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
11, 1866 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
11, 1866 !Dec.,
1898Consolidated ~ ith Petaluma No
77 as No. 180.
10, 1867 Oct.
16, 1919 Name changed to Arbuckle.
10, 1867 .............. Name changed to Claiborne.
15, 1868 Dec.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
20, 1872 Surrendered.
14, 1869 July
30, 1870* .............. Charter never issued.
14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171
172

213

175
176
177

151

I

San Luis Obispo .. ·1San Luis Obispo .. RaL Luis Obispo .. ,May 16, 1861 !Dec.
Doric ............. North Fork ..... · Trinity .......... . Jan. 11, 1861 May
Palmyra ......••• Placerville •.•.•• El Dorado ..•..•. M.ay 16, 1862 Oct.

~·

148

98
99
100

Quartzburg , , ••••• Quartzburg ...... \Mariposa .......• May
La Grange ..••••• Merced .•••.•.•. Merced •........ May
Campo Seco ....... Campo Seco ..•... Calaveras ....... May

Name.

.,,.,,

z

00

00

"'°

.,,

>

z

~

0

'xJ

....t<

~

l:'.l
0
"'.l

0

ti

t<
0

s~

0

8, 1856 ..•........... Name changed to Hornitas.
9, 1856 Oct.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
8, 1856 Oct.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
Manzanita ••••••• North San Juan .. Nevada .....•... May
8, 1856 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
102 Siskiyou •••••••• , Henley .....••.• Siskiyou ........ May 15, 1856 Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
~
No. 37.
105
0
Mount Jefferson.,. arrotte .....•... Tuolumne ....... May 14, 1857 Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated
with Tuolumne No. 8 0l".I
and
Columbia
No.
28,
as
Tuol
107
l".I
umne No. 8.
ti
15, 1908 Consolidated with North Star
14,
1857 !Oct.
Owe11
.••.••••••••
Scott's
Bar
....•.•
iskiyou
.........
\May
No. 91.
.o
108
Ul
14. 1857 Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
Dibble
•••••••••••
Omega
..........
Nevada
.........
May
0
11,
1911
Consolidated
with
Palmyra
No.
26
109
14, 1857 Oct.
'xJ
26, 1894 Revoked.
114 Mt. Zion •••••••• Grizzly Flat ...•• El Dorado .•.•... May 14, 1857 June
...,
Saint
Mark's
.••••
Fiddletown
......
Amador
.........
May
18,
1861
Surrendered.
115
14, 1857 May
:i::
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
116 Windsor .••.••• , • Windsor ; ....... Sierra ........... May 14, 1857* Ja11.
l".I
Folsom ..•.•••• , • Folsom .......... Sacramento ...... Feb.
5,
1859
Surrendered.
13, 1858 Jan.
Vallecito
........
Vallecito
........
Calaveras
.......
May
8, 1905 l:lurrendered.
118
13, 1858 Oct.
121 Ionic ....•.•••••• Iowa Hill ...... : • Placer .......... May
14, 1870 Revoked.
1858
Oct.
125 Progress ..••••••• San Francisco .... San Francisco ... .
13, 1863 Revoked.
13, 1859 May
16, 1913 Consolidated with La Grange No . 99,
130 Unity .•.••.••••• San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May 13, 1859 Oct.
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
133 Yosemite ••••.••• Coulterville ...•.. Mariposa .••..... May
1862
Surrendered.
10, 1860 !June,
16, 1879 Surrendered.
137 Oro Fino ...•••••• Oro Fino .....•... Siskiyou ......•. May 10, 1860 Oct.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
138 Violet •.••.•••••• Spanish Flat ....• El Dorado ......• May 10, 1860 April
Colusa
.••.•••••••
Colusa
..•...••.•
Colusa
.........•
May
240 as Colusa No. 240.
\42

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

15, 1881 Meh.

Tucson ..••.•.... Tucson ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct.

Corregidor ........ Manila ••.••••• •Philippine Islands Oct.
FowlPr . ......•.• . Fowler • . . . . . . . . .
Oct.
Granite No. 222 ••• Rocklin ••••••••• Placer . . . . . . . . . Oct.
Germania ........ Lo.1.1 Angeles •••• . Lo.1.1 Angeles ...•. Oct.
Kennett ........• Kennett .......... 3iskiyou ....•.... Oct.
Owensmouth ...... Canoga Park ...•. Los Angeles .•••. Oct.

~~fi

3!18
438
456
flit

• Date of disr ensation.

Oceanic ...••..•.. Honolulu ....•..• Oahu, T. H .....•. Oct.

371

t :rn

Olivet ..... .. ...... ,Corning ••...•••.. ,Tehama

~64

....•.•• /Oct.

Cavite · · · · · · · · · · · Cavite .....••••• Philippine Islands Oct.

3t'O

270
276

~.~~

25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
10, 1895 Revoked.
26, 1888 Surrendered.
11, 1911 Con~olidated with Woodland No.156
25, 1919 Consolidated with Calaveras No. 7R.
16, 1902 Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341.
13, 1910 Consolidated with HespP.rlan No. 264.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.

1, 1917 Consolidated with Newvil111 No
205, as Olivet No. 205.
12, 1905 Oct.
12, 1916 Name changed to Le Progre11
de I' Oceanie No. 371.
10, 1907 " Dec.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
15, 1908 vet. . 14, 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 277.
11, 1872 May
29, 1919 Consolidated with Roseville No.
432, as Roseville No. 222.
16, 1913 Oct.
10, 1918 Name changed to Acacia.
14, 1915 Dec. 18, 1925 Consolidated with Reading,
No. 254.
15, 1925 Oct.
15, 1931 Name changed to Canoga.

13, 1904 Oct.

15, 1903 Dec.

Fall River .....•• Burgettville ..... Shasta .......... Oct. 11, 1883 Oct.
Westport .•.•.••. Westport •....•.. Mendocino . . . . ... Oct. 16, 1884 May
284 Tyrian ••.•••••••• Dunnigan . •.•..•. Yolo .....•.••••. Oct. 14, 1886 Oct.
298 Mokelumne Hill ... Mokelumne Hill .. Calavera11 •••• ••. Oct. 16, 1890 Dec.
311 Hueneme ........ Hueneme ..••.••. Ventura .....•.•• Oct. 12, 1892 Oct.
340 Santa Maria ..•..• Santa Maria ...•.. Banta Barbara .... Oct. 11, 1900 Oct.
342 Manila . ·•······•. Manila •••••••••• Philippine Islands Oct. 10, 1901 Dec.

263

4, 1881 * Mch.

Solomon ..•.....• Tombstone .....•. ,Arizona Ter ...... ,June

I

16, 1879 Mch.

Remarks

""....

()0

~

en

""

()0

>

7!

~:a

t<

!;?

l:z:j

ti
t<
0
ti
0
t'.l
0

z

0

::i::
t'.l

"'.1
>-3

O

oo

o

;]

~

18, 1881 Name changed to Mosaic.
17, 1877 Surrendered.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
16, 1884 Surrendered
26, 1890 Surrendered.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142
as Colusa No. 240.
'"d
16, 1896 Consolidated with ~incerity No. 132 ~
19, 1888 Surrendered.
o
20, 1918 Consolidated with \Ill innellumah
~

lBecam~ Extinct!

Arizona ........•• IPhoenix •...••.. IArizona Ter ...... IOct.

I Chartered

257

County

10, 1878 Oct.
IO, 1878 April
10, 1878 Dec.

I

Greenville •....•. . Greenville ....... Plumas ......... . Oct.
Brotherhood .•... Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma ......• .". u~t.
Bodie ••••••••••• Bodie .....•..•.• Mono .......... . o..,t.

Location

249
251
252

I
11, 1872 Oct.
18, 1873 Nov.
18, 1873 Oct.
14, 1875 Oct.
14, 1875 Sept.
14, 1875 April

~ame

218 Pleasanton •.••••• Livermore ...•.•. Alameda •.•. •••. Oct.
223 Maui •••••••••••• Wailuku .••••••... Hawaii ....•..•. C'et.
227 Contra Costa ..•.•• Somersvllle ... . .. Contra Costa ..... C>ct.
238 Tyre .. , .•••.•..• Gold Run ......... Placer . : ........ Oct.
239 Pescadero •.. . •••• Pescadero ....... San Mateo ....... ,Oct.
240 Equality •..•.••.. Colusa. . . ..•.... Colusa .... . ..... Oct.

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

826

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M... W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE lTS ORGAN IZATION ON' THE
Year
Elected.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

1850 •Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt. ..•....
1851 •John A. Tutt.... . .. . . . ... •Benjamin D. Hyam.
1852 •Benjamin D. Hyam ...... •Charles M. Radc!UI' . .
1853 •Charles M. Radclltl'...... •Townsend A. Thomas
1854 •Wllllam H. Howard..... •Nathaniel G. Curtis . .
1855 •William H . Howard ..... •Townsend A. Thomas
1856 •William H. Howard . .• .. •John A Raymond . ....
1857 •Nathaniel G. Curtis.. . ... •Charles Marsh . • . . . . .
1858 •Nathaniel G." Curtis. .. ... •Philip W . Shepheard.
1859 •Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shepheard.
1860 •Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shepheard.
1861 •James L. English ........ •William C. Belcher ..
1862 •William C. Belcher...... •Giibert B . Claiborne..
1863 •William C. Belcher ....•. •Gilbert B. Claiborne..
1864 •William C. Belcher ...... •Giibert B. Claiborne..
1865 •Gilbert B. Claiborne..... •Wllllam A. Davies...
1866 •Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... •Henry H. Hartley ....
1867 •William A. Davies ....... •Henry H . Hartley ....
1868 •Charles Marsh........... •Leonidas E. Pratt ....
1869 •Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isa ac S. Titus . .• •....
1870 •Leonidas E. Pratt...... . . •Isaac S . Titus ........
1871 •Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Charles L. Wiggin...
187i •Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... •Benj. H. Freeman . ..
1873 •Isaac S. Titus. . .... .... . •George C. Perkins.
1874 •George C. Perkins ......• • •John M. Browne.....
1875 •John M. Browne ........• •Charles L. Wiggin ...
1876 •John M. Browne ..•...••• •Charles L . Wiggin . .•
1877 •John M. Browne . .......• •Charles L . Wiggin .••
1878 •John M. Browne ......... •William W. Traylor ..
1879 •William W. Traylor .. •.. . •Samuel C. Denson . . ..
1880 •Samuel C. Denson., . .... •Clay W. Taylor •.....
1881 •Clay w. Taylor . .• .••. . .• •John Q . Adame ..•..•
1882 *Clay W. Taylor .......•. : •Jonathan D. Hines ..•
1883 •Jonathan D. Hines ...... •Wiiey J. Tinnin . . ...•
1884 •Jonathan D. Hines ... ... "Wiiey J . Tinnin .... ..
1886 •Wiley J. Tinnin .......... *Edmund C. Atkinson.
1886 "Edmund C. Atkinson ..... •Hiram N. Rucker ....
1887 •Hiram N. Rucker........ •Morrie M. Estee.....
1888 •Morris M. Estee ..... .• .. •Alvah R. Conklin ....
1889 •Morrie M. Estee .. . . ... .. *William .Tohnston ...•
1890 *Alvah R . Conklin ..••..... •William Johnston ....
• 891 •wmtam Johnston. . . . . . . . •Charles Ray Gritman .
1892 •Charles R. Gritman , . .. . •Henry S. Orme ... ... .

18TI{ DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.
Senior
Grand Warden.

•Caleb Fenner.
•E. F . W. Ellis.
•Adolphus Hollub.
•John R. Crandall.
•Rector E. Cole.
•John A. Raymond .
•Lemuel Lyon.
•Aaron D. Park.
•William McCormick.
•Ebenezer Lane.
•William C. Belcher.
•John W. Harville.
•John W. Harville.
•Louis Cohn.
"William A. Davies.
•Isaac S. Titus.
•Wm. H . Peterson.
•Thomas Beck.
•Theodore G . Cockrill.
•John S. Ward .
•Charles L. Wiggin.
•Benj. H. Freeman.
•George C. Perkins.
•John M. Browne.
•William B . Parker.
•Wiley J . Tinnin.
•William S . Wells.
•William W . Tray lor.
*William H . Crane.
•clay W. Taylor.
•John Q. Adame .
•Jonathan D. Hines.
•Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Hiram N. Rucker.
•Morris M. Estee.
•Alvah R. Conklin.
•William Johnston
•Charles R . Gritman.
•Charles R. Gritman.
•Henry S. Orme.
•James B. Stevens.
!R~~
•Henry S. Orme....... .. .. •James B . Stevens ... . •Edward M. Preston.
1894 •James B. Stevens ........ •Edward M. Preston .. *W!lliam T. Lucas.
Thomas Flint.
11>95 "Edward M. Preston ... ... *William T. Lucas ... .

*Deceased

827

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

•sashel Wood11 ...•.•.• •Levi Stowell ...•... .. • •John H. Glhon .......
•Benj. S. Olds .. ... . ..• •Townsend A. Thomas . •Levi Stowell ...•....••
•John R . McConnell ... •Addison Martin . ..... •Levi Stowell ..........
"Richard F. Knott ...• "Addison Martin ..•... •Levi Stowell .•....••..
• "Robert N. Wood ..•.. •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ...••...•.
•Samuel A. Merritt ... •Addison Martin . • . • . . •Levi Stowell. .......••
•Peter W. Randle ..... "Addison Martin ...•.• •Alex G. Abell ......•.
•John B . Bope . ... .... "Addison Martin ...•.. •Alex. G. Abell ..•. , ...
•James W. Bicknell ... "Addison Martin .... . .
•Alex G. Abell .•.•..•.
"Thomae P . Hawley .. •Addison Martin ...•.• •Alex
G. Abell ...••••.
"Alvfnza Hayward .. .. •Addison Martin ...•.. •Alex
G. Abell ...•..••
•Caleb E. Wilcoxon . .. •James
•Alex
G. Abell . ..••• .•
Laldley ..... •.•
•John B . Hewson ..... •James
Laldley ....•.. . *Alex G. Abell .......•
"William A. Davies ... •James
Laldley ....•.. . •Alex G. Abell ........
•Isaac S. Titus .....•.. •James
Laldley ........ •Alex G . Abell .... . .•.
"Henry H. Hartley .... •James Laldley, ...•.•. •Alex
G. Abell .•••....
•Thomas Beck
•James Laldley ....•... •Alex G. Abell . ••• .• • .
•Leonidas E. Pratt ...• •Jamee Laldley .... • ... •Alex G.
Abell ...•.•••
•Frederick F. Bares ... •James Laldley .... •• .. •Alex G. Abell ..•. • .••
"Richard Dale
•James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...•..•.
•Benj. H . Freeman ... •James Laldley .....•.. •Alex G. Abell ..•••. .•
•Geo. c. Perkins ...... •James Laldley .....•.. •Alex G. Abell ...•..•.
•John M. Browne .... •James Laldley ...••... •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•chas. E. Mitchell . ... •James La!dley ....... . •AJex a. Abell .... .. ..
•Wiley J . Tinnin ...•. •.Tames Laldley ... .. ... •Alex G. Abell ...••••.
•Jacob H. Neff ........ •James Laldley .....•.. •Alex. G. Abell ...•..•.
•Solon w. Craigue .... •James Laidley ...••... •Alex. G . Abell ....••..
•wm: H. Crane•.. ..... •Moses
Heller ...•..•.. •Alex. G. Abell ........
•Robert c. Broder .... •Moses Heller ......•.. •Alex. G. Abell ..... . ..
•John Q. Adams ...... •Moses Heller ..•...•.. •Alex. G. Abell ........
•Orrin w . Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller .. . •• • ... •Alex. G. Abell ........
•Thomas J . Bowers ... •Moses
Heller . ........ •Alex. G. Abell .... ,, . .
•George Hinds
•Moses Heller ...•..... •Alex. G. Abell. .......
"Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ........
"Hiram N. Rucker .••. •Moses Heller ...•..•.. •Alex. G. Abell ....... ~
•Henry H. Knapp ..... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .... . ...
0
Alvah R. Conklin
•Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
•wm. Johnston
•Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
•Marcus D. Boruck ... •Nathan W . Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .........
•Henry s . Orme ...... •Nathan. W. Spaulding. "Alex. G . Abell ........
•Henry s. Orme ...... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson . .. ..
•James B. Stevens ...• •Nathan W. Spo.uldlng. •George .Tohnson ......
"Edward M. Preston . • •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson . ... . .
•wm. T . Lucas ... .. . . "Edward Coleman . .• .. •George Johnson ..... .
Thomae Flint
"Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson .... ..
•Frank M. Angellotti .. *Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson . .....

.......

········

········
....
.......

........

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS Oir THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALI FORNIA,
18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

Year.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

1896 *William •.r. Lucas . ...... . Thomas Flint. .....•.
1897
Thomas Flint............ .. •Frank M . Angellotti:
1898 •Frank M. Angellotti ... . • •Charles L. Patton .. ..
1899 •Charles L. Patton .. .... .. •James A . Foshay . ....
1900 •James A. Foshay ........ . •William S. Wells .... .
1901 •William S. Wells ....... .. Orrin S. Henderson ..
hO~
Orrin S. Henderson ..•... •Charles W. Nutting . .
1903 •Charles W. Nutting ...... •George W. Hunter.. .
1904 •George W. Hunter ....••. *Motley iI. Flint. .... .
1905 *Motley H. Flint .••••••••• •Edward H. Hart. ... .
1906 •Edward H . Hart .•. . ..... *Geo. M. Perine ..... . .
1907 *George M. Perine ....... . •Reuben H. Lloyd ...••
1908
Oscar Lawler ....... .. .. . •w. Frank Pierce .... .
1909 •w. Frank Pierce ....... .. Dana R. Weller ...... .
1910
Dana R. Weller ....... .. . •Alonzo J. Monroe ...•
Wm. P. Filmer ..... .
1911 •Alonzo t. Monroe ....... .
1912 Wm. P. Filmer . . .. . ...•• John D. Murphey ... .
1913
John D. Murphey .. ..... . Benj. F . Bledsoe .... .
1914
Benj. F. Bledsoe . . ..... .. •Albert G. Burnett ...•
1915 •Albert G. Burnett ....... . Francis V . Keesling ..
1916
Francis V. Keesling .... .. Wm. Rhodes Hervey .
1917
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... . Bradford Webster .. .
1918
Bradford Webster . .....•. Cha rles A. Adams . .. .
1919
CharleS' Albert Adams .•. George F . Rodden .. . .
1920
George F. Rodden . ...... .
Samuel E. Burke ... .
1921
Samuel E. Burke ........ .
William A. Sherman.
1922
William A. Sherman ..•..
Arthur S. Crites .....
David J. Reese .....•.
1923
Arthur S. Crites ........ .
1924
David J. Reese .. ....... . Albert E . Boynton .. .
1925
Albert E. Boynton ...... . George L. Jones .... .
1926
George L. Jones . .... . ...•
WiJl H. Fischer ..... .
1927 Will H. Fischer . . . . . .... . *Gustav A . Hutaff ... .
1928 •Gustav A. Hutaff . .. .. ..•
Chas. M. Wollenberg
1929
Chas. M. Wollenberg ..•.. John Stewart Ross .. .
1930
John Stewart Ross ..... .. Robert B . Gaylord ... .
1931
Robert B . Gaylord . . .... . Frank W . Mlxter .. .. .
1932
Frank W. Mlxter . .. .. . . .
James B. Gist ...... .
Randolph V. Whiting
1933
James B. Gist ..... .. .... .

•Deceased.

829

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

828

Senior
Grand Warden.
•Frank M. Angellotti.
•Charles L. Patton
•Ja mes A. Foshay.
•William S. Wells.
Orrin S . Henderson.
•Charles W. Nutting.
•George W. Hunter.
*Motley H . Flint.
•Edward H . Hart.
•George M. Perine.
•Reuben H. Lloyd.
Oscar Lawler.
Dana R. Weller.
•Alonzo J . Monroe
Wm. P. Filmer.
John D. Murphey.
Benj. F . Bledsoe.
•Albert G. Burnett
Francis V . Keesling.
Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Bradford Webster.
Charles A . Adams.
George F. Rodden.
S a muel E . Burke.
William A. Sherman.
Arthur S. Crites.
David J . Reese.
Albert E . Boynton
George L. Jones.
Will H. Fischer.
•G ustav A. Hutaff.
Chas. M. Wollenberg:
John Stewart Ross.
Robert B. Gaylord
Frank W. Mlxter.
James B. Gist.
William A. Sitton.
Earl Warren.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Trea•urer.

5850

Grand
Secretary

Grand
Lecturer;

•Charles L. Patton .••• •Edward Coleman .•••. •George Johnson .••. . •
•James A. Foshay .. •• •ID<Jward Coleman •••.• •George Johnson ...•••
•William S. Wells .••• •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
Orrin S. Henderson . • •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
•Charles W. Nutting. , •Edward Coleman . .... •George Johnson ...... •Wm. H. Edwards.
•George W. Hunter •••• •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .•.•.• •Wm. H. Edwards.
*Motley H. Flint.
"Edward Coleman ..... •peorge Johnson .•.. . . •wm. H. Edwards.
•Edward H. Hart .•..• •Edward Coleman ..•.. •George Johnson . ••••• •wm. H. Edw a r ds.
•George M. Perine .... •Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson .. .. . . •Wm. H. Edwa r ds.
•Reuben H. Lloyd . .. . •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..••.. •Wm. H . Edwards.
Oscar Lawler .•••... "Edward Coleman ....• •George Johnson •••••• •Wm. H. Edwards.
•w. Frank Pierce . ... •Edward Coleman .••• •George Johnson...... Thomas J: Baker.
•Alonzo J. Monroe .... •Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher.... •• .. Thomas J. Baker.
William P. Filmer .•. •Edward Coleman ... , • . John Whlcher... .... • Thomas J . Baker.
John D. Murphey .... •Edward Coleman. . .. . John Whlcher... ..... Thomas J . Baker.
Benj. F. Bledsoe .... •Edwara Coleman .... . John Whlcher........ Thomas J . Baker.
•Albert G. Burnett... •Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher........ Thomas J. Baker.
t<' rancls V. Keesling.. Wm. P. Filmer .. ·· .. • John Whlcher.... •• .• Thomas J. Bak e r .
'N. Rhodes Hervey.. Wm. P . Filmer .. ·. . .. John Whlctier........ · Thomas J. Baker.
Bradford Webster... Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher........ Thomas J. Baker.
Chas. Albert Adams. Wm. P. Filmer ... ·... John Whlcher... ... .. Thomas J. Baker.
George F. Rodden .. • Wm. P . .Filmer •.• • ••• John Whlcher.... •• •• Thomas J. Baker.
Samuel E. Burke.·.. Wm. P . Filmer .. · • ... John Whlcher.... .... Thomas J. Baker.
William A. Sherman. Wm. P. Filmer .... ··· John Whlcher........ Thomas J. B a ker .
Arthur S. Crites .• ·.. Wm. P. Filmer.·•···· John Whlcher.. . .. • .. Thomas J. Baker .
David J. Reese........ Wm. P. Filmer .. • ·· ·· John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. B a ker.
Albert E. Boynton..
Wm. P. Filmer .... ·•• John Whlcher •.•••••• Thomas J . Baker
George L . Jones... . .. Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher ....... Thomas J. Baker
Will H. Fischer . .. .•. Wm. P. Filmer... .. .. John Whlcher ••••.•.• Thomas J. Baker.
*Gustav A. Hutatf . . .. Wm. P. Filmer. ·•·•• John Whlcher ••• •...• Thomas J . Baker.
Chas. M. Wollenberg. Wm. P. Filmer....... John Whlcher .. .... • • Thomas .J. Bake r.
John Stewart Ross... Wm. P . Filmer....... John Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J. Baker.
Robert B. Gaylord.... Wm. P . Filmer...... John Whlcher .... . .. . Thomas J. Baker.
Frank Wilber Mlxter. Wm. P . Filmer...... . John Whlcher . ... ... . Thomas J. Baker .
James B. Gist ........ Wm. P. Filmer ....... · John Whlcher ....... . T h omas J. B a ker.
W llllam A. Sitton . ... Wm. P. Filmer...... John W hlcher........ Thomas J. Baker.
Randolph V. Whiting Wm. P. Filmer... . .. John Whlcher . ....... Thomas J. Baker.
Rollie W. Miller. ... .. Wm. P. Filmer.. .... John Whlcher . ... . ... Thomas J. Baker.
•Deceased.

J

I

I
830

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND l'N FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta ..•.....••••.•.. J. H. W. S. Kemmis ..•.... Calgary
BrazilThe Grand Lodge of Minas Geraes
The Grand Lodge of Rio Janeiro
The Grand Lodge of the State of Panahyba
The Grand Lodge of Sao P a ula
The Grand Lodge of Bahia
The Grand Lodge of Para
British Columbia ..••••• W. A. De Wolf-Smith .....• New Westminster
Canada (Ontario) ..•.•.•Wm. M. Logan . . •· ....... .Hamilton
Chili. .....•... . .. . •. • ..Rudolfo C. Oliveira., ...••• Cassila N o. 2867
Santiago, Chili
ColombiaN ational Grand Lodge at Barranquilla, Apartado 333
National Grand Lodge at Cartagena
The Grand Lodge of the Republic at Bogota
Costa Rica ... .. . ... .... G. F. Bowden . .. .......... San Jose
Cuba . . .......• . .... . . . Dr. Jose:!!"'. Castellanos .. . .. Habana
Czecho-SlovakiaThe Grand Lodge Lessing of the Three Rings
The National Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovak ia·
Both Seated at Prague.
Denmark ... ... .... . ... P.O. Rosenorn .. . ... .. .... Blegamsuej 23,
Copenhagen
Ecuador ..... • .......Jose de la Cuadra . .......Guayaquil
Egypt .. . ....... .. ..... Abd El Maguid-Younis ..... Freemason 's Hall,
6 Foua d 1 St.,
Cairo.
England ................!'. Colville Smith ... . ..... London
France (Grand Lodge of)Augus te Viet ... . ......... 8, rue Puteanx,
Paris
Independe11t National G. F. Beaumont, 42 . . . . .••. Rue D RocheGrand Lodge of France
caouart, Paris
German Grand Lodges
National Mother Grand Lodge of the Three Globes
Grand Lodge of Hamburg
Mother Gr a nd Lodge of the E clectic Union
Grand R oya l York Lodge of Friendship
National Grand Lodge of all German Free Masons
Grand Lodge "Zur Sonne" Bayreut h
Grand Lodge Saxony
Grand Lodge Concord at Darmstadt
Grand Lodge German Fraternal Chain at Leipzig

G R A N D L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

831

Guatemala .••...•.••••• .Francisco Salazar ...... .. Guatemala
Honduras ..• , •..••••••• -M. F . Rodriguez . •. ... . .. . Tegucigalpa
Ireland ... . .. : ..•. . . ... Henry C. Shellard .. • ••• .. • Dublin
Holland (Netherlands) ..A. E. L. Faubel. •.. . .••••• Fluweelen . .
B urgwal 22
The Hague
Manitoba .... . ••..•.... J . A. Ov as . . ...... . ..•... •Winnipeg
Mexico (York Grand
Lodge) . . • .... . . .. .. A. P . Old .... . ... .. ... . .. Apartado 1986,
MexicoMexico City, Mexico, D. F.
Gra nd Lodge of the P a cific.
Mexico, D. F .
Postal 2 0, Guaymas, Sonora.
New Brunswick . . ...... J. Twining Hartt .... .. . . . . Sai11t John
New South Wales .... .. Dav id Cunningham,
P. D. G. M .. . ... ... . .. .. Sydney
New Ze~land .....•.....George B arclay .. . ........ .Christ church
Norway . . ...... . . .. . .. .E. Lo wig-Hansen . .. ....... Oslo
Nova Scotia . . . ... . .. .. J a mes C. J ones . ... .•..•.. H alif ax
Panama ..... .. .. .. .... .Jose Oller ........... • . • . . Panama
Peru . ....•.•••.• • •.• .. •.Gerar do Alania . . .. ; . . . . .. Lima
Philippine Islands ..• •• • Newton C. Comfort . . • . .•.. Manila
Porto Rico ..•.....•. . • .Jose G. Ginorio .....• • •• • •Sa n Juan
Prince Edward Island . . E rnest K emp .. . . ...• . .... Charlottetown
Quebec .. •. . .••• ..•. .' .. W. W. Williamson ... . . . .. . Montreal
Queensland .... . .. . ..... .Leslie P ; Marks . . . . . . ... . . Brisbane
Salvador .. . ...•..... Salvador Grand Lodge ... Cuscat lan
Sa.skatchewan ... . .•.... W. B. Tate ..••.....•..••• Regina
Scotland .. • ...... . . .. • . Thomas G. Winning .••••••. Edinburgh
Berbes, Croa tes and
Slovenes ..•..•.... .. S. Chokorah •. •. . ...•.•... Beograd, Jugo·
slavia.
South Australia ..••.•.. Chas. R. J. Glover ..••... • . .Adelaide
Sweden ....... . ..... . . . Yneve G. Wisin .. . ..•. . ... Frimurarelogen,
St ockholm
SwitzerlandThe Swiss Grand Lodge-Alpina
Arnold Raschle, Gra nd Secy., Zurich, 18
Tasmania . . ............ W. H. Strutt . . .. . •.•. ... . Hobart
Victoria .....•.••....• • .W. St ewar t .... • . . ....... . Melbourne
Vienna ... . . . .......... Wladimir Misar .....•.•••• 1 Dorotheergaue
12, Vienna.
Western Australia .. . •.. J . D. St ev enson .... .. • .... Perth

PROCEEDINGS O:F' THE

832

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

833

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

County.

A. E. F. Irwin ..•••. 645 San Pedro ............... Los Angeles.
Abell ..•••.••.•••.• 146 Ukiah .................. Mendocino.
Acacia ............. 438 Los Angeles .•.••..••••• Los Angeles.
Acorn ....•........ 494 Oakland ...••.•.•••.•••• Alameda.
Adin ..·.......••... 250 Adin ..........•..•••••• Modoc.
Alamo ...•......... 122 Walnut Creek .....••••. Contra · costa.
Alameda .•....••••• 167 Centerville ••..•.••••••• Alameda.
Albert Pike .• . .•••. 484 Los Angeles .•••..... :~ • Los Angeles.
Alcatraz ........... 244 Oakland ......••.•••..• Alameda.
Alexandria ....••... 531 San Francisco ••••••••• ,San Francisco.
Alexander Graham
Bell •.•.....••.... 595 Los Angeles .. . ......... Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton.535 Los Angeles .....•.•...• Los Angeles.
Alhambra .....•.... 322 Alhambra .•••.......... ,Los Angeles.
Alisa! ... ........... 321 Pleasantr,n .....•.•.••.•. Alameda.
All States .......... 593 Long Beach ...•.•....... Los Angeles.
Alpha .......... . .. 431 Richmond ......•......•. Contra Costa.
Alta. ........·....... 333 Bridgeport ••..•...•• ·••• Mono.
Altadena ........... 678 Altadena •.......•••.••. Los Angeles.
Alta Vista ••....•.. 464 San Francisco ....•.•..•. San Francisco.
Alta Loma ..•••••••. 644 Signal Hill ••...••....•• Los Angeles.
Alturas ........ : . : . 248 Alturas ................. Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco .•.•.•••.• San Francisco.
Amador •.•.••.••... 65 Jackson ......•.....•.. ,Amador.
America ........... 475 Los Angeles .....•....... Los Angeles.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ................. Orange.
Anchor •.•.•..••••• 273 Compton ................ Los Angeles.
Angeles Mesa , •.• . .. 6!5 Los Angeles . ........•... Los Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch . ..... ........... Contra Costa.
Apollo , ... " ........ 396 Alameda .. ..... ..... .. .. Alameda.
Arcadia ........... 547 Arcadia ...••....•...... ·Los Angeles.
Arbuckle ..•...•• . • 182 Arbuckle ................ Colusa.
Arcata ·••.•..••.••. 106 Arcata .. . ..... , ......... Humboldt.
Argonaut .•..••... .461 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Argonne . ............. 514 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Arroyo ...... . ..... 274 Arroyo Grande ... , .... , . San Luis Obispo
Arlington . . • . ..•.. 414 Los Angeles , ..•. , , . . •.. Los Angeles.
Artesia ............ 377 Artesia . .. • . . , . , .•.•.... Los Angeles.
Ascot ... ..•..••.••. 538 Los Angeles. • ... •....•... Los Angeles.
Ashlar .......•••••. 306 Colton .•...•.. • •.•.•.•.• San Bernardino:
Atascade~o .•.••... 493 Atascadero .......•... : •. San Luis Obispo.
Athens ............ 228 Davis ....•••.•••...••••• Yolo.
·'··

f ..u.lge.

No.

Post Otrlce.

County.

Atwater ........... ,622 Los Angeles ..........•.. Los Angeles.
Azure .............. 533 Fullerton .. . . . .. ..•... .. Orange.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa .....•.......•••.• ,Los Angeles.
Bakersfield •........ 224 Bakersfield ...... . .. .... Kern.
!~alder •............ 393 San Francisco . .. .. ..... San Francisco.
Baldwin Park ....... 660 Baldwin Park . ...••••... Los Angeles.
Bay City .......... 526 San Francisco .. .... .. .. San Francisco.
Bay View ........... 401 Oakland ....... ........ Alameda.
Beacon of the West .. 628 Los Angeles .........•.. Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain ...... 76 Angels Camp ... , ... . .... Calaveras.
Bell ...........••. .483 Bell .................•. Los Angeles.
Bellflower .......• •523 Bellflower ..•.....•..•. Los Angeles.
Belvedere •••..••••.. 539 Los Angeles .•......•••• Los Angeles.
Benevolence •••••••• 631 Los Angeles .... . ..•..•. .Los Angeles.
Benicia .. ·• ...... .'. . 5 Benicia .... ............ Solano.
Benj. Franklin ..... . 509 Los Angeles.... ... .. .. .. Los Angeles.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley ...... ... .. ... . Alameda.
Bethlehem ........ .453 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Beverly Hills ...•.. 528 Beverly Hills .....•.... Los Angeles.
Big Bear ........... 617 Pine Knot .••..•••••••• San Bernardino.
Blackmer ..•...... .442 $an Diego ..... . .........San Diego.
Blythe ......... : . .. 473 Blythe .. ..... . . .... . • .. San Bernardino.
Brawley •. ,·, ...•... 402 Brawley .......... . . . .. Imporinl.
Brentwood · ......... 345 Brentwood . . . . .. . .... . . Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ...... ... . 225 East Oakland .. . . ... . . .. Alameda.
Buckeye . . .. •.. ..•• 195 Winters ......... • ...... Yolo.
Buena Park ......... 357 Buena Park ......... .. . Orange.
Burbank .... . ..... . 406 Burbank .... .. .. .. ....• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ........ 400 Burlingame ..• . . .. ..... San Mateo.
Cahuenga ..... . .... 513 Los Angeles .........•.. Los Angeles.
Caledonia .... ....•. 486 Bakersfield ...... .... .. . Kern.
Calexico ... . ....... 412 Calexico ............ . •• Imperial.
California . . • . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco . .. . ... , . . . San Francisco.
Calaveras . . . • . . . • . . 78 San Andreas .... . ....... Calaveras.
Callayomi •......•.. 282 Middletown ....... . .... Lake.
Calistoga .•.......• 233 Calistoga .. .... . ....... Napa.
Canoga •........••. 611 Canoga Park .. .... .... Los Angeles.
Capital City......... 499 Sac·r amento ... . . . ...... Sacramento.
Carmelita .••.•••••. IS99 Pasadena .. . ... . ...... . . Los Angeles.
Carpinteria ••.•..•• 444 Carpint eria ....... .. .... Santa Barbara.
Carquinez ..••...... 337 Crockett .. , . . .. . ... . . .. Contra CostR.
Catalina Island ..••. 524 Avalon ••...•.........• Los Angeles.
Center ............. 465 Fresno .. . ............. Fresno.
Charity ............ 362 Campbell ....... ........ Santa Clara.

834
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Post Office.

.

I
CoJty.

Charter Rock ...... .410 Berkeley .•.......••..•... Alameda.
Chateau Thierry ..•. 569 Oakland .......••••...•. Alameda.
Chico .............. 111 Chico ..... ; ............ Butte.
Chino Valley ..•... .427 Chino .................• San Bernardino.
Chula Vista .....•.. 626 Chula Vista ....•...••• San Dieg9,
Citro! •.. • •.•••.•..• 656 Brea: ..••••..•.•...•.•.• Orange.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena .......•. • •. Mendocino.
Claremont ......... 436 Claremont .......•...... Los Angeles.
Clay ............... 101 Dutch Flat .............. Placer.
Clear Lake .......... 183 Lower Lake ......•....... Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo .................... Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis ................. Fresno.
Coachella . . ....... .476 Coachella ..•....•...... Riverside.
Coalinga ........... 387 Coalinga ........•...... Tulare.
Compass ........... 590 Pomona ................ Los Angeles.
Concord ............ 117 Sacramento ...•.•..•••• Sacramento ..
Confidence ......... 203 Castroville ............. Monterey.
Consuelo ........... 325 Escondido ......••..... San Diego.
Corcoran .......... .490 Corcoran ....•.......... Kings.
Colusa .......•..... 240 Colusa •......... . ...... ('olusa.
Comp<>site ....•••••. 639 Los Angeles ..•........• Los Angeles.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ............ ·. Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena .............. Los Angele&.
Coronado .......... 441 Coronado ............... San Diego.
Covelo .........•... 231 Covelo •................ Mendocino.
Covenant .....•.••. 527 Los Angeles .....•..•.. Los Angelea.
Covina .....•....... 334 Covina ...........•..... Los Angeles.
Clarence F. Smith ... 482 Los Angeles ......•..... Los Angeles.
Craftsmen ..•.•.... 559 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Crescenta Valley •••. 652 Montrose •.••.......... Los Angeles.
0rescent ....... .- . . . 45 Crescent City ........... Del Norte.
Crocker ......•..... 454 Daly City .............. . San Mateo.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Culver City ........ .467 Culver City ......•...... Los Angeles.
Cupertino ...•...... 510 Cupertino .............. Santa Clara.
Curtis .•........... 140 Cloverdale ... . ......... Sonoma.
Chowchilla ......... 485 Chowchilla ..... . ....... Riverside.
Damascus ••.•.••••. 648 San Bernardino ..... .•••. San Bernardino. •
Delano ............. 309 Delano ................. Kern.
Dt>lta ........•..•.. 471 Stockton ........•.•.... San Joaquin.
Dimond ....•..•..•• 608 Oakland •....•.•.••••.• Alameda.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba ................ Tulare.
Doric ..•........•.. 216 San Francisco .... • ...... San Francisco.
Downey .....•...•.. 220 Downey ................ Loi! Angeles.

835

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County,

Drytown .....•..... 174 Plymouth .............. Amador.
Dunsmuir .......... 297 Dunsmuir .............. Siskiyou.
Durant ........•... 268 Berkeley ............... Alameda.
Eagle Rock .....•... 422 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
East Bay .....•..... 489 Berkeley ........•...... AlamAda.
East Belt .....••..• 391 Tuolumne .............. Tuolumne.
East Gate .......•.. 290 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
East San Diego ...•. 561 East San Diego ......... San Diego.
Eden ........••••.. 113 San Leandro ........... Alameda.
Educator ..••••.••• 554 San Francisco ...........San Francisco.
Eel River ..•.....•.. 147 Fortuna •.............. Humboldt.
El Cajon Valley ••... 576 . El Cajon .......... . .... San Diego.
El Centro .........•. 384 El Centro ............... Imperial.
El Dorado . • . • • . • • • • 26 Placerville ..•..•.••.•••• El Dorado.
Elk Grove .....•...• 173 Elk Grove .............. Sacramento.
Elmhurst ...•••....• 610 Oakland .........•.••. Alameda.
Elsinore .....•..... 289 Elsinore ............... Riverside.
El Segundo ....•••.. 507 El Segundo ............. Los Angeles.
El Sereno ...•...... 588 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Elysian •.....•..•.. 418 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs .................. Butte.
• Enterprise •...••... 70 Yuba City ....... . ...... Sutter.
Escalon ....••....•. 591 Escalon ................. San Joaquin.
Eucalyptus ......... 243 Haywards ...•.......... Alameda.
Euclid ......•...... 519 Loe Angeles · ..•.....•.. Los Angeles.
Eureka ............ 16 Auburn ...•............ Placer.
Evening Star ....... 186 Etna Mills ...•......... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside .............. Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Exeter .....•....... 424 Exeter ..... . ........... Tulare.
Fairfax •...••.•.•.. 556 Fairfax ...............•.Marin.
Fairview ..•.•..••. 629 Inglewood .............. Los Angeles.
Fairmount ...•..... 435 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fallbrook .......... 317 Fallbrook ..... . . . ...... San Diego.
Far West .•.••••.••• 673 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fellowship ......... 480 Oakland ............•.. Alameda.
Ferndale ........... 193 Ferndale .............•.. Humboldt.
Fidelity ........•.. 120 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fillmore ... ...•..... 379 Fill.more.: •..•.......... Ventura.
Florence ...•••.• , •. 649 Florence ....•......•.••. Los Angeles. .
Fontana ••••••..••. 653 Fontana •...•••..••••••. San Bernardino.
Foothill •..•..•••.. 564 Oakland .....•..•..•.... Alameda.
Forbestown •....... 50 Forbeetown •......•.••• Butte.
Forest .....•....... 66 Alleghany ....•.....••• Sierra.
Fort Bragg •.•..... 361 Fort Bragg ........•.... Mendocino.
Fort Crook ..•....•. 575 Fall River Mills ........ Shasta.

836

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
Fortitude .....•.•... 624 Oakland •.••.•••••.••• Alameda.
Franklin .....•..... 143 Courtland ..........•... Sacramento.
Francis Drake ...... 376 South San Francisco ..... San Mateo.
Francis K. Shattuck.571 Berkeley ..•..•......... .Alameda.
Fraternity .. ,. ...... 399 San Jose ••...•...•..•.. Santa O!.ara.
Fremont .....•.•••• 497 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Fresno . ........•... 247 Fresno .••........•..... Fresno.
Friendship ......... 210 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .....•.•.. 336 Oakland . ...... . • . ._ .... Alameda.
Fullerton ........•. 339 Fullerton ......... . .... Orange.
Galt ............... 267 Galt .................... Sacramento.
Garden Grove ..•... 586 Garden Grove ...........Orange.
Gardena . . ......... 372 Gardena ............... Los Angeles.
The Gardens .•...•.. 621 Los Angeles ........•.•• Los Angeles.
Garvanza ..•...... .492 Los Angeles ..•.•...•.•• Los Angele11.
Georgetown . . . . . . • . 25 Georgetown ............ El Dorado.
George Washington •. 525 San F;.-ancisco .....•..•. San Francisco.
G!assell Park ..••... 605 Los Angeles ........••• Los Angeles.
Glendale ..••.•..••. 544 Glendale ... . ..•.....••..Los Angeles.
Glendora. ........... 404 Glendora .....• ... ...... Los Angeles.
Golden City ...•••.•. 553 San Francisco ...........San Francisco.
Golden Gate. . . . . . . . 30 San Francisco ........ .. . San Francisco.
Golden Rule ........ 479 San Jose ..... .......... Santa Clara. ·
Golden West ...... .455 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Golden State . ....... 358 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Gold Hill . .... ...... 32 Lincoln ................ Placer.
Grafton ............ 141 Knights Landing ..•... Yolo.
Granada .........•.. 608 Alhambra .....•...•.•• Los Angeles.
Gravel Range ....... 59 Campton ville .......... Yuba.
Greenleaf ...•...•.. 670 Whittier ..•••...••......Los Angeles.
Grizzly .......•.•... 601 Portola ...•..•..•..•••. Plumas.
Guadalupe ......... 237 Guadalupe ............. Santa Barbara . .
Guardian ........ .. 596 South Gate ............. Los Angeles.
Hammonton ........ 433 Hammonton ........... Yuba.
Hanford .... ,. ..... 279 Hanford ............. .,.. Kings.
.
Harbor ..••........ 502 Richmond ........•..... Contra Costa.
Harding .......•... 584 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Harmony .....•.... 164 · Sierra City ............. Sierra.
Hartley . . ......•.•• 199 Lakeport .............. Lake.
Hawaiian ...•....... 21 Honolulu .....•...•.... Hawaiian Ter.
Hawthorne • ,', .••••. 647 Hawthorne ••••.•••.••••. Los Angeles.
Hemet ..•...... , .• ,615 Hemet •.•.•••.•...••••• Riverside.
Henry Clay ..•..•..• 95 Sutter Creek ............ Amador.
Henry Morse
Stephens ......... 541 Berkeley •.••..•••••••• Alameda.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

837

No.
Post Orfice.
County.
Lodge.
Henry Knox .•...... 662 Los Angeles .....•..•••. Los Angeles.
Hermann ......•.... 127 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Hermosa •.•.••••••. 557 Hermosa Beach •..•..• Los Angeles.
Hesperian .......... 264 Santa Maria .....•...... Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ...... 3!<2 Los Angeles .........•.. Los Angeles.
Hillcrest ..•..... , .. 573 Berkeley ................Alameda.
Hill's Ferry....... . . 236 Newman ............... Stanislaus.
Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado ............. • El Dora.do.
Henry S; Orme . .. .. 458 Los Angeles .. .... .. .. . . Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck .. ...... 3l9 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Hollywood ........ . 355 Hollywood ............. Los Angeles.
Holtville ......... .425 Holtville ...•.....•.••• Imperial . .
Honolulu ........... 409 Honolulu .............. Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith .............. Plumas.
llornitos ........ .. . 98 Hornitos ............... Mariposa.
Howard .......•.... 37 Yreka ................. Siskiyou.
Humboldt .......... 79 Eureka ................ Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beach .... .. Orange.
Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax ................. Placer.
Tmperial ........... 390 Imperial ............... Imperial.
Ingleside .....•••. , . 630 San Francisco .••....•• San Francisco.
Tnglewood ........ .421 Inglewood ............. Los Angeles.
Fairview ...•...... 629 Inglewood ..........• Los Angeles.
Indian Rock ........ 638 Berkeley ............. • . Alameda.
Inyo .............. . 221 Independence .......... Inyo.
Ione ............... 80 lone .................. Amador.
Ionic .............. 520 Los Angeles •.•..•..•.• Los Angeles.
James. A. Foshay ..•. 640 Los Angeles ..........•• .Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield ... 566 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
James Madison ...•.. 572 Los Angeles ....... , ..•• Los Angeles.
Jefferson .......... 97 Laporte ................ Plumas.
Janesville ......... 232 Lassen ................. Lassen.
Jewel ......•.. -. ... 374 San Francisco ...... , , .. San Francisco. ·
John Marshall , , , , •. 636 West Hollywood ..•...••• Los Angeles.
John P. Jarman ..... 669 San Jose .••....•........ Santa Clara.
Jonathan ...... , , .. 545 San Francisco •.....•.•. San Francisco.
Joppa ............. 508 San Joaquin ........... Fresno.
Jordan ..•• , , , • , .... 654 Los Angeles .........••. Los Angeles.
Jubilee ............. 604 Santa Ana .............. Orange.
Justice .......•.... 549 San Francisco •......... San Francisco.
Kauai ............. 589 Lihue .................. Kauai, T. H.
Kaweah ............ 665 Woodlake ............... Tulare.
Keith ............• 187 Gilroy ........... , ..... Santa Clara.
Kerman · ..•. , .... , .420 Kerman ... , ............ Fresno.
Keystone .......•.. 161 Milton ................. Calaveras.

838

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Post Ol'Hce.
County.
No.
Kilauea .......•.•. 330 Hilo .........•..•.••••• Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ••.... 209 San Luis Obispo ......... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco .•.•••••.. San Francisco.
Knox, Henry ........ 662 Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
La Brea •..•...•••.. 650 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
La Cum bre ...•••••. 642 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
La Fayette •...••.. 126 Sebastopol ....•........• Sonoma.
Laguna Beach ..•.... 672 Laguna Beach ........... Orange.
La Habra .•...•..•. 659 La Habra ...............Orange.
La Jolla ........... 518 San Diego .........•.•• San Diego.
Lakeshore .......•• 551 Oakland •.....••..•..•. Alameda.
Lamanda Park .•... 627 Pasadena .........•...•. Los Angeles.
La Mesa .........•. 407 La Mesa .........•..••.. San Diego.
Lancaster ....•••.. 437 Lancaster ..•.........•. Los Angeles.
Lankershim •....... 542 North Hollywood ........ Los Angeles.
Landmark ......... 253 Esparto ..............•• Yolo.
La Puente ••....... 446 Puente ..........•...... Los Angeles.
[,archmont .....•. , .. 614 Los Angeles .........•.. Los Angeles.
Las Palmas ........ 366 .Fresno ......•.......... Fresno.
Lassen .......•.... 149 Susanville ..........••.• Lassen.
J,aurel .....•....... 245 Willows ................ Glenn.
J,ebanon ••....•.... 495 San Francisco ....•••••• San Francisco.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu ••..•........•. Hawaiian Ter.
· Lexington .•......• 104 El Monte ...... , ........ Los Angeles.
Liberal Arts .••••••• 677 Los Angeles ..•......•.•• Los Angeles.
Libertas .......••.. 466 Bakersfield •...••.•.•.. Kern.
Liberty ........•... 299 Santa Clara ............ Santa Clara.
Lincoln ............ 470 San Francisco .....•.... San Francisco.
Lindsay ..........• 416 Lindsay .....•.......... Tulare.
Li:ve Oak ...•...... 61 Oakland ..............• Alameda.
Livingston ...•...•. 658 Livingston ...•....•.•.. Merced.
Lodi ...........•.. 256 Lodi .•.........•....... San Joaquin.
Lomita ............ 644 Lomita ................. Los Angeles. ·
Lompoc ............ 262 Lompoc ...........•.... Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ..••.... 327 Long Boch ..........•. Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles .....•...... Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos .....•.•...•.• Merced.
Los Cerritos ........ 674 Long Beach ..•.......... Los Angeles.
Los Gatos ....•.••.. 292 Los Gatos ...........••. Santa Clara.
Loyalton •..••.•.•. 359 Loyal ton .......•...•••• Sierra.
Loyalty ...•.••.••• 529 Los Angeles .•.••••••••• Los Angeles.
Lynwood .•...•.•••• 600 Lynwood .......•••••••• Los Angeles.
Madera .....•...•.. 280 Madera . .. . .. ..•..... . . Madera.
Madison ....•. . .... 23 Grass Valley ........•.• Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
Malta •..•......... 661 l•os Angeles .•..•...•••. Los Antreles,
Lodge.

GHAND LODGE 01<' CALIFORNIA

839

Lodge.
No.
Post Otrlce.
County.
Mauchester ........ 585 Los Angeles .......•...• Los Angeles.
Maricopa ....•..... 434 Maricopa .............. Kern.
Marin .....•....... 191 San Rafael ............. Marin.
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . 24 Mariposa .............. Mariposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez . .. ....•...... Contra Costa.
Maui ...........•.. 472 Maui, Kahului. ......... Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ............... Colusa.
McCloud ........... 430 McCloud ..... .. ..•..... Siskiyou.
McKinley .......... 347 Richmond .............• Contra Costa.
Melrose .......... . . 602 Los Angeles .......•••• Los Angeles.
Menlo Park ••....•. 651 Menlo Park ......••••... San Mateo.
Menorah ........... 623 Los Angeles .•..••..••• Los Angeles.
Men1locino ......... 179 Mendocino ............. Mendocino.
Meridian .....•.... 667 Glendale .....•........•. Los Angeles.
Metropolitan .....•. 646 Los Angeles ...........•. Los Angeles.
Midway ........... 426 Taft .................. Kern.
Military Service .... 570 San Francisco ..•..•.....San Francisco.
Mill Valley ......... 356 Mill Valley ... .. .•...... Marin.
Mission ............ 169 San Francisco . ... ...... San Francisro.
Mizpah ............ 378 Los Angeles .. . .. .. .. ... Los Angeles.
Modesto .•.... , .••• 675 Modesto ...•.••.•..••••. Stanislaus.
Molino .. . . . ....... 150 Tehama ............... Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles .•.. . .. ....• Los Angeles.
Montebello ... .. . ... 451 Montebello ......... .... Los Angeles.
Monrovia ..•....... 308 Monrovia •............. Los Angeles.
Monterey . ... ...... 217 Monterey . .. . . . ...•. •. . Monterey.
Monte Vista •••••••• 655 Long Beach ••.•••••.••• . Los Angeles.
Morgan Hill ........ 463 Morgan Hill .. .. .. .... . . Santa Clara.
Morning Star .... . .. 68 Stockton .....•.. .. ..... San Joaquin.
Mosaic ........ .... 218 Livermore •.....•...... Alameda.
Monnt Davidson .... 481 San Francisco •...•..... San Francisco.
Mount Diablo ....... 448 Concord ..•............ Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville •.•......••. Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ... .. . 44 San Francisco •.....•... San Francisco.
Mount Olive . .' ...... 506 Los Angeles .. •.. ....•.. Los Angeles.
Mount Oso ......... 460 Tracy ...........•....• San Joaquin.
Mount Vernon ..... :317 San Francisco ..••.•..•. San Francisco.
Mountain Shane ..... 18 Downieville .... ..... ... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ....... 281 Anderson .............. Shasta.
Mountain View ...... 194 Mountain View .. .. . •... Santa Clar~ .
1'\atoma . . ...... .... 64 Folsom ..•.... ........ . . Sacramento.
"!'\avnl ............• 87 Vallejo ......•....•.•.. Solano.
Needles ............ 326 Needles .......•...•... San Bern1u<l.ino.
~e;ltune ....••..••• 619 Long Beach .•...•••••• Los Angeles.
Nevada ............ 13 Nevada City ....... . •.. Nevada.

840

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

[,odge.
No.
Post Ofl'lce.
County.
Newville : . . ..... . .. 205 Paskenta . .. . ...... . ... Tehama.
Nicolaus . .. . .. . . . .. 129 Wheatland ... .... . ..... Yuba.
Normal Heights ..••. 632 San Diego .. ••.. . •..•• •• San 'Diego.
North Butte ... . .... 230 Gridley ........ , . . . . . .• Butte.
North East . . ... . ... 266 Fort Bidwell ......•..... Modoc.
Northern Light...... 190 Millville ............... Shasta.
North Star.......... 91 Fort Jones .............. Siskiyou.
Norwalk ....... . ... 315 Norwalk ............... Los Angeles.
Oakdale .. ; ......... 275 Oakdale . . .. ........... Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ... , ...... 215 Alameda ... . . .... . . . ... Alameda.
Oakland ..... . ..... 188 Oakland .. ... .... .. .. . • Alameda.
Oasis •......... . ... 664 El Centro . .. ........... Imperial.
Occidental ... . .. .. . 22 San Francisco ..•.... .. . San Francisco.
Ocean Park . .. .. .... 369 Oceanpark . . ........ . .. Los Angeles. ·
Oceanside . . .. . ..... 381 Ocean.side . .... . . . ... , .. San Diego.
Ojai ..... .. ........ 663 Ojai. .. . ....... : .......• Ventura.
Olive Branch ... . . . . 269 Tulare .. .. .... . ........ Tulare.
Olivet ... . .. .. ... . . 2~5 Corning . . . . . ..... . ... . .Tehama.
Ontario . .. . .. . . . ... 301 Ontario . . . . . ... . .. ... . . San Bernardino.
Ophir .. • : . .. . . . . . . . 33 Murphy ' s ... . .... . .... . Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... . 293 Orange ...... . ......... Orange.
Oriental ......... . . 144 San Francisco ... . .... . . San Francisco.
Orland . ... . .. ... .. 265 Orland . . . .. .... ...... •Glenn.
Orosi ....... ... . .•.. 383 Orosi . .. .. • . ~ ... . .. .. . . Tulare.
Oroville ... .... ... . . 103 Oroville · . .. . . • .. ....... Butte.
Oxnard ......... , . . 341 Oxnard ... . .. . . ... ..... Ventura.
Pacific ..•. . .. . •.. . . 136 San Francisco . . .. ...... San Francisco. ·
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove . . ......... Monterey.
Pajaro ............. llO Watsonville . ........... Santa Cruz.
Palestine ........... 351 Los Angeles . ........... Los Angeles.
Palisades ........ . . 637 Santa Monica ..•.•....•. Los Angeles.
Palms . . . .. , ..... .. 512 Palms ...... .. .. . .. . ... Lo11 Angeles.
Palo Alto....... . ... 346 Palo Alto . ..... .. .. .•.. . Sar t a Clara.
Palos Verdes . .. . . . , . 389 Long Beach . .. .. . . . .... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union . .. . .• 17 San Fra ncisco . . . ....... San F rancisco.
Park ... . ......... .449 San Francisco . ..... . ... San Francisco.
Park Boule~ard ..... 568 Oakland ......•......... Alameda.
Parnassus . .. . . ..... 388 San Francisco ..•..... . . San Francisco.
Pasadena ... . ..... . 272 Pasadena ... . .. . ....... Los Angeles.
Paso Robles . . . . . . . . 286 Paso Robles . . ..... . . .. .. San Luis Obispo
Patterson .....•... ,488 Patterson . . ... .. . .. . . .. Sta nislaus.
Paul Revere . .. .. . . .462 San F ra ncisco .. . . . .. . . . San FrRn<'iR<'o.
Pearl Harbor • • .... 598 Honolulu ..... ... .. ... . . Hawaiia n Ter.

GRA..'l"D LODGE O F CALIFORNIA

841

Post Ofl'lce.
County.
Lodfe.
No.
l'enrhyn • . . . . . . , •.-. 258 Penryn ......... • .... . . P la cer.
Pentalpha •. .. . .... . 202 Los Angeles ....... . . .. . L os Angeles.
Perris .......... . . , .411 Perris ........ , .. .. .... Riverside.
Petaluma ... .. •.•.. 180 Petaluma . . •...... • ... . Sonoma.
Phoenix . .......... 178 San Bernardino . . . ... . .. San Bernardino
Piedmont •.•..•..•• 521 Piedmont ..•.•••••••. •. Alameda.
Pinole ...••.•.•.... 353 Pinole .....•... . ...... . Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .•• . ...... 429 Pittsburg .....•... . ... . Contra Costa:
Plumas ...••..•.•..• 60 Quincy ..••..•.•. . •.• •• . Plumas.
Plymouth . .• . ••••• . 560 Oakland , ••. , •.• , ...• . .• Alameda.
Poinsettia • • • •• , .•• 633 Ventura .,, , ..•.•..•..•. Ventura.
Point .............. 503 Richmond ... , .. , • , •..••. Cont ra Costa.
Point F irmin ...• . . . 558 San Pedro .... , . . , . . ... . Los Angele3.
Point Loma ....••••. 620 San Diego ... , •...•..• . . San Diego.
Pomona ............ 246 Pomona .... , . . ......•... Los Angeles.
Porterville •• .•..... 303 Porterville ... . .....•. . .• Tulare.
Presidio ........... 354 San F rancisco . . ... . . . .. San Francisco
Progressive ...... . . 578 Los Angeles .. .. . .. . .... L os Angeles.
Provident ..• . ..••. •609 Sacramen to ... . . ... , . •. . Sacra mento.
Pyramid ........... 562 San Francisco ..... . . . .. San Francis<'o
Queen Beach ....... 540 Long Beach , ... . . , , . .• . . Los Angeles.
Ramona ......... .. . 457 Monterey Park , ....... . L os Angeles
Reading ........... . 254 Bedding ... . , .... . ...... Shast a.
Redlands .......... . 300 Redlands .. • •..••. . .. .• . San Bernardino
Redondo ............ 328 Redondo ................ Los Angeles.
Redwood City ..•... 168 Redwood City ........... San Mateo.
Reedley ............ 30f Reedley ... . , ......•... •Fresno.
Reseda . .. ........ . 666 Reseda ..•..•...... . .... Los Angeles.
Rialto ............. . 582 Rialto ..... , .. , , . . . • •.. ,Sa~ Bernardino..
Richmond . . . . , , . , , . 375 San Francisco , ..•... . . . San Francisco.
Rio Vista ......... . . 208 Hio Vist a . . . ...... .. .. . . Solano.
Rising Light .• . • . . . 397 Hun tington Park ... .. .. L os Angeles.
Riverbank .. .. ...•• 459 Riverbank •... , .. , ••• • .• Stanislaus.
Riverdale .•........ 496 Riverdale , , ; • . . , . ... ..• . Fresno.
Riverside • •..•.•.•. (i35 Riverside ................ Riverside. ·
Rock ridge .........• 463 Oakland ....... , ... . .. , .Alameda.
Roosevelt ........... 500 San Francisco , , ; .. ·~ .. . , San Francisco
Rose 's Bar . . . . . . . . . . 89 Smart sville . , ... . .• , ...• Yuba.
Roseville .... . , ..... 222 Roseville . , .. . ; , ..•. • . . . P la cer.
Russian River . , • .. 181 Windsor ... . . , ..... , : . .. Sonoma.
Sacramento . . . . . . . • 40 Sacram en to .. . . , ..•.••.. Sacramento.
Saint Helena ·. . . . . . . 93 St . Helena . .' .. . ,, .. . . ..• Na pa.
Salinas ..... . ....... 204 Salinas ...... .. ... , . .. .. Monterey.

842

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
San Benito ••....••. 211 Hollister .......•..•.••.. San Benito.
San Buenaventura .. 214 Ventura ..... . .•..•... , . Ventura.
San Clemente .••.... 671 San Clemente ........... Orange.
San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ... , . ......... San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas .......... .... Los Angeles.
San Gabriel ........ 546 San Gabriel ............ Los Angeles.
San Gorgonio .. •.... 668 Banning .....•. .. ...•.•. Riverside.
Sanger . . ...•.•..... 316 Sanger ...•... • . , .•.•..• Fresno.
San Bernardino .... 348 San Bernardino ......... San Bernardino.
San Fernando .....•. 343 Fernando ..... , .•..•..•. Los Angeles.
San Francisco ...... 360 San Francisco •......... San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ............ Riverside.
San Joaquin . . ...... 19 Stockton ............... San Joaquin.
San Jose .. . • . . .. . • 10 San Jose ... : ........... Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo .............. San Mateo.
San Miguel .....•... 285 San Miguel. ...• . ... . ... San Luis Obispo
San Pasqual . . ...... 452 Pasadena .............. Los Angeles.
San Pedro .......... 332 San Pedro ... , .......... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana .. • ....... 241 Santa Ana . ..........•.• Orange.
Santa · Barbara ......192 Santa Barbara . ••... . ... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ...•..... 38 Santa Cruz ..... . .... • .. Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia .. .. .... 302 Kings City ............. Monterey.
Santa Maria . . .. ... . 580 Ramona .. ..•. .. •........San Diego.
Santa Monica .. , .... 307 Santa Monica .... •....• . Los Angeles.
Santa Paula.: ....•.. 291 Santa Paula .... .. .... . •Ventura.
Santa Rosa . .. .. .... 57 Santa Rosa ..... . ....... Sonoma.
San Simeon ....•.... 196 Cambria .•............. San Luis Obispo
Schofield . , ......... 443 Schofield Barracks ...... Hawaiian Ter.
Seal Beach .. , .••. , .616 Seal Beach .... • .•.•••. Orange.
Seal Rock . .• •• , •... 536 San .t'rancisco ..•.....• • San Francisco.
Searchlight •.•..•.. 567 Long Beach ...• . ........Los Angeles.
Seaport ", ••••••.•... 550 San Francisco . ........ , .San Francisco.
Seaside .•.......... 504 Long Beach ....•.... . .. Los Angeles.
Security ........... 581 Bakersfield ..... . ....... Kern.
Selma ..••.••...... 277 Selma ..•.•....... .•. .. Fresno.
Semper Virens ...••. 552 Eureka ..•..•..•. . .... .. Humboldt.
Sequoia •......•.... 349 Oakland . ...... .. .... . . Alameda.
Service •••.•••.•••• 594 Long Beach .. .. . . .. .... Los Angeles.
Sierra Madre .•..... 408 Sierra Madre ........... Los AngcleR.
Sierra Valley . . , .... 184 Sierraville .....•..... . . Sierra.
Signal ...••.••..••. 543 Long Beach ....••.......Los Angeles.
Silveyville ..•..•.•. 201 Dixon ..•. , ............ Solano.
Silver Cord, . . ..... . 505 Santa Ana ..... , . . , ... .. Orange.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Silver Gate ..•...• .. 296 San Diego ............. San Diego.
~ii ver Trowel. ...•.. 415 Los Angeles •.. • .•.•.... Los Angeles.
Sincerity ....•....• 132 Greenville ...... . ....•. Plumas.
Sisson ... , .•...•••. 310 Mount Shasta .•....••••• Siskiyou.
Smyrna ............ 532 Ceres •.•••••• , ........ Stanislaus
Snow Mountain ..... 271 Stony Ford .. , ... , • , . , .. Colusa.
Sojourner •••• ••• ••. 507 Monrovia . .•• ••. , ••...• Los Angeles.
Solano , .....•.. . ... 229 Vallejo . . .... .. ...... .. . Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg ...•. , •..••• Sonoma.
8outher.u California ..·278 Los Angeles .... .. .... · ·Los Angeles.
South Gate.......... 320 Los Angeles .. ........• ·Los Angeles.
Southland .....•.... 618 Los. Angeles ••..•.•...• Los Angeles.
South Park .....••.. 563 Los Angeles ... .. ..... . . Los Angeles.
South Pasadena' ..... 367 South Pasadena . . ......• Los Angeles.
South San Francisco. 212 San l<'rancisco . .. .. . ... ·San Francisco.
South West .... , .. , . 283 National City .. . ....... ·San Diego.
Speranza Italiana .•. 219 San Francisco ....... .. .. San Francisco.
· John D. Spreckels ••• 657 San Diego .•.•..•..••.•. San Diego,
Standard ........... 440 Oa1dand •......... . ... ·Alameda.
Stanislaus ..... , ... 206 Modesto ............... Stanislaus.
Starr King..... . .. , . 344 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Stockton .....•..... 498 Stockton ........ .. .•. . San Joaquin.
Suisun ... .. .... . .. . 55 Suisun ............ . . . .. Solano.
Summit ...... . , .... 112 Knights Ferry . . ........ Stanislaus.
Sun Garden ••. • •... 530 Fresno ..•..•..••.•.••• Fresno
Sunnyside •...•.•••• 577 Los Angeles ...•...•.... Los Aµgeles.
Sunnyvale •... . •... 511 Sunnyvale ... . ...... . .. Santa Clara.
Sunrise .......•..•. 522 Los Angeles . ~ •.••.••.• Los Angeles.
Sunset .....•.. , . ... 352 Los Angeles .....•.. . .... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .. .. . 235 Cedarville . .• • ........• Modoc.
S. W. Hackett .••... 574 San Diego ..••••. . •••••. San Diego.
Table Mountain .. •.. 124 Cherokee , .............. Butte.
Taft ... •..... ••• •.• 516 Taft ••••••• : .••. , ...•• Kern.
Tehachapi ..... . . . . . 313 Tehachapi ............. Kern,
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento ..... , , .. . .. Sacramento.
Temescal ......... .. 314 Corona •.•.......•.•..• Riverside.
Temblor . .•........ 477 Fellows •... " •...•.•...• Kern.
Temple City ..•.••.. 612 Temple .•...•..•..•••••••Los Angeles.
Temple •......... . • 14 Sonoma ..... , ...•.... , .Sonoma.
Texas .. ......• • ...• 46 San Juan .. ............. San Benito.
Thousand Oaks .. , .. 478 Berkeley •••...• , . • •••• Alameda.
Three Pillars ..••... 613 Sacramento •••..•••••• Sacramento.
Torrance •.......•.. 447 Torrance .•... . . .. . , .... Los Angeles.

843

844
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Post O!!lce.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
County.

Traver •..•••••.•••• 294 Kingsburg ............. Fresno.
Triangle ..•..•..••. 548 Venice ..••.•..••..•.•.• Los Angeles.
Trinity ..•......... 27 Weaverville .........••. Trinity.
Truckee ...••.•.•... 200 Truckee ............... Nevada.
Truth ....•..•.•••• 597 Los Angeles . ...•....... Los Angeles.
Tujunga .....•••••. 592 Tujunga ..•••.••.. : ...•. Los Angeles.
Tuolumne . . . . . . • • . . 8 Sonora ....•... .. ...... Tuommne.
Turlock ............ 395 Turlock ................ Stanislaus.
Tuscan .........•.. 261 Williams ..•..•........ Colusa.
Tyrian ...•..•..•.•. 439 Manteca .... . ...•...... San Joaquin.
Union ....•...•.... 58 Sacramento .........•.. Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale ............... Los Angeles.
University ...••..•. 394 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Upland ........•.•. 419 Upland .•......•....... San Bernardino.
Utopia ......•.•..•. 537 Los Anr;eles ..•..•..•.. Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville ........•..... Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles .....•...• , .Los Angeles.
Vallejo ..•........ .487 Vallejo ...•.•.•........ Solano.
Valley ............. 135 Linden · .....•.......... San Joaquin.
Valley Forge ••.••• 587 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Van Nuys ......•.. .450 Van Nuys ..•........... Los Angeles.
Veritas ••.••.••.•.. 640 San Francisco .••.....•.. San Francisco.
Vermont Square ..•• 515 Los Angeles •.•..•.••.. Los Angeles.
Vesper ............. 84 Red Bluff ............... Tehama.
Veteran .........•.. 373 Sawtelle ......•.......• Los Angeles.
Victorville ••••••••. 634 Victorville .•.......•••..San Bernardino.
Victory ............ 474 San Francisco ....•....• San Francisco.
Visalia ........ ; .... 128 Visalia ................ Tulare.
Vitruvius ....•..... 145 Bloomfield ............. Sonoma.
Volcano •..........• 56 Volcano ............... Amador.
Warren G. Harding.579 North Sacramento ..•...•Sacramento.
Wasco .. ...• .••• ••• 583 W1!5CO . .•.....•....••.• . Kern.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Waucoba .....•.... 413 Big Pine . •. ............ Inyo.
Welcome ........... 255 Lemoore ..•.........•.. Kings.
West Adams .....•.. 565 Los Angeles ...•....•..• Los Angeles.
Western Star . ..• . . . . 2 Shasta ......•.•....... Shasta.
W.e11t Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles .....•..... Los Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Westwood .......... 501 Westwood .... ... ...... Lassen.
White Pine ..•.....• 555 Weed . . ...•...•.......•.Siskiyou.
Whittier ......... . . 323 Whittier •• ............. Los Angeles.
Willits ........•..•. 365 Willits . ... . ... ........ Mendocino.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

845
County.

Willow Glen .••••••• 676Willow Glen ...••...•..• Santa Clara·.
Wilmington •....•.. 198 Wilmington ..•.. . ..• ..• Los Angeles.
Wilshire ..•..••.... 44S Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Winnedumah .•.•..• 287 Bishop ...............• Inyo.
\Voodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge .•.... : ..... San Joaquin.
Woodland .....•.... 156 Woodland ............. Yolo.
Woodstock .••..... . 491 Alameda ............... Alameda.
· Yerba Buena ..•..... 403 Oakland ...•.•...•....• Alameda.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo .................. Yolo.
Yorba Linda . . ... ,. .469 Yorba Linda ...•••..••• Orange.
York ..••.•...•.... 423 Watts ................. Los Ange!~s.
Yosemite ........... 99 Merced ....•.....•.•... Merced.
Yount ............. 12 Napa .................• Napa.

INDEX-1933
Page

A
Accounts-Report of Committee on-················-················--······-········630
Activities Committee-Appropriation for ..·-····-···········-················-····745
Affiliates, exemption from Home tax proposed---······-···-···············.;727
Anchor Lodge-Financial losses............................. _.............................-483
Annual Election of Officers............._..... '...................................._............794
Annual Oration-By Oakley K. Morton...........................- .................523
Arrest of Fairmount Charter·-······-·--···•····-··-···---·-····-···--······-494
Artesia Lodge-Financial losses ..-·····-·······--······-·--·······-·······-··-·:-483
Assets of Grand L9dge......................................................................506; 519
Audit of Grand Lodge b<;>oks....................................................................744

B
Bahia-Assistance proffered by..........................- ......:...........:..................484
Beer at Masonic gatherings........................................................................731
Bell Lodge-Financial losses.............................................. _....................483
Bellflower Lodge-Financial losses.................- ...·---·-·······-···-···-·······483
Blackmer Lodge-Duplicate charter issued.......·-···-···········---·······-··505
Board of Control-Grand Master's comments on................................489
Masonic Relief Association................................................................688
Reimbursements recommended ·····················-·································691
Reimbursements secured ----····-······-·········-··--········-··········-········636
Report of ._.,......,........,,•........,........................................................._ ...........684
Boards of Relief-Reimbursements tq·············-·-···············--······-····;.739'
Bowen, Herbert S.-Eulogy in memoriam Wallace R. Farrington ..660
Brooke, Raymond F.-Appointed Representative Ireland ..................505
Budget for 1934........................·--·-······--·-·-···-·-··--·----····-·······741
Budget for Lodges proposed................._. ____._....--····---··-·--497, 720
Burial plot-Ceremony for dedicating_............__...............- .......505, 728
By-Laws-Amendments approved ··--············"'-·····----·····-···-············511
Budget proposed ····················································--;-··-····-----2Z9
Proposal to limit salary of Secretary.. _.........................................•723
Report of Committee on......................................................................683

ii

INDEX

c

INDEX

iii

Page

Canal Zone, Relief Association .......... ~ ......:................................................ 742
Ceremony for dedicating burial ploL............:... ·-·····-··-········-······505, 728 .
Charter-Arrest of Fairmount Lodge ........ ·-···························-·············494
Rights of members of arrested.....·-··················-···········-············'···736
Clandestine Masonry-Report of Committee on ....;... _......................664 ·
Committees of Grand Lodge-List of................._..................:..............797
Conference of Grand Masters.·-·····-···············-·······················-················484
Conference of Grand Secretaries ..............................................................505
Consolidation of Lodges-Grand Master's reference to ...................... 492
Constitutional amendments proposed:
Section 41, subdivision 1st-Lost .............................................. 530, 727
Section 41, subdivision 3d-Lost ................ :...........·-···-··-········•····529
Section 41, 4th subdivision-Lost ·········.·······-·-···-····-·-···············53Q
Section 43, 12th subdivision-Lost ···-···,.-········-········--·-··---529. 730
Section 54--Adopted ···········'······-··············:·-······-·········-·········-········735
Section 88--Lost ········-···········-···························--·-··-···-··723, 736
Section 89-Adopted ····························-··-·············-·····-········--·····733
Section 137-Adopted ·······················-···········--········-·--------135
Section 150--Lost ········--············-··········---------··········--•~---..,.:.72J
Section 160--Lost ······················································-··--··········-·-··-530
Section 165-Adopted ··························-~---·--··········--···--·················736
Section 200-Adopted -~---···································--······················'·······734
Section 202-Adopted ...................... :..........·-···---········-····················734
Section 205-Adopted ············-··············-·····-··········--·:..··········-··---,.'134
Section 216--Lost ·················-··············-····-·······-·--·-···'···-··531, 730
Section 229-Adopted ·····················-·······-~---···-··-······-··:··-··-···737
Crawford, William E.-Appointed Representative York Grand
Lodge.'······························--············--···········"········-··:·-···········-505
Credentials-Report of Committee on ...•...~ ........................•.....................750

D
Decisions-Proposal to print in advance ........ ,....................................... 730
Dedication ceremony, burial plots, approved ......................................728
Dexter, Cralis-Grand Master's tribute to .................... ~----···· ···········.478
Tribute to memory of, by Grand Lecturer..................- ................522
Devotional Service ······································--·-······-··.;...:.~ ........•........... :..472
Disbursements of Grand Lodge .......................................·-················----515
Dispensations issued by Grand Master...........·-············:·-··········511, 736

Page
Dual members-Proposed exemption of fees to Homes .................. 530
Dues receipts-Proposed change of form .....~ .......................................... 729
Dues-Remission other than in July.~v-····-·············································721
Dues to Grand L9dge--Proposed installment payments ......... .497, 724
Duplicate charters issued ...........................................:................................ 505

E
Earthquake-Action of Grand Master.........................................•........482

.~~~~::sr~o:::~t~~~-~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Relief for :i:..,odges........ ,..................•.•.................................................... 741
Ebbitt, Frank K.-Letter froiw-····--··························--···························: ..682
Employment service-Appropriations for ............................ 706, 707, 739

End~:;:~t 0~~-~~~~~µ~~:::::::=::~;
Endowment Fund-Composition of ..................................- .................... 551
Donations to ··········-····-···················-······•···········································628
Eulogy in memoriam George M. Perine ............................................ ,.....658
In memoriam Wallace R. Farrington ..............................................660
Expenses of Grand Lodge-Proposal to reduce ............... :~ .......631, 681
Report of Finance Committee ............................................................ 738

F
Fairmount Lodge-Arrest of charter....................................................494
Resolution by Inspector Guyett..................•.....•.............................646
Report of Special Committee on ........................"······················-·····644
Rights of members ...............................................................,................ 736
Farrington, Wallace R.-Eulogy in memoriam ....................................660
Fees for degrees-Grand Master's views as to............................492, 501
Fifty-year buttons issued ..................................- ........ ~ ............................... 506
Financing building projects-Report of Committee............................ 620
Financial statements-Grand Master's recommendation ................. .497
Florence Lodge-Financial losses ............,..............................................:483
Form of dues receipts-Proposal to charge .................................. :....... 729
Fraser, James T.-Acting Grand Treasurer........................................472

iv

INDEX

INDEX

G

Page

Page

George Washington Lodge-Transfer of trial from ........................481
Gillispie, Samuel T.-Tribute to, by Grand Master............................478
Tribute to memory of, by Grand Lecturer....................................522
Grafton Lodge-dedication of hall:.........................................................475
Grand Lodge dues-Installment payments ..........................................724
Grand Lecturer-Annual report ..............................................................521
Commendation of by Grand Master..............................................:.498
Report of Committee on Report of.. ................................................643
Grand Master-Annual Message..............................:..................•............474
Arrest of Fairmount charter............................................- ................494
Appreciation of favors granted to .........................- .........................499
.3.2 beer ·----~---···············································································'-489, 731
Biography of .................................................................. :..:....,......•........465
Board of Control .........................................................................:........489
Budget for Lodges proposed ....................................................497, 720
Circular letter relating to special election ...................................... 502
Conference of Grand Masters ..........................................................484
Consolidations favored ················································-······················492
Decision, Senior Deacon ..................................................................493
Dispensations issued .....,.....~; .............................................................736
Earthquake .............................................:................................~-----482, 741
Endowment Board ...............................................................................487
Fees for degrees-Circular letter............................................492, 501
Grand Lecturer, commendation of..................................................498
Inspectors, commendation of ..............................................................499
Installment payment of dues..............................................................724
Letter relative to special election ......................................................479
Masonic education ..............................................................................;.491
Masonic Histocy Committee ........................................'..........·-·······:.479
Masonic Homes ························-··························································486
Necrology ..............................................................................................478
Officers' associations ..........................................................................486
Pay of members ........................................,...........................................490
Portrait of ordered .................................................................;..............745
Public Schools Week ................................................................485, 500
Recommendations ........................................................................496, 720
Installment payment of Grand Lodge dues .......................... 497
Lease of property by Lodges..................................................497
Restricting Lodge expenditures ..............................................497
Salary of Lodge Secretary..........................................................497
Temple Associations to submit budgets ..................................497

v

Reimbursement for excess expenses .................................................743
Report of Committee on Message ....................................................527
Secretary of Lodge, salary..................................................................723
Secretary of Lodge to prepare financial statements..................497
Special Communications ....................................:...............................475
Transfer of trials ......:.......:.....................................................................481
Traveling expenses ·················-~---························································744
Unemployment ·····································································-~·-·············480
Vacation for Grand Secretary............................................................498
Visitations ······'··············································································-476, 477
Grand Secretary-Annual report ..............................................................504
Budget '··················:..................................................:..............................506
By-Laws, amendments approved .......................................:............511
Ceremony for dedicating burial plot ................................................505
Conference of Grand Secretaries ....................................................505
Dispensations issued .......................................:....................................511
Duplicate charters issued.............:..........:......:....................................505
Fifty-year buttons issued.......................................:............................506
Life memberships approved ................................................................511
Masonic Homes cash receipts .......................'..............c•••••••••••••••••••••• 516
Membership of Lodges.....................................,................................504
Receipts and disbursements ................................................................514
Report of auditors .............................._..................................................51,3
Representatives appointed ................................................................ 505
Trial records .................................;·······································-···············509
Unpaid dues ············································---~·-········································504
Vacation recommended ··············'··············································.498, 738
Grand Treasurer-Annual r.eport.. ...,........................................................518
Grievances-Reports of Committee on....................,.....................709, 719
Guyett, R. G.-Resolution relating to Fairmount Lodge..................644

H
Hawaiian Islands-Visits to by Grand Master.............:...........~..........477
History Committee-Grand Master's reference to................................479
Report of Policy Committee..........................,...................•...............729
History, Masonic-Report of Committee on Publication of............636
Home tax, exemptions proposed.........................,..,.................................727
Hunsee, Germano Fritz-Appointed Representative Bahia............505

VI

INDEX

l

INDEX
Page

Inglewood Lodges-Financial losses-...•.........'············-·······-·······'········483
Inspectors-Commendation of by Grand Master.................:...........~ ..499
I reland-Assisfance proffered by.......:......................................................484

K
Keesling, Francis V .-Telegram from .......................................- ...........473
Kosak, Erwin }.-Appointed Representative Guatemala.................... 505

L
Lease of property...................... ·-···-··-····~····--·····--··········--··················722
Lehman, Sidney K.-Acting Grand Sword Bearer____.........;..............472
Library-Report of Committee on-··························-·········---······-'··········631
Life memberships approved .............................................................~---·------511
Lindsay Lodge-Dedication of hall ......................:...................................475
Liquors-Grand Master's decision;.......·-······'·····································•·'··489
Long Beach Lodges-Financial losses ...........................................~-----··.483
Lynwood Lodge-Financial losses...................................................;........483

M
Masonic Education-Grand Master's reference to ................................491
Report of Committee on -~·-················:·-··-···················-········L- ...._.662
Report of Policy Committee on ........................................................725
Masonic History-Reference to by Grand Master..............................479
Report of Committee on ····'·-·····---·'-'··········-·······'··-····························634
Report of Committee on Publication of --········-··············-······•·····6J?
Masonic Homes-Annual report of Trustees........................................532
Cash receipts ----·-····-···························-················-·---'·-·····-'····················516
Covina- Admitted in the year".;······'··-·--·------··································609
Cash donations to....· -································-·-······-······················-599
Departures in the year ............- ...........:........................................608
Donations to ·······--'········-···················'··.····;..;_____.........................594
Entertainments at ················'··'····················:···········'···················592
List of children ~---·-"'·················-··············=·-····-'-········-·············60~
Outside relief-List of.._.................'.......'......,....- ................607, 610
Report of Supednten·d ent ....................~ ............:.........: ................587
.Visitations ·to ·'-······-'·:··--·-······-'-·····-'····-:-..:.···--···--·········-·······591

vii

Page
Decoto--Admitted in the year .....·-····································-·········-··-·SU
Cash donations to..____:............•..........·--·-········-·························-565
Departures ............... ~·-······················-······--·····-···············--'······--·586
Died in the year....····························································-····----584
Donations to -·········································-·········-···············-······---563
List of residents at .........- ..........................:... -~···················-····571
Outside relief-List of................................................................579
Report of Superintendent............................................................ 558
Visitations to --··········-······················································:.......561
Donations to Scholarships............:.....................................................534
Endowment Fund-Condition of.............:...........................:............551
Entertainment Fund '·······························-··········································S4l
Finances ..................................................................................................535
Grand Master's comments on ............................................................486
Legacies -···········----···················-·····································---·~·-·················535
List of securities......... :...:......................................................................544
Per capita tax levied......:..............:........................................................748
Report of Auditors...·········-····························-···············-···-·················537
Revenue and expens.e............................................................................546
Secretary's report ................................:...........................:.:...- ............538
Students' loan fund ...................- ............................................:..............542
Masonic Homes Endowment Board-Appropriation for ....................746
Masonic Service Association-Assistance proffered by...................... 484
Memorial services ··············································----·····-----·-·······················641
Message of Grand Master..........·-··················----···································---47J
Morton, Oakley K.-Annual oration by..................................................523

N
Necrology-Report of Committee on..........................................:...........647
Tribute by Grand Master..................................."'······················---····.478
Norwalk Lodge--Financial losses.............:...................................:..........483

0
Officers of Grand Lodge ............................................,....•...................470, 471
Officers present at Grand Lodge ······-··················-~·-·····--·-······················471
Officers' Associations-Grand Master's comments on........................486
0 hio--Assis tance proffered by ...;················:·············································484
Oration, A nnual- By Oakley K. Morton................................................ 523

Ore~_n-:--Assistance proffered by.......·.·······--···············-··············-··········484
1s1t to by Grand Master.................................................................c•• 476

viii

INDEX

p

INDEX
Page

Past Grand Masters at Grand Lodge........... :.......................... ,...,.............472
Pay of members-Appointment of Special Committee to study
question .................................................................. :......................... 490
Appropriation for ............................................................:................... 745
Report of Committee on ......... :............................................................708
Report of Special Committee on ........................................................ 680
Perine, George M.-Eulogy in memoriam ..............................................658
Policy and General Purposes-Reports of Committee ........................ 720
Proceedings of Grand Lodge-To reduce expenses oL ......:..~ ............681
Proposals to reduce expenses ....... :.................................................... 631, 681
Public Schools Week_:_Grand Master's comment on ..........................485
Proclamation of Grand Master ........................................................... 500
Report of Committee............................................................................611
Publication of Masonic History-Report of Committee on ................ 636

R
Receipts of Grand Secretary...................................................~ ................ :.514
Reduction of fees-Grand Master's views as to ... :............................... .492
Reese, David }.-Appropriation for expenses ........................................744
Relief-Reimbursement to Boards of .... :.................................................739
Reimbursement to Canal Zone Association ........ ............................742
See Board of Control.
Report of Berkeley U. C. Clubhouse ........................................................639
Report of-Board of Control...................................................................... 684
Committee on Acocunts .....................:................................................630
On Building Projects ........................................................................620
On By-Laws .............................................................. :.............:.......... :683
On Clandestine Masonry ..................................................................664
On Credentials ........................................ :............................:............... 750
On Fairmount Lodge ............................:.................................. :........644
On Grand Lecturer's Report ..:...........................................................643
On Grievances ...................................................................................... 709
On Library ........... ::........................................................... :...................631
On Masonic Education ........................................ ,....................... ,.....662
On Masonic History .............................................:............ ,...............634
On Necrology ........................................................ :................ :............647
On Pay of Members ........................ :............................................. ."... 708
On Public Schools Week ................. :..................................................611
On Publication of Masonic History....................................:........ :.. 636
On Returns .................................................... :............... ,.................:.... 66~
On Segregation .................................................................................... 527

IX

Page
On Finance ...................................•..................:...................................... 681
Activities Committee-Appropriation for .............................. 745
Appropriation for pay of members ............................. :........:..... 74:5
Audit of books .............................................................................. 744
Budget for 1934... _................................... .-....................................747
Endowment Board-Appropriation for ..."·····························746
Excess expenses of Grand Master...... :..................................... 743
Expenses of David J. Reese ......................................................744
Expenses of Grand Lodge ..........................................................738
Loan to Seal Beach Lodge.......................................................... 74'Z
Masonic Employment service ..................................................739
Masonic Homes, per capita tax ................................................ 748
Overdue notes of Lodges ........................................................... .742
Overpayment of Grand Lodge tax................................... :........ 74Z
Per capita tax levied .................................................................... 746
Portrait of Grand Master -······································..................... 745
Reimbursement to Boards of Relief.. ......................................739
Remission of Grand Lodge dues .....................:........................ 741
·Salaries ...........................................................:.................. :...:.........74!
Traveling expenses, Grand Master ........ :.......... ~ ........................ 744
University Club Houses ........................... :.: .............................. 743
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues .......................................................... 740
Jurisprudence-Arrested charter, rights of members .................. 736
Dispensations issued by Grand Master .................................... 736
Right of members to attend Masonic trials ............................ 733
Senior Deilcons, proficie'?cy of............................•..................... 735
Suspension of Lodge defined ......._. .............................................. 737
Testimonial for retiring Master....._. .......................................... 735
On Policy. and General Purposes--Affiliates, exemption
from Home tax .............................. ."...........·.....•..: ....,............. 727
3.2 be~~ :.. ."..".." ........:..........:.:....... :.. :.: ..........,... .":....'" .. :.•....;................ }31
Decisio.n"s-Prop~sal to print in advance ................................ 730
Dedication ceremony, burial plots ............................................ 728
Form of dues receipt ........••...........................................................71!}
Grand Master's recomm.e ndations ..... :.: ..................... ,.............. 720
_History Committee ...................;.....~····"···························-- 7 ~ ...".7'1J)
Installment payment of Grand Lodge d_ues ........................ :...724
Lease of property by L~dges ........ 7... .".. :········;···:·.•·'····::· ·:···-:··:·7~
Lodge Secretary's salary .. ,._........ ,...... ~·:·::·:·····:··:············-··,···-····:Z4'
Malt . liquors ._,.... ,.............•_..,.,,... ,.~ ..•... :.......:····,··.- -:,....•. :.. ,...,.n-'-Y,ll
Masonic education ...................................:........ :......... ,.............. :...725
.Remission of .dues and G~a~d . Lodge tax .... :.. ~ .................. ,. ....727

x

INDEX

TN DEX
Page

Temple Associations ·····-············································"·-···········621
Testimonial for retiring Master.......·-··················-·················723
Report-Of Endowment Board ................·-······························-············-623
Of Grand Secretary ·······--·····················-···········•··"'···-····-······'"··········504
Of Grand Treasurer .............:............. ·-·············-·-··-~-·-·-···········S18
. Of Grand Lecturer ····-··············-·····-············--··-········-················521
Of Special Committee on Pay of Members ....................................680
Of Temple Association ...........................•....•...................•...... ~..........629
Of U. C. Clubhouses.·-·································--······································641
Representatives appointed ·-············-·····•································-··-············SOS
Returns-Report of Committee on·····-········-·······--·-'·-'··--·······-············666
Rising Light ·Lodge-Financial losses .........,............ :.............................483
Riverbank Lodge-Dedication of ha1L. .......................•.........................47S
Rodden, George F.-Acting Senior Grand Warden ............................472

s
Salary of Lodge Secretary.....·-····················-····--············-······--··-··········497
Salaries-Resolution to reduce ........................·-··················-··················682
Sanger Lodge-Dedication of haU •.:•••.•..•.....- ...........................•.•............475
San Pedro Lodge-Financial losses ........•........_. ___ ..........- ......................483
San Simeon Lodge-Duplicate charter issued ...................................... SOS
Santa Ana Lodge-Financial losses ........................................................ 483
Seal Beach Lodge-Loan to .........- ......~ ..........................................483, 742
Secretary of Lodge-Proposal to limit salary........................................723
Senior Deacons-Proficiency rcquired ............................................493, 735
Sermon-By Grand Chaplain .. ·-·················-····-······································472
Snape, John-Devotional services ............................................................472
Special Communications of Grand Lodge ..............................................47S
Stickney, Clarence E.-Appointed Representative New
·Hampshire ··················-··································································SOS
Suspension of Lodge defined ........................ .,......................................:......737

T
Temple Association-Report of................................................................629
Temple Associations-Financial statements proposcd .. ,..................... 721
restimonial for retiring Masters ........•.................................. .497, 723, 735
Torrance Lodge-Financial losses ....................................: .......................483
Transfer of trials............ _.........·-································-·················•··············481
Trials-Right of members to attend ........................................................733
Trial records-List of... ·-····-··-··················-··'······;·····-········-~ ......... ,....-S09
Tuscan Lodge-Dedication of hall .....................................- ......•............47S

u

xi

Page

U. C. Berkeley Clubhouse-Report of....................................................639
U. C. Los Angeles Clubhouse-Report of..............................................641
Unemployment-Grand Master's circular letter ....................................480
University Clubhouses-Funds for .......................................................... 743
Unpaid Grand Lodge dues ..........................................................- .... 504, 740
Utah-Assis,tance proffered by..................................................................484

v
Vesper Lodge-Dedication of ha1L......................................................... .47S
Veteran buttons issucd ...................................... ;......................................... 506
Visitations of Grand Master........................................~ ..:..........................476

w
Whittier Lodge-Financial losses .............................................................4i3
Willits Lodge-Dedication of hall... ..........................•............................47S
Wilmington Lodge-Financial losscs.. ....................................................483
Wolff, Harry K.-Eulogy in memoriam George M. Perine ................ 658

y
York Lodge-Financial losscs................................ -·······-·························483
Yount Lodge-Dedication of hall............................................................ .47S

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California, 1933
REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE
October, 1933
BY JESSE M. WHITED

.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
Herewith is submitted my Thirteenth Report as Chairman of the
Correspondence Committee. As usual, the views expressed under the
various topics are the individual ideas of the Chairman.
No matters of unusual importance to the Fraternity appear to
have occupied the attention of the various Grand Lodges during .the
past year. In treating the various Topics, and expressing our opinions,
we trust that we may be in the position of a Speaker who often appeared upon the public rostrum. Being invited to fulfill an engagement in a city where he remembered he had spoken once before, he
wrote to a friend, asking if he could recall the subject of his address
at that time and a general idea of what he had said. The candid
friend replied that he had interviewed a number of persons, whom he
remembered had been present at the time in question. They had
uniformly replied that they did not remember the Speaker or anything that he had said, so consequently he was safe in discussing any
subject he pleased.
Some of the Topics or conditions that are of general interest and
find space in the various Proceedings, but which are not treated in the
general body of this Report, may be briefly summarized as follows:
BULLETINS-GRAND LODGE: Some Jurisdictions issue
Bulletins or publications at regular intervals, setting forth items of
general interest to the Craft. They have either a limited circulation
or are sent to all members. In both cases satisfactory results are
reported. The question of expense in the larger Jurisdictions has
been found to make the practice prohibitive.
One Jurisdiction issued a regular publication financed by voluntary subscriptions. It was found that this was not satisfactory, and
the Grand Lodge decided to furnish the paper to all members, meeting
the expense out of the per capita tax paid by the constituent Lodges.
This seems to be the only way to reach all the members, provided the
finances of a Jurisdiction are sufficient to take care of it.
DUAL MEMBERSHIP : Continued consideration and education along the line of Dual Membership has ·caused additional
Jurisdictions to adopt the plan.

·•

REPORT ON CORR ESPON DENCE

2

3

RE POR T ON COR RESPONDEN CE

The establishment of Lodges of Research, organized for the
purpose of study, but not allowed to rece_ive petitions or c?n~er
degrees, has also received favorable response ~n a number o~ Junsd1ctions. We believe it is one of the most practical and effective means
of Masonic education for those who are interested in Masonry along
that path.
EDUCATION-MASONIC: During the past years practically
every Grand Lodge, in one form ~r another, has endeavore? to handle
the question of Masonic Education. Many have be~ome dis~eartened
with the lack ofinterest and dropped the matter entrrely, while others
continue their search for a satisfactory solution. We believe it is now
generally conceded that a large proportion of the. Fraternity are. not
interested in Masonic Education, either along special or general lines.
The method that seems to be producing the most sa~isfacto~y resu.lts
is one designed to educate the candidate during the time he 1_s receiving his Degrees or immediately thereafter. It ~as · the advanta~e of
supplying information when needed and . most hkely to be retained.
Even if this plan is not adopted we beheve that perhaps the same
result could be accomplished by having th~ Master. designate a we~l
informed and interested member to supply information to the Candidate as far as Masonic law, history and philosophy are concerned.
This instruction would be in addition to the "coaching work" as
required by present regulations.
FUNERALS: J. Edward Allen, Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of North Carolina, says: "The business of revising
the Masonic burial service is a popular indoor sport." No Ritual has
yet been adopted which seems to be generally satisfactor~, even .to
the Jurisdiction adopting it. Secretary Clandy of the Masonic Service
Association has recently prepared a Digest of all of the Funeral
Rituals, segregating it by sections, subjects and topi~s. This sh?uld
be of material assistance in helping prepare a satisfactory Ritual
along the lines of present day ideas.
LIFE MEMBERSHIP: Some of the Jurisdictions have allowed constituent Lodges to award Life Memberships to Brethren
who have been on the rolls for a prescribed number of years, or to
those who have or were supposed to perform conspicuous se_rvice.
The result has been that in a number of instances the Lodges found
themselves in serious financial difficulties, and Grand Lodges are
tightening up on the practice.
The suggested Oregon plan of allowing Life Membership to be
paid for on a graduated scale does not seem to have received favorable
consideration. Undoubtedly the safest method from a financial standpoint is the one requiring payment of a sufficient amount to produce
annually, at the current rate of interest, an amount equal to the dues
of the Lodge.

LODGES-CONSTITUENT: We believe the following extract
from the Correspondence Report of Chairman J. Edward Allen of
North Carolina covers the situation entirely:
"All members of our Lodges may be divided into three classes- .
those who are attracted by the Masonic Ritual, those who will attend
Lodge and take part in its activities because they find other modes
than the Ritual, of satisfaction therein; and those who do not take
part in any Lodge activity, nor will they. We think these three groups
include just about all of our members. Let us see, taking the second
class first.
"There are in these latter days many thousands of Masons who
want no more of degree work. It is not inspiring, stimulating or
satisfying to them. They shun it. But they see in the beauties of
Masonry, its philosophical background, its social philosophy, that
which appeals to ·them. They love Masonry in spite of its Ritual, its
lectures, its circnmambulations, its dialogue, its addresses and readings. To them, many who enjoy the Ritual of certain degrees s~em
to border on Sadism-enjoy seeing the candidate "put through."
There are in existence today certain organizations making good standing as a Master Mason a prerequisite, which number in their membership many Masonic leaders, which have Rituals of their own but
very frankly never use them-they appeal to those who have borne
the burden and the heat of the day in degree work and desire to lie
down in the pastures green of philosophy, pure and applied. For these
Masonry hqs a beautiful field. One sees few of them taking dimits or
going via the N. P. D. route-it is only those who have tired of Ritual
without finding its consummation in philosophy and Masonic living,
who depart from us voluntarily.
"We must always depend on Masons who love a beautiful Ritual
beautifully exemplified. To these, all honor! ·We have a profound
vote of gratitude to those fellows who really feel that the biggest
thing in Masonry is to make the very best, deepest and most profound
impression on the candidate in the ceremonies. We must help them
in their chosen field. We must help them to expand the great vision,
so that if at last they weary of this work, they will proceed to the
other group of those who delve in the philosophy and the applications
of Masonry's teachings. Many thousands of these good ritualists
have withdrawn from us because they have not been, in the midst of
their work, drawn into its applications. We have not yet found one
who had learned in the fullness of things the true secrets of a Master
Mason, who saw fit to throw them overboard. It takes untold patience
to be a real Master Mason. This scribe has, at one time or another
in his Masonic career, been buffeted about, traded around, thwarted,
disappointed, enough to sour one who thought the secrets of a Master
Mason consisted in certain syllables in an unknown tongue, beyond
hope of any desire for further contacts with Masonry; but we pride

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ourselves in the belief that Masonry is bigger than this sort of
things. Some days ago this writer accidentally remarked in the course
of an address that he had at sundry times in the course of a quarter
of a century of public service as a teacher, been threatened with horse. whippings, shotguns, personal violence and a museum full of other
things. Being asked what happened as the results of these events, we
had to answer that nothing had happened except that so far as we
could remember, all who uttered. such threats are now dead. He who
is outside the circle of true Masonry will eventually be lost to true
Masonry or become known for what he is.
"The name of 'Freemasonry' is indeed a talisman to many. We
are persuaded that of the tens of thousands who flocked into our
Lodges around 1918-1920, many there were who were attracted by
that talisman. We know that there are many on our rolls today who
keep their names on the books because of the prestige of that name.
We could name to you many such in the bat of an eye-men who have
not attended a meeting in a decade, who have no notion of t?e real
meaning of .Masonry in theory or in practice, but who pay their dues
as promptly as anybody. To them Masonry is satisfying ~ecause the
magic of the name is something with which they do not desire to part;
that was what they sought in the beginning, and that leaves no cause
for complaint. Try to enlist one such in the work of the Lodge, and
he finds it necessary to do something else. He pays his dues and
assessments, but his voluntary contributions ~e likely to be s~ll.
Of the philosophy of Masonry he knows nothing. When,. a finan~1al
pinch comes and he has to dispense with some of the thmgs which
lend respectability to life, he throws Masonry overboard."
Whether Masonry is best served by the large Lodge or the
small one, is also a debatable question. In the day of "Big Business"
a Lodge with a large membership seems to be the one best fitted to
cope with the financial demands. A sm?ll :1-?dge, however, doe.s serve
a purpose, as it furnishes a means for ind1v1dual contact that is la~k­
ing in the large Lodge. Many of the Grand Masters are advocating
consolidation of small Lodges, which in a number of cases should
be done.
LOTTERIES: The Department of Justice and Grand Lodges
have taken a decided stand ·a gainst Lotteries or other methods. of
raising funds by raffles, games of chance, etc. Whether any effective
legislation can ever be adopted that will er_adicate the ~esir~ of the
individual to take a chance, or get something for nothing, is problematical.
Some Lodges have attempted to adopt such plans to finance
Temples or secure funds for other Masonic purposes. In Cuba and
s tland "Cuban Derby" and "Derby Sweepstakes" were the means
co
.
adopted
to secure the necessary funds. I n b oth instances
prompt
action prevented the carrying out of the plan.

..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEN CE

5

MASONRY'S OBJECTIVE: We believe that the following
from the Message of the Grand Master of Illinois, presents in a very
able manner the idea that the future of Masonry depends upon the
individual:
"For many years that have passed, we have gone along on the
crest of the waves, happy in our prosperity and thoughtless as to the
future, with the spirit of 'Eat and be merry.' We have carried on,
thinking that such prosperity was perpetual and everlasting and that
it would continue forever. Then came the change, and Lodge after
Lodge, being caught in bank failures or loss of investments, have
faced embarrassing financial situations. Along with the unfortunate
change have come multiplied calls for charity from their membership
and, the Lodge not being able to cope with these calls, constant and
repeated pleas have been made to the Grand Lodge for relief. Masonry, in its inception, had for its fundamental principle a personal
responsibility. A member, becoming sick or in need, made an appeal,
and his Brother in Masonry, recognizing the call as a personal one,
hastened to relieve his wants. But as time went on our membership
drifted away from the principle and took the more modern way of
'letting George do it.' When calls came the Lodge hired someone
to sit up with the sick Brother, or a check was sent to relieve his
distress. In that way we have wandered away from the real, personal
obligations which we all accepted and which say, ' I will aid and
assist' and 'I will ever go on foot and out of my way to assist,' and
our Institution has been greatly weakened in the good it could do.
We must return to this fundamental and, recognizing our individual
responsibility, we will find that a great many of our financial problems
will be solved and Masonry will take upon itself a new awakening."
If Masonry is to revert to its original idea of being a Fraternity
rather than a Philosophy or Institution, the character of the Individual, his conception of Masonry and how he must exemplify it in
his daily and Masonic life, will be the best method of changing the
viewpoint of a great many as to the real purpose of our Institution.'
PROCEEDINGS-GRAND LODGE ~ The necessity for economy in general business as far as Masonry is concerned is reflected
in the publication of the Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges.
Some of the Jurisdictions, wedded to the idea that it is necessary to
publish a complete roster of all their members, have omitted them.
Detailed statistics have been omitted. Committee Reports and Addresses have been shortened or not published, and other economies
of a like nature adopted.
Some have even gone so far as to eliminate the Report on Foreign
Correspondence, or limit the space· allotted to it. We are, of course,
prejudiced, but do believe that this Report is of value to the Members.
While it may not reach all of them through the published Proceedings,

6

R EPORT ON CORRESPO NDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPON D E NCE

the advance copies distributed at the Grand Lodge Sessions is a
means of Masonic education to the Members in attendance. ,,_,
RECORDS: As "Coming Events cast their shadows before,"
so Grand Masters are urging the collection and preservation of old
records and interesting documents touching upon the early history
of the Fraternity in their respective Communities. One Jurisdiction
requires that the Charter of the Lodge remain with the Grand Secretary, duplicate or photostatic copy being delivered to the Lodge.
The agitation for the publication of Masonic histories and the
establishment of Museums is receiving increased attention. The.
increase in the number of recommendations along this line and interest
in it generally, speaks well for the future.
RELIEF: Existing economic conditions, as far as Masonic relief
is concerned, may be a blessing in disguise. We believe it is bringing
home to the members that the Fraternity is not a Beneficial or Insurance organization. As one Grand Master stated, it has helped dispel
the erroneous idea that Masonry does not assume the full responsibility and care, not only of its members in distress, but also their
ancestors and descendants. Perhaps Masonry as a whole is not
entirely free from blame in creating this impression. The establishment of Homes, both for the aged and young, are the most promine'nt
symbols of Masonic activities presented to the public. Their thought
as to the ultimate aim of the Fraternity, as far as its members are
concerned, is based upon this evidence.
The Talmud says in effect, that he who makes a gift only after
his death gives Copper; he who gives while ill in the hope of reward
through recovery gives Silver; but he who gives while well and
enjoying the many blessings and opportunities of life gives Gold.
YOUNGER GENERATION: In Western Australia the Grand
Master has power to grant ·a dispensation to initiate petitioners between the ages of 18 and 21 years, provided such petitioners are the
sons of Masons. One time in France this custom was followed, the
petitioner being known as a "Lewis." There are numerous theories
as to why this term was adopted. Following the builder's art, it may
perhaps be traced to the name of the Mason's aid that is used in
moving large building stones. The Acacia Fraternity, an organization
restricting its membership to Masons attending colleges and universities, has lately changed its requirement so that sons of Master
Masons are _eligible.
The Order of De Molay, while not a Masonic organization or
a part of the Masonic system, but having its advice and co-operation,
is endeavoring to train young men between 16 and 21 to maintain the
ideals of clean speaking, clean thinking and clean living. That this
thought appeals to the youth of today is evidenced by the fact that

7

even with existing conditions the Organization has suffered less in
loss of members than other fraternal bodies. The future depends
upon the present generation. So far as Masonry can and will guide
th~ Y~uth of today, just so far can we hope that the problems that will
anse in the future will be satisfactorily handled.
LATE ARRIVALS: Owing to the necessity of furnishing Copy
we regret that our Report does not embody excerpts from the 193;
Re_ports .of Iowa, Manitoba, Michigan, New Jersey, Washington and
Wisconsin recently received.
.
Traveling through the Masonic world each year, through reviewing the G~and Lodge Proceedings, is a Masonic Education. While the
work at tl~es may become tedious, the Opportunity of contact with
the M~somc leade~ship in the various Jurisdictions is ample compensation for the time and labor expended.
'"'.'ith this Report your Chairman has bee~ privileged to serve ·
for ~1rteen years, which equals the record of Brother William A.
Davies, who served from 1894 to 1906, and is . exceeded only by the
term of Brother William H. Hill, who served for fifteen years.
After writing each Report, our reaction can perhaps be best
expressed in the words of the poet who said:
"There's a comforting thought at the close of dayWhen we're weary and lonely and sad
That sort of grips hold of our cr usty old 'hearts
And bids them be merry and glad ·
'
It gets in our souls and drives out the blues
And finally, thrills through and through- '
It is just a sweet memory that chants the refrain
'We're glad we touched shoulders with you'." '
Sincerely and fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman.
COMMITTEE ON CORRE SPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited
Martin Griffith
Byron F. Hillhouse
Trustom R. Dinmore
Martin Ortlieb
C. M. Hickmari
Henry Mottet
Charles z~·
e ler
Bion S. G gory
A. Co8' dr o

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

so engaged, it is annoying. to all others present. The same promptness
and order should be observed in the banqueting hall. A time limit should
be placed upon the addresses and with rare exceptions a visiting Brother
should not be called upon to speak unless the chairman has notified him
of his intention to call upon him and has reason to believe that the program ~or. the evening will not be unnecessarily prolonged by his so doing.
Wh~t is mt~nded as a courtesy to a visitor too frequently proves embarrassing to him and unprofitable to his audience.

ATTENDANCE
Existing conditions have had a tendency to increase Attendance
at Lodge meetings, and particularly so where leadership in a Lodge
has developed a program of interest. In seeking entertainment the
average man has been compelled to economize, and perhaps his desire
to talk his troubles over with someone else has caused him to seek
a place where he can find a sympathetic listener.
The mere conferring of degrees has ceased to have very great
attraction. Even the finest drama, opera or other form of entertainment is very rarely witnessed a second time by the same person,
and this is particularly true of subordinating the purpose of the Lodge
to only conferring of degrees.
There must be leadership capable of advancing something for
. the Members who are not interested in mere routine. If the Fraternity
and Lodge is to prosper it must furnish something in which all of the
members can participate and not endeavor to confine activities to
only. one phase of our Institution, and that the most uninteresting.
Canada (1932):
{Grand Master): My attention has frequently been called to the time
that is unnecessarily wasted in the Lodge room. At the hour appointed
for opening the Lodge the Master and his officers should be in their
respective chairs and the members in their seats. There is a tendency
among some members to linger in the ante-room and enjoy a smoke or
a visit with their friends and complaint has been made to me that some
have so far forgotten their duty as to indulge in a game of bridge or
billiards while the Lodge was in session.
The recreation rooms are not provided for any such purposes. When
the Master's gavel calls the Brethr~n to order every member except the
Tyler should be in the Lodge room unless he has had some special duty
assigned to him by the Master or Junior Warden which calls for his
presence else~here. The rules of order should be strictly observed. While
no attempt should be made to stifle a full and free discussion of any
question under consideration, the Master should see to it that there is
no idle repetition and that the Brethren adhere to the rules laid down
for their guidance. It frequently occurs that a Brother moves a resolution
which meets with the general approval of all present, yet there is a
painful interval before a seconder is secured. This could be very easily
overcome by having a general understanding that th«; Senior or Junior
Warden assume that duty if it be not promptly seconded by some other
Brother present. Masters have been known to engage in conversation
with others sitting in the East. While this may be ent\taining to those
\

9

Nevada (1933):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In reporting on Lodge at~
tendance the Grand Master of Ohio states something that every Lodge
should remember: "I have no guaranteed solution. However, I am
strongly opposed to coaxing members into Lodge attendance by feeding
the~ or amusing them. To me Freemasonry has an appeal that in and
of ~tself should attract its members to its meetings." He continues by
statmg that some means of education should be evolved that would take
c~re of the newly raised Mason and influence him in that it would make
him want to attend. As soon as we raise a man we forget him and turn
the spotlight on someone else.
·

·

Seventy-nine dispensations for various purposes were issued during
the year.
New Mexico (1933):

(~om_mittee o~ Chartered Lodges): Before we can offer any constructive ideas to mcrease attendance, we must inquire into the reasons
for low attendance. In general these are counter attractions such as
motion pictures, night ball games, church activities, social gatherings
etc.. 1:hese, coupled with ill health of the member or some of his family:
or m?1fference or opposition of his wife or family, and last but not least,
on his own lack of interest, are the things that keep the member away
from Lodge meetings.
A member will not maintain his interest in something that is not
interesting. It is necessary to get away from the bare routine of an ordinary .b~siness ~eeting and have some kind of entertainment or something
t~a~ is mterestmg and instructive. We do not believe there is any ethical
hm1t beyond . the bo~nds of decency and good taste, to which a Lodge
may not go m plannmg entertairunent.
In ancient times and. up until the opening of the Twentieth Century,
the atmosphere surroundmg a Lodge meeting was entirely different from
what it is now. The members were glad to come from far and wide in
ord.er to see ~nd converse with each other. For many that was almost
their ~nly social c~ntact and the post-Lodge gatherings were the bright
spots m an otherwise drab and dreary routine. E ven in the larger com-

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

munities there was not much to draw the members away from Lodge
interests, but those days have gone forever.
The Masonic Fraternity, founded in antiquity and steeped in reverence for the ancient ways, has found it painfully difficult to adapt itself
to the modern "high powered" conditions. Philosophic and abstract teachings, no matter how beautiful, do not in themselves attract large numbers
of people in these days. Men no longer gather in taverns and coffee rooms
to discuss philosophy, science, literature and life. Things are moving too
fast. When we learn how to combine the beauty and moral ·value of
our teachings with attractive entertainment, the problem of attendance
will be solved.
Ohio (1932):
· (Grand Master}: Good of the Order: Open Lodge at the appointed
time. Conduct the business of the Lodge in a dignified, orderly manner,
then close. The Brethren who care to visit may do so with more freedom
and less disturbance after Lodge than in it. Those who want to go home
may go.
Past Masters should be frequently seen (in the Lodge), but not too
often heard.
The quickest and surest way to ruin a good Lodge is to continue
the same Brethren in office from year to year. The best talent is frequently on the side lines.
If your Lodge officers persist and insist on banking Lodge funds
with their own, put them under bond. You and they will be embarrassed
sooner or later. The bond will protect against financial loss.
The Grand Lodge will give permission to smoke in Lodge to all
Brethren who smoke in their church. All others must refrain.
The little things as well as the big ones make Freemasonry different.
The big things force recognition and obedience. Neglect of the little
ones will bring your Lodge to the level of just another meeting.
Are you a Freemason or just a member of the Lodge?
Oregon (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: We wonder what he would
do about the practice of begging attendance with the announcement of
"cards an:! refreshments," or musical entertainment, illustrated lectures,
degree conferred in costume, etc. Or the announcement, accompanied
by Square and Compasses emblem, of a "Masonic Club" holding a dance,
·Lodge orchestra. furnishing its splendid music, or the
with the
degree accompanied by the bricklayers' singing club. Find these things
in the puzzle picture. We think Brethren will agree that wherever the
Square and Compasses appear, they should be surrounded with the same
dignity with which they shine upon the altar.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

11

CANDIDATES
The present loss of members has been attributed to the influx
during the war and the boom times following. We believe these are
not the main causes. It can be ascribed rather to lack of interest by
reason of not furnishing what the average member .wants. One of
the most serious problems before the FraternitY is building for the
future. We think the question may properly be asked if when we
return to normal times the same desire for Numbers rather than
Selection will not ultimately produce the same condition. Lodges who
have suffered financially will either consciously or unconsciously
consider candidates from the viewpoint of quantity rather than quality. There is only one way that this can be prevented and that is by
positive legislation.
We have heretofore advanced the idea that a candidate and those
recommending him should appear before the Officers of the Lodge
for a personal examination before his application is received. This
should precede the formal reference to an Investigating Committee.
The candidate should be impressed with the purposes of Masonry
through a system such as is used in some of the other Jurisdictions,
outlining just what Masonry is and what part he is to play in it. A
time .limit should be fixed between each degree sufficiently long to
allow the candidate, with proper instruction, to understand the significance af what he is receiving or is about to receive. We have
had our period of inflation, and to try the other extreme might be of
benefit.
District of Columbia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: We still find in the Proceedings many cases where dispensations are issued for shortening the
time between degrees. Sometimes reasons are given and sometimes they
are not, but this writer regrets to see a growing tendency along this line.
If we have a rule we ought to stick to it, and even if it proves to be a
bad one we ought to stick to it until it is changed.
One of the things that first impressed this writer about Masonry was
the extreme deliberation with which he was compelled to await his degrees, and the thoroughness with which it was impressed upon . him that
ample time should be allowed for a candidate to become proficient. We
are feeling the effects today of the almost total disregard for time between
degrees that was indulged in during the recent days of world upheaval,
and this writer had hoped that by this time a lesson had been learned.
Certainly it is calculated to appeal to a candidate's sense of personal
importance to know that the law had been set aside in his case, and likely

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

to lessen his respect for the law. This writer's code is to let the candidate
and the Lodges comply with the law of Masonry rather than to set aside
the law for their convenience.

by another organization, and when the ballot was spread for a candidate
in the Lodge, to everybody's surprise the ballot was declared dark and
the candidate declared rejected. Subsequent investigation, howeve:, revealed the fact that the ballot had not been inspected and cleared in the
Lodge before it was passed, and that a candidate had been rejected by
the other organization when the box had been previously used by it. Of
course the tangle was straightened out and the candidate later elected
but it was a mighty unpleasant incident, and no doubt served as a lesso~
to the Worshipful Master · who had failed to inspect the box before
spreading•the· ballot.

12

* * • * *

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): So far as we know, all
-Grand Lodges provide that the names of applicants for the degrees shall
be presented to the entire membership of the Lodge, which, of course,
entails the necessity of bulletins or notices at regular intervals. If ~ent
under seal as first-class mail there is only a remote possibility of these
names falling into the hands of anyone not entitled to know them, but
several cases are recorded during the past year where postal cards were
used, indicating that the Masters so sending them out had no sense of their
responsibility in the matter.
We sometimes seriously doubt if the practice of sending out these
names, even in a sealed cover, is either necessary or advisable, though
of course it must be admitted that every Brother is entitled to know who
is applying to his Lodge. But even under the present plan it is often the
case tha.t some Brother wonders how some other Brother got into his
Lodge, all unmindful of the fact that he could have kept him out if he
had any legitimate reason, had he only read his bulletin.
The right way to find out who is applying to your Lodge is to attend
the communications of your Lodge and hear the petitions read, but if it
should ever happen that all the members of a Lodge came to a communication it would no doubt cause the Master's death from heai:t failure, so
we shall probably be obliged to struggle along under the present plan till
some better one can be devised.

* * * * *

(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): In spite of the profound
respect in which the ba1lot is held by Masons, it is the occasional cause
of no little trouble. While its purpose is primarily to protect the West
Gate from the intrusion of improper persons, it is sometimes used for
private purposes, and its complete inviolability often results in injustice
to a candidate, although be it said of Grand Masters that when any such
injustice is discovered it is quickly righted.
In the opinion of this writer the ballot box is one of the most important pieces of furniture in a Lodge, because it is through the ballot
that the personnel is selected, and a collective selection of men for
Masonry is not always wise. Suppose it does take a little time to vote
on candidates individually. It is time well spent, and calculated to prevent
many regrets at a later day. This writer is not now nor ever has been
in favor of the collective ballot for Lodges.
As an example of how carefully the ballot should be guarded, a very
unusual occurrence is recorded in the proceedings of one Grand Lodge.
It seems that the ballot box used by the Lodge had been previously used

13

Florida (1932):
(Grand Master): The Grand Master was asked: What is your
personal opinion on the objections being raised on a Japanese petitioner
for the Entered Apprentice Degree, he having been a resident of our
Ju.risdicti?n for twenty-five years? This Japanese has previously been
reiected m Delray Lodge, but is again petitioning. Verbal objection is
bein~ '?ade on the gr?u~ds that the Craft would not be benefited by his
adm1ss10n, that the Asiatic races are not socially equal to the Anglo-Saxon,
and that a Japanese ·cannot adapt himself to the standpoint of American
mode of living nor to the principles of our Fr.aternity.
Answer: There is nothing in our Regulations in reference to racial
or ~i.tizenship qualifications and it would be perfectly proper to receive a
pet1t1on from a Japanese. I do not feel that it would be proper for me,
as Grand Master, to express an opinion on their social qualifications or
an opinion as to whether any race might conform to American stand~rds·
of. b~siness or morals, and I would not presume to question the rights or
op1mon of any Brother on any restrictions which he might conscientiously
feel.
(Approved.)
F ollowing the reading of the decision in reference to petition of a
Japanese, a ruling is requested on that part of Section 1 of our Act of
Incorporation as a Grand Lodge of Florida, reading as follows:
"Consist of Masons exclusively of the white race and their successors in office."
Answer : While it is true that our charter does so read, I would not
presume to tell an individual or a Lodge who is or who is not white
ethnologists differing as to race classifications and how such classification~
should be made. Further, I would myself exercise the privilege in my
own particul~r Lodge of being the judge when such a question was presented, allowing a Brother who might differ with me the same conscien'
tious right of difference.
(Approved.)

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Maine (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Here is a "ruling" of Grand
Master Sykes of Louisiana which never would have been considered with
us, much less referred to a Grand Master. "A man desirous of being a
.Mason states his birth was illegitimate, but the man is living a respectable
life. Is the man eligible? Answer: We cannot accept the application of
a man who is of illegitimate birth." We have rubbed our eyes several
times since reading that answer, in order to be sure we had read it aright.
The first reading put us back in the "dark ages" of history, the second
reading reminded us that last summer, at The Hague in Holland, we saw
a score of instruments of torture, thumb-screws, stocks, ropes for drawing
and quartering, and such like ehgineery of pain. And the third reading
reminded us that this was the year of our Lord and his Divine Grace,
1933. The church of today would not do that cruel, heartless thing, make
a good man suffer by denying membership in its fellowship and communion. This correspondent has often thought that in strictest biological
truth there is no such thing as an illegitimate child; plenty of illegitimate
fathers and mothers, but every child arrives by the natural laws of birth,
and why stigmatize and brand an innocent child, especially after he has
reached man's estate and is living a respectable life, with a term of almost
vindictive 'reproach, and why should our Institution take that attitude if
our principles and obligations mean what we believe they do? Now it
may well be that the Code or Constitution of an honored sister jurisdiction compels that attitude, and if so-while in one sense it is none of our
business-in another and altogether higher sense, common humanity must
speak out in the name of fairness and in the spirit of the Great Light,
and say that Code and Constitution needs amending in the light of that
word from Galilee, "Judge not." Perhaps we have been carried a little
too far in this matter, but we deeply feel the inhumanity of the situation.
As we read of the splendid philanthropies, the Hospital for Crippled
Children and the Children's Home we are certain that this is not the real
spirit of Masonry in Louisiana which has always challenged our respect
and veneration.

the fact that it is, in a large measure, due to the lack of comprehension
of the philosophy of Freemasonry. In our Lodges, time should be found
for an explanation of the meaning of many things which every Freemason
should know, and, because so many have no chance to participate in the
ritualistic work, they become indifferent and remain away. No one who
has any comprehensive conception of Freemasonry ever loses interest,
but, on the other hand, as his knowledge progresses his interest grows.

14

Manitoba (1931):
(Grand Master): . We have a serious responsibility towards the
Novitiate. He stands on the one hand at the door of the Lodge seeking
something; on the other hand stands the Great Fraternity. Only teaching
and guidance can bridge the gap. Supply him with Masonic literature,
give him a deep appreciation of the spiritual aspects of Freemasonry,
and be more concerned with teaching our principles than raising large
numbers of candidates. Look well to the outer door and do not overlook
the fact that it should swing outward as well as inward. An investigation
into the apathy of such a large percentage of our members might reveal

15

Nevada (1933):

· (Chairman Correspondence Committee): Three special dispensations
were issued by the Grand Master of Alabama to confer degrees on candidates who were not physically fit. As the writer has stated before, we
are all sorry for the man who has been maimed and sympathize with him,
but the regulations of Masonry should not be abrogated by any one man
to allow the admission of one who cannot properly perform all Masonic
labor.
New Hampshire (1933):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The first way to make a
good Mason lies in regarding the applicant to consider carefully his act
of applying fo r the degrees. An understanding and an appreciation of
the duties and the obligations of a Master Mason, before admission, will
go far in making the applicant a desirable member of the F raternity.
New Mexico (1933):

(Gra11d Master) : Although the correspondence necessary for the
proper functioning of the office has been voluminous the past year, I have
found time to write each Brother initiated this year, congratulating him
on his desire for light, and encouraging him to apply himself diligently
along the line of Masonic education at the time in his fraternal life when
his interest is possibly the greatest. Response from the Brethren led me
to believe that this has been very much appreciated.
New Zealand (1932):
(Board of G. P. and P.}: The Board suggests to Lodges that candidates for admission into the Craft s·hould, if they have not already done so,
·ix; asked to make satisfactory provision for their dependents, either by
Life Insurance or through some Provident Society, etc.
North Dakota (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We agree with all of the
following as said by the Grand Master of Fl~rida, with the exception of
his third conclusion. While admitting that this solicitation has been sub-

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ject to abuses and some curbing is necessary, yet we are taught that
Masonry is a progressive science and believe that after sufficient time has
elapsed for a Brother to have absorbed something of what ·it is all about, it
can with propriety be suggested to a Brother that he should advance
further (not higher) along the Masonic pathway:
"We have not been fair to our newest additions to Masonry-we confer
upon them the three degrees of Ancient Craft Masonry and dismiss them
without explaining that the Master Mason's Degree is the apex of Freemasonry; that there are other degrees in Freemasonry, but that all others
are merely an elaboration, and are useless and meaningless, except in high
sounding name, unless the three Symbolic Degrees are studied and understood. Add to this the deplorable fact that the newly raised Master Mason
is, more frequently than not, a 'brighter' Mason than the 'high' Mason
who solicits him to 'come on up higher,' and our remissness is amplified.
Your Grand Master, too, has noticed an unmistakable evidence of an over
emphasis of importance, not to say over lordship of the so-called 'high'
Mason. These false premises are, sad to relate, not confined to the
· unthinking and uninformed Mason, nor to the profane, but are sanctioned
and encouraged by some who know, or should know better. To sum the
whole matter up, we have been remiss in our duty and responsibility by
allowing the profane, the unthinking Mason, and the Masonic neophyte to
absorb a· false premise and accept 'high' and 'higher' degrees as the ultimate goal to be sought in Freemasonry. In my judgment, therefore, the
time has arrived, if not long past due, when Ancient Craft Masonry should
assert its authority, and put a period on these erroneous assumptions,
notions and pretensions, by proclaiming to the Masonic world:
"First-That the several regular Grand Lodges constitute the supreme
head of Freemasonry in their respective Grand Jurisdictions.
"Second-That the Master Mason's Degree is the ultimate apex of
Freemasonry, around which other Masonic degrees are built.
"Third-That solicitation by Masons among Masons is unmasonic,
the same as among profanes.
"Fourth-That an unseemly rush into other Masonic Bodies is reprehensible and unbecoming a Mason."

as Masohs-to wear a pin-any old pin-bigger and better pins-sometimes accompanied by one of the great Order of Jackrabbits-powerful
runners and feeders.)

16

Oregon (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Although valiant effo_rts are
made everywhere for Masonic education, the lure of automobiles and
picture shows is too great to get worthy Brethren interested in a Masonic
encyclopedia or lecture on the landmarks.
(We believe some of that trouble-beyond any doubt---comes from mass
incubators of members who never were-nor ever will be-real M. M. 1s.
They care for nothing more than just to brag that their names are listed

South Australia (1933):
(Grand Master): The duty and responsibility which devolves upon
every Freemason is to use his vote to guard the portals, and to keep without
those who are not worthy to participate in our privileges. But the other side
of the moral obligation is that the privilege of the vote should not be used
to deliberately or thoughtlessly and undeservedly, yet irrevocably, besmirch
the reputation of another. A black ball in the hand of a conscientious member, who considers the question and nothing but the question whether the
candidate will justify the trust of the Brethren, may be the safety device
for preventing a subsequent Masonic disappointment. But a black ball cast
by one . who is actuated by unworthy motives, or influenced by envy or
spleen, is a weapon of merciless power and oppression: "Oh, it is excellent
to have a giant's strength; but it is tyranno'us to use it like a giant."
It must be understood that it is quite as constitutional to cast a black
ball as a white one, and that the Brother who exercises this privilege
conscientiously and righteously is entitled to be protected from suspicion
and abuse. But it cannot be too forcibly impressed on Brethren that the
right of voting upon the election of a candidate is a serious responsibility,
and that any Brother who abuses that sacred trust for the gratification of
a personal grudge, or by way of unjust retaliation, is debasing himself,
and that his actions reflect on his own moral sense. It is a mean and
contemptible action, unworthy of a member of the Fraternity.
Western Australia (1932):
{Chairman Correspondence Committee): One notices in the Grand
Master's address a gentle reminder to Lodge officers which seems applicable to others besides those in the Vermont Jurisdiction. Speaking of his
refusal of many requests to shorten the intervals between degrees, the
Grand Master said it seemed to him that Lodge officers ought to realize
that the policy of Grand Lodge was strictly against the hurry-up process
in degree work. The Western Australian reviewer trusts he may be
permitted to concur. Only too often does this hustling spasm attack Lodges
in. the different parts of the world, and its cause may be diagnosed in a
failure on the part of Lodge officers to realize that leisured advancement
is more likely to impress our candidates. All said and done, if it took even
a twelvemonth before the Third Degree was taken, the candidate would
be better off than his Brethren in some European Continental Jurisdictions,
where the two intervals between the First and Third Degrees approximate
two years.

18

REPORT ON' CORRESPONDENCE

CO-ORDINATE BODIES
The struggle for existence of every organization at the present
time is working to reduce the number of organizations having as a
requirement membership in the Masonic Fraternity. It also has had
the effect of curtailing some activities that in the past have been
open to criticism.
In a Communist demonstr~tion in New York some time ago one
of the banners carried the following sentence: "Let's be· pleasant to
each other; we are all having a dreadful time." This thought may
also perhaps be applicable to existing conditions.
District of- Columbia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Some Grand Masters think
they are, and some do not, depending, perhaps, on just what is the extent
of their connection with some particular organization. At any rate, the
matter has drawn considerable attention lately, and the consensus of
opinion seems to be that organizations seeking to exploit the Lodges for
members should first obtain the consent of Grand Lodge, and thus, with
an authoritative sponsor, they would be likely to violate fewer of the
tenets of Masonry. It is a large question, certainly, and one not likely to
come to a complete understanding all at once.' But it is a fact that many
Masons who are members of these extraneous organizations apparently
think the Grand Lodge has no control over them, which leads them into
many extravagant malpractices, such as attempting to visit a Lodge without
wearing an apron because the apron would detract from the beauty of
their uniforms, or sitting in open Lodge towed with some fantastic headdress, or attempting to take their own pleasure as to the manner in· which
the great lights are to be·saluted.
·
A Lodge is a place where all Brethren must conform to the same rules,
and a Mason is subject to the rules of the Grand Lodge no matter how
many other Bodies he may belong to. Disregard for the rules for Masonic
conduct, particularly on public occasions, has brought a number of these
outside organizations into disrepute with Grand Lodges, and Masonry into
disrepute with certain easily-prejudiced Classes of the general public. These
organizations a1t have something good about them, as this writer has found
from membership in several, but until they come to a realization that after
all they are Masons first; unpleasant incidents will continue to crop up, and
much of the_attention they will get from Grand Lodges will be unfavorable.
Missouri (1932):
(Grand Master): The Masonic barque is so covered with the barnacles
of extraneous societies that ofttimes one wonders whether the ship may

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

19

land or whether it will sink. Societies and commercial associations; which,
under ordinary circumstances, could scarcely pay expenses, limit ·their
membership to Masonic families, or to Masons only, and immediately
become successful businesses.
The conduct of the membership of many of these societies is not such
as to support the dignity of the Masonic character, and the day is rapidly
approaching when our Fraternity must use a strong hand in dealing with
them. Lotteries, side shows, street carnivals, drunken pilgrimages, and
conduct such as to disgrace the name of the Fraternity, destroys every
vestige of their right for Masonic support. If extraneous organizations
continue to persist in basing their membership on Masonic connection or
membership, then they must expect to be held to account for infraction of
the ordinary rules of conduct. The Grand Lodge of Missouri knows no
Masonry but the Ancient Craft Masonry of the three degrees. Because of
the dignity and the educational influence of the York and Scottish Rites
and the splendid manner in which these Rites have kept themselves free
from censure and reproach, toleration has been accorded them.
For the past two years we have read in the metropolitan press, accounts
of rows, trials, and counter-trials which have arisen in what has ·been
wrongly termed "adoptive Masonry." A prominent official of that association assures me, that in practically all of their troubles, there has 'been
a man at the bottom of the trouble. Red-blooded men will find plenty to
occupy their time and mind if they confine their activities to a man's
Fraternity.
The Lodge in Missouri affords every opportunity for fellowship and
social intercourse, and there is no reason why the . membership need go
elsewhere, searchi,ng for the pot of gold.
New Mexico (1933):
(Grand Master): It has come to my attention during the past year
that some Bodies who base their membership on our Fraternity have been
rather lax in dropping from their rolls those who have severed their membership with us, by choice or suspension.
The future relationship as between the Grand Lodge and these organizations depends greatly on the manner in which the situation is met. We
are willing to furnish lists of withdrawals, and we must insist that they
adhere to our law.
Virginia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): When something goes wrong
each "new" leader will advance a new idea as to its cause. Brother Cheeves
states the case quite well, until he charges the failure of these unseasoned
members to their disappointment in the "higher" degrees. Perhaps a con-

21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

siderable percentage of these may have gone on to the so-called "higher"
Bodies; it is doubtful if even a majority did. What about the other 50
or 70 per cent? Why should this large number that "fall by the wayside"
be confined largely to the Southern Grand Lodges? How is it that jurisdictions that had an even larger influx of new members on a percentage
basis than the Southern Grand Lodges, are not showing any greater losses
than one can normally expect? Why should Pennsylvania, that "took in"
over 19,000 in one year about 1920 (during this world-wide hysteria),
and caused each one to pay a worthwhile sum to his Lodge and in addition
make a worthwhile contribution to the Masonic Homes of Pennsylvania,
not be losing them in a wholesale way? Pennsylvania has had a decline
in new petitions, but her suspensions are only slightly above normal.
California and other jurisdictions with far higher fees and benevolent
exactions in addition continue to show gains; while jurisdictions like
Florida with cheap fees and small benevolent exactions show large losses.
Is it that with small fees the newcomers consider their investment was not
worth following up? Can it be that Lodges in jurisdictions that exact a
sufficient fee to be noticeable are in a position financially that makes them
attractive?

they would not play in public." As a generalization, little fault may be
found with this observation, but when one agrees with Brother Dolliver
that "Masonry is judged by the outside world by the kind of men the
outside world knows to be Masons," and calls to mind, as this writer can,
regrettable spectacles by Shriners, one cannot but feel that Shrineism
noble as its work for crippled children is, does, at times, provide unfor~
. tunate opportunities for the outside public to judge of Masonry.

20

CORNER STONES
The ceremony of laying comer stones of public buildings under
Masonic auspices during the past year has often been criticized and
objected to by those opposed to the Fraternity. In practically every
instance it was without effect. The controversy, however, generally
serves the. useful purpose of informing the public of the antiquity of
the ceremonies, emphasizes that it is entirely "Symbolic," and has no
ulterior motive.
Florida (1933):
(Grand Master): Being unable to be present at the corner stone laying
Brother
.of the new Government Building in Miami, I directed R:.
William Sydow to act as my proxy.
This corner stone laying had been planned for many months previous
and it was thought that all difficulties in connection therewith had been
satisfactorily arranged, but I quote from Brother Sydow's report to me,
as follows:
"Outside influences tended to prevent the laying of the stone by the
Masonic Fraternity. A few days before the ceremony the Postmaster
received a telegram from Washington stating it 'was preferable to the
Department for the ceremonies to be in charge of some civic organization.'
We got around this by inviting the presidents of each civic club to be
present, 28 in all. Also invited 53 city, county and local state officials;
a Catholic Judge, a Jewish Rabbi, consuls of various foreign countries;
and about 25 officials from Tallahassee and Washington. Another hitch
occurred when the building contractor, who had not been very warm, demanded at 5 o'clock the day before May 14, that we place insurance in
case of accident to those on the platform. There was no time to arrange
this nor money to pay the premium, but I fixed it up by giving releases
personally in writing. The Stone Mason's Union furnished their men to
handle the stone; and in order to comply with their rules they made me a
member of the Union, so I could legitimately and correctly (I hope)
spread the cement, and work in the same crew with the Union men."
I have been advised there was a certain amount of sentiment attached
to the laying of this corner stone by Union men. They were all Union
Masons and all members of the Masonic Fraternity.

w:.

.West Virginia (1932):
. (Chairman Correspondence Committee}: The Grand Master of Iowa
still favors small Lodges, is liberal as to physical qualifications, opposed to
cipliers, adheres to the term "barnacles" and says to Grand Master Gaylord,
of California, referring to his ruling as to the Sciots, "We admire him
greatly for the fine, strong stand he had taken and for his ringing denunciation of one of these organizations which, if allowed to continue, would
soon destroy and rot away the life of genuine Masonry."
Western Australia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: Like many other Grand
Masters, Brother Dolliver (Michigan) had to rule, on more than one
occasion, against movements to commercialize Masonry. He ruled that
"there can be no such thing as a Masonic prize-fight, an all-State Masonic
bowling tournament," and other like misuses of the name of the Craft.
Some day, perhaps, both the Shrine and the Sciots will assist Grand
Masters in this worthy work, by discountenancing the association of ·those
two organizations (which predicate their membership on Masonry) with
unseemly press advertising, specimens of which the writer collected while
in the United States.

* * * *· *

Speaking of the Ancient Arabic Order, Nobles of the Mystic Shrine,
the Grand Master said Masonry was "not so much harmed by Masons
who played in public as Shriners as by Masons who played in private as

I
I

.t

"

22

' REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

North Carolina (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Alabama law states that if
Masonry lays a corner stone, the name of the Grand Master officiating or
presiding shall be carved thereon, We once beheld a corner stone like that;
·and as we beheld, the G. M. (now a Past Grand) whose name was carved
on it, passed by-and behold, he was stewed, piffiicated, pizen drunk !
Somebody else got the point and remarked to us-and what he said was
more than sufficient! Whoever · got that into law in Alabama was just
plain short-sighted or we lose our bet. No such thing should be used to
advertise a particular individual just because he happens for the moment
to be the figurehead : times change, men change, institutions change andafter all, the importance of being Grand Master or other Head, is, we
suspect, somewhat overestimated. Many of these officials make no lasting
contribution to the greatness of the institution of Masonry. At best, they
are a sort of adjunct to the Grand Secretary, who is the chief ·politician
of almost every Grand Lodge unless he is put in office by others who are
themselves the chief politicians. He is also the chief organizer; the chief
contact man; the chief fixer in general. What this country needs is men
who can really shape the destinies of political units, fraternal units or
what have you, without having to be politician to anything or even to
remember that anybody or any group in particular was responsible for
his being where he is.
The point is, we are opposed to the plan of carving in stone in such
places the names of any living persons temporarily in power-to hifching
their names on to Lodges or 'what not; to giving undue adventitious importance to the fact that they are in office.
ENDOWMENT FUNDS
If the Masonic Home system is to be maintained there can only
be one practical way of makinK it permanent. That is by the creation
of an endowment fund, the interest from which will be sufficient to
maintain the Homes. To establish such a reserve calls for education,
not only among the members but also among those of the general
public who are desirous of contributing to institutions that work for
humanitarian purposes. This program will, of course, require time
and constructive effort.
The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania is an example. Their Proceedings shows that they have received donations and bequests not
only from the members but the general public, which at the present
time totals approximately sixt~en million dollars.

Connecticut (1933):
(Chairman Correspo11Jence Committee): Despite economic conditions,
the Grand Master seems optimistic on Masonic well-being. He calls atten-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

23

tion to the Endowment Fund for the Masonic Home and urges all to
do their part towards its expansion. But we fear he is in error in hoping
that the income from it will ever be sufficient to defray the whole maintenance cost. When certain life trusts have expired, Connecticut will have
a fund of nearly $2,000,000, but its income will meet barely one-half the
expenses.
Illinois (1932):
(Grand Master): All thinking Masons realize, as never before, the
necessity of making ample provision for the future of our homes.
For many years this particular work of Masonry has been carried
on without thought of any plan being formulated, such as an endowment
fund where the principal could not be touched, but a sufficient amount be
raised that the interest would carry on the work through the years, But
now we face this task and with this in mind, I bring this subject before
this Grand Lodge to urge everyone to do their part in a tangible way for
the benefit of these children who will be the men and women of the future,
for the benefit of those men and women of our Masonic family who,
through the turn of fortune's wheel, have been unable to accumulate a
surplus of worldly goods.
And so I appeal to the Masons of Illinois for the Endowment Fund
which we start this year and which, in the future, will become the greatest
outstanding monument to the liberality and goodness of those who give.
It will show that you appreciate Masonry in deed and in fact, a living,
throbbing, vital .institution. You will find that the real joy of life is
enhanced many times by giving. In giving money, we give sunshine to
the heart that is clouded with sorrow, hope to the boy and girl who have
been bereft of a father, and above.and beyond all in such giving, we will
enjoy the glory and happiness of knowing that we have done what we
could to make this world a haven of peace and have made the unfortunate
of our Fraternity rich in the knowledge that they have not been forgotten.
Indiana (1933):
A number of substantial gifts and bequests have been received for
the Endowment Fund during this year, which are enumerated in the
reports of the Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary. The total of the
Endowment Fund at the close of the fiscal year was $515,324.13, an increase
for the year of $45,450.75. We wish to repeat the statement previously
made in our reports that too much emphasis cannot be gi~en to the importance of this fund and its significance in the ·financial structure and future
of the Home. Each member of the Craft in this Grand Jurisdiction should
be impressed with the fact that a provision in his will for a modest bequest
to the Home will help to perpetuate the Home and its work of benevolence.

24

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Maine (1930):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is interesting to notice
that many Grand Lodges by their Grand Masters have been urging a
more general support by gifts and legacies for Endowment Funds of the
various Grand Lodges. British Columbia, Connecticut, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Tennessee, Oregon, Philippine Islands, Utah, Nebraska, New Jersey, Illinois and other Grand Lodges have been making this appeal and
recording endowments and legacies received during the year. Indeed, it is
not too much to say that nearly every Grand Lodge is awakening to the
need and urging such bequests as may perpetuate each Brother's influence
during the onward years. It is, perhaps, a much neglected appeal on the
part of many Grand Jurisdictions that seem to be suddenly awakening to
the great possibilities of such bequests. . . . It is the conviction of your
Maine Correspondent that we are rather remiss and almost totally neglectful of the matter .... How can a Brother's Masonic influence be better
assured through the generations than by such bequest? One's helping hand
may thus be reached into the far-beyond of time. Modest bequests and
legacies through the years would be in time of such splendid proportions
as would allow the Grand Lodge of Maine to "carry on" its labors in
Charity and Relief within and without its own borders in a way adequate
to our profession and obligations. The idea is-from each according to
his ability for those of the future who may be in need.
Oregon (1932):
(Grand Master): I claim that it is unfair to the Investment Committee
· of the Grand Lodge Trustees to place in our invested funds, donations of
bonds and stocks coming from any source, that the Investment Committee
does not approve or would not buy. Such donations should be set up in a
separate fund and sold as soon as possible and the funds reinvested in the
highest type of securities before the amount is added to the permanent
fund to which it belongs. We are holding two South American bonds and
some prior preferred stocks, which are donations, and as time goes on, if
these securities are not sold, we would in time accumulate a considerable
sum of undetermined worth, and unjust criticism will be made against
faithful Brethren for a condition existing in the value CY.f our securities,
which they did not purchase and over which they had no control. We have
set up in a Special Fund all such holdings.
Tennessee (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We have noticed with much
pleasure the contributions or donations by way of bequest for the use
and benefit of the Grand Lodges in many states, which have been devoted
to Endowment Funds for the benefit of the Hom~ or directed to be used

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

25

for the education of our young people. This work should meet the approval of Masons everywhere.
The writer has been wondering if a spirit could not be developed by
which young Masons might be encouraged to procure life insurance while
policies might be obtained at a low rate and the Grand Lodge made the
beneficiary, and in this way, over the Masonic world build up an Endowment Fund that would make our colleges and universities available for
every youth in the land.
EDUCATION-PUBLIC
There is a growing demand that Masonry should adopt some constructive program, and we have always maintained that interest in the
public schools would be one of the greatest activities to which the
Fraternity could devote its time and energies. It is not one that permits of a great deal of ballyhoo, but yet the interest shown in the
Public Schools Week of our Jurisdiction demonstrates what can be
accomplished in this field.
Aristotle said, "The main object of education should be to prepare
men for the right use of leisure." The first step in carrying that out
necessarily has to do with the youth of today. Benjamin Franklin
also said, "A Bible and .a newspaper in every house, a good school in
every district-all studied and appreciated as they merit-are the
principle support of fraternity, morality and civil liberty." Perhaps
that philosopher might have omitted newspapers had he made his
comment today, or at least he would have used some qualifyin~
adjectives.
Mexico (York) (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We think if conditions in
California, in regard to support and non-support of public schools, were
better known there would be greater support for this annual school observance. We know other places where the public schools are also being undermined. Members of the Fraternity everywhere should stand behind any
movement that means more schools and better education.
New Mexico (1932):
(Chairma11 Correspondence Committee): A few years ago it was
not uncommon for Grand Lodges in various parts of the country to endorse
the Federal Educational Bill. When it came to the attention of the Grand
Master that one of the Florida Lodges had by resolution endorsed the bill
. now before the Congress of the United States, he ordered the Worshipful
Master to "abate all proceedings" pertaining to such endorsement because

26

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON COHHESPONDENCE

"the question at issue was political and controversial and had no proper
place in the proceedings of a Masonic Lodge." There will be great rejoicing among those who have thus far successfully prevented the establishmei;it of a Federal Department of Education, when this address becomes
known. Our understanding of the question leads us to believe that it is
not a political question. It is controversial, but what in life is not? The
Grand Master of Florida ought to read the public records of hearings
where this bill was up for discussion. The National Education Association
will furnish information to anyone interested in this bill.
Ely P . Hubbell, Foreign Correspondent, evidently does not like the
six-point type used for quotations in our Review. He "wonders how generally this small type face is read." His review of New Mexico doings is
fraternal and generous.

we hope that the Jurisprudence Committee, to which the resolution is ·
referred, will have the sound judgment to see the difficulties in the way
and sidetrack the matter in some wise way. We do not doubt the necessity
for legislative, or other activity, to find a way out of the difficulty, and
that without involving any set of men, except as individuals, in any )Nay.
Such action by the citizens of the state is to be commended, but there may
be dang·er ahead for a Grand Lodge to take decided steps as a body.
The above resolution speaks well for the . hearts of those who introduced
the resolution, but fails to appeal to the head.

Utah (1933):

(Chairman Corresp01ulence Committee): An interesting report was
~resented by the Committee on Education (Tennessee). This showed that

m the elementary schools (public) 168,675 fewer were enrolled than for
the ?revious yea~, while the high school enrollment showed that 304,815
more than were m attendance the year before. This is interesting and a
pity 'tis that it is true.
'
"_Too many private schools of a certain kind, training future citizens
of this country, with a reservation always that first allegiance belongs to
the Papacy, are extant today."
While admitting that parents have the right to educate their children
a.s t~ey see fit to dcr-so long as they help pay taxes for the support of
public _schools-the committee expressed the opinion that all private and
parochial schools should be required to teach the state elementary curriculum. With this we are in hearty agreement.
Washington (1932):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): That the Grand Lodge of
Tennessee seems to be in earnest in its effort to overcome the illiteracy
of the stat_e, seems to be sure, for _a resolution was introduced and referred
to ~he Jurisprudence Committee for report next year, looking to an effort
to influence the legislature to amend the school laws so that every child
may have a chance to get a good education; "Free tuition and other incidental expenses" to be furnished by the state. Also they urge that such
laws as. are passed by the legislature should de.fine the subjects to be
tau~ht m ~II schools, both public, parochial and private, and be only the
subJects laid down by the legislature.
If such a committee is set up with adequate power to act, this will
at once put the Grand Lodge of Tennessee in the political field. However,

27

* * * * *

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The prime object of an
education is to expand the mind by giving it the tools for a more extended
use in life, and if we do not make use of them we are no better off than
we were before. The educated man is not he who knows all things, even
if he could, but he who is aMe to use the tools with which he has been.
furnished. Education is not an end in and of itself, but rather it furnishes
the tools with which the wise man works. Too much education, with no
incentive to use it, is often a detriment to society. That fact is being
demonstrated every day by the educated incompetents that are turned out
from our institutions of learning. The only education that is worth much
to society is that which a man gets for himself. It only gives the mean
man an opportunity to become meaner; the cruel man a means of being
more cruel, and the good man the opportunity for him to enlarge his means
of usefulness.
ENTERTAINMENT
The absence of degree work necessarily calls for the adoption of
a program that will attract and hold the interest of the members.
While the object of Masonry is not primarily to amuse or entertain,
still the adage that "All work and no play makes Jack a dull boy" is
just as true in our Fraternity as in others. We cannot change human
nature, and the attendance at Masonic entertainments or banquets is
evidence that the so-called "Fourth Degree" still remains popular.
Massachusetts (1932):
(Grand Master): It is only a few years ago that a Lodge offering
its members a quartet on the night it worked a Third Degree, and afterwards providing a modest buffet supper of sandwiches, ice cream, and
coffee, would be considered as having met all the requirements of the
occasion. Little by little during the World War, when conservation of
food was in order, many Lodges arranged a six o'clock dinner, sometimes
paid for by the Lodge and more often, perhaps, paid for either wholly
or in part by the members themselves. Another reason for this dinner

28

29

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPO!'tDENCE

was to secure a larger attendance of members at the meeting ·of the
Lodge, since through this arrangement the Brethren were able to come
direct from their places of business without being obliged to go to their
homes for dinner, and consequently subject themselves to the temptation
of remaining there rather than go out again to the meeting.
At the dinners, a quartet would occasionally render pleasing ·and
appropriate musical numbers for the entertainment of those present.
As this offering began to pall,. Masters commenced to look about for
other attractive forms of entertainment, and invited speakers to their
dinners, and sometimes lecturers with or without a stereopticon. Then
followed motion picture shows, often with films showing little care in
their selection. From that point, then, the class of so-called entertainment
in certain quarters seems to have greatly deteriorated, until now we find
female singers and dancers from local night clubs or vaudeville agencies,
whose suggestive songs and scanty costumes leave much to be desired,
and even wrestling bouts and boxing matches have found their way ·into
our Masonic entertainments in Masonic Temples.

in relation to the festive board. No musical items should be called for,
or smoking permitted, until after those Grand Officers whose names are
mentioned in the toast list have replied.
No item should be permitted in the .refectory which is not in complete
harmony with the instruction given in the Lodge or which may tend in
any way to burlesque the seriousne~s of that instruction. Such items as
parodies on the Working Tools are objectionable in the latter way. The
Board expects that Masters of Lodges in particular and the Brethren
generally will see that the proceedings in the refectories are maintained
in proper tone, and that nothing is introduced to which exception can be
taken by any Brother.

Your Grand Master is most reluctant to consider the inauguration of
a censorship or oversight of entertainments offered in connection with
the exemplification of Masonic Degrees, preferring that it be left to the
good judgment of the Masters themselves to determine what is appropriate and fitting to offer their Brethren on such occasions, if indeed anything should be offered at all.
But this may be said, in all sincerity, that the tone of such entertainments as are offered must definitely be raised to a far higher level, and I
am confident my Brethren will see the propriety of my comments and that
there will be no occasion to speak of this again.
This brings me back to my opening words on the subject that money
spent on elaborate and inappropriate programs of entertainment may much
better be diverted to the care of worthy Brethren in need of the common
necessities of life, and in making up the shortage in Lodge exp~nse accounts
caused by a more generous and fraternal attitude in the matter of nonpayment of dues and suspensions therefor.
New Zealand (1932): (Regulation)
Care must be taken in the introduction of Masonic Fires, and anything which may tend to, lessen the dignity of the proceedings should be
discouraged.
Each toast should be proposed separately, and the custom of bringing
forward a second toast prefaced with the words "while we are on our
feet" is open to serious objection.
Masonic applause in the refectory should be restricted to one knock
and the Board is strongly against the use of the words "Fourth Degree';

•

North Dakota (1932):
(Chairmmi Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of South
Australia also called attention to the fact, after he had made a careful
survey of the subject, that Lodges were spending in the neighborhood of
eight times as much for banquets as they were on benevolences. Evidently
our Australian Brethren do not differ much from those on this side of the
world and have not supposed that "eight hours for the service of God and
distressed Brethren" referred to anything but a measure of time.
Western Australia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Oregon strongly favors the
"Traveling Trowel" method of increasing fellowship between Lodges. The
scheme is controlled by a committee which reported that on one occasion
when an Oregon Lodge presented the trowel to a sister Lodge, the Senior
Warden, who played the leading role, "appeared before the Craft in the
Spirit of George Washington, clothed in true Washington regalia," and
that his characterization "was so true and realistic that his audience was
held spellbound throughout." Impressive as this seems to have been, it
was outdone by another Lodge, which, it is averred, "climaxed all previous
presentations." This "climaxing" took the form of a series of scenes laid
in Jerusalem, in which our Three Ancient Grand Masters and others were
portrayed as taking part in the making and institution of the trowel and
its presentation.
Nor did it end there. The Lodge responsible for this spectacular exhibition edified Grand Lodge with a special performance of the presentation
play-in olden times, it would probably have been called a "Mystery."
It is not free from curious anachronisms, but probably, t he manner in
which it was staged and the size of the cast-sixteen performers-rendered
the audience oblivious to them. Western Australian Masons should understand that ceremonial Masonry in the United States is, as a rule, much
more spectacular than ours, and what would seem to a British Empire

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Mason excessive reliance is based on Ritual dramatization wherever
possible, a subject elaborated in one of my lectures which I have frequently
given. Sometimes, there is a regrettable tendency to overdo the spectacular,
as, for instance, when, in one jurisdiction, a Senior Deacon as tall and
bulky as Charlie Chaplin's gigantic ."opposite" of a few years ago was
provided for the initiation of a dwarf candidate.
FINANCES
This question still continues to be an acute one in practically all
of the Jurisdictions. In order to conserve funds, one Grand Lodge
eliminated its annual session; another one required the members to
pay their own mileage. Drastic cuts have been made in per capita
taxes, salaries and other activities. While the experience has not been
pleasant, it has impressed upon those in authority the fact that they
must cut their garment according to the amount of cloth they possess.
The other evening we heard a statement made by a well informed
man that one of the Chinese war lords had collected taxes in his
province fifty-seven years in advance. The present sales tax in California is bringing home to the taxpayer the hard lesson that expenditures, either extravagant or otl).erwise, must be ultimately paid. This
same principle must apply in the financial handling of Lodges.
Arizona (1932):
(Grand Master}: A survey of the business affairs and financfal undertakings of our Lodges has brought me to believe that these things should
undergo a radical change. Apparently most Lodges do not even try to
live WITHIN their income, but rather to live ait least up to their income.
And their plans, if they have any worthy the name, are made in the most
optimistic spirit of the most prosperous year, with seemingly never a
thought of possible adversity.

* * * * *

In recent years, particularly in the heyday of a few years ago, many
of our Lodges have undertaken to acquire homes. A commodious and
elegant home is a fine thing, and to possess such a laudable ambition, but
if . secured only with the accompaniment of a burdensome debt, and everpresent worry and a constant handicap, 'twere better that a Lodge should
live .in more modest quarters, though rented, yet able to carry on.
Some Lodges in the days of prosperity undertook the financing of
temples, entailing debts which now threaten the very existence of those
Lodges. Some have erected or purchased business buildings, figuring that
rentals would pay off the debts incurred, only to find now, perhaps, empty
store rooms converted into liabilities instead of assets, for taxes, insurance
·
and repairs go right on.

,REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

31

Arkansas (1932):
(Grand Master}: We had our years of plenty from 1920 to 1928;
it was a period marked by rapid growth numerically and financially by this
Grand Lodge. Our physical expansion was paralleled by an extension of
our activities; we increased the work of the Orphan's Home SO per cent ;
the scope of the Pension Fund was enlarged several hundred per cent.
Many of our Lodges entered upon similar programs of expansion; imbued
with a commendable desire to have proper quarters in which to meet and
to do work fitting the character of Masonry, they started building programs, to provide themselves halls of their own. Such things were justifiable; progress must be the watchword of every worthwhile institution;
to stagnate is to die in Masonry as in every other form of life.
But the seven years of plenty in anoient Egypt had their corresponding
years of famine, years in which the lean cattle ate up the fat ones. No
Joseph arose to point this out to us, or if he did, we heeded him not. It
has been hard for us now to realize the necessity of adjusting 'our ideas
and our actions to the limitations of reduced incomes.
There are two sources of Lodge revenue--dues and fees from degrees.
We have witnessed a steadily decreasing number of degrees conferred, ·and
this year will show the fewest of any in the recent history of the Grand
Lodge. This is not a disturbing factor, however, for we know that economic conditions will eventually improve, and will bring with such improvement an increasing number of applicants for Masonry.
Florida (1933):
(Grand Maste1·): I approved amendment, which amendment made the
fee for initiation $45, for passing $2.50 and for raising $2.50. The question may be raised that I have nullified Regulation 325, which prevents a
Lodge from requiring a candidate for initiation to present with his petition
advance fees for the Fellowcraft and Master Mason Degrees. There is a
psychology about this maximum initiation fee, with a minimum for the
other two, which I felt was worth experimenting with. The abnormal
number of Entered Apprentices who go no further, cannot be because of
disappointment in Masonry, but from some other cause, and I ha~e
always felt, personally, that it was embarrassment, or rather an inferiority
complex created in the minds of men of maturity when the knowledge
reached them that it would be necessary to memorize a ritualistic ceremony, with its necessary effort, and felt, in approving this by-law that
if there was as much money involved as would be necessary f~r his
Entered Apprentice Degree and the small amounts for subsequent degrees,
that he would make an additional effort to familiarize himself for the
necessary examination.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

32

33

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New Mexico (1933):
(Grand Master): Possibly the greatest loss sustained by Lodges of
the Jurisdiction is occasioned by the lax methods in the collection of
dues. The practice of allowing "further time" is prevalent, and although
the membership believe that they are doing the Brother a favor, in reality
they are actually doing him an injustice. If a year's dues cannot be collected, it follows without question that a greater amount will not be
forthcoming. We are only adding- to the amount of loss which sooner or
later must be absorbed when suspension actually occurs. And during the
interim, the Lodge has been paying the per capita to sustain the Grand
Lodge in its activities. The whole plan is unfair to all concerned.
In many cases the evil is abetted by the manner in which Secretaries
pursue the collection of dues. Too many of these officers allow the year
to come to a close without an effort being made to place the matter before
the membership. I have urged the plan of individual contact early in the
year, and followed at least quarterly. Experience has taught us that ability
to take care of financial obligations is seasonal, depending upon the occupation of the Brother, and it is imperative that we realize this fact, if we are
to keep this account to a minimum.
North Carolina (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Lodges are the craziest
financial institutions on earth. They are like the mule in the story, when
it comes to a sound financial structure: A certain mule wrecked a buggy
on a tree, and when the negro driver was asked whether the mule was
blind, to do so unn~cessary a thing as this, he answered, "Naw suh, he just
don't give a damn." Lodges more often than otherwise do not have a
budget, or if they do, ignore it; some noisy spellbinder gets up and exhorts,
and the timid members, unwilling to say nay to him, cheerfully give away
or spend all they have; an ambitious member with the building itch makes
a stirring speech and buttonholes some members, and they go in debt to
build a house which there is no hope of ever paying for. Many never
stop to ascertain whether dues are high enough to meet fixed charges.
Other Lodges pay excessively high percentage to Secretaries, salaries to
Treasurers. Still others,_ in most respects sane, vote to excuse every Master
on his retirement from office, from the payment of his dues for the rest
of days. They vote to remit dues of people in arrears indiscriminately,
never remembering that per capita tax goes on indefinitely on each, and
piles up against them mighty soon. The number of fraternal officials who
have stolen moneys collected by them or held in trust for the Lodges,
has of late become a scandal ; and the fault lies largely with Lodges which
never have any legally acceptable accounting of such things. Sometimes,
too, the crowd gets hungry and just feel that they have got to have a

feed-the majority of those present, or all of them usually, vote to have
such an event and make the Lodge pay for it-result, the Lodge eats up
its savings. And so on ad infinitum.
Oregon (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Upon authority of our wise
Brother Benjamin Franklin, Lodges must forthwith provide small neat
chests-numbered and issued to each member-secretary retaining keys.
Chests to bear upon them-"Brotherly Love-Relief-Truth"-Square
and Compasses-24-inch gauge. Chests to be taken once a month to Lodge
on its night. Secretary to open-first deduct toward payment of current
dues. Put remainders from all chests in one pile as Relief Fund-twothirds for Lodge fund-one-third for Grand Lodge fund.
Virginia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Correspondence Committee chairman of New York then asks this question: "Why does California show a net gain of 3410, while Georgia shows a net loss of 5913 ?"
We wonder if California's degree fee of an average of about $65 or
over, with $25 paid by every petitioner to Grand Lodge Charity Fund,
and $1.00 for each degree, to its Endowment Fund, leaving the Lodges
with a per capita requirement each year of about $1.50----thus leaving large
sums of money in California Lodge treasur·ies, make these Lodges attractive to the members, while Georgia with a minimum fee of $20 and
only a $5.00 payment to Grand Lodge Charity, has anything to do with this
difference.
Washington (1932):
(Chairman Currespondence Committee): Extravagance has ruled, not
only in Masonic oircles, but in private life for so long a period that we
will have to learn a safer way of conducting our affairs or become bankrupt. However, we feel sure that the good sense of the masses will
eventually overcome the difficulties which now are present in public as
well as private life. Old habits are hard to change, and it may be some
years before we will adjust ourselves to the change.
Western Australia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Kentucky expressed the opinion, formed after visiting many Lodges in the
state, that a grea:t many did not collect sufficient dues. He urged them to
fix their dues at a figure which, while not burdensome, would provide the
revenues requisite. An experience of this kind is not c-onfined to Kentucky.
It is more or less present. in most United States Jurisdictions. This writer

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

believes it is largely due to over-organization. Chapters, Conclaves, Commanderies, Consistories, all Masonic in so far as they indicate the so-called
"high Orders" of Masonry, and in addition to these, the various kinds of
"Masonic playgrounds," as a number of assumed Masonic societies style
themselves, are all available to the Blue Mason, ambitious of copying "the
other fellow," with the result that in the aggregate the Craftsman spends
prodigiously on Masonic, quasi-Masonic, near-Masonic, and more-or-lessMasonic, and pretended Masonic Bodies, and the Blue Lodge, which is the
real expression of all the Craft really requires, suffers because most
Brethren have not sufficient funds to go 'round them all unless each is
cheap. And "cheap Masonry" has an unpleasant sound.
GRAND LODGE
It is a mooted question as to what the Governor of North Carolina said to the 9overnor of South Carolina, but what the Past Grand
Master of North Carolina said to the Grand Master of South Carolina,
as far as Grand Lodge communications are concerned, is not only
interesting but true. He very graphically summarized it as follows:
"The Grand Master puts on his stove-pipe hat, literally and
sometimes figuratively as well, and reads his report. What does it
include? Dispensations, decisions, nine-tenths of which are unnecessary; discipline, necrology, with fulsome eulogy of dead Brethren, a
great deal of it undeserved, accompanied with the world's worst
poetry. I have heard more bad poetry in Masonry, and especially
in Grand Lodge, than in all other places put together. If that sort
of poetry is read over my body, I'll haunt the man who does it. Then
the Grand Master goes on to the State of the Craft, statistics, new
Lodges established, and so on, and finally winds up with a grand
burst of eloquence. After that the distinguished visitors are introduced, and they arise and strut. I have seen some who could sit
down and strut. They extend compliments, and say usually nothing
net. The address of the Grand Master of Georgia tonight was a
refreshing change from the usual address of a distinguished visitor
at Grand Lodge.
"Then the committees report--on Ritual, finance, appeals, etc.
The Superintendent of the Home asks for a little more money; new
officers are elected, appear to be very much surprised and get up
and make the same identical speech that they have been making for
the ·last hundred and fifty years: 'With the help of you Brethren and
your co-operation I will endeavor to discharge the duties of my office
to the best of my ability.' Meanwhile the Past Grand Masters sit
all ready to pounce on anything new and alive; and everybody has a
grand time fraternizing and eating big meals at the expense of somebody else."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

35

Alabama (1933):
(Grand Master): This is your Grand Lodge. I ts business is your
business. May its hours be profitable to each of us. May each representative of Subordinate Lodges realize fully why they are here, and truly
represent their Lodge and properly attend to the affairs of this Grand
Lodge. We came here to attend to the business of our institution, not
only to register, spend a few hours in pleasure and then go home, and then
later read Grand Lodge proceedings for information of what was done
and then complain of what was done and become critical. It is your labor,
.
your refreshment. Perf?rm your labor and enjoy your refreshments.
Connecticut (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Nominations preceded the
election in Canada. How does that strike you, Connecticut old hunkers?
You who used to declare nominations "un-Masonic."
Indiana (1932):
An interesting report is found in the proceeding's from what is called
a Supervisory Board. This Board makes it its business to keep in touch
with such Lodges that are in need of either financial or moral support and
· advice. The writer gives this idea hearty endorsement, and thinks that
such a Board might do much good, and believes that all Grand Lodges
might profit, providing men could be found who would make the sacrifices
necessary.
Maine· (1933):
(Grand Master): The Grand Lodge of Maine is one of the largest
corporations in this state. It has 42,152 stockholders, with 675 directors.
E,very member of the Grand Lodge is a director of this corporation, and
every Master Mason in the state who is a member of a subordinate Lodge
is a stockholder. No stockholder of this corporation can hold more · than
one share of common stock. This stock is without par value. Every
certificate of stock is issued on the same basis. The fundamental and
underlying principle is the belief in a Supreme Being. Every stockholder
is supposed to be a man of good moral character, at least of average
ability and a good citizen. No two shares of stock are of exactly the
same value. Each share is measured by the ability and efforts of the
respective stockholder. There is no stock market report which you can
examine to determine its value.
Nevada (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Saskatchewan also brings out an idea that should be broadcast in all Grand

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Lodges; it is this : The Grand Lodge is the open forum for all the Craftsmen and each representative of every Lodge should vote his own mind
afte; his own way of thinking. There certainly is no disgrace to be in the
minority if a man is exercising his franchise conscientiously. In Masonry
we all agree to abide by the decision of the majority, so after a question
is disposed of there should be no hard feelings over the result. Some
Brethren have the mistaken idea that the Past Grand Masters dictate to
them at the Sessions. This is wrong. Past Grand Masters have had experiences both in and out of office that qualify them to explain certain
Masonic problems, and if their ideas are accepted, can it be called dictating?
Maybe I have said too much, possibly not enough, but I will close the
lesson right there.
North Dakota (1932):
(Chairman-·€orrespondence Committee): The Correspondence Committee Chairman of New Hampshire expresses a great admiration for Bob
Cox and confesses to having met the writer. Again he harps on the
proposition that we pay mileage and per diem to Grand Lodge Delegates
and remarks, "Ours, in New Hampshire, so far, have chosen not to do it,
and we get full representation." Lord bless you, Harry, why shouldn't
you? Many of the boys out here in the West, where men are .men, given
a good chaw of eating tobacco, could spit half way across your little state.
Out here many of us frequently go as far as the length of your state to
attend Lodge meetings. Grand Master Milloy, to come to Fargo, travels
as far as from Concord to Baltimore, and when Charlie Phelan comes in
from Bowman he comes as far as from Manchester to Buffalo. Just how
full a representation would you have under like circumstances with the
Brethren paying all their own expenses? We have an abiding respect for
the Masons of New Hampshire but doubt if their enthusiasm would be
equal to such a condition.
Oregon (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Some Jurisdictions require
Grand Lodge Proceedings be read in Lodge. If no Lodges-no Grand
Lodge. The latter's business is that of every constituent Lodge. Merely
dumping the book on desks of Secretaries gets nowhere. Recently we
talked with several intelligent, estimable Brethren about Grand Lodge
Proceedings and Foreign Reviews. None knew what they are and never
heard of them or saw them. Something is wrong with our methods.
The W.". M.". should read, or have read by a Brother with good
delivery, all outstanding features-see that they are discusse.d pro and con
as soon as read. Lodges must know the business of Grand Lodge as much

37

as their own. If not, then why our nation's motto--"E pluribus unum"?
Ignorance of it is no excuse. The. support of the Masonic pyramid is its
broad base on the square-the Lodges-the Master Masons.
Saskatchewan (1932):

(Grand Master): To you as an assembly of Craftsmen I make an
earnest appeal. This is your Grand Lodge. You are the representatives
h~:e. of the Brethren of your Lodges. -Upon you rest the full responsib1httes to act thoughtfully and judiciously in passing upon such matters
as.may come .before you and in framing laws that may be deemed beneficial. Let your vote on any issue be dictated by your own thinking. Do
not be afraid of being in the minority if you conscientiously ·cannot support a proposed measure. Do not forget for a moment that you represent
your Lodge.
Utah (1933):

. (Chairman C~rrespondence Committee): We are quite in sympathy
~1th our Brother 111 the matter of Grand Orators, in general. H owever,
111 nearly every year of the past eighteen, we have found at least one official
bearing this title who seemed to us to rise to the occasion, and who
presented something worthy of the best traditions. Last year we found an
address of this kind in the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Maine the
speaker being the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of that state. '
After all, high sounding titles do not necessarily connote either talent
or achievement. In Juliet's familiar words: "What's in a name ? That
which we call a rose by any other name would smell as sweet."
Vermont (1933):

(Grand Master): Electioneering, so far as I am able to ascertain
has never received any attention in the addresses of any of my predeces~
sors. I ~ave been as~ed if it is proper for a Brother to solicit support
for election to office 111 the Grand Lodge or in a Subordinate Lodge.
I have spent some time looking up and reading what has been said
about this matter in other Jurisdictions, and I find that many Grand Masters have had occasion to comment on it. In some Jurisdictions it has
been a subject of resolution. In all cases it has been held without question
to be un-Masonic and very improper. The language used has varied from
mild to utmost strength, doubtless due to the extent in which the practice
has been indulged.
I unhesitatingly say that such practice is not Masonic and should never
be countenanced. A Masonic office should come as an award for merit
~nd . f~ithful service and not become a matter of what might be termed
political preferment" as a result of solicitation. The principle of free,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

.
h Id be our rule and guide without any
voluntary ancl intelligent ch.01ce s. ou h. h is so prevalent in the outside
spirit and practice of elect10neermg w IC

And your Grand Master is very proud of the "State of the Craft"
in the Jurisdiction that makes it possible for him to make the report in
this manner.

38

world
·11 f r
.
.
reat tendency to create discord and I
ee m~.
Such practice has a g .
d'
't elf. it awaits recognition and w11l
Modest merit shr.inks .from m~rul mg ~1~-go~erned and appreciative Lodge.
not remain unnoticed man or er y, w
Virginia ~1932):
nee Committee): So far as we recall, o~ly
(Chairman Correspond! e . adh e to the system of quarterlies; while
Massachusetts and Pennsy vama
er
.
. . t f Columbia hold semi-annuals.
Maryland an d D istnc o
I .
. G d Master for three terms, as a ru e •
Massachusetts re-elects its ran
f
'ice and Maryland
. we be1·ieve, ha s two years o serv ,
while Pennsylvama,
makes no change in Grand Master.
GRAND MASTERS
.
addresses of a Grand Master was that of
One of the outstanding
.
J · d' t'on Nevada: "No
H p rker of our sister uns ic I '
Brother Robert . · a .
,, 1 deed it is the first instance of its
Decisions-No D1spensat1opns. h n . ~ime conditions may be such
ember
er aps m
. .
kind that we rem
·
.
f
'ther dispensations or dec1s1ona,
that there will be no necessity or e1
d't'
. .
will cover every con 1 ion.
and the ex1stmg 1aws
h Grand Master is not wholly to
In this respect, perhaps? t e
that it is easier to write a letter
.
mber of cases 1t seems
blame. 1n a nu
f consulting existing rules and regu1auons,
than go to the trouble o tt that the officer selected to govern the
or exercising the gray ma er
Lodge is supposed to possess.
Mexico (York) (1933):
'tt
. In regard to Grand Masters,
( Chairman Correspondence Clomdm1h ee)h.ad say four or five Masters
Lod e of Eng an
as
'
'
ood
the United Gran d
g
.
th Union. Our opinion is "The G
.
I
Royalty)
smce
e
.
.
"h
.
,, •
'mportant than g1vmg onor "
( in the mam on Y
d Lodge 1s more 1
of the Craft and t h e Gran
. . t a mere baptism into the real
. th line up A year is JUS
•
d I
to someone m e
- ·
H ·e er the "system" ts ·too eep Y
k
' red of a Grand Master.
ov.; v '
wor reqdu~ the U S A. to ever be changed.
.
· ·
implante m
Nevada (1933):
(Grand Master):
None.
None.

DISPENSATIONS
DECISIONS

*

*

*

39

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Idaho
signed as Past Grand Master, a little previously we should say, although
it· is none of our business. Or maybe he was ready to unload the burden
and let someone else pick it up. We have noticed here at home that every
Grand Master elected is anxious to get started and in most .cases is just
as anxious to have it over with. In other words, we are all glad to get in
and just about as glad to get out again.

* * * * *

I would have a few take notice of the following paragraph from
Grand Master Middleton's (of Connecticut) address: "It has been my
pleasure to meet with the Past Grand Master's Association during the
year. I have found their counsel and suggestions very helpful, and I wish
at this time to express my appreciation of the many courtesies and acts of
kindness shown me during the year."
We have a Past Grand Masters' Association, and some of our
Brethren hold the mistaken idea that it is a political and dictatorial Body,
which it is neither one nor the other.

* * * * *

·As was the case last year, there were no decisions to be reported by
the Grand Master of Delaware. Just think of it : 207 Masters and over
43,000 Masons and no decisions for two years! It either shows that the
members of Grand Lodge have made the laws and regulations so plain
that there can be no doubt as to the meaning, or that the principal officers
of the Lodges have posted themselves so well that their handling of the
business was such as to merit the approbation of all their members.
North Carolina (1933):
(Chairman C0:rresp()tldence Committee): This Grand Lodge of
Arkansas seems to lay special emphasis upon keeping up the graves of its
Past Grand Masters. It is recorded that they know the last resting places
of all of them except one who was lost in the great Galveston flood; and
that the Grand Lodge is seeing to it that these graves carry suitable monuments. In one instance a monument is falling down because the grave is
sinking; and an expE'nditure of $75 is authorized to accomplish some
necessary repairs. We like the sentiment ; but' somehow we come to the
conclusion once in a while that too much of magic lies in the imagined
significance of certain phrases, like "Past Grand Master," "blanketyblank degree," and the like. To have been a Grand Master is oftentimes
accidental. There are more really outstanding Masons who have never

40

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

been installed in the Grand Master's chair than among those who have;
and many of the six or eight hundred Past Grand Masters now living
within the United States of America never did anything to mark them
as having made an outstanding contribution to Masonry or to society. We
know some Masons, otherwise manifesting much common sense, who so
much worship the outside of the cup that they are not willing to think of
any Mason as worthy of honor recognition, unless he has some of these
talismanic titles or things hitched on to his name.
North Dakota (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee}: We have seen Grand Masters' addresses whose length made us groan. We have seen them short
·enough to cause comment, but Brother Denman's effort surpassed them all.
Barely five pages in the proceedings, including a couple of poetic selections.
He recommended legislation for Grand Lodge supervision of all building
projects. This was laid over until 1932, with a special committee appointed
to investigate and report. Among the decisions we note that a non-affiliate
cannot be admitted in open Lodge as a witness in a Masonic trial if his
demit is dated before the current year.
Oregon (1932):
Resolved, That the Grand Master of this Grand Lodge appoint a
committee of five of its members to study during the ensuing year and
report to this Grand Body at its next regular Annual Communication, the
advisability of either electing the Grand Master of this Grand Lodge one
year in advance of the time that he is installed, or that the Deputy Grand
Master automatically becomes Grand Master the year following his election as Deputy Grand Master.
Washington (1932):
(Chairmmi Corresponde11ce Committee): We deem his idea as to
visitations of the Grand Master in Idaho as well worthy of emulation.
He feels that there ought not to be work at that session of the Lodge,
but that the time should be taken up with some teaching of an educational
character; and when, at his visitation, there was a degree conferred, he
tried to tie onto the degree work something which would arouse the desire
for further knowledge on the part of the candidate.
Western Australia (1932J:
(Chairmmi Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master's address
indicates considerable variety in visitations. Naturally, he visited many
Lodges, being present not only at their regular meetings, but also at receptions, social functions, and Divine services. He did not confine his visits

to these. Royal Arch, the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, the National
League of Masonic Clubs, and Knights Templar were gratified by his
presence, also the Tall Cedars of Lebanon, the Order of the Golden Chain,
that most appalling collection of initials, the M. O. V. P. E. R.-no, my
Wes tern Australian Brethren, it has nothing to do with the "movies"; it
stands for Mystic Order Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm, and
one wonders what Tom Moore would have said had he known that his
Veiled Prophet was to be thus dragged in. Needless to say, the Eastern
S~ar was not forgotten in the list of big functions, all these being "topped"
with the announcement that "on several occasions it was possible to accept
invitations to visit meetings of Eastern Star Chapters Golden Chain
Links, Rainbow Assemblies, De Molay Chapters, and ma~y civic, secular,
and fraternal organizations." With such a manifestation of Masonic
reco~nition, it is not surprising that Brother Sargent declared, "We are in
most friendly relations with all Orders and fraternal organizations so far
as I have knowledge."

HISTORY-DEBUNKING
. A number of statements made regarding Masonry, its origin,
history, etc., would be highly interesting if true. Unfortunately, a
large number of these misleading statements are made by those in
the Fraternity who should know better. In a number of cases they
are absolutely unfounded, and are productive of criticism and ridicule.
Someone has said that the history of civilization is the history of the
displacement of old conceptions by new ones more conformable to
facts. Masonic history should be along this line. Too often it is
along the line of:
"A rural orator, when extolling the manifold virtues of his favorite
congressman, and asking an endorsement by the dear 'peepul,' said:
'He is the greatest man in the country. He is the greatest man in the
state. He is the greatest man in the United States. Yes, fellow-citizens,
he is the greatest man in the universe.' Whereupon one of his audience
gave a prolonged whistle. Nothing daunted, the orator, with accession
of heat, exclaimed: 'Well, if he ain't, he ought to be!'"
Maryland (1932):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In the Address of Welcome
in the Grand Lodge of Oklahoma we find certain hysterical utterances
caused in part by the "wish being father to the thought" and also by
the fact that the orator of the occasion had not posted himself on the latest
Masonic researches. He is one of those who wish to believe that these
United States became a nation by Masonic means or, as he states, "because
it (Masonry) is largely responsible for the formation of this great gov-

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ernment." And he goes on to say, "Masons formed the Continental
Congress, Masons wrote and signed the Declaration of Independence,
Masons kept alive the embers of patriotism throughout the war; and as
this country has grown and blossomed, Masons have guided and will
continue to guide her to the great goal she is destined to attain."
The following statement has recently appeared in a little pamphlet
issued under the authority of the Grand Lodge of New York:
"Of the Presidents of the United States it is known that 11 have
become members of the Craft. It is believed others have been raised, but
to date proof is lacking. . . . Of the 56 Signers of the Declaration of
Independence, the records show that 13 were Brethren: Benjamin Franklin, Lyman Hall, John Hancock, Joseph Hewes, William Hooper, Thomas
McKean, Thomas Nelson, Jr., Robert Treat Paine, John Penn, Roger
Sherman, Richard Stockton, Matthew Thornton, George Walton, William
Whipple, and John Witherspoon."
Also the Shawnee Brother might refer to William L. Boyden's·
"Masonic Presidents, Vice-Presidents and Signers," wherein he might
find matter that would make him correct his above statements, or, at
least, some of them.
'
And again he must remember that there were as many and as good
Freemasons who were Loyalists as there were Revolutionists-and again
let him remember that Freemasonry was the creation of English thought
and that the principles of freedom and .liberty of the English colonist
were those principles first enunciated in the .Magna Charta of King John
(June 15, 1215) and were the precious heritage of the population of the
Thirteen Colonies at the time of the Revolution.
We are afraid, if the Brother who made the above referred to address were taken seriously, Masonry would come in (and properly so)
for very severe criticism when he states that Masons have guided this
country and will continue to do so.
Allow us to say, that (and we apologize for the use of slang) this
is pure "bunk." The speaker implies that Freemasonry runs this government and that what it now is, is due to •the Order. Even if . this were
true (which, of course, it is ·not) would Freemasonry wish to assume the
burden of the evils the citizen is suffering today by reason of the failure
of those whom the electorate have placed in power to act for the good
of the individual and the protection of the rights and . liberties of the
people? · In addition to the above, it must be remembered that Freemasonry
is not a political machine but a mighty force for good, and instead of
claiming mighty political power it would be better to view things as they
are and to strive, by the teachings of our profession in a firm, but humble,
spirit, for the amelioration of the frightful !Jlisgovernment now oppressing
these United States.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

43

Let us put aside the spirit of Chauvinism and, uninfluenced by the
hysteria of the moment engendered by a larg.e crowd, let us read some
well-authenticated history and call attention to the need of the electorate
to apply their intelligence to the protection of the few rights th~y .have
left and to the restoration cif the rights and liberties they have blmdly
relinquished. '
As Grand Orator, Brother Gayle of Louisiana gives a wonderful
display of the science of hermeneutics when he says :
"We do know that in the struggle for human liberty, while leading
the Continental Army through its years of hardship and trial and suffering to final victory, he surrounded _himself with trusted aides ~nd
officers who were bound to him by the ties of Masonry. Even the foreign
heroes, Marquis de Lafayette, the Frenchman, and Baron de Steuben, the
German, were Masons, and in time of crisis, when· everything depended
upon faithfulness and patriotism, devotion to duty and inte~rity, ,he pas~ed
the word to his aides and generals, 'Let none but Amermms, meamng
Masons, 'be placed on gtKird'."
This is indeed writing history (?) with a vengeance!
Upon what does 'the Grand Orator base his statement except upon
the fact that George Washington was a Mason and ~ad a high regard
for the Fraternity. This surely is far from the establishment of the
conclusion that as General he would give an order with such a concealed
meaning; and from Washington's character, if he had meant any such
thing as that only American Masons be put on guard, he would have been
very apt to give the order as Brother Quayle would have liked it to have
been given. Besides all this it may as well be understood that Freemasonry
as such did not establish this government, and while a number of prominent
Colonials were Masons, yet equally prominent men of that day were
Loyalists and Masons, also. Again it must be remembered that there
were comparatively few of the Colonial forces that were members of the
Order, and it would have been hardly advisable for Washington to have
endeavored to lead his mixed body of troops making his army a Masonic
army to establish a Masonic government. If Freemasonry is respons~ble
for the establishment of this government (which it is not) , then certainly
the Craft have been sadly derelict in guiding the ship of state for many
years; for if Patrick Henry of Revolutionary fame complained at the
present day of the abuses he attacked he would be regarded with wonder,
since the citizen of these U nited States today has to suffer greater abuses
of power than the fiery orator of the Virginia Houses of Burgesses could
well imagine outside of an Eastern despotism.
Grand Orators as well as Reviewers should be careful in their expressions when dealing with matters of history and of Masonry, since their
utterances go over the world and are subject to the careful scrutiny of
students outside of the Fraternity as well as of it.

a

44

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New York (1932):
(Chafrman Correspondence Committee): Loose talk about "Latin
Freemasonry" among uninformed Brethren has done grave injustice to the
great majority of the Grand Lodges in countries where a Latin language
is spoken. Just because the Grand Orient and the Grand Lodge of France
and the Grand Orient of Spain are active politically and in anti-clerical
lines, antagonists of the Craft have made it appear that all others were
of the same character. Masonic writers and speakers have allowed themselves to fall into the trap and refer to "Latin Masonry" as if it were an
entity and one characterized by irreligiousness and politics. The truth is
that with only three or four exceptions, the Latin American Jurisdictions
observe the Landmarks quite as strictly as our Grand Lodges do. Their
Constitutions declare definitely that religious and political discussions and
line-ups are forbidden. Of course, when placed on the defensive by
unscrupulous or misinformed anti-Masonic agitators, they talk back to
reassure the general public of their neutral stand in all matters of religious
and political controversy. There is no such thing as "Latin Freemasonry."
Each Grand Lodge is independent of every other and must be judged by
itself. The reviews given above are intended as a help toward that end.
Utah (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In the last two or three
decades much has been accomplished in the matter of "debunking" history-Masonic and "profane." That this work could go forward in either
case without being overdone, would be too much to expect. Place a hammer
in the hands of a thoroughgoing iconoclast and one cannot be certain that
he will always enter the house of Dagon, or exercise discrimination once
he is inside.
•
And what a multitude of idols have fallen! Why, we are not permitted even to retain that pretty little story about Franklin's suggestion
in the Constitutional Convention that resort be had to prayer when there
·appeared to be a real "jam," and delegates were on the point of returning
to their homes. For one, we are not satisfied with the substitution of
Hamilton's alleged remark to the effect that the situation was not sufficiently serious to call for "foreign" aid.
But to come to the matter in mind. The reader of Masonic history
hardly needs to be told that the name of Rev. James Anderson is usually
associated with the names of William Preston and Dr. Ge()rge Oliver, as
having made too free a use of the imaginatiQn when writ!ng on the early
history of organized Freemasonry, ,and that .consequently Anderson's
account of what transpired in the formative period from 1716 to June 24,
1723, "the date when the premier Grand Lodge installed its first Secretary," must be taken with more than the proverbial grain of salt. For this

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

45

reason we are more than grateful to :. Ossian Lang, Historian of the
Grand Lodge of New York, for his careful and thorough study of this
subject and his answer to the question, "Who was Dr. Anderson?" which
appears in the Proceedings of the Jurisdiction named for 1932.
LEGISLATION
The great indoor sport in our national, state and municipal legislative bodies is that of passing laws, and some Grand Lodges show
that this custom is still prevalent. Someone has expressed the thought
that at the present date thousands of laws are made, hundreds understand them and a few individuals live by them. Too mucli legislation
tends to weaken an individual or an organization. In those Jurisdictions requiring amendments or changes to lay over for one year, and
be discussed in the Lodges, it is noticeable that a majority are not
adopted. Those that are acted upon favorably generally seem necessary.
England (1933):
(Board of Great Britain): In ·view of the large number of amendments which have been made to this Book of Constitutions since the last
edition was issued in 1926, the Board feels that a new edition should be
issued as soon as possible. There are many Rules, however, which require
redrafting, and the Board proposes to undertake a general revision as soon
as practicable. This will involve very extensive consideration, and the
Board would appreciate the assistance of the Craft. It hopes that any
Brother who has any suggestion to make in amendment of any of the
existing Rules, will forward such suggestion to the Grand Secretary for
consideration in due l=ourse.
Maryland (1932):
(Chairma1i Correspondence Committee): Burdensome and vexatious
taxation, sumptuary laws and regulations imposed on the individual,
troublesome and intricate rules for the government of every private and
corporate business have made present-day conditions a nightmare.

* * * * *
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Illinois is one of the Grand
Jurisdictions which rejoices in its volume of Masonic legislation, and
in consequence we are not surprised when we read of various amendments
to the "CODE" and proposed amendments to same. We are indeed glad
that Freemasonry in Maryland follows the "Common Law System" rather
than the ideas of "Code Legislation."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

46

. REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nevada (1933):
(Grand Master): Brethren, it is with a great deal of regret that I
bring you any recommendations whatsoever. It is my belief that we have
enough laws and regulations in our Masonic Code as it is, and I think you
will agree with me the condition of the Masonic Fraternity in Nevada is
something to be proud of, when the Grand Master is not called upon for
any decisions. It also tells you of the caliber of the men who direct the
affairs of the Order throughout the state. This also speaks well of the
wisdom of the Pioneers who framed our Code.

* * * * *

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The amount of Masonic
legislation that has been enacted and repealed is probably more than we
have in our Masonic Codes now. Every Masonic statute that is passed
should be worded in good homely language and stated in such a plain
manner as to leave no doubt as to the meaning intended by its authors;
and also in such a way there could be no technicality. to get around it to
fit an occasion.
Utah (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A correspondent seeks an
explanation of the voluminous "Decisions and Opinions" which cover vast
areas of white paper that come labeled "Proceedings." He wondered
whether the law (Masonic) in some Jurisdictions is faulty or inadequate,
or were they due to a penchant on the part of certain Grand Masters.
Our opinion is that responsibility lies at the "door of Grand Masters,
and for this reason, and to illustrate: We have in mind a series of
"Decisions," sixty or seventy in number, each consisting of two or more
long paragraphs, the first of which presents the question submitted with
all the attendant circumstances, and details, followed by a lengthy discussion of the matter; a formal pronouncement, or "decision," and closing
with words to this effect: "This subject is fully covered by section so and
so of the Code of this Grand Lodge !"
\Vashington (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Judging from the numb~r
of amendments proposed to the Georgia Constitution, we would think that
some State Legislature had invaded the Grand Lodge. "Bill" after "Bill,"
as they call the proposed amen,dments, was introduced and discussed.

47

should possess these qualifications. Ruskin said, "\Ve require from
builders, as from men, two kinds of goodness; first, the doing of their
practical duty well; then, that they be graceful and pleasant when
doing it."
Florida (1932):
(Grand Ma.st er): The close of the Masonic year is almost with us,
with its most important problems, delinquency lists and the election of
officers. Delinquency is all important in this period of depression, a depression used by many as an excuse for the non-payment of obligations.
Personal investigations and contacts should be made in all delinquent
cases, that no injustice may be done to worthy Brothers, delinquent
through misfortune. Where this personal contact has been employed
by particular Lodges it has developed an opportunity for education of the
delinquents as to our .activities, both local and Grand Lodge. It has
developed the reasons for non-attendance--lack of fraternalism, personal
irritation, and many others possible of correction, and it has developed the
worthy cases of delinquency (a very small percentage).
Not less important the election of officers. Too frequently officership
is the reward of attendance, not ability, and a hesitancy on the part of the
membership to drop one who supposedly ranks on the appointive list of
officers. Out of respect to this consideration on the part of the membership, each officer who is eligible for promotion· according to the custom
of your particular Lodge should make a complete analysis of himself
-and the duty which he owes to the Booy that has already honored him by
its recognition. He should ask of himself a few pertinent questions:
Have I both the ritualistic and business ability to successfully administer the affairs of my Lodge?
Will I have the time to devote to the proper administration of its
affairs?
Am I broad enough to forget my personal feelings in this administration?
Is my own moral deportment of such a character that I not only
will be respected by my membership but the community as well?
These are a few of the questions which the Brother who is possibly
<h.te promotion by service should ask of himself, and if he cannot answer
them as a true Mason should answer, his announcement should be on
election night that ''I do .not c_hoose to serve."
Maine (1933):

LODGE OFFICERS
A Lodge looks to its officers for leadership and inspiration. They
must possess ability, experience and knowledge. To furnish these,
the officers, from the \Vorshipful Master down to the Junior Steward,

(Grand Master): Lodges must be more careful in selecting their
officers, because the question of leadership determines the interest in the
Lodge work. Many Lodges seem to feel if a man is started at the foot of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

the line that he must be advanced until he is Master of the Lodge. This
is a great error. If a man shows that he has not the qualities to make a
good officer, nor the qualities of leadership, then he should not be advanced.
Lack of competent leadership means smaller attendance, lack of interest
and finally suspension or demits among the members.

formed, the ballot is always dark. You could not blame the members of
the Lodge-the Brother refused to learn the work of the office he held,
and when approached as to what he would do if advanced to a higher
station, answered that he would not learn the work of that office. Now he
is a "sour member" and nothing is done right.
A Grand Master of a certain Jurisdiction would like to stop the
popular habit of the Brethren from rushing out the moment a Brother
is raised because they are afraid they will have to listen to the lectures:
the lectures which the Worshipful Master and his officers have worked
hard to perfect and which mean so much to the candidate who is seeking
further light. Have we any Masons of this kind in this Jurisdiction?
The saddest thing that can be said about any Mason is that he is a
"has been." The more he has done the more he should do. Unwise is that
Past Master who, when he steps down from the Master's chair, feels and·
acts as though his responsibility has ceased and he is through. Past
Masters do not step down, but up. His experience should make him more
useful to the Craft, and he still has duties to perform and advice to give,
that the Lodge may function properly and not go off on a tangent. The
Past Master should be the counselor of his Lodge, not only because of
his ability to do so, but because he owes it to what he himself has already
put into Masonry.

48

North Carolina (1933):
(Chairnum Correspondence Committee): Cases where the Secretary
and the Deacon run things are just plain illustrations of Masonic cussedness on the part of somebody else ·who is willing to let these two do it.
We have seen such cases-more than once. We see all sorts of cases of
indifference in high places, where somebody else has to shoulder the
situation vicariously and keep things going. Sometimes the Secretary is
a Past Master and is not at all unwilling to do his full share-in fact, he
may be a bit too ready. But there is too much disposition to condemn
people hastily in such things. He is a wise leader who puts his men to
work, gives them training, prepares for the future, even keeps himself in
the background while acting as leader. God save us from those folks who
are always wanting to be spectacular, who are anxious to get the credit
for something, who make one big mistake. In only one case is noise the
equivalent of health-we've got one of those at our house, and it's the
year-old namesake, son and heir of the writer. In all other cases, excessive
noise is scarcely compatible with the most healthy of conditions, and the
post of leader is no exception.
Wyoming (1932)
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A member who accepts a
station in his Lodge should strive to be a real officer. No matter what
his station may be, he should thoroughly acquaint himself with the duties
of that office, and then proceed to make himself proficient in the work
of the officer above him. If the Worshipful Master is ~areless in his
work, what can be expected from the other officers and the members?
Everyone likes to see his Lodge conducted in a creditable manner, for
it is a pleasure to each member to sit in a Lodge where the officers are
thoroughly acquainted with their duties.
The Grand Lodge requires the officers of its Subordinate Lodges to
be proficient in their respective duties, otherwise the members lose interest,
·attendance drops off, and the work is not well done.
Of all the pests with which Masonry is afflicted, none is worse than
the "sour member," the fellow who is always dissatisfied. He spreads
discomfort wherever he is, and it is too bad he cannot confine his grumbling
to himself. I know of a member who became "sour" because the Lodge
did not advance him · in the chairs; and since that time, I have been in-

49

NEWS FLASHES
Under this heading we have listed unusual or outstanding events
that have taken place in the Masonic world in the past year. They
may serve to show that it is often the unusual that will attract
attention.
Arizona (1933):
(Grand Master}: I was greatly interested in remarks made by Past
Grand Master Walter L. Stockwell of North Dakota, relative the practice
in his Jurisdiction of Subordinate Lodges having what is termed "Grand
Lodge Night," when business and activities of the Grand Lodge is reported
upon and discussed, thus enabling the membership to become conversant
with action had on various matters at the Annual Communication of the
Grand Lodge.
In my opinion much good will result from Subordinate Lodges in
this Jurisdiction adopting a similar practice, such meetings to be held
immediately after proceedings of the Annual Communication are available.
Connecticut (1933):
(Gr~nd Master) : The Grotto have continued their keen personal
interest and financial support to our Masonic Home and always stand
ready to furnish entertainment for our guests. Nimrod Grotto of Norwich

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ha<l a special night at the Home, furnishing entertainment and refreshments ·for our guests, and on this occasion presented me with a check for
one hundred and fifty dollars to furnish a room at the Home. Each Grotto
in the state has now furnished a room and has a name plate on the door
of the room bearing the Grotto's name.

* * * * *
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A Lodge in· Arizona which
had "bitten off more than it could chew" in erecting a temple, poorly built
and half-done, asked Grahd Lodge to take over its burden. The.,Trustees,
to whom the case was referred, could not .see their way clear lo· do so. ·
But they did take over $2,100 ,of bonds sold to non-Masons,. who were
assured of their validity. This is simply another case of the widespread
craze for building temples without first counting the cost and ability to
finance.
Ireland (1932):
·(Board of General Purposes): The Board ruled that no Brother who
has received charity from a Lodge, can hold office in the Lodge or vote on
any question before the Lodge, ·until he shall have repaid the amount of
the charity so given.
Kentucky (1932):

(Grand Master): The Grand Master announced that he had created
a new Lodge office during his administration. The title of. it is-THE
KENTUCKY GRAND LODGE OFFICIAL CHAUFFEUR-Right
Worshipful Senior Deacon had been very kind to the Grand Master. during
the year, going with him on his visits, and had been a faithful escort.
Louisiana (1933):
(Grand Master):' I recommend that the two Grand Lecturers be
elected for life, subject to removal by Grand Lodge for just cause. Salaries
to be fixed on a per capita basis of 18 cents per member with a maximum
of $6,000 per year; total for both. Budget for expenses to remain as at
present.
Both Grand Lecturers have been accused of playing politics in order
that they may be re-elected each year. As far as I am concerned this is
hearsay, as these good Brethren have never asked me to vote for them
or for anyone else in connection with Grand Lodge Elections. I am sorry
to say that this is not true of some of their accusers. I make this recommendation with the hope that, if acted upon favorably, it will eliminate
the stigma of political propaganda in connectio~ with at least two of our
Grand Lodge Officers. Politics has no business in Masonry, and I recommend that it be discouraged by the representatives in attendance at this
and all future Sessions of Grand Lodge.

51

Maine (1933):
(Cli(lirman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Prince Edward Island advocates the presentation of a small trowel of
silver to each newly made Mason, thinking it rather better than a Bible,
an opinion in which we are inclined to agree, especially as practically every
member must have plenty of Bibles at home, which he probably never
reads.

* * * * *
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Here follows something new
and unprecedented in Grand Lodge procedure: . The M. '. W. · · was informed that there was a ·Brother waiting who wanted the privilege of
talking, and would guarantee to give· $100 per minute for each minute he
talked. The Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery of Mississippi
then stepped forward and presented the M. '. W.'. Grand Master with a
check for $500, and talked much less than five minutes. What a plan I to
tap some of the alleged oratory at the same rate of $100 per minute, and
hand it to the Charity Foundation of each Grand Lodge.
Massachusetts (1933):
(Grand Master): I desire to bring . to the attention of Grand Lodge
an act of Masonic service rendered by three California Brethren which
is so outstanding an example of brotherly love that it well may serve as
an· inspiration to every Mason.
Brother Samuel Duncan, a member of Sojourners Lodge, of Cristobal,
. Canal Zone, under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge, and residing in
San Bruno, California, became dangerously ill and was expected to live
but a few hours.
Worshipful Brother Arthur T. Weed, Master of Francis Drake
Lodge No. 376, of South San Francisco, when informed of the situation,
communicated immediately with the physician in charge of the case, from
whom he learned that Brother Duncan was almost certain to die within
a very few hours, but there was a slight possibility that his life might
be prolonged and perhaps saved through a blood transfusion. Worshipful
Brother Weed immediately submitted to a blood test, and it being found
suitable, he gave of his blood to this unknown ·Brother whom he had
never seen before, whereupon two of his officers, Brother Richard M.
Zemke, Senior Warden, and Brother Carl ·A. E. Peterson, Senior Steward,
also submitted to the operation of transfusion. Brother Duncan rallied
under this treatment, but later succumbed to his infirmities and passed
away. This, however, did not in the least detract from the generous and
unselfish act of the three Brethren of Francis Drake Lodge, and I deem
this outstanding service on the part of these Brethren sufficient to merit
bringing the matter to your attention.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The very nature of their service to an unknown Brother demonstrates
that their thoughts were far from any consideration of fee or reward, but
I am so deeply impressed by their action that I have forwarded three of
our Joseph Warren Medals for Distinguished Service to the Grand Master
of California, with the request that he arrange for a suitable occasion on
which to present, in the name of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts, these
decorations to the three Brethren c_oncerned. I am confident that you will
heartily approve my action.

~ecretary's office, with the annual report required by Grand Lodge law;
tfiat such financial reports be submitted to a special Committee on Finance
for analysis and .report to the Grand Lodge of 1934.

52

:M:ontana (1932):

(Chairman Co1-respondence Committee):. The Traveling Trowel appeared on the scene, and Maritime Lodge (Oregon) staged a performance
with K. S., H. A., H. T., Craftsmen, etc., as actors, and the scene was laid
at K. S. Temple, Mount Moriah. How the trowel, a "replica" of the
Washington Trowel, got there we do not understand. Time went backwards ; it makes us think of our efforts when our watch has stopped and
we wind it and then start in to turn the hands to set it, and think to the
right and lo! we find them moving to the left. The traveling trowel did
some tall jumping over centuries and centuries. We trust that Brother
Mason will pardon our levity ; we cannot help it; it appeals to us so
childish; the "replica" has no historic or histrionic value, and the entire
proceedings seem to us ridiculous ; perchance we are not attuned to the
proper key to appreciate the solemnity attached to the spiritual or material
side of the particular "replica"; by the way, "replica" we find to be defined
in our small Webster's New Standard Dictionary, to be "a copy of an
original picture or statue executed by the same artist or sculptor" ; but we
have written enough and really mean no offense, and trust that Rufus
Cheney will shake hands with us next time we see him and not feel sore at
our cruel effort to shatter an Oregon idol.
Nebraska (1933):
M.'. W.'. Lewis E. Smith, Grand Secretary, made the following
motion:
That the incoming Grand Master be authorized, either in person, or
by suitable committee, to negotiate with our sister organization, the Grand
Lodge of Independent Order of Odd Fellows, and later to take up this
question with the banking department, and see if something cannot be
worked out for the benefit of our Lodges, as well as theirs.
Motion unanimously adopted.

* * * * *

Resolved, That the incoming Grand Master request from each Lodge
in this Grand Jurisdiction a financial statement showing its assets and
liabilities as of December 31, 1933, such report to be sent in to the Grand

53

* * * ••
The failure of any Lodge to meet for four successive months or to be
represented at two Annual Communications of the Grand Lodge, or to
make its annual returns or pay its Grand Lodge dues for two successive
years, shall be sufficient grounds for the forfeiture of its Charter; and
it shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary to give immediate notice thereof
to a Lodge appearing by the records of his office to be delinquent in returns
and dues.
New _Hampshire (1933):
(Chairman Correspo11dcnce Committee): We wonder just how this
will work out. The Lodges, by vote of the Grand Lodge of Alabama, were
advised not to send flowers when one of their members died, but to send
a cash donation to the Home, informing the family of the deceased as to
what had been done. We do not term this as being radical, but certainly it
is something that is different.

• * • * •

(Chafrman Correspondence Committee): When they elect the Grand
Master in Rhode Island he is not in the hall. A committee of all the Past
Grand Masters waits upon him. Getting his acceptance, he is escorted into
the hall and installed, after which the election of other officers occurs.
New :M:exico (1932):
Your committee is not unmindful of the valued support given the
Fort Bayard undertaking by foreign Jurisdictions and especially the
Northern Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite Bodies of the United States,
who responded with a check in the sum of $25,000 for the construction of
the Sojourners' Club Building and later materially contributed to the
Relief Fund.
New :M:exico (1933):
(Grand Master): Early last year, the State Tax Commission ordered
assessors in all counties to place Masonic properties on the tax roll.
Temple Lodge No. 6, Albuquerque, instituted suit to force the assessor
of Bernalillo County to remove the assessment of their property from the
tax roll. In the trial, judgment was entered against the Lodge and the
case was promptly appealed to the Supreme Court. After due consideration, the higher court found that Freemasonry is an educational institution
and, as such, was exempt by statute from taxation.
This case has caused much interest among the Craft, and in many
instances the imposition of a tax would place a great burden upon Lodges

54

REPORT ON CORRESP ONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

which had built temples without taking into consideration the possibility
of a tax levy. Feeling that the result of this case affected the whole
Jurisdiction, the Grand Lodge participated in the expense of the case.
New Zealand (193Z):
The report on Foreign Correspondence is always published in "The
New Zealand Craftsman" and ·is not printed in the regular volume of the
Proceedings.
New Zealand (1933):
The Grand Secretary has given intimation to the Board of his probable
retirement during the forthcoming year. As the regulations provide,
when a vacancy occurs in the position of Grand Secretary, applications
shall be called for by advertisement in a Masonic newspaper circulating
in New Zealand.
North Carolina (1933):
(Grand Master): I recommend that this Grand Lodge present, with
its compliments, through the officers of Subordinate Lodges, a set of
"C!audy's Introduction to Freemasonry," in three volumes. Having planted
the seed of inquiry in the mind of the initiate, we should encourage him
to delve into the antiquity and histor·y of our Order.
Oregon (1932):
(Grand Master):. Old men in their dotage, young men in their nonage,
fools and th e insane, are not supposed to be admitted to our Order, yet
when I view the accumulation of Chain Letters that have come to my
attention during the past year, I sometimes wonder if we have not paid too
great attention to the physical qualifications and lost sight of the mental.
Men who comply with the requests conveyed in these letters, either
suffer from a iear and superstition complex, or are examples of human
asininity that in itself is prima facie evidence that the lnvestiga.ting Committee were derelict in their duty. It behooves us all to destroy every
letter of this type that comes to our attention.
Scotland (1931):
A speaker suggested one way of improving present conditions, in
referring to the good old days when every Master Mason had a cliploma
on parchment, whereas now he has one on paper. The Province over
which this speaker has the honor to preside, comprising forty-seven
Lodges, put up a resolution requesting parchment diplomas. The Grand
Secretary replied that it would cost Grand Lodge $12,000, and the speaker

55

agr~ed this sum was possibly too large for Grand Lodge to face, but even
so, 1t would have scme compensation, because that money so expended
would go back to his Province to those who breed the sheep from ·whose
skins the parchment is made, and would have a diploma to pass down to
posterity and at the same time help the business of the sheep farmer.

Scotland (1932):
On February 2, 1932, was held a Quarterly Communication. Benevolent grants totaling many thousands of dollars were made. In looking
over the field where these were spread, we were really surprised at the
many Lod~es and of the many places where they are situated: Arabia
Felix, Barbados, Bermuda, British East Africa; British Guiana, Cape
Colony, Chile, Dutch Guiana, Good Hope, Egypt, Palestine, Syria, Honduras, Hong Kong, India, Jamaica, Japan, Korea, Mesopotamia, Natal,
Newfoundland, New Zealand, North China, Nyasaland, Peru, Philippine
Islands, Panama, Rhodesia, Siam, Tanganyika, Java, Batavia, Sumatra,
T.ransvaal, Orange Free State, Portuguese East Africa, Trinidad, Turkey,
Sierra Leone, Nigeria, Acre, Kaduna, Ashanti, Australia, Morocco, Gibraltar, St. Kitts, and many other places, reading just .like a geography
index.
Texas (1932):
The Grand Secretary's questionnaire only accounted for 92,246 ol the
144,666 members. He found that more than one-fifth of ·Texas members·
did not live within the Jurisdiction of their Lodges.
Vermont (1933):

(Grand Master}: The matter of taxation of the temple was decided
by the Supreme Court during the past year adversely to us, and it is still,
therefore, being taxed.

• • • • •

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master reported
having granted two dispensations to anticipate the date of regular meetings as set in the by-laws and three dispensations to Lodges · to exem}>lify
the Third Degree in other states. Vermont does not countenance the
former, but does allow her Lodges to exemplify their work in other
states when proper dispensations are obtained from both Grand Masters.
Victoria (1932):
. One thing which seem~ peculiar to American Masons is that when
a member of the Royal Arch Chapter, or the Grand Lodge of Mark Masters is dropped, said member is automatically dropped from their ~espective
Craft Lodges.

56

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Virginia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In Virginia we have known
of one instance where a Trustee had been dead for fifteen years before
the membership noticed it.

• • • • •

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Freedom in Masonic membership has developed unexpectedly all over the United States; ten years
ago only three or four Grand Lodges permitted dual membership; now
over twenty have some form of dual or plural membership.

• • • • •

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Pennsylvania with over
214,000 members suspended only 1768, while there were restored during
the year 604--more than one-third came back; while <limits total only 359.
A net gain of 489 is shown.
.
Georgia with 66,000 members reports 4311 suspended, with 444 reinstated; and a net loss of 3723 as of August 31, 1931.
Western Australia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): One learns from Grand
Master Dean that one of the Masons of that Jurisdiction is a Brother,
104 years of age, named Lepredet Miller Logee, claimed to be the oldest
Mason in the world. Such a claim, of course, is entitled to respect, but
l remember reading a paragraph from a British Masonic journal recently,
in which a similar claim was put forward by a British Mason of the same
age. But, as I was told, several times, in California, "When we speak of
'the world,' we mean the United States." That is a different view from the
one taken by an admiring American-Jewish poet (I have his poem) that
"the World" was created in six days and, afterwards, the United States.

• • • • •

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In reply to a request for a
ruling as to the proper method of wearing Craft aprons, it was stated
that it was the custom in the Scottish Jurisdiction for aprons to be worn
beneath and not above the jacket. In this matter Scotland differs from a
large number of Empire Grand Lodges, that of England included, which
require the apron to be worn outside the coat or jacket when other than
evening or dinner dress is worn.

• • • • •

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The writer once heard an
eccentric member of Parliament inveigh against the feminine community
owing to its predilection for wearing what he described as "gews, and
gaws, and fal-lals, and whigmaleeries." Whether Masonic jewelry is
included within such amazing nomenclature, "this affiant knoweth not,"
but in Virginia there is a custom, common amongst female members of a

57

Mason's family, of wearing Masonic pins and rings and other ornaments
Masonically embellished. In reply to questions whether these additions to
feminine "pulchritude"-as United States newspapers delight to · paraphrase the better word, "beauty"-the Grand Master categorically laid it
down as "entirely customary, proper, and legal that a wife, daughter,
sister or mother" (the committee reporting on the Grand Master's address
generously added "widow") "of a Master Mason in good standing in this
Jurisdiction may be allowed to wear a Masonic emblem or insignia when
properly authorized so to do." Perhaps some other querist will invite
further categorical declaration, ex cathedra, as to what would happen
to the authorization of the "wife, daughter," etc., when their authorizing
Masonic relative became delinql.lent in his dues and, therefore, no longer
"in good standing." Perhaps, too, we may yet see a Grand Master called
upon to decide the equally important question argued by a number of
Oriental philosophers, many generations ago-how many angels could
stand on a needle point without pricking their feet?
OFFENSES
Masons, being human, must err. One of the disagreeable sections
of the Grand Lodge Proceedings is that of Masonic trials. When
every Mason realizes that the Masonic Fraternity is judged by his
individual actions the standard will be raised. It has been truly stated
that Freemasonry that cannot be seen does not count for much.
Lamps do not talk-they shine; a lighthouse sounds no drum, it beats
no gong, but over the water its cheering light is seen by the mariner.
Our sister state, Nevada, has a plan which could well be followed.
They have what is known as the Cognizance Committee. Whenever
by general knowledge or special charge it is found that a Mason is
departing from the precepts and practices of Masonry, an investigation is made, he is summoned to appear before the Committee and
the entire matter threshed out. An opportunity is given to remove
the cause for complaint, but if persisted in, charges are preferred.
Often this counsel and advice is more effective than drastic action.
It starts the individual on the right road and removes a condition
that ultimately would result in undesirable publicity through a Masonic
trial.
Montana (1932) :
{Grand Maste1-}: A member of Pilgrim Lodge No. 102 removed to
California. There he was convicted of a crime, which under the laws of
that state was a misdemeanor, but under the laws of Montana was a
felony.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

58

59

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The question submitted was whether the Brother was automaticaily
suspended from his Lodge under the provision of Section 17a, Code of
Statutes.
My decision was that the civil laws of the state where the offense
was committed governed the degree of the crime and as Section 17a
applied only to convictions of felony, he was not au~omatically suspended,
but that the Lodge must prefer charges and give the accused Bro~her
a trial.
This procedure was followed and trial was had. The voting resulted
.
m seventeen votes guilty and ten not guilty, thus lacking one vote of the
necessary two-thirds for conviction.
The Lodge then presented the question of further proc.e dure, asking
whether the Worshipful Master had the authority to order a new trial
or whether the Grand Master could do sq.
· '
My decision was as follows:
"The .failure to obtain a two-thirds vote for conviction is equivalent
to a~ acqmttal, and the proceedings in the Lodge were thereby terminated,
leaving the only remedy in an appeal to the Grand Lodge (Section 59
Codes 1931).
'
"That under Section 70, Codes of 1931, an appeal lies to the Grand
Lodge, whether t.he accused be convicted or acquitted, and by either party,
and that the Junior Warden should proceed under Section 71-75 Code of
1931, to perfect an appeal to Grand L<X!ge at the present Ann~al Communication."
·
The correspondence in the case is submitted herewith.
Nevada (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Can you imagine an insurance company writing a Secretary of a Lodge to revise the list of his
membership? ·Well, the Grand Master was asked if such letters should be
answered, and he very politely ruled it was not proper.
We .will venture to say that the company business is probably handled
by some misguided Mason who has about all the degrees he can get and
would probably have a hard time working his way into a Blue Lodge.

•• • • •

(Gra-nd Master): Most of us who have given the matter serious
thought, realize that during the prosperous times in the period after the
'Yar, a certain laxness crept into our organization, as in all others-a tendency towards disrespect of law and high standards. These were all right
·for the other fellow to live up to, but not for the individual himself·
in fact, a leading criminal lawyer in this country said, "No man should
be forced to obey any law that he did not like."

From the moment I was installed as your Grand Master, I determined
to enlist the Masonic Order in this state, in the fight against any such
doctrine, and against dishonesty, which is the basic cause of our present
world situation.
Believing that our own conduct as "just and upright men and Masons"
should be just what that statement implies, in any gathering, whether it
be in the Blue Lodge or in any affiliated branch of the Order, you will
remember that I made this statement at the installation one year ago:
"That any act of intemperance that will bring discredit to the reputation
and teachings of this Fraternity will be looked after by the proper officers."
Further than that, I also told you that no record of this action would go
into any of the proceedings " if I could help it."
Brethren, I had hoped that this warning would be sufficient to correct
what little trouble we were having along these lines. However, it became
necessary upon receiving information as to the conduct of a Brother to
take action in this matter, and as it is the duty of your Grand Master to
report his actions during his year of service, it becomes necessary to
make this part of his report.
My action in this case was as follows : I instructed the Worshipful
Master of the Blue Lodge in which this Brother held member.ship, to
have him brought before the Cognizance Committee, an investigation made,
and if the evidence warranted, to proceed in the usual manner and file
charges for un-Masonic conduct.
After many consultations with the Master and· Cognizance Committee,
it was deemed best to take the following action, for which your Grand
Master assumes all responsibility. These charges were to be held in abeyance, pending the future conduct of this Brother. If no further complaint
was made, the charges would not be pressed. In fact, the solution of the
problem was placed in the Brother's own hands. I am very glad to say
that during the past eleven months there has been no further complaint
in this particular case, nor has there been any meeting or gathering of
Masons in any organir.ition of which criticism could be made-what wonderful co-operation, and what a record for Nevada Masonry.
North Carolina (1933):
(Chairman CorresfJonden.tJe Committee): They have got a big, new
Masonic Temple in New Orleans which looks at this time like a great,
big white elephant on their hands. They can't rent all the space in it. It is
not in default on its securities, but things are, of course, moving on
rather thin ice.
This Grand Lodge has a fidelity and depository bond for all Lodges.
The American Bonding Company carried the bond during the year. Eleven
losses are reported as having been paid by the Company, their total bei11g
about twenty-five hundred dollars. The Secretary of a Lodge at Monroe

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

stole two thousand dollars, but the Lodge has not satisfied the bonding
company and the loss has not been paid. This is too often the case; a
bond is not of much good unless accompanied by frequent outside auditing.
Frequent careful auditing is of much value even without bonding.

• * * • •
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : He issued some dispensations. One was to a certain Lodge to move from the fourth floor of a
certain building to the second floor, same building. We didn't know a
dispensation was necessary for this. Another was for a certain Lodge to
hold its meeting in a building other than the one in which they were
accustomed to meet. Reason: the "Shrine Directors" were meeting in the
other building, and when they were meeting there, nobody else could meet
in the same building. This is the same crowd which met in Shreveport
some years ago. In meeting, a certain Director from Cincinnati, in the
candy manufacturing business, passed around souvenir candy in nice boxes.
Next morning, those familiar with pharmacology discovered that the
charming chocolates in said boxes had been filled with centers highly
"flavored" with methylene blue. If you miss the point, ask your doctor
or druggist.

* • * * *

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Missouri has a piece of law
which seems to us to be bad. If a Missouri Mason, one of the one hundred
and ten thousand run-of-the-mine, goes to another state, as some twelve
thousand are doing by the law of averages, and if he there does things
un-Masonic, as folks away from the restraints of home-ties sometimes do;
and if he gets into Masonic disrepute by so doing; and if the Lodge
near by where he is, which he has visited, takes notice of the fact that
he has brought Masonry into disrepute there and tries him and suspends
or expels him-after all of these things, Missouri refuses to recognize that
he has received Masonic discipline, but says he must be tried by a Missouri
Lodge. In the first place, we hold that this contravenes the Masonic common law. In the next place, it is wholly beyond the pale of common sense.
In this book, for instance, is the case of a Missouri Mason living in
Colorado who put out five hundred dollars to save himself Masonically in
a Lodge trial back home in Missouri. Then, too, the bringing of evidence
to a place remote from the scene of a man's activities suggests the possibility, at least, of preventing the presentation of the full force of the
charges against him.
Oregon (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : We believe Masonry everywhere should stand united to clean out anything in its surroundings which
is immoral or illegal. It should never permit the profane to point at a
building having tenants of immoral or illegal class and say, "Oh, that's
all right, the Masonic Lodge is upstairs and they're not kicking about it."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

61

South Australia (1933):
(Provincial Grand Master): I have been asked by the Board of General Purposes to refer to a matter that has caused them some anxiety. It
arises out of an address recently delivered in one of our Lodges, and
subsequently forwarded for publication in "The S. A. Freemason." As
this address was published, it appears to be neither more nor less than a
chapter extracted from "The Builders," by Brother Fort Newton. The
incident is regrettable from every point of view. I suppose that we must
admit that there are very few-if, indeed, any of us-who can claim the
ability to produce original work. It is a great and rare achievement to
present new thought, and all that most of us can hope for is to present, in
our own way, what we have collected, as the bee gathers honey.
There is no harm in a paper that consists of passages and quotations
culled from different sources, and we should be grateful to any Brother
who is prepared to go to the trouble of finding, and introducing us to,
anything that is worthy of our attention. But the common understanding,
if one is consciously adopting the very language as well as the thought of
another, is that this shrn.1ld not be d{me without acknowledging the source
from which it is taken. In the case of which I am speaking, I should make
it clear that I am not concerned with the address as it was delivered in the
Lodge. If it was delivered in the same form without any acknowledgment
of the source from which it was taken, I regard that as a matter of good
taste, which concerns the lecturer and the Lodge in question. But I regard
the action of forwarding the report for publication in "The Freemason,"
under the guise of an original work, as a matter that concerns this Grand
Lodge as the custodians of the honor of the Craft in South Australia.
There may have been-I hope that there was-some misunderstanding
or some inadvertence which would explain the matter, but the fact remains
that the Editor of "The Freemason" has been induced to publish what
might well be charged as a breach of copyright. The least that we can dD
is to express our regret for what has occurred, and I sincerely trust that
nothing of the sort will ever occur again.
South Carolina (1932):
The laws of South Carolina prohibit the granting of a divorce. A
South Carolina Mason secured a divorce in Georgia, and later married in
New York, after which he returned to his former home in South Carolina.
The Grand Master was called on to know if the Brother was not living
in adultery and subject to Masonic trial. The Grand Master replied that
"since we must recognize the laws of Georgia and New York," the Brother
was not a bigamist and was not subject to Masonic trial.
Virginia (1932):
(Grand Master): Another matter that I would like to commend also
for your consideration is one that I am sure will appeal to the Masonic

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

heart and conscience of every Mason under the sound of my voice-and
this I would term as an appeal to the Masons in the state to safeguard
our moral relationship a little more carefuHy. We should be intensely
jealous of the fundamental teachings of Masonry, when -it comes to their
practical applications, and also consider the fact that we are living throu~h
a period of time that an institution cannot be .maintained on account of_ its
antiquity or history, but will be measured by its present-day accomplishments. That we have a great many of our members who ruthlessly violate
the laws of the country in which we live and in many other ways violate
the teachings of Masonry, is a fact that no one can deny. We might as
well learn that the best thing to do in a matter of this kind is to find the facts, fix the facts and face the facts. While a Masonic .trial is not a
pleasant thing, and criticism is not always easy, let us not foi:~et that ~e
have promised to extend to each other a word of warning and kmdly advice
when the occasion presents itself, but to permit decaying, inf.~ctilJ'Us material to remain in an institution of human beings, is like the orchardist who
permits the San Jose scale and dead limbs to remain among t~e fruit trees.
One-fourth of our present Masonic membership in this state_, i::9mposed of
men of 100 per cent principle of Masonry and cititenship, wi_ll make a far
more valuable organization to society and ourselves than a ivembership
of forty-eight thousand contaminated by those contagious ,Princ_iples of
un-Masonic conduct. How long, how long will we indulge _ourselves along
the lines of least resistance, and permit matters of this ki~_d to go on,
thereby increasing our llabilities from year to year. W.e are not so busy
now giving birth to new Masons. Let us then concern _ourselves with
remedying the incompatibilities that exist within our ran1c-s and which
are eating like a canker or malignant growth at the very vital parts of
our existence.

wife under the circumstances bring disrepute on the Masoni~ Fraternity,
and would the Lodge be justified in bringing charges of un-Masonic conduct against him?" Here is the ruling which Brother Haas gave, correct
in its law, and kindly intentioned beyond doubt, but, perhaps, almost as
11ai1_1e as the question: "I regret exceedingly 'to hear of matters of this
kind. Of course, it is indeed unfortunate that the man and wife should
have subsequently become reconciled. However, I don't know of any law
which would construe the reconciliation of man and wife as a Masonic
offense. Of course,-your Lodge is at liberty to take whatever action it
may see fit. I am of the opinion that while these matters are to be greatly
deplored, and are very unfortunate, yet at the same time I am at a loss to
know what law has been violated by the reconciliation of husband and wife.
I advise you to carefully consider this matter before acting."

62

Western Australia (1932):
( Chail-man C orresponderice Committee): As regards the decisions, .it
is difficult to avoid wonder, in most instances, why they were sought, if
the Masters of the Lodges concerned were "skilled in this our noble
science." Of course, it may be, as I hinted in a foreword a couple of
years ago, that the legislative urge in United States Masonic Jurisdictions
produces too much law for mental assimilation. Few of them emulate the
simplicity of Governor John Smith's famous Virginian law of 1608: "He
who would not work should not eat." Certes, Louisiana has a vast body
of Masonic law-almost indigestible. One only of the rulings seems of
more than domestic inrerest, and the· seeming is perhaps due more to its
extraordinary character. A certain lawyer was shot and killed by a
Mason for violating the sanctity of the latter's home. Nothing is said as
to whether a criminal prosecution followed, but subsequently to the
killing the husband and wife became reconciled. The naive question submitted to the Grand Master was this: "Would the reconciliation with his

63

1933--Recent Rulings:
Masons in a number of Jurisdictjons are asking what the Masonic
attitude is going to be toward the sale of 3~2 beer. Grand Masters of Ohio
and Illinois have recently:,i_s1med statem.ents for the guidance of Brethren
of th,ose J urisdicti0 ns. Grand Master Simeon Nash of Ohio says :
"Section 58 of the Masonic Code of the Grand Lodge of Ohio reads
as follows:
" 'To engage in the selling of intoxicating liquors for beverage purposes is a Masonic offense and should subject any Brother so offending to
charges and expulsion; it should also be a disqualification for initiation or
affiliation in a Masonic Lodge.'
"The present legislation concerning 3.2 per cent beer has caused many
inquiries to be sent to me, and in order to avoid confusion, the status of
this legislation not having been determined by the court, I am announcing
certain principles to govern the Craft until the Annual Communication in
October:
· "So long as the present legislation is effective, my ruling ·is that beer
which complies with that legislation will have to be held. to be nonintoxicating, and therefore it will not be a Masonic offense to sell it. Any
Brother so engaging, however, must expect to cease. such business and
conform to the Masonic Code if the courts hereafter invalidate this
legislation.
"Our Masonic duty to circumscribe our desires requires that I direct
that such 3.2 per cent beer be not sold or used in any Masonic Temple,
either at festivities or any restaurants conducted therein.
" The Masonic Code sti'll requires Masons to properly conduct themselves. Any Mason engaged in any business, who suffers disorderly or
any other conduct in connection therewith, which would tend to cast
disrepute upon the Fraternity, will always be guilty of un-Masonic
conduct.''

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The ruling made by Grand Master G. Haven Stevens of· Illinois goes
even further. He says:
"As many questions have come to me regarding Codes 210, 213A, 281A
and 484A, I feel that a ruling is necessary, the same to remain until our
next Grand Lodge Session.
"When these Codes were adopted, they were placed there recognizing
that beer and wine of the same content as is now being manufactured
were intoxicating and not in keeping with Masonry. We will therefore
consider these beverages intoxicating now, and you will govern yourself
accordingly.
"I call your attention to these Codes and warn concerning any infraction of them."
POLITICS
A king of old propounded the question to his wise men, "What
is Truth?" As far as Masonry is concerned the same question might
be asked as to politics. Considering the term in the broadest sense
as questions affecting government, we b_elieve a Masonic Lodge can
very properly discuss, without taking a positive stand or attempting
to legislate for others, conditions which are of vital interest in our
present day life. While there might not be a meeting of the minds,
and there will always be difference of opinion, we believe with Voltaire
when he stated that, while he did not agree with the ideas of his
opponent, still he would oppose to the end any attempt to limit his
right to express his views.
President James Madison said: " A popular government without
popular information or the means of acquiring it is but a prologue to
a farce or tragedy, or perhaps both. Knowledge will forever govern
ignorance; and a people who mean to be their own governors must
arm themselves with the power that knowledge brings."
Where could be a better place to secure such knowledge than
in ·il gathering of men actuated by the highest ideals and following
the "Charges" given in a Masonic Lodge?
Connecticut (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : We do not object to the
livest interest and action in political, religious and like matters on the
part of the individual. Indeed, we ·ardently advocate it. At times we
ourself are an ardent partisan. Yet we would never think of introducing
such· matters into Lodge. We still object to bringing into our Lodges any
question which inevitably evokes hot discussion, pro and con, as political,
religious and other subjects, even those meritorious intrinsically always
will. According to all accounts, this has been the bane of Masonry.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

65

Florida (1933): .

. -(Grand Master): The Associated Press carried in its news items the
information that Masonic Orders would participate in the home-coming of
a candidate for Governor, and while I felt this must be a mistake, I wired
the Brethren that while believing it newspaper publicity, if correct it
could not be pennitted, being against all Masonic principles and traditions.
I was later advised that the news item was not correct and that it was
over-enthusiasm on the part of a publicity agent.
North Carolina (1933):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A member of a certain
Lodge in Florida was a candidate for political office to succeed himself,
and in the campaign a certain newspaper published an article charging him
with having misappropriated eight thousand dollars. He asked of the
Master of his- Lodge permission to explain to the Lodge the facts, which
was granted, and he satisfied the Lodge as to his innocence. But things
were hot thereabouts and some accused the Master of that Lodge of letting
politics get into the Lodge. He asked the Grand Master whether he had
made a mistake, and the reply of Grand Master Pasco is as follows, duly
approved by the Grand Lodge:
"You are not only acting within your rights, but you did the proper
Masonic thing in giving the Brother an opportunity to clear himself of the
charge of misappropriating money. Personal and partisan politics should,
?f course, be ~ept entirely out of the Lodge, but if a member of a Lodge
is charged with such a serious offense as this he would be subject to
charges and discipline at the hands of his Brethren; and if he requested an
opportunity to convince them of his innocence he should be accorded that
privilege, and the mere fact that he happened to be running for- political
office should not deprive him of this benefit of Masonry;"
Oregon (1932):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Several years ago we visited
a Lodge, and upon the Tyler's desk-over the registry book-a large card
stared us in the face, displaying a photograph and announcing the candidacy
of
for a political office. He was a Past Master of that
Lodge. We hunted him out and told him privately that he did himself
more harm posting that card where it was than he could possibly gain,
and he had better hurry to take it down. He did.
Western Australia (1932):

.(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Reading the Annual Proceedmgs ~f Gran~ Lodges, every year, the conviction is almost inescapable
that publtc questions, otherwise politics, are gradually intruding them-

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CO.R RESPONDENCE

selves into Craft gatherings. This is regrettable. Its tendency cannot be
other than disturbirlg. It does not fit in with the Ancient Charges. One
of our proudest ideals:_relief from the clash of religious creeds and the
waiving of political faiths-has always seemed to be realized · when the
Lodge room was entered, and the Brethren met as Masons. Those who,
like the writer, have witnessed the disturbing effects of unwise Brethren
introducing religious and political subjects for discussion at Masonic
meetings-one of these occurred at. the Annual Communication of a Grand
Lodge in the United States-can only view with grave misgiving any
action which may tend to injure the existence of fraternal regard. It is
but just to say that no debate on such subjects has been recorded in the
Annual Proceedings of late years. But Grand Orators and distinguished
visitors, when advocating the exercise -of the highest patriotism, do, unfortunately, dwell on such matters at times; and the infection is occasionally
caught in quarters where a greater sense of responsibility would be presumed.
PUBLICITY
As Will Rogers aptly says, "All we know is what we read in the
papers." The custom of broadcasting to the world the affairs of a
Lodge has left little to the imagination. The Masonic and public
press are not the only means where. censorship could be exercised.
Too often the intimate affairs of a Lodge are thoughtlessly revealed
by the members to those who have no connection with the. Fraternity.
If the outside .world must have information as to the aims, objectS
and· purposes of the Fraternity, perhaps no better means could be
employed than that adopted by one of the .Jurisdictions, of a weekly
broadcast, treating Masonry from a historical and educational standpoint. It has the advantage of being .treated by well informed speakers
who know the extent to which they can go.
Alberta (1932):
(Grand Master): Having noticed more than once in the public press,
extended notices concerning certain entertainments sponsored by members
of the Craft under the auspices of Masonic Lodges, I instituted inquiries
into the natur:e of these public performances. I found they were travesties
or caricatures of Masonry or its ceremonies, tending to bring ridicule on
our Fraternity, and I have expressed my strong disapproval of such forms
of entertainment being sponsored by Lodges and put on by Masons as
such, and in one case refused my consent to a proposed performance of this
nature. Many members o~ our Institution would, I believe, after witnessing
such exhibitions feel that the seriousness and solemnity of our rites had
lost for them s~mething that was v"ital a~d sacred. Our Masonic ceremonies are c:if such a nature that they should be carefully guarded at all
times from the slightest suggestion of ridicule or mockery.

67

England (1933):

(Board of General Purposes): Const.ant inquiries reach the Grand
Secretary with reference to the method of announcing to members of
Private Lodges the particulars of social functions to which ladies are
invited. The Board would prefer that the notices of such gatherings
should be entirely separated from the Lodge summonses, and is definitely
of the opinion that no ·announcement of the nature referred to should
appear on the page which details the business of the Lodge.
Kansas (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Missouri also declined a dispensation to one of their Lodges to conduct a
public dedication of trees on Sunday. As' the little boy said about the
new "dressing" for meat when placed on the table-"that is a new thing
on me," and it applies in thfs instance, where it is proposed to "dedicate"
trees. We have in our library Masonic Monitors and ceremonies adopted
and published almost two hundred years ago, but there seems to be nothing
in any of them having reference to the dedication of trees. We are open
for enlightenment on this subject.
Maine (1933):
{Chairman Correspondence Committee): Among the ."opinions" given
by the Grand Master of Iowa is the following which interests us, but
frankly, we cannot understand it: "Held, that a portrait in Masonic Hall,
displaying the Masonic sign, was not ·a proper ornament for the Lodge
room and ordered portrait removed." This law is probably peculiar to
Iowa's code, but this writer can recall a dozen Masonic halls in Maine
containing the familiar picture of Washington in Masonic regalia, and
signs about and on the altar.
Missouri (1932):
(Grand Master): Many Lodge notices and circulars contain references to other than Lodge activities; many are of such character that the
dignity. of the Fraternity which issued them might be questioned. In the
metropolitan press may be found, under Masonic Notices, everything from
labor organizations to religious societies. It would appear that there are
several cases .in which the intent of the. notice is to play up the names of
the Master and Secretary more than the nature of the meeting.
Unless the metropolitan press confines its "Masonic Notices" to strictly
Masonic organizations, these public notices should be ordered withdrawn
and, as a matter of Masonic policy, the notice should contain nothing
more than the name of the Lodge, the hour and place of meeting and

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

the purpose for which held. In large cities, much of this objection would
be overcome if there were a common clearing hous·e for such information.

tinue to serve on said Committee from the date of their appointment to
the close of the session of the Grand Lodge in the year following such
appointment.
"No matter advocating the cause of any religious cult or denomination, and no matter recommending or setting forth any principle of any
political party or announcing the candidacy of any person ·for any political
office, or recommending any person for any political office shall be published in any iUch publication. Every number of said publication shall,
when published, be submitted promptly to said Committee and if any
article or phrase published therein shall be disapproved by a majority vote
of said Committee, then such article or phrase shall thereafter be omitted
from such publication.
·
"If in any such publication any of the regulations, herein laid down,
are violated, then said Committee shall at once order the publishing and
distributing of such paper stopped, and any Freemason who is in any
manner responsible for the violation of such rules shall be deemed guilty
of Masonic offense and shall be tried therefor."

68

* * * * *

(Committee on Masonic Publications}: "Sec. 204. Masonic E~lems
and the word 'Masonic'-use of prohibited. Any Freemason usmg the
word 'Masonic' or any other term, sign or symbol of Freemasonry for
commercial or other business enterprises, shall be deemed guilty of unMasonic conduct ; provided, that this Section shall not apply to Masonic
Books, or a legitimate trade in Masonic supplies, and provided, that any
Freemason engaged in the business of publishing any Masonic book, who
permits the printing of any advertisement in any such publication using
the word 'Masonic,' or any other term, sign or symbol of Freema_sonry
for commercial or other business enterprises, the use of which is prohibited by the Grand Lodge By-Laws, shall be deemed guilty of un-Masonic
conduct.
"Any Freemason who publishes, causes to be published or is in any
way interested in or connected with the publication or circulation of any
paper, magazine or periodical which carries in its name or title the word
'Mason,' the word 'Freemason,' the word 'Ma·sonry,' or the word 'Freemasonry' or any other word indicating that such publication is an organ
of the Masonic Fraternity, without first complying with the provisions of
Section 204-A shall be deemed guilty of a Masonic offense."
Add a new Section to be known as Section 204-A, as follows: ·
"A Committee is hereby created which shall be known as 'The
Committee on Masonic Publications,' which Committee shall consist of
three members. At the dose of the session of the Grand Lodge every year
or as soon as possible thereafter, the newly elected Grand Master shall
appoint three Master Masons in good .standing. in Lodges in the State of
Missouri members of said Committee. Said Committee shall have supervision over the publication of papers, magazines and periodicals published
or circulated in the State of Missouri by members of the Masonic Fraternity holding membership in Masonic Lodges in this State. No Freemason
shall be permitted to publish, assist in publishing, cause to be published
or in any way be interested in or connected with the publication or circulation of any paper, magazine or periodical which in any way purports to
be published in the interest of Freemasonry or which 'embodies in its name
or title the word 'Mason' or the word 'Freemason,' the word ' Masonry,'
or the word 'Freemasonry' or any other word of similar import unless
it bears in plain type on its front page, immediately under the name, a
statement showing clearly that the publication is a private enterprise and
that it is not ail official org~n of the Masonic Fraternity, nor until such
Committee shall, by majority vote, have given permission for the publication and circulation thereof. The members of said Committee shall con-

69

New South Wales (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : We have often wondered
just what it was in the Institution of Masonry that made some of its
leaders to appear to believe that no man not a member, or a woman, should
ever participate in any Lodge function, even to cooking the food. Masonry's
principles are ideal; these deal with men and women in the outer world
as well as those in the fold, and their kin. Masonry has passed through
the stone age, it would seem to us. It may be stated in passing that we
have noticed that those most strict and severe in matters of this kind will
not only advocate but actually take part in other phases of Masonic work
with all sorts of freedom; in other words, strain at a gnat and swallow
a camel.
New York (1933):
(Grand Master): I believe, Brethren, that an installation, united in
by any so-called Masonic Body other than a Lodge, may be moved from a
place of public assembly into a Lodge r oom and it will still retain objectionable features. We have exposed certain ceremonies, which themselves
are charged with symbolism, to the gaze of the uninitiate. Joint installations do not afford the proper background for induction into Masonic
offices. And, besides, the installation of an officer is a natural consequence
of election to that office, and any logic is false that requires the one to be
conducted in the most inviolable secrecy and permits the other to be
performed before no~-Masonic eyes.

70

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

I would urge upon the Grand Lodge, therefore, that it make it a part
of our Masonic law that under our Constitutions installation of Lodge
officers shall be conducted only behind tiled doors.
North Carolina (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Iowa
holds that a "portrait in a Masonic Hall, displaying Jh.e Masonic sig1~
(whatever that means) was not a proper ornament for the Lodge room."
It is further declared that the Lodge displayed reluctance in obeying his
order to remove the picture. . Why would anybody ever want to display
such a thing anywhere? Don't they pull some fool stunts about Masonic
matters sometimes-as, for instance, that two-ball-andca-cane thing that
they sold as .an alleged Masonic emblem ·some years ago? Happily,
Ainerica has somewhat come of age in this matter of button Masonry of
late, and come to realize that it is in good taste to leave off the .buttons:
The button era smacked of a school of thought which held that you wore
a button to tell the other fellow that you were a Mason so that he might
give you some sort of preference because of that fact. Nowadays we have
come to realize that this is not the true function of Masonry. You becom~ .
a Mason to live Masonry, to practice Masonry, to exemplify Masonry;
and it does not take a button to enable anybody to do those things. Moreover, when you remember these facts, you come to realize that all this
yell about exposes is foolish piffle, too.
Western Australia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence CommitJee): Texas permits my bete noir,
the "public installation" of officers, provided a dispensation is first obtained.
Several were issued. Surely, such a great Jurisdiction as Texas is grand
enough, strong enough, and sufficiently tenacious of the principle of
Masonic secrecy not to require the publicity suggested in the oft-quoted
American couplet, "He who in this world would rise, must either bust
or advertise!"

•• • • •

The Saskatchewan Lodges were communicated with on the subject
of Masonic publicity amongst the press and the profane: In consequence,
inquiries were made by Lodges for information as to what might be
published in the newspapers, and the Grand Master invited Grand Lodge
to define the latitudinal parallel of publicity. Why not say, "There ·shall
be no latitude so far as the secular press ·is concerned"? We all know
that even a Masonic newspaper has only restricted privileges in this
direction, and why should the profane press have any? · Masons who are
not too tired to attend their Lodges can know all that takes place in them·;
those who don't attend do not deserve to know, for they are lacking in .
interest. And surely, the Lodge itself does not wish-<:ertainly it does
not need-to descend to such publicity I
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

71

READINGS-INTERESTING
The various Grand Lodge Proceedings furnish topics of interest
to the Masonic student.
worth perusal:
·
. The following are well
.
Title
Jurisdiction-Year Page
A Principle of Freemasonry.._.......•;.............Alberta (1932)
108
Annual Oration.;.....:..........•...........•. _·········---·Arizona. ( 1933)
84
Annual Oration.......... _.,...............................--.Arkanaas (1932)
75
The Unfinished Picture•..............................•..Colorado (1932) ·
59
Grand Lodge of Sweden................•.............•... E;ngland (1932)
283
Masonry and Sentiment..................................Idaho (1932)
41
· Annual Oration....,..._.........................................Illinois (1932)
100
Impressions QY.the Way................_.••..•..•...._.illinois (1932)
C.C.R.
Annual Oration..- .•.•......................,.•.........,....._.Kal!sas (1933)
558
Sir Walter Scott....·-···-····································Maryland (1932)
295
Address.·-··········-··································--·······.- -Massachusetts ( 1932) 323
Washington and Franldin................., ............ Minnesota (1932)
52
Annual Oi:ation.••....•.........~..•..,......_....- ...•....... Mississippi (1933)
64
Grand Chaplain's Address...............................Montana (i932)
86
Traveling Towards the East...............- •........ Nebraska (1933)
442
Annual Oration............................... ~ ............•..... Nevada (1933)
51
Report of Grand Historian............................ New York (1933)
·134
A~_~ual Oration...................·-··-··········-········-··North Carolina (1933)
50
Some Misunderstandings of Masonry........ Oklahoma (1933)
182
Communism ·························-··························Oregon (1932)
183
George Washington...............................•..........Orcgon (1932)
47
Military Lodges.............................................. _Rhode Island (1932)
5
Historical Address ..................~ .........................Rhode Island (1932)
29
Grand Lecturer's Report ................................South Australia (1933) 39
Constructive Leadershipc.........................- ...;.Texas ( 1932)
167
Aimual Oration.......;..........................................Utah (1933)
89
Why and What.............................................._ Washington (1932)
443
Masonry in Alaska.......................................... Washington (1932)
435
Masonry in West Virginia......._... ~·-····-·······West Virginia (1932)
156
RITUAL
With the radio, the movie and service clubs the attempt to function only through the Ritual is losing· force. The tendency to subor~inate the true purpose of a Lodge to the mere conferring of degrees
is the greatest handicap in the Masonic world today.
Again referring to what the Past Grand Master of North Carolina
said to the Grand Master of South Carolina, we quote from his address
as follows:

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"Then we get the ritualist. His interest is confined to ritualistic
work. He is a useful Mason, and yet how he does love to bedeck
himself in robes and titles and magnificence I If you could just see me
dressed up as Cyrus, King of Persia I I am glad my wife can't ever
see me. I put on the first section at a recent Shrine ceremonial in
New Bern, dressed up in gorgeous robes, and with a long black beard.
One candidate said: 'That man with_all that rig is some sort of Turk,
ain't he?' He was told: 'Yes, he's a 'l,'urk. We had to pay him
$5,000.00 to come over here and confer this degree _today.' The candidate said: 'Yes, I knew dam' well he won't no American.'
"We have the ritualist, and he is useful, if we can wake him up
to the fact that Ritual is only the beginning. Men of all sorts come
to us. What are we doing about it? Here is Masonry's opportunity
for the regeneration of society through the regeneration of the individual members of it. All too often we merely grind the sausage-mill,
and say to the Brother, after he has finished his Third Degree:
'You will now have a seat with the Brethren,' and there he sits and
sits and sits, and finally does what he might be expected to doexchanges mental vacuum for mental oblivion and slides sweetly off
to sleep.
"I tell you the time has come when we must say to the newlymade Master Mason, not, 'You will now have a seat with the Brethren,' but 'You will now take your stand with your Brethren/ and
seek to equip him to go forth carrying the banner and the message
of . the Fraternity to the world."
Alberta (1932) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of -North
Dakota has been in favor for some time of a revision of the Ritual. He
has·advocated that the penalties should be changed, that some claims t o a.
very ancient history should be eliminated, and that for the Middle Chamber
Lecture there be substituted a lecture on citizenship from "the Ancient
Charges" concerning "the Civil Magistrate, Supreme and Subordinate."
The report, however, of the Custodians of the Work points out that probably the thing that appeals to most men in the Ritual is its antiquity.
There is an aroma of the past in its language and diction; One cannot
rewrite Shakespeare, nor can one rewrite the Ritual. The purpose of
Preston's Middle Chamber Lecture was not so much to present scientific,
mathematical accuracy, but to direct the attention of the Craftsman to his
need of knowledge and education, and give him a bird's-eye view of the
then known field of knowledge. The Custodians thought it would be
destructive to remove that l~ture from the work.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

73

Connecticut (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The question sometimes
arises as to whether conscientious objectors may be allowed to affirm when
taking a Masonic obligation. To us, this is a trivial technicality. In
courts, witnesses are allowed to either swear or affirm at pleasure, but
false testimony enl:ails punishment for perjury in either case. Does not
this parallel hold true in Masonry?

.. ..
.-

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A decision, disapproved by
a Grand Lodge, involved the case of a Mason who had joined the 0. E. S.
before he had "proved up," which we presume means that he had not
passed examination as to proficiency in the Master Mason Degree. For
obvious reasons, we consider such a man a full-fledged Mason, and believe
any regulation requiring shown proficiency before he can acquire full
membership, as a blow to fundamentals. If he is so short-sighted as to
neglect proficiency, the loss is mainly his own.
District of Columbia (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We do not know the requirements in all Grand Lodges as to proficiency in the Third Degree, but
it may be reasonably presumed most of them require the same standard
of proficiency in the Third Degree that is required in the other two. Every
once in a while we find some Grand Master advocating that a Brother's
good standing card be withheld until such a time as he shall become proficient in the Third Degree, but we do not believe this would be right,
because after a Brother has signed the by-laws and paid his dues he is in
good standing and is entitled to a certificate to that effect, sb that some
other remedy for lack of such proficiency must ·be found.
In the opinion of this writer, it is just as much the duty of a Worshipful Master to see that a Brother is proficient in the Third Degree as
in the others, but, as our old friend Pepys would say, "How to do it?"
We have no sure remedy to. offer, but believe that if the same stress was
laid on the necessity for proficiency in the Third as in the other two
degrees, if the candidate could be convinced when he started out that it
_was necessary to learn all three, the idea would be in his mind and he
would approach the matter with less reluctance.
However, that is another of the questions concerning the Craft that
probably will never be answered to everybody's satisfaction, so why worry
about it? There are plenty of good Ma~ons who will never learn the
Third Degree the same as they did the _First and Second, and we do not
believe they should be especially penalized for that.
Ireland (1932):
"Pure _Ancient Masonry consists of the following degrees and no
others, viz. : The Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft; the Master Mason

'74

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

and the Installed Master, but the Degrees of Royal Arch and Mark Master
}4:;isop shall .also be recognized so l.ong as the Supreme Grand Royal Arch
,Cb!ipter of Ireland shall work only those two degrees in the form in which
,they are worked at the passing of this law.".

N:~~ .Mexi~o (1933):
(Grand Master): Although absolutely foreign to the .spirit of.Freemasonry, some Lodges have allowed a bit of so-called horseplay to enter
ceremonies of a serious nature. · This practice may at the time evoke
pleasure to those in attendance, but the effect on the mind of the candidate
is, such ~t he loses sight of the sole1WJity and beauty of the teachings
of· our institution.
·
Neither do I see where any good effect can result from placing· fear
in the mind of an applicant about to present himself for. initiation, passing
or· raising. This custom has been. practiced in many instances to the
detriment of the dignity of the Fraternity. One Lodge in forecasting the
conferring of a degree sent a printed announcement through the mail in
such . a form that the profane might receive ·a false impression of intent
and purposes of Freemasonry. On being brought to the attention of the
Grand Master, l immediately voiced · my displeasure in the pursuance of
such ·a policy. It is unfair to those seeking admission. It is contrary to
the spirit of our institution. Levity has no place in Freemasonry. .
New Zealand (1932):
· The delivery of the various Charges, Addresses, etc., in the Ritual
should be restricted to · the Master, Past Masters, and officers of the
Lodge, and of the last-na!11ed, preferably to the senior officers -only. It is
in the best interests of Freemasonry that the Past Masters should not be
overlooked when. they are capable of carrying out these portions of the
eeremonies and willing to do so.

mentioned expose some very good advertising, . even g1vmg the name
and address of the publishers. We doubt not that they will do some good
sub rosa business in Mississippi as a result. You can buy any sort ·of
expose that you want. More are being prepared every year. We heard the
other day of one fool here in North Carolina who had imagined he was
going to make some money out of one and had submitted MS. of same
to some _publishers. If he had the sense of a day-old jaybird he would
know that the thing will not even stir a ripple in the hooky world, nor
make him any money, nor offer anything to a gullible reader that is not
now on the market-that is, it can't offer .anything new unless it be some
new fake stuff. We have the secret parts of all degrees in print 'with
some degree of accuracy-stuff that has in many cases been on the market
for decades and generations, and it is selling for any old song. The truth
is, no expose has ever done Masonry any harm nor its author or publisher
any good. · Masons are ·not built that way. Would-be smart alecks, to
whom the sanctity of their word means nothing because they have no honor,
·have an idea that folks will bite at such stuff invariably. They do not
remember that ten books are a failure where one makes money: that this
is a day of sophistication w~en people have to be shown-and this is not
less true in the book world than elsewhere.

• • • ••

Nebraska is one of those Grand Lodges, of which there are more than
you would expect, which require a candidate to show proficiency in the
Third Degree. The Grand Master tells us that the time limit set is ninety
days from raising; in twenty-one cases he has by dispensation (we presume) extended that time. There is much to be said in favor of such a
requirement ; but after all is said in favor of it, the requirement of additional .rote-memory is not likely to add to our numbers greater number
of Masonic leaders. We would that they be required to do some Masonic
reading and show that they know what it is about.

a

• • • • •

North Carolina -(1933):

(Grand Master): I recommend proficiency in ·the ·Third Degree
.:Caitechism. The Grand Lodge· of Iowa, being·out in the front in Masonic
Education, has again taken the lead and passed· a law requiring proficiency
in all three Degrees. We have been sending out Masons who cannot stand
a creditable examination to themselves, to their Lodges nor to this Grand
Loqge. Brethren, the initiate has paid for this information, and we must
give. him value received .for his money.

........

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): ·The Grand Master of Mississippi found that a certain Masonic· Supply Company of New York was
offering to sell Mississippi Masons a "Book of Instructions, E. E. C. F.
Orienti," whatever this means. He issued an edict reminding all Mississippi
Ma56ns of the fact that in that state it is a. Masonic crime to have or
possess or use a key to secret work', and so forth. He gave the afore-

(Chairman Corresponde'nce Committee): Here, then, is the action of
the Grand Lodge of Maine about the matter :
"Resolved, That any Master Mason raised in any Lodge in this state
after January 1, 1933, shall within sixty days after receiving the Master ·
Mas.on . Degree (unless for good and sufficient reasons further time is
granted by the Worshipful Master) pass an examination in open Lodge
to the satisfaction of the Worshipful Master on the lecture of the first
section of that degree, and so much of the second section _a s relates to the
signs, grips and words, and that it shall be the duty of the Worshipful
Master, upon the conferring of the Master Mason Degree to inform the
Brother -of this requirement and advise him as to how instruction in such
lecture may be obtained.
"Resolved further, That the Grand Secretary forward a copy of this
resolution to the Worshipful Master and ·secretary of each Lodge in this
~tate before October 1, 1932, to be read in open Lodge at, at least, three
stated communications of his Lodge."

76

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Sometimes we wonder whether this sort of action, standing naked and
alone, is worth while. For one thing, how is it going to be enforced?
There is no penalty provided for failure; no reward for performance is
promised, other than that which would be found without legislation.

• • • • •
(Chairman Correspondence Committee); For another thing, rot~
memory work is very elementary education and psychologically fits best
into the eighth to twelfth year of a normal person's life-rote memory
for adults is oftentimes a chore rather than a satisfying experience.
Moreover, rote memory is not the experience which will chalknge the
best that is in the sort .of men that Masonry today really needs. One
hears on every hand the .cry, "}4asonry needs the interest and the efforts
of worthwhile men-men of affairs-men of the sort who do things big!"
We feel that if we could require some rote memory work to start with,
and then make this the starter for a course in reading, we could get
somewhere. We are not advertising , anything, and don't believe in some
things which proceed along the lines which we here suggest; but nevertheless we suggest that if we had to pick out a set of worthwhile "higher
degrees," we should make them really higher and higher in the intellectual
sphere-bigger and bigger in bigness . of heart-more advanced in advancing, as Robert Browning put it in the immortal "Rabbi Ben Ezra,"
the immortal soul on that journey which it must travel divested of body
and things material. We know something about, and have in our possession the rituals of, something more than four hundred degrees which
are in some sort of way "Masonic" degrees-and . out of that library, we
could pick a very good Order of Masonic Thinkers which would be a
better Rite than any of which we know at this time. Then, when we
wrote our name, and tied on after it, "Umpty steenth degree, Master of
the Secret of Living,'' this would mean something; ~nd not to the fellow
who paid his money or the fellow who was a shrewd politician or the
fellow who by artful ways ingratiated himself with his associates, would
the degrees go--perhaps they would not be so much coveted as some of
the baubles of the Masonic. world-but to him who in deed and in truth
had earned the right in heart, soul and mind to be called "Master of the
Secret of Living, Ultimate Degree." It i$ trite to say that there's much
fool snobbishness because baubles· and vital things get a trifle mixed
sometimes. We have been received into the circle of the most exclusive,
and do not sneer at them' ; but we do realize that the Masonic world
really has a crying need for some .things that it has not in these days.
Vermont (1933):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of Indiana granted eleven dispensations for interstate visitations, Indiana Lodges
entertaining Lodges from other states which visited and worked degrees
by their own Ritual, and Indiana Lodges visiting and working in other

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

77

Grand Jurisdictions in six instances. The custom is growing, and we
believe it to be a good one. Yet some G~and Lodges do not yet allow such
friendly interchange of visits, probably fearing that their own Ritual will
be imperiled if their officers hear the work of other Grand Lodges. We
believe the fear is not well grounded.

Washington (1932):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Tinkering with the Ritual
seems to be epidemic with a certain class of Masons, and especially with
those who have come into the institution after having joined other organizations and had their ideals formed upon a different basis from that which
underlies the Masonic organization.
While legislation may be changed by Grarid Lodges to suit the conditions, and use such methods for the betterment of their members as may
be deemed wise, yet even such changes should be made only after careful
investigation and due deliberation, for most of our customs have been
adopted after long trial and are backed up by a wisdom that it is not
wise to reject.

Western Australia (1932):
Many years ago, gocid old Brother Shryock, Maryland's record Grand
Master in point of service, declared that as a Mason he was a Fundamentalist, and found no relish in Masonic modernism. This, especially,
in relation to the Ritual. Well, Grand Master . Starke, of North Dakota,
seems to ·be at the other end as regards some parts of the Ritual. He
would have the penalties changed, some of our claims to a very ancient
history eliminated, and, as a substitute for the second T. B. lecture, "a
lecture on citizenship from the Ancient Charges concerning the civil
magistrate, supreme and subordinate." But why? If the form of the
penalties seems archaic to the reforming spirit, and likely to injure a
Brother's respect for the Order, whose fault is it? Not the fault of the
words used. May not the fault be traceable to the lack of knowledge
on the part of the Worshipful Master, the absence of any desire on his
part to grasp the full intent and meaning of the words or their historic
ancestry? In many Grand Jurisdictions prodigious emphasis is laid upon
ritualistic letter-perfectness as a prerequisite for the highest office in the
Lodge, when it is of much greater importance that there should be the
possession of at least elementary knowledge of our laws, customs, usages
and symbolism, and the ability to explain them to the Brethren. Preachers,
not parrots, are needed. Again, what is wrong with the Middle Chamber
lecture? Or with our claims to a very ancient history. The lecture is in
strict conformity with the symbolic intent of the F. C. D., and as to our
historical claims, at least quite as much can be said in their favor as against
them~ Personally, I prefer the Fundamentalism of my late Most Worshipful Brother of Maryland.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

78

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

. The Report on Correspondence· is by R.". w:. Brother Jesse M.
Whited, who writes an interesting report..

BOUQUETS-AND BRICKBATS

Idaho:
Public Schools Week in California has been observed each year since
1919, when it was started by Past Grand Master Adams. Each year the
observance has been under the direct leadership of Brother Adams and
his committee, who were pleased to report a great success every year.

Under this caption we embody the comments and criticisms of
the various Foreign Correspondents, as far as published Proceedings
of our 82nd and 83rd Annual Communications are concerned.
It should be a source of satisfaction to those ·who have served
the Jurisdiction to know that their efforts are meeting with favor by
the experts familiar with happenings in many Jurisdictions.
We have found that where there has been a difference of opinion,
criticisms have been based on a Masonic viewpoint.
82nd Annual Communication, Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.,
San Francisco, California
John Stewart Ross, Grand Master
October 13-16, 1931
Alberta:
A very interesting report was that of the Committee on Masonic History, which dealt not only with the work being carried. ?n in the ~urisdic­
tion of California, but also referred to what was bemg done m· other
Jurisdictions in the matter of recognition of foreign Grand Lodges.

••• • •

The report of the. Committee on Correspondence was submitted by
R.". w:. Brother Jesse M. Whited and, as for many years past, is on
the topical plan.
Brother Whited, as usual, has a very interesting and instructive introduction wherein he summarizes the tendencies observed by him during
the year ; also, valuable and instructive tables of statistics are appended
to the report.
Canada:
California has an office of which we do not boast, namely, that of
Grand Bible Bearer; · ·

•• • • • ••
•

Correspondence Reviews are, of ·course, in the· capable hands of
Jesse M. "Whited, who presents his eleventh ·Topical" Report.
At the end he partly leaves his favored topical treatme~t and indulges
in a fe.:V !~cal ~omments on i~divid~al JuriSdictions.
Delaware:
In the report of the Committee on Masonic History we find an interesting · paper noting many ·incidents occurring during the early days of
Masonry in California. ·

••• ••

79

~-

••• • •

Art eloquent and inspiring oration was delivered by Brother Leslie E.
Learned, Grand Orator.

••• ••

The Committee on Masonic Education, consisting of twenty-three
members, presented a very interesting report for the year.

•••••

Brother Jesse ·M. Whited, Chairman, writes his usual excellent report
on Foreign Corresponqepce. His. topical plan with good index Qf subjects
and index of Jurisdictions quoted makes . it a pleasure to read comments
upon the various Masonic subjects under appropriate· headings.

'.

Illinois:
Public Schools Week was observed in California as usual-this being
the twelfth observance. The object of this is to keep California people
informed as to the general condition of the school system. of the state.

•••• •

When Brother Ross took over the duties of his office, he made it a
promise to himself that he would visit each of the inspectorial districts
in California. He accomplished his purpose, traveling 24,000 miles in his
own automobile.
In no uncertain terms Grand Master Ross condemns the methods used
by allied Masonic organizations in securing petitions for those Bodies.

.

.. .
~

~

The Grand Secretary, John Whicher, presented an exhaustive report,
thorough and complete in every detail.
•

. >I!

•••

The annual oration was delivered ·by Leslie E. Learned, and was a
forceful, instructive effort.

• • • • •

Both of the Masonic Homes in California are In excellent condition.
The reports submitted are exhaustive and leave no question as to the
admirable management which these homes are receiving.

• •• ••

A committee on policy and general purposes submits a very interesting
report dealing with a number of different subjects.

• • • • •

80

81

REPORT ON CORHl!l8l'ONIJIONl'IU

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Jesse M. Whited presents the report on correspondence. He does
it topically. His introduction is very interesting. If space permitted, we
would like to quote from some of the very excellent things he has said.

We offer no apologies for the large volume of extracts of it we present, as they each carry not only grains but seeds of thought worthy of
much consideration.

Kentucky:
The report on correspondence is by the chairman of the committee,
Brother Jesse M. Whited, and is an admirable resume of the doings of
other Grand Lodges. .
His report is in the nature of a digest. We do not find Kentucky
quoted. Possibly there was nothing that occurred of sufficient importance
to be quoted.

New Mexico: ·
The Committee on· · Masonic History turned in a report so full of
interesting things that it is hard to keep from quoting the full text.

Maryland:
Brother Jesse M. Whited is the Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence and presented his usual "Topical Report." We cannot agree
on a number of matters with the learned Brother, but we congratulate
him upon the able manner in which he has prepared his quotations from
other Grand Jurisdictions.
Mississippi:
The Masonic History of the state is progressing in its preparation
and is engaging much interest" from the Craft.
Missouri:
Jesse M. Whited presented a report of 150 pages. He is in a flock by
himself and discusses various and sundry themes, with occasional reference
to other Grand Lodges.
Montana:
The reproduction of the picture of Grand Master John H. Ross
fronting the opening pages of the volume before us is a most unusual one;
to one not acquainted with the art, like ourselves, we are at a loss as to
what style of picture it reproduces; it looks very much like a cut of a
charcoal drawing. Whatever it is, we have not seen any other Jurisdiction
using one like it.

• • * * *
Grand Orator Leslie E. Learned delivered an oration which typified
his surname.

• * * * *

Brother Whited has the happy faculty of presenting attractive titles
and condensed views of each subject-matter treated by him, and it is a
treat to read his report.

* * * * *
Jesse M . Whited will yet make the "Topic" form of report popular!
Under various headings IJe quotes from various Jurisdictions, and his
choice is invariably good.
North Dakota:
One. cannot but be impressed in reading the Grand Master's address,
that Brother Ross not only took the duties of his high office seriously,
but also that he was absolutely fearless in administering that office for
the good of Masonry.

* * * * *
In 1918 Grand Master Adams instituted what has become known as
"Public Schools Week." Each year since then the observance has continued, and it has grown until now it has become a state-wide community
·
institution.

* * * * *
The correspondence review by Brother Jesse M. Whited is his eleven.th. As usual, it is in topical form and, as usual, it is of high quality.
His comments are always brief, but indicate an intelligent _grasp of the
subjects discussed and of the problems confronting the Fraternity.
Ohio:
The Grand Master read his address, which disclosed an industrious
performance of his official duties, and a lively interest in the affairs of
Masonry and in the welfare of the Fraternity throughout his Grand
Jurisdiction.
The Grand Master had some excellent views and advice on the
,subj.ect of "The . Best Utilization of Masonic Charity Funds."
'"' ' ''-One of .the outstanding pieces of work during the year,. and for which
much credit must be given to Grand Master Ross, is the Digest and Compilation of Approved Decisions and Regulations.

,,,,.

,·•. ·* * • .*

*'

· The repor-t of Grand Secretary. Whicher is highly praised by the
committee to which it was referred:
Brother Jesse Whited makes his eleventh report as Foreign Correspondent, and as heretofore, the report follows the topical plan and is

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

up to the usual high standard of former reports. The appendix contains
much useful . Masonic information.
Oregon:
Brother Jesse M. Whited, Chairman of Committee on. Foreign Correspondence, is the inventor_of the topical system of reviewing. Brother
Whited, however, is the whole motor power.
His plan requires fully as much work as any other used, and he has
done his job ably and well. It requires a distribution of material from
different Jurisdictions scattered under many topics, and prevents a perspective of any one Jurisdiction. It has advantages, but so far Nebraska
is the only other Jurisdiction which has adopted his plan.

Saskatchewan:
. The Committee on Masonic History has done an excellent work in
endeavoring .to obtain complete histories of all the Lodges. As. a result of
their efforts they now have complete returns from.. 280 Lodges, covering
the history of all the earliest Lodges, with one or two exceptions.
South Carolina:
A very interesting report was made by the Masonic History Committee.

• • • • •

. Brother Jesse M. Whited ·furnished another interesting review in
topical form. He knows how to edit, and his selections from .the spokesmen
of t~e v~rious Jurisdictions constitute a rich commentary upon the topics
of present-day interest. He honored this scribe with four selections from
his pen. We appreciate his appraisal of our viewpoint. Brother Whited's
work is of a high order.

Tennessee:
The Grand Master delivered an interesting address.

•••••
•• • ••

The oration by the Grand Orator is full of information.

83

Virginia:
California is a great Masonic Empire that has grown by leaps and
bounds and still continues to show increase in net membership. It is most
ably handled by splendid Masonic leadership. It has, perhaps, the best
financial system of any of the forty-nine United States Jurisdictions.

•••••

The annual oration during the afternoon session of the first day, by
Leslie E. Learned, of Pasadena, is a real Masonic production.

••••••

· Brother Whited writes his report in topical form, and he is a master
in his line.

Washington:
Grand Master John Stewart Ross presented an elaborate address, and
one which showed a great deal of work done by him for the Masonry
of California.

•• • • •

The oration by their Grand Orator, Brother Leslie E. Learned, is
well worth a careful reading, for it deals with the duties which Masons,
alike with other citizens, owe to their country. We would like to quote
· from it freely but have not the space.

•• • • •

A considerable space is taken up with reports on the Masonic · Homes
of California, and it is evident that the Brethren of California are alive
to their responsibilities and are making every effort to perform their duty
well.

• • • ••

Another fine report is from the Committee on Masonic History, and
shows that they are alive to the responsible work entrusted to their hands.

• • • ••

The reviews are again signed by Brother Jesse M. Whited, and are,
as usual, in topical form.
We quote the above because it is in line with strictures which this
committee has made before· this, and we agree with it even now after
taking more time to digest our views.

The Masonic Home seems to be in fine conditiqn.

•••••

The.report of the Committee on .M:asonic History covers some ten or
twelve pages. It is interestingly and pleasingly prepared and contains much
·
information.

••• • •

The report on correspondence is prepared by Right Worshipfaj Jesse
M. Whited. The worthy Brother prepares an interestin~ report which,
taken as a whole, contains considerable information. ·
·
·I

West Virginia:
· Grand Orator Leslie E. Learned delivered a fine address. Lack of
si)ace forbids reproduction, and it is all too good to be emasculated.

..

.

.....

The Committee on Masonic History furnished a very interesting and
instructive report covering forty-two pages, Brother · Charles Ingram,
investigator. Of course, with such history as California affords it is
· very interesting, indeed.

• • • ••

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Brother Jesse M. Whited furnished his eleventh report of reviews
with interesting expression under various topics, and those of us who read
the same can appreciate not only its worth and merits, but also the
labor it involves.

fornian topical review. With all the Jurisdictions my brother reviewer
deals generously, and it is right pleasant to find that Western Australia
figures prominently in his estimation.

84

•

Wes tern Australia:
An unusual feature in corner-stone laying was .referred to by the
Grand Master, two such ceremoni~s having been performed by him at
night under the electric lights. Brother Ross said he believed that in each
instance the change in the hour added to the attendance and the beauty of
the ceremony in every way.
The Grand Master reported that the twelfth annual observance of
Public Schools week had been a thorough success. What is now wanted is
for some Charles Albert. Adams to arise in Masonry and demonstrate with
equal success and practicability the value and importance of Masonic
education for Masons.

* * ·* * *

An interesting subject discussed in the Gra:nd Master's address was
the nature of a candidate's belief in a Supreme Being.

* * * * *

Again the. Grand Secretary, M.'. W ,'. Brother John Whicher, presents an admirably conceived and .thoroughly interesting report on the.
activities of the year.

* * * * *

Worthy Brother L. E. Learr;ied, Grand Orator, delivered a fine address.

* * * * *

As one who has attended degree ceremonials in California, I can
sympathize with the assertion of Worshipful Brother Baker, the Grand
Lecturer, that "the Brethren will not remain in Lodge and witness four or
five degrees conferred in one evening." Some Lodges in California are
"whales" at degree ceremonies, which, numerically, are almost "as thick
as leaves in Vallombrosa."

* * * * *

Again we have a splendid correspondence report in topic~) form by
Brother Jesse Whited, who has made this form peculiarly his own, owing
to the style in which it is presented. It is utterly unlike any other topical
report, and of such a standard of super-excellence as to defy successful
imitation. There are, of course, reviewers to whom any review other than
the individual is anathema, and the Western Australian scribe, while not
going to such an extreme, prefers the individual form. At the same time,
he coIJfesses to the charm of the product of Brother Whited's skill, and
also artistry, for it is nothing less. The Californian book is in the Grand
Lodge Library, in course of formation, and Masters of Lodges at a loss
to interest their members will find much that is interesting in the Cali-

85

Wyoming:
For the first time, the Committee on Masonic History has devoted a
full year of active effort to research work. The entire state has been
covered, one of the committee having traveled approximately twenty-five
thousand miles in visiting Lodges. The Grand Secretary, Brother John
Whicher, has during the past year performed one of the finest pieces of
constructive historical research work ever undertaken by any member of
the Grand Lodge. He has written an interesting pamphlet entitled "Masonic Beginnings in the State of California."
83rd Annual Communication, Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.
Oakland, California
Robert B. Gaylord, Grand Master
October 11-14, 1932
Connecticut:
Some of the Grand Master's many decisions are interesting. He · had
the not novel experience with lawless acts of Shrine and Sciots, which
he appears to have handled with firm decision. Why any organization will
at times tread so near the verge of illegality and disaster stumps this scribe.

* * * * *

The Committee on History reports practical completion of its work.
Lucky men. The following, from their report, ought to be adopted in every
Connecticut Lodge.
Reports of the fourteen variously located Boards of Relief and Employment make interesting reading.

* * * * *

Brother Jesse M. Whited again presents the review, on the topical
plan, to which he adds an appendix of useful information. He persists
in numerously quoting from the scribe's emanations. Cui bono?
Kansas:
Their faithful Grand Secretary presents another of his very interesting and complete reports, and since the writer believes that the giving
of bouquets to. friends should not always be .withheld until the casket is
lowered into the ground, he takes this .opportunity of handing Brother
John. Which er one of these bouquets in the way of a compliment by saying
that his report, to the notion of this writer, is one of the most complete,
if not the most complete report in detail submitted by any Grand Secretary
in this country. In the language of old Rip Van Winkle: "May he live
long and _prosper.''
* * * * *

REPORT ON CORRF~SPONDENCE

86

87

REPORT O~ CORRESPONDENCE

The Grand Lodge had the pleasure of ii~tening. to a splendid oration.

•••• •

The Committee on Masonic History submitted a very interesting
report which in itself is almost a history, as it consumes about ten pages
of the. Proceedings.
The report on correspondence was prepared by Brother Jesse ·M.
·whited, being his twelfth review, and from the preface we take the
liberty of quoting.
There are other important matters in this splendid ·report which the
writer would like very mtich to quote, but we are somewhat limited in
space and therefore must forego this pleasure.
Louisiana:
The Grand Master's message is a document well worth consideration.
The Grand Master expresses several"pertinent thoughts with reference
to the administration of charity and the Masoni'C· Homes.
The Grand Master took a very proper stand upon the raising of funds
by the Shrine by means of a lottery. In sJ;>ite of his protests, the· Shrine
officials persi&ted in their scheme.

•• • • •

•

Quite an extensive report was made . with · reference to clandestine
Masonry.

•• • • •

The ·Chairman of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence is
Brother Jesse M. Whited, whose reviews are, as usual, in the topical form.
He lists as well wortli reading the sketch of the History of · Masonry in
Louisiana presented by the writer, and the annual oration delivered by
the writer.
· Maine:
Seventeert pages cover the problem of "Shrine Lotteries," and Grand
Master Gaylord gives "the printed correspondence of the controversy with
various Shrines, which is wholly discreditable to the officers of the Shrine.
He denounces the "crookedness" of the whole affair from the Shrine point
of view, and pungently says, "I prefer a crook 'to a coward." It is about
the most s.c athing denunciation of "Shrine methods" in evading the law
that. we have read,' a'nd from the correspondence p.rinted, our sympathy
and ad~iratfon is. wholly with Grand Master Gaylord.

.. •...

The r:port of the Committee . on Foreign Correspondence is·, as usual,
of the topical variety and written by Brother Jes_se M. Whited. flis extended introduction is an interesting document and deals with a score of
debated issues of our Grand Lodges,

Only the limitations of space prevent us from quoting frcm this admirable commentary on Masonic. problems. Maine is .occasionally qµoted by
Brother Whited, on mooted questions. As we. have previously said, reports
of this topical kind are the despair of your Maine r~viewer-it. is simply
a kind of plethora of good things ably presented.
·
Manitoba:
M. ·. W. ·. Brother Robert B. Gaylord, Grand Master, in his. lengthy
report, sho~s that he has been a.busy man during his year of office, making
many visits to Lodges and attending other public .ceremonies.
The Grand Master not only took his ·duties seriously, but administered
them in a fearless manne_r, showing ability and judgment.

•• • • •

The Committe on History of Masonry in California made an interesting report, and no doubt when finished it will be interesting reading.
Mexico:
The most important item in this magnificent report is the one devoted
to the Shrine and the Shrine Lottery. It covers pages 71 to 88. Even
a small extract to cover the main topic would be much too long for our
limited space. h is a disgrace l
Seve.nty-seven pages are required to give this real Grand Master's
report. It is one of the. very best that has reached this reviewer's desk,
and we would suggest our members read it from beginning to end. ·
The Committee on Grarid Master's Report paid him well-merited
thanks for his attention to the many cares of his official office.

• • ••• • •

•

A very valuable report was furnished by the Committee on Masonic
History.

••• • •

Our idea is, there is a wrong impression conveyed to the "profane
world" by the adverti&ement given by Masons them.selves to the vast
amount of charitable work they are extending, the ma,ny H omes they have
erected and are sustaining, for widows and. ~hildren and the aged. This
outer world .believes every Mason is entitled to help; his widow and
<;hildren to be placed in some Hoipe. ·A little less talking about thjs wonderful charity, and th~ wrong impression will not be received nor given.
.

.

• •. • • •

.

1 •

The report of the Committee. on Corresi>ondence was again ,prepared
by Brother Jesse M. :Whited', in topicai form, which in, some wa·y~ we
approve, as it is the cream of all the reports. It is the twelfth effort,
with 123 pages. .
·
.
:. · . Tpe best .way to u·nderstand this excellent "Digest" is to read, it from
beginning to end, including t):te Masonic Tables and Statis.tics. . . ,

,,

88

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Minnesota:
After Grand Lodge was formally opened the Grand Chaplain, Brother
Very Rev. John Snape, conducted brief, interesting and instructive devotional services, and a beautiful tribute to George Washington was given
by Brother Albert E. Boynton, P. G. M.

,..

.. . .

A very lengthy address was presented by the Grand Master. He had
many perplexing problems to deal with and displayed diplomacy,' courage,
executive ability and sound judgment in solving them, instilling the Craft
with renewed hope, inspiration and determination to carry on and keep
pure and clean the high principles of true Masonry.

• • • • •

89

The Jurisprudence Committee report was also carefully prepared, and
it was likewise adopted in its entirety.

•••••

Brother Jesse Whited presents his twelfth correspondence report.
He has an excellent style all his own, and he does not overlook anything of any importance. His comments on the several topics should be
published in separate form so more would have a chance to read-it. It is
a relief to pick up Jesse Whited's report, because we know it is going to
be different and painstakingly correct.

• ••••

The Grand Orator, Brother James F . Fraser, delivered an unusually
fine address.

New Hampshire :
So big is this Grand Lodge, so important are its affairs, that four .days
are used to hold their Annual Communications.

A very exhaustive and interesting report was given by the Trustees
· of the Masonic Homes.

One of the first things done was to hear a fine tribute paid to Washington.

It is impossible in the space at our disposal to do adequate .justice
to a review of this wonderful volume portraying and reciting the doings
of the Grand Lodge of California at its eighty-third annual communication. We commend it to the careful perusal of all our Brethren.

There are many pages used to report decisions. These are ever interesting. to one who likes to know how the law is being interpreted.

• •• • •
•• • • •

Nevada:
The Grand Master condemned, in no uncertain terms, the issuance of
some circular letters to some San Francisco Lodges, wherein the Lodge
roster was used to- address the membership on some pending municipal
legislation.
He also had to use a whole lot of space to dispose of the Shrine
Lottery business.
He reported that the Sciots had fallen in line with the ideas of Grand
Lodge and that any break had been properly healed.
He also pays fine tribute to the Grand Officers who served under him.
Especially to our good fri!!nds John Whicher and Tom Baker.

• •• • •

Worthy Brother James T. Frazer, Grand Orator, delivered a very
illuminating address.
The Committee on Clandestine Masonry presented an exhaustive report, giving names of Lodges and individuals, and the basis of their operations.

• • • • •

The Committee on Policy and General Purposes presented a well prepared report covering a large range of subjects. It was so well written and
the sentiment was so properly stated that each paragraph was adopted.

• • * ••

• * * * *

•••••

Page after page is devot!!d to lottery schemes. It is all square and
virile-calling names and hitting heads in homely fashion. The discussion
dodged nothing, but sought to turn sunlight upon the projects.

• • * * •
They had a splendid oration. In it these words loom large: "Masonry
is a battle and not a dream."

* * * * *
The Committee on Grievances had fifty-nine cases before it. It would
be a grievance to us to be compelled to serve on that committee.

·- • • • *
Arriving at the correspondence, we stayed with it a long time, studying
its make-up, as a scheme. The longer we looked at it, the more sure
minded we became that we shall never try to do it in that way. It is of
the topical variety-encyclopedic in its arrangement. As a document for
reference, for some special thing, it is convenient and attractive, and of
course the work of preparing is ideally executed.
New Jersey:
Grand Master Gaylord's address covers seventy-seven pages and treats
of many things.

••• ••

The report of the Committee on Correspondence is prepared by
Brother Jesse· M. Whited. It is ·well done and contains a vast amount of
interesting and helpful material.

REPORT ON; CORRESPONDENCE .

90

91

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New Mexico:
For a number of years California has led the nation with her program
of the observation of "Public Schools Week." Grand Master Robert
Brainerd. Gaylord followed the ·precedent set by previous Grand Masters
and pushed this matter in a whole-hearted fashion. Jurisdictions who fear
this sort of work on the pa.rt of Masons, should read the program of the
Grand Lodge in its observance of '.'Public Schools Week."
New York:
Excellent recommendations are advanced concerning Masonic education, relief, life membership and other practical topics.

The annual oration was made by Brother James T. Fraser. We
would like to clip a numbe.1" of the paragraphs, but space will not permit
and we clip only two.
'
Pennsylvania:
Grand Master Gaylord very completely narrates his yea~'s service in
the Grand' East· in a well worded message comprising abOut eighty pages.

•

~.

·• •> • • • .

Brother Jesse M. Whited comprehensively submitted his topical review
of the various Masonic problems presented by the ·several correspondents,
together with his mental reactions.•

•• •• •

Quebec:
The Grand Master delivered a well worded address .

•••• •

The Masonic Home is .apparently satisfactorily carrying on its good
work.

Grand ·secretary Whicher is paid a high tribute for his splendid
service to the Craft.
·Brother Jesse M. Whited, in the int~oduction to his valued ·report,
discusses interestingly the development the many changes Freemasonry
has undergone since first it started under way in 1717.
The usual topical arrangement is followed, the object being to increase
the reader's knowledge of the general ideas of Freemasonry, rather than
to promote acquaintance with the characteristics and achievements of the
other "Grand Jurisdictions which, together with California, constitute
universal Freemasonry.
New Zealand:
In the first paragraph of his report the Grand Secretary gives us much
food for thought.
North Carolina:
All sorts of things are liable to happen in California. It was in this
state that the great earthquake and fire destroyed the City of San Francisco while the Grand Chapter was in session in 1906: and until this year
there ·has been an annual roll call of those who were present on the
morning of the earthquake.

••••• •

There is a report on "Clandestine Masonry" in this book. It describes
all sorts of organizations calling themselves Grand Lodges, working in
California.
We think their course is interesting, to say the least.

••• • •

.... .•

•

A lengthy report of the Conunittee on Correspondenc~ was presented
by Brother Jesse M. Whited, whieh is very interesting and in which
Quebec is fraternally mentioned.
Utah:
The Grand Chaplain conducted a brief but interesting and instructive
devotional service, we are told.

. ......

The Grand Master•s message is a lengthy one-seventy-seven pagesbut he had somewhat to say, an<;l he said it in a forthright manner;· Sp~ce
is wanting to review this document-:-the best that can be, done is to mention
some of the many matters discussed.
There is too much meat in this' address even to permit carrying out
our purpose simply to mention some of the more significant matters. We
must pass over much that deserves a place here.
We have read with amazement Grand Master Gaylord's recital of
events connected with the lottery which culminated in the final drawing
during the meeting of the Imperial Council in San Francisco last July. .
In view of what the Committee oo Policy and General Purposes said
in its report-and ·what it did not say-we wonder if this resolution was
not intended primarily to approve the action of the Shrine, also. There
is nothing in the body of .the report that forbids such understanding.

•••••

Vermont:
The Grand Master's discussion of the lim.itations in responsibility of
a Lodge to dispense charity is illuminating.

Oklahoma:
Opening the Journal of the Grand Lodge Proceedings of California,
we first behold a solemn looking picture of Robert Brainerd Gaylord,
Grand Master.

The report on correspondence is the twelfth by Brother Jesse M.
Whited. It is, as usual, in topical form-a form which Brother Whited
has thoroug.hly mastered.

Reviewer Jesse M. Whited again has a topical report, which is a very
logica.1 form.

• ••••

•••• •

92

REPORT ON CORRESPONJJ.IONCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

93

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY

APPENDIX
CHAIRMEN COMMITTEES ON CORRESPONDENCE
GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M., OF CALIFORNIA
John H. Gihon, California No·. 1, 1850.
Levi Stowell, California No. 1, 1851-1855. 5 years.
Alex G. Abell, California No. 1, 1856-1860. 5 years.
James L. English, Sacramento No. 40, 1861.
William C. Belcher, Corinthian No. 69, 1862.
Gilbert B. Clairborne, San Joaquin No. 19, 1863-1864. 2 years.
Henry H. Rhees, Marysville No. 9, 1865-1866. 2 years.
Lawrence C. Owens, Golden Gate No. 30, 1867.
William H. Hill, Marin No. 191, 1868-1873, 1876-1882, 1884, 1887.
15 years.
William H. January, San Jose No. 10, 1874-1875. 2 years.
Thomas H. B. Anderson, Los Palmas No. 366, 1883.
James W. Anderson, Pacific No. 136, 1885-1886, 1888-1889, 1893.
5 years.
William A. Robertson, King Solomon No. 260, 1890.
James M. Ellis, Fidelity No. 120, 1891.
William H. Edwards, Pacific No. 136, 1892.
William A. Davies, San Joaquin No. 19, 1894-1906. 13 years.
James B. Stevens, Yount No. 12, 1907.
Alonzo J. Munroe, Humboldt No. 79, 1908.
Edward H. Hart, Live Oak No. 61, 1909-1917. 9 years.
John D. Murphey, Alta No. 333, 1918.
John Franklin West, Pasadena No. 272, 1922.
James Lewis Matthews, Covina No. 334, 1925.
Jesse M. Whited, California No. I, 1919-1921, 1923-1924, 1926-1933.
13 years.

The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are
generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly
speaking, they should be termed the American Rite and the Scottish
Rite, for the one commonly called York is peculiar. in its organized
proceedings only to the United States.
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar Degrees.
The Symbolic Degrees are conferred in a Lodge and are the
Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They
are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is
by symbols.
The Capitular Degrees are conferred in a Chapter and are the
Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent Master and the
Royal Arch. The supplemental and honorary degree of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of High Priests upon those who have
been regularly elected to preside over a Chapter of Royal Arch
Masons. They are called Capitular because they are conferred in a
Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning "done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic Degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the
Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called "Cryptic" because the word "cript" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
The Templar Degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the
temple at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the
33rd, inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States
(which includes all territory south of the Ohio River and west of
the Mississippi ·River) the organization of the different Bodies, and
the degrees conferred by them, are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 ° to 14 •,
inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, 15° to 18°; Council of Kadosh, 19°
to 30°; Consistory, 31° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.
In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes all states north of
the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River) the degrees conferred are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 • to 14 °, inclusive; Council Princes
of Jerusalem, 15° and 16° ; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and 18°; Consistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.

94

.REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE
:nEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE .

ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS-MONTH OF MEETING
January-Minnesota, Tennessee, Utah, Philippine Islands.
February-Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi, Oklahoma, Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Arizona, Cuba, New Mexico, South Carolina.
April-Florida, New Jersey, North Carolina, South Australia,
Mexico (York), Porto Rico.
May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York,
Rhode Island, New Zealand, Western Australia.
June--fowa, Nebraska, Nevada, New South Wales, North Dakota, Oregon, South Dakota, Vermont, Washington, Alberta, British
Columbia, Manitoba, Nova Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan, Queensland.
July-Canada.
August-Montana, Wyoming, New Brunswick.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri.
October-California, Delaware, Georgia, Illinois, Kentucky, Ohio,
West Virginia~
November-Arkansas, Maryland; Wisconsin.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.
MASONIC CALENDAR
Ancient Craft .Masons-Commence their era with the creation of
the world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."
Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 4~5923.
Scottish Rite--Same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
Add 3760 to the common era. Thus: 1923 and 3760-5683. After
September add another year.
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the year the second temple was
commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno lnventionis. (A. Inv.), "in the year
of discovery."
Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and 530-2453.
. Royal . and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the
Temple of Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.),
"in the year of the deposit."
Add 1000 to the common time. Thus: 1923 and 1000-2923.
Knights Templar-Commence their era with the organization of
their Order. Anno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
From the Christian era take 1118. Thus: 1118 from 1923--805.
Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year of the blessing
of Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benedictionis
(A. B.), "in the year of the blessing."
To the Christian era add 1913, the year of blessing. Thus: 1923
and 1913-3836.

95

AMERICAN GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter, Royal Arch Masons-John W. Nelson,
General Grand High Priest, Concordia; ·Kansas; Chas. A. Conover,
General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Mich.; 42nd Triennial, Washington, .P. C., October 11, 1933.
·Grand Chapter of California-C. A. Marckley, Grand High Priest,
San Francisco; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary, Masonic Te~ple,
San Francisco; ·80th Annual Convocation, San Francisco;· April 17~ 18,
1934.
.
. . ..
General Grand Council, ' Royal and Select Masters-Walter L.
Stockwell, General Grand Master, Fargo, N. D. ;· 0. Frank Hart,
General Grand Recorder, Columbia, S. C.i ·18th Triennial Assembly,
Washington, D. C., October 9, 1933.

11

Grand Council ~f California-Daniel B. Rich.ard~. Grand Master,
San Francisco; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder,. Masonic· Temple,
San Francisco; 74th Annual Assembly, San Francisco, ·April 16, 1934.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar (U.S. A.)__:...Gra~d Master (vacant account of death); Adrian Hamersly, Grand Recorder,
Indianapolis, Ind.; 39th Triennial Conclave;·San Francisco, June 7-13,
1934.
. ..
.
Grand Commandery of California-Purcell Rowe, Grand Commander, San Francisco; Thomas A. Dav~s, Grand Recorder; Masonic Temple, San Francisco;r76th Cortclav~. San. Francisco; Aprii 1920, 1934.
Supreme Council, A. F. & A. S. R. (Southern Jurisdiction)-John
H. Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Comrrtander; H. W. Witcover,
33°, Secretary General, House of the Temple, ·Washington, D. C.
Meets biennially third Monday in October; ·washington, D. C., William Parker Filmer, 33 °, Sari . Francisco, Sovereign Grand Inspector
Gene~al, District of -California.
·
. · ··
.· ·
(Northern Jurisdiction)~Sovereign G,(artd CoJJlmander (vacant
account of death); Charles H , SpiUman, 3:! Secretary General, 299
Broadway, New York. Meets annualfy the 'third Tuesday in" September, Boston, Mass.
0

,

96

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

GRAND LODGES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICA)'IONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED

Alabama................................- ..........•
Arizona ............ ·- ································
Arkansa•···········-·······························
California..........................................
Colorado ......._.....__ ························••
Connecticut.......................................
Delaware............................................
District of Columbia .......................
Florida..... ·················-······················
Genrgia...............................................
Idaho ..................................................
Illinois ................................................
Indiana..............................................
Iowa...................................................•
Kansas ...............................................

~~:~~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Maine................................................•
Maryland ..........................................•
Massachusetts..................................•
Michigan......................................_....

i\!~~~'.:::: :_: :::::_:_: _: :_: : : : : : : : : : :.:
Montana ............................................
Nebraska ............................................
Nevada ............................................. -

When
Organized

Annual
Communication

June 14, 1821
Mar. 25, 1882
Nov. 21, 1838
April 18, 1850
Aug. 2, 1800
uly
8, 1789
une ·6, 1800
ec. 11, 1810
July 5, 1830
bee. 16, 1786
Dec. 16, 1867
April 6, 1840
Jan 12, 1818
Jan: 8, 1844
Mar. 17, 1850
Oct 16, 1800
uly 12, 1812
uly 1, 1820
uly 31, 1783
uly 30, 1733
Sept. 14, 1844
Feb. 24, 1853
July 27, 1818
April 21, 1821
Jan. 24, 1866
Sept. 23, 1857
an. 16, 1865
uly 18, 1789
ec. 18, 1786
A'ug. 6, 1877
Sept. S, 1781
an. 14, 1771
une 12, 1889
an.
7, 1808
()V. 10, 1892
Aug. 16, 1851
Feb. 2, 1764
June 25, 1791
Mar. 24, 1787
July 21, 1875
Oct. 14, 1813
Dec, 20, 1837
Jan. 16, 1872
Oct. 14, 1794
May 6, 1777
Dec. 9, 1858
May 11, 1865
Dec. 18, 1843
Dec. 15, 1874

December
March
November
October
September ·
February
October
December
April
October
September
October
May
June
l'ebruary
October
February
May
November
December
May
January
February
September

~

j

~~=~~~~~~-~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:
~
New Mexico.......................................
New York.........................................•.
North Carolina.................................•
North Dakota.................................._
Ohio............·-································-···
Oklahoma...........................................
Oregon ................................................
Pennsylvania.....................................
Rhode Island..................................._
South Carolina ..................................
Snuth Dakota ....................................
Tennessee ......................................._
Texas•..............,..................................
Utah ....................................................

~r;;~rL::::.·::..·::::::::::::::::::::=::=:::::::

*;Eo~rrr.~~~:::::::: : : : : : : :_: -:-: :-: :-: :

Wyoming............................................

t

t~st

'.May
A ril
March
May
April
June
October
February
June
lJccernber
May
March

-~~~~ary ·

f>ecember

~

anuary

une ·
ebruary
June
October
June
August

Proceedings

Reviev.:ed
1932

1933
1932
1.9 32
1933
1932
1932
1933
1932
1932
1933
1932
1933
1933
1932
1932
1933
1933
1932
1932
1933
1933
1933

~:sk~t~h~;;,-~-~-.-.-.-:::.:·:::.·:.·.:·.·:::::::::::::.::·.::

New South Wales .............................

Oct. 12, 1905
Feb. 22, 1832
Oct. IO, 1855
May 12, 1875
Oct. 10, 1867
Jan. 21, 1866
June 24, 1875
Oct. 20, 1869
Aug. 9, 1906
June 1, 1888

une
une
uly
June

J

~

New Zealand ......................................
Oueensland ....................................... .
South Austr&lia ..................................
Tasmania .....................................~.....
Victoria ..............................................
West Australia ..................................
England .................;......................;._,.
Ireland ..........................................;....

~~·~\~~:::·.:·.·:::::::.·::.·::::::::::::::::::::::::::.:

~ (Grand Orient) ...................

France (Grand Lodge) ....................
Cuba....................................................
Mexico (York) ..................................
Philippine Islands.............................
Porto Rico ..........................................
Panama ..............................................

1933
1933
1932
1932
1933
1932
1932
1932
1933
1932.
1932
1933.
1933
1933
1933
1932-33
1932
1932

1932
1932

Au'!.~st

1931·32

une
ebruary
June
July

1933
1933

1932

Annual
Communication

. ru~

Proceedings
· Reviewed

April 30, 1890
April 25, 1904
Apr il 16, 1884
April ······ ··•· .....~933
June 26, 189_0 Jtine & · Decemb·e r
19 , ·J.l
Quarterly
·
· 1 32
April 16, 1884
1&99
Quarterly
; . l ?J.2.
June 24, 1717
Quarterly
.1 933
April 61 1731
· December
1933 ·
Oct. l5, 1736
February
193~
Feb. 25, 1832
June
--~·...,··
Ja?uary
Dec. 24.• ~m
Dec. ' ·5, 1859
1861
Dec. 19, 1912
Oct.
8, 1885

...............,.

m~

March
April ·
January ·
April

1932' 33

·· · ~····

MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS FOR THE UNITED STATES
AND CANADA
,.
Compiled by the Grand Lodge Bulletin of the Iowa Masonic
. Library as of June 30, 1933
'
The figures below represent the a'!nual compilatio.n of Masonic memb~rship statis·
tics as derived from the figures submitted by the various ·Grand Secretaries, or taken
fro;.. the official publications of Grand Lodges. It will be n()ted also that o( the fif ty
Grand Jurisdictions of t~e U!'ited States, but one !fain i'! membcrship-Nevad~. : I;i
the Canadian Grand Jurisdictions all lost membership during the -past year.
·

Comparative Statistics of Grand Lodges in United States

19j2:33

Foreign Jurisdictions
Alberta..............................................•
British Columbia ............................. .
Canada ...............................................
Manitoba ............................................
New Brunswick.............................- ..
Nova Scotia ......................................•
Prince Edward Island ......................

Foreign Jurisdictions (Continued)
When
Organized

JESSE M. WHITED,
Chairman Committee on Correspondence, 1933

97

Increase or
Decrease•

Year-

Lodges

Members

1928
1929
1930
1931
1932
1933

16,536
16,529
16,579
16,41 6
16,372
16,249

3,27-J,495
3,303,629
3,304,3 05
3,287,153
3,224,695
3,081,329

46,721
30,134
676

17,152*
62,458*
143,366*

Consolidated Statistics From the Latest Available Sources
(One of the regrettable things in reviewing the Proceedings of North Carolina
is the absence of the complete and valuable statistical tables compiled by Brother
J. Edward Allen. T his is evidently due to necessary economies. Membership in every
branch showed a DEC REASE. NEVADA was the only Grand Lodge to record an
INCREASE in membership, and that very small.
United States
Number
Members
Symbolic Lodges .. '-·····~··"-··-···-··· ...-....... 16,251
Chapters ( R. A . ¥.)._........:......._...:...._.. 3,739
Councils (R. & S . M .) ................_...- ....... 1,429
Commanderies ( K. T .) .............................. 1,682
Lodges ( A. & A. S. R .)............................ 270
Chapters (A. & A. S. R.) ._..................._. 236
Consistories (A. & A. S . R .).................... 192

3,081,329
809, 548
288,184
429,207
578,325
541 ,387
521,952

California
Number Members
580
130

33
65
14

13
13

136,693
24,347
8,287
13,385
34,138
29,780
28,192

98

REPORT ON CORRESPOND ENCE

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

United States, 1932-1933

CANADA

99

I

States

Date

Increase or
Decrease•

L odges

Membership

539
38
507
580
147
128
22
44
239
550
81
1,014
555
556
448
564
258
207
122
329
509
310
345
647
135
292
25
81
278
56
1,031
382
129
620
458
174
568
105
43
282
180
441
958
26
103
350
266
166
312
49

37,061
6,585
31,339
140,636
33,532
44,202
6,073
22,478
24,216
51,813
10,152
279,253
122,678
79,353
74,151
53 ,378
26,258
4,2, 152
33,725
122,632
137,708
58,289
24,195
107,3 15
20,156
39,265
3,144
15,106
93,945
6,645
332,319
33,644
14,866
199,384
57,900
29,036
208,595
6,902
18,913
23,389
18,207
44,501
126,074
4,952
19,596
45,~50

9,275*
5,957*
1,078*
4,173*
307*
147•
2,857*
1,636*
3,461 *
8,478*
151*
110•
1,733*

48,159
33,398
60,701
8,418

747*
1,597*
59*

16,249

3,081,329

143,405 *
39

Net decrease ............................................... .

143 ,366*

~[f~.:; ;~-:j:'_~j-~ m1111

Connecticut.. .............................. Dec. 31, ·1932
Dela ware ..................................... } une 24, 1932
District of Columbia ............... Sept. 30, 1932

~-,~~'-!' -~-t-: ~i~'i : !!ii

Kansas ......................................... Dec. 31, 1932
Kentucky .................................... Aug. 31, 1932
Louisiana .................................... Dec. 31, 1932

~=~~Y~~~c:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-.-.J,f;~: ~: im

Massachusetts ............................ Aug. 31, 1932
Michigan ..................................... Dec. 31, 1932
M!n'!es?ta,.................................. Dec. 31, 1932
MisS>ss1pp1.. .......................... ...... Aug. 31, 1932
Missoun. ..................................... June 30, 1932
Montana ..................................... June 30, 1932
Nebraska ..................................... D ec. 31, 1932
Nevada ........................................ Apr. 15, 1933
New H a mpshire ......................... Apr. 15, 1932
New Jersey ................................. Dec. 31, 1932
New Mexico.. .............................. Dec. 31, 1932
New Yorkt ................................. Dec. 31, 1932
North Carolina ........................... Dec. 31, 1932
North Dakota ............................. Dec. 31, 1932
Ohio ............................................. July 31, 1932
Oklahoma .................................... J an.
1, 1933
Oregon ........................................ Dec. 31, 1932
Pennsylvania .............................. Dec. 31, 1932
Philippine Islands ................... . Nov. 30, 1932
Rhode Island .............................. May 1, 1932
South Carolina .......................... .]an.
1, 1933
South Dakota ............................. June 7, 1933
Tennessee ....................................Oct. 31, 1932
Texas .......................................... June 24, 1932
Utah ............................................ Dec. 27, 1932
Vermont ...................................... May 1, 1932
Virginia ...................................... Dec. 31, 1932
Washington ............................. _.Dec. 31, 1932
West Virginia ............................ Aug. 31, 1932
Wisconsin ................................... Dec. 31, 1932
Wyoming .................................... June 30, 1932

t Excluded duplication by dual membership.
§ 1932 statistics not received.
••No statistics reported in 1932. Increase of 33 on April 15, 1932,
and increase of 6 on April 15, 1933.
•Decrease.

6,602*
142*
2,361 *
1,786*
430*
1,593*
50*
299*
3,306*
10,613*
244*
10,106*
4,408*
4,048*
4,697*
5,089*
2,493*
1,098*
440*
2,123*
7,715*
2,063*
6,312*
3,857*
532*
2,094*
39••
217*
2,686*
425*
9,870*
3,940*
........ §

•....... §

Grand Lodge

Date
i3,617
15,257
9,607
·12,062
'· t .
5,998 '
'114,000°
1,216
15 ,750
, •. •. 13,947

609*
2.62*
268*
352*
37•
2,'163*
·32*
341*
''641*

1,379
201,454
Net decrease .·~-······:··r-::-·-~··:··.---.-:· ·~·:··..;.·!~,.-~~-!'-·

4'ios•

Alberta ........................................ Dec. 31; 1932
British Columbia ....................... Dec. 31, 1932
Manitoba ............ ....... .................. Mar. 31, 1933
New Brunswick. ........................ Dec. 31, 1932

~~~:rroc~ii_a_·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::g~~: ~;: ~m.

.

Prince Edward Isle ................. May 31, 1932 ···
Quebec ... '. ..................................... Dec. 31 1' 1932.
Saskatchewan"'·· ............... :...... ,.•Feb. 28, 1933·

4:705!'

,,
MEMBERSHIP STATISTICS OF FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
( G a thered from Latest Reports · Received by the Comm'ttee ·on Correspoildence
of New York, 1933)
,., ,

LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS
Number
of
Lodges

Grand Lodges

1 Yr's

Membersliil'

nd

gain

I Yr's
net
loss

Mexico
York Grand Lodge ............................ .
15
932
Central and South America
Brazil, Grand Lodge of Bahia..........
22
3,004
5,000
Chile ................... ........ ..... ......................
77
Colombia: Barranquilla --....................
·l r
810
"
Bogota ..............................
8
Cartagena ......................... .
7
Costa Rica .................................. ..........
7
338
11,786
Cuba ......................................................
197
8
500
E cuador ................................................
500*
Guatemala ............................................
19
Panama ..................................................
9
371
519
Peru .......................................... ..............
25
Salvador (Cuscatlan) .............. ............
5
136
Venezuela. .................................... ..........
31
Reliable up-to.-date statistics of other Latin-American countries could not
be obtained. Our best judgment is that as far as membership is con·
cerned, the
Total for Latin-America is approximately ............................................. .
Total for North America ......................................................................... .

43,8-00
3,356,666

Total for all Americas •..: ........................................................................... .

3,400,466

25

.2
1,897

AUSTRALASIA
Grand Lodges

Number
of
Lodges

I Yr's

Member·
ship

New South Wales ............................ ......... .
New Zealand ............................................. .
Queensland ........................ ....................... .
South Australia ........................................ ..

593
304
360
152

West Australia ............................. - .......... .

474
137

68,141
27,301
21,111
1,508
3,890
52,054
8,815

Total for Australasia ........................

2,064

182,820

ir~~:i~ia .. :~:::::~::::~~::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::::::::::

44

net
gain

1 Yr's
net
loss
2,954

36
1,085
333
59
1,329
176
1,365

4,607

100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

INDEX OF SUBJECTS

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND

Acacia Fraternity ···-----------··-·-···-·-·-·····-··-·-····-·····--·-·-·····-····-····....,.-·..........,. 6
American Freemasonry
l)J , 95

Page
There is no possibility of determining the number of members affiliated at the present time with the Lodges of England, Scotland, and
Ireland.
"Multiple membership" was taken advantage of by English Brethren
to an extraordinary extent in days gone by. When the difficult times
came and many were not able to maintain all their connections, the majority retained membership in one Lodge only, while others dropped out
altogether.
With Scotland there is the additional difficulty of life-memberships
which usually are forgotten after the holder leaves the country; he may
become identified with some Lodge elsewhere, or he may die, without
his Mother Lodge knowing anything about it.
In Ireland, too, there has been an appreciable decline m numbers,
during the past three years.
Probably 400,000 is a. liberal estimate of the aggregate of Brethren
identified with the three Grand Lodges at the present time.

CONTINENTAL EUROPE

Grand Lodges
Bulgaria ............................ ....................... ..
Czechoslovakia
Lessing zu den Drei Ringen ............. .
National (Narodni) ............................
Denmark .................................... .................
Finland ....................................................... .
France (National Grand Lodge) .: ......... .
Germany (Nine Grand Lodges) ..............
Greece ..........................................................
Holland .......... ............................................

~!r~~~vi_~.. .".":::.".".·."~.".".".".".~·:::.·: .".".".".".".".".":."."."."."."."."."."::::::

Poland ..........................................................
R oumani• (Grand Orient) ...... ................ ..
Spain (Grand Lodge) ...... ..........................
Sweden ...................................................... ..
Switzerland ....................... ........................ ..

ir:::~

-:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-:.-::::.-.-.-: :::::::::::

Syria ........................................................., ..

Number
of
Lodges

Membership

11

455

24
12
22
5
29
651
58
143
23
27
11
18
50
44
41
21
26
7

l ,4:iO
608
7,200
309
1,034
71,000
4,000
7,851
. 9QO
10,143
302
907
1,800
23.101
4,976
l,80Q
1,860
315

I Yr's
net
gain

I Yr's
net
loss

79
82
2

113
57
97

24

The above is not quite complete. All jurisdictions of our fellowship were requested to co-opera te toward making the statistical t a bles complete and absolutely
r eliable. The great majority complied promptly, but a few failed t o reply, Some of
the jurisdiction s not includ ed in the t abular lists will be found ·mentioned in the body
of our report, together with such statistics as were obtained from other sources.
Estimated tot al for Continental Europe and the Near East, approximately.... 160,000
T otal membership of M asonic L odges working in the English language....... .4, 100,000
All other s, about ··-----·······-·-·····--·--·······:····················---········--····--····--····------------··44,000
Total membership of regular Lodges in the world, 1932, approximately ........4,304,000

Attendance ··-·-··- ··········,·--·-·-·-·--···- ··-···-·-···--··-········-·····---- -···-·- - - 8
" Bouquets and Brickbats''................·-·-·-···-····---···-······-··-····--··-·····-·--·- 78
Bulletin-Grand Lodge ········-·-····---··---·-···--···-··-·········-··-···- ·············- ......
Calendar-h-lasonic ·····-·······--·········-······--··-·-···- ··-·······-····-·-········-····- - - 94
Candidates ··-···- ········--···-···-···--···-·-····-··--·--··-············-··•-···-··..·····-······11
Chairmen-Correspondence Committee ·-·····---·..·-·····--·-·--··-···---·····--··· 92
Co-ordinate Bodies ......................'.........:................,.......--....................JJi. 93
Corner Stones ········-··---··--··········-··--·····--··-·--·········-·..···----····-··-····-·-····-'· 21
DirectoryAnnual Communications ·----·-·----···-·······-···-·-·······-···--······-'··-·······-···· 94
Calendar-Masonic --·--···-··-···-·-······---·----····-······-·········-·····- ····--····- · 94
Chairman, California Correspondence Committee........................ 92
Co-ordinate Bodies ··-·--··················-·····----···-······-·········-·-·····-·-..····93, 95
De Molay-Order oi.................._. ........................ _. _ _,,.....- ..::....- •···-·-· ...:.. 6
Dual Membership ··········-···--····--···-····- -····--····,·--····-··- ···-·-·········--·····- ·-··· 1
Education-Masonic ·····- ·······- ··-········-···············-·····--·--··············-:....2. 41, 71
Education-Public ····-······--···-··--·····-···---·····---···-······-··-····--- ···-··········-····- 22
· Endowment Funds ·········--·-············--·-·-·--····-···-·-········--·····--······-·····-···-····- 22
Entertainment ·······-·····-·····-·-·-··----·-········---······-····--·····-··-·········-·····-·-········- 27
F inances ·-·-···-···-····-······-··---·--·-··---···-····-·-·--············-··- ·-········-··---··-······-···"' 30
Funeral Ritual ··---···-·····-·-·--········-·······-·················-···-··-·····--···················-···· 2
Grand Lodge ····--·········--'-············-·······-·········-····················34, 78, 92, 94, 96
Grand Master ·····-···-··----···-·--·····-·-·-··········-·········- ···--·-·-····---··········""·········;· 38
Higher Degrees ··-····-····-·-···--··-··-··························-~·-····························-•·-- 18
History ·····-·······-·····-·····---····---··--···-··---·-·-······-·--··-·-·······-·········-·············~"• 6
History- Debunking ····--·-······--·-·---·······---·--·------····--··- -··---·-··--····-····--·41, 71
Homes ·------····-·····-·.-···:·-······-·-···--..·--··--·---·-········-···········---·····-··-···········-··.•··- 22
Legislation ...........................,................................................- - ·····--········---· 45
"Lewis"-The
6
Life Membership --------··------·--------------------·------------·············--···········-····-~·-···' 2
Lodges-Constituent ·························-·························- --···············3, 30, 47
Lodge Officers -····-·-······--···-·············-··-····························--·······--'·········- .···· 47
Lotteries ·····-···-·-·····- ··-·-- --·-:···········- ····································,···········-········ 4
Masonry's Objective ·····-···················-··············-··-·····-····--·-·-········---···-···· S
Meetings-Grand Lodges ----····-·······-------····--····-··---·····-·--···············- ··-··-·· 94

INDEX OF SUBJECTS-Continued
Page
News Flashes ................................................................................................ 49
0 ff ense s ..... :........................................................... ;...... :.: ...:.:.:.:.....:.•...{, 57, 66
p 0 Ii tics ········· ········· ............ ········ ....................................................................... ·64
Proceedings-Grand Lodge ............................................., ............'.,.:•.... $; . 7
Prohibition ........................................................................,, ..•....... ,'.··-----·---···· 63
Publicity ····'···············--·········---······'····································: .....•. -: ........:....l, 66
Readings-Interesting ··········································································''·'"· 71· ..
Records ............................................................ , .......... ~-··'-~------,·.-"··.·······:··•-·-· 6
Relief ·············································'·······································: .....:.......:...:.:,.6, 22
Research Lodges .......................................................................................... 1
Ritual ·········'······--·············'··········-···················.······················:--;··-·····:.,.;2, 72
Statistics". ·
California .............................................................................................. 97
Grand Lodges ..............:...........................................,. ... -..:. .........•... 97~ 100

,

