GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND MASTER
In reviewing the I 09th Annual Communication. so ably and skillfully
presided over by the Grand Master, we must come to the conclusion that
either providence controls our affairs so that we had a perfect presiding
officer, or we must conclude that we have an abundance of talent among
our elective officers, and perhaps the logical conclusion is that it is a
combination of both.
Certainly, Most Worshipful Leo E . Anderson, Grand Master. pre~
sided over and conducted the affairs of the dedicatory Communication in
a manner which brought great credit to the Grand Lodge of California.
The distinguished Masonic dignitaries. from all over the world, were loud
in their praise of the dignity with which the ceremonies were conducted
and the masterful manner in which the business sessions were conducted.
Combined with a perfect knowledge of Grand Lodge procedure and an
understanding of the issues which were before the Grand Lodge, Brother
Anderson accorded every brother the opportunity to discuss the issues
and yet, without cutting off deba te. kept to schedule and the harmony of
the Craft was preserved.
The biographic facts concerning Brother Anderson will appear at the
close of this brief tribute to him, and they will reveal the many and varied
activities which have commanded his time and interest. They will not.
however, reveal many things about the man. They will not, for example,
reveal the happy married life which he has had through the years with
Hollis ("Holly") . Nor will they indicate the great joy which both of
them have in their daughter, Denise, and their son. David. Neither will
they show the happy hours which they have had riding together, nor
the week~ends of pleasure around the pool at their beautiful home. The
sketch will state that Brother Anderson served as president of the San
Gabriel Country Club, but it will not also s how that he is an excellent
golfer, never so much so as when the chips are down and a difficult shot
must be made or a long putt holed to win a match or a wager.
Every Grand Master leaves the office having made many, many
friends throughout the jurisdiction, and certainly this is true of Brother
Anderson. He has thousands of friends among the Lodges, but the more
important truth is that, because of his geniality, his friendship and his
constant willingness to serve them and the Craft, he will keep these
friends throughout his lifetime. His name will rank high in the list of
Grand Masters who have performed outstanding service to this Grand
Lodge.

LEO E. ANDERSON
Grand Master

September 27, 1957 -

October 3. 1958

2

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

The factual informatio n concernin g Most Worshipf ul Leo E. Anderson follows:
Born, February 20, 1902, Gettysbur g, South Dakota . Family came to
California in 1905.
Attended grammar school in Los Angeles and Hermosa Beach. Graduated from Huntingto n Park High School (Valedicto rian of class)
1919. Attended University of Redlands and University of Southern
California . Graduated from College of Commerce , U.S.C., 1924. Graduated from Law School, U.S.C., 1927.
Married Hollis Norris, Novembe r 1, 1933. A daughter, Denise, and a
son, David.
Member, Kappa Sigma Sigma and Sigma Chi, social fraternitie s.
Member, group which started Southern California Law Review.
Member, Alpha Kappa Psi commerce fraternity and Beta Gamma Sigma.
honorary commerce scholarshi p fraternity.
Member, Skull and Scales, Law School honorary fraternity; Phi Delta
Phi, Law School fraternity.
Member, Skull and Dagger, all-Univer sity honorary fraternity.
Served as President -Alumni Associatio n, Kappa Sigma Sigma.
Alumni Associatio n, Alpha Kappa Psi,
Trojan Club, U.S. C.,
San Gabriel Country Club.
Former Director, University Club of Los Angeles.
Associate d with law flrm of Meserve. Mumper & Hughes. 1927.
Became member of flrm, I 938.
President, Midler Avenue Realty & Building Corporati on. Syracuse. New
York.
Vice-Pres ident, Lennox Industries , Inc., Marshallt own. Iowa.
Secretary -Treasure r, Saybrook Corporatio n. Los Angeles.
Served as President Los Angeles County Republica n Assembl y-2 years.
Chairman . Los Angeles County Republica n Central Committe e-4 years.
Vice-Chai rman, Republica n State Central Committ ee-2 years.
Served as Chairma n-2 years.
Delegate from California , Republica n National Conventio ns, 1936, 1940.
1944.
Member, Los Angeles Bar Asociation . State Bar of California , American
Bar Associatio n.
Consul for Republic of Latvia. 1932 to Date.

GRA ND LODGE OF CA LI FORNIA

3

Raised, Hollywoo d Lodge No. 355. January 29, 1931 .
Served as Master. 1938.
Member, By-Laws Committe e. I 938 .
Grand Orator, 1940.
Member, Constituti on Month Observanc e Committee. 1941 to I 944. 1954.
Chairman , 1944 and 1954.
Chairman, Investigat ing Procedure s and Forms Committe e, 1949.
Chairman . Committe e on George Washingt on Bi-Centen nial. 1952.
Policy and General Purposes Committe e (special appointme nt) , 1951 to
1954.
Inspector : 77th District, May 1944 to December I 947.
91 st District. 1948.
528th District , 1949 to 1953.
Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes. I 953 to Date.
Elected Junior Grand Warden, October 1954.
Elected Senior Grand Warden, October 1955.
Elected Deputy Grand Master. October 1956.
Member ( 32 ° ) Los Angeles Bodies. Scottish Rite.

PROCE EDING S

of
I, LLOYD E. WILSON , Grand Secretary of the M.°.W.'. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the State of California , do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedin gs of that body at its one-hundr ed ninth
Annual Communi cation, commence d at the city of San Francisco , on
Monday, the 29th day of Septembe r, A. L. 5958. and terminated on
Friday. the 3rd day of October, A . L. 5958.

THE M.·.W:.GRAND LODGE
of

111rre uuh Arrepteh fluanua
OF THE

STATE OF CALIFO RNIA
AT ITS
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed
the seal of the M:.w:. Grand
Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of California. at the office of the Grand
Secretary , this third day of November. in the year of Light, five
thousand nine hundred and fiftyeight.

109TH ANNUA L COMMU NICATIO N
HELD AT THE
CITY OF SAN FRANCI SCO
COMMENCING ON
MONDAY, SEPTEMER 29 A.O. 1958. A.L. 5958
AND TERMINATI NG ON
FRIDAY, OCTOBER 3 A .O. 1958, A.L., 5958
CopyrigM 1958 by G rand Lodge F. & A, M. of California
Printed in the United Stote• of America. All ri11hts in this book ore rese rved .
No ~~ thereof may be reproduced in a ny ma nner whatsoever without written
perm1ss1on from the Gro nd Lodge of Cali fornia. exce pt tha t quotation• may
be embodied in review1 b y such other G rand Ju risdic tions 0 5 have be e n
recognized officially by this G rcnd Lodge. For informa tion oddress Gra nd
Sec reta ry, 1111 California Street, San Francisco 8, C.. lilornia.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

ONE HUNDRED NINTH
ANNUAL COMMUNICAT ION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California commenced its One Hundred Ninth Annual
Communication in the California Masonic Memorial Temple on
Monday, September 29, A.L. 5958, at 10:00 a.m.
Roll Call disclosed the presence of the following:

OFFICERS OF THE GRAND LoDGE

M. ·.w.·.LEo E. ANDERSON ................................. ...............Grand Master
R . · .w.-.PHIL N. MYERS ................................. ...... Deputy Grand Master
R. ·.w.·.JoE L. SHELL......... ...... ...........................Senior Grand Warden
R. ·.w.-.ALPRED F. BRESLAUER.... ....... ................./unior Grand Warden
v.· . w.·.EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M .••.•..•....•... .............•. Grand Treasurer
v. ·. w.·.LLOYD E. WILSON, P.G.M ...............................Grand Secretary
v.·.w • •. ELBERT w. DAVIS................................. .............Grand Lecturer
W.'.HENRY C. CLAUSEN, P.G.M ............................. /udge Advocate
V.'.REVEREND JAMES WHITCOMB BROUGHER, JR •

..........................................................................Grand Chaplain
w.· .CLARE B. CAMPBELL.. ........................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.RALPH M. FooTE ..............................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W. ·.ARTHUR J. KAHN ........................ ....... .Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.RAYMOND G. TAYLOR .................. ......Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.DoNALD G. CAMPBELL ................. ..... Assistant Grand Lecturer
w.·.w. BEN SORRELLS..............................Assistant Grand Lecturer
W.'.MELVIN A. P1xLEY................................. ...............Grand Orator
W. '.PAUL A. PPLUEGER........................ ..Assistant Grand Treasurer
W.'.HENRY D. 0LIPHANT..................... ... Assistant Grand Secretary
w.· .JOHN T. BOND................................ ...................... Grand Marshal
W.' .RAy STEWART................................. ....... Grand Standard Bearer
W.".SAu YEE CHANG................................. ....... Grand Sword Bearer
W. ·.BASIL R. GILLETI..................... ..................... Grand Bible Bearer
W. ·.MYRON E. RouDEBUSH ..................... .. ..... Senior Grand Deacon
W. ·.REYNOLD C. MAc DoNALD........................ /unior Grand Deacon
W.'.LESLIE H. DowE................................. .. ...Senior Grand Steward
w.-.REGINALD NEWMAN ......................... ......./unior Grand Steward
w.-.PAUL KING................................ ....... ...............Grand Pursuivant
W. ·.HAROLD MuELLER........ ................ . .... .................Grand Organist
W. ·.ALVIN A. HoRWEGE. ................................. ................Grand Tiler

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS

DEVOTION AL SERVICES

M.·.w.·.CHAR LEs ALBERT AoAMs
M:.w.-.CHAR LES M. WoLLENBERG
M:.w:.LEoN

o. WH1TsELL

M .•. w ••• LLOYD E. WILSON
M:.w:.LEsu EE. Wooo
M:.w:.JoHN R. MooRE
M.'.W.-.CHES TER H. WARLOW
M:.w:.EDwA RD H. SrnMs
M. · .w.·.ELLswoR TH MEYER
M:.w:.Loms

c. DRAPE.Au

M: . w:.ARTHUR M. WARREN
M:.W.'.FRANK HARWELL, JR.
M:.w:.HENR Y
M.'.W.'.EDGA R

c. CLAUSEN

v. STEWART, JR.

M.·.w.·.L. HARowANDER soN

One thousand, four hundred sixty-nine officers and representatives
from 666 Chartered Lodges and 10 Lodges under dispensation, 1368
Past Masters. and 121 distinguished guests from other jurisdictions,
were reported as present. and the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge was
opened in ample form, following which the Flag of Our Country was
received.
The historic Bible brought across the plains in 1849 and used by
Tehama Lodge No. 3 at its institution and during the years that followed
was open on the Altar for this memorable occasion.

9

"LOOK AHEAD ..
DR. J. WHITCOMB BROUGHER, GRAND CHAPLAI N

Most Worshipful and Members of Grand Lodge:
I want to express my appreciation to Leo Anderson and to all of the
officers of the Grand Lodge for the joy that has been mine serving as
Chaplain this past year. It has been a wonderful year for me. I ha ve
made so many new friends. and found so much inspiration in all of our
activities, and my heart is most grate ful.
Most of you know that Leo has been my friend for nearly fort y years.
We were in college together, and the friendship has continued through
life. It was my privilege to tie the knot when he was married.
When they were married. Leo and Hollis did not wish to have too
much notice made of the fact that they were just married . when on their
honeymoon, so they agreed to keep it a secret. When they got on the
train Leo tipped the porter five dollars and said. "We are just married
and we want some real service , but we don't want anybody else to know
that we are just married. so please keep it quiet and tell no one ." E verything went alons:i all right until the next morning when they w ere walking down through the Pullman ca rs to the dining room , and Hollis said ,
"Look at the people staring at us. Somebody must have told them that we
are just married.'. After breakfast Leo got the porter aside and said .
"Didn't I ask you to say nothing about the fact that we are newlyweds?"
The porter said. "Yes. suh. boss." Leo said. "Folks looked at us like they
knew we are just married. Did you tell anybody?" He said, "No suh,
boss ! I didn't tell anybody.'' Leo said. " Well. it looks like they know.
Did anybody ask you?" He said. "Yes suh. One of dem old ladies asked
me if you were just married. and I said, No. dey ain't just married, dey 's
just good friends!"
Last year when I was here at Grand Lodge to be installed as Chaplain we went back on the train after Leo had become Grand M aster.
When Leo was ready to get off the train the porter brushed him off
vigorously and said, "I hope you had a good trip. Judge." Leo said , "I
had a good trip. but I'm not a judge.'' The porter sa·id. "Pardon me,
governor." Then Leo said, "Nor am I the governor." Then the porter
said. "What am you, anyway?" And Leo said. "I am the Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge of California." The porter brushed him off vigorously and said, " I knowed you was a face card when I saw you in the
first place!"
I want to express my appreciation to all of the men who have been
in the various meetings where I have had the privilege of saying a word ,
and telling a joke or two. You have all been very kind to my jokes, except
in one place where we had a banquet. After I had talked for a few
minutes, one stood in the back of the room, walked quietly up to the

11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

front of the room, and as he passed the speakers stand he whispered, in
a stage whisper, "Your jokes are terrible!" I looked at the men alon~
the table to see if I could get some indication from them as to what it
was all about. The man went back to his seat, and about five minutes
later he got up again, walked up forward, and as he passed the microphone he whispered again, "You are talking too long!" I .thought s_omebody was pulling a joke on me, and I looked for some kmd of a tip-off
from the head table, but no one gave me any clue. The man went back
and sat down. and in about five minutes he got up again and came up
past the head table and said, "We all wis h we were home!" So I turned
to the chairman and said, "Who is that man?" And the chairman said,
"Don't pay any attention to him. He doesn't have an original idea in his
head. He just says what he hears other folks saying around him!"

You w ill find there are three kinds of people who look ahead. Those
that I call super-optimists. I like the spirit of optimism. It sees the bright
side of life. It sees the good in others. The spirit of optimism is what
makes a teakettle sing when it is up to its neck in hot water! But a superoptimist is a man who says everything is going to be all right. You don't
need to work for it. plan for it, or do anything about it. Sit down, take it
easy, eat, drink. and be mer ry. and let tomorrow take care of itself ...
super-optimistic about the future.
Then there are those who are pessimists. They look ahead and believe everything is going to be bad, they can remember everything bad
that has ever happened before, and tell you it is going to happen again.
The pessimist has no confidence in himself. or in his fellow men, or in
God. He lacks confidence so much that he wears both suspenders and a
beit!
A pessimist never wants to do a nything about the future because he
says nothing can be done. If you try it will be worse. He is like the man
who swallows an egg whole, and then is afraid to move for fear he will
break it, and afraid to sit still for fear it will hatch! No matter what he
does, something bad is going to happen. That is the pessimist. A pessimist and a super-optimist sit down together and do nothing.
This young king was neither a super-optimist nor a pessimist. God
had made him an offer. He looked ahead to see what he wanted.
Firs t, he looked at his father. David, who had been king. Read the
record. It says, "Thou hast blessed my father according as he walked
r ighteously before Thee." It is a good thing to learn the lessons from the
past. In our work in the Grand Lodge it is helpful for us to know what
has happened so we can include the good things and leave out the notso-good things in our future plans. In your Blue Lodges at home a
knowledge of the history of your lodge. what it has been doing . where
it has been successful. where things have not gone so well, will help you
in making your plans for the future. The same is true in your own personal life. You will be a better Mason because you look at the things of
yesterday.
My father and I had a debate on the subject, "Resolved that a young
fool is a bigger fool than an old fool." I take the affirmative and maintain
that the young fool is the bigger fool. He takes the negative and maintains that the old fool is the bigger fool. We play our own part and let
the audience decide. Dad always win! I admit it. I maintain that a young
fool is a bigger fool than an old fool because a young fool doesn't have
enough sense to learn from the old fool. If he had learned from the old
fool, he wouldn't have been a fool. Dad maintains the old fool is a bigger
fool than the young fool because the old fool doesn't even have enough
sense to learn from his own past experience. If he had learned his lesson.
he wouldn't still be a fool. It is good to learn from those who have gone
on ahead.

10

For our devotions this morning I want to read a portion of God's
Word. I will read from the third chapter of the book of Kings I: "And
King Solomon went to Gideon to sacrifice .there. In Gideon ~he Lor?
appeared to Solomon by night and God said, Ask what I sh~ll give thee .
And Solomon said, " Thou hast shown unto thy servant David. my father.
great loving kindness accordi ng as he walked before thee in truth and in
righteousness and in uprightness of heart, and now 0 Lord my God thou
hath made thy servant king and I am but a little child. I know not how
to go out or come in . And thy servant is king in the midst of a great
people that cannot be numbered nor counted because of multitudes. Give
thy ser vant, therefore, an understanding heart to judge thy people
that I may discern between good and evil.' And the words pleased the
Lord and God said, " Because thou hast asked this thing and not asked
for thyself long life. neither hast thou as ked riches for thyself. behold I
have done according to thy word. Lo I have given thee a wise and
understanding heart. so that there hath been none like thee before thee ,
neither after thee shall any rise like unto thee. And I have given thee
riches and honor, and if thou wilt walk in my ways, to keep my s tatutes
and my commandments as thy father David did walk. then I will lengthen
thy days."
I am always happy to be around Masons, for as Masons we are
young in heart and look ahead in life. No builder is living in the p~s~. A
builder always is planning for tomorrow, or he would not be bu1ldmg.
The spirit of the Masonic Lodge is looking ahead to the future. Our
interest in public schools indicates our forward look. Youth lives in the
future. Old age lives in the past. Those of us who have reached middle
a ge have stopped growing at both ends and are growing in the middle. I
knew I had reached middle age when my wife patted me on the tummy
and said, " Suck it in!" just after I had done it.
Solomon was a young man. He was looking ahead. God gave him
an opportunity to have anything he wanted. and he looked ahead to see
what he would want.

12

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Young King Solomon looked at his father's experiences and learned
that when his father had obeyed God and h<1d walked righteously before
God the armies were victorious and the people were prosperous. and
there was happiness in the land. But he also learned, because his father
was not a perfect man. that when his father disobeyed God the armies
were defeated and there was unhappiness a mong the people. It is a good
thing for us to learn the rules and then learn to play the game according
to the rules. When we obey and play according to God's divine rules the
whole universe is on our side. When we are breaking the laws all of
nature is against us.
Learn the lessons from yesterday before it is too late. A young man
went out to work on a farm. He had never been on a farm before. The
farmer put him to work hoeing weeds. Across the fence was the farmer's
mule grazing. and the mule had eaten up all the grass on his side of the
fence so the city kid brought the mule through the gate and out into the
open pasture where there were a lot of weeds . but there was nothing to
tie the mule's rope to there. So he tied the mule's rope around his own
waist, and went on hoeing while the mule went on grazing. Soon a car
came down the road and tooted its horn. scared the mule. and the mule
went clipping across the pasture dragging the city kid behind him on the
·end of the rope. When they got the mule stopped and picked the kid
up to see if he was injured. the farmer said, " Will you tell me why under
the sun you tied that rope around your waist?" The kid said. "You know.
that mule hadn't taken more than three jumps before I had seen my mistake!"
Why wait until the rope is around your neck before you learn the
lesson? Then this young king, after he had learned the lesson from his
father's experience. looked at the problems he faced. Read the record,
and you'll find that he said to God, "Thou hast made thy servant king
over a people that are beyond numbering because of multitude." He
realized the problem he faced. He knew the strength of the armies of the
surrounding enemy nations. He knew what he was going to have to do,
as king. It is a good thing for you to know what you are going to have
to do before you ask what you want for the future. Look at your own
lodge. Look at your own life. What are your problems? What a re your
responsibilities? What is going to have to be accomplished?
Third, young King Solomon looked in. He had learned the lessons
from the past. He knew the problems he faced. and now he said. "And
what has God already given me with which to solve these problems? If
you are going to ask for something you had better see what you have
already got." And so he took a look at himself and was humble. The
Scriptures tell us that he said. "J am but as a little child." It is good for
us to look at ourselves. and generally it helps us to stay humble. If you
know yourself, you are in a better position to make a request of God for
what you want in the future.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

13

One of the toughest jobs a preacher has is to get people who are in
difficulty and trouble to look at themselves. Ninety per cent of the people
who are in trouble think the trouble lies outside of themselves, in surrounding circumstances over which they seem to have no control. when
in truth the trouble lies in their own hearts and souls. If they know what
is wrong on the inside that is one area that they do have control over,
and they can decide what their attitude is going to be. Take a look at
yourself.
A negro went into a drugstore, asked the clerk if he could use the
phone, and getting permission. he called his number and the clerk heard
his end of the conversation. "Is this Mrs. Brown? I saw in the paper a
couple of weeks ago you were advertising you wanted a chauffeur. Oh.
you got one? Well. is the chauffeur that you got satisfactory? There's
nothing wrong with him? All right." And he hung up. The clerk said, "I
thought you had a job." He said, "I sure have. That's my boss. I was just
checking up on myself!"
It is a good thing for us to check up on ourselves and see what we
are and what we are becoming. The same thing is true of your local
lodge. The same thing is true of the Grand Lodge. Take a look at what
we are as of now. and what direction we ought to go in to do the job that
is ours to do.
Young King Solomon was now ready to make his request. Turning to
God. who offered to give him anything he wanted, he said, "Let me have
wisdom." Most of us stop there and think that is all Solomon asked for
-just wisdom. But Solomon defined the kind of wisdom that he wants.
He said, " Let me have a mind keen to discern good from evil. Let me
have an understanding heart to love the right and hate the wrong." It is
one thing to know what is right. and another thing to like it. It is one
thing to know what is wrong. and another thing to hate it. Solomon was
wise enough to ask for both a keen mind and a pure heart.
Here Solomon gets the answer to the problems of happiness in life.
If you want to be happy here is the answer. He also gets the answer as
to how to succeed in life. If you want to be successful here is the secret.
He also tells us how to have the right kind of a lodge. and to be the right
kind of men. Look at it carefully with me.
First. he wants a mind to know right from wrong. You may say that
is just an old fashioned conscience. Yes. but we do not have old
fashioned consciences nowadays. We have modern consciences. The
old fashioned conscience told us when we were doing wrong. A modem
conscience tells us when our neighbors are doing wrong! How can you
expect to be happy if you don't know what makes you happy? How can
you expect to be successful if you don't know what will make you successful? How can you expect to have the right kind of lodge if you do not
have the high ideals and the high standards that make a good lodge
possible? How can you drive down the highway safely if you don't know
a red light from a green light?

14

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

set~
A man was going home from work and, silhoue tted agains t the
up
pulled
he
and
curb,
the
on
g
standin
ting sun he saw a young woman
was.
She
way?"
my
"Going
said.
and
door
beside the curb, opened his
would
She got in. As he pulled away from the curb he said, "I wish you
they are
when
and
red
are
lights
the
when
me
tell
and
drive
me
help
green, becaus e I am colorbl ind." She said, "Yo sho am, mister! "
a
If you can't tell a red light from a green light . or a white one from
life?
in
happily
or
safely
travel
black one. how can you expect to
little
When Leo and I were in college togethe r we tried to play a
in
be
I'd
how
them
tell
and
folks
football. I used to write home to my
all
study
dinner.
big
a
eat
on,
afterno
all
l
footbal
class all day, practic e
extra
evenin g. I was trying to work up some sympa thy so I'd get a little
One
.)
money
money . (I always got the sympa thy. but I never got the
making
are
you
think
I
day mother wrote to me and said, " Son,
l all
a mistak e studyin g at night after you have practic ed footbal
digestr
busy
is
blood
your
dinner,
big
a
eat
you
afterno on. You are tired,
digest,
ing your food, you can't think. Go to bed, rest, and let your dinner
do
can
you
and
g
let your body be rested. and then get up in the mornin
said,
I
night.
at
can
you
than
g
twice as much in an hour in the mornin
step out
"That is a good idea. I'll study in the mornin g. Now I can
on the
it
set
five,
to
r
quarte
a
for
it
set
clock,
alarm
an
nights. " I bought
out
table. crawle d into bed, and in the mornin g the alarm rang, I jumped
to
go
didn't
I
guess
I
of bed and turned it off. and said, "I sure am sleepy.
you
when
study
to
trying
use
bed early enough last night. There is no
d back
are sleepy, mother said, so I'll start again tomorr ow." So I crawle
into bed.
r to
The next night I went to bed earlier, set the alarm for a quarte
I
rang,
it
g
mornin
the
five, put it on the table, and went to sleep. In
it
and
,
already
five
to
r
quarte
a
looked at it, and I couldn 't believe it was
I jumped
was one of these repeate rs, and it went off a second time, and
to this
used
get
to
while
a
takes
"It
t,
though
and
off
up and turned it
to get
bed
into
busines s of getting up in the mornin g." So I crawle d back
where
table
the
on
alarm
used to it. The next night I said, "Why put the
beside
you have to get up and turn it off?" So I put it on a chair
ered
discov
I
gs
mornin
few
a
After
it.
reach
the bed where I could
out
reach
just
could
You
eyes.
your
open
to
have
even
that you didn't
open
don't
you
if
r
and turn it off. You can get back to sleep a lot quicke
run
your eyes. Then I found that you didn't have to turn it off. It would
rings.
the
g
countin
closed
eyes
my
with
down. I would lie there quietly
r if you
and when the last ring had rung, you can get to sleep even quicke
but I
right,
all
rang
it
Oh,
ring.
didn't
it
g
mornin
one
Then,
don 't move.
been
I'd
and
up,"
get
up,
didn't hear it. The alarm had been saying . "Get
your
with
way
same
the
is
saying . "Well, I'd rather sleep." And that
you
and
track,
wrong
the
on
are
you
conscie nce. Your conscie nce says
"Just
say.
you
and
again
you
ts
promp
nce
conscie
say, "Just once." Your

GRANO LODGE O F C ALIFO RNIA

15

bu t
once more." Your conscie nce prompt s you again and you say. "Yes,
conr
you
then
And
it?"
everyb ody else is doing it. Why should n't I do
you
science change s. Just think how your conscie nce has change d since
My
me.
ed
botber
It
lie.
a
told
I
time
were younge r. I remem ber the first
told
you
time
first
the
ber
remem
can
you
And
me.
conscie nce dis turbed
a lie, how your conscie nce bothere d you, but look at you now!
I was preach ing from the book of Acts, and I came to that part where
, and
Anania s and Saphir a decided to try to lie to God in the early church
folks
you
to
say
I
and
,
people
my
to
said
I
God struck them dead. And
now
dead
us
strike
not
does
God
that
are
we
te
here now, how fortuna
up
ng
Standi
when we tell a lie, becaus e if He did. where would I be?
here talking to an empty room!
know
It is tremen dously import ant that we develo p a conscie nce to
of
matter
a
just
what is best, what is good, what is right. It isn't
a
ping
develo
of
n
questio
a
is
morality, or of sin and righteo usness . it
good
is
what
g,
speakin
ically
Mason
good
conscie nce to know what is
of our
for a Mason ic Lodge. what is good for the success ful operati on
discern
to
ability
ous
marvel
this
us
given
has
God
es.
activiti
Mason ic
is best
betwee n right and wrong . betwee n what is good and bad, what
and
along
go
we
as
lessons
and what is not so good. if we will learn our
best.
is
which
that
of
cultiva te a knowle dge
he
But the young king not only wanted to knO'l.v what was good,
disa
heart,
tanding
unders
an
heartwanted to like it. He wanted a
It is a
cerning heart . a heart that loved the right and hated the wrong.
wona
is
It
him.
for
bad
is
what
like
to
learns
man
a
when
tragic thing
thl'
is
This
you.
for
derful thing when you learn to like wha t is good
then
and
you,
for
good
is
what
secret of happin ess. If you leacn to know
it, all
learn to like it, you can do what is good for you and enjoy doing
for
bad
is
that
ing
someth
like
to
learn
you
if
But
the days of your life.
it
cut
to
got
you. eventu ally the doc tor comes along and says, "You'v e
or,
want,
you
what
have
out." Then you are misera ble beca use you don't
you're in
if you go on doing what you should n't do. you ~et sick. so
what!
trouble. no matter
the
I was speakin g to a Mason ic group in Fresno. A man met me at
ast
breakf
to
way
train. asked me to have breakf ast with him, and on the
I
If
sick.
me
make
Coffee
do.
to
he said. " I don't know w hat I am going
get
can't
I
and
tant.
accoun
an
I'm
s.
drink it in the mornin g. I get nerYou
it makes
the figures in the right column. I can 't think. If I drink it at night
I drink
when
matter
no
ble
misera
me
makes
It
sleep.
can't
I
me sick and
d
ordere
he
thing
second
it." We sat down at the breakf ast table. and the
like
to
learned
had
He
him.
was coffee. I know what had happen ed to
palate
the taste of coffee passing his palate. But after it got below his
missed
he
it.
g
drinkin
wasn't
he
If
cain.
raised
it
and
.
it got out of control

16

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

it. If he did drink it, it ma de him sick. Five years later I was talking to
the Grand Bodies of York Rite Masonry who were meeting in Sacramento. I remembered this fellow and I used him as an iJlustration, and
to my amazement. at the close of the meeting I discovered that the boys
from Fresno knew who had met me at the train. This same fellow was
at the Sacramento meeting. and the Fresno delegation had got hold of
him and were bringing him down the aisle on either arm . I thought, "Boy.
I'm in the doghouse!" When he got down there he smiled and sh"ok my
hand warmly and said. " You're right, Brougher, and I drank coffee this
morning and have been sick all da y!" Five years later and still doing it.

contracting, and building, a nd ten , fifteen, twen ty years wen t by and he
became one o f New York City's greatest architects and contractors and
builders. Walking down the street. he met the old man tha t gave him
his first job when h~ first came to New York City. Now the man was
older, but he was the picture of poverty. His clothes were spotted and
ragged, his hair was uncut , and uncombed . h is eyes were bloodshot.
there was the smell of liquor on his breath. He was stooped and shuffling
along the sidewalk. but the young, successful architect stopped him and
said. "Aren't you so and so?" and he named him . T he ma n said "Yes."
He said, " I thought so. You gave me my first job when I ca me to New
York City twe nty years ago. " The old man looked up, recognized him ,
and said, '"'!es , I remember you, but every thing has gone wron g since
then. I cant get employment, and when I do I get to drinking, then I
get fired. My wife and I are living on the county. E verything is bad."
The young man said, "Come up to my office. I think I can find work for
you," And he gave him his card. The old man straigh tened up, sobered
up. cleaned up, and in about three days he came to apply for a job. Assuming he would be turned over to some personnel director. he was surprised to be ushered into the boss 's own office. The young man said,
'Tm glad you've come. I've been thinking about you. If I wo uld give
you a chance to build. would you stop the drinking and build like you used
to when you taug ht me the trade?" The old man promised. He would
promise anything for a chance to build again. And so the young architect brought out some blueprints and said, " Here is the house that I want
yo u to build for a friend of mine. I haven't time to s upervise it. I'll leave
it to you. " So the older man took the blueprints and began to buy the
materials. As he studied the blueprints he discovered the young architect had put in specifica tions that required absolutely perfect materials in
every detail. He said. "This young man has some high-fallutin · idea
a bout perfection. I could build this house so it would look the same on
the outside, and save myself a thousand dolla rs or so." So he began to
cheat, and put in rotten materials here and there, where he thought no
one would ever see them . And he sq uandered the money as he went a long .
When he finished the house, we went to the architect a nd sa id, "Here
are the keys, the house is finis hed according to specific ations." The
young man said, "I want you and your wife to come and have dinner
with us in our home." And so the you ng couple entertained the older
couple. They talked of old times. They sat aroun d the fireplace after
din ner. When it was time for the old couple to go home, the young man
reached in his pocket, took out the keys, and said, "You gave me my
start . We appreciate it. My wife and I want you to have a home to live
in in your old age, a nd so we are giving you this home you have just
built, as a present from us." The old man, recognizing wha t he had done
to himself, broke down and confessed, admitted that he had cheated and

But if you learn to like what is good for you, and then do it. you'll be
happy. If you lea rn to like what will bring success, you can do it and life
is successful. If you learn to like what is the finest and the best and the
highest in Masonry then your Masonic activities are helpful, and you
enjoy them at the same time.
This is the secret of success and the secret of happiness. Learn to
know what is good for you , a nd learn to like it. You are going to have in
your life what you want. You don' t want scarlet fever, s mallpox, so you
quarantine them. You do like flowers , radios, and friends, and you bring
them around you. You a re going to have what you give your life to. If
you will give yourself in full devotion to an objective, that is going to be
the outcome of your life.
A bee comes in over Los Angeles. passes up all the river bottom.
marketing . business section, and finds a flower out in a garden out in a
residential district, gets a drop of honey from the flower, and a beeline
back to the hive. A buzzard comes in over Los Angeles and passes up all
the parks. the gardens, the beauty spots. sails down over the river bottom. spots the ca rcass of a dead rat, goes down and gets it. and off it goes.
They both came into town the same day. They both came and got what
they had a taste for. And you'll get in this old world whatever you have
a taste for.
If I could take you men to Chicago, or N ew York. where you are not
known . and turn you loose, and tell you to do as you please. no one would
ever know the difference- I could tell in five minutes what kind of men
you are by what you go a fter. There'd be some bees among you, but
there'd be plenty o f buzzards, too!
Wha t you a re ri ght now depends upon the decisions that you have
made in the past ten yea rs. There is a man out there ten years from now
who doesn't have any say about wha t he is going to be. You make the
decisions now, and he'll be what you want him to be. A young man went
to New York City to fin d employ ment. H e failed to find it for a week or
two and was a bit discouraged. Finally a contractor gave him a job as a
contractor's apprentice. H e learned the carpentry trade. but was not
content with that only. He went to night school. studied architecture,

17

18

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

had put in rotten materia l in the founda tion , and ceiling s. and
variou::.
places where he though t he could hide them. The young m~n looked
at
him serious ly. and said. 'Tm sorry. but you have ~o live m the
ho~se
you have built." We have to live in the house we build. We have
to l_1ve
the life that we build. And we have to live in the Lodges that
we build.
and life tomorr ow is depend ing upon us, and what we do today.
Let's live today so that tomorr ow we'll be glad we lived today.

GRAND LODGE OF C l\LIPORN l.A.

19

GRAN D MAST ER'S MESS AGE
LEO E. ANDER SON, Grand Master

Brethr en:
This week will bring to an end a very busy year, always full of
good
fellows hip and also always full of work. It is a year I will
alway~
remem ber w ith real pleasur e becaus e of the many, many acts
of cooperati on, hospita lity, friends hip and kindne ss which you brethre
n and
the officers and membe rs of your lodges have shower ed upon me.

APPO INTM ENTS
The Grand Master noted the absenc e of Past Grand Master !> Lawler
.
and Paulse n. each membe rs of the Comm ittee on Jurispr udence
and an nounce d the tempora ry appoin tment to that Comm ittee of Andrew
R.
Schott ky and Wakef ield Taylor .
The Deputy Grand Master announ ced the appointm_ent, to serve
a~
the Comm ittee 011 Segreg ation. of Ralph W. Cutler. Chairm an.
Frank R.
Killinger, Jr .. and Jack L. Blaine.

RECEPT IONS

During the year it was only possible to attend 55 recepti ons for
your
Grand Master tendere d by 103 lnspec toral Distric ts and other individ
ual
lodges making a total of 409 lodges visited . The dates and district
s are
listed as an exhibit attache d to this messag e. The large numbe
r of
brethre n who attende d, their courtes y, cordial welcom e and genero
sity
made the time and travel involved just a pleasan t journey .
My only
regret is that the deman ds of ceremo nies and other Grand Lodge
meetings and busine ss made it imprac tical to visit with more of my
brethre n.

TELE GRAM S SENT
The Grand Master directe d the Grand Secret ary to send an
appropria te telegra m to each of the absent P ast Grand Master s.

HAWAI I

All the songs which have been sung and all the publici ty on
the
hospita lity of our brethre n and the beautie s of the Hawai ian Islands
fail
to really tell the story. You have to experie nce them to really unders
tand.
We were fortu~ate this year in being able to dedica te a new temple
on
Maui and constit ute a new lodge at Honolu lu during my visit there.
Our
Island brethre n togethe r with our Grand Lectur er, Grand Sword
Bearer
and Grand Marsh al filled the various offices of Grand Lodge. memor
ized
their respect ive parts, and enable d us to open in full form and
perform
these ceremo nies. Attend ance at the recepti ons was excelle nt,
and I am
told that the ceremo ny of Consti tuting Waikik i Lodge No. 774
drew
the largest attenda nce at a Mason ic ceremo ny in the history
of the
islands . Our Island brethre n are active, interes ted, and buildin
g this
fratern ity.
It was also my privile ge to meet with the leaders of the Scottis h Rite,
Shrine , women 's a nd youth groups in the Islands and discuss
Mason ic
law and custom with them and learn of their progra ms and problem
s.
All were most friendl y and cooper ative and are adding lustre
to our
Mason ic family.
The Grand Lecturer held schools for the Inspec tors and officers
of
the Island lodges, which did a great deal to perfect their ritualis
tic work.
The two Inspec tors have only one chance each year to check
their
proficiency, and it seems to me that in fairnes s to them and the
officers
of tht Island lodges we should send the Grand Lecture r or an
Assista nt

21

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Grand Lecturer to hold schools for them every two years. and I recommend that this be done.

He has asked to be relieved of his duties in order that he may give
full time to the position of Building Manager of the new Temple. and
we reluctantly grant h is request.
. He deserves all the good things 1 know that yo u will want to say to
hun personally as you see him during this communic ation. We will all
miss our grand Grand Tiler.
.N ew Inspectors were appointed this year who will bring to their
duties new energy and strength. To those faithful former Inspectors who
retired we owe. a great debt of gratitude and on behalf of all of us I say
"Many, many than ks".

20

CEREMON IES

This year has been filled with ceremonie s. Fourteen lodges were
constitute d. Eight lodges were instituted, ten temples were dedicated.
ten cornerston es were laid for new temples, two cornerston es were laid
for new public buildings. eight new public school buildings were dedicated and seven cornerston es were laid for new public school buildings .
A det<Jiled list is attached to this message as an exhibit. I am particular ly
pleased by the number of public school ceremonie s. which demonstra tes
a recognitio n of our support of these great American institution s. You
will also recognize from the foregoing that Freemaso nry is growing and
building, demonstra ting its virility and activity.
INSPECTORS AND GRAND LODGE OFFICERS

I cannot go further without expressing my thanks and appreciati on
to the Grand Lecturer and the Assistant Grand Lecturers for their interest in and for their work in arranging to fill vacancies in the Grand
Lodge offices and plan for the various ceremonie s. The same thanks and
appreciati on go to the Inspectors and lodge officers who handled so well
the arrangeme nts and programs for these same ceremonie s and the many
receptions . These brethren are tireless workers and without their help
these functions could not have been held.
My especial thanks to the Grand Lodge officers who attended the
ceremonie s and many of the receptions , often at considerab le sacrifice.
The Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden and Grand Marshal
would have had perfect records if they could have been in two places at
once, and the Junior Grand Warden . Grand Orator, and Grand Chaplain missed only a few and then only when really prevented from attendance. Many others attended time and again. It gave me a great boost
to see these faithful brethren in there pitching.
Another special kind of appreciati on goes to our Grand Secretary
and our Assistant Grand Secretary and their staff. Our Grand Secretary, M.W. Lloyd E. Wilson, is a tower of strength. full of wise counsel
and always ready to help. Our Assistant Grand Secretary, Wors hipful
Henry D. Oliphant. is a most able assistant and the office staff a credit
to this Grand Lodge.
A special word must be said about one Grand Lodge Officer, and I
refer to our Grand Tiler, Worshipf ul Alvin A. Horwege.
For thirteen years he has performed outstandin gly not only at the
Annual Communi cation but at the many special ceremonie s when Grand
Lodge has been opened. When Al Horwege was present, you knew
everything would be taken care of.

COMMITTE EMEN

. No organiz~tion the size of this Grand Lodge could possibly function
without the assistance of a large group of able and conscienti ous committeemen . We could not possibly afford to hire the talent rep resented
on our com_mittees. They carry a large part of the Grand Lodge progra ms. Their reports and the results achieved speak for themselve s. Few
of you realize the tremendou s amount of time and work these committee men contribute to your welfare and the welfare of this Grand Lodge.
Their work is not easy, and I ask that you extend to them now and in
the future your complete cooperatio n and assistance . They deserve it.
OUR GREAT MASONIC FAMILY

Families are wonderful things if they get along together and wor k
together. This Grand Lodge and the groups who require Masonic affiliation as a condition for membersh ip are such a family. This past year this
Grand Lodge has received the cooperatio n of all members of our family
and we have worked together as a team. Many misunders tandings have
been cleared up. questions have been settled, we have learned a lot about
the problems of other members of the family, and my job as Grand
Master ~as be~~ mad.e easier and more pleasant due to the friendly and
cooperativ e spmt which all members of the family have shown. There
ar.e stil~ a few :pots where frank and fraternal meetings a nd discussion s
will bring a still better family atmospher e, and I recommen d the continuance of family gatherings . Working together, this Masonic family
can accomplis h great things.
THINGS N oT DoNE

. This year we di~ not award any scholarshi ps. T he Special Committee. on. Scholarsh ips has been studying this subject and will report
their Bndmgs and .recommen dations. It seemed to be the general feeling
that ~e scholarshi p program was not llCcomplis hing what was intended,
and 1t seemed best to hold up any fu rther scholarshi p awards until this
study was completed .

23

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF C.ALIFORNIA

I did not continue the Committee on Juvenile Welfare. The committee had made its report and closed its work.
I did not appoint a Board of Library Commissioners for our new
Temple. Inquiry among the lodges in the Bay Area located only one
Past Master with library experience and he went on an extended trip.
I felt that such a boa rd should be composed largely of men with library
experience and recommend that the next Grand Master continue the
search for such personnel. and if possible, appoint the Board. If any of
you brethren can help. let us know.

Here again I would need pages to really cover what these brethren
have done. Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems. our Grand Treasurer.
has been the guiding spirit; Past Grand Master Henry C. Clausen, our
Judge Advocate, has been the legal adviser, and all the Trustees have
been great workers. You see the results of their labors, a beautiful
Memorial Temple. When you see these Trustees. express your appreciation. They are human and they' ll like it. It will be a small reward for
their service to you and those who will come here in future years.

22

THE TEMPLE TRUSTEES

THE CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
FIDDLETOWN CEM ETERY

In the report of the Special Committee on Cemeteries reported on
Page 28 l of the 1957 Proceedings it was recommended that title to the
old cemetery of St. Mark's Lodge No. 85 at Fiddletown, s hould be
cleared and trans ferred to Grand Lodge. The Judge Advocate has been
investigating this title. but has not been able to submit a final report.
Accordingly. this matter should be referred to the incoming Grand
Master for completion.

THE DEDICATION OF OUR NEW TEM PLE

It is our great privilege to dedicate this beautiful new California
Masonic Memorial Temple erected in memory of our brethren who
lost their lives for their country and the cause of freedom. This is our
new home. a thing of beauty. a living testimonial to the strength and
vitality of our great Fraternity.
We extend to our many distinguished visitors from va rious parts of
the world our most sincere and fra ternal greetings. We thank them for
taking time from their busy lives to be with us and hope they will
thoroughly enjoy their stay with us.
I am personally deeply indebted to Past Grand M aster L. Harold
(Pete) Anderson for the tremendous amount of time and thought which
he has put into the arrangements for this dedication and various other
matters pertaining to this Communication. Pete and his committee on
Dedication Arrangements, the Distinguished Guests Committee, the
Grand Lodge Week Activities Committee. and the Correspondence
Committee have worked together and provided hospitality and a program you will all enjoy. Elsie Wilson. wife of our Grand Secretary,
deserves the credit for a program of hospitality to the wives of our
distinguished visitors. I wish I had time to name them all. You brethren
should look at the membership of these committees and express your
personal thanks as you have the opportunity.

Again Judge Newcomb Candee and his committee have rendered to
you a great service. a labor of love which has produced an outstanding
Grand Lodge publication. One hundred ninety lodges subscribed for
all their members this past year. Those lodges and brethren who do not
read this interesting and enlightening magazine are missing something.
My hat is off to Judge Candee and his Correspondence Committee.
Tireless workers!
OuR MASONIC HoMES

Our Masonic Homes are our best known charity. There we have the
privilege and pleasure of smoothing out the path of life for about 350
of our elderly brethren, their wives and widows, and of building a
foundation upon which about 70 boys and girls can erect fu ture lives
as good. industrious American citizens. The contributions to our Endowment Fund have greatly increased this year. and I congratulate you
brethren on this achievement. Let's keep on building for the future.
The demands on our hospital facilities at Decato have outgrown the
available space. Accordingly. the trustees have started to prepare plans
for a new building, modern and up-to-date, where those requiring hospital care can be proper ly taken care of. This is a great s tep forward.
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS

Under our law P ast Grand Master Charles Albert Adams must
ret ire as a Trustee of our Masonic Homes. He has served this Grand
Lodge long and faithfully. He was elected Grand Master in 19 19. He
inaugurated Public Sc hools Week , now grown from a program of this
Grand Lodge to a national observance to support one of A merica's
greatest traditions. He has served as a trustee of our Masonic Homes .
our greatest charity. for 40 years. Y ou'll hear more about Charlie Adams
this week. For now, I'll just say" 1\11 honor to his name!"
OSCAR LAWLER

This Communication marks the 50th Anniversary of the election of
Oscar Lawler as Grand Master of Masons in California. Few men in

24

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

all the world have equalled this record and few ever will. During this
week we will help Oscar celebrate this Golden Anniversary. and I'll
have a lot more to say tomorrow about this great lawyer, patriot, civic
leader and Mason. Again I say " All honor to his name!"

DECISIONS

RECOMMENDATIONS

1. I recommend that the incoming Grand Master be authorized to
appoint Past Gra nd Master Charles Albert Adams, a trustee emeritus
of the Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes of California and that the
said Board of Trustees be authorized and requested to create this office
induding the privilege of attending all meetings of the Board of Trustees.
2. I recommend that the Grand Lecturer or an Assistant Grand
Lecturer be sent to the Hawaiian Islands every two years commencing
in 1960 to hold schools of instruction for the Inspectors and officers of
the lodges in these islands.
3. I recommend that legislation be adopted to supplement Section
346. C.M.C. and provide for the forfeiture of all contributions of an
applicant who fails to come forward to be initiated within three months
after his election to receive the degrees if his fees are forfeited under
said Section 346. C.M.C.
4. I recommend that Section 332.2. C.M.C., requiring social clubs
and other groups to register with the Grand Secretary be either (a)
repealed, or, ( b) amended to permit the Grand Master. on a showing
of reasonable cause, to relieve an organization and its members from the
penalty provided in this section and to allow the registration to be made
within a specified period. This section is a trap for the innocent and a
time-consumer in the Grand Secretary's office and 1 do not feel it is
necessary.
5. I recommend that the Special Committee on Local Temple Association Finances be continued to work with and advise the trustees and
directors of our many temples to bring about more financial stability and
preparation for the future.
DECISIONS

It has been necessary to render a large number of decisions this year.
one of the most important of which was the recognition of the Grand
Lodge of Japan. I will only report the decisions which are on matters
not already covered by the California Masonic Code. Full copies of the
decisions have been furnished to the Grand Secretary. the Judge Advocate. and the Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes Committees. Sometimes I thought the brethren lay awake nights thinking up
questions for me to answer wheR they could have looked in the Code.
I tried to work out practical and workable answers.
I have digested my decisions in short question and answer form for
reporting to you as follows:

25

1. Question: Are contributions by a candidate forfeited under Sec.
546, C.M.C .. or must they be refunded under Sec. 286 and 287,
C.M.C. and particularly under 286a, 346c, and 546c.

Answer: The decision reported as 546c was repealed by the amendment in 1956 to Sec. 241, Ross Digest. now 546 C.M.C. C ontributions by the candidate are forfeited with the fees under Sec. 546,
C.M.C. Contributions are refunded under Sec. 286 and 287
C.M.C.
2. Question: Should we recognize the M.W. Grand Lodge F. & A.M.
of Japan?

Answer: We should recognize the M.W. Grand Lodge F. & A.M.
of Japan.
3. Question: I was asked to approve a Masonic Golf Tournament proposed to be held annually.

Answer: I replied that it was the policy of Grand Lodge not to give
formal approval to such outside activities, but that I saw no objection to the tournament if it was handled in a proper manner and in
compliance with our laws.
4. Question: Must all members of a committee appointed to investigate
an objection made to the advancement of a candidate file one report
as a committee report. or, may each individual member of the committee report his findin gs to the lodge at the same or different stated
meetings?

Answer: The individual members of the committee may make separate reports at the same or different stated meetings.
5. Question: May a lodge purchase from its general funds and present
a United States flag and its staff to a public school within the
jurisdiction of the lodge?

Answer: Support of our public schools is a program required by
Grand Lodge, and under Sec. 410, C.M.C .. such a purchase and
presentation could be made, but the expenditure should be limited
to an appropriate amount.
6. Question : May Job's Daughters, Rainbow Girls, and DeMolay sell
candy, cookies or Christmas trees to the public?
Answer: Yes. These youth groups do not have salaries or other
income with which to pay dues and the expenses of their organizations, and accordingly a different rule should apply to them so far
as these activities are concerned. However, the price should always
be fair and no pressure should be used to make sales.

26

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

7. Question: May table prizes be given at a card party?
Answer: Yes. but only if the prize is of nominal value such as
candy, and only if the prizes are donated by a member of the
organization or the organization itself. Door prizes may not be
given if any charge is made for participation in the card party.
8. Question: May door prizes be given at dinners and similar affairs?

Answer: Yes, but only if the prize is of nominal value such as
candy, and only if the prizes are donated by a member of the
organization. and only if no charge is made for admission to the
affair except the usual charge of the restaurant or other organization
serving the dinner or similar affair.
9. Question: Must members of an investigating committee on an application for membership in a lodge be members of the lodge to which
the application was made?

Answer: Yes. If the committee needs information from other localities. it may contact the necessary people in the other localities for
the information.
10. Question: What is the status of Wake Island?

Answer: Wake Island is open territory and a sufficient group of
Masons on that island may petition for a dispensation to form a
new lodge there.
11. Question: Does Question 13 of the form of application for the
degrees prevent a Mason from joining a club, the purpose of which
is to form a new lodge, before he has complied with the requirements of Question 137

Answer: Yes.
12. Question: May Masonic Temple Associations rent space in a
Masonic Temple to the Royal Order of Caritas or the Amaranth
Foundation?
Answer: No. The edict of P.G.M. L. Harold Anderson dated May
28, 1957, was approved by Grand Lodge and is still in full force
and effect. Amaranth Foundation should not be confused with the
Order of the Amaranth. They are entirely different organizations.
13. Question: May Masons whose wives belong to the Royal Order of
Caritas attend social functions, including refreshments after meettings, of this organization?
Answer: No. Any attendance by Masons at any function of the
Royal Order of Caritas lends some color of approval of this group.
14. Question: May organizations requiring Masonic affiliation as a
condition for membership hold dinners, teas, card parties, bazaars,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

and similar activities, and invite their friends, and if so, under what
conditions?

Answer: Yes. These affairs may be held in Masonic Temples or
elsewhere, but should always be handled well within the bounds of
propriety. Members of the organization may invite their friends,
but no invitation to attend may be extended to the public as such.
There may be a news story in the local press to the effect that
the organization is having a dinner or whatever the event may be,
but this story may not refer to any charge for the affair and may
not indicate that the public is invited to attend.
Merchants or other members of the public may not be solicited
to buy tickets. participate, or make donations of any kind.
15. Question: May organizations requiring Masonic affiliation as a
condition for membership hold rummage sales, and if so, under
what conditions?
Answer: Yes, but these sales may not be held in a Masonic Temple.
The place of the sale may not display the name of the organization
conducting the sale. Any news story or advertisement may not
contain the name of the organization holding the sale. Merchants or
other members of the public may not be solicited for merchandise
or other donations to the sale.
16. Question: What lodge action, if any, is required to have a candidate
coached or examined in another lodge in this jurisdiction?

Answer: If the candidate is to be examined in another lodge, then
the lodge should by vote request the other lodge to coach and
examine th'e candidate. If the candidate is to be examined in his
own lodge, the Master may authorize or request that the candidate
be coached by a qualified member of another lodge.
17. Question: May a lodge establish a revolving fund for use of the
stewards in providing refreshments, the fund to be replenished
monthly based upon expenditures approved by the lodge?
Answer: Yes, but the stewards would be responsible for the payment of any expenditures not approved by the lodge, must render
a monthly accounting to the lodge for its approval and the fund
should never be larger than the estimated monthly requirements.
18. Question: May a lodge establish a revolving fund for the use of the
Secretary for incidental. small purchases or emergency purchases?
Answer: No. The Master should take the responsibility for necessary purchases.
19. Question: May an application for the degrees be received from an
applicant who has been out of California more than a year immediately preceding the application but whose permanent residence
has been in California during the preceding year?

28

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Answer: Yes. It is up to the lodge to determine whether or not they
can make a satisfactory investigation. I recommend that the last
sentence of Sec. 517s be deleted.
20. Question: May an application be received from an applicant previously convicted of a felony but whose conviction was subsequently
reversed or set aside?

Answer: Yes. If the conviction was reversed or set aside, he was
not convicted.
21. Question: Does Section 3 ( c) of Section 403, C.M.C. permit investment of lodge funds in savings accounts and investment certificates
issued by building and loan associations and savings and loan associations organized under the statutes of Hawaii?

29

Answer: Yes, there is nothing in our law prohibiting members from
donating entertainment to the organization.
25. Question: ls it proper to announce to the group the name and business of the member who sponsored the entertainment?

Answer: Yes. It is common practice to do this when introducing a
speaker and the same practice would apply to the member furnishing entertainment.
26. Question: May a California lodge give a waiver of jurisdiction to
permit a resident within the jurisdiction of the lodge to apply to a
lodge in. another state?

Answer: Yes, at the request of the applicant and in favor of a
particular lodge in the other state.

Answer: Yes, if insured and otherwise in compliance with th.i.5
section.

27. Question: Is it proper for a lodge or temple association to allow a
tenant, for example, a lecturer, to post placards and other advertising material on the outside of the building?

22. Question: Does the prohibition of Question 13 of the Application

Answer: No. This is inconsistent with the dignity which should
surround any Masonic Temple.

for Degrees contained in Section 527, C.M.C., apply to Square
Clubs, High Twelve Clubs, social clubs, and similar social organizations which do not confer degrees and do not have formal
initiation ceremonies?

Answer: No. The resolution on this subject adopted in 1955 (Proceedings, pages 95 and 347) controls this question.
23. Question: I was asked to construe Sections 332.1 and 332.2.

Answer: Sec. 332.1 applies to organizations requiring Masonic
affiliation as a condition for membership and which have a ritual
or confer degrees. It prevents such organizations not established
and organized in California or Hawaii from establishing groups or
organizing in California or Hawaii. However, it does not require
members of these prohibited organizations who live in California or
Hawaii to resign their memberships elsewhere. It does not prohibit
the organization of new groups by established organizations, for
example. new Scottish Rite, York Rite. Shrine, Eastern Star, and
other established groups or new Shrine Clubs, Eastern Star clubs,
etc.. organized or chartered by or under the control of existing
organizations.
Sec. 332.2 applies to social clubs and clubs formed for the purpose of instituting a new lodge. It does not apply to organizations
having a ritual or conferring degrees or to clubs organized or
chartered by such an organization, for example, Shrine Clubs.
24. Question: Is it proper for a Shrine Club or other organization to
have entertainment at their meetings sponsored by a member and
without cost to the organization?

28. Question: Which lodge should pay the expenses of a trial the result
of which is reversed and sent back for retrial due to the failure of
the trial lodge to follow the procedural requirements of our law?

Answer.: The lodge in which the accused held membership should
not be penalized by the failure of the lodge to which the trial was
assigned to follow the proper trial procedure and the lodge which
conducted the trial should bear the cost of the first trial which was
declared to b"e a nullity.
29. Question: ls a tiler present at a lodge meeting even though he is not
in the lodge room but is in the tiler's room?

Answer: Yes.
30. Question: How should lodge minutes show which officers are present and who is acting in the meeting?

Answer: The minutes should recite which of the elected and appointed officers are present and if the Master appoints other than
such officers to fill stations or places for the meeting or for the
conferring of a degree, the minutes should recite who was so
appointed and for what business or degree.
31. Question: May lodge r~cords be microfilmed?

Answer: Yes. but only if Masons only may see or read those records
during the processing.
32. Question: Is an airplane steward who. as a small part of his duties,
assists the stewardesses in mixing and serving drinks on the plane
eligible for membership?

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Answer: Yes. He is not a bartender under Sec. 5 l 3a and b since
his duties include many other activities and this activity is a very
minor part.
33. Question: May an organization requiring Masonic affiliation as a
condition for membership sell charity stamps to its members?
Answer: Yes. The public is not involved and the funds go to a
recognized charity.
34. Question: May members of a group formed to ask for a dispensation for a new lodge but whose names do not appear on the dispensation be elected to membership in the new lodge after its Institution
without filing applications for affiliation. being invesitgated and
voted upon under Sec. 431 and 557, C.M.C.?
Answer: No. They must file applications for affiliation the same as
any other Mason.
35. Question: Is an applicant eligible who, at the age of 19, pleaded
guilty to a felony, was fined and placed on probation, which was
complied with, and who has since lived properly and comes well
recommended?
Answer: Yes. under Sec. 511 h, C.M.C., a youthful error which did
not show depravity, viciousness, or lack of fundamental morals
does not disqualify the applicant when his subsequent conduct has
shown him to be a good citizen of good character.
36. Question: May the constituent lodges contribute from their general
funds toward the expense of disseminating information with regard
to Proposition 16 on the November 4, 1958 California ballot?
Answer: Yes. Under Section 331, C.M.C.. state-wide public
schools welfare is a proper subject for discussion in lodges, and
und er Section 331 a, Proposition 16 was declared by Grand Lodge
to be a matter of state-wide public school welfare within the meaning of this Section. Under Section 410, C.M.C .. the expenditure of
funds for any program required by the Grand Lodge or the Grand
Master shall be deemed to be a part of the necessary expenses of
the lodge. The support of our public schools and their protection
has long been a program of this Grand Lodge. and the preparation
and dissemination of material and in formation to enable the brethren to intelligently discuss Proposition 16 and to enable them and
others to understand the facts and issues involved is a proper
expense of the lodges and they may contribute from their general
funds to a fund to be used for these purposes.
37. Question: I was asked to rule on whether or not the Order of the
Sword of Bunker Hill was in existence in our jurisdiction prior to

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

31

September 27, 1957, under Section 332.1, C.M.C.
Answer: I requested the Grand Secretary to secure further informatio~ w~th regard to the suggestion that a group representing this
orgamzat10n had been actively in existence at Hayward and to also
point out to this organization that their ritual contained matters
which should not be printed and disseminated in the California
jurisdiction and that the accuracy of some of the historical matter~
therein should be checked. No further information has been submitted, and accordingly on the basis that no proof had been furnished of existence prior to September 27, 1957 in the California
jurisdiction, I ruled that this organization did not comply with the
requirements of Section 332. l, C.M.C.
38. Question: I was asked to rule as to whether or not Section 332.1.
C.M.C.. applied to Tabernacles of the Holy Royal Arch Knight
Templar Priests.
Answer: I was advised that membership is by invitation only with
the prerequisites of certification of good standing in a recognized
regular commandery with Past Commander status. Since I had
previously ruled that Section 332.1, C.M.C., applied only to new
organizations requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition to membership and which have a ritual or confer degrees and did not apply
to organizations organized by and under the control of existing
organizations authorized to exist in the California ju.r isdiction under
this Section. it is my decision that this organization could organize
Tabernacles in the jurisdiction of California.

STATISTICAL RECORDS

There are a lot of things which should be reported by the Grand
Master so that there will be a record for future reference. These include
new Inspectors appointed, supplemental appropriations approved, proclama tions issued, new Grand Representatives representing other jurisdictions in California. new Gran d Representatives representing C alifornia
in other jurisdictions, and visits by Grand Lodge officers to other Grand
Jurisdictions. These matters are all covered as exhibits to this message.
and I will not repeat them here.

LocAL TEMPLE Assoc1A TIONS

The Committee on Lodge Financing and the Special Committee on
Local Temple Association Finances have done a tremendous job in
studying the financial reports of local temple associations. developing
answers to problems and working with the trustees, directors and offi-

33

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

cers of your temple associations to put them on a sounder financial
foundation. I recommend that this work be continued.
For many years we have experienced prosperity. but even so. w e
find many temple associations going along from hand to mouth, laying
aside no reserves for repairs. replacements, modern conveniences. or the
rainy day which we must plan for. These conditions must be corrected
if your temple associations are to survive adversity, an unexpected casualty, or just plain wear and tear on your buildings and furnishings. The
members of these committees know how to help you so that you will be
safer and sleep better.

private and parochial schools. Religious education belong!'! in the
churches and in the home not in publicly subsidized schools. Thi!'! is
America, not Rome or any other place.
Tax exemption to these schools is a public subsidy to these schools
in which the public has practically no voice as to what is taught. no voice
as to who does the teaching. what is done with the money or anything
else. It is taxation without representation. Let's have another Boston
Tea Party and return separation of church and state to California.
With all the earnestness at my command I urge you to vote ''YES"
on Proposition 16 next November and, if you have the facts. I am sure
you will.

32

LODGE DUES

While I'm talking about finances , I would also suggest that you officers of lodges take a good look at your lodge's budget and financial report. A lot of you will find that you are dependent on a continuing group
of candidates to make ends meet. In other words, you will be in trouble
if you do not get a s teady stream of applicants for the degrees.
If you are to be in a sound financial condition, you should be able to
live 011 your dues and put aside a big share of the candidates' fees as a
reserve for the future. I know it isn't popular to raise dues. but it's good
sense if you can't Jive on your present dues. It's worth studying and
thinking about. Plan for your future, not just for today.
TAX EXEMPTION

There has been so much misleading and incorrect propaganda put
out by those w ho favor tax exemption for private and parochial schools
that it has been necessary to secure and distribute material to give you
the facts. Proposition 16 on your November ballot will repeal the tax
exemption now enjoyed by these private and parochial schools. As citizens you are enjoined to study this issue and learn all you can about it.
Tax exemption is a public subsidy requiring taxpayers to pay more
public taxes for the benefit of private progra ms. This is not the American Way. Why should you personally and your Temples pay more
taxes to help private schools indoctrinate children in a particular faith?
In America we select and support the church and faith of our choice and
we should not force others to pay more taxes to support private school
programs of our church or faith.
Every child in America can a ttend the public schools supported by
everyone. These public schools have made and kept these United Stat~s
a self-governing land of freedom . These public schools have taugoht our
children to live and work with children of all religious faiths and from
all walks of life regardless of race or wealth. Public schools weld our
people into a united group. private and parochial schools divide our
people by religious faiths or wealth. Furthermore. published surveys
show that public school students get a better education than students of

CONCLUSION

The Engliih language is entirely inadequate to express to you, my
brethren, the pleasure and the pure happiness I have experienced this
past year. Only the privilege of meeting and working with the members
of this great fraternity can bring these great rewards of friend!!hip with
and fraternal love and affection to others. Wonderful and lasting memories of kindness. hospitality and good fellowship come flooding over
me as I close this report of my year as your Grand Master. I wish I
could find the words to express to you my gratitude for the privilege and
honor you have given to me. I can only hope that you can read between
the lines and see into my heart, for there you will find indelible pictures
of all of you.
May I close with this ancient and hallowed Masonic benediction :

" M ay no strife disturb thy days, nor sorrow disturb
thy nights, and may the pillow of peace kiss thy cheek.
and the pleasures of imagination attend thy dreams; and
when length of years hath made thee tired of earthly joys.
and the curtains of death gently close around the scene of
thy existence, may the angels of God attend thy bed and
take care that the expiring lamp of life shall not receive
even one rude blast to hasten its extinction; and finally
may the blessing of God wash thee free from all impurities
and prepare thee to enter into the land of everlasting
happiness.··

GRAND MASTER

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT "A"

December 6- Cornerstone Ceremony, Erma B. Reese School. Woodbridge-Grand Master
December 7-Cornerstone Ceremony, Dos Palos Lodge No. 681, New
Temple-Grand Master

SPECIAL COMMUNICATIONS OF GRAND LoDGE

1957
October 4-Dedication of Holtville Union Elementary School. Holtville-Grand Master
October I I-Dedication of new temple, Artesia Lodge No. 377, Artesia
-Grand Master
October I2-Cornerstone Ceremony. Reseda Temple. Reseda-Grand
Master
October I2-Constitution. Zenith Lodge No. 768. Van Nuys-Grand
Master
October I 7-Constitution, Avenal Lodge No. 772, Coalinga-Grand
Master
October 18-Constitution, Pinnacle Lodge No. 777, King City-Grand
Master
October 19-Constitution, Lake Chabot Lodge No. 770, San LorenzoGrand Master
October 24-Constitution, East Whittier Lodge No. 776, MontebelloGrand Master
October 25-Constitution, La Mirada Lodge No. 778, Buena ParkGrand Master
October 26--0edication. Bellflower Lodge Temple. Bellflower-Grand
Master
October 29-Dedication. Farragut Elementary School. Vallejo-Past
Grand Master L. Harold Anderson
October 30--Cornerstone Ceremony, Alameda High School. Alameda
-Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson
November 2-Constitution, Tejon Lodge No. 773. Bakersfield-Grand
Master
November 7--Constitution, Five Points Lodge No. 779, Long Beach
-Grand Master
November 15-Constitution, Palmdale Lodge No. 769, PalmdaleGrand Master
November 16--Constitution. San Dieguito Lodge No. 775, OceansideGrand Master
November I6-Constitution, Mission Bay Lodge No. 771, San DiegoGrand Master
November 2I-Constitution, Riviera Lodge No. 780. Santa MonicaGrand Master
November 23-Cornerstone Ceremony. Long Beach Lodge No. 327,
Long Beach-Grand Master
November 23-Constitution. Rolling Hills Lodge No. 78I, LomitaGrand Master

35

1958
February 7-Dedication of Llncoln High School. Stockton-Grand
Master
March 29-Dedication of Tujunga Lodge Temple. Tujunga-Grand
Master
April 5-Cornerstone Ceremony, Elysian Lodge Temple, Los AngelesGrand Master
April 7-Dedication of Golden State Temple, Los Angeles-Grand
Master
April 12-Cornerstone Ceremony, new County Building. OntarioGrand Master
April 14-Dedication of A lhambra Lodge Temple, A.Jhambra-Grand
Master
April 2 1-Dedication of Esparto Grammar School, Esparto-/unior
Grand Warden
April 22-Dedication of Sunnydale School. Lancaster-Grand Master
April 22-Cornerstone Ceremony, Atwater High School. Atwater Deputg Grand Master
April 24-Dedication of Franklin Elementary School, Redondo BeachGrand Master
April 25-Cornerstone Ceremony. Selma Union High School, SelmaGrand Master
May 7-Dedication of Earl Warren Junior High School. Solano Beach
-Grand Master
May 9-Cornerstone Ceremony, Edward M. Cope Junior High School,
Redlands-Grand Master
May 10--Cornerstone Ceremony. Rosemead Temple, RosemeadGrand Master
June 13-Dedication of Atwater Lodge Temple. Los Angeles-Grand
M83ter
June 14-Dedication of Santa Ynez Valley Lodge Temple, SolvangGrand Ma5ter
June 14-Cornerstone Ceremony. Monroe Elementary School , Santa
Barbara-Grand Master
June 14-Cornerstone Ceremony. Marysville Masonic Hall. Marysville
-Assistant Grand Lecturer Ralph M. Foote
June 28-Cornerstone Ceremony, Palos Verdes Temple, Long BeachGrand Master
July 11--Dedication of Maui Lodge Temple. Kahului- Grand Master

'36

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIA

July 14- Constitu tion , Waikiki Lodge No. 774. Honolulu- Gr.and
Master
July 19-Dedication of new temple. Woodland Lodge, WoodlandDeputy Grand Master
August 9- Cornerstone Ceremony, Masonic Temple. San Bernardino
Lodge, San Bernardino-Grand Master
August 9-Dedication of Long Beach Temple, Long Beach-Grand
Master
August 16--Cornerstone Ceremony, Masonic Temple, Riverside Lodge.
Riverside-Grand Master
August 23-Cornerstone Ceremony, El Rancho Lodge No. 759, Whittier-Grand Master
September 6-Cornerstone Ceremony, Burroughs High School, China
Lake-Grand Master
September 12- Dedication, Tully C. Knoles Elementary School. Stockton- Grand Master
September 20-Cornerstone-Addition to San Bernardino County
Courthouse-Grand Master
EXHIBIT "B"

37

EXHIBIT " D"
RECEPTIONS A ND MISCELLANEOU S

1957
September 29-Breakfast. San Francisco Masters and Wardens Association, San Francisco
October 2-Reception, H ollywood Lodge No. 355, Hollywood
October 5-Reception, D istrict No. 646, EI Centro
October 20-Santa Rosa Breakfast . Districts Nos. 307 and 308, Santa
Rosa
November 6-Grand Guardian Council. International Order of Job's
Daughters Annual Convention, San Jose (Represented by Junior
Grand Warden)
November I 4-Society of Masonic Attorneys. Los Angeles
November 26--lnsurance Square Club of San Francisco Luncheon. San
Francisco
December 8-Breakfast-Officers of District No. 608
December 10-lnstallation, William D. Stephens Lodge No. 698
December I 9-lnstallation, Hollywood Lodge No. 355

SPECIAL CEREMONIES

1957
None
1958
April 22- Placing of Marker on Site of First Public School in North
Hollywood. Grand Master.
February 27- Groundbreaking ceremony for new Temple of Riverside
Lodge No. 635. Grand Ma ster.
EXHIBIT "C"
NEW LooGES INSTITUTED

I957
None
1958
January 3-Paramount Lodge U.D., Bellflower-Grand M aster
January IO-Rio Linda Lodge U.D .. Rio Linda-Grand Master
January 16--Westminster Lodge U.D .. Westminster-Gra nd Master
March 15-EI Camino Real Research Lodge U .D .. Redwood City-

D eputy Grand Master
July 12---Sierra Lodge U.D .. Bass Lake-Dep uty Grand Master
July 19-0ak Plains Lodge U.D., Sacramento-Deputy G rand Master
August I-Granada Hills Lodge U .D .. San Fernando-Grand Master
August 8-Genera l Henry H. Arnold Lodge U .D., Edwards Air Force
Base, Edwards- Grand Master

1958
January 9-lnspectors School. Division 5. Westlake Temple
January I I-Meeting of Trustees of M asonic Homes and Reception for
the Trustees and the Grand Master, D ecoto
January I2-Meeting of Temple Trustees, San Francisco
January I 5-Reception, Districts N os. 520, 522, 530, 534, 538 , 558, 556
and 572, Los Angeles
January 18-lnspectors Conference- Division 6, N ewport Beach
January 21-Reception, D istricts Nos. 319 and 320. Richmond
January 31-Masonic Night-Ben Ali Temple, Sacramento
February 6--Reception, Districts Nos. 122. 424. 426, 427, Lindsay
February 8- Reception, Districts Nos. 390 and 388, H ollister
February 11- Reception , District No. 550, Hawthorne
February 15- Past Masters Association Annual Meeting. Los Ang~les
February 16- Meeting with Commercialism Committee, Los Angeles
February 17- AI Malaikah Shrine Dinner. Beverly Hills
February 18-23-Grand Masters Conference, Washington, D. C.
February 25-Grand Master's reception of the De Mo lay Legion of
Honor, South Gate Masonic Temple. Los Angeles
February 27-Reception, D istrict No. 616. Riverside
March I-Reception, U.C.L.A. Clubhouse, Los Angeles
March 3-Grand Court, Order of the Amaranth. Berkeley (Represented
by M.W. Henry C. Clausen, Past Grand Master and Judge Advocate)

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

March 7-Rec eption . Distric ts Nos. 602 and 612, Colton
March 8-Mas onic Night. Aahme s Templ e. Oaklan d
San
March 12-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 638, 639, 640, 642 and 6'M,
Diego
March 14-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 114, 116, 11 7 and 206, Chico
March 15-Re ceptio n. Distric ts Nos. 109 and 112, Susanv ille
Clause n,
March 18-Sc ottish Rite Bodies Recept ion for M.W. Henry C.
Sacram ento
March 19-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 567 and 568, Los Angele s
March 21-23- Inspec tors Confer ence. Division 6
March 26--M eeting with Dedica tion Arrang ements Comm ittee
March 26-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 346 and 348, Berkel ey
na
March 27-Re ceptio n , Distric ts Nos. 514, 516 and 564 , Pasade
Covina
,
March 29-Me eting with Truste es of Mason ic Homes
March 30.-M asonic Board of Relief Breakf ast, Hollyw ood
April 4-Insp ectors of Divisio n 5, Los Angele s
April 8-Rec eption , Distric ts Nos. 630 and 634, Huntin gton Beach
April 9-Rec eption . Distric ts Nos. 548 and 549, El Segund o
April 10.-Re ception . Distric t No. 562, Redon do Beach
April 13-Ma sonic Board of Relief Breakf ast. Long Beach
April 15-Re ceptio n. Distric t No. 536, Los Angele s
April 18-20. -lnspe ctors Confer ence. Division 5
andery .
April 21-25 -Gran d Chapte r, Grand Counci l and Grand Comm
Grand
Senior
Shell.
L.
Joe
R.W.
by
Santa Barbar a (repres ented
Warde n)
April 29-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 614 , 628 and 629, Fullert on
April 28-Ma sonic Press Club. Los Angele s
May 2-Rec eption , Distric ts Nos. 368 , 370. 372 and 374, Sa n Jose
Berkel ey
May 3-Rec eption . Mason ic Club of Univer sity of Califor n ia.
Oakast.
Breakf
ation
Associ
ns
May 4-Eas t Bay Master s and Warde
land
H
May 9-Rec eption , Distric ts Nos. 603, 605, 607 and 632. Bannin
May 15-Re ceptio n, Distric ts 318, 360 and 361, Conco rd
May 16--In specto rs Confer ence, Divisio n 3
May 17-Inspecto rs Confer ence, Divisio n 3
ento
May 17-Di nner. Master s and Warde ns Associ ation, Sacram
May 18- M asonic Board of Relief Breakf ast, Sacram ento
May 20.-Re ceptio n . Distric ts Nos. 542 and 570, Los Angele s
May 23- Recept ion , Distric ts Nos. 420 a nd 421, Paso Robles
May 24-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 392 and 394, Salinas
June 6-8- Inspec tors Confe rence- Divisi on 4
June 11-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 606. 608. 610 and 618. El Monte
June 16-18- -Grand Lodge of Washi ngton. Spokan e

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

39

June 19-Re ceptio n, Distric ts Nos. 118 and 120, Trucke e
June 20-22- Inspec tors Confe rence- Divisi ons I and 2
June 25-Gr eater Los Angele s Press Associ ation
June 27-Ing lewoo d Beefsta ke Feed, Inglew ood
Santa
June 27-G~and Bethel, Interna tional Order of Job's Daugh ters,
Grand
Pixley,
A.
Melvin
ipful
Worsh
by
ented
Momca (repres
Orator )
June 29-St . John's day Breakf ast, Compt on
July 7-Rec eption , Kauai Lodge No. 589, Kaua i
July 8-Rec eption , Kilaue a Lodge No. 330. Hawai i
July 15-Di nner, Scottis h Rite Bodies, Honolu lu
July 16--Di nner, Officers Associ ation , Honolu lu
HonoJuly 17-Di nner. Aloha Templ e, Past Potent ates and Officers,
lulu
July l 8-Rec eption , Oahu Lodges , Honolu lu
Mills
July 24-27- Meetin g with Mason ic Homes Truste es, Fall River
July 26--Re ception . Fort Crook Lodge No. 575, Fall River Mills
Septem ber 7-Bre akfast , Distric t No. 418, Fresno

EXHIBI T "E"

ANNIVERSARIES DURING 1957-1958
1957
burgNovem ber 9-Cen tennial. Sotoyo me Lodge No. 123. Healds
Gra nd Secreta ry
Creek Decem ber 12-Ce ntenni al, Alamo Lodge No. 122. Walnu t
n
Warde
Junior Grand
or
Decem ber 14-Ce ntenni al, Visalia Lodge No. 128. Visali a-Juni
vant
Pur:mi
Grand
Grand Warde n and
1958
rand
March 7-Cen tennia l, Herma nn Lodge No. 127, San Franci sco-G
Treasurer
Grand
May l 0-Cen tennia l, Lafaye tte Lodge No. 126, Sebas topolLectur er
seMay 17-Ce ntennial, Table Mount ain Lodge No. 124, Paradi
Grand Bible Bearer
rand
Septem ber 6--Cen tennia l. Woodb ridge Lodge No. 131 , Lodi-G
er
Lectur
Grand
nt
Assista
Foote.
M.
Bible Bearer and Ralph

iO

EXHIBIT "F"

V1s1T>.T10Ns BY GRAND LoocE OFFICERS To
OTHER GRAND JURISDICTIONS
February 18 to 22, 1958-GRAND MASTERS' CONFERENCE.
Washington, D. C.-Grand Master. Deputy Grand Master. and
Grand Secretary
April 28 and 29- ANNUAL COMMUNICATION. GRAND
LODGE OF ARIZONA-Senior Grand W arden
June 11and12- ANNUALCOMMUNICATION , GRAND LODGE
OF OREGON-Grand Secretary
June 12and13-ANNUAL COMMUNICATION. GRAND LODGE
OF NEVADA-Junior Grand Warden
June 17, 18 and 19-ANNUAL COMMUNICATION. GRAND
LODGE OF WASHINGTON-Grand Master
EXHIBIT "G"
GRAND REPRESENTATIVES

Representing Other Jurisdictions in California:
Nebraslca.................................................... Harry F. White
Tennessee...................................................... John R. Moore
State of Para {Brazil} .................................... John Gordon
Grand Lodge Alpina of Switzerland.......... Rene Canonica
Representing California in Other f urisdictions:
Grand Lodge of the State of
Para (Brazil) ...... Carlos Teodoro Feitosa
Iceland........................................................ Bjarni Bjamason
Israel...................................... .................. Menahem Talmon
Massachusetts ........................................ Andrew G. Jenkins
Nehra.!!lca .................................................. Herbert T. White
Philippines ............................................ Edward F. Stewart
Tennessee.................................... Charles Burton Jones, Jr.
New Jersey..............................................August C. Ullrich
ltaly................................................................ Bruno Sonnino
Grand Lodge Alpina of Switzerland ..Carl Wiesendanger
EXHIBIT "H"
SUPPLEMENTAL APPROPRIATIONS APPROVED

Rent for Grand Lodge Offices at
25 Van Ness Avenue, San Francisco ....... ......................... $ 285.00
Expense, 1957 Annual Communication . San Francisco ............ $ 105.98
Relief disbursed by Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson $ 125.00
Expense of Grand Lodge litigation ......... .. ................................ $1,855.83
Purchase of white aprons ......................................................... ... $ 900.00

TOTAL.......................................................................... $3,271.81

ii

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCI!.EDINGS OF THE

EXHIBIT "J"
PROCLAMATIONS
PROCLAMATION OF TH E GRAND MASTER
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
We hope that every member of the Lodges in this jurisdiction will
become a subscriber to the California Freemason . It is owned and published by your Grand Lodge to bring you Masonic information and
inspiration.
It is especially important that the brother who for various reasons is
not able to keep in close touch with his Lodge receive this magazine. It
will pay for itself in s timulating greater interest and participation in
Lodge activities.
At the last Communication, the representatives of the Lodges voted
to authorize the Lodges to pay for a subscription for each of their
members. Heretofore this payment had to be made from the refreshment
fund. Grand Lodge now considers the cost of the California Freemason
a justified and wise expenditure of Lodge funds .
I ask that each Lodge consider this proposition at its December
stated meeting. To do so in the proper manner, the following resolution
is suggested :
RESOLVED that the California Freemason be sent to each member of this Lodge, the cost to be pa id in January of each year on receipt
of a bill from the Grand Secretary at the rate of not to exceed 60c per
member as shown in the last annual return.
If the resolution is adopted . the secretary of the Lodge will certify
the same to the Grand Secretary within 15 days and furnish h im with
a list of the names and addresses of the members of the Lodge.
If the resolution fails adoption , the secretary will notify the Grand
Secretary within the same period so that we may know how each Lodge
feels on the subject.
The regular subscription price, if not paid through the Lodge, will
remain at $I per year.
I DIRECT THAT THIS COMMUNICATION BE READ AT
THE DECEMBER STATED MEETING.
October 29. 1957
Attest :
LLOYD E . w ILSON
Grand Secretary

LEO E . ANDERSON
Grand Master

42

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

43

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

GRAND LoDGE
FREE A ND ACCEPTED MASONS

OP CALIFORNIA

OP CALIFORNIA

December 12, 1957

To the Lodges and Members of this Jurisdiction:
You will recall that last year Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson
issued an edict prohibiting Masons subject to the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of California from being, becoming. or remainin~ a
member of the Royal Order of Caritas or of the Amaranth Foundation,
Inc .. or their successors.
It has come to my attention that there exists considerable confusion
as to whether or not this edict refers to the Order of the Amaranth.
The Order of the Amaranth is an entirely different organization
from the Amaranth Foundation or the Royal Order of Caritas. and the
edict does not apply to the Order of the Amaranth.
This communication shall be read in Lodge at the stated meeting
next following its receipt, and I trust it will end the confusion which
now exists.
Fraternally yours.
LEO

Attest :
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

E. ANDERSON

Grand Master

PROCLAMATION
THIRTY-NINTH ANNUAL PUBLIC SCHOOLS WEEK

The week of April 21 throug h April 26. 1958. has been designated
as the thirty-ninth annual Public Schools Week in California.
The theme for this year's celebration is " Public Schools. the Foundation of American Freedom ."
Our interest in our public schools is of long standing and constitutes
one of our most important activities. We could not govern ourselves and
protect our American freedoms if the people of these United States did
not receive the fu ndamental education given through our public schools.
Good public schools supported by an informed public assure good citizenship.
This will be an important year in the history of the Public Schools of
California. This year the voters of California will determine whether or
not all citizens regardless of religious faith will be fo rced to pay taxes to.
support parochial schools teaching a faith they may or may not agree
with.
The public schools are the foundation of America's greatness and its
high standard of living. Support them. protect them, and maintain your
interest in them throughout the year, but particularly during Public
Schools Week.
''Next in importance to freedom and justice is popular
education, without which neither freedom nor justice can be
permanently maintained." President Ja mes A. Garfield. July 12. 1880
This Proclamation shall be read a t the stated meetings in the months
of March and April. 1958.
Dated : January 31, 1958.
Attest :
LLOYD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

LEO E. ANDERSON

Grand Master

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
GRAND LODGE OF CA LIFORNIJ\

45

GRAND LoDGE
FREE AND A CCEPTED MASONS

GRAND L ODGE

OF CALIFORN IA

FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS

PROCLAMATION

OF CALIFO RN IA

MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT MONT H

The month of May is again designated as Masonic Homes Endowment Month.
Those brethren who have had the privilege of visiting either our
Home at Decoto for our elderly brethren. their wives and widows, or
our Home at Covina for the boys and girls have enjoyed a feeling of
satisfaction and accomplishment. They have also realized that we get
more real pleasure from doing something for others than doing something for ourselves.
These homes are made possible by the contributions made by the
bre thren of this Jurisdiction and many sojourning brethren who like to
join in this pleasant work. Those who give may be proud of the record of
the Masons of California in caring for these guests of ours.

"Though I speak with the tongues of men
and of angels, and have not charity,
I am become as sounding brass, or a
tinkling cymbal."
(I Corinthians, XIII.)
This Proclamation is to be read at the stated meetings held during
the months of April and May, 1958.
Dated: January 31. l 958.
Le.a E. ANDERSON

Grand Master
LLO YD E. WILSON

Grand Secretary

February 10. 1958

To the Lodges of this Jurisdiction:
Under date of May 28, l 957. Past Grand M aster L. Harold Anderson issued an Edict prohibiting M asons subject to the jurisdiction of the
Grand Lodge of California from being or remaining members of the
Ro~al ?rder ~f Caritas or its successor and also from assisting this organization or its successor. This Edict is still in full force and effect.
It has come to my attention that some of the Temple Associations
and Lodg~s are renting space in M asonic Temples to this group for
the~r meetmgs and other activities. The renting of space to this group or
ass1stmg them to hold meetings is in direct violation of the Edict and
should not be done. I have not directed that any action be taken against
those w.ho h~ve in this ma nner violated the Edict. but I am advising you
of the situation so that there will be no violations in the future.
I direct t~at this letter be read at the next stated meeting and that a
copy be furnished to any l\ilasonic Temple Association from which the
Lodge rents space.
Fraternally yours.
Attest :
Lro E. ANDERSON
LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Master
Grand Secretary

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE
FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA
p ROCLA MA TION
CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE MoNTH
On the 17th day of September, 1787, in Independence Hall in the
City of Philadelphia, a group of patriotic Americans, great men in history, signed their names to the Constitution of the United States of
America. Twenty-three of the thirty-nine who signed this charter of
freedom were known or believed to be Masons.
This great charter of freedom has given to us more happiness, more of
the good things of life, more of the inalienable rights of men than any
other country in history. Because of this charter of freedom we are the
most fortunate people in all the world.
It is therefore appropriate that during the month of September we
turn our thoughts to our blessings and celebrate as a patriotic festival
the anniversay of the adoption of our Constitution.
I therefore designate the month of September 1958 as Constitution
Observance Month. I direct that in observance thereof every Lodge of
this Jurisdiction, preferably in conjunction with other Lodges. Masonic
Districts, service clubs, and public groups, shall sponsor or hold a special
meeting open to the public during this month at which a program suitable
to the occasion shall be given and that every effort be made to secure the
attendance of the families, friends, and neighbors of the brethren as well
as the public generally.
Reverence for our Constitution and eternal vigilence are the basis of
American liberty.
This Proclamation shall be read at each stated meeting during the
months of July and August. l 958.

RESOLUTIONS
The Grand Senetary read the following resolutions which were
referred by the Grand Master to the committees as noted:

TO AMEND SECTION 202
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS . it was deemed necessary at the last Communication to
obtain the express consent of the Grand Lodge to omit from the supplement of the Code certain decisions which did not announce new rules
but were repetitive of decisions already included in the California
Masonic Code, and
WHEREAS, it appears that the Code Commission should be
authorized to omit such repeti tive matters . it is
RESOLVED, that Section 202 of the California Masonic Code be
amended by adding. at the end thereof. the following:
"When it is deemed proper the Commission may omit from the
annual supplement any edicts or decisions that are cumulative or
repetitive of matters already included in the Code or a prior supplement."
EDWARD T. KoFORD, Past Master
Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57
ELMER W. HEALD, Past Ma ster
El Centro Lodge No. 384
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN.Past Master
Piedmont Lodge No. 521
ANDREW R. SCHOTTKY, Past Master
Yosemite Lodge No. 99
WM. NANKERVIS, JR., Past Ma ster
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes.

TO REPEAL SECTION 68Ib

Dated: June 1. 1958.
Attest:
LLOYD E. WILSON
Grand Secretary

47

LEO E. ANDERSON
Grand Master

After a standing ovat10n the Deputy Grand Master directed that
the message be referred to the Committee on Segregation.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California :
I propose the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED. that it is the policy of Grand Lodge that a
Mason cannot be charged wi th an offense committed prior to his initiation into the order except for those committed in connection with
the preparation, presentation and filing of the petition for the degrees.
Section 681 b Masonic Code shall be repealed and eliminated therefrom.
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master
Reading Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

48

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

TO AMEND SECTION 707
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
I propose the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 707 of the Masonic Code be
amended as follows:
The first sentence of said Section 707 shall be amended to read as
follows: If the accused be within the county in which the lodge is
situated. or within an adjacent county thereto. (or if the lodge is situate
in the Hawaiian Islands. if the accused be anywhere in said Hawaiian
Islands), the summons and copy of the charges shall be issued and
served upon the accused at least ten days prior to the day appointed for
the trial, and shall be served personally by the Tiler or some other
member of the lodge authorized by the Master for that purpose or shall
be left at his ordinary residence or place of business in a sealed envelope,
or shall be sent to the accused by registered mail.
The remainder of said Section 707 to remain the same as it now is.
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master
Reading Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes.

TO AMEND SECTION 692.4
To the Mo st Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M . of California:
I propose the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 692.4 of the Masonic Code be
amended to read as follows:
If. within the time limited in said notice. the accused shall not have
flled in writing. with the secretary of the lodge. his plea of Not Guilty,
the Master of said lodge shall make complete investigation and shall
determine whether the charge and specifications are true, causing the
facts relating thereto to be reduced to writing. in triplicate, and he shall
make a finding as to the guilt or innocence of the a ccused , shall flx the
penalty therefor . if the finding is of guilt. and shall cause a copy of said
complete written record to be forwarded to the Grand Secretary and
shall cause one copy to be flied in the archives of the lodge, and shall
retain one copy and in the notice to the accused of the result of the
proceeding shall state that such copy will be delivered to accused personally or will be sent him by registered mail at such address as he shall
give, if the accused desires to receive such copy. At the next stated
meeting of the lodge the Master shall announce his findings and the
penalty. if any. which he has imposed.
ALBERT F. Ross . Past Master
Reading Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committee on Jurisprudence.

GRANO LODGE OF C ALI FORNIA

49

TO AMEND SECTION 732
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A . M . of California:
I propose the following resolution:
BE IT RESOLVED. that Section 732 of the Masonic Code be
amended as follows:
After the words in the first sentence of said section "who is a member of a lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California"
and before the words "shall suffer a final judgment of conviction" add
the following . " , which shall include a Master Mason, a Fellowcraft
or an Entered Apprentice of said lodge,"
At the end of said section 732 add the following sentence: "This
section shall not apply to any conviction suffered prior to the initiation
of said M ason."
ALBERT F. Ross, Past Master
Reading Lodge No. 254
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence. on Policy and General
Purposes.

TO AMEND SECTION 527 (APPLICATION QUESTION 13)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F . & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS. Question 13 ( 52 7 C.M.C.) of our application for the
degrees should be clarified in line with Grand Lodge policy adopted
1955 (pages 95 and 347) in respect of Reseilrch Groups. Masonic Clubs,
Square Clubs, High Twelve Clubs, social and similar clubs. and also in
respect of the Scottish Rite and the York Rite Bodies. and
WHEREAS , the purpose of said Question 13 was to assure that for
a period the newly made Master Masons would maintain an interest in
the activities of their lodge and of Masonic affairs before expanding
into related fields of other than the Masonic family, and
WHEREAS. while we recognize no higher degree than the third, we
do recognize as original members of the Masonic family the Scottish
Rite and the York Rite Bodies ( 589 RD .. 16-n C.M.C.). which enlarge
and enlighten upon the lessons of the three deg rees conferred in our
lodges, and which are adapted to the militant preservation of American
principles o f freedom and support of our public schools, and
WHEREAS, the purpose of said prohibition will be served and the
interests of Masonry will be advanced by permitting Masons, on becoming Master M asons, to join Research Groups, Masonic Clubs, Square
Clubs, High Twelve Clubs . social clubs and other organizations of
similar character and, six months after becoming Master Masons, to
join the Scottish Rite and the York Rite Bodies,
NOW, THEREFORE . BE IT RESOLVED. that Question 13 of
the application for degrees be amended to read as follows :
"13. Do you promise that you will not apply for or receive any

PROCEED INGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

degree or be initiated in any Lodge, Order or organiza tion. the prerequisite of members hip wherein is that a person be a ~as~er ~ason,
until you have given satisfact ory evidence , by strict e~am1~at1on m ope.n
Lodge, that you are entirely proficient and well-qualified m the ca.nd.1date' s Lecture of the Degree of Master Mason and in no event w1thm
twelve months after you have received the Degree of Master Mason.
except that on becomin g a Master Mason gou mag join ~esearch
Groups, Masonic Clubs, Square Clubs, High Tr.velve Clubs, social clubs
and other organiza tions of similar character which do not confer degrees
and do not haoe formal initiation ceremonies and. six months after
becomin g a Master Mason. you may join the Scottish Rite or the York
Rite Bodies?'
HENRY C. CLAUSEN , Past Master
Ingleside Lodge No. 630
Referred to Committ ees on Jurisprud ence, on Policy and General
Purposes .

that they may daily grow in knowled ge and stature, that they may, in
time. go forth from academic halls to lead our nation in the ways of
freedom and righteou sness. Bless all assemble d here, and may we walk
with Thee all the days of our lives. Amen.
(Approp riate music may be introduc ed at this point. If so, the
Grand Master says: We are happy that the students of this school arc
present to participa te in this ceremon y. We will now have a number
by the ··-·········--··· ..·--·····-----·····------- [school band. chorus, or whateve r is
planned] . It is a pleasure to introduc e to you·-··········-·······-· .. ····-···-···· who
is the [director or leader] of this group.)
Grand Master: In order to give you a better understa nding of our
participa tion in this program , permit me to go back into history.
The Masons of Californ ia have on many occasion s demonst rated
their interest in the public schools of this state and nation. Among the
demonst rations of that interest, we may point to the annual observan ce
of Public Schools Week, which was conceive d and inaugura ted by one
of our Grand Masters shortly after World War I. During that week.
all Masonic Lodges througho ut the state refrain from all other activities .
and devote their efforts to focusing public attention upon our public
schools. Governo rs. mayors and other officials have proclaim ed the
?bserva~ce. a~d join in urging visitation s to our public schools and
public
mterest m their work and needs. The observan ce, as was intended . has
become a commun ity affair. but the impetus and certain arrangem ents
come from our lodges.
This associati on of public schools and the Masonic Fraterni ty did
not originate with Public Schools Week, but has its roots in a far earlier
period of America n history.
George Washing ton, Benjamin Franklin , Paul Revere, and scores of
others who worked and fought to achieve our national independ ence.
were officers of Masonic Lodges. They, and those who came after
them, built this nation upon a cornersto ne of universa l public educatio n.
Our founding fathers realized that if the nation they launched was to
survive and become strong. it must rest upon adequate and widespre ad
educatio n.
Freemas ons and other America ns of succeedi ng generati ons have
been aware that the continue d growth of our beloved country, and the
continua nce of our freedom likewise depend upon our public educatio n
system. It has been truly said that the price of liberty is eternal vigilance .
and this statemen t would apply with equal truth to the preserva tion
of our public school system.
As further historica l backgrou nd, you may be intereste d in knowing
that from earlier centuries has also come the custom of requestin g Free~
masons to lay the foundati on stones of importan t buildings . The cornerstones of our National Capitol. the White House, countles s state
capitols. and public buildings , including public school buildings . have

50

TO AMEN D PUBLIC SCHOO L BUILD ING
DEDIC ATION CEREM ONY
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:

RESOL VED. that the Written Ceremon y of Dedicati on of Public
School Building s as printed on pages 11-16, inclusive of the Book of
Ceremon ies. revised in October , 1953, be amended and revised to read
as follows:
DEDICAT ION OF PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDING S

Grand Master: Friends and My Brethren : It is with pleasure that
we accept the invitatio n of the school authoriti es of this commun ity to
dedicate this school building.
As it is one of the cardinal teaching s of the Masonic Fraterni ty that
we should never enter upon any great or importan t undertak ing without
first invoking the blessing of God, let us rise and reverent ly unite in
prayer.
Grand Chaplain: Great Architec t of the Universe ! W.e humbly
implore Thy blessing as we dedicate this building :o. the servtce of t~1s
commun ity and mankind . We thank Thee for the v1s1on of the foundmg
fathers of our nation from which hath come the public schools of our
land. We thank Thee for the resolutio n of those who pioneere d our
state governm ent. from which hath come our educatio nal system. and for
the labors of all who have protected and maintain ed it. Bless those to
whose charge is committe d the administ ration of this school: Sustain
them in the performa nce of their sacred trust. Grant them wisdom for
the realizatio n of the opportun ities afforded to them . Especial ly. we ask
Thy blessing upon the young people who shall gather here. Thou, who
art the source of all knowled ge, lead them in the paths of truth. Grant

51

52

GRANO LODGE OF CAl.IFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

been laid with the ceremonies provided for such occasions. From these
early traditions and associations has come the custom of Masonic participation in this ceremony. We consider it a privilege to assemble to dedicate this building to the purposes for which it has been erected.
(We will now have another number from the..................................... )

Grand Master: It was a custom among ancient peoples to dedicate
or consecrate the work of their hands. Temples. altars and statues were
commonly dedicated or consecrated to some divinity. In some lands, the
custom was not limited to public edifices. but was extended to private
houses. It was believed that no pious or sensible man would expect to
dwell sa fely in a building that was not under the immediate protection
of God. A distinction. however. was frequently made between consecration and dedication. Sacred things were consecrated and dedicated,
while others were dedicated only.
This building is to be used for the education of our youth, and thus
for the building and preservation of our great country. It is only by
free public education that we are prepared to govern ourselves and
maintain our freedom.
I therefore dedicate this school building to TRUTH
EQUALITY (gavel). and FREEDOM (gavel) .

(gavel),

It is dedicated to TRUTH . the daughter of Almighty God, because
Truth is knowledge and must ever be the object of true education .
Truth is, because it is; not because men say so. It does not. emanate
from the declaration of any man or group of men of those things which
they wish to believe. It emanates from the act of creation by the Great
Architect of the Universe. The ascertainment of Truth, regardless of
the effect upon preconceived beliefs. and regardless of creeds and
dogmas, must ever be the goal of all true seekers after knowledge.
Whenever the search for Truth. or its declaration, is made secondary to
religious creeds or dogmas or any other limitations, then is youth led
from the broad highway into bypaths.
This building is dedicated to EQUALITY, not merely because
Equality is one of the principal tenets of Freemasonry. but because it is
one of the foundation stones of our republic. Our founding fathers
wrote in their Declaration of Independence: " W e hold these truths to
be self-evident: that all men are created equal ... "
Universal public education is a manifestation and preserver of that
equality. In our public schools. youth of every race and creed are
brought together without distinction as to their beliefs. All. regardless
of material wealth, arc offered the same knowledge. the same opportunities. The doors of this building are open to all without discrimination, a
true reflection of our national dedication. Equality unites; inequality
divides. Through the equal opportunities offered to all, our public

53

!!chools draw our people together and build a better America.
This building is dedicated to FREEDOM. because Freedom can
be maintained only by an enlightened citizenry. Ignorance is the weapon
w hich tyrants and demagogues use to destroy liberty. Such men know
that mental darkness makes a people a blinder. more ready tool and
instrument for their purposes. The unbiased knowledge spread by the
public schools constitutes public education . the foundation and the
guarantor of our liberty. Within these walls will be taught no divided
allegiance, but an allegiance to our nation . and our national ideals . May
those who come here in search of knowledge go forth to make our
country forever "the land of the free and the home of the brave."
(Again we have the pleasure of listening to the schooL .................... )
Grand Master: Once more may we express our appreciation for the
opportunity of participating in this dedication ceremony. We congratulate you upon the completion of this beautiful school. Other nations may
have more land. others may have more people, others may have greater
natural resou rces. but we have the highest standard of living and greater
freedom, because we have a long history of public education, the largest
and best public school system in all the world and teachers and administrators dedicated to the teaching of our youth. But most important are
the students. the young men and women who will determine the future
of America. For them we build our schools. Freemasonry is soundly
behind our public schools.
Let us rise for the benediction.

Grand Chaplain: May the Lord be with us. May H is blessing rest
upon this edifice. May Truth, Equality and Freedom dwell here and be
with us, now and forever. Amen.
ELBERT W. DAVIS, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571.
Referred to Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and on
Ritual.

TO AMEND SECTION 203
To the Most W orshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
By action of the 1957 Annual Communication the Correspondence
Committee was instructed to investigate and report to the 1958 Communication as to the actual cost per member to distribute "California Freemason" to the entire membership of this jurisdiction.
Our investigation is now in progress and a full report will be prepared. To the end that the question may be considered and acted on at
the Annual Communication the following resolution is submitted :

54

I

'

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RESOLVED that the following words be added to Section 203 of
the Ordinances:
"California Freemason" shall be mailed to each member quarterly.
NEWCOMB CoNDEE, Past Master
Larchmont Lodge No. 614
GEORGE W. BURCH, JR., Past Master
La Brea Lodge No. 650
GRAHAM A. BACKUS, Past Master
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge No. 595
JOHN WuLLSCHLEGER, Past Master
Seaport Lodge No. 550
MAURICE B. Ross, Past Master
San Diego Lodge No. 35
LEED. VISGER, Past Master
Loyalty Lodge No. 529
MARKT. SMITH, JR., Past Master
La Canada Lodge No. 739
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes and on Finance.

MASONIC SERVICE BOARD
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Whereas: The functions, duties and operations of Masonic Boards
of Relief have been so enlarged and expanded since such Boards were
first established by this Grand Lodge so as to make the title "Board
of Relief" completely incomprehensive and inadequate as it covers only
one of the many services performed by the various Boards:
And WHEREAS: In the experience of the officers of many Boards
the term "Relief" has come to convey a meaning which is very repugnant
to sojourning Masons and their families who request or need some
Masonic service which is in no way relief or charity,
THEREFORE: For the purpose of providing a more comprehensive
and inclusive name, which does not carry the stigma of implied destitution to the minds of many receiving services which have nothing to do
with charity:
BE IT RESOLVED: That the title "Masonic Service Board" be
substituted for "Board of Relief" or "Boards of Relief," as applicable in
Sections 153, 244, 262, 263, 264, 265, 409, 601, 602, 603, 604 and their
various annotations, of the California Masonic Code and in any other
Sections of the Ordinances in which the title may appear and that all
such Sections be, and they are, hereby so amended.
EDGAR L. FEASEL, W.M.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486
TROY BRADSHAW, W.
Caledonia Lodge No. 486

s.

55

s.

EMERSON LEACH, W.M.
East San Diego Lodge No. 561
EDWARD w. WREDE, JR.,
East San Diego Lodge No. 561
HARRY K. FORD, p M.
East San Diego Lodge No. 561
VAL SHANNON, P.M.
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192
ANDREW McINTYRE, P.M.
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192
WILLIAM w. PITKIN, P.M.
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192
KINCAID, P.M.
A.
Santa Barbara Lodge No. 192
Carpinteria Lodge No. 444
C. C. BENEDICT, P.M., Sec'y
DONALD J. GROVER, P.M.
GERALD E. HATTON, P.M.
CHARLES CHUNN, P.M.
HARRY D. MITCHELL, W.M.
La Mesa Lodge No. 407
A. JOLLY BENBROOK, P.M.
La Mesa Lodge No. 407
GEORGE F. FOWLER, W.M.
Oildale Lodge No. 688
THERON J. OAKS,
Oildale Lodge No. 688
LEROY E. HALBERT, SR., f.
Oildale Lodge No. 688
Lakeside Lodge No. 760
BYRON J. CONRAD, P.M .. Sec'y
E. G. GIMBLE, W.M.
VIVIAN RITTER,
w. H. DUNLAP, JR., f.
Santa Maria Lodge No. 580
ZENAS Y. COLEMAN, P.M., Sec'y
CLIFTON H. OWEN, W.M.
LEONCE W. FARMER,
A. c. BISHER, P.M.
Coronado Lodge No. 441
DONALD W. STUBBS, P.M., Sec'y
CALVIN P. OwEN, W.M.
La Jolla Lodge No. 518
J. l.oWELL BROWN, W.
La Jolla Lodge No. 518

s. w.

w.

s. w.

w.

s. w.

w.

s. w.

s.

56

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lams L. PoTOMAC, /. W.
La Jolla Lodge No. 518
WILLIAM H. N. BRYANT, W.M.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242
CARL H. HENRICKSON, P.M.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242
DELMER w. MAY, P.M.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242
CHARLES R. WEST, P.M.
Magnolia Lodge No. 242
CHARLES R. DAVIS, P.M.
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642
GEORGE H. CLAPP, P.M.
La Cumhre Lodge No. 642
JESS M. SHEEGOG, P.M.
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642
LEROY
PINKHAM, P.M.
La Cumbre Lodge No. 642
CHARLES
WEBB, P.M.
San Diego Lodge No. 35
HAROID J. KIRCHER, P.M.
San Diego Lodge No. 35
J. J. BARRETT, P.M.
San Diego Lodge No. 35
WALTER FEATHERINGILL, P.M.
San Diego Lodge No. 35
HARRY E. HOFFMAN,
M.
South West Lodge No. 283
ROBERT BEETLESTONE, P.M.
South West Lodge No. 283
TED B. PACH, W.M.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
HARVEYS. DARLINGTON, S. W.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
ELMER H. GUESS, /.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
NORMAN
THOMPSON, W.M.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307
PETER A. PANANIDES,
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307
HAMILTON W. MONTEITH,/. W.
Santa Monica Lodge No. 307
WM. L. FROEHUCH, W.M.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373
EGBERT 0. MATTHEWS, S. W.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373

s.

w.

w

w.

w.

s. w.

57

THOMAS CARROLL,/. W.
West Los Angeles Lodge No. 373
HENRY G. WOLF, W.M.
Culver City Lodge No. 467
RussELL W. Luzms.S.W.
Culver City Lodge No. 467
CURT J. DAVIS,/.
Culver City Lodge No. 467
ROBERT c. OVERBECK, W.M.
Palms Lodge No. 512
CLEO
CARNEY,
Palms Lodge No. 512
JoHN McLAY,/.W.
Palms Lodge No. 512
ROBERT
DOAN, W.M.
Triangle Lodge No. 548
EDWIN L. PIERCE,
Trian gle Lodge No. 548
ROBERT R. CROWELL,/. W .
Triangle Lodge No. 548
RoBERT HoVE ATWATER, W.M.
Palisades Lodge No. 637
FRANK LANES,
Palisades Lodge No. 637
PETER F. ·LANES,/.
Palisades Lodge No. 637
FRANK c. WOLFF, P.M.
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369
JosEPH A. SANDERSON, W.M.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
HOMER A. VINCENT,
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
W1LUAM R. BLEDSOE, J.W.
El Cajon Valley Lodge No. 576
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and Board of Control.

w.

c.

s.w.

w.

s. w.

1

s. w.

w.

s. w.

MASONIC SERVICE AND EMPLOYMENT BUREAU
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, there exists in this Grand Jurisdiction eighteen Boards
of Relief and six Employment Bureaus so named in the CaLifomia
Masonic Code, and

58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

WHEREAS. the word "RELIEF" while denoting one of the greatest tenets of Freemasonry which must be given when necessary, the
word itself has, in recent years, become closely associated with the word
"WELPARE" which is extremely distasteful to Master Masons and
their dependents who pride themselves on the fact that they are not
subjects of a so-called "WELP ARE STA TE." and
WHEREAS. the work of the several Boards of Relief in this Jurisdiction entails more service than actual relief by counseling, advising and
assisting in many ways other than direct relief, and
WHEREAS, it was regularly adopted at the Stated Meeting of
Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736 held on Monday, March 3, 1958, that
the following resolution be presented to this Grand Lodge,
THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED: That the name of the "MASONIC BOARD OF RELIEF AND EMPLOYMENT BUREAU,"
be and is hereby changed to "MASONIC SERVICE AND EMPLOYMENT BUREAU," and that the California Masonic Code be corrected
to show this name wherever it appears therein.
LIONEL A. THOROGOOD, Worshipful Master
Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736
WILLIAM E. RIFE, Past Master
Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes, and Board of Control.

WHEREAS, page 12 of the Monitor and Officers' Manual, issued
by Grand Lodge, states in part "and since their time there is, or should
be, represented in every regular Lodge a certain point within a circle,"
and
WHEREAS, it is our sincere belief that the use of "a certain point
within a circle" does not conflict with the intent of ruling in C.M.C.,
Section 554 V, and
NOW, THEREFORE BE IT RESOLVED: That the use of these
ancient anc;I accepted implements be authorized in theGrand Jurisdiction.
"
JAMES Rov ROLLANS, Past Master
Centennia:l Lodge No. 729
RICHARD E. BLUM, Past Master
Centennial Lodge No. 729
KENNETH A. WILLIAMS, Past Master
Centennial Lodge No. 729
BENJAMIN J. LITILE, Past Master
Centennial Lodge No. 729
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

PAST MASTERS' APRONS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, the Grand Lodge of California recognizes the past
services of Past Masters by authorization of Past Masters Jewels,
Aprons and membership in Grand Lodge, and
.
WHEREAS, the several subordinate Lodges purchase such regalia
for their retiring Masters.
NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand Lodge
approve a resolution to permit all Past Masters to wear their Past Masters Aprons whenever they are engaged in degree work.
Magnolia Park Lodge No. 715
RALPH E. GOODALL, JR., Secretary
HAROLD A. MORRISON, Past Master
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

FIRST DEGREE CHART
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Cal.ifornia:
WHEREAS, it has been ruled that "a certain point within a Circle,"
Trestleboard, Rough Ashlar, and Perfect Ashlar, may not be used in
the Lodge Room and durinig conferring of degrees, citing C.M.C. Section 554 V as authority for this decision, and

59

PERAMBULATION RITUAL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The 620th Masonic District Officers' Association at the monthly
meeting, June 16, 1958, indicated by unanimous vote that the following
resolution be placed before the Grand Lodge meeting in September,
1958, for adoption:
WHEREAS: it is considered to be more impressive and less impersonal to the candidate, be it resolved that the perambulations during
degree work be a portion of the duties of the Senior Deacon.''
The above resolution is submitted for approval.
JACK T. LEWIS, Worshipful Master
Wilmington Lodge No. 198
F. S. CAIN, Worshipful Master
San Pedro Lodge No. 332
TED SLUDER, Worshipful Master
Point Firmin Lodge No. 558
EARL 0. BROWN, Worshipful Master
Lomita Lodge No. 664
LEONARD G. BURKETT, Worshipful Master
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge No. 645
FRANK SCHMIDT, Worshipful Master
Rolling Hills Lod ge No. 78'1
H. W. COPENHAGEN, Senior Warden
Rolling Hills Lodge No. 781
Referred to Committee on Ritual.

.

1

60

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

TO ESTABLISH "OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS FUND"

tary may designate from agencies supported in whole or in part by the
Grand Lodge.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
WHEREAS, our Public Schools System is the foundation of our
American way of life, and
WHEREAS, Proposition No. 16, win or lose, will not be the end of
threats against our Public School System on a state-wide basis, but
will continue for years to come, and
WHEREAS, the stated meetings of our Constituent Lodges are
becoming a meeting place of committee chairmen asking for donations
for various worthwhile causes,
THEREFORE , BE IT RESOLVED: That this Grand Lodge
establish a fund to be known as "OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS FUND";
and that a twenty-five cent per capita tax be imposed for this purpose;
and that the Grand Master appoint a committee to disperse from said
fund for the protection of our Public Schools on a state-wide basis.
WILLIAM E. RIFE, Past Master
Lemon Grove Lodge No. 736
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes.

PENSION RESOLUTIO N
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
BE IT RBSOLV.BD. that the action taken at the 1956 and 1957
Annual Communications to integrate employees outside of the Grand
Lodge under the Masonic Homes of California Pension Pia~ shall
apply to the classification or classifications of employees as specified by
the Grand Master and Grand Secretary of the University Clubhouses,
Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus, and the California Masonic
Memorial Temple notwithstandin g that the employees of the agencies
involved are not direct employees of the Grand Lodge.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that any of the agencies so designated, desiring to be covered by the plan, must elect to do so as of
January 1, 1959, or as of any subsequent anniiver~ date thereof'. and
notify the Grand Lodge of the action taken, provided that the certification of the Grand Secretary that any agency has come under the plan
or subsequently withdrawn therefrom upon the direction or approval
of the Grand Lodge shall be fully effective for all purposes of the pl~n
and trust, and all interested parties, including the trustees, may act m
reliance thereon.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the employer's contribution
to the plan of any agency so covered shall be paid by the Grand Lo.dge.
and that the employees' contributions shall be collected and transmitted
to the trustees by the Grand Lodge.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED, that this Resolution shall also
apply to any other agencies which the Grand Master and Grand Secre-

61

BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that nothing in these Resolutions
affects the integration under the said plan of employees of the Grand
Lodge as previously authorized.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that the Grand Master and
Grand Secretary be authorized to do all things necessary to implement
these resolutions, to provide for coverage of the subject employees under
the Masonic Homes Plan as now existin9 or hereafter modified.
Referred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The above committee approved the resolution unanimously. The
resolution was adopted by a unanimous vote of Grand Lodge.

TO AMEND SECTION 223
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
RESOLVED, that Section 223 of the Ordinances be amended by
deleting from the last sentence the words, "in an amount not to exceed
One Hundred_ Fifty Dollars ($150.00), thereby relieving the obligated
Lodge to this extent," and substituting therefor the words, "in an
amount to be determined by the Trustees, thereby relieving the obli9ated
Lodge to that extent."
The amended section would then, in the last sentence, read as
follows:
"Said Trustees shall pay the necessary burial expenses of residents
of the Masonic Homes who die while under the supervision of said
Trustees, in an amount to be determined by the Trustees, thereby
relieving the obligated Lodge to that extent."
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG,
President Trustees, Masonic Homes
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence, on Policy and General
Purposes.

EMERGENT MATTERS
The resolution concerning the Pension Plan and the resolution to
amend Section 223 were received as emergent matters with the unanimous consent of Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master announced that the proposer of the resolution
to amend Section 732 C.M.C. had withdrawn his resolution.
The Grand Master also announced that the proposer of the resolution
to amend Section 527 C.M.C. had withdrawn his resolution.
The Grand Master also announced that the proposer of the resolution relative to the first degree chart had withdrawn his resolution.

62

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPOR T OF THE GRAN D SECRE TARY
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge of Californ ia:
I have the honor to present to you herewith my Seventeenth Annual
Report as your Grand Secretar y.
UNPINISH ED BUSINES S

The following matters were continued from the last Annual Communication to the present one:
1. Interpret ation of Question 13, Decisions 2 and 3, pages 46 and
346, 1955 Proceedings.
2. Finance report on insurance, page 356, 1957 Proceedings.
CHANGE OP MEETING PLACE

Santa Ynez Valley Lodge No. 701 has changed its meeting place
from Los Olivos to Solvang. Alta Vista Lodge No. 464 has changed its
meeting place from San Francisc o to Daly City. These have been ofBdally approved under the authority of the Grand Master, and the Grand
Secretar y now requests authority to properly endorse their Charters .
Coastsid e Lodge No. 762 meets in the area now incorpor ated under
the name of Paci8ca. This Charter should be endorsed to show the
change from Sharp Park to Pacifica.
SBVENTY -PIVE YEAR BUTTON

During the year we have had another veteran Mason achieve 75
years of membership and this time it was a resident of our Masonic
Home at Decoto.
Brother Clarence Eugene Childs, Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, was the
recipient of the seventy-five year button presente d on Novemb er 10,
1957, at Decoto by Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderso n, himself a
Past Master of Palo Alto Lodge No. 346.
FIRST MASONIC MEETING IN NEW TEMPLE

The first Masonic meeting held in the new California Masonic Memorial Temple was on Thursda y, August 21st, at 8:00 P.M., when approximately 1,200 elective and appointive Officers from the Lodges in
Alameda, Contra Costa, Marin, San Francisc o and San Mateo Counties
assembled in response to a summons from Most Worship ful Leo E. Anderson. Grand Master.
Appropr iately enough the subject of the Grand Master's discourse
was the welfare of the public schools in this state. He called upon all
present to marshal themselves and their forces for the protection of this
bulwark of America n democracy and freedom.
MEMBER SHIP ANALYSI S

Again, as in 1956 and 1957, I present an analysis of the applications
for Degrees received during the year. As far as possible the same stand-

63

ards were used for arriving at the occupations, and it is interesting to
note the changes over last year.
fo the age groupings it is worthwhile to note that in the younges t
bracket, namely 21 to 29 years of age, there has been a drop from 23% in
1957 to 12 % in 1958, and an increase of 10% in the 30 to 39 bracket and
'
a 4% loss in the 40 to 49 age group.

Occupations
1957
Professio nal
6%
Executiv e
18%
Sales & Clerical
21%
Skilled Craftsme n
32%
Armed Forces
6%
Retired
1%
Police & Firemen
3%
Public Utilities
2%
Governm ent Service 3%
Student
2%
Farmer
2%
Enginee r
4%

1958
10%
20%
13%
33%
6%
1%
3%
3%
2%
2%
2%
5%

Age Groups
21-29
30-39
40-49
50-59
60 and over

1957

1958

23%
31%
28%
15%
3%

12%
41%
35%
10%
2%

MEMBER SHIP

I am again presentin g the membership totals for the past 8ve yearsnamely, ~ ~54 through 1958 inclusive. The falling off in applications is
not surpr1smg as past history has indicated a direct relationship between
the number of applications and the economic conditions of the country.
We do show a satisf~ctory gain of 3,553, much of it due to the activity of
the new Lodges which have been formed in recent years five of them
'
during the year just closed.
It is interesting. to note that a little more than 100 new Lodges
have been formed m the past 13 years in addition to three Research
Lodges.
New Lodges Formed
Initiated ··--------·-----·--Passed .............................. -..........
Raised ........................
Affiliated ..................................
Gained by Error ......
Reinstat ed ................................
Withdra wn ........................
Suspend ed for
Non-Pay ment of
Dues ......................

1954
12
9,437
9,396
9,370
2,568
1
375
1,803

1955
17
8,609
8.434
8,679
2,852
5
383
1,935

1956
10
8,877
8,411
8,423
2,476

1957
15
8,130
7,954
7,874
2,545

1958
5
7,606
7,542
7,905
2,33i

373
1,622

325
1,701

316
1,714

910

1,053

980

976

1,058

64
SU8pended oc
Expell ed for Cause
loss by Error ............

38
32
43
29
i2
6
8
2
3,582
3,676
3,765
3,669
4,087
Died ········-·-------~-·Numbe r of Membe rs 219,664 224,887* 229,738* 234,101 * 237,654*
3,317
3,564
Dues Remitted ..........
3,461
3.540
3,113
5,223
4,851
4,363
6,025
3,553
····
Gain ·······-········-···
636
653
Numbe r of Lodges ....
662
677
682
*Plura l Members
(includ ed in total)
175
463
1,284
732
1,275
REVISION OF DuES AND FEES
both
. T~e c~m~araeive figures for the last four years, 1955 to 1958 and
fees
their
raising
y
steadil
are
mclus1ve, md1c~te ~at the Lodges
n
~u~s- All organizations are faced with increased costs and the situatio
in
true
larly
particu
is
This
better.
gets
it
before
worse
ts h~ely _to get
in
Cal1for~a where some of its localities have the highest cost of livingjust
costs
lodge
the
in
d
the_ l!n~ted States, and it is bound to be reflecte
as 1t ts m Grand Lodge expenses.
It is encouraging to note that only 249 lodges still have the miniper
mum dues of $12.00 per year, and many have moved into the $18.00
an
of
t
highes
the
is
year group. The averag e dues of $14.45 per year
y
Grand Lodge in the United States.

Amoun t
$ 50.00
55.00
60.00
65.00
70.00
75.00
80.00
85.00
90.00
95.00
100.00
105.00
110.00
115.00
120.00
125.00
130.00
135.00

FEES FOR DEGR EES
1955
195·6
1957
1958
No. Lodges No. Lodges No. Lodges No. Lodges
124
112
107
102
7
5
5
5
3
2
2
2
7
7
8
9
1
1
1
1
215
207
201
189
43
33
27
25
4
3
3
3
10
IO
8
14
1
1
1
162
182
195
201
4
5
6
7
3
4
3
2
14
18
23
'Z7
2
3
45
58
66
72
1
1
1

65

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

1958
1957
1956
1955
Lodges
No.
No. Lodges No. Lodges No. Lodges
Amoun t
2
3
2
140.00
6
6
5
3
150.00
7
7
7
6
115.00
2
2
215.00
682
677
662
Total Lodges 653
$88.80
$87.65
$86.00
$82.25
Averag e

$ 12.00
13.00
14.00
15.00
16.00
18.00
20.00
24.00
25.00
Total Lodges
Averag e

ANNU AL DUES
348
408
1
1
1
235
189
23
14
52
41
2
653
$13.35

662
$13.70

320

249

1
259
27
65
2
2
1
677
$13.96

1
293
45
86
4
3
1
682
$14.45

NEw LoDGES
The following new Lodges were formed during the year:
d
Mojav e Lodge U.D., located at Mojav e. Dispensation grante
at
1957,
6,
ber
Septem
ted
institu
was
Lodge
September 3, 1957. The
, preMojave, Most Worsh ipful L. Harold Anders on, Grand Master
siding.
The charter membership is as follows: Georg e Washi ngton Benw
nett (Maste r), John Herber t Birt (Senio r Warde n) , Joseph Andre
Smith,
d
Bernar
Cecil
g,
Sparlin
Carl
David
n),
Bellatti (Junior Warde
erg,
Augus t Olin Girard , John Henry Delsigne, Jr., John Henry Papenb
Ulrich,
Peter
Sr., Jack Clifford Houck, Claude Charle s Griggs , Robert
Joseph Smith, Harold James Chamb ers, Harry Albert Morin, Joseph
Roger
Frankl in Mobley, Henry Oswal d, Henry Herold Bartholomew,
Fred
,
Coffee
l
Manse
m
Willia
Carrol,
Harold
Eugen e White , Max
Eldred
Alton
,
Romine
Ben
Claire
Smith,
rd
Guilfo
Eldon
Milton Flint,
s
McCau ghna, McKinley Powers , Armon Dale Appleby, Fred Dougla
Bock,
Arnold
Carl
,
Moore
rth
Harriso n, Verno n Ralph Sult, Ray Ellswo
,
Edwin Arthur Koch, Lawrence Jones Munsc hy, Otis Keith Parker
PeterFred
w
Andre
re,
Mcinty
d
Howar
r
Walte
Cecil Lee Chamb ers,
D.
son, Willia m Henry Wilson , Arthur Perry LaPoin t and Fred
Harriso n.
Leland Stanfo rd Lodge U.D., located at Chico. Dispen sation

66

67

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

granted September 3, 1957. The Lodge was instituted September 13,
1957, at Chico, Most Worshipful L. Harold Anderson, Grand Master,
presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: William Franklin George
(Master), Albert John Quiggle (Senior Warden), Frederick Ward
Bennett (Junior Warden), Alton Foster Swithenbank, James William
Morgan, Alfred William Bramwell, John William Reinhardt, Walter
Fulton Wentz, John Jackson Adams, George Robert Burton, Jr..
Thomas Stanley Brown, Lawrence Herbert Brown, Robert Y ool Henderson Bremner, Paul Edward Crowder, Farrel Lloyd Cooper, Henry
Charles Doerr, Raymond William Morris, Cecil Lee Davis, James
Stanley Griswold, John Tivis Jessee, Chester William Kimball, Robert David Scharf. Harold Edward Moore, Carroll Eugene Michaud.
George Dale Miller, Jack Vincent Otton, Scott Roscoe Peterson, Theodore Burtin Quiggle, Bennett Morrison Silver, Wallace Louis Schwartz,
Aibert Raymond Rodacker, Lyle Miller Wilkinson, Harry Calvin
Schultz, David I. Traver, Ray W. White, William Delbert Ruttan.
Gordon Irving Watters, William Charles Brouillard, Charles Ross
Arment, Louis Charles Olker and John Lyman Keen Osterloh.
Paramount Lodge U.D., located at Hollydale. Dispensation granted
October 31. 1957. The Lodge was instituted January 3, 1958, at Bellflower, Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Miles Roger Wilson ( Master), Thomas Ludwell Buford (Senior Warden), Henry Edward
Wathen (Junior Warden), Allen Lee, John Leidal, Jr., Harry Alexander Reifschneider, Marion Albert Jenkins, Walter Robert Scott,
Stanley B. Brooks, Raymond Harland Carl, John Lloyd Hathcock.
James Porter, 0. John Fosse, Fred Bell, William Leon Derr, Forrest
Eugene Kelly. Benjamin Pinsker, George T. Goodman, Theodore H.
Walters, Ardith Attrell Melton, Martin Muker, Coleman Elisha Jolley,
Charles Francis Nichols, Verne Peters Lewis, William Duncan Carruthers, Jack Bernard Tillman. Harry Watson Derr, Karl Edward
Bunch, Emil Thomas Olenkamp, Burley Wilbur Green, Bruce Corwin
Iliff, John Frank Aden, John Berton Sills, Ernest Wellington McCracken, Oscar Verian McCracken, Carl Sterling Welch, Bruce Anthony Rogers, Frank F. Karasinski, Jess Everett Gray, Robert Cleo
Reed, Theodore Lee Agee, Robert Allen Richter, and Carl Edward
Linderman.
Rio Linda Lodge U.D .. located at Rio Linda. Dispensation granted
November 22, 1957. The Lodge was instituted January 10, 1958, at
Rio Linda, Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Cad Elmo Yeargain ( Mas-

ter), Charles Vernard Shaffer (Senior Warden), Paul Martin Norbryhn (Junior Warden) , Allen Stanley Anderson, Russell Frank Bettenberg, Carl Eugene Brothers, William Lee Brown, Ernest Frank
Crocker, Howard Daniels, Fred Louis Donsing, John Albert Duncan,
William D. Ellsworth, James Keith Eskew, Lewis Dunn Fagert, Frederick Cookson Joyce, Everett Milton Fisher, Roy Hershel Fitzpatrick,
Ray Frank Gilmore, John Brooklyn Griffin, Ollie Andrew Gross, William Grant Gross, Cleo Arland Hardgrave, Richard Owen Herbert,
Fred Arthur Hogan, Donal Wellington Jassel, Elwyn Lawrence Kerns,
Robert William Klaiber, Roy Stroh Knouse, Clinton Charles Meade,
Max Hugo Meyer, Clarence Ray Menzies, Alfred Bayard Mills, Verl
Leroy Mitchell, Monrad John Monsen, Edward Claude Moxley, Charles
Oldfield, Albert Paul Perkins, John Richard Peterson, John McLeod
Ramsay, Herman Diedrich Rohdenburg, Keith Manford Hans Ross,
Eugene Henry Schulte, James Edwin Smith, Wilbert I. Smith, Lester
Earl Spears, Leo Thomas Winchester, Walter Vernon Womack and
Harry William Yeargain II.
Westminster Lodge U.D., located at Westminster. Dispensation
granted December 13, 1957. The Lodge was instituted January 16,
1958, at Westminster. Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson. Grand
Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Paul Atlee Burtner (Master),
Gaylord Theodore McCoy (Senior Warden), Jake Ray Stewart (Junior
Warden). Walter Ross Pope, Lester Raymond Adams, William
Thomas Cook, Raymond Michael Schmitt, Donald Alvin Sherman,
Russell David Johnson, Harold Oscar Boos, Erling Johnson, Frank
Nelson Eastwopd, Walter Clarence Yoder, Clifford Lee Jones, Glen
Earl Hopkins, Parks Henry Martin, Freddie E. Parks, George Washington Sager, Cecil Earl Crajg, Joe Randolph Hill, Robert John Finlay,
Carl Leue, Charles Austin Sullivan, Nathan Augustus Pulsifer, Reynolds Sam Pearson, Van Buren Spikes, Earl Haskell Philpot, Daniel
Alexander Simons, Charles Edward Geesman, Floyd Lyman Hunter,
Ulis Hershel Massey, Frank Edward Rogers, Hallard Frank Maxwell,
James Hewson Haines, Robert George Brandt, James Treaman Adams,
Robert Raymond Hughes, William Norman Rushing, Paul Tabor
Wright and William Alfred Vick.
El Camino Research Lodge U.D., located at Mountain View. Dispensation granted February 26, 1958. The Lodge was instituted March
15, 1958, at ·R edwood City, Right Worshipful Phil N. Myers, Deputy
Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Harold Stanly Medo (Master), Forrest Rebert Hassell (Senior Warden), Ross Kennedy Fuller
(Junior Warden), Edwin Sydney Stuart Hays, Jl'., William Talbott
Black, Raymond Francis Foote, Edwin Stanton Kellar, Lawton Leigh
Leonard, Thelo Albert Perrott, Charles Halper, Kenneth Gustave Feise,

68

69

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Raymond Albert Howe, John Gwilym Meredith, Howard Blakely
Shook, Daniel Paul Hoff man, Richard Michael Crangle, Reginald Haley
Armstrong, Eugene Wesley Kleiner, Robert Gibson Truluck, Frank
Morris Smith, Jr., Robert Carroll Maynard, Findlay ·Gabriel Francis,
Boswell Farrington King, Jr., Richard Eugene Giesin, William Don Rigler. John Weldon Stout, James Hugh Morrison, Herbert Ernest Simons,
Robert Norman Walker, Roland Epps Snyder, John Spinney Hawks,
Arno Ragghianti, Oswe Trelfa Lund, George Sumner French, Melvin
Carmon Rodgers, Albert Lewis Adelman, Lloyd McKenzie Harms, John
Joshua Williams, James William Grafton, Charles Tolle Askine, Albert
Eugen Kurd von Damn, Conrad Edward Hale, Laverne Olsen, Robert
Christiansen, Sylvester John Gorman, Emmet Wright Luttrell, William
Orval Broadstone, William Warren Callow, Fred Berryman and
Elverton Blakney Stark.
Sierra Lodge U.D .• located at Bass Lake. Dispensation granted
March 14, 1958. The Lodge was instituted July 12, 1958, at Bass Lake,
Right Worshipful Phil N. Myers, Deputy Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Frank George :Robion
( Master). F rands Edward Sheldon (Senior Warden), Linton Elmer
Forrester (Junior Warden), Lloyd George Woodworth, Walter
F.rederick Whitmann, Virgil Roland Clarke, Frank Howard Parkes,
Carol William Smith, Fred Elner McPherson, Sr., George Monroe
Landers, Claude Raymond Prince, Edward Henry Hughes, James
Crawford Bates, Horace A. Bryars. Owen Doran, Graydon Walter
Dailey, John Alfred Webb, Wilson Larkin McCoy, Stanley Reid Wilson, Robert Kenneth Washem, William George Robinson, Earl Monroe Nave, Frederick Thaine McKee, Elywn Courtney Close, John
Esterak, Fred Elner McPherson, Jr., Perry Van Mann, William Lester
Chrismer, Donald Ray Chrismer, Walter Raymond Anderson, Frank
Binnendyk, Gilbert Warren Palmberg, John Morris Wildman, Earl
Martin Fraker, James Gilbert French, George Spencer Smith, Edgar
Beach, Earl Stanley Morner, Homer Ford, John Calvin Pettes, Eugene
Virgil Palmer, Francis Everett Boyden, Manfred George Svedbeck,
Earl Wallace Gilstrap, Lindsay Return Wright, Allen Leopold Finch,
Frank Mike Hansen, James William Muir, and George Evert Kates.
Oak Plains Lodge U.D., located at Sacramento. Dispensation granted June 10, 1958. The Lodge was instituted on July 19, 1958, at Sacramento, Right Worshipful Phil N. Myers, Deputy Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Robert Lee Wade ( Master),
George Albert Moore (Senior Warden), William Clayton Green (Junior Warden), John Davis Abbott, Crawford Albert Baker, Frank Stewart Bell, Leo Frederick Boivin, Warren William Brady, Jack Dickerson
Brooks, Uel Elton Burt, Jack Richard Butler, Wilfred Bennett Clark,
William Norton Corbett, Charles Spinning Cowan, John Edward Davis,

William Edwin Dempsey, Walter Darwin Driver, Alger Edgar Durell,
Richard Walter Ehlers, Eugene Spencer Espey, Jr., Monroe Hubert
Gregg, Ezra Norton Hyde, William Knapton, John Hartwell Leineke,
Jack Alvin McGiothlan, Winfred Lawrence Penney, Howard Kenneth
Phillips, Robert Alexander Phillips, William Norvell Phillips, Kenneth
Gerald Pratt, George Arthur Primrose, James Robert Retzloff, Chesley
Wilber Rinehart, George Lovar Robbins, Marion Lee Rogers, Joseph
Alfred Scelzi, Harold Kenneth Smith, James Wallace 5mith, Norman
Wiilford Sove, Ole 0. Sove, Virgil Jackson Sumner, Stanley Tinch
Thompson, Carlos Ralph Vincent, Wayne Carleton Vinney, Baron
Acton Wilkinson and Earl Williams.
Granada Hills Lodge U.D .• located at San Fernando. Dispensation
granted July 11, 1958. The Lodge was instituted on August 1, 1958, at
San Fernando, Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master,
presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: Carl Adam Halter ( Master) •
LeRoy Witmer Schlaegel (Senior Warden), Leve Simon Jacobson
(Junior Warden), Alden Arthur Burgwald, Robert Stuart Poplin, Jr.,
Robert Leroy Lawson, Harry Charles Daum, King Evans Greenwood,
Robert Dinsmore, Harold DeWitt Wickersham, Merrill Eugene Balser.
James Melville Abbett, Jr., Louis Howard Boone, Ralph Theodore
Braun, George Peter Cappos, Carl Godfrey Carlson, Aram David
Davidian, David George Davidian, Clarence Walter Diem, Jr., Orville
Joseph Donnelly, Oscar Louis Entin, Ralph Edgar Foote, Evans Gremm
Green:wood, William James Greenbaum, Reginald John Guest, George
Marion Hammond, Thomas Murray Harrower, Ernest Lawrence Lock,
Jack Curt King, Kurt Otto Knuth, Frank Joseph Madden, Robert
Mason, Jr., William Homer McGowan, 'Sr., Richard Earl Mitchell,
Lyman Delbert Nelson, William Ronald O'Kell, Festus Ransom Raines,
Paul Robert Revere, Alfred Douglas Richardson, Keith Witmer Schlaegel. George Robert Simmons, James Arthur Stacy, George Willard
Strickland, Hugh Douglas Watson, Walter Charles Weis, Jr., Emmett
Lawrence Welch, Sr., Jesse William White, Jr., and John Edward
Wilson.
General Henry H. Arnold Lodge U.D .• located at Edwards. Dispensation granted July 28, 1958. The Lodge was instituted August 8, 1958,
at Edwards, Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master, presiding.
The charter membership is as follows: James Osburn Payne (Master), Albert Edward Taylor (Senior Warden), Clyde Barton Tyler
(Junior Warden), Henry Paul Vogt, George William Weaklim, Howard George Wells, Roy Arthur West, James Willard Wilson, Samuel
Swen Zagel, James Emerson Bacon, George Robert Pittman, Hugh Pat
Hunerwadel, Faimon Austin Roberts, Harry Louis Hines, John Otto
Trendle, Howard Pinkney Crews. Allen Wesley Thompson, Earl
Eugene Peterson, John Chester Sinn, Willard Byron Glennan, Harvey

70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lloyd Sterling, Carl Abram Thrailkill, Robert Charles McCrystal.
Wesley Charles Adams, Harry William Bennett, Philip Charles Bowen,
Leonard ~axwell Brodie, Elmer Buster, George Lawrence Chapman,
John Davison, Daniel Finis Derrick, Harry Crane Gauger, Robert
Edward Hedblom, Edward Witten Hubbard, Harold Lenbourough
Karo, Robert William Krick, Robert Marrenner Lane, George Andrew
Longfellow, Kenneth. Ronald Lundy, Sr., Wilbert Delbert Massey,
Charles Harry Mcintire, Jack Morgan, Wilbur Sylvester Neander, Sidney Kenneth Osheim, Newton Carroll Savaria, Ralph Henry Scherer,
Edward Everett Shaw and Dalton Carl Smith.

AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAWS

LIFE MEMBERSHIP

Increasing fee: California No. 1, to $375.00: Oroville No. 103, to
$500.00; Chico No. 111, to $350.00; Pacific No. 136, to $335.00; Bakersfield No. 224, to $375.00: Long Beach No. 327, to $500.00: San Pedro
No. 332, to $500.00: McKinley No. 347, to $312.50: Las Palmas No.
366, to $315.00: Gardena No. 372, to $350.00: Parnassus No. 388, to
$320.00: West Lake No. 392, to $325.00: Yorba Linda No. 469, to
$350.00: Stockton No. 498, to $500.00: Sun Garden No. 530, to $350.00:
Ascot No. 538, to $500.00: Justice No. 549, to $425.00: Lakeshore No.
551, to $600.00: Valley Forge No. 587, to $375.00: Hemet No. 615, to
$500.00: The Gardens No. 621. to $312.50: Lawndale No 753 to
$375.00.
.
'
DISPENSATIONS ISSUED

To elect Officers at a time other than that fixed by law: Eureka No.
16: Mountain Shade No. 18; Martinez No. 41: ·Rose's Bar No. 89; St.
Helena No. 93: Table Mountain No. 124: Confidence No. 203: Calistoga No. 233; Adin No. 250: Redlands No. 300: Santa Monka No.
307: le Proges de L' Oceanie No. 371: Silver Trowel No. 415: Exeter
No. 424: Hammonton No. 433: Montebello No. 451: Bethlehem No.
453: America No. 475: Harbor No. 502; Belvedere No. 539: Seaport No.
550: Laguna Beach No. 672: Waikiki No. 774.
To receive and act upon the application of a member of the Armed
Forces who lacks the qualification of residence: Yosemite No. 99: Oak
Grove No . .215: Doric No. 216; Redondo No. 328; Presidio No. 354;
Rtchm~nd No. 375: Bay View No. 401: Schofield No. 443: Vallejo No.
487: Highland No. 748: Merced No. 749.
To receive and act upon the application of a ·rejected Candidate
within twelve months: Evergreen No. 259: Neptune No. 619: Canby
Cross No. 679: Five Points No. 779.
To open Lodge elsewhere than in regular meeting place: Corinthian
No. 9; Mountain View No. 194: Delano No. 309: Mount Oso No. 460:
Maui No. 472: Garvanza No. 492: Cupertino No. 510: Los Cerritos No.
674: Oasis of Mara No. 735.
Special permission for conferring of Degrees: Clovis No. 417:
Craftsmen :Wo. 559.
Miscellaneous: Silver Gate No. 296; Hemet No. 615.

71

Increasing fees: Yosemite No. 99, to $90.00: Oroville No. 103, to
$65.00: Chico No. 111. to $90.00; Roseville No. 222, to $75.00; Welcome No. 255, to $90.00; Azusa No. 305, to $115.00: Santa Monica No.
307, to $125.00; Covina No. 334, to $100.00: Oxnard No. 341. to
$100.00; Brentwood No. 345, to $65.00; Charity No. 362, to $100.00:
Claremont No. 436, to $75.00; Fort Crook No. 575, to $100.00: Warren
G. Harding No. 579. to $125.00: Garden Grove No. 586, to $120.00:
Tu;unga No. 592, to $125.00: Service No. 594, to $100.00: Melrose No.
602, to $90.00j Sojourner No. 607, to $100.00; Canoga No. 611. to
$135.00: Truth No. 628, to $115.00: Menlo Park No. 651, to $125.00:
Citro! No. 656, to $90.00: Willow Glen No. 676, to $100.00; San Antonio No. 694, to $125.00; Opportunity No. 740, to $115.00; Merced NQ.
749, to $90.00: West Covina No. 758, to $115.00.
Decreasing fees: Dana R. Weller No. 765, to $105.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Roseville No. 222. to $10.00: Oxnard No.
341. to $10.00: Willow Glen No. 676, to $10.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Tujunga No. 592, at $25.00: Canoga No. 611.
at $15.00: Citro! No. 656, at $25.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Seaport No. 550. to $10.00; Arabic No.
763, to $15.00; Dana R. Weller No. 765, to $5.00.
Increasing dues: California No. 1, to $18 .00: Georgetown No. 25, to
$16.00; Yosemite No. 99, to $15.00; Oroville No. 103. to $15.00; Chico
No.111, to $15.00; Eden No. 113, to $15.00; Pacific No. 136, to $16.00:
Clear Lake No. 183, to $18.00: Roseville No. 222, to $15.00; Bakersfield
No. 224, to 18.00: Fresno No. 247, to $18.00: Landmark No. 253, to
$16.00: Azusa No. 305, to $16.00: Santa Monica No. 307, to $15.00:
Delano No. 309, to $18.00: Consuelo No. 325, to $15.00: Long Beach
No. 327, to $16.00; San Pedro No. 332, to $24.00: Oxnard No. 341. to
$18.00: Brentwood No. 345, to $15.00: McKinley No. 347, to $15.00:
San Bernardino No. 348, to $15.00: Las Palmas No. 366, to $15.00:
Gardena No. 372, to $16.00; Oceanside No. 381. to $15.00: West Lake
No. 392, to $15.00: Sierra Madre No. 408, to $15.00; York No. 423, to
$15.00; Mi<iway No. 426, to $18.00; Pittsburg No. 429, to $16.00: Maricopa No. 434, to $15.00: Claremont No. 436, to $15.00; Coronado No.
441, to $15.00: Center No. 465, to $15.00: Rockridge No. 468, to $18.00:
Yorba Linda No. 469, to $15.00: Fellowship No. 480, to $15.00: Atascadero No. 493, to $16.00; Stockton No. 498, to $18.00: Roosevelt No.
500, to $15.00: Seaside No. 504, to $15.00; Benjamin Franklin No. 509,
to $18.00; Taft No. 516, to $16.00; Bay City No. 526, to $18.00: Sun
Garden No. 530, to $15,00; Ascot No. 538, to $15.00: Justice No. 549,
to $18.00; Craftsmen No. 559, to $16.00: Foothill No. 564, to $16.00:
James A. Garfield No. 566, to $18.00: Santa Maria No. 580, to $15.00;
Manchester No. 585, to $15.00: Valley Forge No. 587, to $15.00: Kauai

72

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

73

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 589, to $15.00: Canoga No. 611. to $16.00: Point Loma No. 620.
to $15.00; The Gardens No. 621, to $15.00: Chula Vista No. 626, to
$15.00; Truth No. 628, to $18.00; Normal Heights No. 632, to $15.00;
Victorville No. 634, to $18.00; John Marshall No. 636, to $15.00; Menlo
Park No. 651, to $18.00; Citrol No. 656, to $15.00; John P. Jarman No.
669, to $15.00; Willow Glen No. 676, to $15.00: Canby Cross No. 679,
to $16.00; Palm Springs No. 693, to $20.00; William D. Stephens No.
698, to $20.00; Bixby Knolls No. 699, to $16.00; Ponderosa No. 700, to
$18.00; Rosemead No. 702, to $16.00: Lake Tahoe No. 707, to $18.00;
Anacapa No. 710, to $18.00; Belmont Shore No. 716, to 16.00; Oasis
of Mara No. 735, to $15.00: Lemon Grove No. 736, to $15.00; La
Canada No. 739, to $18.00; Opportunity No. 740, to $15.00: Tyre No.
741, to $16.00; Claude H. Morrison No. 747, to $15.00: Merced No. 749,
to $15.00; Lawndale No. 753, to $15.00.

Changing date of Stated Meeting: Evergreen No. 259; West Los
Angeles No. 373: Palos Verdes No. 389: Mount Olive No. 506; Southland No. 618: Metropolitan No. 646: Oasis of Mat"a No. 735: Peninsula No. 745: San Dieguito No. 775; Southern California Research:
Changing time of Stated Meeting: Pac;iflc No. 136; Mount Jackson No. 295; Kilauea No. 330; Modesto No. 675.
Provision for legal holidays: Russian River No. 181; Olive Branch
No. 269: Mount Jackson No. 295: Roosevelt No. 500; Modesto No. 675;
Peninsula No. 745.
Adopting Uniform Code of By-Laws: Speranza ltaliana No. 219:
Mojave U.D.: Leland Stanford U.D.: Paramount U.D.; Rio Linda
U.D.: Westminster U.D.: El Camino Research U.D.: Sierra U.D.:
Oak Plains U.D.; Granada Hills U.D.: General Henry H. Arnold
U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Redondo No. 328; Mount Diablo No. 448;
Polaris No. 730: Kit Carson No. 734.

RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Valley No. 135; Woodland No. 156;
Sisson No. 310; Alhambra No. 322; Long Beach No. 327; San Pedro
No. 332: Palos Verdes No. 389: Maricopa No. 434; Tyrian No. 439;
Alta Vista No. 464: Maui No. 472; America No. 475; Mount Olive No.
506; Signal No. 543: Craftsmen No. 559; All States No. 593; Service
No. 594; Southland No. 618; Atwater No. 622; La Brea No. 650;
Dos Palos No. 681: William D. Stephens No. 698: Bixby Knolls No.
699: Santa Ynez Valley No. 701; Rosemead No. 702; Oasis of Mara
No. 735: Arabic No. 763

Change Annual Meeting to November: Clay No. 101; Westwood
No. 501,
TRIAL RECORDS

No. 1074-Petition for restoration. A member of Fraternity Lodge
No. 399. Expelled September 19, 1945.
No. 115'1-Petition for restoration. A member of Downey Lodge No.
220. Expelled October 7, 1948.
No. 1296--Petition for restoration. A member of Silver Trowel Lodge
No. 415. Expelled August 6, 1952.
No. 1333----Petition for restoration. A member of Palo Alto Lodge
No. 346. Expelled July 6, 1954.
No. 1376--Petition for restoration. A member of Sacramento Lodge.
No. 40. Expelled February 5, 1954.
No. 1389-Petition for restoration. A member of Silver Gate Lodge
Lodge No. 296. Expelled May 7, 1954.
No. 1416--Petition for restoration. A member of Silver Gate Lodge
No. 296. Expelled September 3, 1954.
No. 1477-(Retrial). A member of Park Lodge No. 449. Acquitted
November3, 1955.
No. 1483-Petition for restoration. A member of Damascus Lodge
No. 648. Expelled January 9, 1956.
No. 1485-Petition for restoration. A member of Normal Heights
Lodge No. 632. Expelled March 1. 1956.
No. 1496--Petition for restoration. A member of San Diego Lodge
No. 35. Expelled May 1, 1956.
No. 1498--Petition for restoration. A member of Lebanon Lodge No.
495. Expelled MaY. l, 1956.
No. 1499-Petition for restoration. A member of Silver Gate Lodge
No. 296. Expelled June 4, 1956.
No. 1514-Petition for restoration. A member of Metropolitan Lodge
No. 646. Expelled September 26, 1957.
No. 1517-(Retrial). A member of Woodbridge Lodge No. 131.
Acquitted October 4, 1956.
No. 1519-(Retrial). A Fellow Craft of California Lodge No. I.
Expelled December 6, 1956.
No. 1525-(Retrial}. A member of Barstow Lodge No. 682. Expelled February 1, 1957.
No. 1527-( Retrial). A member of Pacific Grove Lodge No. 331.
Suspended May 1, 1958.
No. 1529-(Retrial). A member of James A. Foshay Lodge No. 641.
Expelled February 10, 1958.
No. 1553-A member of Elk Grove Lodge No. 173. Expelled September 14, 1957.
No. 1554-A member of Mendocino Lodge No. 179. Expelled Septamber 14, 1957.

75

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

No. 1655-A m1m1ber of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled November 1, 1957.
No. 1556-A member of Benicia Lodge No. 5. Expelled November
6, 1957.
No. 1557-A member of San Pablo Lodge No. 754. Expelled November 6, 1957.
No. 1558-A member of Amity Lodge No. 370. Expelled Decemeer
6, 1957.
No. 1559-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled December 5, 1957.
No. 1560-A member of La Mesa Lodge No. 407. Expelled December 2, 1957.
No. 1561-A member of Coronado Lodge No. 441. Suspended November 5, 1957.
member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632. Suspende d
1562-A
No.
December 2, 1957.
No. 1563-A member of Orosi Lodge No. 383. Expelled December
.
11. 1957.
Tehama Lodge No. 3. Expelled October
of
member
No. 1564-A
7, 1957.
No. 1565-A member of West Covina Lodge No. 758. Suspended
January 2, 1958.
No. 1566-A member of Semper Virens Lodge No. 552. Acquitted
February 11, 1958.
No. 1567-A member of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Expelled
February 6, 1958.
No. 1568-A member of Antioch Lodge No. 175. Suspended February 7, 1958.
No. 1569-A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598. Suspende d
February 10, 1958.
No. 1570-A member of Patterson Lodge No. 488. Acquitted :June
12, 1958.
No. 1571-A member of Livingston Lodge No. 658. Suspended March
5, 1958.
No. 1572-A member of Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403. Expelled
.
April 3, 1958.
April
Expelled
531.
No.
No. 1573-A member of Alexandria Lodge
4, 1958.
No. 1574-A member of Belvedere Lodge No. 539. Expelled April
7, 1958.
No. 1575-A member of Redlands Lodge No. 300. Expelled April 7

No. 1578-A member of Richmond Lodge No. 375. Reprimand April
7, 1958.
No. 1579-A member of Modesto Lodge No. 675. Expelled May 7,
1958.
No. 1580-A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319. Expelled May
6, 1958.
No. 1581-A member of Azusa Lodge No. 305. Expelled May 8, 1958.
No. 1582-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Reprimand June i,
1958.
No. 1583-A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Expelled April
i, 1958.
No. 1584----A member of Security Lodge No. 581. Expelled June 2,
1958.
No. 1585-A member of Sotoyome Lodge No. 123. Acquitted May 7,
1958.
No. 1586-A member of Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371.
Expelled June 27, 1958.
No. 1587-A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Suspended July 3, 1958.
No. 1588-A member of Silveyville Lodge No. 201. Expelled July
3, 1958.
No. 1589-A member of Anchor Lodge No. 273. Expelled July 7,
1958.
No. 1590-A member of Oriental Lodge No. Iii. Expelled July 1.
1958.
No. 1591-A member of Bell Lodge No. 483. Acquitted July 3, 1958.
No. 1592-A member of Glendale Lodge No. 544. Suspende d July 3,

74

1958.

•

No. 1576-A member of Ferndale Lodge No. 193. Expelled April 14 .
1958.
No. 1577-A member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21. Suspende d February 5, 1958.

19~8.

No. 1593-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Suspende d August 6,
1958.
No. 1594-A memher of a North Carolina Lodge. Expelled July 2,
1958.
No. 1595-A member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529. Expelled November
5. 1957.
No. 1596-A member of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Suspende d August
6. 1958.
No. 1597-A member of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244. Suspende d August 6,
1958.
No. 1598-A member of Standard Lodge No. 440. Suspende d August
1, 1958.
No. 1601-A member of Mt. Davidson Lodge No. 481. Reprimand May
5, 1958.
No. 1603-A member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. Expelled August 7,
1958.
member of Burbank Lodge No. 106. Expelled August 7,
1604-A
No.
1958.

76

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

FIFTY YEAR BUTTONS
NAME AND LODGE

NAME AND LODGE
DATB OP RAISING

Acuff, Otto Fulton, Visalia No. 128___________ ·······--------------------------·---·----···April 28, 1900
Adair, RJVu Kelley, Piedmont No. 521.................... ---·-------···--·-······-·--···-December 5, 1907
Allardt. ugo Frederick, Las Palmas No. 366...................................... June 27, 1907
Allen, Clifton Ro~, Fullerton No. 339 .................................................. August 11, 1906
Anderson, Carl,
Iden Gate No. 30....... ·-·····--···-········---------···--···········-July 23, 1907
Anderson, Herman Leslie, Paso Robles No. 286 .... ·-···-----·······-------------·-July 17, 1907
Aragona, Antonio, Speranza Italiana No. 219 ............................ __________ July 26, 1906
Atwell, John Hoye, Elysian No. 418................................------···--··------·--January 21, 1908
Avery, Frank Herbert, Park Boulevard No. 568 ... ·-··------------------··-----·-April 26, 1904
Bachrodt, Arno Lorenz, San Jose No. 10.............................................. November 22, 1907
Bacon, Oscar Franklin, Sanger No. 316..................................................December 11, 1907
Baer, Charles, Starr King No. 344............................... ·----·-------·--·····----·-January 15, 1908
Baillie, Samuel Alexander, Redlands No. 300.............·----·-----·-······----····l\..Pril 30, 1903
Baker, Frank Scott, Alexander Hamilton No. 535................................ November 27, 1905
Baker, Rollin G .• Nortlh Star No. 91...................................................... February 15, 1908
Ban~, Egbert Carroll, San Diego No. 35................. ·-----------·-··············-November 26, 1907
Ban , William H., Table Mountain No. 124........................................ December 28, 1907
Barkdull, Alvin &aymond, Eel River No. 147........................................ February 15, 1908
Barley, Ellwood Erastus, Blackmer No. 442 ............. ·-·----------···············-0ctober 17, 1907
Barnes. Roland Curtis, Fairfax No. 556........................... ·------···········--···March 14, 1908
Barnier, Edward Grafton, Mor:f.an Hill No. 463.-...............................Man:ih 21, 1908
Barr, Al Harrison, Monrovia o. 308 .................................................... November 14, 1907
Barre, Ohristopher Columbus, Excelsior No. 166.................................. February 13, 1907
Barton. Charles Oliver, Hollenbeck No. 319........................................0ctober 19, 1907
Bauer, John, Amity No. 370.................................................................... September 20, 1907
Bean, Herbert David, Mission No. 169.................................................. September 25, 1907
Beard, Clarence Eugene, Wilshire No. 445............................................ May 31, 1907
Beck. Rudolph, Oxnard No. 341.................................................... __________ September 21, 1907
Beck, Warren P., Palestine No. 351........................................................ tanuary 28, 1908
Beede, Leroy Wemple, Antioch No. 175................................................ anuary 4, 1908
Beinh.orn, William "M", Oros! No. 383.................................................. anuary 9, 1908
Bell, John H .• Drytown No. 174........................·-·········----····················~_pril 18, 1908
Bemmerer, Henry August, Presidio No. 354.......................................... March 15, 1906
Benner, Winfield Alexander, Sequoia No. 349 ...................................... December 10, 1907
Bennett, Wesley Valentine, Ohico No. 111.......................................... February l, 1908
Benson, Theodore Maritin, Humboldt No. 79........................................ May 5, 1908
Berkefelcl. John Wolfrom, Oakland No. 188.......................................... June 22, 1907
Berson, Maurice Adolph, King Solomon's No. 260.............................. July 15, 1907
Bidwell, Raymond Edwin, La Jolla No. 518.......................................... August 24, 1907
Biggar, George Milton, Covelo No. 231... ............................................. December 15, 1906
Binns, Joseph Harry, Starr King No. 344.............................................. June 9, 1904
Birth, William Ira, Acom No. 494.......................................................... June 13, 1908
Blaikie, Kenneth Dunbar, Ontario No. 301... ......................................... February 21, 1908
Blair, John McFarland, Roseville No. 222 ..............................................June 13, 1908
Blair, Lester Adam, Golden Gaite No. 30................................................ April 28, 1908
Blanchard. Arthur Hall, Santa Paula No. 291...................................... August 2, 1906
Boccardo, John H., Speranza I.taliana No. 219 ...................................... June 28, 1907
Boes, Frederick Franz, San Jose No. 10................................................ August 12, 1907
Boies, Har1-fEdward, Argonne No. 514................................................ Mardi 6, 1906
Bolz, &nil, onrovia No. 308............·-···················································July 12, 1907
Bonhote, Edward Louis, St. Helena No. 93............................................ August 8, 1908
Bouton, William ~bert. Occidental No. 22.......................................... September 30, 1907
Bowman, George
ashington, Mount Moriah No. 44........................ June 30, 1908
Brame, Milburn Maxie, Turlock No. 395.............................................. December 26, 1907
Brinkley, Charles A., John D. Spreckels No. 657.................................. September 11, 1902
Brodien, Edward Benjamin, Sequoia No. 349 ........................................ May 7, 1907
Breaks, Clarence Sheperd, San Benito No. 211... ................................. July 21, 1908
Brooks, Raichard Abner, San Marino No. 685...................... ·-············---July 2, 1907
Brostrom. Frederick, Corinthian No. 9..................................................August 21, 1907

77
DATB OP RAISING

Brown, James William, Blackmer No. 442 ............................................ J.une 29, 1906
Burgess, Lysle Perg, Hollenbeck No. 319.................. --------------------······May 19, 1905
Burr, Edwin Rice, East Gate No. 290.................................................... March 21, 1908
Burt, William Henry, Presidio No. 354.................................................. Novemher 21, 1907
Buss, Anthony William Frank, University No. 394 .... ------------------······January 29, 1907
Butler. Drury De Wolf, Union No. 58.............. -------·--------------------········ uly 24, 1907
Butler, Maynard Balch, Corona No. 324..... -·-··--------·····························May 7, 1900
Camp, Mervyn L., Pacific No. 136..·-·················································--~Pril 21, 1908
Camp, Wilbur L., Mountain View No. 194·-·······--------------------------------··September 1905
Carr, Obed William, Porterville No. 303.................. ---------------------·------April 9, 1908
Carron, W. G., West Lake No. 392 ........................... ---------------------------··Mardh 19, 1907
Carter, John Easton. Charity No. 362....................... ---------------------·-----·-December 30, 1907
Cavanagh, Angus L .• Arlington No. 414..............·-··-------------------------·--·July 24, 1907
Chace, Buffington Albert, Adin No. 250.......................... ----·-------------··--October 2, 1907
Chadwick, George Charles, California No. 1-.•.......•.............................August 29, 1907
Chaloner, Henry, Oakland No. 188......·-··············································-May 16, 1908
Charles, Charles, Confidence No. 203........................... -----·--------------··- -January 29, 1907
Chatten, Richard Jasper, Visalia No. 128................... --------------------------- uly 26, 1907
Chenoweth, On- M., Reading No. 254.................................................... April 7, 1908
Childs, Leon J., Crescent No. 45·-···············-···············------ ------------------·--August 17, 1907
Clawson, Harry Russell, Occidental No. 22................ ----------------··········February 24, 1906
Clemens, Christian Jensen, Eucalyptus No. 243......... ---------------- -----------November 16, 1907
Clement, Henry James, Calistoga No. 233... ·-·····-·····-····-------------------·-···-March 27, 1908
Clover, John Herrwood, Park No. ·449..·-·······························-·············December 24, 1906
Coffman, Hamer A., Monrovia No. 308.................................................. November 23, 1907
Coldwell, Truman Otto. Amity No. 370................................................ February 28, 1908
Cole, Archie Duane, Silver Gate No. 296.............................................. November 25, 1907
Cole, Vincellit P., Jo~ Marshall No. 636............·-···············---···············April 1, 1908
Coleman, Elmer nav1dson, San Joaquin No. 19·-············---------·-··········June 17, 1907
Collins, Manuel E., Traver No. 294...................................... -----------------March 21, 1908
Collins, Silas Martin, East Gate No. 290...................... --------- -----------------0ctober 16, 1907
Co1ton, George Wood. San Diego No. 35................. ----------------- .......... February 13, 1908
Conklin, Lloyd E., Lexington No. 104............... ____________________ _______________ April 12, 1904
Conner, Harvey J;arl, Maricopa No. 434.............. ---------------------- ----------December 28, 1907
Cook, Major Samuel, El Centro No. 384.... -----·--····---------------------------·----February 22, 1908
Copren, Wm. J., Sierra Valley No. 184.......................... ------------------------August 27, 1907
Cornell, Lloyd Power, Table Mountain No. 124 _________________________________ November 24, 1906
Corrie, Ruby Ray, Mission No. 169................. -------------·····-----------------.... February 26, 1908
Coston, Alfred Taylor, Inglewood No. 421... ......................................... March 2, 1908
Crawford, Allen Douglas, Table Mountain No. 124........................... .June 12, 1908
Cuddeback. John Emery, Berkeley No. 363... .............. -----------------·····-----March 26, 1908
Darms, John Livingston, Apollo No. 396...........................•..•.....·-------March 25, 1907
Davis, Fred J., Sr., Lassen No. 149........................................................ November 16, 1907
Davis, James Lawrence, Madera No. 280...................·-··················-····May 16, 1908
Day, Clarence Parkman, Pasadena No. 272.......................................... February 25, 1907
Decious, Joseph Vernon, Chico No. 111................................................ January 24, 1908
Detor, John Demetrious, le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371.. ................ 0ctober 30, 1907
Dettner, Walter T1heodore, Apollo No. 396 .......................................... November 26, 1907
Dewing, Albert Becker, Marin No. 191.................................................. Ai>ril 29, 1908
Dickie, George Edward, Berkeley No. 363 ............................................ November 28, 1907
Dollar, Robert Stanley, Marin No. 191.................................................. August 28, 1907
Donivan, John William, East Gate No. 290 .......................................... November25, 1907
Dorman, Clifford Thomas, Parnassus No. 388.......... ·-·························June 16, 1908
Dowdy, Elmer, San Benito No. 211.. ...................................................... une 6, 1908
Dowse, Arthur Tennyson, Brooklyn No. 225 ........................................ uly 9, 1904
Driver, Isaiah Lang, Provident No. 609 ................................................ Septem:ber 27, 1907
Drummond, Viotor, Santa Rosa No. 57..................................................June 25, 1908
Duebbert. Hugo Henry, Altadena No. 678... ----··········-·····--------····-······-~ovember 30, 1907
Dunbar, George August, Amity No. 370.... ·-·-·····-·································April 17, 1908

78

NAME AND LODGE

79

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Dunlap, William Evered, Olive Branch No. 269.................................. March 15, 1907
Dunn, J. Ernest, Estero No. 719.·-·················-··················-··-··············Auguat 14, 1907
Eastman, Charles, The Gardens No. 621... ........................................... May 9, 1908
Eaton, Hubert, Southern California No. 278 .......................................... September 28, 1905
Edwards, Thomas Miller, California No. 1............................................ July 25, 1907
Elder, Noble Smith, Evergreen No. 259 ..·-···············--···---······-········-···April 27, 1908
Elvin, Arthur, Occidental No. 22.....·-··---·-------·----·--·------------------------------·April 27, 1908
Equitz, August C., Montebello No. 451........... -----··----------------·--·-----------·November 20, 1907
Erbentraut, lrven Stephen, San Jose No. 10.......................................... December 23, 1907
Ericsson, Edward Joseph, Presidio No. 354.......... -----·---------------·------------November 29, 1906
Erkes, Walter Emil, Ocean Park No. 369.............................................. February 25, 1908
Erlin, Frank William, California No. L ..·----···--··-··-··-·····-·-----··-·-------·Septe.mber 19, 1907
Estey, Harold Edwin, Benicia No. 5..·-·-------------·--·--···-·········--········--··~22, 1908
Everett, Ernest Royal, San Jose No. 10.....................·--·---······-·-··--···--··· uly 29, 1907
Eyrick, Carl, High:land Park No. 382.............·---···-----·---·····---··--···--·-----·
26, 1907
Fairbanks, Fergus Lynn, Fillmore No. 379............................................ April 15, 1908
Falk, Adrien Joseph, King Solomon's No. 260...................................... 0ctober 15, 1906
Faulkner, Charles Alfred, California No. L..........................................November 14, 1907
Fenkhausen, Rudotph Henry, Excelsior No. 166.................................. August 28, 1907
Fink, Charles Laiton, Las Palmas No. 366--······--·-·--·-----------·------·-·-··--···January 27, 1907
Fisher, Elza Thomas, Madison No. 23.................................................... Novem!ber 14, 1907
Fisher, Hen~Tehama No. 3........ ·-----··---------------·------------·······--·----·------·luly 29, 1907
Fisher, John
illiam, Palisades No. 637.·------------·-··-----------------·······-·----December 28, 1906
Pleck, William Alexander, Friendship No. 210. ................................... December 13, 1907
Flood, Charles, South San Francisco No. 212 ...................................... July 11, 1907
Forbes, Ernest, Sequoia No. 349.---····----·----·--·····----·----------·-·----------·----····April 20, 1908
Foreman, Andrew McPherson, Berkeley No. 363................................December 17, 1907
Forgie, William J., Point Firmin No. 558·----·-·-------·---------·-----------·--·---·August 20, 1907
Foultz, Ward Lorraine, Coronado No. 441... ......................................... 0ctober 22, 1903
Freeman, Robert Buchanan, Tehachapi No. 313.... ·------·-------------------··--·September 5, 1907
French, Charles E., Hollenbeck No. 319...----·-··--------·----------·-----··-----·----April 15, 1902
Frerichs, Simeon John, Mount Oso No. 460.......................................... March 13, 1908
Frost, John, Ontario No. 301... ................................................................. June 19, 1908
Gates, Arthur Frank, South Gate No. 320.............................................. January 26, 1907
Gernert, Peter C., Hollenbeck No. 319.................................................... April 27, 1896
Gilcrest, Charles Fletcher, Oakland No. 188........................................May 20, 1907
Gillis, Kenneth Claire, Y erba Buena No. 403........................................ December 2, 1907
Gist, Glaude Bennett, Temescal No. 314.·----·······-----·------··--·-·-----··----··--June 27, 1907
Glass, Herman T., West Gate No. 335.................................................. Se!)temher 26, 1907
Glass. Richard Charles, Henry S. Orme No. 458.................................. August 24, 1905
Glaszer, iames J., Reading No. 254 ........................................................ April 21, 1908
Goldsmit , Bernard Seaman, Sequoia No. 349 ...................................... 0ctober 29, 1907
Goodrum, Eugene Francis, San Joaquin No. 19 .................................... March 29, 1906
Goodwin, Ralph Lee, Alpha No. 431... ................................................... September 5, 1907
Gould, .Aritlhur Truman, Forbestown No. 50.......................................... December 7, 1907
Grantier, Robert Kinney, Menlo Park No. 651...................................... February 21, 1908
Graves, David Edward, Apollo No. 396................................................ July 14, 1908
Gray, Frank Richard, South Gate No. 320............................................ DeCember 20, 1907
Gray, Robert James, Hesperian No. 264 ................................. --------·--·---·September 7, 1907
Green, Charles, Humboldt No. 79.-----·-··--·-----·--··················-----···············February 6, 1908
Greenwood. Earl Norman, Naval No. 87.............................................. May 9, 1908
Greenwood, Harlow Verne, Nava4 No. 87.......---·-·-·········--·-·---------··----Ai>ril 25, 1908
Grenfell, Clarence Bert, Madison No. 23................................................ August 13, 1907
Ground, George Ardo, Pomona No. 246................................................ September 7, 1907
Gully, Cuthbert, Temescal No. 314.......................................................... 0ctober 1, 1903
Haigler, Albert Oiester, Golden State No. 358......................................September 20, 1907
Haley, Arthur, Alameda No. 167-•..•..•............·--··················-······-·······November 16, 1907
Hall, James Lawrence, Lynwood No. 600-···-··-···········-········-··-···-·-···Aipril 22, 1908

DATB OP RAISING

Hanson, Fred, Pasadena No. 272............................................................ March 12, 1906
Hare, J. Floyd, Salinas No. 204................................................................ 0ctober 9, 1907
Hart, Wilbert Clinton, John Marshall No. 636 .. ·-··-·-···---···-···············---·May 6, 1907
Haskin, Ralph Cortland, Anchor No. 273.......................... -·-···---··-·--····-March 31. 1908
Hatfield, Bert S., Redlands No. 300...... ----------····--·-··---·-···-··-·---··············Aipril 5, 1907
Haugh, Ross Lincoln, Paso Robles No. 286.... ·---·····--······---·---··········--···-February 1~7 1907
Haw:ton, Frank Lait, Justice No. 549 ...................................................... September , 1907
Hayes, William Thornton, Golden Gate No. 30 .................................... April 23, 1907
Healey, Lauren E., Pacific No. 136.........--------···········--····-·--····--·-····-···--·-March 26, 19f
Hebrank, Charles Louis, Oak Grove No. 215 ... ---····---····-·······-······-··-····APril 22, 189
Hellwig, Herbert Frederick, Excelsior No. 166.·-·········-·-···-·---·····-····-·-December 11, 1907
Henderson, Edward Earle, John Marshall No. 636 ....... ·-·······--···-·-····--May 30, 190J
Herdal George Johannasen, Golden Gate No. 30.. ·-····-----····-············--June 11, 190
Hewitt'. John, Palos Verdes No. 389............................. ----···-·---····--···-·····Septemher
Hickok Harry Carlos, Mizpah No. 378 ... ---···----···-·-·······-·····---··-··---·····--December l,
Hicks, iesse Elmer, Tehachapi No. 313.......... --···--·······--····----···-··········--September 12, 1907
Hicks, William Arthnr, Union No. 58 .....---····-··---········-···············-·-·······August 30, 1905
Hickson, Alonzo Loyd, Compass No. 590.......... ---···········--·············-···-··March 14, 1908
Hildebrand William Charles, Mission No. 169.................................... 0ctober 29, 1902
Hill. Charl~s D., O>rona No. 324............................................................ Februarv 20, 1908
Hirsch, Ernest, La Parfaite Union No. 17..............................................MarClh 27, 1908
Hofmann, Gustav Everett, Truckee No. 200.............. ·-··-----·············-·····May 10, 1907
Hogan, Walter B_yron, San Joaquin No. 19............................................ May 6, 1908
Holcomb, Clyde Lafayette, Eden No. 113..·--····--·········-·····-···-·-······-···---Decembe.r 21, 1~7
Halliday, Arthur, South Gate No. 320.................................................... September 20, 19
Hornung, Paul, Security No. 581... .....---·-----·····---···--·····--·--·-··--·-···--····-··April 4, 1908
Householder, Frank Leroy, Evergreen No. 259 .................................... May 13, 1905
Huebsch, Charles Frederick, Pentalpha No. 202 .................................... November 2g 1907
HUDJter, William Fletcher, Arcata No. 106............---·····--·····--·--·······-----April 27, 19
Huntington, Charles F., Oroville No. 103.... ·-····-············-·-············-·--·-·-Novemher 5, 1907
Hurlbut, Daniel Bradley, Fresno No. 247.............................................. June 13, 190jl
Hul!Chins, James Vercoe, Santa Paula No. 291...·-·······-···--··-···-······-··---·July 20, 190

[O· l:/

7

8

07
Inch. William, Lodi No. 256......... ·-····-····--···-·-----·-·····-···-······---·------·-·····~
Ingram, E. Snapper, Clarence F. Smith No. 482..................................
25, 19
1
Isbell, Henry La Seit, Richmond No. 375......................---·--·--··-··-·····----·-February 29, 908
ackson, George Logan, Orange Grove No. 293 ....... ·-··--·····-··········---··Decen:iber 1fgJ907
ackson Henry William, Alameda No. 167........ ·-········-····---··---····-··-··-August 31,
l
acobso~. Samuel, Starr King_ No. 344 ...........--------····-·-············-··-····--··--September 25, 1g~7
JJarvis,
Peter Wm., Phoenix No. 178.............................................. _....... November 4,l9
Jenkins, James Charles, Hermosa No. 557.............. ·--·-·········---······--···-···April 30, 1~
Jensen, Harry, Henry Knox No. 662.....---·······-···--········--·····-······-------·--·June 13, 190
Jewett, Harold Woodward. Charter Rock No. 410........... ---·····--···-·--·-0otd>er 24, ~905
Johnson, Charles Emiil, Turlock No. 395... ·-·············--·····-··--·-·---··-··-···--·September 2 , 1907
Johnson, Frank, Jr., Alcatraz No. 244 ..................... ----·-····--·······-·······--···-April 30, 1908
Johnson. Leonidas Frederick, Long Beach No. 327..................... ___ ..... October 13, 1f04
Jonas, Irving, Oakland No. 188.....-----·---······--········-·····-·---··--·--·····--····--···April 27, 190
Jones, Arthur, Hollenbeck No. 319.......... -·--···············-----··-·········-···-··-·---November 1~ 1905
Jones, Frank 0., Mendocino No. 179........----·········--·-·····--············--····---April 26, 190
Jones, Fred Thomas, Alcatraz No. 244 ............ ·-·-···-·······-·······-·-·-··--··-···April 18, 1908
Jones, Gilbert Russell, Suisun No. 55.. -------·-·············---·····--·--····-········-···April 23, 1908
ones, Lee, Lodi No. 256.................----·····---···--···--···---·-·············-······-····-·March 17, 1908
oy, Walter S., Mt. Oso No. 460.....---··--····---·--···················-·---·----···--·-·November 18, 1907
Judd, Joseph Walter, Sacramento No. 40..·--·············-····-·······-·-··-···-·-···August 30, 1907

J

Kayo, Frederick Eugene, Pcnrhyn No. 258 ..........................................December 21, 1907
Kazebeer, Asa Guy. Acorn No. 494.......------····-··--···-·····--·---·-····--····-··----WY 11. 19~~
Keesling, Homer G., Charity No. 362........------·--····---·----······----··-···-----·- ovember , 1906
Keffer, Frank M., Van Nuys No. 450................---············-·················---·September 21, 1906
Kelly, John Harold, Presidio No. 354 ............................... ·--·-·····-······-·--·-November 2 , 1906

80

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

81

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE OP RAISING

Kennedy, Frank Loufborrow, Poriterville No. 303................................ 0ctober S, 1907
Kentner, W. Tracy, Magnolia No. 242....................... _......................... July 19, 1907
Kerr, John, Richmond No. 375 ...........- ..................................................... February 10, 1908
Keyes, Charles Edwin, Jr., Oakland No. 188........................................ July 4, 1907
Kidwell, Oaude B., Silveyville No. 201.................................................. February 15, 1908
Kimball, Henry Wiley, Midway No. 426.............................................. 0ctober 19. 1907
Kinnick, Geor1:e Harry, Carmelita No. 599............................................ December 3, 1904
Klicka, Emil. ohn D. Spreckels No. 657................................................ March 27, 1902
Koch, Louis ugust, Claremont No. 436................................................ April 2, 1907
Koch, Walter Valentine, Presidio No. 354.... ·-····································-January 27, 1906
Kopp, William J., Palisades No. 637...................................................... March 5, 1906
Kuehn, Victor August, California No. L. ............................................. July 18, 1907
Laffranchinl, Louis Antone, Hope No. 234...........................................January 18, 1908
Laird, Reuel A., Alturas No. 248.............................................................. March 25. 1908
Lang, Clarence Cuthbert, King David's No. 209.................................. November 27, 1907
Lanottl, Virgil, Guadalupe No. 237........................................................June 24, 1907
Lathrop, Walter Herbert, Oxnard No. 341... ......................................... May 19, 1900
Leach, Frank A .. Jr,. Piedmont No. 521... ............................................... November 22, 1907
Lear, Frederick, Presidio No. 354·-········-··········································-···Pebruary 27, 1908
Leas. Speed Butler, Las Palmas No. 366 ................................................ June 27, 1907
Lee, Rector Lawrence, Ocean Park No. 369.......................................... February 18. 1908
Lembke, August J.. Wilmington No. 198................................................ November 23, 1907
Leonard, John, Cupertino No. 510..·-····-····················-·························May 18, 1907
Levy, Leon, Fresno No, 247........·-······-···················································April 3, 1908
Levy, Louis, Yosemite No. 99.........·---·················································April 17, 1908
Levy, Oscar, East Gate No. 290........·--·······································-······0ctober 25, 1907
Lewis, James Hardy, Excelsior No. 166.................................................. September 11, 1907
Liddle, Charles Fred, Santa Cruz No. 38.............................................. August 28. 1907
Linde, Henry C., Alta Vista No. 464...................................................... November 9, 1905
Lindley, Fred Ephraim, San Diego No. 35.........- ................................. July 20, 1907
Linebaugh. David Cameron, Laurel No. 245 ........................................April 15, 1908
Link, Irwin, America No. 475...- ............................................................. April 11, 1908
Little, George Wesley Willis, Berkeley No. 363.................................. 0ctober 24, 1907
Little, Joseph Moss, Plwnas No. 60.·-·······-···········································March 21. 1908
Loeb, Joseph P., West Gate No. 335.·--······-···················-·--···············August 29, 1907
Logan, William Wells, Oakland No. 188.............................................. August 24, 1907
Lothridge, Louis Stanley, Santa Paula No. 291.................................... March 30, 1907
Louideck, Edward Frank, Parnassus No. 388..........................----········-January 4, 1908
Lowsley, James Dennis, Magnolia No. 242............................................ May 29, 1908
Ludloff, Herman W., Kilauea No. 330.................................................... 0ctober 5, 1907
Lynn, Theodore Ayers, Amity No. 370.................................................. December 13, 1907
MacFarlane, Neil, Golden Gate No. 30..................................................April 23, 1907
MacKillop. Andrew Peter, Richmond No. 375 ...................................... December 30, 1907
MacKillop, Angus Wallace, Richmond No. 375.................................. December 30, 1907
MacPherson. Richard Crosby. Rising Light No. 397............................ 0ctober 26, 1907
McAllister, William Thomas, Southern California No. 278................ December 11, 1907
McCann, John Earl, Hesperian No. 264................................................ 0ctober 28, 1905
McCreadie, Albraham Peter, Crockett No. 139...................................... June 26, 1907
McFerrin, Ross Clifton, Blackmer No. 442 ............................................ November 15, 1907
McKay, Leonard, Baldwin Park No. 660................................................ June 6, 1907
McKee, Clarence Melvin. San Benito No. 211...................................... June 1, 1908
McKenzie, Wesley, Mission No. 169...................................................... Pebruary 29, 1908
McMurray, Sam, Inyo No. 221 ................................................................ 1906
McNair, Frederick Henry, Berkeley No. 363........................................ 1907
McPherson, Hiram A .• Mount Oso No. 460.......................................... December 19, 1905
McPherson. James Gunn, Naval No. 87........·-··········-··-··············-··-·--June 13, 1907
Maas5, Andrew Henry, Mount Moriah No. 44.............·-············----Pebruary 1, 1908
Mackle, Frederick, Mission No. 169.............................................--.--May 27, 1908
Madden, Edward Ernest, Mission No. 169............................................Deeember 15, 1901

NAME AND LODGE

ky

DATE OP RAISING

Malden, Frederick Bruce, Alcatraz No. 244..........................................
2S, 1908
Malson, Lewis Arthur, Amity No. 370..·-····-····-··············-················· une 26, 1908
Makinson. John William, Parnassus No. 388 ........................................ pril 14. 1908
Mallett William Maxey, Atascadero No. 493 ... -................................. Pebruary 27, 1908
Mann, Henry James, East Gate No. 290................................................ Marc~ 21fo1:8
Mansur Robert Stockton Blackmer No. 442 ........................................ May 6,
Mantel~. Con, San Joaquin No. 19..·-····-····································-·········April 27, 19p8
Markwalder, Louis, West Gate No. 335................................................ August 15. 907
Marshall. Clifford D., Palestine No. 351................................................ May 19, 1908
Martin, Clarence Lee, Elk Grove No. 173............................. - ............. 0ctober 5, 19S7
Martin Ernest Easttrum, Hanford No. 279............................................ August 2, 1907
Marx, Melville, Fidelity No. 120.........-................................................. March 19, 1908
Mason Arthur James, Monterey No. 217..·---···························-·········November 30, 1907
Mathi~u. Harry James, Park Boulevard No. 568.................................. November 26, 1907
Mattei, Fred Louis, Santa Ynez Valley No. 701... ............................... November 2?
Maxey Walter Louis, Dunsmuir No. 297............................................ ~anuary 30, 9
Mayo, 'Thomas Clay, Anchor No. 273.. ·-·····-·········-······························ anuary 27, 1~8
Mead. Charles Leland, Crescenta Valley No. 652 ................................ eptember 20, 9
Mealey, King. Anchor No. 273 ..... ·-············--·········································-Iune 22, 1908
Meek, William Harold. Eucalyptus No. 243................................... _... August 24, 1907
Mende, Adolph Jacob, San Diego No. 35.. ·-····································-···0ctober 3, 1907
Meyer, Milton, Lebanon No. 495.. ·-········-····························-···············Aprtl 28, 1908
Middleton, Joshua Joe, Northern Light No. 190.......... ·-···················-···Decembj 2, ~
Middleton Robert, Queen Beach No. 540.............................................. January 4,
Miller, Charles Newton, San Jose No. 10........ ·-···········-··-··········-·········April 15, 1907
Miller, Curtis John. Stanislaus No. 206...---···-·······················-···············Marc'h 20, 1907
Miller, George Anton, Richmond No. 375............................................ _.0ctober 19, 1907
Miller, Samuel. Parnassus No. 388...... ·--··········-····················-··········-·November 28. 1907
Milly, Charles Amond, South San Francisco No. 212........................ August 29, 190~
Milly Joseph, South San Francisco No. 212........................................August 29. 190
Mock'. Theodore Lewis. Oakland No. 188....·-···-····-·············-·············August 10, 1907
Moenning, Milton Gunther, Mission No. 169......................................August 31, 1907
Moffitt, John, North East No. 266........·-······-··········································April 11, 1908
Monroe, Duncan Frank, Tehachapi No. 313........................_..............June 11, 1908
Montgomery, Bert Beamer, Welcome No. 255............................_......... 0ctober 19, 1907
Moore, Jonathan Larkin Forwood. Porterville No. 303................._..... March 6, 1908
Moore, Lawrence Frank, Piedmont No. 521.......................................... August 10, 1907
Moorehead, Robert Neil, Estero No. 719....·-········-···-·························0otober 18, 1905
Morris, Joseph Washington, Hawthorne No. 647................................ April 11. 1896
Morris, Samuel Orr, Chico No. 111.............................................-·····-···0ctober 17, 1906
Morse, Georg_e William, Jr., Presidio No. 354...................................... November 27, 1907
Mosgrove, William Adam, Las Palmas No. 366.................... ·-···········August 6, 1904
Muehleisen, Adolph, San Diego No. 35 __ ·················-····-········-······-·····December 21. 1907
Munroe, Theodore Francis, Mission No. 169............................. _......... 0ctober 16, 1907
Murdock, Homer Blaine, Oakland No. 188................-...........................August 24, 1907
Myers, Algernon David, Sunset No. 352..·--······································--September 16, 1907
Myers, Eugene Clifton, Amador No. 65........... ·-····················-·············March 18, 1908
Myers. Leland Stanford, Fidelity No. 120.... ·-····················-··············-July 25, 1907

Jg07
07

1

Newmark, Marco R., West Gate No. 335.............................................. August 29, 1907
Nichols, William H., San Diego No. 35 ........................... - ................... 0ctober 10, 1907
Nicolai, Charles John, Mission No. 169....................... ·-·························l}~ 29, 1908
Noble, Charles Wilson, Inglewood No. 421..........·-··········-·····-····-····· ec ' er 29,
Noonan, Frank, Fruitvale No. 336......·-····················-··········-········-·····August 17, 19
Nuttall, William Henry. Sr., A<:rlrD. No. 494....---···································May 13, 1908

JJ06

Ogan. Frank Clarence, Pasadena No. 272........·-···········-······----····-···April 15, 1907
Olson, Alvin Bennett, Cahuenga No. 513 ......... ---·········-····-··········-··Iruary 17, ~9~
Oltman, Charles, Union No. 58 ............----·--····-··-··········-·············-··-· ovember •
Ordelmundt, Harry John. Van Nuys No. 450........................................ May 3, 1905
Orris, Roy William. Palos Verdes No. 389..... ----··-·····---···············-·May 7, 1907

2 907

82

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
NAME AND LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
DATE 01' RAISING

Parish. James Everett, Fruitvale No. 336........ ------------------------------·-·····November 9, 1907
Park. Clarence John, Brawley No. 402------------------------------------------------August 13, 1907
Parkinson, Henry Fitzgerald, Palos Verdes No. 389..........-----------------June 30, 1908
Parrish, Claude Jones, Cupertino No. 510....... ---------------------------------------1907
Pates, Clarence, Hollywood No. 355............---------------------------------------Marc:h 6, 1908
Peahl. Leon Theodore, Midway No. 426......----------------------------------------0ctober 24, 1907
Pearson, Carroll Addison, East Gate No. 290.------------------------------------April 19, 1907
Pearson. Charles Bertran, San Joaquin No. 19_____________________________________ January 13, 1908
Peck, Louis Stanley, Berlwley No. 363.·----------------------------------------------November 25, 1905
Perkins, Arthur Eli, Alhambra No. 322 ...------------··-----------------------------June 20, 1905
Petersen. Fred AD:>ert. Oakland No. 188................................................ ~y 30, 1907
Pinkerton, Samuel, Redondo No. 328.............. ------------------------------------- uly 15, 1908
Pinkson. Leon Jacob, Jewel No. 37·L·--···········-·--------------------------------- ovember 1, 1907
Plato, Louis, Pacific No. 136...·-·················-------------------------------------------0ctober 22, 1907
Player, Lionel Paget, Stanislaus No. 206.... --------------···--··-···---------······-July 26, 1907
Polz.in, George Albent, Highland Park No. 382 .................................... November 27, 1907
Poutlus, Marion Francis, Hollenbeck No. 319 ................................... _.Nove-mber 21, 1905
Popert, William Hopf. Durant No. 268..·-·········--------------------------------·August 24, 1907
Powers, John Patrick, Lomita No. 644.·-··········--------------------------------------March 3, 1905
Preuninger, Charles Lee, All States No. 593........................................ 0ctober 31, 1907
Prevlati, Louis Joseph, Jewel No. 374..·-·····-·········---------------------------August 23, 1907
Prince, Louis D'Avelyn, Golden Rule No. 479............................._.....•.June 23, 1908
Prouty, Lee Earl. Oakdale No. 275....·-··-····-··············---·-······-----May 26, 1908
Ramsden, Charles Harold, Berkeley No. 363......·------------------------------August 25, 1906
Randall, Flnelle K., Sojourner No. 6"7.·---------------------------------------February 6, 1905
Ranger, Charles Sumner, Lexington No. 104...........- ........................... March 26, 1906
Rankin, Ivan Sloan, Berkeley No. 363.....·---·······-··-·····---------------········December 29. 1906
Rasmassen, Alfred, Fort Bragg No. 361... .....·---------------------------------··0ctober 15, 1907
Rathbun, Louis B.. Reading No. 254................ ------------ ---------------------··May 19, 1908
Raynsford, Mark Horace, Capital City No. 499.................................. May 10, 1907
Reece, Arthur Angelo, Brooklyn No. 225.................-----------------------------December 6, 1906
Reeve, George E., Evergreen No. 259...............·-····-··--··-----------------------Marc:h 31, 1908
Reichert, John Miller, Eureka No. 16.... ·-----···-··-··----·-·--·----------·---------·--1une 24, 1908
Re!Ghard, Earl Marion, Alhambra No. 322....... ------------·---------- ·------------- uly 24, 1907
Rey, Leon Martin, Amity No. 370................................ -------------------------- uly 17, 1908
Rhodes, Jesse M., Vista No. 687__________________________________________________________ une 16, 1908
Ricciardi, Nicholas Amerigo, Oakland No. 188................ -------------------- uly 24, 1907
Richards, Cyrus Wesley, Bear Mountain No. 76.................................. September 19, 1906
Richards, Daniel Bradford, Mount Moriah No. 44....... _________________________ September 11, 1907
Richardson, George H., Salinas No. 204 _______________________ ______________________ .. May 16, 1908
Rickard, John Smith, Kilauea No. 330..... ---------------------------------·-------------August 8, 1908
Ripley, John Calvin, Stanislaus No. 206.................. ------------------------------August 24, 1907
Roberts, Qement, Humboldt No. 79................................ ------------------------June 6, 1908
Roberts, George William, Corinthian No. 9 ............. ---------------------------September 6, 1907
Robinson, Ashman. Friendship No. 210....... -----------····---------------------------January 4, 1907
Rose, I. Elmer, lllinoistown No. 51............................... --------------------------May 15, 1908
Rosedale, Charles, Blackmer No. 442......... ·--·-------------------·--·----------------June 24, 1907
Rothermel, Frederick Charles, Richmond No. 375. ______________________________ May 20, 1907
Ruddell, Harry Burl, Cahuenga No. 513................................................ May 5, 1903
Rulfs, Theodore Eberhard, GOiden Gate No. JO___________________________________ March 12, 1908
Runyon. Fred, Damascus No. 648......·-········---····--····-·--------------------·····June 8, 1908
Russell, Alexander Stuart, McKinley_ No. 347..........----------------------------June 10, 1908
Russi, Frank B.. Speranza ltaliana No. 219...........------------------------------0ctober 25, 1907
Russi, Fred B.. Syeranza Italiana No. 219............................................ November 22, 1907
Ruth, James B., Seafaring No. 708............. _........................................... March 18, 1904
Sandell, Leslie Georg_e, Los Banos No. 312.. ·------------·--·----·---- ·----·-------January 17, 1908
Sayre, Frank King, Sang_er No. 316-······--··---·----·-------------------------------April 18, 1908
Sayre, William Ernest. East Gate No. 290·-·····-----------------------------·--~Y
22, 1908
Scanlon, Albert B.. Vallejo No. 487_····--·····-·····---------------------------····· uly 8, 1907
Schiveley, Albert Duncan. Winnedumaih No. 287................................
14. 1908

NAME AND LODGE

83
DATE OP RAISING

Schloss, Mendel Jacob, Mount Moriah No. 44--------------------------------------February 12, 1908
Schmidt, Max August, Marin No. 191...._.............................................. 0ctober 30, 1907
Schmidt, Otto August. Beverly Hills No. 528........................................ March 20, 1908
Schreiber, Harry William, Oilifomla No. L..................... _................. November 7, 1907
Schultz, William A., Azure No. 533...................................................... March 11, 1908
Schulze, Henry_ Robel't, Alhambra No. 322 ............................................ December 21, 1906
Schwarzberg, Elmer L., le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371.. ................ April 7, 1905
Scott, George Mearns, Hesperian No. 264 ............................................ August 11, 1902
Sears, Hal K, Chico No. 11 L.......- ..--..···------ ...................................... December 7, 1907
Seaton, James Richard, Jr., All States No. 593...................................... April 22, 1908
Sebtre, Frederick Henry, Keith No. 187................................................ April 13, 1906
Selander, Robert Bond, Golden State No. 358 ................................... -.April 23, 1908
Senteney, George Albert, Carpinteria No. 444 ...................................... March 6, 1908
Shea, Willard Wright, Rockridge No. 468 ............................................ April 24, 1908
Sheafe, E. Vernon, Apollo No. 396............ --------------------------------------------December 12, 1907
Shepherd, Jasper Milton, Berkeley No. 363 ........................................... 0ctober 31. 1907
Sherwood, George Arthur, Sequoia No. 349 .......................................... 0ctober 7, 1901
Shibley, Arleigh Pierce, Holtville No. 425 ... _________________________________________ May 27, 1907
Shidaker, Robert Frederick, Mosaic No. 218.... ------------------------------------0ctober 5, 1907
Shirpser, Ephraim, Lexington No. 104.................................................. August 24, 1907
Smith, Albert Victor, San Pedro No. 332 .............................................. September 14, 1907
Smith, Ernest Le Roy, Visalia No. 128.................................................. 0ctober 15, 1907
Smith, Eugene L .. Westwood No. 501......................... _________________________ August 4, 1908
Smith, Hartley Roy, Patterson No. 488.................................................. April 11, 1908
Smith, James Alexander, Calaveras No. 78..... - ..................................... June 11, 1908
Smith, louis Theron, Golden Rule No. 479.......................................... March 14, 1908
Smith, Oliver Russell, Vesl'__er No. 84.................................................... February 21, 1906
Smith, Richard Robertson, Torrance No. 447........................................ January 24, 1902
Smith, William Wright, Magnolia No. 242 ...................- ..................... anuary 18, 1908
Snow, Wilbur Worth, La Fayette No. 126.......................................... anuary 2, 1908
Soper, Eldon Erskine, Alexander Graham Bell No. 595 ...................... September 17, 1907
Sorensen, Royal Wasoon, San Pasqual No. 452.................................. 0ctober 30, 1907
Sprouse, Ira Archer, San Fernando No. 343....................................... -.September 4, 1907
Squire, Oliver Guy, East Gate No. 290.................................................. March 27, 1908
Steiner, George A .. San Simeon No. 196.......... --------------------------------------Marc:h 14, 1908
Stephen, George Berlram, Lodi No. 256................................................May 20, 1908
Steuben, Walter Robert, Orland No. 265 .............................................. January 7, 1908
Stimus, Herman Otto, Crockett No. 139................................................ A.ugust 28, 1907
Stoddard, Bert, Corona No. 324..·------·--···----------------------------------------·····-November 21, 1907
Strube, John H., Granada No. 608 ........·-----------------------·----------------------August 2, 1906
Sweet. E.rnest James, Hollenbeck No. 319.............................................. November 9, 1907
Thomas, Thomas, Monrovia No. 308.................................................... May 21, 1907
Thomason, Frank, Presidio No. 354........................................................ Matcli 28, 1907
Thompson, Herbert Leslie, Palo Alto No. 346 ......................................iFebruary 17, 1908
Thompson, Isaac. Greenleaf No. 670...................................................... May 21, 1907
11homs, Gifford Carlton, Santa Paula No. 291.................................... September l, 1904
Thomsen, Carl E., Victory No. 474........................................................ February 25, 1908
Thorpe, Roy Pearl, Yosemite No. 99...- ................................................. December 28, 1907
Tilsner, Henry Englebert, Crockett No. 139.•···-··------------··..................Marah 25, 1908
Tomlinson, William Neeld, Whittier No. 323.........-----------------------June 8, 1907
Tormey, Bernard Eugene, Chico No. 11L---············--------·--··--···----····-Pebruary8, 1908
Towle, Carrol W .. Nevada No. 13-····-···········---------------···-···---·-·--·······Marc!h 25, 1908
Trefz, Adolph G., Richmond No. 375.•·-···-·······--····--·----··················---Juae 10, 1907
Trewhitt. Loyd Gray, Hanford No. 279................................................June 21, 1907
Trigg, William Thomas, Alcatraz No. 244••••..... - .......................---····--lune 27, 1908
Turner, John Daniel, Stanislaus No. 206................................................ November 23, 1907
Twombly, Bert Warren, Bellftower No. 523..·---------····-··----·---········..Mardi 4, 1907
Urban. Oareace, Arlington No. 414................................'..................:_... February 2, 1907

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NAME AND LODGE

DATE OP RAISING

Van Ahnen, Paul Frederick, Sunnyvale No. 51 L. ..........................- ... Aprt111, 1908
Van Dyke, William, Abell No. 146.·-·············-·····································0ctobtt 3, 1903
Vatoher, Herbert James, Jr., South Pasadena No. 367......·-··········-·····0ctober 9, 1906
Volk, George A., Mizpah No. 37L.................·-································-·September 4, 1907
Wachs, Lionel, Mill Valley No. 356......................................................April 20, 1908
Waddington, Will Heigh, Granada Nt>. 608................................. -..... April 22, 1899
Waite, George Edward, Orland No. 265..............................................May 1, 1908
Walker, George Cleveland, Pinole No. 353................... _..................... July H, 1908
Wall, William Dillard, Pentalpha No. 202 ............................................ 0ctober 15, 1907
Wallace, Hugh Sinclair, South Pasadena No. 367............... - ............... March 26, 1908
Walter, Fred, Acacia No. 438........ ·-······························-·······················August 1, 1907
Waiterbury, William Harrison, Van Nuys No. 450............................ November 25, 1905
Walton. George E., Piedmont No. 521... .......................................... ___ 0ctober 26, 1907
Watts, George Newton, Artesia No. 377.............................................. September 12, 1907
Way, William Leroy, Orosi No. 383.................................................... February 13, 1900
Weaver, Harry George, San Pedro No. 332 ..........................................December 12, 1907
Weisel, Oliver R., Pacific No. 136....................................................... _January 14, 1908
Weller, Harold Fraser, Highland Park No. 382....... - ...........................May 30, 1907
Wells, Leo Burke, Ophir No. 33............................·-··························-·December 1, 1906
Wessel, Harry Arthur, .Kilauea No. 330................................................ August 21, 1907
West, Edward Anderson, Chico No. 11L........................................... July17, 1908
West, Oliver Roy, Glendora No. 404 ................... - ............................... November 29, 1907
White, Walter Hastings, .King Solomon's No. 260.............................. March 23, 1908
Williamson, Peter Livingston, Palos Verdes No. 389.....................- ... 0ctober 16, 1906
Wilson, Archibald, Cupertino No. 510. ................................................. November 14, 1907
Wilson, Bert Alvin, Los Banos No. 312................................................ February 14, 1908
Wilson, Harry Alfred, San Jose No. 10.............................................-.April 20, 1908
Wing, George L., San Gorgonio No. 668..............................................July 6, 1907
Wise, Charles Ferdinand, Oakland No. 188.......................................... July 30, 1907
Witte, Frank Emil, Mission No. 169...................................................... April 26, 1905
Wolff, Harry K., Sr., Pacific No. 136.................................................... February 4, 1908
Wollaston, Fred Kirby, Sequoia No. 349 .................. ·-········-····--·······March 30, 1908
Wood. Samuel Heber, Roseville No. 222 .............................................. May 23, 1908
Wood. William Flack, Standard No. 440..............................................March 4, 1907
Wooldridge, Jesse Walton, Berkeley No. 363........ ·-··-···················---March 23, 1907
Worley, Henry Elmer, Redlands No. 300..............................................December 16, 1907
Wright, George William, Keith No. 187..............................--········-·····November6, 1907
Wright, William Charles, Berkeley No. 363......................·-···············0ctober 31, 1907
Young, Oharles Clinton. Sequoia No. 349..................................·-····-···Marclh 23, 1908
Ziliani, Joseph Charles, .King Solomon's No. 260.... ·-······-··········--·-··-June 22, 1908
Zumwalt, Robert 0., Jdbn D. Spreckels No. 657...............·-·-···--···April 3, 1908

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.
At 12: 15 Grand Lodge was called off until 1 : 50 p.m.

85

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Monday, September 29, 1958
At 1 :50 p.m. 1Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation.

DEDICATION CEREMONY
Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems, as President of the Trustees
of the California Masonic Memorial Temple, reviewed the history of
the Memorial Temple program and requested the Grand Master to
dedicate the Temple as follows:
The Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M .. on its 109th Annual
Communication has gathered here this afternoon to dedicate the California Masonic Memorial Temple, our first headquarters wholly-owned
by the Masons of California. It is a distinct honor and privilege to present for dedication to this distinguished audience this great memorial
edifice. I feel particularly humble in making this presentation for it is
usually an act of fate and circumstances beyond human control which
make it necessary for the vice chairman of a committee to assume the
chairmanship and such an important responsibility.
Gathered here as we are with our friends and brethren from around
the globe, in this magnificent Temple erected by the Masons of California
and Hawaii as a memorial to our war dead brethren, a feeling of sincere
regret comes over those of us who know him, that our beloved Past
Grand Master Francis Valentine Keesling is not able to be present with
us today. BrothE!r Keesling was the original chairman of the building
committee. This site high upon historic Nob Hill on which this Memorial
Temple is erected, was his first choice. It was his great vision, inspiration
and enthusiasm captured by the committee that has resulted in the edifice
we present today for your inspection and dedication. Failing health
forced Brother Keesling to retire and is the cause of his absence today.
A review of the original planning and construction of the Temple
is given in the 1958 Annual Report of the Trustees to this Grand Lodge,
and will be printed in the Proceedings. Additional general information
is to be found in the dedication issue of the California Freemason.
Obviously, it would be repetitious and time consuming to review it in
its entirety. A brief historical review of the principal Masonic Temples
associated with the growth of this Grand Lodge during the first 108
years is in order.
The three-story Red House on the corner of Fifth and "J" Streets, in
Sacramento, where this Grand Lodge was formed, holds an important
place in the history in California.
Many stories have been written and repeated, and, I might add, some
with embellishment-perhaps all too many times-about the ruggedness
1

86

87

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of pioneer days in the far West-particularly in California. Without
being critical. I have only to refer to the current issue of the California
Freemason. the lead paragraph "from the desk of the Grand Secretary,"
where he says in speaking of the Red House " ... and the second floor
inhabited by some who allegedly were not the first citizens of Sacramento." Now, I ask you, after 108 years, what does he mean and how
does he know in what business they were engaged? Obviously, my own
vivid imagination would lead me to the belief that perhaps those referred
to by the Grand Secretary might have been cattle rustlers, or it might
have been the headquarters for stage coach bandits. History books speak
freely of conditions which would justify such a conclusion.
The fact remains. my brethren, regardless of how fertile your imagination might be, it is significant that those lodges meeting in communication to form this Grand Lodge built some of that ruggedness, some of
that atmosphere, some of that philosophy into the stature of this Grand
Lodge. Certainly the real motivating factor of those men who gathered
in the Red House in the City of Sacramento in 1850 to form this Grand
Lodge was "service above self." They were truly men of good will.
They had all knelt at Masonic altars: they were men who understood
the true meaning of brotherly love, and who practiced charity. Those
men of good will laid the cornerstone of California Masonry. The Red
House isn't mentioned here because of a proprietary interest in it, for
it wasn't even partially owned by the Masons of California. But it
probably could have been for the 103 members of the three lodges forming this Grand Lodge, together with the other Masons of the area, chose
rather to build the temple of humanity in the hearts of men than to build
a physical structure in which to meet. For the record is indelibly clear
that those brethren of good will, in an effort to relieve the distressing
situation resulting from the several cholera epidemics at the time,
expended personal funds aggregating $33,000 for the relief of the needy
in a single year.
The first Masonic Temple, partially owned by Grand Lodge, was
erected in the city of San Francisco during the height of the Civil War.
It was located at Post and ·Montgomery Streets on a lot comprising
about 12,000 square feet. The cost was $250,000. The building started
in 1860 and was finished in 1870. At the time of the dedication in 1863,
prior to its final completion, the Grand Master stated, "This is the finest
and most perfect building upon the Pacific Coast, and when finished it
will be the most beautiful. if not the most expensive Masonic Temple in
America." That Temple of Romanesque-Gothic architecture with its
ornamental facades, pointed arches and slender spires served the Masons
of California for over forty years.
A further search of the record discloses that in the year 1904 the
Grand Lodge of California, experiencing unusual rapid growth, felt the
need for more extensive quarters. Our own Senior Past Grand Master

Oscar Lawler, then a member of the Finance Committee, reported that
the "demand for the acquisition of quarters sufficiently commodious to
meet the requirements is imperative."
In April, 1906, the great fire and earthquake destroyed the Masonic
Temple at Post and Montgomery Streets, and in October the lot on
which the Temple stood was sold for $750,000, and the Temple Association liquidated. That act of God, earthquake and fire, forced early
action by Grand Lodge.
In 1908 the new Association, through the Special Committee, purchased the site at 25 Van Ness Avenue. The new site comprised an area
of approximately 20,000 square feet, less than one-half the area of our
present site. The cornerstone was laid on October 11. 1911, and dedicated at the Annual Communication October 13, 1913.
It is interesting to relate that three names prominent during the
construction and dedication of the Masonic Temple at 25 Van Ness
Avenue 45 years ago are brethren who have kept an active interest in
Masonry all through the years. They are: Our Senior P.G.M. Oscar
Lawler, already referred to in this presentation and who became Grand
Master in 1908 at the age of 33 years. We have many 50-year Masons;
to have been a Grand 'Master 50 years ago is certainly the exception and
worthy of special mention on such an important occasion as this. P.G.M.
Charles Albert Adams, 91 years young next November, the originator of
our annual Public Schools Observance Week, became Grand Master in
1919. He was a director of the Masonic Temple Association, and active
in the Grand Lodge during the construction and dedication of the Temple
at 25 Van Ness Avenue; and P.G.M. Samuel E. Burke who became
Grand Master in 1921. At the time of the dedication in 1913, P.G.M.
Burke held the office of Grand Bible Bearer.
The first two are lawyers, both still practicing law. Brother Burke,
before retirement, was a dentist. All three have been distinguished civic
and Masonic records of accomplishment.
P.G.M. Lawler currently recovering from surgery is not present with
us for that reason. P.G.M. Burke has not been able to attend the past
several sessions of Grand Lodge due to failing health. But P.G.M.
Adams is present. He has built a distinguished and enviable record.
There may have been others who were active then and who may be
alive and present today, but these brethren have maintained an active
interest in the affairs of this Grand Lodge. Their influence has been
built into the structure of Freemasonry; it has also been built into the
Temple we are now about to dedicate.
My Brethren-many of us, as individuals, have felt the pride and
joy of owning our own home. The day we moved in, the feeling of
accomplishment and satisfaction is beyond description-others may
still be anticipating that experience. Masonically, for all of us that day

88

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

is today: and so Most Worshi pful. it becomes your privilege and honor,
assisted by your fine group of officers, to dedicat e this magnificent
structur e to Masoni c uses.
Most Worshi pful Grand Master, on behalf of all the Masons of
Californ ia and Hawaii , the 689 lodges of California, and the Most
Worshi pful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Californ ia, who, being animate d
with a desire to promote the honor and the interest of the Craft, have
erected and furnishe d this Temple for their convenience and accommodation. Erected as a memorial honorin g their heroic dead, this Temple
is to be dedicat ed to Freema sonry, and universal benevolence, that the
cause of freedom for which they died shall ever be therein the sacred
trust of their brethre n and of Freema sons yet unborn. If this building
meets with your approve}, they are desirous that it be dedicat ed according to ancient form and usage.
The Californ ia Masoni c Memorial Temple was then dedicat ed in
accorda nce with the ritual of this Grand Jurisdiction.

DISTI NGUIS HED GUES TS

The following distingu ished guests were introduced, received with
Grand Honors , and after being greeted at the altar by the Grand Master,
were escorted to seats reserved for them.
GROU P 1:
The Right Honora ble the EARL OP SCARBROUGH,
Grand Master of the United Grand Lodge of England.
GROU P 2:
The Right Honora ble the EARL OP ELGIN AND KINCARDINE,
Senior Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Scotland.
M:.w :. GEoRGEs HAZAN,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of France.
M:.w :. HowARD R. H1cK,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.
M.·.w. ·.,G eneral FIDEL CRISTINO GARAY,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge "Cuscatlan," El Salvador.
GROU P 3:
M ... w ... HARRY L. MARTYN,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Canada in the Province of
Ontario.
M .•. w ... KENNETH REID,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of British Columbia.
M:.w:. DoNAL D DELMAR McQuEEN,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Alberta.
M.·.w.· .RicHM OND MAYSON,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Saskatchewan.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
GROU P 4:
M:.w:. ANDR EwG. JENKINS,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts.
M .•. w ••. THOMAS H. POPE,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of South Carolina.
M. •. W. ·.H. LLOYD JoNEs,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of New York.
M.·.w. ·.AuGu sT c. ULLRICH,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of New Jersey.
M:.w:. CHAR LEs H. CovER,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Maryland.
M:.w:. ALBER T H. RuwET,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Connecticut.
M:.w:. W1LLI AM o. WARE,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky.
GROU P 5:
M:.w:. ANDR EwJ. WHITE,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Ohio.
M.·.w. ·.r. BENJAMIN HIGGINBOTHAM,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana.
M:.W.° .WILLI AM J. SANDERS, JR.,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee.
M:.w:. JosEPH L. HuNTER,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Michigan.
M:.w: .JoHN G. KEMMERER,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Texas.
M.·.w.·.G1LBERT J. ScHwARTZ,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Wisconsin.
M.·.w.· .WALT ER L. LANsING,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M:.w: .J. MILES MARTIN,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Minnesota.
GROU P 6:
M:.w:. EARL R. BRowN.
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Kansas.
M:.w: .JoHN E. BEAVER,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nebraska.
M: .w: .FRANK M. FULTON,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Washington.
M:.w:. GLEN N B. VAN FLEET,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
M:.w:. W1LLI AM w. RoBERTs,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of West Virginia.
M.·.w.· .w1LLI AM E. cusHING,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Utah.

90

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
M:.w:.ERNEsTL. JoHNsoN,

Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of South Dakota.

c.

M.·.w.·.RoNALD
NICHOLSON,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
The following distinguished guests were introduced, received with
the Public Grand Honors, and escorted to seats reserved for them.
Major General SIR ALLAN ADAIR,

Assistant Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of England.

M.·.w.·.HAROLD PoND.

Past Grand Master and Past Grand Secretary of the Grand
Lodge of North Dakota.
M:.w:.RoBERT PARKER,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M.".W.".CHARLES A. CARLSON, JR ..

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.
M.".W.".WILL H. TAYLOR,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines.

M:.w:.T. J. H. JoNEs

M.·.w.· ..STANTON YouNGBERG,

Past Grand Master and Official Representative of the Grand
. Master of the Grand Lodge of Queensland.

M.".W.".THOMAS E. LAMPKIN,

v. ·.w. ·.ALFRED NvvANG,

Grand Secretary and Official Representative of the Grand Lodge
of Denmark.
0

0

M. .W. .FREDERIC H. STEVENS,

Past Grand Master and Sovereign Grand Commander of the
Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of the Philippines.
Illustrious DR. J. A. SIMPSON,

Sovereign Grand Commander, Ancient and Accepted Scottish
Rite of Canada.
Illustrious ERNEST B. THOMPSON,

Secretary General, Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of
Canada.
M.".W.".CLIFFORD D. JoRY,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Iowa and President of
the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association.
W.".GEORGE G. VERBRYCK,

Deputy General Grand Master of the General Grand Council.
Royal and Select Masters.
The following distinguished guests. occupying seats reserved for
them, were individually introduced and asked to remain standing until
the group had been introduced. at which time they were accorded the
Public Grand Honors.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of the Philippines
Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
M ... w ... NELSON BLEDSOE.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Arizona.
M ... w ... CHARLES MANTZ,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Colorado.
M:.w:.MILToN SoNNTAG,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Illinois.

M:.w:.T. F. WE1,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of China.

GROUP 2:
W.".ARCHIBALD K. WATSON,

Past Master of Mary's Chapel Lodge No. J, Scotland.
R.".W.".DAVID w. PEARSON,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.
R ...

w ... ROYAL CROWELL,

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nevada.

R:.w:.E. L. BEERs.

Deputy Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of New South Wales.

W.".GEORGE H. UPTON,

Grand Marshal of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts.

W.".RAUHMAN 0. LoNG,

Grand Senior Deacon of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana.
W.".CARL

GROUP I:
M:.w:.RoGER KEITH.

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts.
M.".W.".BENJAMIN ELA,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Maine, and Grand
Representative of the Grand Lodge of California in Maine.
M.".W.".CHARLES McGINNEss,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Kansas.
M.".W.'.HERBERTT. WHITE,

Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Nebraska.

91

v. DAWSON,

Grand Junior Deacon of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana.

w ... ALBERT c. GRAGG,

Junior Grand Deacon of the Grand Lodge of Oregon.

W.".FELIX A. LENHART,

Past Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia.
w ... WILLIAM B. PEITUS,

Past District Grand Warden for China, Massachusetts Con~
stitution.

w ... ALFRED

s. LEE,

Past Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of China.

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

w ... GEORGE B. CLARK,
Grand Historian of the Grand Lodge of Colorado and Grand
Representative of the Grand Lodge of California in Colorado.
The following distinguished guests, each currently a Grand Secretary, occupying seats reserved for them were individually introduced
and asked to remain standing until the group had been introduced, at
which time those in attendance welcomed them with hearty applause.
England....................................................................................J. W. STUBBS
New York....................................................................EDWARD R. CARMAN
Pennsylvania............................................... - .......................ASHBY B. PAUL
Maryland............................................................................ CLAUD SHAFFER
Kentucky..................................................................AL E. ORTON, P.G.M.
Louisiana................................................................. .-D. PETER LAGUENS, JR.
Tennessee............................................................THOMAS E. Doss, P.G.M.
lndiana................................................................ DwlGHT L. SMITH, P.G.M.
Mlc:higan.................................................... CHARLES T. SHERMAN, P.G.M.
Texas .................................................................................. HARVBY C. BYRD
Wisconsin.............................................................. PAUL W. GROSSENBACH
lowa..................................................................................EARL B. DELZELL
Oregon........................................................ HARRY D. PROUDFOOT, P.G.M.
Canada (Ontario ) ........ ::.-..··············•·········•······•·····•··..······EWART G. DIXON
Nebraska............................................................................CARL R. GREISEN
Washington......................................................JoHN I. PREISSNER, P.G.M.
Colorado.......................................................................... HARRY W. BUNDY
British Columbia ..................................................J. H. N. MORGAN, P.G.M.
Wyoming ........................................................................... .IRVJNG E. CLARK
South Dakota ...................................................................... ELVIN F. STRAIN
New Mexico............................................................ CHANDLER C. THOMAS
Arizona......•.••....•..••- .....•.•.................................JosEPB A. E. lvEY, P.G.M.
Alberta......................................................................................E. H. RIVERS
Saskatchewan....................................................................RoBERT A. TATE
Mexico (York Grand Lodge) ....................................MJNO Covo, P.G.M.
The Grand Master introduced his personal friend, Brother C. P.
MacGregor, Potentate of Al Malaikah Temple, and expressed thanks
of the Grand Lodge for services performed by Brother MacGregor in
raising money for the Temple.
At the request of the Grand Master, Edward H. Siems, Grand
Treasurer, thanked Brother Carl Wente for the interest and assistance
of the group of bankers in the .financing of the Temple.
Brother 'Siems also directed attention to the presence of Worshipful
John Icardo, Past 1Master and Past Inspector, who made the first contribution starting the fund for the building of the Temple.
At 4:30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 10:00 a.m. Tuesday,
and the members proceeded to the mezzanine floor where the Merit
Roll Plaque was unveiled.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

93

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 1958
Grand Lodge was called on at 10:00 a.m., the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain invoked the divine blessing. The minutes
of the morning and afternoon sessions of Monday, September 29, were
read and approved.

PARTICIPATION BY OUR DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
The Right Honorable, The Earl of Scarbrough, Grand Master of the
United Grand Lodge of England, addressed Grand Lodge to the great
edification and pleasure of the Brethren, at the conclusion of which he
presented to the Grand Lodge of Cali_fornia, on beha~f of the Grand
Lodge of England, a silver and crystal mk stand made m 1783.

ADDRESS OF THE RIGHT HONORABLE
THE EARL OF SCARBROUGH
GRAND MASTER OF THE UNITED GRAND LoDGE OF ENGLAND
Most Worshipful Grand Master, Brethren of the
Grand Lodge of California:
It is my privilege to bring to you the congratulations, warm and
sincere, of the United Grand Lodge of England on the completion of
your great endeavor by the dedication yesterday of your new California Masonic Memorial Temple.
Those congratulations I have the privilege to bring you have a
special measure of warmth in them because you have made this great
new building of yours a memorial to those of your brethren who gave
their lives in the cause of freedom. All the world knows of the valor
and the immense achievements of the armed forces of the United States.
We in England not only have that knowledge, but also some special
intimate and very cherished memories of your forces, because it was
from our shores that those allied armies-American, Canadian and
British-set sail for the liberation of Europe just over 14 years ago.
Those allied forces were under one supreme command. Many of
us have memories of our service side by side with you, and it so happens that all three of us who represent the Grand Lodge of England
here today, our Assistant Grand Master, Right Worshipful Brother
Major General Sir Allan Adair; our Grand Secretary, Very Worshipful Brother Colonel James Stubbs; and myself, had the honor of
serving under the supreme command of General Eisenhower. And so it
is with these special and intimate memories that we bring our congrat-

95

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ulations on this great memorial achievement, and we mingle with our
congratulations our homage and the cherished memories of comra~~
.
And then, too, this memorial building of your reminds us that our
own Masonic headquarters in London, England, in Great Queen
Street, which some of you know, is also a memorial building, a memorial to those of our brethren who gave their lives in the first World
War. And so we have some recollection and understanding of the
years of thought and effort, in planning and designing and selecting,
and the raising of money which was needed before we could see
our work completed; and having that understanding, our congratulations to you are the more sincere.
Now, brethren, it has been suggested to me-I hope my information is not wrong-that you could stand it if I gave you a short
account of how Freemasonry fares in England today. Our jurisdiction comprises England and Wales, and also a number of districts
and lodges overseas, for wherever Englishmen find themselves, they
seem to sow the seeds of Masonry-in Africa, in India, Pakistan, the
West Indies, and in many other parts of the world.
To give you an idea of our jurisdiction overseas I can tell you that
within recent years I have consecrated a lodge in Pretoria, South Africa,
and have met our brethren in Singapore, New Delhi and Karachi, and
the Assistant Grand Master, who is a great traveler on Masonic matters, has been to Nigeria, Ghana, South Africa and Gibraltar, and
when he has completed his present journey he will set off for Hongkong and other places in that part of the world. We number now
some 7,000 lodges: our brethren number some 600,0~and 500,000
of those are in England and Wales and some 100,000 in our lodges
overseas.
Then I must tell of the ways by which we practice benevolence
in the shape of our care for the orphans of Masons and for old people.
We have three Masonic institutions: one for girls, one for boys and
one for old people, which for many years now have been kept up by
our brethren in the English jurisdiction. Since the war some nine million pounds have been contributed by our brethren to these institutions. We have something else in which we take some pride-our
Royal Masonic Hospital. which has a fine reputation in our medical
world. That hospital has never cost our state a cent. It has all been
built and maintained by the contributions of our brethren, and soon
after I return a large extension will be opened by Queen Elizabeth
the Queen Mother.
Those, brethren, are some facts and figures, but as you know well
in California, the story of Freemasonry cannot really be told by statistics.
We endeavor to put into practice those same Masonic ideals which
you do--brotherhood and friendship in our lodges, the practice of

benevolence, as is shown by our Masonic institutions, and so far as
we can we try to promote virtue amongst ourselves. I don't much
like talking about the Masonic virtues, lest I be led to become like the
Pharisee who thanked God that he was not as other men were. We
no doubt fail to reach the ideals, but we try to remind ourselves to put
into practice what our ritual teaches.
What does it all amount to in England? I must not exaggerate.
There are many other things in England that work for the good of
others, but I think that to have 500,000 men in England and Wales
who have been taught Masonry in our lodges is of some national
value, and I like to think that the Craft is doing something good for
our country.
But when one comes overseas to a great Masonic gathering such
as this, attended by representatives from many parts of the world, the
thought is bound to come upon us that Masonry can do good, not
only within the bounds of our own country but across the boundaries
of our jurisdictions, and I do not think there is anything quite like
Masonry for breaking the ice between people of different countriesor should I say melting the rocks. Since I have been in the United
States in the last two or three weeks I have found, in the warmth of
Masonic fellowship, many things about your country which have
been interpreted to me, and I believe we Freemasons can do quite a
lot to interpret our countries to each other. I am not suggesting, of
course, that Freemasonry should formulate a kind of foreign policy.
We leave that to our governments. We can, however, work on the
foundations which our governments must have, and help them by
interpreting ourselves to each other. Since I have had so much about
your country interpreted to me in these few days, 1 would like, in
return, to try and interpret to you two things about England. It is
true we have a country with a long history, and we have ancient
institutions, which, however, we have often been able to adapt to
new usages: and I expect many of you think of England as "Old
England" and perhaps as a country living in the past. We are proud
of our past, but you would be making a mistake if you thought that
we were just living on our past.
May I give you the other side of the picture and tell you just
one or two things which, six thousand miles away from us, may not
be easily apparent to you? In your great vast country perhaps you
have still not got all the equipment you want for it and are still making things mainly for your own use. In England we are a small island
with a large number of people in it, and we have to export if we are
going to eat. If some you have not been to England in the last six or
seven years I would like to tell you that we are eating better; and
that is because we have now doubled our exports, compared to what
they were before the war; and we export some things which may sur-

94

97

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

prise you, as indeed they surprise me. We are the greatest exporters
in the world of automobiles; and when I came through your Rocky
Mountains the other day and saw something of your great electrical
developments, I was able to remind myself that we are also the greatest
exporters of heavy electrical equipment, among other things.
I am giving you the other side of the picture. And how have these
things come about? Partly through the work of our scientists. We
have, for instance, in operation, through their skill, the first-and I
think still the largest nuclear power station in the world. In another
part of England our scientists have produced the highest temperature
ever known to man. Our scientists and our workers have helped in
things like this. Sometimes it is said that the British worker no longer
works as he used to do. In fact, he works. on the average, seven
hours a week longer than the American works. What about the
tempo of his work? Here I will call to my assistance some words recently used by the president of the Canadian Manufacturers ' Association. He said not long ago, "I have never seen such a high work tempo
in any country-Cana da and the United States included."
That is part of the other side of the picture which I am trying
to interpret to you. It is because the British worker is working as he
is doing that we are able to confront the future with confidence. Then
there are those things which lift up our morale: they may be small,
but they help. We hold the land and water speed records. From time
to time we hold the air speed record as well; then you come and take it
away from us. Then there were those two expeditions accomplished
successfully with the cooperation of our brothers in the Commonwealth-the ascent of Mount Everest, almost on the day when our
Queen was crowned, and the recent crossing of the Antarctic Continent.
We may be "Old England" but our men have still the spirit
of adventure in them, and that is part of the interpretation of England I would like to make to you. So, when you come to England to
visit us, there are other things in England which you can see besides
the changing of the guard at Buckingham Palace. We like that, and
so do you, judging by the crowds of visitors from your country I see
in the summer. But remember. there are other things in England besides the old things.
And the other interpretation which I venture to offer to you for
your consideration is what we in England think about you. In these
days many things are written and many things are said, and not all
of them wisely written or wisely said, but what really counts are
the deep thoughts, deep in the minds of people, undisturbed by the
ripples which sometimes appear on the surface. And I would interpret
to you the deep thoughts of people in England about you in this way.
We wonder at and admire your spacious land, your great concep-

tions. your vast achievements, and your generosity, unparalleled in
history, towards other peoples. And we thank the Great Architect
of the Universe that there is in this great land of yours a nation dedicated to high ideals. which preserve its might and power to keep
peace in the world and to insure that freedom shall not perish from
the earth. Those. brethren, are the true and deep thoughts in our
minds about you, and it is Freesmasonry that enables us to tell each
other our deep thoughts now and again.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, the three of us who have come
from England to represent our Grand Lodge at this communication
and to witness the dedication of your memorial temple, will never
forget these days that we are spending with you and your brethren.
We shall long remember that great Masonic day of yesterday, and in
particular the dignity and perfection of the opening of your Grand
Lodge and the dedication of the temple. We shall keep in our minds
a picture of this great building, filled to the roof with the brethren
of California. We shall not easily forget the princely hospitality
which you shower upon us and upon our wives. But most of all we
shall keep green the memory of the warmth and kindness and friendship which have lapped us round since the first moment that we set
foot in this city.
We have received much from you and your brethren in these days.
We would like to leave something behind us, something which might
be a little useful and a reminder of the Grand Lodge of England.
That was the thought of our Grand Lodge. And I have brought with
me from the Grand Lodge of England a little gift for the Grand
Lodge of California. It is only a small thing; it is, as a matter of
fact, a silver ink stand. It is of respectable age. Its date is 1783, and
it was made, as other things were made, in the days of ·G eorge III.
I believe-I may be wrong; this is my first visit to the United States! believe that George III has never enjoyed a first class reputation
in the United States. But that did not prevent the silversmiths of
London from doing some of their best work in his reign.
Most Worshipful Grand Master, we hope that this little gift of
ours may have a long sojourn in this great new building of yours. If
you think well of the suggestion that it might be used by the Grand
Masters of the Grand Lodge of California, we should be very happy.
In presenting it to you from the Grand Lodge of England there go
with it some sentiments which should ever distinguish us as men and
as Masons: there go with it the brotherly love and affection of all
the brethren in all the lodges under the Grand Lodge of England.

96

98

99

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Additional Addresses

Most Worshipful John I. Preissner, Pas Grand Master and Grand
Secretary of Washington, and Vice President of the Grand Secretaries
Conference of North America. He announced the Centennial of the
Grand Lodge of Washington, December 7th and 8th, 1958.
The Grand Master called attention to the fact that the rods for the
Stewards and the Deacons were made by members of Hollywood Lodge
No. 355 from yew wood provided under the direction of Brother James
W. Stubbs, Grand Secretary of the United Grand Lodge of England.
The Grand Master announced that the gavels for himself and for the
Senior and Junior Wardens were made and provided by Brother Edward
Groeper of Seaport Lodge No. 550.
A beautiful Vase, a showpiece of Czechoslovakian Craftsmanship
which was a piece of the Exhibit for the International Exposition held
on Treasure Island in 1940, was presented by Felix A. Lenhart, Past
Grand Treasurer of the Grand Lodge of Czechoslovakia.

Lord Elgin, Senior Past Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of Scotland after his address presented as a gift from the Grand Lodge of
Scotland a beautiful baton made of Scottish Oak, and it was used for
the 6.rst time by the Grand Marshal in escorting Lord Elgin to his seat.
Most Worshipful Georges Hazan, Grand Masterof theGrandLodge
of France, addressed Grand Lodge to the pleasure of the Brethren and
on behalf of his Grand Lodge presented a sword to the Grand Lodge of
California.
Most Worshipful Howard R. Hick, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of the Philippines expressed the appreciation of that jurisdiction
for the continued friendship of the Grand Lodge of California and
pointed out that in addition to bringing the warm fraternal greetings of
his jurisdiction he had been designated by the newly recognized Grand
Lodge of Japan to represent them at this Communication.
Most Worshipful General Fidel Cristino Garay, Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge "Cuscatlan," El Salvador, after addressing the Grand
Lodge presented a beautiful silk flag of his country: El Salvador.
Most Worshipful Donald Delmar McQueen, Grand Master o{ the
Grand Lodge of Alberta, Canada, made a presentation of an oil painting
of Mt. Eisenhauer after his address to Grand Lodge.
Very Worshipful Alfred Nyvang, Grand Secretary and Official
Representative of the Grand Lodge of Denmark, presented on behalf
of that jurisdiction a porcelain figurine, a replica of the statue located
in the harbor of Copenhagen.
At various times during the Communication the following Distinguished Guests were called upon and in each case they responded
with an address which was appreciatively and enthusiastically received
by the Brethren:
·
Most Worshipful Harry L. Martyn, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Canada in the Province of Ontario.
Most Worshipful Richmond Mayson, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Saskatchewan.
Most Worshipful H . Lloyd Jones, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of New York.
Most Worshipful Andrew J. White, Jr., Grand Master of Ohio.
Worshipful J. Benjamin Higginbotham, Grand Master of Louisiana.
Most Worshipful William W. Roberts, Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of West Virginia.
Most Worshipful Clifford D . Jory, Past Grand Master of the Grand
Lodge of Iowa and President of the George Washington Masonic
National Memorial Association.

100

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
For the Fiscal Year Ended June 30, 1958
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
This is the fourth annual report it has been my privilege to submit
to this Grand Lodge as your Grand Treasurer.
Section 146 of the "California Masonic Code" sets forth in its simplicity the duty of the Grand Treasurer: To receive all monies belonging
to Grand Lodge from the Grand Secretary and to give a receipt therefor,
etc., only implies the volume of work done by the staff of Grand Lodge.
The record shows that about 40% of those in attendance are here for
the first time. In order for all members of Grand Lodge present to
visualize the volume of work involved, I shall again endeavor to describe
the cash flow of funds received from all sources. Receipts from all
sources sent in by the several constituent lodges are deposited by the
Grand Secretary to the credit of the Grand Treasurer in a bank account
maintained for that purpose. This is a collection or reservoir account.
To this account is also deposited such other items as funds from bequests,
proceeds of sales, etc., which are transmitted directly to the Grand
Secretary's office for the account of the Endowment Fund, the Masonic
Homes, or the Grand Lodge.
At the end of each month, after review by the auditors and with
their approval. there is withdrawn from the above reservoir account
the total of amounts belonging to the Grand Lodge, the Endowment
Fund, the Masonic Homes General Fund, or to any of the 15 special
funds of the Masonic Homes in order that such items may be deposited
to the separate accounts of these funds.
California Masonic Memorial Temple funds received from the constituent lodges, or from individuals, are deposited direct to the Temple
account. Should a check made payable to the California Masonic
Memorial Temple by a constituent lodge also include funds belonging
to some other account, a proper withdrawal is made at the end of each
month the same as though the funds had been deposited to the Grand
Treasurer's reservoir account.
The Crocker-Anglo National Bank of San Francisco receives all
income from investments under a custodial arrangement (periodically
amended and revdsed) which has been in existance between the Grand
Lodge and the Bank's predecessor since April 1. 1920. Such receipts,
together with collections on notes, proceeds of sales and other items
transmitted directly to the Bank, are deposited by it in the account
for the particular fund involved.
This custodial arrangement or agreement also covers securities owned
by the several accounts of Grand Lodge and which securitdes may be
withdrawn from such depository only in accordance with Section 146 of
the "California Masonic Code."

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

101

For purposes of routine operation, money is transferred from the
main accounts carried by the Grand Treasurer to "Operating Accounts"
maintained under different signature arrangements. Appropriations and
other special items such as those covering capital expenditures, and
which merit special handling, are paid by checks drawn by the Grand
Treasurer on the appropriate account.
The magnitude of these transactions is indicated by the figures of
total mcome and disbursements tabulated in the auditor's reports, and
as herein summarized.
GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
AND AFFILIATED ORGANIZATIONS

SUMMARY OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS-COMPARATIVE
Eleven
Months Ended
June 30, 1957

Year Ended
June 30, 1958

INCOME RECEIPTS:
GRAND LoDGE:
Per capita, contributions, and fees .......... $ 313.971.24 $ 309,948.98
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous....
27,940.52
28,257.26
$ 341,911.76 $ 338,206.24
MASONIC HOMES-GENERAL FUND:
Grand Lodge per capita
and contrib!ttions.................................. $ 335,815.00 $ 340.049.00
Payments through lodges for Homes .... ..
32,863.25
30,120.70
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous .. .. 120,805.28
89,497.89
$ 489,483.53 $ 459,667.59
MASONIC HOMES-PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND:
Interest, dividends, and miscellaneous.... $ 313,803.17

$ 228.990.29

MASONIC HOMES-OTHER ENDOWMF.NT FUNDS:
Contributions............................................ $
328.50 $
Interest and dividends............................. .
22,766.29
$ 23,094.79 $

1,947.00
16,992.67
18,939.67

MEMORIAL TEMPLE:
Interest ...................................................... $
5,613.47 $ 13,792.44
Memorial Temple operations ................. .
14,066.65
$ 19,680.12 $ 13,192.44
Total Income (Exclusive of
Capital Gains) ........ '. ......................... $1,187,973.37 $1,059,596.23

102

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CAPITAL RECEIPTS, INCLUDING LOANS
AND CAPITAL GAINS:
GRAND LoDGE:
Gain on sale of securities.......................... $
Bequests and contributions ......................
$

8,810.36 $
1,922.83
10,763.19 $

5,346.34
5,346.34

MASONIC HOMES-GENERAL FUND:
Gain on sale of securities ........................ $ 17,233.20 $ 14,839.47
203,093.70
Bequests and contributions...................... 265,868.94
249,423.83
Assignments by resic:lents ........................ 261,034.13
9,872.32
Miscellaneous ............ .......................................................
$ 544.136.27 $ 477,229.32
MAsoN1c HoMES·-PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FuND:
Bequests and contributions ..................... $ 505,499.47
84,231.31
Gain on securities and real estate sold....
$ 589,730.78

$ 448,565.28
5,985.02
$ 454,550.30

MASONIC HOMES-OTHER ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS:
887.21 $
Gain on sale of securities ........................ $
30,151.84
Received from residents for deposit ........
$ 31,039.05 $

37,542.76
37,542.76

MEMORIAL TEMPLE:
Grand Lodge per capita
and contributions.................................. $ 302,235.00 $ 299,746.00
311,931.38
Contributions from individuals................ 180,235.36
300,000.00
Loan from banks...................................... 1,655,790.00
$2.138,260.36 $ 911.677.38

MASONIC HOMES-ENDOWMENT AND TRUST FUNDS:
3,513.50
5,778.70 $
Scholarships.............................................. $
1.046.62
1,494.24
Miscellaneous ..........................................
31,467.58
30,145.83
Withdrawn by residents..........................
$ 37,418.77 ~$~36-=--.021-.10
MEMORIAL TEMPLE:
General expense........................................ $ 76,143.27 $ 35,165.34
15,535.58
Memorial Temple operations..................
$ 91,678.85 $ 35,165.34
NET OPERATING EXPENSES .................. $1,261,229.74 $1,133,216.07
Year Ended
June 30, 1958

$2,945,942.33

EXPENSE DISBURSEMENTS:
GRAND LODGE:
Operating expense.................................... $ 274,842.83

$ 331,947.34

MASONIC HOMES-GENERAL FUND:
Operation of Homes and outside relief.. .. $ 742,764.04
90,951.20
Administrative and general expense....... .
23,574.05
Retirement income plan............................
857,289.29
$

$ 615.329.57
75,072.43
39,673.69
$ 730,075.69

Eleven
Months Ended
June 30, 1957

EXPENSES CHARGED TO RESERVES
FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES:
MASONIC HOMES:
Replacements to Homes .......................... $ 38,906.69 $ 29,833.14
5,920.7{)
7,662,21
Funeral expense........................................
10,440.30
13,791.65
Entertainment expense............................
45,792.00
50,616.00
Grants to residents..................................
5,242.68
11,567.32
Miscellaneous ..........................................
$ 122,543.87 $ 97,228.82
TOTAL EXPENSES ........................ $1,383,773.61 $1.230,444.89
EXCESS OF RECEIPTS
OVER DISBURSEMENTS ............ $3,118,129.41 $1,715,497.44
LP.SS: Loan from banks300,000.00
Memorial Temple ................................ 1,655,790.00
NET INCREASE IN CAPITAL.. .......... $1,462,339.41

TOTAL INCOME AND
CAPITAL RECEIPTS .................. $4,501,903.02

103

$1,415,497.44

The foregoing net increase in capital during the year ended June 30,
1958, and eleven months ended June 30, 1957, is accounted for as
follows:
June 30, 1958

June 30, 1957

Increase or ( decrease ) in cash on
deposit in bank. ...............................$ 366,215.97 $ ( 1.686,069.57)
1,029,915.19
6512,502.08
Increase in securities owned..............
2.293,501.32
2.081,720.56
equipment
Increase in buildings and
78,150.50
17,690.80
Increase in miscellaneous assets, net
( 300,000.00)
LESS: Increase in loan from banks ( 1,~55,790.00)
NET INCREASE IN CAPITAL, AS ABOVE.... $ 1,462,339.41

$ 1.415,497.44

105

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The above recap of our income and disbursements is given in brief
to invite sufficient interest for you to review the auditor's reports in
detail. As officers of your respective lodges, it is your responsibility-a
part of the job.

chasing power of the dollar has been declining all too rapidly during the
past 25 years, and, if we are honest with ourselves, we must recognize
that fact. A financially strong lodge is usually strong in every other
respect; so, too, our Grand Lodge. By conducting our affairs on a
businesslike basis, following sound business principles, we, too, shall
remain strong and worthy of the name of Masonry.
My second recommendation then is directed to the attention of the
officers of the constituent lodges, particularly those lodges whose financial stature has failed to provide reasonable growth due to an inadequate
dues structure. Take a careful look at your particular situation. For
the officers to delay in recommending an increase in dues is only natural.
We must, however, be realistic and face the facts. With built-in
automatic pay increases in long-term labor contracts, the continued
policy of spending borrowed money at all levels of our economy, the
value of the dollar must, of necessity, continue to decline. In calling th.is
problem to your attention, I want to issue a word of caution. In determining what constitutes a proper dues and initiation fee structure for a
Masonic lodge, keep in mind that under no circumstances should they
be placed at an amount where Masonry ceases to have an universal
appeal. Ability to pay should never be made the test for membership. T 0
paraphrase--the high and the low, the rich and the poor, should all be
able to. unite and ca~se true friendship to exist among those who might
otherw1se have remained at a perpetual distance. You, as officers, have
been e.lected to display real leadership for your lodges-a leadership
that will keep your lodge ever alert and capable of handling every financial adversity or requirement.

104

COMMENTS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

Before closing this report there are two other matters relating to
finance which I feel impelled to bring to your attention.
I am sure we are all in agreement that the success of a Masonic
lodge or Grand Lodge is not measured by its financial strength or stability even though financial strength and reserves against adverse times
are highly desirable. This Grand Lodge is now assembled for its 109th
Annual Communication. True, the Masonic Homes Endowment fund is
a sizeable fund, but when we delete from the figures the monies belonging
to the Endowment Fund, the California Masonic Memorial Temple, the
Homes and other Special Funds, the Grand Lodge of California Pree
and Accepted Masons had total assets at the close of the fiscal year
June 30, 1958, of $732,996.18. This represents an average net gain of
less than $7,000 per year for the first 108 years of our existence. Certainly this is not in keeping with the dignity and high purpose of the
Grand Lodge. In these days of inflation and reasonably good times we
should have a program of continuing financial growth. Sound business
principles would dictate such a policy.
It is my recommendation to this Grand Lodge that we include in our
Grand Lodge annual budget some portion of our per capi.t a for the
definite purpose of building a surplus to be added to the capital assets
of this Grand Lodge.
My final thought in this report deals with the dues structure of the
constituent lodges. Of course, the Grand Lodge is only as strong
financially and spiritually as are the constituent lodges. It was in the
year 1948 that the minimum dues for constituent lodges was raised from
$9.00 to $12.00 per annum. As the result of that legislation 207 lodges
were called upon to raise their dues to the new minimum. At that time,
out of 594 lodges in existence, 337 were then at $12.00. At the close of
the fiscal year June 30, 1957, we had 677 constituent lodges. Of this
group 320 still hold to the minimum dues structure of $12.00 per year.
Out of these 320 lodges, 146 lodges were a part of those 207 lodges
called upon to raise their dues in 1948 from $9.00 per year to $12.00
per year.
In his 1957 Annual Report, Brother Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand
Secretary, presented some rather interesting figures in this regard. I
commend them for your review and study. I have no intention of
recommending that G.rand Lodge again increase the minimum dues for
constituent lodges, certainly not at this time. This should be a determination by the individual lodge. The fact remains, however, that the pur-

Respectfully submitted,
EDWARD H. SIEMS,
Grand Treasurer.
Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

106

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This is my sixth annual report, covering the activities of the Grand
Lecturer and those of the Committee on Ritual.
The usual Spring Conferences of Inspectors were held as follows:
Divisions 1 and 2, at Bijou, Lake Tahoe, June 20-22, 1958, conducted jointly by Worshipful Clare B. Campbell and Worshipful Ralph
M. Foote, Assistant Grand Lecturers.
Division 3, at Guerneville, May 16-18, 1958, conducted by Worshipful Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 4, at Yosemite, June 6-8, 1958, conducted by Worshipful
Raymond G. Taylor, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 5, at Ventura, April 18-20, 1958, conducted by Worshipful
Donald G. Campbell, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
Division 6, at Garden Grove, March 21-23, 1958, conducted by
Worshipful W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer.
At each of these conferences the work was fully and well done by
the Inspectors of the respective division. These Conferences are, in
my opinion, an important factor in maintaining the uniformity and
excellence of our ritual.
At each of the Conferences, the Inspectors were addressed by the
Grand Master, and at two of them by the Grand Secretary as well, on
matters of interest and importance to the Inspectors.
At some of these Conferences, meetings of the Ritual Committee
were held to consider various matters pertaining to the ritual. A special
meeting of the Committee was also held at San Francisco, on November
30 and December 1, 1957, with all members of the Committee present,
at which meeting the entire work of the three degrees was reviewed and
performed by the Assistant Grand Lecturers.
The annual reports received by me from the Inspectors of the
jurisdiction, as required by Section 161 of the California Masonic Code,
show that most of our lodges are in good working condition and that
most of them are actively at work. As usual, however, some matters
have been disclosed by the reports which require attention, and they will
be referred to the Inspectors for their attention and correction.
As I have reported in previous years, the Committee has no suggestions whatever for any changes in the esoteric work.
With the approval of the Grand Master, I made a trip to Honolulu
and the outer Islands, and there conducted schools of instruction, as well
as rehearsals for the Dedication and Constitution ceremonies for Lodge
Maui No. 472 and the new Waikiki Lodge No. 774. A·I together I spent
well over flfty hours in instruction, rehearsals and participation in the
ceremonies which were conducted by the Grand Master. As to the
ritual in the lodges in the Islands, it is my firm conviction that it will take

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

107

more than intermittent trips to bring their ritual up to the required
standard, and it is my recommendation that an Assistant Grand Lecturer
should be sent there each year to give the required instruction to these
brethren and to assist the Inspectors.
This appears to be the desire of the Inspectors as well as the officers
of the Island lodges. They are certainly entitled to the same ritual
instruction as are the mainland brethren.
In closing, may I express to the Grand Master my personal thanks
for his many courtesies during the past year, and to the Grand Secretary
and Assistant Grand Secretary my appreciation for their ever-ready
assistance; and my thanks to you brethren for the opportunity of serving
you.
Respectfully submitted,
ELBERT W. DAVIS, Grand Lecturer
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SEGREGATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
The Committee on Segregation, to which has been referred the annual message of the Grand Master, reports of the Grand Treasurer,
Grand Secretary, Grand Lecturer, California Masonic Memorial Temple
Trustees, and reports of the Special Committees on Cemeteries, Taxation, and Columbia Temple, submits the following report:
GRAND MASTER'S MESSAGE

We recommend that the portions of the Grand Master's Message
lis~ed below be' referred to the standing committees indicated:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. The recommendation that the next Grand Master appoint a Board
of Library Commissioners if qualified personnel can be discovered.
2. The recommendation relating to title clarification and transfer
for the Fiddletown Cemetery.
3. The recommendation (No. 5) that the work of the Special Committee on Local Temple Association Finances be continued.
4. Decisions No. 2, 3 and 6.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and to the Committee
on Jurisprudence:
1. Recommendations No. 1, 3, 4.
2. Decisions No. 5. 7, 8, 14, 15, 17, 18, 20, 24, 25, 27, 28, 31, 32,
33, 35, 36.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, Ritual and Finance:
1. Recommendation No. 2.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
1. Decisions No. 1, 4, 9 thru 13, 16, 19, 21, 22, 23, 26, 29, 30, 34,
37, 38.

108

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

To the Committee on Finance:
1. Approval of Supplemental Appropriations, Exhibit "H''.
GRAND SECRETARY'S REPORT

Upon careful reading of the Grand Secretary's Report we find
nothing requiring referral to committees.
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

To the Committee on Finance:
1. The entire Grand Treasurer's Report, as such.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. That portion recommending a budgeted annual surplus.
2. That portion recommending similar budget planning by constituent lodges.
GRAND LECTURER'S REPORT

We recommend referral of the entire report to the Committee on
Finance.
MEMORIAL TEMPLE TRUSTEES REPORT

To the Committee on Finance:
1. The report as a whole.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. The recommendation re: Library and Museum Committee.
2. The recommendation relating to portraits of Past Grand Masters.
SPECIAL COMMIITBE REPORTS

To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and Finance:
1. Recommendation No. 1 of the report of the Special Committee
on Cemeteries.
To the Committees on Policy and General Purposes, and Jurisprudence:
1. Recommendations No. 2 through 10 of the report of the Special
Committee on Cemeteries.
To the Committee on Finance:
1. The report of the Special Committee on Taxation.
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
1. The report of the Columbia Temple Committee.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH

w. CUTLER

FRANK R. KILLINGER, JR.
JACK L. BLAINE

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

109

ANNUAL REPORT OF
MASONIC HOMES ENDOWMENT BOARD
Your Masonic Homes Endowment Board submits herewith for your
consideration, its 26th Annual Report, covering the period of July 1.
1957 to June 30, 1958. This report brings to a close another fiscal year
in which the brethren of this Jurisdiction have again demonstrated that
"Masons Take Care of Their Own," not only during the fleeting present
but for generations to come.
CONTRIBUTIONS THROUGH LoDGES

This past year, 81,686 brethren contributed $421,633.62 to the
Homes Endowment Fund, a permanent tribute and lasting example of
their Masonic love and affection. This is an all-time high, and an increase
of $49,500 above the contributions of a year ago. These figures are for
contributions through the lodges only, and do not include special gifts
and bequests. The contributions of this year brought the total of the
Endowment Fund to $8,163,258.55. This amount may seem large at
first glance. However, the income from the Fund still amounts to less
than half the expenses of operating the Homes and those expenses, like
all others, continue to increase each year. During the year just past, the
operating expenses of the Homes were $715,673.00 and the income from
the Endowment was $313,658.00. It is self-evident that a much greater
Endowment is needed and our job is not complete.
WILLS AND BEQUESTS

In addition to the contributions through the lodges, $78,913.77 was
contributed to the Endowment through Bequests, the final expression of
love from those-who have been called from labor in this life. To make a
bequest to the Endowment, this lasting Monument of Masonry, is truly
"leaving foot-prints in the sands of time." Wills and Bequests are becoming an increasingly important activity of the Endowment Board and
we hope the lodges will give further considered thought to the potential
of this phase of our Endowment program. A new pamphlet, on this
subject exclusively, entitled "Wills and Bequests," has recently been
prepared by brother Everett Houser, Chairman of the Research Committee of Grand Lodge and is now available to the lodges, through the
Endowment Board.
We hope every lodge will order a supply of these pamphlets and
send one to each member, to the end that many more Masons might remember the Masonic Homes Endowment in their Will.
HONOR ROLL LODGl~S

This year 365 lodges achieved the Honor Roll by contributing an
average of at least $2.00 per member. This is a net increase of 80 lodges
on the Honor Roll above the previous year. Many outstanding records
were established, as a careful study of the figures from individual lodges.
found elsewhere in this report, will disclose. The experience of many of

110

111

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

these lodges demonstrates that most any lodge can attain the Honor
Roll if a few of its officers and members really become enthused, will
accept new ideas, devise effective methods, use imagination, be optimistic, and exert considerable extra effort. The chairman or any member of this Board will be glad to assist any lodge in accgmplishing this
purpose.
In addition to listing the Honor Roll Lodges, found elsewhere in this
report, we wish to give special recognition and thanks to the following
lodges who "went the second mile," not only attaining the Honor Roll
but sending in contributions averaging $3.00 or more per member:

Lodge Committeemen . The result was gratifying, to say the lea~~· The
lodges ordered more than half a million such pamphlets for mailing to
their members. This was approximately three times the amount ordered
in any previous year.
Again, for the coming year, additional new pamphlets have been
written by Grand Lodge Officers and Past Grand Masters. together
with the one on "Wills and Bequests" previously mentioned. These are
now available and may be ordered from the Chairman of this Board.

AverageAm't
No.
Lodge
Per Member
264 Hesperian .................................. $8.75
598 Wm. D. Stephens .................... 6.50
737 Hillsborough .............................. 5.10
780 Riviera ........................................ 4.54
595 Alexander Graham Bell .......... i.53
195 Buckeye ...................................... 4.29
378 Mizpah ..._.................................. 4.27
278 Southern California .................. 4.21
368 Unity ...............................- ......... 4.10
739 La Canada .................................. 3.97
637 Palisades .................................... 3.94
761 Josiah W. Roller ...................... 3.87
1H Oriental ...................................... 3.73
707 Leke Tahoe .............................. 3.60
767 Wm. Rhodes Hervey .............. 3.59
725 St. John's .................................... 3.56
745 Penimula .................................... 3.45
697 St. Elmo..................,........... $3.36

Small cards bearing this title are furnished to the lodges by the Endowment Board, for mailing with dues notices or otherwise. They contain in part the suggestion "When writing your check for lodge due~;
why not add to it an amount for the Masonic Homes End?wment ~und.
Each year more lodges are adopting this method of reminder which facilitates matters for the contributor, making unnecessary a separate
check, envelope, stamp. or form to fill out. During the past year 133.000
such cards were ordered by the lodges thereby presumably more than
half the members of the Jurisdiction receive such a card. In addition. the
dues notices of many lodges contain a similar reminder.

Average Am't
No.
Lodge
Per Member
642 La Cumbre ................................ 3.35
753 Lawndale .................................... 3.32
464 Alta Vista .................................. 3.27
352 Sunset ........................................ 3.27
470 Lincoln ........................................ 3.25
734 Kit Carson ..........................- ..... 3.25
200 Truc:Re ..............- - ..........._ __ 3.21
699 Bixby Knolls................................ 3. 1~
623 Menorah .................................... 3.12
663 Ojai ............................................ 3.10
757 Channel ...................................... 3.10
242 Magnolia ............................... ..... 3.09
467 Culver City ................................ 3.03
7H San Leandro .............................. 3.02
768 Zenith .......................................... 3.02
729 Centennial .................................. 3.01
641 James A. Foshay ....................... 3.00

PERCENTAGE OF CONTRIBUTORS

You will note in this year's report that the "percentage of members
contributing" is shown for each lodge, for the first time, in addition to
the dollar amount. A careful analysis of those figures should prove interesting. The amount of $421,598.22 this year was contributed by approximately 35% of the members of the Jurisdiction and 65% of the
members made no contribution to the Endowment Fund. In fact, 75 of
the 365 lodges attaining the Honor Roll this year did so with less than
35% of their members contributing. Our great aim and fond hope is
that more and more of the 65 % will soon experience the joy and satisfaction of making an annual contribution and their sharing in this most
worthy cause.
PAMPHLETS

Most of the pamphlets which had been in use for many years were
discarded a year ago and new ones were written and offered to the
lodges for mailing to members. Several of the new ones were filled with
factual information about the Homes and Endowment. Samples were
displayed at Grand Lodge a year ago and later sent to all Masters,
Wardens, Secretaries, lodge Endowment Chairmen, lodge Research
Committees, and to all Grand Lodge Officers, Inspectors, and Grand

STOP-THINK-CO NSOLIDATE CARDS

TOTAL PRINTED ITEMS

In addition to the cards and pamphlets mentioned above. this Board
distributed the following printed items to the lodges: 237,000 copies of
the Grand Master's Proclamation to be mailed to all members of the
lodges; 6,000 copies of a 30-page Manual of Information; 2,500 copies of
this Board's Annual Report; and about 5,000 printed or typed letters.
Thus approximately 900,000 printed items of information were prepared and distributed by your Endowment Board.
CHANGES IN ENDOWMENT BOARD PERSONNEL

During the past year, the Great Architect called from labor two
brethren who had given a great amount of time and effort to the Endowment Board for many years. Brother Edmund A. Lockett, who
passed away after a long illness, was one of th_e original mem~ers of this
Board when it was created in 1933 and continued to serve in that capacity until a f~ years ago. when he found it necessary to resign be,
cause. of ill health.
Also Brother Ira D. Wheeler became a member of this Board soon
after it ~as established and continued as a Board Member until his
death last November. We pay our humble and sincere respects to the
memory of these two faithful brethren who labored diligently for so
many years, that others less fortunate might have a Home.
A year ago, Dr. Ernest G. Bashor, after serving so faithfully as
Chairman of this Board for fourteen years, requested that he be not reappointed as Chairman, and Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, Grand

112

113

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Master, appointed John M. Gordon to that Office. Brother Bashor remains as a Member of the Board. on which he has served so well for
twenty-two years, but being relieved of the heavy duties and responsibilities of Chairman, he is now devoting more time to world travel and
other activities. The heart-felt thanks of this Board and of the fraternity go to Brother Bashor for so many years of devoted leadership of
the Endowment Board.
Last December, Brother Clovis J. Robert resigned from the Board, on
which he had worked so diligently and devotedly for the past ten years.
Our sincere thanks go to Brother Robert for his many years of service in
this labor of love.
The Board is fortunate in acquiring two well-qualified brethren to
fill the two vacancies on the Board occasioned during the year. Brother
Henry G. Van Dyke, "Junior" Past Master of Long Beach Lodge No.
327, was appointed to complete the unexpired term of Ira W. Wheeler,
deceased, and Brother Melvin A. Pixley, Past Master of Harding Lodge
No. 584 and Grand Orator of Grand Lodge for the past year, was appointed to fill the unexpired term of Clovis J. Robert, resigned. Both of
these new appointments were made by Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master, and we compliment him upon his excellent choice
and wise judgement in appointing these two good brethren to the Endowment Board.

and members of all lodges who contTibuted of their time. effort and
money, we say "a great big thank you."

OuR THANKS To ALL

It is impossible to adequately thank all who have assisted in making
this the greatest year in the history of the Endowment Fund. However.
we would like to especially thank the following: First, the Grand Master, M.W. Leo E. Anderson, for his kind consideration, council and advice, as well as his praise for the Endowment Program on many occasions when he was speaking before large audiences of brethren: to the
Grand Secretary, M.W. Lloyd E. Wilson: the Assistant Grand Secretary. Brother Henry D. Oliphant, and all members of their staff, who
have been extremely cooperative and helpful to the Members of this
Board in general. and to its Chairman in particular; to the Grand Treasurer, M .W. Edward H. Siems. the trusted custodian of our funds; to the
Masters, Wardens and lodge Endowment Committeemen. who have devoted much time and work on behalf of the Endowment: to the lodge
Seuetaries, who in most cases had the job of mailing out the printed
items to members, as well as receiving. handling and issuing receipts for
contributions, and we know in many lodges the Secretary is the perennial
guiding light for the Endowment program in his lodge: to the Inspectors,
who have cooperated so wonderfully well and assisted so greatly in the
Endowment work. In many cases the officers of a lodge have been enthused to place their lodge on the Honor Roll because the Inspector expressed or evidenced a real interest in the Endowment: and to all officers

THE MASONIC HOMES ENDOWME NT BOARD
JoHN M. GORDON, Chairman
BYRON COLEMAN, Vice-Chairman
KERMIT A. JACOBSON, Vice-Chairman
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M., Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSON. P.G.M •• Secretary

Terms Expiring

1958

1959

1960

0RNO E. TYLER

ERNEST G. BASHOR

KERMIT A. JACOBSON

Ho~cE R. LA FORTUNE

HENRY G. VAN DYKE

MELVIN A. PIXLEY

JoHN M. GoRDON

LESTER A. PRICE

BYRON COLEMAN

}OHN !<AHLER

NORBERT

MARION A. LoNG

JoHN W. DAVEY

w. MIXTER RALPH s. BROKAW
RuE W. SIMS

ENDOWMENT REPORT
CONTRIBUTION S THROUGH THE LoDGES

1954 ············································ $ 288,995.94
1955 ············································
311.005.10
1956 ············································
328,494.09
1957 ············································
372,083.61
1958 ············································
421,633.62
RECEIPTS FROM ALL SOURCES

1954 ............................................ $ 451,675.04
1955 ............................................
576,647.66
1956 ............................................
589,367.97
1957 ············································
448,565.28
1958 ····················-·······················
589,730.78
INDIVIDUAL PARTICIPATION

1954
1955
1956
1957
1958

...................................................... 62.387
······················································ 67,684
..................................................................................................... 69,213 .
............................................................................................... 79,995
...................................................... 81.686
HONOR LoDGES

1954 ···························································· 260
1955 ···························································· 228
1956 ···························································· 237
1957 ···························································· 285
1958 ·······················-··································· 365

lH

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

TESTAMENTARY G1PTS

MEMORIALS

Bequests have been received as follows, up to June 30, 1958:
Estate of:

e:i'~~--=:~:~~~~~~~~=~~~~~~~~=:~ ~:~~
$

~;i~~~~~~t~f-f~~~~~~~ ·~:;~
901.53

Bertha Sherwood -·················- ··············-·······················-·- ···················

~~:eJ wS:~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1,6~:gg
$78,913.77

Organizations and Individuals:
Alexander R. Boley ......................................... ............................................. $ 24.70
31.90
Aerott~General Corp. Employees ....................•.......................................
15.00
Mr. Mrs. Clarence R. Dorse~ ·······-·-··········-················-······················
General Petroleum Corp. Emp yees & Tuac:an Cub·······--··············· 128.00
Ionic Foundation ······--··--·········--····· ·····--··-·········--·--···· ········ 50.00
12.00
Knudsen Cream~ Co. ~ ·······-···················-·····-·················
Aeronautics ···-········-······················ 20.00
National Advisory Committee
20.00
Pioneer Sportsman's Club of El Cerrito···········-·············-····-······-·········

?:~
~~a= FC:~<l~ii~·-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 5A5.00

San Pedro Oiapter No. 89, R.A.M ..................................._.........~·---··--·
Unknown ...............- ............................................-.......................................

62.47

$960.70

115

Walter Purcell
Leonard W. Harless
LouJs T. Adamson
Mrs. Flora B. Reynolds
Mrs. William F. Harrell
Herbert Allen
Sherman A. Reynolds
Eva Josephine Hart
Allen Adams Ander!IOn
Austin Rice
Mrs. Sophie Henderson
Edith Barbara Arms
Charles M. Rice
Melvin Hickman
W. D. Armstrong
Robert Ricki!
Alexander Z. High, Jr.
Horace Ashton
George E. Riddle
Aaga C. Hilgaard
Dr. Herl>ttt Avery
Irving Riggs
Tessie Bertlha Hirrel
Kenneth P. Baber
Susan Roberts
Jens 0. Holland
Norman Alexander Bailie
Frank Robinson
Mrs. Winifred Hudson
David C. Bain
John H. Rogers
Ivan E. Huff
Rebecca Huson Baker
Mrs. A. 0. Rose'Yeare
Fred Hurt
Mrs. Julie Bass
Oiarles T. Ross
Robert Hutcheson
A. F. Bates
Mrs. George D. Rowe
Edward B. Jennings
Mrs. Otto F. Bettcher
Prentiss A. Rowe
William W. Jewell
Mrs. F. G. Blacldiert
Henry Ruedy, Jr.
Gustav John
Maurice Aaron Blauvelt
Mrs. Ruggiero
Wllliam Thomas Johns
Myrtle Bowes
Ge<>l'ge C. Scbeppler
Leslie JohMon
Mrs. Bragg
Walter J. Schulze
David J. Jones
Lee Brenneke
PIJ'ederick R. Schwartz
Joseph H. Jorgensen
Doris Bromley
Walter A. Scott
Stewart Kellar
Colin C. Brown. Sr.
Hal K. Sears
Samuel B. Kina
Fred B. Bruse
George Nicolaus Sengbush
W!Dlam A. Kinney
Joseph Beal Cannon
Joseph M. Shackleton
William C. Klein
Luke Chabot
Albert T. Slmmie
Fred F. Kreuger
Benjamin Chadsey
Mrs. Cu!'tis Speer
Arthur C. Larson
Carrie E. Oiamplin
Mrs. Alda Stadler
Wlllls E. Lemont
Lloyd Edgar Christensen
<:;yril T. Stephens
Fred Lewis
John Victor Christenson
Mrs. Connie Stoudinger
Marie Lipanovich
Rosalia Clark Church
C. W. Stowe
Samuel Lockerble
Bryant Cockrum
Frank H. Stuart
&hnond Amos Lockett
Harold G. Cornew
Modler Taylor
William T. Lovell
Fredrick W. Crall
George C. Thomas
Mrs. Claire F. Lundberg
Elizabeth J. Cranna
Curtis L. Thompson
Kathleen M. Lutz
Alfred Cronkite
Uriah E. Thompson
James Watson Crulc;kshank Mrs. E. O. Mas.wy
Frederldc William Matthale Mrs. Thorsby'll Mother
Charles William Currie
Erving P. Tucker
Harry B. Maxwell, Sr.
Mrs. Emma Davis
Richm-d Tyler
John R. McKalip
Bradford Dearing
S. A. Vandegrift
Bruce McLaughlin
Frank P. Doughty
George Van Meter
Archibald Byron McRae
Leonard C. Edelman
Reglna!d Walter Walbey
Emory M. Milner
Laurence W. Eley
Oiarles Rail80m Walrod
Pember W. Morrow
George E. Erlin
Elmer J. Walther
William Muller
George B. Erskine
Herbert E. Washbum
Robert Murphy
William G. B. Euler
Hamlet Webster
Mrs. Luc:ntta Myers
E. E. Evans
Mrs. Mary West.
Jesse J. Napptt
Charles E. Falk
Mrs. Mathilde Whicher
Arthur H. Nelllon
George L. Filmer
Cyril Whitley
Marrin Earl Nelson
George Footman
Gerrald Stover Whttley
Harlan W. Oelsen
Merle S. Foreman
John Blues Wilkie
William L. Ogilvie
Bruno A. Forsterer
Dr. J. Williams
Robert Olcott
William F. Fosherry
Fttd H. William.son
Louis L. Ososke
Alvin 0. Freckleton
Mrs. Margaret Jane Wilson
Alvin H. Pelton
Amy 0. Gardner
A1be1't C. Wood
Sherman L. Pe-ry
David Gaydou
Henry L. Woodland
Herman Oiarles Peters
Laveme N. Gill
James Wyckoff
Samuel E. Pope
William R. Graham
William Eugene Yocom
Mrs. Matilda Powers
Walter W. Hadley
Robert P. Yoger
Randolph G. Prelat
Carl W. Haman
Michael Hansen

116

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

117

% Membership

No.

HONOR ROLL

Lodges averaging $2.00 or more per member in contributions.
There were 365 such lodges this year.
% M~ership

Total
Pa rticipation
Members
Lodge
No.
I California ..... ............................. 509............................ 36..·-···-···················$1 ,433.00
3 Tehama ......................... - .............. 826 ............................ 43............................ 1,983.00
5 Benicia.......................................... 235............................ 45............................ 529. 15
20 Washington................................. 909..... ....................... 40............................ 2.170.00
21 H a waiian. .......... ........................... 448 ............................ 35.......... ·-··············· 935.00
24 Ma riposa...................................... 205............................ 42............................ 443.00
25 Georgetov.T1.. .. ............................ 61 ............................ 48............................ 145.00
26 El Dorado..................................... 278............................ 27............................ 654.00
35
40
42
45
50 Porbestown................................... 114 ............................ 46..... ...................... 245 .50
58
61
61 Natoma ....................................... . 328............................ 49 ... ..................... 675.00
68 Morning Star .... ......................... 678............................ 24............................ 1.360.00
93 St. Helen<1..... ................................ 137........................... 50.. ..... ............ .... 274.00
103 Oroville........................................ 377............................ 74.......................... . 903.00
104 Lexington ..................................... 644............................ 40 ............................ 1,298.00
106 Arcata..................................... ..... 345 ............................ 23............................ 739.00
110 Pajaro........................................... 431. ........................... 68..... .................... . 871.00
111 Chico............................................. 60 1............................ 58 ............................ 1,238.42
120 Fidelity ........................................ 565 .......... ................. 30...... .................... 1,303.00
127 Hermann....................................... 185............................ 53......................... .. 41 0.00
128 V isalia........................................... 563 ............................ 52............................ 1,383.65
113 Franklin........................................ 140 ............................ 54............................ 416.50
IH Orienta!........... .............................. 357............. ............. 46 _____ ............. . . I.331.50
149 Lassen........................................... 251............................ 57..... ........... ........... 514.00
156 Woodland .................................... 299 ............................ 59.. .. .... ......... ...... 645.00
68.00
164 Harmony....................................... 30 ............................ 100.................. .... . .
969.50
166 Excelsior....................................... 450.......................... .. 35.. .. .... .. ...... ..
167 Alameda....................................... 221... ......................... 29.... ................... .. 463.09
I.766.50
168 Redwood City......... ...... .. . .. . 67·L... ..... ...... .. 18 .. ___ ______ . . . .
173 Elk Grove............................... _.... 147 ............................ 40............................ 327.00
178 Phoenix......................................... 725............................ 39.................... ....... 1,504.50
19 1 M a rin............................................ 546............................ 38...................... .. .. I ,243.00
192 Santa Barbara.............................. 358 ............................ 91.................. .. . .. 837.00
194 Mountain View .. ... .................... 363 ............................ 23.................. ...... .. 850.00
195 Buckeye........ ................................ 147............................ 69......................... .. 630.50
198 Wilmington ............................... . 660......................... ... 31 ............................ J,372.79
200 Truckee......................................... 136............................ 60.......................... . 436.50

~~:~~::~.

~ : -:: 'Ili :- ~ : ff

•• • • :/:lfm

~~~o-~·k'::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::--:: ~:t:::::::.::::::::::::::::: ~5·::::::=:::::::::::::·::··: ~:~:~

202

203
207

~~~~~~~~..-.-.-.-: ::::::.·.·::::::.·.-.-:.·:::::: ·:.-: 4~l::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~L:::: : :::::::: .: :: ::: : i .1~§:~
Anaheim......................................

965.1 0
415.70
433............................ 54. ... .................. . 866.04
352.90
170............................ 50...........................
242............................ 40............................ 490.50
442 ................... _....... 39 ........................... 1,110.50
811. ........................... 43 ......................... .. 2, 184.55
170 ............................ 47............................ 398.00
615............................ 48 ......................... ... 1.571.43
155 ...................- ....... 52...................... ..... 415.50
196............................ 29............................ 491.88
588 ............................ 33 ............................ 1.230.35
ii9 ........ .... .............. 30 . .. .... ...... . ... . .

208 Rio Vista ..............................._._ 178............................ 58............................
209

211
212

King David's................................
San Benito....................................
South San Francisco.............

211 San Buenaventura .......................
220 Dow ney................. ................ ..
221
226

236

237
241

Inyo...............................................
San Mateo......................... .. .........
Hills Ferry................. ..................
Guadalupe.......... ...........................
Santa Ana. ....... .... .........................

242
243
245
246
247
262
264

M~o~~------···········--·· · --·· ······ ~eftz~~········· __ ~~~~.ic~~~~~~~... ........ .. .... ... 112~5

272
273
274
277
278
283
287
288
289
290
291
292

296
299

300
302
305
307
308
309
315
319

320
321
322
323
324
326
327
328
329
330
333
334
335
336
339
343

··· ··· --····-----··· ·· ·

··················- ..
···· ·· · -····----·······

··· ··-----···--·-······

3H
346
349
351
352
355
356
357
358
360
362
366
367
368
369
370
371

Ocean Park................................... 534 ............... _........... 46............................ l ,O~~-~g
Amity.......... .................................. 403................... - ....... 40...............-........... 8 .
le Progres de l'Oceanie............... 730.......-................... 33........... - ............... 1.500.00

118
No..
372
373
377
378
379
383
384
387
388
390
392
393
391
395
396
100
102
405
408
'109
414
415
41 6
41 8
420
421

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

% Membership
Total
Participation
Members
Lodge
Gardena ...................................... 166............................ ·0 ................... -....... 1.152.40
W est Los Angeles......... _.........._ 185............................ 28............................ 1.111.17
Artesia........................................... 236..... ....................... % ............................ 495.21
1 77850
17
. . ..
Mizpah.......................................... 117.

~;~r~.: : -.: -.-.-.:-.:-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.~..-.-.-.-.· :ir~::::::=:::::::::::::: lL:::::::::::::::::::::::: 1·~~~:~

&~f:~~~.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.·.·.-.-.-.-.-_-.-.-.- .-.-.-.-.-.·: : : . ~t-.-.-.-.-.-~-.-.-.:-.-.:-.:-.-.-.: -.-.-.-.-. ~L::::::::::::~::::::::::: ·mii2
Pa rnas.M ......................................

·_·_·_· 5637_..·.·.-.-.· .·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.··_-..-.·.-..·.·.·.·.·.·.· l,72C1!81.·5000
r~:::::·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.· .· ... ·.·.·.·.·.·_

·· ·· 26............................ 1.970.75
We:~iL~k~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:: 8+2............................

Ba lder............................................ 182

36

I 002 65

¥~;1:k'.'.:.·.:::::-.-.-.· ·:·:-.-.-.: ·: -.: :-.·.-.-.. . . . . . . ~~f::::::::~::::::::::::::: ~f:::::::::~::::::~::::::: :~:~
1

9+8.31

Apollo........................................... 160............................ 10................. ...........

~~;~12;.~.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ ~~'.'.'.:'.'.'.'.'.:".::::-.:::-.-.-.-.-_-_-_-_-_ ~k:::::::::::::::::::::::::: l,~~:~
Mon eta ..........................................
Sierra Madre................................
Honolulu......................................
Arlington......................................

613............................ Ji............................ 1.331.39
207............................ H ................... _....... 428.60
419 ............................ 3S............................ 867.00
317 ............................ 30............................ 708.30

~:~vl:aJ.r~-~~.-'.'.'.'.'.»·".·:::-.-.·:'.'.'.'.'.· -_-_-_-_-_-_- ~~L::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: '~1~:~~
1

900.00
l ~l ysi ;:in ......... .... . . . .. . .. ..................... 447............................ 30......................... ..
53... ....................... . 290.00
Kerman..................... .................... 142..... ... .............
Inglewood.... ................................. 764............................ 28........................ . 1.585.00

. .·:.' .' .·:.·'. '. .' .' .' .' .' .' .' .' .' .' : ~~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~::::::::::::::::::::::·::::: I.~~:~

424 ~~~::r~.~-~

422

428
434
437
438
HI

i42
H3
144

H7

448
450
452
frt
457
458
462
464
467
469
470
472
476
477
479
48 1
482
183
492
493
195
497
499
504
505
506

San Dimas..................................... 166............................ 52...................... ..... 363.25
Maricopa...................................... 200............................ 36............................ 405.77
I 000 00
42
Lancaster...................................... 479

~i~~~- ii

:·,.ii +•••••••••••L• IF••••++•••••• ,:i!lfi

J 19

o/o~rahlp

No.
509
511
512
513
515
516
519
520
521
522
524

525
527
528
529
530
531
535
537
538
539
'540
54 1
512
543

544

545
516
547
548
550
551
552
563
566
568
575
576
577
578

579
580
583
584
585
586
5117
589
590
593

594
595

596
599
600

60'.3

Total
Participation
M~rs
Lodge
Benjamin Franklin....................... 357............................ 25............................ 761.09
Sunnyvale..................................... J&L .......................... .51 ............................ 811.50
Palms ......... - .................................. 502... _....................... 35..................._....... 1,036.90
Cahuenga...................................... 518................... - ....... 87............................ 1.290.90
Vermont Square ........................... 514 ........... - ............... 31 ............................ l ,048.82
T aft............................................... 335 ...... - ................... 35................... - ....... 682.00
Euclid. ........................................... 386............................ 26............................ t.012.73
Ionic .............................................. 1.076............................ 37............................ 2. 160.00
Piedmont............. ........ ................ 251 ............................ 3 1............................ 625.00
Sunrise........................................... 32£1............................ 27............................ 691.50
Catalina Island ........ .................... IS1............................ 72............................ 319.50

g~~~~~~~i°.~~-~-~.-.: -.-. . .- . . . . . . . . . . ~ i;~. . :::::-.:::·~-.-.~.-.-.-.:-.::::-.: ~~:::::::~::::::::::::::::::: ~~~:~

~~~~::~ :~: : : : : :· : :. : : : : ::: : : ~!~:: : : ~: : : : : : : : : : H::::::::: :::::::::::::::-: l:H~:~
1

Alexandria.................................... 178........... _............... 49............................ 364.63
Alexander Hanlllton................... 299............................ 32............................ 601.00
Utopia ........................................... 712 ... _....................... 31 ........... ................ 1,427.27
Ascot............................................. 363............................ 28............................ 899. 19
Belvedere.......... .... .................... 205 ........................... 32.... . .................... 147.75
Queen Beach................................ 202............................ 36................... .. ... .. 427.00
He1Hy Morse Stephens............... 342............................ 9..... .... ................. 809.25
North Hollywod.......................... 1,060............................ 41.. ....................... 2.142.30
S ignal........................... ................ 542............................ 28.......................... . 1.096.43
Glendale........................................ 818 ............................ 78........................... 1.811.62
Jonathan........................................ 208 ............................ 50..... .. ................. 420.00
San Gabriel... ................................ 534............................ 40..... ..... .............. 1.216.70
Arcadia......................................... 573.......... ................. 39............................ 1.256.60
Triangle........................................ 342 ............................ 70............................ 717.14
Seaport.......................................... 229 ............................ 52............................ 468.00
Lakeshore...................................... 274 ............................ 38............................ 550.00
Sen1p<'r Virens.. ... ..... .... .......... 333............................ 49..... ... .................. 775.25
South P ark................................... 422 ............................ 31 ............................ 861.38
James A. GarAeld......................... 246............................ 21............................ 600.00
Park Boulevard............................ 447 ............................ 34......... .................. 899.50
For t Crook.................................. 195 ............................ 68..... ....................... 392.00
E l Cajon Valley........................... 485. ........ .. ............... 43 ......................... ... 1.283.50
Sunn yside....... .... ........... ............. 153 ............................ 34...................... ...... 928.00
Progressive .... .. ......................... 550............. ............... 37 ..... .................... .. 1.152.03
\Varren G. Harding.................... 640............................ 58............................ 1 .290.50
S!'lrrta Maria ................................. 120............................ 82............................ 268.45
W asco........................................... 349............................ 100..... ....................... 771 .50
Harding......................................... 302 ............................ 19............................ 620.00
Manchester................................... 383 ............................ 34..... ....................... 80 1.60
Garden Grove.............................. 343. .......................... 51........................... 837.75
Valley Forge................................ 401 ............................ 28............................ 9 10.06
Kauai............................................. 119............................ 71 ............................ 263.25
Compass........................................ 336............................ 50............................ 781 .04
All S tates ...................................... 550............................ 3 1............................ 1,1 17.00
Service.......................................... 908............................ 46............................ 1,991.87
Alexander Graham Bel!.............. 295 ............................ 57...................... ..... 1.336.69
Guardian..... _....................... ........ 987............................ 62 ........... ............... 2,124.20
Carmelita...................................... 374............................ 34............................ 802.00
Lynwood. ..................................... 538............................ 41 .......................... .. 1, 188.9 0
Dimond .......................................... 291 ............................ 47............................ 609.25

~~!d~~t:.·::::.-.-.·:::-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.-.- .-.: -.-.-.-.-.· t&L::::::::::::::::.·:::::::: :L::::::::::::::::::::::::: lS~~:~

60i
609
610 Ebnhunt.. ....... _....... ..................... 278............................ 38.......... .................. 600.65
611
612
613 Three Pillars................................. 455 ............................ 45... ......................... 1,005.95
611 Lan::hmoot .................................... 420............................ 21 ............................ 850.00

¥:;:i:·Qty·:::::.::::::::::::::::::.·::.·::::: ~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::: I.~~~:~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

120

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

% Membership

Participation
Members
Lodge
No.
615 Hemet............................................ 215 ............................ 68.......................... ..
616
619
622
623
625
628
. ..
305..... .. ... .... . .. 56..... ..........
629 Fairview........... .......................
633
635
636
637
639
611

1
~i~I~ ~~t-~=:~~-,.m; ~ =

Total
571.75

l:m·~

858.09

~~~~£;~~~i~~~::_: ._: : :_: :.: -_: ._: ._:_.··._:_:_:_:_·_:_:_: ~it:::.::_:::_:_::_:::_:_:_: _:_: : _: 11::::::::·::::::::::_::::::: l:gg~:~~

Y I~ E:

I+• ::m~

613
641

5~~~~+

651
652
651

~~~~;~:.~~~~~~::-:-.-: :-:::-.-.·::· -: -:-:-:-:- -:_:: !~L::::::::~:::::::: : ·: : Fa::·:::::::::::::::·:··:::·:: l.!~~:!8

612

616

Lomita............................... ........ ... 353............................ 35.......................... ..
Metropolitan................................. 173............................ 19........................... .

731.50
379.00

1
..:::::::::··::····..: ·~~:86
659 t! ~:b~;~~~::::::·:::::::: :.:::::::::::::::~ ~~L::::::::::·.::·.: :::::·.·.:·.: ~~·.:.::·

655

0

660 Baldwin Park........... .................. 273.... ............. ..... 10.......................... ..
661 Malta ......................... .................. 253........................... 11..... .....................
663 Ojai............................................... 151..................... ...... 60... .................. ... ...

666
667
668

673
677
678
679
680
681
682

681
685
686

689
690
691
693
691

695
696
697
698
699
700
701
702
703

706
707
708
709
710
711
712
713
711
715

697.25
569.47
178.50

~0l~~~~-~~;~-- :-:. :-:-:-·-:·.·_-: :-: -:- :-: -: -: : : : ~~i:: : : : : : : : : : : :: :: !i::::::::::::::::::.::.·::::: ::n1:~

•••••·•••••·•·····•-••: ::m~
_ -.:::·.:::·.:::i-·.:· m::·•••••••-•••-•••••••• !Lit:::::::::::::::::··:::::
~~1~;:::::::::::::::::·
n~:::::::::::.:::::::::::: ::::

~P!i~~:::::

l~~:gg

g~;Z;L \ ~\-;: !li:~~; ~! •;i ::m~

Indian Wells Valley.. ................ 100............................ 80............................ 1,033.00

~1~;~.,~:~ ~:~!:~ ~ !1;~?! ~:1: ::••!!!! !!I
0

Santa Ynez; Valley.. ....................

111 ............................ 68........................... .

288.00

N

Locf

~~~

ayfarer ................ ......... .. .........

716 ~lmo:teShore.......................... -~embers

7 19
720
721
725
726
727
728
7'l9
730
731
732
733
731
736

~~~ ~!~::~.~-································

~!? ~~~~~~::::::·:·:::::·:·::·:·:·:·:·:·:·:·: :·::· ::::: ::-

~ !~

Morningsld.e Park ........................

~!~ ~:~!E~~~_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_:_: _:_:_:_._:_: ::::__::_::::::::
7i6 SoqueJ..... _....... ... . .. ...................
717 O aude H. Morrirnn .. . . . .. ..
748 Highland............... ...... . ............. .
~~6 Merced..................... . ...... ....... .
Mother Colony ............... ...........
751 Hamilton................ ........ ...........

~§~ k::P~~ 1~:::·:::~:::.::::::::::::: :::::::..:.
1

. .... .............
755 Golden Bowl......
756 C layton Valley.... . ............. ..... .
757 ~hanneL..-......... ....... .... .... ....
est Covlna...... ......... ..
~~
Lakeside ..._..................... : ::.·::::::
761 Josiah W. Roller.... ..
76 2 Coastslde ................... .
763 Arabic ..................
764 Heritage ......... - .... .... .. .
765 Dana R. Weller............... .
H. Kew..... .......... ...........
~~
m. Rhodes Hervey........... . ..

tt,mes

m~~~, ;.: ; '.; ~
768

~~g Fiv~ira_da..........

.. .

.. . ....

~~? ~1v1e!:'.~.~~:::::::::::::.:::::::.·.·:..:::::::::..

U D olllng Hills..
~:~do. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
u:o:
...............................

U.D. Lel!nde.~~"f~;· .. ··························
d.. ··········· ············
U.D. Rio Ltn
da......................................
UD

. . Westminster.. ............. ......
Southem California Research. ............~

T otal
642.22
51 9.40
151.00
298.00
241.00
674.00
586.75
271.50
2+4.20
501 .65
361.J 5
290.00
344.79
356.50
226.50
················· H5.25
512.50
612.50
113.50
416.87
348.36
344.20
178.75
385.95
301.00
227.50
20 1.00
299.00
253.00
21 0.00
230.25
157.75
151.00
316.50
3 19.80
364.5(1
306.70
169.00
175.50
125.0(l
212.75
197.05
201.00
238.25
308.50
413.75
317.00
145.50
178.25
················· 112.00
163.05
88.00
180.02
112.88
335.75
130.00
137.00
151.25
136.00
131.00
90.00
226.00

Participation

······--·-·-· -

~n Lorenzo Valley ................... .

83..............

121

% Membership

69

122

123

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIPORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON COMMERCI ALISM

better than to quote from a portion of his letter which was sent to the
Pharaoh of the Supreme Pyramid Ancient Order of Sciots, under date
of April 7, 1958. We quote as follows:
"With three direct violations of our law in one area alone it is only
natural to assume that the same violations are occurring all over the
State. This not only causes confusion and difficulties within the fraternity, but activities such as these certainly do not bring credit to our
fraternity.
"On the basis of the information before me I am inclined to take
drastic action if necessary, and if there are any more reports of similar
activities by the Pyramid s in California I will be inclined to issue an
Edict prohibiting Masons in the California Jurisdiction from belonging
to or having any part in the activities of the Sciots.
"For your own protection and in the best interests of the Sciots. I
would s u ~rnest that an official order be issued to all of the Pyramids in
the C a lifornia Jurisdiction calling their attention to the laws which
govern Masonic activities in this jurisdiction and directing that there be
no such affairs or activities in the future. I would suggest that this order
point out that Masonic law should be observed in spirit as well as in
fact and that attempts to circumvent the law will only bring difficulties
to the Sciots."
At the time of writing this report no further violations have been
brought to the attention of your committee. It can only be hoped that the
Sciots too will recognize and remember that they are Masons first and
that they owe a definite allegiance to their own lodges and to this
Grand Lodge.
(Since this report was written we are in formed by the Grand Master
that he met with the Pharaoh of the Supreme Pyramid of the Sciots
subsequent to his above-written letter. He explained our rules and
regulations: the reasons for them. and generally discussed our relationship with the Sciots organization. The Grand Master was assured that
the Sciots would make a special effort to see that there were no further
violations of our law among their various Pyramids. It is to be hoped
that the assurance thus given the Grand Master will be fulfilled.)

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Commercialism is most happy to report that the
reported violations of our law during the past year have been less than
during any preceding year. This is no doubt due to the continuing educational program which has been a consistent part of our work. In
addition, our Grand Master has given generously of his time to meet
with various organizations and groups requiring Masonic membership,
affiliation or sponsorship, and to discuss and clarify our law as it may
pertain to them. His great patience, wisdom. courage and leadership
has done much to bring about better understanding and cooperation
among these organizations and groups. It is to be hoped that the supremacy of this Grand Lodge definitely established last year, and bulwarked
this year by rulings of our Grand Master. w ill not again be challenged.
SHRINE

We reported last year that the cooperation we had received from the
various Shrine Temples had been excellent . We are happy to report
that this cooperation has continued. In the very few instances of reported
violations, generally among Shrine Clubs. a conference with the Potentate of the Shrine having jurisdiction of such Club has brought quick
correction of such violations. Your committee wishes to acknowledge
this attitude on the part of the Potentates and we trust that the cordial
relationships which have existed this year will continue with potentates
of the future.
SCIOTS

Reports were received concerning certain activities of this prerequisite organization . particularly with reference to Pyramids in San
Diego County. Investigation disclosed that a raffle and Hobo Dance was
held for the purpose of rais ing funds for an organization within a
Pyramid. At the Hobo Dance refreshment tickets were sold at the
rate of I 0 for $1.00. which were honored at the rate of three tickets for
one beer. Investigation also showed that this particular Pyramid held
its meetings in a certain hall and regularly served beer before and after
the meeting.
Another Pyramid held a public installation at a certain club where
liquor was sold at two bars. Refreshment tickets were sold three for
$1.00, which were honored at either of the two bars for spiritous drinks
of the purchaser's choice.
Still another Pyramid held an open installation where full bar facilities were set up in the rear of the East. Drinks of all kinds were sold
for cash. During the installation ceremonies persons along the sidelines
had drinks in their hands and one officer had a drink sitting on his
station pedestal. The officers to be installed entered the hall to the tune
of "The Beer Barrel Polka."
A report of these and other activities was made to the Grand M aster
and his reaction was forthright, firm and to the point. We can do no

1

ROYAL ORDER OF CARITAS AND AMARANTH FOUNDATION, IN C.

At our last com munication an Edict of our then Grand Master, Most
Worshipful L. Harold Anderson, prohibiting all Masons subject to the
jurisdiction of California from being, becoming or remaining a member
of the Royal Order of Caritas or of the Amaranth Foundation, Inc., or
their successors by change of name, or for any such Mason to aid or
assist, directly or indirectly, said Order of Caritas or said Amaranth
Foundation, Inc., or their successors by change of name, in any manner
whatsoever, was approved and made a permanent Edict of Grand Lodge.
We regret to report to you that a number of our brethren apparently
thought more of such organizations than of their obligations to Masonry
and continued their membership in and support of such organizations.

124

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

As a result four Masonic trials have been conducted and in each instance
the respective individuals have been found guilty of the charges preferred
against them and guilty of un-Masonic conduct. Investigation is being
made of other brethren who have been reported to your committee as
being members of and giving support to these organizations.
Reports were also received by your committee that various Temple
Associations and lodges were renting space in Masonic T em pies to the
Royal Order of Caritas for their meetings and other activities. A report
was made to our Grand Master and under date of February I 0, 1958,
he issued a directive to all of our lodges in which he s tated:
" .. . The renting of space to this group or assisting them to hold
meetings is in direct violation of the Edict and should not be done. I
have not directed that any action be taken against those who have in
this manner violated the Edict. but I am advising you of the situation so
that there will be no violations in the future."
PUBLICATIONS

At our 1954 Annual Communication a resolution was adopted which
authorized the Grand Master "to institute actions in the courts of
California on behalf of the Grand Lodge, F . & A. M . of the State of
California. to establish that its name and the words. Mason . Freemason .
Free and Accepted Mason, Masonry and Masonic and Masonic symbols
and emblems shall not be used for fraudulent purposes or for private
gain or profit ..."
Purs uant to that resolution M . · .W. ·.Henry C . Clausen , Past Grand
M aster and Judge Advocate. instituted four suits in the Superior Court
of California against four so-called Masonic publications. One publication. The Masonic News, published in Southern California, folded
without the necessity of trial. A trial was had in the case of the
Masonic World Publishing Company and its owner and a decision was
rendered in our favor. In April of this year the two remaining suits
against the Masonic Trestleboard and the Masonic Star were tried and
decisions rendered in our favor and permanent injunctions issued. Great
credit should be given our Judge Advocate, Past Grand Master Henrv
·
C. Clausen for the success we have achieved in these matters.
Another publication, the Masonic Review Diges t. made its appearance in Southern California during the past year. Your chairman was
successful in getting a conference w ith the owner. When our law was
explained to him . and also the results of our legal actions ins tituted
against other publications, he agreed to cease operations entirely. No
further editions of the publication have been published and we sincerely
believe that none will.
It thus appears that this troublesome matter has now been pretty
well resolved. With continued education of the Craft and prerequisite
bodies we feel that the work of the committee in this field should be
greatly reduced.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

125

REGULATIONS

Your committee has, for the past several months, given consideration
to the preparation of rules and regulations setting forth the requirements
of our law relative to matters which govern our lodges and prerequisite
organizations and groups and which generally come under the scrutiny
of or are referred to this committee. The Grand Master was consulted
and he authorized us to proceed. The result has been the preparation
of such rules and regulations which, after revision and review. have
been approved by the Grand Master, and have been or will be sent to
all Lodges, Temples and Associations and, we hope. to prerequisite
organizations and groups. We feel that the work of this committee
can be greatly reduced if all concerned will carefully study these rules
and regulations and then see that they are followed. A copy of such
rules and regulations is attached to this report. (Exhibit A.)
MISCELLANEOUS

Various reports have been received of activities of clubs and individuals which have constituted violations of our law. No attempt is here
made to list them all. In all instances a letter or conference has brought
quick compliance and expressions of regret. It is our sincere conviction
that a continuing educational program is required and we solicit the aid
and support of the Masters and Inspectors in such a program .
CON CLUSION

The report of this committee would not be complete without an
expression of our appreciation to the Grand Master for the time which
he has so generously given to us. The nature of our work is such that
we must constantly confer with him , either personally or through correspondence, as he is the one who must set the policy and make the
rulings and decisions on matters which are referred to us. Whenever
possible, he has endeavored to "whisper good counsel" and seek coopera tion, but always with such firmness that none can or could doubt
his love for our Fraternity and his determination to see that its laws.
ordinances, rules and regulations were strictly adhered to. To work
with him has not only been a pleasure but has enriched our Masonic life
and education.
Respectfully submitted,
RALPH K. PIERSON, Chairman .
WILLARD BRAASCH
HERBERT R. HARGRAVE
VINCENT P . McMuRoo
W1LL1AM B. McKESSON
WHYTE WOMACK

Referred to Committee on Segregation.
EXHIBIT A
REGULATIONS GOVERNING ORGANIZATIONS SUBJECT TO THE JURISDICTION
oP THE MosT WoRSHIPPUL GRAND LoocE. F. & A. M. oF CALIFORNIA

The following regulations are posted to preclude violations as set

126

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

forth in the California Masonic Code by organizations subject to the
jurisdiction of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of
California, by reason of requiring Masonic membership, affiliation or
sponsorship.
The term "organization" as herein used is defined to include:
(a) Any subordinate lodge;
( b) Any group, chapter, order. club. association or organization
requiring Masonic affiliation or sponsorship, including but not
limited to:
York Rite Bodies
Scottish Rite Bodies
Shrine
Shrine Clubs
Scio ts
Grotto
Eastern Star
Order of Amaranth
White Shrine of Jerusalem
Social Order of Beauceant
Job's Daughters
Rainbow Girls
De Molay
Masonic Clubs
These regulations apply to all Master Masons living within the
jurisdiction of the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of
California, irrespective of whether such Master Mason is a member of
a lodge in California or elsewhere.
REGULATIONS

1. ADVERTISING
No organization as herein defined nor any member thereof shall
solicit or accept advertising of any kind for publication or insertion in
any roster, program. bulletin or announcements to be printed or published claiming to be Masonic in name or character.
No such organization or any member thereof shall sponsor. insert.
place or print advertising of any kind in any publication claiming to be
Masonic in name or character. ( C.M.C. 334).
This regulation does not prohibit the placement in bonafide newspapers of legitimate news items of organization , group or club activities
or advertisements in said newspapers in connection with rummage sales
which do not use the name of any of the organizations hereinbefore
named or any group thereof.
2. PUBLIC SUPPORT
No organization as herein defined nor any agency thereof such as

127

social clubs , mothers' clubs, sewing circles or other clubs or groups within
such organization, nor any member thereof. usin g any name whatever
shall sponsor any event, project. scheme or plan wherein public support
is requested or solicited on behalf of such organization or any agency or
group thereof. Tickets or other items may not be sold to the general
public. (C.M.C. 33 ). Rummage sales wherein public support is
solicited in the name of the organization or of any group thereof are
forbidden.
This regulation does not prohibit the sale of tickets to members, their
families or friends, for breakfasts. dinners, card parties, dances, bazaars.
and so forth, nor to events, their entire proceeds of which go to a recognized charity of the fraternity or o rgan ization.
3. SoLICITATION OF GIFTS
The solicitation of merchants, firms, business houses, or the public
for gifts of merchandise, money or prizes of any kind for or in connection with the general activities of the group or organization, such as
dinners, parties , and meetings, is strictly forbidden. This regulation
does not prohibit a member of any organization from voluntarily donating such a gift or contributing to a charity.

5. COMMERCIAL VENTURES
No organization herein defined or any agency or group thereof shall
directly or indirectly engage in any business, pro ject, venture, promotion ,
scheme or plan which is unethical, misleading, fraudulent or illegal. No
such organization shall knowingly receive money or property a s a donation or contribution from such operations. ( C.M.C. 332).

5. GAMBLING
No organization as herein defined nor any member or group of
members thereof' shall directly or indirectly give aid or countenance to
any raffle. lottery, or other gambling enterprise or accept any of the
proceeds or profits therefrom. (C.M.C. 685).
Door prizes are permissible only if those attending do not pay
anything of value for the chance to receive the door prize. In this con nection the payment of the usual charge of the restaurant or organization serving a d in ner, lunch, or breakfast is not the payment of something
of value for th e privilege of drawing and the door prizes must be of
nominal value, such as candy, and may be dona ted by members of th e
organization.
Table or score prizes at card parties may be given if the prizes are
donated by the members and are of nominal value such as can dy.
In case of doubt or disagreement as to the applicability of these regu lations to any particular event or enterprise, consultation should be had
with the Inspector of the District.
Attest:
Approved
LLOYD E. WILSON ,

LEO E. ANDERSON,

Grand Secretary
Grand Master of Masons in California.
At 12 noon Grand Lodge was called off until 1 : 30 p.m.

128

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

AFTERNOON SESSION-Tuesday, September 30, 1958
At 1 :30 p.m. Grand Lodge was called on , the Grand Master presiding. The invocation was delivere d by the Grand Chaplain.

GRAND ORATION
MELVIN A. PIXLEY, Grand Orator
September 30. 1958

Most Worshipful, Grand Lodge Officers, Past Grand Masters.
Distinguished Guests, Members of Grand Lodge. and Brethren:
If protocol permitted Grand Orations to be dedicated, then the
following address should be dedicated to the person who not only
al lowed it to be given, but of greater importance, who has inspired his
fellow Craftsmen throughout the year, just as this edifice will inspire
future generations.
o~ Grand Master has not only WISDOM and STRENGTH, but possesses and displays the BEAUTY of HUMILITY.
To you, Most Worshipful, and the other Grand Lodge Offic~rs. 1_11Y
personal thanks and appreciation for your many kindnesses which ins pired this address entitled
PROPER COMMUNICATIONS-THE ANSWER
We read in the Holy Writings that it was decreed in the wisdom
and counsels of Diety aforetime that a house should be built, erected
to God and dedicated to H is Holy Name. This structure was erected
and known a s King Solomon's Temple. perhaps the most wonderful
structure in the world's history.
The early architects and the architecture found in King Solomo~'s
Temple communicated to future generations the thoughts. needs, pnde
and glory of the earliest races. and their reverence for the. gr~at
Creator. Their designs still inspire and are the objects of adm1rat1on
now found in the Masonic theme.
Now we also read in the past Annual Communications of this
Grand Lodge that it was decreed in the wisdom and by the foresight
of the Masters. Wardens and Past Masters that this Gra nd Lodge
build a Temple to communicate to the world that California Freemasons, honoring their heroic dead. erect a Temple, dedicated to Freemasonry, virtue, and a universal benevolence, that the cause of fre~­
dom for which they died shall ever be therein the sacred trust of their
Brethren and of Freemasons yet unborn.
It is interesting to note that after the Great Fire of 1906 here in
San Francisco, there was left standing here on the site of our new
Temple three columns. These same columns today stand in Golden
Gate Park, bearing the prophetic motto "The Portals of the Past Will

Be the Gateway to the Future."
To carry out that prophesy this new Temple has been here erected
to the glory of God. bearing symbols of the past in memory of those

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

129

who are gone. and opening a new gateway to the future service of
humanity and the advancement of Freemasonry in California.
The modern architects and the architecture found in the California
Masonic Memorial Temple will communicate to future generations not
only the progress of Masonry in California, fully recognizing the
industry of the past and present, hardships and toils, bravery and
valor, but the accomplishment of carrying out two Masonic lessons
of Faith and Work by emphasizing love of freedom and proving that
we assumed our responsibilities.
Words are indeed an imperfect vehicle for the translation of human emotion especially when that emotion is centered around the
memory of those who were but are not. Words certainly cannot
properly describe the accomplis hments of those who have made pos~
sible this very occasion, achieving their purpose in maintaining for
us and for Freemasons yet unborn our great heritage-Freedom.
Time will not suffice for a detailed report or inventory of all Masonic structures, symbols or words that communicate. but at this
communication and following the dedicatory ceremonies. it is important as a matter appertaining to the Craft. to pause and concentrate
on the value and needs of proper communications, especially those
that radiate from Operative and Speculative Masonry.
Before our present means of communication symbols were used
and understood by both the educated and uneducated. Today some
people consider symbols to be old fashioned, fanciful. or even an
expression of superstition. These people forget that there was a time
when education was not as widespread as it is today, and in those
days certain objects and numbers were used to indicate certain lessons or ideals to people in general. Symbols were indeed the very
objective of the human family, directing life along its wonderful
course from the cradle of the races in the Far East to today's civilization, just as today Masonic symbols, illuminated by Masonic light
and divine rays, enable us to communicate to the initiated knowledge
and wisdom . that which to the profane remains as darkness and
ignorance.
The most common communicative symbols known to man are
those given to us by God a nd are the symbols normally classed as
nature, for by the use of the fiv e common senses, hearing. seeing, feeling . smelling and tasting. we are not only protected but enjoy the
beauty and love of the Supreme Architect. Throughout this masterful plan we constantly receive the communication of the perfect balance and harmony created and intended for life.
Do not the following symbols bring to our minds past experiences?
Beautiful as the clouds may be, how many times have they indicated
to us that a storm is approaching? Think of the beautiful flowers
with their fragrance and delicate colors, communicating their many
symbolic meanings. Carvings and statutes, such as those found on

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THF.

the very walls of this Temple. which inspire the receptive mind.
Photography. some pictures reflecting to us happy occasions . and
others of sorrow. Murals. like those presented by this Grand Lodge
which are now seen in the Washington Memorial Temple. one depicting the Father of our Country and his officers attending church for
the purpose of raising funds to alleviate suffering among the poor.
The other, President Washington receiving the silver plate which is
deposited in the cornerstone of the United States Capitol. these communicate to us, as does this structure. our belief in charity and
freedom.
Think of the many kinds of lights. not only those which beautify
the heavens but those found in our lodges and in our homes. Yet.
there are those which control our physical movements on the streets
and walks of life.
Do not the rays of the morning sunburst convey to us that "This
day is mine, yesterday it was God's, tomorrow it will be his again
and our acts will be recorded in eternity". There are communicative
rituals which are expressed by robes. words and movements. There
are the blessings communicated by rest, and a symbolic reminder of
this is in the six windows at the top of this very structure. for "in
six days God created the Hea [)ens and the Earth. and rested upon
the seventh".
Modern transportation such as ships. trains. automobiles, trucks
and airplanes communicate departure or arrival of our loved ones
and the security and relief which they might bring. not to overlook
the symbolic meaning of the destruction and devastation of war
which they can create. laying waste and destroying many valuable
monuments of antiquity on which the utmost exertions of human
genius we re employed.
Then there is that which is quietly communicated by the touch
of a loved one's hand upon our brow; and one can never forget
those childhood memories of the fragrance of our Mother's delicacies communirnting to us the pleasure we were about to experience.
There a re illuminated billboards. arranged in such a manner as
to influence our lives. and visible signs of all descriptions. lighted
and unlighted . to direct our way. The cross conveys that a church
exists. even the direction of an arrow. without much question to
our minds. indicates the route we are to follow .
How important has it been in our lives when a s mile or a cheery
greeting of "good morning" from a friend , or even a stranger, has
helped our day.
Many times two symbols when taken together have an entirely
different meaning. One of the best known examples to us is the
Square and Compass placed on the Holy Bible.
There are many other forms of communication. For many years
man has known that words a re merely man-made sounds which

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

131

indicate things, places or items. and since their use came into being
many phases o f symbolism or sign language have been discontinued.
But by the progress of using merely man-made sounds. the pooling and
advancement of knowledge has taken place. Instead of remaining
helpless because of the limitations of our own experiences and knowledge. instead of having to discover what others have already explored,
repeating their errors. we can go on from where others left off to
greater accomplishments. All that is needed by men (or Masons ) is
man's ability to cooperate.
The invention of writing was a tremendous step forward fo r
mankind . The accuracy of reports can be checked and rechecked
by successive generations. and knowledge is not restricted to memory or symbols. Writing resulted in progress and development,
actually opening the doors to modern education and public schools.
a landmark in our progress which Masons will defend as a part of
our freedom. Thus we trace the histor y and development of the
basic means of communication. What we do with these methods of
communication will greatly determine our future and the future of
mankind .
Words. their proper meaning, the way they are spoken and written today control our thoughts and , my brethren, "a man's life is what
his thoughts make of it." "What you are is what God gives you."
Most surely. what you become. in the final analysis. is what you give
God.
Man's future progress and accomplishments will be governed by
words, symbols. or a combination of both. Yet how vital and important it is that we avoid the danger of worshipping the symbols
or rituals rather than that which they represent. The Masonic pin
is not to inform the world that one is a Mason . but rather a remi nder
to oneself of our duty and responsibilities.
The modern use of mathematics and chemistry signs, coupled
with words. greatly assisted in breaking the atom. Present-day traveling is controlled by words and symbols; even maps are a combination of the two which communicates to us the correct direction. If
maps are improperly prepared and are incorrect. actually no harm
befalls us until we attempt to use them and then we discover we are
traveling the wrong road. This philosophy challenges all men and
Masons to properly prepare their minds thus improving their way
of life, fully realizing that .. the largest room in the world is the room
for self-improl)ement".
Great changes in the world were brought about by the modern
advancements in communications. Mankind was greatly aided when
fro.m our Supreme Court room in the nation's capital the Morse code
was proven successful by transmitting that unforgettable message.
"What hath G od wrought". Yet, it was only a step toward the ulti-

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mate in long distance communication. In a few years a phlegma tic
world was startled with the invention of telephon e commun ications.
Today telephon e and telegraph wires unite the people and countries of every known corner and hamlet of the world except those
areas restricted by men who defy the very law of nature by not
acceptin g the beauty of life which is derived from harmony and
cooperat ion.
God's plans and the mysterie s of commun ication were not yet
foreseen with the invention of the telephon e and telegraph . Experiments later proved that sound vibration s could be recorded , allowing
us to store up the speeches and songs of the great and good and
commun icate them to future generatio ns.
In our life span how many men , or Masons who are known as
and called "The Sons of Light and Knowled ge," realized the joys
which would be ours with the invention of radio, and how it would
unite the world in many ways. Very few Masons, if any, ever
believed it possible that years later on April 19, 1950, the 1OOth
birthday of our Grand Lodge, the Grand Master of Masons in
Californ ia would stand before a micropho ne and set forth not only
the accompl ishments but the actual dogma of our fraternit y to the
world in general.
The method of communication known as television has brought
before our eyes and to our minds transacti ons and activities of many
kinds that before remained at a distance, and it is possible that the
exterior and interior of this Temple will be viewed in the homes of
thousand s of free America ns.
There still exists, my brethren , a more importan t form of communication, perhaps known as the third dimensio n or concepti on, that
being the relations hip between God and man, the Creator and the
creature, the belief in the inner unity. It is an enduring gift, rare
moments of penetrat ion and escape when men feel the unity between
God and themselves. It leads us out of the world of struggle and
error, growth and decay, suffering and death, into that of peace,
beauty and harmony . This communication must be striven for and
obtained by meditatio n, silence and acceptan ce. Yet it runs like an
unbreaka ble cord througho ut the history of religion and philosop hy.
Within it lies one and the same truth. and by it also disappea rs all
oppositio n, the unifying of all separate d things. From this type of
commun ication we understa nd the meaning of that immortal verse of
scripture , "'The Kingdom of God is within you."
Within all the beneficial forms of commun ications Masons know
and should be constant ly aware of the fact that like the symbolic
meaning of the mosaic pavemen ts of King Solomon 's Temple, checkered with good and evil, there are good and evil expressio ns. Evil

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN IA

133

commun ications corrupt good characte r, and from the Holy Writings we know that "evil communications corrupt good manners ".
Masons should always avoid the evil commun ications due to personal allergies, incompa tibility and pet a versions. We. as Masons,
should maintain no allergies except that of the spirit, abhoring only
that which is evil.
Today, as a result of progress , educatio n and knowled ge, the
Mason is required to dissemin ate the importan t truths of life. Our
safeguar ds are the very foundati on pillars of our fra ternity-F aith
and Work, sometim es alluded to as preparati on.
With the changes and new methods of commun ication have come
many changes in the meaning of words and symbols. Only a few
years ago men using the dictionar y as proof would have properly
defined the word " broadcas t" to mean "scatteri ng of seed"; 500
years ago one who looked under a hood would have found the
face of a monk, today he would find a motor car engine. Recently
we referred to the United States as the "48 States of the Union ,"
today there are 49. Therefor e, the ancient Masonic axiom of constantly seeking further light and knowled ge is vital to proper communicati ons.
All through the ages there have been masses who would not
heed warning commun ications , and would not believe the quotation ,
'"If the danger seems slight. then truly it is not slight." One of the
many example s is found in the historic record of the Titanic, christened the greatest ship afloat. hailed as the conquero r of the ocean.
Yet on its maiden voyage. after intercept ing the message from the
ship Californ ia that they had encounte red three icebergs five miles
away. the Titanic's officers requeste d the Californ ia to release the air.
Then the unforget table proof of ignoring commun ications. Due to
their defiance and lack of preparat ion, not even carrying distress
rockets, only hours later the officers of the Titanic were unable to
arouse the Captain of the Californ ia. When others were in danger
he was spending his time on other activities, never hearing or heeding those letters at low twelve-C .Q.D., Come Quick, Danger; S.0.S.,
Save Our Ship, Save Our Souls.
Records reflect the final moments on deck of the Titanic, the
passenge rs' immedia te change from gaiety and no particula r thought
of Deity to commun icating silently. by word and music. We all
know that on that night of terror. as the water covered the deck, the
band played "Nearer My God To Thee." a song written in 1841 ,
based upon some of the verses of the Holy Bible that were used to
constitut e every lodge in this Grand Jurisdict ion.
We, as Masons, know the destructi on of a Temple often develops
and inspires ideas and ideals, and does not the destructi on of the
Titanic commun icate to us that we should be cognizan t of today's

131

135

PROCEEDINGS OE' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

danger signals. How complacent we remain when there are forces
which would set aside and destroy not only our freedom of religion.
speech . press and actions, but actually endeavor to control the future
generations. The dangers we see daily in poverty-physical, mental
and spiritual. Poverty of the body. poverty of the mind, poverty of
the soul. How many men and Masons are idle when one of our
most priceless heritages, our public school system. is in danger. Should
not we support the Constitution of the United States and maintain
the separation of Church and State?
We should not only use this edifice unveiled here as a mon ument to our departed brethren, and also a home to maintain our
sacred altars. Realistically, we should cause our altar's illuminating
lights to radiate from this Temple. allowing it to serve as a lighthouse. a beacon, to aid men and Masons to resist envy, hatred. malict.
and bigotry. Signaling to mankind that behind this symbol. or Temple, lie the important truths; to purify morals and bind the human
family together with universal benevolence.
When men realize that "happiness is the one thing which multiplies by division." then will communication be easier and universal
brotherhood more obtainable.
Today's needs require us to dedicate ourselves as a fraternity to
aid and assist mankind. It is written in the Holy Bible, "As ye sow.
·
so shall ye reap."
In the material life. if a farmer plants corn or wheat. the land
doesn't care, it readily returns what is planted. The human mind is
far more fertile, more incredible and mysterious than the land. Yet.
like the land. it doesn't care what is planted; success or failure. worthwhile goals or confusion. However. what we plant or communicate
to mankind through our lives will grow and return to us the results.
What then would be the power and effect upon the world for good
if Masons in California. and throughout the world, resolved with
enthusiasm to dedicate themselves to obtaining first the knowledge
our Craft presents. then unitedly communicating it to the world by
every thought. word and act. The task is not difficult, a ll that is
needed is faith and work. developing harmony and cooperation.

vice and injustice;" as a part of our lives "We shall honor our parents
and the aged, instructing and protecting the young and innocent;"
in a ll our acts "We shall cherish our wives and children, loving our
country and obeying its laws;" by our conduct we should prove that
" Our fr iends shall be to us a second self;" and "We shall allow no
passion to become our master;" eighth and of vital importance "We
shall forget our injuries, rendering good for evil. not mis-using strength,
position or superiority;" and last. "We shall study to know men that
thereby we may properly learn to know our selves. seeking virtue and
avoiding idlness."
If these decalogues are too difficult for our brethren to remember.
then Brethren of Grand Lodge, communicate to them this day the
greatest commandment of Masonry, that "Ye love one another."
for if we have or will develop the "Wisdom" to understand the true
meaning of love, then harmony, which is the strength of our society.
will supply us with the necessary .. Strength" to carry out the true
meaning of "Beauty." which is in reality God's beauty, and endowed
with the beauty of humility we will properly communicate to the
world the fullest meaning of " Brotherly love. relief and truth." By
such "Faith" our " H opes .. will become a reality and make it possible
for us to be worthy of the greatest "Charity" ever known, that which
is communicated to us from the ··Throne of God."
This Temple, recently dedicated, is a symbol of the pure purposes of our fraternity. From it should radiate brotherly love and
all those things fo r which we stand. This Temple 1s a means for
us to communicate, one to another and to the world in general.
It is our newest form of communication. This T emple is built, but
that is only the beginning. Through the practice of the great and
lasting teachings of Freemasonry we may make this beautiful building glow with an inner light shining upon and helping the needy, the
sick. the distressed, and bringing to the world more understanding
and brotherly affection-the only real basis for harmony and peace.
If peace can be achieved, then no more of our brethren need die as
those brethren for whom this building is a memorial have died.
Let us strive, by proper communications. under the divine guidance of God, to finish the work we ar e in.
Most Worshipful, the Grand Oration is submitted.

Would not the leaders of all countries and people of the world
soon feel the import of our united action if we constantly carried
out those rules or lessons conveyed and communicated to us in the
First Degree of Masonry?
What are those decalogues that will aid and assist mankind to
find happiness? First, we know that man must recognize that "God
is eternal. omnipotent, immutable wisdom , supreme intelligence and
exhaustless lot•e;" next. .. Our religion shall be to do good because
it is a pleasure and not because it is a du ty;" we have been taught
and must prove to the world that "We shall unceasingly war against

The oration was received with a standing ovation .
On motion of John T . Bond. Grand Marshal. the Grand Secretary
was authorized to have the oration printed and distributed to the lodges.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

136

137

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE TRUSTEES
OF THE MASONIC HOMES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewith present
the Sixty~Sixth Annual Report for the year ending June 30, 1958, together. with the reports of the Superintendents of our Homes and the
financial reports of the Treasurer and Secretary.
The Board of Trustees met in San Francisco. California, on September 27, 1957, for the purpose of organization. The election of Phil N.
Myers, Deputy Grand Master, Joe L. Shell. Senior Grand Warden, and
Alfred F. Breslauer, Junior Grand Warden. was formally reported to the
Board and on motion duly made, seconded and carried they were elected
members of the Board.
President Wollenberg reported the re-appointment by the Grand
Master of Arthur M. Warren and Ralph H. Head for a term of three
years each and on motion duly made, seconded and carried they were
elected members of the Board.
In addition to the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Board is composed of the following Trustees:
Charles Albert Adams ..................1958............................ Myron E. Smith
Charles M. Wollenberg ................ 1959........... ....................... Guy B. Mize
Arthur M. Warren ........................ 1960........... ................... Ralph H. Head
On motion duly made, seconded and carried, Charles M. Wollenberg was elected President of the Board.
On motion duly made, seconded and carried Myron E. Smith was
elected Vice-President of the Board.
By virtu~ of his office as Grand Treasurer of Grand Lodge, F. &
A.M. of <:=alifornia, Past Grand Master Edward H. Siems is Treasurer
of Masomc Homes of California.
By virtue of his office as Grand Secretary of Grand Lodge F & A M
of <:=alifornia, Past Grand Master Lloyd E. Wilson is Secret~c; of Ma~
some Homes of California.
The terms of the two appointive Trustees expiring this year will
compl:te a long tenu_re for Brothers Charles Albert Adams and Myron
E . S~1th. Under leg1slation adopted in 1948 they are ineligible for reappomtment until a lapse of one year. Both have served at least three
consecutive terms.
. Comment in thi~ report on their valuable services seems most appropriate. Brother Smith was first appointed to the Board of Trustees in
<?~t~ber. 1948. He has rendered conscientious services in all of the activities of the Homes. As a resident in Southern California, the children
at the Covma Home have been his special care. His profession as an
attorney has enabled him to give unstintingly of his time in connection

with legal matters in Southern California. He has served as Vice-President since March 14, 1953.
Brother Adams has one of the most outstanding records of achievement in the annals of Grand Lodge. He has been a member of Grand
Lodge for over 50 years. He served as Grand Master in 1919. In his long
career he has served on many Committees and special assignments. As
originator of Public Schools Week it has brought him national recognition and honor. His favorite activity, however, was the Homes Board.
He has given approximately 40 years of most valuable services. He has
been personally active in all phases of the operation of our Homes. He
has had a personal relationship with the Guests of the Homes and many
graduates of Covina Home come to see him long after their graduation.
As counsel for Masonic Homes, Brother Adams has given liberally of his
time and taken care of the many complex and intricate legal problems
with which the Board has been faced. The record of Brother Adams on
this Board will long stand in California as a symbol of Masonic love and
devotion.
FINANCE

From time to time in previous reports the financial policy of the Trustees has been defined and an outline of source and application of funds
has been given. In view of the contemplated hospital construction, it is
deemed advisable to again point out our basic financial policy coupling
it with up-to-date information on the specific use of monies received. A
study of the annual auditors' report will give full detail.
ENDOWMENT FuNo--TRUST FuNo--SPECIAL RESERVES
SOURCE AND APPLICATION

Contributions, gifts and bequests specifically made to Endowment
Fund
Application: As indicated (only the income thereof may ever be
used for Homes' purposes).
Contributions. gifts and bequests specifically made to Covina Home.
Application: Special items used only at Covina for special benefit
of children.
Summer camp program.
4H Club program.
Complete rehabilitation of farm areas including new
buildings in conjunction with 4H Club effort.
Contributions. gifts and bequests specifically made to Decoto Home.
Application: Special items used only at Decoto for personal comfort of residents.
A substantial portion of this reserve will be used for
the new hospital facility.
Contributions. gifts and bequests specifically made to Scholarship
Fund

138

Application: Loans and grants for educational purposes to
worthy Covina boys and girls.
Unappropriated Reserve-This reserve receives miscellaneous income.
Application: The $12.00 monthly grant to residents at Decoto.
Decoto residents' funeral expenses up to $175.00.
(Plan to increase this sum to $200.00 shortly.) This
reserve will also be used to defray a portion of the
new hospital facility.
Contributions, gifts and bequests specifically made to Masonic
Homes without limitation to use.
Application: Under a policy adopted several years ago, all such
funds when received are credited to the Reserve for
Additions and Replacements. The wisdom of this
early decision has been proved, as we now have a
sizable sum to assist in the development and construction of the new Decoto Hospital facility. Sufficient funds are in the Building Reserve, the Decoto
Reserve and the Unappropriated Reserve to construct and equip the hospital. This, however, will
strip us of a considerable amount of capital and the
only source for replacement will be the generosity
of our membership and friends who in the past
have never failed to remember the Homes.
For example, a recent small news item in a local
paper announcing the new hospital project brought
forth a $500 gift from Brother E. Herbert Phillips,
P.M. of Sequoia Lodge No. 349, earmarked for the
hospital. We gratefully acknowledge the gift and
have established a new fund to be known as the
Hospital Building Reserve. We are extremely confident that our brethren and friends will respond on
a voluntary basis without solicitation when they
hear of a new opportunity to assist such a worthwhile enterprise. All contributions made for this
project are fully deductible for income tax purposes.
The Grand Lodge in 1946 discontinued the per
capita tax for the Homes Building Fund. We sincerely hope that it will not be necessary in the future to restore such a levy.
OPERATING AccoUNTS

Source of Funds:
Income from Endowment Fund.
Revenue from other investments.

139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Per Capita tax from Grand Lodge.
$25 Contribution of initiates and affiliates.
Application of Fund:
General operation of Decoto and Covina Homes.
(This includes normal maintainance and repairs. )
Outside relief.
Administrative and general expense.
Retirement income plan. (This plan has been fully
funded and the annual cost is approximately 16:4%
of payroll.)
COMMENT

Over the past ten years the medical and health service at Decoto has
been materially improved at a substantial cost. In addition, the Homes
Trustees have absorbed from Grand Lodge the following items of expense:
Annual Endowment Fund Campaign cost.
Annual visitation to Homes during Grand Lodge week.
Substantial portion of Investment Service Advisory fee.
Increased allocation to Grand Lodge for clerical and office services rendered by Grand Secretary staff.
Allocation for portion of cost of motion picture, "The Extended
Compass."
PER CAPITA TAX FOR HOMES SUPPORT

1952

1953

1954

1955

1956

1957

1958

1.00
.75
.75
.50
.50
.50
.50
The annual audit for the fiscal year ending June 30, 1958 indicates
a deficit of $54,675.15 before profit from sale of investments or a net
deficit of $37,H3.95 after this item.
While it appears that we may have a continuing deficit for some
time, we are not requesting an increase in the per capita tax this year
because of our desire to keep the Grand Lodge tax to a minimum. We
still have some reserves and until our building program and labor situation stabilizes, we plan to move along cautiously with the hope that
increased Endowment Fund income will solve most of our problems.
With this thought in mind, we request a 50c per capita tax for Masonic
Homes support payable as of July 1. 1959.
PROPOSED

NEW HOSPITAL FACILITIES AT THE
MASONIC HoME, DECoTo

· At present there are three hundred fifty men and women in the Decoto Home, eighty of whom are bed cases. This taxes the capacity of
present facilities, and it has become necessary to expand to properly
care for the aged. The average age of the people in the Home is 82 years,
and the average age of the bed cases is 90 years. The facilities for bed
cases must be increased.
The maintenance and operation of a Home such as the Masonic

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

140

141

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Home at Decato is subject to license and regulation by the State of
California. The buildings must meet certain standards of construction,
comply with the California Uniform Building Code, the Rules and Regulations of the Fire Marshal, Industrial Accident Commission, and the
California Department of Public Health. The Regulations for ambulatory cases living in the Home are under the direction of the State Bureau
of Hospitals of the Department of Public Health. Obviously the latter
regulations are more exacting and severe.
There have been recent changes in codes to improve health and
safety conditions for the ill and aged. In many instances these changes
affect existing facilities and are mandatory, particularly in hospital facilities. In considering the needed expansion at the Home, it is more
logical to build a new modern independent unit which will comply with
all State requirements for care of the bed cases rather than remodel existing facilities to comply with present codes. This will then release
eighty additional beds for ambulatory cases for which the codes are not
as strict. The proposed new unit, designed for 131 beds, will allow for
approximately 50 additional beds beyond the present bare requirements.
The selection of the site for the new unit has received considerable
consideration. Inasmuch as this is an expansion of the existing facilities,
it must relate to these facilities. Therefore, it was located adjacent to the
nurses' home, the kitchen and parking area, and directly accessible from
the main building by means of a bridge. The site is steep, but advantage
was taken of this by providing accessible terraces for all floors except
the fourth floor. The nurses' home, the kitchen, and other existing facilities are adequate for this increase in the plant and for the present it
is economical to expand the existing facilities. In the future due to site
limitations and limitations of some facilities it will be necessary to consider another completely new and related group of buildings on a new
site on the existing property or elsewhere.
The new unit is a four-story and basement reinforced concrete structure containing 62 two-bed wards and 7 single rooms. A hospital elevator
serves all floors from the basement to the fourth floor. Access is available
from the basement level for food carts and deliveries. The main entrance
to the building is at street level on the first floor. The nurses' entrance is
on the second floor opposite the nurses' home, and an enclosed connecting bridge provides a connecting corridor from the second floor to the
existing main building.
The basement contains service rooms consisting of a large mechanical equipment room, morgue, linens and clothes storage, general storage,
soiled linen, a rinse and dry laundry, and a garbage room. The basement
floor is at the same elevation as the existing kitchen across the street and
in fair weather food carts can cross the street and be taken up the elevator to the diet kitchen.
The first floor with its main entrance lobby is accessible from the

street by a slight ramp. In addition to the lobby. nurses' lounge, and
locker room, this floor contains a clinic, examination and trea~ment
rooms, and a number of two-bed wards with the necessary nurses station, baths and utilities. The wards open onto a terrace.
The second floor has a diet kitchen which serves this entire new unit
in addition to the two-bed wards, private rooms, and the necessary
utility rooms. The food carts come up to this floor by way. o~ the el~v~tor
or, in inclement weather, across the bridge from the existmg building.
The food is served in the diet kitchen and the trays distributed to the
various rooms throughout the building. Toast and other minor items on
the menu will be prepared in this diet kitchen. On this floor, some wards
open onto a terrace, and others onto balconies.
The third and fourth floors have two-bed wards and private rooms
besides the necessary nurses' station, baths and utilities. Those on the
third floor open either onto a terrace or onto balconies, and those on the
fourth floor open onto balconies. The roof in addition to the elevator
penthouse has space for fans and a cooling tower.
Each typical two-bed ward has a sliding glass door and screen to
either a four and a half foot wide balcony or an open terrace for use by
the occupants in wheel chairs when the weather is favorable. There is a
small storage cabinet in each ward for the personal eff~cts of each occupant, a lavatory and one connecting toilet for each pair of wards .. Each
ward and room has forced ventilation with all air heating and coohng on
thermostatic controls.
Floor finish will be vinyl asbestos, except for certain rooms which will
have ceramic tile. Examination and treatment rooms will have floors required by law.
Medical care for the institution is provided by a clinic and hospital
at some distance. At present, cases requiring surgery are transferred to
this hospital. Doctors visit the Home at reg?lar interv~ls or by .call: In
this new unit, space is provided for doctors consultation, exammation,
treatment, and minor surgery. It has all the necessary facilities such as
doctors' dressing space, scrub-up, sterilizers, and clean-up. S~a~e is also
provided. for a cast room with a portable X-ray, a dental chmc, and a
small clinical laboratory., W~!le compact, this medical treatment and
surgery unit will be quite complete.
The present transformer and main switchboard for the en!ire plant
are located on the site of the new building. A new vault and switchboard
room will be built at the rear court and terrace of the nurses' home at the
beginning of construction operations and the cut-over will be made with
the minimum of interruption of services.
A new fire alarm system will be installed extending through the entire home, which will substant.ially contribute to fire safety. With the

142

development planned, the areas presently used as hospital will be made
available for other uses which are now under consideration.
An estimate has been made of the cost of the complete construction
program which will provide new space for the care of one hundred and
thirty-one bed cases. This estimate approximates $1,000,000.00, which
does not include the furniture and equipment required. The plans have
received the approval of doctors expert in hospital administration and arrangement. as well as State Officials whose approval must necessarily be
obtained. The facility should serve Masonic Home at Decato adequately
for many years to come.
COVINA

In the progress of the children residing in our Covina Home, our
membership may be justly proud. Here, under the guidance of Superintendent Robert M. Henry and his very competent staff, sixty-seven children are beneficiaries of the kind care, love and protection of California
Masonry. That the opportunities afforded them are truly appreciated is
evident in their frequently voiced expressions of gratitude. For a review
of the home, school and community activities of the children, we commend to your attention the report of Superintendent Henry, which will
be included in the printed Proceedings.
To sustain the agricultural and 4-H programs, which have proven so
beneficial in developing leadership among the children, a farm building
program has been undertaken during the year, for the replacement of a
barn destroyed several years ago by fire, and several old wooden service
structures. It is expected that these new facilities will be completed and in
use at Covina before the end of the year.
Realizing that the leadership of our Superintendents is very vital to
the success of our two Homes, the Trustees are particularly gratified
that both Superintendent Henry and Superintendent David were this
year elected and installed as Worshipful Master by their respectful
LodgeS:
CHARLES M. WOLLENBERG
MYRON E. SMITH
CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
RALPH HEAD

GuvB. M1zE
PHIL N. MYERS
JoEL. SHELL
ARTHUR M. WARREN

143

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF SUPERINTENDENT-DECOTO HOME
To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
.
Brethren: It is my privilege and pleasure to present to you my third
annual report as Superintendent of the Masonic Homes at Decato for
the year ending June 30, 1958.
The population of the Home on July 1. 1957 was 144 men and 212
women. The new members for the year consisted of 40 women, average
age being 77.58 years. and 31 men averaging 78.87 years of age. There
were 38 women, average age 84.43 years, and 33 men, average age of
83.60. who passed to the Celestial Lodge above during the year. Three
men were withdrawn from the Home during the year.
On June 30, 1958 we had a population of 353 members, consisting
of 139 men and 214 women, including 14 married couples. Two members
of the Home were united in marriage during the past year.
Age Groups
50-59
60-69
70-79
80-89
90-99

Men
2
12
53
57
15

Women
none
13
76
104
21

Total

139

214

353

While our average is only slightly higher than last year, it has been
necessary that many of our members spend more time in the hospital
because of their physical condition. Therefore, our hospital has been
taxed to full capacity most of the time during the year.
There are 80 patients confined in the hospital, with a capacity of 81.
In addition there are 40 women on the Fourth Floor under the supervision of the hospital. who require extra assistance. Of the 80 patients
in the hospital 50 are considered permanent, consisting of 29 women
and 21 men.
Our hospital is under the supervision of Mrs. Rosalind Almond.
R.N .. who with her staff is rendering excellent service and care to our
members.
Our Medical Staff is being furnished by the Palo Alto Clinic. The
doctors visit five days each week seeing the patients in the hospital.
those who are ambulatory in the Clinic, and visiting others in their
rooms when necessary. Patients needing further attention are sent to
Palo Alto for further examinations or treatment. During the past year
many residents have received surgery at the Palo Alto Hospitai and
seem most satisfied with this arrangement.
In December 1957, Dr. Wm. S. O'Connor, who had been our dentist
for many years, was taken ill, and we were very sorry that he was

144

145

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

unable to return to duty. We are very grateful to him for the time, service and cooperation he has given the Home over the many years.
In February 1958 we began sending the members requiring dental
work to Dr. Kenneth Lee in Fremont, and on May 1, 1958 he started
coming to the Home, spending one-half day per week. His work is
most satisfactory.
The duties of the Assistant Superintendent have been well performed by Brother Lowell L. Cain. He has the respect of the personnel
under his supervision. He is extremely interested in the Home and the
members of the Home, and is kind and considerate of them, each and
everyone.
Through the efforts of Mrs. Sara Paris, our Matron. and her capable staff, our Home is being handled in an excellent manner. Under
her direction we are maintaining a homelike atmosphere and harmony
among the members of our Home.
The Accounting Department, Commissary and Kitchen, under the
direction of Fred Boyle, Office Manager, Paul Reichert, Purchasing
Agent, and Bill Emmal, Chef, have been handled most efficiently during
the year. They have been most cooperative and have shown the members every consideration.
Our Devotional Services are under the direction of the Home Chaplain, Reverend Martin L. Tonner, who visits the members and is available for spiritual guidance when requested. He conducts services one
Sunday a month and on the other Sundays we have the services of ministers of other denominations in the area. To them we wish to extend
our thanks and appreciation for bringing their services to the Home for
the benefit of our members.
During the past year we obtained electrically heated food conveyors
for the hospital, which have been very satisfactory, as we are now able
to serve the patients h~t food, and it is much more appetizing.
We closed our Laundry on January I. 1958 and now send it out to
a commercial laundry in Oakland. The charges are proving satisfactory
and we. believe it will be more economical in the end.
Ne~ drapes were purchased for the dining room, which have made
it more attractive.
Many of the rooms and hallways were redecorated in various pastel
shades. The folks seem to enjoy the change in colors and it has done
much to raise their spirits.
Wark was started about two months ago in modernizing our boiler
plant and we will have two new boilers. The old boilers have been in
use some thirty-five to forty years. New underground pipes were installed, along with the rearrangement of some of the pipes in the
building. When this .work is completed, with the larger boilers. we

will enjoy a higher rate of efficiency, and less maintenance costs and
problems. They will be modem and automatic.
We have had the pleasure of witnessing Degrees in the Temple
being conferred by 19 various Lodges. Many other Lodges visited
the Home, some bringing with them a picnic lunch, also many programs were given in the Auditorium for the benefit of the members.
We sincerely appreciate their thoughtfulness of our members.
We also wish to extend our sincere thanks and gratitude to all the
various Lodges, Organizations, Associations and individuals who were
so thoughtful and generous with their entertaining programs, and all
the donations of books, magazines and other gifts. Also to the many
groups taking our members for the wonderful auto rides which they
have enjoyed so much.
Movies were supplied for each Thursday throughout the year by
MGM. Twentieth Century Fox, United Artists. Universal. Columbia,
RKO, and Warner Bros. booking companies. We are very grateful to
them for these movies which our people enjoyed every week.
It was an honor and privilege to welcome the Most Worshipful
Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master, on January 11, 1958. On this date
the Board of Trustees made their annual visitation to the Home and
held their quarterly meeting.
A reception was held in the Auditorium by the members of the
Home, in honor of the Grand Master and the members of the Board.
After their words of greeting, they were entertained by the members of
the Home with songs and a "Wedding Skit", after which refreshments were serv~d.
At different times during the year various Trustees visited the
Home, and it is always a privilege to welcome and assist them during
their inspections.
On August 17, 1957 the East Bay Past Matrons Association held
their annual reception for the Worthy Grand Matron. A luncheon
was held in the Basement Banquet Room, after which they adjourned
to the Auditorium for a reception in her honor.
We wish also to express our sincere thanks and appreciation to
this group for their splendid generosity, for 7,937 jars of jams and
jellies, 2,195 quarts of canned fruits and juices, along with other
items and $7.42 in cash.
We had a total of 4,778 visitors register and I know there were
many that did not register. These represented 382 Lodges in California, 35 foreign jurisdictions, including 4 foreign countries. Among
the dignitaries, there were two Grand Masters and two Past Grand
Masters. We appreciate all these Brethren visiting the Home and
hope they will come back again.

146

147

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Our farm and orchard produced the following during the year:
Fiscal Year Ending June 30. 1958

REPORT OF THE SUPERINTENDENT-C OVINA HOME

Fruit, Fresh .............................................. $153.50
Fruit, Frozen (Apricots) ........................ 325.00
Vegetables ................................................ 219.50
Walnuts .................................................... 100.00
Hay .......................................................... 150.00
Total ...................................................... $948.00
Conditions here at the Home continue to improve, and I believe
are most satisfactory with the members. I wish to extend to them my
heartfelt thanks for their help and cooperation during the past year.
I wish, also, to express my thanks to all the employees for their
cooperation and assistance in caring for our members.
I wish to express my sincere thanks and gratitude to the Members.
Respectfully submitted,
GAIL H. DAVID, Superintendent

To the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California:
It is with deep appreciation and a realization of the great privilege
which is mine to work with young people that I present to you my
tenth annual report as Superintendent of the Masonic Home for Children at Covina, for the year ending June 30, 1958.
HOME MEMBERSHIP

The population of our Masonic Home Family, as of June 30, 1958,
numbers sixty-seven children-thirty-nine boys and twenty-eight girls.
During the fiscal year of 1957-58, fifteen chrildren have been admitted to
the Home, six boys and nine girls. Fifteen children have departed from
the Home; one to enter the Service of his country in the United States
Army, nine to re-established homes, and five of our high school graduates. Two of these graduates are remaining at the Home and attending
Mount San Antonio Junior College. Graduate Sandra Larsen plans to
work at Disneyland this summer and to continue her education at Santa
Monica Junior College at the beginning of the fall term. Graduate Diann
Ostrander will be working at our Home this summer in our camp program and plans to attend Sawyer's Business College this fall. Another
graduate, Elinor Offinga, is completing her work at the Edgewood College of Beauty in Covina. Linda Allison graduated and received l.B.M.
training in Los Angeles. Larry Moody entered the Service and is with
the United States Air Force. Five boys and two girls were graduated
from Badillo Grammar School and will en·t er Covina High School at
the beginning of the fall term.
Families
Children
Family Status
8
13
Orphans
8
15
H/O Fathers Living
8
12
H/O Mothers Living
13
27
Both Parents Living
Family relationships in the Home consist of the following: One
family of 8ve children; one family of four children, six families of three
children each, eleven families of two children each, and eighteen families
of one child each. Fourteen children, representing seven families, are
in the Home under the membership of the grandparent. Of the sixtyseven children, twenty-two will attend high school this fall. forty-three
are enrolled in the elementary school, and two will be attending Junior
College. Total number of Masonic Lodges having residents in the
Home are thirty-four, representing thirty-seven families. Our youngest
member is six years of age and our oldest is seventeen years of age.
HOME, SCHOOL AND COMMUNITY ACTMTJES

This year, as in former years, the Home has again had the honor of
being represented at Boys' State in Sacramento. Harry Joy was privi-

149

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

leged to attend through the sponsorsh ip of the Sunshine Post of the
American Legion. Eaoh year children of all ages participate d in presenting a program to members of the Fraternity attending the Los
Angeles Board of Relief Meeting in May. Another annual event important in the lives of our children is the awards which are made each
year at the Family Christmas Party: The Leonard Gross Memorial
Award for the Boy of the Year, and the Adolph Koshland Award for
Good Citizenship, which may be awarded to either boy or girl. Every
effort is made to afford our children a diversity of interests and the
resultant accomplishments in order to give them a broader foundation
for intellectual and spiritual growth, and personalit y development. They
are encourage d to take an active part in school, church, and Home
activities. Our children have successfully represente d the Home this
year, both at Covina High School and Badillo School, as class officers,
members of student body and student court, in school clubs, and athletics. Other positions of responsibility held by our Home children
were as Literary Editor of the Cardinal Year Book in Journalism, Junior
4-H Leaders, and as a participan t in Governme nt Day in the Public
Schools. All Home students are given supplemen tal tutoring whenever
needed. Our children attend the church of their choice. They are
encourage d to have thgir friends visit on week-end s, or go swimming,
and are invited in turn to visit classmates in their homes. Piano instruction is optional with the individual child, but cultural training is given to
each child. Our recreation program is in keeping with our plan of
providing a more complete "family" life at the Home, and teaches sportsmanship and good citizenship in group participation. The program
covers many phases, such as hikes, picnics, casual parties, dances, fishing
in the Home pond, as well as weekend camping and fishing expeditions,
horseback riding, swimming in the Home pool, Home movies, roller
skating, and rodeos. Snow trips were enjoyed by all the children, who
were taken in groups to Lake Arrowhea d this past winter. We should
like to express special appreciati on for the excellent movies we have
received this past year to Columbia Pictures Corporati on, Loew's
Incorpora ted, Twentieth Century Fox Film Exchange , Universal Films
Exchange , Warner Brothers, and the Bliss Pickup and Delivery Service
of Alhambra . Their generosity has been responsible for the fine selections which the children have enjoyed, many of which have been in
·
Cinemascope.
. This year there were three camp periods of ten days' duration, . affording each child an enjoyable vacation at Yosemite National Park.
Under the supervision of a trained and competent staff, a stationary
camp was set up on the floor of the valley, and side trips were taken from
there. The younger children were given use of the Valley camp recreation and handicraft , took nature hikes, and went on half-day mule and
don.key rides. -The older· grqµps took -six-day pack trips to the High
Sierra Campsites , and fis\led an.d· SVl?am in the various lakes visited-

May Lake, Fletcher Lake, Bernice Lake, Townsley Lake, Hanging Basket Lake, and Merced Lake. Side hikes, camping, and cook-outs were
enjoyed, with evening fun around camp fires.

148

HEALTH AND WELFARE PROGRAM

We are able to report a good year for the children's health and welfare, due to the help and excellent supervision of Dr. W. P. Magan, Sr.,
and his Associates, and to the devotion and vigilance of our Home's
Nurse. We have had no serious health problem this past year, although
there have been the usual contagious diseases such as measles, chicken
pox, common cold, and Asiatic flu. In stressing preventive measures in
our health program, complete physical examinati ons are given at regular intervals during the year. We also continued vitamin supplemen ts
and polio immunization this year. The children's optometry and visual
needs are under the supervision of Drs. Johnston and McCormick. Dr.
Elmer King, an alumnus of the Covina Home, examines the children's
teeth periodically and administers the necessary care and treatment. The
orthodont ia program is administered by Dr. Teal of Covina. Seven
children have received orthodont ia treatment during this fiscal year.
There have been three tonsillectomies and one other minor surgery.
FARM AND MASONIC PIONEERS ' 4-H CLUB

A long-rang e plan of improvement of farm and grounds has been
progressin g, and within the coming year the completion of our Farm and
Service Buildings are in sight. These buildings and facilities replace
those destroyed by fire two years ago. The fish pond has been enlarged,
and two islands ~ave been formed in it; one to be used for future fishfries for the children, the other as a refuge and nesting place for the
Home's ducks and other water fowl. Recently, the pond was freshly
stocked with fish. Twenty-t wo of our children, seventeen boys and five
girls, are members of our Masonic Pioneers' 4-H Club. The Club has
received its Charter and Achievement Seal, a gold star, for the tenth
year. Maintaine d by the 4-H Club are a registered Hereford breeding
herd as well as fat stock, and a registered Duroc Jersey swine herd. The
Club produced in live weight, and the Home consumed, four thousand,
one hundred sixty-two pounds of beef and five thousand, nine hundred
and forty pounds of pork this past year.
V1s1TATIO NS

The visitations of Lodges and affiliated Masonic organizati ons are
evidence of the keen interest in the welfare of our children. We were
most happy to welcome a maximum of four hundred visitors almost every
Visitation Sunday this fiscal year. and are grateful for the kindness as
expressed by Masonic friends who have visited the Home. The many
contributi ons received throughou t the year have been greatly enjoyed by

150

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

the children, and have added to their happiness in many ways. Our
Masonic Home Family extends to all members of the Fraternity a cordial invitation to visit our Home and become acquainted with our boys
and girls and members of the Home staff. Lodges and organizations have
responded very well in cooperating with Home's visitation program in
making reservations in advance. The third Sunday of each month is
reserved for group visitation by Lodges and affiliated organizations.
ALUMNI OP THE CovINA HoME

Alumni Home-Coming Day last September was a happy day, very
well attended, with approximately five hundred alumni and their families
present. It is a most heartwarming experience to again meet with the
alumni who received much of their childhood training at our Home, to
hear of their marriages and the happy homes they have established, and
to find that the precepts of Masonic principles as taught in our Home
have helped them in their lives. The Covina Alumni Reunion is observed
on the second Sunday in September, and the Alumni Reunion Dinner in
San Francisco is on the Saturday preceding Grand Lodge. This past
year the Sacramento Alumni Picnic was on June 7. Invitations to these
reunions are mailed to every active alumnus, and encouragement is given
to each one to keep the Home informed of his present address. A copy of
the 1958 Masonic Home Newsletter was sent to all alumni, including
those in the Armed Services; to Masonic Lodges currently sponsoring a
child in the Home; and to Grand Lodge Officers.
I am deeply appreciative of the priviledge of being of service in the
care of the children of our Home, and express my gratitude to the members of the Board of Trustees for their effort, counsel and guidance, and
to the Masonic Fraternity for this opportunity to assist our young people
in building happy and useful lives.

Respectfully Submitted,
ROBERT M. HENRY, Superintenden t

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

151

TRIBUTE TO CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS
Myron E. Smith on behalf of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes
of California presented the following:
That great and original thinker, Emerson, said "Nothing great was
ever achieved without enthusiasm." Today, wise counselors tell us that
the ability to create enthusiasm in others is the quality above all others
which most distinguishes the executive and the leader.
How wonderful it is that California Masonry has been blest with a
leader whose enthusiasm has been a star in her crown for more than
half a century; whose leadership has lighted the course of Masonic
Homes of California for more than 40 years!
This great and good brother, who means so much to us, was born of
pioneer parents, Amos and Regina Adams, in the California "Mother
Lode" town of Mokelumne Hill, in Calaveras County. on November 25,
186 7-more than 90 years ago.
His father was the judge of the old Eleventh Judicial District, comprised of Amador, Calaveras and El Dorado Counties. In 1875 the
family moved to San Francisco, where our brother has ever since
resided, except for a short time in Oakland.
He received his education in the public schools of San Francisco and
Oakland, and in 1887, more than 70 years ago, was graduated from the
University of California's Hastings College of Law, and admitted to the
practice of the law.
Our brother has had a long and active professional. civic and fraternal life.
In the first World War, over the age at which he could be inducted
into military senlke. he was appointed associate director of Four-Minute
Men in California, and chairman of the Bureau of Speakers of the War
Savings Committee.
The devoted protagonist of public education, he was for several years
chairman of the section of education in the Commonwealth Club (and
of which he is still a member) and has been for many years a member
of the executive committee of the Public Education Society of San
Francisco. He is a former member of the State Board of Education and,
as chairman of its Text-Book Committee took a prominent part in the
controversy and subsequent litigations with reference to the adoption of
text books and which ultimately resulted in a decision by the Supreme
Court, which confirmed and definitely established the right of the State
Board to adopt such text books as were believed by its members to be
the best, even though they were not, and could not be. printed by the
State printer
A member of the Order of the Coif, he is today the oldest practicing
attorney in the City and County of San Francisco, and one of the
oldest active attorneys in the United States--honore d and respected as
one of the great leaders in his profession in his native Califomia.

152

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

His Masonic career has been an unusually long and active one--in
our Grand Lodge probably unique. because there has not been a year
since he entered Grand Lodge as Junior Warden of Excelsior Lodge
No. 166, in 1907, that he has not been either a member of an important
committee, or board, or an officer of Grand Lodge.
Before most of us were born, in 1901, he was initiated on May 8th,
passed on May 22nd and raised on May 29th in Excelsior Lodge No.
166-all in a span of three weeks, a feat in itself symbolic of his fabulous
memory. In 1908, he was elected Master of his lodge, and also appointed
to the Grand Lodge Committee on Finance.
In the years that have followed we have seen him serve the Grand
Lodge in countless capacities:
1908-Commit tee on Finance
1909--Special committee to recommend procedure to acquire good
title to San Gabriel property of the then Southern California
Masonic Home Association.
1910--Grand Orator and Committee on Grievances.
1911-Commit tee on Pay of Members.
1912-Reappoi nted to Committee on Grievances.
1913 to 1916-Chairm an of Committee on Grievances.
19f6-Junior Grand Warden.
1917-Senior Grand Warden and member of Board of Trustees of
Homes of California.
Masonic
I
1919--'Grand Master (elected )-Proclaimed Public Schools Week
·
Observance.
1920--Commit tee on Policy and General Purposes.
1921-Appoin ted to the Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes of
California, and is still so acting by virtue of successive appointments until the dose of this year's communication.
1922-Trustee and one of the incorporators of the University Masonic Club at Berkeley, serving until 1949.
1925-Chairm an of Committee on Public Schools Week, serving
until 1949
1958-Complete s 41 years (except for year as Grand Master) as
member of Board of Trustees of Masonic Homes of California.
It has been said that to truly live is to live in the lives of others. The
brother whom we now honor is eight years older than the average age
( 82) of the residents at our Decato home. During his more than 40
years on the Homes Board, over 4000 applicants have received aid and
assistance from your board, guided by his wise counsel and advice. How
gloriously our brother truly lives in the lives of others!
Possessed of a consuming concern for the welfare of others, he
symbolizes for us the ultimate in brotherly love.

"The great use of life," said the philosopher James, "is to spend it
for something that outlasts it." How marvelous is our brother's investment in life and in the lives of all around him and near him.
As a tribute to their brother trustee, the trustees of Masonic Homes
of California have adopted the following resolution :
RESOLUTION

Whereas, Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams has been a
devoted trustee of our Masonic Homes for over 40 years; and
Whereas, Brother Adams has during said time rendered extraordinary and unlimited services, and has permanently endeared himself to
our aged and our children, and
Whereas, we his fellow trustees, wish him to know how much we
value his consecrated services in the application of Masonic love and
asistance; now therefore be it
Resolved, That we as trustees of the Masonic Homes, and on behalf
of the entire fraternity, extend to Brother Adams the sincere appreciation of his brethren for making our Masonic Homes a living symbol of
brotherly love and affection.
CHARLES M. WoLLENBERG
MYRON E. SMITH
RALPH H. HEAD
ARTHUR M. WARREN
PHIL N. MYERS
JoE L. SHELL
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
GUY B. MIZE
•
MosT WORSHIPFUL CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS, WE SALUTE YOU.

JEWELS AND WORKING TOOLS
The Grand Secretary called attention to the Grand Master's jewel.
the working tools on the Altar and the Grand Secretary's jewel explaining that they were made from gold and jewels received from former
residents at the Home at Decato.

154

155

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES, CALIFORNIA
MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE CORPORATION

California whose consummate wisdom, fidelity and courage have placed
in our hands this magnificent heritage."
1948
The special committee appointed by the Grand Master spent the
year investigating building costs, location and financing. (For reference
see Grand Master's recommendation page 41 : see full report 1948 Proceedings, pages 152, 153.) The Finance Committee of Grand Lodge and
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommended that funds
be made available to the Memorial Temple Committee as needed. (See
page 287, special reference made to the War Relief Fund then aggregating $158,507.44).
1949
Progress of important negotiations and investigation reported. (See
page 175 Proceedings.)
1950
(See page 104 Proceedings for full report.) Selection of site was
principal problem. See page 196 Proceedings for recommendation of
Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance regarding
availability of funds if and when needed to make a specific commitment.
1951
At this session of Grand Lodge a 50c per capita tax was recommended by the Temple Committee. (See page 223 Proceedings: page
272 Policy and General Purposes Committee concurred: see page 291
Report of Finance Committee and its rather extensive review of Memorial Temple Committee activities to date, together with its recommendation as to finance.) The recommendation was adopted.
•
1952
Your Committee continued to explore the possibility of remodeling
older structures and employed as Architect Brother Albert F. Roller,
Excelsior Lodge 166. (See page 297 for full report and recommendation.) It was at the 1952 Annual Communication the Memorial Temple
Committee recommended that the annual per capita tax be raised from
50c to $1.00 per member. (See page 337 recommendation Committee on
Finance.) The recommendations were adopted.
1953
A year of action. ( See page 128 - 141 for complete report. )
A special conference of Past Grand Masters, elected Grand Lodge
officers and standing committee chairmen was called by Grand Master
Arthur M. Warren to review the Temple Committee's effort and recommendations to be made to Grand Lodge. (See Proceedings page 137.)
The per capita tax of $1.00 was made a constitutional provision as a
practical necessity in order to assist long-term financing. See page 298
Proceedings.
Section 100 (b) was added to our ordinances to provide for $9.00
contribution by applicants for degrees. See page 262-Committee on

The Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation present their Fourth Annual Report for the fiscal year ended June
30, 1958.
The Board of Trustees met following the close of the 1957 Annual
Communication of Grand Lodge, as is required by the By-Laws, for the
purpose of organization. The election of Brother Phil N. Myers, Deputy Grand Master, Brother Joe L. Shell, Senior Grand Warden, and
Brother Alfred F. Breslauer. Junior Grand Warden, was formally reported to the Board, and on motion duly made, seconded and carried.
they were elected members of the Board.
IN RETROSPECT

In rendering this report on behalf of the Temple Corporation, it is
fitting to give a brief review of its activities since the inception of the
idea of a California Masonic Memorial Temple.
The first impetus to the idea was given by P.G.M. John R. Moore in
his message as Grand Master in 1947. See 1947 Proceedings-page 35:
page 253, Committee on Policy and General Purposes; page 267, Committee on Finance.
True, the record is indelibly clear that the need was felt prior to
1947, for a review shows that numerous resolutions had been presented
to Grand Lodge in prior years for such purposes as assigning seats for
delegates, limiting the number of Past Masters and other such ideas.
In 1947, Grand Master Moore said in part, "In addition to serving
as a memorial to our brothers who served and died in World War II. a
new temple would furnish a comfortable meeting place for the delegates
to our Communications in the years to come and would provide a fitting
place in which to pause and acknowledge our debt to the early builders
of Masonry in California whose consummate wisdom, fidelity and courage have placed in our hands this magnificent heritage."
It was the hope of the then Grand Master that the proposed new
temple should be ready for occupancy in time for our Centennial Communication in 1950. The record of course is clear that while this Grand
Lodge in its conservatism was not willing to move that fast, we did make
some progress each year. It was not possible under the circumstances to
carry out all of the recommendations of the then Grand Master. but the
idea of a Memorial Building in memory of our war dead brethren has
been carried out, not only in overall design, but also through sculpture
on the California Street side, and by inscription in the memorial foyer.
Thus the new Temple "does in fact provide a fitting place in which to
pause and acknowledge our debt to the early builders of Masonry in

156

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

157

Policy and General Purposes and page 277-Authority to organize nonprofit corporation.
(See page 281 re title to property owned by California Masonic Memorial Temple.)
(See page 298-Jurisprudence Committee report.)
(See page 315-Finance Committee report.)

(See page 158. Proposed legislation re new lodges and Merit Roll.)
(See page 304. Resolution re Cornerstone Program.)
(See page 304 re recording memorial gifts "Open Book.")
(See pages 287 to 296 inclusive. Cornerstone Laying Ceremony.)
(See page 327. Approval report of Finance Committee.)
(See pages 379 to 383 inclusive. Memorial Temple audit.)

1954
"THIS IS THE YEAR OF THE TEMPLE" by Grand Master
HarwelL
In the year under review it became indelibly clear that the brethren
all over the Jurisdiction were becoming more and more aware of the
action taken by Grand Lodge at the 1953 Communication.
(See pages 27, 28, 29 and 30 for special resolutions.)
(See page 70 Grand Master's message.)
See page 142 Approval of Supplemental Appropriation out of Reserves of Grand Lodge to cover Expense for Fund Raising and Promotion.)
(See pages 176 - 182 inclusive. Committee report.)
(See page 181 re sale of Common stock in 25 Van Ness Avenue
building owned by Grand Lodge. )
(See pages 275, 284, 285. Committee on Policy and General Purposes.)
(See page 286 Review of Memorial Temple Program by Past Grand
Master Edward H. Siems.)
(See page 336 California Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation
audit.)
1955
Grand Master Clausen proclaims "GROUNDBREAKING DAY,"
Oct. 26, 1955. (See pages 21 and 43, Proceedings.)
( See page 107 Report of California Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation, incorporated January 6, 1954.)
(See pages 108 to 114 inclusive. Special Committee on California
Masonic Memorial Temple.)
(See pages 81, 84, 87, 94, 340, 353 and 364 re special legislation.)
(See pages 364, 365. Vote of Confidence and Summary of Program
by Past Grand Master Siems.)
(See pages 256 to 264 inclusive. Ceremony of breaking ground.)
(See pages 414 to 416 inclusive. Memorial Temple audit.)

1957
Grand Master L. Harold Anderson proclaimed "THE YEAR OF
THE TEMPLE."
(See pages 78, 79.)
(See pages 183 to 191 inclusive. Report of the Trustees, California
Masonic Memorial Temple.)
(See pages 456, 461. Memorial Temple audit.)

1956
Grand Master Stewart proclaims "CORNERSTONE LA YING
DAY," September 19, 1956. (See pages 96 and 137-8 Proceedings.)
(See pages 151. to 159 inclusive. Report of the Trustees of California
Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation.)

During the course of construction all insurance coverages were maintained in compliance with loan requirements and applicable laws of regulatory bodies.
Since completion of the Temple, and as the result of months of study
by your Building Committee, our insurance advisor, Brother Merritt

1957-1958
Part of the detail above recorded for prior years is reviewed in part
from the 1953 Report of the Committee. At the expense of repetition it
is again recorded here for handy reference. A brief summary of committee activities from its begining to the final dedication of the Temple in
this report of the Trustees seems appropriate.
THE TEMPLE Is BUILT

Bids were opened on March 13, 1956. The "Notice of Completion"
was filed on April 24, 1958. Final payment to the contractor was made
on July 15, 1958. During the span of two years and forty-three days a
dream of the Masons of California became a reality.
At this Annual Communication, in the presence of the regularly
elected delegates to this Grand Lodge and our guests from around the
world our California Masonic Memorial Temple in all its splendor is
presented for inspection and dedication. In presenting this new Temple
to this gathering we do it with confidence. Our experience in its use since
completion has been most gratifying. The comments by those attending
concerts, lectures, or other meetings have been most generous in their
praise as to its beauty, accoustics, comfort and utility. The thousands of
brethren and friends who have taken one of the "Sunday guided tours"
have been equally generous in their praise. The Masons of California,
and all who made it possible, can take pride in their having become a
"Temple Builder."
INSURANCE

158

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

~owland, Executive Vice President of Thompkin s & Company, with advice and counsel from the Insurance Committee of Grand Lodge and
representa tives of the Banks, we have placed the following:
Fire, Extended Coverage, Vandalism and Malicious Mischief Insurance.
Building:
(a) Nine policies aggregatin g $4.500,000.00;
(b) Policy Terms ( 5 years) June 30, I 958 to June 30, 1963;
( c) Coinsuran ce 90%;
( d) Premiums payable in annual installments;
( e) Replacement cost new basis-los ses to be paid without deduction for depreciation.
Insurance:
Rental
On advice and recommendation of Brother Merritt Rowland we
have insured against loss of rental income should the property be damaged by 6.re, any of the extended coverage perils, or vandalism and malicious mischief. The insurance is written on a rental income form. The
premium rate is nominal and is subject to the reporting of actual values
at the end of each policy year.
Broad Form "All Risk": (excluding 8ood, earthquak e and other standard excJusions),
Contents:
(a) Insurance $50,000.00;
(b) Term (3 years) July 1, 1958 to July I. 1961;
(c) Coinsuran ce 90%:
( d) Replacement cost new basis-los ses to be paid without deduction for depreciation:
As new values are added they will be included.
e)
(
Workmen 's Compensation:
Insurance is in effect and covers all salaried officers and employees.
Comprehensive Public Liability: (Bodily Injuries and Property Damage)
(a) An all-inclusive broad form is in effect;
( b) Policy limit $1.000,000 each occurrence.
Boiler and Machinery:
(a) Insurance ~n effe~t for $100.000 limit, covering direct damage in
the two boilers. air tanks, hot water tanks and expansion tanks.
Plate Glass:
Efforts to work out a special program of coverage for accidental
breakage to plate glass windows, doors, etc. has been without satisfactory results.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

159

The suggested annual premium seemed too far out of line for the
coverage obtained.
Under our 6.re, extended coverage (including explosion, windstorm,
motor vehicJe and aircraft damage). any glass losses resulting therefrom
are already covered. This leaves uninsured losses resulting from malicious mischief. vandalism and earthquak e. With the large deductible
on earthquak e, it is our judgment and the recommendation of our Insurance Advisor, that the Temple Corporati on should accept this calculated risk and continue to accept these exposures without benefit of
insurance.

Safety:
It is well to remember that insurance coverage does not prevent
breakage or personal injury. Based on our experience to date and as the
result of studies made. protective railings. where necessary. have been
installed, and other measures taken to minimize hazards.
Endo-mosaic Window:
By special agreemen t with the Rating Bureau, 6.re policies bear
endorsements which will eliminate any possible argument in case of vandalism damage to the endo-mosaic window so that the underwrit ers or
adjusters cannot attempt to classify this as "glass windows," and thus
deny liability on vandalism cJaims.
Earthquake Insurance:
The matter of earthquak e insurance on the California Masonic Memorial Temple has received long and serious study by your Building
Committee. the lending banks, the California Rating Bureau. our Insurance Advisor and the Insurance Committee of Grand Lodge.
In order that the printed record of Grand Lodge on this matter be
rather complete there follow copies of three letters written by Mr. Karl
V. Steinbrug ge. Structural Engineer, and a recognized earthquak e authority: one letter dated May 17, 1956, based on studies and review of
the plans, and two letters dated April 3, 1957 and May 6, 1957, written
following the rather severe earthquak e during construction on March
22, 1957. They are as follows:

160

PROCEEDINGS OF THE ·
KARL

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

v. STEINBRUGGE

Structural Engineer
6851 Cutting Blvd.
El Cerrito 6, California
May 17, 1956
Mr. Merritt Rowland
Thompkins & Co.
111 Sutter Street
San Francisco, California
Re: California Masonic Memorial Temple
San Francisco, California
Dear Mr. Rowland:
We have reviewed the plans for the captioned structure and have
analyzed these plans from the standpoint of the earthquake hazard. A
field inspection of the site has also been made.
The building is being built on a steep slope on Nob Hill. Foundation
conditions are good. Soil investigations reveal that the structure is
found in a location containing sandstones or other relatively good bearing materials.
The importance of this good foundation material is not to be underestimated. A careful and detailed study made by the California Earthquake Commission after the San Francisco 1906 Earthquake reveals
that, while the earthquake was "Very violent (Grade A) " in the waterfront areas a short distance away, it was only "Strong (Grade D)" in
the vicinity of the Temple.
We would not consider the fact that the Temple is on a steep hillside
to be of any particular concern in this instance. ·
The building will be somewhat "L" shaped. Lower floors, walls, columns, etc., are entirely of reinforced concrete construction. The upper
floors are steel frame, fireproofed with concrete. Relatively few openings
exist in the exterior walls due to the type of occupancy. Occupancy requirements also dictate relatively few partitions.
The materials chosen are well suited for resisting heavy earthquake
forces as compared with some of the lighter, but much weaker, materials
finding some vogue today. Earthquake bracing is provided by the concrete roof and floors, acting as diaphragms (horizontal beams) and the
exterior walls acting as shear walls (bracing walls). The relatively few
wall openings have added materially to the earthquake strength of the
exterior walls.
No known earthquake fault is known to exist in the vicinity. The
San Andreas Fault, on which occurred the 1906 Earthquake, is about 10
miles to the west. As long as a structure is not located directly within a
fault zone, it is more important ~o have good design and good construe-

161

tion rather than place the structure on a site only several miles further
away from a fault.
Predicting earthquakes as to exact time, place, and severity is impossible with our present state of knowledge. However, we do know that
earth strains are building up. The Farrallon Islands are moving northward at the rate of about 2" per year with respect to Oakland. When the
strains become too large, another large earthquake can be expected.
In the event of a repetition of the San Francisco 1906 Shock, it is
probable that the Temple will suffer, at the most, up to 5% damage;
Should a less severe earthquake occur, as a Long Beach ( 1933) Earthquake or an Arvin-Tehachapi-Bakersfield ( 1952) Earthquake, damage
will undoubtedly be less.
The foregoing estimates are based on the building being constructed
in strict conformance with the plans. We understand that a full-time inspector is on the job, and that laboratory tests are being made to insure
that the materials will be up to specification.
Very truly yours,
Very truly yours,
KARL

v. STEINBRUGGE

PACIFIC FIRE RATING BUREAU

465 California Street • San Francisco 4, California
April 3, 1957
File No. 2202
Mr. Merritt Rowland
Executive Vice President
Thompkins & Company
111 Sutter Street
San Francisco, California
Dear Mr. Rowland:

Re: California Masonic Memorial Temple
San Francisco, California
The writer has just completed our periodic course of construction inspection of the captioned risk.
We noted no earthquake damage as a result of the recent shock, nor
have we received any information to the effect that damage had occurred.
Very truly yours,
KARL

KVS:EF

v. STEINBRUGGE

162

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
PACIFIC F1RB RATING BUREAU

465 California Street • San Francisco 4, California
May 6, 1957
PFRB File No. 2202
Mr. Merritt Rowland
Thompkins & Company
111 Sutter Street
San Francisco, California
Dear Mr. Rowland:
Re: California Masonic Memorial Temple
California and Taylor Streets
San Francisco, California
This letter will amplify our letter of April 3rd. At the time of our
previous inspection, much of the green concrete which had been subjected to the March 22, 1957, earthquake was still covered by its forms.
Accompanied by Mr. Herbert Lyell of H. J. Brunnier's office, we reinspected the structure on May 3, 1957. Special attention was given to
the areas having concrete poured March 18th and March 22nd:
March 18-Two holes about 3'0'' square in west wall where bracing went through 6" curbs on B and D decks at duct
openings.
March 19--Section of E slab on ground between E and J and 20
and 40.
March 20-Three holes on A deck where bracing went through,
used 3750# concrete. The 6" curbs on B and C decks
at duct openings.
March 21-Fireproofi ng on Auditorium floor.
March 22-Wall between A-90 and E-90 from elevation 91'8" to
99'6" was poured in the morning. In the afternoon, the
wall from col. E-90 through H-90 and H-63 to L-63
from elevation 82'0'' to 91 '8" was poured.
Our inspection has confirmed the fact that no damage occurred to
the green concrete as a result of the earthquake of March 22, 1957.
Very truly yours,
KARL

v. STEINBRUGGE

Structural Engineer

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

163

We also include the following quotations taken from the special report published by the Rating Bureau in 1956: "The building is designed
to resist strong lateral forces. The probable damage to this structure in
a strong prolonged shock, similar to that of 1906, would be minimum."
Taken from the report of the professional engineer who was retained by Thompkins & Company-Ge neral Insurance Brokers: "In the
event of a repetition of the San Francisco 1906 shock, it is probable
that the Temple will suffer, at the most, up to 5% damage."
In a letter addressed to the Board of Trustees of the Temple Corporation dated May 31, 1956, from Thompkins & Company, Insurance
Broker, this conclusion is reached\ "The conclusion of professional
opinions is that the Temple Building will be probably one of the most
earthquake resistive buildings on the Pacific Coast. The rates reflect it,
and the stated opinions give the conclusion additional support."
It may be noted in passing that during the time of the earthquake the
structural steel was in place and the Vermont Marble Company was
placing marble near the roof top on the Taylor Street side. There was
no damage to this installation.
During construction we did carry primary earthquake coverage.
After completion the lending banks elected not to require earthquake
insurance.
Based on the aforesaid the Board of Trustees have elected not to
carry earthquake coverage on the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
This policy is consistent with the practice followed by the owners of all
of the buildings we checked in San Francisco and which have been constructed during the recent past.

.

HOLD HARMLESS IN LEASE RENTAL AGREEMENT

"Hold Harmless" conditions in rental agreement for use with tenants:
All leases carry "Waiver of Responsibility" conditions, and the hold
harmless agreement drawn by our attorney. Tenants are required to
carry bodily liability insurance and property damage liability.
General Comment:
Our basic insurance policies have been written for .6.xed terms. At a
later date it may be of some advantage to combine these coverages and
this location with other properties of Grand Lodge and the Masonic
Homes to obtain additional premium advantage.

KCS:EF

cc: Herbert Lyell

MAcDoNALD, YouNG & NELSON, INc. CLAIM

On August 4th, 1958, a suit was filed against the Temple by the
General Contractor for an amount aggregating $212,128.88 plus cost.
Our Architect, General Counsel, and Trustees contend the suit is
without merit. You can be assured the suit will be vigorously opposed.

164

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RENTALS To DATE

statement of income and expense. It will take four to five years to get
into full operation. Convention meeting dates are usually set well in advance. The continued stream of inquiries and reservations for dates is
most gratifying to us. At this writing we can predict with confidence reasonable financial success for the California Masonic Memorial
Temple.

The 500-car garage is leased to Tidewater Oil Company-see 1956
report for detail. This produces a minimum annual rental of $21,000. We
are hopeful and are confidant that it will produce much more based on
increased gross revenue. The operators of the garage join us in this
expectation.
For the &seal year ended June 30, 1958, we have had the following
tenants:
April 19, 1958-San Francisco Symphony-au ditorium.
April 27, 1958--San Francisco Symphony-au ditorium.
April 28, 1958-Billy Graham-audit orium and breakfast.
May 1-5, 1958-U. S. Navy League-audito rium and exhibit hall.
June 8, 1958--Grace Hoff man Association-a uditorium (rehearsal).
June 11, 1958-Galileo High School graduation-au ditorium.
June 14, 1958-Grace Hoffman reception-aud itorium.
June 23-27, 1958-America n Medical Association-a uditorium.
Total rental, $8.808.42.
Commitments to end of calendar year, July 1. 1958 to December 31,
1958:
Sept. 11, 1958-Constitu tion Observance-a uditorium.
Sept. 14, 15, 1958-Congreg ation Judea-auditor ium.
Sept. 23, 24, 1958--Congre gation Judea-auditor ium.
Sept. 26, 1958-Ella Fitzgerald-aud itorium.
Sept. 27 - Oct. 4, 1958-Dedicat ion and Grand Lodge-audito rium and
all public space.
Oct. 5-8. 1958-Californ ia Academy of General Practice-audit orium
and exhibit hall.
Oct. 24, 1958-Paul Spier Enterprises-au ditorium.
Nov. 6-13, 1958-Nationa l Association Real Estate Boards-audito rium and all public space.
Nov. 14-22, 1958-U. S. Savings & Loan League-audito rium and all
public space.
Estimated rental value $22,237.00.
In addition to the above, your Building Manager. Brother Alvin A.
Horwege, has reservations for 1959 and beyond, aggregating 243. occupancy days for an estimated rental of $175,500.00 These reservations
are exclusive of days to be used by this Grand Lodge.
·
AUDITORIUM AND EXHIBIT SPACE LEASE
The lease agreement with the tenants of the building has had our
careful attention and approval of our attorney. Past Grand Master
Henry C. Clausen, who is Judge Advocate of the Grand Lodge. Anyone
interested can see a copy of the lease in the Building Manager's office.
The rental schedules are available on request from his office.
In prior reports we indicated how difficult it was to set up a proforma

165

OUR FINANCIAL PICTURE IN BRIEF
A careful review of the audit statement is recommended for all who
are interested in the financial condition of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
A copy of our most recent Return Envelope made available to the
lodges supplements the audit statement. As of July 2, 1958, we had borrowed a total of $2,303,790.00. Our annual interest charge, at 4%. is
$92,151.60.
We have been asked. "Where has the rest of the money come from?"
Here is the answer:
1. Voluntary contributions .......................... $1,897,013.86
2. Per capita and $9.00 donations .............. $1,797,449.60
3. Grand Lodge (see detail below) ............ $ 627,081.40
GRAND LODGE DIRECT CoNTRIBUTIONs To THE MEMORIAL TEMPLE
We have been asked many times how much money of its own has
Grand Lodge put into the Temple. Here is the detail:
Promotion ........................................................ $161.500.61
Cornerstone ..........................•.........................
8,025.76
Ground Breaking ............................................
7,726.29
Grand .M aster's Special ..................................
11.091.15
Dedication ........................................................
342.65
War Relief Fund ............................................ 158.507.44
Sale of Masonic Temple Stock
(25 Van Ness) ···························-··········· 254,887.50
Bequest, Morton Estate ................................. .
25.000.00
$627,081.40
Out of a total of 237,654 members of California lodges plus sojourners, we have received 123,890 individual contributions as listed in Item I
above.
If our non-contributin g members did as well as those who have become "Builders of the Temple," our bank loan would be reduced to a
nominal amount. If our "Builders of the Temple" made additional contributions, and many have, we could soon be debt free.

166

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

How CAN A VoLUNTARY CoNTRIBUTION To OuR
TEMPLE FUND HELP THE ENDOWMENT FuNo7

become "Builders of the Temple." These names will be listed in alphabetical order.
( 3) Groups: In this section will be listed gifts from any organization
or group who made a contribution such as youth groups, square clubs, or
other groups. This, too, is an impressive list and is growing.
( 4) Memorials: Here will be inscribed the names of the deceased
brother, or person, in whose memory gifts have been made to the Temple.
( 5) Special Gifts: In this section will be inscribed the names of donors of specified items. These special gifts have been listed from time to
time in the California Freemason. An up to date list will appear in future
issues. A current list of available items will be furnished on request.
( 6) Miscellaneous: This section will be devoted to non-members and
friends of the Fraternity who have become "Builders of the Temple."
The contributions allocated to the several sections described above
have been in amounts from $5.00 to $5,000. Where individual gifts for
any of the classifications have come through a particular lodge, that
lodge received proper credit toward "Merit Roll" standing.

After Payment of Debt, Article-Third (a) of the Articles of Incorporation, would come into play:
Third: "That the specific and primary purposes for which this Corporation is formed are as follows:
(a) "To hold title to certain real property upon which a building to
be known as the California Masonic Memorial Temple is to be erected, to
collect income therefrom, and to turn over the entire amount thereof, less
expenses, to the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes of California,
a non-profit corporation organized exclusively for charitable purposes
and to provide office space free of charge for said Masonic Homes of
California."
The California Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation was organized to operate exclusively for charitable purposes and pursuant to the
General Non-Profit Corporation Law of the State of California.
To be debt free will accomplish these important objectives:
1. Reduce the per capita tax for all lodges;
2. To make additional funds available for the Endowment Fund of
the Masonic Homes of California;
3. To bring to complete realization the pride of ownership one feels
owning his own home debt free.
Your Board of Trustees urges the officers of the lodges to send the
new brochure to all their members, if it hasn't already been done, together with the up-to-date return envelope which is most informative. It
gives the current up-to-date financial picture. It could result in substantial assistance toward our objective. Lodges will be credited with contributions sent in direct.
THE OPEN BooK

During the past year about 10,000 additional names have been added
to "The Open Book." Since the opening of the new Temple there has
been an increased tempo of donors. Responsive to requests from many
areas, your Board of Trustees recommend the extension of the closing
date of the Open Book to March 31, 1959. It is hoped that through the
use of the new brochure every brother will avail himself of the privilege
of becoming a "Builder of the Temple."
The Open Book will be composed of six sections:
( 1) Lodges: Every participating lodge in the jurisdiction will be
listed numerically starting with number 1 to the last lodge under dispensation as of March 31, 1959. Under the name of each lodge will be an
alphabetical list of donors.
( 2) Sojourners: We have had a very sizable number of sojourners

167

MERIT RoLL PLAQUE

As of June 30, 1958, there were 340 lodges out of 685 participating
lodges in California and Hawaii which have achieved the Merit Roll by
contributing an average of at least $10.00 per member to the Memorial
Temple Building Fund. Since then twelve additional lodges have reached
Merit Roll status.
In working o"ut the detail your Board of Trustees decided that since
Grand Lodge voted that lodges could have their names recorded on the
plaque at any time until the debt on the Temple is paid in full, that we
would have a plaque designed to provide for such additions. The permanent Memorial Plaque is in place on the second floor opposite the elevators. There is a space provided for the name of each lodge. Those
lodges with "Merit Roll" status will find their name and number recorded. Your Board of Trustees has such implicit faith in all the lodges
of California and Hawaii that we felt providing space for less than
all and for a reasonable number of new lodges to be formed could
be a major error in judgment. The plaque is now in place to be viewed
with pride by all visitors to the Temple.
Honor Districts:
We have talked much of Merit Lodges. Greater honor goes to the
Merit Districts. Where there is active dedicated leadership, things happen. It has happened in 352 lodges. It also has happened in 36 Merit
Districts.
A Merit District is one in which each lodge has achieved Merit
Roll status. They are as follows:

168
Datrict

106
208
224
301
316

320

326
330
332
337
338
342
344
350
364
372

376
378
416
418
421
508
515
528
538
540
549
550
567
570
572

626
638
640
642
64b

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
lnapector

Lodge Numbera

Ralph N. Holden. _________________ ___________________________________________________ 297, 310, 430, 55S
Edward
Farley
23, 80,
51, 59,
J. Wesley
Sibole···----·-------····--------------------------------··-----------13.
_______________________________________________________________ .56, 65,
95, 10!
174
Alexander Duncan ----------------------·-··--·-----------------···-··--------------·-···· 147, 193, 552
Clarence E. Shoaf....--------------------------------···--------·-·--------·-·········--.5• 87, 229, 487
Victor Prenk ·-···------···--------------·-----···-------····---·--·--·-··-·-·----·····.347, 431, 502, 503
Watter
------------------·----------------···----------····-.144,
360, 464,
Paul A. Edward
HacklerSanner
_____________....
____
_____________________________________________________ 4J5, 470,
549, 534
706
Joseph Myron Ruggier<>.--------·--·····---·---------------------·---------------219, 354, 562, 570
Jack Walton Leishman..-------··-------·----·------------------·--···----·-··------44. 393, 500, 531
Clarence C. Smith..... ----··----···----------------------------·········-·----·----376, 454, 714, 762
Maurice E. CoffeY------------------·----------------------------····-···--·-······216, 370, 449, 536
Harry K. Widup........ --------····--···----·-----------------------··------··-··----··30, 166, 462, 673
E. Lloyd Hanaon.·-···············--·············-·············------- --·61, 468, 494, 560
S. Leslie Hawken................................---···················-········--226, 400, 737, 745
Frederick L. Brown.. ·-······-------------······--·-·······-··-···-·····-···10, 399, 463, 669

~a;hi-~~:::.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::=~=:::::: 1~~

Samuel B. Dollar......................---·-----------···------------·-·-···-·····--.280, 417, 420, 508
Herbert R. Hargrave•.·----------------····-··········-········247, 316, 366, 465, 530, 700

~1tS. r/~~ns~:-_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~: ~~~: ~~

R ph W. Collins....... ----·-·················--············-------·-·····-······-592, 652, 678, 739
Samuel Steelman ···········-··--------··-----···--·-···-··········-············---355, 415, 513, 602
Field Thompson ···-····--········-··--···-···-··-·····························--·····320, 566, 614, 646
Milton H. Lang ......................................................................•.535, 458, 529, 767
James L. Miles................................................................................. 507, 548, 703
John A. Owen.............................- ...................................421, 647, 740, 753, 766
Frank L. Sutliff.........................................................._______451, 483, 621, 731

xh,a;~esK}ech~~~~::::::::=::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::::::::::::::=:==:: ~~

John A. Kllne..----···-····-···--·--···--·················-·---543. 594, 619, 699
Hugh D. GoocL..................._ ...........---·····-·············-··-·---~• 576, 736, 760
Charles Joseph Savage.....·----········-----·-----···-·-·-------·········--········35, 442, 561, 574
Fred S. Weed. ...........·-···-----··----·-·-····--··-------··-·-·-······--·······----283, 296, 626, 747
Norbert P. Tester.·---···················--·-············-·····------·····---384, 390, 402, 412, 425

SCHEDULE OF SPECIAL ACTIVITIES SINCE THE OPENING
March 17, 1958~Grand Lodge's offices occupied.
April 16, 1958-Press prev.iew and luncheon.
April 17, 1958-Bankers' preview and luncheon.
April 19, 1958-The San Francisco Symphony (closed concert).
April 19, 1958-Dinner for contractors, members of the Board of Trus~
tees and wives, preceding the symphony.
April 20, 1958-Preview and reception given by Brother Albert F.
Roller, architect, for his special guests.
April 23, 1958-Preview and luncheon for Tidewater Oil Company offi~
cials and S. E. Onotaro & Associates (garage operators).
April 27, 1958-The San Francisco Symphony (public concert).

169

PRESS PREVIEW
Invitations and press kits were sent to daily and weekly papers
throughout California and Hawaii. Included also in this group were
radio and television stations. About 60 press, radio and T.V. representatives devoted about 4Yi hours of their day to the Temple. Coverage
was national. Press representatives came from as far as Los Angeles.
BANKERS' PREVIEW
We had as our guests 15 top bankers representing the banks who
assisted in the financing of the Temple. We wanted them to see their
collateral. They must have been impressed for after the tour, and while
at luncheon, we were smothered delightfully with praise and commendation. This we gladly accepted on behalf of all "Temple Builders."
The San Francisco Banks joining in this underwriting are:
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
American Trust Company
The Bank of California N.A.
Crocker-Anglo National Bank
Wells Fargo Bank
OPENING NIGHT-APRIL 19, 1958
THE SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
The Grand Master's dinner preceding the symphony was for the
three principals of the general contractors MacDonald, Young & Nelson,
their ladies, and the members of the Board of Trustees and their wives.
Included also were: Brother L. Harold Anderson, P.G.M. and valued
member of the Building Committee, Brother Lloyd E. Wilson, ·P.G.M.
and Grand Secretary, Brother Albert F. Roller, architect, and their
wives, and Dr. J. Whitcomb Brougher, Jr., Grand Chaplain of the
Grand Lodge F. & A. M.

We cordially welcome you to the California Masonic Memorial
Temple. On this proud occasion, we know that you join with us in our
pleasure that this beautiful new home and headquarters for the Grand
Lodge and the Masonic Homes of California is ready for service to our
Fraternity. It is especially appropriate that the San Francisco Symphony
Orchestra should present the premiere concert in the Memorial Temple,
which is erected and dedicated to the memory of our Masonic brethren
who died in the cause of freedom. Music has traditionally served to express the deepest human emotions. Here, in this magnificent auditorium.
the dignity of this symphony concert expresses our apprecation and
memory of those to whom the Memorial Temple is dedicated. We express the hope that this us but the first of many similar events which will

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

establish the California Masonic Memorial Temple both as a center of
beauty and as an outstanding community cultural center in the years to
come..
EDWARD H. SIEMS, P.G.M. President
Board of Trustees,
California Masonic Memorial Temple

PREMIERE PROGRAM
MASONIC SYMPHONY CONCERT
APRIL 19, 1958

170

It is with a profound sense of the signiAcance of this occasion that the
Board of Governors and members of the San Francisco Symphony Association express their pleasure in participating in the opening of the magnificent new Califomia Masonic Memorial Temple. We are proud to
have a part in paying tribute to those who gave their lives that such
memorials to brotherhood could be erected upon the soil of freedom. As
the parent sponsoring body, responsible for maintaining and presenting
the San Francisco Symphony Orchestra, we extend a warm welcome to
another lasting contribution to the cultural development and beautiAcation of our city of San Francisco.
KENNETH MONTEAGLE, President
San Francisco Symphony Association
SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY ORCHESTRA
ENRIQUE JoRDA, Conductor
PREMIERE PROGRAM
MASONIC SYMPHONY CONCERT
* *Chorale-Variations from Cantata No. 140......... _________________________ Bach *
Sinfonia Concertante in E-flat major, K. 9------------------------------------Mozart*
for Solo Oboe, Clarinet, Horn and Bassoon
Finlandia, Tone Poem for Orchestra, Op. 26-------------------·-----------.Sibelus*
INTERMISSION
Symphony No. 5 in E minor, Op. 64-_ ____________________ ______________ Tschaikowsky
*Masons
**Music loaned by the Edwin A. Fleisher Music Collection, The
Free Library of Philadelphia
Presented in a special closed concert for Masons and members of their
families on Saturday Evening, April 19, 1958 at 8:30 P.M.
Premiere Public Concert, Sunday Matinee, April 27, 1958 at 2:30 P.M.
SAN FRANCISCO SYMPHONY ASSOCIATION
HOWARD K. SKINNER
KENNETH MONTEAGLE
Manager
President

171

Welcoming Remarks .. .'..... --·------------··----·Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master
of Masons in California
Star Spangled Banner--·---------------------------·-----------Orchestra and Audience
Invocation bY----------·---------·-·-----------··----·---··Dr· J. Whitcomb Braugher, Jr.
Grand Chaplain,
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M.
Presentation of Keys to the Memorial Temple:
Dallas Young, Vice President, MacDonald, Young, and Nelson,
General Contractors
Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master
Edward H. Siems, P.G.M., President, Board of Trustees, California
Masonic Memorial Temple
Albert F. Roller, A.I.A., Architect, Memorial Temple
Symphony Concert-------·-····--------··-----San Francisco Symphony Orchestra
Enrique Jorda, Conductor
The California Masonic Memorial Temple has been under contemplation since 1947, when its construction was first recommended to the
Grand Lodge. The voluntary fund-raising campaign within the membership of our Lodges was started in 1954. Since then 120,731 individual
contributions, totaling $1,858,358, have been made by the Masons of
California and Hawaii, their families, and friends. Of the 683 Lodges in
California and Hawaii, 332 have achieved the Merit Roll, by contributing an average of at least 10 per member to the Memorial Temple Building Fund. T ,h e Open Book recording the accomplishment of these
Lodges will remain open for the inclusion of additional Lodges until
December 31, 1958. (Since extended to March 31, 1959. )

172

MERIT ROLL LoDGBS

WDGE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

California ·······-·················-···-··-······· 1
Western Star -·······-·····-······················ 2
Tehama ·······-··--····························-·-··- 3
Benicia ·-········-·-··································· 5
San Jose ···--····-·-············-··················· 10
Yount ···-······-····-··································· 12
Nevada ·····-··-························-··············· 13
La Parfaite Union..._................-···•···-·· 17
Mountain Shade ·····-··········-·-············- 18
Hawaiian ·····-········································· 21
Oocidental ·····-····················-················· 22
Madison ·-··············································· 23
Golden Gate ·····································-··-· 30
San Diego ··--·-·············-···-········--· 35
Howard ···-··-··················-····················· 37
Sacramento ···-················-················-··· 40

Martinez ······--········--·····-···-········-·- 41
Los Anaeles --·················-············-·-- 42
Mount Moriah ···-··················-··-·········· 44
Forbestown ··-········································· 50
Ulinoistown ···············-············-····-········· 51
Volcano ···········--··························-······· 56
Santa Rosa •............................................. 57
Gravel Range •.......................................•. 59
Plumas ···--·-·········································· 60
Live Oak·········--··············-··················· 61

Natoma ····-·-·-····--·-··-··-··-·-- 64
Amador -·-·-··--·······-·········-··-··- 65
Ione ·········-·--··-·····-·--··-··-·--· 80
Yolo ··-·····-··--··-···-·-·····-·-·-······- 81
Navllll -····-·····-·-·············-············-··-· 87
Rose' 1 Bar ·········-··················-··············· 89
Henry Clay •...•....................................... 95
y oaemite ·-··············--············-··············· 99

~ill~·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l81

Eden ····-----···----·--··-····--113
Alamo ···········-·········································122

Hermann .................................................. 127

Franlclin ·····-·············-···························143
Oriental -······-···-··---··-····---144
Abell -······--························-·····-·-···-146
Eel River -·-··········-····--········--147
Harmony -·-·----------164
Excelsior ···············-·································166
Redwood City ........................................ 168
Mission .................................................... 169
Elk Grove .............................................. 173
Drytown ···-·············································174
Antioch ···-···································-·········175
Petaluma ·····-··-·······································180
Evening Star ······················-··-··············186
Keith --··--·--·······-···-····---······-187

Marin -·-················-··········-·--·-191

Ferndale -···-····-···-···········--·-··-··-193
Buclceye ···-··············-······-·--········-·-195
Wilml.n:gton -··-·····--·---··-··-·-.198
Truckee -----···-·-···-......200
Pentalpha ·--···--···------202

WDGE
No.
Confidence .............................................. 203
Anaheim ..................................................207
King David's --································--209
FriendShip ··--·············-···-····-···--··210
San Buenaventura ····························-·•·2H
Doric ···--·-·····--·····································216
Mosaic -··--···-····································-218
Speranza Italiana ·········-·························219
Downey ····-··········-···················-········-220
San Mateo -·--······························-·--226
Athens ···-·····--···-···-·····--·········--228
Solano ··-··-·-····-·················-··-···-229
wesville ··-··-···-········-··-····-·-·····-232

No.

WDGE

Patterson ···················-·········-···--···-··488
Aascadero ······-·······-······················-·····493

Francis Drake ....................................•...376
El Centro ................................................384
Dinuba ·················································-·385
Parnassus ................................................388

El Segundo ·······················-··········-·__!j(f/
Joppa ···················-·······-·········-····---508
Palms ················-··-··--·-··---512
Cahueng11 ··-·······················-··--.....513
Mount Vernon ···············-····-····-····.......517

Acorn ···································-·········-·-···494
g:~ i>-;k··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::~ Roosevelt
·························-··-····-······-··500
Harbor ·················································-·502
~~~-··::::::::::::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~ Point ...........•............................................503
···················-······-······-·-··-....sot
~i~~-~f:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::3~; Seaside
Mount Olive ····-···············-··············-···506

~~i~1t ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.' r~°!a -.-.·.-.:·.:::::::::::::·.-.:::·.:::·.:·.-.-.-.-.:::·.-.:::::::1~~

Balder ......................................................393

IE~t~~~:~ ::~t~~===~;~~~~::i

Adin ···········-·················-····-·······-···-·-··250
Reading ·········-·--································--2Sf
Durant ···-······-···-······························-·-268

Clovis ····--·······-·····························-······417
Upland ---·····················-····-···········--419

=

_::::::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~

Madera
··-··············--····-···-280
Mount Shasta _ ........
____..__
281
South West --······---··········-···--283
San Miguel -·················-·-··-···-···-285
Winnedumah -·-····-·······-·········-·--..287
Maxwell ······-······························--288
Elsinore ···-·-··································-..289
Orange Grove ···························-···········293

Dunsmuir ···································-···-·-·297

Reedley_ ----···-····-···-···············--30f
Santa Monica ·················-················-··_3(J/
Delano ---··-····················-··-·········-....309
Sissoo ····--·--····-····-·······-·-·_..310
Temescal -················································314
Sanger ········-············································316
Emanuel ··-······-····-····················--318
South Gate ···-·····················-·····-······....320
Whittitt ···-·····-························-··········...323
Long Beach --···-··-·-·······------327
Vallee de France.......... ·-··············'····-.329
Kilauea -··-······-···-··················-····--330
Alta ········-················································333
West Gate ..............................................335

~~~~~~z •.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~~

Palo Alto ......•.........................................346
McKinley ................................................347
Sequoia ·····-·······-·-·······························..3t9
Palestine -·-····-··-·················--·······-351

Sunset ·····---·---··-··········-····-·····-352

Presidio ---·-·-······-····-····················.3Sf
Hollywood -······-···-····-··-·····-···...355
Mill Valley ---··-·-············-···-·....3S6
Buena Park -···-·····----····-357

No.

San Francisco ···································-··...360
Las Palmas ·················-······················--.366

ope -·--·-···-··-·························-··-·234
Hills Perry -·······-··-······················--·-··236
Guadalupe -····-·-···························-237
Santa Ana ----················--··--..241
Eucalyptus ··--···-······················-·······-.243
Alcatraz ·-·-··-·················-·-····-····--244

Fresno ···-·····-··-······················-····-····247

WDGE

173

Honolulu ..................................................409
Silver Trowel ·················-···-···············-415

Kerman .............................................••.••-420

~~t~~---·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~
~fuia~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~

McCloud ................................................-430

c~t~~-·-::::::::·.-.-.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~
~:~~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::
~~~-·:::::::::::::::-:.::::::::::::::::::::~.:::m

:Ja

Blackmer ·······················-··················-··-442
Schofield ···············································-·443
Park ······················································-449
Montebello ........................................•.....451
San Pasqual ·····································-·····452
Bethlehem ···········-································-·453
Crocker ·······················-·························-454
Golden West ·······-····-···························455
Henry S. Orme................................... __458
Paul Revere -···············-······-'···············-462
Morgan Hill ·········································-·463
Alta Vista ····································-·········464
Center ···-·················································465
Llbertas ....................................................466

.

=lndg~ .-.:::::·.::·.-_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::rrg
Delta ···········-···········································471

~:1bio;···:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~

'Thousand Oaks ··-··-·······-·-478
Mrt. Davidson -····-·····-······-············-481

Clarence F. Smlth.....•-·····················--482
BeH --·-···-···-··-··········--·--483

Caledonia ····-··--·-·····-··-···--486
Vallejo --·······--·-----487

~~~~··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::j~

Alexandria ........................................_.....531
Azure ···································-··············-··.533
Forest Hill ·····························-··············.534
Seal Rock ·······························-········---536

~io:a _ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::1~~

i~~~~~=~::::~~~~=:~~~

Semper Vireos ·································-····.552
White Pine ·······································--·-555
Hermosa ·····································-··-··-··.557
Plymouth ·················-················-·····-···560
East San Diego .................................... _561
Pyramid --·······-··························--···-562
James A. Garfteld....................................566
Park Boulevard ......................................568
Chateau Thierry ....................................569
Mi~tary Service ···············-··········-····--510
Hillcrest ···········································--...573
S. W. Hackett.. ...............................____...574
Bl Cajon Valley...................... ·-····-····...576
Sunnyside ·······································--·····577
Progressive ..............................................578
Warren G. Harc:ling ...........-····-············579
Rialto ···························-············-·-····"--..582
Valley Forge ························--·········--.587
Kauai ·····································-················589
Escalon ·································-···············..591

IWsi:es··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~g;

Service ....................................................594
Alexander Graham Bell ··················-···.595
Carmelita ................................................599

~~~~d:t ··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::~

Larolunont ·····························--·····--614
Soudlland ---·--···--------···
618
Neptune -··········-·-·-··---·--.....619
The Gardens ·····-·········-··--··---621
Menorah ···-······--·--623
Fairview ··-·-·-······-··---629
Ingleside ---··-··
6'0

174
LODGE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

No.

Poimettla ········-··-----······-···-·····-·-··-·----633
Victorville -················-··-····-··-······-----634
John Mal'!lha)l ·-········-·······-··-·-----······-636
Palisades ····-·----··--·······-·-·-········-····___.i,37
Indian Rock ·······-----------·-·······------····--···638
V erltas ············-----------------·---·--·-·---···-·····640
Lomita ········-·····-·--··---··-·-·----·-···---···-·········644
A. F. E. lrwln..........................................645
Metropolitan ·-----···-------·--··-···-··----···--···646
Hawt1horne ---------------------···---··-----·----·······647
La Brea ···-------------------------·--·-·--------------····6SO
Crescenta Valley ----------·-------·-----··--········652
Mante Vista -----------------------------··----·········655
La Habra ·----·---------------·------·----------·-··-···659
Ojai ·····-·······---·······----------·-----··---------········663
John P. Jarman ·--··----------------··----·····---····669
Greenleaf ··--------··---·-----------···-------·-····--··670
San Clemente ----·-----------------··--------··········671
Far West --······-·-·-----·-·······----····----673
Los CerrlAlos -·-······--··-·····················-674
Altadena ···-·········-···---··----····--·········--678
Dos Palos ···-···-------··------------------··-----·······681
Barstow ··-·····--··------------·----------·----------······682
Trona ··-····-----------------··----------·-----·-···-·-···684
San Marino ------·---·-------·---·-·· ··-------···-····685
Pohona ···--······-·-----------·-····---·-·------------689
San Carlos ········--------------·-----------·-·-·-··-690
Saint Elmo ······---------------·------·---------···-···697
Wm. D. Stephens --------------·-------------·-····698

~~i!>le!:a~_::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::-j~
Rosemead ··-···-·-·-·---··------------------·----------102
Westchester ··--··-··----·-------------------------·····703
Hunters Point NavaL .. -----------------------106
Lake Tahoe ·----------------··-----------·-----------107
Lorenzo -···--··--·····--·----·-----·---------··--------109
Anacapa ····-·---··----------------····------·---·-······710
Las Altes ·-·-·-····------------·-------·----------·--·--112
Blue Lakes --------------------·-------------··--·--·-··714
Magnolia Park ----------------------··--·-·-----·--·-715
Belmont Shore -·--·----------·------------·-----------116
San Lorenzo Valley................................718
Estero ··-···········--·····-···-··-·······-----··-·········719
George E. TutL------------·------------------··---122
Acaianes ·-----------------------------·--·-·------·-··-···723
Saint John's ·--·-·-------·--------··----------·----·-···725

175

i:!1~~~---:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::3~
wr~~-~:. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::3:?

The special program preceding the symphony consisted of a word of
welcome by the Grand Master, invocation by the Grand Chaplain, the
contractor turning the keys over to the architect, the architect presenting
them to the Grand Master, and the Grand Master turning them over to
the President of the Temple Corporation.
Just for the record. The key used in the ceremony is a gold plated key
presented through the courtesy of the Schlage Lock Comany.
The ushering for the two symphony programs was done by De
Malay boys from the Bay Area chapters. They did themselves proud.
From press clippings and expressions of the 3,200 Masons and
friends present the opening night was an outstanding success and wi11
long be remembered.

¥:i~-~~:.. :::=::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::=::~~~

The California Masonic Memorial Temple is open every business
day, Monday through Friday, 8:45 A.M. to 4:45 P.M.
Sundays: 2:00 ~ 5:00 P.M. for guided tours, temporarily only.
Saturdays reserved for special groups by appointment.
Beginning with the first Sunday in June. and each Sunday since,
except a few Sundays when the building has been occupied, we have
shown an average of about 700 brethren, their families and friends
through the building. It is our sincere hope that every brother will be
able to accommodate his time to see the Temple with this schedule. It
belongs to the Masons of California, for a11 to see. The facilities are
for you, use them.
We are ind~d grateful to the 60 brethren of Bay Area lodges who
have given of their time on Sundays to act as guides, showing their
brethren and families and friends through the Temple. Without them it
couldn't have been done.

No.

LODGE

Yucaipa ··············································-···726

Verdugo Hills ·······························--··--111
Lakewood ···········································-··728
Centennial ·······································----129
Polaris ···-······-·--························----130
Two Rivers ··························•········--731
San Juan ······-·································-···-732
Golden Empire ·····················-···········--··733
Kit Carson ........................................._7.34
Oasis of Mara ·········--------··-··-·····-···-···73S
Lemon Grove ··------------------···--········---·-··--1.36

.

orningside Park -------------------·-····--·······742
Oakwood ----···-·---·-····----------··----·-----········743
Peninsula ---······---·--··----·--·--------·--·-----··---145
Clcrude H. Morrison. ...............................747
Merced -----··---···----···--··---·····--·-·-····-·--···-149
Mot!her Colony ··-······---·---·-----······--········750
Hamilton -·--·········--··-···---··-----··-······----······751
Luther Burbank ···········---··----··--··-··-···--···752
Lawndale ·----·---·········-----·---·-·----·-···---·-····753
San Pablo ·--·--·---···--···-----··-----·········---------154
Qayton Valley --------------·-----·-----····--·-··--156
Channel ···-····---······----·------------------·····---····757
Lakeside ···············-------················--·-······-760
Josiah W. Roller............. -------------·--·--·----161
Coastside ····-···-········---···--·--·-·-····--·······-762
Arabic ··--··--·-···-··········----------------------····--·163
Herttay; ··················------·-------------··-···--·-164
Dana . Weller..----··----··--··--···-·-··------····765
James H. Kew....•................................... _766
Wm. mioo~ Hervey..............................767
Zenith ·····················--·--···················-········768
Palmdale ············---------·---------------·······----··769

Waikiki ---···-········-······-······--·-···--114
East Wlhittier ·-··---------------------·------·-·-·--···776
La Mirada ········--------···--··-·--··-----············778
Five Points ············-····---····-·-----····---··-····779
Riviera ··············--···-·····-------------····----·--···780
Rollln3 HillB ····--------·-·---···------··-··--·-····--181
Lelan Stanford --------·-·-··-··--·---·-····--···UD.

VISITING HOURS

NEW BROCHURE

Through the courtesy of the Tidewater Oil Company. lessees of the
garage. a new brochure in sufficient quantity for mailing to all Masons
of California lodges has been made available to us.
Your Board of Trustees, on behalf of all of us. here publicly express
our appreciation for their enthusiasm, confidence and cooperation.
LIBRARY AND MusEUM

During the preliminary planning days of the T em.pie. and particu~
larly at the time of our Centennial celebration, there was considerable
talk about a museum in which to house certain of those historic items of
particular interest to Masons. It has been often stated that if such a
place were provided and proper care for security assured, that brethren

177

PROCEEDIN GS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

would make such items of historic interest available for public display.
Your Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple
has provided some space on the second Boor of the foyer where such a
museum could be located. We feel that the initiative for such an undertaking should be left to Grand Lodge.
We also feel that a Masonic library, if provided at all, should be a
function of the Grand Lodge. Space for a modest library room on the
second floor of the foyer has been provided. Additiona l storage space for
book shelving can be made available on the ground floor. The library
and museum, both in the same general area, together with the Merit Roll
plaque, could and would compliment each other. It is only fa1r to report
that Sunday visitors have commented on both of these as possibilities.
Your Board of Trustees suggest that the Grand Master appoint a
special committee or committees to study these problems and make their
recommendations to the next annual communication.

ning and construction they have met regularly each week and on special
call-neve r too busy-alw ays ready.
The working members on our Building Committe e since its inception
have included such outstandin g names, as follows:
Francis V. Keesling. Past Grand Master, who was our first Chairman; the late Wm. Rhodes Hervey. Past Grand Master; L. Harold
Anderson , Past Grand Master; and the late Charles E. Moore, C. Stanley Chapman, James Hurst, Henry J. Brunnier, Otto H. Fischer and
John C. Bovey. Lloyd E. Wilson, Past Grand Master and Grand Secretary, has acted as secretary of the Committee. These men have all served
faithfully. On behalf of the Grand Lodge I want to express our appreciation for the special part each of them had in the building of this
Temple.
This Grand Lodge should be particular ly appreciative for the fine
technical experience given by Past Grand Master L. Harold Anderson .
Brother Pete to us. after becoming Grand Master, was an ex-officio
member of our Committee, but continued to serve actively even with his
busy schedule during that year. He has been with us regularly ever since.
Pete, we publicly say. as we have said many times. thanks for all your
fine help.
To the Grand Master, Brother Leo E. Anderson : our Secretary ,
Brother Lloyd E. Wilson; the architect, Brother Albert F. Roller, and all
those with whom we were so closely associated week in and week out
for the past several years, our sincere thinks. To us our association has
meant more than seeing this fine structure take shape. 'It was Masonry at
work in the finest sense. Because we are privileged to serve this Grand
Lodge in this capacity I am sure we have all sensed a greater appreciation for our Masonry and the ideals of this Institution.
Yes, it is wonderfu l to say "Thank you," 'and really mean it, to those
who shared the daily decisions and responsibilities. Gratifying as all this
is, the real inspiration and satisfaction, however, to your Memorial
Temple Committee, and later as Trustees, is the complete confidence
which was evidenced by the representa tives and elected delegates to this
Grand Lodge at each Annual Communication since 1947, and by the
members of our lodges who made the building possible. To all of you
and those you represent, from all of us, laden with happy memories of
this inexhaustible confidence, we thank you from the bottom of our
hearts.
In closing this Annual Report we do so with mixed feeling: mixed
because the Temple is built,-it is finished. It takes its place to carry on
that great Masonic heritage which is so intangible and yet so real. This
Temple is our Masonic heritage which goes far beyond the material
things of which it is constructe d. This Temple will not only house our
headquart ers. and the headquart ers of all our charities, it will house our

176

PAST GRAND MASTERS PORTRAITS

For many years the Grand Lodge has provided sufficient funds to
have the portrait of the Grand Master painted.
In the old building at 25 Van Ness Avenue. the portraits of the living
Past Grand Masters were hung in the foyer of the Grand Lodge office.
On the death of a Past Grand Master the portrait started the last mile
down the hall; the end one always going into basement storage to make
room for the portrait of the most recent candidate .
The question of continuing this practice has been debated long and
loud. There is an honest difference of opinion. A policy decision should
be made by Grand Lodge.
It is therefore suggested that:
( 1 ) Painting of portraits of the incoming Grand Master and subsequent Grand Masters be deferred;
( 2) That the Grand Master be requested to appoint a suitable committee to study this whole problem of portraits, and present its findings
and recommendations to the next session of this Grand Lodge.
· Their study should include the matter of continuing the painting of
portraits and, if continued, the disposition to be made of them. And
also what disposition should be made of the present portraits now in
storage. if any alternate plan, such as photograp hs is recommended.
APPRECIAT ION

As President of the Board of Trustees, may I again record here my
genuine appreciation for the splendid cooperatio n and help of the entire
office staff of Grand Lodge, the Building Staff, and, particularly, the
Building Committee of the Temple, Singling out individuals is unfair.
They have all cooperate d and have given 100% support. During plan-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Masonic pattern of life, our Masonic heritage of ideas and ideals. It will
for all years to come stand as a beacon to the world as the Masonic con~
cept of the dignity of man and the true worth of the individual. It is our
earnest hope and prayer that this building will long be preserved for the
beneficent purposes which it was intended to subserve.
Yes. the Temple is finished. Built not only in memory of those breth~
ren who sacriB.ed their all to preserve our freedoms, but also built to the
honor and glory of God, and dedicated to Freemasonry, Virtue and Uni~
versa! Benevolence.
Respectfully submitted,
For Board of Trustees,
By: Edward H. Siems, President

TRIBUTE TO EDWARD H. SIEMS

178

Officers & Trustees:
EDWARD H. SIEMS, President
FRANK HARWELL, JR., Vice President
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Treasurer
LLOYD E. WILSON, Secretary
PHIL N. MYERS
JoE L. SHELL
ALFRED F. BRESLAUER
EDGAR V. STEWART, JR.
ARTHUR M. WARREN
IRA w. COBURN
JOHN M. GORDON
KEITH W. ScHLAEGEL

179

On behalf of the Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple, Past Grand Master Frank Harwell, Jr., presented the following:

EDWARD H. SIEMS
WHEREAS, Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems. Past Grand
Master of Masons in California, since 1951 has been chairman of the
Special Committee of Grand Lodge on the Memorial Temple; and since
its incorporation, has held the office of President of the Board of Trustees
of The California Masonic Memorial Temple; and
WHEREAS, by his courage, energy and enthusiasm, he has led
the Craft in the building of this magnificent Memorial Temple in which
the Grand Lodge of California is now convened for the B.rst time: now.
therefore, be it
RESOLVED, that The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the State of California, in its One Hundred Ninth
Annual Communication assembled, does express to Brother Siems the
appreciation of the Masons of this jurisdiction for his leadership in the
successful completion of this enterprise: Be it further
RESOLVED, that this resolution be included in the Proceedings of
this Annual Communication.
October 1, 1958.
Resolution unanimously adopted.

181

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS COMMITTE E

How ready to cooperate are the students, parents. and school personnel when a lodge committee carefully plans, organizes, and offers
the program-not for the publicity of the lodge or the school and school
people, but for the benefit of the pupil-the girl and the boy concerned.
Awards are the foundation for motivating fine public school good
work.
The fourth-Gradu ation time is a time when Masonic Lodges
extend very valuable evidence of loyalty to public education. At this
time scholarships or grants of aid to graduates who are going on and
need assistance are offered. Public school administrators will tell what
honors, recognitions, and scholarship awards will enrich the graduation exercises and stimulate young people to strive for better attainment.
The fifth-During the annual observance of Public Schools Week
in the spring season so very much is already known that but momentary reference is made to this event which is one of the country's
greatest school and community experiences the fraternity stimulates.
No other Masonic leadership event in the field of completely unselfish service to our greatest heritage--the public school-is known
in other states in our Union which compares with California's Annual
Public Schools Week. The thoughts of more than one and a half
million souls turn to thoughts of public education with no thought of
racial. creedal, political, or socio-economic status as a fundmental to
the needs to know what is the very best for our public schools.

180

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

I. THE PUBLIC SCHOOLS

COMMITTEE ESTABLISHED "FIRST THINGS

FIRST" FoR MASONRY AND CALIFORNIA PuBuc ScHooLs

1957-58 has been a year of extraordinary activity in public schools
of California in relationship to Masonry and the Grand Lodge Public
Schools Committee. A brief summary of the nature of Masonic activity in relation to our public schools is presented in this thirty-ninth
annual report under topics as follows:
For the 6.rst time in the approaching forty years of the functioning of this committee has there been such a breadth of activity. This
breadth is defined as year-round interest in lodges in public schools,
Public
public education, and strength and support for education.
public
and
lodge
major
6.ve
in
centered
is
service
Schools Committee
school life contact periods.
The 6.rst of these is at the annual school opening time. In most
lodges the local lodge public schools committee makes a report or statement giving ideas as to the public school frontier in the local area.
Masons are enthusiastic about knowing what is the forecast for the
new public school year.
The second-at national patriotic holiday time Masons through
the relationship established by the Public Schools Committee of Grand
Lodge and the local public schools committees in lodges volunteer
services. such as providing speakers. offering awards and honor certificates, conducting programs, making presentations, securing publicity
for school patriotism teaching. and citizenship recognition for young
public school patriots. Speakers come to lodge meetings to present
their orations, essays and declamations; their music, dramatizations
and programs. Public school students and teachers seek and enjoy
the away-from-sch ool opportunity to offer their programs and receive
the plaudits of such groups as open meeting family and dinner occasions in the lodges or sponsored by the lodges in a public hall.
The third-lodges are greatly extending their efforts of co.-operation with public schools in the matter of awards. The stimulation to
good works on the part of public school youth of all ages is accomplished in no 6.ner manner than the making of awards-lodge or individual Masonic awards for outstanding citizenship, for leadership, for
scholarship, for athletic team work, for unusual, original, and creative
good works. There are always many, many occasions for awards
which students are anxious to strive to attain. Awards in science, agriculture, homemaking, public speaking, writing, poster work, music, shop
work, and many other fields are all vividly stimulating.
Interestingly enough we find that these awards are best when they
are not monetary-a certificate, a medal, a plaque, a scholarship, or
placing a name of a student on an annual scroll.

II.
MAKING OPERATIVE OUR l.oYALTY AS MASONS TO PUBLIC EDUCATION

Every Blue Lodge Mason who has been to lodge, read his lodge
bulletin or who has. talked about Masonry in California knows that
Masons are at work. The vivid realization that Masonry is at its best
when it is operative has caused every phase of Masonic organization
to search out individual. group, state-wide aspects of American life
into whkh can be penetrated an advantageous expression of interest,
support. and advancement.
A most natural, normal. and appealing area of expression for operative Masonry is the 6.eld of public education. These then become the
current facets of Masonic expression which are the reasons why, during Public Schools Week 1958, the following have been realized:
1. Every public school district in the State of California was given
an awareness of Public Schools Week purposes and reasons for observance.
2. There were held some 8500 events, occasions, visitation programs, assemblies, speaking appearances, demonstrations, and community -gatherings-al l dedicated to belief in public education, loyalty
to teachers, faith in youth, and a determination to help public schools
be at their · best.
3. To these various observances an estimated two million persons
gave presence. attention, and interest.

182

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

4. With the stimulation of vigorous lodge interest and active lodge
public education committees, lay leadership and organizati ons joined
with the Public Schools Week efforts. Some 20 organized groups
actively cooperated . There were many others, however -the following
were especially helpful:
1. The schools themselves.
2. The Parent-Te acher Association.
3. California Teachers Association.
4. Churches.
5. Service clubs.
6. Women's clubs.
7. Women's business and profession al groups.
8. The veterans organizati ons.
9. All labor groups.
I 0. Chambers of Commerce.
11. Merchant s-individ ually and groups.
12. Profession al organizati ons of school personnel.
13. Cultural groups.
14. The press.
15. Radio.
16. Television.
17. The "Whole Communi ty" groups.
18. The children.
19. Leading citizens.
20. All Masonic bodies.
5. A variety of bulletin and brochure material was prepared and
distributed . Much of this material was student developed.
6. Special emphasis was given to the "Reasons for Public Education," "History of Public Education the United States," and the "Major
Objective s of Public Education ." This phase of emphasis was particularly acceptable and popular in lodge meetings.

III.
WHAT THE PEOPLE OP CALIFORN IA WANT IN THEIR PUBLIC SCHOOLS

Study of the results of the broad state-wide interest stimulated by
the Fraternity of Freemaso nry in public education and public schools
revealed many valuable thoughts.
This year 1t was especially desired to learn what the public wants
in their public schools. The following are direct expression s and are
outcomes of public school lodge committee work:
People wantFirst-par ents want good teachers. When they describe "good
teachers" they say things like well-train ed, kind, friendly, healthy,
attractive and neat, sense of humor, and glad to see parents.
Second-P arents want good solid teaching, learning, and discipline
in their schools.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

183

Third-Pa rents, citizens, and taxpayers want good buildings, good
equipment, plenty of supplemen tal learning and teaching aids. They
want school facilities to be kept clean, neat, orderly. They hate "chaos"
in any phase of their child's learning experience.
Fourth-T he demand for services-p layground s, cafeteria, transportation, health services; they want an auditorium in the school facilities, good physical education plant and equipmen t and maintenan ce.
They like a school plant they can be proud of and which they can
feel is an attraction in their community.
Fifth-Str angely enough parents want adequate supervision to be
provided. Parents show an interest in having teachers know that there
are helpers. aids. consultant s. and specialists available.
Sixth-Co mmunity folk are proud of the administra tors of schools.
especially the superinten dent, principal. vice-principal, and the staff
whom they "can see and talk to."
Seventh- Citizens throughou t our state say they are willing and
anxious to pay for good schools, teachers. and school personnel.
Eighth-P arents want "American ism" taught. Parents want spiritual values emphasiz ed-they want thrift, safety, and driver education .
Ninth-Co mmunity demand for adult education, parent education, and school organizati ons such as orchestra. vocal music groups.
art, dramatics , public speaking, homemaking, teams and competitive
events. even as spelling bees, along with sports is noticeable.
There have been some expression s that "unless we ask for these.
be without them." Of course, emphasis on science. mathematics.
may
we
engineerin g, and skills were mentioned, but not as often as might be
expected. There was some feeling that too much of the current scientific emphasis wa~ toward war.
Tenth-Ca lifornia parents now look for college education or at
least some years of college as part of public education for their children.
There were many more expressions. However, these are the ten
dominant desires which filtered through the Public Schools Week results.
IV.
EVERY LoDGE MusT HAVE A PUBLIC ScHOOLs COMMITTE E

A Lodge Public Schools Committe e can1. Have facts about schools. especially when public issues about
schools arise.
2. Arrange for public school students to come to lodge and tell
about new study 6elds in schools-w hy they like their public schools.
3. Voluntee r to work with the Board of Education or Board of
Trustees and the school personnel to inform the public about bonds,
taxes, changes in curriculum, etc.
4. Attend Board of Education meetings or visit with the school
superinten dent or even write and learn of the plans, needs, or problems
in connectio n with which public schools need friendly understan ding
and help.

184

. PROCEEDINGS OP THE

5. Become associated or acquainte d with teachers' organizati ons
and gain knowledg e as to what they are working toward so lodge
members will know the nature of organized teacher loyalty.
6. Visit schools when holiday, patriotic, and special athletic and
public school functions are being carried on so that the lodge may have
first-hand report of good things about public schools.
7. Be on the mailing list of the schools to receive reports so that
the truth about school growth, school costs, and school progress can
be made to counterac t mere guessing, rumor, or down-righ t false
information.
8. Public schools do teach directly many of the virtues, values,
laws of conduct and principles of right living and good citizenship.
These are foundation s for life as Masons would have them built. We
should hear of these efforts and how they are gaining results 'and reports should come to lodge members -orally and written.
9. Every Lodge Bulletin may well offer a few lines in behalf of
public education so that as each member reads he may know that
public schools are ever in our hearts.
10. Every good Masonic Lodge member in California can start a
"grapevin e campaign " of good words, works, and wishes for our public
schools.

V.

CONCLUSI ON

I. We, in Masonry, are and must continue to be the most dynamic
lay friends of public education.
2. Every Mason must know the why, the history of, and the major
objectives of public education in our country.
3. We, in Masonry, are obligated to know that the problems of
the schools are our problems. We cannot pass them off.
4. We must see that the children are always kept first.
5. We should dedicate ourselves to this axiom-m ore children in
more schools, with more teachers, with more facilities.
VIERLING KERSEY
GEORGE K. PALMER
CLYDE E. CRAWFOR D
H. LESLIE NICHOLS
GLADNEY L. HAMILTON
PERRY BARRETT
WILLIAM H. NUNN
CLIFFORD A. MARSTON
CYRIL WEEKS

Referred to Committe e on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

185

OSCAR LAWLE R
attention to the absence at this Communicalled
Master
Grand
The
cation of Brother Oscar Lawler and expressed the regret of all present
that severe illness had prevented Brother Lawler from attending this
Communication. The Grand Master then presented the following:
This is the portrait of a great man, a great lawyer, a great American
and a great Mason. Our Senior Past Grand Master was elected
Grand Master of Masons in California on October 16, 1908, and today
we shall celebrate with him his Golden Annivers ary-SO years of service
to Freemaso nry as a Past Grand Master.
The story of Oscar Lawler is an American story, built and indelibly
welded into the history of Los Angeles, of California and of the United
States. He was born in Marshallt own, Iowa, on April 2, 1875, the
fifth of ten children. The whole family worked and Oscar started in the
fields of the neighboring farms and with the family chores of milking,
gardening and so forth. When about 11 years old, he became the janitor
of the local public school. sweeping, setting the fires in the old stoves,
hauling ashes, shoveling snow and all the rest of that job at $10 per
month.
In 1888 the family moved to Los Angeles, which was experiencing a
"hangove r" from the 1887 boom. Jobs were scarce, but that didn't stop
Oscar Lawler; however, it did stop his schooling. He sold newspape rs,
was a cash-boy in a dry goods store at $2.50 per week, a Western Union
messenger at $20 per month, and hall boy at the California Club at $25
per month. In 1918 he became president of that club.
When about 15 years old, while working at the California Club, he
started to stud}' law on his own. Confused by the legal phrases, he
appealed to Henry O'Melven y for advice and then reorganize d his
studies.
Shortly thereafter he quit the club, janitored to pay his tuition and
learned shorthand and typewritin g. With this learned, he entered the
employ of Leo Longley, an official court reporter. The work was hard,
requiring long and late hours of transcribin g court testimony and
Longley arranged for Oscar to do stenograp hic work for Judge Erskine
M. Ross and the United States Attorney so that he could continue his
study of law. During these times, our distinguis hed brother met and
establishe d lasting friendships with many of the great leaders of that
period.
After a long struggle to earn his own living and at the same time
study law, Oscar was admitted to practice law in 1896 and his struggles
as a lawyer commenced. He paid his office rent by doing stenograp hic
work for his associates, gathered momentum as a lawyer, formed a
partnershi p and was on his way to fame.
Becoming interested in civic affairs, Oscar became a precinct worker
for his party, then chairman of its City Conventio n, its County Con-

187

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

vention, and in 1904 a delegate to the National Convention which nominated that great and active Mason, Theodore Roosevelt, for President.

for and service to his city, his state, his nation and his fellowman, it is
only natural that his Masonic career should be equally distinguished .
Raised in East Gate (then Sunset) Lodge No. 290 on April 22, 1898,
Oscar became its ·Master in 1901. Oscar and other distinguished
brethren formed a temple association and the lodge building was
constructed and paid for. Service as secretary of the Los Angeles
Masonic Board of Relief was added to his record. With the disastrous
earthquake and fire in San Francisco in 1906, Oscar and Motley Flint,
the then Grand Master, spent weeks in this city bringing relief to the
distressed, the homeless and the suffering. Again, the story of those
times and what was done under great difficulties would constitute a book
in itself. Suffice it to say, another chapter in the service of this great
Mason to his brethren and his state!
While serving his government, a visit to Washington D.C., which
included a trip to George Washington's Lodge, brought to Oscar's
attention the fire and other hazards which might obliterate the priceless
relics relating to this great American and Mason. This distinguished
brother of ours suggested a nationwide project to erect an appropriate
fireproof building in which they could be housed and after many conferences Worshipful Brother Charles Callahan, then Master of Alexandria-Washington Lodge No. 22, called the original meeting from
which sprang the George Washington Masonic Memorial on Shooters
Hill in Virginia.
Oscar Lawler was elected Junior Grand Warden in 1906 and with
the untimely death of Deputy Grand Master Reuben H. Lloyd was
elected Grand Master in 1908. Again he served with distinction, traveling about the statE; by train and horse and carriage to visit with his
brethren and carry on the duties of his office. Through his efforts a
home was founded for the children of our distressed and deceased
brethren at San Gabriel, and the foundation laid for our present home
at Covina, a landmark in our history.
Since Oscar Lawler came to California in 1888 our country has
passed through three wars and changed from a farming to an industrial giant. Los Angeles, from a sleepy Mexican town, has advanced to
a foremost place among world cities, and California, from a remote and
distant national stepchild, has become a great agricultural, industrial,
financial and maritime center of constantly increasing stature.
The bicycle has come, flourished, and, with the horse, receded to
minor importance as a means of transportation: the telephone has outrun
the telegraph. and both are overshadowed by radio and television.
Trucks and buses, long encroaching on railroads and steamships, are
being superseded by the airplane; oil has replaced coal, diesel is rapidly
displacing steam, and electricity, impinging both, is itself threatened by
atomic power. Shorthand reporting has been mechanically supplanted,
and tape-recording and television are realities. Crowned heads have
become largely a memory, the British Empire has given up its colonial

186

. I~ 1905 our ~rother became United States Attorney for the Southern
District of California and handled many of the cases which made
history and changed the course of events. I wish I had the time to review
some of ~hese cases. It's like reading history. Suffice it to say that he
served _with such distinction that in 1909 President Taft appointed him
an Assistant Attorney General of the United States and he was assigned
t~ the Department of the Interior. In this capacity he again displayed
his greatness and ability in the handling of cases and activities which
made history. For example, at the time the Colorado River broke from
its banks in 1909 and flowed into the Imperial Valley, Brother Lawler
was sent by President Taft to secure the consent of President Diaz of
M_exico to the remedial measures required to prevent a recurrence of
this catastrophe and correct the current situation. It took a lot of work
and ~lanning to get past the anti-American Secretary of the Treasury of
Mexico and reach President Diaz, but this was done and the necessary
approval was secured.
Who in California has not heard of the bombing of the Los Angeles
Times in 19107 This was not only a catastrophe but the successful
prosecution of the perpetrators of the crime and the exposure of the
mu~derous ring of dynamiters who had spread terror throughout the
?atlo? was a great serv~ce to hu~anity .. Oscar was a most important cog
m th1s great undertaking. Agam I wish I had the time to cover the
multitude of important assignments carried out by our distinguished
brother.
Ironically, it was another bomb which almost ended Oscar's life. On
the night of August 3, 1919, a disgruntled associate of a litigant who had
been defeated through the efforts of Oscar as the opposing attorney
destroyed our brother's home with a home-made bomb. Mr. and Mrs.
~wler ~e~e badly injured, hospitalized for some time, but escaped
with their hves. The Great Architect of the Universe must have been
watching over them that night.
. In his profession and civic activities, Oscar gave unsparingly of his
t~me ~nd talents. He became president of the Los Angeles Bar Association m 1923, served with distinction, and thereafter continued to serve
in the affairs of the county and state bar associations.
Of interest to all of us was Oscar's friendship with another distinguished Mason, Will Rogers, whose tragic death at Point Barrow,
Alaska, brought sorrow to millions. Oscar participated in the arrangements to establish communications with Point Barrow, the arrangements
for the return of the earthly remains, the funeral and the establishment
of memo~ials in. Ne_w York, Oklahoma and Los Angeles ... a friend,
who cherishes his friends and their memories.
With a private and public career such as this, filled with concern

188

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

.

greatness: ·Germany is divided: Holland's colonial power has all but
vanished: Mussolini and Hitler, strutting across the narrow stage, have
exploded and disappeared. The long and horrible absolutism of Czarist
Russia, drowned in its own blood, has been replaced by the brutal
irresponsibility of Communism, and the world's misfortunes have been
topped by the arrogance of that contradition of all decencies, whose
ascendancy threatens the cherished aspirations of what we have been
pleased to regard as the most advanced civilization with which the world
has been blessed.
To halt the advance of this monster all men of good will must forget
errors which have hitherto divided them and, "with malice toward none.
and charity for all." make common cause for the restoration of common
sense, common honesty and common decency, and the re-establishment
of common accountability to that "God of all" who holds the destinies
of men and nations in the hollow of His hand.
Oscar Lawler has had a guiding hand in the development of this
great country of ours and has, with the philosophy I have fust given,
served his city, his state, his country, his fellowmen and particularly his
brethren in this great fraternity of ours.
As I said in the opening paragraph of this story, this is the portrait
of a great man, a great lawyer, a great American and a great Mason.
Most Worshipful Sir, we salute you, we rejoice in this Golden Anniversary, we wish for you and yours happiness and health and we extend and
express to you the continuing love and affection of your brethren.
The following resolution was introduced and was unanimously
adopted:
WHEREAS, the Most Worshipful Oscar Lawler was elected Grand
Master of Masons in California on October 16, 1908, and at this 109th
Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge celebrates the Golden
Anniversary of his election as Grand Master, and
WHEREAS, his distinguished service to Freemasonry in this state
extends well over half a century during which time he has contributed
greatly in building the Grand Lodge of California to its present stature,
and
WHEREAS, in addition to his long Masonic service, he has rendered distinguished service to his city, state and nation in many capacities including those by Presidential appointment, and
WHEREAS. in his chosen profession he has served as President
of the Los Angeles Bar Association and with equal distinction in other
professional associations, and
WHEREAS, for these and other reasons the brethren of this Grand
Lodge desire to honor him on this occasion and to express to him their
personal regard and affection,.

189

NOW, THEREFORE. BE IT RESOLVED that the Grand Lodge
of California in its 109th Annual Communication congratulates Most
Worshipful Oscar Lawler on his long career of private. public and
Masonic service and wishes for him many more years of health and
service, and
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED that this sentiment be suitably
engrossed for presentation to Brother Lawler and be recorded in the
permanent records of the Grand Lodge.
DONE, BY UNANIMOUS ACTION OF THE GRAND
LODGE, at the City of San Francisco, Tuesday, September 30, A.O.
1958, A.L. 5958.
LEO E. ANDERSON, Grand Master.

Attest:

LLOYD E. WILSON, Grand Secretary.

The Grand Secretary read the following telegram which had just
been received from Brother Lawler:
"Thanks for your very kind message. Please convey to the brethren
of the Grand Lodge my regret for inability to participate in dedicating
the new Temple and my deep appreciation of their kindly and fraternal
greetings which are heartily reciprocated."

On October 21, 1958, at the home of Past Grand Master Oscar
Lawler, the Junior Past Grand Master, Leo E. Anderson, presented
to Brother Lawler the engrossed resolution and a copy of the
tribute which he had prepared and which was read in Grand Lodge.
Present on this most interesting occasion were the new Grand
Master, Phil N. Myers, and Past Grand Masters Ellsworth Meyer,
Frank Harwell, Jr .. and Edgar V. Stewart, Jr.

190

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF INVESTMENT COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
The Investment Committee concludes its eighth year of activity. and
herewith renders its report for the twelve months ending June 30. 1958.
Each year's report gives a certain amount of historical background and
basic information. which should be helpful to those attending Grand
Lodge for the first time.
The Prudent Man Rule in modified form was adopted by Grand
Lodge at its 1950 Communication. For the Constituent Lodges a Prudent Man Rule was adopted in 1951.
The Investment Committee of Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
was formed for the purpose of administering the investable funds of
Grand Lodge. the Masonic Homes of California and the Masonic
Homes Endowment Fund. The Committee does not supervise the investments of Constituent Lodges. Grand Lodge makes the services of its
investment advisor available to the Lodges. Many Lodges are now making use of this service, as evidenced by the fact that 21i Lodges with
$4.575,000 of investments are now consulting with our investment advisor.
The Investment Committee is composed of the Grand Treasurer, the
Assistant Grand Treasurer. the Chairman of the Finance Committee. the
President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees or a Trustee of that
Board designated by him, and the Chairman of the Masonic Homes Endowment Board or a member of that Board designated by him. The
President of the Masonic Homes Board of Trustees has designated
Brother Past Master Ralph H. Head and the Chairman of the Endowment Board has designated Brother Past Master John W. Davey. as
members of the Committee.
By Ordinance. under Section 246 (formerly 86) with respect to investment of Grand Lodge funds. and Section 403 (formerly 152.1 ) respecting investments by Constituent Lodges, the following provisions
and subsequent amendments were promulgated:
GROUP I. At least 40% of the funds available for investment must
be in:
A)

Cash and/or bank accounts.

B)

Obligations of the United States.

C)

Obligations of the State of California and its political subdivisions.

D)

Such other securities as are legal investments for California
savings banks.

191

GROUP II. Up to 20% may be invested in :
A) Other evidences of indebtedness. which are or will be fully
listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission as a National Securities
Exchan,ge. except that this listing requirement shall not include railroad equipment trust issues ( 1955 ) .
B) Preferred stocks, which are or will be fully listed and registered on an exchange registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission as a National Securities Exchange.
except that full listing and registration of preferred stock
shall not be required whenever the common stock of the
corporation issuing such preferred stock is fully listed and
registered on such an exchange, provided that such preferred stock is traded on such an exchange ( 1956).
GROUP III. Up to 40% may be invested in :
A) Common stocks. which must be fully listed and registered
on an exchange registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as a National Securities Exchange, except that
this listing requirement shall not apply to bank and insurance stocks.
B) Shares of Investment Trusts.
C) Shares and/or certificates of insured Federal Savings or
Building and Loan Associations ( 1957). The amount invested in any one association shall not exceed the amount
covered by insurance. (THIS AMENDMENT APPLIES

ONLY TO CONSTITUENT LODGES AND DOES
NOT.APPLY TO THE INVESTMENT OF GRAND
LODGE FUNDS).
With respect to the authority to invest in Groups II and III. the
Ordinances read as follows: "No such investments. however. shall be
made which at the time of purchase will result in the total market value
of the securities referred to in this section exceeding twenty per cent (or
forty per cent) of the total market value of all the cash, bank accounts
and securities held,"-the controlling point being that there cannot be
more than 20% or 40% invested in Groups II and III. respectively, at

the time of purchase.
Since its formation the Investment Committee has met regularly
every three months. Between quarterly meetings the business of the
Committee is handled by correspondence or telephone.
As stated, we have just completed eight years of operation. The following is a summary of the consolidated market values of securities
owned. plus investable cash, together with a record of dollar income on
these investments, beginning with November 30, 1950, and for each
succeeding fiscal year, through June 30, 1958, including the percentage
income on the market value of each year.

192

GRAND LODGE F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

CONSOLIDATED MARKET VALUE OF SECURITIES AND INVESTABLE CASH•
(BY GROUPS AND TOTALS) AND DOLLAR INCOME (in ParenthMeo)

Date•
11/80/60
8/18/61
8/4/52
7/31/68
7/81/64
7/81/66
7/81/66
6/80/67t
6/80/68

GROUP I
Amount Percent
$6,668,829
($94,280)
4,668,248
($74,084)
4,218,637
($86,827)
4,698,120
($102,881)
4,361,294
($96,268)
6,680,942
($126.621)
6,011,480
($167,122)
6,206,936
($168,284)
6,897,647
($174,662)

92.4%
76.3
63.4
68.6
61.8
66.6
64.1
46.0
48.1

GROUP II
Amount Percent
$ 102,140
($4,262)
389,000
($16,662)
574,096
($20,832)
479,627
($19,394)
771,147
($27,963)
678,610
($24,394)
1,696,552
($63,588)
1,928,381
($89,399)
2,263,739
($96,946)

1.7%
6.5
8.7
6.6
9.2
6.7
14.4
17.0
17.9

6.9%
17.2
27.9
29.9
89.0
87.8
81.6
87.0
88.9

CONSOLIDATED PORTFOLIO-June 30, 1958
(Market Value*)

Income
Percenta1re
TOTALS
Amount
Return

GROUP Ill
Amount Percent
$ 364,008
($22,066)
1,026,726
($63,203)
1,866,121
($98,614)
2,208,668
($114,816)
8,278,814
($162,076)
8,820,092
($168,880)
8,606,096
($160,697)
4,192,291
($197,673)
4,878,389
($226,840)

193

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

$ 6,124,471
($120,698)
5,972,968
($153,989)
6,648,864
($205,272)
7,881,806
($236,590)
8,401,266
($276,296)
10,129,644
($309,346)
11,118,108
($871,407)
11,326,608
($440,806)
12,629,626
($496,948)

SUMMARY

1.97%

Amount
2.68
3.09
3.21
3.28
8.06

Percent

GROUP I
Cash ···-··········-··················-·······$ 432,270
U S Government Bonds...... 2,893,877
Municipals ................................
102,000
Railroad Equipment .............. 1,025,000
Public Utility ·············-········-...
944,400

Total Group ! .......------····---·$ 5,397,547 43.07%

Income

Return
on
Market

Return
on Book
Value

$ 12,96Bt
86,444
3,095
30,067
42,0BB
$174,662 3.24%

3.34
3.92
3.97

•Savings bank depoalta with lnt.ereot earned thereon are Included In Group I.
t Fiscal year changed to June 80.

GROUP II
Bonds:
Municipal ..............................$
Railroad Equipment ..........
Industrials ............................

Finance ..................................

2,000
100,000
525,116
5,100

---632,216

Total Bonds .......----·-----.$
Preferred Stock:

The book value as of June 30, 1958, was approximately $12,514,675,
and the market value as explained in the consolidated summary was
$12,529,625, or an increase above book value of $14,950. Net profits of
approximately $956,000 were taken prior to June 30, 1958, therefore,
profits taken and appreciation of $14,950 amounted to $970,950. Profits
taken always remain a part of principal.
Contributions, gifts and bequests have also increased the dollar total.
For the twelve months ended June 30, 1958, they totaled approximately
$757,500, including Endowment Fund contributions made through the
Lodges.
The above facts and figures are reported as a matter of information.
In passing, may we also mention that while the total portfolio has
increased since November, 1950, from $6,124,471 to $12,529,625, or
104.58%, at the same time the income based on present holdings, divi~
dends and interest rates, has increased from $120,598 to $496,948, or
312.07%.
Here follows the consolidated investment portfolio of Grand Lodge,
with the market values as of June 30, 1958, divided into the various
groups and showing the percentage value of each group, together with
the income return for each group on the market value and on the total
book value:

$

BO

3,250
19,616
194

$ 23,140

36,000
527 ,423
Industrials ............................ 1,057 ,860
Finance ....... _.........................
240

$ 1,600
24,178
48,008
20

Total Preferc-eds ..............$ 1,621,523

$ 73,806

Railroad _______ .......................$
Public Utility ......................

Total Group n..............$ 2,253,739 17.99%
GROUP III
Common Stock:
Railroad ...- .........._...............$ 435,738
Public Utility .......-............... 1,787,167
Industrials ............................ 1,692,844
Finance ..................................
962,590

$ 96,946 4.30%

$ 29,909
82,237
71,807
41,387

Total Group m ..........-...$ 4,878,339 38.94%

$225,340 4.62%

Total Portfolio ............$12,529,625 100.00%

$496,948 3.97%

3.98%

• In the above schedule, the non-marketable government bonds, ln~:ient
Series A and B, are figured at par. ~e marketab!e government
..are
figured at market. The railroad eqwpment trust lSSUes and the m~cipa~
issues are figured at par. If the non-marketab~ goverrun.ents were ta _en a
their resent redem tion values, and if the railroad equipment trust lSSues
and ~e municipal fssues were figured at market, the totabolval~ of thf
portfolio would be approximately $32,000 less than the a ve gure o
$12,529,625.
t At3%.

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We have three principal accounts, the Masonic Homes Endowment
Fund, Masonic Homes General Fund (plus several smaller funds of the
Masonic Homes). and Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California. The record is kept by Moody's as one total fund, thereby reducing our cost very
materially. However, Grand Lodge records are kept separate as to each
fund, as are the records of the Investment Committee. As a matter of
interest, we list here the market value of the individual funds, together
with the income and yield at market prices:

The Investment Committee continues to pursue a conservative policy, as shown by the amounts invested in the three categories, namely.
Groups I. II. and III.
Our thanks to the Grand Secretary, the Assistant Grand Secretary,
and my thanks to the members of the Investment Committee for their
wholehearted and generous cooperation at all times.
.
Respectfully submitted on behalf of the Investment Comm1ttee--

194

Total Value* Income
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund
$8,713,833
Masonic Homes General Fund
2,570.027
Masonic Homes Special Funds
566,442
Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California
627,874

$338.384
107,491
23.453
28.337

Return
3.88%
4.18%
4.14%
4.51 %

( *as of June 30, 1958, including investable cash. Interest on savings accounts [investable cash only] is figured at 3%. In this table governments and railroad equipment and municipal issues are figured at present
redemption or market values.)
We have had practically one hundred per cent attendance at our Investment Committee meetings. The August 1957 meeting was also
attended by Brothers L. Harold Anderson, P.G.M.: Charles M. Wollenberg, P.G.M .. and Byron Coleman. P.M .• and the February 1958 meeting by Brother Arthur M. Warren, P.G.M.
The entire portfolio is listed in the Auditor's Report and is, therefore, not included herein. The securities are held in safekeeping by the
Trust Department of the Crocker-Anglo National Bank, at its One
Montgomery Street office, San Francisco.
Moody's reports the following use of its service by Constituent
Lodges, beginning with December 1, 1951 through June 30, 1958. Grand
Lodge makes this service available without cost to all Lodges in our
jurisdiction:
1. Number of Lodges under service ............................ 214
2. Number of Lodges presenting portfolios for initial
analysis and review .................................................. 164
3. Number of original reports and analyses prepared 154
4. Total dollar value of portfolios reviewed .... $4,576,388
5. Subsequent Reviews, Items of Correspondence,
Office Visits, Telephone Calls ----·------------·-········· 2,248

The office of the Grand Secretary will gladly furnish a copy of the
Ordinances and procedure respecting investments to any inquiring
Lodge.

JoHN W. DAVEY
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
RALPH H. HEAD
EDWARD H. SIEMS
PAUL A. PFLUEGER, Chairman

196

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF CONTROL
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Board of Control submits herewith its annual report covering the activities of our eighteen Boards of Relief and six employment bureaus maintained within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge
of California.
The much publicized recession throughout our country has caused
considerable additional activity in our Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. In spite of this additional work that has been thrust
upon our executive secretaries and employment managers, your Board
finds that all offices are discharging their duties promptly and efficiently. We wish to commend these devoted Masons and also let them
know that their e1forts are greatly appreciated by Masons not only in
our grand jurisdiction but also all the ·grand jurisdictions in the United
States and throughout the world. As a further indication of their devotion, we would also like to point out that some of these executive secretaries in the smaller boards work without financial remuneration.
The many and varied activities of our Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus have often been brought to your attention in these annual reports. We will, therefore, not go into detail in this report as
to all these activities. In our eighteen boards, "relief" of one kind
or another to worthy Brother Master Masons and those dependent
upon them constitutes by far the most important and time consuming
portion of the work. This relief is granted in many ways ranging from
direct financial assistance to finding steady employment for those who
call at our offices.
There is one type of relief seldom mentioned but is greatly appreciated by the recipients. This relief has to do with the furnishing of
hospital beds, wheel chairs, walkers. traction equipment, and rails. In
this connection, we recently received a communication from our Long
Beach Board of Relief wherein they advised us that they own, by
purchase or gift, four complete hospital beds, four metal wheel chairs,
three walkers, and other miscellaneous items, such as traction equipment and rails. All of these items are available free of charge to any
master Mason or member of his immediate family. The saving to
those using these items runs into many thousands of dollars per year.
The Board of Control heartily approves this type of relief and recommends that boards who are not now in a position to furnish such relief
investigate the possibility of procuring this type of equipment.
BOARDS OF RELIEF

We have in our grand jurisdiction eighteen Boards of Relief. All
of these boards are furnished copies of a Standard Practice Bulletin
prepared by a nationally known accounting firm under the direction
of the Board of Control and with the approval of the Grand Master.

197

This Standard Practice Bulletin outlines in detail a uniform method
for not only keeping all the financial accounts in order but also the
statistical information required by the Board of Control. By making
use of this uniform system of keeping accounts and records, the Board
of Control is able to make comparisons of the various offices and also
readily provide to the Finance Committee and Grand Lodge the financial and statistical data required.
The reports from our eighteen Boards of Relief for the Masonic
year ending June 30, 1958 have been carefully studied by your Board
of Control. and we submit the following for your information:
Advanced for Relief ..............................................$64,385.28
Funerals conducted ................................................ 946
Total calls made ...................................................... 39,528
Calls on the Sick ......................................................! 0,126
Investigations conducted ........................................ 3,299
Relief calls ................................•............................... 8,579
Miscellaneous calls ··············································---17 ,524
Blood banks are maintained in many of our Boards of Relief.
Through these banks. blood is made available for all master Masons
in good standing and members of their immediate family. During the
past Masonic year, these blood banks have been very active as indicated by the following figures:
Units of blood donated.............................................. 2,764
Units of blood withdrawn.......................................... 2,624
Actual cost saved our brethren.................................. $67,298

.

EMPLOYMENT BUREAUS

Boards of Relief may, with the consent of the Board of Control
form Employment Bureaus. In our grand jurisdiction, we presently
have six of these Employment Bureaus. The following figures give an
idea of the extent of this activity:
Registered for Employment. ......................................... 7,027
Jobs secured ·····················---·-······································· 1,515
Positions offered by employers .................................... 4,167
There is no charge of any kind made to either the employee or the
employer for this type of service. As you know, the private "fee"
employment agencies make a charge to either the employee or the
employer for all placements. The amount of fee permissible to charge
is regulated by the State of California. Using this same fee schedule
as a basis, we have calculated that the number of Masons and their
families who secured jobs through our employment bureaus saved the
sum of $122,167.37.

199

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

The Board of Control is still of the opinion that securing jobs for
our Masonic brethren, their widows, and members of their immediate
families is a worthwhile type of relief. However, we are greatly concerned about the steadily rising cost of maintaining our six Employment Bureaus and will continue to find ways and means to reduce these
costs.

the Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, and their staff
for their cooperation and assistance during the past Masonic year.
Respectfully submitted,

198

APPROPRIATIONS

Our Grand Lodge customarily gives financial assistance to our
Employment Bureaus where such is deemed necessary. After careful
study and consideration, your Board of Control recommends the following appropriations:
East Bay ............................................................._.$ 2,500.00
300.00
Glendale ................................................................
Long Beach ............................................................ 2,282.00
........................ 1,000.00
Los Angeles ..........................
San Diego .............................................................. 2.934.00
San Francisco ........................................................ 2,500.00
Total................................................. ............... $11,516.00

The Board of Control has ref erred the matter of appropriations to
the Chairman of the Finance Committee as required by the Ordinances,
Section 265 of the California Masonic Code.
REIMBURSEMENTS TO MASONIC BoARDS OP RELIEF

The San Francisco Board of Relief has requested reimbursements
in the amount of $423.68, which covers six different cases. Brother
Andrew Burke, Executive Secretary of the San Francisco Board of
Relief. has been working on these cases for a number of years and has
been unable to obtain reimbursements. One case in particular having
to do with a brother from Okinawa Lodge No. 118, Okinawa, dates
back to the year 1953. Another case having to do with a brother belonging to a lodge in Scotland goes back close to five years. We
mention this merely to indicate that our executive secretaries work
long and diligently on these cases before asking for reimbursements.
It is the opinion of the Board of Control that the San Francisco
Board of Relief should be reimbursed in each of these six cases. We
have presented the full details of these cases to the Finance Committee together with our recommendation for approval.
Total amount requested for reimbursements ............ $423.68
The Board of Control wishes to take this opportunity to thank The
Most Worshipful Leo E. Anderson, Grand Master, for his keen in•
terest in our work and also for attending our meetings whenever possible. We wish also to thank the Grand Secretary, Lloyd E. Wilson;

GUY A. TOLLE
REGINALD M. MILLS
EDWARD A. JOHNSON
IRVING MAGNES
ARTHUR DvoRIN

Expiration of Term of Office, Board of Control Members:
Edward A. Johnson, 1958
Reginald M. Mills, 1958
Arthur Dvorin, 1960
1959
Tolle,
A.
Guy
1959
Irving Magnes,
Report accepted.
Request for appropriation referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California:
MANUAL FOR THE FORMATION OF A MASONIC LODGE

At present there is no complete manual or other collected or compiled
reference work to inform and guide those brethren seeking to form
new lodges. The necessary information must be sought out at various
sections in the Masonic Code, by inquiry of the Grand Secretary, and by
inquiry of Inspectors or other brethren who have had some experience
on the subject.
Your committee seeks to alleviate this situation. Through the primary
efforts of a sub-committee composed of Kenneth L. Hemphill, Robert A.
Smith and Phillip B. Stone, and aided by suggestions and constructive
criticism by the Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D. Oliphant, and the
other members of the Charters Committee, we are ready to present a
final draft of a proposed manual to the Grand Master and Grand Secretary. It is hoped that approval may be obtained, for the publication of
this manual and its distribution to those concerned with the formation
of new lodges, as the occasions arise. We do not request any action on
this by Grand Lodge, as we believe none is required. The subject is
contained in our report merely for your information.
CHARTERS RECOMMENDED

One lodge, Silverado, U.D .. at Napa. in the County of Napa, was
continued under dispensation at the last Communication of Grand Lodge
upon recommendation of the committee and action of Grand Lodge.
Two lodges, Mojave, U.D., at Mojave in the County of Kem, and
Leland Stanford, U.D., at Chico in the County of Butte, were instituted
during September 1957. Under Section 309 of the Masonic Code the
dispensations of these two lodges were not required to be returned to the
Grand Secretary until the 1958 Communication, and the lodges con-

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

200

Comtinued to operate U.D. withou t interruption, or action at the 1957
tion.
munica
During the year, eight new lodges were instituted. Of the 11 lodges
U.D., 10 have applied for charters.
We have examined the work and proceedings of the 10 lodges seekthe
ing charter s and have confer red with their delegates. We found
csatisfa
be
to
lodges
ing
petition
the
of
seven
of
dings
procee
work and
there
cases
some
In
tory, and that they were clear of all indebtedness.
as
were errors or omissions in keeping records and presenting same
were
uence
conseq
major
of
Those
Code.
prescribed by the Mason ic
those
promp tly rectified, and your committee received assurances that
ed.
correct
be
also
would
uence
conseq
of minor
rs
We, therefore, recommend that charter s be grante d and numbe
:
follows
as
to,
d
referre
above
lodges
seven
the
to
assigne d
Silverado Lodge No. 782 at Napa, in the County of Napa.
Mojav e Lodge No. 783 at Mojave, 1n the Count y of Kern.
Leland Stanfo rd Lodge No. 784 at Chico, in the County of Butte.
Param ount Lodge No. 785 at Hollydale, in the County of Los
Angeles.
Rio Linda Lodge No. 786 at Rio Linda, in the County of Sacramento.
of
Westm inster Lodge No. 787 at Westm inster, in the County
Orang e.
of
El Camino Resear ch Lodge at Mount ain View, in the County
rch
"Resea
reads:
16,
sub.
385,
Santa Clara (Maso nic Code, Section
t a
Lodges when charter ed shall be charter ed only by name and withou
r.")
numbe
lodge
Respectfully submitted,

HERBE RT A. HUEBN ER, Chairman
HAROL D MEYER
KENNE TH R. FORD
BROWN ZARLE Y
ROBER T A. SMITH
IRA G. SILVER
PHILLI P B. STONE
KENNE TH L. HEMPH ILL
WAYN E E. BURK
EARL B. SANSIN G
ROBER TO. WEST

Adopte d.

Contin uing Under Dispensation Recommended

Sierra Lodge U.D .. at Bass Lake in the Count y of Mader a, was
instituted July 12, 1958.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

201

Oak Plains Lodge U.D., at Sacramento in the County of Sacram ento,
was instituted July 19, 1958.
Genera l Henry H. Arnold Lodge U.D., at Edwar ds, in the County
of Kem, was institut ed Augus t 8, 1958.
These three lodges were among the ten which petitioned for charprediters. The "work and procee dings" presen ted by these lodges are
arily
necess
and
lodges,
ic
Mason
as
ce
existen
an
brief
cated upon so
operaand
t
reflect insufficient pertine nt information regard ing conduc
and
tions, for the committee to be able to determine whethe r the work
311.
Section
Code,
ic
Mason
by
d
proceedings are satisfa ctory, as require
with
We have carefully considered the special circumstances presen ted
these
of
ts
interes
the
that
ced
convin
are
but
ers
petition
respect to the
ing
lodges. and of Mason ry in 9enera1. would be best served by continu
year.
g
these lodges under dispensation for the ensuin
We therefo re recommend that Sierra Lodge U.D.• Oak Plains Lodge
under
U.D., and Genera l Henry H. Arnold Lodge U.D. be continued
year.
ic
Mason
g
ensuin
the
for
dispensation
Grana da Hills Lodge U.D. at San Fernan do, in the County of Los
that it
Angeles, was institut ed Augus t 1, 1958. This lodge reques ted
so
and
s
concur
ttee
commi
The
sation.
be continued under dispen
recommends.
The representatives of the latter four lodges each presen ted their
plea for the issuing of a charter .
By separa te motion with reference to each of the four the Comm ittee
saon Charte rs recommended that the lodge be continued under dispen
not
was
sation
dispen
under
e
continu
to
motion
the
tion. In each case
adopte d. In each case a motion to grant a charte r was adopte d.
In the case ot Grana da Hills Lodge the Charte r Committee pointed
ation
out that the records of the Lodge had been submitted and on examin
t
reques
d
require
The
ctory.
satisfa
y
they had been found to be entirel
by
ted
presen
were
fee
ary
necess
the
of
nt
payme
the
for a charter and
the master of Grana da Hills Lodge U.D.
The four additio nal charter s thus grante d were as follows:
Sierra Lodge No. 788 at Bass Lake, in the County of Mader a.
Oak Plains Lodge No. 789 at Sacram ento, in the County of Sacramento.
of
Grana da Hills Lodge No. 790 at San Fernan do, in the County
Los Angeles.
of
Genera l Henry H. Arnold No. 791 at Edwar ds, in the County
Kem.
The above action relative to Sierra Lodge No. 778 was completed
at the Tuesd ay afterno on session, 'September 30.
da
The grantin g of charter s to Oak Plains Lodge No. 789, Grana
791
No.
Lodge
Arnold
H.
Henry
l
Genera
and
790
Hills Lodge No.
is
occurr ed at the session on Wedne sday morning, Octobe r 1, but
ce.
referen
included in the above report for convenience of

202

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF
THE COMMITTEE ON MASONIC HISTORY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The 1957 History Committee report, as submitted to this Grand
Lodge, contained a number of recommendations which form the basis
of this Report.
The development of two history lectures, with colored slides, centered around a number of interesting old Lodges and Temples in California, is well along towards completion. The inclemency of the weather
in early spring. as well as other unforeseen conditions, prevented our
volunteer photographers from getting an early start. However, the pictures are nearly all taken and finishing touches are being put on the
lectures, and we are happy to announce that we are ready to present
them to such lodges as may wish to receive them. A lecture has been
prepared for the North and another for the South. Requests must be
in writing and dates will be assigned in the same order as requests are
received. Please do NOT specify the date, but indicate the day of the
week you would like to have the presentation made and the committee
will assign the first open date on that specific day. We will try to respect
your wishes and will accept as many engagements as our committee
members are able to fill.
Your committee has done little towards the preparation of a onevolume supplemental edition of "One Hundred Years of Freemasonry
in California," but we can report progress in the collection of material
for such a book and will endeavor to place a recommendation before
you at the next Annual Communication. A number of the 4-volume
sets of our Centennial publication are still available, at $25.00 per set.
Again we strongly recommend that every lodge in California should
have a set of this timely and important work on California Masonry.
Again this past year. members of the committee have participated
in a number of regional seminars sponsored by the Research Committee and the research lodges. We were happy to help and hope our contributions were worthwhile.
Despite our calling your attention in our last ,Report to the deplorable condition of Masonic cemetery plots and the graves of departed
Masons, we regret exceedingly that little if any progress has been made
in the removal of rubbish, debris, and weeds under which many of our
brethren lie buried. In our opinion it is to our shame, and an abomination to California Masonry in general and to specific lodges in particular,
that this condition should continue to persist.

203

In our last Report, we advanced the idea of the ~stabli~hme~t of a
chain of Registered Historic Masonic Landmarks. m California, and
recommended approval of the suggestion in principle: In that Report
we said, " ... It is entirely conceivable that the fraternity would bene~t
culturally. spiritually and impressionably in the establishment of a chai.n
of historic Masonic shrines in California, much as the Roman Cathol~c
Church has benefited by the restoration and estabHshment of the cham
of historic Missions which helped to colonize California."
Our plan does not contemplate any financial burden whatever on
the part of this Grand Lodge. and we do not prop?se aski~g for funds
to finance acquisitions of property or for the repair or maintenance of
property. other than what is now being appropriated.
Under the plan we propose. any lodge in Califomi~, ma~~g claim
to unusual historical connection or interest, and havmg visible and
tangible evidence that can be viewed by the public_ in su~port _of such
claim, may petition the History CommitteeJor official design~t~on as a
"Registered Historic Masonic Landmark. Wh~n such pebt.ions are
received they will be carefully reviewed by the History. Committee. and
if the application meets the requirements for such registered de~ign~­
tion the petition will be approved and a number and copy for ~n historical marker issued, which marker shall be affixed to the outside of the
building or site designated in the application. Such historical sites would
have to be owned by the constituent lodge or lodges, or the proper permission obtained by the applicants from the present owners for the
posting of the marker.

•

During the last three years, this committee has catalogued and
indexed the collection of books owned by this Grand Lodge at a cost of
about $700.00. We are pleased to report that space on the mezzanine
floor has been allotted for the housing of this collection and also for
the display of the museum relics which we own. As n~ specific _fun~s
have been set aside for equipping this room. this unfinished proJect 1s
still before us and the money already spent on indexing will be wasted
and the books useless if we cannot store them where they will be readily
available. Quarters and facilities for this purpose are badly needed by
this committee as well as the several research lodge groups. We understand that recommendations looking towards the proper equipping of
this room are included in the Report of the Memorial Temple Committee
and we respectfully defer to them at this time and support their recommendations.
The History Committee submits the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
"RESOLVED, that this Report be approved and that the sum of

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$750.00 be set aside for the use of the History Committe e for the ensuing
Masonic year."
Respectfu lly submitted,
LEON 0. WHITSELL
0. WOHLGEM UTH

J.

ARTHUR TRIGGS
CARL W. BRAINARD
FRANK EVERETT
}AMES 0. STRICKLAN D
HARRY A. KoLLBERG

It is the will of this Grand Lodge that a chain of Registered Historic
Masonic Landmark s be and hereby is establishe d and that the designation "Registere d Historic Masonic Landmark ," with the proper number
of said ·L andmark to follow, is to be awarded upon a proper showing
being made by the applying constituen t lodge, qualifying such landmark
for official designation.
FURTHE R, that this program is to be administe red by the Masonic
History Committee of this Grand Lodge, whose decisions in this regard
as to registered designatio n shall be flnal except that the right of appeal
shall remain unabridge d.
FURTHE R, that all applications for official, registered designatio n
of Historic Masonic Landmark shall be in accord with the terms and
conditions as hereafter specified, by which such applications shall be
judged and which may be changed only by an act of this Grand Lodge,
always reserving the right of interpreta tion to the Grand Master.
All applications shall be governed by the following terms and conditions:
1. Any constituen t lodge in California , having a valid claim to
visible, tangible historic association may apply for designatio n as a
Registered Historic Masonic Landmark , which said designatio n will
be awarded upon a proper showing being made that would justly entitle
the said landmark described in the application to such designation.
(a) .Standards of value from an historical standpoin t, by competen t
persons versed in historical matters will be used as the basis for judging
applications.
2. All applications shall be in writing, on a form furnished for the
purpose by the Grand Lodge Masonic History Committee.
3. Applications shall be submitted and/or considered only when
made by authority of a constituen t lodge under a resolution lawfully
had and attested by the Master and Secretary over the seal of the lodge
affixed thereto.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

205

4. To qualify for Historic Masonic Landmark registratio n, the
building or site so to be marked shall be owned by the applying lodge
or lodges and/ or suitable written permission of the owners shall be
obtained to the establishm ent of a marker upon said building or site.

5. Any building or site awarded designation as an Historic Masonic
Landmark shall be in good repair and/or presentab le in appearanc e at
the time of the application, and shall be so maintaine d as to be a credit
to Masonry throughou t the term of the official registration. Failure to
so maintain will be cause for cancellation of the designation by the
Grand Lodge History Committee, after notice duly given and opportunity afforded to perform.
6. All buildings and/or sites designated as Registered Historic
Masonic Landmark s shall be available to the public for inspection during
such reasonable hours as the sponsorin g Lodge( s) shall establish. Such
transient visits or tours of inspection shall be without charge although
a properly marked, voluntary contribution depository may be kept in
sight.
7. Lodge buildings, designated as Registered Historic Masonic Landmarks and presently in use as a Lodge Hall by a constituent lodge in
this jurisdiction, shall be made available to any and all other regular
constituen t lodges for the purpose of visitation, at all reasonable and
mutually agreeable times and always subject to the conditions presently
·obtaining for such inter-lodg e visitations in the California Masonic
Code. The lodge or trustees controlling the building shall have the rig ht
to charge a fee for the use of the premises which, if levied, shall be no
less than the f~e establishe d by the Grand Lodge for the use of the
Masonic Temple at Columbia. The controlling body need not furnish
refreshme nts but shall permit visiting lodges to furnish their own and
shall make the refreshme nt hall available, if there be one, without
further charge.
8. When required by the Grand Lodge History Committee, a sponsoring Lodge shall draft the terms and conditions under which it proposed to make its building available to the public as well as to other
Lodges and the same shall be submitted to the said History Committee
for approval upon request. Any future propost;d changes in the said
terms and conditions shall be likewise first submitted to the said History
Committee for approval before becoming operative.
9. After an application for registratio n of an Historic Masonic Landmark has been received and approved by the Grand Lodge History Committee, copy for a registered official marker will be furnished to the sponsoring lodge or body by the History Committee which said sponsorin g
lodge or body shall have suitably inscribed on a marker which shall then
be securely affixed in a conspicuous place on the outside of the said
building, or at the site. This marker will identify the site, bear the caption

206

207

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

"Registered Historic Masonic Landmark," giving registry number
thereof; a concise historical description pertinent thereto, followed by
the words, "Approved by the Masonic History Committee, Grand Lodge
of California, F. & A. ·M." Also, an official certificate of registration will
be issued to the sponsoring lodge.
10. Any lodge desiring to withdraw its building and/or site from
the list of Registered Historic Masonic Landmarks, may do so at any
time by legal action of the lodge first had and request made in writing
to the Grand Lodge History Committee over the signatures of the
Master and Secretary of the lodge, and the seal of the lodge affixed
thereto.
Report was accepted but no action was taken on the suggested program.
Request for appropriation was referred to Committee on Finance.

actions by a few De Molay Chapters which were contrary to the policies of this Grand Lodge. In each instance, investigation proved that
the action was inadvertent. Each chapter involved was most contrite and avidly sought advice which would preclude any future divergence from our policies. It is interesting to note that in each instance
investigated the interest of the local Masonic Lodge was conspicuous
by its absence.
Members of this committee have accepted every invitation to meet
with Masonic and De Molay groups. Of particular note were visitations to the California State De Molay Association Convention in
Bakersfield, the Southern California De Molay Association Convention in Long Beach and the official De Molay Day Activities at the
California State Fair in Sacramento and the Los Angeles County
Fair in Pomona. It is our pleasure to report most favorably on the
manner in which these affairs were conducted.
One of the highlights of the year was a visit to San Diego County
to observe the San Diego County Masonic Officers Association observance of De Molay Week, an occasion which has become a tradition in that area. Since the adoption of our present Grand Lodge
P?licy regarding De Molay, this activity has taken on an added significance to the member lodges of that association and the results are
a tribute to our fraternity.
Your committee has established a liaison with the Executive Officers
of the Supreme Council of the Order of De Molay who are in charge
of the three De Molay Jurisdictions in California and we are pleased
to report the complete cooperation of these members of our craft with
the policies of thi~ Grand Lodge.
It is our sincere recommendation that this committee be continued
and that the sum of $750.00 be appropriated to cover its necessary
expenses.
This committee wishes to express its appreciation to our Most
Worshipful Grand Master Leo E. Anderson for the wise counsel and
encouragemen t that he has so graciously given us.
In closing we would like to leave this thought with you. "The
raw material from which will spring the Masonry of tomorrow is
the youth of today."

REPORT OF THE SPECIAL COMMITTE E
ON DE MOLAY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
"If our country is ever destroyed it will not be because of someone
else's bombs, but because of our own indifference." This wisdom was
given to us by the Grand Orator in his oration before this body last
year. How significant this thought becomes when we observe the
expanding teen-age population of our State, seeking the key to the
future, but having so much difficulty finding it because of the indifference of its elders. The challenge is real. Are we willing to accept it,
or are we going to surrender the minds of these young people to the
influence of philosophies contrary to those which made our country
great.
The Order of De Molay, with its emphasis on the principles which
are so dear to Masonry. holds out the key to the future to those who
come under its influence. The lessons of filial love, religion, courtesy.
comradeship, fidelity, cleanness and patriotism taught in De Molay
Chapters under the leadership of the members of our Craft can have a
profound effect on their future.
The effects of this Grand Lodge's policy permitting constituent
lodges to sponsor chapters of the Order of De Molay, thus maintaining the necessary adult leadership on the highest plane possible,
have been most noticeable during the past year. Fifty-one constituent lodges are presently sponsoring De Molay Chapters in this State.
One third of these are new chapters in communities that rely on the
Blue Lodge for all of its Masonic influence. A new enthusiasm and
awareness of purpose has been developed through the interest of local
lodges in the affairs of the Order of De Molay.
The Grand Master has referred to this committee reports of

Fraternally submitted,
HOMER

E. RATHBUN

VICTOR N. HODGE

c. GRIM

CLARE R. NELSON

REE

LESTER G. BRUNO

WILLIAM

RoY H. GERARD

CLARENCE E. GREY

CARL 0. OLSEN

WILLIAM W. DEWGAW

JOHN 0. REYNOLDS

FRANK W. TENNEY

Referred to Committee on Finance.

E. HAYNIE

208

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your committee continues to receive and review the proceedings
of most of the grand jurisdictions of the world. Short summaries of
many of these reviews are published in the California Freemason.
Section 203 of our Ordinances provides that in addition to its usual
and customary duties the committee on Correspondence shall publish
and distribute the magazine "California Freemason." This task now
constitutes the major part of the work of the committee.
We have now completed the fifth year of publication of this quarterly which has filled the need for an official Grand Lodge publication.
Each year the editorial policy and the selection of articles is under the
direct control of the then Grand Master. Since 1955 a style policy has
been approved which in part is as follows:
"Strive for short sentences and short paragraphs.
"Use a factual style and avoid meaningless adjectives.
"Avoid 'small town' newspaper style which bristles with compliments.
"Follow modern usage and use capital letters sparingly. Exceptions
in our field: Mason, Masonic, Freemason, Craft. Capitalize lodge only
when referring to a particular lodge, likewise with the words master,
mason, grand lodge, worshipful master, etc.
"Designate a lodge as Johnstown Lodge No. 999.
"As far as possible avoid 'most worshipful,' 'very worshipful' and
other forms of address-natural in the lodge room hut pompous in print.
Try 'Grand Master John Jones,' 'Masonic Inspector William ·Brown,'
etc.
"Prefer 'Freemason' over "Mason,' 'Freemasonry' over 'Masonry,'
hut usage permits the shorter form.
"Avoid such terms as 'Raised to the sublime degree of master mason.'
Try 'He became a master mason.' The first should he reserved for
private conversation.
"A by-line is given to articles written by elected grand lodge officers
and by past grand masters. Articles by members of the Correspondence
Committee are frequently unsigned, hut like other articles may have the
author's name in six point type at the end.''
This is our financial report for the year ending June 30, 1958:
EXPENDITURES

Cost of obtaining subscriptions:
Printing ············-··..··· .. ······...............................$ 1,740.87
Postage ............................................................ 1,469.97
Clerical ............................................................ 3,971.23
Address plates ................................................ 7,069.85 $14,251.92

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

209

Cost of producing magazine:
Editorial expense, pictures, art work, transportation, telephone, postage, stenographic
services, etc.......................................................$ 1,071.75
Printing ............................................................ 23,331.69

24,403.44

Cost of distribution:
Mailing expense................................................ $ 1,441.18
Postage ................................... -......................... 1,659.95

3,101.13
$41.756.49

SOURCES OP PAYMENT

Reserve for paid subscriptions from previous fiscal year............ $14,073.27
Received from lodge subscriptions.............................................. 32,328.34
949.20
Lodge subscriptions unpaid June 30, 1958..................................
Received from individual subscriptions...................................... 18,653.91
$66,004.72
Less reserve set up for unexpired subscriptions.......................... 24,248.23
$41,756.49
Note: None of appropriation used.
The Grand Master continued the subscription price at one dollar a
year, but in order to pass on to lodges subscribing for their entire membership the saving resulting from not having to solicit subscriptions, he
ordered that the California Freemason be sent to all lodges which
adopted a reso)ution by which the lodge will pay 60 cents annually for
the number of members shown on its annual return. Changes of membership during the fiscal year do not affect this change.
One hundred and eighty-six lodges adopted the resolution bringing in approximately 50,000 subscribers. After duplications were eliminated there remained about 30,000 individual paying subscribers.
The lodges which came in on the group plan are:
Nos. 5, 10, 17, 27, 32, 33, 44, 55, 57, 60, 68, 99, 101, 113, 123, 124,
127, 131, 139, 146, 149, 164, 167, 169, 173, 180, 195, 196, 200, 201,
203, 205, 208, 210, 211, 217, 218, 220,226,228,231,233,236,2 40,254,
255, 256, 259, 262, 266, 271, 277, 279,280,285,286,289,294,3 00,303,
304, 306, 314, 317, 318, 320, 321, 329,334,338,339,361,362,3 69,372,
381, 383, 384, 385, 391, 393, 394, 395,402,412,420,421,425,4 28,438,
451, 453, 457, 458, 459, 464, 467, 473,488,491,493,504,508,5 11,512,
519, 524, 531, 538, 539, 546, 550, 552, 555, 558, 572, 573, 580, 582, 583,
586, 587, 589, 590, 596, 598, 608, 611, 614, 617, 622, 628, 635, 636, 637,
644, 645, 647, 658, 666, 668, 671, 672,680,683,684,687,689,6 92,693,
694, 702, 707, 710, 713, 714, 717, 719, 720, 722, 724, 730, 731, 737, 738,
739, 742, 746, 749, 751, 754, 758, 765,766, 769, 770, 771,772, 775, 776,
778, 779, 780.

210

211

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At the 1957 Communication of Grand Lodge action was taken
instructing this committee to investigate and report to the next Annual
Communication as to the actual cost per member for distributing the
California Freemason to the entire membership of this jurisdiction.
Firm bids are now in the possession of the chairman from responsible printers throughout the state within the following range:
For printin g in lots of 240,000 a 48-page 6" x 9" wire stitched book,
with a two-color cover, the same type of book that we now issue, a unit
price as follows:
Printing bids from ......................................... 05790 to .07187
Mailing expense.............................................00600 to .00600
Postage ...........................................................00200 to .00200
Editorial and art (estimate) .........................01000 to .01500
Clerical ...........................................................01250 to .01250

tary subscription plan can reach any reasonable portion of our members
and especially is it impossible to reach those who will benefit most by
reading the California Freemason.
If Grand Lodge desires that California Freemason be sent to every
member the legislation proposed by the committee filed with the Grand
Secretary 90 days before this meeting should be adopted. It provides
that Section 203 of the Ordinances be amended to provide that California
Freemason be sent to all members in this jurisdiction. The details should
be left to the Grand Master and such committees as he may consult.
The expenses incurred so far during the fiscal year cover the cost of
the souvenir edition less such sum as may be realized from the sale of
the souvenir edition and as may be contributed by the trustees of the
California Masonic Memorial Temple and of the Masonic Homes. If
the proposed resolution is adopted there must be a suitable appropriation
to cover three more issues during the present fiscal year.
Respectfully submitted,

1

.08840 .10737
Annual unit cost.............................................35360 to .42948
If the size and style of the magazine was changed to a 48-page litho
job on pages '(Vs" x 8~" somewhat similar to the Readers Digest and
other publications of that type. the book can be produced in lots of
240,000 at a unit cost as follows:
Lithograph bids from ..................................... 03700 to .06041
Mailing expense.............................................00600 to .00600
Postage ...........................................................00200 to .00200
Editorial and art.. ........................................... 01000 to .01000
Clerical ...........................................................01250 to .01250
.06750 to .09091
Annual unit cost.. ........................................... 27000 to .36364
To summarize, the quarterly can be produced in its present form for
from 36 cents to 43 cents per member, or it can be produced in the digest
style for from 27 cents to 36 cents per member.
We would face a non-recurring expense necessary to set up the new
address plates but this can probably be reduced considerably by making
the address plates in our own office, in which case it would be partly
covered by the allowance for clerical help. Our subscription reserves
might well cover this expense.
Freemasonry is immutable, but not so is the world in which we live.
There are thousands who because of the strenuous life they lead are
not able to attend Lodge regularly. Proud of their membership these
brothers are nevertheless completely out of touch with Masonic thought.
Today most organizations find it expedient to regularly mail an official
publication to their members. Masonic jurisdictions are beginning to
find this necessary. It would be false economy to neglect the opportunity we now have to further knit our membership together. No volun-

NEWCOMB CoNDEE
GEORGE W. BURCH
GRAHAM A. BACKUS
}oHN WuLLSCHLEGER
MA URI CE B. Ross
LEE D. VISGER
MARKT. SMITH

Referred to Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE
ON CONSTITUTION OBSERVANCE
Brethren:
Meeting as we are, at the close of the Observance Period, we can
report more fully on this year's celebrations than last when the Communication was held before the close of the event. Even so, we have
very little on which to base our report as only 29.7% of the Lodges
have so far reported. Last year, after all reports were in, a total of only
39.4% of the lodges reported. Both years, Masters were requested
to fill out the report form found on the last page of our published booklet, a copy of which was sent to each Master by the Grand Secretary's
office. We cannot refrain from commenting that the failure of these
Masters in reporting the work of their lodges on an official Grand
Lodge activity is, in our opinion, inconsistent with the duties and
responsibilities of the Master of a lodge and even may be indicative
of violation of their obligations and the Charges which they promised
to fulfill at the time of their induction into the Master's chair: for it
is conceivable that among those lodges not reporting there are some
who held no Constitution Observance program at all and others who
rendered lip service to the words of the Grand Master's Proclama-

213

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion but did not at all observe the spirit of it. Much as we dislike injecting a discorda nt note into this particula r Communication, which ought
to be one of joyous rejoicing, this had to be called to your attention
for it is once again indicative of the apathy and disintere stedness too
prevalen t among the craft and which we belabore d at length in our
last Report to this Grand Lodge.
It is the unanimous opinion of the subcommittee of 10 members
out of 15 which drafted this report that the lodges of the jurisdiction
should either give 100% spirited support to any proclamation of the
Grand Master, or to any edict or ordinanc e of this Grand Lodge and
when they feel they cannot do so, or are unwilling, then to avail
themselves of the remedies at hand which is the repeal of the legislation. This committee recommends that the incoming committee for
1959 include as a part of their work a careful examination of the form
and characte r of the Observa nce program as well as of all phases and
aspects appertain ing thereto and that they place before this Grand
Lodge at its next annual Communication their recommendations, if
any, with respect to their findings.
From the Master's reports so far submitte d we feel we should comment on three matters of unusual interest emerging out of the work
of this committee. They are:
1. On the whole, the attendan ce so far reported at Observa nce
celebrations this year is somewh at improved over last year. It appears
this is due in part to a greater reliance on the "Guide" booklet already
referred to in which new ideas are proposed and also to better planning on the part of the lodge committees. Where it is apparent that
lodges started well in advance of the Septemb er celebration period and
put in consider able thought and hard work, their celebrations have on
the whole been successful.
2. Particula r notice should be taken of the Merced celebration
which took place this past week and which we point to as an example
of what we believe the Grand Master and this Grand Lodge wishes
to accomplish. The lodges there joined together . In addition to a
consider able run of newspap er publicity the Merced committee, under
the able direction of Brother George Wolf, altogeth er inspired or was
responsible for eleven separate meetings devoted to celebrating the
birthday of our Constitu tion. These meetings took place before service
clubs, schools, and in the lodge hall. At one public school meeting,
devoted entirely to this subject, 1900 students were in attendan ce. Last
year, the Merced celebration was one of the most outstand ing in the
state. The Merced Lodges are to be commended for the spirit and
vigor with which they have prosecut ed this program and this committee hopes and prays that this same spirit will become contagio us
and spread from district to district. Probably what is most importan t,
is what this spirit is doing to bring Masonry to the notice of the pro-

fane and to promote the craft as a live, virile organiza tion inducing
respect and becoming the envy of all good people everywhere. Certainly this is one of the things we can do to arouse interest which in
tum ought to stimulate applications for membership.
3. The eleven lodges of eastern Contra Costa county joined together for the first time in their celebration and while the magnitud~
of their undertak ing, and the timing. has forced a postponement until
after his Communication, the work so far done is portento us and
may have great significance for the craft in Californ ia for years to
come. A working committee comprised of one brother from each
lodge was formed, with a chairman. This committee became a "Citizen's Advisory Committee," which intereste d the county-w ide Junior
College District in the promotion and staging of an Observa nce ce~e­
bration. The college district is operatin g two separate campuses with
an enrollment of well over 7000 full and part time students . The
administ rative staff and a faculty committee fully discussed the project
and came forward with a proposal that the Junior College District
EACH YEAR HEREA FTER sponsor what is to be known as
"Americ an Heritage Day," alternati ng between the two campuses.
The underlyi ng theme of "Americ an Heritage Day," will be our Constitution which makes possible our America n way of life. Each year,
the immediate subject will center on one phase of America n freedom
under the Constitution. This year, the Constitu tion itself; next, our
free enterpris e system; the next, the labor movement: the Free Public
Schools: Freedom to Worship ; Freedom of the Press; American Scientific Progress , etc. The program s will include student participation but
outside authoriti es .will also be brought in. Wide and thorough newspaper publicity is being released by special staff assistant s, aided by
the Citizen's Advisory Committee in their respective communities.
The committee set up by our lodges has been amplified and enlarged
to include representatives from the Central Labor Council, the Contra
Costa County Bar Association, the County Historica l Society an~
the D. A. R., and before this week is out it is expected the veterans
organiza tions, the Native Sons and Daughte rs, and the three major
service club organiza tions will join. In addition, the two daily newspapers and one weekly. at consider able cost to them, will run full pa~e
printings of the Constitu tion with recognition of the sponsori ng bodies
along the borders of the page. The celebration will be held on a
Sunday afternoo n on the college campus. Several copies of the outline of the program are in the hands of this committee and may be had
upon application so far as they go. Last Monday , this annual project
was presente d to the Board of Trustees of Contra Costa Junior College who unanimously approved it as a community program to occur
each year.
Mention should be made of the efforts of the corps of inspectors
for San Francisco, in promotin g a joint program held in this auditorium

212

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

on September 11th and sponsored by the united lodges of this city
with the addition of one San Mateo County district. The program
drew an attendance of about 900 and the most capable Past Grand
Orator, the Honorable Wakefield Taylor of Contra Costa County
addressed the meeting. Significance lies in the united effort of the
lodges whihch has been commented upon and is appreciated .. Your
committee hopes that this initial effort will inspire the brethren m San
Francisco to continue and to improve upon the work so well begun.
In conclusion, your committee expresses appreciation for the assistance of the inspectors and earnestly requests that they continue to
personally interest themselves in the Observance program. Out . of
reports received, the question is born: if the inspectors do not give
leadership and guidance to the lodges under their care out in the field,
who will do so?
The members of the committee unanimously express their appreciation and gratitude to the Grand ,Master for the opportunity he has
given us to serve; to the Grand Secretary's office and ~o the ~any
brethren who, by their spirit and their works have made this experience
a genuine pleasure.
The Constitution Observance Committee requests that the sum
of $1200.00 be set aside for its use for the ensuing year.
Respectfully submitted
0. J. WOHLGEMUTH
HAROLD c. MUDGETT
ROBERT ARTHUR MILLER
JOHN M. LEE
JOHN K. COTHRAN
THOMAS K. NIELSEN
ANDREW W. McALlsTER
MERVIN BRAUNSTEIN
JESSE J. BELL
Referred to Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

215

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, WEDNESDAY, OCTOBER 1, 1958
Grand Lodge was called on at 9: 30 a.m., the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of
the morning and afternoon sessions of Tuesday, 1September 30, were
read and approved.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Credentials submits the following report covering the 109th Communication of Grand Lodge.
That of the 676 Chartered Lodges 666 are represented.
All I 0 of the lodges under dispensation are represented.
The total registration is made up as follows:
Grand Lodge officers............................................................................ 29
Past Grand Masters.............................................................................. 13
Officers and Representatives................................................................ 1498
Past Masters and Inspectors................................................................ 159
Past Masters and Committeemen.......................................................... 163
Past Masters and Secretaries................................................................ 226
Past Masters.......................................................................................... 899
Secretaries ............................................................................................ 100
Grand Masters of other jurisdictions.................................................... 31
Grand Secretaries from other jurisdictions........................................ 26
Grand Officers and Past Masters of other jurisdictions.................... 25
(Including 15 Past Grand Masters)
Special Guests.!...................................................................................... 40
3209
In addition, there were 301 Master Masons visiting Grand LOdge.
Respectfuly submitted,
THOS. F. MASON
DoN E. BERRY
DOUGLAS H. MARTIN
EMIL w. TREFTS
MERLIN D. WINTER
EMMETT CHESTER ADAMS
EDWARD E. HINEY
WM. T. CoRBUSIER
1

At 5: 15 p.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9: 30 a.m. Wednesday.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Pay of Members submits the following report
covering the 109th Communication of Grand Lodge.
Those entitled to mileage compensation are the Master, or in his

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

absence, the ranking Warden, or in the absence of the Master and
Wardens, the duly elected Representative: each Inspector, provided
he is reported present on the certificate flied with the Committee
on Pay of Members by the Grand Lecturer: Past Grand Masters,
officers of the Grand Lodge, chairmen of committees enumerated in
Section 192 of the California Masonic Code: members of the following committees: Jurisprudence, .Policy and General Purposes, Grievances, Finance, Credentials, Pay of Members, Charters, By-Laws, Correspondence, Lodge Financing, and the Code Commission who are
actually in attendance at Grand Lodge.
Compensati on of members has been computed on the basis of twice
the one .. way first class railroad fare plus Pullman sleeper when
required. Compensati on for the representati ves from the lodges in
the Hawaiian Islands is figured on the basis of the round-trip first
class air rate. No compensation is allowed to members from San Francisco or the immediate vicinity, or where the prescribed compensation
does not exceed $1.00.
Transportat ion rates have been computed from all points in California and Hawaii to San Francisco. The payroll has been checked
with the registration records as submitted to us by the Committee on
Credentials. The amounts required to meet the transportati on costs
for the 1958 Communication are as follows:
Grand Lodge Officers............................................ $ 1,244.50
324.70
Past Grand Masters..........................................._.
1,776.14
....................
....................
....................
Committees
Inspectors .............................................................. 6, 123.48
Representat ives of Lodges.................................... 25,379.93

REPORT OF THE COMMIT TEE
ON MUTUAL AID ASSOCIA TIONS

216

Total. ...............................................................$34,848.75
We extend our thanks to Past Master Louis Sutter, and to the management of the Crocker-An glo National Bank, for making the necessary arrangemen ts so that members may cash their checks in the Temple,
at the close of the Grand Lodge session. Checks will be ready for
distribution at the registration desk, Friday morning, immediately fol ..
lowing the election of the Junior Grand Warden. Brethren, please pick
up your check; you will then save our Grand Secretary the task of
mailing them to your lodge.
Respectfully submitted,
KEITH W. ScHLAEGEL
JOHN V. BACIGALUPI
MATTHEW M. CODON
CHARLES R. RATKOVICH
HENRY F. JENSEN
GEORGE C. KouTRouu s

Referred to Committee on Finance.

217

Most Worshipful and Brethren:
You will recall that last year's report of this committee recommended that all Mutual Aid Associations disassociate themselves
entirely from lodge sponsorship, pursuant to Section 333 of the
Masonic Code, and that they obtain the approval of the State Insurance Commissioner. Failure to do so within six months was to result
in dissolution. Certain specific requirements were enumerated as indicia of complete separation from lodge sponsorship. Likewise, certain
methods of dissolution were discussed and approved.
The committee is happy to inform you that none of these associations are now operating contrary to either State or Masonic law. Eleven
of the smaller associations voluntarily dissolved by methods approved
by your committee. The remaining thirty, including all of the larger
ones, are operating with the written approval of the State Insurance
Commissioner, and have fully complied with Section 333 of the Ma..
sonic Code. Furthermore , the compliance or dissolution of these organizations was prompt and, with a few excusable exceptions, was
within the six months period. Documenta ry evidence of compliance
has been flied with the Grand Secretary. The accepted and traditional
concept of Masonic charity is in nowise being violated at the present
time by any of the constituent ·lodges. Furthermore , neither the Grand
Lodge nor the constituent lodges are now subject to the embarrassment of having a group of Masons function contrary to State law.
At the same time, the rights of individual Masons to enter into a
legitimate and worthwhile joint undertaking has been preserved.
In conclusion, the Committee wishes to express its sincere appreciation to the Mutual Aid Association officers and the inspectors who
assisted so materially in clarifying and solving this Grand Lodge problem. We are likewise grateful to our present and immediate past Grand
Masters for this opportunity of service and for their fine cooperation.
As there appears to be no further need for the Special Committee
on Mutual Aid Associations, we recommend that it be discontinued
after the acceptance of this report.
Fraternally yours,
WAKEFIELD TAYLOR
LEVIN
GERALD
KENNETH THOMPSON
F. WESLEY DAVIES
RALPH T. MERRIAM

s.

Adopted.
The committee was discharged with appreciation for their accomplishments.

218

IN MEMORIAM .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MEMOR IAL SERVIC E

IRA DANFORD WHEELER
Ira Danford Wheeler was born June 29, 1884, in Butte County, South
Dakota. He died at the home of his daughter, Mrs. Robert E. Kelleher,
in Los Angeles. His wife predeceas ed him by several years.
Brother Wheeler was raised in Santa Monica Lodge No. 307 on
December 4, 1907. Had he lived a month and a half longer he was to
have received his Fifty-Yea r Button. Much of his time was devoted to
Masonry. He served Santa Monica Lodge No. 307 in various chairs and
stations. In 1925 he was elected Senior Warden of the lodge. At that
time it was felt that a new lodge ought to be formed and Brother Wheeler
was urged to lead in this undertakin g. His efforts were crowned with
success, and in 1926 Palisades Lodge No. 637 was instituted with Ira
Danford Wheeler its first Master. He served this lodge as Secretary from
1927 to 1940, and as Treasurer from 1944 to 1953. To the end he rarely
missed any of its meetings and had a distinguished record of service in the
lodge.
Brother Wheeler was regular in his attendanc e at Grand Lodge, not
having missed an Annual Communication for over thirty years. He
served as Grand Marshal in 1936, and was appointed a member of the
Endowme nt Board in October, 1938. He remained a member of that
important board up to the time of his death, being one of its oldest
members, and serving with zeal and fidelity down through the years.
Brother Wheeler headed his own insurance agency throughou t his
business career. Outside of his business and his lodge. his chief interest
was tennis. His daughter, Gracyn Wheeler Kelleher, who survives him,
was ranked amon~ the first ten in the national list of Women Amateur
Players for several years.
Brother Wheeler was a devoted Mason, his interest never lagged,
and his influence for constructi ve progress was constant. We of this
Grand Lodge are fortunate to have had the services and friendship of
our departed Brother.

. Nevin
Harold Mueller, Organist

. . Handel

TRUST IN THE LoRD
RECESSIONAL
TAPS

219

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

deKoven
Austin Mosher, Baritone

. Constance
Harold Mueller, Organist

REPORT OF THE COMMI TTEE ON NECROL OGY
To the Most Worshipf ul Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This is a year of rejoicing and victory. The Temple, for which we
have ·l onged and labored over many years, is now complete and has been
dedicated with the solemn formalities of our Craft. We are all happy to
have the high privilege of being present at this, the first Annual Communication of Grand Lodge in its new Temple. There is, however, a large
group of our membership which has not been privileged to be present in
the body. Many of the group worked for this great achievement, but
they did not live to see the fulfillment of their efforts. God sent his
Messenge r to translate them to that All-Perfec t, Glorious, and Celestial
Lodge above, and today they labor where the Supreme Grand Master of
the universe forever presides.
Death is an inescapable experience. "The almighty fiat has gone
forth, 'Dust thou art and unto dust shalt thou return,' and that we are all
subject to that decree, the daily observation of our lives furnishes evidence
not to be forgotten. " We pause in our deliberations and rejoicing to pay
our last tribute of respect and affection to the memory of our brethren who
have left us during the past year.
Since our last Annual Communication three hundred twenty-on e of
our members, Past Masters of their lodges, have reached the end of their
earthly toil. Two hundred thirty-two of our lodges suffered losses. One
hundred sixty-thre e lodges lost one Past Master each: fifty-four lodges
lost two: eleven 'lodges lost three: three lodges, Alhambra No. 322, Las
Palmas No. 366, and Euclid No. 519, lost four; and California No. 1 lost
five of its Past Masters.
This is the first time in a number of years that we do not have to report
the death of a Past Grand Master, or a Grand Lodge Officer. Among
those who have passed, however, are Ira Danford Wheeler, a member of
the Homes Endowme nt Board: Clarence A. Trowbrid ge, former Inspector
and Senior Grand Steward in 1950: and David Whitelaw Tulloch, formerly member of Grand Lodge History Committee.

DAVID WHITELAW TULLOCH
Death came suddenly to David Whitelaw Tulloch on April 24, 1958,
in his seventy-ei ghth year. The day before his death he had served as
pall bearer at the funeral of a long-time friend. A member of a pioneer
family. he was born on August 18, 1880. His father was a pioneer
developer of water distribution, electric power, and milling, and his son
followed in his steps. The ruins of their mill still stand by the covered
bridge in Knights Ferry.
Brother Dave, as he was known, was raised in Summit Lodge No.
112. on March 7, 1903, and served as Master of this lodge for two years,
in 1921 and 1922. He became one of its most distinguished Past Masters.
He served this Grand Lodge on its History Committee.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

Active in civic affairs, he served his district in the State Assembly in
the second decade of the century. Devoted to his church, he was active
in its many activities throughou t the years.
His sudden passing came as a distinct shock to his many friends,
and this Grand Lodge Jost another faithful member.

~as a bulwark of the congregat ion to which he belonged. He served
his community, having at different times been a member of his City
Council and District Schoo] Board. For over sixty years of adult life
i~ his commu?ity he had stood for that which was just and right. Sometimes men differed with his opinions but all recognized his integrity.
Santa Clara was better because Carl Wesley Haman lived there.
_Not many of the departed were privileged to serve for as long a
period. Not all were endowed with equal talents, but we like to think
the consecration of our brother was typical of all who have passed on.
In lodges from the Oregon line to the Mexican border, and from the
sea to the great mountains, they served Masonry, their God, and their
fellow men up to the measure of their strength in the time permitted them
here on earth. Today as we meet in this beautiful new Temple we
honor thei.r :111emory and thank God that they were our brethren. They
are not pnvileged to be here but they labored, and their labors have not
been in vain.
"Now the laborer's task is o'er,
Now the battle-day is past;
Now upon the farther shore
Land the voyagers at last.
Father, in Thy gracious keeping
Leave we now our brethren sleeping.''

220

CLARENCE A. TROWBRID GE

Brother Clarence A . Trowbrid ge passed away in Quincy, California,
on July 5, 1958.
A member of Semper Virens Lodge No. 552, he served that lodge ·
as its Master in 1947. He was the Grand Senior Steward of the Grand
Lodge in 1950. On the formation of Masonic District No. 300, Brother
Trowbrid ge was appointed Inspector, serving with honor and distinction until he was transferre d by his company from Arcata to Quincy in
1957. At the time of his death he was district representa tive for Pacific
Gas and Electric Company at Quincy, and had been associated with that
company for many years. He was active in the Pacific Service Employees Association.
During his residence in the Arcata area he was High. Priest of Humboldt Chapter No. 52, Royal Arch Masons. He was a member of
Pacific Council, Royal and Select Masters, and of Camelia Chapter:
Order of Eastern Star. He was an active member of Eureka Speakers
Club and of the First Christian Church, Eureka.
Brother Trowbrid ge is survived by his wife, who resides in Quincy,
and a married daughter, to whom our sympathy goes out.
One of his dose associates in Arcata writes, "Brother Trowbrid ge
was a fine man and Mason, well liked by all who knew him, and I personally consider it a privilege to have called him my friend and brother."
A complete list of all who have passed away is appended to, and
will be published as a part of this report. Although many are worthy of
special mention, in the time at our disposal it is impossible even to call
the full roll, much less give special mention to all who merit it. As we
read over the list, none of us will know all, or perhaps many of the names,
but each one will find one or two or more names which have real significance-th e names of Brothers we have known and loved. What manner
of men were these brethren who are no longer with us? The writer found
the name of a brother he had known for over thirty years. When we first
met he was a Past Master and Treasurer of his lodge, and continued to
serve as Treasurer over the intervening years. At the time of his death he
had been a Mason for just over sixty-five years. We do not know how
often he attended Grand Lodge and he probably never served as a
Grand Lodge Officer or Committeeman, but over all the years he was
constant in his attendanc e at his own lodge, and the wisdom of his
councils was always respectful ly considered. His handshak e was one of
the pleasures of visiting his lodge. A loyal member of his church, he

ADAM B. MORTEN
Ross K. ROPER
LEONARD D. BABCOCK
JEROME B. ROSEN
CHARLES C. LovE

221

222

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

PAST MASTE RS OF CONST ITUEN T LODGE S
Califor nia Lodge No. l
Walter Amost Scott, died Octo'l?er 2, 1957.
Maxim illian Joseph Merten s, died July 22, 1957.
Frederi ck William Dorr, died May 25, 1958.
Curtis Mitche ll Redfern , died July 4, 1957.
Joseph Michae l Pabis, died Oct.obe r 8, 1957.
Wester n Stm Lodge No. 2
David Ott.o Schnitt yer, died Jan 3, 1958.
Benicia Lodge No. 5
William Thoma s Johns died Januar y 9, 1958.
Lloyd Eisenh uth Abrey William s, died May 30, 1958.
Tuolum ne No. 8:
William Edwin Burden , died Januar y 13, 1958.
George Albert Griffin . died March 27, 1958.
San Jose No. 10:
Robert B. Chandl er, died July 16, 1957.
2 1957
.
Yount No. 12:
·
Hector Dougal MacLe an, d1ed Septem ber 1 ,
Mounta in Shade No. 18:
Raymo nd Donald Mcinto sh, died Novem ber 9, 1957.
San Joaquin No. 19:
Bruce Earl Olmste d, died April 25, 1958.
Washin gton. No. 20:
Frnnk: Jacob Bock, died Novem ber 11, 1957.
.
Hawaii an No. 21:
Willard Anders on Gilbert died Januar y 21, 1958.
Clarenc e Scott McWay ne,'died April 24, 1958.
Robert Hair, died June 4, 1958.
Madiso n No. 23:
John Thoma s Jones, died Octdbe r 11, 1957.
Maripo sa No. 24:
John Schwei fler, died July 6, 1957.
7
"118 , 1958 .
·
:
No. s2Jefferiso
Trinity
n Montgo mery, died Apr1
Thoma
.
Golden Gate No. 30:
Josiah Frankl in Still, died April 29, 1958.
Gold Hill No. 32:
Hans Paulson Jansen, died Octobe r 17, 1957.
1958 .
·
·
No. 33 :
Ophir
Norma n Richard Barnes , died April 24,
Howar d No. 37:
Ralph Francis McMur ry, died August 23, 1957.
h 6 1958
·
41:
Martine z No.Andrew
.
Wright Johnsto n, died Marc ,
Duncan
Los Angele s No. 42:
Abraha m J. Farley, died July 22, 1957.
Hyman L. Han-is, died Decem ber 4, 1957.
Mount Moriah No. 44:
Harry Mcivor Nicolso n, died August 3, 1957.
Daniel Bradfo rd Richard s, died Novem ber 17, 1957.
Walter Herber t Blomqu ist, died Januar y 21, 1958.
Forbes town No. 50:
James Mauric e Popper , died May 7, 1958.
Santa Rosa No. 57:
Frank Freema n Ma:r;vin, died June 4, 1958.
.
Plumas No. 60:
Beverly Fielden Barbee , ~lied July 28, 1957.
James Ogilvie Moncur , died August 18, 1957.
Lloyd Dunbar Craig, died Octobe r 19, 1957.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFO RNIA

Bear Mounta in No. 76:
Elliott Steele McCurd y, died July 13, 1957.
Yolo No. 81:
Frank Orville Carsley , died August 25, 1957.
William Oscar Pearson , died March 19, 1958.
Vesper No. 84:
Clarenc e Raymo nd Taylor, died Februa ry 22, 1958.
Naval No. 87:
Paul Edward Meyers , died August 8, 1957.
Homito s No. 98:
Fred Steiner , died May 6, 1958.
Yosemi te No. 99:
Archib ald Lewis Silman , died June 30, 1957.
Orovill e No. 103:
George Sterlin g Dyer, died March 2, 1958.
Albert Vance! Putilley, died Mareh 14, 1958.
Lexing ton No. 104:
Frank Moore Wright , died Novem.bei- 27, 1957.
Chico No. 111:
William H. Hender son, died April 19, 1958.
Summi t No. 112:
David Whitel aw Tulloch , died April 24, 1958.
Eden No. 113:
George Joseph Helms, died Novem ber 3, 1957.
Concor d No. 117:
William Frederi ck Friesek e, died July 6, 1957.
CaITOll Ogden Dudley , died April 29, 1958.
Table Mounta in No. 124:
Samuel A. Vander grift, died March 19, 1958.
Lafaye tte No. 126:
Henry LaHeis t Singma ster, died March 3, 1958.
Herm,a nn No. 127:
Wilhelm Esser, died Januar y 20, 1958.
Sinceri ty No. 132:
Roy A. Lennon , died June 25, 1958.
Vacavi lle No. 134:
George Sherma n Bassfor d, died Decem ber 17, 1957.
Austin T. Boblet, died Decem ber 18, 1957.
Abell No. 146:
Charles McFers on Manno n, died August 8, 1957.
Woodla nd, No. 156:
Emory F. Dodson , died March 12, 1958.
Alamed a No. 167:
Reuben Oliver Moyer, died Februa ry 7, 1958.
Elk Grove No. 173:
George Bryan Stout, died May 13, 1958.
Russian River No. 181:
William H. Dean, died May 11, 1958.
Keith No. 187:
JohnH . Wentw orth, died Oct.obe r 10, 1957.
Walter Scott Moore, died Novem ber 16, 1957.
Oaklan d No. 188:
William Henry Owens, died Septem ber 21, 1957.
Will Albert Allen, died August 20, 1957.
Marin No. 191:
Jesse Ehn.er Tourtel lotte, died March 24, 1958.
Santa Barbar a No. 192:
Arthur J. McAda ms, died Decem ber 2, 1957.
Ira E. Kram.e r, died April 3, 1958.
Buckey e, No. 195:
Timoth y Frank Sutliff, died Novem ber 11, 1957.

22~

224

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Wilmington No. 198:
Henry Francis Lembke, died August 28, 1957.
Truckee No. 200:
Joseph Harry Sanders, died Mareh 29, 1958.
Joseph Victor Copeland, died December 9, 1957.
Salinas No. 204:
Robert William Anderson, died April 30, 1958.
Olivet No. 205:
Homer Dobbs Croobs, died September 23, 1957.
Stanislaus No. 206:
Charles Donald Swan, died May 21, 1958.
Anaheim No. 207:
Dean W. Hasson, died August 4, 1957.
Rio Vista No. 208:
Arthur Walter Hansen, died August 3, 1957.
Walter Schaefer, died April 5, 1958.
Friendship No. 210:
Albert George Ramstad, died June 6, 1958.
San Benito No. 211:
Adonis Lockerson Allen, died May 4, 1958.
South San Francisco No. 212:
Hermon Erdwig Rahbnann, died August 28, 1957.
Norman Clay Crosby, died January 25, 1958.
Mosaic No. 218:
Frank Lee Savage, died January 11, 1958.
Speranza Italiana No. 219:
John Isola, died August 22, 1957.
Downey No. 220:
Lance Arley Walker, died December 2, 1957.
Inyo No. 221:
Harlan Maxon Lindholm, died June 19, 1958.
Bakersfield No. 224:
Edward Leonard Hougham, died January 20, 1958.
Brooklyn No. 225:
Charles Grandjean, died July 25, 1957.
San Mateo No. 226:
George Elmer Riddle, died Septemboc 20, 1957.
Athens No. 228:
James Duthie, died May 21, 1958.
Dawson Frost Winter, died June 23, 1958.
Solano No. 229:
Frank Arthur Hensley, died November 1, 1957.
Osgood Harold Hilton, died November 14, 1957.
Janesville No. 232:
John T. Theodore, died August 7, 1957.
Calistoga No. 233:
Herbert Eugene Washburn, died July 2, 1957.
Arthur Gottfried Brandt, died January 7, 1958.
Eugene Stanley Ekenberg, died April 11, 1958.
Hills Ferry No. 236:
Walter Henry Klehn, died March 29, 1958.
Guadalupe No. 237:
Arthur Reginald Howard, died June 23, 1958.
Colusa No. 240:
William Lloyd Merrill, died August 13, 1957.
Santa Ana No. 241:
Archibald Napoleon Zemian, died October 22, 1957.
Magnolia No. 242:
John Howard Fickle, died July 28, 1957.
Pomona No. 246:
Paul Raymond Shenefield, died November 6, 1957.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Reading No. 254:
McCoy Fitzgerald, died December 1 1957
James Elton Richardson, died Dec'.:emb&- 1 1957.
Welcome No. 255:
'
Kinza P. Witten, died September 24 . 1957
John Franklin E:pler, died February' 3 1958
Fred Heney Williamson, died FebrumY 9, 1958.
Tuscan No. 261:
Harry "H". Harlan, died December 26, 1957.
Lompoc No. 262:
Leonard Beryl Clayton, died February 22 1958
Carl Benjamin Kappler, died February 22 195S
Parry Hazard Benson, died April 22, 1958.'
·
North East No. 266:
. Chester G. Lowell, died ~tember 19, 1957.
Olive Branch No. 269:
Donald LeBon A:berorombie, died October 19, 1957.
Anchor No. 273:
Fred Raymond McCleery, died January 27 1958
Harmon Jeff Mayo, died February 12 1958'.
·
Arroyo No. 274:
'
Justus LeRoy Johnson, ~ied October 7, 1957.
Robert Edgar Lee Goodm, died December 5 1957
Oakdale No. 275:
'
·
Charles Theadore Murray1 died July 15, 1957.
James Anthony Arnold, died August 22 1957
Clarence E. Wood, died October 12, 1957.
•
Selma No. 277:
James Holliday Wagner, died December 22 1957
Rusell Elwood Rider, died May 9, 1957.
'
·
Southern California No. 278:
• John Henry Rogers, died December 16, 1957.
Wmnedumah No. 287:
William Archer Crosby, died May 12, 1958.
Maxwell No. 288: •
C. E. Able, died October 24, 1957.
East Gate No. 290:
Frank Sylvester Moore, died September 24, 1957.
Los Gatos No. 292:
George Anthony Green, died November 7, 1957.
Traver No. 294:
Hugh L. Bishop, died February 17, 1958.
Mt. Jackson No. 295:
Hardin Talman Chenoweth, died October 11 1957
Dunsmuir No. 297:
'
·
. Albert Luther Sonnichsen, died June 8, 1958.
Liberty No. 299:
Carl Wesley Haman, died October 16, 1957.
Walter Andrew Spengemann, died March 13 1958
Redlands No. 300:
'
.
~rge S. Hinckley, died March 7, 1958.
Porterville No. 303:
Rollo Alonzo Hubler, died September 22, 1957.
Reedley No. 304:
Fredrick W. Davis, died May 19, 1958.
Ashlar No. 308:
Hubert Wilson Finlay, died July 23 1957
Santa Monica No. 307:
'
•
Lynn Hugh Brackett, died March 18, 1958.

225

226

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Delano No. 309:
Laurence Everette Abbey, died March 1, 1958.
John Mickel Haberfelde, died December 20, 1957.
Temescal No. 314:
Harry Lynn Lyman, died September 3, 1957.
Fallbrook No. 317:
Ellis B . Walton, died March 17, 1958.
George F.dgar Kingston, died March 3, 1958.
Emanuel No. 318:
Hiram Dumont Millam, died May 29, 1958.
Herbert E. Savage, died June 14, 1958.
South Gate No. 320:
Harry Clyffi Stra•w n, died May 6, 1958.
Alhambra No. 322:
Clayton Tupper Gibbs, died August 6, 1957.
William Moulton Northrup, died March 4, 1958.
Ralph Bissell Clapp, died March 28, 1958.
Wilson John Clarke, died March 30, 1958.
Whittier No. 323:
Perry Walworth Schuyler, died DecembeT 13, 1957.
Long Beach No. 327:
William Ray Shaw, died June 16, 1958.
Kilauea No. 330:
Stephen Langhern Desha, Jr., died AugUst 4, 1957.
David Greig Butchart, died June 30, 1958.
Covina No. 334:
George Otis Dudderar, died June 30, 1958.
Fruitvale No. 336:
Julius Otto Ziebolz, died October 27, 1957.
Robert Searles Grant, died December 20, 1957.
Fullerton No. 339:
Heney George Meiser, died NovembeT 26, 1957.
Starr King No. 344:
Carl Cohn, died January 21, 1958.
Brentwood No. 345:
William Ray Turner, died March 21, 1958.
San Bernardino No. 348:
Byron William Allen, died November 19, 1957.
Raymond Earl Hodge, died December 19, 1957.
Palestine No. 351:
Oberlin Rodriquez, died November 15, 1957.
Sunset No. 352:
Don DeWitt Morgan, died February 11, 1958.
Pinole No. 353:
John Henry Cun-an, died June 29, 1958.
Hollywood No. 355:
Earl William Bolter, died January 26, 1958.
Mill Valley No. 356:
Albert William Miller, died September 20, 1957.
Thomas Sydney Watters, died June 17, 1958.
Golden State No. 358:
Clarence Leslie Robinson, died November 2, 1957.
Berkeley No. 363:
Howard Sloan Neighbor, died October 3, 1957.
John Young Burns, died April 25, 1958.
Lu Palmu No. 366:
Andrew Whitmer Horn, died November 4, 1957.
Thomas Roger Thomson, died February 9, 1958.
Edwin Munn Fornes, March 5, 1958.
James Earl Williamson, died April 26, 1958.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

South Pasadena No. 367:
Kenneth Herbert Hawkins, died July 14, 1957.
'Unity No. 368:
Delmar .Earl Evans, died March 29, 1958.
le Progres de L'Oceanie No. 371:
John Henry Ketchescm, died September 25, 1957.
George Rossman Humphrey, died September 30, 1957.
Gardena No. 372:
RiClh.ard W. Ahlberg, died April 21, 1957.
Harry J. Wood, died February 24, 1958.
West Los Angeles No. 373:
James Edwin Martin, died October 3, 1957.
Francis Drake No. 376:
Jesse Oglevee Snyder, died July 2, 1957.
Artesia No. 377:
William L. Scheifele, died April 10, 1958.
Highland Park No. 382:
Claude William Stowe, died November 5, 1957.
Frank Webster Pond, died June 24, 1958.
Oros.i No. 383:
Milton Francis Spaith, died NovembeT 13, 1957.
Clement Chester Bennett, died May 7, 1958.
El Centro No. 384:
Hoyt Price Strickler, died August 28, 1957.
Dinuba No. 385:
George Foster Pierce Hed~eth, died January 18, 1958.
Clarence Vernon Martin, died February 14, 1958.
Parnusua No. 388:
Andrew Lewis Johnston, died Deoem.ber 30, 1957.
Thomas Allen Cavanagh, died April 11, 1958.
Constant George Simon, died November 17, 1957.
Palos Verdes No. 389:
William F.dward Albers, died October 11, 1957.
Wedlt Lake No. 392:
Paul Overton, ~ed July 22, 1957.
University No. 394:
Amasa Henry Lyman, died January 30, 1958.
Fraternity No. 399:
John Hunt Shephard, died September 4, 1957.
Burlingame No. 400:
Milford "B" Annstrong, died April 27, 1958.
Werner William Stahl, died June 3, 1958.
Brawley No. 402:
William George Darnell, died January 20, 1958.
Chart.er Rock No. 410:
Phili,pp Nicklas, died August 3, 1957.
Arlington No. 414:
Roscoe Hartzell Haverfield, died December 26, 1957.
Lind&ay No. 416:
Horace L. Page, died April 6, 1958.
Inglewood No. 421:
Charley Ross Walters, died March 14, 1958.
Almore Henry Nieter, died February 15, 1958.
Alpha No. 431:
John William Smiley, died July 14, 1957.
William James Richards, Jr., died March 15, 1958.
Fairmount No. 435:
Fiiancis Nathaniel Wininger, died February 28, 1958.
Leonard William Harless, died October 14, 1957.
Alired Patton, died October 14, 1957.

'J.27

228

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Claremont No. 436:
John Asa Essex, died July 6, 1957.
Lancaster No. 437:
Emil Adolph Kneip, died J~ 18, 1958.
Acacia No. 438:
Friedrich Wilhelm Vogel, died February 16, 1958.
Tyrian No. 439:
Dewey Hobson Clarke, died July 111 1957.
George William Swanson, died Apnl 25, 1958.
Edward Powers, died May 21, 1958.
Schofield No. 443:
Brevard Davidson Sinclair, died January 18, 1958.
Carpinteria No. 444:
David Carl Safwenberg, died July 31, 1957.
Park No. 449:
Herbert Maxwell, died March 15, 1958.
Montebello No. 451:
Lemuel Clark Davis, died December 17, 1957.
Ira Vick, died May 22, 1958.
San Pasqual No. 452:
Walter Francis Kress, died July 21, 1957.
Charles Clyde Matteson, died May 1, 1958.
Golden West No. 455:
George Edward Harris, died October 10, 1957.
Ramona No. 457:
Joseph Clifford Lortie, died May 31, 1958.
Morgan Hill No. 463:
Robert Smith Robinson, died November 13, 1957.
Culver City No. 467:
Toliver Virgil Sheffield, died February 12, 1958.
Lincoln No. 470:
Leroy K. Gay, died November 21, 1957.
Alexander X. High, Jr., died April 4, 1958.
America No. 475:
David Jacob Luthur Miller, died October 4, 1957.
Temblor No. 477:
Marion Joseph Scott, died June 15, 1958.
Thousand Oaks No. 478:
Herbert James Watt, died September 6, 1957.
Golden Rule No. 479:
Edwin Thomas Clark, died January 16, 1958.
Fellowship No. 480:
William Thomas Page, Sr., died July 25, 1957.
Albert Pike No. 484:
Hale Clifford Bryan, died November 30, 1957.
Chowchilla No. 485:
Walter Frederick Haupt, died August 11, 1957.
Delbert I. Secara, died March 3, 1958.
Woodstock No. 491:
Claude Andrew Davis, died November 19, 1957.
Irving Edward Ashton, died January 3, 1958.
Garvanza No. 492:
Clyde Wilson McKinle;v-, died January 28, 1958.
Van Wagner Bishop, died June 10, 1958.
Fremont No. 497:
George Herbert Dahnas, died October 7, 1957.
Stockton No. 498:
George Edward Briggs, died February 22, 1958.
Roosevelt No. 500:
Eri Reide Fairbanks, died June 27, 1958.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Harbor No. 502:
Emory Mathias Milner, died December 5, 1957.
Seaside No. 504:
Charles Edward Cresmer, died April 2, 1958.
Benjamin Franklin No. 509:
William Reginald Ream, died July 19, 1957.
John Henry Ellery, died February 7, 1958.
Palms No. 512:
Fred Milton Hermanson, died May 23, 1958.
Cahuenga No. 513:
Roy L. Joyce, died May 27, 1958.
Euclid No. 519:
Joel Howard Richardson, died September 22, 1957.
James Davis Crittendon, died November 8, 1957.
John Mays Thomas, Jr., died January 2, 1958.
Samuel Lythgoe, died June 21, 1958.
Sunrise No. 522:
Victor Lewis Cook, died December 3, 1957.
Sun Garden No. 530:
Thomas Francis McKeighan, died August 9, 1957.
William Parker Winnin~, died December 22, 1957.
Vincent Glenn Keyes, died May 17, 1958.
Azure No. 533:
Archie Alexander McCormick, died June 9, 1958.
Seal Rock No. 536:
Edwin William Korte, died July 17, 1957.
Jonathan No. 545:
David Matson, died November 11, 1957.
Seaport No. 550:
Felton Dickenson Harris, died October 12, 1957.
Ernest Charles Krause, died October 24, 1957.
Lakeshore No. 551:
John Roberts McKalip, died November 9, 1957.
William Eugene Vocom, died January 5, 1958.
Fairfax No. 556:
Orrick McDearmon, died June 2, 1958.
Craftsmen No. 559!
Joseph Clifford Griffin, died November 20, 1957.
Lowell Keith Askew, died December 22, 1957.
East San Diego No. 561:
Orville Bonner Usher, died April 23, 1958.
West Adams No. 565:
Edward Lawton, died September 20, 1957.
James A. Garfield, No. 566:
Kenneth Harold Boyer, died September 18, 1957.
Walter Vaughn Empie, died February 24, 1958.
S. W. Hackett No. 574:
Otho Brown Kissell, died October 29, 1957.
Anthony Tyler Petersen, died March 5, 1958.
Progressive No. 578:
Seymour D. Crout, died May 5, 1958.
Wasco No. 583:
Herbert Philip Pritschke, died April 25, 1958.
Thomas Frederick Prather, died August 31, 1957.
Harding No. 584:
Charles Guestave Slick, died December 30, 1957.
Garden Grove No. 586:
John Charles Mitchell, died March 17, 1958.
Joseph William Putman, died April 1, 1958.
Warren Almeron Wheeler, died June 8, 1958.
El Sereno No. 588:
Clifford Theodore Gates, died June 13, 1958.

229

230

PROCEED INGS OF THE

Escalon No. 591:
Frank R. Enemar k, died June 8, 1958.
Carmeli ta No. 599:
Edmund Amos Lockett, died April 14, 1958.
Ulus Clinger Miller, died Februar y 3, 1958.
Glassell Park No. 605:
Quincy Day Dikema n, died October 12, 1957.
Sojoum er No. 607:
Dallas Leroy Blain, died May 6, 1958.
Ernest Oliver Gray, died Novemb er 5, 1957.
Provide nt No. 609:
William Henry Kay, died May 11, 1958.
Elmhurs t No. 610:
Francis Jacob Coates, died Novemb er 22, 1957.
Fred Leslie Brous, died April 2, 1958.
Three Pillars No. 613:
Joseph Brink Woody, Jr., died October 24, 1957.
Larduno nt No. 614:
Richard Gardine r Wilcox, died Februar y 3, 1958.
Big Bear No. 617:
Francis Alonzo Day, died Februar y 15, 1958.
Neptune No. 619:
Charles Roswell Wilkins on. died March 9, 1958.
Atwater No. 622:
Jerome Bond William s, died Novemb er 18, 1957.
Chula Vista No. 626:
William Henry Greenw ell, died March 29, 1958.
Normal Heights No. 632:
Clinton Theodor e Fresher , died May 18, 1958.
Poinsett ia No. 633:
Austin Allen Rice, died Februar y 9, 1958.
Riversid e No. 635:
William Leona.rd White, died May 24, 1958.
John Marshal l No. 636:
George Le Roy Schmutz , died March 27, 1958.
Palisade s No. 637:
Ira Danford Wheeler , died Novemb er 2, 1957.
Compos ite No. 639:
Eli G. Gold, died October 6, 1957.
Lomita No. 644:
Richard Alexand er Faulkne r, died Novemb er 23, 1957.
William MUTTay Little, died Decemb er 27, 1957.
Damascus No. 648:
Myron Dates Abbott, died March 10, 1958.
Fontana No. 653:
Reynold Bush Doney, died August 24, 1957.
Baldwin Park No. 660:
James Simpson Alexand er, died June 2, 1958.
Ojai No. 663:
Fred True Jumper, died June 5, 1958.
Meridia n No. 667:
Charles Haydn Penn, died August 10, 1957.
Greenle af No. 670:
Grover August Ahmann , died June 29, 1958.
Far West No. 673:
Julius Leon Girod, died Novemb er 25, 1957.
Modesto No. 675:
Charles Albert Tobey, died July 13, 1957.
Dos Palos No. 681:
Samuel Elston Harris, died May 23, 1958.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR NIA

231

Indian Wells Valley No, 691:
Norris Charles Viles, died Novemb er 10, 1957.
Crossroa ds No. 696:
Harry Ivan Meek, died Novemb er 16, 1957.
Anacap a No. 710:
Robert Leslie Wilcox, died April 21, 1958.
Hillabor ough No. 737:
Milford "B" Armstro n·g, died April 27, 1958.
Arvin No. 738:
David Jacob Luther Miller, died October 4, 1957.
Mojave U. D.:
Joseph Andrew Bellatti, died May 18, 1958.

At I I :35 a.m. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:00 a.m. Thursd ay.

232

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, THURSDAY, OCTOBER 2, 1958
Grand Lodge was called on at 9: 00 a.m., the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of the
morning session of Wednesday, October 1, were read and approved.

FAR WEST LODGE NO. 673
The Grand Master recommended that the request of certain brethren
of Far West Lodge No. 673 for the Jifting of the ban imposed on them
be referred to the incoming Grand Master with authority to act after
consultation with the Judge Advocate and the Committees on Jurisprudence and on PoJicy and General Purposes.
Adopted.

JURISDICTION OF TEHACHAPI LODGE NO. 313
The Grand Master recommended that the request of Tehachapi
Lodge No. 313 for a determination of their jurisdiction be referred
to the new Grand Master with authority to act after reviewing the
opinion of the Jurisprudence Committee.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON LODGE FINANCING
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge Financing takes pleasure
in presenting to you its annual report of activities during the year of
1958.
The past year has been a rewarding one to the members of the
Committee on Lodge Financing through the excellent cooperation
of the constituent lodges of the Jurisdiction. When called upon, every
lodge and temple association has joined in a concerted effort to show
their willingness to cooperate even though at times it caused considerable sacrifice of time and effort on their part to adjust financial
conditions of their respective temple associations to conform to Masonic law. It has not been all sweetness and light, but all the problems
that arose were adjusted in the true spirit of Masonic brotherhood and
fraternal relations. There cannot be sufficient space to set forth all
the specific instances of progress, so a general report will be here
given. We of the Committee on Lodge Financing are pleased to report
to you in this portion of its report of some of the general work it has
done in the past year to correct the matters which were reported in
the last Grand Lodge Communication concerning the losses sustained
by temple associations in California.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

233

During the past year members of this committee made 132 visitations to lodges and temple associations to counsel with them concerning problems of incorporation, building, securing sites for future building, sales of real estate and adjustment of financial structures and rental
income in order to conform to the provisions of Section 409 of the
Masonic Code. Five exceedingly troublesome situations have been
equitably adjusted and many temple associations have made slight
adjustments that have considerably enhanced their financial structure.
Specifically, of 228 financial and profit and loss statements of an equal
number of temple associations. 136 of them now show a profit Only
92 show losses in varying amounts. The amount of profit shown by
the 136 temple associations amounted to $245,583.00, while those which
comprised the 92 which showed a loss only lost a total of $82,101.00.
Taking all the reporting temple associations into consideration, we
arrive at a net income over expenses of $163,482.00. Based upon a valuation of the assets of the total of 228 temple associations that reported
during 1958 of $14,190,179.00 the percentage represented by the profit
of $163,482.00 reflects a more healthy financial condition than that of
prior years.
While the figures set forth in the preceding paragraph represent
an increasingly healthy financial condition of Masonic Temple Associations, there is yet much room for improvement. We of the committee
feel that until ALL the temple associations in our Jurisdiction can
show a proper depreciation reserve and still have income which is
greater than expenses we can not truthfully consider ourselves out of
the woods. We do feel, however, that with the continued efforts of
the Masons in ~alifornia, and the excellent spirit of cooperation that
was evidence during the past year, the day will not be far off when we
all can say with pride that we are now financially sound.
We of the committee wish to extend our personal regards and
heart-felt thanks to the officers and members of Grand Lodge who
have encouraged and assisted us when such was needed.
To all the Masons in California we can say that your contributions
and efforts in the building of Masonic Temples and the outstanding success you have achieved is proof that when Masons work together in
the true spirit of Masonry, they can even accomplish the impossible.
MAJOR TEMPLE Assoc1ATION TRANSACTIONS IN 1958
EAST BAY MASONIC BUILDING AssOCIATION: Installed elevator
and remodeled front of temple at a cost of $7,404.47.
TARAVAL MASONIC TEMPLE Assoc1ATION: Reconditioned present
facilities, $6,000.00.
CORINTHIAN LoDGE No. 9: Application and consent to erect a new
Masonic Hall for $155,000.00; transfer $20,000.00 from lodge funds

235

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to Marysville Masonic Hall. together with other funds financed through
the hall association.
YOUNT LODGE No. 12: Negotiations re financial and legal problems concerning ownership of real property jointly with another fraternal organization.
SANTA CRUZ LoDGE No. 38: Transfer of lodge funds to the temple
foundation in amount of $1246.00 and negotiations relating to financial
condition and income.
HUMBOLDT LoDGE No. 79: Application for and consent to expend
$5.500.00 for alterations and installation of a new electrical switchboard and electrical system. together with related matters concerning
finances.
ST. HELENA LoDGE No. 93: Extensive negotiations pertaining to
purchase of a 50% interest of other fraternal organization in lodge
property for $4.500.00. Negotiations not presently completed.
OROVILLE LoDGE No. 103: Now in process of forming a temple
association.
VISALIA LoDGE No. 128: Now contemplating a new building program. Still in formative stage.
WOODLAND LoDGE No. 156: Application for and consent to build
a new Masonic Temple in Woodland: transfer of cash from lodge
funds of $10.000.00 and transfer of $18.000.00 of proceeds of sale
of other property to the temple association. New temple dedicated.
Fast work.
MISSION LoDGE No. 169: Application for and consent to purchase
of property for $15.000.00 and transfer of $10,000.00 of Lodge funds
to the hall association.
RussIAN RIVER LoDGE No. 181: Application for consent to transfer $1,000.00 of lodge funds to temple association. Denied.
ARBUCKLE LoDGE No. 182: Application for and consent to form
an incorporated temple association and transfer of $500.00 from lodge
funds to temple association when formed.
CLEAR LAKE LoDGE No. 183: Application for and consent to form
an incorporated temple association and transfer of $100.00 of lodge
funds to temple association when formed.
MARIN LoDGE No. 191: Application for and consent to spend $21,000.00 for installation of elevator in temple.
ANAHEIM LoDGE No. 207: Application for and consent to purchase 13 shares of their temple association stock at $100.00 per share
from private owners of same; also in process of forming non-profit
temple corporation.
Rio VISTA LoDGE No. 208: Application for and consent to amend
Articles of Incorporation. Also to borrow $7,000.00 from bank to
install needed ventilation and heating system.

KING DAVID LoDGE No. 209: Application for and consent to remodel front of temple building and rental unit on lower floor for $19.000.00 to be derived from sale of a portion of the real estate owned
by the Masonic Hall Association.
SAN BENITO LoDGE No. 211: Now in the process of dissolving
stock corporation and . incorporating as a non-profit corporation.
MosAIC LoDGE No. 218: Application for and consent to spend
$3,400.00 of lodge funds for extensive repairs to roof of present temple.
SOLANO LoDGE No. 229: Now contemplating the formation of a
non-profit temple corporation.
WELCOME LoDGE No. 255: Now in process of organizing a building program for the erection of a new Masonic Temple in Lemoore.
Congratulation s.
EVERGREEN LoDGE No. 259: Application for and consent to form
a non-profit temple corporation.
HANFORD LoDGE No. 279: Application for and consent to transfer
ownership of property owned by the lodge to the temple association in
exchange for a regular membership therein of a value of $25,000.00.
Also consent to form a non-profit temple corporation.
PASO ROBLES LoDGE No. 286: Application for and consent to spend
$600.00 to connect water and sewer lines to property.
MT. JACKSON LODGE No. 295: Application for consent to purchase
building association notes denied.
DELANO LoDGE No. 309: Application for and consent to expend
$66,000.00 and borrow $40,000.00 amortized over 10 years for major
alterations and extensive repairs to the temple.
ALHAMBRA LoDGE No. 322: Application for and consent to transfer $4.000 of lodge funds to the temple association for the purpose of
completing the building of the temple.
CONSUELO LoDGE No. 325: Request to define powers of the temple
association. Presently negotiating improvements in financial structure of
the temple association.
LoNG BEACH LoDGE No. 327: Application for and consent to transfer total amount of its building fund ($24,724.05) to the temple association and for temple association to borrow $25,000.00 to complete
and furnish the new temple.
FRUITVALE LoDGE No. 336: Application for and consent to use
$500.00 of lodge funds to purchase temple association stock from members and their survivors during 1958.
SEQUOIA LODGE No. 349: Application for and consent to form
a non-profit temple corporation and for lodge to transfer $1.000.00
of its funds to the temple association when formed: also consent to
purchase $250.00 worth of stock of the Masonic Temple Association
of Berkeley as it becomes available.

234

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

HOLLYWOOD LoDGE No. 355: Application for and consent for the
expenditure of $25,000.00 of temple association funds for installation
of an elevator in the temple.
M1LL VALLEY LoDGE No. 356: Application for and consent to
transfer $6.500.00 of lodge funds to the temple association to be used
for the repair of termite damage to the building.
GoLDEN STATE LoDGE No. 358: Application for and consent to
borrow $55,000.00 through the temple association for the completion
of the new temple: also later consent to transfer $3,500.00 of lodge
funds and $400.00 of the lodge building fund to the temple association
to liquidate neglected obligations.
UNITY LoDGE No. 368: Now in the process of an excellent fund
raising program to secure funds for a new temple.
PARNASSUS LoDGE No. 388: Application for and consent to spend
$25,000.00 for remodeling and repairs to the temple building: also
consent to borrow $5,000.00 from Bank of America at 5%.
PALOS VERDE LoDGE No. 389: Application for and consent to
spend $155,000.00 of funds of Palos Verde building fund to erect
a new temple.
ELYSIAN LoDGE No. 418: Application for and consent to borrow
$100,000.00 for erection of a new temple: also additional consent to
borrow $25,000.00 to complete the new temple.
ALPHA LoDGE No. 431: Application for and consent to purchase
stock of Richmond Masonic Temple Association up to $750.00 total.
MT. DIABLO LoDGE No. 448: Consent to transfer $1,000.00 of
lodge funds to the temple corporation: also later consent to transfer
57 shares of P. G. & E. stock for purposes of clearing the record.
VAN NuYs LoDGE No. 450: Application for and consent to transfer $3,500.00 to the building association for the purpose of improving
their off-street parking lot adjacent to the temple.
MT. Oso LoDGE No. 460: Application for and consent to proceed
with erection of a Masonic temple, the enclosure thereof not to exceed
a cost of $33,000.00.
THOUSAND OAKS LoDGE No. 478: Application for and consent to
purchase $500.00 of stock in Thousand Oaks Masonic Temple Association from widows of former members.
SuNNVALE LODGE No. 511: Application for and consent for the
temple association to enter into a 10 year lease at $175.00 per month.
BELLFLOWER LODGE No. 523: Application for consent to purchase
$2,000.00 worth of contributing memberships in Bellflower Masonic
Temple Association now under submission.
TRIANGLE LoDGE No. 548: Application for and consent to lodge
to transfer $4.000.00 to the temple corporation and thereafter for the
temple corporation to purchase real estate for a cost not to exceed
$9,000.00 plus costs and impounds.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

237

PARK BOULEVARD LoDGE No. 568: Application for and consent to
form a temple corporation and when formed to transfer $500.00 of
lodge funds to the corporation in exchange for a membership in like
amount.
SOJOURNER LoDGE No. 607: Application for and consent to expend
$8,000.00 for the construction of dining room facilities.
ATWATER LoDGE No. 622: Application for and consent to transfer
$5,000.00 of lodge funds to the temple association to complete construction of the new temple.
LAMANDA PARK LoDGE No. 627: Application for and consent to
commence construction of a new temple when the temple association
has on hand at least $30,000.00.
RIVERSIDE LoDGE No. 635: Application for and consent to the
building association to enclose a new temple building for a cost not
to exceed $35,000.00
RIVERSIDE LoDGE No. 635: Application for and consent to the
building association to enclose a new temple building for a cost not to
exceed $35,000.00.
LARCHMONT LoDGE No. 614: Application for and consent to spend
$4,500.00 for installation of fire escapes in the building.
INDIAN RocK LoDGE No. 638: Application for and consent to purchase stock of Thousand Oaks Temple Association at $10.00 per
share, the total not to exceed $240.00.
MoNTE VISTA LODGE No. 655: Application for and consent to
purchase 100 memberships in the temple association for a cost not
to exceed $5,000.00.
BALDWIN PARK LoDGE No. 660: Application for and consent to purchase lots for a price of $7,400.00 plus escrow costs: also consent to
transfer $1,200.00 of lodge funds to the temple association in exchange
for a regular membership of equal value.
LIBERAL ARTS LoDGB No. 677: Application of Liberal Arts Foundation to petition corporation commissioner for a permit to issue debentures for a total of $10,000.00 to be purchased by members of
Liberal Arts Lodge: to presently expend not to exceed $1,800.00 for
repair of the present ·structure and to commence enclosing the building
when the foundation has on hand at least $30,000.00. Good work,
brothers, in getting out of a bad situation.
0ILDALE LODGE No. 688: Application for and consent to temple
association to purchase a building site for $7,900.00 plus costs of
escrow: also consent to transfer $10,000.00 of lodge funds to temple
association to effect the purchase and for operating costs.
SANTA YNEZ VALLEY LoDGE No. 701: Application for and consent
to borrow $10,000.00, amortized over a period of 10 years, for the
purpose of completing the temple building.

238

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

SEAFARING LoDGE No. 708: Application for consen t to
transf er
$500.00 of lodge funds to the building association denied.
LoRENZO LoDGE No. 709: Application for consen t to
transf er
$500.00 of lodge funds to the building association presen
tly under
consideration.
HoME LoDGE No. 712: Application for consen t to purcha
se property for $35,000.00 withd rawn because of inability to
complete the
transa ction on satisfa ctory terms.
TYRE LoDGE No. 741: Application for conse nt to incorp
orate and
transf er lodge funds to the new corpor ation is presen tly
under considera tion.
CLAYTON VALLEY LoDGE No. 756: Applic ation for and
consen t
to form a temple corpor ation and transf er $100.00 to the new
corpor ation when formed.
HAMILTON LoDGE No. 751: Application for and consen t
to form a
Mason ic Temp le Corpo ration and transf er $100.00 of
lodge funds
to the new corporation; later an additio nal $100.00 was reques
ted and
author ized.
EL RANCHO LoDGE No. 759: Application for and consen
t to purchase prope rty at 4575 Durfe e Road, Pico, Califo rnia fo~
$25,?0
$5,000.00 down and the balanc e at $200.00 per month mclud 0·~0;
mg interest. Subse quent application and consen t to expen d
$9 ,000.00 to
remodel the buiilding.
CoASTSIDE LoDGE No. 762: Application for and consent
to form
a temple corpor ation and to transf er $30.00 to the new
te~ple association when approv ed, in excha nge for a regula r membership
of equal
value.
·
Respe ctfully submitted,
HERBERT HARGRAVE, JR.
GLEN c. HOLBERT
E. HERBERT PHILLIPS
MARK A. GREEN
SIDNEY SEA
CARLYLE VAN PATTEN
FRED H. BLANCHARD
WALLACE T. MASTERS
0RLO R. PEUGH
Accep ted.
Referr ed to Committee on Financ e.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

239

REPO RT OF COM MITT EE ON BY-L AWS
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-La ws have had under consid eration
183
amend ments and resolutions affecting by-law s and meetin
g places
of lodges.
Twen ty-eig ht lodges increa sed their fees and only one
decrea sed
its fee. Three lodges increa sed their affiliation fee to $10.00
. One
lodge fixed its affiliation fee at $15.00; and two lodges
fixed their
affiliation fee at $25.00 One lodge decrea sed its affiliation
fee to $5.00:
one lodge decrea sed its affiliation fee to $10.00: and one
lodge decrease d :its affiliation fee to $15.00. One lodge increa sed
its annua l
dues to $24.00; two lodges increa sed their dues to $20.00
: twenty
lodges increased their dues to $18.00: seventeen lodges increa
sed their
due to $16.00: and forty- three lodges increa sed their dues
to $15.00.
Thirte en lodges adopte d amend ments chang ing date, time
or meeting
place of stated meetings. Six amend ments provid ed for time
of meeting when the stated meeting falls on a legal holiday. Eleven
lodges
adopte d the uniform code of by-laws, and four lodges amend
ed their
by-law s to conform with their charit y progra m.
Twent y-seve n lodges adopte d resolutions to chang e their
place
of meeting, and two lodges adopte d resolutions to chang e
the date of
their annua l meeting.
It has come to our attenti on that during the past year a
numbe r
of amend ments to by-law s had to be return ed to the lodge
becau se
they did not conform to the proced ure set forth as outlin
ed in the
Califo rnia Masop ic Code. We again emphasize the necess
ity of conforming to the code and recommend that incoming Maste
rs look over
the by-law s with the Secret ary at the beginn ing of the term,
and that
necess ary amend ments be checked togeth er, as to notice
theref ore,
adopti on and date to take effect.
All of the following amend ments and resolutions have
been approved by the Grand Secret ary and the Grand Maste r
as to form
and code requirements.
AMENDMENTS TO BY-LAws
Increasing fees: Yosem ite No. 99, to $90.00: Oroville No.
103, to
$65.00: Chico No. 111, to $90.00: Roseville No. 222, to $75.00
: Welcome No. 255, to $90.00: Azusa No. 305, to $115.00: Santa
Monic a No.
307, to $125.00: Covin a No. 334, to $100.00; Oxnar d
No. 341, to
$100.00: Brentw ood No. 345, to $65.00: Chari ty No. 362,
to $100.00:
Clarem ont No. 436. to $75.00: Fort Crook No. 575, to $100.0
0: Warre n
G. Hardi ng No. 579, to $125.00: Garde n Grove No. 586,
to $120.00:
Tujun ga No. 592, to $125.00: Service No. 594, to $100.00:
Melro se No.
602. to $90.00: Sojou rner No. 607, to $100.00: Canog a
No. 611, to
$135.00; Truth No. 628, to $115.00; Menlo Park No. 651,
to $125.00;

241

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Citrol No. 656, to $90.00: Willow Glen No. 676, to $100.00; San An~
tonio No. 694. to $125.00: Opportunity No. 740, to $115.00: Merced
No. 749, to $90.00: West Covina No. 758, to $115.00.
Decreasing fees: Dana R. Weller No. 765, to $105.00.
Increasing affiliation fee: Roseville No. 222, to $10.00: Oxnard No.
341, to $10.00: Willow Glen No. 676, to $10.00.
Fixing affiliation fee: Tujunga No. 592, at $25.00: Canoga No. 611,
at $15.00: C:itrol No. 656. at $25.00.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Seaport No. 550. to $10.00; Arabic No.
763, to $15.00: Dana R. Weller No. 765, to $5.00.
Increasing dues: California No. 1. to $18.00: Georgetown No. 25 •. to
$16.00: Yosemite No. 99, to $15.00: Oroville No. 103. to $15.00: Chico
No. 111. to $15.00: Eden No. 113, to $15.00: Pacific No. 136, to $16.00:
Clear Lake No. 183, to $18.00: Roseville No. 222. to $15.00: Bakersfield
No. 224, to $18.00: Fresno No. 247. to $18.00: Landmark No. 253, to
$16.00: Azusa No. 305, to $16.00: Santa Monica No. 307, to $15.00:
Delano No. 309, to $18.00: Consuelo No. 325, to $15.00: Long Beach
No. 327, to $16.00: San Pedro No. 332, to $24.00: Oxnard No. 341. to
$18.00: Brentwood No. 345, to $15.00: McKinley No. 347, to $15.00:
San Bernardino No. 348, to $15.00: Las Palmas No. 366, to $15.00:
Gardena No. 372, to $16.00: Oceanside No. 381, to $15.00: West Lake
No. 392, to $15.00: Sierra Madre No. 408, to $15.00: York No. 423, to
$15.00: Midway No. 426. to $18.00: Pittsburg No. 429, to $16.00; Mari~
copa No. 434, to $15.00: Claremont No. 436, to $15.00; Coronado No.
441, to $15.00: Center No. 465, to 15.00: Rockridge No. 468, to $18.00:
Yorba Linda No. 469, to $15.00; Fellowship No. 480. to $15.00: Atasca~
dero No. 493, to $16.00: Stockton No. 498. to $18.00; Roosevelt No.
500 to $15.00: Seaside No. 504. to $15.00: Benjamin Franklin No. 509,
to $18.00: Taft No. 516, to $16.00: Bay City No. 526, to $18.00: Sun
Garden No. 530, to $15.00: Ascot No. 538, to $15.00: Justice No. 549,
to $18.00: Craftsmen No. 559, to $16.00: Foothill No. 564, to $16.00:
James A. Garfield No. 566. to $18.00; Santa Maria No. 580. to $15.00:
Manchester No. 585. to $15.00: Valley Forge No. 587, to $15.00; Kauai
No. 589. to $15.00; Cano~a No. 611. to $16.00: Point Loma No. 620.
to $15.00: The Gardens No. 621, to $15.00: Chula Vista No. 626, to
$15.00; Truth No. 628, to $18.00: Normal Heights No. 632, to $15.00:
Victorville No. 634, to $18.00: John Marshall No. 636. to $15.00: Menlo
Park No. 651. to $18.00: Citro} No. 656. to $15.00: John P. Jarman No.
669. to $15.00: Willow Glen No. 676, to $15.00: Canby Cross No. 679,
to $16.00: Palm Springs No. 693, to $20.00: William D. Stephens No.
69B, to $20.00: Bixby Knolls No. 699, to $16.00: Ponderosa No. 700. to
$18.00: Rosemead No. 702, to $16.00: Lake Tahoe No. 707, to $18.00:
Anacapa No. 710, to $18.00; Belmont Shore No. 716, to $16.00: Oasis
of Mara No. 735, to $15.00: Lemon Grove No. 736, to $15.00: La
Canada No. 739, to $18.00: Opportunity No. 740, to $15.00: Tyre No.

741, to $16.00: Claude H. Morrison No. 747, to $15.00: Merced No.
749, to $15.00: Lawndale No. 753, to $15.00.
Changing date of Stated Meeting: Evergreen No. 259; West Los
Angeles No. 373: Palos Verdes No. 389: Mount Olive No. 506: South~
land No. 618: Metropolitan No. 646: Oasis of Mara No. 735: Penin~
sula No. 745; San Diequito No. 775; Southern California Research.
Changing time of Stated Meeting: 'Pacific No. 136: Mount Jackson
No. 295; Kilauea No. 330: Modesto No. 675.
Provision for legal holidays: Russian River No. 181: Olive Branch
No. 269: Mount Jackson No. 295; Roosevelt No. 500: Modesto No. 675:
Peninsula No. 745.
Adopting Uniform Code of By~Laws: Speranza Italiana No. 219:
Mojave U.D.: Leland Stanford U.D.: Paramount U.D.: Rio Linda U.D.:
Westminster U.D.; El Camino Research U.D.: Sierra U.D.; Oak Plains
U.D.; Granada Hills U.D.: General Henry H. Arnold U.D.
Re Charity Committee: Redondo No. 328; Mount Diablo No. 448:
Polaris No. 730; Kit Carson No. 734.

240

RESOLUTIONS

Change of Meeting Place: Valley No. 135: Woodland No. 156:
Sisson No. 310: Alhambra No. 322: Long Beach No. 327: San Pedro No.
332; Palos Verdes No. 389: Maricopa No. 434: Tyrian No. 439; Alta
Vista No. 464: Maui No. 472: America No. 475; Mount Olive No. 506:
Signal No. 543; Craftsmen No. 559; All States No. 593; Service No. 594;
Southland No. 618; Atwater No. 622: La Brea No. 650; Dos Palos No.
681: William D. Stephens No. 698: Bixby Knolls No. 699: Santa Ynez
Valley No. 7014 Rosemead No. 702: Oasis of Mara No. 735: Arabic
No. 763.
Change Annual Meeting to November: Clay No. 101; Westwood
No. 501.
We approve and recommend the adoption of this report.
ROBERT C. PEYTON
WILLIAM H. ADAMS
JESS ScoIT
ROBERT H. DEOVLET
C.E.GwIN.
Adopted.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON RESEARCH
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The function of the Committee on Research may be defined as
devising, fostering and guiding the work of Masonic education in the
jurisdiction as a whole. A more colorful description was coined and
used at the Vallejo Regional Seminar this year when research was
referred to as "curiosity dn action." The phrase is a good one as a guide

242

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

those
to the committee, for it reminds us that we should strive to answer
ourlimiting
than
rather
Mason
e
averag
the
questio ns which occur to
tomes.
dusty
and
cripts
manus
t
ancien
among
h
researc
l
selves to origina
the
Our aim at all times is to be clear, simple and concise, leaving
they
whom
for
us
among
abstrac t and complex discussions to those few
have a special appeal.
the
Your committee has developed a five-point progra m to meet
:
follows
as
ed
describ
further
be
may
'It
s.
Mason
nia
needs of Califor
1. CONST ITUENT LoDGES
d
Most Worsh ipful Leo E. Anders on, Grand Master , has followe
r
Maste
ipful
Worsh
each
ting
reques
of
years
other
in
the practic e used
been
has
t
reques
to name a Research Comm ittee for his own lodge. His
having
observ ed by almost every Master . The result is that instead of
ion we
educat
ic
Mason
of
field
the
in
one Grand Lodge Comm ittee active
. The
subject
same
the
on
d
engage
y
activel
have nearly 675 committees
their
for
d
selecte
n
brethre
three
of
s
consist
usually
ttee
lodge commi
s.
interes t in and ability to commundcate educat ional subject
More pleasin g still is the information that the lodge committees
shes
are far from inactive. A questio nnaire circula ted this year establi
being
are
ion
educat
ic
Mason
to
part
in
or
whole
in
d
that progra ms devote
over a
held in each lodge at the averag e rate of once a month. Projec ted
be
will
ms
progra
full year, this statistic means that some 8,000 such
nt
appare
is
ity
fratern
the
upon
conduc ted. The impact of all this activity
ms
progra
the
hear
who
those
s
benefit
withou t being argued . It not only
s who.
but also creates a body of teachers, skilled in Mason ic subject
n
brethre
new
to
light
added
impart
to
able
be
will
study,
ed
with continu
for years to come.

2. EDUCA TIONAL MATER IAL
the jurisdiction are dozens, even hundre ds,
hout
Scatter ed throug
are
of brethre n who may fairly be termed Mason ic scholars. They
discuss
to
able
be
to
s
sufficiently familiar with educat ional subject
howthem with little or no prepar ation. The averag e lodge committee,
help.
outside
desires
tly
earnes
ever, is not so fortuna te and
It was to meet this widesp read deman d that Grand Lodge has
"Reauthor ized and financed the publication of articles under the title
issue
each
year,
this
printed
search Notes. " Three issues have been
l
origina
the
nts
represe
article
Each
contain ing a variety of articles.
ed.
publish
been
sly
previou
not
has
and
Mason
researc h of a Califor nia
g.
Great credit is due the author s of the articles for their skill and learnin
s
review
ly
careful
Your Grand Lodge Comm ittee collects the articles,
The
odge.
l
'
a
to
one
ies,
them and distributes them in limited quantit
each
person receiving them is the chairm an of the researc h committee in
list
mailing
the
on
s
appear
s
addres
and
name
constit uent ·L odge as the
ry.
Secreta
Grand
the
of
office
the
in
mainta ined
is
The Lodge Comm ittee is thus put in possession of material which

GRAND LODGE OP CALlPO RNlA

243

know
new and exclusive. The committeeman need never be at a loss to
"
Notes,
rch
what to say for he can draw on his accumu lated "Resea
the
as
l
materia
the
using
either by reading selecte d passag es or by
to
basis for oral remark s. The articles are purpos ely kept short and
each.
time
reading
s
minute
10
to
5
e
to the point. They averag
The survey previously mentioned revealed hearty endorsement, even
enthus iasm for this portion of our researc h progra m.

3. RESEAR CH loDGES
ing
The presen t researc h operati on was put on its feet by the charter
rn
Southe
and
sco
Franci
San
at
Lodge
ch
Resear
of Northe rn Califor nia
y
steadil
grown
have
They
s.
Angele
Los
at
Lodge
ch
Resear
Califor nia
a
and
h
strengt
of
k
in effectiveness and usefulness. They are a bulwar
d
founta in-head from which flows educat ional material and devote
of
task
nding
never-e
the
in
yon
and
hither
brethre n willing to travel
Mason ic education.
The vitality of the researc h lodge plan is atteste d to by the fact that
is now
a third group has been grante d a dispensation just thiis year and
and
Clara
Santa
in
Lodge
ch
Resear
o
Camin
El
name
the
under
operati ng
San Mateo counties.
g
Each Research Lodge has its own indepe ndent activities, adaptin
cs
statisti
These
them to the needs of their respective parts of the state.
nia
will give some iidea of the work accomplished: Northe rn Califor
d
travele
rs
membe
its
and
ms
progra
42
Research Lodge partici pated in
15,and
ms
progra
58
Lodge,
ch
Resear
nia
Califor
9000 miles; Southe rn
400 miles; El Camin o Resear ch Lodge, 8 progra ms and 500 miles.
the
Many splend id educat ional discussions have been prepar ed by
Your
g.
evenin
entire
an
occupy
to
enough
long
some
,
researc h lodges
committee is concer ned with preserving this valuab le work and making
have
it availab le to still more constit uent lodges. Unhap pily, we do not
es
distanc
great
The
nia.
Califor
an active Grand Lodge library in
n
locatio
ized
central
single,
a
make
tion
popula
betwee n the centers of
y
alread
lodges
h
researc
are
there
hand,
other
the
On
rather impractical.
and
co
Francis
functioning in the principal metropolitan areas of San
lodges
Los Angeles, and one of the powers residin g in the researc h
.
library
a
in
mainta
to
is
under Section 385 of the Code
ic
Your committee propos es that a start be made toward Mason
Lodge
Grand
the
by
used
be
to
libraries by approp riating $1,000.00
by the
Committee in the publication of papers and discussions prepar ed
ComLodge
Grand
the
by
d
selecte
and
lodges
h
researc
two charter ed
ive
respect
the
mittee. When so printed they will be made availab le by
A
s.
Mason
ual
individ
or
researc h lodges for lending purpos es to lodges
ed.
arrang
be
easily
can
mail
by
l
system of borrow ing such materia
The new El Camin o Resear ch Lodge will be invited to partici pate
now.
in this work as it becomes better established, perhap s a year from

244

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

4. REGIONAL SEMINARS
ar" is used to describe an educational prosemin
The term "regi onal
by the Gran d Lodg e
gram offering more than one subject and sched uled
enden t work of
indep
the
to
t
Committee. Thes e event s are a supplemen
serve as an
They
.
areas
ing
outly
the research lodges, especially in
rch lodges
resea
The
.
ration
inspi
of
e
sourc
a
exem plar to local lodge s and
and have
am
the progr
are frequently asked to take a subst antia l part of
.
respo nded most generously.
the last annu al
Fifte en regional seminars have been held since
communication, as follows:
ber 19
FRESNO SEMINAR ...............................•..................Octo
ber 19
Octo
.....
........
........
........
........
SAN DIEGO SEMINAR. ........
14, 15
ary
Febru
........
.........
.........
AR
BLYTH~NEEDLES SEMIN
h 8
Marc
.....
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
AR
SEMIN
REDLANDS
h 15
Marc
....
.........
VENTURA SEMINAR.....................................
h 15
Marc
.......
........
........
STOCKTON SEMJNAR. ........................
22
h
Marc
.....
........
........
........
........
BAKERSFIELDSEMJNAR.........
29
h
Marc
.
........
........
........
.........
.........
NAR.
LoNG BEACH SEMJ
14
il
pr
A
......
342n d DISTRICT SEMINAR....................................
19
l
.Apri
....
.........
SANTA ANA SEMINAR..................................
10
May
..
.........
.........
.........
HAWTHORNE SEMJNAR...................
17
May
...
........
........
........
........
PASADENA SEMJNAR.................
24
May
.........
.........
.........
.........
.........
........
VALLEJO SEMINAR.
31
May
SAN DIEGO SEMJNAR....................................................
June 14
FRESNO SEMJNAR. .........................................................
and continues o~er
The usual regional seminar commences at 2 p.m.
talen t and outsi de
l
intermissions and the dinne r recess until 9 p.m. Loca
repor t showing
zed
itemi
An
speak ers are combined in the same program.
heret o mark ed
hed
attac
is
g
ipatin
the subjects used and those partic
increase over
great
a
s,
event
these
ded
atten
"Sch edule A." Over 3000
last years atten dance .
5. GRAND LoooE SEMINAR
y is reser ved for
One evening durin g Gran d Lodg e customaril
used the rathe r
have
we
years
two
research activities. For the last
conducted nine classes
limited facilities at 25 Van Ness Aven ue and have
in atten danc e out of _a
in five lodge rooms. In 1957 we had some 1100
ful to the Maso nic
Gran d Lodg e regis tratio n of 2415. We are grate
and space so that
time
their
d
Lodges and other bodies who surre ndere
the new Temp le
to
move
the
me
welco
the seminar could be held but we
. .
ation-_
with its vastl y improved comfort, acoustics and v~ntil main aud1tonum
The research semin ar will be held this year m the
different subje cts will
on Wed nesd ay evening from 7 to 10 p.m. Four
discussion will be
each
and
be discussed by well-qualified speakers
the progr am are
of
ls
Detai
d.
perio
followed by a quest ion-a nd-an swer
t.
repor
this
to
hed
listed iin "Sche dule B" attac

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

245

e Mast ers and
Matt ers of considerable importance to prospectiv
in addition to
nted
prese
are
year
ssful
succe
inten ded to help them plan a
ted that with dedic asubjects of value to Maso ns generally. It is expec
to provide an even
ble
tion ceremonies a matte r of history, it will be possi
year.
next
more varied progr am
RECOMMENDATIONS
been opera ting on
As to the financial needs of the committee, we have
sum to cover all
this
h
a budg et of $2000.00 and have mana ged to stretc
committees.
local
by
ing
print
teer
activities with the help of some volun
anoth er
tions
opera
these
nue
conti
to
y
It will talce just as much mone
librar y
the
0.00 for
year. To our usual budg et we wish to add $1,00
.00.
$3000
of
purpo ses previously discussed, making a total
are:
The recommendations of the committee, therefore,
nued.
conti
be
am
progr
1. That the research
ittee.
2. That $3000.00 be budg eted for use of the comm
Respectfully submitted,
EVERE'IT HOUSER
E. E. O'CONNOR
HENNING J. LUEDERS
FRANK H. REINSCH
G. MAURICE CELLAR
W. BLAIR RrxoN
LEONEL C. PANOSH
ALEXANDER HORNE
Refer red to Committees on Polic y and Gene ral Purpo ses and on
Finance.
chairman of the
(At the session of Gran d Lodg e on Thur sday , the
ding evening
prece
the
committee repor ted that the research semin ar held
.
dance
atten
in
had been well received with some 1200
SCHEDULE "A"
DETAILED REPORT ON 1957-58 REGIONAL SEMINARS
than one semin ar
Reference Num bers- .Subj ects discussed at more
ers:
numb
may be identified by the following reference
of Maso nry.
1. Development of the Writ ten and Unw ritten Law
uct.
Cond
Our
of
2. The Boun dary Line
3. The Saint John of Maso nry.
4. A Maso n Looks at School Exemptions.
5. Development of the California Ritualistic System.
6. Maso nry: Repo sitory of Hum an Rights.
FRESNO SEMINAR, OCTOBER 19
man, Edwa rd L.
Inspector, Herb ert R. Harg rave ( 530) ; Chair
; Host, 4 l 8th MaKellas ( 24 7): Co-c hairm an, Arch Addi ngton ( 366)
sonic District.

246

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

0. Whit sell,
Progr am speakers: Early California Histo ry. Leon
d Lodge
Gran
of
lights
High
P.G.M .. and Ches ter H. Warl ow, P.G.M .:
(247 ).
e
Town
H.
ne
Way
),
(465
Research Seminary, Bert Gree n
John
).
(530
er
Nemm
r
·Elme
),
(465
Doss
Ivan
Robe rt Reynolds (366 ),
ue
Uniq
):
(247
lard
Dorn ey (700 ): Cland estin e Maso nry. Fred Roul
W.
J.
,
olism
Symb
nic
Masonic History. Earl Wall ace (247 ): Maso
( 24 7), Jack Krieger
Warn er ( 24 7) , Robert Tyrre l ( 24 7), Keith Emmert
( 279) .
on
Pears
Hugo
A.
g?
( 247) ; Whit her Are We Goin
Atten dance . 115.
SAN DIEGO SEMINAR, OCTOBER 19
man, Maurice
Inspector, (All San Dieg o Coun ty Inspe ctors ): Chair
San Diego
Host,
);
(574
sh
Pano
C.
B. Ross (35); Co-chairman, Leonel
442.
No.
e
Lodg
mer
Black
and
n
ciatio
Coun ty Masonic Officers' Asso
k E.
Fran
nry,
Maso
of
s
round
Bac~g
rical
Histo
Progr am Spea kers:
),
(442
w
Depe
H.
Pora th (442 ), Wats on 0. Bailey (407 ), Edw ard
rman
O'Go
Joe
d,
Worl
bled
Leonel C. Pano sh ( 574) , Maso nry in a Trou
); The Holy Saint s
(355 ); Our Public Schools, John A. Owe n (647
Masonry, Ralph H.
of
Side
an
Hum
The
);
John, Samuel Steelman (355
Head (352 ).
Atten dance , 225.
BLYTHE-NEEDLES SEMINAR, FEBRUARY 14-15
Russell F. Bragg,
Inspectors: Rewell E. Carlton, District 607, and
Lodge No. 326.
les
Need
and
473
No.
e
Lodg
e
District 601: Hosts, Blyth
SCR L Pane l: A
Prog ram: Historical Backgrounds of Maso nry.
nk H. Reinsch
l-Fra
Practical Appr oach to Symbolism, same Pane
Samuel Steel),
(504
rg
Mobe
(677 ). Alfre d V. Swar tz (767 ), A. R.
).
man (355 ), Erwi n Gebh ardt (355
ded from AriAtten danc e: Blythe. 65; Needles. 110 (bret hren atten
zona and Neva da as well as Calif ornia ).
REDLANDS SEMINAR, MARCH 8
C. F. Patto n
Inspector: Kenneth Dowell, District 605; Chairman,
nds Lodge
Redla
Host,
);
(300
on
Wils
(300 ): Co-chairman, Harr y G.
No. 300
(402 ). Otto N.
Prog ram: No. 1, SCR L pane l-Per cy E. Palmer,
): No. 2, Ken(767
tz
Swar
V.
A.
),
(599
art
Rugen (332 ). Jay D. Rineh
(355 ): No. 4, John
neth L. Hemphill (728 ); No. 3, Samuel Steelman
No. 6, Herb ert A.
):
A. Owe n (647 ); No. 5, W. Ben Sorrels (672
Hueb ner ( 445).
Atten dance , 250.
VENTURA SEMINAR, MARCH 15
man, R. J. Camp Inspector, Guy S. Harts , Sr., District 508; Chair
bell ( 633): Host. Poinsettia Lodge No. 663.
er (402 ), Fran k
Prog ram: No. 1, SCR L pane l-Per cy E. Palm

247

STOCKTON SEMINAR, MARCH 15
226) : Chair man Robert W ·
.c hlnspector, Stanl ey H. Wen tz (Dist rictd W
•
•
M
Hot
(68)·
uc aeneman
arden s' Association of
asters an
s'
.•
Stockton.
Ke"th W C l
Prog ram: No. I, pane l-Ke nnet h B. Harm on ( 471)
( 68) ..Noar l
Jr
er'
Culv
L.
eth
68) .~ob~rt(W. Tyrre ll ( 68), Kenn
4, ~mitt~d'.
No.
);
(498
e
G. Crow
N ar~nReb ooW 19); No. 3, RussellNo.
•
ed
omitt
6,
68);
(
an
enem
Scha
.
o. ' o ert
·
110.
,
Atten dance

ct (
(

48

BAKERSFIELD SEMINAR, MARCH 22
area; Chairman, Eusta ce E. O'Co nnor
~)~p~ctors~ All in Bakersfieldnic
Research Association.
Maso
• ost, ern Coun ty

· Kenneth L.
d;· ~~;'e~enJ:~6i ~h~
He!;~fa(~2~~· ~~t~~;d~New
P~·~·;
itselli
L
SCR
ason
Mast er.M

Orien tation Cour se for the
Art:Uc;11~~o~!er
Van Wag~~r (389 ), Fran k 0. Brostrom (616 ). A D · 11 ( 1 )g
Alva
5
No.
(504 ), Wilh am T. Corb usier (504 );
· ame s 4 6 ;
•
N o. 6. Ralph H. Head ( 35 2 ).
Atten dance , ~25.
loNG BEACH SEMINAR, MARCH 29
man, Hube rt H. KeesIi lnspect~rs: All Long Beach Inspectors: ChairHemp
hill ( 728) . H t
L.
eth
ng ( 593), Mast er of Ceremonies, Kenn
• os •
M onte Vista Temp le Association.
k
( 402) F
Prog ram: No. I, SCR L pane l-Per y E Palm er
NH.
ld
Arno
H.
rd
Ho~a
),
(629
~e~sch (677 ), Haro ld Mud gett
:
No.~
);
(355
man
el Steel
J~hneAn~L. H(::/)~ill (728 ); No. 3, Samu
A.
ert
Herb
6,
No.
);
(672
'No. 5, W. Ben Sorrells
Huebn~r (4:;) ,

'(2;;).

Atten dance , 250.
342ND DISTRICT SEMINAR, APRIL 14
d
(Dist rict 342) ; Chairman Al
H Inspector, Maurice E. Coffey No.
er
exan
'
.
216)
e
ome (216 ); Host : Doric Lodg
xand er Horn e
Prog ram: The Thre e R's of Masonry, pane l-Ale
(374)
(216 ), Haro ld S. Stein (495 ), Geor ge H. Steinmetz
·
Attendance, 160.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

248

249

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
SANTA ANA SEMINAR , APRIL 19

Inspector, Olen F. Turner (District 630): Chairman, William I.
Miller ( 505 ) : Co-chairman, Victor Alleman ( 505): Host, Silver Cord
Lodge No. 505..
Program : No. 1, SCRL panel-P ercy E. Palmer (402), Tom Kennedy (652), Alfred V. Swartz (767), Frank 0. Brostrom (616): No. 2,
Kenneth L. Hemphill ( 728); No. 3, Harold Zivi ( 355): No. 4, Frank H.
Reinsch (677), A. V. Swartz (767): No. 5, Olen F. Turner (505):
Masonry Circa 1958, Ellsworth Meyer. P.G.M.
Attendance, 225.
HAWI'HO RNESEM INAR, MAY 10
Owen (District 550): Chairman, James C. White
A.
John
r,
Inspecto
(647): Co-chairmen, HarryW . Deitchman (753), John N. Sapp (740).
J. Loran Robertson (421), R. Joseph Zarubica (766): Host: Hawthor ne
Lodge No. 647.
Program : No. 1, SCRL panel-P ercy E. Palmer ( 402). Alfred V.
Swartz (767), Frank 0. Brostrom (616). Howard H. Arnold (202):
No. 2, G. Basil Bates ( 418). No. 3, History of Mother Lode Lodges in
California, Leon 0. Whitsell , PGM: No. 4, panel-F rank H. Reinsch
( 677). A. V. Swartz (767), James C. White (647): No. 5, W. Ben
Sorrells ( 672): No. 6, Jay D. Rinehart ( 599).
Attendance, 150.

p ASADENA SEMINAR , MAY 17
Inspectors: All Inspectors in Pasaden a area; Chairman, Kermit A.
Jacobson (599): Master of Ceremonies, Jay D. Rinehart (599): Host,
Scottish Rite Cathedral.
Program : No. 1, SCRL panel-P ercy E. Palmer ( 402). Alfred V.
Swartz (767), Ralph Herbold (600), Howard H. Arnold (202): No. 2,
Kenneth L. Hemphill ( 728): Attendan ce Problems in Lodges, Forrest
Keck (178): No. 4, panel~James C. White (647), Frank H. Reinsch
( 677), Alfred V. Swartz ( 767): No. 5, Guy B. Mize ( 368): No. 6,
Ralph H. Head (352).
Attendance, 300.
VALLEJO SEMINAR , MAY 24

Inspector, Clarence E. Shoaf (District 316): Chairman, Ellis R. Randall (87): Co-chairman, Leo J. Rames (87): Host, Naval Lodge No. 87.
Program : Masonic Exposes and Anti-Ma sonry, NCRL panelW allace T. Masters ( 638) , Eugene S. Hopp ( 495), Henning J. Lueders
(20): No. 3, Richard R. Jolly (167): No. 4, Kenneth D. Mills (323);
No. 5, Elbert W. Davis (571 ): No. 6, Robyn Wilcox (243).
Attendance, 300.

SAN DIEGO SEMINAR , MAY 31

Inspectors: All San Diego area Inspectors: Chairman, Leonel C.
Panosh ( 574): Master of Ceremonies, Maurice B. Ross ( 35): Host:
San Diego County Masonic Officers Association and S. W. Hackett
Lodge No. 574.
Program : Famous Masonic Personalities, SCRL panel-R obert S.
Hoyle (632), Watson 0. Bailey (407), Edward H. Depew (442),
Leonel C. Panosh ( 574); Attendan ce Problems, William I. Miller ( 505) ,
and Victor Alleman ( 505): Investigation of Candidates, Newcomb
Condee (614 ): No. 4, Frank H. Reinsch (677), and Frank 0. Brostrom
(616 ); No. 6, Herbert A. Huebner (445).
Attendance, 175.
FRESNO SEMINAR , JUNE 14

Inspector, Herbert R. Hargrav e (District 418); Chairman, Edward
L. Kellas ( 24 7) : Co-chairman, Wallace F. Powers ( 530): Host, Scottish Rite Cathedral.
Program : No. 2, James W. Steiner (330): No. 4, Walter N. Han•
cock (336): The Wages of a Master Mason, John D. Otto (383): The
Impact of Science on Religious Thinking of Students, Arch Addingt on
(366): Need for Emphasized Research, Edward V. Barrett (99):
Orientation Course for the New Master Mason, SCRL panel-P ercy E.
Palmer (402). Arthur R. Moberg (504), Frank 0. Brostrom (616):
The Level of Time, Richard M. Worrell ( 366).
Attendance, 200.
SCHEDUL E "B"
PROGRAM 1958 RESEARC H SEMINAR

Grand Lodge Auditor ium-We dnesday , October 1
MODERA TOR

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., P.G.M. ( 529)
PANEL D1scuss1 0Ns

(a) Guide to Masonic Law and Procedure, by Henry C. Clausen,
P.G.M., Judge Advocate ( 630 ).
( b) Investigation of Candidates, by Newcomb Condee ( 614).
(c) Discussion of Proposition 16, by John A. Owen (647).
(d) Trestleb oard Planning, by Alfred F. Breslauer, J.G.W. (344).
NoTE: A question-and-answer period followed delivery of the
prepared remarks of each speaker.

250

REP ORT OF
ON TRIA L PRO CED URE S
TEE
SPEC IAL COM MIT
To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
red to Gran d
The Special Committee on Trial Proce dures rende
ing in some
review
t
repor
sive
rehen
Lodg e at its meeting in 1957 a comp
ictions
jurisd
other
of
er
numb
a
in
ed
follow
detail trial procedures as
and recommending certai n legislation.
ts to our
Following that repor t, Gran d Lodge adopt ed amendmen , 692.4
692.3
,
Ordin ances as prese ntly reflected in Sections 692.1, 692.2
for the entry
ded
provi
al,
gener
in
ts,
dmen
amen
These
693.
n
and Sectio
igation,
invest
upon
guilt,
of
of a plea to Maso nic charg es and a finding
tant
impor
an
as
this
d
regar
We
d.
if a plea of guilty or no plea is entere
dure.
Proce
improvement in our Trial
that, as an
In its 1957 repor t this committee advised Gran d Lodge
cting a
condu
of
d
metho
l
"idea
the
that
unanimous conclusion, it felt
commission apMaso nic Trial is by a perma nent or semi- perma nent
, and with
Lodge
pointed by the Gran d Mast er or elected by the Gran d
was then
ittee
comm
Your
no powe r of trial by the individual lodges."
d Lodge
Gran
this
g
itutin
const
s
of the opinion, and still is, that the lodge
outside
an
to
ers
memb
their
of
trial
the
are not now willing to surren der
to
ation
legisl
se
propo
to
act
s
useles
a
be
would
it
commission and that
that effect at this time.
procedure
A few suggestions as to minor chang es in our prese nt trial
as of
them
d
regar
time,
this
at
not,
do
We
have come to our attent ion.
es.
sufficient importance to prese ntly recommend any chang
to provide for
ded
amen
was
In 1951 Section 699 of our Ordin ances
Trial. The
nic
Maso
each
at
e
presid
to
r
the appoi ntmen t of a Trial Maste
Mast er
Past
any
or
,
lodge
the
of
r
Maste
the
either
Trial Maste r could be
The
law."
nic
of this jurisdiction "in good stand ing and skilled in Maso
in
ring
occur
errors
many
theor y behin d this amen dmen t was that
one
by
over
ed
presid
was
trial
the
Maso nic Trials would be eliminated if
is sound.
"skilled in Masonic law." We are satisfied this theor y
the Mast er of
nated
Too often, however, Gran d Maste rs have desig
do. We are
to
so
s
fitnes
his
to
d
the Lodge to preside, witho ut any regar
appea red to
trial
ective
prosp
the
when
advis ed that in more recent times,
the selecto
given
was
n
eratio
consid
real
some
prese nt some problems,
end too
comm
t
tion of a comptent Past Maste r to preside. We canno
law"
nic
Maso
in
ed
"skill
strong ly to Grand Maste rs that one truly
ecomp
a
With
trial.
the
over
e
shoul d be selected in every case to presid
being
as
dure
proce
trial
nt
prese
our
d
tent person presiding, we regar
ience with the
adequ ate. In any event, we think a few years ' exper
r chang es
furthe
e
amendments adopt ed last year to be desirable befor
are made.
its adoption.
We, therefore, offer the following Resolution and move

251

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

be received
RESO LVED : 1. That the Repo rt of the Committee
and filed.
2. That the committee be discharged.
Respectfully submitted.
FRAN K B. BELCH ER
SAMU EL STEEL MAN
HARV EY HARK NESS

(The repor t was accep ted and the committee disch arged
ciation for the work accomplished.)

with appre -

REP ORT OF SPEC IAL COM MIT TEE ON CEM ETER

IES

To the Most Wors hipfu l Grand Lodge of California:
has devot ed
This past year your committee on Maso nic cemeteries
to develop a
as
so
ng
thinki
its
lize
crysta
to
pt
much of its time in an attem
ery problems
series of recommendations which would clarify our cemet
to permit future constructive planning.
cemeteries, to
Your committee has continued its efforts to locate
and to accur ately
review and confirm information alread y accumulated
ittee and for the
comm
tabula te the information for the future use of the
flies of Gran d Lodge.
are in a
As repor ted to you last year. many of our cemeteries
s have
lodge
many
ittee,
comm
neglected state. With the formation of this
effort
s
seriou
a
made
have
and
ity
become conscious of their responsibil
entire
the
to
credit
t
reflec
will
which
ard
stand
to bring their plots up to a
fraternity.
appoi nted
When M:.W :. Past Grand Mast er L. Harol d Ande rson
eries.
cemet
our
to
as
ble
availa
ation
inform
no
this committee there was
ceme-six
eighty
Since that time, we have investigated and repor ted on
lodges, nine are
teries. Of these, twent y-thre e are owne d by a lodge or
Odd Fellows,
of
r
Orde
t
enden
owne d jointly with a lodge of the Indep
but now
iodge
nic
Maso
a
by
d
owne
rly
seventeen are cemeteries forme
d but
owne
ely
privat
are
-flve
thirty
,
funds
public
are opera ted with
had
which
eries
contain Masonic sections, and two were privat e cemet
used the name Masonic in their corpo rate title.
to and made a
The recommendations of this committee are attach ed
part of this report.
RECOM MEND ATION No. 1
MASO NIC CEME TERY AT FIDDL ETOW N (AMA

DOR COUN TY)

a
·.Pas t Gran d Maste r L. Harol d Ande rson, in appointing
M.
first
was
ion
attent
"My
s:
follow
committee on cemeteries, wrote as
etown , about six
directed to this subject (cemeteries) on a visit to Fiddl
ery neglected
miles easter ly of Plymouth. Here I found a Maso nic cemet
nity."
and in disuse and everything but a credit to our frater

·.w.

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your committee investigated with the aid of Inspector J. Wesley
Sibole. learned that the plot belonged to old St. Mark's Lodge No. 85 of
Fiddletown. The charter of this lodge was revoked in 1894. No record
of this cemetery was found in the office of our Grand Secretary. A quick
search of the title revealed that on February 8. 1871. a deed to lots 26
and 27 of Block 11 Fiddletown was delivered to St. Mark's Lodge No.
85. This deed was never recorded in the Amador County records. However, the County Recorder informed us that the title is still good as it
was a Judges certificate. The property is located in the northe~st comer
of the community cemetery. not separately fenced, and contains .63 of
an acre.
It would appear from Sections 384 and 413 of the California Masonic
Code that, "other property of every kind" should have included the
cemetery. On the other hand, the tru~!ee appo~~ed ~y Gr~nd Lodge
may have felt that it would hardly be most Jud1c10us to dispose of a
cemetery.
So that this item may be cleared for the record and proper title established, your Committee on Cemeteries recommends:
1. That a proper title search be authorized and that the necessary
funds be allocated for this purpose.
2. That should the title prove that Lots 26 and 27 of Block 11,
Fiddletown. still remain in the name of St. Mark's Lodge No. 85, that
the ownership thereof be transferred to the Grand Lodge of California.
3. That should this property come into the hands of the Grand Lodge
of California through lawful transfer of ownership, that Grand Lodge
take immediate steps to restore that portion of the Community Cemetery
now owned by Grand Lodge and that it be made an historical monument
to our brothers of St. Mark's Lodge No. 85 and to the ghost town of
Fiddletown.
4. That should the above recommendations be accepted, that arrangements for its perpetual care be set up by Grand Lodge.
5. That should it be the will of Grand Lodge that they accept these
recommendations, then sufficient funds should be allocated to accomplish
this memorial.
RECOMMENDAT ION No. 2
IN REGARD TO SECTION 200 CALIFORNIA MASONIC CODE
Section 200 of the California Masonic Code says that all Masonic
Lodges owning and operating real property .•. shall submit an annual
profit-and-loss statement to the Grand Lodge Committee on Lodge
Financing.
Your Committee on Cemeteries believes that it was not the intent
of Grand Lodge in the enactment of Section 200 to include our Masonic
cemeteries. Nevertheless. as we read this section, we can see no other
interpretation than that they are included. A lodge owning a Masonic
cemetery is certainly "owning and operating real property."
We. therefore, recommend:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

253

1. That all -lodges owning Masonic cemeteries, including those
owned jointly with other lodges or other organizations, be informed that
they come within the full scope of Section 200 of the California Masonic
Code.
2. That they be required under Section 200 of the California Masonic
Code to 6.le a profit-and-loss statement at the close of each fiscal year
of such lodge. cemetery association or corporation, with the Grand Lodge
Committee on Lodge Financing.
RECOMMENDAT ION No. 3
IN REGARD TO SECTION 199. CALIFORNIA MASONIC CODE

Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries feels that for so many
years we have been ~nclined to ignore our cemeteries, that when such
legislation as Section 199 of the California Masonic Code is written or
interpreted, we are inclined to forget our cemetery problem. We therefore, suggest and recommend that Section 199 be amended by the
addition of a new sub-section so as to specifically include cemeteries.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries recommends:
1. That a new sub-section be added to Section 199 of the California
Masonic Code, to be known as sub-section 4.
2. That this sub-section be so worded as to specifically cover the
formation of a Masonic Cemetery by a Masonic lodge or lodges.
RECOMMENDAT ION No. 4
ANNUAL CEMETERY REPORT FROM LoDGES

Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries has found many plots
neglected or in disuse. It is our studied opinion that many of the places
in which our dead lie buried are no longer suitable due to the continued
neglect and lack of interest of the lodge membership.
In 1891, M. ·.w.·.Past Grand Master Alvan R. Conklin ruled, "that
the providing of a suitable place for burial of its dead, and the maintenance thereof. are legitimate expenses of a lodge."
It is the opinion of the committee that an annual report from those
lodges owning cemeteries should serve as a continual reminder of their
.
obligation.
Your Cemetery Committee, therefore, recommends:
1. That all lodges owning Masonic cemeteries or any part of such
cemeteries be required to submit an annual report to the Grand ·L odge
Committee on Cemeteries.
2. That such report shall show in detail the name of the lodge, the
name of the cemetery, its corporate name, date of organization, size of
property, number of lots sold, number remaining unsold, number of lots
sold during current fiscal year, amount expended for maintenance during
current fiscal year, condition of cemetery, and a copy of their profit-andloss statement.
3. That each lodge owning any portion of a Masonic cemetery main-

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ce, whos e duty it shall
tain a stand ing committee on cemetery maintenan
their cemetery and to
of
ition
cond
ical
phys
be to be responsible for the
vals, as well as to repo rt
repo rt its condition to the lodg e at regu lar inter
eteries.
annu ally to the Gran d Lodg e Committee on Cem
RECO MME NDAT ION No. 5
COMM ERCI ALISM

s Section 333 B-3 as
Your Comm·ittee on Maso nic Cemeteries read
to the .us~ of the word
meaning that no Maso n shall use or be a party
l association cond ucted
Maso nic unless it shall be a cemetery or buna
benefit of Maso ns or
whol ly by Maso ns and only for the use and
.
Maso nry.
ten~s
ceme
our
of
few
very
that
ittee
It is the opinion of this comm
Ther e are some Maso nic
come with in the scope of this inter preta tion.
ns only. Man y restr ict the
cemeteries which limit the sale of lots to Maso
other s permit the sale of
Still
sale of lots to Maso ns and their families.
des all of those cemeinclu
p
grou
lots to the gene ral public. This last
pend ent Orde r of Odd
teries which are joint ly owne d with the Inde
Fellows.
it is not the in~ent
In raising the ques tion of possible commercialism,
been pract iced
long
have
h
whic
of this committee to set aside customs
our cemeteries
n
withi
ed
exist
have
ms
by the Craf t. Some of these custo
these have
use
beca
is
It
.
ornia
Calif
in
nry
since the beginning of Maso
feel that
now
we
s that
been permitted to go unno ticed all of these year
ssary
nece
then
,
error
in
if
our recor ds shou ld eithe r recognize them or,
corrections shou ld be made.
ed atten tion on c~~- .
Duri ng recent years , Gran d Lodge has focus
pted to define and hm1t
mercialism and throu gh its committee has attem
originally and.p erha ps
any such activity. Ther e can be little doub e that
~ commerc1~1. We
degre
basically all Maso nic cemeteries are to some
tely determine the
defim
to
us
for
now feel that the time has arriv ed
scop e of our cemeteries.
fore recommends:
Your Committee on Maso nic Cemeteries there
in relation to our
lism
1. That Gran d Lodg e define commercia
Maso nic cemeteries.
sale of lots withi n a
2. That a deter mfaa tion be made as to when the
and when it comes with in
Maso nic cemetery ceases to be pure ly Maso nic
our definition of commercialism.
RECO MME NDAT ION

No. 6

TO BURI ALS
GRAN D LoDG E POLIC Y IN REGA RD

caref ully studi ed the
Your Committee on Maso nic Cemeteries has
find twenty-ftve secwe
index
its
Calif ornia Maso nic Code . With in
een of these same
fourt
ce:
servi
al
funer
tions which deal with our
addit ional sections. This
sections are listed unde r burials. plus six
code which outline our
makes a total of thirty -one sections in our

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF ORNI A

255

of a brother. Whe n we
~rope~ course of actio n following the death
three sections to which
inves tigat e cemeteries in the code, we find but
to refer .
ble place for a burial
.secti on 409A in 1891 provides that "a suita
mate expe nses of
legiti
are
of its d~~d, an? the main tenan ce thereof.
provides that "a
1955
and
1954
in
a lodge. . Section 333h passe d
itself of trust obligations
lodg e owni ng cemetery prop erty may relieve
ed by a cemetery
t~ m.aintain t~e prop erty if such burd ens are assum on 332A passe d
Secti
d."
~1stnct to w?1ch the P.roperty is trans ferre
tery the word Maso nic
ceme
d
owne
tely
priva
a
that
ides
prov
936
~n ~
subje ct to proce eding s
is
nic
Maso
as
in its name or adve rtisin g itself
to cease and desis t."
exists a definite obli.It is the opinion of your committee that there
past time to give
long
is
gatio n to our deceas~d bro~her~ and ~hat it
y remi nd us of
nuall
conti
will
h
wh·1c
thou ght to some defimte legislation
tiful service
beau
a
er
deliv
we
and
als
funer
this .obligation. We atten d
we forthat
e
his grav
but 1t seems that once a broth er is lowered into
t in a
Craf
the
of
pride
get our responsibilities to him. We forge t the
.
grave
well cared for
fore recommends:
Your Committee on Maso nic Cemeteries there
on to be adde d to
secti
ise
conc
clear
a
t
1. That Gran d Lodge adop
time as our policy and
the Calif ornia Code which will stand for all
.
duty to the dead
mand atory upon
2. That prop er care and maintenance be made
.
teries
ceme
nic
all Maso
Maso nic plots with in
. 3. That si~ilar legislation be considered for
pnva te cemeter1e~.
nsibility of carin g for
4. That Gran d Lodg e decide upon the respo nic emblem which
Maso
a
by
ed
those grave s of Maso ns clear ly mark
do not come within the above groups.
RECO MME NDAT ION

No. 7

CEME TERY DISTR ICTS

caref ully studi ed the
. Your Co~mittee on Maso nic Cemeteries has
Past Gran d Mast ers Harrulin gs made in 1954 and 1955 by M:. w:.
a lodg e may relieve itself
wel.1 and Clau sen in whic h they decided that
prop erty if such burd ens
tery
of its trust obligations to maintain ceme
ion by your committee
tigat
Inves
are assum ed by ~ ceme tery district.
cemeteries which have
nic
Maso
teen
seven
has brou ght to light some
ation of cemetery
r~cei~ed "reli ef of its trust oblig ation s" by the form
d1str1cts.
this ruling shou ld be
Your ~ommittee is not altog ether sure that
For exam ple we
nces.
msta
circu
of
followed in all cases regar dless
No. 79, that such a~tion
agre e that in the case of Hum bold t Lodge
and the community. The
was wise and in the best inter est of Maso nry
the city's expansion. By
ceme tery had to be moved to make room for

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

256

257

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
REcoMMENDATION No. 9

mutual agreement the city took over the cemetery as an historical land.mark. On the other hand should a lodge be relieved of its obligation merely because lack of interest and poor management has forced
them into a position wherein the lodge must use some of its own funds
to rehabilitate the cemetery or are they to be permitted to slide o~t
from under by forming a cemetery district which will assume their
responsibilities.
Your committee questions the use of public funds as a means of
relieving us of our obligation. We wonder at the reaction of a brother
or his family in the purchase of a plot in a Masonic cemtery, when
they suddenly find that the cemetery has become, not a Masonic plot,
but one supported and managed by public funds.
Your committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends:
1. That legislation be prepared to clarify Section 333h of the
California Masonic Code by setting forth conditions under which a
lodge may "relieve itself of its trust obligations."
2. Should this Grand Lodge determine that some or all of our
Masonic cemeteries are operating in violation of our rulings on commercialism, then legislation should be prepared requiring all of our
cemeteries to operate within the terms of such ruling or to dispose of
their holding through cemetery districts or otherwise.
RECOMMENDATION No. 8
MASONIC PLOTS WITHIN PRIVATE CEMETERIES

Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries has found that Masonic
plots within private cemeteries have been and are being kept in excellent
condition. As long as a private cemetery displays the proper respect
in the use of our name, we realize that there is little to be done.
The mere fact that a private cemetery has a Masonic section (usually not exclusively sold to Masons) may in itself indicate that our
name is being used in fostering the sale of their lots. This custom,
however, is one of long standing and no breach of our laws has come
to the attention of this committee.
With this generally accepted practice of Masonic plots within
private cemeteries, your committee believes that proper legislation
should be provided prior to the time that conflict with our standards
might develop.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends:
1. That legislation be presented to Grand Lodge for its consideration wherein the use of the name Masonic by private cemeteries would
be protected by a set of standards as to the use of our name as well
as setting a minimum standard for the maintenance and perpetual
care of the Masonic plot.
2. That should such legislation be the pleasure of Grand Lodge,
then all private cemeteries be sent copies of such legislation.

Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries has information on nine
cemeteries where a Masonic Lodge has ownership jointly with the
lndepend~n~ Order of Odd Fellows. One of this group has a cemetery
operated Jointly by the community, the Masonic Lodge, the Independent Order of Odd Fellows and the Catholic Church through a board
of directors.
. Two of the abo:'~ now indicate that they are within a cemetery district. O.f the r~ain.ing seven cemeteries, one is neglected, two report
that their condition 1s very poor, two indicate that they are well cared
for and two have given the committee no report as to the condition
of their cemetery.
It .is the opinion .of your committee that joint ownership of a cemet~ry is not conduove to good maintenance. With the passage of
time, one or both organizations are apt to lose interest and live in
~ope that the other. will. pick up the full responsibility. Two organizations may enact legislation and, though well intended, may stir up misunderstandings and may even lead to hard feelings.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends:
1. That legislation be prepared to prohibit any further joint ownership of cemetery property.
2. This legislation should permit a Masonic Lodge to own outright a~y property within a cemetery and the section belonging to a
Masonic Lodge should be their exclusive responsibility.
3. Cemeteries now under joint ownership should be encouraged
to secure clear title to that portion used by them and to sever the relationship of joipt ownership either through mutual agreement or by
purchase.
RECOMMENDATION No.

1O

MASONIC EMBLEMS ON SINGLE GRAVES

Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries believes that the most
difficult problem before it is the great number of single graves that
have come to our attention all bearing some type of Masonic emblem
on their markers. Some are simple wooden markers with the emblem
painted thereo~ while other ar~ elaborate in their carving on marble.
A~l cemeteries seem to contain some of these Masonic graves. Some
~re single graves in lonely out of the way places, while others are
in small groups away from any recognized cemetery. In many of the
cases which we have studied, the graves are neglected and almost
forgotten.
It is the opinion of the Cemetery Committee that our obligation is
as great to the Mason buried in these graves as it is to the Mason
who happens to .be buried withi~ the limits of a Masonic cemetery.
Your Committee on Masonic Cemeteries therefore recommends:
1. That Grand Lodge determine our obligation to those Masons

259

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

who have been buried outside a Masonic cemetery, be they within
existing cemeteries or in single isolated graves.
.
2. This legislation should be limited to those graves bearing some
Masonic identification. Were we to attempt to locate and care for
all Masonic graves, our search would be limitless and we could never
be sure that our task was completed.
·
Respectfully submitted,

suppressed around 1948 by the President Gomez and confiscation of
Masonic property threatened. Files and papers of the Grand Lodge
were buried. All windows in the temple in Cali were broken by vandals. Hole was bored in wall for bombing. Temple was sold and
vandalism ceased. Now that this Grand Lodge is able to raise its
head again, it is entitled to and should be encouraged by our recognition.
We therefore move that the Occidental Grand Lodge of Cali, Colombia be recognized by the Grand Lodge of California.

258

JACK C. BUTLER
SAMUEL E. LBDDELL
HAROLD
SCHRODER
THOMAS EDWARDS

JoHN R. MooRE
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ARTHUR M. WARREN

c.

Referred to the Committee on Segregation.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON
RECOGNmON OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
GRAND l..oDGE OF AusTRIA

This Grand Lodge was originally founded in 1784. During yvorld
War II it disappeared but was reestablished around 1952 and is now
recognized by the United Grand Lodge of England and by some 37
Grand Lodges in the United States.
.
·It fully meets our tests for recognition including legitimacy o~ origin,
territorial sovereignty, monotheism and other necessary essentials and
is entitled to recognition.
We therefore move that the Grand Lodge of Austria be recognized
by the Grand Lodge of California.
JoHN R. MooRE
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ARTHUR M. WARREN

Unanimously adopted.
OccIDENTAL GRAND LoDGE

Valle del Cauca
Cali, Colombia
This Grand Lodge has petitioned for recognition. It was organized
in 1935 upon three regular lodges chartered by the Serene Grand Lodge
of Cartagena and was sponsored by that Grand Lodge. It is recogniz~d
by all Grand Lodges in Colombia, to-wit: the Grand ~ge of Colo~b1a
at Bogota, the Grand National Lodge of Colombia at Barranquilla,
Grand Lodge Santander at Cucuta.
This Grand Lodge meets all of our tests for recognition. A member
of this committee on October 24. 1954 visited .with a ~ast <;7rand
Master of this Grand Lodge. Mario Lemos, at his home m Cah, Colombia, at which time it was learned that Masonry in Colombia was

Unanimously adopted.
UNITED GRAND LoDGE OF SAO PAULO

Past Grand Master Moore as chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence made reference to the situation in Brazil. He recommended
and moved that the name of the United Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo as
contained in our records be changed to the Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo.
The recommendation was adopted and the Grand Secretary was so
instructed.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE TO
STUDY CLUBHOUSES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., State of California:
At the annual.communication of 1957 there was adopted a resolution
directing the Grand Master to appoint a special committee to make a
study of the Masonic Clubhouses at the University of California at
Berkeley and at Los Angeles. This resolution was passed as a result
of the recommendations by the Grand Master in his annual report to
Grand Lodge.
By letter dated May 20, 1958, two committees were appointed. One
to study the clubhouse at Berkeley and the other to study the clubhouse
in Los Angeles.
The reason for requesting a report was the feeling that Grand Lodge
exercised little or no control over the activities of these two clubhouses,
even though costs of supervision, operation and maintenance are budgeted Grand Lodge expense items. The expenese of operating the two
clubhouses is approximately $35,000.00 per year.
Each of your special committees has prepared and filed reports covering their findings. These reports should have further study by the Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes Committees.
A summary of the conclusions reached is as follows:
Insofar as the Berkeley Clubhouse is concerned. that section of the

260

PROCEEDING S OF THE

committee recommends that no action on the part of Grand Lodge is
necessary or required, for under the Articles of Incorporatio n and the
By-Laws by which that Board of Directors operate, Grand Lodge and
the Grand Master have all the control that should be necessary for the
following reasons:
1. The Articles of Incorporatio n state specifically that the Corporation shall operate in accordance with the rules, regulations and discipline
of Grand Lodge and shall always be subject to such rules and regulations.
2. That the Directors shall be appointed in the manner required by
the rules and regulations of Grand Lodge.
3. That the student organization operates under a constitution which
appears to be compatible with the purposes of the clubhouse.
As might be expected, the conclusions by the southern section of
your committee differ somewhat from those of the northern section and
may be summarized as follows:
1. A complete set of legal papers pertaining to the corporation governing the clubhouse at Los Angeles and the by-laws by which it is
operated are not on fl.le in the office of the Grand Secretary or obtainable
from the Board of Directors. It is the recommendation of the committee
that a complete set be fl.led.
2. Title to the real property should be vested in Grand Lodge.
3. Some recommendations have been made in regard to the composition and term of office of the Board of Directors.
4. Further recommendations stress the need for improved communi·
cations regarding the clubhouse facilities and services among the members of the constituent lodges.·
Respectfully submitted,
PAUL A. BROM, (Northern Section)
FRED H. BLANCHARD , (Southern Section)
Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence and on Policy and General
Purposes.
A voluminous report relative to the respective clubhouses was fl.led by
each of the sections. These reports have been forwarded to the Com•
mittee on ·Policy and General Purposes.

261

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF DIRECTO RS OF THE
MASONIC CLUBHOU SE, LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Directors takes pleasure in presenting herewith its
report for the fl.seal year ending June 30, 1958.
Again, as in previous years, it is not our intention to report the
yearly activities of the clubhouse. Reference to the Grand Lodge Proceedings of 1956 will fittingly describe those activities.
During the year we had one replacement on our Board, Brother
Paul R. Nichols ( 662). who succeeded Brother Howard M. Wilson
whose term expired. We also regretfully accepted the resignation of
Brother John M. Askin. Due to the pressure of other duties, Brother
Askin felt that he could not serve the club properly.
The Board has adopted a budget for the coming year and submits
the following:
BUDGET- 1958-'59
MASONIC CLUB, UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA AT Los ANGELES

Actual
Director ·················-·············································$ 3,212.46
Assistant director ................................................ 1,982.16
Building Assistants.............................................. 1,294.56
571.99
Gardening and garden supplies..........................
59.37
..........
...................
Newspapers and magazines...
Heat, light, water and power.............................. 1.129.87
General building. maintenance............................ 2,704.50
355.12
Telephone ............................................................
102.23
Office supplies......................................................
78.52
..............
....................
Stationery and printing......
88.91
Postage ................................................................
Taxes:
Personal property ........................................... . 3,206.43
911.00
Withholdin g ................................................... .
395.75
.
..
....................
,
..
....................
Payroll ....................
73.40
Insurance ..............................................................
5.50
Safe deposit box rental ........................................
100.00
Auditing ............................................................. .
Depreciatio n ........................................................
121.83
Miscellaneous ·······---········-·····-···-·····················---New equipment.. .................................................. 2,218.09

Budget
$ 4,140.00
2,340.00
1,320.00
600.00
100.00
1,200.00
3,800.00
350.00
100.00
200.00
90.00
3,300.00
200.00
100.00
6.00
150.00
5,885.00
100.00

$23,981.00
$18,591.69
increases
salary
to
due
Our budget shows an increase of $1,350.00
which
repainting
necessary
and
director,
assistant
for the director and
repainting.
previous
our
since
years
six
been
has
It
done.
be
now
must

262

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

The item of new equipment shown in actual expens~ of $2,21.8.09
covers the new fixtures and furniture for our study-t his expendit ure
was not included in our previous budget. It came out of reserves.
Our depreciation is determined as follows:
Building and landscaping (less depreciation) ...... $54,828.63
$2.885.00
Depreciation on basis of nineteen years............
15,038.21
..
tion)......
deprecia
Furnitur e and equipment (less
3,000.00
Depreciation on basis of five years....................
$5.885.00
Total depredat ion........................................ ..
Respectfully submitted.
A. CURTIS SMITH ( 1959). Chairman
CLYDE C. SHOEMAKER ( 1959). Vice Chairman
C. EARLE CRANE ( 1960) , Secretar y-Treasu rer
HERBERT H. COOPER ( 1961)
ELVIN c. DRAKE ( 1961 )
MARION A. DUNCAN ( 1961)
GEORGE E. HALL ( 1960)
S. RoY HowELL ( 1960)
FRANK M. JENKINS ( 1959)
JOHN A. KLARQUIST ( 1959)
GEORGE KUSSMAN ( 1959)
PAUL R. NICHOLS ( 1961)
FRANK H. REINSCH ( 1960)
EDWIN w. WADE (1961)

REPOR T OF THE BOARD OF DIREC TORS OF THE
MASON IC CLUB HOUSE, BERKELEY
To the Most Worship ful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M .. State of California:

The Board of Directors of the Masonic Club of the University, Inc.,
Berkeley. is pleased to submit its Annual Report of the activities of the
Club House for the fiscal year ended July 31. 1958.
The year has been an active one insofar as stude~t act.ivities ~re
concerned; however. your Board has given serious considerati~n during
the year to ways and means of encouraging and promoting an increased
use of the club by a greater number of qualified students on the ca~pus.
A committee of the Board is making a careful study of the operat~onal
program of the Club House and a preliminary report of the committee,
which includes a number of recommendations, has been accepted by
the Board. We expect to have in operation at the beginni? g of the fall
semester an operatin g plan that will encourage more qualified students
to affiliate themselves with the Club House and participa te in the activi~
ties which it sponsors. In carrying the plan into effect, a number of
student-i mposed initiation requirements that have g~o~n up over the
years are being modified or eliminated. The supervision of the Club

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

263

House, which has been lacking in many respects due to lack of
sufficient quali.6ed personnel, will be improved. To accomplish this, it
is planned that a trained social activities supervisor will be substitut ed
for the student assistant and. by this measure, it is hoped that the social
activities program of the students can be better planned and directed
and the effectiveness of our Executive Director can thereby be supplemented and enhanced. This program will entail a somewh at greater
expendit ure for salaries than has been required in the past and our
budget for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1959 has been increased in
the salaries category by $750.00 and for promotional activities by
$500.00. It is expected that this increase of $1250.00 in our budget for
this program will result in needed improvement in supervision of the
Club House, provide guidance to the students in the planning of their
social activities. and, it is hoped, will encourag e use of the Club House
by an increased number of quali.6ed Universi ty students.
The Club House serves as a home away from home for our many
young Universi ty affiliated Masons. It is a great gatherin g place
especially at noon. Our guest book shows that an increasing number
of visitors to Berkeley stop in to see the Club House. In addition to
serving the students , the Club House facilities have been extended
during the year to organiza tions such as the Henry Morse Stephen s
Lodge, the East Bay Masters and Warden s Association. the Universi ty
Service Club, the District Supervisors of De Molay, and other Masonic
District Officers Associations.
The Board has approved the banks in which monies of the Club
House are to be deposite d with the further provision that no deposit in
any one of sucb depositories shall exceed the amount therein insured by
the Federal Deposit Insuranc e Corporat ion. Savings account transfers
were made during the year to comply with this new policy.
Damage of $739.00 to the property caused by an automobile accident
was fully covered by insurance. Restorat ion was completed and insurance recovery received during the year.
There have been no major replacements of property during the year.
However, extensive repairs are now being made to replace cast stone
caps over windows on the exterior of the building. Water damage over
the years caused the cast stone caps, which were installed at the time
the building was construc ted, to chip and fall apart. Sections of stone
falling to the ground caused a hazard. This work should be completed
by the time school commences this fall.
A study is being ~ade of the use of the student loan fund with the
objective of encouraging greater use of the loan fund by students in
qualified cases.
During the year we accepted with regrets the resignation from our
Board of Brother Walter T. Helms. Walter asked to be relieved because
of pressure of personal activities. He was succeeded on the Board by

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

John L. Wixon. Brother Wixon is a Past Master of El Cerrito Lodge
No. 705. John has been very active for many years in De Molay work.
The Board has adopted, and previously submitted to the Finance
Committee, a budget for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1959. The
recommended budget is submitted herewith as follows:

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON VISUAL AIDS
(Majority Report)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., State of California:

264

Executive Director .................................................. $ 3,600
Assistant Executive Director.................................. 3,000
Accountant ................................................................
360
Promotional Activities ..............................................
500
Janitor and Gardener................................................ 1,500
Heat, Llght, Water and Power................................ 1,200
Building Maintenance and Repairs........................ 1,600
Annual Cleaning ......................................................
200
Furniture Replacements .......................................... 1,500
Taxes
Personal Property Taxes.................................... 3,100
Social Security Taxes..........................................
200
Janitorial Supplies ....................................................
450
Garden Supplies ..................................................... .
75
Auditing ....................................................................
150
Insurance ..................................................................
450
Telephone ............................................................... .
250
Office Supplies, Stationery, Printing and
Periodicals ..........................................................
100
Garbage Disposal ................................................... .
75
Miscellaneous ..........................................................
150
Depreciation ........................................................... . 6,000
TOTAL BUDGET ............................................ $24,460
The Board of Directors deem it an honor to have the opportunity to
serve in this worthy Masonic activity.
Respectfully submitted,
WALLACE E. YoRK, President
( 1960)
GORDON BLACK, Vice President
( 1961)
C. D. NIELSEN, Secretary
( 1959)
R. C. HORSTMANN, Treasurer
( 1960)
GENE C. OTWELL, Assistant Secretary ( 1959)
PAUL s. BOREN
( 1959)
ANGUS S. HOLDEN
( 1961 )
CARL B. M UNCK
( 1960)
JoHN WIXON
( 1961 )

265

This committee was appointed to make a study relative to the use
of slides, charts and other visual aids in connection with our ritual.
(Proceedings 1957, page 387).
Our first problem was to determine what visual aids could be used
under the long~established law and policy of this Grand Lodge.
One of the recognized landmarks is "the secrecy of the institution.''
( C.M.C., App. p. 343). In 1908, this Grand Lodge adopted a clear
declaration as to the secrecy of its ritualistic work, which w:e regard as
binding upon us. ( 1908: 120). This declaration included the following
points:
"1. Freemasonry has as essentials certain secrets of ritual which it
forever conceals and never reveals to any person in the world except its
own members.
"2. These ancient mysteries are communicated only by the instruc~
tive tongue to the attentive ear and are safely lodged in the faithful
breast; and any other mode of communication in Ancient Craft Masonry
is most positively forbidden in solemn form and manner.
"3. So likewise is forbidden the writing, printing or marking in any
manner, whereby the same becomes legible or intelligible to any person,
lest these secrets might become known to the profane.
4. No individual Mason is exempt from the obligation of profound
secrecy, and no human power can authorize him to write, print or mark
Masonic secrets in any manner whatsoever.
"5. The secrets are ancient landmarks of Freemasonry, and no body
of men, inside or outside of Lodge or Grand Lodge, has power to make
innovations in Ancient Craft Masonry.
"It is no excuse or justification for any that men are eager to break
these laws, or that men have broken them before, or that in other degrees
or orders of American Masonry cipher rituals may be in common use.
Our duty and obligation, as Ancient Craft Masons compel our obedience
to these ancient regulations."
This same policy was followed in 1938 ( 1938: 33~34) in the approval
of a ruling by Grand Lecturer Leslie E. Wood, as follows:
"Any slide, map, chart or picture of any nature, showing in part
or in whole, the secret work of the three degrees of Masonry, is contrary
to the laws of the fraternity and in violation of the obligations of the
order, and no lodge in this jurisdiction shall use such equipment in any
way, nor shall it or any Mason be in possession thereof."
It is settled, therefore, that -graphical references to or portrayals of
the secret or esoteric portions of our work are contrary to our laws and
obligations, whether by way of writings, codes or ciphers, or by slides,
films, charts, pictures or carvings. Consequently, our study of visual aids
1

267

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

and
is necessarily confined to things which are monitorial in charac ter
ally.
graphic
ted
illustra
or
which are permit ted to be explain ed
a
There are many monitorial emblems, such as the point within
have
which
oard,
trestleb
the
and
,
ashlars
perfect
and
rough
circle, the
t
been and can be exhibited in our lodgerooms in variou s forms withou
would
s,
emblem
rial
objection. A scroll or chart, if it exhibits only monito
ed
come within the same rule, as would slides or even films. The so-call
,
rulings
s
previou
by
barred
"chart s" with which we were familiar were
the
to
d
confine
not
were
they
e
approv ed by this Grand Lodge, becaus
secret
monitorial work and emblems, but included represe ntation s of
they
e
becaus
ted
elimina
were
ships
of
portion s of the work. Replic as
work.
the
of
referre d to an esoteric portion
The propos al to use visual aids is based on their suppos ed educat ional
of
value. The majori ty of your committee seriously ouestion the value
visual
the
not
,
emblem
the
of
ation
such aids. becaus e it is the explan
of
emblem itself, which is import ant. Our lodges are trying, by means
on the
sion
impres
an
create
to
work,
rial
monito
and
c
esoteri
the
both
We
mind of a single candid ate, or at most five candid ates at one time.
single
a
in
ted"
"educa
be
to
going
is
do not think that any candid ate
rmore,
evening by viewing a chart or a slide or a series of them. Furthe
slides
any
of
know
we
do
nor
seen
not
have
we
matter,
al
practic
as a
of
be
to
deem
we
which
or charts illustrating the monitorial work
the
of
are
we
ver,
Moreo
lodges.
our
in
use
sufficiently high quality for
to
opinion that the necess ary limitation of the scope of visual aids
e
becaus
value,
ional
monitorial work would itself destroy any real educat
and
work,
the
of
s
portion
ant
they relate quite often to the least import
least
their use would therefo re place undue emphasis on some of the
s.
import ant portion
If, however, we conced e some worth- while educat ional value to these
monitorial aids, the final problem would be how to make use of them.

would
of the secrets and work. In our opinion, a change in this respect
detract from the dignity of the work.
The explan ation of some of our monitorial emblems, such as those
in
of the third degree, have been intenti onally omitted from the work
now
should
these
that
think
not
do
order to shorten the lectures. We
be
be added to the lecture. On the contrar y, the candid ate should d
adopte
been
has
"which
r,
monito
the
study
to
d
require
and
aged
encour
the
by the fratern ity as a textboo k," and that he should thus learn
s.
emblem
these
explan ation of
We sugges t that there can always be an explan atory use of visual
degree
aids in our lodges, apart from and after the completion of the
visual
te
integra
to
way
no
is
there
that
er,
howev
feel,
We
work itself.
which
ned,
lengthe
and
aids into our ritual unless the ritual is revised
we certain ly do not recommend.
ic
We believe that there are other and better ways to impart Mason
supple
and
from
apart
ates,
candid
educat ion and knowle dge to our
ritual.
our
ing
disturb
or
ng
changi
t
mentar y to the ritual, and withou
idea
Many lodges are actuall y engage d in such methods. That is the
those
that
end
behind the education and researc h progra m. We recomm
in the
method s should be employed and that no change should be made
n of
additio
the
by
ance
perform
its
of
method
establi shed ritual or in the
so-call ed visual aids.
RALPH G. RICHES , Chairman
JAMES G. DISHER

266

Our ritual is and must continu e to be uniform. Whate ver the ritual
Any
is, •it must be the same for all lodges and manda tory on all lodges.
aids
the
and
lodges
all
in
use of visual aids would have to be identical
the
in
s
change
or
to,
ns
additio
Any
would have to be standa rdized.
difthe
to
add
would
rily
necessa
ritual
the
of
ance
manne r of perform
ficulty of attainin g and preserv ing uniformity.
Accord ing to our law, each degree confer red and all lectures in this
er.
jurisdiction must conform to the ritual tau~ht by the Grand Lectur
the
t
withou
taught
been
( C.M.C ., sec. 554). The ritual in the past has
"The
use of these so-called visual aids. It is orally communicated.
Any
."
tongue
tive
instruc
the
from
sound
the
attenti ve ear receives
part
l
integra
an
as
aids
visual
of
use
the
permit
to
ritual
change in the
would
and
us,
to
down
of our work would alter the ritual as handed
n
reverse the long-es tablish ed concept of a strictly oral communicatio

ELBER T

w. DAVIS

REPO RT OF SPECIAL COM MITT EE ON VISU AL AIDS
(Mino rity Repor t)
To the Most Worsh ipful Grand Lodge. F. & A. M .. State of California:

This is the report of the minority member of the Visual Aid com,
mittee, appoin ted by Most Worsh ipful Leo E. Anders on, Grand Master
ns
nicatio
commu
1957
dings,
procee
Lodge
Grand
in accord ance with
n and
page 387. I regret that I am unable to attend this communicatio
ask
and
nce
indulge
your
presen t this report person ally. Howev er, I beg
not
and
ry
Mason
of
benefit
the
for
d,
that it be accept ed as it is intende
ity.
animos
al
as any person
it
To proper ly presen t this report, I must of necessity, consid er
ries:
catego
ng
followi
under the
1. The committee itself,
2. Its purpos es and intent.
3. Its accomplishments,
4. My person al opinions and beliefs,
5. My recommendations.

269

NIA
GRAND LODGE OP CALIFOR

268

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

1. TH E COM MIT TEE
the committee:
The following bre thre n comprised
Bro ther Ral ph G. Riches, cha irm an
Bro ther James G. Disher,
Bro ther Rud olf Sto hler
Bro ther Elb ert W. Dav is, and
Bro ther Orm an T. Sto ne Sr.
in any of our discussion, owing
Bro ther Sto hler did not par tici pate
ster ,
a meeting called by the Gra nd Ma
to the fact tha t he was atte ndi ng ht tha t our committee meeting was
by reas ons of a summons, the nig the Juri spru den ce and the Policy
n of
sch edu led. In the recommendatio
ado pted by Gra nd Lodge, at the
ees,
mitt
com
es
pos
Pur
eral
in
and Gen
a special committee be sub stitu ted
t
1957 communication, it stat ed tha t
sen
con
the
had
tion
stitu
sub
tha t the
t
plac e of the Ritual Committee, and
tha
eve
bef ore tho se committees. I beli
r
of the pro pon ents who app eare d
l Elb ert W. Davis, Gra nd Lec ture
ipfu
the pre sen ce of the Ver y Wo rsh
ual
Vis
the
on
ge
Lod
mit tee of Gra nd
and cha irm an of the Ritual Com
ennot in acc ord anc e wit h the recomm
was
ber,
mem
in
Aid s committee as a
lted
resu
tee
mit
com
the
on
e
pres enc
to
dati ons . I also believe that his
ted
oin
app
e
ters for which we wer
rest rict ed discussions in the mat
consider.
MIT TEE

2. PUR POS ES AND INT ENT OP THE COM
mittee was to make a stud y, rela The pur pos es and inte nt of the com
e a
tion wit h our ritu al and to mak
tive to using visual aids in connec
pre
n
bee
ing
hav
ject, a resolution
FU LL evaluation of the enti re sub7 communication, proposing suc h a
sen ted to Gra nd Lod ge at its 195
stud y be made.
COM MIT TEE

3. THE Acc oMP LIS HM ENT s oF THE
accomplished by our committee,
It ·is my opinion tha t ver y little was such an imp orta nt matter. We
ion of
a
whi ch wou ld give us a full eva luat
app rox ima tely one hou r. It is true
ed
last
ch
whi
,
ting
mee
onl y held one
and
,
read
to
Aid s" was han ded to me
fou r-pa ge rep ort entitled "Vi sua l to form my conclusions, I presume.
ed,
tain
con
from the information it
tha t
rt, how eve r I am of the opinion
I do not know who wro te the repo ee wer e familiar with its con tent s
mitt
the maj orit y members of the com
y con cur red in its contents, whi ch
rall
natu
y
The
.
ting
mee
our
prio r to
is the basis of thei r rep ort to you.
BEL IEFS

i. MY PER SON AL OPI NIO NS AND
al aids in our ritu al will gre atly
I believe that the use of pro per visu whi ch is being taug ht. I also
tha t
in
assi st our can did ates in abs orb ing
aids will not violate any trus t or
al
visu
believe tha t the use of pro per

thre n
son ry. Reflect for a moment bre
any wa~ reveal the secrets of Ma
rets '
sec
o~r
of
one
ry
eve
Reference to
~
on the ritual ~four thre e degrees.
non
the
,
ons
epti
exc
few
y
wit h ver
exc ept ~ne, is spo ken alou d, and
ge
lod
the
emblems, are pre sen t in
~on~t~rial as ~ell as the monitorialI would commit a gro ss violation of
lly
w
Mt e1~ ~ater1_al stat e. Nat ura
in my repo rt, however you kno
asomc aw if I wer e to list them
in
ld
wou
ures
lect
our
in
aids
visual
them same as I. do. The use of the sen t ritual. The onl y refe renc e
pre
the
ng
ngi
cha
tate
essi
no way nec
lem
can did ate' s atte ntio n to the emb
;~uld be by gesture, to call theAll
per
pro
in
t
kep
be
ld
thes e aids wou
emg/res ent ed by the lecturer.
erro
er
oth
our
as
e
sam
the
lodge,
c~sto Y whe n not being used in the this be con stru ed as unlawf~l !m ld
tis. ~re~hren, I ask you, how cou
mumcatlon?

5. MY REC OMM END ATI ONS

tha t the rep ort of the

end
f~regoing, I would recommmaj
v· In 1v~~ of thei;xi1
orit y members, be not
ttee as rep orte d by the

1. s com
1sua
con curr ed 1n by this Gra nd Lodge.
incoming Gra nd Ma ster app oin t
I w_ould furt her recommend that the
who are not
ee, to be comprised of members
an ~ntire Y new committmitt
ees, to:
serv ing on any oth er com
our
luat e the use of visual aids in
. 11. Redconsider and furt her eva
r1tu a, an
aits 1959 communication reco mm end
. 2. Pre~ent to Gra nd Lod ge at
in
ner
man
the
and
,
the typ e of aids to be used, if any
tioh~shrehlative to be
used.
w 1c t ey sha.LI
ted,
Res pec tful ly and frat ern ally submit
ORM AN T. STO NE, Sa.

by a new committee was ado pted .
The recommendation for a rest udy
was refe rred to the Committee on
. The mat ter of an app rop riat ion
F mance.
At 12: 10 Gra nd Lod ge was called

off unti l 1:30 P.M .

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Thurs day, October 2, 1958

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES

At 1 :30 P.M. Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding.
The invocation was delivered by the Grand Chaplain.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON SCHOLARS.HIPS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F. & A. M., State of California:

The special committee appointed by the Grand Master to consider
the question of continuing the program of awarding scholarships for
advanced study in higher education, as recommended by Grand Master
L. Harold Anderson (Proceedings 1957, page 74), has had one meeting
in 1958. The committee submits the following report and recommendations:
1. The scholarship program as originally conceived is a worthwhile
activity in furthering Grand Lodge support of free public education,
and should be continued.
2. Indifferent results during the past years have been due to inadequate publicity and to failure on the part of applicants to comply with
announced standards.
3. Publicity for the program should be given through the constituent
lodges, as well as through university and college channels heretofore
used.
4. Exact standards should be set up for qualification and no consideration given to applicants and submissions which do not conform thereto.
5. Included in the specifications should be the requirement that
papers submitted deal with the history, development and value of the
public school system; and that they be of general interest and suitable for
publication in whole or in part in the California Freemason.
6. That the incoming Grand Master appoint a Special Scholarship
Committee to administer the program, judge the entries and recommend
to the Grand Master the granting of awards. Copies of winning papers
should be circulated not only to all members of the special committee,
but also to the Grand Master in support of recommendations for awards,
and to others directly interested.
7. That the special committee so appointed secure all possible information from other Grand Jurisdictions concerning similar programs
which may be in effect.
8. That the sum of $2,000 be appropriated for the purpose of awarding two scholarships during the forthcoming year.
Respectfully submitted:
PHIL N. MYERS
HENRY C. CLAUSEN
JoE L. SHELL
VIERLING KERSEY

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

271

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances reports as follows:
Our committee has considered 68 trial records, of which 32 will be
covered by this omnibus report and the others will be the subjects of
special reports by committee members. The special reports cover petitions for restoration, appeals, and any cases which seem to require
separate treatment.
We continue to urge those having anything to do with Masonic trials
or discipline in the lodges to carefully study the Masonic Code. When
it is read carefully its provisions are almost always plain and understandable. It would seem beneficial for the Masters and Secretaries to
look over the reports of this committee in the printed proceedings of
Grand Lodge for the past twenty years or so.
Secretaries should send copies of all charges filed with the lodge to
the Grand Secretary immediately so that Grand Lodge will know of
pending matters and also may tender some good advice as to any
defects of form of the charges. There is no present provision in our
law but it would seem desirable that a secretary notify the Grand Secretary whenever he mails a notice to anyone under Section 732, Masonic
Code, warning of automatic expulsion. He should enclose a copy of the
notice and state when it was sent by registered mail. As we stated in
our report last year, the secretary should make certain what prison or
jail the accused is in before mailing a notice under 732. Prisoners are
transferred from time to time.
Charges should be served strictly as required by our law. The same
applies to servlce of summons after a plea of Not Guilty is flied. If the
accused is within the jurisdiction of the lodge, i.e. living in the same
incorporated city, or living' nearer the lodge hall in unincorporated
territory than to the jurisduction of another lodge, service can be for
ten days and should be personal. If living in another city or town of this
state, service must be for thirty days and may be by mail. For those
without the state the time of service is ninety days. An amendment has
been proposed this year to make the ten-day service apply in the same
county, rather than within the jurisdiction of the lodge only. If such
change is made, the lodges should take note of it and govern themselves
accordingly.
If charges are served and the accused does not file a plea of Not
Guilty, and even where he flies a plea of Guilty, the Master must make
some investigation, and report in writing just what he did and what he
learned. The persons serving the charges should flle a certificate of
service and not leave it to the Master to state in his report that the
charges were served on a certain day, etc.
May we mention that Brother Ralph K. Pierson did not participate in
our deliberations on any trial record involving matters coming within

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the work of the Commercialism Committee or the former Publications
Committee.
In the following trial records we find no major errors nor miscarriages of justice. The procedural requirements of our laws have been
met and the evidence taken justifies the results:

No. 1582-A member of Bay City Lodge No. 526. Reprimand June 4,
1958.
No. 1583-A member of Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Expelled April 4,
1958.
No. 1586---A member of Lodge le Progres de l'Oceanie No. 371. Expelled June 27, 1958.
No. 1588-A member of Silveyville Lodge No. 201. Expelled July 3,
1958.
No. 1589-A member of Anchor Lodge No. 273. Expelled July 7, 1958.
No. 1592-A member of Glendale Lodge No. 544. Suspended July 3,
1958.
No. 1593-A member of Union Lodge No. 58. Suspended August 6,
1958.
No. 1594-A member of a North Carolina Lodge. Expelled July 2, 1958.
No. 1598-A member of Standard Lodge No. 440. Suspended August
1, 1958.
No. 1603-A member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. Expelled August 7,
1958.
No. 1604-A member of Burbank Lodge No. 406. Expelled August 7,
1958.

No. 1553-A member of Elk Grove Lodge No. 173. Expelled September 14, 1957.
No. 1555-A member of San Diego Lodge No. 35. Expelled November
1, 1957.
No. 1556---A member of Benicia Lodge No. 5. Expelled November 6,
1957.
No. 1557-A member of San Pablo Lodge No. 754. Expelled November 6, 1957.
No. 1559-A member of Poinsettia Lodge No. 633. Expelled December 5, 1957.
No. 1560---A member of La Mesa Lodge No. 407. Expelled December
2, 1957.
No. 1561-A member of Coronado Lodge No. 441. Suspended November 5, 1957.
No. 1562-A member of Normal Heights Lodge No. 632. Suspended
December 2, 1957.
No. 1563-A member of Orosi Lodge No. 383. Expelled December 11,
1957.
No. 1564-A member of Tehama Lodge No. 3. Expelled October 7,
1957.
No. 1565-A member of West Covina Lodge No. 758. Suspended
January 2, 1958.
No. 1566---A member of Semper Virens Lodge No. 552. Acquitted
February 11, 1958.
No. 1567-A member of Golden State Lodge No. 358. Expelled February 6, 1958.
No. 1569-A member of Pearl Harbor Lodge No. 598. Suspended February 10, 1958.
No. 1571-A member of Livingston Lodge No. 658. Suspended March
5, 1958.
No. 1572-A member of Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403. Expelled April
3, 1958.
No. 1573-A member of Alexandria Lodge No. 531. Expelled April
4. 1958.
No. 1574-A member of Belvedere Lodge No. 539. Expelled April 7,
1958.
No. 1579-A member of Modesto Lodge No. 675. Expelled May 7,
1958.
No. 1580---A member of Hollenbeck Lodge No. 310. Expelled May 6,
1958.
No. 1581-A member of Azusa Lodge No. 305. Expelled May 8, 1958.

273

We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that in each of the trial records above mentioned in
this report the action of the lodge be ratified, affirmed and approved.
ALBERT F. Ross
RALPH E. HOYT
ELMER

w. HEALD

RALPH K. PIERSON
BYRON C. MORTON
JosEPH GENSER
FOLGER EMERSON

Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1498
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
A. L. S. was expelled by Lebanon Lodge No. 495 in 1956 after
conviction of a felony and commitment to a federal prison. Accused
now petitions for restoration, having completed his term and parole. His
petition was handed to the secretary of his former lodge on July 18,
1958, but could not be read to the lodge until its next stated meeting on
August 5. This was not sixty days prior to the opening of Grand Lodge
this year and the petition cannot be considered now. (See 767a,
Masonic Code). We offer the following resolution:

274

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

RESOLVED, that the Petition for Restoration of A. L. S. in Trial
Record No. 1498 be continued for consideration at the 1959 annual
communication of Grand Lodge, but that no further notice need be
given, and that a copy of this report be transmitted to petitioner and to
Lebanon Lodge.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1514
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
This is a petition for restoration.
L. R. M., a member of Metropolitan Lodge No. 646, was ordered
expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry by this Grand
Lodge at its last Communication for having committed Grand Theft of
the sum of approximately $269,000.00.
This petition is based primarily upon the fact that since petitioner's
expulsion the superior court in which he was tried and placed on probation made an order revoking his probation, then sentenced him to the
county jail for one year, suspended execution of this sentence, restored
him to probation, set aside the judgment of conviction, permitted him to
enter a plea of Not Guilty. terminated his probation and dismissed the
case. There is nothing to indicate that the court's action was based upon
any idea that he was not guilty of the theft of the $269,000.00. The
evidence presented at his Masonic trial clearly established that accused
was guilty of theft in this amount.
Accused has expressed no remorse for his conduct and has made no
adequate showing of rehabilitation. We therefore offer the following
resolution :
RESOLVED: That the petition of L. R. M. for restoration to the
rights and privileges of Masonry be and it is hereby denied without
prejudice.

TRIAL RECORDS NOS. 1477, 1517 AND 1525
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
In Trial Records Nos. 1477, 1517 and 1525 the respective lodges
were given a mandate by Grand Lodge at previous communications to
take further action in each matter. None has been officially reported
in any of said cases as yet. We urge that said lodges be reminded of
their duty. and offer the following resolution:
Resolved that the Grand Secretary notify Park Lodge 449, Mornin'g
Star Lodge No. 68 and Barstow Lodge No. 682 to take prompt action
in disposing of the cases in Trial Records Nos. 1477, 1517 and 1525
respectively, and upon their failure to do so, the matter be referred to
the Grand Master for such action as he may deem appropriate.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

275

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1570
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
M. F .• a member of Patterson Lodge No. 488, pleaded Guilty in
Superior Court to a charge of grand theft and was placed upon probation
and ordered to make restitution.
Masonic charges were preferred by the Junior Warden and duly
served upon the accused. No plea of Not Guilty having been ~led ~n
reply thereto, the Master, pursuant to Sections 692.1 et seq., Cahforn~a
Masonic Code, proceeded to investigate the charges. The .Master did
not consult the victim of the alleged theft, but flied a written report
with the Lodge stating that, while he could not acquit the accused
because of the plea of Guilty in the Superior Court, the accused had
already been punished enough: and the Master, further, ruled that the
accused was to continue in good standing as a member of the Lodge.
Under Section 692.4, California Masonic Code, the investigation
and findings by the Master constitute a form of trial. A failure to fix a
penalty after a finding of Guilty constitutes a mistrial ( Sec~on 721 m,
California Masonic Code.) The sentence, or penalty, following a finding of Guilty. must be one of the three penalties prescribed by Section
721, California Masonic Cde.
The case must be returned to the lodge for retrial. Your committee
therefore offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That Trial Record No. 1570 be remanded to
Patterson Lodge No. 488 for further, proper proceedings.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1575
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The accused P. C. P., a member of Redlands Lodge No. 300 was
charged with unmasonic conduct in two specifications:
1. That he had deserted his wife and two children:
2. That he was living as man and wife with a woman other than his
wife.
The accused lived outside the jurisdiction of the lodge but within the
State of California, so as to permit service of notice upon him by mail.
The notice of charges, however, was sent to the accused by registered
mail to be delivered to the addressee only. The notice was returned to
the Lodge by the postoffice department, unaccepted by the accused. It
is therefore established by the record that the accused did not receive
notice of the charges by mail.
No plea of not guilty having been 6.led by the accused, the Master
made a finding that he was guilty of the charges. and fixed the penalty
as expulsion
It has previously been held in trial record No. 1504 that the pro-

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

visions of Section 707 CMC (formerly 308 Ross Digest). authorizing
service of summons by mail. are not complied with when the summons
is sent by registered mail to be delivered to addressee only. and is not
accepted by the addressee.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the action of Redlands Lodge No. 300 in
expelling P. C. P. be reversed, and set aside, and the matter be remanded
to the lodge for further proceedings under the California Masonic Code.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1584
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
L. K. B.. a member of Security Lodge No. 581, was charged with
unmasonic conduct in three specifications: one of petty theft. one of
grand larceny, and one of not revealing the latter on his application for
the degrees.
The charges were served upon the accused, by registered mail, at his
residence in Scottsdale, Arizona, thirty days prior to the time set for him
to file his plea. No plea having been filed, the Master proceeded, under
Section 692.4, California Masonic Code, to investigate. He, thereafter,
made findings of Guilty on all specifications and the charge, and sentenced the accused to expu'lsion.
Since Section 707, California Masonic Code, requires 90 days'
notice to an accused resident out of the jurisdiction. these proceedings
are defective, as only 30 days' notice was given.
Your committee offers the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the Master's finding of Guilty on the three
specifications and of the charge be and they are hereby disapproved and
set aside, and that Trial Record No. 1584 be returned to Security Lodge
No. 581 for proper service of the charges and retrial.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1587
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
0. G. P .• a member of Bell Lodge No. 483, was charged therein
with being a bartender. After proper service and trial he was found
Guilty and ordered suspended. The evidence amply justifies the finding
of Guilt. However, the only penalty for violation of Section 513,
Masonic Code, is expulsion and we must therefore raise the penalty in
this case. We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the findings of Guilt in Trial Record No. 1587
are approved and affirmed, but the penalty is raised to expulsion,
and the accused 0. G. P. is hereby expelled from the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

TRIAL RECORD NO. 1595
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
Accused, S. F .• is a member of Loyalty Lodge No. 529, and the
record shows that a certified copy of a judgment of conviction of a
felony was obtained by the lodge and a notice under Section 732,
Masonic Code, was mailed to him. There is no certificate of mailing but
the Master in his report to the lodge stated that a letter had been written
to the accused. The notice was dated June 1, 1957, and stated that the
accused would be expelled at the stated meeting on August 6, 1957.
The Master's statement is that the accused demanded a trial. Nothing
apparently was done towards having a trial, such as election of commissioners, and on October 15, 1957, the accused apparently wrote the
lodge withdrawing his demand for a trial. There is a copy of such a
letter in the trial record but it is not identified. The Master at the
November stated meeting declared the accused expelled.
This was not proper procedure. When the accused demanded a
trial and the noticed date of August 6th had passed, the power of the
lodge to declare the accused expelled expired. It is possible ~hat an
accused who is given notice under 732 and who demands a trial may
thereafter withdraw that demand and allow the expulsion to be declared
at the stated meeting mentioned in the notice to him, provided he makes
the withdrawal of demand for trial timely. There is no provision in our
law for the withdrawal of such demand for trial after it is once made
and better practice would be to proceed with a trial as soon as demand
is made. Certainly in this case where the withdrawal of demand was not
made until several months after the demand the lodge acquires no right
to "automatically" expel the member.
The minutes of the November stated meeting were faulty in that
they recite a trial and verdict of commissioners, which the record shows
was not a true statement.
·
The lodge must start proceedings again in this case and follow the
Masonic Code requirements. We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED. that the purported expulsion of S. F. by Loyalty
Lodge No. 529 is reversed and set aside and the lodge is directed to
proceed against him as provided in the Masonic Code.
Adopted.

TRIAL RECORDS NOS. 1596 AND 1597
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:
F. F. P. and L.A. P .• who are natural brothers, and who were both
members of Alcatraz Lodge No. 244, were charged separately in the
lodge with violations of the Edict of Grand Master L. Harold Ande~son
concerning membership and activity in the Royal Order of Caritas.
Separate trials were had, but on the same evening, and the evidence
and procedure were practically identical in each case. Each accused

278

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

admitted being an officer of and active in the Caritas organization, but
denied the legality of the Grand Master's Edict, making the particular
point that Masonry was no longer a prerequisite in said Caritas order.
(The Grand Master had stated in his edict that such was the case.)
In reporting his edict to Grand Lodge in 1957, on page 86 of the Proceedings, the Grand Master stated that the abolition of the Masonic
prerequisite did not in any way change the reasons and justification for
his edict. The edict was approved by Grand Lodge.
The two accused brothers herein were found Guilty and ordered
suspended. The trial master did not submit the question of expulsion to
the trial commissioners before taking a vote on suspension. This was
improper. However, we feel that a deliberate violation of Masonic
law merits the penalty of expulsion. The evidence herein conclusively
supports the finding of guilt. The accused in each case has filed an
appeal, but nothing has been Bled in support of such appeals. We offer
the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the .findings of Guilt in both Trial Records Nos.
1596 and 1597 be affirmed and approved but that the penalty be raised
to expulsion and that F. F. P. and L.A. P. be expelled from the rights
and privileges of ·Masonry.
Adopted.

ADDITIONAL TRIAL RECORDS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 8 A. M. of California:
Your Committee on Grievances feels that only those of its reports
need be published in the printed proceedings of Grand Lodge that
express some points of procedure or other Masonic law that might be
helpful to lodge officers in the future. Most of the cases reversed involve
only a failure to follow the plain language of the Masonic Code. Those
approved follow the proper procedure and the evidence at the trials
justi.6es the result.
Of the petitions for restoration there are only two in which the
report may express some useful thoughts about procedure.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

279

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
(Items reported on at any time during the Communication are consolidated to facilitate reference.)
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has under consideration the
special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year, including his action on applications for degrees for members of the
Armed Forces lacking the residence qualifications, permission to hold
special elections, to open lodge elsewhere than regular meeting place, to
receive and act upon applications for degrees of rejected candidates
within less than 12 months from date of rejection, and also his approval
of resolutions relative to life membership, and miscellaneous matters.
We find that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
matters have been in compliance with the requirements of the law. We.
therefore, recommend that the acts of the Grand Master therein be
approved.
Respectfully submitted,
JOHN R. MOORE
OSCAR LAWLER
JOHN W. SHENK
ARTHUR PAULSEN
Loms c. DRAPEAU
OTTO ROHWER
MILTON D. SAPIRO
JOHN F. MARTIN, JR.
CLA y ROBBINS
Adopted unanimously.
,
AMENDMENT OF 'SECTION 332.1
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommends that the part of
Decision No. 23 relating to Section 332.1 ( C.M.C.) be approved.
It is the feeling of the committee that Section 332.1 may deny the
right of Masons to organize a club to further the organization of a new
lodge. We, therefore, recommend that Section 332.1 be amended by
adding the following language:
"Nor shall it be construed as prohibiting any club organized for the
purpose of instituting a new lodge."
Adopted unanimously.

We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That the reports of the Committee on Grievances
in Trial Records 1074, 1157, 1296, 1333, 1376, 1389, 1416, 1483, 1485,
1496, 1499, 1519, 1527, 1529, 1554, 1558, 1568, 1576, 1577, 1578, 1585,
1590, 1591, and 1601 need not be published in full in the printed proceedings of Grand Lodge.
Adopted.

REPEAL OF SECTION 332.2
The Grand Master has recommended that Section 332.2 of the
California Masonic Code be amended or repealed. We concur in his
recommendation for repeal, and therefor move that Section 332.2 of the
California Masonic Code be repealed.
Unanimously adopted.

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 692.4
The resolution of Brother Albert F. Ross relating to 692.4 C.M.C.
proposes that a copy of the Master's written report and findings anent
guilt or innocence be delivered to the accused, at his request, personally,
or sent to him by registered mail. This would breach the confidential
requirement of lodge records.
To accomplish the purpose of the resolution, we move as follows:
RESOLVED, That Section 692.4 C.M.C. be amended to read as
follows:
Sec. 692.4. If, within the time limited in said notice, the accused
shall not have filed in writing, with the Secretary of the Lodge, his plea
of not guilty, the Master of said Lodge shall make a complete investigation and determine whether the charge and specifications are true, causing the facts relating thereto to be reduced to writing, in triplicate: and
he shall make findings as to the guilt or innocence of the accused, fix the
penalty therefor, and cause two ( 2) copies of the complete written record
to be forwarded to the Grand Secretary and one copy thereof to be filed
in the archives of the Lodge. At the next stated meeting of the Lodge
he shall announce his findings and the penalty imposed by him. Notice
of the penalty fixed by the Master shall be mailed to the accused at his
last known address.
Comment: The changes made by this amendment are as follows:
1. The word "quadruplicate " in line five is changed to "triplicate."
2. The language after the word "Lodge" in the ninth line, quoted
below, is stricken: " ... and one copy to be mailed to the accused at
his last known address."
3. The last sentence is added.
Adopted by 5/ 6 vote.

DECISION No. 4
By Decision No. 4 the Grand Master held that the individual members of a committee appointed to investigate an objection made to the
advancement of a candidate may make separate reports at the same or
different meetings.
Your committee holds that one report only may be filed and at one
stated meeting (California Masonic Code, Section 543). although the
report may contain findings concurred in by all or less than all of the
committee.
Adopted.

REVOLVING FUNDS
The Committee on Jurisprudence presented the following resolution
and requested unanimous consent for its consideration.
RESOLVED. That there be added to Section 401 C.M.C. the following language: By appropriate resolution a lodge may establish two
revolving funds of not more than $100.00 each, one for the use of its
stewards in providing refreshments for all regular lodge functions, and
one for the use of its secretary for his incidental expenses which said
funds must be replenished monthly on presentation of receipted vouchers.
Request for consideration unanimously approved.
The resolution was adopted by a 5/6 vote.
DECISION No. 1
Decision No. 1 is in accord with Sections 286, 287 and 546, California Masonic Code. The sections referred to are clear and the decision
makes no change in our law.
Adopted.

281

DECISION No. 9
All applications for the degrees must be ref erred to a committee of
three appointed by the Master from members of the lodge to which the
application is presented, which committee must make strict investigation
in accord with the requirements of 529, California Masonic Code, and
report thereon to the Master at the next stated meeting, unless further
time be granted. The members of such committee may report jointly
or severally, and if occasion requires each should make inquiries about
the qualifications of the applicant from Masons and others residing
within or beyond the borders of our jurisdiction.
Adopted.
DECISION No. 10
It would appear that Wake Island might be considered "open"
Masonic territory in line with the report of the Grand Master in 1947
relating to Okina'\'{a. etc .• as approved by the Committee on Policy and
adopted by Grand Lodge ( 1947 Proc., 251). This, however, does not
constitute Masonic law and is not binding on succeeding Grand Masters.
Adopted unanimously.
DECISION No. 11
Decision No. 11 is in accord with Section 527-f, California Masonic
Code. It does not change our law.
Adopted.
DECISION No. 12
The Grand Master correctly held that Section 134-b, California
Masonic Code, is still in full force and effect. This decision makes no
change in our law.
Adopted.
DEcis10N No. 13
The Grand Master, in Decision No. 13, correctly held that the edict
embodied in 134-b, C.M.C., prohibits Masons from attending social
functions of the Royal Order of Caritas.
Adopted.

282

283

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

DEc1smN No. 16

only permits investment in building and loan associations organized and
existing under the laws of the State of California and federal building
and loan associations. We therefore move that Section 3 ( c) of Section
103 of California Masonic Code be amended by inserting therein, after
the words, "State of California ," the words, "or of the Territory of
Hawaii."
The first paragraph approved the decision of the Grand Master.
The second paragraph amends Section 103 of the California Masonic
Code and was unanimously adopted.

Decision No. 16 relates to coaching.
Th.e initiation ?rocess, and arrang~ments between lodges respecting
same, is lodge business, not the Master s business. The Master has only
the powers and duties delegated to him, and an order to another lodge
to coach or examine a candidate is not among them. ( 182 and 183,
California Masonic Code. )
Adopted.
DECISION No. 19

The Grand 'M aster's Decision No. 19 would appear to be incorrect
for the following reasons:
1. Sec. 517-s, California Masonic Code, was adopted by a 5/6
vote in 1957 following a report based on 517-c, California Masonic Code,
by the Committee on Jurisprude nce on Decision No. 1 ( 1957 Proc.,
p. 368) in accord with Sec. 781. California Masonic Code. It became
the law at the close of that Communication, (Sec. 782, California
Masonic Code) and all previous decisions in conflict with it were overruled.
2. Residence in fact prescribed in said law does not mean that the
ap~lica~t must actually stay within the jurisdiction limits during the
entire time. He may be absent for short or prolonged periods on business
or oth~se, but not the whole period, so long as he intends his permanent residence to remain in said jurisdiction, provided there are some
facts to support his intention, such as:
a. Being a registered voter in said jurisdiction:
b. Holding membership in a church or club located in said jurisdiction:
c. Having an interest in a business located in said jurisdiction; or,
d. Where his parents or his family reside in said jurisdiction.
The Deputy Grand Master presiding, the Grand Master moved that
the last sentence of Section 517-s be stricken from the California
Masonic Code.
The motion was adopted by a 5/6 vote.
The report of the Jurisprude nce Committee was adopted as modified.
DEc1s10N No. 21

With regard to Decision No. 21, the Grand Master ruled that Section 3 ( c) of Section 103, California Masonic Code, permits investment
of lodge funds in building and loan associations organized under the
laws of the Territory of Hawaii. As stated by the Grand Master, it was
undoubted ly th~ i~tent~on of Gran.cl Lodge to include such building
and loan associations in the permitted associations. His decision is
therefore approved.
However, the decision is technically in violation of the section which

DEc1s10N No. 22

The Grand Master in his Decision No. 22 held that Question 15 of
the Application for Degrees embodied in 527 C.M.C. did not apply to
Square Clubs, High Twelve Clubs, social clubs, and similar social organizations which do not confer degrees and do not have formal initiation
ceremonies.
Your committee has given the subject full consideration and reports
that said question does apply to such clubs and organizations for the
following reasons:
1. 527-c provides: "The prohibition of Question 13 (now 15 )
applies to so-called 'Square Clubs' and social clubs having a prerequisite
of membership requirement." ( 1951)
2. 527-c NOTE provides in part: "Former R.D. Sec. 191 (b),
which stated that Question 13 (now 15) did not apply to purely social
clubs having no formal initiation, was repealed in 1955 (Proc. p. 362) as
having been reversed." This is clear, too, and definitely indicates that
Question 15 dou apply to such clubs.
3. 527-d provides, "Question 13 (now 15) applies to a research
group. The purpose of the 1953 Amendme nt was to insure that a new
Master Mason contributed his time and efforts to his lodge for at least a
year before expanding into other Masonic activities." ( 1955).
1. 527-f provides, "Question 13 (now 15) applies to a Masonic
Club looking toward a dispensation for a new lodge." ( 1955 ) •
5. Decision No. 17 by Grand Master L. Harold Anderson in 1957,
Proc. p. 103:
"Must a Master Mason wait one year before he is permitted to join
an organization requjring Masonic membership as a prerequisite, even
though this organizati on does not confer degrees?
"Decision : Yes. If exceptions were allowed there would be no end
to requests of this nature."
This decision was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence: said
committee presented a resolution to Grand Lodge approving said
decisfon, which was adopted unanimou sly-1957 Proc. p. 367. Grand
Lodge even directed that said decision not be annotated in C.M.C. since
the question was long since settled and recorded in our law.

285

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

6. The foregoing citations clearly indicate that Question 13 (now
15) does apply to such clubs. They represent Amendments Sec. 527
C.M.C. in accord with the requirements of Sec. 781 C.M.C. for they
were decisions of Grand Masters, ref erred to the Committee on Jurispru~
dence and reported by said committee to Grand Lodge by resolutions
which were adopted by Grand Lodge by a 5/6 vote as required by Sec.
782 C.M.C. and became the law of Grand Lodge at the close of each
respective Communication.
In his decision the Grand Master leaned too heavily upon a portion
of 527~c C.M.C .. reading as follows:
"A resolution, which stated that Question 13 (now 15) should not
apply to social organizations which do not confer degrees or have formal
initiation ceremonies, was adopted as a matter of policy in 1955 (Proc.
pp. 95, 347) but was not adopted as law." (Emphasis supplied).
Policy is not law. The italicized language in the quotation affirms
this. Said resolution was referred to the Committee on Policy only1955 Proc., 96. It was not referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence;
said Committee did not report thereon and was not passed by a 5/6 vote,
all as required by 781 and 782 C.M.C. There is nothing in our Consti~
tution or Regulations anywhere which says that a matter of policy, as
such, ever becomes law. Nor is it said that a matter of policy will con~
tradict or overrule our law. Furthermore, no resolution, policy or other~
wise, unless adopted in strict accord with the provisions of 76 and 77
or 781 and 782 C.M.C., will alter, amend or repeal our laws.
Even if we were to invoke the violent assumption that the policy
quoted above did become law when it was voted upon at the Annual
Communication in 1955, such policy was definitely repealed by the
valid adoption of 527~d~f and g C.M.C. and the repeal of R.D. Sec.
494 ( b) ( 527~c C.M.C.) at the same session, all of which became eff ec~
tive at the close of that Communication ( 782 C.M.C.) and by the valid
adoption of Decision No. 17 in 1957 Proc. p. 103, which holds that a
Master Mason must wait one ·year before he is permitted to join an
organization requiring ·Masonic membership as a prerequisite, even
though this organization does not confer degrees.
We therefore move the adoption of the following resolution:
RESOLVED: That, under the law of Grand Lodge, Question 15 of
the application ( 527 C.M.C.) does apply to Square Clubs, High Twelve
Clubs, and organizations requiring Masonic affiliation as a condition
to membership even though such organizations do not confer degrees and
do not have formal initiation ceremonies.
A motion that the decision be not approved failed of adoption.
The Deputy Grand Master presiding, the Grand Master moved that
his decision No. 22 be approved for the purpose of becoming part of our
law, and the motion was adopted by a 5/6 vote.

DECISION No. 26
Relating to the Grand Master's Decision No. 26, your committee
reports:
It appears that the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Nevada,
through our Grand Secretary, requested a waiver of jurisdiction ~o
permit a resident of Tahoe Valley, California, to apply for membership
in Carson Lodge No. 1 in Nevada. The Grand Master held t~at a~y
lodge having jurisdiction over residents in Tahoe Valley, Cahforn1a,
may, upon the request of an applicant residing in Tahoe Valley, issue a
waiver of jurisdiction to permit Carson Lodge No. 1 in Nevada to receive
and act upon the application for degrees of such applicant.
The decision is correct but we would point out that the following
conditions must be strictly adhered to:
1. The request for waiver must be in writing, signed by such appli~
cant, directed to an appropriate lodge located in Tahoe Valley, Califor~
nia, and transmitted to such lodge by the Grand Master or Grand Secre~
tary of Nevada to our Grand Secretary and validated by our Grand
Master ( 550 C.M.C.).
2. The lodge in Tahoe Valley, California, to which the request for
waiver is addressed must comply with the provisions of Section 524
California Masonic Code.
Adopted.

284

DECISION 29
Under Decision No. 29 the Grand Master correctly held that a Tiler
is present at a lodge meeting even though he is at his post in the Tiler's
room.
Adopted unanimously.
DECISIONS Nos. 30 AND 34
Decisions Nos. 30 and 34 are approved.
Adopted.
DECISIONS Nos. 37 AND 38
Decisions Nos. 37 and 38 are correct but they should not be codified
into our law.
Adopted.

286

287

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES

considerable remains to be done. It should make specific proposals
rather than for the Committee on Policy and General Purposes to
endeavor to make original formulations.
We move that a Special Committee on Masonic Cemeteries be continued during the ensuing year and that recommendations numbered 5,
6 , 8, 9 and I 0 in the current report of the special committee be referred
thereto.
Adopted.

{Items reported on at any time during the Communication are consolidated to facilitate reference.)
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
DECISIONS 2, 3, 6, 14, 15, 24, 25, 32 AND 33
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred Decisions 2, 3, 6, 14, 15, 24, 25, 32 and 33 of the Grand
Master, feel that the policy of this Grand Lodge has been properly and
correctly stated in these decisions and we recommend their approval.
The section of the report regarding the Fiddletown Cemetery
referred to this Committee is covered by the Report of the Committee on
Cemeteries.
LESLIE E. WooD
CHESTER H. WARLOW
ELLSWORTH MEYER
EDGAR
STEWART, JR.
AUGUSTUS H. ALLEN
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN
L. HAROLD ANDERSON
EDMUND M. MOOR
}ACK H. RUDY, JR.

v.

Adopted.
RECOMMENDATIONS OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES

The report of the Special Committee on Masonic Cemeteries was
referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes and we
report as follows:
Insofar as Recommendation No. I (relative to determining the title
to, restoration and maintenance of the cemetery at Fiddletown) involves
matters of policy. recommend that it be approved . There are future
expenditures inherent in the recommendation, and these are not within
the purview of this committee.
We move that investigation of the title to said cemetery be made and
that the restoration and maintenance thereof be approved in principle,
and I so move.
As to Recommendations numbered 2, 3, 4 and 7, we recommend that
the same be approved, and I so move.
Recommendations numbered 5, 6, 8, 9 and IO are to the effect that
~rand Lodge should determine its policy as to several problems regardmg. ce~eteries and their operations. Specific proposals as to policy or
legislation have not been made. The special committee has been doing
excellent work for several years relative to Masonic cemeteries, and

LIBRARY COMMISSIONERS

The Grand Master has reported that he did not appoint a Board
of Library Commissioners during the past year. This matter. and the
suggestion of the Board of Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial
Temple Corporation that a special committee or committees be appointed
to study the matter of housing a library and museum in the Memorial
Temple, has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
At our Annual Communication in I 957 a resolution for the creation
of a Board of Library Commissioners, five in number, was presented and
referred to this committee. We reported in part: "We are in sympathy
with the intentions of the maker of the resolution and recommend that
the resolution to establish a Board of Library Commissioners . . . be
approved." The resolution was adopted.
It appears to your committee that the policy of having a Board of
Library Commissioners has been adopted by the Grand Lodge, and that
the matter of housing the library in the Memorial Temple and the
incidentals thereto should be referred to that board rather than to create
another special committee.
We therefore move that the action of the Grand Lodge in its 1957
Communication, establishing a Board of Library Commissioners, be
affirmed. and that the housing of the existing library and future acquisitions be referred to said board in cooperation with the Board of Trustees
of the California Masonic Memorial Temple Corporation.
Adopted.
MASONIC CLUBHOUSE STUDY

A brief report in the nature of a summary, on behalf of the two
special committees to study the two Masonic Clubhouses, has been
referred to your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, and we
report as follows :
The committees state that they have filed reports as to their findings
and these should be given further study by the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes. These reports have not reached us. They may involve important matters of policy, but as yet we do not know.
Reference was made in the joint summary to you by the two com-

288

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

mittees as to the holding of title to the southern clubhouse. No reference
was made as to the title to the northern site. Your Policy Committee is
of the impression that title to both clubhouses is held in the same manner.
We conclude, therefore, that the reference as to title of one clubhouse
and silence as to the other reflects a difference of opinion between the
two committees. Reasons for the proposed trans£er of title to the
southern site have not been stated, and the trans fer of properties
worth more than a half million dollars should not be made without
due consideration.
We move that the summary report of the two committees be rereferred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and that the
full report be referred to said Committee for report at the next Annual
Communica tion.
Adopted.

GRAND LODGE BUDGET

289

To your Committee on Policy and General Purposes was referred the
recommendation of the Grand Treasurer : "That there be ·i ncluded in
the Grand Lodge annual budget some portion of the per capita for the
definite purpose of building a surplus to be added to the capital assets
of this Grand Lodge."
This appears to be a sound financial policy.
The amount which should be included each year depends upon
budgetary considerations. We therefore move that the recommendation of the Grand Treasurer be approved in principle and recommend a
"yes" vote.
Adopted.

COLUMBIA TEMPLE COMMITTEE

LODGE FINANCES

The report of the Columbia Temple Committee has been referred to
the Committee on Policy and General Purposes. Their report indicates
that frequent and proper use is being made of the restored Temple
within Columbia State Park and that the committee is properly and
adequately caring for the property. Realizing that this historic site will
always need care and supervision, we recommend the continuance of
the Columbia Temple Committee.
We move the adoption of this report, and recommend a "Yes" vote.
Adopted.

The Grand Treasurer is also recommending that attention be given
to the financial structure of the constituent lodges, particularly those
lodges whose financial stature has failed to provide reasonable growth
due to an inadequate dues structure.
We all must realize that the dollar continues to shrink in value, in
turn, our dues must be of such an amount to adequately balance the
economy.
We are in full accord with the recommendation and urge that the
constituent lodges be ever watchful of their financial welfare.
Adopted.

DEDICATION OF PUBLIC SCHOOL BUILDINGS

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which has been
referred the resolution to adopt a new ceremony for the dedication of
public school buildings, reports as follows:
We understand that the main purpose of the revision of the ceremony
in line with our outspoken support of our public schools, is to emphasize
the importance of the public schools to the community and the public
welfare. It seemed to be felt by some that in our present ceremony we
were not giving adequate praise to the ideal of free public education.
It is our understanding that while this resolution seems to be sponsored by only one brother, our Grand Lecturer, it has been not only
approved. but carefully edited by the Grand Master, the Deputy Grand
Master, the Senior Grand Warden, the Junior Gra nd Warden, and the
entire Ritual Committee, and its adoption is recommended by them all.
While your Committee on Policy and Genera l Purposes does not
vouch for the authenticity of any statement made in the proposed ceremony or to its practical application, it does repose sufficient confidence
in its sponsors to recommend the adoption of the ceremony.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes therefore moves
the adoption of the resolution providing for a new ceremony for dedicating public school buildings and urges a " Yes" vote.
Adopted.

RECOMMENDATIONS O F COMMITTEE ON COMMERCIALISM

To the Committee on Policy and Genera l Purposes has been referred
the report of the Committee on Commercialism, to which was appended
"Regulations Governing Organizations Subject to the Jurisdiction of
the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, F . & A . M. of California."
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recognizes the
tremendous thought and effort that has been put into these regulations
and feels that regulations are necessary for the guidance of our lodges
and all organizations that would be governed by them. We do, however,
question the advisability of issuing such rules and regulations at this
time, when your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has not had
sufficient opportunity to make the detailed study which we believe the
subject warrants.
We recommend that the referral of this report to the Policy and
General Purposes Committee be continued for report at the next
Annual Communication.
We move the adoption of this report and recommend a " Yes" vote.
Adopted.

290

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

COMMITTEE ON RESEARCH

DECISIONS No. 7 AND 8

To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes was referred the
recommendation of the Research Committee that it be continued for
another year.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs in this
recommendation and moves its adoption by Grand Lodge.
Adopted.
PAST GRAND MASTERS. PORTRAITS

That portion of the report of Trustees, California Masonic Memorial
Temple corporation, relating to the former practice of having the portrait of the Grand Master painted and thereafter displayed in the Grand
Lodge Office, has been referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
In reviewing this matter your committee took into consideration the
fact that in the past only a very limited number of the portraits of Past
Grand Masters could be displayed in the Grand Lodge office, the
remainder being stored out of sight in the basement; also the very
debatable question of whether oil portraits were adequate reproductions
of the likeness of Pas t Grand Masters; and, thirdly, the very practical
question of whether there is adequate space in the new Temple for this
display.

291

Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has had referred
to it Decisions Nos. 7 and 8 of the Grand Master regarding the question
of the propriety of table and door prizes at card parties, dinners and
similar affairs.
Y ~>Ur committee is of the opinion that these decisions cover the same
questions involved in the regulations proposed by the Committee on
Commercialism.
By action of this Grand Lodge yesterday, these proposed regulations
of the Committee on Commercialism were re-referred to the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes for further study, to be reported upon
at the 1959 Annual Communication.
It is the recommendation of your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes therefore, that no action, either approving or disapproving
these decisions be taken at this time.
The recommendation of the committee was unanimously adopted.
GRAND MA s TER's RECOMMENDATION No. 2

It is therefore recommended that the Grand Lodge request the Grand
Master to appoint a special committee to study this problem, their study
to include the matter of continuing the painting of portraits and, if continued, the disposition to be made of them; also, what disposition should
be made of the present portraits now in storage; also to consider any
alternate plan of reproducing the likeness of all Past Grand Masters in
suitable size; this special committee to present its findings and recommendations to the next session of Grand Lodge.
We accordingly move the adoption of this recommendation.
Adopted.

That the Grand Lecturer or Assistant Grand Lecturer be sent to
the Hawaiian Islands every two years commencing in 1960 to hold
schools in instruction.
The Grand Master has authority to direct such travel and instruction
whenever the same seems necessary or desirable and no action by Grand
Lodge is required to supplement that authority.
However, we recommend that it be the policy of Grand Lodge that
the Grand Lecturer hold schools of instruction in the Islands as and
when directed by the Grand Master and that the Grand Master be encouraged to authorize the same at reasonable intervals not less than
once in two calendar years.
We move the adoption of this recommendation of the Committee
on Policy and General Purposes and recommend a "yes" vote.
Adopted by 5/6 vote.

LoDGE TEMPLE AssOCIATION FINAN CES

See record of Monday morning session for approval of resolution
relative to Pension Plan.

Recommenda tion No. 5. The Grand Master recommends that his
successor continue the special committee on Lodge Temple Association
Finances. The Committee on Policy and General Purposes concurs with
that recommendation.
We move the adoption of Recommendation No. 5 and recommend a
"yes" vote.
Adopted.

292

PROCEEDING S OF THE

COMBINE D REPORTS OF
COMMIT TEE ON JURJSPRU DENCE
and
AND GENERAL PURPOSE S
POUCY
COMMIT TEE ON
(Items reported on at any time during the Communica tion are consolidated to facilitate reference.)
CALIFORNIA FREEMASON
THE COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDE NCE:

On the resolution of Brother Condee, your committee reports as
follows :
RESOLVE D, That Section 203 C.M.C. be amended to read as follows:
203. Committee on Correspond ence. In addition to its usual and
customary duties, the Committee on Correspond ence shall publish and
distribute the California Freemason, at least quarterly, to all members
of Lodges in this jurisdiction and to such others as directed by the
Grand Master.
We urge adoption.
THE COMMITTEE ON P OLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES:

Now brought up for consideratio n is a resolution, identified as "E",
which proposes to amend Section 203 of Ordinances by adding the
following words:
"'California Freemason' shall be mailed to each member quarterly."
The effect of the amendment will cause this publication to be distributed quarterly to every member of constituent Masonic Lodges of
California without direct charge to the individual brother.
The total cost to the fraternity will be in the neighborhoo d of eight
cents per copy. or between 30c and 35c per year. Present distribution is
in excess of 50,000 copies per issue, at a subscription price of $1.00 per
year to the individual, or 60c per year where the constituent lodge
subscribes for its total membership .
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends the
adoption of the resolution.
"California Freemason, " during its publication trial period of five
years, has proved its worth to the fraternity. Its distribution to all
members of California Lodges will bring:
1. To the "manageme nt" group of each lodge, i.e., the officers and
regular attendants, a more complete understandi ng of the objects and
activities of Masonry and the relationship of the Grand Lodge of
California to its constituent lodges.
2. To the individual Mason who is only a casual or infrequent
attendant at the meetings of his lodge, a similar understandi ng plus an
inspiration which will undoubtedly result in his more frequent attend-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

293

ance at the meetings of his own lodge and a more active personal participation in its affairs.
3. To the members of the brother's family. a broader understandi ng
of our order, and
4. To the non-Mason , who admittedly will read the publication or
parts thereof quite infrequently . it nevertheless will bring enlightenme nt.
The publication, in our estimation, has and will continue to have
great value to the fraternity, both within and beyond the doors of our
lodges. It has commended itself to the Grand Lodges of many other
Masonic jurisdictions , and its distribution to all members of California
lodges is extremely desirable and in the best interests of the fraternity.
Private subscription s to Masons not members of California Lodges
will be continued.
Your committee moves the adoption of the resolution and recommends a "Yes" vote.
The chairman of the Committee on Finance pointed out the amount
of additional per capita tax which would be involved if the amendment
were adopted and urged a no vote.
A majority of those present voted no.
DEc1s10N No. 5
REPORT OP COMMITTE E ON JURISPRUDE NCE:

Decision No. 5 is approved.
REPORT OF COMM ITT EE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES:

There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and General
Purposes Decision No. 5 of the Grand Master, wherein he ruled that the
purchase of a United States flag 'and staff from the general funds of
the Lodge for presentation to a public school was a proper expenditure
of Lodge funds.
Your committee is most sympathetic with the various forward steps
which have been taken by Grand Lodge toward increased interest and
support of our public schools. We are aware that lodges are permitted,
and indeed expected, to support from their general funds any and all
approved programs of Grand Lodge. Other purposes for which lodge
funds may be expended are spelled out in our California Masonic Code
and it has been consistently held that any other expenditure s are unauthorized.
As worthy and as patriotic as this type of expenditure may be. we
fail to connect it with the support of any particular Grand Lodge program. We can also foresee this decision leading to other public and
patriotic gifts which may have no appropriate connection with Masonic
activity.
Your committee therefore respectfully recommends that Decision

295

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No. 5 of the Grand Master be not approved. In order to get the matter
before Grand Lodge we move the approval of the decision, but your
Committee on Policy and General Purposes urges a "No" vote.
Motion was not adopted.

This would permit the trustees to determine the proper amount for
Masonic funeral services based upon economic conditions at the time.
We move the adoption of the resolution, and your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommends a "Yes" vote.
The Committee on Jurisprudence approved the resolution as pre~
sented by Past Grand Master Wollenberg.
Adopted unanimously.
'

294

AMENDMENT OF SECTION 202
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
RESOLVED. That Section 202, California Masonic Code, be
amended by adding at the end thereof the following: The Commission
may omit codification of edicts and decisions which are repetitive of
matters already codified.
COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred Resolution "A.'' reports as follows:
This resolution was proposed by the members of your Code Commission to omit from the annual supplements to the California Masonic
Code any edicts or decisions which are cumulative or repetitive of matters already included in the Code or a prior supplement thereto.
The merits of this proposal appear obvious: From time to time a
Grand Master is called upon to make decisions on questions submitted
to him, which decisions are frequently based upon-and repetitive ofeither the express language of sections of Masonic law or of decisions
of previous Grand Masters which were approved by Grand Lodge. It
does not seem either necessary or advisable to encumber the annual
supplements with statements which add nothing to an understanding
of what already clearly appears in the printed Code or supplements.
The Grand Lodge may be assured that the Code Commission will
carefully examine all actions and decisions made or taken at every
Annual Communication, and that the Code Commission will not fail
to see that significant actions and decisions are published for the
information of the craft in the annual supplements.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes recommends a
"Yes" vote on Resolution "A."
Adopted 5/6 vote.
AMENDMENT OF SECTION 223
COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes has been referred
the resolution of Most Worshipful Charles M. Wollenberg. president of
the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes. to amend Section 223 of
the ordinances by deleting from the last sentence thereof the words "in
an amount not to exceed one hundred fifty dollars," and substituting
therefor the words "in an amount to be determined by the Trustees."

BOARDS OF RELIEF
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:
RESOLVED, That the title "Masonic Service Board" be substituted
for "Board of Relief' or "Boards of Relief." as applicable in Sections
153, 214, 262, 263, 264, 265, 409, 601, 602. 603, 604, and their various
annotations, of the California Masonic Code and in any other sections
of the ordinances in which the title may appear, and that all such sec~
tions be, and they are, hereby so amended.
We cannot share the view of the proposers that the word "relief"
has become repugnant.
We strongly oppose this resolution and urge that it be rejected for
the following reasons:
1. To change C.M.C. and other records in so many places would be
unnecessarily expensive.
2. Relief is among the three principal tenets of Masonry. It has
connotations of affection. The word with its implications has existed in
Masonry from time immemorial. even from the Ancient Regulations of
1721 (Art. VIL p. 355 CMC.) If something is old the indications are
that it has earned the right to live. Certainly this meaningful word
should not be abandoned in favor of the word service with its political
and commercial implications. It would appear that this is an attempt to
modernize Masonry. Modern Masonry has no place here. Masonry's
tenets, terms and roots reach into antiquity and there they must remain.
We therefore urge that the resolution be rejected.
COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES :
To the Committee on Policy and General Purposes has been referred
two resolutions purporting to change the name "Board of Relief."
One of the resolutions, F-1, recommends the title "Masonic S ervice
Board" while the other, F- 2, suggests the name "Masonic Service and
Employment Bureau."
While both resolutions are based on the same arguments, the second
resolution, F-2, would not be appropriate to many existing boards that
do not have the employment service.
To members of our fraternity, the word relief has many meanings
and does not always indicate financial assistance, in fact we are informed
that less than one~third of the calls made upon these boards are requests

296

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

for funds , but in the majority of cases service is requested by the families
of sojourning brethren upon the death of the brother, and to them relief
has only one embarrassing connotation-the welfare state or the dole
which they have not asked for and do not want.
Your committee feels that this change would remove all cause for
misunderstanding and embarrassment and recommends the approval of
the resolution F~l to change the name to Masonic Service Board.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

297

A standing vote showed 843 in favor of the resolution, 205 against
adoption.
A vote by ballot wa s called for with the following result: In favor
of the resolution, 949; against adoption 323.
The Grand Master announced the resolution was not adopted in the
absence of securing the necessary 5/ 6 vote.
DEc1s10N No. 17

Bo.a.RD OP CONTROL:

COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

This refers to Resolution No. F~l referred to the Board of Control
changing the name of Board of Relief to Masonic Service Board. This
matter has long been discussed in our jurisdiction and the Board of
Control has formerly felt that such a change was unwarranted. After
long and extended consideration, the Board of Control now feels that
although we are not sponsoring such a change, we have no objection to
its adoption, if that is the pleasure of this Grand Lodge.
With reference to Resolution No. F-2, proposing to change the
name Board of Relief to "Masonic Service and Employment Bureau,"
we are of the opinion that such a name change is inappropriate and
unwise since only six of our eighteen Board of Relief have an official
employment bureau or function.
A majority voted against the adoption of the resolution.

By D ecision No. 17 the Grand Master held: That it is lawful for a
lodge to establish a revolving fund for use of stewards for providing
refreshments.
Your committee believes that it is not lawful for a lodge to establish
such a revolving fund for the following reasons:
1. A lodge must retain control of its own funds ( 401, California
Masonic Code).
2. The funds of a lodge are trust funds ( 409, California Masonic
Code).
3. Segregation of funds of a lodge is improper ( 409-u, California
Masonic Code).
4. Bills for refreshments and entertainment must be authorized by the
lodge before they can be paid ( 412-1, California Masonic Code).
It appears, therefore, that our law forbids entrustment of lodge
funds to the stewards.

PUBLIC SCHOOLS FUND
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES:

On resolution of Brother Rife. your committee reports as follows:
Resolved: That Section 283 C.M.C. be amended by inserting the
following:
6th. For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls as of June 30, the
sum of 25 cents to provide a Public Schools Fund to be expended by
direction of the Grand Master for the benefit of our public schools on a
statewide basis.

Your Committee on Policy and General Purpose reports as follows
in relation to Decision No. 17 of the Grand Master.
The Grand Master held that a lodge could establish a revolving
fund for the use of the stewards in providing lodge refreshments, providing tha t expenditures from the fund be submitted monthly for
approval by the lodge. and tha t the fund should never be larger than
the estimated monthly requirement.
The establishment of a revolving fund is a segregation of lodge funds
and setting aside a portion thereof for expenditure for a future event.
This would appear to be contrary to the provisions of Section 409-u
of C.M.C.
There is no question that in some instances the use of a revolving
fu nd for the steward s may be a convenience. Your committee, however,
is of the opinion that such convenience does not outweigh Masonic law
and customs, and that many problems might arise under such a plan
which would be embarrassing to the lodge and to the stewards.
We, therefore, move the approval of Decision 17 of the Grand
Master and recommend a "No" vote.
A motion to approve the decision was not adopted.

COMMITTEE ON Poucy AND GENERAL PURPOSES:

To your Committee on Policy and General Purposes was referred
the resolution resolving that this Grand Lodge establish a fund to be
known as "Our Public Schools Fund," and that a twenty-five cent per
capita tax be imposed for this purpose; and that the Grand Master
appoint a committee to disperse from said fund for the protection of
our public schools on a sta tewide basis.
We feel that this is in keeping with the policy already adop ted by
Grand Lodge, and that in order to meet problems pertaining to our
public schools which may arise in the future, such a fund should be
available for that purpose.
Your committee therefore recommends the adoption of this resolution.

298

299

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

DECISION No. 18

mittee believes that the decision should not be regarded as establishing
any general law as to payment of expenses, as each such situation must
be dependent on the particular facts which are presented to the Grand
Master for decision.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Unanimously adopted.

COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

Decision No. 18, relating to a revolving fund for the Secretary, is
correct.
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Adopted.
By direction of Committee on Jurisprudence the action on Decisions
No. 17 and 18 are not to be codified.
DECISION No. 20
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

With reference to the Grand Master's Decision No. 20, your Committee on Jurisprudence reports as follows:
Before applying for our degrees the applicant pleaded guilty to a
charge of stealing an automobile in Missouri, and was sentenced to a
term of two years in the Missouri State prison, and was confined therein
for a few days.
Thereafter two other men charged with the same offense were tried
and acquitted. From the facts developed on this trial, it became clearly
a~parent that applicant was not and could not have been guilty of the
crime. To rectify this miscarriage of justice the Missouri courts set
aside the judgment, and the man was released from prison. Thereafter,
the governor of Missouri granted a full pardon.
Section 511 , C.M.C., provides that one who has served a term in a
state or federal prison is not under the tongue of good report and is.
therefore. ineligible to membership in our fraternity . (Sub. h, Sec. 511.)
In this case the judgment was a nullity, and the Missouri courts
declared that applicant was guilty of no crime. Therefore, the reason
for the rule ceases.
We agree with the 1Grand Master, and move the following resolution:
RESOLVED. That Grand Master's ruling No. 20 be, and the same
is, hereby approved.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Unanimously adopted.

DEc1s10N No. 31
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

We agree with the decision of the Grand Master No. 31 that microfilming of lodge records is permissible if done by Masons under proper
protection of lodge privacy.
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Unanimously adopted.
DEcis10N No. 35
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

Decision No. 35 is correct but it does not change our law. (Section
511-h, California Masonic Code.)
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Adopted by 5/ 6 vote.
DECISION No. 36
COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

On August 28. 1958, the Grand Master issued an edict declaring that
the protection and improvement of the public schools system on a statewide basis is a program of the Grand Lodge and the Grand Master
and authorized all lodges, by vote of their members, to contribute
from their general funds at least $2.00 per member, through the Grand
Secretary, for the support of our public schools on a statewide basis in
the current campaign for the protection of our public schools.
This edict is in accord w ith our law (Secs. 330, 331 and 410 C.M.C.).
Committee on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Unanimously adopted.
GRAND MAsTER's RECOMMENDATION No. 1

DEc1s10N No. 28
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

Your Jurisprudence Committee has considered Decision No. 28 as
contained in the Grand Master's Message in reference to the payment of
expenses of a trial. The Jurisprudence Committee believes that the Grand
Master's decision in that case should be approved, based upon the particular state of facts involved therein. However, your Jurisprudence Com-

COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE:

Recommendation No. 1 of the Grand Master makes no change in
our code and we favor its adoption.
COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES:

That the incoming Grand Master be authorized to appoint Past
Grand Master Charles Albert Adams as a Trustee Emeritus of the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California.

300

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We approve the recommen dation. We therefore move the adoption
of the recommen dation and we recommen d a "yes" vote.
Unanimou sly adopted.
GRAND MASTER's RECOMMENDATION No. 3
Committe e on Jurisprudence:
By Recomme ndation No. 3 it appears that the Grand Master recommends:
That Section 346. California Masonic Code, be amended by inserting in the third line thereof, between the words "fee" and "shall.'' the
following:
and all of his previous contributi ons
Your committee urges rejection for the following reasons.
Forfeiture is a drastic process denoting a penalty which should
never be invoked by our fraternity against non-Maso ns except upon the
basis of sure and ample justice. There is some justice in our present
law which requires forfeiture of fees by an applicant who will never be a
Mason. because the lodge has devoted some efforts and has been put to
some expense as a result of his applicatio n.
However, there is no justice at all in forcing an applicant, who is not
a Mason and never will be a Mason. to forfeit his forced contributi ons
for the benefit of our Masonic Homes. George Washingt on Masonic
National Memorial and our Masonic Memorial Temple, which the
applicant will never have the privilege of using or enjoying. Our lodges
should never demand something for nothing. This would be denying
the benefits and enforcing the burdens.
COMMITTEE ON Poucv AND GENERAL PURPOSES:
That legislation be adopted to supplemen t Section 346 C.M.C. to the
end that where fee of a candidate is forfeited, contributi ons also be
forfeited.
Without regard to particular sections of the California Masonic
Code, we recommen d that it be the policy of Grand Lodge that where fee
is forfeited that contributi ons also be forfeited and that legislation pursuant thereto be adopted.
A majority voted no on the adoption of the recommen dation.
AMENDMENT OF SECTION 681-b
Committe e on Jurisprudence:
Resolution by Brother Albert F. Ross seeks to repeal 681-b C.M.C.
This section provides in part: "Acts committed before initiation ... if
in themselve s wrong or immoral they may be punished afterward ."
No reasons are assigned for such repeal. This section has been the
law of Grand Lodge for 88 years and it should not be repealed just for
the sake of repeal. To repeal it could mean that, once a man has become
a Mason, no past offense, however heinous, could alfect his status. This
would be positively harmful.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

301

The resolution should not be adopted.
Committe e on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
On a motion to adopt the resolution the majority voted no.
AMENDMENT OF SECTION 707
Committe e on Jurisprudence:
The resolution of Brother Albert F. Ross seeks to amend the first
sentence of 707, California Masonic Code, relating to jurisdictio n.
We report as follows:
RESOLV ED, That Section 707, California Masonic Code, be
amended by inserting in the second line thereof, after the word "Lodge,"
the following:
or within the county in which the Lodge is located
Committe e on Policy and General Purposes reported their concurrence.
Adopted by a 5/ 6 vote.
DECISION No. 27
Committe e on furisprude nce:
The Grand Master ruled that posting garish placards and signs on
the outside of a Masonic Temple by one who has rented it for the purpose of giving lectures on "faith healing" is a use and practice inconsistent with the dignity of Freemaso nry. He also held that Temple
Associatio ns and Lodges should exercise careful control over the advertising methods of tenants and the uses to which Temple properties are
put by appropria te rental agreement s.
This decision is consistent with accepted Masonic practices and is
in accord with our law.
Section 401 of our Masonic Code provides that a Lodge must retain
control over its properties . Annotatio n b. thereof provides that a Lodge
may rent its hall to others.
The general provisions of our laws, too numerous to here mention,
together with long establishe d custom. proscribe any activity which may
bring discredit on the Craft or its property.
The Grand Master's decision is approved.
The Committe e on Policy and General Purposes report their concurrence.
Adopted.
At 5:45 P.M. the Grand Master explained that it would be necessary
to continue the session until approxima tely 8: 30 unless unanimou s consent was granted to convene at 9 :00 A.M. in the morning to complete
the business prior to election. A motion to convene at 9 :00 A.M. Friday
morning for the completio n of busines was unanimou sly adopted.
At 5:50 P.M. Grand Lodge was called off until 9:00 A.M .. Friday
morning.

302

PROCEEDING S O.F THE

IN GRAND LODGE
MORNING SESSION, FRYDAY, OCTOBER 3. 1958
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :00 A .M .. the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation. The minutes of
the morning and afternoon sessions of Thursday, October 2. were read
and approved.

CALLING UP PROCEDU RES
The Grand Master announced the identity of the Master and Past
Masters of his lodge. Hollywood No. 355. who had called up the
brethren at each of the several sessions as follows:
Mondaya.m .-A. Ralph Woodland. W.M.
Monday p .m. -Erwin H . Gebhardt. P.M.
Tuesday a .m.-Walte r F. Burbank. P.M.
Tuesday p.m.-Ward J. Henry. P.M.
Wednesday a.m.-Willi am W . Skelton, P .M.
Thursday a.m.-Wall ace H. Beaudry. P .M.
Thursday p.m.-lra W. Merrill, P.M. and Secretary
Friday a.m.-Robe rt T. Gilmore. Jr.. P.M.
Friday p.m.-Sam Steelman, P.M. and Inspector
The Grand Master also pointed out that during the sessions he had
used the following gavels :
One was presented to him at the time of his installation on September
27, 1957; and one was presented to him at the occasion of the dedication
of the Temple of Lodge M aui in Hawaii.

MESSAGES OF GREETIN G AND CONGRA TULATIO N
Greetings and congratulati ons were received at various times during
the Communica tion from those listed below.
In each instance the message was communicat ed to those in attendance and received with sincere appreciation .
Doctor Carlos Rodriguez-Jimenez. Grand Master, Grand Lodge of
Japan.
Mauro Baradi. P ast Grand Master. Philippines.
Dr. Theodor Vogel. Grand Master, in the name of the Fraternity
of German M asons.
Raymond F. Drake, Grand M aster. Grand Lodge of Ireland.
Herbert H. Eberle. Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge of Idaho.
Harold L. Reader, Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge of Missouri.
Albert J. De Lange, Past Grand Master, Texas.
Maurice Weill, Grand Chancellor. Paris. France.
Grand Lodge of Finland. Helsinki, Finland.
Republic of Panama.
Grand Lodge of Louisiana.

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

303

Grand Lodge of North Carolina.
Grand Lodge Cosmos. Mexico.
Grand Lodge Valle De Mexico.
National Grand Lodge of Denmark.
Fernando Cesena Castro, Grand Secretary, Grand Lodge, Baja .
Calif.
Grand Lodge of Sweden, signed by His Majesty the King.
Samuel E. Burke, Past Grand Master.
Congratulat ions from the Grand Court. Order of the Amaranth.
State of Calif.
Grand Guardian Council and Bethels of the Internationa l Order of
Job's Daughters.

VETERAN MEMBER S
Particular attention was called to the presence of the following:
George H. Buttrick. Past Master and Secretary of Morning Star
Lodge No. 68 , who will observe his 96th birthday in October.
James P . McElligott who had served as Master of Mariposa Lodge
No. 24 in 1911 and was now attending the Annual Communica tion of
this Grand Lodge for the 48th consecutive year. During that period he
had served as Secretary of the lodge from 1924 to 1955.
John Stevens, 92 years of age, and Tiler of Hollywood Lodge No.
355 for 32 years.
Each of the brethren , after introduction , received an ovation from
those present.

MEMBER SHIP REPRESE NTATION
The Grand Secretary reported this tabula tion of the total M asonic
membership represented by those in attendance at this Annual C ommunication:
Alberta .................... .................................... ......... . 18,356
Arizona .................................................................. 11,448
British Columbia ....... .................... ................ ........ . 24,971
California ........................................................... .. . 237.654
Canada (Ontario) ................................................ 134,925
Colorado .................... ........................................... . 45.838
Connecticut .................................................. ......... . 48.130
England ................................................................. . 550.000
Illinois .................................................................... 248.845
Indiana ........................................... .................... ... 184,616
Iowa ....................................................................... . 95.155
Kansas .................................................................... 101.277
Kentucky .................... ....................................... .... . 99.598
Louisiana ............................................................... . 50,298

304

305

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Maine --------··---------------------------·------------------------------ 47,894
Maryland --------------------------------···········--------··········· 47,473
Massachusetts ····································----················ 132,820
Michigan ···················--·-···················---·-··-·--·--····-··· 176,534
Minnesota ·······-··--·------·------·-··--·-··---·---·-·--··········---· 69,335
Nebraska ··--··--·····-···--·--·-··················--·-···-·-············ 46,213
5,551
Nevada ··--······· ····-···-·-···-·········-·····------·--················
107,493
----···········
-····---··---··············------·.........
New Jersey
New Mexico.....·-·-·-···--·············--········--·······-··········· 14,233
New South W ales·-······----·-·-··················---------·-··--· 134,083
New York···--···---······-----·-····-··----·--··----···--·····-···-·-· 307,32 3
North Dakota --···--------·--·---···-····---··-···----------·-···-··· 14,270
Ohio····------·-················----·········-·········-··· ·········-·-····· 281.763
Oregon ·····--··---·-··---------·-··---------------·-··------·--------·· · 44,484
P ennsylvania -···-··-----·-----------·--···--·-··--·····-··--··----··-· 257,062
Philippines ····-········-----··············-----·-·-·-···-··-·-···----· 110,321
Queensland -········-·····--······-·-······ ··-····-··-·---·----·-······ 34,981
Saskatchewan ·-····---·--·-·-··············----·-----··--········---- 17,684
South Carolina ···········-----·-··--···········--·-·-··············· 55,693
South Dakota ........ ·----------·········-······---------···········--· 20,434
Tennessee ·········-······--· -·-·--·-······--··-···-···-------·········· 87,080
Texas ······· ·············-- ------······················--············---- 237,829
6,823
Utah ·-··----------------------------·--······---·-···------------·········
Washington ······-··-·--------·········-······· ··-··-·········-······ 69.229
West Virginia.............. ·-··--------···-··-··----------·· --······· 47,633
Wisconsin ···············-··--·--···········-··························· 64,799
Wyoming ··················--······················--- --··············· I 2, 719
York Grand Lodge of Mexico............. .................
631

The Inspectors are to see that the foregoing is strictly complied with
in qualifying officers and issuing certificates required by Sections 476
to 481 inclusive of the Masonic Code.

4,303 ,501

USE OF VISUAL AIDS
The Gra nd Lecturer a nnounced that the Ritual Committee had considered the matter of visual aids and had come to the following conclusions :
In accordance w ith the indicated desire of the majority in Grand
Lodge. and effective immediately, it will be permissible for officers to call
attention to any of the monitorial emblems by appropriate gestures (but
without diverting attention of the candidate from the lecture). This will
apply to a chart or scroll exhibiting only monitorial emblems, as well as
to physical representa tio ns. which may be of moderate size only. In
lodges desiring to ma ke use of such monitoria l representations, however,
it will be mandatory for the officers to learn, qualify in and give those
portions of the lectures covering the monitorial emblems.
The lodges will also be permitted to make use of a ceiling light
above the altar.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON SOJOURNERS
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The committee on sojourners this past year has directed its efforts
toward encouraging the lodges of the Grand Jurisdiction to set up
sojourners committees in each lodge, whose purpose was to give thought
to and take action on the problems of sojourners. It is recognized that
there may be as many sojourning brethren in C alifornia as there are
members of the jurisdiction. The aim of your grand lodge committee has
been to get these "outside" brethren to attend Masonic Blue Lodge
functions, not only to encourage their affiliation, but to get them to
participate in some phase of the fraternity's activity. It is felt that too
many members are only dues-payers, and as a consequence miss much
of the fraternity 's significance. This problem is one of education at the
lodge level. with the ultimate objective being a functioning sojourners
committee in each lodge. Once this is recognized by all, we believe that
such committees can ably discharge the responsibilities of the Grand
Lodge to the sojourners in our midst.
Some lodges have greater opportunities for work among sojourners
than others. Many lodges schedule dinners, dances, family nights,
Masonic education programs and other functions especially for sojourners. Other lodges, for va rious reasons, do little along these lines. It is
the latter group which requires our encouragement and assistance. In
response to a questionnaire recently sent to all masters, the following
figures were obtained: Out of 684 mailed, 270 were returned. Of this
number, 197 lodges had active sojourners committees, 120 had scheduled
special nights, while 145 masters felt their committees had made positive
accomplishments. Some have suggested tha t the $25.00 Homes Endowment Fee be dropped from the affilia tion charge to render it more a ttractive financially for those interested in joining. This suggestion has been
made in the past but has never been received favorably as it is felt that
all members of California lodges should make this contribution. However, your committee encourages lodges to lower their own affiliation
cha rge to a token minimum amount.
At the request of the Grand Secretary, your committee considered
a proposition from a sojourning past mas ter from Indiana, now living
in San Diego. This brother wishes, by means of a registration questionnaire mailed out to sojourners in the area, to establis h a sojourners blood
bank and encourage the brethren to attend Masonic funerals and visit
the sick. He has received encouragement from the loca l Board of Relief,
with whom he intends to coordinate his activities. This would be a
voluntary service, carried on at his own expense, with no solicitation

307

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

for funds. Although this project would probably have no direct results
in bringing about affiliations from out-of-state Masons, it could locate
or uncover potential prospects. As this sojourner has been working
closely with the Board of Relief in San Diego on a seemingly worthwhile
idea, your committee feels this brother should be encouraged in his
program.
The annual reports show that over the past several years an average
of about 2.500 affiliates were elected to California lodges yearly. Of this
number, 909 in 1956, 898 in 1957, and 829 in 1958, were from out of
the state. Realizing that we have an average yearly gain of slightly
over 4.000 members, we see that the out-of-state affiliates bring us
approximately 20 per cent of this figure.
Plans for next year include a booklet-type guide dealing with the
sojourners problem. This would go to every master giving him suggested
procedures, proposed events for attracting sojourners. and questions and
answers most commonly raised. With the progress that has been made
in the past in connection with sojourners and their affiliation with local
lodges and the work that is still to be done in the future with the neverending entrance of Masons to this state, your committee urges the continuance of effort and interest on the part of all the constituent lodges.
Your chairmen wish to express their thanks to the Grand Master,
and other Grand Lodge officers a s well as the individual committee members for their support and cooperation. It has been a privilege and a
pleasure to serve Grand Lodge this past year.
Fraternally.
WILLIAM A . CoHENDET, Northern Chairman
FRED G. DOAN, Southern Chairman

One lodge made a reservation for a Saturday, but failed to show
up. The Temple was opened and we waited until after 9:00 p.m. but
they failed to put in an appearance. We did not learn why.
During the summer season the Fallon House Players were allowed
to use the downstairs room for rehearsals, as the Fallon House Theatre
was being overhauled by the State of California. and they had no place
to rehearse their plays. The part of the theater where they rehearsed
was closed by the construction work. The rehearsals were held in the
day time and there was no expense connected with this activity.
Certain improvements to the Temple which were contemplated by
your committee were not accomplished. due to the cost involved and the
closing of the fiscal year before we were able to get a good price for
these improvements.
All of the visiting brethren seemed to enjoy their trip very much, and
several lodges have been making an annual event out of their trip to
Columbia Temple. The Columbia State Park and the Mother Lode
country offer many interesting sights for visitors and the side trips were
especially interesting to all who took them.
Respectfully submitted,

306

WESTLEY P. ]ONES
FRANCIS H. GENTRY
WILLIAM D. TUCKER
WILLIAM BOWERS

CECIL B. MATHEWS
ARTHUR E. CLINK
CHESTER M. SMITH
G. C. McKINLEY
MARVIN 0. WININGS
CLYDE M. WIXOM
JAMES K . VAN AusDAL

Referred to Committee on Segregation.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON TAXATION

REPORT OF COLUMBIA TEMPLE COMMITTEE

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Since our last report, there have been no changes in the tax laws
which affect the coverage of employees of the various Masonic organiza~
tions. However, the Congress has recently enacted a law which changes
the rates and bases of Federal Insurance Contributions (Social Security)
taxes commencing January I. 1959.
For reference purposes, there is presented a schedule of rates and tax
bases for various payroll taxes which under present laws will be effective
January 1. 1959, and thereafter.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This year your Columbia Temple has had 14 visits from lodges
within the California jurisdiction. Three more are scheduled to visit the
Temple this fall at the present time. We expect that there will be a few
more before the year ends.

Tax rates applicable to first $4,800 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year-to be paid at the same rate by both employer
and employee.

ELM ER E. Ross

C. J. WESCOTT
WENDELL VAN WINKLE
KENNETH L. MORRIS
ARTHUR E. CORBETT
BARRETT
CHARLES
JACK L. R.b,U

s.

FEDERAL INSURANCE CONTRIBUTIONS

(SOCIAL SECURITY)

308

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Per Cent
Calendar Year
1959 ................................................................................ 2;/i
3
1960 through 1962..........................................................
1963 through 1965.......................................................... 3;/i
4
1966 through 1968..........................................................
After 1969............................... ........ .......... ..................... 4;/i

a special committee and the authority, previously granted, for the Gra nd
Master to make nominal expenditures , if necessary.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK HARWELL, JR.
PHIL N. MYERS
MATTHEW M . CoDoN
JoE L. SHELL

FEDERAL UNEMPLOYMENT TAX
Masonic lodges are not subject to this tax unless they employ four
or more employees in non-ritualistic services and each employee is paid
$50, or more, per calendar quarter.
CALIFORNIA UNEMPLOYMENT INSURANCE TAX
Tax rate applicable to first $3,000 of wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year-to be paid only by employer.
Rates based on employment experience, graduated from zero to a
maximum of 2.7 %. State will furnish notification of rate.
CALIFORNIA DISABILITY INSURANCE TAX
Tax rate applicable to first $3.600 of the wages paid to each employee
during the calendar year-to be pa id by employee. Rate, I % .
Respectfully submitted,
ALEXANDER L. CROCE
}AMES E . HAMMOND
ROBERT R. YoRK
Referred to Committee on Segregation.

REPORT OF SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON
OLD MASONIC HALL AT LOS ANGELES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California:
We refer you to previous reports of this committee for information
relating to circumstances surrounding this first Masonic Hall in Los
Angeles.
We are pleased to report that on September 8 the City Council of
Los Angeles approved the sale to the State of California of the property
at 416 .Yi North M ain Street, on which the old hall is loca ted.
The approval included instructions to the City Attorney to present
to the Council the necessary ordinance authorizing the sale of the
property to the State of California. The opinion has been expressed that
the adoption of the ordinance and the eventual transfer of title to the
State will now be a routine procedure. When these steps are completed,
the old Hall becomes a part of the master plan for the Pueblo de Los
Angeles State Historical Monument. W e are informed that State funds
for restoration of the building have been allocated, a nd with completion
of architectural and structural drawings the work will commence.
No expense has been incurred by the committee and we do not anticipate any for the immediate future. We recommend the continuation of

309

REPORT OF CODE COMMISSION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodg e of California:
Your Code C ommission is pleased to report that, in accordance with
the plan approved by this G rand Lodge. your Commission prepared and
published a supplement to the California M asonic Code Annotated
which set fo rth the various cha nges in law which were made at the 1957
C ommunication. These cha nges were keyed to the approp riate sections
of the Code, and the supplement also contained a numerical table showing the cha nges made and an index to the subject matter.
Plans have been made for your commission to start work, immediately after the close of this Communication. on the preparation of a
cumulative supplement which will include a ll the material contained in
the 1957 supplement as well as the changes that will be made at this
present Communication. We have been assured of the usual excellent
cooperation of the Grand Secretary's office and we will do our best to
see that the material is published at the earliest possible date.
Your commission has proposed a resolution designed to permit the
omission of repetitious material, and we urge its adoption.
To cover the expenses of the commission, we are requesting an
appropriation of $150.
Respectfully submitted,
RICHARD H. CHAMBERLAIN
ELMER w. HEALD
EDWARD T. KoFoRo
ANDREW R . SCHOTTKY
WILLIAM NANKERYIS, JR., C hairman
Referred to Committee on Finance.

TRIBUTE TO ALVIN A. HORWEGE
Grand Lecturer Elbert W. Davis introduced the following resolution:
WHEREAS, it is the a nnounced inten tion of our Grand T iler,
Worshipful Alvin A. Horwege, to retire from office at the close of this
communication of Grand Lodge, after a distinguished service of thirteen
years,
BE IT RESOLVED. that the Grand Lodge of California hereby
expresses to him its sincere appreciation for his long and devoted service,

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for the many hours and many days throughout the months of each year
which he has contributed to the cause of Freemasonry, for his selfless
devotion and dedication to its principles, for his promptness and efficiency in the conduct of his office, for his geniality and pleasant greeting
of the brethren at each communication, for the many courtesies and
comforts he has extended to the officers of Grand Lodge throughout the
years, and above all for the man and the personality, Al Horwege,
beloved and admired by all.
BE IT FURTHER RESOLVED. that this resolution be suitably
inscribed by the Grand Secretary and presented to our distinguished
brother.
The resolution was unanimously adopted by a rising vote.
At 12: 15 Grand Lodge was called off until I :40 P.M.

311

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

AFTERNOON SESSION-Friday, October 3, 1958
At 1 :40 P.M., Grand Lodge was called on, the Grand Master presiding. The Grand Chaplain delivered the invocation.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON RITUAL
PERAMBULATION RITUAL

We have carefully considered the resolution of certain brethren of
the 620th Masonic District Officers' Association, proposing that "the
perambulations during degree work be a portion of the duties of the
Senior Deacon."
If this language be taken literally, it is already the duty of the
Senior Deacon to conduct the candidate. However, we assume that what
is meant is that the Senior Deacon should give the scripture recital
during perambulation.
The ruling in this respect has heretofore been that the Senior Deacon
might give this, as might any other brother designated by the Master,
but it has been recommended that the Senior Deacon should not give it.
In our opinion, the adoption of the proposal would not add anything
to the dignity of the work nor be any more impressive to the candidate.
It would materially add to the memorized work of an officer who already
has much to do and much to learn in order to become proficient. Furthermore, it would take away the opportunity for one or more other brethren
to actively participate in the work.
Another important consideration is that in a large number of lodges,
particularly metropolitan lodges, this part is sung by vocalists. To
require the Senior Deacon to give the recitals would eliminate this very
pleasing musical addition.
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
ELBERT

w. DAVIS

CLARE B. CAMPBELL
RALPH M. F OOTE
ARTHUR

J. KAHN

RAYMOND G. TAYLOR
DONALD G. TAYLOR

w. B E N SORRELLS
The resolution failed of adoption.
PAST MASTERS' APRONS

There has been presented a resolution to permit Past Masters to
wear their Past Masters' aprons when engaged in degree work.
No one ca n engage in degree work as a matter of right, without
permission of the Master of the lodge, who may invite qualified breth-

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

312

ren to assist in conferring a degree. The conferring of the degree is
for the benefit of the candidate, however, and not for the display of
honors attained by the man who is doing the work. We therefore can
see no reason why a Past Master should engage in degree work under
any other conditions than one who is not a Past Master, or why he
should not wear the regalia of the officer whose station or place he is
occupying.
We recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
The resolution failed of adoption.

JOINT REPORT OF COMMITTE ES
ON JURISPRUD ENCE AND GRIEVANC ES
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Grand Master has handed Jurisprudence Committee a memorandum dated September 29, 1958, signed by Arthur B. Shoot, Past
Master of John D. Spreckels Lodge No. 657, requesting that Trial
Record No. 1488 be submitted to the Grievances Committee and Jurisprudence Committee to correct an error in decision.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence can take no action on the request.
It a ppears that the request should be presented to the Grand Lodge by
appropriate resolution
Your Committee on Grievances Reports:
In Trial Record No. 1488 the acquittal of J.T.M. of unmasonic conduct was affirmed by Grand Lodge on the recommendatio n of said
Grievances Committee as shown on page 253 of the 1956 Proceedings.
"Where a judgment of acquittal has been affirmed by Grand Lodge,
the case may not thereafter be opened and the accused may not be
tried again on the same charges" ( 713-c Masonic Code) . The Grievances Committee therefore cannot recommend any further action in
this trial record.
Committee on Jurisprudence:
JoHN R. MooRE
JoHN W. SHENK

Committee on Grievances :
ALBERT F. Ross
RALPH E. HoYT
ELMER

w. HEALD

OrroRoHWER

BYRON

c. MORTON

MILTON SAPIRO

RALPH K. PIERSON

JoHN F. MARTIN

JOSEPH GEN SER

CLA y ROBBINS

FOLGER EMERSON

Lours

c. DRAPEAU

WAKEFIELD TAYLOR

Unanimously adopted.

313

REPORT OF COMMITTE E ON FINANCE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge F. 6 A. M. of California:

In accordance with the provision of Ordinances, the firm of Skinner
and Hammond has audited all accounts of Grand Lodge, the Masonic
Homes, and the Memorial Temple for the fiscal year ended June 30,
1958. These reports have been examined and it is our opinion that they
correctly present the financial condition of these activities.
The audit shows total revenue for the support of Grand Lodge of
$341,911.76, and expenses and appropriations of $296,842,79, leaving a
balance of unexpended revenue of $45,068.97. In addition, Grand Lodge
received $21 ,999.96 as reimbursement from the Masonic H omes for
Salary and Endowment Board expense, making a total of $67,068.93.
which has been transferred to Capital Account.
It should be noted, however, that of this $67,000.00 surplus, approximately $58,000.00 is represented by unexpended appropriations for
Employees Retirement Plan and Temple Dedication, and a net gain from
the operation of " California Freemason." The latter amount should be
set up as a fund against magazine subscriptions paid in advance, and
the Pension Plan and Temple Dedication expenses have been included
again in the budget for the current fiscal year.
Your committee commends all boards , committees, and those in
charge of administration for their efforts in holding expenses well within
budgeted appropriations .
GRAND TREASURER'S REPORT

We have examined the Grand Treasurer's report, which was referred
to this committee. All items of income and expenditure, as well as funds
on hand and investment portfolio, are in accord with the audit. The
report has our entire approval.
We particularly note his recommendatio n that a definite per capita
be set aside each year to be added to the reserves of Grand Lodge. This
committee, in reporting last year, stated that when the current period of
non-recurring high expenses is behind us, Grand Lodge should make a
serious effort to spend substantially less than it takes in and add to its
reserves each year. At such a time the committee will give consideration
of putting into effect the recommendatio n of the Grand Treasurer.
EX CESS EXPENDITURES OVER BUDGETED AMOUNTS

There has been referred to this committee that portion of the Grand
Master's Message in which he reported approval by him of expenditures
in excess of items in the budget totaling for the last fiscal year the
relatively small sum of $2.371,83, made up largely of one item for
$1 .855.85 covering unforeseen costs in Grand Lodge litigation. We
recommend approval of the action of the Grand Master.
CORRESPONDEN CE COMMITTEE-"C ALIPORNIA FREEMASON"

As previously noted, the operations in connection with the publi-

314

315

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

cation of our official magazine, "California Freemason," in the last fiscal
year resulted in net cash on hand of $9.226.42. This surplus was transferred to Capital A ccount.
However, these funds are more than offset by receipts from advance
subscriptions which, in regular accounting practice, would be carried
as a liability. Heretofore no action has been taken in this respect, but
your committee now feels that the sums involved are of a size which
require that we adopt a different procedure. Accordingly. we recommend that Grand Lodge approve the establishment of "California Freemason Reserve" in the above amount. This reserve will be shown on
the balance sheet as a part of the Capital Account and will provide
for a time when receipts may not equal the expenses due to fluctuating
subscriptions. We also recommend that from time to time unexpended
budget amounts from this appropriation be added to this account, and
overexpenditures, if and when they occur, be deducted.

against which we will carry in estimated income the amount paid Gran.cl
Lodge for expenses incurred by and services rendered to the Masonic
Homes.
On the recommendation of the Grand Secretary. we are increasing
the appropriation to cover salary adjustments and increase to the staff.
We are also including an increase in the salaries of the Grand Secretary
and Assistant Grand Secretary which we feel is entirely warranted. We
are recommending an increase in the salary of the Grand Secretary by
$1 :tOO.OO. which will bring it to $20,000.00 per annum. and the Assistant
Grand Secretary by $1.000.00, which will bring it to $11.000.00 per
annum. Grand Lodge continues to widen the scope and responsibility
of these offices. and it is only just and fair that a corresponding increase
in compensation should be made. It bears repeating that the efficiency
with which our Grand Lodge office is administered is reputed to be
second to none.

MASONIC HOMES

The Finance Committee has reviewed the audit of the accounts of the
Masonic Homes of California and the report of the Trustees. We have
consulted the Board to ascertain their estimate of the funds needed
to support the operation of the Homes for the current fiscal year. Your
chairman was permitted to attend a full meeting of the Board, at which
plans were reviewed for the extensive, costly, and muchly needed
building program at Decoto to be commenced in the near future.
While the Board feels that a renewal of the per capita tax of $.50
will be sufficient for the current fiscal year. it should be noted that in
another year the Homes will probably not be able to make ends meet
with income based on this per capita. They face the loss of investment
income derived from capital funds which will be spent on the building
program at Decato, and the probability of a substantial increase in operating expense resulting from higher wages.
We offer the following resolution:
RESOLVED, that the sum of $.50 per capita be levied for the fiscal
year ending June 30, 1959. the proceeds to be paid to the Trustees of
the Masonic Homes.
BUDGET

In presenting the budget for the current fiscal year ending June 30,
1959, special attention is directed to several items.
SALARIES

For some years it has been the accounting procedure to carry the
budgeted appropriation for salaries at the net cost to Grand Lodge after
crediting the amount paid to Grand Lodge by the Masonic Homes for
services rendered to the Homes by the Grand Secretary and Assistant
Grand Secretary.
On the recommendation of our auditors we are changing the procedure to show salaries at the total amount disbursed by Grand Lodge,

MEMORIAL TEMPLE

In the budget for the first quarter of the current fiscal year adopted
at the 1957 Grand Lodge Communication there was included $10,000.00
for expense of the Memorial Temple dedication. This is in addition to
$5,000.00 provided for the same purpose in the previous fiscal year.
Only $342.65 of this $5,000.00 appropriation was expended, the remainder being transferred to Capital Account as previously noted.
After consultation with those in charge of the dedication program, we
estimate the total cost for this fiscal year at $20,000.00 and have set up
this amount in the budget. It includes. of course, the $10,000.00 previously appropriated for the first quarter. We have been conservative in
our estimate, but no accurate figure can be given until all bills are in.
We trust that this appropriation will be sufficient.
RETIREMENT PENSION PLAN FOR GRAND LODGE EMPLOYEES

As previously noted, no disbursement was made during the last
fiscal year of the $19 ,500.00 budgeted for Retirement Pension Plan of
Grand Lodge employees. except for $250.00 paid for actuary service.
Action has been delayed pending amendment of the Trust Agreement
and the Retirement Income Plan of Masonic Homes of California and
the approval by the Internal Revenue Service.
We anticipate that these matters will be cleared in the current year.
Our actuaries advise us that approximately $38,000.00 will be required
to cover all costs from January 1. 1956, the established effective date for
these employees, to the end of the current fiscal year.
There has been previously set aside in a special bank account $22,~
753.91 for this purpose. We are budgeting $16,000.00 which, together
with the funds in the special account. will bring the total to the amount
required. Our auditors suggest that Grand Lodge approval be given
to the appropriation of $22,753.91 set aside in the special bank account
for Grand Lodge Employees Retirement Pension Plan. these funds to

316

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

be transferred to the current Administrative and Office Expense budget
and paid out for this purpose as required. We recommend approval of
this action.
Grand Lodge has previously approved the integration under the
Pension Plan of certain employees of its agencies such as the University
Clubhouses and Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus. To date
we have not been informed that the required action has been taken by
the Board of any of these agencies. In the opinion of our auditors and
actuaries, $1 ,000.00 will be sufficient to cover the initial cost in the
current fi sca l year if and when action is taken. Accordingly, we have
included this amount in the budget. We recommend that the same conditions attach as last year relating to full-time employees, minimum
payment to fund prior credits earned, and that the effective date now be
set at Janua ry 1, 1959.
CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLA CEMENTS

At the 1957 Annual Communication a new section was added to the
budget entitled "Capital Additions and Replacements," under which all
amounts expended for furnishings and equipment which become the
property of Grand Lodge are capitalized and carried on the balance sheet
as an asset.
There was budgeted for this purpse in the last fi scal year $33.796.76.
The audit report shows $35.656.83 expended, the items purchased being
listed and carried on the balance sheet as an asset.
For the current fi scal year we have budgeted under this section
$4 .500.00. This will cover the balance due on the offset printing press,
which is a valuable addition to the office equipment, and some small
items of equipment, all of which are detailed in the budget.
BUDGET

1958-59

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries........................................................................................$ 68,400.00
Grand Lodge Offices-Temple Operation and
Maintenance Expense.......................................................... 18,000.00
2.500.00
Audit........•.........·-·······································································
250.00
Grand Treasurer........................................................................
3,300.00
Postage and Express..................................................................
3,600.00
Telephone and Telegraph ..........................................................
2.000.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes ..............................
500.00
Investment Counsel.. ..................................................................
Retirement Pension Plan-Grand Lodge Office Employees 16,000.00
1,000.00
Retirement Pension Pla n-Employees Other Agencies........
Total. .............................. ..................................... ............$115 ,550.00

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

317

GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communication..............................................................$ 13,000.00
5,000.00
Conferences ................................................................................
7,500.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense....................................
750.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ..............................................
Grand Master's Travel, Secretarial, Miscellaneous Expense 10,000.00
5,000.00
Investment Counsel for Lodges ..................................................
925.00
Portrait of Grand Master ( 1 ) ....................................................
Representatives' Mileage .......................................................... 35,000.00
Printing ...................................................................................... 23,500.00
Ritualistic Expense:
600.00
Grand Lecturer........................................................................
1,750.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery........................................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors' Conference and
Travel Expense ................................................................. . 13,000.00
900.00
White Aprons-Grand Lodge..................................................
900.00
Retirement Pay ..........................................................................
3,000.00
Veteran Buttons..........................................................................
3,500.00
Supplies and Miscellaneous......................................................
Memorial Temple Dedication.................................................... 20,000.00
Insurance:
6,000.00
Workmen's Compensation for Lodges ................................. .
2,800.00
Fidelity Bond ..........................................................................
1,250.00
Miscellaneous ........................................................................
Total. .................................................................................$154,375.00
APPROPRIATIONS

Activities Committee..................................................................$ 8,500.00
1.250.00
Board of Control. ...................................................................... .
500.00
Charters Committee....................................................................
2,000.00
Columbia Temple Committee....................................................
750.00
Constitution Observance Committee........................................
2,000.00
.
.........
Freemason"
Correspondence Committee--"Califomia
750.00
D e Malay Committee ..................................................................
11,500.00
.
Employment Bureaus ...............................................................
Endowment Board .............................-······························-···-··· 13,500.00
750.00
History Committee --·····················-··········································-·
2,000.00
Committee on Research ..............................................................
2,800.00
Lodge Financing Committee......................................................
13,000.00
Memorial Temple Committee. ....................................................
2,000.00
Public Schools Scholarship Award ............................................
2,500.00
Committee. on Public Schools ....................................................
425.00
Boards of Relief- Reimbursement for Sojourners ....................

318

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Committee on Commercialism....................................................
Sojourners Committee................................................................
University Clubhouses:
Berkeley ..................................................................................
Los Angeles............................................................................
Code Commission ......................................................................
Grand Lodge Litigation .............. ................................. ...............
Investment Committee................................................................
Relief Fund-Grand Master........................................... ...........
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries................ ............................
Committee on Visual Aids ..........................................................

1,750.00
100.00
18.100.00
18.1 00.00
150.00
1,000.00
500.00
750.00
250.00
500.00

Total. .................................................................................$105,425.00
RECAPITULATION
Administrative and Office..........................................................$115.550.00
General Expense........................................................................ 154,375.00
Appropriations............................................................................ l 05,425.00
GRAND TOTAL. ........................................................... $375,350.00
ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE
Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc................................. $319,229.00
Income from Investments, Interest............................................ 27,150.00
Payment by Masonic Homes-Endowment Board Expense 13.500.00
Payment by Masonic Homes-Secretarial and Other Services 20.000.00
Total Estimated lncome.................................................. $379,879.00
Total Appropriations and Budgeted Items ...................... 375,350.00
Estimated Surplus........................................................ $

4,529.00

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS
Offset Press-Balance Due........................................................ $
Filing Cabinets............................................................................
Metal Tables··········-······························-···································
Steel Shelving······-···-··-····························································
Steel Lock Drawers.......................................................... ......... .
Reserve for Future Requirements ............................... ...............

2.500.00
225.00
250.00
865.00
140.00
520.00

Total ................................................................................. $

i ,500.00

Based on the above estimates it is our opinion that no increase in the
per capita tax need be made.
We. therefore. offer the following resolution :
RESOLVED, that for the purpose of paying the expenses of Grand

319

Lodge. a per capita aggregating $2.75 be levied for the fiscal year ending
June 30. 1959 divided as follows:
Constitutional Per Capita for California Masonic Memorial Temple.. $1.00
Masonic Homes .................................................................................. .50
Constitutional Per Capita for Grand Lodge........................................ .50
Additional Per Capita for Grand Lodge........... ................................... .75
Total Per Capita ............. ............................................................. $2.75
BUDGET FOR FIRST QUARTER 1959-60 FISCAL YEAR
In the light of subsequent experience, the action taken by Grand
Lodge at the last Annual Communication, in adopting. for the first time,
a budget for the first quar ter of the succeeding fiscal year, was wise. It has
largely solved the problem of meeting expenses during this interim period
with prior approval of Grand Lodge.
Accordingly, we propose to continue this procedure and submit the
following budget for the quarter July l to September 30, 1959 :
BUDGET
O NE QUARTER-JULY l, 1959 - SEPTEMBER 30, 1959
ADMINISTRATIVE ANDOFFICE
Salaries.......................................................................................... $17,100.00
Grand Lodge Offices-Temple Operation and
Maintenance Expense.............................................................. 4 ,500.00
75.00
Grand Treasurer..........................................................................
825.00
Postage and Express....................................................................
900.00
Telephone and Telegraph............................................................
500.00
Social Security and Unemployment Taxes..................................
Total. ................................................................................... $23,900.00
GENERAL EXPENSES
.............. $ 5,000.00
..................................................
Annual Communication
500.00
Conferences .................................................................... ..............
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense...................................... 2,000.00
Printing ........................................................................................ 4,000.00
Ritualistic Expense:
150.00
Grand Lecturer ....................................................................... .
200.00
Inspectors' Aprons and Stationery..........................................
Ritual Committee and Inspectors' Conference
and Travel Expense.............................................................. 1,500.00

~:~~::eB~~;~s::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

;;~:~

Supplies and Miscellaneous ........................................................ 1,000.00
Insurance ..................................................................................... - 6 .000.00
Total. ................................. .................................................. $20,825.00

320

PROCEEDI NGS OP THE
APPRO PRIATIONS

Relief Fund-Grand Master........................................................$ 300.00
Activities Committee ...·-··-···-···················---····----··············-··········· 2,000.00
300.00
Board of Control ..........................................................................
150.00
Charters Committee ......................................................................
500.00
.
.....................
................................
ommittee
Columbia Temple C
150.00
Constitution Observance Committee................................ ..........
100.00
De Molay Committee·-·····-················-·-···--·-··--·-······· ······-----··········
Endowment Board........................................................................ 1.500.00
75.00
History Committee. .......................................................................
450.00
Committee on .R esearch.......................... -----------------·-·------------··---·
400.00
Lodge Financing Committee....................................................... .
Memorial Temple Committee...................................................... 2,000.00
Public Schools Scholarship A ward ................................ .............. 2,000.00
250.00
Committee on Public Schools..............---------·--····--··--··-----··-··--····
450.00
.
.....................
................................
Committee on Commercialism
50.00
·······
Code Commission ·······-------······-········--·· ···············--·····----·----·
125.00
------····---·--·-···-----·-···
·--·-··-·--·······---·---------...
Committee
Investment
75.00
Committee on Masonic Cemeteries... ---------···--·····-·········----···-······
50.00
Sojourners Committee ···-----------··········-····---·-··----·····--·---------·-----·-·
Total. ....................................... ---···------ --·····-··---------------------·$10,925.00
RECAP!TULA TION

Administrative and O.ffice..---------·--·--------------······-····-----------········-$23 ,900.00
General Expense -·-----·····-····-----·····--··-····-----·--········------·--·------------ 20,825.00
Appropriations -·------·---------------··---·-······-------············--------- -·········· I 0,925.00
GRAND TOTAL ............................................................ $55,650.00
Respectfully submitted,
FRAN K HARWELL, JR.

F. WESLEY D AVIES
PAUL F. BA LCK
A LFRED H . NICOLL
BERTRAM C. voN Ko NSKY
GEORGE

w . S CHERER, JR.

The several sections of the budget were adopted individually.
following which the report was adopted as a whole.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

321

ANNUAL ELECTION
The Grand Master announced that the hour had arrived for the
Annual Election and directed the Grand Secretary to read the Sections
of the Constitution applying to the same.
The R. W . Phil N. Myers, McCloud Lodge No. 430, was elected
Grand Master.
The R. W. Joe L. Shell, San Diego Lodge No. 35, was elected
Deputy Grand Master.
The R. W . Alfred F. Breslauer. Starr King Lodge No. 344, was
elected Senior Grand Warden
The W . Guy B. M ize, Unity Lodge No. 368, was elected Junior
Grand W arden.
The M. W. Edward H. Siems, Past Grand M aster. Plymouth Lodge
No. 560, was re-elected G rand Treasurer.
The M. W . Lloyd E. Wilson, P ast Grand Master, Ingleside Lodge
No. 630, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V. W. Elbert W . Davis, Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571.
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
The Grand Master-elect directed the Grand Secretary to read the
names of the appointive officers as follows:
Judge Advocate, the M . W . Henry C. Clausen , Past Grand Master.
Ingleside Lodge No. 630.
Grand Chaplain, The Reverend D . Kohlstedt, Palo Alto Lodge No.
346.
Assistant Grand Lecturers : Clare B. Campbell, North Butte Lodge
No. 230; Ralph M . Foote, Valley Lodge No. 135; Arthur J. Kahn, Paul
Revere Lodge No. 462; Raymond G . Taylor, Libertas Lodge No. 466;
Donald G. Campbell, Granada Lodge No. 608; W . Ben Sorrells, Laguna
Beach Lodge No. 672.
Grand Ora tor, Theodore Meriam, Chico Lodge No. 111.
Assistant Grand Treasurer, Paul A. Pflueger, Amity Lodge No. 370.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Henry D . Oliphant, San Francisco Lodge
No. 360.
Grand Marshal. Byron C. Morton, Evergreen Lodge No. 259.
Grand Standard Bearer, Everett S. Todd, Covenant Lodge No. 527.
Grand Sword Bearer, Charles S. Hogan, McCloud Lodge No. 430.
Grand Bible Bearer, Frederick H . Chapman, Atwater Lodge No.
622.
Senior Grand Deacon , Fred F. Elliott, Bell Lodge No. 483.
Junior Grand Deacon, William D. Knight, Lancaster Lodge No. 437.
Senior Grand Steward, Earl W. Bliss, Palos V erdes Lodge No. 389.
Junior Grand Steward, Ogden D. Pinkerton, Schofield Lodge No.
H3.
Grand Pursuivant, W illiam H. Adams, Berkeley Lodge No. 363.

322

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Grand Organist, Harold Mueller, California Lodge No. 1.
Grand Tiler, David Wright, Menlo Park Lodge No. 651.
The Grand Secretary announced the re-appointment by the Grand
Master elect of Past Grand Masters Edward H. Siems and Frank
Harwell, Jr. as Trustees of the California Masonic Memorial Temple.
The Grand Secretary also announced the appointment by the Grand
Master elect of Trustees of the Masonic Homes as follows:
Past Grand Master Leo E. Anderson for the un-expired term of
Guy B. Mize (Junior Grand Warden), Past Grand Master Edgar
V. Stewart, Jr. to succeed Myron E. Smith (eligibility expired), and
Past Grand Master Harold L. Anderson to succeed Past Grand Master
Charles Albert Adams (eligibility expired).

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Most Worshipful Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Master acted
as Master of Ceremonies , and the officers, elected and appointed, with
the exception of Ogden D. Pinkerton, Junior Grand Steward, were installed by the retiring Grand Master in accordance with the Ritual.
The newly installed Grand Master invested his predecessor with a
Past Grand Master's lapel button.
The Charles Albert Adams insignia was transferred from the retiring to the incumbent Grand Master, and the other chair officers exchanged the Arthur S. Crites lapel pins.
The J. Everett Houser lapel pin was transferred from the retiring
to the incumbent Grand Orator
Past Grand Master Arthur M . Warren, who had originally presented the Grand Tiler's lapel insignia to Alvin A. Horwege, presented
it to the newly installed Grand Tiler, David Wright.
The Most Worshipful Edward H. Siems, Past Grand Master, invested the retiring Grand Master with the apron of his new designation
and with a gift to be tendered to Mrs. Anderson from the members of
Grand Lodge. The Jr. Past Grand Master acknowledged both presentations in his typically courteous manner.
At 5:00 p.m.. all business being completed, Grand Lodge was closed
in due form.

~~~~~
GRAND MASTER

SPECIAL

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

323

SPECIAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Page
Budget for 1958-59-------------·-·-·---·-·----------- -----·--·-···-··--··········-··-··----------· 324
Audit of Annual Returns, 1958.·--·------·--···-·--------·---·-··--···-·······-·--·-·----- 327
Grand Lodge Audit ..---·····-·--·-···--·-··-------·--··--··---···································· 329
Masonic Homes Audit ........... ·-······-···--············-·········-··--············---·-··-·- 349
Memorial Temple Audit---·-··---·--·······-···-·-··--·-----·--········-·········-······--·-·-- 381
Statistical :
Residents a t Decoto.......................................................................... 388
Decoto Christmas and Entertai nment Reserve ................................ 396
Children at Covina Home.................·-·····--···-···-·--·-··-·-·-·-······-··-···-··-· 400
Covina Christmas and E ntertainment Reserve............ ·--·--·---·--·-··-·· 402
Number of Residents, D ecoto and Covina ...................................... 406
Per Capita Cost Decoto and Covina................................................ 406
Contributions to Special Reserves.................................................... 407

324

PROC EEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

BUDGET 1958-195 9
ADMINISTR ATIVE AND OFFICE

Salaries .....................•..•.............................................................$ 68,400.00
Grand Lodge Offices-T emple Operation
and Maintenan ce Expense ................................................ 18.000.00
Audit ..........................................................................................
2.500.00
Grand Treasurer .................................................................... ..
250.00
Postage a nd Express ................................................................
3,300.00
Telephon e and Telegraph ........................................................
3,600.00
Social Security & Unemploy ment Taxes ................................. .
2,000.00
Investmen t Counsel ..................................................................
500.00
Retiremen t Pension PlanGrand Lodge Office Employee s ........................................ 16.000.00
Retiremen t Pension PlanEmployee s Other Agencies ................. ...........................
1,000.00
Total ................................................. .........................$115.550.00

GENERAL EXPENSE

Annual Communi cation ............................................................ $ 13,000.00
Conferenc es ............................................................................. .
5,000.00
Grand Lodge Officers' Travel Expense ..................................
7,500.00
Grand Organist and Grand Tiler ........................................... .
750.00
Grand Master's Travel. Secretaria l
& Miscellan eous Expense .............................................. .. 10,000.00
Investmen t Counsel for Lodges ............................................ ..
5,000.00
Portrait of Grand Master ( 1 ) ..................................................
925.00
Represent atives' Mileage ................................................... ...... . 35,000.00
Printing ...................................................................................... 23,500.00
Ritualistic Expense:
Grand Lecturer ..................................................................
600.00
Inspectors ' Aprons and Stationery ..................................
1,750.00
Ritual Committe e and Inspectors '
Conferenc e and Travel Expense .............................. 13.000.00
White Aprons-G rand Lodge .............................................. ..
900.00
Retiremen t Pay ................................. ....................................... ..
900.00
Veteran Buttons .................................................. ......................
3.000.00
Supplies and M iscellaneo us ................. .....................................
3.500.00
Memorial Temple Dedication .................................................. 20.000.00
Insurance :
.
Workmen 's Compensa tion for Lodges ..........................
6.000.00
Fidelity Bond ............... ................. ....................................
2,800.00
Miscellaneous ....................................................................
1,250.00
Total ................................................. ......................... $154,375.00

325

APPRO PRIATIONS

Activities Committee ...................•............................................$ 8 ,500.00
Board of Control ................................................. .....................
1,250.00
Charters Committe e ................... .............................................. .
500.00
Columbia Temple Committe e ................................................. .
2,000.00
Constituti onal Observan ce Committe e ................ ....................
750.00
Correspon dence Committ ee"Californi a Freemaso n" ................................................. .
2,000.00
De Molay Committe e ................................................................
750.00
Employm ent Bureaus ................. ............................................... 11 ,500.00
Endowme nt Board ................................. ................................... 13,500.00
History Committe e ................................................. ................. ..
750.00
Committe e on Research ................ ............................................
2,000.00
Lodge Financing Committe e ....................................................
2,800.00
Memorial Temple Committe e .................................................. 13.000.00
Public Schools Scholarsh ip Award ..........................................
2,000.00
Committe e on P ublic Schools ................................................. .
2.500.00
Boards of Relief-R eimbursement for Sojourner s .............. ..
425.00
Committe e on Commercialism ..................................................
1.750.00
Sojourner s Committe e ..............................................................
100.00
University Clubhouse s:
Berkeley ............................................................................ 18,l 00.00
Los Angeles ................ ...................................................... 18,100.00
Code Commission ................. ................. ................. ...................
150.00
Grand Lodge Litigation ............................................................
1,000.00
Investmen t Committe e ..............................................................
500.00
Relief Fund-Gr and Master .................................................. ..
750.00
Committe e on Masonic Cemeterie s ........................................
250.00
Committe e on Visual Aids ........................................................
500.00
Total .......................................................................... $105,425.0 0
Re.CAPITU LATION

Administr ative and Office ........................................................$115 ,550.00
General Expense .................................................. .................... 154 ,375.00
Appropria tions .......................................................................... 105,425.00
GRAND TOTAL ................................. ................. .. $375,350. 00

326

327

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AUDIT OF ANNUAL RETURNS

ESTIMATED INCOME AND EXPENSE

Dues from Lodges, Fees for Degrees, etc. ------------------····-······-$319,229.00
Income from Investments, Interest ··-------················-················ 27, 150.00
Payment by Masonic HomesEndowment Board Expense ·················· ····--·-···--·-----------· 13,500.00
Payment by Masonic HomesSecretarial and Other Services --·---·-·······-------·········-----·-·· 20,000.00
Total Estimated Income ··········-------·-·······--················--$379,879.00
Total Appropriations & Budgeted Items ------------········ 375.350.00
Estimated Surplus ·-------·················-····················--···-$ 4.529.00

September J,. 195.S

The. Kost Worshipful Grand Lodge or
Free and Accspted MasQns of tha
State o! C&li!orn1a
California Masonic Memorial T"'!'Ple
l l l l Calito rnia Street
San· Francisco 8, California
Oentlemeni
lie han Illa.de a.n eXBJtdnation o! the 1958 Annual Returns of the
Constituent Lodges of Grand Lodge, F. 6. A. M. o! California., r eporting on

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Off set Press-Balance Due ·······-----------···································-$
Filing Cabinets ···············--·-········ ···················--------------··········-···
Metal Tables ·············-----·--·--······-------------···-··--------------·--··········
Steel Shelving ·······-----------------········-······----··············-··-----···········
Steel Lock Drawers ··········-·-·······-------------·----···········-----········--·Reserve for Future Requirements ..........................................

2.500.00
225.00
250.00
865.00
140.00
520.00

l!lembership and on the pay1nents due Grand Lodge in accordance with the

Total ·······-·····---------------···· ··········-------·············-------·----$

i,500.00

necessary 111- the circlllnl!taricss ,

------

provisions of t he Constitution and Ord.inances ani t he action t ake n bT Grand
Lodge at the 1957 annual comnunication.

Our examination was made in a.ccordancs

with generall.J' accepted auditing standards, and accordingJ..r included such tests
o! the accounting reco rds and such other auditi ng procedures as we considered

The total payments due Grard Lodge, based upon the 1958 annual
returne:.am>unt tc $956,901.7 5, as shown by the accompanying stat ement, mark ed
Exhibit A,

At the date of this. ~eport, September J, 1958, thi• amunt had been

collected in !ull. and transferred to the Gratd Treasurer, with t he exception
or a' balance of $899 . 25 ru-i sing f rom errors made in the r eturns.

This balan'e

was in proc els o! adju•tment and collectio n at t he date of this report,
Respec t !ulJ..r ..Ubmitted,

j/~iffe/)- ~~VII?~
Certified Public Accountants

328

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE AUDIT
Jul,y 23, 1958

EXHIBIT A

GRAND LOOOE. FI & A. M. OP .CALIFORNIA

JUNE 30, 1958

STATEMENT OF 1958 ANNUAL RETURNS

The Most 1'.rshiptul. Grand Lodge ot

&R
TOTAL t!:R
YtAR ENDED
BEXlINNING
1958 .ANNUAL
JUNB 30 \958 JULY 1. 1958
RETURHS
I

rr.. and Accepted Hssons ot the
State ot California
Calit6rnia Masonic Msmor.lal Temple
llll Cal.itornl.a Stre.t
Sart Francisco 81 Call.tonua

GRAND LODGE SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES:
Kaster Masons on June 30, 1958 237, 685
Lees: Members of Research
--

Lodges

Members other than ot Research
Lodges
Leu: Members for -whom per
-capita waived {dues
remitted)

_121

We h&ve examined the balance sheet ot

PftEL6r

THB lllST Wll!SllIPPUL GRA.HD LODGE (f
ACCEPTED MASONS
OF T!IB STAT! OP' CALIFal A

as ot June JO, 1958, and the related etat-nt of revenue and apense for the

-1..m.

Balance of merl>ers

·234,5U o $ 1,25 $29J,176.25

$293,176,2S

Degrees conferred in Tear
ended June 30, 1958.

23,053 0 $ l,00

23,053.00

23.053.90

$316.229.25

$316.229.25

MASONIC HO!®l CJF CALIFORNIA
CONTRIBUTIONS :
Kaster Hasoris on June 30,
1958, as above
.C ontributions of Initiates
arr:! Ai'i'iUates

7ear then ended,

Our examination was made in acoordance vi th generall;r

accepted auditing standard•, arr:! aocordingl.7 included such tests ot the accounting records and such other auditing procedurH as we considered neo•HU'J' in the
circ1111111tances,
The annual financial statements of Grand Lodge, P', It A, H. of California
$117 ,270,50

$

,50

$117,270.50

8,492 0 $25,00

212 1 ~00 1 00

i1i2,12~ 1 00

62.~2.QQ

$329, 570.50

$1!15,175,00

$1Slti322150

234,541 Q $

h&Te been prepared for 111&1\T 7ear• past on the cash basis ot accounting, and the
attached financial stat-nts for the current· 7ear are likeviH prepared on that
basis,

Urx!.er the cash basis ot accounting, rneme and e:xpenHs are recorded

CALIFORRll ltASONIC MEHCRIAL
TEMPLE CONTRIBUTIONS:
Kaster Hsaons on June 30,
1958, as above

234,5U .a $ 1,00

$2.34,5U.OO

Contributions of Initiates

7 ,656 Q $ 9,00

68 1 2Q!i 1 00
$303,445,00

.

upon the books ot account and reflected in the financial stataent• when receiTed
arr:!· paid,

respectiveJ.71 without regard to the period to .which thq appl;r,
The 1956 Annual Ccmimunication ch&ngecl the annual aocounting period ot

$2J4,5U.00

Grand Lodge trom a fiscal 7ear erx!.ing Jul,T )l to a fiscal 7ear endins June JO,

!IZ,126.00

2;i. 12os,!!2

A• a consequence ot this action, although the period covered bJ' this report 18

$ 1iz 1126 1 00

$256,242·!!!

the twelve months ended June JO, 1958, the previous period u•ed .as a bub of

$

comparison is for eleven months,
GEORGE WASHillGTON MASONIC
NATIONAL Mm!ORIAL
CO!ffl!IBU'l'IONS:
Contributions of Initiates
~

7,657 0 $ l,00

$ 2 ,651,00

$ s.21t2.oo

$ Vtl.5 1 00

(1956 901 75

$197 613 00

~759 266

u

329

330

331

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

on a t.bree-7ear basis to conr the LodgH not othel"tdH covered b,r auch iMurance,
Grand Lodge collect• th• prniwu t'l'Oll the cOYered Lodg.. on an annual premiCash on deposit in bank• e.t June 30, 1958, as shown b7 Exhibit A,
amounted . to $123,434.18, an increaae ot $62, 779.67 in the amount on d9P0si~ in
banks at the beginning ot the period.

The following S\llllllW7 shows the aource•

ot cash twr:ls and the application thereof during the 79ar ended June 30, 1958:

I 60.654.51

Cash in bank•, June 30, 1957

$75,909,29

Bequeat trom George I., BV'erett

1,922.83

Decrease in invest.manta in aeouritiea

2,657,54

Increase in liabillti .. trom 17,llS2.30
at June 30, 1957 to $8 1 \174100 at
June 30, 1958
Funds applied:

At June 30,. 1958, Grand Lodge had advanoed 1191 755,60, in in1urance

p~uu,

which 1e due tr- the Lodge•,

Thi• •1111 1e ehown a• an &Ifft on !xhibit A,

Grand Lodge had on hand at Juna 30, 19581 a balance ot $5 1 225.00 ot th•
contributions receiTed during the 7ear tor th• Gecrge \lla•hington Masonio Hatione.l
X..Orial, and thi• amount i• ahovn as a Uabd.Ut7 on the attached .b alanoe llheet,
Dlir1ng the ~urrent 79ar, contribution• totaling '81 148,00 were paid over t.o the

Sources ot tunda 1
Net income tor the 7ear wded
June 30, 1958

Decrease in insurance premilDllll advanced
tor Lodges

baeie,

!ndo-t P'und ot the Gecrge llaahingt.on Maaonio National Kemorie.l Aaaociation, in
accordance Ml.th the OrdinanoH ot Grand Lodge,
The tote.! revenue received b,r Grand Lodge during the 7ear ended June 30,
1958, trom contribution• lerled upon the Lodge•, amounted to $958,549,24, u aholftl

J.6,925,14

on Exh1bit B ot thia rilport,

Included in suoh revenue .are contributions tor the

Ma•onio ·Hom• ot Calltornia, tor the Calitornia Muoriio !f91111rial 'hlll>l•, and for
l,021,70
$ 98,436.50

the !ndcnaent Fund ot the George Waahingt.on Kuonio National lfamlrial A.aaooiation,
in the aggregate aimiunt ot 1645,998,001 l•Ting a balance ot the oontributioiw

Purchase ot furniture and fixtures

35,656.Sl

Net increase in tunds during the 7ear
ended Jun• 30, 1958
·

I 62.772.67

Cash in bank•, June 30, 1958

$123 1.14 JS

trom the LodgH ot 1312,551,24 tor the 8llpp0rt ot Grand Lodge,

Thim balance,

together with other incDIH ot 129,360,52, provided total renl'lle ot 1341,911.76
aa shown on lxhi1'1t B, for t!M 9Upp0rt ot Grand Lodg!I and it• activiti•• during
the ourrent 7ear.

The total amount inve.ted in aecurities at June 30, 1958 amounted to

Bq>enaea and appl'Opriatio1111 ot Grand Loci&• tor the 79ar Ul)Uftt,ed t.o

1553,299.57, as shown on Exhibit A, as ~mpared with $555,957.11, at June 30,

1274,842,83, l•Tins a balanoe ot unupended revenua at June 30, 1958 ot

1957, a decrease ot $2,657 ,54,

167,068,93,

The 1957 Comnunication ot Grand Lodge apprond the 01P1~sation ot
the amounts apended tor furnishing• and equipment required b7 the r8111Cnl. of
the Grand Loci&• ottice• to the California Masonic Y.->rie.l Tuple,

The••

expenditures &111>Unted to '35,656,83 and on Schedule 7 ot this report th•
expenditure• are shown in comparison with the budget tor 1957-58 adopted bT
Grand Loci&• at the 1957 Co1111111nication.

Thi• balance, tos.ther with ga11111 on •e.l.. ot Hcuriti•• held tor

inveatmnt in t))e aimiunt of 18,840,30, pl'Ovided net revenue tar the 7.r ot
t15,909,29 as ooq>ared "with a 1imllar net revenue tor the llnen 1111nth8 .ended
June 30, 1957, ot lll,605,24.

llq)aid ~·bill• at. June 30, 1958 mowit.ed

t.o '10,993,73 and at that date a oont.ribut.ion b,r Cll'and Lad&• ot the minima

332

The 1955 Conmnication or Grand Lodge approved the iml.uding ot the

a1110unt of appro:xi-tely $23,000.00 was required to fund the Retirement Income
Plan,

These it..,.. are referred to hareiratter.

333

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Had these itena bean paid at

amplo;reea ot Grand lodge under the Masonic Homes or Calitornia Retir8111811t InoC111e
Pending amendment ot the Trust Agreemant ani the Retirement IncOlll8 Plan

June 30, 195B, the net revenue tor the ;rear would have been decreased from

Plan.

$75,909.29 to approximately 142,ooo.oo.

ot Masonic Homes ot California and the 11pproval by the Internal Revenue Sen:l.ce,

On Schedules 4, 5, 6, and 7 ot thia report, the e:xpensea arri appropri-

the tunda contributed by the participating emplo7eea ot Gran:! Lodge have been
The total contributions from

ations tor the Cll1,!'ent year are shown in comparison with those lor the precedillf,

retained in the Grand Lodge bank 11ccount,

fiscal ;rear, and •also w1 th the bid get tor 1957-58 adopted by Grand Lodge at the

Janun.r;r l, 1956 to June 30, 1958, representing 3% ot the p&rticipating employees•

1957 Co111111Unication,

In certain individual. categories, axpen:liturea exceeding

the 8lllount provided in the budget were peid with the approval ot the Grand
Master

regular aalar;r, amounts to $3,882,00,

One emplo7H ot Grand Lodee retired in

September 1957 ll!ld has been paid $385,00 as retirement income 1<1\ich 8111ount hu
been charged to the total contributions leaving a balance or &3,497 ,00, which ia

as indicated on the schedules • .
Supplies purchased and peid tor during the year tor resale to Lodgea

and inli viduala, amounted to $23, 767 ,08, exclusive ot auppliea &lll)tlnting to

ehown as a liability on Ex:hibi t A,
The actuar;r estimates that under the Retirement IncoDV> Plan approxi-

$4,221,41 unpaid at June 30, 1958, arri sales ot auch suppliea amounted to

mately $23,000,00 is required from the emplo;rer tor current service coste and

$23,341,31, leaving a net ditterence of $425,77, as shown on Exhibit B, The

the minilllWll past service costs tor the period Januar;r l, 1956 to June 30, 1958,

accounts ~eing on a cash basia ot accounting, the inventor;r ot unaold aupplies

The totlll past service cost as at Januar,y l, 1956 ill esti11&ted at app~xinatel.7

ia not renectecl on the attached financial state1110nt.a,

$52,000,00 or "1ich 2-1/2% is the mini1111111 annual pa.711ent, The 1956 Communication

Ou.r examination die closed unpaid billa at June 30, 19 58 amounting to

ot Grand Lodge also approved the inclusion or the emplo;reea ot Boards or Relief,

$14,693,31 tor invoices dated April, Kay, and June 1958, exclwsive of cuatomar;r

lfluplo;rment Bureaus, and Univereity Clubhouses under the Retirement Incom Plan,

current operating a:xpenae bills of a nominal amount,

The unpaid billa o!

June 30, 1958, ,The provision in the 1957-58 budget to caver a contribution tor

$14,69).31 are aumnari zed as tollowa:
General e:xpens e:
Annual cOllllNnication
Printing
Ritual Committee
Supplies and miscellaneous
Bxpense appropriations:
Correspondence Colllllittee
Erdowment Board
Re sea.re h Comnit tee
Kamorial Temple Comdt tee

No contributions had been received b;r Gran:! Lodge from these emplo;reea to

the eraplo;rees ot Grand Lodge ot $19,500,00 end tor the enployeea of the other

ll,613.68
1,668,16

agencies ot $12,81.5.00 was not used penling amendment o! the Plan.

446.13

....Jt&JIJ.. $ 4,202,44
$ 189.80

amount budgeted, as shown on Schedule 4,
Grand Lodge, F, & A, M. maved its otrices to the space provided in

1,285.24
239.69
__fil.o..ll

$250,00 paid during the ;rear tor actuar;r services

A bill or

has been charged against the

Supplies tor resale
Total expense bills unpaid
Furniture and fixtures
Public liability insurance premiums

2,569,88
4.221,41
$10,993.73
2,500,00
1,199.58

Total bills unpaid

$J4 6?3 31

California Masonic Memorial Temple on Yi.arch 17, 1958,

!lo rent has been paid tor

this apace to June 30, 1958 an:! the amount of the rent has not been established,

334

PROCE~DINGS

335

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

OP THE

Under elate o! October 4, 1955 1 the o!t'icere o! California Masonic

The publication o! the •California P'reemuon" has continued during the
current 7ear under a resolution adopted at the 1954 COlllllU!l1cation o! Grand Lodge.

X-rial T...,le signed promiaeo17 notes with six San Francisco banlca !or a

During the current 7ear subscriptions were sold, to the total mamberehip o! 186

total ~! IJ,Ooo,000.00; Under authorization given at the 1953 Commmication,

Lodges at a rate o! 6oi per member and regular subscriptions were sold at 11.oo

Grand Lodge became the guarantor o! these mtea, · California Masonic Memorial.

per ;year.

These subscriptions and miscellaneous sales produced an aggregate

Tmple had borrowd 12,JOJ,790.00 on these notes to Jul.T 7, 1958,
In our opinion, subject to the foregoing conaenta, the accoq>&IVing

revenue o! 150,982,91 deposited in banks duri~ the 7ear ended June JO, 1958.
In the !inancial statements, the revenue o! $50 1 982.91 has been o!!set against

atat-nta present !airl.J' the aaaets and liabilities o! The Moat Worahip!ul

the expenses o! the Correspondence Committee amounting to $41, 756.49, resulting

Grand Loci&• o! P'ree and Accepted llaaone o! the State o! California at June ~o,

in caah receipts in excess o! cash disbursements in the net amount o! 19,226.42,

19581 ar.l.aing !rem. caah transactions, and the revenues collected and axpenaea·

aa shown on Schedule 6,

The ca.sh results !or the 7ear included as credits the

prepaid portion o! subacriptione at June JO, 1958 which 1a a contingent liabilit7

diaburaed bT it during the 7ear then ended, on a baaia consiatent with that o!
the preceding 7ear.
lfe attach the. !ollow:l.ng !or 7our information&

o! Grand Lodge,
During the 7ear, the Masonic Homes Endoll!Dent Board and the California

UHmIT A

BALAM:!: SHBET

JUNE 30, 1958

ID!mIIB

STATEM!!iNT OF !!EVBNU! >Jill lp'BNSE

JUHS JO, 1958

SCHIDIJL! 1

CASH Iii BANltS

JUNE JO. 1958

SCl!lllUL! 2

INVBSnmn'S

JUNB 30. 1958

SCHBDULB l

• COMTRIBUTIONS R!X:EIVBI? P'RQ{ LCDGES

8CllEDIJLB lt

ADMINISTRATIVE AND OFFICE EXPENSE

Masonic Memorial Temple Committee continued to engage in campaigns to raise mon91
!or the llaeonic Homes and the Temple,

The !llnds collected b;r the Endowment Board

YBAR ENDED

are paid to the &ldo-..nt Fund o! Masonic Homes o! California, and the !unds
collected b;r the Memrial. Temple Comittee are paid to California >ia.sonic Memorial
Temple, and are not reflected in the attached statements,

The · expeneH o! the

Endo-nt Board and o! the Memorial Tea.,le Committee are shown on Schedule 6 o!
this report,

Grand Lodge was reimbursed bJ" Masonic Homes !or the expenses of the

YBAR ENDED
JUHB 30. 1958

&ldo1o111ent Board as shown on l!:lchibit B.
The details o! all expenditures during the 7ear were exMd.ned b7 us
vi th the exception o! th" Grand Master •• travel, secretarial., and miscellanDOua

expense; the appropriations to Pmplo7111ent Bureaus and to the Univerait7 Clubhouses,

No vouchers covering such expenses and appropriations have been required

to be filed with Grand Lodge.

COMPARATIVE WITH
ELEVEN MONTHS ENDED
JUNE ~O l~~' AND
"W.R ii'iffiED J~-== l2~iJ,
AND WITH BUDGET

336

COMPARATIVE WITH
ELEVEN MONTHS ENDKD
JUNE JO, 1957. AND
IF.AR ENDED JUNE 30, 1958,
AND WITH BUDGET

SCHl!DIJLS 5

SCH!DIJLS 6

COMPARATIVE WITH
ELEVEN MONTHS ENDED
JUNE .30. 1957 AND
IF.AR ENDED JUNE 30. 1958,

BXPENSK APPROPRIATIONS

I

ANJ> WITH BUDGET

?KAR ENDED

SCJm)IJLS 7

337

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND !!EPLACl!J!ENTS

JUNE 30, 1958

RespecttulJT aubml.ttad,

~y~

BIO!ll!lT A

GRAND LOlXl!S. F, &: A, K, OF CAUFORNIA

JUN£ 30 1958

BALANCP: SHEKT

I

$123,434.1.8

CASH IN BANKS, SCHIDULE 1

AT COST SCHBDUU: 2:
Bonde Market vAlue 21.3,l l,25)

&202,170,73

Stocke (Market value $414, 712,64)

351.l.28.Blt

UN!STl·®l'l'S.

Total (Market value 1627·8'73.89)
OTHER ASSETS:
Furniture and fixtures (Schedule 7)

Insurance premium• advanced tor Lodge•
Retwr:lable deposit• with airlinu

$ .35 ,656,1!3
19,755.60
85().00
56.262.4.3

Certified Public Accountant•

$712 996 18

TOTAL ASS!:t'S
LIABIUTI!S AND CAPITAL
LI'°IUTUS:
ontributione ot Initiates, held tor the Kndo-nt Fund
ot th• George Washington Masonic National Memorlal

Contribution• ot •07ee11 ot the Grand Lodge, F, a. A, H,
ot California tor retirement incone plan
Advance p1131Dents b7 lodges on anmial returns

'J,4'1/ .00
152.00

Total Li•bilitiee

CAPITAL:
Balance, June 30, 1957

8646,290,06

Bequut tro111 George L, Everett

l,922,8'J

Net revenue tor :year ended June 30, 1958 - !:>chibit B

75,909,29

Balance, June 30, 1958
TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITJ.L

The abon et&tement should be read in conjunction with the precadi~ letter,

724.122,18

tm 226 1s

338

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1958

REVEt.'11!1

1958,549,24

--contributions received from Ledge• (Schedule 3)
~:

Contributions received !or special purposeo1
Masonic Homes of California
California Masonic Memorial Temple
George Washington Masonic National Ke1111r.l.a1

Fees for charters and dispenaationa
Ren ta from Columbia Temple
Return ·or Grand Mast.er L, Harold Amerson'• tll'll'Hl
ad vane e not used
Miscellaneous revenue
Revenue !ram investments and eavings1
Di Vidends on •tock
Interest on bonds
Interest on bank account.a

CASH IN BANKS

CCllHERCIAL ACCOUNTS:
Crocker-Anglo National Bank (Operating Fund)

JUNE 30. 1958

130,000,00

Crocker-Anglo National Bank

$335,815,00
302,235,00
7.948.00
645.998,00
$)12,55l,24
$

SCHEDULI 1

GRAND LODGE. F, & A, M, OF CALIFCRllIA

ElCHIDIT B

GRAND LODGE, F, & A, M, OF CAUFCRHIA
STATl!l-!EllT OP' REVl!l!UI!: AID EXP&NSE

339

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

1,420,00
325,00
530,14
398,58

A..rican Trust Conpaey (Clea.ring AccC>llM)

202,00

Amorican Trust Compaey (Rnolving Fund)

500,00

Bank of America N,T, & S,A,

6.004.66

29, 786,29

SAVINGS ACCOUNTS:
Bank or America N,T, & S,A,

122, 753.91

(425,77)

Crocker-Anglo National Bank

52,364.52

J19,866,79
6,565.99
679.79
21.112.57

Sale or 1111ppl1ea for resale
PurchaH of supplies for resale

' 23,341.31
2,3.767.08

75.118.43

$341, 911, 76

Total Revenue

TCYI'AL CASH IN BANltS (PiJChibit 4)

!XPJ!:lllSE1

Adiidnietrative and office expense (Schedule 4)

I 79,605.18

General expe1111e (Schedule 5)

132,816,29

Expense apporpriationo (Schedule 6)

~·~·32
,79
82 '

Reilllbure8111ent from Masonic Homos of California:
fl0,000,00
Sal&r7 expense
ll.999.96
Endowment Board expense

21.999.96

Net Expense

274.!!42,83
' 67,068,9)

GAINS ON SALES <:P Sl!X:URMES HELD FOR INVESTMl!2ll'
NBT REV!NllK FOR mR l!NDJID JUNI 30, 1958 (l!!hibit A)
The above statement should be read in conjunct.ion wl. th the precedirg letter,

8.840.36

' 75 202 29

340

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LCDGE, F, & A, M. OF CALIFORNIA
INVES TllENTS

341

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRA!il tooGE, F. & A, x. or CALIFORNIA

SCllIDUIE 2
Page 1
.nJNE 30

I

1958

SCHEDULE 2
Page 2
.nJNE 30. 1950

COMMON STOCK
FACE VAI.IJE
$ 6,000
J0,000
10,000
2,000
5,000
75,000
5,000
40,000
25,000
4,000

illfil
Allegheny Ludlum Steel Corporation, 4%, 1981
Consolidated Fdison Company ot Nev York, Inc., 5%, 1987
Continental Baking Co,, J-5/0%, 1900
International Minerals & Chemical Corporation, J,65%, 1977
Sinclair 011 Corporation, 4-J/0%, 1906
Southweetern Bell Telepione Company, 4-J/4%, 1992
The Atlantic Refining Company, 4-1/2%, 1987
U, S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
U, S, Treasury Bonds, J-1/2%, 1990
Wheeling Steel Corporation, 3-J/4%, 1975

TCJrAL BONDS

$

5,627,75
J0,242.45
ll,000.20
1,925.50
5,177.05
75,640.50
5,165,75
37,990.63
25 ,607,50
3.712.6o

$202.170.ZJ

PREFERHED STOCK
~
100
200
100
45
200
50
100
100
100
200
100
200
100
200

JOO
100
500

~

American Metal Climax, Inc,, 4-1/2%
Aohland 011 & Refining Co,, $1, 50
Bristol-~ers Co, 1 3-J/l+f,
Canada · Dry Inc • , t4, 25
Duquesne Light Company, 82, 10
McCrory Stores, J-1/2%
National Gypsum Co,, $4,50
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, J,60%
Northern States Power Co, of Minnesota, 84.10
Oklahoma Gas & Electric Co., 4%
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.36%
Public Service Co, ot Indiana, 4,16%
Public Service Electric & Gas Compan;y, $1.40
Southern California Edison Com:an;v, 4.2/+1.
Sunray Kid-Continent 011 Co., 4-l/2%, A
Tidewater 011 Company, $1,20
Union Pacific Railroad Company, 4%
TCJrAL PREFERRl!D STOCK

$ 10,597,55
6,o61.20

2.,846.ao

4,517,00
10,625,35
4,JJ6.70
10,492.45
9,095.05
10,222,18
J,937.28
10,000.00
5,231.48
J,206,48
5,ll0,00
7 ,960.49
2,842,16
5.203.66
$ll9.206.63

~

50
lOO

127
75
60
135

278

320
1.02

98

200
431
176
90
374
85
150
182
75
200
200

223
200
90
210
500

361

163
181
347

30
109
172

uo

102
100

150

l20
250
182
200

148
150
200
198

~
Allied Chemical & Dye Corp,
American Can Co,
American TeleJiione and Telegrapi Comp&IV
Atlantic Refining Company
Bankers Trust Compan7 of New York
Beatrice Foods Company
Borg~arner Corp,
Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp,
Chase Manhattan Bank
Chemical Corn Exchange Bank
Chesapeake & Ohio Railway Comp!UQ'
Columbia Gas System Inc,
C01111110nwealth Edison Compaey
Consolidated Edison Compaey of New York, Inc,
Crocker-Anglo National Bank
Dqton Power & Light Company
Duquesne Light Company
Genere.l Public Utilities Corp,
Home lnsur&DCe Company ot New York
International Minerals & Chemical Corporation
lrTing Trust Compaey (New York)
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Compaey
Lone Star Gas Compen7
Hanutact urers Trust CcmQlUll'
Minnesota Power & Light Compa117
Montgomery Ward & Compan;y, Inc,
New England Electric STStem
New York State Electric & Gas Corp,
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Northern States Power Co, of Minnesota
Owens-Illinois Glau Compal\J'
Pacific Gas and Electric ComP81'7
Public Service Co, of Indiana
Public Service Electric & Gas Ccapan;y
Southern California Edison Compa117
Sperry Rand Corporation
Standard Brands, Inc,
Standard 011 Company (Ohio)
Union Electric Compal\J' ot NiuOlll'i
Union Oil Company of California
Union Pacific Railroad Company
United Gas Corp.
United Shoe Hachin91'7 Company
Virginian Railway Compaey
Wisconsin Electric Power Company

•

J,642.46
4,513.18
21,666,69
2,457,04
2,730,00
J,254.45
13,411.87
J,421,60
J,154,76
J, 749.80
10,432.86
7,276,93
4,943.35
2,926,62
6,863.93
J,210.53
4,179.50
J,767.7i
J,156.91
5,604,63
6,545,38
2,613.87
5,256,20
2,385,00
J,593.37
17,149.00
4,774.47
4,164,19
4,295. 78
J,586.91
1,095.20
J,6oo.o6
4,691,16
2, 744.55
J,588.24
1, 797. 75
J,426.99
4,562,62
6,167,35
6,212,J6
5,394,19
J,570.97
6,989;23
5,458,25
3.726.23

TOTAL COllllJN STOCK

$231.842.21

TarAL STOCKS - Preterred and Canmon

$351.128.84

TOTAL I!1VE3 'l'Mili'l'S

342

GRAND" LOOOI. ,

I

•

A K. "
I

C6WJl!l!!!li

IEAR lrMD!Il JIJllE 30, 1958

110nthe •med June JO, 1957
R&iiter Kaeone at June JO, 1957

Contributions ot Initiates and
attuiates o 125.00 each1
·nn.i pqment tro11 · elnen 110nthe
ended June JO, 1957 1 . per 1957
ammal returns
Inetalment pqment• on 1958
annual returne

!I!!!:

1288,~~:fl

2), 958 o ll.00 eaoh

23.958,00

2J01 640 o I .50 - h

s.lariH
Rent ·
Audit
Orand Treasurer
Poatage and expreea
Telephone am telegraph
Sooial eecurit7 and uneq>loTHnt
taxH
Imeetment oounael
Retirement pension plan Grand Lodge ottice emplo7eea
Orand Lodge ottice llTring upenH

$60,218.55
6,385,00
2,500,00
100,00
2,534.JO
1,941,83

I 51,824.93

1,343.00

598,8)

1,500.JS
500,00

1,160.8)
500.00

339,55

250.00

950,00

l,6z~.~

§Ml,2~

T01'il, (lxtU,bit B)

tzq 695 18

I 70 196 M

~

BUDGrt

l60,218.55
6,385,00
2,500,00
100,00
2,534,30
1,941,83

I 61,ooo,oo

1,500.38
500,00

1,500.00
500,00

250,00
3,675.12

19,500.0o
6,000.00

I 75,725.oo

40'.00

2IJIPB WITH BUOOB

220.495.00
335,815.00

I 24,516~00

annual ret~ .

Adjuat..nte tor preTi.oua
7ear1 le11 refllnda
Ol!OllGK wASHINGTON MASONIC NATIONAL K!K<EIAL
.
COlrl'RIBUTIONS I
Contributions ot InitiatH O ll,00 eaohr
.P'inel ·payment trom el.neri 110nth• erded
June .JO, 1957, per 1957 annual returne
Inetalment pa.ymate on 1958 annual returna

lt§.90

WAL C9HTRIBUTIONS l!!C!lDD JIRSll LalQIS (IF!Jibit B)

••

71.595,0Q

f19,605,18
Additional authorized b7
Grand Kaeter

!Q!!1

I 2;723,to
, .oo
I ~·~·00

Adjust119nts tor preTi.oua ,....,..

•tund•

s

Rent
Audit

Grand Treasurer
Postage and expreea
Telephone and telegraph
Social eecurit7 and unemplo7119nt
taxea·
Innatment counsel
Retirement pen•ion plan Grand Lodge attic• omplo7eea
Grand Lodge ottice .aving expense
Retiremnt pension plan Other agenciea

2J0,640 o ll.00 eaoh

Contribution• or Initiates
0 19,00 each:
l:l.nel p1,J118nt from elnen 110nthe
ended June JO, 1957, per 1957
annual returne ·
InetalHnt pa.ymnte on 1958

Ill'~

!:ND!Il

~ WITH P!!mOUS YW

12118,JOQ,OO

CAYP<l!!!IA MASONIC MB!!!JlIAL T!MPLB CONTl!lBUTI<*S1

!I!!!:

!UR ENDED

JUNE l0 1 12~8 JUNE lQ 1 12~

Adjust..nte tor preTi.oua
,..artl and re.tunde

On Kuter Kaaom at June JO, 1957,
per 1957 annual returns

.APU"ISTRATIVE AND OFFICK m'!NSB

234,101

Jl!HIC RCll&' at CALil'CIOOA CONTRIBUTIOliSt
per 1957 annual returns

DATES AS Sl<MN
l!L!VB:N )l)tmfS

~
remitted
Kmnbere paid tor, per 1957
2J0,640 o ll.25 each
annual returns
·
.M!!, 1 Adjuet1111nt tor preTi.ous Jllartl

On degrees oonterred in elnen

SCllEOOtE 4

GRAND taJG!. P. & A. H. O't CAWFaOOA

SCH!'.DULB 3

COH'l'R.IBUTIONS R!CP!Ivm> FR<JI LOOO!S

G!W!D LOOGB SUPPORT AND ACTIVITIES:
Kaster Masone on Juns JO, 1957
!I!!!: Members whose duee were

343

GRAND LODGB OP CAUPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

\7.00
7.948.00

Im 8,3 2J.

~

~

I 8,393,62 $

8,250.00
2,500.00
100,00

393.57

2,9'¥1.in

6,100,00
2,500.00
250,00
3,300,00
2,400.00

700,00
~.O~!t1!!Z

$12 J66 117 I~

~

~

I

285,00

I

781.45
150.00
765.70
458,17

,38
19,250.00
2,324.88

~ 1 81~,QQ

!2 1 81~ 1 00

1115,865.00

285 3B 136 si.5 zc

I

29~ 1 00

179 6CJ5.lll

1,865,00

IJJ6 JSo oo

The ealar;r expenee ahown above 1e stated at the groH &110unt before deducting the
reimbursement or 1101900,00 received trom Masonic llomee ot California, aa 1hown
on l!:ochibit B,

344

SCHEDULE 2

GRAND LOPGE. F, ,. A, li 1 OF Cl!llil'Oln:IA

DATES AS SHOWN

C<»!PAR!D WITH FREVIOUS UAR
Annual collllllW\1cation
Conferences
Grand !Qdge o!!icere 1 travel
expense
Grand Organi 1t and Grand Tiler
Grand Master' a travel, eecretaria l,
and miscellaneo us expense
Investment counsel tor Lodges
Workmen's compensation insurance
tor Lodges
Portrait or Grand Master
Representa tivee 1 mileaae
Printing
llitualietic expense:
Grand Lecturer
1118Pectors• aprons and statione1"7
llitual co!llld.ttee and Inspector• '
conference and travel expense
Ceremoniai and whih aprons
Reller l"und - Grand Huter
Retirement pay
Veteran buttons
Supplies and miscellaneo us
Portsmouth Square Historical Harker
Memorial T....,le dedication Preliminary expense
Cornerstone ceremon;r

~

~

•

$

884,55
1,839.04

$ 17,605.98
),071.66

$ 18,490.5)
4,910.70

6,486.5)
750.oo

7,474.59
750.00

988,o6

10,000.00
4,000.00

1),000.00
4,ooo.oo

),000.00

5, 768.92
925.00
)4,0)5.97
2),464.68

n,025,.ao
1,466,88
)0,1)5.42
22,)78.75

600.oo

1,612,41
12,476.42
96.72
875.00
900.00
2,621,70
),680.)2
),502,))

5,256.88
541.88
),900,55
1,085.9)

550.00
1,9)).17

50,00

ll,445.14
),)77.40
54.S.oo
825.00
2,8)),61
2,841,07

1,0)1,28

)20.76
),280.68
))0.00
75.00

2ll.91

8)9,25
),502.))

8,025,76

DATES AS SHOWN

G!HIP!AL UPJ;JlSE

COMPARED WITH BUDGET
Annual coDmtunication
Conferences
Grand Lodge o! ticers 1 travel expense
Grand Organiet and Grand Tiler
Grand Master's travel, secretaria l,
and Ddscellaneo us expense
Investment coll?lllel tor Lodges
Workmen's compensation insurance
tor Lodgee
Portrait o! Grand Master
Representa tive•' milea&e
Printing
llitualistic expense:
Grand Lecturer
Inspectors' aprons and stationer,.
llitual co!llld.ttee and Inspector• 1
conference alli travel expense
Ceremonial and white aprons
Relief Fund - Grand Master
Retirement pay
Veteran buttons
Supplies and nd.scellaneo us
Portsl1l0uth Square Historical Marker
Memorial Temple dedication Preliminaey expense

)42,65

)42,65

8,025,76

~

fil!!lQfil

.QYm

• 17,605.98
),071.66
6,486.5)
750,00

$ 17,SOO.OO

$105.98

10,000.00
4,000,00

10,000.00
4,000,00

5,768.92
925.00
)4,0)5.97 .
2),464.68

7,500.00
925.00
)5,000,00
2),500,00

600.oo
1,612.41

600.oo
1,650,00

12,476.42
96.72
875.00
900.00 ·
2,621.70
),680,)2

12,SOO.oo
500.00
750,00
900.00
),000.00
),700,00
4,000.00

),502.))

$JJZ Sl6 ~2

5,000.00
7 ,500.00
• 750.00

J~,62

~.coo,oo

$1)2,816.29

$144,27.S.OO
2J0,28

Additional authorized b7 Grand Master

llli6 lllS 82

SCH!DULE 2
Pa&e 2

GRAND LODGE F, ii! A. H1 OF CALIP'al!IIA

Paae 1

GENDAL EXPENSE

ELEVEN >lOllTllS
ENDED
YEAR ENDED
~22!
JUNE JO, 122Z
JUNE ,zQ,

345

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Ill J 56.29 ~~ 31.2 52
~

$]32 SJ6,Z2

sii.i. sos 2a

~

$
1,928.)4
l,Ol).47

1, 7)1.08
964.0)
)5,)2
)7.59
2),58
40),28
125.00
)78,JO
19.68
497.67
~.62z.~2

$230 98

$11 669 69

.H6

SC~6

QMND LO!lGJ. P'1 *Al 1!1 OP' CAWP'ORNIA

!!AT!S AS SHOWN

COf.IP~ l:flTH PRl'IIOOS IIA.R

• 4,363,80
lathitiH Conaittee
767.41
Board ot Control
3S7.6l
tee
t
Chart.ere CClllli
7)9,13
Columbia Temple CoaaittH
694.S7
Coutituti on Month COllllittee
Co1'1'8epondenoe Colllnittee (9,226,42)
"Californ ia P'reemason•
406,16
De llolq ColllllittH
u,1so.oo
:9npl.07Unt Bureaus
11,999.96
lndo-nt Board
Hi•toZT Coaaittee
l,9'}6,74
RHeareh CoanittH
2,221.87
Lodge Financing CommittH
14,712.53
Ke1110rial Tenple COlllllittee
l,000,00
Public Schoole Scholanh ip Avard
1,892.47
Public Schools Conaittee
ment
Reiniburee
Board ot Control
82,42
tor Sojourner •
l,603,06
C:O-rciali11111 Connittee
15.24
Sojourner • Coll!dttee
35,ooo.oo
Univereit7 Clubhoueea
15,00
Comission
Code
3,35S.85
Grand Lodge Liti&ation
20!..91
l11Yaetment Colllllittee
40.50
Haeonic Cemeterie e Collllllittee
43.38
Mutual Aid Aeaociatio na· eo1111111ttae
ColU111bia Brick School House
500,00
Restoratio n
485,13
Coadttee on Local Temple Finances
Juvenile Welfare Conlllittee
Rmeion ot Roes J>i8aet COllllllittea
TOTAL (EXHmIT B)

IBIA li2l 32

GRAND LOOGI. P'

8891

illlN~ Af!ROPRIATIONS

rw !NDID
Jl!?!I JS?. 12~8

347

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

I

SCHmlllLI 6
Pq;e 2

+ A M, OP' CALIPORHP.
I

DA.TIS AS SHOWN

l!l'INSI APPROPRIATIONS

ILl'll!N M01l1'113

!NDID

JYf!i :lQ, l2ll

INCRY.S§

~

•

•

•

4,)75.15
1 1 057,70
667.84
3,025,41
494.57

(ll0,02)
358.48
14,210,22

U,993.27
458.79
1,924,29
2,001,69
24,999.118
2,000.00
l,808,22
356.52
1,552.49
273.86
)6,666,68
109,46
215.13

ll,3S
290.29
310,23
2,286,28

200.00
9,116.40
47.68

3,060,22

6,69
458,79
72,4S
220,18
l0,287.35
1,000,00
94,25
274,10
50.S7

is.co
3,246,39

2511,62
l,666,68
10,22

40,50
43,38
500,00
485.13

-iaz;82

l!Z'l182

llQll

m Ii~

IS Q~2 ~~

129 m

COMP.A.RID WITH BUDGl!/I'
Activitie s COl!lld.ttee
Board ot Control
Charters Coaaittee
Col\lllbia Temple Conaittee
Conlltitut ion Month Committee
Correspondence Committee "Calitorn ia Freemason•
De Kola,r Comittee
lalplo1"'ent Bureaus
lndowment Board
HilltoZT Conmdttee
Research Committee
Lodge Financing Colllllittee
Memorial Temple Colllld.ttee
Public Schoole Scholarsh ip Avard
Public Schools Commit tee
Board ot Control - Reimbursement
tor Sojourner e
Conmercialis111 Colllllittee
Sojourner • Committee
Univerait r Clubhouses
Code Conmd.saion
Grand Lodge Li Ugation
Inveatmen t Committee
Masonic Cemeterie s Committee
Mutual Aid Associatio ns Col!lldttae
ColUlllbia Brick School House
Restoratio n
Colllld ttee on Local Temple Financea
Juvenile Welfare Conidttee
Revision ot Ross Digest COllllU.ttee

n

• 4,363,80
767,41
3.57,61
739.l)
694,S7

4,500,00
l 1 2SO,OO
750,00
2,000.00
100.00

•

1)6,20
482,59
392.39
l,260,87
5.43

$

2,000,00
500,00
ll,150,00
12,000,00
soo.oo
2,000.00
2,250,00
15,ooo.oo
2,000,00
2,000,00

11,226,42
93,84

82,42
l,603,06
15.24
35,000,00
15,00
3,355,85
20!.,91
40,50
43.)8

85,00
2,250,00
100,00
35,000,00
100,00
l,500,00

2,58
646.94
84.76

250,00
)00,00

295.09
209,50
256,62

soo.oo
485,13

500,00
l,000,00
250,00

514.87
250.00

184,421.32

ll00,435,0 0

(9,226,42)
406,16
11,150,00
U,999,96
l,996.74
2,221,87
14,712.53
l,000,00
1,892,47

soo.oo

1.855,85

Additiona l authorized b7 Grand Kaster

.!QI!1

•

.!!!!!2m

fil'.2

!!.!!!l2!!

ACTUAL

•ai. ~l 32

11~ 2~9

as

,04
soo.oo
3,26
28,l)
287,47
l,000.00
lO'l ,53

85,00
l,855,85

·~

ll:Z !l!!!l 53

349

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

348

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES AUDIT
GRAND LO!!G!· F, & A, M, OF CALIFOONIA

SCHEDULE 7

YEAR EWKD JUNE 30, 195,!!

CAPITAL ADDITIONS AND RKPLACl!2!ENI'S

COMP.ARBO lil'nl BUDGB'r
Furniahinga - Reception roOlll
and loggia

~

fil!l2!B!!

• 2,864,62

1 5,000.00

.QY!!!

•

~

12,135.38

Jfaaonic Hanes o.t Calitornia
Caillornia Masonic Memorial Temple
l l l l Caillornia Street
San Francisco 8 1 Calilornia
Gentlelllen:

. Purnishings - Grand Lodge o.tticea,
conference roo111, G~and Master 1s
ottice

23,165,lJ

18,479.00

4~686,13

New membership .tile

8,)21,61

7 ,592,76

728.85

Filing cabinet.a

408,68

1,400,00

991,32

New llllmeograph niachin•

432,84

800,00

367.16

Rew t;ypewri ters

463.95

525.00

---

~

auditing atanilarda and accordingl:' included au.ch tests ot the accounting recorda

l3S 6S6 BJ

133 2:ie 26

·~

13 SSli ~l

and such other auditing proceduree as we considered necesa&r,' in the circUlll-

!Q'.fil

We have ex&lllined the balance sheet ot
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFOIUIIl

(A Call!ornia Non-Profit CarPOration)
as ot June 301 1958, and .tbs related 11tat81118nt ot reveme· and axpenee .tor the
year then elded,

Our ex&lllination was niade in accordance with genera~ accept.ad

atancea,
The annual .tinancial stateniente ot Masonic Hanes ot Cali.tornia have

been prepared .tor lll&Jl3' ;rears pa.st on tbs cash basis or account.i ng, aid the
attached financial statements art prepared. .on that basis.

Uld8J' the cash basia

ot accounting, revenue and axpenH are recorded UPOn t~ bookll o.t account and
nfiected in .the financial stat11111Snt11 when received and paid without regard to
the period to which they app'.cy',

The Board o.t Trustees of Ka.sonic HaHs of c&li.tornia on Karch 30,
1957 changed the annual accounting _period .tran a fiscal ;rear ending Ju'.cy' 31 to
a .tiscal 7ear elding June 30• As a consequence ot this action, althollgh the

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

period covered ·1>7 ·thia report is the twelve month• emed June .30, 195it, the

The amount of 1129,664.59 shown as notes and contracts reoeivable on

previoua period Qlled ao a basis o! comparison i• !or eleven months,

Ezbibit A a:rises from ll&les o! real eat(P.te assigned to the Hl,sonio HOmea o!

The total revenue received b;r Masonic Hanes o! Cali!ornia during the

;reu ended JUlJ!I Jb, 1958, amounted to &805,247.83, as shovn on Eddbit E,

Its

operating expenseis !or the ;rea:r &mounted to $857,289.29, result1ng 1n an exces•
o! operat1ng E!Xpense o! &52,0U.46.

351

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Gain ti-om the sale o! securities amounted

Caillornia b;r applioanh admitted to the home at Deooto,
The value o! land, bulldi.ngll, and equipnent is shown, on Eddbit .. J., at
IJ,272,919,27, the cost when orig1nal.ly purchased,

In accordance with the con-

sistent policy or the ~rusteea, depreciation o! buildings and. equipnent ia not

to &17,2JJ,20, resulting 1n a f'1llal. excess of &34,808,26 of expense over revenue

provided !or 1n the accounts,

Replacements o! original items are charged to the

including gain trom the eale o! eecuritiee, as shovn on Exbibit E,

Re~erves !9r Special.Pu.rposes,

During the current ;rear additions to the Decato

Included 1n

the operating ex;penses o! t857,289.29 1 is the sumo! 123 1 574.05, represent1ng

HO!H were 1722,07 !or a calculator; .1 286.oo !or a steak tenderizing :maohille;

the voluntar;r contribUtions to Masonic l!cmeo or California Retirement Incaiae

'415.00 .!or a topogra~ surve:r; and 139,277.56 paid on the contract referred

Plan.

to bel«, !or the const~tion o! a boiler room installation,

The total amount paid o! 123,574.05 comprises. the balance o! the contri'-

Additions to the

bution !or the calendar .yeu 1957 o! 113,888.96 computed at the rate of 16.4$

Covina Home were 114,754;02 tor tire alum system; IJ,810,48 tor oewer-se s;ratem;

ot the Jl81l'Oll o! participat1ng emplo;rees under the plan and a contribution !or

121 400.92 tor !urniture; ll,ll5,JO !or fencing; and 147,931.49 paid ·on the. cost

the first oix mbnths o! 1958 o! 19,685.09 as an estimate o! the amount due in

o! conlltructing a fa= building group, including 135,904·59 paid on the construn-

that period.

tion contract ;r.-e!erred to below.

General FWld caeh at June JO, 1958,. ae shown b;y Exllibit A, amounted
to IJ97,7J3,24,. an increase o! 1142,277,0l from the aniol,lnt on hand at the beg1.h-

nill8 o! the. period,

Thia increase results pr1ncipal.1T !ran bequests and contri-

Beaerv" !or ·Additions and Beplacaments
Covina Special Resarv•
Decato Special Reserve

butions received by lfaoonic Hames o! California during the ;rear, the amounts o!
which were allocated to special reserve•.

Total Additions

,

June .30, 1958, amounted to l2,J02,5'7.3.l3, as ohovn on Exhibit A, an increase o!
Securities purchased

are stated on· the books and 1n this report at cost, Securities received as
donations ue stated at market n.l.ue when receive!!. or at the nominal value o!
11.00, 1! the market value waa not known.

I 72,o6J.60
37,987.17
722.gz

On March 7 1 1958 a contract was signed with CornelT Compal'IT 1n the

The total amount o! the General Fund invested 1n securities at

190,142. 73 over the amount at the beginniJl8 o! the period.

The cost o! the total additions of lll0/1'.72,8.4

waa paid from funds in the !allowing R.,serves .· !or Special Purposes:

amount o! 1127 ,2ll,00 !or a boiler room installation at the Deooto !lame,

Prior

to the end of the fiscal year 139 ,27·7 ,56, as stated above, was paid on ·progress
billinp, The balance ot the construction contract amounting to 187,933.44
will be due 1n the following fiscal 1Mr·
On February 4, 1958 a contract was signed with C. I. :Scott in the

amount or 1179,004,48 ·!or conatrw:tion ot a •raria building group" at the Corina

352

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Home. The ~group• consists o:C a barn~ garage, storage, and residence build1ng,

0:C these :Cund!' 18,163,258.55 was in i;he Permanent. Endowment. Fund o:C M!sonic

Prior to the. end o:C the :Ciec8.l. year $35,004.59, as stated above, was paid on

Hanes o:C Cali:Cornia,

progress billings, The balance o:C the co_n struction contra~t 8111D1mting to

during the current. ;rear by donations, bequests, ard gains :Crom sales o:C securi-

1144, 799.89 will be due in the :following :Ciscal ;veer.

ties and of real estate,

The buildings and coot.ents o:C the Decoto erd Covina Hemes are insured

The Permanent. Endowment FilJd was increased by $589,730,78

The other end<nl!Dent and trust :Cunis decreased during

the year by the aggregate. sum o:C 13,186.90 due primari)¥ to grants made !or

!or fire, with extended-coverage, in the amount o:C ts,095 1 000.00. We were

educational purposes.

advised that valuat.ions are reviewed annualJT !or insurance purposes by the

with a bal.ar!ce .sheet, enc!-• where 11ppropr:!ate, a statement o:C the related revenue,

insurance brokers.

is shown on Exhibits F to N, inclusive,

';'he Other ·Assets o:C .15,067.87 ahown, on .Exhibit .l, o01111ist o! real
estate and ll:t:e insurance policies aBBigned to M!sonic -Homes o"! Call:Cornia by
res~ents o! the Decoto Home.

The individual parcels o:C real estate and li:Ce

A description o:C. each o:C the end""'1!ent :Cund.s, together

In addition to the end<n11Dent. and trust :Cund.s of. M!sonic Homes o:C

Cali:Cornia, the Superintendent· o:C· the. Covina Home acts as trustee on seventy-two
children's savings accounts which at June 301 1958 had bal.il.nces aggregating

illsurance policies are each recorded at the nominal value o:C ll.00 !or account-

$5,056.74.. These savings accounte are savings of the children origj,nating by

abilit;r, with the ax:cept.ion that Jl:9111lents by Masonic ilanes on loans obtained b7

gift or earnings. Witb:lrawals can o~ be made by the child with the counter-

the assignors o:C such re~l estate or policies are add8d to the nominal Values.

signature o:C the Superintendent as "trustee,

During the course or o)Jl' examinati~n

The proceeds :Crom the sale or this real estate ard :Crom the li:Ce insurance

we reviewed the savings account pass books.

However, the amount of these savings

policies are credited direct.)¥ to one o:C the l!eservn !or Special Purpose as

accounts is not recorded on the b09ks or Masonic Han,es of Cali:Cornia, or on the

directed b;y the Trustees.

attached balance sheet, since. these savings accounts are not an asset o:C Masonic

The Trustees o:C the M!sonic Homes hava estabUlihed six spsc:!al
reserves to which are credited the amounts o:C donations ard bequests which are
to be used !or purposes other than direct operating expenses.

~ese reserves,

aggregating 12,211,449,17 at June 30 1 1958, a.re 11h011D on the atte.ched balance
sheet as "Reserves !or Spsc:!al Purposes•,

The assets represented b;r these

Homes of California,
In o\Jr opinion, .subject to the forego~ comnents, the accompa~

statements present fairly the assets and liabilities o:C Masonic Hames o:C
Caillorpi& at June 301 1958 arising :Cran, cash transactions, and the revenues·
collected and expenses disbursed by it and the changes in end<nl!Dent and trust

reserves are included in the assets o! the General l'urd, shown on Exhibit A,

fund balances during the tear then ended 1 on a basis consistent. with that o:C the

The activities o! these reserves during the period are.shown on Schedule i..

preceding year.

EndOWlll.ent am trust f\mds held b7 the Masonic Homes o:C Cllli:Cornia
Ulll\lllted to a total o:C ~,712,425.98 at June 301 19581 as shown on khibit A.

353

35i

EX!IIBl'r IC

We attach the follow1na: .for :VOllf' Wo:r!ll&tion:
ED!lBIT A

BAU?a:E SllEEr

JUNE 30. 1958

EXHIBIT B

ENDCWllENl' All> TRUST FIOOS

-

EXHIBIT C

IUSERVliS FOR Sf'ECIAL PURPC6!S

JUNE 30 1958

XXllIBIT D

,CAPITAL - GENERAL PUlO

JUl!E 30. 1958

EXHIBIT E

STAT!MEN!' CF REVENUE Alll ElPENSJ:

EXHIBIT F

PmMANEN1' ENOCWllENl' FIOO OF 'lHE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
BAUNCE SHEEl'
STATEMENT OF ru.pl!UE

EX!IIBIT G

EXHIBIT H

·
ScJ\R.C1 1>

BALUICE SHEE!'
STATEMENr OF RmK!J

lmQ:Bn :ii:

C. WADIIIIlH
uAJmm
lll)OO!E!f1' ANNUlTY l"llJI)

.
lit.LANCE SHm
STAT!!!W OF A!IN!Jl'rliS 00 WlCl!JI

JUNE 39, 195§
UAR ENDID
.JUHi 30 1258
I

EXHIBIT L

Jll1iS JO. 125§

EXHIBrr X

Jll1iS JO. l.25~
ma oom
m3o, ma

~ENDED

30. 1958

i!!!!!i J9 I J.2~§
YEAR oom
Jl!NK39· 1250
JUNE J0 1 12~8
IEAR ·ENDID
JUN§ 30 I 1958

EIHIBIT. R

· RESIDENTS• DEPalITS
BAIANCE SHEET

.M!!i JO. 1958

SCHIDUIE l

~pm
COneolidated schedule of ~~·•
except. tor investment• of tba
PBl'DlloDent 1D4ol11Wlt.· Fluid)

JIJHE JO 1958
I

.SCHmum'
•

Jl!H§ 30,

ms

SOODUI.§

1t

30.

im

J!!l!I J0 1 J.258

C<JIP.W'l'M fERI<DS AS SHOO!

GF.ORGE H, 00 FLOll!K:E !11 .PmDlll:

ENllCiiMIM FuRl

C.· N1 PIJNT TRUS1' Plnp
BAL\NCE SHEET
STATEMENT OF REVERUE

I

GEa!~l B~Cl!IA.~lll I.AURA E 1 BRl!.iJW!
BAIAN9E SHEET

EXHIBrr I

30. 1958

-

:iJ:OHN Alll !ENA WCKENBACH FUND
BAWCE SHEET
STATEMENl' OF REVENUE

355

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

~o,m8

oom

JUNIJQ. 1258

l1!l!!!!l

t9· l.2~§

IFA

~m

l!!.!NE JQ 1 12~§

356

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EDllB1'1' A

MASONIC HOMES rN CALIFORNIA
BAIAOOE SHEET

ASSETS

.. 005,708.77
476,59J.67
1.020 .273 .69

9,705,57

Amount. due trO!ll endowment and trust tunds

Notes and cont~acts recebable trcm sales of
real· estate

Decot.o Home
Covina Home
San Francisco ottice
other asset.•:
We insurance policies assi&ned bT residents ot
Decat.o
Real estate received b;y cont.ribut..ion
Total Assets - General Fund
ENDlliMEN!' AID TRUST FUIDS :
~ah and securities - Eddbit B

12,475 ,270. 74
713 ,479. 77
4.1611.76

~

l8,l6J,258.S.5

John and Iena Luckenbeeh Fund - Exhibit. G

72, 7'{J.65

George P. Brigham and !aura E, Bri&haa
Scholarship.l'wid - Exhibit. H

37,573,34

George It. and Florence G, Perine
EDdawment. l'wid - Exhibit l. ·

20,000.00

Harriet. C, Wadlei&h ErxlONlllent Allllllit.7 Fund l!lxhibit J

14,736.56

C, If. Pl.int. ?rust. Fund - Exhibit. IC

362,444,54

;,olB.8'F
42.00

5.067.87

I 6,u.7,643.67
8.112.µs.9!

•

678.09

2,m,449,17
CAPrrAL - GENERAL rem - Exhibit. D

Total. Uabillt.iar, Reseryes. and Capital -

Permanent.· J!'MciW111ent. ~ ot t.he
llasonic Hanes o! Cal,itomia - Exhibit P

.3 ,272, 9l.9.27

f14,SJp,c»9,6§
UABILITm:
Amount. withheld traa 1111J>l078ea due pension trust

JUNE 30 I 1958

2,302,5n.u

Tottl (market. 'Value 12.520.027.55) .

Land, buildings, and equipnent. (at 1111t1al cost no depreciation taken):

EXHIBIT B

397//13.24

I

C&sii - Schedule l.
Investments (at. book ftlne) - Sclwdule 21
Bonds (market. val.1!8 $809,336,39)
Pr.,terred stocka (market. 'ftlue 1440, 951,25)
Comop stocks (mark9t va~ 11,269,739,91).

MASONIC HOME'! OF CALIFORNIA

JUNE 30. 1958

357

General Fund

• 6,ll.7,643.67

ElIDCWMEHr AHl TRUST PllHlS - bhibit. B

8.112.425.98

Leonard Gross Memorial Fund - Exhibit L

925,00

Stu:ients' Loan and Schowsh1p Fund - Exliibit X

8,232.33

Resi.dent.e' Deposits - Exhibit H

32.J.62.0l

TOTAL - ~bit. A

la zµ,425,98

358

359

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORN IA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

mmIT o

Kl.SOllIC ROOS OP CAtIFOl!l!Il

J!lI!!F 30. l'M

R!SEl!\l'ES Pal S~IAL PURmlE!I

EXHIBrr E

MASONIC ll!JIES OP' CALIFORNIA.
STA"mmlT OF REVENUE AND EXPENsE

YEAR ENDED JUNE 30. 1959

~I

BWICI
JUJB 30, 19~1
ReaerTll tor .ldd1tio1111 and Baplaoman ts - Sohedule 4

•

742,203,50

367.73 .5.83
l.65, la'T.96

Covina Speoial BeserTll - Sohedul.e 4
Decoto Special ResC'ft - Schedul.s I+

.Entertainziant Beserve - Schedule 4

61,m.oo
;,512.21

U11t.PFopriated Reserve - Schedule 4

m.034.61

Flmeral. Besene - Schedule 4

12 pt M9,17

rout - hhibit 1..

--ar&rui Lodge, F, & A, K, t

Contr1lJut1ona ot initiatea and attUiatea t 125.00 each
~:

Balance, JWJe .30, 1957
_!M: Additions to properties ot the Deccito Home:
Calculator
Steak tenderizing 1111Lchille

Payments through Lodges fort
Deco to

Topographi cal wrve7 ·
Boiler room itistall&tio n

Additions to propertiH of the Corllla Homa:
Fire alanL 878tem
Sewerage 878tG
Furniture
Fence
Far111 buil.dillg group conatrw:tio n

286,00
475,00
39.m.56

114,754.02
3,810.48
2,400.92
1,115.30
47.931.49

2,105.37

• lJ,990.00

18,873.25

Cov1na
Revenue !rom aavinga and investments :
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bonds
Interest on bank accounts
estate income.
Interest on notes and

$ 79,626,61
24,374.'T/
4,637,47
8,185,lD

32,963.25

116,824.15

Hiscell.aneo ua revenue

~.2811:!.l

Total Revenus

1eo5,247,113

Dscoto

722,07

333,6.58.93

John and Lena Luckenbach Fund income - Exhibit G

BXPENSK - Schsdule 5:
Operation of Masonic Homes :

I

'335,815,00

Pemanent Endo11111ent Fund income - Exhibit F

JUN! 30. 1951!

CAPrrAL - GENIRAL rum

m.222,00
!iQ!i.00

•33,220.00

Adjuatllenta tor previous :years

real

EIOIIBrr D

lllS,3:!0,00

1957 Annual. Beturns • S.50' per capita

Covina
Relief outside of Masonic HClllles

Total Expense of Homes and llaliet

40, 76/J.63

1496,193,95
219,478,84

gz,Q21,2~

171+2,764.or.

~trative and ge1111ral

90,9.51.3>

Batirement income plan

~.m,o~

10.0µ.21

'l'otal E;eenss

a21,~.~

Excess of Expense

• S2,0U.t.6

sm OF SEC!lRlTIES

17,233,20

13,940,324 .6a

!!!!.:

Ea:cesa ot expense onr revenue - Elddbit :S
TOTAL CAPITAL - Exhibit A

34.sos.26

GADI m

EXCESS OF JaPEllSE OVER !!!VENUE lNCIDDDIG GAIN l'RQ(
SAIE 01" SECURITIES - Exhibit D

' 3lr.1SQS.26

360

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIPORNlA
PERMANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC Hm!FS OF CALIP'OHllIA
JOHN AND LENA LUa<:ENBAC!I FUND

Eil!IBIT F

The principal ot this Fund i s restricted b;r the Ordinances ot Grand Lodge so that no part.
ot the principa.l shall ever be expended for any purpose, and the income theretran shall be
used onl,y for the maintenance and operation of the Masonic Homes at Decot.o and Covina.

The principal ot this Fund, a bequest of Lena I.uckenb&ch, 1a restricted b;r the tenas oi'
• the will to be kept intact and the income 1a restricted for th• benefit ot th• care of
orpbana or . th• a11ad in Masonic Homes in Southern Cal.ifornia.
JUNE ~o. 1958

JUNE 30 1958
I

CASH IN CROCKER-ANGLO NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS ACCOUNT

CASH m SAVINGS ACCOUNTS:
Crocker-Anglo National Bank
Bank ot America N.T. & S.A·.
Pacitic National Bank

I 329,fJ'TJ.76

INVESTMENTS at book value - Schedule 2:
Bonds market value 53 ,210. 3
Colllll<ln stock Cman-:•t value $8,175.00)

6,617.lJ
38.416.08

INVl!STmlTS

at. book value - Schedule :
Bonds market value
,313, 91 .43
Preferred stock (marlcet. value $893,006.00)
Collll!IOn stock (market Talue $3,J.24,671,54)

7,768,ZJ0,47

28.321,11

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1957
!!!!!1 Gain !rom isale ot 1111curities
BALANCE, JUNE"30, 1958 - Exhibit B
STATEMENT OF REVENUE

$72.793.65
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1958

JjEVENUE:
Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bank account

Principal of Fund
1957

i

421,63).62
79,913,77
lr7 ,594.30
16,6)7.01
3,6'Zl.75
1.32/+.33
589.730.78

BALANCE, JUNE 30. 1958 - Exhibit B

f72,723.65
Principal Of Fund

fS 163 25S 55

INCREASE lN F1JND :
Donations made through Lodges
Bequests
Gain from sale of securities
Gain from sale of real estate
Memorials
Donations from organizations and individuals

15/.,266.77
?.645.52

TOTAL ASSETS

MISCELLANEOUS ASSETS (at book value):

Notes rece.ivable, fraternal death cert.iticates,
insurance policies 1 and lea-ses

$10,881..36

61.212.29

14,317 ,553.eo
950,802.51
2.491.874.16

Total Securities (market value $8.331.593.97)

I

.EXllIBIT G

BALANCE SHEET

BALANCE SHEET

BALANCE . JUNE 30

361

GRAND LODGE OP CAUPORNIA

PROCEEDING S OP THE

~11:163 258

55

$ 1,747.38

6o.oo

m.99

REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO GENERAL FUND - Exhibit E

• 2,105.37

GF.DllGB F. BRIOllAM AND LAURA E, BRIGHAM
SCHOLARSHIP FUliD

"iEXl!mIT H

The principal ot this Fane!, a bequest or Laura E. Br1&Jiam, 1a held in trwst ais a
scholarship fund tor the benefit o! the Covina Home residents, 125,000 ot 1'1Jich ma;r be
.loaned for that PllJ'POH, and the income is restricted and ma7 be uaed onl,y tor proddin&

scholanhip1.

STATEMENT OF REVENUE

~=

Interest on bonds
Dividen'.ds on stock
Interest on savings account s
Interest on notes receivable
SwidrT re:venua

Total Revenue
J!:[PENSEt
Postaae and •undrt expense

REVENtlE TRANSFERRED TO Gil/ER.AL :ruND - Exhibit E

YEAR Et.'IlED JUNE 30, 1958
BALANCE SHEET

I 137 ,026.91
173,743.50
2,421,79
.58.5.41

JtlNE 30. 1958

AMOUNT DUE PRCH S"ruDENTS' IDAN AND SCHOLARSHIP FUND

25.56

$ JlJ,803.17

141t.24

Principal, or Fund

BALANCB 1 JUHE 30 1 1958 - Exhibit B
(lo cban&e took place 1D t.bia tr.wit tund durin& the 19ar. 11111104 June 301 19580)

MASONIC llOl!ES OF Cllll'OR! lL\
GEDBGE M. AND FI.Olm'CE G. P!llIN§
DlDOlt!ENT FUND

zmmu :r

Perine, 1a llUbjeot to the prorlaio n
The principa l ot this Fund, a beqttnt ot Florence a.
l. ot the tund •hall be kept intact
included 1n the v1ll ot th• t ..t&tor, that the principa
benet1t ot the Decoto H0111e.
Bild the 1nco111e thereot o~ 11hall be uaed tor the
BALANCE SHE§T

~Cat book value) - S~edule 21
rket value 119, 51.J. 75
Borida

.nm 30. 1958 .
119,071,20

$20 QQQ.00

Pr:!ncipa 1 or fund

!:!!!.: Loea .f'rmn •al• ot .ae=ri ti•
M!J.1

ANllUITf FUND

00, 1B eubject to a contract with the donor
This Pun4, :tn the orlgin& l amount ot '30,000.
or the principa l. and in coma
prorldin g tor the pa;pment ot. . certain lite annuitie s outl ot th• turid expended in pa1111t111t
thereot . Under the terms ot the contrac t arrr principa
annuitie s no longer abeori> the
'lohan
ot the annuitie a ie to be later :i:eatored to the .tund
the origina l B'lllll or $30,000. 00 the
entire income, Arter restorat ion ot the principa l to
.
income tro111 the .rund 1e to be 'Wied tor the benet1t ot

'fl:enate rred tl'tlla Decoto Spec.1&1 ReeerH

8ALAllCB, JU!!E 30. 1958 - lghibit B
S'l'ATD!EllT OF REVEllUE

Intereat rra11 bande

J!EYBNt11 T!W!SFE!!1!ED 'ro DBCO'l'O SPECIAL 1!&5DVE Schedule 4

the reai.dan ta ot the Corin& .lbM,

BALANCE SHEET

Bollla cm&rket value 114,729,38)

210,CX)

119,790.00
210,00

I

1958

559,17

559 J7

14.071.20
$14 736 56

'l'OTAL ASSETS
Princip al or 1'uncl

ta:i 000 00

!EAR ENDED JUNE 30

JUNE 30. 1958

CASH DI CllOCKER..lf!GLO NATIONAL BANlt
SAVlJlaS ACCOUN'l'
lNVES'D@l'l'S Cat book value) - Schedule 21

120,000 ,00

B@CB . J1lllB 30. 1957

EIHmrr J

MASONIC IDlES OF CAJ.n>ORNIA

HARRIET c. WADLEIGH ENDOWMEN'l'

928.9)

AMOUNT DUE P'RQI Gl!NERAL 'FIJllD.

363

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

362

11;,869,63

BALANCE 1 JU1IE 30 1 1957

Lesu El:ceaa ot annu1t1e e over revenue
Losa .(raa Hle ·ot eec:ur1t.1ea
BALAHCE, JUNE 30, 1958 - Ezhih1t B

l.133.07

114 736.56

•

STAmlENT OF AllNUl'rIES AND 1!E'liN!!E

.lnnuit1e a paid u required b7 the aareeiion~

!EAR ENDED JUNE 30. 1958
I 1,350.00

!:!!!.• Re.,_.,

I:a.tere• t on bond11
In~•t on b&Dk acco1111t

lt86.CZ3

•

863.az

364

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

365

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

·

mrmIT r

MASONIC HOMF.S OF CALIFORNIA
C. N. FLINT TRUST FUND

The principal o! this Fund consists o! gi!ts !rom C. N, ~lint, The income o! the Fund has
been designated by the Trustees !or the use o! the Decato Home,
BALANCE SHEET

MASONIC HC!IFS OF CALIFORNIA
STUDENTS' LOAN AND SCHOLARSHlP FUND

EXHIBIT M

The princ:ipal o! thi.S Fund arises from gUtl!• The incOIJIB o:r the Fund is design& ted by the
Trustees !or use in student loan and scholarship purpoaes,

JUNE 30. 1958

JUNE 30. 1958

BALANCE SHEET
CASH IN CROCKER-ANGLO NATIONAL BAN1C
SAVINGS ACCOUNT

INVES'IMENTS at boo value - Schedule 2:
Bonds market value $107 ,305,
Preferred stock (market value $160 ,412. 50)
Common stock (market value $150 1 226.oo)

CASH m CROCKER-ANGID NATIONAL BANK
SAVINGS ACCOUNT
1106,881,06

162,034,99
106.103.32

Total Securities (market Yalue 1417.9/Jt.14)

:m.012.;n

TOTAL ASSETS

1392 686 61

INVESTMENTS at book value - Schedule 21
Bonds market value 28,025, 9
•
Pre:ferred stock (market value $20,297 ,25)
Common stock (market value $4,546,88)

$ 3,121,16
129,663.92
15,071,39
3,399,40

Total Securitie• (market value 152.870,09)

48.134.71

TOTAL ASSETS

$51 255 67

Liabilities
Liabilities

AMOUNT OOE GENERAL FUND

AMOUNT DUE GEORGE F •. BRIGHAM AND LAURA E. BRIGHAM

Principal of Fund
BALANCE, JUNE 30 1957
&!!!= Gain !rom sale of securities
I

SCHOLARSHlP FUND
1361,549.79

894.75
I

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND PRINCIPAL

ruR ENDED JUNE 30, 1958

Principal of Fund
BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1957

Less:

~I

$ 3,602.04
·13,693,59

•

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL

• 17 521 fa

LEONARD tROSS MEMORIAL FUND

.EXHIBIT L

The pr.ineipal ~! this Fund arises !rom gi!te made as a memorial to Leonard <h-oH,
JUNE 30. 1958

lll,659.38

Excess of grants and loan• over revenue

STATEMENT OF REVENUE

•

225.00

•

925 00

mm
Principal o! FwXI

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1958 - Exhibit B

(No change took place in this 1'und during during the ;-ear ended June 30 1 1958.)

8,232.33

$51 25i; 67
IEAR ENDED JUNE 30, 1958

REVENUE:

"""GiftS trom :individuals and organizations
Intere•t from bonds
Dividends trom stock
Bank interest
Total Revenue

AMOUNT DUE FROM GENERAL

3,421.05

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1958 - Exhibit B

296.Cllt

REVENUE TRANSFERRED TO DECOTO SPECIAL l!l!.'l!WJi Schedule 4

'43,023,54

0

.$392 686. 61

Interest on bonds
Dividends on stocks
Interest on bank account

5,450,20

Total Liabilities

362 4.44 54

BALANCE, JUNE 30. 1958 - Exhibit B

BALANCE SHEET

$37,573,34

AMOUNT DUE GENERAL FUND.

$

328.50
808.53
1,150,50
64.12

$ 2,351.65

GRANTS AND !DANS FOR EDUCATIONAL PURPOSES

5,778.70

EXCESS OF GRANTS AND LOANS OVER REVENUE

$ 3 427 05

366

367

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMFS OF CALIFOR!fll
RESIDENTS. 1 DEPC6l'rS

. MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

EXHIBIT R

SCHEDULE l

JUNE 30. 1958

The Fund ia campoaed or ·depoaita made bJ' and bald. Sn trllat tor the residents. or the
Covin& and Decoto llomee.

'nlEASURER•s COMMERCIAL ACOOUNTS:
Wells Fargo Banlt
BALANCE SHEET

CASR IM COMMERCIAL BANIC ACCOUN'l'Si
Calitomia Bank
First Weatem Bank and Trust CompaJl7

JtlllE 30. 1958

• 7,329.u
1.900,00

AMOUNT DUE FROM GENERAL FUND
TOO:AL ASSETS
Principal 0£ Fund
RESIDENTS• DEPOSITS!
Deco to

Covina

125,132.90
7.329.11

• 56,086.62
9,603.39

Amer.I.can TNst Company
TBEASURER 'S SAVINGS ACCO!JN'l'S:
Crocker-Anglo National Bank

$244, 843. 86

• 8,329.ll

Pacific National Bank ot San Francisco

55,634.34

a.132.90

Bank ot .America N, T, & S,A,

11.031.es

OPERATING CCllMERCIAL ACCOUNTS:
Wells Fargo BanJc

• 10,.a5.21

First westem Bank and Trust Company

(1,835.59)

Security-First National Bank 0£ Los An&eles

2,963,45

Caillomia Bank

s,340.08

BALANCE, JUNE 30, 1958 - Exhibit B
:REVOLVING FUNDS:
Calitomia Bank
First Westem Bank and TNst CompaJ17

•

312,310.08

16,713.15

1,200.0o
202.52

Cash at Covina Home

300,00

Cash at Decoto Home

i.297.48

roTAL CASH

• 65,690.01

3.ooo.oo
1322 213.~

368

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

369

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFCRNIA

SC!IEDULE 2
Pagel

INVES'l'llENTS

JUNE 30. 1958

SCl!EDULB 2
Page 2

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNI.l

JUNE 30. 1958

INVESTMENTS

(Consolidated schedule of investments, except for
investments or the Permanent Endowment Fund.)
SHARES
FACE VALUE

~

$ 5,000

Allegheey"Ludlum Steel Corporation, 4'f,, 1981
Atlantic Refining" Company, 4-1/2$., 1987
Chesapeake & Ohio R,R, Equipment Trust 3-7/8'/., 1962
Consolidated Edison Company of New York, 5%, 1987·.
Consolidated Edison Compaey of New York, 5%, 1987
Continental Baking Co,, J-5/£!/,, 1980
Continental Baking Co., 3-5/f!/,, 1980
Continental Baking Co., 3-5/e;f,, 1980
Contra Costa Count;y Road, 2-1/4%, 1974
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, 4-1/8'/., 1958
Federal Intermediate Credit Bank, 4-1/f!/,, 1958
General Motors Acceptance C.orp., "3-7/f!f,, 1961
W, R, Grace & Co,, 3-1/2%, 1975
I'/, R, Grace & Co., J-1/2%, 1975
International Mineral & Chemical Corporation, 3,65%, 1977
Missouri Pacific R,R. Equipment Trust, 3-1/2%, 1963
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 3%, 1970
Paradise Valley Irrigation District, 4%, 1955
Paradise Valle;y Irrigation District, 4%, 1956
Phillips Petroleum Company, 4-1/4%, .1987
Phillips Petroleum Compaey, 4-1/4%, 1987
Public Service Electric & Gas Company, 4-7 /£!/,, 1987
Radio Corporation or America, 3-1/2%, 1980
Sinclair Oil Corporation, 4-3/f!/,, 1986
Southern California Edieon Company, 4-7/8%, 1982
Southern California Gas Compaey", 3-1/4%, 1970
Southern California Gas Compaey", 3-1/4%, 1970
Southern Counties Gas Co,, 3%, 1971
Southern Pacific Compan;y Equipment Trust, 3-5/£!/,, 1961
Southwestern Bell Telephone Compaey, 4-371$., 1992
Texa• and Pacific Railway ~pment Trust, 3%, 1960
U, S, Treasury Bonds, 'J~l/2 , 1990
U, ·s. Treasury Bonds, 3.:.1/4%, 1983-78
U, S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1969-64
U, S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2$., 1970-65
U. S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1970-65
U, S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1970-65
U. S. Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1 971-66
U. S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
U, S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
u. S, Treasury Borns, 2-1/2%, Investment aeries A, 196.5
Wheeling Steel Corporation, 3-3/4%, 197.5

10,000
25,000
9,000
9,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
:2,000
25,000
15,000
5,000
12,000
16,000
31,000
25,000
5,000
1,000
1,000
10,000

a,ooo

50,000
5;000
5,000
50,000
. 1,000
4,000
5,000
50,000
5,000'
25,000
178,000
6,000
10,000
9,000
"10,500
5,000
3,000
'JJ2,00025,000
5,000
6,000

Total Bonds

BOOK VALUE

$

4,709.B4
10,299.54
24, 785.31
9,071,20-P
9,071,20-W
8,667.4.5
10,875.55-FT
13,050,52-:-L
1,877.41> .
25 008.68-FT
15,005.20-L
.1.,971.32
11,673 .15-FT
17 ,250,20-L
32,430,32
25,000.00
5,oi.3.77-S
1.00
1,00
10, 92. 25-FT
8 1 960. · 5-L
50,498."5
4,665,.Ll-FT
5,173.91
50,524.90
890,61
4,116,93-S
5,o65,·6 9-S
49,471.7'J
5;041,78-FT
24;947.61.
183,170,88
5,907.20
10,000,00-P
9,058,2'7-FT
10,437 I 53-S
5 ,000.00-w
2,872.95
'Jl9,5o6.99
24,060,37-FT
5,000,00-S

5.571.?<rF1'
fl,029.662,92

200
200
100
100
100
100
500
100
100
75
200
100
100
200
100
200
200
200
200
200
200
110
200

100
100
125
20
100
200
100
100
400
Jl5
52'7
152
100
200
421
100
100
600
520
100
243
200
125
600

QQ.fil:

PR!!:FERRED STOCK
Abbott Laboratories, 4'f,
Allied Stores Corporation, 4'f,
Aluminum Company of America, f3, 7.5
Aluminum Compaey" or America, 83. 75
American Metal Climax, Inc,, 4-1/2%
American Metal Climax, . Inc., 4-1/2.'f,
Ashland 011 & Refining Co., $1,50
Atlantic Refining Compaey', 3:-3/4%, B
Atlantic Refining CompaJJ1", 3-3/4%, B
Canada Dry, Inc,, $4,25
Canada Dry, Inc., 84.25
Champion Paper and Fibre Coq>any, 4.50%
Champion Paper and Fibre Company, 4.50%
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, 4,20%
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, 4.20%
E. I, du Pont de Nemours & Company, $4 • .50
Duquesne Light Compaey", $2,10
General Motors Corporation, $3. 75
W, T, Grant Compaey, 3-3/4% .
Gulf States .Utilities Company, $4,20
Kais er Aluminum & Chemical Corporation, 4-'J/4'f,
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation, 4-1/8%
Kaiser Aluminum & Chemical Corporation, 4-1/8%
Kay Department Stores Company 1 3 .40%
Kay Department Stores Company, 3.40%
YieCrory Stores, 3-1/2%
Mercantile Acceptance Corporation, 5%
National G;ypsum Co,, $4,50
J. J. Newberry Compaey", )-3/4%
.Niagara J!.ohalfk Powr Corporation, ).6~
Northern States Power Co, of Minnesota, $4,10
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co, 1 4%
Pacific Gas and. Electric Company, 6%
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 6%
Pacific Gas and. Electric Company, 5-1/2% .
Pacific Gas and Electric Company, 5%, Red, 1st
Pacific Gas .a,nd Electric Compaey", 5%, Red, 1st, A
Pacific Gas and Electric Compaey, 5%
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4,36%
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4.36%
Public Service Co. of Indiana, 4,16%
Public Service Electric & Gas Co111pa11;y, $1.40
Public Service.El.ectric & Gas Company, $1.40
Southern California Edison Company, 4.32% ·
Southern California Edison Company, 4.32%
Southern California Edison Compaey, 4.32%
Southern California Edison Company, 4 •.24%

~

•

20,840.95
16,286.20
9,839.00
8,661.26-FT
10,597 .55
9' 896 I 85-FT
15,o6J,88
9,971.93
9,043.30-PT
7,528,60
16,498,78-FT
10,677.56
9, 846,SO-FT
19,693.60
9,846.60-FT
24,148.85
10,659.86
20,094,00
19, 791.70
19,521,53
18,863.78
11,000.00.
18,692.40-FT
8, 7o6. 75
7,644.20-FT
10,226.75
210,00
10,420,38
16,890,00-FT
9,045.80
10,144,60
7 ,887,08
10, 751.3.5
14,000,00-S
5,248,38
2,653.13
5,293.69-FT
12,540.88
10,000,00
8, 988,68-FT
15, 745,08
16,212,95
2,829,60-FT
5,462.19
4, 791,33-PT
1,071.39-S
15.330,00

$ 539,1,9.19

JUNE 30. 1958

IlNESnIBNrS

~

200
9
800
100
700
200
1,000
200
100
l.00

~

mEFERREil STOCK

Sperry Rand Corporation , $4,50
State Guaranty Corporation
Sunray Mid-Contine nt 011 Co,, 4-1/Zf,, A
Sunray Mid-Contine nt 011 Co,, 4-1/zt., A
Tidewater 011 Company, il,20
Tidewater 011 Company-, $1,20
Union Pacific Railroad Company, 4%
Victor Chemical Works, 3-1/Zf.
Westinghoueo .!J.ectric Corporation , 3,80%, B
Westinghous e .!J.ectric Corporation , 3.80%, B
Total Preferred Stock

9,946.9<i

9.020,78-FT

•

653.697,05

£2§!

JA6

200
225
300
389
l.00
275
533
. 234
581.
200

242
647
430
200
348

Allied Chemicnl Corporation
Allied Stores Corporation
American Can Co,
American Cyanamid Comp8J\T
American Telephone aJXl Tel.egrapb
American Trust Company
.American Trust CompaJ\Y
Atchison; Topeka & Santa Fe Railwa;y CompB!11'
Atchison, Topeka & Santa Fe Railwa;y Complll\T
Atl.antic Refining Compaq
Bank of Amerio& N, T. & S,A.
B&nkers Trust Comp&J"IY or New York
Beatrice Foods Company
Bea.tries Foods Comp8J\T
Borg-Warnar Corp.
Boston Edison Co~
.California Packing Corporation
Central Hudson Gas & Electric Corp,
Chase Manhattan Bank
Chemical Corn kchange Bank
Chesapeaks & Ohio RailW&T Comp&rlJ'
Cleveland Electric D.l.umiDating Compaq.
Columbia Gas System, Inc,
Columbia Gas System, Inc,
Columbus and 1!outhern Ohio Electric CompB!11'
Commonwealth Edison CompB!11'
~

l4l
JU
250
200

206
240

304
214

$

$

5,921.93
4,663.33
13,577 .42
6;094.51
54,322,43
18,796.89
9, 786,00-FT
11,596.10
3,772,26-L
4,097.54
5,683.0l
ll,o66.48
7,097 ,88
7,810.36-1'1 '
18,853.77
5,115.28
ll,953.75
5,698.45
8,382,91
22,014.82
10,469.14
5,960.49
l0,873.41
7,359,25-FT
. 6,199.39
'10 1 ~!t 1 78
2Z/~7~l.58

l,000
200
200
223
200

300

100

450

10

S6

2,000 .
350

400.
100
100
100
601
284
303
20C'
659
50
760
200

164

100
200

400
400
284
220
125

.£!fil'.

CCH!ON STOCK

~
171
200
300
30
626

128

~

82
l.00
300
250
324
668
332
500
200
125

SH>Jml

240
l.20

COMMON STOCK

JUNK 30, 1958

p!VESTMMS

$ 539,159.19
20,085.20
366,75
20,926.93
2,364.19-FT
19, 719.28
5,230,88-FT
l0,381,30
16,495.65-F T

SCHEDULE 2
Pago 4

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFCJUIIA

SCllEDULE 2
Page 3

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA

~

371

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

370

Consolidate d l!l:l1son Comp8J\T of New York, Inc,
Consolidate d Edison Comp8J\T of New York, Inc,
Coritinonta l Insurance Comp8J\T
Covina Irrigating Co.
Crocker-Ang la National Bank
Dayton Power & Light CompaJV
Dow Chemical Col!lpaJV'
Duquesne Light. Comp&J\Y
Duquesne Light Compan;y
Food Fair Stores, Ino,
General. Electric Comp8J\T
Goneral. Publlp utilities Corp,
Gansral Public Utilities Corp,
Guaranty Trust Comp&J\T of New York
Guaranty Trust COlllp&ey' of N"" York
Home Insurance Comp8J\T of New York
Honolulu Oil Corporation
Intemation al Minerals & Chemical Corporation
Irving· Trust Comp&J"IY
Kaiser Alumilllllll & Chemical Corporation
Kansas City S011thern Rail.~ Co,
I.one Star Gas Collpan,y
Louisville and Raehvill.e Railroad Co,
ManUi'acturere Trust Comp8J\T
May Department Stores Compaq
Mercantile Acceptance Corporation
Middle South Utilities, Inc.
Minnesota Power & Light Comp8J\T
Montgome17 W&l'd & Compan;y, Inc.
Jlontgome17 Ward & Compan;r, Inc,
National Shalllllllt Bank of Boston
!fation!ll Shalllllllt Bank of Boston
New England Electric Syatmn
Nev York Stats Electric & Gas Corp.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation
Norfollc and Wastern Bailva,y CompallT
Northam States Power Co, of Hilllleaota
Cwens-nlin oie Glas e Compaq
Pacific Gas and Electric Compan;r
Pacific Lighting . Corporation
Pacific Telephone and TaJ egrapb Ccimplll\y
J, C, Ponnq Comp&J\T
J. C. Penney Compan,y
Pennealt Chemical.a Corp.
Pbillipe Petroleum ColllplllV
Public .Service Co, of In:liana
Pnblic Service Electric & Gas CClllJ'IUl1'
Public Service Electric & Gas CoJllllU!.T

~

$ 2.lrl,701.58
5,804,88
8,875.60,.FT
14,279.31
32,50
ll,509,05
5,321.60
22,494.43
6,951,66
7 ,241,08-FT
8,421.95
7,227,41
6,292,50
7 ,638,62-FT
16, 7ll.62
8,418.38-FT
4,408.97
38,875.00
5,634.38
6,545.38
2,837,89
11,909.83
7,2o6,05
6,o66,23
14,8o6.91
398,75
728,00
29,637.39
6,025,42
16,280,60
3,.307.13-FT
4,600.31
4,600,31-FT
7,944.69
7,489.40
7,113.54
10,655,58
7,200.21
1,825,40
30,742,13
7,727.60
20,180,35
8,493.65
15, 713.83-FT
24, 794.43
8,148,23-FT
7,702.70
S,459.79

•

~.~22o!tO-S

763,382..6.5

372

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFtRNV.

MASONIC HOMES CF CALIFORNlA

SCllED!ltE 2
JUllE JO, 1958

~
1,629
248

JOO

2st

50
533

5

174
25J
200
200
250
200
207
240
200

JOO

262
1149
700
100

JOO

262
250
350
400
200
1,350
425
400
260
J86

River Farms ot Cilitornia
Rochester Gas an:l Electric Corporation
San Dimas Gas & Electric Co.
San Dimas Co,
Santa Rosa Savings and Loan Association
Securit;r-Fir st Nationa1 Bank ot Los Ange1es
Shell Oil Compa.n;r
Southern Ca1itornia '.Wison c'ompaey
Southern Real.t;r Co.
Sperry Rand Corporation
Sp111T7 Rand Corporation
Standard Brame, Inc.
Standard 011 Comp&Jl1' ot CaUtornia
Stalllard 011 Compan;r (N81t Jersq)
Standard 011 Comps.xv (Ohio)
Sunshine 'Biscuits, Inc.
Transamerica Corporation
Union Electric Compaey or Missouri
Union Oil Comparv o:C California
Union Padtic Railroad Comparv
Union Pacific Rai1road Campaey
United Biecuit Compan;r ot America
United Gas Corporation
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
Utah Power & Light Comp&Jl1'
Virginian ~1WBT Col!lpatlT
Virginian Ra11wa;r Compaxv
Waial.ua 1,gricultura1 Co.
West Penn Electric Comps.xv
Westinghouse Air Brake COlllpa!\T
Westinghouse Electric Corporation
1111.sconsin Electric Power Camp&JV' .
Ssven 1ots ot securities ot undetennined val.us received
as gilts, carried at noml.na1 value ot $1.00 per 1ot

FACE VALUE

$ 76J,J81.65

• 39,000
35,000
50,000
25,000
25,000
50,000
50,000
52,000
100,000
10,000
·25,000
100,000
50,000
5,0,000
50,000
50,000
67,000
50,000
100,000
50,000
25,000
25,000
100,000
50,000
25,000
50,000
100,000
J2,000
50,000
50,000
50,000
100,700
50,000
50,000
40,000
50,000
50,000
50,000
100,000
20,000
25,000
25,000
10,000
100,000
160,ooo
l.65,000
735,000.
12,000
955,000

Total. Common Stock

7.00
.
$1.137,421.93

Total. Stock

$1.791.118.98

Total. Investments

$2 620 761.90

]Q!!: The above consolidated statement includes al.1 the securities ot the
Masonic Homes ot Ca1ito~a, except; those in the Permanent Endowment Fund
'llhich are shown on Schedule 3. Tha securities above are coded. tor the
following tunde:
$ 375,019.37
FT - C, N, Flint Trust Fund - Exhibit K
61,912.29
L - John and Lena Luckenbach Fund - Exhibit ·c
I
19,071.20
P - George H; and .Fl.orence G, Perine Endowment Fund - E>ehibit
M
48,1.34. 71
Exhibit
Fund
S - Students• Loan and Scho1arship
14,071.20
Allmdt;r Fund - Exhibit J
v - Harriet c. Wadleigh EndolGent
2,302.573.13
(Uacoded) - General. Fund - Exhibit A
$2 §20 781 90
TOTAL INV3Snm1TS (as above)

t

Y.ASONIC HOKE.S CF CALIFCRNIA
JUNK 'JO, 1958

INVESTMENTS

£Q§!

48,S70.00
6,963.63
6,445,42
2,365.00
25,000,00
8,831.33-FT
361.36
6,168.94
399.00-FT
J, 734.38
3,S7J.26-L
5,60J.S7
10,263.26
12,111.01
9, 703.13
14,4J6,J1
ll,787.41
5.,949.50
60,334.76
20,505.82
2,665.69-FT
8,550.42
6,422.S?
ll,636.47
5,995.19
10,790.SS
5,308. 51-FT ·
ll,287.50
ll,167.98
13,038.28
15,546.05
7,856.05

SCHl1DlltE
Page

PERMANENT ENDCMMENT FUND OF THE

Page 5

COMMON STOOK

373

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNI A

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

15,000

BOOK VALUE

$
Allegheiv Ludlum Stee1 Corporation, 4$, 1981
Atlantic Refining Comp8Ji71 4-1/Zf,, 1987
1960
2-7/8%,
Trust,
Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Bquipmant
Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipment Trust, 2-l./Zf,, 1961
Chesapeake & Ohio R.R. Equipmant Trust, 'J-7 /8%, 1962
Chicago, Burlington & Quinc;r R.R. Equipmant Trust, 2-5/8%, 1965
Chicago, Rock Island & Pacitic R.R. Equipment Trust, 2-3/U, 1962
Consolidated Edison Comp8Ji7 or New rork, 5%1 l9trl
Consumers Power Compaiv, 4-J/4%, 19S7
Continental. Baking Co,, 'J-5/8%, 1980
De1aware, Lackawanna & Western R.R. Equipnent Trust, 3%, 1962
Federal. Intermediate Credit Bank, 3.65%; 1958
Great Northam Ry., 2nd Equipment Trust, 2-5/8%, 1961
Great Northem Ry.,. 2nd Equipment Trust, 2-5/8%
Illinois Central. R.R. Equip!l8nt Trust, 2-J/4%, 1962
Illinois Central. R.R. Bquipnent Trust, 2-5/8%, 1%/.
Internationa1 Mineral.a & Chem1ca1 Corporation, J,65%, 1'1rl
J erse;r Centra1 Power & Light Compaey, 5%, 19S7
Louisville Gas and Electric Comp&Jl1', 4-7 /8%, l9S7
Louisville & Nashville R.R. Equipment Tru1t, 2-7/8%, 1962
Minneapolis, St. Paul & s. Marie R.R. Equipment Trust., 3-l/Wf., 1962
Kiaaour:t Pacitic R.R. Equipment Trust, 3-1/Zf,, 1963
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, 4-7/8%, 1987 ·
Northern Pacific Ry, Equipment Trust, 2-'J/4%, 1960
Northern Pacific Ry. Equipment Trust, 3%, 1963
Oakda1e Irrigation District Tri Dam, 3.05%, 2004
Pacific Telephone an:!. Telegraph Compaiv, 5-1/8%, 1980
"
Pllillips Petroleum Compaiv, 4-1/4%, 1987
Pitteburgh & Lake Erie R.R. Equipment Trust, 2-J/4%, 1961
1962
3-7/8%,
Pittsburgh & Lake Erie R.R. Equipment Tniat~
PUblic ~ervice Electric & Gas Compo.iv, 4-718%, 19trl
Radio Corporation or America, 3-1/2%, 1980
St, LoUis-San Francisco Ry. Equipment Trust, 2-7/8%, 1959
Seaboard Airline R.R. Equipment Trust, 2-7/8%1 1962
Sinclair OU Corporation, 4-3/8%, 1986
South Sail Joaquin irrigation District Revenue, J.05%, 2004
Southern California B:d.iaon Compan,y, 4-7/8%, 1982
Southern Pacific CompaJV Equipmant Trust, 3-5/8%, 1961
Southern Pacific Compaey Equipment Trust, 2-5/8%, 1965
Southwestern Be11 Telephone Company, 4-3/4%, 1992
Texas and Pacific Rai1W&T Equipment Trust, 3%, 1960
Texas an:!. Pacific Rai1way Equipment Trust, 2-1/8%, 1962
u. s. Treaaur;r Bonds, 2-J/4%, 1961
u. s. Treasur,y Bonds, 2-1/Zf,, 1961
u. S, Treasury Bonde, Investment Series A, 2-1/2$1 1965
u. s. Treasury Bonda• 2-1/2%; 1969-64
u. S, Treasury Bonds, 2-1/2%, 1972-67
u. s. Treasul-;r Bonds, Investm!'nt Series B, 2-3/U, 1980-75
u. s. Treasury )londs, 'J-1/2%, 1990
Wheeling Stee1 Corporation, 'J-J/4$, 1975
Total. Borids

36,530.85
36,154.80
49,999.79
·24,619.82
24,785.JJ
49,592.16
49,6S7.S7
52;404.49
100,642.53
10,S75.67
24;918.J4
100,104.67
48,053.33
49,246.19
49,742.22
49,474.46
70,572.00
50,243.60
101,155.30
49,913.45
24,943.61
25,000.00
100,S45.J1
48,695.65
24,999.68
50,122.J6
102,308.15
32,962.48
49,876.17
49,854.08
50;500.l+J
101,894.15
50,ou.oo
49,76J.85
41.,408.92
50;122.36
50,524.90
49,475.71
98,641.07
20,168.51
24,947.64
24;596.69
10,019.86
100,482.23
160,ooo.oo
166,233.04
707,199.29
12,070.21
997,212.85
1J.926,7J

ti..:m. 553.oo

374

·MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
PERMANE!Ir ENDOWMENT FUND OF THE
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFa!Hll
Pl!RJ.!ANENT ENDOWMENT FUND OF THI!:
MASONIC H<»l!S OF CALIFORNIA

SCllED!!1J! ~
P<!Be ~
JUNE 30. 1958

lNVEST):EllTS

~
~
.300
.300
.300.
200
1,.300
.300
100
180
200
200
200·
200
400
200
.300
.300

lio

.300
.325
.300
200

JOO

200
1,400
558

96

600
100
200
1,200
1,.300
1,000

. 600

1,200
.300
1,.300
1,500
2,500
200
;300

ffiEFERRED STOCK
Abbott Laboratories, . /+%
Allied Stores Corporation, 4%
~uminum. Compan,y of America, $.3, 7 5
American Meta1 Climax, Inc,, 4-1/2'/.
Ashlaid 011 & Refining Co,; $1,50
Atlantic Refining Compan;r, .3-.3/4%, B
Bristol41Ter• Co,, .3-.3/4$.
Canada Ori, Inc,, $4,25
Champion Paper and Fibre Compan,r, 4,5o'f,
Crown Zellerbach Corporation, 4.20'/.
E. I, du Pont de Nemurs & Comp8J1¥, $4, 50
Duquesne Light CompaJ\Y", $2,10
Genera1 Motors Corporation, $3.75
W, T, Grant · Co1qpaJ"\7, .3-3/4%
Gull states Utilities CompaJ"\7, $4,20
Kaiser Allllllinum & Chemica1 Corporation, 4-.3/4%
Kaiser Aluminum. & Cheml.ca1 Corporation, 4-1/8%
lfa1" Department Stores CompaJ"\7, .3.40'/.
McCror,- Stores, .3-1/2'/.
Nationa1 GTPsum Co., $4.50 '
J, J, Newberr,- CompaJ"\7, 3-.3/4%
Niagara Mohawk Power Corporation, J,60'/.
Northern states Power Co. of Minnesota, $4,10
Oklahoma Gas and Electric Co,, 4%
Pacific Gas aid Electi1.c CompaJ"\7, 6'f,
Pacific Gas aid Electric CompaJ"\7, 5-1/2'/.
Pacific Gas and Electric CompaJ"\71 5%, Red, let
Pacific -Gas aid Electric CompaJ"\7, 5%, Red, 1st A
Pacific Lighting Corporation, 4,36'f,
Public Serv:l.ee 'Co, of Irdiana, ·4.16%
Public Service Electric & Gas Coll!p&IV1 $1,i.o
San Diego Gas & Electric CompaJ"\71 5,60',(
Southern California Edison Comp&nT, 4 •.32%
Southern · California Edison "Compal\T1 4.24%
Sperr,- Rand Corporation, $4,50
·Sunrq Mid--Oontinent 011 Co, 1 4-1/2%, A
Tidewater 011 Comp&nT,' $1,20
Union Pacific Railroad Comp&nT1 4%
Victor Chemical Works, .3-1/~
Westinghouse Electric Corporation, J,so:f, B
One lot of securities of uml.etermined Yalue, received all
a gi.t't, carried at a nominal value of $1,00
Total Preferred stock

375

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

•

~

.30.3

.32,687.55
24,429.50
27,213.45
21,195,.30
39,270,40
28,914.58
9,846.80
18,o68,40
20,499.19
19,689.60
24,148.85
10,7.32.66
.38,.373 • .30
19,791.70
29,920,54
28, 758,8.3
11,000.00
25,073,64
26,0J0,2.3
.30,514 • .38
17,891,00
27 ,037,.30
20,269,18
27,636 • .3.3
15,855.75
2,4.30.00
15,830.81
2,65.3.l.3
20,000.00
.30,838 •.32
40,440.51
20,000.00
14,386.82
J0,660,00
.30,514 • .38
.3.3,050,09
41,850.22
25,992,28
17,465.78
29,840.71
1100

'

220,002.21

900
600
1,.350
.38.3
2,.300
800
.317

440
540

JOO
.300
1,28_0
62.3

51.3
600
1,000
f{6

l,rm
800
726

.360

589
700
1,500

900
72.3
100
600
1,200
.309

JOO
72!J
808
612

.360

343
160
100

600
2,1.30
8Z1
800
.300
1,000

900

460
1,500
l,ooo

JOO

SCllBD1JUI: ~
Page .3
JUNE 30. 1958

CC!!MON STOCK
J.illed Chend.ca1 Corporation
J.illed Stores Corporation
.American Can Co,
American C7anam1d Compai\y
American Telephone and Telegraph Compan,r
Atchison, Topelca o!c Santa Fe Railva.T Comp&JV
Atlantic Refining CcmpaJ"\7 ·
Bank ot .America H,T, & S,A,
Banker11 Trust CompaJ"\7 ot NSll" rork ·
Beatrice Foods CompaJ"\7
Bendix Aviation Corporation
Boston Edison CompaJ"\7
Centra1 Hudson Gas &o Electric· Corp,
Chaae Manhattan Bank ·
Chemica1 cOrn khange Barile
Chesapeake & Ohio Ball"lf81' Compllll,T
Clneland--Oliffe Iron Co,
_C leveland Electric Illuminating CompaJ"\7
Columbia Gas S,.stem, Inc,
.
Columbus and Southern Ohio Electric CompaJ"\7
Commonwea1th lfdison Comp&nT
Consolidated Edison CompaJ"\7 of NBll" York, Inc,
Con8111118rs Powr Compan:r ·
Continenta1 Insurance CompaJ"\7
Crockex-Aqi;lo Hationa1 Bank
Dqton Power & Light CompaJ"\7
Dow Cheml.ca1 CompaeyE, I. du Pont de Nemours & Compat\Y"
Duquesne Light CompaJ"\7
First Nationa1 Cit7 Bank of New York
Food Fair ;>tores, Inc,
Gensra1 D7nam1.es Corporation
Genera1 Kl.ectric ~
Gensra1 Publio Utilities Corp.
Genera1 Tire & Rubber CompaJ"\7 .
Guarant7 Trust .Comp&J\Y" of Hew rork
Homs Insurance Compllll,T ot NSll" rork
Honolulu O:l.l Corporation
Internationa1' Business ·H ach1nss Corporation
Internetiona1 M1nera1e i. Cheml.ca1 Corporation
IrvUlg Trust Comp&n)'
Kaiser Allimimm &o Ch-1.cal Corporation
Kansas C1t7 Southern Railwq Co,
Lockheed Aircraft Corporation
Lone Star Gas Compllll,T
Louisville and Nashville Railroad Co,
Manufacturers Trust CC>lllp&flT
lfa1" Department ·Stores Comp&J\Y"
Middle South Utillties, Inc,
l11nneapal111-lfon.,,,.U Regulator COlllpl!O"

~

COS'l'

'

2.3,5Cf1 ,17
.38,702,.32
27 ,137.88
.32,532,26
63,012.34
46,590,01
28,269.03
12,620,97
23,952,96
12,992.69
14,481,.31
15,808,44
1.3,62.3,00
23,.361.0l
20,851,20
.31,643.91
.39,847 ,67
12,859.28
18,245.74
23,425.94
20,583,88
11,695.9.3
23,165.10
.33,324.05
27 ,559.48
.36,984.88
51,426.78
21,267,81
16,686,"78
66,052,31
12,658.15
18,610,99

14,484.06
17,52.3.77
16,5.38.08
25,o67.4.3
14,73.3.29
5,620.00
.32,700,20
16,953 • .39
, 56·, S?o.25
12,.372.81
47,564,24

12,482.88
25,815.40
54,'170.44
1.3,939 • .31
.5.3,584.57
29,648.75
~.ZJ21Q2
tl,.339,080.14

376

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

MASONIC HOMES OP' CALIP'ORNll
·Pm!MANEN!' ENDOt;HENT FUND OP' TllZ
MA.SONIC HOMES OP' CALIFORNIA
INVESTMENTS
CCt!llON STCX:lt

~

840
1,000

35
300
1,440
654

726

llOO

300
1,000

1,759
720
410
300
336
100
600
600
400
681
745
llOO

560

1;544
700
367
550
482
2,334
103
4

i,ooo

600
300

l,000

221

854

200

300
2,400
200

9l2

751

l,000

700

641

600

l,050

Minnesota Power " Light Compar\J'
Kontgo111817 Ward & Compiuv, Inc,
J , P, Morgan & Compiuv, Inc'.
National ·Sha..nut Bank ot Boston
New England Electric System
New York State Electric & Gas Corp.
Niagara· Mohawk Power Corporation
Norfolk and Western Rail'llq Compan.r
North American Aviation, Inc,
Northern Natural Gae Compan.r
Northern States Power Co, ot l!imesota
Owens-Illinoia Glau Comp&Jl1'
Pacific Gea and Electric Compan.r
Pacific IJ.ghting Corporation
Pacific Telephone am Telegraph Ccmp&lv
J, C, Pennq Compiuv
Pennealt Chemicals Corp,
PennB)'lvania Power & Light Compan.r
Phillips Petroleum Compiuv
Public Serrlce Co, ot Indiana
Public Serrtce Electric &. Gas Coqiiuv
Radio ·Corporation ot America
Reliance Insurance Compiuv
Rochester Gae and Electric Corporation
San Diego Gae & Electric CompaJV
Security-P'irat National Bank at Los Angeles
Shell 011 Compar\J'
Southern Calitorn:l.a Bdieon C0111pan1'
Southam Compan.r
Southern Pacific .Comp8lJl'
Southern Real.t7 Coqian.r
Sper1:7 Ram Corporation
Standard Bram•, Inc.
Standard OU Compiuv at CaUfornia
Standard Oil Compan.r (Irdiana)
Standard OU CompaJl1' (Hew Jeraq)
Standard Ol.l Compiuv (Ohio)
Sunshine Biacuita, Inc,
Thiokol Chemical Corporation
Title Insurance & Truat Compar\J'
Transamerica Corporation
Union !lectrio Comparv ot H:l.eaouri
Union Oil CompaJl1' of C&Utornia
Union · Pacific Railroad comp&Jl1'
United Biacui t Compiuv ot America
United .Gu Corp.
United Shoe Machinery Corporation
Utah Power & Light CollipaJv

~

377

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

SCHm1LE 3

MASONIC HOME.S OF CA.LIP'CJ!Nll
PERMANENT l!:IDOWKENT FUND OP' TllZ
MA.SONIC HOl!!:S W CALIFORNll

Page 4

JUNB 30. 1958

SCllEDtltl l
Pa&e 5
JUNB 30. 19S8

£!&!'.
C<J4MON STOCK

ll,339,080.14
14,430,22
38,798.0l
5,416,25
ll,855.13
19,029.65
u,,770,46
17,240.19
45,538.13
8,965.13
21,211>.27
20,401,59
26,107.54
. 16,294.69
11,333.45
41,322~83

8,493.65
37,154.12
22,939.19
12,953.32
18,472.9'7
18,656.99
29,831.20
24,634.75
45,048.02
14,442.60
14,073.67
26,036.85
16,443.04
42,499.76
5,755.13

u.oo

18,873.90
13,203.65
15,272.43
49,558.31
ll,907.03
33,197.62
14,559.88
12,662,67
37,500.00
7 ,869.80
22,352,31
25,994.64
28,920,53
19,943.61
14,022.92
27,899.55
18.036.16
12,363,020.ss

Forward

l,200

1,700
600

340
935

Virginian Railva;r Comparv
West Fenn Eleotrio Compan.r
Westinghouse Air Brake CcmpfJ\T
Westinghauoe Electric Corporation
Wieconein Electric Powar Comparv
Six lots of securities of undetermined. ...iue, reoei'nld u
gi!t•, carr:l.od at nominal T&lue of fl,00 per lot

~

J2,363,020,85
32,l.81.74
37,4D4.41!
19,526.81
21,270.91
18,463.37
6.00
f2.491.!!74.l6

Total Comnon Stocks
Total Stocke

$3.442.676.67

. TOTAL INVESTMJ!m'S - Exb1bi t I"

17 760 230 !t7

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIF91!1!L\

Page

JUNE 30. 1958

The aneta represented 'bJ' theee Reserve• are included 1n tbll a1aeh ot the oMeral
·
eho'Nll on Bl:hibit A,

l!ESEaVB l£R ADlllTIONS AND lll!PLAcDmm I

Charges to Reeerva I
Additions "to Decoto Home
Additions · to Corlna Hoce
Replacements at Decoto Home
Replacmumte at Covina Home

2,112.~

I 21,691,

24,25J,l0
2,2~1ll

~.28~a0l

1211, .509. :io
f20l.. 8.50. 82
2,993,43

I

I ;!!l21r
2ii,943,8

137,987.17
9,687,79·
7,~.3.3>

~.:zi:z.l~

Increase 1n Beaerva

Additions to Decoto be
Replaccent e to Decoto Heme
Transferred to George H, and
Perine :!ndola811t land
Florence

a;

Increaae 1n Reserve
l!alance, June 301 1958 " Blhibit C

l~6,226,6l
0

DECOTO SPECIAL mERVE1
Balance, June 30; 1957
Bequeeta allocated to Reaerva 'bJ' TNateea
llet income trom real estate received trom.
bequaate allocated to Reserva 'bJ' Trustees
Contributio ns tor l!ome
c. !I, Flint TNet Fund Income - Exhibit It
George K, and Florence G,· Perine Endoiment
Fund 1nCQ!l8 - Exhibit I

fl29,l.81..95
I :10;317.59
.361..13
100.00
17,.591,ffl

~~Nl
•
. • 38,9)
I

722,f:tl

1,997,48
210.00

2,929,55

ma

• 62,3()0,00
I

7,137.21.
:z.663,21

J61~12l
ll~S lll:Z !l~

I lD~I.51.96

•

UNAPPROPRIATED RESERVE:
Balance, June JO, 1957
Aaaete aaa1gned b7 rea1denta ot Home on
admiaaion including proceeds trom. aale
ot real estate and troa lite 1naur&nce
·
policies
Penaiona a.sa1gne¢ 'bJ' reeidenta ot Home
Depoa1ta ot deoe&Hd rea1denta
IncC111e trom. real estate as111gned b7
reai.denta on adlDiaaion

Increase 1n lleaerve
Balance, June JO-, 19.58 - Em;b1t c

6,8.51.96

I

l31:Z9l165

Balance, June JO, 1958 - Exhibit C

Charges to Reaerva:
Monthl7 grant.a to rea1denta ·
Amount tr&naterred to Funeral
liesorve
Real estate and insurance gpenae

~2~,QQ

I 61 775,00

Balanoe, June JO, 1957
Contribut.io na
Leee1 l!ntertaimm lt expense ot
Decoio and Covina Hames
-Decrease 1n Reaarva

~:

136'.Z1W ll3

Balance, June .30, 1958 - Exhibit C

.!!!!,: Charge• to Reaerva:

:z:M2M~

121.2 203,50

l,SQCJ,:io

FDJIERAL RESERVEI
Balance, June 30, 1957
.Amounts tranatened trom Unappropri ated Reaerv•
Leae 1 Funeral ezpense
Decreue in Reilem

p!'ERTADllll!llT l!BSE!l.VBI

J2,02.S.~

Balance, June JO, 19.58 - Exhibit C

Addition• to CoTi.na Home
Replac•ent a to Covina Home
SUDlller cam.p expenee
H1acellaneo ua axpend.iture • tor
epec1al. benetita ot :residents

JUNE :30,

J!ESERVES FOil SPECIAL PURP<m.S ·

Balance, June .301 19.58 - Exhibit C

ti.o,oJ8, 56

Decrease 1n Beserva

!e!,: Qiargee to Reaerva 1

l'wld,

I 19,578.86

CXWIRA SPBCL\L ll!SERVB1
Balance, June 3o, 19.57
Bequests allocated to Beaerva 'bJ' Trustees
!let income trom. real estate received trom.
bequests allocated to Beeerre b7 Tnleteee
Conti:ilnlti ou tor Home

Page 2

Oene:ral rwut,
Tb• &Hete repre~ented 'bJ' thee• Beaervee are included 1n the uaet1 ot the
eho'Nll on lbbibit A,

UJ.9,797,2.s

Balance, June JO, 1957
Bequests allocated to Beeerva 'bJ' Trustees
tiet income trom. real estate receind tro11
bequeeta allocated to Reserves ~ Trwsteee

SCllEl>"tlm 4

i

Sa!EOOIX

J!E¥RVES FOR SPECIAL PURPOSES

!I!!!.=

379

GRAND LODGE OP CALlPORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

378

J1ll2162

3 m.zz

t670,278,6 l

1126. si..s. 66
120,489.95
12,058• .52
l,2ti!2.!il2
1261,0.34,13
1.50. 616, 00
7,137,21
21524-22

60,2'781l3

200 1 :z~6.oo

1a:z1 1mi. ~

380

381

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC HOMl!S OF CALimiNIA.

J~ lj, 1958

SCHEDUIE i

COMPARATIVE PERICDS AS SHOO!

DliX:OTO OPERATillJ EXPENSE:
Jfaintenance
Hospital and medical

ELEVEN H>Nl'OS
EllDl!D
YEAR EllDl!D
Jinm 30. 1958 JUNE 30. 1957

$2J6,665,65
l.42,402.46
13,221.16
General, plant, buildings, and transportation J7 ,216.58
Administrative
66,688,10
Farm and grounds

$180 '702.41
105,924.JO
l,J28,87
28,65J.52
78.654.37

HET OPERATOO EXPENSE - Erldbit E

INCREASE
(DECREASE)
• 55,96J•24
J6,478.l6
11,892.29
8,56J.o6
(ll.966,27)

To the Trustees of the
California llaeonic. Memo rial Temple
Californ:la Masonic Memorial Temple
l l l l California Street
San Francisco 8, California
Gentlemen:
We have examined the balance sheet of the

f10Q.9jO,ftA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPIE
(A California Non-Profit Corporation)

covm OPERATilfJ EXPEKSE:
Maintenance
Hospital and medical

• 99,751.68
11,6J2.oi..
Farm and grounds
25,612.76
General, plant, buildings, and transportation 46,997.J4
"Administrative
35.485.02

• 88,811,28
8,946.79
21,579,70
44,487.68
32.727.40

• 10,940..40
2,685,25
4,0JJ.o6
2,509,66
2.757.62

as of June JO, 1958, and t'he related statement of revenue and expense ~or the
7ear then ended,

Our examination was made in accordance with generall7 aocepted

auditing standards, and 80COrd1ngl7 included such tests of the accounting

HET OPERATING EXPENSE - Exhibit E

s212,47a.a4

1196 'ij2,8$

I 22,223.22

RELIEF oorsIDE OF MASONIC HOMES - Exhibit E

I 2z.021,23

I 23 2111.23

I

I JJ,Tfl.,18

• 19,013.80
13,515.87
9, 701,56
7,928.14
7,o65.l4
J,2Jl.05
205,00
J,000.00
900,00
2,143.19
l,859,54
4,000.00
650,00

I (5,242,62)

Contributions receiV'ed during the 7ear ended June .30, 19;8, for the

l,162.26
(79,26)
l,675,59
(1,218.24)
\205,00)
l,050,00
J00,00
2,6.30,40
(181.61)

erection of the Temple amounted to $482,470,J6, "'1ic.h amount has been added to

ADMINISTRATIVE AND GENERAL EXPENSE:
Insurance
Office salaries
Field investigation
Pensions for retired empl.oJ'BeS
Taxes on p&71'olls
Trustees• expenses
Legal :rees
Auditing services
Safekeeping securities
Office supplies and printing
Taxes on Hanes
Investment counsel :rees
ActU&Z'T tees
Reimbursement of Endowment Board expenses
SJStem services
Accounting and audit - Pension Fund
Grand lodge trip to Decoto
Jbving expense

Hillcellaneoua

14,200.00
J0,86J,82
7,848,88
8,740.7J
l,952.81
4,050.00
1,200,00
4.,77J.59
l,677,93
4,000.00
600,00
11,999,96
675,00
l,5JO,OO
l,075.59
J00,00
l.691.71

s

l 1lsl,Ol
678.p

,,3za.oo
684,J3

(50,00)
11,999,96
675.00
i,5Jo.oo
\105.42)
J00,00
l.op.58

RETIREME2lT INCOME PIAN:

TOTAL RETll!nlENr DICOllS PIAN Exhibit E

the capital of the C9rporation as. shown on Exhibit A.

The total contributions

received to. June JO, 1958, for the erection of the Tanple, may be &\llllll&rizad as
followa1
Individual contributions
Grand Lodge F, & A. M. of Caillomia:
Per capita from annual returns (195J-1957)
Contributions of initiates 111 $9.00 each
Proceeds of sale. of capital stock of
Masonic Temple Association of California,
Inc,
War Relief Fund assets
Bequests and miscellaneous
Total Contributions, as shown on Exhibit A

TOTAL ADMINISTRATIVE AND
GENERAL EXPENSE - Exhibit E
Contribution for calendar J'B&r 1956
Contribution for period Januaey l to
June .30, 1957
Contribution for fisoal J'B&r ended
June .30, 1958

records and such other auditing· procedures as we .considered necess&J'T in the
circuilatances,

I 23.574.05

• 26,219.0lt-

1(26,219,04)

l3 ,454,6,

(JJ ,454,65)
23.574.05

1,208,108,00
JJ2,775,oo
254,887.50
158,507,44
30.923.93

13 001 435, 54

382

383

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

In our opinion, 1ubject to the foregoing CC111111ente, the accomp&1171nc

The contributions from individual Maeona are collected 'b7 th• Calitomia
.Maeonic Memorial Taple Ccamittee of Grand Lodge, P. & A. K, and are turned OTer

statanent1.preHnt tairl.T the auete and liabilities ot the Calitomia Maeonio

med1atel7 on collect1on to the California Masonic Mmorial Temple corporatiol'I.

Memorial Tcple, at June )01 1958, &riling trom mh tranaactione, and the

The committee records indicate unpaid contribution pledges at June )O, 1958, of

revenues collected and expenses dilburled by it during the year then ended, on

approximate:i., 1701 000.00.

a baaia consiltent with that of the preceding ;year.

Unpaid pledge• are not taken into account u an &1Ht

We attac!i the following tor ;your 1nto:rmation1

b7 the corporation until the pledge 11 collected bf the committee and tumed onr
to the corporation.

EXHIBIT A

BALANCE SHEET

EXHIBIT B

STAmllllT OF INCctlE AND EXPENSES

JUNE 30 I 1958

Net expenditure ot funds during the year ended June )0 1 1958, lllOUllted

to 12,00),120,86•.or thi1 UK>unt, funds aggregating ll,931,122,l.3 liere i.Dveated
1n the Tcple pr<>pert;y, increa.aing the total inveatment therein from 13,526,698.48

NOTES TC FINANCIAL STATD!ENTS

at June )0, 1957, to 15,457 ,820.61 at June )0, 1958, and fund• ot .a net - t ot
1711 998.7) were expended to cover the net expenee in that 8111:)unt tor the .,.&r

SCl!EDUIE l

JUNE 30

SUMMARY OF COOTRmUTIONS RECEIVED

ended June )0th, a• 1ho1111 on Exhibit B.
'lhe revenue and expense from operation•, as shom on Ellhillit B, OOTer·

lleepecttully •Wl!dt tee!,

the period from the completion ot the Temple on April 24, 1958. to June )0, 1958.
During this period no rent was paid by Grand J:Qdge, F. & A. M, ot Cal1tom1a.
Intereet on ·the note• payable: amounting to approximate:i., 119,.300.00 tor t,he period
April l, 1958 to June 30, 1958 11 due October l, 1958 and has not been taken into
account u an expense at June )0, 1958. Our examination dilcl.o•ed no other unpdd
expense bill.I at June 30, l958 1 with the exception of •unclr7 expense• npt material

On April 24, 1958 Notice of Completion ot the Calitomia Maeonic Memorial

Tmiple vaa !9COrded. With the exception ot the final payment to the general
contractor and the architect'• tee ae described in notes (3). and (~) to the
financial 1tat-t1, aU contl'.&ct1 tor ceete ot construction were paid by June )O,
1958 and no ·chiml or lien• had be911 tiled,

Certified Public Accountant.

I

1958

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MDIORUL TEMPLE

$

Colllllercial accounts:
The Bank of California, .N.A.
Bank of America N.T. & S.A.
Savings accounts : ·
the Bank Of California, K.A.
Crocker...lnglo National Bank

50,00

Rent of public space
Kiacellaneous revenue

88,865,49
4,J51.J4
110,743.05
12.753198

m'EllSE Flllll OPERATIONS:
Salaries
Janitorial supply
Janitorial. services

I 734,;303,90

3:

Building (see Nots. &nd 4)
Building equipaent
Furniture and f:lxtures

Gas

J,571,\17.6.18
953,322.77
198.217.76
5,457.020.61

TOTAL ASSETS

$5.682,584.1+7
LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL

LIABILITIES 1
Not1111 payable to banks (see Note 2)
Bental depos~ts for future use of public
space

$1,955,790.00

11,957,340.00

IJ,Jl8,965.l8
482.470.36

liet Expense

2~4.2~

Electricity
Water
Telephone
Scavenger
Mo.intenance - plumbing
Office supplies
·
Stationer;y and printing
Miecellaneous.

$ll,JJ4.23

$ 7,49.3.68
2,861.61
501.28
1,072.48
2,701.16
71.16

242,57
J6.25
71.04
66.48
223.09
124·28

Total Expense from Operations

1~ 1 m.~0

Net Expense from Operations

$ 4,201,J5

GENERAL EXPENSE:
Iliterest on notu payable
Real estate taxes
Legal tees
Accounting fees
Public relations
Insurance
Miscellaneous

134,766.23
14,785.70
8,058.90
1,760.00
7 ,607.55
a,949.90
~.22

Total General Expense

Total· Contributions
Net lixpense:
Net expense to July 1 1 1957
!let expense during the year ended
June JO~ 1958 - Exhibit B

$ 5,250.00
5,150.00

1.550.00 .

Total Liabilities
CAPlTil.1
Contributions:
Received prior to J~ l, 1957
Received during the year ended
June )0 1 1958 - Schedule l

YEAR EtDED JUNE 30, 1958

Total Revenue from Operations

PROPERTY:

I4Ni""""

STATEMENT CF REVEllUE AND EXPENSES

Rl£11E
FROM OPERATIONS:
nt of garage

CASH ON HAND AND DI BANKS 1

EXHmrr B

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEK>RIAL TEMPIE

EXHIBIT!

JUNE 30, 19"a

B.WJ!CE SHEET

Lwivillg tund

385

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

76,~.?,Z

$80,344.62
'

ClENERAL REVENUE:
Intereat on savings bank deposits
Net revenue from San Francisco S;rmphony
Orchestra concert

4,192.34
71.998.73
76,121.07

Ket Capital

3.725.2!J..1+7

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND CAPITAL

1.5 682 584 ,47

$ 5,613.47
2,:z~2.42

Total General Revenue

8,3!.5,89

NET EXPENSE - Exhibit A

121 228.:Z3

The accompanying notes to financial statements are an integral part of thia statements.
The accompanying . notes to financial statements are an integral part of this statement.

386

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

CALIFORNIA MASONIC 1-!EK)RIAL TEMPLE

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MOORIAL m!PIE

!!QTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1,

2.

JUNE 30. 19a

The financial statements have been prepared on the cash basis of'
accounting under which basis accrued receipts are not renected
in the financial statements until collected and accrued expenditures are not reflected until paid,
Notes payable to banks are secured by a first deed of' trust on the
Temple site real property and the improvements thereon and ere to
be further secured by a chattel mortgage on the !urnishinga and
equipnent of' the mnt Temple, The notes are repayable in annual
instalments of' $20,000 to each bank beginning October l, 1958,
and continuing annually thereafter until October .l, 1965, on
which latter date all sums of' principal and interest then unpaid
shall be due · and payable, The notes bear interest at the rate of'
4% per annwu, payable semi..,.nnuall,y April 1st and Octooer lat of
each year, Additional borrovings from banks during the year in
the amount of $1,655, 790.00 increased the · amount of the notes
payable to tl,955, 790,00 at June JO, 1958, as follows:
American Trust Company
Anglo California National Bank
Bank of America N,T. & S,A,
Crocker First National Bank
of San Francisco
The Bank or California, N,A,
Wells Fargo Bank

$ 325,965,00
325,965.00
325,965,00
325,965.00
325,965,00
325.965.00

On July 7, 1958, an additional loan of' $348,000,00 was received
from the above banks making the total of notes payable at that
date $2,303,790.oo.
·

3. On .July 14, 1958 the final payment under the contract comnitment

was made to MacDonald, Young & Nelson, the general contractor, ·
amounting to $.348,416.03• This amount having been paid subsequent to June 30, 1958, is not included in the. total cost ·or
building to that date as. shown on Exhibit A,

4.

The total ·fee for architectural services for construction of' the
Temple will amount to approximately $341,131,00, based upon the
estimate or the architect, Albert F. Roller• or this amount
$165,000,00 was paid prior to June 30, 1958, leaving a balance
~ble of approximately $176,131.00,

Syt!!ARY OF CONTRmUTIONS RECEIVED

387

SQlmlIB l
YEAR ENDID JJllE 30. 1958

GRAND l.OJlGE F. + A. M.
1957 annual returns!
Master Maeona on June 30, 1957 • tl,00
per capita

123<>,61.o.oo

Contribution• of initiates • t9.00 each

24,514.00
1255,156.0D

Contributiona of' initiates 1957-58 fiscal
7ear I 19,00 each

lt7.03!t.OO .

13<>2,190.00

lNPIVIDUAL CONTRIBUTIONS
TOTAL CONTRIBUTIONS RECEIVED
YEAR ENDED JUNE 30. 1958

].8),2l5.J6

'+AA b70.J§

388

PROCEEDIN GS OP THE

RESIDE NTS AT DECOTO
Annual Report 1957-195 8
Names of Residents. --MEN-Av erage Age: 79.60 Years

•Indicates Admission During CUITent Year.
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
85
......
Francisco
San
44
........
Moriah
Mt.
'51
25,
Sept.
.....
Anderson Alfred H
81
Anderson: Chas. E.........May 30, '57 Jewel .........,........374 San Francisco ......
......77
Armbruste r, Wm. F .....Sept. 15, '55 Amity ..................370 San Francisco
86
Baker, Anthony D .............Oct. 5, '56 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ............83
Banks, Wm. H. • ..............Aug. 2, '57 Table Mtn...........124 Paradise ................85
Barber, Sanford M .......... .Jan. 2, '57 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............65
Baril, Leon J .................. .Feb. 22, '52 Jas. A. Foshay....641 Los Angeles .......... 76
Barr, George W ...............May 24, '54 Sacrament o ........ 40 Sacrament o .......... 83
Bassett, Henry N ...............Jan. 6, '50 Santa Paula ........291 Santa Paula ..........81
Batt, Saul C .....................June 2, '52 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ...... 75
Beckmann , Cad A ...........May 3, '51 Liberty ................ 299 Santa Clara ..........
Bellina, Charles H .........Oct. 26, '53 le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........371 Honolulu ..............88
Blum, John• ................. .May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............72
Bolton, George F .............Oct. 26, '55 Corinthian .......... 9 Marysville ............88
Brown, Frederick A.• ....Oct. 17, '57 Eucalyptus ....._...243 Hayward ..............78
Brown, Robert G .............May 9, '57 Fort Crook ..........575 Fall River Mills.... 69
Buhlinger, Wm. F ...........Apr. 23, '55 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......85
73
Burt, Byron H .................. .Dec. 6, '56 Molino ................150 Tehama ................91
Cameron, Wm. H .............May 6, '56 Durant ................268 Berkeley ................85
Campbell, Archibald ... .Dec. 22, '54 Presidio ..............354 San Francisco ...... 81
Casey, Newman H .........Mar. 26, '55 Santa BBI"bara.... 192 Santa Barbara ....89
Chalfant, Hal P ...............Apr. 24, '57 Claiborne ............185 Point Arena .......... 77
Chase, Leonard J ...........Dec. 22, '55 Woodbridg e ........131 Woodbridg e ..........
Childs, Clarence E ...........Oct. 8, '41 Palo Alto ............ 346 Palo Alto ................98
Cicero, Carmel ..............Mar. 27, '53 Yount .................. 12 Napa .................... 77
Collins, Wm. W .............Sept. 22, '46 Golden Gate ..... 30 San Francisco ......91
Condon, Wilbert S .........Jan. 11, '42 Apollo ..................396 Alameda ................82
Covington , Jas. Glenn• Aug. 30, '57 South Gate ........320 Los Angeles ........75
Crawford, Thomas ........Oct. 30, '55 Truckee ..............200 Truckee ................80
Crayton, Frank L.• ..........Jan. 8, '58 Colusa ..................240 Colusa ....................84
Dahlgren, Bengt L .........July 22, '55 Fellowship ..........480 Oakland ................92
Date, Harrington S .........Mar. 5, '48 Grizzly ................601 Portola ..................90
Davidson, Thos. A .......... .Apr. 4, '55 Nor.th Star .......... 91 Fort Jones ............90
Davis, George F .............July 21, '56 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................80
Donaldson , Chas. G. • ....Feb. 14, '58 Marin ..................191 San Rafael.............81
82
Draper, Wm. C ...............May 18, '57 Benj. Franklin ..509 Beverly Hills ......75
Du Bois, Andrew B.• ... .Apr. 30, '58 Morning Star .... 68 Stockton ................ 79
Duebel, Charles• ............Apr. 5, '58 Occidental .......... 22 San Francisco ......74
Duncan, Cary G ...............Dec. 3, '53 Fresno ..................247 Fresno ....................85
Farmiloe, Cyrenius T .....Mw. 5, '57 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ........
Frare, Giacomo ............... .Apr. 1, '51 Speranza
Italiana ..........219 San Francisco ......77
........68
Frost, Harold G ............... Nov. l, '45 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ..........
81
Gage, DeWitt Clinton• ... .Feb. 1, '58 Hawthorne ........647 Hawthorne
Galvin, Wm. A. ..............July 23, '55 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......88
87
Godfrey, Heney S ...........July 25, '54 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda ..............
........89
Graver, Robert E.• ........Mar.17, '58 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles............
78
Green, Robert F.• ............May 7, '58 Curtis ..................140 Cloverdale ............74
Griffin, Wm. G .................Oct. 30, '56 S. W. Hackett.. .. 574 San Diego

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPO.RNIA

389

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
--·-----66
Hollywood
.355
.........
'53
11,
Hollywood
Grogan, Robert G .....- ..Aug.
Hacker, Harold E.• ..........Apr. 7, '58 Piedmont ............521 Piedmont ..............68
..............200 Truckee ................66
'56
Truckee
Hackley, Halford L .......Mar. 13,
Hagerman , Roy E ......... Sept. 26, '56 Victory ................474 San Francisco ......75
Halpin, Robert L ............. Oct. 23, '53 Silver Trowel ....415 Los Angeles ........85
Han.cock, James G.• ..... __ Jan. 9, '58 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ....................80
Han.son, Oscar Chas .......Nov. 7, '55 Palisades ............637 Santa Monica ......73
Harth, Arthur P .............Sept. 4, '40 Lind~y ..............416 Lindsay ................84
Hartman, Charles ........Aug.10, '56 Mt. Jackson ........295 Guernevile ............76
Hartman, Ernest A.• ....May 23, '58 Belmont Beach ..716 Long Beach .......... 82
Hartman, Wm. L ...........Aug. 29, '56 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........68
76
Hendricks, Alfred ........Nov. 17, '50 Stanislaus ..........206 Modesto ................
Higgins, Edward L .........Jan. 20, '56 Park ................... .449 San F1rancisco ......90
86
Hohn, William* ............Nov. 26, '57 Amity ................. .370 San Francisco ......84
Hopper, Wm. H. • ........... .Dec. 11, '57 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ........
Hufstedler , Charles ........Mar. 5, '54 Mariposa ............ 24 Mariposa ..............78
81
Huling, Wallace S .......... .Dec. 27, '52 Hammonto n ......433 Hammonto n ........72
Hyman, Milton .-...........Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......
Jack, Charles P .................Jan. 9, '38 Bresidio ....... - ...354 San Francisco ......79
Jefts, Benjamin J ...........Oct. 27, '48 Justice ................549 San Francisco ......85
Johnson, Gustave E .....Aug. 28, '56 Balder ..................393 San Francisco ......80
Jones, Howard T ...........Aug. 14, '53 Holtville -·····-···--425 Holtville ................76
Keen, Cassius H .............Dec. 15, '51 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........88
Kennaro, Joseph W ....... Oct. 19, '56 Center ..................465 Fresno ....................70
Kerr, David• ................... .Jan. 8, '58 King Solomon's ..260 San Francisco ......93
Kleinkauf, Sam E .............July 2, '56 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ........74
Lair, Allen ........................ Nov. 6, '55 Jubilee ................604 Santa Ana ............75
Lawrence, Edward S .... .Mar. 22, '47 Inglewood ......... .421 Inglewood ............ 66
Lewis, Herbert W ...........Nov. 5, '54 Burbank ..............406 Burbank ·-··----77
London, Morris W.-........May 6, '57 Foothill ................564 Oakland •. _ ...........90
Look, Wm. C ...................May 21, '56 Hills Ferry ..........236 Newman ................88
Lowther, Lawrence R. ..June 25, '57 Guardian ............596 South Gate ..........79
McCall, Wm. McLellan.. Sept. 4, '56 Oroville .............. 103 Oroville ................92
54
McClain, Robert E.• ......Nov. 28, '57 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorn e .......... 78
McGraw, John H.• ........June 27, '58 South Gate..........320 Los Angeles ........85
Martin, George Wi....... .Mar.17, '56 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................68
Martinsen, Thos. A.• ....Nov.19, '57 Tehachapi ..........313 Tehachapi ............94
May, Fred ......................Aug. 15, '51 Friendship ..........210 San Jose ................ 56
Maycroft, Jas. B ...........Sept. 20, '56 Eucalyptus ........243 Hayward ..............
Mearns, John C .............. .Mar. 3, '47 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......84
Miller, Harry• ................Mar. 10, '58 Bay View ............401 Oakland ................74
80
Mitchell, Edward L .......Dec. 20, '54 Slllll Bemardin o..348 San Bernardino ..73
Montano, Jas. T. • ............May 23, '58 Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles ........
Moody, Frederick O .... .Aug. 27, '55 Santa Cruz .......... 38 Santa Cruz ............78
Murray, James B ...........Apr.17, '53 Westwood. ..........501 Westwood ............78
Myers, Robert• ..............Oct. 12, '57 Fidelity ..............120 San Francisco ......79
Nielsen, Carl M. • ............Sept. 4, '57 Santa Barbara ...192 Santa Barbara .... 72
Noel, Chas. L. • ................Nov. 27, '57 Howard .............. 37 Yreka ....................82
Nordstrom , David P ....... Nov. 3, '52 Dorie ....................216 San Francisco ......71
Oakley, Charles W .........Dec. 16, '49 Nicolaus ..............129 Wheatland ............ 81
O'Brien, Wm. P ...............Mar. 8, '54 Elsinore ..............289 Elsinore ................78
Olincy, Harry ................Feb. 16, '57 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach .......... 73
Parker, Franklin W .........Mar. 8, '56 Natoma ................ 64 Folsom ..................84
75
Peale, Charles W .......... .Aug. 18, '51 Montebello ........451 Monrtebello ..........94
Plato, John ........................Feb. 5, '48 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........84
Porter, Wm. G .................Aug. 8, '46 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ........
83
Powell, Wm. H ...............Sept. 23, '55 West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ........72
Price, William L .............Feb. 18, '54 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......
90
Raynor, Clarence R. ......Apr. 20, '57 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ........78
Reinhold, Gabriel ........Sept. 30, '56 B~ City ..............526 San Francisco ...... 65
Richardson , Wm. T .......July 29, '50 Santa Maria........580 Ramona ................73
Roales, Robert W .............Oct. 6, '54 Needles ................326 Needles ................

390

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
76
......
Francisco
San
549
................
Justice
'53
18,
.Sept.
.....•..
C
Daniel
Roberts,
Roche, George W ...........Jan. 18, '57 So. Pasadena ......367 So. Pasadena _....•.83
89
Sanford, Edward C. • ....Nov. 22, '57 Canoga -·-·-··---61 1 Canoga Park ........
Schultz, Arthur J ...........Sept. 4, '55 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ........80
Shields, Samuel A .......June 25, '55 Tehachapi ·-··-···313 Tehachapi ............92
Short, Benjamin A. ........Apr. 5, '55 Sunnyside ..........577 Los Angeles ···-···74
Skinner, Harold R. ........June 30, '57 Guardian ............596 Los Angeles ....•...71
Stap~, Frederick W ......... Feb. 1, '54 Doric ···-··-···········216 San ;F'rancitico ...... 81
Sterling, John W............ .Nov. 8, '56 Redlands ............300 Redlands ..............88
Stewart, James O .......... .Feb. 20, '44 Calaveras ............ 78 San Andreas ........87
Street, Alvin Clyde........Apr. 14, '55 Pasadena ·······-··.272 Pasadena .............. 85
Sutherland , Geo. W.......July 13, '53 Clovis ·······-····-··.417 Clovis ....................78
Sutherland , Wm. M. • ... .Mar. 10, '58 Redondo ..............328 Redondo Beach ....81
Taforo, Charles R.• ........Nov.18, '57 Live Oak ···-··-··· 61 Oakland ···-······-···71
Thompson , Elmer F .........Feb. 4, '56 Meridian ···-·······667 Glendale ..............72
Tilsner, Henry E ...............Mar. 2, '46 Crockett ···-·········139 San Francisco ......87
Trabucco, Frank S .........Feb. 22, '57 Speranza
Italiana ..........219 San Francisco ......75
Valentine, Eugene P .....Mar. 8, '57 University ..........394 Los Angeles ........84
····74
Wallis, Abraham G .........Nov. 2, '47 Midway ·······-····.426 Taft ···-··-······-···
·······-···79
Warden, Robert A. ..........June 1, '56 Marin ·····-······-···191 San Rafael
Waterman , Alfred S .... .Feb. 28, '55 Russian River ....181 Windsor ................ 80
Watkins, Wilford G.......Apr. 11, '47 Ramona ···-····-···457 Monterey Park ....91
Wells, Wm. S ... ·-····-··-···A ug. 4, '51 Oriental ..............144 San Francisco ......87
White, H~ Chas ...........Dec. 4, '54 San Diego ·-·······561 San Diego .......- ...77
Williams, C as. F ........ .Aug. 24, '46 Rockridge ..........468 Oakland ..........._.76
·······-··-···66
Willis, Walter C ...............June 3, '57 Dimond ···-····-···603 Oakland
--68
Wilson, Walter ................May 5, '56 University ·····-···394 Los Angeles •.......
84
Young, Frank E .................Oct. 5, '51 Hollenbeck ... - ...319 Los Angeles
Zuck, James Ralph. .......Feb.11, '56 Carmel ·······-·······680 Carmel ···-·-···--8 1
Total. Men 139

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI A

391

RESIDE NTS AT DECOTO
Annual Report 1957-195 8
Names of Residents -WOMEN -Average Age: 81.24 Years
•Indicates Admission During Current Year.
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
76
......
Francisco
San
.453
.........
Bethlehem
'53
7,
Nov.
....................
Elsie
Adams,
Ames, Myra D ...................May 8, '54 Delano ................309 Delano ·······-·········71
Anderson, ChristineM ...Apr.10, '50 Yerba Buena ..... .403 Oakland ................82
......84
Anderson, Hattie M .......May 30, '57 Jewel ···-··-·········374 San Francisco
Anderson, Mary D .........Nov. 19, '51 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ................83
Ashbrooke , Minnie M ...Apr. 16, '57 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ..........81
Baker, Annie J ...............May 15, '48 Sequoia ·······-·····349 Oakland ···-······-···82
Barnes, Elaine G ...............July 7, '34 Liberty ................299 Santa Clara ..........88
Barr, Mabel Wixon....... .May 24, '54 Sacrament o ........ 40 Sacrament o ..........77
Bartlett, Eva R ...............Apr. 10, '53 Pasadena ............272 Pasadena ..............85
Bauersfeld , Anna K .....June 28, '57 Unity ....................368 Glendale ..............88
Bausch, Ella A ............- .....Oct. 2, '41 Sequoia ..............349 Oakland ···········-···93
Bavouset, Cora ···-···········Nov. 2, '55 West Adams ......565 Los Angeles ..........74
Belknap, Annie L ...........Oct. 24, '56 Temblor ..............477 Fellows ....•.............82
Bell, Clare R ...................June 21, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......88
......77
Bell, Edith L. •·······-······.Mar. 29, '58 San Francisco ....360 San Francisco ......
80
Berringer, Lucy C.........Nov. 28, '55 Crockett ·······-·····139 San Francisco
Bloy, Edith ......................Nov. 2, '55 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir ..............86
Blum, Lena• ..................May 14, '58 San Diego .......... 35 San Diego ............70
Bowman, Ottie B ............ .Apr. 3, '54 Henry Morse ....541 Berkeley ..............77
Boyer, Mildred A.........Sept. 14, '52 Mt. Moriah ........ 44 San Francisco ......86
Bradic, Elizabeth H .........June 3, '44 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......66
Brann, Laura T .................Jan 14, '56 Los Angeles ........515 Los Angeles ..........85
77
Brokaw, Leona C.• ........Apr. 17, '58 Humboldt ·····-··· 79 Eureka ···········-·····
Brown, Jean L .................Apr. 23, '50 Santa Rosa .......... 57 Santa Rosa ..........78
Brown, May M ...............Nov. 29, '42 Washingto n ........ 20 Sacrament o ·····-···86
75
Brown, Nellie E.•............Oct. 12, '57 Pajaro ···--···········110 Watsonvill e ..........69
Browne, Rachel R. ........June 21, '54 Las Palmas ........366 Fresno ....................
Bryon, Hortense P .., ...... Sepl 30, '52 Golden State ......358 Los Angeles ..........72
Burtchaell , Marguerite Apr. 26, '55 Richmond ..........375 Sain Francisco ......90
Calvo, Juanito M...............Jan. 5, '56 Geo.
Washingto n ....525 San Francisco ......78
Campbell, Lucy A. ........Sept. 11, '50 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir ···-····-···93
Carroll, Nellie P ........- .. .Aug. 27, '49 Marin ·······--······191 San Rafael ···-··-··87
Casterline, Mary A. ........Apr. 10, '34 Oceanside •.........381 Oceanside ·······-···85
Chappell, Margaret H .....Mar. 1, '54 Liberty ···-···········299 Santa Clara ···--···94
Childers, Cora ..............June 14, '57 Mission ·······-·······169 San Francisco ......82
o ..........72
Cheney, Hazel E ............ .Aug. 15, '51 Washingto n ........ 20 Sacrament
So. Pasadena _____55
Chesworth , Naomi E ..... Sept. 7, '56 So. Pasadena ·-···367
Cicero, Antoinette ........Mar. 27, '53 Yount ..................' 12 Napa ·······-······-·····65
Clark, Marietta• ............May 10, '58 Rising Light ......397 Huntingto n Park..94
Cope, Hattie May ..........July 29, '52 Hartley ·-·····-·····199 Lakeport -······--82
Cortright, Laura .......•.. ,Sept. 7, '54 Durant ......•.........268 Berkeley ···-·········81
Cundell, Isabel ..............Dec.16, '44 Pentalpha - ........ 202 Los Angeles .... _ ..83
Dahlgren, Anna C.........July 22, '55 Fellowship ..........480 Oakland ···········--91
Dalton, Meta C...............Jan. 27, '51 Live Oak ···-··-··· 61 Oakland ................79
Daly, Martha N ...............Jan. 24, '54 Menlo Park ...- ...651 Menlo Park ..........66
Damner, Jennie M ........ .Aug. 29, '42 Pacific ..................136 San Francisco ......83
Davis, Minnie B .............Dec. 21, '53 San Jose···-····- ··· 10 San Jose --··-··-··88
Delves, Edith J ................. Sept. 9, '54 Fruitvale ···-··-···336 Oakland ................89
Dibble, Catherine O ..... Sept. 10, '53 Pentalpha •....•.... 202 Los Angeles ·····-···81
Dierker, Anna ....... - ......... Oct. 1, '56 Eden ........•.•...••....113 San Leandro •.......88
Dixon, Nora E .................Feb. 22, '46 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ·····-···83
Dodge, Helen ···-··········.Aug. 21, '53 Harbor -·····-··-··.502 Richmond ···-······· 73
Donaldson , J. Elaine• ....Feb.14, '58 Marin ·-···············191 San Rafael ·····-·····77

392
Name

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

PROCEE DINGS OP THE

Admitted

Lodge

No.

Town

Age

DottJ Edna O ...................June 11, '52 Washin gton ........ 20 Sacram ento ..........87

Dud1ey, Annie Laura• ....Feb. 8, '58 Long Beach ........327 Long Beach ..........73
Douthi tt, Edith A....•..... .Jan. 21, '50 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francis co ......81
Dunn, Mabel I. • ................Oct. 3, '57 Willow Glen ......676 San Jose ................71
Edward es, Lina M ........ .May 23, '50 Presidi o ..............354 San Jose ..............•.78
Edward s, Emma L ........... Nov. 1, '52 Mosaic ............... .218 Liverm ore ............76
Elliott, Maude M ...........June 15, '48 Beverly Hills ....528 Beverly Hills ........80
Eno, Daisy Mae• ............ Feb. 25, '58 Wilshir e ..............445 Los Angele s ..........74
Ely, Eva Estelle..............Aug. 24, '55 Buckey e ···--------195 Winters ................7a
Fannin g, Jennie J. • ........ Nov. 4, '57 Oaklan d ..............188 Oaklan d ................'lt
Fish, Gertrud e L .............Jan. 26, '46 Elmhur st ............610 Oaklan d ................9'
Flemin g, Thora J. ········~···Jan. 3, '58 Mendoc ino ------17 9 Mendoc ino ............76
Foley, Lida E.................. .Apr. 18, '55 Bellflo wer ..........523 Bellflow er ............68
French , Lydia J. • .............. Dec. 9, '57 Hawaii an: ............ 21 Honolu lu ..............82
Gabbs, August a E ...........Jan. 30, '57 Carqui nez ..........337 Crocke tt ................86
Ganiso n, Pearl P .............Apr. 9, '56 Rosevil le ............222 Rosevil le ..............81
Geibel, Theres a ................Feb. 4, '53 F·a irmoun t ····---.435 San Francis co ......80
Gerard , Martha J ...........Oct. 27, '54 Stanisl aus ..........206 Modest o ..............•.78
Gibson, Myrtle P. • ..........Apr. 9, '58 Hollenb eck ........319 Los Angele s ..........75
Gilbert , Tillie B .................Feb. 2, '57 Hillcre st ..............573 Berkele y ..............81
Gilliam , Estelle G .........Mar. 20, '46 Hemet ..................615 Hemet ....................74
Goldste in. Pauline ........ Nov. 21, '50 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................87
Goodw in, Emma ..........June 13, '48 Vermo nt Square 515 Los Angele s ..........85
Grant, Lillian A. ................Oct. 6, '32 George town ......... .25 George town ........83
Guthrie , Rena ................May 27, '52 Buckey e ..............195 Winter s ................82
Hannah , Hamlah May....June 8, '56 Doric ....................216 San Francis co ......75
Hardy, Alice M ...............Dec. 27, '54 Rockrid ge ..........468 Oaklan d ···-······-··86
Harper , Laura D. • ............Nov. 6, '57 Yolo ...................... 81 Yolo ........................ 75
Harriso n, Martha ..........Nov. 19, '52 King Solomo n's..260 San Francis co ...... 97
Harter, Clara B.• ............May 17, 58 Golden Rule ......479 San Jose ................80
Hays, Lilian T...................May 5, '55 Center ..................465 Fresno ..................•.62
Hedbur g, Huldah A.• ---..Mar. 5, '58 Fresno ........... _ ...247 Fresno ....................79
Hepbur n, Cather ine ........Apr. 7, '52 Palisad es ............637 Santa Monica ......66
Hewitt , Frieda Z .............. .Nov. 7, '46 King Solomo n's .. 260 San Francis co ......74
Higuer a, Elizabe th ........Jan. 16, '54 Alea traz ..............244 Oaklan d ................89
Hill, Neva A. ......................Dec. 5, '55 Oaklan d ..............188 Oaklan d ................74
Hinze, Henrie tta M.........Jan. 27, '54 Mornin g Star ......68 Stockto n ................73
Hollis, Maybel le J ........ .Feb. 11, '53 Francis K.
Shattuc k ........571 Berkele y .............. 74
Hopper , Lotta S. • ..........Dec. 11, '57 Hollenb eck ........319 Los Angele s ..........84
Hoover , Emma Jane ........Feb. 5, '50 Pasade na ............272 Pasade na ..............78
Hoskin s, Elizabe th ..........May 3, '55 Lancas ter ............437 Lancas ter ..............79
Hull Agnes ....................Aug. 16, '55 Menlo Park ........651 Menlo Park ..........93
Hyland , Erle Woods........Dec. 3, '56 Sun Garden ........530 Fresno .................... 71
Hyman , Loretta ............Dec. 15, '47 Starr King ..........344 San Francis co ......66
Jacobse n, Joseph ine ....June 25, '54 So. Califor nia ....278 Los Angele s ..........86
Jobes, Hala S ...................Nov. 26, '56 Univer sity ..........394 Los Angele s ..........89
Jerome , Gwend olyn ... .Aug. 21, '56 Jas. A. Foshay....641 Los Angele s ..........77
Johann sen, Meta M.• ......June 9, '58 Fremon t ..............497 Oaklan d ................74
Jones, Edith ..................... .Jan. 2, '53 Victorv ille ..........634 Victorv ille ............89
Jordan , Evaline Alice ... .Mar. 27, '56 Hartley ................199 Lakepo rt ..............88
Kapaintais, Edith R .........Feb. 14, '55 Ionic ...........- ......1520 Los ~eles ..........74
Kapp, Carrie E ...............July 16, '49 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ........... - ...86
Karnas ch, Helene E. • ....Dec. 16, '57 Mission ·····---·- --169 San Francis co ......78
Kauffm an, Eda B•............Dec. 7, '46 Alex. Graham
Bell ····--·-···--.S95 Los Angele s ..........76
Keenan , Effie ................July 17, '33 Jewel ···-··--- ...374 San Francis co ......81
Kent, Evaline C...............Sept. 6, '55 Golden Gate •••.•• 80 San Francis co ......74
Knott, Amand a C. •-----..Aug. 27, '57 Alpha ..................431 Richmo nd ............79
Krame r, Alice L ...............June 4, '55 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........82
Kirtlan , Minnie E. • ..........Jan. 3, '58 Frankl in ..............143 Courtla nd ............74
Krejcik , Otilia ................Jan. 25, '49 Sequoi a ..............349 Oaklan d ···-······---88

393

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
_83
...
co
Francis
San
.435
.........
unt
Fairmo
'48
16,
.Feb.
Krejcik , Rose .................
field ..........82
Kutzne r, Estella ............Aug. 29, '51 Bakersf ield ........224 BakersRosa
............84
57 Santa
Lane, Edith B ................ .Mar. 15, '48 Santa Rosa ···-···
405 Los ~eles ..........70
Larter, Gertrud e M .........Sept. 5, '49 Moneta ................209
San LUIS Obispo..92
Latime rJ Helen B ...............Oct. 2, '56 King Daivid's ......
Campb ell :·······-····70
Levitt, Lula E. • ..............Apr. 15, '58 Charity ................362
375 San FrancJSCO ......80
Luscom be, Laura C. • ....June 29, '58 Richmo nd ..........614
Los Angele s ..........80
MacAII ister, Emily F ...Aug. 19, '52 Larchm ont ..........401
Oaklan d ................79
Macken zie, May W.......June 30, '41 Bay View ............ 79 Eureka
..................82
MacKin non, Ivy M. • ..... .Aug. 29, '57 Humbo ldt ...........278 Los Angele s .......... 95
MacRe ady, Mattie D .....Jan. 10, '53 South. Calif...... 57 Santa Rosa ............ 83
McCord , Zidana M .........Oct. 18, '46 Santa Rosa ..........554 San Francis co ......82
McCuII r, Gertie M.......June 16, '46 Educat or ............
McDan iel,
dero ..........82
Elizabe th W. • ............Apr. 12, '58 Atascad ero ........493 Atasca
d ................82
Oaklan
244
.
.............
z
Alcatra
'32
24,
Mar.
.......
M
Alice
ell,
McDow
a ···········-···83
Alamed
215
'48
..........
9,
July
Grove
....
Oak
.............
W
Ella
,
Mclver
178 San Bernar dino....80
McLure , Anna B .............May 29, '57 Phoeni x ..............123
burg ..........93
Matthe ws, Annie W.........Mar. 9, '56 Sotoyo me ............ 358 Healds
s ..........67
Angele
Los
......
State
Golden
'58
6,
Apr.
....
•
J.
th
Maulsb y Elizabe
............85
nd
Richmo
.431
....
.............
Alpha
;as
22,
Sept.
Mayfiel d: Mary ............
..75
Obispo
Luis
San
209
......
David's
King
55
14,
Sept.
....
Meck, Lulu M .............
82
..........
s
Angele
Los
445
.
.............
e
Wilshir
'52
4,
Nov.
Meerdi nk, Gertrud e ......
Santa Rosa ..........89
Menera y, Emma P. • ......Aug. 10, '57 Santa· Rosa ........ 57
151 Colfax ....................79
Merrill , Ivy L .................. .Jan. 25, '41 Illinois town ......327
Long Beach ..........85
Merwin , Gertrud e W .....Dec. 30, '54 Long Beach ........
352 Los Angele s ..........75
Miller, Catheri ne E...... .Apr. 20, '57 Sunset ....................348
San Bernar dino....81
Mitchel l, Maude N .........Dec. 20, '54 San Bemar dino
431 Richmo nd ............90
Monro, Edith C .................Mar. 6, '46 Alpha ..................
Orland ..................78
Moore, Allie V ...................Jan. 4, '57 Orland ................265
300 Redlan ds .............. 77
Moore, Louise ! ...............Apr. 25, '50 Redlan ds ............
ll ....636 Beverly Hills ......79
Murrel l, Cather ine ........Jan. 12, '52 John Marsha
179 Mendoc ino ..........•.97
Mullen , Charlo tte E .......Jan. 11, '52 Mendoc ino ..........501
od ............85
Murray , Florenc e A. ......Apr.17 , '53 Westwo od .......... 336 Westwo
d ................80
Oaklan
............
le
Fruitva
'40
3,
Oct.
...........
....
M
Este
,
Nielsen
139 San Francis co ......80
Nordm an, Nina J .. ! ........June 13, '57 Crocke tt ...............289
Elsinor e ................64
.............
e
Elsinor
'54
8,
.Mer.
.
.............
T
Mary
.
O'Brien
y ..............95
Berkele
268
...
.............
Durant
'43
1,
June
...
D
e
Florenc
ell,
O'Donn
·······--····-···75
Eureka
79
..........
'52
ldt
28,
May
Humbo
...
.............
Olsen, Minnie
38 Santa Cruz ..........67
Pace, May E. • ..................Oct. 31, '57 Santa Cruz .........244
Oaklan d ................815
Peacoc k, Katie C ...........Mar. 25, '47 Alcatra z .............
Diego ..............89
San
632
..
s
Height
l
Norma
'35
11,
.Feb.
............
Peairs, Lillian W
r ................72
Whittie
670
..........
eaf
Greenl
'57
21,
Feb.
Pember ton, Euelma H.
................81
d
Oaklan
336
............
le
Fruitva
'45
8,
Sept.
Perger, Eva ......................
Hercule s ................74
Pfeiffer , Nina F.• ..........Mar.17 , '58 Pinole ..................353
179 Mendoc ino ............78
Pitts Adelaid e S ...............Feb. 5, '54 Mendo cino ..........
... 64 Folsom ..................84
Pow~ll, Mary W.............. .Dec. 1, '55 Natoma ..................
un San Rafael ............89
Prentic e, Rose ................June 30, '45 Marin ............. .244
Oaklan d ................96
Preslar , Ida ......................Jan. 19, '41 Alcatra z .............
........296 San D1ego_ ............67
Prucha , Velma F ............ .Feb. 19, '57 Silver Gate..........
FrancJSCo ...... 83
Purcell , Susie M.• ..........Oct. 19, '57 Califor nia .......... 221 San
San Francis co ......79
Raby, Gertrud e L.• ........Dec.17 , 57 Occide ntal
..632 San Diego ............76
Reason er, Marie D .........July 21, '48 Norma l Heights...
rt ..............85
Reese, Dora ....................Feb. 22, '55 Hartley ............. 199 Lakepod ··:·········....87
336 Oaklan
Resau, Luella B .............Mar. 31, '56 Fruitva le ............
Morgan H!ll ........82
Roberts on, Annett e M.....Aug. 1, '52 Morgan Hill ...........463
San Franc~o ......84
UJ9
.............
Mission
'56
6,
pt.
Rose, Mary ···-······-····-···Se
Franc~sco ......72
San
136
.....
.............
Pacific
'158
,
.Apr.16
........
.............
Jean•
Ross,
FrancJSCo ......86
San
545
............
an
Jonath
'54
12,
June
.......
B
e
Florene
Rounds ,
nt_o ····-----~g
Sacrame
8
.
.............
'56
a
27,
Sept.
Teham
.............
A
Roblin, Mabel
.....893 Sa·n Franc!S co ......
Rudebe ck, Anna ............Dec. 15, '48 Balder .............
O ......88
Julia A...................Jan. 5, '54 Crocke tt ..............139 San FrancJSC

Salter,

395

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Sandbo, Maude R ........- ...Dec. 5, '52 Golden Rule _____479 San Jose ············-··78
Sanders, Edith P. • ............Apr. 5, '58 Inglewood ·-·-···421 Inglewood ·······-···83
Schlingman, Rose ............Feb. 2, '57 Mill Valley ........356 Mill Valley ..........91
Seagrave, Edna R...........May 14, '52 Palo Alto ............346 Palo Alto ·····-··-··-73
Scott, Emma L ...............Aug. 29, '52 Arcata ···-··-·········106 Arcata ···-··········-··-8'7
Seymour, Laura .............. Feb. 1, '36 Honolulu ............409 Honolulu ..............80
Shanke, Ella .................... Sept. 1, '37 Hawaiian ............ 21 Honolulu ..............87
Shenick, Eleanor• ......... .Aug. 2, '57 W. Los Angeles ..373 W. Los Angeles ....77
Slocumb, Mabel W........ .Apr. 25, '56 Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ..........80
Smith, Sue E ...................Mar. 22, '56 Concord ..............117 Sacramento ..........79
Smith, Mary ....................May 26, '54 Oakland ..............188 Oakland ................74
Smith, Myrtle M ............ .Nov. 15, '56 Azure ·······--·······533 Fullerton ···-·········78
Snyder, Amanda G .......Apr.13, '37 Bakersfield ........224 Bakersfield ·····-···85
Southgate, Sara L. • ......Aug. 12, '57 Yount .................. 12 Napa ......................79
Stewart, Henrietta• ........Dec. 7, '57 Fort Crook ..........575 Falls River Mills..83
Steele, Fannie T .............June 26, '50 Hanford ···-···-····279 Hanford ·············--92
Steele, Rose B. •............... .Dec. 6, '57 Willitts ................365 Willitts ···-····-··-··-83
Steuer, Annie ···-······-···June 21, '56 Foothill ·······-·······564 Oakland ................96
Stevenson, Julia M.• ....Aug. 17, '57 Alpha ..................431 Richmond ·······-···Tl
Stroud, Laura L ..........- ...June 2, '37 Vacaville ............134 Vacaville ·········-···84
Swain, Sarah C.................Feb. 1, '51 Apollo ········-·······396 Alameda ·····-·········79
Therkelsen, Anna M ....... Nov. 4, '52 Alisa! ···-·-···-···-321 Pleasanton ..........89
Thompson, Celia ............Dec. 16, '33 Eden ....................133 San Leandro ........87
Timbrel, Alice M .............Feb. 1, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......83
Tunstead, Rosa• ..............July 5, '57 King Solomon .... 260 San Francisco ......81
Tweedy, Mary L ...............Apr. 2, '55 Thousand Oaks..478 Berkeley ..............78
Tyler, Agnes J ...................Dec. 4, '56 Parnassus ............388 San Francisco ......81
Von Schmidt, Tillie........Feb. 26, '57 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......85
Waite, Florence ................Dec. 9, '54 Seal Rock ............536 San Francisco ......79
Ward, Jennie F ............... Sept.1, '50 Dunsmuir ............297 Dunsmuir ............93
Ward, Nina E ...................Dec. 27, '54 Vermont Sq.......515 Los Angeles ..........80
Watts, Ollie V. • ............Sept. 29, '57 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ···-··-·----89
Webster, Emma ..............Feb. 28, '55 Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ..........86
Wells, Jennie A...............Dec. 27, '54 Hollenbeck ........319 Los Angeles ..........90
Williams, Annie F ........... Nov. 3, '46 Golden Gate ...... 30 San Francisco ......78
Williams, Eda M ...........Nov. 10, '51 Park ...........•........449 San Francisco ......77
Wisewell, Evalyn .....- .. .Feb. 18, '54 California ............ 1 San Francisco ......84
Witham, Bess T ..............Aug. 25, '51 Lancaster ............437 Lancaster ···-··-··-75
Whittaker, Ada H .............Oct. 8, '52 Bay View ............401 Oakland .....•..........84
Total Women-214
Deaths-WOMEN-A verage Age: 84.43 Years
Age
Town
No.
Lodge
Died
Name
Aldous, Lucy ···--·-·········Oct. 24, '57 Concord ·····-··-···117 Sacramen~ ..........93
Allen, Ida ···············-·······July 19, '57 Balder ·········-·······393 San ~rancISco ......89
Barnes, Anna L ............ .Mar. 29, '58 Vallejo ................487 ValleJo -······-···---88
Barkworth, Elizabeth ....July 5, '57 Union ·············-··· 58 Sacramen~ ···--··-~3
Barry, Agnes C................. Nov. 8, '57 Mt. Moriah ···-··· 44 San FrancISco ...... 9
Bourland Catherine D. Jan.13, '58 Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ........371 Honolulu ···-·········96
'
Braine, Belle J .... _.........May 21, '58 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ..............87
Cameron, Zoe M ...........June 13, '58 Durant ······-·-····-268 Berkeley ........... _88
Carnall, Louise M ...........Mar. 1, '58 Mission ..........•.....169 San Francisco ......85
Church, Rosalia ............Feb. 22, '58 Live Oak ............ 61 Oakland ··--·······-·~
Davies, Sarah Jane........Mar. 23, '58 Martinez ............ 41 Martinez ···········-···80
Dieterich, Martha W .....Feb. 20, '58 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ..........90
Edwards, Letitia M .....Sept. 19, '57 Vacaville ·-····-···134 Vacaville ..........•-83
Eitner, Rose ....................June 24, '58 Palestine ............351 Los Angeles ·····-···84
Ferguson, Isabel K .........Jan.15, '58 Mt. Diablo ..........448 Concord ...............•'71
Finley, Ada L .................June 14, '58 Los Angeles ........ 42 Los Angeles ......•...fYI
Gilmore, Mary C.............Mar. 2, '58 Ophir ·············-··· 33 Murphys .............-81
Goin, Ada ---·-·-····-··.Jan. 9, '58 San Pasqual ... -.452 Pasadena ·······--.et

Died
No.
Age
Name
Lodge
Town
Grafton, Susan E .............July 4, '57 Park ....................449 San Francisco ...... 84
Griffith, Rose L ...............Sept. 6, '57 Enterprise .......... . 70 Yuba City ............91
Harris, Louise C ...............Oct. 22, '57 Pacific ·······--··-··-136 San Francisco ......82
H~d. Marie .............. Sept. 21, '57 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ................ 87
Howell, Susan Pearl.. ...July 23, '57 Carmel ................680 Carmel ..................70
Hudson, Millie ..............Aug. 12, '57 West Lake ..........392 Los Angeles ..........81
Hurst, Elizabeth D ....... June 25, '58 Metropolitan ......646 Los Angeles ..........87
Jebe, Elise ......................Dec. 13, '57 San Fmncisco ....360 San Francisco ......85
Lasman, Esther ............June 23, '58 Bay City ..............526 San Francisco ......73
Mey·e r, Annie J .................July 4, '57 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ............81
Otis, Ethel E ...................May 29, '58 Silver Gate ........296 San Diego ... - .......75
Palmer, Elizabeth F .....Dec. 31, '57 Salinas ................204 Salinas ..................90
Raynor, Mamie A. ..........Sept. 9, '57 Moneta ................405 Los Angeles ..........89
Russell, Ida G ................. Mar. 2, '58 Vallejo ............... .487 Vallejo ..................79
Sanborn, Mary Elmyna Dec. 12, '57 Corona ................324 Pasadena ..............88
Schultz, Evalyn S ...........Jan. 23, '58 Pentalpha ..........202 Los Angeles ..........84
Span-owe, Constance ....Apr. 28, '58 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......89
Winterberg, Clara ..........Feb. 3, '58 Starr King ..........344 San Francisco ......96
Wissmath, Nellie ..............Oct. 5, '57 Hollywood ..........355 Hollywood ............88
Woebcke, Gretchen ..... .Apr. 21, '58 Herman ·········-···127 San Francisco ......88
Total--38
Deaths-MEN-Aver age Age: 83.60 Years
Banbury,
Samuel Henry ............Feb. 24, '58 Corona ................324 Pasadena ..............84
Brown, Philip L .............Aug. 19, '57 Foothill ................564 Oakland ................86
Calderwood, Ambrose ..Oct. 23, '57 Tuolumne .......... 8 Sonora ..................88
Dixon, Edgar A ...............Sept. 4, '57 Charter Rock _..410 Berkeley ...........-83
Ferguson, Stewart C ... Sept. 15, '57 Mt. Diablo ..........448 Concord ................71
Frost, Frank M .................Feb. 2, '58 Temple City ......612 Temple City ......-86
Gallagher, Wm...............Jan. 16, '58 ClovIS ···-··-·········417 Clovis ....................92
Gelston, Hollister ............ Oct. 6, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......85
Gerard, David J .............Jan. 10, '58 Stanislaus -··--.206 Modesto ................82
Goldberg, Solomon D .....Jan. 26, '58 Lincoln ···-·-······.470 San Francisco ......85
Hansell, Galvin E ........... Oct. 27, '57 Mission ................169 San Francisco ......86
Hawkins, George M.........May 1, '58 King David's ......209 San Luis Obispo ..87
lliltner, Harry B ...........Mar. 24, '58 Fairmount ......... .435 San Francisco ......90
Jepson, Benton Thos.....Apr. 17, '58 San Bernardino.. 348 San Bernardino....80
Johnson, Einar M ...........May 21, '58 Point Firmin ......558 San Pedro ............71
Lobban, Wm. ................Aug. 26, '57 Park ....................449 San Francisco ......87
McLean, Lawrence ......June 14, '58 Hawthorne ........ 647 Hawthorne ..........67
Mayfield, Isaac ................ Nov. 8, '57 El Centro ............384 El Centro ..............96
Menke, William ............Feb. 21, '58 Richmond .......... 375 San Francisco ......85
Peters, Herman Chas.....Mar. 8, '58 Park ....................449 San Francisco ......84
Place, John N .................Jan. 21, '58 Sierra Valley ......184 Sierraville ............91
Postel, Frederick N .......Aug. 13, '57 Victory ............... .474 San Francisco ......76
Purcell, Edmond W...... .Feb. 23, '58 California .......... 1 San Francisco ......83
Redfern, Curtis M ...........July 4, '57 California ....-.... 1 San Francisco ..._74
Rideout, Melvin B ......... Nov. 26, '57 Hemet ...- .............615 Hemet ·····--··-·-···86
Schumacher, Aug. P .......Dec. 1, '57 Alcatraz ..............244 Oakland ................85
Shaw, Wm. H .................Mar.10, '58 Rising Light ......397 Huntington Pk.....81
Stenhouse, James ........Apr. 16, '58 Ocean Park ........369 Ocean Park ..........94
Tannann, Rudolph ......Mar. 14, '58 Presidio ....._.-..354 San Francisco ......68
Uren, Richard S .............Dec. 24, '57 Utopia ..................537 Los Angeles ..........88
Wallace, James S .............June 3, '58 Excelsior ............166 San Francisco ......91
Wissmath, John ............Aug. 23, '57 Hollywood ..........355 HollywoocL...........90
Wood
Perham Wheeler ..... .Aug. 23, '57 Amity -·-·-·-..370 San Francisco ......77
Deatha-33
Withdrawals-MEN- 1957-1958
Barrett, Thomas ............June 5, '58 Palo Alto .......- •..346 Palo Alto ..............81
Montano, James T ...... _.. ..Aug. 1, '57 Euclid ..................519 Los Angeles ····-··-72
Swahl, Charles ............... .Jan. 8, '58 Redwood City ....168 Redwood City ......76

391

396

DECOTO CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
Amount
Lodge
California ..........._ ..........$ 50.00
5.00
2 Western Star ..................
3 Tehama ............................ 10.00
10.00
9 Corinthian ......................
15.00
10 San Jose..........................
5.00
12 Yount................................
2.50
13 Nevada ............................
5.00
16 Eureka ..............................
5.00
17 La Parfuite Union..........
2.50
18 Mountain Shade ............
10.00
19 San Joaquin....................
10.00
20 Wash~·gton ....................
25.00
21 Hawauan ........................
22 Ot'Cidenial ........................ 20.00
5.00
23 Madison............................
5.00
24 Mariposa ..........................
5.00
26 El Dorado ........................
10.00
27 Trinity ..............................
25.00
30 Golden Gate ....................
10.00
32 Gold Hill..........................
25.00
35 San Diego ........................
10.00
37 Howard ............................
10.00
38 Santa Cruz ......................
7.50
40 Sacramento ......................
59.45
41 Martinez ..........................
5.00
44 Mount Moriah ................
5.00
45 Crescent ..........................
10.00
46 Texas ................................
25.00
57 Santa R<JSa ......................
25.00
58 Union ................................
10.00
60 Plumas ............................
27.50
61 Live Oak..........................
10.00
64 NatOina ............................
10.00
70 Enterprise ........................
5.00
79 Humboldt ........................
2.50
81 Yolo ..................................
10.00
84 Vesper ..............................
25.00
87 Naval ................................
5.00
93 St. Helena........................
20.00
99 Yosemite ..........................
10.00
101 Clay ..................................
5.00
106 Arcata ..............................
10.00
110 Pajaro ..............................
10.00
111 Chico ................................
113 Eden ·····························-···
10.00
11.00
117 Concord ............................
12.50
120 Fidelity ............................
5.00
122 Alamo ..............................
5.00
126 Lafayette ........................
20.00
127 Hermann ..........................
20.00
128 Visalia ................•............•
5.00
129 Nicolaus ..........................
5.00
131 Woodbridge ....................
10.00
136 Pacific ..............................
15.00
139 Crockett ..........................
143 Franklin ··························
5.00
15.00
144 Oriental ............................
5.00
147 Eel River ..........................
10.00
156 Woodland ........................

No.

1

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Amount
No. Lodge
12.50
166 Excelsior ..........................
10.00
167 Alameda ..........................
10.00
168 R~>yood City..................
25.00
169 MJSS1on ···········-···············
20.00
175 Antioch ............................
7.60
179 Mendocino ......................
12.50
180 Petaluma ........................
10.00
188 Oakland ..........................
15.00
191 Marin ................................
5.00
192 Santa Barbara ................
10.00
193 Ferndale ..........................
10.00
194 Mountain View ..............
5.00
195 Buckeye ..........................
10.00
198 Wilmington ....................
7.50
199 Hartley ............................
10.00
201 Silveyville ......................
10.00
203 Confidence ......................
10.00
206 Stanislaus ........................
10.00
208 Rio Vista..........................
5.00
209 King David's ..................
10.00
210 Friendship ......................
10.00
211 San Benito ......................
10.00
212 South San Francisco......
10.00
215 Oak Grove ......................
10.00
217 Monterey ........................
10.00
218 Mosaic ..............................
27.50
219 SperanZJa Italian-a..........
10.00
220 Downey ............................
5.00
221 Inyo ..................................
12.50
222 Roseville ..........................
10.00
224 Bakersfield ......................
25.00
225 Brooklyn ..........................
5.00
226 San Mateo ........................
5.00
236 Hills Ferry ......................
5.00
237 Guadalupe ......................
5.00
240 Colusa ..............................
10.00
241 Santa Ana ........................
5.00
245 Laurel ..............................
25.00
247 Fresno ..............................
5.00
253 Landmark ........................
25.00
254 Reading ............................
10.00
256 Lodi ..................................
5.00
258 Penmyn ..........................
25.00
259 Evergreen ........................
10.00
261 Tuscan ······························
5.00
262 Lompoc ............................
10.00
264 Hesperian ........................
10.00
265 Orland ..............................
5.50
267 Galt ..................................
5.00
268 Durant ..............................
10.00
269 Olive Branch .....,............
25.00
272 Pasadena ..........................
5.00
274 Arroyo..............................
50.00
279 Hanford ............................
5.00
280 Madera ............................
5.00
281 Mount Shasta ..................
10.00
283 South West......................
5.00
285 San Miguel ......................
5.00
286 Paso Robles ....................

Amount
No. Lodge
25.00
290 East Gate ........................
10.00
292 Los Gatos ........................
10.00
293 Orange Grove ................
10.00
299 Liberty ............................
10.00
301 Ontario ............................
10.00
305 Azusa................................
306
314
315
321
322
324
326
327
328
331
336
337
343
344
346
347
348
349
351
355
356
360
362
367
369
370
374
375
376
379
382
384
387
388
393
397
400
401
402
403
407
409
410
411
426
429
431
434
435
440
441
447
448
449
460

Ashlar ..............................

Temesoal ..........................
Norwalk ..........................
Alisal ................................
Alhambra ........................
Corona ..............................
Needles ............................
Long Beach ....................
Redondo ..........................
Pacific Grove ..................
Fruitvaile ..........................
Carquinez ........................
San Fernando ................
Starr King ......................

Palo Alto..........................
McKinley ........................
San Bernardino ..............
Sequoia ............................
Palestine ..........................
Hollywood ......................
Mill Valley......................
San Fran<:isco ................
Charity ............................
South Pasadena ..............
Ocean Park ......................
Amity ..............................
Jewel ................................
Richmond ........................
Francis Drake ................
Fillmore ......L.................
Highland Park ................
El Centro ..........................
Coalinga ..........................
Parnassus ........................
Balder ..............................
Rising Light....................
Burlingame ....................
Bay View ........................
Brawley ..........................
Yerba Buena ..................
La Mesa ............................
Honolulu ..........................
Charter Rock..................
Perris ................................
Midway ............................
Pittsburg ..........................
Alpha ................................
M8;ricopa ......................... ,
Fairmount ......................
Standard ..........................
Coronado ........................
Torrance ..........................
Mount Diablo ..................
Park ..................................
Mount Oso ......................

5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

ia.oo

12.50
25.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
12.50
8.80
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
50.00
5.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
15.00

397

Amount
No. Lodge
Argonaut ........................ 10.00
Faul Revere .................... 20.00
9.00
Morgan Hill ....................
20.00
Libertas ............................
20.00
Culver City ....................
5.00
Rockridge ........................
10.00
Delta ................................
Blythe .............................. 10.00
5.00
Temblor ..........................
15.00
Thousand Oaks ..............
10.00
Golden Rule ....................
10.00
Mt. Davidson ..................
10.00
Bell....................................
10.00
Albel't Pike ......................
5.00
Caledonia ........................
Vallejo .............................. 10.00
5.00
Patterson ........................
10.00
East Bay ..........................
7.50
Woodstock ......................
5.00
Atascadero ···········-·········
10.00
Acom................................
5.00
Roosevelt ........................
10.00
Harbor ..............................
10.00
Point ................................
25.00
Seaside ............................
15.00
El Segundo ......................
10.00
Cupertino ........................
10.00
Sunnyvale ........................
Ca:huenga .... .,.................. 10.00
15.00
Al'go:nne ..........................
10.00
Taft....................................
25.00
518 La Jolla ............................
20.00
521 Piedmont ........................
10.00
525 George Washington......
10.00
526 Bay City ..........................
10.00
527 Covenant ........................
25.00
530 Sun Garden ....................
5.00
541 Heney Morse Stephens..
10.00
546 San Gabriel ....................
5.00
550 Seaport ............................
5.00
551 Lakeshore ........................
10.00
552 Se~per_Vir~Il5 ................
10.00
558 Point Firnun ..................
10.00
561 East San Diego..............
20.00
574 S. W. Hackett..................
10.00
576 El Cajon Valley..............
31.50
578 Progressive ......................
5.00
579 Warren G. Harding........
5.00
580 Santa Maria ....................
5.00
581 Se<:urity ..........................
25.00
589 Kauai ................................
10.00
590 Compass ..........................
25.00
594 Service ............................
20.00
595 Alexander Graham Bell
15.00
596 Guardian ..........................
10.00
603 Dimond ............................
20.00
609 Provident ........................
5.00
620 Point Loma ......................
12.50
621 The Gardens ....................
15.00
635 Riverside ........................
10.00
637 Palisades .......................•..

461
462
463
466
467
468
471
473
477
478
479
481
483
484
486
487
488
489
491
493
494
500
502
503
504
507
510
511
513
514
516

398
No.
638
645
650
660
661
662
665
668
669
673
675
676
680
681
688
690
691
711
714
718
719
720
725
737
745
749
756
761
773
774
781

PROCEEDINGS OP THI!

Lodge
Amount
Indian Rock ....................
10.00
A. F. E. Irwin.................. 10.00
La Brea ...........-............... 10.00
Baldwin Park ................ 10.00
Malta ................................
5.00
Henry Knox ..................
5.00
Kaweah ............................ 10.00
San Gorgonio ..................
10.00
John P. J.arnum ..............
5.00
Far West ..........................
5.00
Modesto............................
5.00
Willow Glen .................... 10.00
Carmel ..............................
5.00
Dos Palos ........................
7.50
Oildale .............................. 10.00
San Carlos ......................
10.00
Indian Wells Valley......
10.00
Rim of the World ..........
5.00
Blue Lakes ...................... 10.00
San Lorenzo Valley......
5.00
Estero ..............................
5.00
Mineral King ..................
5.00
Saint John's ....................
5.00
Hillsborough .................. 10.00
Peninsula ........................
10.00
Merced ............................
5.00
Cla;Y1:on Valley ..............
5.00
Janah W. Roller ............
2.50
Tejon ................................
5.00
Waikiki ............................ 10.00
Rolling Hills ....................
5.00
Total..................................$3,097 .85

KNIGHTS TEMPLAR

No. Amount
Sacramento ...................... 2 $ 5.00
7.50
Nevada .............................. 6
11.25
Marysville .......................... 7
5.00
San Jose ............................ 10
5.00
Chico .............................- .• 12
10.00
Golden Gate ...................... 16
10.00
Ventura .............................. 18
5.00
Naval .................................. 19
5.00
Watsonville ...................... 22
5.00
Colusa ................................ 24
12.50
Visalia ................................ 26
2.50
San Luis Obispo .............. 27
10.00
Pasadena ............................ 31
10.00
Ukiah .................................. 33
5.00
Napa .................................... 34
5.00
Eureka ................................ 35
10.00
Southern California ........ 37
10.00
San Franeisco .................. 41
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 44
10.00
Palo Alto ............................ 47
25.00
& Ladies Auxiliary......
5.00
Alh8!DJbra .......................... 48
Commandery

No. Amount
5.00
Auburn .............................. 52
5.00
Alameda ............................ 58
5.00
San Pedro .......................... 60
5.00
Santa Monica .................... 61
10.00
Calvary .............................. 62
Commandery

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

A. 81: A. S. R.
Bodies
Amount
Fresno ····-····--·····-·····-·--··--··· 50.00
Oakland ...................................... 25.00
Peninsula .................................... 50.00
Sacramento ................................ 25.00

Total .....................................$206.25

Total .....................................$150.00

ROYAL ARCH MASONS
Chapters
No. Amount
Sacramento ...................... 3 $ 5.00
2.50
Nevada .............................. 6
5.00
Cyrus .................................. 15
10.00
Franklin ···························· 20
2.50
Petaluma ............................ 22
5.00
Delta .................................. 27
5.00
Napa .................................... 30
5.00
Ancient .............................. 31
2.50
Santa Cruz.......................... 38
12.50
Visalia ................................ 44
5.00
Ventll!"a .............................. 50
5.00
Humboldt .......................... 52
10.00
Ukiah .................................. 53
5.00
Colusa ................................ 60
2.50
Riverside ............................ 67
5.00
Crown ................................ 72
25.00
Hanford .............................. 74
5.00
Pomona .............................. 76
5.00
Ferndale ............................ 78
10.00
Whittier ............................ 91
10.00
Palo Alto ............................ 93
10.00
Fidelity .............................. 96
5.00
Santa Monica .................... 97
5.00
San Gabriel ......................100
5.00
Redondo ............................101
2.50
Marin ..................................102
5.00
Mill Valley ........................108
5.00
South Pasadena ................112
5.00
Sebastopol ........................117
5.00
Huntington Park ..............127
10.00
Searchlight ........................133
5.00
Wilmington ......................141
5.00
Havasu ................................148

DISTRICT OFFICERS ASSN.
District
Amount
420th District ..............................$ 5.00
504th District .............................. 5.00
550th District .............................. 10.00
562nd District.............................. 10.00
605th District .............................. 10.00

Total. .....................................$210.00

ROYAL AND SELECT MASTERS
Council
No. Amount
Naval .................................. 1 $ 5.00
2.50
California .......................... 2
5.00
Pasadena ............................ 16
2.50
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
5.00
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
Valley ................................ 27
12.50
Visalia ................................ 43
2.50
Redwood Empire ............ 46
Total .......................................$40.00

Total.....................................$ 40.00
EASTERN ST AR
Chapters
No. Amount
Mercedes ··········-··········-···126 $ 10.00
10.00
San Rafael ........................215
10.00
Mill Valley ........................219
4.00
Hayward ........................:...331
7.42
Unknown ..........................
Total ........................................$41.42

399

MISCELLANEOUS
Name
Amount
Mr. & Mrs. Billy Carlisle..........$ 5.00
P. D. Curtis.................................. 5.00
Fidelity Club of S. F.
(F. B. I. Agents)......................
5.00
Rees Jones .................................. 10.00
Vernon C. Noble........................ 2.50
Bernard M. Pavan...................... 1.50
William Perry ............................ 75.00
San Bernardino Co.
Past Masters Assn. ................ 10.00
San Francisco Square Club...... 25.00
Santa Maria DeMolay
Chapter No. 552 ...................... 5.00
Miss Frances Seligman............ 5.00
633 Club of Ventura.................. 10.00
Walter A. Sloane ...................... 25.00
Harry Wonese ............................ 10.00
Total .....................................$194.00

400

Girls-28

CHILDREN AT COVINA HOME
June 30, 1958
Boys-39
*Indicates admission during current year.
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Archinal, Steven ..........Nov. 12, '56 Liberal Arts ....677
Barham, F.erle
Thomas ......................June 27, '51 Moneta ..............405
Barham, Jerry ..............June 27, '51 Moneta ..............405
Barraclough, William ..June 18, '55 R. E. Dolley......616
Barton, Arthur* ............Jan. 18, '58 Alamo ·········-···122
Carlson, Howard* ........Apr.12, '58 La Fayette ......126
Carlson, Ralph A. • ........Apr. 12, '58 La Fayette ......126
Clinkscale, Fred ......... - ...Jan. 6, '57 Indian Wells
Valley ..........691
Cox, Dennis ....................Sept. 7, '55 Fairfax ..............556
Cox, Wayne ·····-······-····.Aug. 11, '54 Fairfax ..............556
Farmer, Richard ............Aug. 5, '53 Temple ............ 14
Faulk, Robert ................Jan. 27, '56 East Gate ........290
Galvery, William ..........Mar. 31, '57 So. Oalifornia ..278
Galvery, Frank ............. .Mar. 31, '57 So. Oalifornia ..278
Grissell, William ............Aug. 4, '56 Mount Olive ....506
Hensley, Park ................July 24, '56 Excelsior .......... 166
Hicks, Lawrence ............Jan. 18, '56 San Buenaventura ........214
Hoard, James ..................Apr. 8, '55 Morning Star .. 68
Hoard, William ................Apr. 8, '55 Mornin1g Star .. 68
Joy, Harry ..................... ..Aug.10, '47 Long Beach ....327
Kilpatrick, Charles ......Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ............457
Kilpatrick, David ..........Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ···--···-457
Kilpatrick, Paul ............Mar. 16, '52 Ramona ............ 457
Mann, George ..................Jan.1, '57 Alta Vista ........464
Mann, Thomas ................Mar. 5, '55 Alta Vista ........464
McGhie, Robert• ..........July 17, '57 Van Nuys ........450
McGhie, William* ........July 17, '57 Van Nuys ........450
Miceli, Michael ..............Oct. 28, '54 Alexandria ......531
Orth, Jerry ....................July 23, '54 Natoma ............ 64
Orth, Thomas ................July 23, '54 Natoma ............ 64
Platt, Larry ................... Aug. 20, '52 San Bernardino ..............343
Stroh, Robert• ................Apr. 8, '58 Selma ................277
Warrick, Bruce ..............Nov. 21, '54 Monte Vista ....655
Wan-ick, David ............. .Mar. 13, '55 Monte Vista ....655
Warrick, Douglas ..........Nov. 21, '54 Monte Vista ....655
Warrick, John ···········-···Nov. 21, '54 Monte Vista .... 655
Warrick, Robert ···-······.Nov. 21, '54 Monte Vista ....655
Wylie, Kenneth ............June 18, '52 University ........394
Yungling, Douglas ........Oct. 10, '53 Santa Paula .... 291

401

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Age
Town
Los Angeles ...... 9

Los Angeles ......13
Los Angeles ......11
Seal Beach ........14
Walnut Creek .. 9
Sebastopol ........ 7
Sebastopol ........ 6
Ridgecrest ···--···11
Larkspur···--····· 7
Larkspur ............ 9
Sonoma ..............15
Los Angeles ......14
Los Angeles ......13
Los Angeles ......10
Los Angeles ····- 8
San Francisco _13
Ventura ..........•...16
Stockton ........._14
Stockton ............ 16
Long Beach ...... 16
Monterey Park ..11
Monterey Park ..11
Monterey Park ..11
San Francisco _ 7
San Francisco ..11
Van Nuys ···-····· 6
Van Nuys .......... 7
San Francisco .. 14
Folsom -·-------12
Folsom ··-···-····-14
San Bernardino 13
Selma ..................12
Long Beach ......11
Long Beach ...... 8
Long Beach ...... 13
Long Beach ......15
Long Beach ...... 9
Los Angeles ...... 14
Santa Paula ...... 13

•Indicates admission during current year.
No.
Lodge
Admitted
Name
Allison, Patricia• ..........April 2, '58 Van Nuys ... _.450
Arehinal, Karen ..........Sept. 29, '56 Liberal Arts .... 677
Barton, Karen• ..............Jan.18, '58 Alamo ..............122
Bennett, Mabel Jo........Sept. 12, '54 Searchlight ......567
Carlson, Elaine• ............Apr. 12, '58 La Fayette ........126
Caswell, Georgia R. ........Apr. 5, '57 Arcadia ·······----547
Cox, Georgia ................Aug. 11, '54 Fairfax ···-·······556
Farmer, Susan ................Aug. 5, '53 Temple ............ 14
Gallucci, Toni ..............Sept. 29, '56 Mount Olive ....506
Galvery, Jeannette ......Mar. 31, '57 So. California ..278
Harpster, Adrian ..........June 28, '53 South Gate ......320
Harris, Bonnie ............. Apr. 28, '51 Arcadia ............547
Larsen, Sandra ..............June 24, '52 Culver City ... .467
Lee, Linda* ....................Sept. 5, '57 Eagle Rock ......422
Mann, Mary ....................Mar. 5, '55 Alta Vista ........464
Nielsen, Darlene ..............July 1, '52 Covina ·····-···--334
Nielsen, Linda ................July 1, '52 Covina ···-···---334
Ostrander, Carol ..........Sept.14, '51 Big Bear -········617
Ostrander, Diann ........Sept.14, '51 Big Bear ······-··617
Stroh, Janita• ..................Apr. 8, '58 Selma ................277
Stroh, Patricia• ..............Apr. 8, '58 Selma •............... 277
Stroh, Susan• ..................Apr. 9, '58 Selma ................277
Werner, Beverly* ..........Sept. 3, '57 James A.
Foshay ·····-···641
Werner, Diana• ·········-···Sept. 3, '57 James A.
Foshay ..........641
Williams, Linda ............Ma(?' 18, '55 Trona ................684
Williams, Sharon ......... .May 18, '55 Trona -··············684
Williams, Shirley ..........May 18, '55 Trona ................684
Yungling, Barbara ........Oct.10, '53 Santa Paula ....291

Age
Town
Van Nuys .....__12
W. Los Angeles ..12
Walnut Creek .. 6
Long Beach ......15
Sebastopol ........ 9
Arcadia -·-------11
Larkspur ···--·····13
Sonoma ····-···---14
Los Angeles ....-15
Los Angeles ...... 9
Los Angeles ......16
Arcadia .............. 16
Los An·geles ......18
Los Angeles ......15
San Francisco ..13
Covina ·-··-·········10
Covina ................15
Big Bear Lake.. 15
Big Bear Lake..18
Selma .................. 8
Selma,................. 6
Selma ·-..-·-·······10

Los Angeles ......10
Los Angeles ......12
Trona ··--··-······3
Trona ·····-···-·····12
Trona ····-···-···--12

Santa Paula ......12

Departed during the Year July 1, 1957, to June 30, 1958
Boy~

B~:an,

fi1f2'~---·········J.?,~f81~~···-··-·---~~-~~:r.{)epartutt)

Charles ............
Burkhalter, Charles* ...... 3/26/45............ 7/ 1/57·--·-·-··-······---18
Darling, Truman ·······-····· 1/28/48............ 9/10/57---·-··-··----14
Irland, Lynn ...................... 9/15/52............ 9/ 1/57..---·-·-·-··-·18
Kingman, Donald ·······-···10/ 7/53 ............ 9/ 1/57.•·--··-·---··-··-12
Kingman, Jack .................. 10/ 7/53............ 9/ 1/57..·-··-··········-··-··-··· 8
Medlock, Marston ............ 1/23/55............ 6/19/58............... _............... 12
Moody, Lawrence• .......... 8/15/53 ............ 7/ 1/57...--····-··-··-··-···18

Girls-7
Age
(At time of Departure}
Departed
Admitted
Name
Allison, Linda• ·······-······· 6/17/45............ 7/ 1/57...........................- ... 17
Barham, Patricia ............ 6/27/51............ 6/19/58...............- ...............14
Hacquebord, Pat ·····-·-··· 1/26/52............ 2/ 1/58................................17
Hoard, Edna* .................... 4/ 8/55............ 7/ 1/57..·-··········-···············17
Medlock, Marcia ···-····-··· 1/23/55............ 6/19/58 ...- ...........................14
Offinga, Elinor• ···········-- 8/ 4/44............ 9/ 6/57................................18
Rose, Lorna···-··········-··-·- 9/ 9/50............ 7/10/57...-..············-···········13
*Graduate

402

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

COVINA CHRISTMAS AND ENTERTAINMENT RESERVE
Amount
No. Lodge
1 California..........................$ 50.00
5.00
2 Western Star..............·-···
3 Tehama.·--······-····-···-···
10.00
9 Corinthian·················-··-·
10.00
10 San Jose••·-··-·············-···· 15.00
5.00
12 Yount................................
13 Nevada ·······················--···
2.50
5.00
16 Eureka ..............................
5.00
17 La Parfaite Union..........
10.00
19 San Joaquin............... -.....
20 Wash~n ···················-·
10.00
21 Ha.wauan ······················-··
25.00
20.00
22 Occidental ........................
5.00
............................
Madison
23
10.00
24 Mariposa ..........................
5.00
26 El Dorado...................-.....
27 Trinity ·········-···················
10.00
25.00
30 Golden Gate......................
10.00
32 Gold Hill...........................
25.00
35 San Diego..........................
10.00
37 Howard ............................
38 Santa Cruz....·-·······-········
10.00
7.50
40 Sacramento......................
41 Martinez ·············-···········
59.45
5.00
44 Mount Moriah. .........·-·····
45 Crescent ···············-···········
5.00
46 Texas ·····················-·········
10.00
25.00
57 Santa Rosa.. .............•...·-···
58 Union···························-···
25.00
10.00
60 Plumas .............................•
61 Live Oak..·-··················-···
25.00
64 Natoma ··························10.00
70 Enterprise........ ·-········-···
10.00
79 Humboldt ··············-········
5.00
81 Yolo ·······················-··-·····
2.50
84 Vesper .............................. 10.00
35.00
87 Naval ................................
5.00
93 St. Helena ........................
20.00
99 Yosemite..........................
101 Clay ···················-········-···
10.00
104 Lexington ···················-···
50.00
106 Arcata ·········-···················
5.00
110 Pajaro ···············-·············
10.00
10.00
111 Chico ................................
10.00
113 Eden..................................
10.00
117 Concord ............................
12.50
120 Fidelity ............................
122 Alamo·····················-·········
5.00
126 Lafayette ····················-···
5.00
40.00
127 Hermann ..........................
5.00
129 Nicolaus............................
5.00
131 Woodbridge ....................
10.00
136 Pacific ..............................
15.00
139 Crockett •.........................
143 Franklin ·-····-·-··-·········
5.00
144 Oriental ·······················-··15.00
147 Eel River ···················--···
5.00
156 Woodland ·············-·········
10.00
12.50
166 Excelsior ..........................

No. Lodge
168
169
175
179
180
188
191
192
193
194
195
198
199
203
204
206
208
209
210
211
212
215
217
218
219
220
222
224
225
226
228
236
237
241
245
247
253
254
256
258
259
261
262
264
265
267
268
269
272
274
279
280
281
283
285
286
290
291
292

R~d~ood City..................

MJSs1on ·····-·····················
Antioch ···--······-·············
Mendocino ················-···
Petaluma..........................
Oakland·························-·
Marin ·········-····-···············

Santa Barbara. ...........-....
Ferndale ·····-···················
Mountain View................
Buckeye·····-······-············Wilmington......................
Hartley ............................
Confidence ···············-·····
Salinas ·····················-·······
Stanislaus ........................
Rio Vista ..........................
King David's....................
;Friendship ···-···········-···
San Benito........................
South San Francisco......
Oak Grove..................·-···
Monterey ..........................
Mosaic ···················-·········
Speranza Italiana ..........
Downey ·······················-···
Roseville ..........................
Bakersfield •.....................
Brooklyn..........................
San Mateo ........................
Athens ..............................
Hills Ferry........................
Guadalupe ·····-···············
Santa Ana ........................
Laurel ..............................
Fresno ..............................
Landmark ........................
Reading ............................
Lodi ··································
Penrhyn ·····················-···
Evergreen ........................
Tuscan ···············-······-·····
Lompoc ............................
Hesperian ........................
Orland ···················-·········
Galt ..................................
Durant ·························-···
Olive Branch....·-··-·········
Pasadena ..........................
Arroyo ..............................
Hanford ............................
Madera ·······················-···
Mount Shasta..................
South West......................
San Miguel -····················
Paso Robles ·············-·······
East Gate .........................•
Santa Paula......................
Los Gatoei............•....•·-·····

Amount
10.00
25.00
20.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
25.00
5.oo
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.50
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
50.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00

Amount
No. Lodge
10.00
293 Orange GTove............. ____
10.00
299 Liberty ..............................
10.00
301 Ontario ............................
305 Azusa --·-····-·····················
10.00
306 Ashlar ···············-·············
5.00
314 Temescal ·····-···················
70.00
10.00
315 Norwalk ..........................
5.00
321 Alisal ................................
25.00
322 Alhambra ........................
10.00
324 Corona..............................
5.00
326 Needles ............................
327 Long Beach.·-··-··-···········
15.00
328 Redondo ·····-··-····-····-··5.00
10.00
331 Pacific Grove....................
10.00
336 Fruitvale ..........................
10.00
337 Carquinez ........................
12.50
343 San Fernando ..................
346 Palo Alto........·-··········-···
25.00
15.00
347 McKinley ........................
10.00
348 San Bernardino ..............
349 Sequoia ·····-··········-·········
10.00
351 Palestine ···················-·····
10.00
25.00
356 Mill Valley........................
12.50
360 San Francisco..................
8.80
362 Charity ............................
25.00
367 South Pasadena ·········-···
5.00
369 Ocean Park ......................
370 Amity ·····-··-·····················
10.00
5.00
374 Jewel ................................
12.50
375 Richmond ........................
10.00
376 Francis D:Mke..................
10.00
378 Mizpah ..............................
15.00
379 Fillmore ............................
382 Highland Park ···········-···
5.00
384 El Centro....·-···················
10.00
387 Coalinga ..!-·-·················10.00
10.00
388 Parnassus ........................
50.00
393 Balder ..............................
5.00
397 Rising Light ....................
400 Burlingame···········-·········
25.00
5.00
402 Brawley ............................
403 Y erba Buena·····-·············
5.00
405 Moneta ·····-·······················
10.00
10.00
407 La Mesa ............................
409 Honolulu ···············-·········
25.00
10.00
410 Charter Rock....................
10.00
................................
Perris
411
50.73
416 Lindsay ............................
421 Inglewood ···········-····-·····
25.00
426 Midway ·····-·····················
5.00
5.00
429 Pittsburg ..........................
15.00
431 Alpha ................................
434 Maricopa .......................... 10.00
10.00
435 Fairmount ........................
5.00
440 Standard ..........................
5.00
441 Coronado ..........................
25.00
447 Torrance ..........................
448 Mount Diablo .................. 10.00
449 Park ·················-··-···········
5.00
450 Van Nuys........·-·············25.00
460 Mount Oso ·············-·········
15.00

No. Lodge
461 Argonaut ···············-··-·····
462 Paul Revere ..............·-··-·
463 Morgan Hill ·-·················
466 Libertas ............................
467 Culver City ·····-······-·······
468 Rockridge ···················-··

La Jolla ·········-·················
Ionic ···-··················-·········
Piedmont ..........................
George Washington........
Bay City........·-·················
Covenant ..........................
Sun Garden......................
Belvedere ·············-·········
Queen Beach.... ·-·············
Seaport ............................
Lakeshore ........................
Semper Virens ................
Point Firmin....................
East San Diego·····-·········
S. W. Hackett ..................
El Oajon Valley................
Progressive ......................
Warren G. Harding........
Santa Maria ·········-·········
Security ............................
Kauai ····························-··
Compass ·················-·······
Tujunga ............................
Service ..............................
Ale:lDllllder Graham Bell

5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
50.00
31.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
39.00
25.00
20.00

473

Blythe ..............................

478
479
481
483

Thousand Oaks ..............
Golden Rule ....................
Mt. Davidson.. .......·-·········
Bell ···--·····························
Albert Pike......................
Chowchilla ......................
Caledonia ·-················-···
Vallejo ···················-·········
Patterson ..........................
East Bay............................
Woodstock ......................
Atascadero ......................
Acorn ................................
Capital City......................
Roosevelt·····················-···
Harbor ..............................
Point..................................
Seaside ..............................
Silver Cord ......................
El Segundo ......................
Cupertino ........................
Sunnyvale ........................
Cahuenga ···················-···
Argonne ............................

477 Temblor ·····-·····················

485
486
487
488
489
491
493

494

499
500
502
503
504
505
507
510
511
513
514
516
518
520
521
525
526
527
530
539
540
541
546
550
551
552
558
561
574
576
578
579
580
581
589
590
592
594
595

Amount
10.00
10.00
9.00
20.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
7 .50
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
50.05
15.00

471 Delta·········-·······················

484

403

Taft ···············-···················

~:nnga:Y~~-~~~~~~::

1&:88
5.00

404
No.
596
603
609
619
620
621
635
637
638
643
645
650
660
661
662
665
668
669
673
675
676

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
Amount
Guardian ......................•...
15.00
Dimond ···-············-·········
10.00
Provident ........................
20.00
Neptune............................
10.00
Pomt Loma ......................
5.00
The Gardens ....................
12.50
Riverside ..........................
15.00
Balisades ..........................
10.00
Indian Rock. .......... ·-···-···
10.00
Alta Loma..·-···················
10.00
A. F. E. Irwin.................... 10.00
La Brea.............................. 10.00
Baldwin Park..................
10.00
Malta ·····-·························
5.00
Henry Knox......................
5.00
Kaweah ............................
10.00
San Gorgonio ..................
10.00
5.00
Joihn P. Jarman..............
Far WesL-----·················
5.00
Modesto ............................
5.00
Willow Glen ....................
10.00

KNIGHTS TEMPLAR
Commanderg
No. Amount
Sacramento ........................ 2 $ 5.00
Nevada ................................ 6
7.50
San Jose .............................. 10
5.00
Chico .................................. 12
5.00
Ventura .............................. 18
10.00
Naval .................................. 19
5.00
Watsonville ........................ 22
5.00
Colusa ................................ 24
5.00
Visalia ................................ 26
12.50
San Luis Obispo.............. 27
2.50
Pasadena ............................ 31
10.00
10.00
Ukiah·································· 33
N81Pli ................•.........•.....•... 34
5.00
5.00
Eureka······························- 35
Southern California ........ 37
10.00
Santa Cruz.......................... 44
2.50
10.00
Palo Alto ·················-········· 47
Alhambra .......................... 48
5.00
Auburn .............................. 52
5.00
Alameda ............................ 58
5.00
San Pedro .......................... 60
5.00
Santa Monica .................... 61
5.00
Calvary .............................. 62
10.00
Total.............................. _.....$150.00
ROYAL ARCH MASONS
Chaptera
No. Amount
Sacramento ........................ 3 $ 5.00
Nevada ·····················-········· 6
2.50
Cyrus .................................. 15
5.00
Grass Valley ...................... 18
2.50
Franklin ............................ 20
10.00
Petaluma ......................•..... 22
2.50
Delta .................................... 27
5.00
Napa ..................•...•............. 30
5.00

No.
680
681
688
690
691
711
714
718
719
720
725
737
745
749
756
761
773
774
781

Lodge
Amount
Oarmel ·····-·······················
5.00
Dos Palos..........................
7.50
Oildale ..............................
10.00
San Carlos........................
10.00
Indian Wells Valley........
10.00
Rim of the World............
5.00
Blue Lakes........................
10.00
San Lorenzo Valley........
5.00
Estero ·········-··········-·········
5.00
Mineral King...................... 5.00
Saint John's......................
5.00
Hillsborough ....................
10.00
Peninsula ........................
10.00
Merced..............................
5.00
Clayton Valley................
5.00
Josiah W. Roller..............
2.50
Tejon ·········-·····················
5.00
Waikiki ............................
10.00
Rolling Hills ·········-·········
5.00
Total.................................$3,499.03

Chaptera
No. Amount
Ancient .............................. 31
5.00
Santa Cruz................... .,_... 38
2.50
Visalia ................................ 44
12.50
10.00
Dixon·················-··············· 48
Ventura ..............•............... 50
5.00
Hwnboldt .......................... 52
5.00
10.00
Ukiah ·····-······················-··· 53
Colusa ................................ 60
5.00
Riverside ............................ 67
2.50
Crown ................................ 72
5.00
Hanford .............................. 74
25.00
5.00
Pontona ·····-····················- 76
Ferndale ............................ 78
5.00
San Pedro •......................... 89
5.00
Whittier .............................. 91
10.00
10.00
Palo Alto ····················-······ 93
Fidelity .............................. 96
10.00
Santa Monica .................... 97
5.00
5.00
San Gabriel ·········-············-100
5.00
RedondO ·····················-··--101
2.50
Marin ······························-··102
Mill Valley ........................108
5.00
South Basadem ................ 112
5.00
Sebastopol .........- ...............117
5.00
5.00
Huntington Park ·········-··-127
Searchlight ........................133
10.00
5.00
Wilmington ·····-···············--141
Havasu ................................ 148
5.00
Total.............................- ......$227.50
ROYAL AND SELECT MASTERS
Council
No. Amount
Naval .................................. 1 $ 5.00
California ·-······················· 2
2.50
Pasadena ............................ 16
5.00
Santa Cruz ........................ 17
2.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Council
No. Amount
Pomona .............................. 21
5.00
Valle;r ................................ 27
5.00
Visalla ................................ 43
12.50
Harbor ................................ 45
10.00
Redwood Empire .............. 46
2.50
Total...............................- .......$50.00
A. 8r: A. S. R.

Amount
Fresno ··-·-··-····-··-··············-···-$ 50.00
Sacramento.................................. 25.00
San Jose (Choir).......................... 25.00
Total.·-··························-·····$100.00
DISTRICT OFFICERS
ASSOCIATION
Amount
420th District................................$ 5.00
504th District..................·-···········
5.00
562nd District···-························· 10.00
605th District................................ 10.00
5. 70
606th District. ...·-·························
6081lh District................................ 101.36
628th District................................ 50.00
629th District............ ·-····-··········· 100.00
Total .....................................$287 .06
EASTERN STAR
Chaptera
No. Amount
Mercedes ·····-········r·······---126 $ 10.00
Santa Clam ........................195
5.00
San Rafael ..........................2.15
10.00
Mill Valley ........................219
10.00
Hayward ............................331
22.50
Atascadero ........................344
5.00
Thousand Oaks ................375
35.00
Siloam ................................406
10.00
Melita ..................................467
25.00
Mendias ·····-·······················582
60.00
East Bay Matrons
Assn. of 1951..................
20.00
Total............................- .......$212.50
JOBS' DAUGHTERS-RAINBOW
GIRLS-DeMOLAY
Chaptera
No. Amount
Lemon Grove, Bethel 229........$ 15.45
Atascadero Assembly................ 5.00
&mta Maria Assembly.............. 10.00
Redwood DeMolay Chapter...... 10.00
Santa Maria DeMolay
Chapter No. 552......................
5.00
Total .......................................$45.45

405

MISCELLANEOUS
F. X. Amman......•.....••........•- ••••.$ 10.00
Chris M. Anderson. ................... 25.00
Ruth E. Buchanan. ...................
5.00
Billy Carlisle..............................
5.00
Crossline Club..............·-··-······· 125.00
Vida M. Dell............................. 10.00
H. C. l>olT'S.cott..........•.•...........••
1.00
Terryll Dougherty's friends .... 102.00
East WhittieT Compass Club..
10.00
Edison Masonic Club................ 250.00
Fidelity Club of S. F.
(F. B. I. Agents) ................... .
5.00
Stanley & Carrie Fisher......... . 25.00
Flying Wing Acacia Club........ 20.00
Mrs. Della Harpster................. . 70.00
Victor Hatfield .......................... 11.25
C. A. Hall ................................. .
1.00
HeTald Express Benefit Club .. 500.00
Hiram Lodge Twelve Funds..
13.87
Hughes Employees.................... 10.00
James W. Jefferson. ................. 20.00
2.50

r.i3~:~t i~qwa:e·················

& Compass Club................... .
25.00
Lockheed Aircraft
Maintenance Dept.............. . 20.00
Dr. W. S. Lorenz........................
5.00
BeTnice Lundin........................
2.50
McKesson & Robbins. ............ . 24.00
Roy L. Meyer.........- ................. 25.00
Byron C. Morton...................... 15.00
Vemon C. Noble..................... .
2.50
1.50
Bernard M. Pavan. .... - .............
W. R. Ray Square Club............ 15.00
Reel Sports Club of
Los Angeles ......................... . 50.00
Safeway Masonic Club............
8.00
San Bernardino Co.
Past Masters Assn.............. . 10.00
San Francisco Square Club... .
25.00
Santa Fe Employees Club ..... .
9.00
633 Club of Ventura............... . 10.00
25.00
Walter A. Sloane..........·-·········
Southern Pacific Square
10.00
& Compass ClUb.....- .............
F. L. Stamey............................. . 50.00
E. M. Stansel.......... _................. 10.00
E. H. Stevenson. ....................... 100.00
Telephone Masonic Club....... . 10.00
Wimodanses Club, V~ntura. .. . 10.00
Herbel't Van Riper..................
10.00

Total..................................$1,694.62

406

407

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

HOMES STATISTICS

CONTRIBUTIONS TO SPECIAL RESERVES
RESERVES FOR ADDITIONS AND REPLACEMENTS

Number of Residents as of June 30, 1958ESTATE OP

Decoto Home:
Men
Residents, July I. 1957 ........................ 144
Admitted ................................................ 31
Died and Withdrawn .......................... 36
Residents, June 30, 1958 ...................... 139

Women
212
40
38
214

Total
356
71
74
353

Covina Home:
Boys
Residents,, July 1, 1957 ............................ 41
Admitted .................................................. 6
Graduated and Withdrawn .................... 8
Residents, June 30, 1958 ........................ 39

Girls
26
9
7
28

Total
67
15
15
67

Sadie K. Beall................•...............................................•.....•...$10,000.00
Albert 0. Erwin....................................·-····················-·········· 1,500. 00
Boyd C. Kline........................................................................ 1,080.04
John Tonningsen (Trust)...................................................... 6,988.82
MISCELLANEOUS

Mark J. Hanna.........................................................................

10.00

$19,578.86
CONTRIBUTIONS TO SCHOLARSHIP FUND

Mrs. Virginia S. Brown....................................................- ..............$ 5.00
California State Craft No. 6, National Federated Craft................ 225.00
Northern California DeMolay Assn............................................... 98.50
$328.50
DECOTO SPECIAL RESERVE

PER CAPITA COST

Statement of Per Capita Costs ( Statistical) for the Fiscal Year Ending June 30, 1958-

Decoto Home:
Cost of Maintenance .............................................. $496,193.95
Average number of residents ................................
354
Average operating cost per month ........................
41,349.50
Average cost per day ···················-·························
1,359.44
Average cost per resident per year........................
1.401.67
Average cost per resident per month ....................
116.82
Average cost per resident per day........................
3.84
Average number of employees ..............................
131
Covina Home:
Cost of 'Maintenance ............................................. . $219,478.84
64
Average number of residents ............................... .
18,289.90
Average operating cost per month ........................
616.51
Average cost per day ........................ ,.................... .
3,429.36
Average cost per child per year ........................... .
285.78
Average cost per child per month .........................,
9.63
Average cost per child per day ..............................
36
Average number of employees ..............................

ESTATE OP

Josephine H. Chelbay...................................._,.•..........••- .....$ 3,889.67
Maude Converse ....................................................................
13.24
Stephen Russell Cushingi................................_............... -..... 5,458.31
,George L. Everett.......................................-......................... 1,029.67
Abe Livingston ...................................................................... 1,500.00
Luois Luckel ..........................................................................
100.00
Clair Cutting .Marcktts....................................................._... 6,000.00
Albert L. Wayne..............................................·-··········-······· 1,000.00
Robert H. Wright.........................................................-....... 1,315.70
MISCELLANEOUS

Raymond E. Chitwood..........................................................
Silverado Association ............................................................
Y okosuka Chapter No. 1, O.E.S .• Yokosuka, Japan............

10.00
1.00
100.00

$20,417.59
COVINA SPECIAL RESERVE
ESTATE OP

2.00
Mysie Benedict ·······················--···--··-······-----------··--···--·····$
7,196.61
Mabel Bixby ···················--··························-···················--··
,George Bralis ...................................................................... 17,953.69
Martha W. Colvig (in name of Viva G. Akard) ..............
5,000.00
Maude Converse ..................................................................
13.24
Etta Eva Countess.........................................................- ....•
1.00
George L. Everett.................................................•......- ......
1,029.67
Oscar Freeman (Helen Hannam Fund) ............................
357.15
Antoinette A. Hartnack. .....................................................
2,000.00

408

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Horace A. liayford. ................................ - ....................- .....
Mark E. Heyiies,,•. ,..............................................................
Luois Lucke] ....................................................................... .
Clair Cutting Marckres........................................................
John Marmet ....................................................................... .
William A. Mcintosh (Trust) ............................................
Madison T. Owens..............................................................
Beatrice Potter ....................................................................
Ida E. Pugh..........................................................................
Charles Wesley Rausch......................................................
Jessie M. Scott......................................................................
John Cunningham Taylor....................................................
Nellie H. Taylor..................................................................
Albert L. Wayrue..._.............................................................
James F. W~..................................................................
Robert H. W rigiht........... - ..................................................

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1,000.00
1,000.00
100.00
1,000.00
25,000.00
1,851.28
10.502.93
12,922.94
26,937.08
297.33
76,026.01
1,587.98
1,234.74
1,000.00
9,521.47
1,315.70

MISCELLANEOUS

Acacia Club, L. A. County................................................. .
Helen M. Ackley..................................................................
Adams & Brooks, Ltd...........................................................
Anchor Lodge No. 273~.........................................................
Amber Lubricants Co...........................................................
Mr. and Mrs. Donald Anderson..........................................
E. A. Anderson Co...............................................................
R. H. Anderson................................................................... .

C. H. Bell........................................................................,......
Mrs. Edith L. Be!llman..........................................................
Mrs. R. N. Bickerstaff..........................................................
David K. Bickmore..............................................................
Lulu M. Bierbower................................................................
Cora Forseth Blanvelt..........................................................

J. G. Boob............................................................................

Mrs. Ambrose Bowyer........................................................
S. E. Briggs..........................................................................
Mr. and Mrs. Norman Buck................................................
Raymond E. Campbell........................................................
Carnation Chapter, .Redondo..............................................
John C. Cavanaugh (Union Bank&Trust Co.) ............... .
Mrs. Edna Christensen........................................................
Concepts Universal........................................... - ................
Mary Ann Cone.....................................................................
Tony ~and....................................................................
Mr. and Mrs. Cox ............................................... ~ ............... .
Nancy W. Crippen..............................................................
Dorothy Ann Davis..............................................................

5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
2.50
25.00
100.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
4.00
10.00
1,500.00
15.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
2.00
36.00
5.00
2.50
3.00
5.00

Delta Theta Tau Sorority................................................... .'
Denio, Hart, Taubman & Simpson......................................
Desert Holly Chapter No. 558, 0.E.S ...............................
Clarence R. Dorsey..............................................................
go~oDuM. Dougherty.......................................... ;.............
nlap..................................................1............. ., ......
. .

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ... . . . . . . .: . . . . . . . ., ,.

~::. t~:o·~-~

Evans.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::~::::~~::::::::::~::::::::::::

Anne G.
:v~grp Lodge No. 259................~,...•....:...:.......................
~ ara alconer....................................................................
rgia Flaherty................................................................. .
Fogel. ............................................................ -~ ....- .....
E.
J. indsey Fry..................................·-··---·················-·•··.. ··
Mrs. C. E. Funston ..............................................................

f·

~.aw~=::::::::::::::::~~::::::::::::::::~:::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Mr. and Mrs. H. T. Gelstrap.... ~....................................... r
General Conveyor, lnc..................................................... v . .
General Petroleum Corp. Employees ................................. .
Mrs. Ira F. Getchel ............................................~ ................:
Glendale DeMolay Mothers Club ..................................... .
Edith A. Green......................- ...........................................
Phil H. Guard.......................................................................
William U. Handy..............................................................
Heavy Transport, Inc...........................................................
~tr:i· Phil1ip T· Henderson.................................. _............. .
o ywood LOdge No. 355...................................:...............
Les Jones. Victory Oil Co...........................................- ......
J. S. Kennedy..............................................,................ - .........
Killingsworth Trucking Co...............:.................................
L. A. Flood Control Employees......................................... .
Mr. and Mrs. E. C. Lester................................................... .
Los Cerritos Lodge No. 674................................................
J. F. Marshall........................................................................
Amelia A. Mason..................................................................
Alvin McCon'V'ille................................................................
Barbara McDaniel ............................................................... .
McMullen Construction......................................................
Mill Valley Chapter............................................................
The National Supply Co.....................................................
Nielson Pump Works..........................................................
Charlotte O'Heam..............................................................
Ida Olsen..............................................................................
Omeara & Rogers Construction Co.....................................

409
25.37
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
30.00
5.00
3.00
18.00
10.00
5.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
20.00
7.50
5.00
32.25
413.16
5.00
300.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
260.00
10.00
24.00
10.00
218.77
5.00
112.00
5.00
3.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
6.00
10.00

410

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Pacific Drilling Co..................................•............................
C. J. A. Perry ......................................................................
Radio Record. & Adv. Charities..........................................
Grace N. Ragsdale..............................................................
Mrs. D. W. Renow............................................................. .
Rio Hondo Shrine Club........................................................
Bo Chr. Roos, Jr...................................................................
Royalty Service Corp............................................................
Mr. and Mrs. F . W. Schmidt..............................................
Mr. and Mrs. Fred Seitz......................................................
Robert L. Sdlers..................................................................
Mrs. Loyd B. Soth......................................................;.........
Southern California Lodge No. 278 ....................................
Beulah Stewart....................................................................
Sudduth & Co.......................................................................
Superior Tank & Construction Co .......................................
Swains, Inc:•...........................................................................
Swift & Co-································································-········
Tanner Limousine Service....................................................
Temblor Lodge No. 477......................................................
Cyril Thomas............. - .........................................................
Edgar L. Tilley....................................................................
Ann Truffo............................................................................
University Lodge No. 394..•................_....................•..........
Western Airlines..................................................................
Rosemarie Wheeler............................................................. .
Mildred A. White................................................................
Whittier Emblem Club No. 67 ............................................
Dorothy L. Wright. ...............................•.............................
Harold F. Young ..................................................................
Unknown..............................................................................

10.00
5.00
27.00
10.00
5.00
600.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
15.57
15.00
15.00
6.00
10.00
10.00
106.50
7.50
2.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
6.00

$209,461.94

GENERAL APPENDIX

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

411

GENERAL APPENDIX
CONTENTS
Page
Standing Committees .... ........................................................................ 412
Special Committees .............................................................................. 4 15
1

Constitutional Boards ........................ .................................................. 41 7
Masonic Homes .................................................................................... 418
California Masonic Memorial Temple................................................ 419
Directors Masonic Clubhouses ......................... ~.................................. 419
Registration and Mileage Payments. ................................................... 420
List of Constituent Lodges...........................•.......................................• 472
Extinct Lodges ...................................................................................... 492
Elected Officers Grand Lodge Since Organization.............................. 496
List of Inspectors.........................·-···-·····-························-·················· 502
Foreign Grand Lodges...........·-····································-·············-······· 505
Alphabetical List of Lodges._.............................................................. 510

.

Correspondence Report Announcement.............................................. 5 17
1

Index ...................................................................................................... 518

412

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

1958-1959
STANDING COMMITTEES
JURISPRUDENCE

PAY OF MEMBERS

John R. Moore (667) --··············-······-·-···········--453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Oscar Lawler (290) -··-············-·········--···800 Standard Oil Bldg., Los Angeles 15
John W. Shenk .(367) ............................................................ State Bldg., San Francisco 2
Louis C. Drapeau (633) ....................................................500 Sunset Ave., Oak View
Otto Rohwer (3) ................................................................ Anglo Bank Bldg., Sacramento
Wakefield Taylor (41) ............................................................ 1270 Escobar St., Martinez
Andrew R. Schottky (99) ..........................................Court of Appeals, Sacrameno 14
Clay Robbins (566) .......................................................... 210 W . 7th St., Los Angeles 14
Elmer P. Bromley (698) ............................................3946 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5

POLICY AND GENERAL PURPOSES
Leslie E. Wood (609) .......................................................... 1808 "Q" St.. Sacramento Jot
Chester H. Warlow (247) ....................................... .1007 Security Bank Bldq., Fresno 12
Ellsworth Meyer (677) .................................................. 1415 Linda Ridge Rd., Pasadena
Augustus H. Allen (241) ..................................................614 S. McClay St., Santa Ana
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ..................................................Court House, Oakland 7
Arthur Paulsen (27) ·····················-························································-······-·Weaverville:
Edward J. Bllckfeldt (535) ··········-····-······-·········--·········590 Hargrave St., ln~wood
nford
Jack H. Rudy, Jr. (279) ·-····-·····--··························-·················1870 Short Dr.,
Harry B. Keeling (662) ·-················-...................765 S. Harvivd Blvd., Los Angeles S

413

Keith W. Schlaegel (372) -·-···········-··-········-······················· 16219 S. Main, Gardena
John V. Bacigalupi (191} ·····-··-······-··-··-··--··-·-··············10 8 Belle Ave., San Rafael
Matthew M. Codon (42) ·-·--···-·-···--.530 S. Rossmore Ave., Los Angeles 5
Charles R. Ratkovich (268) ---··---··--···--···········---295 4 Shasta Rd., Berkeley
Roy L. Herndon (685) .................................................................... 1530 Rubio, San Marino
George C. Koutroulis (313) -·-··············---············-···-····---SOI E. "P'' St., Tehachapi
Martin R. Sorensen (714) ·········-···········--····-···--···············331 Linden Ave., San Bruno

CHARTERS
Herbert A. Huebner (445) ··-·····--·-·-........--610 S. Broadway, Los Angeles H
Kenneth R. Ford (400) ···-······-····-··-··--··-··-···-·-·····-······ ·130 Parks Rd., Burlingame
Brown Zarley (573) ·······················-··································-··········.1952 Marin, Berke!~ 7
Robert A. Smf.th (426) ........................................................................... .429 Center St., Taft
Ira G. Silver (283) ···················-····································--.5415 Redland Dr., San Diego 15
Philip B. Stone (727) ···································-······-·····················--639 E. Valencia, Buri:>ank
Kenneth L. Hemphill (728) -----·-------1360 Newport Ave., Long Beach 4
Wayne E. Burk (316) ···························-···································248 S. McCall Rd., Sanger
Robert 0. West (26) ···············-··············-··············-··················-P. 0. Box 752, Placerville
Harold W. Weygandt, Jr. (592) ......................................................Rt. 4, Box 506, Saugus
Charles C. Warren (57)·····························--········-················-·933 Crest Dr., Santa Rosa

BY-LAWS
FINANCE
Prank Harwell, Jr. (528) ·-···················-·············-·-···623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul P. Balck (144) ···-···············--···················-··.18+t - 28th Ave., San Francisco 22
Alfred H. Nico11 (481) ·-····-········-·-···-··-·--..23370 Camino Hermoso, Los Altos
Atwill Morgan (636) -··--····--·-···--·--·······8874 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 46
George W. Scherer, Jr. (546) ··-········--···-·-·-·-···606 S. Hill St. Los Angeles
Irving M. Smith (534) ···························-··········-···-2266 Filbert St., San Francisco 23
Fred M. Clark (368) •......•..............................................1662 San Gabriel Ave., Glendale 8

Robert C. Peyton (392) ·-·--···-·---·-··-·--··910 N. Foothill Rd., Beverley Hills
Jess Scott (HO) ......................................................................................Box 416, Cloverdale
Colton B. Daveney (430) ···---------·--·-····-·····-···1039 Fremont St., Menlo Park
Earl B. Sansing (578) ·-·---··--·-····-·--·-··-·····-·······-'tl82 Sixth Ave., Los Angeles 43
Basil R. Gillett (124) ···-··-·-··--··-·-···--·-···-··········-·· ·····P• 0. Box 1076, Paradise
C. E. Gwin (477) ·····-l-······-····--·--·-······················-··-·········-··.Box 265, McKittrick
Virgil R. Shoemaker ( 69) ··-··············--·····-··-··-···-·········-··.Route 1, Box 583, Tulare

CORRESPONDENCE

GRIEVANCE
Albert F. Ross (254) -·--·······-·--·--·-··-··········--······-·-·········-··Boz 759, Red~
Ralph E. Hoyt (268) ······································-················6168 Contra Costa Rd., Oak!
Ralph K. Pierson (273) -·············-····-····-··-·····-44 W. Sea Cove Dr., Portuguese Bend
Elmer W. Heald (384) ................................................................Superior Court, El Centro
William B. Neeley (743) ·······························-·····················1429 Virginia Ave., Glendale
Folger Emerson (61) ···········-···········································2001 Magellan Dr., Oakl~d 11
Raymond H. Levy ( 136) ···············--···-·-·······-···Heerst Building, San Francisco 3

f

Newcomb Condee 614) --······-·-·······-··--·-··---SuperiQ C' Court, Los Angeles 12
George W. Burch, r. (650) -·-··--··-·····-··-··············-'f17 S. Hill St., Los Angeles 13
Graham A. Backus (595) ··-·--·---·-·-····-···········3157 W. 18th Place, Los Angeles 43
John Wullsohleger (550) -··-·······································-···942 Howard St., San Francisco
Maurice B. Ross (35) ...........................................................- ... 3040 Udal St., San Diego 6
Mark T. Smith, Jr. (739) ..................................................1105 Lavender Lane, La Canada
Burton Meyer, Jr. (358) ..•............................................. 13702 Chadron Ave., Hawthorne

GRAND LODGE WEEK ACTIVITIES

CREDENTIALS
Thos. F. Mason (198).-········-······-··--········-·-········-··-305 So. Central Ave., Glendale 4

&:gT~sBH.r~~) (i37i--~~~=~=~-=====·····-~fi9..E:··Ei ~~.pt~~t-M~
2

Emil W. Trefts (38) ................................................................ 126 Dake Ave., Santa Cruz
Charles E. Sones (384) ····················--············-······-··-··-.]>· 0. Box 1180, El Centro
Edward E. Hiney (422) --···--···-···-····-···--·--······--ll SS La Rosa Road, Arcadia
Mervin W. Tonkin (310) --··--·---·······--··-···--·-···P· 0. Box 214, Mount Shasta

Andrew Burke (549) .~••--..- ...........~.·-·"---··-~····25 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco 2
Bernie J. Katz (120) ...................................................... 1864-28th Ave., San Francisco 22
---.--39.39 Ortega St., San Francisco 22
Lowell H. Beckendorf (462)
William Van Ornum (374) ..·-··-·-··········-···-·---14& Wisconsin St., San Frandsc:o
William S. Brannan (531) ................................................. .475 - 47th Ave., San Francisco
Harry M. Michelsen .(.393-) ....•......................................... 1968 Lexington Ave., San Mateo
John Furay (545) ..•.•L.........................................................2779- 39th Ave., San Francisco

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

LODGE FINANCI NG

SPECI AL COMM ITTEE S
RESEARCH

mt

Herbert Hargrave, Jr. (467)
··Lowry Rd., Los Angeles 27
E. Herbert PhilUps (349) ···-·····························------------------------354-17th St., Oakland 12
Glen C. Holbert (441) .............---··----------------------···.4350 Pacific Highway, San Diego 10
Mark A. Gceen (320) ······---------------------------------------------318-B S. Reno St., Los Angeles 5
Carlyle F. Van Patten (600) ........................................4990 Manzanita Ave., Carmichael
Fred H. Blanchard (373) ----------·······--------------------------.10666 Ohio Ave., Los Angeles 24
Sidney Sea ( 188) -----------·------------------····························--------354- 21st St., Oakland 12
Orio R. Peugh (S67) --------·-·------------------------------------·····------215 Navara Dr., Long Beach 3
George W. Sturm (254) ........................ ..................................2316 California St., Redding

r;:e~tCHPuser (504) ------·-··········--------·················--.320 Security Bldg., Long Beach 2
E
e
anosh (574) --------------------··················----··--------.350 Cedar St., San Diego 1
p ugene . Hopp (495) ····-·········-------------------------2000 Van Ness Ave., San Prand.sco
F ercy E. Palmer (40:2) --········-··········-····-·······------------··77 - 64th Pl., Long Beach 3
Horrest. {tassell ( 69~~ --- --------------------------------------------218 Ruby Ave., San Carlos

S

g.-

R~~t J.' c!:1e11~33)--------------·····---------------------------{f~ ~ ~!frae!~~~.1t~:~ci:
Paul L. Yager

RITUAL

--···--·---------·-··---...2908

(269~ ······------------------·----------------------------------_p·o. Box 239, Tulare
CONSTIT UTION OBSERVA NCE

NECROLO GY
Adam B. Morten ( 346) ............................................................... .1721 Wildway, Los Gatos
Roes K. Roper (360) ---------------------------------------------------------.1457 Gilbert St., Hayward
Leonard D. Babcoclc (447) ·----------···-------------------------------2012 Gramercy Ave., Torrance
Charles C. Love ( 627) -···
·-- - · -··.SOS N. Sierra Madre Blvd., Pasadena
Roy Schnauer (485) -····-----···-·----·-···--··--···-·----·······-··---··--·..Box 425, Chowchilla

415

0. J. Wohljjmuth (122)g

...3087 Ygnado Valley Rd. Walnut Creek
)
....722 W. 41st St., Los Angeles 37
E P
L 11 ( 9) ----·-·······--·-···---·--········----------·-····- ··----212
W. 21st St., Merced
R~ene kthThomas (463) ···------·-····----- --······-·········-- ------P.O. Box 33 El Dorado
ohe~
ur Miller (57) ·····-···········-·············----------950 Sonoma Ave.,' Santa Rosa
G n ·./J.ee (579) -·--·-········---- - ----····----------P.O. Box 3665, No. Sacramento 15
J eorgL • Fisher (442) ---·----------····-·-··-··---.32 28 Browning St., San Diego
Resse ltl ~ellM(524) ---··········---------- ------------·········- -······--·······-·········-Box 1, Avalon
Rey1;101 N acDonald (301) ·······----------·····------ ------8352 Camino Sur, Cucamonga
w~ina d epman ( 341 ) ····--······-------------- - ----------······.Route 3, Box 430, Camarillo
1 lam
. airbanks (774) ------·-·········-···· ··-------3020 Seaview Rise, Honolulu 14

~~ro~dECEn· udiett (6

J

z

Elbert W. Davis (571)
Russell St.. Berkeley
Oare B. Campbell (230) - ··___ __Route 1, Box 682, Gridley
~alph M. Foote ( 135) ------·--------·······-··-··-·---·---·-..Boz 722, Linden
Arthur J. Kahn (i62) •
·---·
......20ff Brylll!t St., San Francisco
Raymond G. Taylor (466) - - - - - -·- -- ----Box 887, Bakersfield
Donald G. Umipbell (608) --····---···- ·--·----·273 0 Lorain Rd., San Marino 9
W. Ben Sorrells (672) -·-·-··----- --·-··180 C'.oaat Blvd. South, Laguna Beach

Alexander L. Croce (354) - - - - - - - - - 1 6 2 8 - 18th Ave., San Francisco
~':es ER..'tammond (568) --------111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
ert
ork (349) ---1924 Broadway, Oakland 12

MASONIC HISTORY

DE MOLAY

Leon 0. Whitsell (293) ................................................ 1027 S. Country Ouh, Stoc:ktca. 4
0 . J. Wohlgemuth (1i2) -·····-·--·--·· -·.3087 Ygnado Valley Rd .. Walnut Creek
Arthur H. Triggs (401) --··--·--- -----··21 17 Funston Place, Oakland 2
Carl W. Brainard (579) ------------------ ---------···------------------P.O. Box 834, Sacramento
Franlt Everett (646) ·········--··-··················-··········--·.3284 Veteran Ave., Los Angeles 34
Harry A. Kallberg (570) ....................................60 San FeUpe Ave., San FranciscO 27
W. G. Brill (240} --------···--····--------------------····-···--- ---···---------------P.O. Box 89, Colusa

Homer E. Rathbun (368) - - - 743 Fairmoot Ave. Glendale 3
pare
~elson (294) ------------· ---·-·----11 57.f E. Stroud Ave'., Kingsburg
ResteH
runo (499) ............................................................2730 "L" St.. Sacramento 16
~) O jrd (366) - ·-·······-·········-- ----------------------------------1428 Thomas Ave., Fresno
Gr
· 0 sen. (497) -------·········------------·····--------28 El Carmelo Circle, Oakland 19
eorge D. Gavin ( 144) ....................................... .55 New Montgomery St., San
Francisco
=ldSC.i.pover ( 281) ·-----------------·- ---···-·····-·------ -----Route 1. Box 2051, Anderson
F nit W Tedo (67~---·----------·--····------··--········-----------889 Regent St., San Jose
Wul
W e eY ( :) ·-····----·····---------·----··········----·-25849 Appian Way, Lomita
N
R • ewgaw (407) -·--·-····- ···---------------1070 Broadway, Lemon Grove
oe
• osa- (648 )------·-···---····-------------·······----------------·-----527 N. l'Jarcella, Rialto

TAXATIO N

i Ge

lw

PUBUC SCHOOLS
Vierling Keney (698) ·····--------·--·-·· ·················-···· ······ 13132 Addison St.. Van Nuya
George K. Palmtt ( 442) ·------·-········------·---··········---······3509 Dove Court, Sen Diego 3
Clyde E. Crawford (330) -------------------- ----------·-·······--P.O. Box 843, Hilo, Hawaii
Perry Barrett (699) -·-----------·----------------·-----------------.387 Orlena Ave .. Long Beech
Cyril Weeks (120) ...............-----····---------------------105 Montgomery St., San Franciseo 4
George C. Holstein (366) ...........------ ·-·--------------------------··203 East Normal, Fresno
Jen Sheegl(642 ) -······-···- ·····------------------------------2655 Montroae Pl., Santa B~
Sy Dennis, r. (3) ···---------··-··· ------·--·····-··· -····-1031 Appollo Way, Sacramento
Lawrence
. CrOwe (510) -------------- ---------10228 N. Stelling Rd., Cupert!DO

0

COLUMB IA TEMPLE
Cecil B. Mathews (8) -·

9.36 Sonora
c:nk ( ··························-·····---·------------------·-··---------------------------------~--Sonora

Boz
8)
M est~ · Jfth (525/ ···-··············---·-···············----···················--224 Poplar, San Bruno
L arvm 0.
lnln~s ( 28) ---····-··-······------Security 1st National Banlc Bldg. Visalia
docelM~~ey ((3 8)) -----···············------·----······-···········-···-·····----------.------------San 'Andreas
• . c
ey
- · -···-·······-----·---------------- ·-----Assessor s Office, Sacramento

~ur 11:

416

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

INVESTMENT
Paul A. PBueger (370) ---···-·-··-··--·--··..Milla Bldg., San Francisco 4

INSURANCE

1106 Broadway, Oakland 7
Edward H. Siems (560) -Prank Harwell, Jr. (528) -·-····-··-··················-······-·-····623 S. Hope St., Leis Angeles 17
Ralph H. Head (352) -···-·····-····-····--P.O. Box 2282, Term'l Annex, Los Angeles 54
John W. Davey (260) -·-··-················-·····--·-·····1290 Sutter St., San Francisco 9

417

Sansome St., San Prandsco 4
T. Jamea Carlile (215) -·---·-···--·----2
- 4 < > 1 California St., San Prancl.tco 4
Allerton B. Ebert (489) - · · - - - - - - -

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON CEMETERIES
DISTINGUISHED GUESTS
M. Jay Jensen (454) -·-·-····-······--.C/o Olivet Memorial Park, San Francisco 25
Horace W. Rice ( 19) -··-················--·--···--·.315 Mont11omery St.. San Pranciaco 4
Roy Wieland (454) ...........-·-············---------------------------------40 Lagunitas Dr., San Pnmdac:o
GeOrge P. Silliman (494) ·······--····-···--·····----·-··---------··-------· 4630 Edgewood Ave., Oakland
ohn H. Brooke (562) --········--·······-··--·----50 Farragut Ave., San Franciaco
ames Leo Halley (375) --·---·····---··-·703 Flood Bldg., San Francisco 2
Francis J. Herz (464) -··-··-···········-···-··-···---··:t50 Sutter St., San Francisco 8
Cliester R. MacPhee (4S5) ________·-··············-·-···-1048 Valencia St., San Francisco 10

Jack C. Butler (58) ·---············-··-·-··········-·-·······················P.O. Box 1162, Redding
Samuel E. Leddell (674) ··-···-··-····-···-······-···················35 Pine Ave., Long Beach 2
Harold C. Schroder (3) -··-·-·-····-··---·····---·-U,75 Marty Way, &cramento
Thomas Edwards ( 101) -··-······----·····-------···-·-··-··························Alta

J

COMMERCIALISM
Vincent P. McMurdo (453) -····················-······-·····-···-···100 Bush St., San Francisco
Heri>ert R. Hargrave (530) .................................... 1620 W. Belmont Ave., Fresno 1
Willard A. Braasch (296) ..:.·--·················-·······-··············-9231 Mollywood, La Mesa
Jade L. Blaine (461) ···-·-·····················----"5 Post St, Room 604, San Francisco 9
Harvey Harkness ($06) ······-····-············-·--·-····-···210 W. 7th St., Los Angeles 14

SOJOURNERS
Chalmlan: William A. Cohendet (370) ----·----------------------·--1557 Balboa Ave., Burlingame
Vice Chairman: Fred G. Doan (352) ....................... .10621 Victory Blvd., N. Hollywood
Westley P. Jones (745) ....·-············-··············-···1()1} N. Fairway Dr., So. San Francisco
Francis H. Gentry (716) ....................306 Insurance Exchange Bldg .. Lon\l Beach
Elmer E. Ross (113) ··-·-··················-··-········-····---15~ - HOth Ave., San Leandro
Wendell Van Winkle (64) ________ _..._• ._..__..___________ P.O. Box 358, Folsom
Kenneth L. Morris (581) ············-···-······-··-···-·····-··········-···2202 "B" St., BakersHeld
James B. Baker .(778) ·-·····-········--·-··········----------········----········--··P.O. Box 87, La Mirada
Thomas A. Carter (482) ·········--·····--···-····-----··---··-·-··-·-···--······-9948 S. Shiloh, Whittier
Jack L. Rau (335) ·········-····························-·-··-······-t+t N. Camden Dr., Beverly Hille
Edward M. Downs (473) ·····-············-······-········-····························-P.O. Box 486, Blythe
Ben T . Salmon (632) ·····---········-··········-··--·--4110 Palisades Road. San Diego 16
Walteor D. Randall (366) -----····-········---·-···-·----1328 E. Swift St., Fresno
--··-·--··---17.38 Grove St., Berkeley 9
John Richmond (541)

OLD MASONIC HALL IN LOS ANGELES
Prank Harwell, Jr. (528) ·-······················-··-····-··-·····623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Matthew M. Codon .(42) ··--·-········--·-····-·····--530 S. Ross.more Ave., Los Angeles 5
Joe L. Shell (35) -··-···--·-····-·-Superior CAurt, Dept 7, Courtlhouse, San Diego 1
Guy B. Mize (368) ....................................................:.......- ....790 E. Green St., Pasadena

MUSIC
Harold Mueller ( 1) ·---··---··-·····-········-····-··-···955 Portola Dr., San Francisco
Austin Mosher ( 1) -·-···············---····················-·-······-·-··-···.545 Sutter St., San Prandsco
Olarles J. Payne (stO) ·····-··························-·---1221 E. Rooeewlt Rd., Loog Beach 7

SPECIAL COMMITTEE ON LOCAL TEMPLE
ASSOCIATION FINANCES
T. Bond (355) ........................................................637 S. Wilton Pl., Los Angele.'! 5
ohn A. Dull (421 ) ·······················-·················-·········---.5957 West. Blvd., Los An elts
Ip P. Fleislg (460) ······--·············-····----·-·-··-····----·······················P.O. ~ 297,
Harold R. DeTuncq (738) ........................................................217 So. Acala St., Arvin
Ed P. Cunliffe (417) ....................................................................3148 N. 8di St., Fresno
Harold W. Stelllnsi (464) ··-···-·-····························-·····770 McAllister St., San Pnmclsco
Richard R. Kennedy (780) -················-····-···15219 McKendree Ave., Pacillc Palisades

5

T!acy

CONSTITUTIONAL BOARDS
ENDOWMENT BOARD
John M. Gordon (202) ·-··············-·····--·--············3+f6 Amesbury Rd., Hollywood 27
Ernest G. Bashor (352) •·····-···-····--·······-2726 Lakewood Ave., Los Angeles 39

E,a._T~e (11~§) -:::::=:=====:~~~-~--~~~m~~~a55:. DJ~O:~~

e=r
-···-..220 Montq_omery St., San Prandaco
Byron Coleman (453) -·--·-·-··
Rue W. Sims (188) ·-····--·······································-········-····898 Rodney Dr., San Leandro
Nori>ert Mixter .(-iii) ......................................................................204 E. Pine St., &eter
Marlon A. Long (465) ......................................................324 College Ave., Fresno 1
John W. Davey (260) ·········--------····--·····························1290 Sutteor St.• San Prandaco 9
Kermit A. Jacobsoo (599) ..............................................417 Ninita Parkway, Pasadena
Horace R. LaFortune (3) ....................................6601 So. Land Park Dr.. Sacramento 22
Ralph S. Brokaw (346) ·····························-·-········-······-3825 El Camino Real. Palo Ako
Henry G. VanDyke (327) ............................................3450 Walnut Ave., Lo119 _Beadi 7
Melvin L. Pixley (584) ·············-····························-3808 E. Slall80!1 Ave., Maywood
Charles H. Grace (635) ·····-··-····························-············.4210 Highland Pl., Riverside

BOARD OF CONTROL
Guy A. Tolle (577) ................................................200 E. Slauaon Ave., Los Angeles 54
Reginald M. MIU. (61) ········--·-·····-···············-·············1059 Market St., San Francisco 3
Edward A. John90!1 (35) .................................................. 1035 Alberta Pl.• San Diego 3
lrvtug Magnes (225) ........................................................256 LaSalle Ave., Piedmont 10
Arthur Dvorin (639) ...................................... 1030 So. Cochran Ave., Los Angelea 19

i18

i19

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

RECOGNITION OF FOREIGN GRAND LODGES

CALIFORNIA MASONIC MEMORIAL TEMPLE
BOARD OF TRUSTEES

John R. Moore .(667) --····-·-·····-····-····---·····-··:453 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13
Chester H. Warlow (247) ---·-····-····--·····---1007 Security Bank Bldg .. Fresno 21
Wllliam Rhodea Hervey, Jr. (202) -------------458 So. Spring St.. Los Angeles

CODE COMMISSION
William Nankervis, Jr. (215) -·-······-···-····-··-·-············-···1360 Grove St., Alameda
Edward T. Koford (57) ···--------------·----·--·--.Bank of America Bldg .. Santa Rosa
Elmer W. Heald (384) ··························--·············-··············-···Superior Court, El Centro
Richard H. Chamberlain (521) ....... _.........................................Court House, Oakland 7
David P. Russell (396) ---····-········--···----2230 San Jose Ave .. Alameda

TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES
Oiarles M. Wollenberg, Pres. (3+t) ___ ............. - ..... 2070 Pacific Ave., San Francisco 9
Ralph H. Head (352) ........................ P. 0. Box 2282, Terminal Annex, Los Angeles 54
Arthur M. Warren ( 481 ) ....... - .........................................3060 - 16th St., San Frandsco 3
L. Harold Anderson (346) ................................................245 Market St .. San Francisco 6
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529) ......................................510 West Sixth St., Los Angeles H
Le0 E. Anderson (355) ............................. .700 General Petroleum Bldg., Los Ang_eles 17
Joe L. Shell (35) ······--··-··-Superior Ct., Dept. 7, San Diego Hotel Bldg., San Diego 1
Al&ed F. Breslauer (344)
___ tt l Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Guy B. Mize (368) ......................................._.......... _...............790 E. Green St., Pasadena

MASONIC HOME FOR THE AGED
Decoto, California
Tdephooe GReenleaf 1-3434
Gail H. David. Superintendent

MASONIC HOME FOR CHILDREN
20336 East Badillo St., Covina, California
Telephone EDgewood 2-3138
Robert M. Henry, Superintendent

Edward H. Siems, Pres. (560) ...........- ..- .......... _................... 1106 Broadway, Oakland 7
Frank Harwell, Jr., Vice Pres. (528) ··----·-----···-···-···623 S. Hope St., Los Angeles 17
Paul A. PBueger, Treas. (370) ..._.........................................Mills Bldg., San Francisco 4
Lloyd E. Wilson, Secty. (630)--······---··--····-·····----1111 California St., San Francisco 8
Joe L. Shell (35) ·--····----Superior Court, Dept. 7, San Diego Hotel Bldg., San Diego 1
Alfred F. Breslauer (344) --·-·-··-··········-···----·-------··------··--111 Sutter St., San Francisco 4
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. (529) ....................·-··---······------.510 West 6th St., Los Angeles H
Arthur M. Warren (481) ...........- ................- ...................3060-16th St., San Francisco 3
Ira W. Coburn (216) ·--····-····------···-·······-········-----.2440 Mariposa St., San Francisco 10
John M. Gordon (202) ····-·····-··-······-·······-····------3446 Amesbury Road, Hollywood 27
Keith W. Schlaegel (372) --·····-··-·········-··--··························.16219 So. Main, Gardena
Guy B. Mize (368) ···--··-··········-··-··--····-·-··--·-····--····-------.790 E. Green St., Pasadena
ALVIN A. HoRWEGI!, Manager
1111 California Street
San Francisco 8

DIRECTORS

MASONIC
BERKELEY

CLUBHOUSES

Wallace E. York, Pres. (403) ..............._.. _.......................... .5109 Proctor Ave.. Oakland
Gordon F. Black, Vice-Pres. (635) ................................715 Darion Way, San Francisco
Russell C. Horstmann, Treas. (336) --·--------··----·560-57th St.. Oakland
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Secty. (541) .......................- ............... 170 Ardmore Road, Berkeley
Gene C. Otwell, Asst. Secty. (705) .......- .................................759 Creston Rd., Berkeley
Paul S. Boren (551) ----··-·-··- ···· ---·--···-··-··- 1947 Tiffin Road, Oakland
Angus S. Holden (481) ···-··-·····-···-··········-····--··--··-·····3201 Jackson St., San Francisco
Carl B. Munck (564) ···---··--···--···-······-··················-··········-------····.5940 Zinn Dr., Oakland
John L. Wixon (705) ·······-······-······-·············-···-······-··-···--·-···6519 Knott St., El Cerrito

BERKELEY CLUBHOUSE
2590 Bancroft Way, Berkeley
Mrs. Esther Mainwaring, Hostess

LOS ANGELES
A. Curtis Smith, Chairman (618) _
-----·---211 N. Elm Dr., Beverly Hills
Clyde C. Shoemaker, Vice-Chairman (556)-----··-117 W. 9th St., Los Angeles 14
C. Earle Crane, Sec.-Treas. (528) ....................................440 N. Palm Dr., Beverly Hills
John A. Klarquist (HS) -···---···-·-······-----·---·-···618 S. Western Ave., Los Angeles 2
Elvin C. Drake (677) ··-··-·--···---····----··--····--··------···-1017 Centinela Blvd., Santa Monica
Edwin W. Wade (504) ··---·····--·····-··-·····--·-······--··.4155 Greenbrier Rd., Long Beach 8
Marlon A. Duncan (327) ···---······--········-··········----··--1505 Armando Dr.. Long Beach 7
Herbert H. Cooper (614) .......................................... 1954 Glendon Ave., Los Angeles 25
Frank H. Reinsch (677) ·····---················--········-···········1322 N. Gardner, Los Angeles 46
George E. Hall (528) ···-······- ··········-····---··········-······.416 N. Bedford Dr., Beverly Hills
Frank Jenkins (528) ···········-······-··-···············--·········-·······242 S. Peck Dr., Beverly Hills
George Kusman (506) ........................................608Yi N. Beachwood Dr.. Los Angeles 4
S. Roy Howell (662) ........................................................326 N. Croft Ave., Los Angeles
Paul R. Nichols (662) ···-··-··- ··········-··-············--·········-··743 Glenwood Rd., Glendale 2

LOS ANGELES CLUBHOUSE
10886 Lec.onte Ave., Los Angeles 24

Mrs. Faith C. Sheldon. Director of A<lt:ivities

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

420

REGISTRATION AND MILEAGE PAYMENTS
Name of Lodae

No. of Lod1e

Rcpraentativea

Mile11e Al......d

California ---·--··__No. 1-.Emile R. Laversin, Master
Vlrl Bennehoff, Senior Warden
Donald A. Wells, Junior Warden
Harold MueLler, Grand Organist
Edward C. Lohmeyer, P.M. and Inspector
Paul Cow~lll. Past Master
Bruce Q. Engle, Past Masttt
James Hurst, Past Master
Dorsey Ewing Marsh, Past Master
David Thomson. Past Master
James V. Vann, Past Master
Western Star ·····-··-······-·····No. 2..-Walter R. Ray, P.M. and Representative...... $ 34.72
Tehama ---··-···-No. 3-Curtls E. Ripley, Muter..·-·················-·········· 8.40
Sy Dennis, Jr.. Senior Warden
Lloyd F. White, Junior Warden
George H. Olmsted, P.M. and Inspector........ 8.40
G. C. McKinley, Past Master
John J. O'Connor, Past Master
Otto Rohwer, Past Muter...............·-············ 8.iO
Harold C. Schroder, Past Master
Charles A. Schwartz, Past Master
_No. 5_Garlton A. Foster, Muter......·-······················· 3.80
Benicia
Robert C. Lansdowne, Senior Warden
Raymond L. Sherwood, JuniOt' Warden
Walter C. Roy. Past Master
Svend 0. K. Sorenson, Past Master
Tuolumne ______....No. S_Oscar Joseph Legg, Master....•........·-············ 11.52
William Earl LoCkhart, Senior Warden
Lewis Baoh, Past Master
Arthur E. Clink, Past Muter
Cecil B. Ma.t'hews, Past Maater
Corinthian ---·--··--No. 9.....Edmund T. Manwell. Master..,....................... 11.68
Edward F. Wideman, Senior Warden
Raymond L. Rusk, Past Master
San Jose -···--·--No. 10..-John M. Sepulveda, Maater............................ 4.54
Ph!Up B. Gerow, Senior Warden
G. Richard Arthur, Junior Warden
Frederick L. Brown, P.M. and lnapector........ 4.5-t
Frank L. Callisch, Past Master
Joseph S. Greenley, Past Master
Yount _ _ _ _ _ _ _No.12_Willlam D. Nelson, Master.......••.....·-············ 3.26
Edwin E. Douglass, Senior Warden
Kenneth V. Darland. Junior Wanien
Richard W. Clark. P.M. and lnapector..•.-.... 3.26
Cornelius Kernan, Past Master
Harold B. McCormick, Past Master
William H. Ricketts, Past Master
Nevada ·--·-··--No. 13....Albert G. Loveall, Master................................ 28.36
••-No. H._Wllson W. Emery, Past Master
Temple-·····
John N. Evans, Past Master
No. 16....Louls Robert Emler, Master..................·-······· 11.82
Eureka
George Rayner Geisendorfer, Senior Warden
Burrell Clifford Jull, P.M. and Inspector........ 11.82
John A!llan Lansden, Past Master
La Parfalte UnJoo.._..••••••.••No. 17._Charles G. Gulbengulan, Master
Bedros Pasdermadjlan.. Senior Warden

Name of Lodp

421
Milea1e Allowed

No. of Lodce

Henry M. Labaitallle. Junior Warden
Andre L. Armand, P.M. and Inspector
Andre P. Girerd, Past Master
Bclouard J. Lagarde, Past Master
Raymond J. Malfantl. Past Master
Jules Ramond. Past Master
Mountain Shade - - -...No.18._Verrell L. Shipley, Muttt---························· 40.76
Clarence V. Dawe, Junior Warden
San Joaquin ····-----No.19.._W, Turner Crowell, Master.---······--······· 7.94
Alonzo W. Stone, Senior Warden
George E. Woodruff, Junior Warden
J. Frank McClory, Past Master
Wesley A. Simard, Past Master
Wuhlngton -··---·····-No. 20_Paul F. W"9ner, Malttt...............-···-·····-···- 8.40
Dwight J. Morrow, Senior Warden
Robert L. Zehrbach, Junior Warden
Harold N. Richards. P.M. and Inspector...... 8.40
Henning J. Leuders. Past Master
Harold I. Schdlefteld, Past Master
2L.Davfd K. Wilson, Master.·-·-····-·····--···-··-··· 350.90
Hawaiian
Francis William Anderson, Senior Warden
Norman Robert 1Davis, Past Master
Occidental ··-···--···--····No. 22._MarShall A. Elvin, Master
TheodOt'e E. Rackerby, Senior Warden
Stanley S. Sto)kovic:h, Junior Warden
Rudolpb Mohr, Jr., P.M. and Inspector
Orville C. Baldwin, Past Master
Wi1Ham E. Bouton, Past Master
Lyle E. Patton, Past Master
Madison --·--··-··-···No. 23.-{W11 ~~~ooh: ~~:\v;;d;~··············- 27.76
Nafe P. Thompson. Junior Warden
Edward Farley, P.M. and Inspector.............. 27.76
Joseph T. Moran. Past Master
Mariposa -··-----No. 24....Andl Michael, Master...................................... 29.62
.Arthur W. Jones, Jr .. Senior Warden
Daniel Kleiman, P.M. and lnspeotior...... _...... 29.62
Garland Alford Gadd, Past Master
James P. MoElllgott, Past Master
Georgetown -·--·-··-No. 25-Anthony J. Semas. Senior Warden... _........... 13.62
Carl B. Forsberg, JuniOt' Warden
George H. Schlein, Past Master
El Dorado - - - · - - N o . 26-Robert 0. West, Senior Warden.................... 13.52
Trinity --··---···-···-No. 27.-W. R. Carter, Maater..........·-························· 39.12
Horace S. Gould. Junior Warden
Golden Gate ---·-··-No. 30..-Framc E. Fairchild, Master
Louis H. Marhesen, Senior Warden
Edward A. Hammer, JWlior Warden
Harry K. Wldup, P.M. and Inspector
Raymond H. Bradley, Past Malter
Gold Hill ···---~O. 32.•-Cliris P. Hansen. Master.......-......................... 11.08
Milton C. Elfertsen, Senior Warden
No. 33.....Piloyd G. Bowman, Master.. _.......- ........____ ... 11.94
Ophir - - · ·
William F. Blake, Jr., Junior Warden
San Diego _____ _No. 35.-R. H. Elliott, Muter..........·-··-··-··-·.............. 67.70
James H. Leach, Senior Warden
Oiarlea Ghadrow, Junior Warden
Joe L. She<ll, Senior Grand Warden.........·-···· 67.70
George W. Elder, Past Master

---------No.

!i

422
Name of Lodse

No. of Lodse

423

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mllease Allowed

Repraentatlvea

Alden J. Fulkerson, Past Master
Edward A. Johnson, Past Master
Fred J. H. Rickon, Past Master
Maurice B. Ross, Past Master..................·-··· 67.70
N
Howard
················-·-- o. 37_Henry F. Jensen, Master..·-·················-·····-··· 45.12
Arthur H. Barnett, Senior Warden
George S. Ward, P.M. and lnspec::l'Or'•.......•_ 45.12
Charles H. Orr, Past Master
Santa Cruz ··········-·············No• 38....Kenneth L. House, Master.·-······················- 7.34
William K. Bibbins, Senior Warden
Harry Simerly, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Hoff, Past Master
Frank E. Lindley, Past Master
Emil W. Trefts, Past Master-···-········--··· 7 34
Sacramento ----·------No. 40....Hubeit F. Benning, Master......·-················-·- 8:40
Rooert M. Larrlmer, Senior Warden
Rdbert Van Francis, Junior Warden
Harry M. Baker, Past Master
Martinez ···----··-···No. 41....Robert L. Evans, Master..·---···········-·-······ 3.28
Ernest C. Webb, Senior Warden
B. P. Schleifer. Past Master
George W. Sullton, Past Master
Wakefield Taylor, Past Master
L A
os ngeles ···-··············-·-No. 42....David S. Ross, Master..·-··-·························- 56.98
Jack S .Kotler, Senior Warden
Morton Schwartzman, Junior Warden
Matthew M. Codon, Past Master.................... 56.98
loseph D. Weisberg, Past Master
H
!ram ····--··--··--·-···No. 43....Ernest L. Scheiber, Master.·-···-····················· 13.82
Lewis E. June, Senior Warden
No. +4-Chester A. Webb, Master
Mount Moriah
Gunter Hoffman, Senior Warden
Gilbert M. Travis, Junior Warden
Jack Walton Leishman, P.M. and Inspector
H. M. Clift, Past Master
~rescent ·····-------No. 45.-Gustave W. Klotz, Senior Warden.·----·· +4.62
exas ··············--···-····-··--No. 46..-Davld F. Wright, P.M. and Representative.. 8.14
Forbestown -···---····-No. 50.....Roy L. Brown, Master..·-······-··········-············· 29.92
llllnoistown ··-····-···-··-No. 51 _]Imo H. Killgore, Senior Warden
· ussell R. Sweet, Master··········-·········-····-····· 26.16
Chester A. Gibbs, Senior Warden
Eugene W. Bedwell, Junior Warden
T. E. Sears, Past Master
Suis
un - -·-··-···----No. 55..-Robert F. Flaherty, Master·-·······-- ····-· 4.68
Lester S. Siebe, Senior Warden
Edgar G. Long, Past Master
v0 I
11 AA
N 56-W. Floyd Hooper• Junior Wa•dt R --·-···-···--No.
s cano
an a osa --·---····-···· o. 57..-Jack M. Cooper, Master-·····-·······-··········· 4.86
Merriwell M. Hodapp, Senior Warden
Jack T. Pearson, Junior Warden
Glendall W. McDermott, P.M. and Inspector 4.86
Edward T. Koford, Past Master...·-·····--·- 4.86
Shirley K. McMullin, Past Master
Robert Arthur Miller, Past Master
Oharles F. Minetti, Past Master
Howard W. Moen, Past Master
Frederick O. Reeder, Past Master
Charles C. Warren, Past Master
··--No. 58.-William Popper, Master-·-················-·······-··· 8.40
Union William H. McBride, Senior Warden
George A. Babb, Junior Warden
CU'

......_ . _ _ _ _

...

Name of Loclse

No. of Lod11e

Repraentativea

Mi1eaae Allowed

Otto F. Link, P.M. and Inspector....·---··Jack C. Butler, Past Master
Gravel Range --··--No. 59....Richard P. McKee, Senior Warden................
Earl L. Cleveland, Past Master
Plumas ···········-···-·-··--No. 60....E. B. Bond, Senior Warden............................
M. Bruce Myers, P.M. and Inspector.....·-···
Orval A. Myers, Past Master
H. Leslie Nichols, Past Master
Live Oak ··-·······-········-·····No. 61-A1bert Burnett Hood, Master
Folger Emerson, Senior Warden
Edward Johnson Blanchard, Junior Warden
Lee Swaney Griswold, Past Master
Reginald M. Mills, Past Master
Natoma ---········-····No. 64.. _Emmett Frazer Hil'I, Senior Warden............
Pel"Cy S. Blair, Past Master
Philip Hale Bowen, Past Master
Amador -·--·-··--No. 65.._Graham Curlee Kllnefeliter, Senior Warden..
Morning Star ··-····-··--··No. 68._J. Tyron Kelley, Master.......·--···-·················
M. Bey Greene, Senior Warden
Ballard C. Clark, Junior Warden
Stanley Hurst Wentz, P.M. and lnspec::tor....
George H. Buttrick, Past Master
'Robert W. Sdtaeneman, Past Master
Enterprise ---·-··--····--···No. 70.....Edward H. Liston, Master......·-·-··············-Ralph L. Atkinson, Senior Warden
Hugh D. Moncur, Past Master
Bear Mountain --···----No. 76._John A. Kirby, P.M. and Representative........
Calaveras ··-------No. 78.J,tonel Langley, Junior Warden......................
Evan E. Hall, P.M. and lnapedor....·--·········
Humboldt - - · · · ----·No. 79_Jack H. Trego, Master..............·-···············-···
Chester F. Peterson, Senior Warden
Helge A. Palmrose, Junior Warden
Howard B. Melendy, Past Master
lone ···-·····-···--··-·-·--No. 80_Russell B. Palmer, Senior Warden......·-·······
J. Wesley Sibole, P.M. and Inspector....... _._
Herbert C. Coney, Past Master
•
Melvin C. Jensen. Past Master
Yolo ··-······-···-·····--·--··-No. 81._Winston B. Marcum, Senior Warden............
Clarence Paulson. Junior Warden
Clyde F. Hayden, Past Master
Forrest Laugenour, Past Master
William P. Wilson, Past Master
Vesper ----·----No. 84....Edmund M. Moor, Master..............................
J:ph D. Allen, Senior Warden
Naval--·
B. Chambers, Muter---·--·-··········
·----No. 87..
Henry F. Tyrrell, Senior Warden
Everett D. Smith, Junior Warden
Donald H. Bricker, Past Master
Joseph Brouss, Past Master
John K. Cothran, Past Master
Philip S. Creedon, Past Master
Milton I. Dawson, Past Master
Ernest C. Fugler, Past Master
Frederick Graff, Past Master
Ralph A. Neely, Past Master
Melvin C. Nelson, Past Master
Bert C. Whiteley, Past Master
Bertrand Wichels, Past Master
~~far···-·-···-···-~ 89_Thomas K. Scogland, Junior Warden............
• 9t.~We2;~~~j~i~-w~~-------tar.

8.40
32.16
33.86
33.86

10.28
11.54
7.94
7.94
11.68
11.+4
10.74
10.74
39.72

11.94
11.94
8.70

31.44
3.30

13.88
41 so

424
Name ot Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. ol Loc11c

llepraenlatlvea

425

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mllcap Allciw.d

St. Helena ---··-··No. 93..-0harles Frank Ogletree, Master...................... 6.04
Titomas Beverly Street, Senior Warden
Rudolph Madison Ros&. Past Master
Henry Cay ··-----·-·····No. 95....Ray Francis, Muter•.................·-··················· 10.90
C. Robert Barnes, Senior Warden
Hornitos ···-·--··········-·No. 98..-James W. Short, Master..·-··············-············ 29.62
Hubert Boland, Senior Warden
Wi1900 E. Lathrop, P.M. and Inspector........ 25.82
Y osemfte --·---···-No. 99__William A. Duffus. Muter......................·-····· 25.82
John R. Laird, Senior Warden
Elmer G. Nordman, Junior Warden
Leland D. Boysen, Past Master
Ralph E. E!Us, Past Master
Andrew R. Schottky, Past Maater.................. 8.40
Cay - · · - · - - - N o . 101.J.yle D. Tice, Master····-·-·······-······················ 27.iO
Thomas Edwards, Past Master
H. W. Haberkorn, Past Master
Orovnte ---·-·-······-···No.103.._John C. Gilbert, Senior Warden..........·-······· 26.82
L. Howard Casagrande, P.M. and Inspector 26.82
A1roy J. Gault, Past Master
Lexington --····--·--No. lOL.Roy C. Addleman, Master·--··-············-··-· -· 56.98
Chris S. Luthy, Senior Warden
John V. Craven, Past Master
Arcata ··········-············--No. 106....Elmer N. Miller, Senior Warden.................... 39.72
Wayne C. Graham, Junior Warden
Sidney A. Webster, P.M. and lnspeoror........ 39.72
James Edwin Morton, Past Master
James N. Palm.er, Sr.. Past Master
PaJaro ··---·-·········-·..No. 110....Earle E. Jdhnson, Jr., Muter·-··················-·- 9.32
Melvin C. Loftin, Senior Warden
Walter C. Francis, Junioc' Warden
Andrew F. Edwards, Past Master
H. R. Hushbeck, Past Muter
Chico ---····--·--...No. 11 t.f~~:W~R~~~·~:w;d~~-·
2s.6i
William M. U>nnor, Junior Warden
William C. Brouillard, P.M. and Inspector.... 28.6i
Theodore Meriam, Past Master
Eric A. Tonningsen, Past Master
Samuel K. Troxel, Past Master
Summit - - -·- ···-···-No. 112-Tahn B. Grohl, Jr., Master................................ 11.22
'llhomas H. Prowse, Past Master
Eden ----·········-·No. 113.._William E. Sitzer, Master
Emest D. Hutton, Senior Warden
Elmer E. Roa, Paat Master
__No.117_Sam I. Bonn, Master:--···- ····---··-··········· 8.40
Concord - - - Robert A. Banks, Senior Warden
Chester L. Johnson, Junior Warden
Martin C. Davis, Past Master
Fldelfty ___ ....- .... _ _ ..No.120._Charles Kalajlan, Master
Abraham Hoffman, Sen:ior Warden
Moss E. Ghase, Junior Warden
Irving A. Berliner, Past Master
Albert Farber, Past Master
Reuben E. Gilbert, Past Master
Bernie J. Katz, Past Master
Robel'lt A. Klinger, Past Master
Mark H. Nusbaum, Past Master

..··········-······

Name of Loclac

No. of Loc11c

Mllap Allowed

Max Rudorfer, Past Master
Miltoo D. Sapiro, Past Muter
Harold S. Simon, Past Master
Leo J. Simon. Past Master
Cyril Weeks, Past Maste!'
Alamo
..No.122 George S. Hansen, Master............................. .
···-·-··-··---·
··-Ralph M. Hinds. P.M. and Inspector............. .
Paul F. Ruff, P.M. and Inspector....................
John H. Demartini. Past Master
Jesse B. Near, Put Master
O . J. Wobl~emuth, Past Master
Sotoyome ··-··--No.123_G eorge A. Smtih. Master....·-·····-··················
F. Wrede ThraII, Senior Warden
Table Mountain ····-········No.124._Roya l E. Ohamberlain, Senior Warden........
Basil R. Gillett, Grand Bible Beare!'.....- .........
Lafayette ····---·-·-···-No.126-. Ralph M. Hilton, Master-·······························
Elmer B. Ganison, Put Mester
William K. Heathorne, Past Master
William C. Hea~y. Past Master
Clarence J. MacKenzie, Past Master
James G. Thomson, Past Master
Hermann ·-·-····-··-··--No. 127.._George John Muller, Master
Walter Herzog, Senior Warden
Oscar Goebel. Junior Warden
Oscar P. Bachmann, Past Master
RiC'hard H. Dadhner, Past Master
William K. Haag, Past Master
Henry Harde, Past Master
Henry Hauschildt, Past Master
AlheT't G. Matthes, Past Master
Wilhelm Schumacher, Past Master
Visalia ···---··--···_..No.128 -George R. Coats. Muter..................................
Emerson Westcott, Senior Warden
Duke S. Lipscomb, Junior Warden
James Barnett Lawson, P.M. and Inspector..
Frank C. Barboni, Past Master
Vernon F. Cruzen, Past Master
Mitdhe11 Lunstra, Past Master
Bertrand L. Pa}"ton, Past Master
Gale H. Porter, Past Master
Marvin 0. Wlnings, Past Master
Nicolaus ----······--·-No. 129._Edward H. G. Dennett, Junior Warden-......
James F. Taresih, Past Master
Woodbridge ····-····-··--No. 131....David E. Kellar, Master-···--·-·····-········ ·····
Howard E. Whe~ler. Senior Warden
Palmer A. Wells, P.M. and Inspect<lr..... _...•.
Clyde H. Gregg, Past Mutef'
Sincerity ··-·-·---·No.132....Harry_Petzwal, Junior Warden.-·······-·········
Lyal Wells, Past Master
Vacaville --···-·--No.134....Ernest L. Burd, Senior Warden......................
Robert Grady Allen, Past Master
Valley ---··-·--No.135.. _Clarence W. Mapes, P.M. & Representative
Ralph M. Foote, Assistant Grand Lecturer....
Paciflc --·
No. 136....Herbert Pothier, Master
Henry D. Schneider, Senior Warden
Raymond H. Levy, Junior Warden
Albert A. Axelrod, Past Master
Eugene S. Elkus. Past Master
Samuel C. Levin, Past Master
Maurice Levy, Past Master
Paul Nathan, Past Master

1.90
1.90
1.90

5.90

30.34
30.34

5.66

35.0i
35.0i

11.68

9.20
9.20
35.56
5.62
8.94
8.94

426
Name of Lodp

No. o£Lod11e

ltcpresentativea

427

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Mileap AllDW&cl

_ _ _ No. 139-..Arthur Ernest Allen, Sr., Master
Sherman Donald West. Senior Warden
Ralph Truman Spencer, Junior Warden
Ballard White, Jr., P.M. and Inspector..........
Zina R. Callaham, Past Master
William A.H. Fleischer, Past Master
Oiarles S. McGlothlin, Past Master
Richard E. Schreiber, Past Master
Ford J. Thornton, Past Master
Curtis ......--......................No.140..James D. Mackey,_ Master...........- ...................
Jess Scott, Past ,Master......................... _.........
...No. HLJ..ouls H. Roye, Master....................................
Grafton ___
James R. Bohannon, Past Master
Lowell H. Dyer, Pa;st Master
Franklin _ _ _ _ _ _ No. 143._William F. Shelton, Master............................
Charles F. McDowell, Junior Warden
Ray Earl Burdg, P.M. and Inspector............ ..
Oriental ··----------·--...No. l+f_Tilomas R. Smiley, Master
John D. Hansen, Senior Warden
Maynard R. Watson, Junior Warden
Paul F. Balck. Past Master
J. Clark Benson, Past Master
W. Stanley Davis, Past Master
George D. Gavin, Past Master
Lawrence P. Hansen, Past Master
John D. Julianus, Past Master
Ian A. Russell, Past Master
Vltruvtus ...- ............. _No.145 .. ..Leonard Nelson. Master................................. .
No. 146-Harold 0 . Hoover, Master..............................
Abell - - - - ·
Ailbert E . Thh-kill, Senior Warden
Elmer M. Hopper, P.M. and Inspector..........
George R. Dietterle, Past Master
Robel"t L. Harmon, Past Master
Eel River - - - - -........No. 147....Maurlce J. Dungan. Master..................._.........
William Dunn. Senior Warden
Ray Stewart. Grand Standard Bearer........... .
Robert Ross, Past Master
Lassen ........................._ ..No.149....Frank J. Elliott, ·Master....................................
Earl K. Campbell, Senior Warden
John M. Langley, Junior Warden
Elmer Glenn Van Tassell. P.M. & Inspector
Robert M. Fulton, Past Master
Molino ·----·-·-·---·-·No.150_John A. Mohler, Master...·- ··--·-·-···---------····Tames M. Wade, Senior Warden
tloyd A. Countryman, P.M. and Inspector..
Woodland ___________ No.156.-George M. James, Master..........................- ...
Clyde Sinclair, Senior Warden
J. D. Musgrove, Jr., Past Master
Keystone ·---··-·--··---No. 16l_Not represented
Harmony -·---·-·--·No. 164....Arthur I. Copeland. Master....._.....................
James R. Lamb. Senior Warden
Excelsior _____..._.............No.166....Barl Graham Marshall. Master
Stuart Fenner Dornsife, Senior Warden
Alfred Douglas Maas. Junior Warden
Oharles Albert Adams. Past Grand Master
Bel"t T. Baker, Past Master
John C. Bovey, Past Master
Ralph E. Flathmann, Past Master
Ft'ed W. Knight, Past Master
Harry Frier Lutticken, Past Master
W. Blair Rixon, Past Master

Name of Lodp

No. of Lodp

ll&p._..tati-

No. 167._Sherman Schroder, Muter_______
Ferris Brazle. Senior Warden
Redwood City _ _ _ _No.168....John H. Philip, Master·-·---------·--------...
B. Lloyd Osborne, Senior Warden
Frank D. Wentworth, Junior Warden
Otis M. Carring,ton, Past Master
Mission ......................._ ...No. 169....C. Allen Carpenter, Master
Robert D. Lintner, Senior Warden
John T. Montgomery, Junior Warden
ack E. Hursh, Past Master
ohn C. Strickler, Past Master
eginald C. Taverner, Past Master
Frank H. Thrall. Past Master
Elk Grove ....... ____No.173._Doyle Leon McDaniel, Senior Warden..-David Darrell Davies, Junior Warden
Drytown _ _ _ _ _ _No. 174.-J. K. Van Ausclal, Senior Warden..................
No.175-0harles C. Messer, Master.....---·-·- ·- Antioch
James R. Ledbetter, Senior Warden
Charles M. Smith, Junior Warden
George H. Rebstock, Past Master
Phoenix ...- .................._No.178-Jack Gipson, Master.......- ..-- ..·-------------·A. D. Scovel, Senior Warden
Dean B. Reynolds, Junior Warden
Talmadge E. Benson, Past Master
Ralph Linfesty, Past Master
Emil T. Stahl, Past Master
Mendocino -------·---··...No. 179....Earl M. Ellis, Senior Warden.....- ...........-...
John D. Dearing, Sr., Past Master
Petaluma _________No.180....Gordon A. Leask, Master..... _______________
Waldemar B. King, Senior Warden
Philip A. Talamantes, Junior Warden
John Keller, Jr., Past Master
Park A. Van Bebber, Past Master
J. Carl Werner, Past Master
Russian River __...!.._•••No. 181...John M. Swearingen, Master.............-...........
H. A. Anderson, Senior Warden
Jdhn W. Wright, Junior Warden
Carroll C. Doane, P.M. and Inspector..........
Arbuckle _______No. 182....Not represented
G. Rol'h, Master......_ .._________________
.Jierbert
.
No.183
...
________
Clear Lake
Sam Jackson, Junior Warden
Clarence E. c.orum, Past Master
No. 184....Gifford D. Webber, Past Master
Sierra Valley
Donald W. Webber, Past Master
No. 185_Archer R. Richardson, Past Master
Claiborne
Evening Star _____ No.186.. ..L. W. Lampert, Junior Warden. _____., ___
Erline HJertager, Past Master
Thomas Harrison Howell, Past Master
N. Frank Swickard, Past Master
..._No. 187....Donald Dillehay, Master·-·-···--·-·----Keith •
Jack Ronald, Senior Warden
Robert Chappell, Junior Warden
Ernest A. Harrison, P.M. and Inspector... _...
Elmer Chesbro, Past Master
Oakland ---·---...- .....No. 188....Lester H. Landre, Master
Floyd H. Vincent, Senior Warden
Willard H. Nutting, Jr., Junior Warden
M. L. Graves, Past Master
Sidney Sea, Past Master
Rue W. Sims, Past Master
Alameda

Crockett ---

40.76

7.40
7.40

8.90
9.80

9.80

5.94
10.86
10.86
37.40
37.40
40.52
40.52
30.36

17.74
8.10

39.22

Milea111C ADo..ed

3.12
2.46

~

8.40
10.80
5.06

61.94

19.56
3.94

5.40
4.86
5.70

49.60

7.34
7.34

428
Name or Lod;e

No. or Lodge

Repreaentatlvea

Milea11e Allowtc1

Northern Light --·------·····-No. 190.-Hollis W. McClelland, Master..............•...••.. _
Marin ··--·-·················---·--No. 191-Arth\Jll' E. Hessel, Master
WiJliam M. Vanderbilt, Senior Warden
Thomas W. King, Junior Warden
George T. Rowse, P.M. and Inspector
John V. Bacigalupi, Past Master
Henrv E. Greer, Past Master
Joseph C. Meagor, Past Master
Horace W. Rice, Past Master
RusseH H. Warden, Past Master
Walter M. Young, Past Master
Santa Barbara ···-············-No. 192._George H. Roberts, Jr.. Master..............·-·····
Ray H. Paine, Senior Warden
Ferndale ---·-···-····--------No. 193.-Chris R. Ma.dies, Senior Warden..................
Mountain View ..........•.•...No. 194.._C. Mortimer Moore, Master·-········-···············
James D. Marsh, Senior Warden
Sam Poncini, Junior Warden
Arno Ragghiantl, P.M. and Inspector............
Walter L. Erichsen, Past Master
Buckeye -----·-····-----·········No. 195.-Lfonel W. Scliroeder, Master........................
Claude Meyer, Senior Warden
Milton Hoffe Sha'.l"'J>, P.M. and Inspector......
Charles A. Elliott, Past Master
San Simeon ········-···---·--···No. 1%....James F. Fry, P.M. and Representative........
Wilmington --········-·······--No. 198__Jack T. Lewis. Master......................................
John H. Hendry, Senior Warden
Ralph A. Smale, Junior Warden
Alton T. DuRant, P.M. and lnspeotm•...... _.
Don C. Fohl, Past Master
Thomas F. Mason, Past Muter..·-···-········-·-William S. Wood, Past Muter
Hartley ······--······--···-·-No. 199__0harles Eugene Neal, Senior Warden....·-···
Guido de Ghetaldi, P.M. and Inspector........
Truckee ----···········--····---No. 200_w. E. Philippi, Master........................-----·Tames Mciver, Jr., Senior Warden
E. E. Thompson, Jr., Junior Warden
Jdhn Daniel Anderson, Past Master
Silveyville ···········-········-·No. 201..~man Phillips, Master.·-·-···-·-····-·--···-··

J

429

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

a~:se~.~i?~~~W~~~:t:arden

ohn W. Tutt, Past Master
Pentalpha ---········---------No. 202._Nonnan Turp, Master·----·--···-············-----·-Harvey A. Ryan, Senior Warden
Leonard L. Cutshall, Junlor Warden
John M. Gordon, Past Master
W.R. Hervey, Jr., Past Master
Clarence W. Hull. Past Master
Clovis J. Robert, Past Master
Confidence ·········---·-·········No. 203.J.ouis Martin, Muter·--·····--········-···--·····-Henry C. Raines, Junlor Warden
Edgar Earle Breaux, Past Master
Fong Q. Jing, Past Master
Salinas -·----··············----No. 204..-Wm. H. Leach, Master-----···-······-··-·----Wilton J. Smith, Senior Warden
Percy Cracknell, Past Master
Chester E. Dunn, Past Master
Freeman Geo. Sanders, P.M. and Inspector..
Olivet --······-····--····-·······-·No. 205.._Alfred A. Burling, Master..·---··-····-··········James A. Hebrew, Senior Warden

35.82

47.20
38.96
3.42
3.42

7.72
7.72
34.60
56.98
56.98
56.98
10.00
10.00
32.36

6.40

56.98

10.14

10.74

10.74
29.56

Name of Lod11e

No. of Lod11e

Repraentativea

Mfiea11e Allowed

Clarence A. Strousness, Junior Warden
Donald S. Hollenberg, Past Master
Otto B. Liersch, Past Master
Stanislaus -----·-----No. 206..-Loren E. Lacque, Maater......·-··········-······-···
11heodore Gallup, Senior Warden
Judson L. McDonald, Junior Warden
Howard H. Thurber, Past MasterAnaheim ····-··----·-----No. 207-Charles A. Houston, Master......·-········-·········
Kenneth L. Dunlavy, Senior Warden
A. Bird Cr<>M, P.M. and Inspector............·-···
George W. Alden, Past Master
Harvey E. Kirk, Past Master
Roy Luther, Past Master
Rio Vista ····-···--·-··-----No. 208..-Neil R. Hamilton, Master...........·-······--·-----Robert Augusto, Junior Warden
,
C. Earl Stewart. Past Master
King Davids ··-·········-··--No. 209..-Stanley H. Nelson, Master..·-···········-·······--···
George R. Wiedh, Senior Warden
Orin Compton, P.M. and Inspector......·-·····Casper J. Weltr, Jr .. Past Master
Friendship -··--·-·--·-·--No. 210..-Roland E. Snyder, Master-----·-·················William Hershbel"Jer, Senior Warden
John Haanstra, Junior Warden
Lawrence A. Campbell, Past Master
Forrest Von Dorsten, Past Master
Frederick 0. Eaton, Past Master
John F. Knight, Past Master
Carl H. Nelson, Past Master
Robert L. Norton, Past Master
William P. Truran, Past Master
San Benito ---··-·-············No. 21 L ..Albert W. Hinz, P,M. and Representative....
H. A. Hermansen, Past Master
South San Frandsco..- ....No. 212..-Rooert J. Rasmussen, Master
Olaude J. Palmer, Junior Warden
Henry A. Kruger, Past Master
George A. Lastein. Past Muter
Andrew D. Zanetti, Past Master
San Buenaventura ............No. 214.. _Norman J. Mead, Master......·-···············-·······
Warren H. Eakins, Senior Warden
Charles E. Steller, Junior Warden
Michael L. Brazil. Past Master
Lyman E. Hallowell, Past Master
David B. Hill, Past Master
Oak Grove ---·----No. 21S__ Herman W. Ingold, Master
Lester H. Brooks, Senior Warden
William Nankervis, Jr., P.M. and Inspector
T. James Carlile, Past Master
Wm. H. Cox, Past Master
Otto H. Fisdher, Past Master
Don L. Geisert, Past Master
Edward Ambrose Johnson, Past •Master
George S. Mutch, Past Master
Doric -------·-·-··No. 216....Leonard S. Lurie, Master
Alexander Horne, Senior Warden
Thomas J. Callaway, Junior Warden
Lra W. Coburn, Past Master
Samuel I. Jacobs. Past Muter
Monterey -·-····--·-··-···-No. 217....Ronald W. Brown. Senior Warden..............
Mosaic
..........- .•.No. 218.-Herbert L. Hag_emann, Jr., Master...... ____________
Niles Burdette Bentley,_Past Master
Albin R. Jensen, Past Master

9.66

58.06
58.06

6.38
35.98
35.98
4.54

8.44

49.78

11.52
4.54

430
Name of Lodp

No. of Lod&e

Name of Lodp

Repr...ntatlYOI

Speranza ltaliana _____No. 219•.-Joseph A. Becclo, Past Master
Vito L. Bruno, Past Master
Ulisse Cortopassi, Past Master
John kardi, Past Master
John Icardo, Past Master
Joseph Milani, Past Master
Downey ········-····--······No . 220._William H. Gray, Master-·-···--· ·-·-Marvin H. Bornholdt, Senior Warden
Henry P. Lawhorn, P.M. and Inspector..... _.
Floyd P. Severance, Past Master
Inyo ----··-----··· No. 221.-Russell A. Bell, Maater·-··--··-··- --··-······William A. Gardner, Junior Warden
Roseville -·--··---·-··No . 22L.Lloyd T. Bell, Master.....·----····-·-····--· ·Walter C. Schremmer, Senior Warden
Kenneth Davidson, Past Master
Bakersfield --·-·····-·····No. 224._Gordon W. Parker, Master·-····-···················
Eugene C. Oldershaw, Senior Warden
James W. Borgman, Junior Warden
William H. McKenney, P.M. and Inspector
J. Oifton Carpenter, Past Master
Sam J. Kliewer, Past Master
Lloyd E. Myers, Past Master
Brooklyn ·····-···-···-·····No . 225.._W. Carleton Marshall, Master
Don Davis Holm, Senior Warden
Roy Kirk, Junior Warden
Roy H. Lenthall, P.M. and Inspector
Roy F. Anderson, Past Master
George E. Horne, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
San Mateo ·-····-····-··-·No. 226....Emest T. Lund, Master
Albert A. Uhlrich, Senior Warden
Walter R. Bloss, Junior Warden
Clarence C. Smith, P.M. and Inspector
Athens ----···-···-N o. 228.._Charles W. Styler, Senior Warden.-····-Gus A. Haussler, Past Master
Robert R. Haussler, Past Master
Louis J. Hayes, Past Master
Solano --··----No . 229....Emest B. Kemp, Master·-···- ---···William D. Myska, Senior Warden
Paul J. Billings, Junior Warden
Clarence E. Shoaf, P.M and Inspector.-.......
Russell C. Jones, Past Master
Edwin N. Sanders, Past Master
North Butte ---·--······No. 230._Donald J. Mich, Junior Warden._··-····-·· ---·
Clare B. Campbell, Assistant Grand Leoturer
Oharles A. Miller, Past Master
Covelo ---·····-···········N o. 231._Hugh F. MacKenzie, Jr., Master..·--·············
Edmund A. Grosch, Senior Warden
John D. Robrbough, Past Master
Janesville -··--···--No . 232-William P. Jeter, Master-·············· ·-··-··--···
Joseph S. Roberts, Senior Warden
Percy R. Browne, Junior Warden
John T. Crabtree, Past Master
Calistoga ----··-·······-No . 233....Argyll P. Spain, Senior Warden.•..·-··-·········
Harold R. Reeder, Junior Warden
Andrew M. Tahja, Past Master
··-.--···-No. 234.. _Robert R. Williams, P.M. & Representative
Hope
Surprla~ VaUey ,,.,....,.......No. 235.-Jack R. Grove, P.M. and ID.lpeda'.-·-···-··· ·

431

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

56.98
56.98
54.38
10.14
41.08
41.08

7.18

3.30
3.30
13.40
13.40
11.38
41.52

7.00
36.70
55.92

No. of Lod&e

Repreaentati-

Mlleap Allowed

Hills Ferry ····--···----No. 236-Floyd E. Pettis, Malter·-·-·-·-·- ····-·····Dan M. Cook, Senior Warden
James E. Williams, Junior Warden
William S. 'Thompson, P.M. and lnspe«or..
Guadalupe ···-·····-····--No. 237-E. Driscoll Truitt, Master........·-·--······-·······
William H. Crain, Senior Warden
Earl 0. Kauffmain, Junior Warden
Thomas G. Cocking, Past Master
C. D. Cordash, Past Master
Henry R. Gewe, Past Master
John Jenkins, Past Master
Douglas H. Martin, Past Masttt..·-······-··-···
Herscliel S. Scott, Past Master
Jack C. Sleath, Past Master
Harry S. Smith, Past Master
Colusa ····-···-········-·····-N o. 240.._M. H. Totman, Master·-····-····-········-···········
L. R. Proctor, Senior Warden
W. G. Brill, Junior Warden
W. G. Davison, Past Master
Santa Ana ...........•............No. 241._Jack B. Ham, Master_···-······--· ··················
George H. Ra91llussen, Senior Warden
Augustus H. Allen, Past Master·-··-········- ·
Albert F. Hill, Past Master
Miner E. Whitford, Past Master
Magnolia ----···-··-·····No . 242__William H. N. Bryant. Jr., Master.............. _
Donald W. Haag, Senior Warden
Ray_I. Nokes, Junior Warden
R. Wayne Milton, P.M. and lmpector..........
Eucalyptus -····--····-········No. 243.-Jacob H. Cross. Master
Henry J. Keim, Senior Warden
Howard W. Anderson, Junior Warden
Ho'11'ard L. Burr, Past Master
Fred H. Horwood, Past Master
W. T. Smith, Past Master
Anthony F. Taylor, Past Master
Arthur Woodruff, Past Master
Alcatraz ········-·····-······--No. 244..-Lowell L. Walker, Master
Stanier P. Vasilovich, Senior Warden
Lowe) K. Bain, Past Master
Arthur H. Gawne, Past Master
John G. Sjoberg, Past Master
Beverley C. Sutliff, Past Master
Aibner F. Thompson, Past Master
Laurel -·····-·--···-·--- No. 245._Emmett C. Adams, Muter-···-···--···············
Marvin Eriksen, Senior Warden
George D. Ellis, Junior Warden
Howard Rose Allard, Past Master
A. Fred Lefors, Past Master
Pomona ....................- ......No. 246....Eugene B. Frater, Master.....--··-···················
Wm. L. Grant, Senior Warden
Donald E. Oxnbe, Junior Warden
Joseph A. Allard, Jr., Past Master
Fresno ···················-········No. 247.._George E. Hiatt, Master..................................
Wayne H. Towne, Senior Warden
Roger E. Butler, Junior Warden
Chester H. Warfow, Past Grand Master......
John L. Stewart, Jr., Past Master
Harry D. Watkins, Past Master
Harry F. White, Past Master
Alturas ················--·..:-.•-No. 248.. _Wm. A. Goodfellow, JUnior Warden............

10.28
10.28
39.10

39.10

12.62

58.06
58.06
47.20
47.20

26.92

60.26

30.98
30.98

50.18

432
Name of Lodae

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loclp

llepraentatlva

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Milcap AllOW9d

Adin ________ No. 250.-R.lchard Ray Vernon. Senior Warden..... ___
Landmark _
..__ __No. 253-Jaclt D. Mast, Senior Warden......·-····-····Andrew Hess, Junior Warden
Reading ···--····--··--·No. 25.f.J>ooald Breot. Master............·--·-········-·-···
Norman H. Harvey, Senior Warden
Albert A. Bryceson, P.M. and lnspectm.-....
Daniel C. McRae, Past Master
Albert F. Ross. Past Muter..........·-············-·
Welcome ··········-··········-··No. 255..-~B.Turner, Junior Warden............·-·········
• Ralph Dawdy, P .M. and Inspector............
d R. Ward, Past Master
Lodi ........- ...- ...._ _ _No. 256-Fred S. Heagarty, Senior Warden................
T. Glenn Wright, Past Master
Penrhyn ···-------No. 258.Jfarold Marvin Pilliard, Master......................
William Ray Tudslhury, Senior Warden
Robert Lee Tudsbury, Jr .. Past Master
Evergreen -·-·····-----No. 259-ivki!:Jt i~~~$~c!sW;~d~~--· --···--······-Willard G. Babcock, P.M. and lnspeotor......
Sherman G. Babcock. Past Master
Ralph A. Baker, Past Muter
B}"ron C. Morton, Past Muter......................
King Solomon's ..............-No. 260..-Wil1liam F. Gately, Master
Otarles W. Menzies, Senior Warden
Oharles F. Burrows, Jr., Junior Warden
Ulysses Geo. PMJ-opulos. P.M. and Inspector
Helll'}' E. Bennett, Past Master
Thomas W. Chinn, Past Master
Russell H. Colliander, Past Master
John W. Davey, Past Master
Stephen J. Dean, J.r., Pa!ii Master
Albert 0. Ritt, Past Master
John E. Werry, Past Master
William H. White, Put Master
Tuscan ----·-···-····-···-No. 261._WMl!am E. Owens, Master..............................
Heonry A. Atwood. Past Muter
Lompoc ····----············-····No. 262.._Walter R. Manfrina, Master..........................
Gordon Davis, Past Master
H. Neal Martin, Past Master
Hesperlan .................-......No. 264.. _Firaok H. Billard!, Maater................................
Thomas E. Truesdale, Senior Warden
EdwMd J. Pryor, Junior Warden
Henry Dra9hner, P.M. and Inspector............
Orland ······--·-····-····-·-·No. 265-Frederick J. Cufaude, Muter..........................
Duane M. Gleason, Senior Warden
Edward P. Johnson, Past Master
North East ·····-··-···-·-No. 266.._Henry Kober, P.M. and Representative........
Galt ··-············--···-···..···---No. 267....Atleck E. Dambacher, Jr., Senior Warden......
Lester K. March, Junior Warden
Durant ··········----·-···-·--·No. 268._Niles 0. Millar, Jr., Master
Lon M. Ganglmayer, Senior Warden
Thomas V. Adams, Junior Warden
Niles 0. Millar, P.M. and Inspector
Byron B. Bolling, Past Mastec
Oliver J. Brown, Past Master
Ralph E. Hoyt, Past Master
Melvin L. Jory, Past Master
Charles R. Ratkovich, Past Master

52.88
9.00
34.72
34.72
34.72
32.68
32.68
8.40
11.08
62.40
62.40
62.40

11.82
41.74
39.10
39.10
28.32
53.48
8.40

Name of Lodae

No. of Loclp

Lpraentatlva

433
Milcap Allowed

Olive Branch -····-·-·-No• 269--Paul L. Yager, Master......................·--····-·- 35.18
Wilbur D. Hamllh, Jr., Senior Warden
Virgil R. Shoemaker, Junior Warden
James Paul Jones, Jr., Past Master
Snow Mountain -·-··---No. 271_0har1es A. Buder, P.M. and Representative 17.20
Pasadena - - - · - - N o . 272....Marvln R. Ives, Master..... --~·-·-···-·-···-· 58.20
Harry Beeson, Senior Warden
W. tlarold Archibald, Junior Warden
Pnmk M. Booth, Past Master
Ralph T. Merriam., Past Master
Anchor -·-------No. 273 .._Wade C. Wilson, Master...............·---······-···· 56.98
Lynn W. DaveD_pOrt, Senior Warden
Edwin W. Cliaffee, Junior Warden
George Q. Evans, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Theodore M. Newton, Past Master
Ralph K. Pierson, Past Master....·-··--·-··-· 56.98
Arroyo ----·------..No. 274....LoRay C. Bair, Masttt·----············--·-········- 37.18
Walter A. Baxter, Senior Warden
Harry E. Davis, Past Master
Martin E. McCune, Past Master
Oakdale - ·
No. 275.....Robert W. Dunwoody, Senior Warden........ 9.92
Claiborn Schonhoff, P.M. and Inspector......
9.92
l·ra M. Delong, Past Master
Selma --·----···-No. 277._0haa. Parker, Jr., Maater................................ 32.54
Kenneth L. Cruff, Senior Warden
Vernon L. Shirley, Junior Warden
Paul J. Nielsen, Past Master
Southern California ........No. 278....Karl Konig, Master.......................................... 56.98
Francis T. GaJvery, Senior Warden
Collier K. Goodenough, Junior Warden
William J. Cook, Past Master
Frands B. Galvery. Past Master
Harold E. McComas, Past Master
Charles T. Medler, Past Master
Adolphe R. E. Roome, Past Master
Harold V. Spenoler, Past Master
Hanford ---·---···No. 279-Jack H. Rudy, Jr., Senior Warden................ 31.88
Cleo 0. Webb, Junior Warden
W. T. Bernstein, Past Master
Madera
No. 280....L. R. Martin, Junior Warden.......................... 29.10
A. L. Arnold. Past Master
·
Mt. Shasta ------No. 281.....Ray Gullixson, Master.-................................ 33.62
William C. Gover, Past Master
Callayoml ---·-·----No. 282..-Not represented
South West _ _ ___No. 283_Albert F. Garmire, Senior Warden................ 67.70
Joshua H. Sorrells, Junior WIU'den
Robert H. Beetlestone, Past •Master
B. Ward Keyes, Jr., Past Master
Theodore R. Milfer. Past Master
Ira G. Silver, Put Master..... -·····--··-·····-·-- 67.70
San Miguel ·-----No. 285.....Maurice C. Getzelman, P.M. & Rept"esentatlve 31.74
Paso Robles ···-------No. 286.. _Edward G. Bermingham, Master.................... 32.70
OhaUDCey W. West, Senior Warden
Winnedumah ------No. 287.._Donald R. McCormick, Senior Warden........ 48.80
Wilfred W. Par1tridge, P.M. and lnspectm.. 48.80
Roy Boothe, Past Master
Arthur W. Hess, Past Master
Maxwell --·-··-·-···--No. 288..Jrwin Dages, Junior Warden.......................... 12.60
Leland E. Wallace, P.M. and lnspec!IOr........ 12.60

434
Name of Lodse

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodse

RepraentatlVeti

435

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileap AllOWecl

Elsinore -·····-··············-···No. 289...•Willis A. Thompson, Senior Warden..·-····Robert W. Goodwin, Past Master
Howard G. Habenicht, Past Master
East Gate -······-···--··-·No. 290.._Glifford Calvin Post. Master·-··-······---·James Theodore Edkins, Senior Warden
John Allen Crosby, Past Master
J. Walter Sprouse, Past Master
Santa Paula ····-··-·-··-No. 291....Riohard Henry Butoher, Junior Warden........
Los Gatos ...........- .............No. 292.._Jack F. Painter, Master....·-····-·······................
Earl R. Haskell, Senior Warden
Loren Alton Lloyd, P.M. and Inspector........
Fred Berryman, Past Master
Raymond J. Fisher, Past Master
William Jones, Past Master
Orange Grove .......- .........No. 293....Sam R. Hindle, Muter.....-.............................
Zelvan R. Patterson, Senior Warden
Leon 0. Wh~tsell, Past Grand Master..........
George W. Hooton, Past Master
John S. Lampert, Past Master
Charles S. McCandless. Past Master
Dale B. Sarver, Past Master
Traver --·-···--···-No. 294....kT~J.1R:;c~s!~~~-Ward;~·····-···-.......
Gordon E. Scott, Junior Warden
Glenn N. Kolander, Past Master
Clare R. Nelson, Past Master
Mt. Jackson ·····-···-···-No. 295....Frank Gunther, Senior Warden......................
Silver Gate _______ No. 296....Conrad J. Spencer, Master.....___..................
Melvin C. Ketcham, Senior Warden
Thomas D. Meyer, Junior Warden
Fred S. Weed, P.M. and Inspector................
Willard A. Braasch, Past Master
Warren W. Fitch, Past Master
Ernest M. Newton, Past Master
Oakley D. North, Past Master
Raymond W. Tombaugh, Past Master
Dunsmuir ·---···--··No. 297....Nlcanor Manlaplg, Jr., Master........................
Robert C. Harris, Senior Warden
Liberty ···-·--···--·--.No. 299.._0hester J. Grant, Master.......-.........................
Donald B. Finoh, Junior Warden
Redlands ..........................No. 300....Austln H. Garrett, Senior Warden................
Holly E. Rees, Jr., Junior Warden
Kenneth Dowell, P.M. and Inspector............
Clarence Robert Beck, Jr., Past Master
Glement F. Patton, Past Master
Clarence E. Perry, Past Master
Ontario ···-····-···..···-·---No. 301.._William Aaron Nichols, Senior Warden......
Reynold C. MacDonald, Junior Grand Deacon
Albert Glarence Goodwin. Past Master
Santa Lucia ···-··--·-···No. 302-Jack A. Hayes, Master........_ ...._...................
Grant N. Bridges, Senior Warden
George William Ross, Junior Warden
Earl Dewey Benadom, Past Master
Melvin W. Davis, Past Master
Ree C. Grim, Past Master
Fred Young Mar, Past Master
Porterville ····-···--···..-·..No. 303-Louis R. Stephen, Master..............................Robert D. MiShler, Senior Warden

63.90
56.98

50.78
5.64
5.64

59.62
7.94

33.00

7.86
67.70
67.70

40.00
4.54
63.18
63.18

60.72
60.72
14.94

37.34

Name of Lodp

No. of Lodse

llepraentatiVeti

Mlleap Allowed

Reedley _ ...............- •••.No. 304....Leonard C. Haggerty, Senior Warden..........
Merton B. Parlier, Past Master
Azusa - - - ·
No. 305-James D. Spears, Master_.. _.........................
Charles B. McLees, Senior Warden
Walter B. Rowe, Junior Warden
Stephen E. Skidmore, P.M. and lnspeotor....
J. Arleiglh Lee, Past Master
Ashlar ··-·-··--··--··.No. 306_Carl E. Johnson, Master.....-·····-···-··········-···
Don Rozenberg, Junior Warden
Robert W. Nicol, P.M. and Inspector....-.....
L. M. Lookingbill. Past Master
Delbert H. Standley, Past Master
B. Wesley Vaughan, Past Master
Santa Monica ···--··--···No. 307....Norman W. Thompson, Master·-····-······-·Peter A. Pananides, Senior Warden
Hamilton W. Monteith, Junior Warden
Ray 0. Somers, Past Master
Harry H. Williams, Past Master
Monrovia -···--·-·--No. 308.._V!ctor E. Teaney, Master....·-·····-············-···
Oharles W. Sears, Senior Warden
Alvin W. Hahn, Junior Warden
Walfrid M. Setterlund, Past Master
Frank A. Wellington, Past Master
Delano ·············-··----No. 309_Glenn Schlitz, Master.........................- ........Willard Russell Letlow, Sen!OI' Warden
Gladney L. Hamilton, Past Master
Ward Robertson. Past Master
William J. Taylor, Jr., Past Master
Sisson -·--···-·---No. 310-Edward W. Schilling._ Senior Warden.....-...
Ralph N. Holden. P.M. and Inspector.-.........
Los Banos ···-----No.312._Theodore C. Conwell, Master........................
Tehachapi ··-----·--··No. 313._A. L. Carol. Muter·-·····-·--····-····-··--··-·George C. Koutroulis, Senior Warden..........
George Frederick Mehrwein, Junior Warden
Temescal --··---~O. 3H-Louis E. Keller, Senior Warden......·-········-···
Ralph W. Anderson, Junior Warden
Norwalk ______ _No. 315-John S. Plunkett. Jr., Master--····--······
Vernie S. Barnes, Senior Warden
Arthur M. Okell, Past Master
George C. Taber, Past Master
Sanger ···-··--·····..··-·-No. 316.._Leo J. Green, Jr., Senior Warden..........·--·····
Wayne E. Burk. Past Master....·-··--···__No. 317_Jess!e F. Green, Senior Warden.-······---···Fallbrook
Emmanuel -·-···--··-No. 318_Herbert J. Meyer, Muter·-···-----A. R. M. Sears. Past Master
Hollenbeck --···--·-No. 319._Ugo Rostagno, Senior Warden.--··········-···
Roy T. Kiele, P.M. and Inspector..................
Conrad E. Follendore, Past Master
Francis W. Peters, Past Master
Roy A. Wohlfarth. Past Master
South Gate ···--···--·-No. 320.-Frans J. Arvidson, Senior Warden..... _.........
Mark A. Green, Past Master-··-·-····-···········
Roy H. Longshore, Past Master
Charles Ruble, Past Master
David H. Terry, Past Master
Jay W. Wheeler, Past Master
Alisal ·-~·······--·-No. 321-0len G. Hilton, Senior Warden.-........... _...
Harold C. Hansen, Past Master

33.34
58.06
58.06
62.40
62.40

56.98

58.06

38.12

41.38
41.38
12.14
45.60
45.60
58.06
58.06

31.98
31.98
65.60
13.68
56.98
56.98

56.98
56.98

3.90

436
Name of Lod1c

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lod1e

llcprucni atlve.

Mileap Allowed

S. Higbie, Master..·-·············-·········-·· 56.98
Alhambra ·-···-· ···--N o. 322....Ehner
Harold T. Peibelkorn, Sen!Clll' Warde n
William C. Kermode, Junior Warde n
Menno 0. Mdhler, Past Master
M. Lloyd Rugless, Past Master
Joseph M. Yule, Past Master
rd P. Moseley, Master•....·-·················· 58.38
Whittie r ···-··· ·----- No. 323....Edwa
William D. Padgette, Senior Warde n
Roscoe W. Parris, Past Master
Clark P. Malcho, Past Master
Clarence W. Peck, Past Master
Hubbell, Master.................................... 58.20
-Clyde
..
324
.
__No
__
_____
Corona
Edward W. Hammock, Senior Warde n
Charles E. Small, Junior Warde n
Gordon P. Poriter, P.M. and Inspector.......... 58.20
David L. Warde n, Past Master
tClll' E. Smith, Senior Warde n..........·-····· 65.60
325-Vic
o.
·-··--N
··-·-··
lo
Consue
Tlhos. W. E.ckford, Past Master
No. 326..-Clarence R. Hancock, Jr .. Master.................. 64.88
Needle s-··
William E. Mouser, Senior Warde n
William R. Carty, Past Master
n, Master...............•·-······· 56.98
Long Beach ...·-··-·-· __No. 327-W illiam J. Robinso
Edwin C. Bracht, Senior Warde n
John H. Ferguson, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
Wenze l Pabera, Past Master
Henry G. Yan Dyke, Past Master
ker, Muter· -····················- 56.98
Redondo --····· --·--- No. 328....Donald J.C.Shoema
William Hanna, Senior Warde n
Edward J. Sharp, Junior Warde n
Harry A. Bradhurst, Past Master
George S. Fairbrother, Past Master
Leon G. Kelly, Past Master
Oliver J. Lewis. Past Master
Wilson 0. Wade, Past Master
Warde n.......... _........ 56.98
Vallee de Prance -·-··-··- ·No. 329._Vftalis Ezratty , Senior
Oharles A. Thom.asset, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.98
Marius Besson, Past Master
Lucien L. Laclotte, Past Master
Edmond Senften, Past Master
Senior Warde n.............. 383.90
Kilauea --·--- ·-·-··· -No. 330.Jsb mael C. Manus,Paster
James W. Steiner,
Chun Obin Tong, Past Master
Isom Welborn, Muter·-····················· 11.68
Pacific Grove ···-··--- ---No. 331..-CliftonW.
Masters, Senior Warde n
Leslie
George L. Walter , Junior Warde n
Arch Balohln, P.M. and lnspect1or................- 11.68
Charles Louis Cope, Past Muter
Edwin Arthur Cope, Past Master
Henry D. Maybury, Past Master
........................... 56.98
San Pedro .•..............•_No. 332..-Pred S. Cain. Master.............
William J. McWhinnie, Senior Warde n
John C. Stewart, Past Master
Harry G. Weave r, Past Master
Muter...................................... 43.50
Alta ····-··-- ··-·-- -No . 333._Carl P. Miller,, Senior
Warde n
P.A. Goforth
....................·-········· 59.46
Master
Henry,
M.
bert
334-Ro
-No.
--··--···-··Covina
Arthur L. Powell, Senior Warde n
T. Jess Myers, Junior Warde n
W. J. Evans, Past Master

Name of Lodce

No. of Lod1c

437
Mllcap AUow.d

S. Glickman, Muter·-·············-·········· 56.98
West Gate --·-·-- No.33 5._M ilton G.
Rubens, Senior Warde n
Joseph
Ar'lllhur H. Ross. Junior Warde n
John M. Hayden. Past Master
Max Lichtenstein, Past Master
H. Walter Robbins, Past Master
Leigh Yater, Master
Fruitvale ----·-- ····-···· No. 336•._LaureDCeCharies
Green, Senior Warde n
Hed>ert
Edward Keating Strobrid~~· Jr., Junior Warde n
Prank R. Killinger, Jr., P.M. and Inspector
Paul A. Brom, Past Master
Russell C. Horstmann, Past Master
Robert Desimone R:hien, Past Master
Edward August Tuchsen, Past Master
Master............................ 2.82
Carquinez --·-·· ---N o. 337__Artlhu r Mendenhall,
Hermann Severloh, Senior Warde n
C. W. Beal, Past Master
Elton L. Turner, Past Master
n Park, Master........................................ 67.12
_Wilsa
•.
338
.
··-··No
----···Jacinto
San
ll B. Danehauer, Master..........·-········· 58.06
Wende
_
..
339
o.
----N
Fullerton ··-····
M. D. Vantuyl, Senior Warde n
Harold W. Ensign, Junior Warde n
W. L. Currie, Past Master
W. T. Rodger, Past Master
Muter...................................... 50.72
Oxnard - - - - - - - N o . 341....Hellr}' P. Flitt,Slyke,
SeniClll' Warde n
Rollo L. Van
William N. Jones, Junior Warde n
Reginald Newman. Junior Grand Steward.... 50.72
Donald R. Ellis, Past Master
Carl E. Mumper, Past Master
.....................___....... 55.10
San Fernando ·----N o.343 ._We sley E. Kent, Master
Willard L. McDowell, Senior Warde n
Thelmas L. Bidc!Json, Past Master
Louis H. Boone, Past Master
W. Howar d Hanis, Past Muter
Starr King ___•___No. J+f.._Harry I. Applebaum, Master
George G. Hawxlhurst, Senior Warde n
Alfred P. Breslauer, Junior Grand Warde n
Charles M. Wollenberg, Past Grand Master
A.H. Barkoff, Past Master
C. 0. Clausen, Past Master
L. T. Goldmeyer, Past Master
Merrill N. Howe, Past Master
Bernard J. Joseph, Past Master
Ben A. Katz, Past Master
Charles 0. Munson, Past Master
Arthur Salomon. Past Master
Haiman L. WaYJ!e. Past Master
No. 345..-Juel A. Pierce, Maste r------ ··-···-· ·-····· 5.88
Brentwood - R. Robertson, Master..•..·-···············-·--·· 2.94
Palo Alto ··--· ---N o. 346.. _Merl
John D. Jorgenson, Junior Warde n
L. Harold Anderson, Past Grand Master
Ralph S. Brokaw, Past Master
George Ernest King, Past Master
Adam B. Morten, Past Mute r----- ---·- 5.64
Milton B. Roller, Past Master
Robeiit N. Walker , Past Master
_No. 347Jeter Slavazza, Master
Mc.Kinley .••.
Richard V. Heller, Senior Warde n
Fred R. DeBarrows, Past Master
William E. Riclunond, Put Master

438
Name of Lodce

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodie

Repreaentative.

Milea11e AllOWed

No. 348-John M. Heron, Master.-·-·------ --- 61.~
Francis M. Campbell, Senior Warden
G. Maurice Cellar, Past Master
Victor N. Hodge, Past Master
Sequoia ___________ No. 349-John T. Williams, Master
Desmond N. Bonnington, Senior Warden
Wallace L. Etterbeek, Junior Warden
Herbert S. Bigelow, Past Master
George C. Courreges, Past Master
Merrill D. Coy, Past Master
Frank D. Gatter, Jr., Past Master
Cyril W. McClean, Past Master
E. Herbert Phillips, Past Master
J. Walter Proctor, Past Master
Henry Sterrett Savage, Jr., Past Master
Kenneth S. Thompson, Past Master
Palestine ····-··--·-···No. 35L.Robert J. Blake, Master.---······-·-··-···· ··-- 56.98
Edgar L. Deatrick, Senior Warden
Verne J. Dapper, Past Master
Benjamin R. Jordan, Past Master
P. T. Klinglesmith, Past Master
Henry E. Lestmann, Past Master
Sunset ···-···-----············No. 352.-James A. Corrin, Master...............·-······-····-·· 56.98
Frank B. Kreitman, Jr., Senior Warden
Ernest G. Bashor, Past Master
Kenyon C. Burch, Past Master
Jahn H. Hardy, Past Master
Ralph H. Head, Past Master
Edgar S. P. Thirkell, Past Master
Pinole ---···--·--No. 353..J..eonard H. Saunders, Master--·····--···-- 2.36
Joseph E. Webb, Senior Warden
Larry E. Ingalls, Junior Warden
No. 354._R.oy Douglas Cobb, Master
Presidio
Harold Edgar Kilian, Senior Warden
Lawrence Theodore Elleson, Junior Warden
Joseph Myron Ruggiero, P.M. and Inspector
Alexander L. Croce, Past Master
Eric Ragnor Johnson, Past Master
Bernard Bertram Neider, Past Master
Henry Stanley Richards, Past Master
Robel"t Alexander R.itcliie, Past Master
William D. Verbarg, Past Master
Edward Henry Wilkens, Past Master
Hollywood ···············--·-·.No. 355 ....Ralph Woodland, Master-----·············· ··· 56.98
M. R. Entwistle, Senior Warden
Fred E. Green, Junior Warden
Leo E. Anderson. Grand Master....·-···--- - 56.98
Jdhn T. Bond, Grand Marshal----··-····- 56.98
Samuel Steelman, P.M. and Inspector.-----·- 56.98
Wallace H. Beaudry, Past Master
Walter F. Burbank, Past Master
Erwin H. Gebhardt, Past Master
Robel"t T. Gilmore, Jr., Past Master
Ward J. Henry, Past Master
Bert E. Howerton, Past Master
Ira W. Merrill, Past Master

San Bernardino

Name of Lodie

No. of Lodie

Repreaentative.

439
Milea11e Allowed

Mill Valley -··-·······--No. 356.. _Peter P. Silveira, Master
Elmer H. Julian, Junior Warden
Stanley C. Aitchison, Past Master
Leon P. Van Atta, Past Master
Henry D. Lackewandt, Past Master
Howard A. Ronning, Past Master
Melvin J. Sc.hallock, Past Master
Kent 0. Seymour, Past Master
Buena Park ···-············-···No. 357.. _Harold Spady, Muter.·-············-················· 58.06
Rowe Harvey, Senior Warden
Ted R. Siems, P.M. and Inspector___________ 58.06
Harold Duff, Past Master
Arthur M. Hartwell, Past Master
Edwin A. Robinson, Past Master
Golden State ···-·-···-···-No. 358..•George O. Wheatley, Master.......................... 56.98
Cetus 0. Smith, Senior Warden
WinBeld R. Cram, Past Master
George W. Mann, Past Master
Loyalton -------··-··---No. 359._R.dbert W. Gwinn, Junior Warden................ 34.36
San Francisco ··-······-·--.No. 360....Aill:>ert M. Weiner, Master
Milton T. Simmons, Senior Warden
Albert F. Enderlin, Junior Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Assistant Grand Secretary
Oharles D. Johnson, Past Master
Walter A. Parker, Past Master
Joseph A. Sanguinetti, Past Master
Harold W. Smith, Past Master
Fort Bragg ····-········-----No. 36t_R.. S. Wallis, Senior Warden.--······-············· 18.16
Harry Burrows, P.M. and Inspector.-..··-···· 18.18
Charity ----··----.No. 362._R.obert H. McEuen. Master·-·-····-------- - 5.34
Rudolplh LeRoy Nelson, Senior Warden
Ross R. Fuller, Past Master
Berkeley --·········-··----No. 363....Morris Wroobel, Master
Henry I. Popple, Senior Warden
Ernest S. Wise, Junior Warden
William H. Adams, Past Master
Robert P. Arnold, Past Master
Oliver E. McLean, Past Master
Larry C. Moore, Past Master
Wtllita -·-···-----No. 365._George B. Foreman, Senior Wal."den............ 13.26
George M. Jamieson, Past Master
Las Palmas -·-··-····-···No. 366..-Marshall B. Barker, Maattt---·-···········-······· 30.98
Robert W. ReYIIC)lds, Senior Warden
Charles D. Dart, Junior Warden
T. D. Moyers, Past Master
Price Robinson, Past Master
South Pasadena ....•.••••......No. 367.....Hoyt F. Martin. Master......................·-········· 58.20
Claud L. Moyes, Senior Warden
Clyde E. Colvin, Junior Warden
Ralph W. Cutler, P.M. and Inspector.-....... 58.20
George W. Roche, Past Master
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Patrick J. Thompsett, Past Master
Unity --------~--No. 368_Hugo C. Roark, Master-----·--·-····-··-· ······ 56.32
Charles H. Pitts, Senior Warden
Fred M. Clark, Past Master
C. Leland Jenkins, Past Master
Guy B. Mize, Past Master
Homer E. Rathbun. Past Master

440
Name ol Lodp

Name of Lodp
No. ol Lodse

Repreaentatl..a

441

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mlleap Allow.d

Ocean Park ··-··--···_No. 369.. _Theodore B. Pach, Muter·-················-····-··· 56.98
Harvey S. Darlington, Senior Warden
EJlmer H. Guess, Junior Warden
Dwight C. Freeman, P.M. and Inspector...... 56.98
M. Lee Medaris, Past Master
Hamilcar Smith, Past Master
William D. Tucker, Past Master
Frank C. Wolff, Past Master
Amity -··-·····-···-········-···No. 370._Jack F. Bowley, Master
Vadja V. Kolombatovic, Senior Warden
Otristo M. Pallas,lunior Warden
Paul A. PHueger, ssistalit.Grand Treasurer
Maurice E. Coffey, P.M. and Inspector
William A. Cohendet, Past Master
Henry_ 0. HaDll!leridh, Past Master
Jdhn H. Lalor, Past Master
Thomas J. McHenry, Past Master
Urban D. Mackins, Past Master
Edwin S. Milot, Past Master
le Progres de l'Oceanle....No. 371..J>avid B. Lee, Senior Warden....·-·········-···· 350.90
Paul S. Schwartz, Past Master
Gardena ······-··----·No. 372....Rlter C. Taylor, Muter..----········-··········· 56.98
Glen E. Oymore, Senior Warden
Lawrence T. Lobach, Junior Warden
Car!I L. Carlson. Past Muter
George Cunningham, Past Master
Keith W. Schlaegel, Put Master.................. 56.98
W. Herbert Wood, Past Master
West Los Angeles....._.....No. 373.. _William L. Froehlicih, Mester.......................... 56.98
Egbert 0. Matthews, Senior Warden
Thomas Carron, Junior Warden
Fred H. Blanchard. Past Muter.................... 56.98
Bates W. Mason, Past Master
Han-y T. Robinson. Past Master
Jewel ·········-···-····-········_No. 374.._W!Ilard 0. Spencer, Master
James N. Bosse, Senior Warden
A. C. Moore, Junior Warden
John H. Adams, Past Master
A. R. Engel, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
Elmer James, Past Master
Willard C. Schaaf, Past Master
Herbert H. Schultz, Past Master
William Van Ornum, Past Master
Richmond ·-·
... _No. 375.. _Allfred Brunner, Master
James W. Halley, Senior Warden
H. 0. Shoemaker, Jr., Junior Warden
Walter Belgel, Past Master
&nil K. Bender, Past Master
John Bieg, Past Master
J. H. Conner, Past Master
Albert D. Elledge, Past Master
M. W. Erickson. Past Master·
R. T. Haas, Past Master
James Leo Halley, Past Master
R. F. Johnson. Past Master
Alfred T. Morris. Past Master
Harry Morris, Past Master
Fred E. Wisherop, Past Master

No. of Lodp

Repreaentatlva

Milease Atlo-d

Franc:b Drake ··········--··No. 376._William GHbert Owen, Muter
Otarles Wilbur Tandy, Senior Wm-den
Floyd Kepner Dunn, Juniar Warden
Artesia --·--··-·-···········No. 377._Arleigth L. Willis, Master................................ 58.06
Victor N. Johnson, Senior Warden
Robert H. Frederick, Junior Warden
Roy S. Blankenship, Past Master
Robert G. Goar, Past Master
Harold R. W hitney, Past Master
Mizpah -·-··-···----No. 378.._William J. Croker, Senior Warden................ 56.98
Lawrence J. HaM, Jr., Junior Warden
George W. Perkins. i>.M. and Inspector...... 56.98
W. Lewis Thompson. Past Master
Richard H. Wellington. Past Master
Fillmore
N
379
" - - V~n
L M
······················-··· o.
··~
C~sdol,Mg::;;·w;d;;;················ 51 "38
Wm. I. Haynes, Junior Warden
L. C. Hannonson, Past Master
H
Lester A. Price, Past Master
untington Park ···--•.No. 380...•WAalter Joseph Barnes, Muter......._............... 56.98
. B. Van Sickle, Senior Warden
Berrell R. Ries, P.M. and Inspector.....--..·- 56.98
Fred R. Swartz, Past Master
Oceanside ···-····-····---•.No. 381.._John F. Martin, Master......................·-··········· 64.20
Oharles David Ericks, Senior Warden
Jack S. Stafford, Junior Warden
Kenneth C. Stanley, P.M. and Inspector...... 64.20
Marion E. Martin, Past Master
Highland Park ·-··············No. 382..-~dla8;k~$~~.......................... 56.98
1

Charles O. Samples, Junior Warden
Albert R. Bennison, Past Master
Harold F. Weller, Past Master
Oros! ···-··-··-·---····No· 383-...Harold Allen Robinson, Muter.·--·-·············
Allen King Ledbetter, Senior Warden
Arithur P. Beckner, Past Master
Jack Pelolan, Past Master
Bernhard A. Ruth. Jr., Past Master
El Centro -····-·----.No. 3M__ Pren L. Moore, Master........----·-··················
Carroll C. Campbell, Senior Warden
Norbert P. Tester, P.M. and lnspec1Dr..........
Darrall G. Dixon, Past Master
Din
Elmer W. Heald, Past Muter
uba -·--·-·-----No. 385.. _Carl M. Steele, Representative::=-~::::::::=::
Coa
Oarence L. Fraser, P.M. and Inspector
linga ··--·······---···No. 387.._Paw H. Owens Master
·-··-·
Jack E. Smith, S~nior w;;d;;;-··-··-···············
Harold C. Weeth, Junior Warden
Chas. A. MacAleese, Past Master
p
Louis A. Simmons, Past Master
arnassu.s -···-···-·---No. 388..-Walte!' F. Buescher, Master
Wallace A. Fager, Senior Warden
Mhur H. Salvoni, Junior Warden
James E. Finley, P.M. and Inspector
Edwin S. Buckley, Past Master
Plhilip R. Chapin. Past Master
George K. Crandall, Past Master

34.10

77.68
77.68
77.68
33.80
33.80
34 88

.

442
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. ofLodp

Repruentatlvea

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Clifford T. Dorman, Past Master
Joseph C. Durhan, Past Master
Karl F. Koenig, Past Master
Samuel Miller, Past Master
Palos Verdes ··--······-··No. 389..-A. Blake Taylor, Master.........·-····················· 56.98
Edward C. Wright, Senior Warden
Earl W. Bliss, Past Master
James Dougan, Past Master
Carl C. Williams, Past Master
Imperial ·····-·--····-····-··No. 390.-Curtis Howard Anderson, Senior Warden.... 77.22
East Belt ·······-········-··No. 391..-John Roland Wise, Senior Warden.......... ·-··· 12.32
William Emil Gerber, Junior Warden
Wallace H. Fiske, P.M. and Inspector.......... 12.32
Ernest Havilah Hodge, Past Master
No 392 C Gordon Glenn, Master-··········-············-··· 56.98
West Lake
····-·················· •
··-Wallace E. Lundwall, Senior Warden
Irvin J. Duhn, Junior Warden
Walter L. Berger, Past Master
Frank R. Brunner, Past Master
Charles W. Jackson, Past Master
Allen Herman Osterholt, Past Master
Robert C. Peyton, Past Master..---··············· 56.98
J. A. Sickenberger, Past Master
Charles K. Slack, Past Master
Lloyd V. Smith, Past Master
Balder ···-·--··--····No. 393.._C. Elnar Nelson, Master
Harry M. Michelsen, Senior Warden
Clarence J. Moquin, Junior Warden
Alfred Berglof, Past Master
Roger Gowan, Past Master
Leroy W. Johnson, Past Master
Clarence D. Lindstrom, Past Master
Hugo T. A. Olsson, Past Master
Victor C. Peterson, Past Master
Nels S. Stohl, Past Master
Ole A. Swansen, Past Master
Gerald H. Brown, Master·-··--····················· 56.98
Universlty ··--···-···--·-No• 394--Clarence
L. Allen, Senior Warden
Wm. T. Lisenby, Jr., Past Master
Myron E. Smith, Past Master
T I0 ck
No. 395 _Howard L. Rose, Master..........·-············-······· 10.90
ur
-·-···------ Ernest R. Gaster, Senior Warden
John H. Seyden, Junior Warden
Apollo ·-····--··-······-···No. 396.-Albert J. Pryor, MJasterW d
James E. Harris, unlor ar en
Laurel K. Barnard, Past Master
Wilbert S. Condon. Past Master
Karl D. Haberern, Past Master
David P. Russell. Past Master
Carl E. Thau. Past Master
Rlsin IJ ht --····-····No. 397_Maynard S. Mite.hell, Master·-····-···············- 56.98
g g
1Robert D. Morgan, Senior Warden
Leslie V. Hughes, Past Master
Fraternity __________ __No. 399_Shirl Maurice Burton, Master---······-··········· 4.54
Burlingame ______No. 4()()_James Charles Belda, Master
S. Leslie Hawken, P.M. and Inspector
Stanley Barstow Bergen. Past Master
Kenneth R. Ford. Past Master
William Wilkin, Past Master

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repruentatlvea

443
Mi1eage Allowed

Bay View --··-··----No. 401..-George H. Godfrey, Master
Elwin C. Lamp, Senior Warden
Royle A. Langton, Junior Warden
H. M. Bankhead, Past Master
John Edward Nixon, Past Master
Arthur H. Triggs, Past Master
Fred W. Wetmore, Past Master
Brawley ·····-········-····-·--No. 402.-Huhert C. Smith, Master·-·····-·············--······· 76A2
James D. Dent, Senior Warden
Percy E. Palmer, Past Master
Y erba Buena -·······-·-····No. 403....L!ndley R. Redpath. Master
Vance R. Warner, Senior Warden
William L. Dunlap, Junior Warden
Walter V. Durst, P.M. and Inspector
Hugh L. Burnett, Past Master
Lester S. McElwaln, Past Master
Wallace E. York, Past Master
Glendora -·-····-··-----No. 4M_Carl M. Gunn. Master.•...•....·--········-············· 58.06
Joseph I. Lewis, Senior Warden
Clarence H. Lankford, Junior Warden
Moneta ·····-··-····----No. 405.. _J arnes A. Houghton, Master.............-............. 56.98
George Lancellottl, Senior Warden
C. Ben Chadderton, Junlor Warden
Louis L. Cunningham, P.M. and Inspector.. 56.98
Theo. T. Meehleis, Past Master
J. Stanley Watkins, Past Master
Burbank -·-·-··-··-····No. 406....Karl A. Beyers. Master............·--··············-·- 56.98
John Richard Boner. Senior Warden
Robert E. Nelson, Junior Warden
W. D. Hopkins. Past Master
Warren A. Ryan, Past Master
Raymond Sudano. Past Master
La Mesa ····-·-·······--·-··No. 407._Harry D. Mitchell, Master..·-······-················· 68.40
William W. Dewgaw, Senior Warden
John S. Odom, Junior Warden
A. Jolly Benbrook, Past Master
Lorenza H. Shaw, Past Master
Sierra Madre ·····-········-No. 408..-Sam D. Simpson, Master..·-······-··-··············· 58.06
Douglas C. Berkshire, Senior Warden
George A. Lalihrop, Junior Warden
William Bowers, Past Master
James W. Moore, Past Master
Honolulu ···-······--···No. 409.._Clare Vernon Turner, Senior Warden....·-··· 350.90
Robert Edgar, P.M. and Inspector.......- ......... 350.90
Charter Rock ··········--No. 410.. _Harold I. McNett. Master
Frank Sabec. Senior Warden
Charles A. Criss. Jr.. Junior Warden
Ralph A. Sta11ley, Past Master
Webster W. Wilcox, Jr., Past Master
Clare W. Wilson. Jr., Past Master
Penh -·-·--·----No. 411._Tom A. Bllls, Jr., Senior Warden..·-···········- 63.50
Leonard M. Kirkpatrick, Past Master
Calexico _ _ _ _ _ _No. 412..-Pllilllp G. Tucker, Master..·-··-··-·······-····-··· 78.42
Leslie H. Dowe, Senior Grand Steward._____ 78A2
Arlington -·-·----No. 414..Ji. 0. Sherrard. Master.......----·-·····-···--··· 56.98
N. D. Stanley, Senior Warden
Richard C. Harrell, Junior Warden
Carl F. Peters. P.M. and lmpector__ ··········• 56.98
Newell R. Chesterton, Jr., Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Na- ol Lodse

No. ol Loc!11e

Repraeniati-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Mileap Allowed

SUver Trowel -···············No.•U5..-Jerome B. Rosen, Master..·--··-················- 56.98
Paul E. Herzog, Senior Warden
Guy A. Bridge, Junior Warden
Van A. Gatewood. Past Master
Lindaay -·--··········-No. 416..-~=rt t!.~~~~~i~·w:;;d~~........ -....... 36.42
Delmer A. Murclock, Junior Warden
Alva A. Daniells, P.M. and Inspector............ 36.i2
Herman C. Landers, Past Master
Oovla -···--·-········--No. i17....Rd>ert W. Bretz. Senior Warden.................. 31.78
Ed F. Cunliffe, Past Master
Elysian ····--·············- ...•.No. i18..-Kennet:h E. Hill, Master..·-·····-·-··-··-·-··· 56.98
ArthUT L. Holt, Senior Warden
Oifford G. Schillinger, Junior Warden
G. Basil Bates, Past Master
Henry D. Coley, Past Master
Joseph A. Forest, Past Master
Guy Woolley, Past Master
Upland ·······-····-·-·········No. 419..-Waldo S. Brafford, Junior Warden................ 60.72
J. Harry Snowden, P.M. and Inspector._..... 60.72
Michael J. Hanna, Past Master
Kerman --······-·-··-No. i20..-Reglnald Harold Sherwood, P.M. and Rep... 29.88
Inglewood ··--··-···-·····No. 421..-J. Loran Robertson, Master........•...............·-··· 56.98
Oaude E. Cole, Senior Warden
Edwin N. Stansd, Junior Warden
John A. Dull, Past Master
Eugene B. Show, Past Master
Eagle Rock ---··-No. 422.-Edwin R. Adams, Master...... ·-············--······ 56.98
Edward E. Hiney, Senior Warden................ 56.98
M. Howard Lawyer, Junior Warden
James E. Calhoun, Past Master
Thomas A. Mooney, Past Master
Clyde E. Sewrlght, Past Master
York ----···-····No. 423....Sherwood Williams, Master....•.............·-······ 56.98
Oois A. Jobe, Jr.. Senior Warden
Exeter ________ _No, 424....Harold H. Haley, Master.·-············--··-·-·- 35.76
Paul L. Tyhurst. Senior Warden
Norbert Mi:xiter, Past Master
Holtville ·--·--··-··No. 425.-Fredrick M. Brown, Maater............................ 78A8
Monroe A. Horton, Past Master
Midway -------·--No. 426..-Fred T. Lee, Senior Warden.......................... i3.58
James K. Frazier, Junior Warden
Angus Johnsten, Past Master
Robert A. Simt1h, Past Master..................·-··· 43.58
Chino Valley ....................No. 427..-Clyde M. Glasgow, Muter..·-··············-····· 60.72
C. Paul Watennan, Senior Warden
Robt. W. C. Storms, Junior Warden
Harry R. Stephens, Past Master
San Dimas
No. i28.._William B. Goodrich, Senior Warden.......... 58.06
James Milne, Past Master
Mortimer C. Morrison, Past Master
Pittsburg -··--·----No. 429..-Emest T. Tucker, Master.......---··············· 4.68
John C. Brown, Senior Warden
Harold E. Wildes, Junior Warden
W. Ralph Anderson. P.M. and Inspector...... 4.68
Don E. Ward, Past Master
McOoud -·--···--No.430-James E. Caswell, Senior Warden.......·--··· 41.38
Phil N. Myers, Deputy Grand Masttt.......... 56.98
C. S. Hogan, Past Master

I.

Name of Loc111e

No. ol Loc!11e

Rep.-niaeiwt

445
Mlleap Allowed

Alpha --······-········--No. 431....Richard D. Rookaird, Master
James W. Clark, Senior Warden
Jack R. Brown, Junior Warden
Edwin R. Brooks, Past Master
Henry L. Clarke, Past Master
William F. Fraser, Past Master
Joseph A. Jeans, Past Master
Oliver I. Kitchen, Past Master
John MacGrath, Past Master
Lloyd N. Mason, Past Master
AnShell S. Remell. Past Master
Fred L. V ogeli, Past Master
Martin Wiltz, Past Master
Hammonton ______No. 433..-Edward F.ranklln Davis, Junior Warden...... 12.98
Wayne A. Dahling, P.M. and Inspector...... 11.68
Alfred R. Dole, Past Master
Maricopa --····-·--···--No. 434....R.ufua Ivie Parker, Senior Warden..·-··········· 43.88
Carl E. Moore, P.M. and Inspector....•........... 43.88
John E. Colbert, Past Master
Fairmount ·--···--No. 435-Dee Larry West, Master
Joseph Antone Teresi, Junior Warden
Victor Louis De Martini, Past Master
Pieter A. de Vries, Past Master
Rudolph llling, Past Master
Edward Robert Pootel, Past Master
William Orville Purdy, Past Master
Claremont --·-···--No. 436.-0. A. Bolster, Senior Warden. ...................... . 58.06
Lancaster -····-----No. 437.. _Clarence I. Cornelius, Master-·--·······-···-··· 49.66
James Earl Leidilfter, Senior Warden
James E. Bacon, P.M. and Inspector.........•.... 49.66
A. C. Cobb, Past Master
Hugh Griffith, Past Master
Wm. D. Knight, Past Master
John C. Sinn, Past Master
William Skelton, Past Master
L.A. Walker, Past Master
Acacia ····--··-·__No· 438.._Herman Dehllhardt, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Tyrian ··---············-·--No· 439._Fred Hubbard, P.M. and Representative...... 8.10
Delbert E. Luck, P.M. and lnapector............ 8.10
Gilbert Paul Bl'Hott, Past Master
Stan Mortensen, Past Master
Standard _ _ _ . __No. 4-tQ_Harold Albert Nelson. Master
Allen Soule Gladding, Senior Warden
Leland Dale Cowan, Junior Wanlen
Dee Malcolm DeFord, Past Master
Coronado ····-····-········-·.No. 441 .. _Edgar Shaw, Master..·-----·-··-···---······· 67.70
Jdhn Gaspariclt, Senior Warden
William N. Darrooh, Past Master
Glen C. Holbert, Past Master--···-·-··-··· 67.70
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
Donald W. Stubbs, Past Master
Blackmer -·-··-···--·······No• 442-Simmion B. Davis, Master·-··-··-·············-·-. 67.70
Henry M. Kirkland, Senior Warden
Harold L. Jensen, Junior Warden
Charles Joseph Savage, P.M. and ln3pector.. 67.70
Oscar H. Nelson, Past Master
George K. Palmer, Past Master
Frank R. Porath, Past Master
Omo E. Tyler, Past Master

446
Name of Loda;c

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lod11e

Reprcacntativa

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Milcaa;e AllOWed

SchoBeld ···-···-··-····--.No. +43._Charles A. Battige, Master..·-······-········-······· 350.90
Robert M. Friel, Senior Warden
Robert C. Kong, Past Master
Carpinteria -··················-No. ++4••..Donald R. Lewis, Senior Warden.---············· 48.24
56.98
Wilshire ---····················--No. 445._Wnlisa!·E~\~:: ~::~\v;;;d;;·-

...-.............

Frederic Edwin Clark, P.M. and Inspector..
Herbert A. Huebner, Past Master..................
Elmer Niemoeller, Past Master
La Puente ···-···-····-No. 446._Virgil Horace Gipson. Senior Warden..........
Torrance ···-··········-··--No. 447•._Thomas N. Foster, Master..............................
Clyde B. Satterfield, Junior Warden
Leonard D. Babcock, Past Master
Frank Thompson, Past Master
Mt. Diablo ·········-·············No. 448._Henry_ Beecher Chrisp, Master........................
Paul Kenned_y, Senior Warden
Gordon W. Lindsey, Junior Warden
Royle E. King, Past Master
Park --···-··-···-·-_.No. 449..-Robert M. Montgomery~ Master
Reginald Duden, Past Master
George H. Gisin, Past Master
Robert E. Hannan, Past Master
Robert K. Huppert, Past Master
William H. Osborne, Past Master
Van Nuys -·-············-····No. 450•...Marshall A. Ingram, Master............................
George W. Currier, Senior Warden
Theodore A. Gryde, Junior Warden
Harold S. Morrison, P.M. and Inspector........
Howard H. Colvin, Past Master
Robert E. Gibson, Past Master
John L. Girdlestone, Past Master
Emmett T. Ophus, Past Master
Ralph W. Pettes, Past Master
Montebello ........................No. 451--Robert R. Beard, Master..................................
Melvin S. Larson, Senior Warden
Albert J. True.Junior Warden
Frank L. Sutli , P.M. and Inspector..·-····--··
Rober,t L. Karnes, Past Master
Merville L. Lamb, Past Master
San Pasqual -·-··-···-··-No. 452.-Jesse B. Gunnels, Master.·--······-··--········-Ross H. Rittgers, Senior Warden
Bethlehem ________No. 453._John C. Painter, P.M. and Representative
Byron Coleman, Past Master
Stephen S. Gorewitz, Past Master
Stanley W. Kerley, Past Master
Vincent P. McMurdo, Past Master
Walter A. Rohde, Past Master
Crocker ····--·-··-···No. 454..-Frederick C. Pawson, Master
M. Jay Jensen, Past Master
Ralph G. Riches, Past Master
Edward E. Smith, Past Master
Leonard Wester, Past Master
Roy Wieland, Past Master
Golden West --····-·-···No. 455.-Peter Lo Codo, Master
Howard Francis Pearson, Senior Warden
Adolph Philip Bilay, Past Master
Earle Bancroft Brehaut, Past Master
George R. Brockmann, Past Master
Herbert Henry Eling, Past Master
Thomas William Rollinson, Past Master

56.98
56.98
58.86
56.98

2.10

56.98
56.98

56.98
56.98
58.20

Name of t.odae

No. of Lod11e

Repreacntativeo

447
Milca11e Allowed

Ramona --···-------No. 457_John E. Harvey, Master-····----······-········-··· 56.98
Harold F. Keiser, Senior Warden
John M. Van Dolah, Junior Warden
Jack E. Anderson, Past Master
Cecil C. Bechtel, Past Master
Henry S. Orme....•.... ____ No. 458._C, Edward Beaum01'llt, Senior Warden. ..- ..... 56.98
Milton H. Lang, P.M. and Inspector.............. 56.98
Donald G. Edmonston. Past Master
Merwyn N. Hollister, Past Master
William B. Mott, Past Master
Paul Nardella, Past Master
Riverbank ---···---····No. 459._George A. Vickers, Master-···-··················· 9.32
Doyle I. Hollowa'l• Senior Warden
Orville B. Trellte, junior Warden
Ghas. Edgar Marrs, Past Warden
Mount Oso ····-····-----No. 460.-Alfred B. Patterson, Jr .. Senior Warden...... 6.72
Philip F. Fleisig, Past Master
Argonaut -··········--···--.No. 461..-John W. Rodgers, Master
Earl A. Caldwell, P.M. and Inspector
Jack L. Blaine, Past Master
Ferdinand A. Mosebacli, Past Master
Jay Harry Netherton, Past Master
George H. Taylor, Past Master
Carl Walter, Past Master
Paul Revere ··-·······--···--No. 462..-Robert H. Deovlet, Master
Allan E. Aitel, Senior Warden
Kent S. Mason, Junior Warden
Arthur J. Kahn, Assistant Grand Lecturer
Lowell li. Beckendorf, Past Master
Abe B. Epstein, Past Master
Henry Schindel, Past Master
Melvin S. Springer, Past Master
Morgan Hill -···········-···-No. 463.-Jahn Sanders, Senior Warden........................ 6.48
William L. Whidden, Past Master
Alta Vista ---····---~----No. 464.-Samuel Granger Clark, Master
Earle L. S. Bagot, Past Master
Stephenson Robert Biggart, Past Master
Harold Y. Heckman, Past Master
Francis J. Herz, Past Master
George C. Siebel, Past Master
Harold W. Stelling, Past Master
Harry L. Wintersgill, Past Master
Center ·-····--···----···No. 465._Harold W. Madden, Master.·--·-···-·····-- 30.98
Ivan Patrick Doss, Senior Warden
Theodore Kinnune, Junior Warden
Samuel E. Dollar, P.M. and Inspector.....__ 30.98
Lawrence Bertram Anderson, ·Past 1Master
IJbertas ···----·--_No. 466....Harold J. Wiltse, Master..·-··-·-··-········-···· 41.08
Robert W. Oates, Senior Warden
R. Carl Beck, Junior Warden
Raymond G. Taylor, Assist. Grand Lecturer 41.08
Robert J. Myers, Past Master
Walter W. Wasem, Jr .. Past Master
Charles R. Wilkes, Past Master
Culver Qty _______..No. 467....Henry G. Wolf, Master......·-··-···-·····--··· 56.98
Russell W. Luzius, Senior Warden
Curtis J. Davis, Junior Warden
Herbert Hargrave, Jr .. Past Master.....·-··-··- 56.98
James Kenneth Windsor, Pa!t Master

448
Name of Lodp

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Locl1c

Repruentatlvca

Rockridge ________No. 468_Carl W. Carlson, Master
Reynold F. Olson, Senior Warden
Harry Everett Harman, Junior Warden
Oharles Jannero Mingham, Past Master
Yorba Linda -·-··-·-·---No. 469...J.eonard G. Elvy, Master.·--·-······················· 58.06
Eugene M. Edwards, Senior Warden
Lincoln ____.........-_No, 470_.Harvey L. Glass, Senior Warden
Alexander McBimey, Past Master
George S. McCullough, Past Master
Melville P. Prince, Past Master
Carlton H. Rdthblum, Past Master
Delta -·--··---·-..-·_No. 471-Clarence J. Yorke, Master.------··--·--------·- 7.91
Taubner G. Hamma, Senior Warden
Denzel D. Kj.bdhens. Junior Warden
Hugh G. Martin, P.M. and Inspector............ 7.94
George W. GrafBs, Past Master
Maul _________No. 472.-Erling Paul Wick, Senior Warden................ 371.80
_____No. 473-Fred E. Denweiler, Junior Warden................ 75.28
Blythe
Lemuel B. Todd, Past Master
Victory ___________No. 474....Alfred T. Kirkevold. Master
Arthur E. Kellogg, Senior Warden
McMalone Counts, Junior Warden
Wm. C. Bird, Past Master
Harry T. Darr, Past Master
Kenneth W. Hinkle, Past Master
Otto von Raven, Past Master
America ···--··-----No. 475....Burton R. Hicks. Muter......._........................ 56.98
Lucius R. Galloway, Senior Warden
Gordon G. Kanouff, Junior Warden
Charles H. Johnson. Past Master
Hemy A. Save, Past Master
Coachella -···--·--···-·No. 476.. _Kenneth Melvin Crabtree, Senior Warden.... 69.28
Friend Franklin Wilson, Junior Warden
Rewell E. Carlton, P.M. and lmpector........ 69.28
Temblor
............No. 477....C. Earl Gwin, Senior Warden...........-........... 43.88
Thousand Oaks --···---No. 478.._Wlll.iam H. Nunn, Master
Lester L. Gore, Senior Warden
John W. Jenson, Junior Warden
Ferd A. Sohlafke, Past Master
Robert H. Sutt, Past Master
Orman T. Stone, Sr., Past Master
Golden Rule ··----·-·--····--No. 479.-Floyd E. Baughman. Master...-..................... 4.54
Winfred E. Johnson, Senior Warden
Tack LeVake, Junior Warden
teon E. Allen, Past Master
Josepb C. Bosdhken, Past Master
Oscar M. Swensen, Past Master
Edwin C. Van de Mark, Past Master
Fellowship -·--·-----No. 480._Marvin D. H. Crosser, Master
Harrv T. Altman, Senior Warden
Lyn M. Bedient, Junior Warden
Herman Zeller, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ________ _No. 481....Nelson A. Perry, Master
Henry R. Micllael, Senior Warden
Thomas D. Wilson. Junior Warden
Arthur M. Warren, Past Grand Master
Thomas J. Bass, Past Master
Henry J. Bnmnler, Past Master
Walter H. Daily, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Name of Lodp

No. of Loc11c

Repruentativca

449
Milca1e Allowed

J. Murray Kemp, Past Master
Laurent A. Loustau, Past Master
Carl P. McCarthy, Past Master
Alfred H. Nicoll, Past Master........................ 3.42
Daniel D. Rowlands, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith............No. 482....William J. Mason. Master.............................. 56.98
Milton P. Peterson, Senior Warden
.
P.H. Montg?J!ery, Past Master
Bell ---·····---·-···-No· 483....Alva Orin Herndon, Master....•..-................... 56.98
Robert Louts Stevenson, Senior Warden
Charles Elmo Lane, Junior Warden
Harold C. Comaford, Past Master
Fred F. Elliott. Past Master
Albert Pike ··--·----NO. 484_Donald B. Dane, Senior Warden.................... 56.98
John D. Bradley, Junior Warden
Chowchilla -·----No. 485••..Eli Edward Musick, Senior Warden............ 27.58
Roy Schnauer, Junior Warden
Roy Forrest, Past Master
Caledonia --·--···--No. 486....Edgar L. Feasel. Master...-............................. 41.08
Troy L. Bradshaw, Senior Warden
Lorin 0. Montgomery, Junior Warden
William W. Shugart, P.M. and Inspector.... 41.08
Robert W. Beckwith, Past Master
E. E. O'Connor, Past Master
Vallejo ···-····-···--..-·......No. 487....Emest G. Branstetter, Master........................ 3.30
Raymond S. de! Mas, Jr., Senior Warden
Clifford R. Johnston, Junior Warden
Jeihn K. Harrison, Past Master
Alexander Valentine, Past Master
Patterson -------No. 488....Ray E. MW}>hy, Senior Warden.................... 9.22
Richard 0. Ayres, Junior Warden
Walter Lee, Past Master
East Bay --···-----No. 489....Leonard Hogerheide, Master
Henry G. Berndt, Senior Warden
Arthur P. Songey, Junior Warden
AJ!erton B. Ebert, Past Master
Milton G. Horgan, Past Master
John A. Sobey, Past Master
Corcoran -..:.··-···----No. 490._Glenn Harley Lax.ton, Junior Warden.......... 33.30
Woodstock - ...__,No. 491....Carl R. Ramsey, Master
Chester L. Jack, Senior Master
Ohester I. Finley, Junior Warden
Alvin A. Horwege, Grand Tiler
Charles E. Jansen, Past Master
Robert Emmett O'Brien, Past Master
M. Allen Powers, Past Master
Worden A. Stinson, Past Master
Garvanza ........
No. 492....Harold M. Hand, Master...- .............-....... 56.98
James L. Jones. Seruor Warden
Edward Gondeck, Junior Warden
Martin C. Nelson. Past Master
Atascadero ·-------No.493._Wayne W. Talbot, Senior Warden.......--..• 33.80
Waker Clayton, P.M. and ln.spectw............ 34.90
Fred C. Hes8, Past Master
Lewis H. Webber, Past Master
Acom ---·-----No. 494....Donald T. Williams, Master
Earl Patterson, Senior Warden
Nick WelsjJerber, Junior Warden
E. Lloyd Hanson. P.M. and Inspector
Ra:lph Adams, Past Master

450
Name of Lodae

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Loc11e

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA
Name of Loclp

Rcpr-..cat iva

Irvin L. Grader, Past Master
Howard L. McCarth L, Past Master
H. Stanley McDanie , Past Master
Carl R. Moore, Past Master
George P. Silliman, Past Master
N 49S_Ha rry Taffe), Master
Lebanon - - - · - · · 0 •
Mervin J. Braunstein, Senior Warden
Mel C. Nathan, Jr.• Junior Warden
Eugene S. Hopp. Past Master
No 497 Frank C. Couey, Master
Fremont - - - - - - •
··-Wm. M. Nicholson. Sr.. Senior Warden
Louis F. Schwartz , Junior Warden
Thomas M. Livingstone, Past Master
Carl 0. Olsen, Past Master
Melvin Oredsen, Past Master
No 498 Gordon Henry Evanson , Senior Warden. .....
Stockton - · · - - - - •
-Russell G. Crowe, Past Master
Capital City -··-···- _No. 499....Boylngton J.. ChyMsler, Maater· -··-······-··
·····
N 5()()_He nry 0 . Seiler, aster
Roosevelt
·o.
Ernest W. Schnurpfeil, Senior Warden
Nicola Colapietr o, Junior Warden
Ernest J. Armando, Past Master
___N0 • SOl_Hav en R. Martin, Senior Warden. .·-·-····Westwoo d ···-···-·..Wayne D. Gleason, Past Muter
Eugene L. Smith, Past Master
Uarbor
No. 502..-toseph Genser, Master
----awrence H. Brewster, Senior Warden
Charles E. McCray, Junior Warden
Harry L. Muller, P.M. and Inspector
Calvin H. Hull, Past Master
Charles L. Stanley, Past Master
No. 503....Max E. Morris, Master
Point ..
---Chester D. Gardner, Senior Warden
Johnnie C. Godwin, Junior Warden
Victor Prenk, P.M. and Inspector
Robert V. Waylett, Past Master
_ _ _ _ _No. 504..-James E. Taylor, Sr.• Master..........._.............
Seaside Arthur R. Moberg, Jr.• Senior Warden
Howard K. Noble, Junior Warden
Melvin R. Berbower, P.M. and Inspector....
Wm. T. Corbusler, Past Master
Everett Houser, Past Master
George D. Magrude r, Past Master
Arthur R. Moberg, Sr., Past Master
No. SOS-Tho mas W. Thurman . Senior Warden...-SUver Cord
--Olen P. Turner, P.M. and lnapector....-···Owen A. Murray, Past Master
Mount Olive _ _No. 506--fa~iir~~:r.· s~~~W_ar_d~~----·-·-·-

7.94

8.40

4352

56.98
56.98

58.06
58.06
56.98

Carl Passamaneck, Junior Warden
Russell Northrop , P.M. and lnspecJtDr••.•- ..- 56.98
Harry Beal, Past Master
Harvey Harkness, Past Master
Fred A. Kelsey, Past Master
Morris Kroopen, Past Master
George Kussman, Past Master
56.98
El Segundo ---~No. 501.-C. W. Spear, Maater ----·-·- ..- - ·····R. J. Lehman, Senior Warden
W. E. Young, Junior Warden

No . of Lodae

i51
Mllea1e Allowed

Joppa No. 508-M. C. Franchini, Master_ _ _ __
31.18
Benjamin Franklin -·---No . 509....Herbert L. Hively, Sr., Senior Warden
-... 56.98
William G. Cairns, Junior Warden
J. Prank Moore, Past Master
Richard Simon. Past Master
Robert Wilkins, Past Master
Cupertin o --··-·· ·-No. 510.._Stuart Cecil Williamson. Malter......·-··-····-· 3.74
Donald Charles Rylander, Senior Warden
Lawrenc e Edward Crow, Junior Warden
Sunnyva le
No. 511..J<. R. Eg~ers. Master.· -··--·-···· ·-···-··-·· -··· 3.74
Ralph L. ustua, Senior Warden
Walter . Sc:timltz, Junior Warden
Hermann Ludwig Horn, Put Muter
Clyde E. Waltrip, Past Master
Pahns
512....Robert C. Overbeck , Master... _.................... . 56.98
Oeo C. Camey. Senior Warden
John McLay, Junior Warden
James T. Goodman, Past Master
Charles 0. Harrier, Past Master
Richard P. Johnson, Past Master
Lloyd H. Shelton, Past Master
Cahueng a ____ __ No. 513....Richard J. GTaebner, Muter ---···-·
--- 56.98
Voyle Ii. Sipes, Senior Warden
John B. Nickerson, Junicr Warden
John W. Baker, Past Master
A. W. McAllister, Past Master
Ray L. Whitney , Past Master
Argonne - -···-- No. 514....Robert E. Williams, Master
Wallace F. Berglin, Senior Warden
Robert P. Huke, Junior Warden
Edwin A. Gumbinger, Past Master
Clyde D. Lightbody, Past Master
Joseph J. Pape, Past Master
Carl F. Peterson, Past Master
Donald 0. Townsen d, Past Master
Frederick E. Wilhelm, Past Master
Vermont Square ____No. 515-Wil liam M. DeJane, Muter-····---····-··
-······· 56.98
John D. Byork. Senior Warden
William J. Inzer, Past Muter
Taft
No. 516....Bradley T. Ritter, Muter--·-·-···--··-- 43.58
Cedl L. Barton, Senior Warden
Pete Gianopulos, Junior Warden
Mount Vernon -···-···N o. 517•...:Boyd A. Wise, Master
George E. Payne, Senior Warden
Harofd W. Chaunce, Past Master
Alfred Stettler, Past Master
Walter L. Stobing, Past Master
Charles J. Thompson, Past Master
James Wilson, Jr., Past Master
La Jolla -·-·-- ·-.No . 518J. Lowell Brown, Senior Warden. . ____ _
67.70
Louis L. Potomac, Junior Warden
H. H. Ralph Alman. P.M. and lnspecta r._ 67.70
D. Cameron McDonal d, Past Master
Euclid _ _ _ _ _ _No. 519....Joseph Camwell, Master................... - ............
. 56.98
Roy 0. Bowditch, Senior Warden
Robert H. Meader, Junior Warden
Jdhn D. Andrews, Past Master
Ohmer H. Shaeffer, Past Master

----- -No .

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

452
~a~ 9f Locfae .

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

llep~ee~ntativeo

Mileaae AIL:>wed

ins, Mute r..·-··-··-··- ····- - 56.98
.No. 520....Samuel D. Robbson,
Ionic - - - - - ,
Senio r Ward en
Bernard J. Aaron
Claud e Lenz, Past Mast er
Nath an Schw artz, Past Mastet"
Gall H. David , Mast er
521..o.
-··N
-····
--·-·
Piedmont
Willi am E. Hancook, Senior Ward en
Richard H. Chamberlain, Past Mast er
Wilso n E. Cline, Past Mast er
C. Flelicher, Jr., Master....... ......... ...... 56.98
Sunrise ---, ···-- ···N o. 522..-Hom er McV ay, Senior Ward en
J. Jack
L. Glenn Carroll, Junior Ward en
Jack M. B. Dodd. Past Mast er
Norm an M. Lethin, Past Mast er
............ 56.98
No. 523..-~~be~·J.'R'.;!'. ~e!T:w~·--·-··.
BellBower
W t:1r S. Empfteld. Past Mute r
.
Floyd Hockett, Past Mastet"
Allester J. McKowen, Past Mast er
ld E:. Ramsay, Mas ter-· -·-··········- ·- 58.75
Dona
524..No.
.........
laland
ina
Catal
Jesse J. Bell, Senio r Ward en
G. Gaylo rd. Mast er
Geor ge Wash ingto n ........No. 525.· -Will lam
Robe rt l. Bowen, Senio r Ward en
Ado}ph H. Franz en, P.M. and Inspector
Clyde E. Bowen. Past Mast er
Prank E. Buehn, Past Mute r
Jolhn Johnston, Past Mastet"
John News ham, Past Mast er
A1111hur F. Willi ams, Past Mastet"
E. Bliss. Senio r Ward en
Ralph
526..
._No
Bay City
9eorg e Goldman, Junior Ward en
er
1bos . A. Det!hlefsen, Past Mast
Curti s, Master.................................... 56.~
Cove nant _ _ _ _ _No. 527-C. Keith
Alfred V. Dahl, Jr., Senio r Ward en
M. Roy Hubbeft, Junior Ward en
Emmett E. Jordan, Past Mast er
Floyd John Lender, Past Mast er
Maurice R!Cll:tardson, Past Mast er
k Smiley, Ma ster ---- -- -··- -·-·· 56.98
Beve rly Hills -····· -····- No. 528- Fran
Harr y L. Ream, Senio r Ward en
Jack 13. Craw ford, Junior Ward en
... 56.98
Frank Harwell, Jr., Past Grand Mast er.....
Joe Bookman, Past Mast er
C. Earle Crane , Past Mast er
Frederick A. Pox, Past Mast er
r, Mast er.............. ·-··············· 56.98
Loya lty _ _ _ _,
l'lo. 529- Lee Dean Visge
Julian Wolf, Senio r Ward en
Davi d Cryst al, Junior Ward en
56.98
Edga r V. Stew art, Jr., Past Gran d Master....
er
Mast
Past
Bass,
Lloyd P.
Samuel W. Berliner, Past Mast er
Arthu r Linsk, Past Mast er
Jioseph A. Vlsge r, Past Mast er
·
30.98
ace F. Powers, Senio r Ward en..·- ··-··'.. 30.98
Wall
530.
No
Sun Gard en -··- ·-·Herb ert R. Harg rave, P.M. and Inspector..
Evere tt L. Coyle . Past Mast er
L. R. Stubblefield. Past Mast er
! .
Willl am S. Dodge, Mast er
Alexa ndria ·--· ··-- -No . 531._Ernes
t A. Hartm an, Senio r Ward en
Alexa nder K. Whar ton, Junior Ward en
Wllii am S. Brann an, Past Mast er
Frank P. Goodman. Past Mast er

Name of Loda•

No. of Lodae

Representatives

453
Mileaae .Allowed

10.H

rt L. Powell, Senio r Ward en......·-··-·· ··
Smyr na --·-···-··----~ 532....Robe
Jack H. Allred, Junior Ward en
Ches ley D. Ludden. Past Mast er
58.06
rd W. Bunnell, Mast er..........·-····· -··-···
Richa
533-No.
Azur e -··---~---Andr ew J. Sorsabal, Jr., Senior Ward en
Adro n J. Edmiston, Junior Ward en
L. S. Conover, Past Mast er
John W. Grigs by, Past Mast er
e Grimes, Mast er
Eddi
534-No.
Fores t HJll
lrving M. Smith, Junior Ward en
James N. Rae, Past Mast er
R. Mansell, Senio r Ward en................ 56.98
Alexa nder Hamilton ...- ..No.· 535.. _bari us W. Ketchum, Junior Watd en
ace
Wall
. 56.98
Edwa rd A. Stone, P.M. and Inspeo lior.........
er
Mast
Past
feldt,
Blick
J.
Edwa rd
Arch ie J. Bush, Past Mast er
Edwi n F. Franke, Past Mast er
Haro ld W. Giles, Past Mast er
Geor ge E. Seymour, Past Mast er
Roland W. Snow. Past Mast er
James Oifto n Love, Mast er
....
536
No.
Seal Rocle: _,......
Allison M. Omrc h, Jr., Senio r Ward en
GeoriJe E. Nickel, Junior Ward en
Albe Baluklan, Past Mast er
Edwi n W. Bode, Sr., Past Mast er
Frank Gedgate, Past Mast er
Harry H . Jacobson, Past Mast er
Russell H. Sievers, Past Mast er
John K. Wrig bt, Past Mast er
56.98
d J. Schnell, Senio r Ward en.................... 56.98
_J:'re
537
No.
,
Utop ia
es, Mast er......·-··············- ···
Quarl
M.
es
0liarl
538._
.
.No
___
__
Asco t ___
Euge ne A. Wilso n. Senio r Watd en .......... 56.98
Marti n 0. Velan d, P.M. and Inspedlor
James E. Cox, PaSt Mut a'
.
- ·-··- ··· 56.98
ld N. Candlish. Mute r..-·--·
_Haro
..
Belvedere -·-·· _,__ NQ . 539 Harr y
T . Sprague, Senio r Ward en
·
Qyde L. Whit e. Junior Ward en
Loran B. Andel'llOn, Past Mast er
Carl G. Molin. Past Mast er
Walt er H. Thom as. Past Mast er ................... 56.98
E. Calla way, Mast er.........
Quee n Beach ___ __No. 540....Robel't
Charl es S. Murr y, Senio r Ward en
·
George E. Gates. Past MaSter
Fred S. J. Hana xk, Past Mast er
Charl es J. Payn e, Past Mast er
ond, Mast er
Henr y Mors e Stephens..•..No. 541- Jobn Richm
RuddlJllh Stohler, Senio r Ward en
,
Jade G. Smith, Junior Ward en
Robe rt H. Taylo r, P.M. and Inspector
Fred A. Flanders, Past Mast er
Paul L. Higley, Past Mast er
Wlll!JOll E. Newlon, Past Maste-r
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Paat Master
56.98
ald G. Ingalls, Mu tu- -······-·····-·-···
...Don
.
5'f2
-No.
.
.........
wood
Holly
North
Edsal l P. Read, Senio r Ward en
. 56.98
Reginald Bunce, P.M. and lmpe ctor.............
er
Mast
Past
Ross,
A.
nce
Clare
Maat er..-----~---· 56.98
__ __N o, S.f3....Maurice D. Phillips,
Signa l
r Ward en
Senio
,
erson
Dale B. Gund
56.98
Myro n E. Roudebush, Senior Gran d Deaoon. 56.98
Jdhn A. Kline, P.M. and Inspector...............

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lod1e

Jl.epreaentativea

Milea1e All0110ed

Waker H. Fike, Past Master
Kenneth R. Lewis. Past Master
Glendale
No. 544....Edward L. Wardlaw, Master........•.·- ··········· 56.32
Lloyd 0. F.mmerichs, Senior Warden
Manuel J. Avila. Junior Warden
Paul R. Queen, Past Master
A. D. Strayer, Past Master
Jonathan ---·-···--No. 545....Bernharclt Carey, Master
George Cordodor, Senior Warden
San Gabriel -·-·-··-·····No· 546•._Geor~e W. Scherer, Jr.• Senior Warden........ 56.98
H. W. Hetzler, Junior Warden
Oias. A. Arnold, Past Master
Arcadia --··--··-·-No. 547....Ben P. Nash, Master..........·-······- ··········- ······· 56.98
Louis J. Humble, Senior Warden
Victor H. Gunde1'90J1, Past Maitet
·F red J. McClung, Put Master
Triangle
No. 548-Robert W. Doan. Maater...·-·····-··-······-·····- 56.98
Edwin L. Pierce, Senior Warden
Robert R. Crowell, Junior Warden
Juatice
__No. 549..-Thomas H. Jenkins, Master
Wllllam R. Cruickshank, Senior Warden
Ronald A. Brittain, Junior Warden
Paul A. Hackler. P.M. and Inspector
William Willis Barry, Past Master
Andrew Burke, Past Master
Milton P. Conklin, Past Master
Earl Conner, Past Master
George David Horn, Past Master
Rush Manbert, Past Master
Percy Vane Maury, Past Master
'Emsnet James Pierce, Past Master
Morgan Max Smith, Past Master
Jordan Zolli, Past Master
Seaport ··---·--··.No. 550....Bertram C. von Konsky, Master
Ovid B. Prid~en, Senior Warden
Laurence 0. Heath, Junior Warden
David M. Boring, Past Master
Benjamin L. Canning, Past Master
Walter A. Huber, Past Master
Albert R. Logasa, Past Master
Jdlm. Wullselhleger, Past Master
Lakeshore -·--·--No. 551.Jierl>ert E. Stone, Master
Roy D. Burt, Junior Warden
Paul S. Boren, Past Master
Lee Burnett Ferguson, Past Master
Ralph H. Moreland, Past Master
Semper Vlrens _ _ _No. 552-Allan A. McVicar, Senior Warden................ 39.n
Alexander Duncan, P.M. and Inspector....•.- 39.72
Educator _______No. 554....Emmelit Louis Bundy, Master
James Albert Robertson, Senior Warden
Arthur Vernon Ivy, Junior Warden
P. D. De Long, Past Master
Ralph M. Small, Past Master
J. Lloyd Smit'h, Past Master
White Pine _ _No. 555..•Michael R. Klepach, Senior Warden. ..·-·-- 42.66
Richard W. Gould, Past Master
Wesley Little, Past Master
Slmeon E. Sheffey, Past Master

NameofLodse

No. of Lodse

Repreaentativea

455
Mileage Allowed

Fairfax - - - - - - N o . 556-Max Gadow, Master
Robert A. Smallman, Senior Warden
Arthur D. Darrington, Past Master
Hermosa
----No. 557.. _Donald Jerome Dutwiler, Master....·-·- · - - 56.98
Edward A. Tanner, Junior Warden
Paul Thompson, P.M. and Inspector.......••_... 56.98
W. G. Conner, Past Master
P
Robert Dean Haber, Past Master
olnt Firmin ··-·--··-No. 558--Ted Sluder, Master••..............- ·-·-·····-········· 56.98
Walter H. Sawyer, Senior Warden
Terence P. Camey, Past Master
Craftsmen _ ---No. 559....B. F. Berkshire, Master............·-·····-········-···· 56.98
John Y. Haig, Senior Warden
Kenneth W. Gray, Past Master
A. W. Manners. Past Master
Plymouth
560--Willis H. Gillette, Master
Clarence Van Buren, Junior Warden
Edward H. Siems, Grand Treasurer
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
James G. Disher, Past Master
Joseph J. Lagler, Past Master
John 0. Reynolds, Past Master
William G. Thumann, Past Master
Peter M. Tripp, Past Master
Edward K. Woods, Past Master
East San Dlego•.-··-···-No. 561-Edward W. Wrede, Jr., Senior Warden...... 67.70
Alfred L. Holroyd, Junior Warden
Robert F. Baker, Past Master
Harry K. Ford, Past Master
Pyramid ------No. 562....Lannls F. Lewis, Master
Edward J. Moody, Senior Warden
Warren J. Lauricella, Junior Warden
John H. Brooke, Past Master
Germain W. Miller, Past Master
Chester H. Newell, Past Master
South Park ··- - - - No. S63·-Robe
John rtJ BW • S teedman, Master·-····-·····-····-· 56.98
• rady, Senior Warden
Lawrence B. Black, Past Master
William G. Poley, Past Master
Carl H. Lindegren, Past Master
Max F. Vail, Past Master
Foothill ···---···---No. 564-H. Harris Donaldson, Jr., Master
Herbert L. Carter, Senior Warden
Robert A. Larson, Junior Member
Lawrence J. Camozzi, Past Master
Ray A. Farley, Past Master
J. Gardiner Grady, Past Master
Benjamin L. Miller, Past Master
Wat Adams ----No;565__A. J. Ferro, Jr., Senior Warden..·-·-···-···-··· 56.98
Romanzo Lyman, Junior Warden
David Johnson, Past Mastel"
James A. Garftel-d___No. 566.-Charles Eugene Whalen, Muter......·--·- 56.98
Clay Robbins, Senior Warden.·-········-·-·- 56.98
Lester C. Fairfield. Junior Warden
Field Thompson, P.M. and Inspector-····-·- 58.20
Searchlight - - - - N o · 567--Edward W. Seither, Master..........·-·········-··· 56.98
Orio R. Peugh, Senior Warden.-- ----·- 56.98
David Perkins. Past Master

-----No.

456
Name of Lodae

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

457

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Repreaentativea

Park Boulevard __ ___No. 568.....Daniel E. Breault, Master
James T. Woods, Senior Warden
ami.1 R. Anderson, Junior Warden
Don E. Berry, Paat Ma.ster......·-····-··········-·Lloyd M. Bradford, Past Master
James E. Hammond, Past Master
Ole Knudsen, Past Master
Edward W. Long, Past Master
Willis V. McBeth, Past Master
Chateau Thierry _ _ _No. 569.._Dewey B. Jefferis, Master
Paul Ric:hey, Senior Warden
Eugene R. Barnard, Past Master
Walter Beck, Past Master
Harold D. Weber, Past Master
Military Service ______No. 570.._Morris M. Hershenow, Master
Harry A. Kallberg, Senior Warden
Louis M. Susman, Junior Warden
Alvin C. Gundred, Past Master
Louis H. Strohecker, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck...__No. 571_W. George McClusky, Master
Andy Theopulos, Senior Warden
Paul F. Leong, Junior Warden
Elbert W. Davis, Grand Lecturer
John Tilbury, Past Master
James Madison ····-·-···-No. 572...Earl E. Shook, Master·-··········-·- ···············J. Oliver Johnson, Senior Warden
Ray Smith, P.M. and Inspector.................- ...
Wesley 0. Elderkin, Past Master
Hillcrest ---··-···__No. 573.. _Harry H. Clay,ton, Master
John H. Warner, Senior Warden
James T. Duthie, Junior Warden
,Brown Zarley, Past Master
S. E. Hackett _ _ _ _No. 57-t_Nonnan E. Hale, Mester-·-···-·········-········
John L. Odle, Senior Warden
.
Robert E. Wilson, Junior Warden
Fort Crook ·-·------No. 575..-L. W. Eldridge, Muter·--·····················-····-=
V. P. Solomon, Senior Warden
El Cajon Vall•y
No
1:!'
7
6
Joseph A.
Sanderson,
Master
......·-·················
~ ·············-· • ~,, ··-Homer
A. Vincent,
Senior
Werdm

Name of Lod1e

8.4()

56.98
56.98

67.70
42.32
68.80

William R. Bledsoe, Junior Warden
Hugh D. Good, P.M. and Inspector..... _....... 68.40
Sunnyside ---·--·····No. 577....Rowan M. Waskom, Maater.....................- ... 56.98
Herbert S. Cogar, Senior Warden
Donald R. Coon, Junior Warden
Louis H. Maihler, P.M. and ln.spector.......- ..• 56.98
J. Leslie Clark, Past Master
F. Wesley Davies, Past Master·-··--···- ··-··· 56.98
George W . Dean, Past Master
Wm. B. Harmon, Past Master
John A. Low, Past Master
•:.
Guy A. Tolile, Past Master
Progressive ______No. 578....Earl B. Sansing, Master..........·-····················· 56.98
Travis F. Hollillqswortih, Senior Warden ,
Paul Crawford, Junior Warden
ames A. Carrier, Past Master
Howard Edwards, Past Master
. L. Halstead, Past Master
Arthur V. Lundstrom, Past Master
Sidney E. Mills, Past Master
Charles E. Taylor, Past Master

t

No. of Lod1e

Mileaae Allowed

Warren G. Hardfng_ _ No. 579-Ben S. Box, Master·-----···-·- ···-····
Elbert M. Coon, Senior Warden
Boyd M. Duncan, Junior Warden
Carl W. Brainard, Past Master
Henry R. Brown, Past Master
C.Onrad E. Herrmann, Paat Master
James M. Lee, Past Master
Santa Marla ·····-·····--No. 580.._Clifton H. Owen, Muter......·---···················
.
'
Leonce W. Farmer, Senior Warden
· ·
Edward T. MacKenzie, Junior Warden
Zenas Y. Coleman, Past Master
Aaron H. Schrock, Past Master
Security - - - -·--No.581..-Norris L. Scherrer, Master--·-··--··-····-···
Lyle Lynn Stumbaugh, Junior Warden
Leonard T. Jenkins, Past Master
:
Kenneth L. M<ll'l'is, Past Master
Kenneth Payne Sward, Past Master
Rialto --·-··-···-_No, 582-Billy L. Robison, Senior Warden..................
James Weller, Junior Warden
Cliarles C. Harnden, Past Master
Wasco ---··--··-···No. 583..-Samuel Eugene Wilcoxon, Senior Warden..
George Murray Evans, Junior Warden
Fred Chas. Prttschke, P.M. and Inspector....
Harding -····-···-·-····-No. 5M..-l\r1uJ~~ ~H:~!S!:~;·v;;~-;:i:i-··········

8.40

71.00

41.08

61.9-t
36.56
36.56
56.98

Roger C. Konstanzer, Junior Warden
Melvin A. Pixley, Grand Orator·-················· 56.98
Anson McArthur, P.M. and Inspector.......... 56.98
William H. Errett, Past Master
Manchester -·-···--No. 585...-R.. A. Dimiceli, Maater-·----·- ·-···········- 56.98
William C. Baud, Senior Warden
Jules Martinet, Junior Warden
Elmer R. Lotz, P.M. and Inspector-.........._ 56.98
Gilbert J. Anderson, Past Master
Ralph C. Ferguson, Past Master
Floyd E. Fowler, Past Master
Thomas C. Lloyd, Past Master
Richard E. Snyder, Past Master
Judson T. Sparks. Past Master
Garden Grove ····---No. 586....Donald P. Stewart, Muter.............................. 58.06
Richard P. Haster Senior Warden
William B. Hinkle, Junior Warden
Walter K. Reed, Past Master
Leonard W. Schauer, Past Master
Valley Forge _ _No. 587_Clifton C. Girard, Master'- --·--····- -······· 56.98
Joseph B. Marts, Junior Warden
Leslie S. Wayman, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98
Cltarles S. Barrett, Past Master
James M. Maddock. Past Master
Obas. L. W. Vocke, Past Master
El S
No 588 __James H. ·Busselle, Master...·--················-····· 56.98
ereno -·--·-········ •
· Robert C. Gapper, Senior Warden
Leslie H. Laney, Past Master
Kauai --·-··-········'"No. 589..-Joseph M. Souza, Jr., Senior Warden............ 371.80
·
.
Sau Yee Ohang, Grand Sword Bearer.......... 371.80
Hector McD. Moir, P.M. and Inspector...... 371.80
C.Ompass ..._. _____No. 590-G. Nelson Lortie, Malter........................._..... 60.26
Ray D. Moore, Senior Warden
Wallace E. Lewis, Junior Warden
Plhllip S. Hunt, P.M. and Inspector.....- - ·····- 60.26

458
Name of Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentatlvea

459

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowed

Escalon ---···--·-··-No. 591.~ot represented
Tujunga
.No. 592.._Eino J. Heronen, Senior Warden.-··········-·- 56.32
Harold W. Weygandt, Jr., Junior Warden
Colin C. Campbell, Past Master
All States _______ No. 593_Qu-I M. Erwin, Malter..........·-···-··············- 56.98
James A. Patmor, Senior Warden
Lawrence J. McEldowney, Past Master
Edward M. Rudd, Past Master
Service - - - · · · - - N o . 594....Earl Woodward, Master.·-···-··············-··-··· 56.98
Paul D. Nowlin, Senior Warden
George L. Richards, Junior Warden
Ralph F. Rutherford, Past Master
Alexander Graham BelL.No. 595.-William C. Paine, Jr., Master....·-··-··········-··· 56.98
Jesse C. Jordan. Senior Warden
Graham A. Backus, Past Master·-················· 56.98
Eugene Brockow, Past Master
Charles F. Casteel, Past Master
Don F. Nisbet, Past Master
F!l"ed Schunk, Past Master
Guardian -··-·······-····-···No. 596..J>aul W. Smith, Master-········-······················· 56.98
E. R. Ha_yes, Senior Warden
George C. Colby, Past Master
Pearl Harbor --·-·-··-···No. 598-Joseph P. Dennehy, Senior Warden............ 350.90
Carl E. Williams, Past Master
Carmelita -·--··-·-·-No. 599.-William M. Ohristensen, Jr., Master...........- 58.20
Daniel P. Jund, Seni02" Warden
Arthur W. Anderson, Past Master
Kermit A. Jacobson, Past Master
J. Tyler Parker, Jr., Past Master
Jay D. Rinehart, Past Master
~e:~~\v;~d~~·····-·········· 56.98
Lynwood --·-·--···--No. 600.-{~I~~~

iteid'.

Milton E. Ammann, Junior Warden
John D. Keen, Past Master
Grizzly -··-·--·······-No• 601-William W. Thrailkill, Master..·-···--········
Leo Hugh Betzer, Senior Warden
Wilbert Sherman Cope, Junior Warden
Earl D. Fonda, Past Master
Walter H. Young, Past Master
Melrose ··---····-·····-·-No. 602.._Thomas E. Buford, Senior Warden................
George Earle Outram, Juni02" Warden
Edwin C. T. Churclt, Past Master
Edward W. Deckenbach, Past Master
William R. D. Gotcher, Past Master
Talmage G. Latham, Past Master
_ _ _ N.o. 603..J.arcy C. Basker, Master
Dimond -··
Harry E. Keys, Senior Warden
Frank R. Bates, Junior Warden
Leonard McGihon, Past Master
Jubilee - - - · - - - - N o . 60f_Jac.k C. Clark, Senior WardeD.---·-··········ohn Kahler, Past Master
W. Clark Sackman, Past Master
Glassell Park --····---No. 605....Robert J. Morris, Senior Warden.-··-··-·-·Frank W. Johnson, P .M. and lnspector..·-·Sojoumer --·-·····__No. 607....Clarence A. Garrison, Maater.....·-··········-···
Richard D. Webb, Senior Warden
Ben L. Anderson, Junior Warden
Fred D. Beatty, Past Master
Thomas K. Nielsen, Past Master

36.70

56.98

58.06
56.98
56.98
58.06

Name of Lodge

No. of Lodp

Repreaentativea

Granada

-No. 608.-James Field, Jr., Master..•·--····-····-·-·········· 56.98

Mlleap Allowed

Howard L. Ferguson. Sen.tor Warden
Gus A. Hart, Junior Warden
Dondald G. Campbell,
Assistant Grand Lecturer......................... _.
J. Rollie Bowles. Past Master
Don S. Lemon, Past Master
Provident -·········--······No· 609.._Howard C. Stone, Master................................
Ned Evans Ubben, Senior Warden
Frederick Lee Lurt_y, Junior Warden
Leslie E. Wood, Past Grand Master............
Orson Almon Rosecrans, Past Master
Carlyle F. Van Patten, Past Master....·--···
Elmhurst -··-··-·----No. 610._Robert B. Hansen, Master
Harold E. Hardman. Seni02" Warden
Cecil W. Doggett, Junior Warden
William M. Sutherland, Past Master
Canoga
··-·-No. 611..-Carroll J. Davis, Master-·-··-····--·--·····
Charles 0. Fling, Seni02" Warden
William P. Forbes, Jr., Past Master
Temple City ______ No. 612.._Howard L. Taber, Senior Warden.-···-···-···
Mark E. SChrock. Junior Warden
Charles M. Coffland, P.M. and lmpector_...
Ruper.t C. Curtis, Past Master
Merle F. Logue, Past Master
Melvin 0. Naugle, Past Master
Conrad B. W alburger, Past Master
Three Pillars ....'"_ _ _No. 613....Ardtie R. Graves, Master............·-······-·········
James H. Phillips, Senior Warden
Floyd L. Baker, Junior Warden
Sam Lovell, P.M. and Inspector.________________
George F. Packard, Past Muter
Larchmont _ _ _ _ _ No. 614._James W. Young, Master·-··-····----··-·····-·
•
Bernard E. Ingram, Senior Warden
Robert A. Simon, Juni02" Warden
W. Tom. Almany, Jr., Past Master
Newcomb Condee, Past Master·-··········-·····Herbert H. Cooper, Past Muter
Harvey W. Hill, Past Master
Hemet -·-·--·····--·-.No. 615..-K. Wade AndttSon, Master.---··········-···
W. Ross Williams, Seni02" Warden
Hubert J. Raymond. P.M. and lmpector..·-···
R. E. Dolley_ _ _ _No. 616-Marion F. Berkhan, Muter----·········Ottis C. Griffin. Senior Warden
Frank 0. Brostrom, Past Muter
Joy H. Tancre, Past Master
··--No. 617_C. E. CO!!"der, Senior Warden...·---·········Big Bear.
J. L. Ward, Junior Warden
E.arl Moore Vigus, P.M. and lnspect02"........
L. P. Boyle, Past Master
Southland -··--·--No. 618-'Thomas C. Garvey, Master--·--···--···-····
Thomas Noble, Seni02" Warden
Neptune ··----·-·-No. 619-James Childress Cullar, Master...·--···········Gisley Oliver Johnson, Senior W.Men
Arnold Michael Mueller, Past Master
George F. Robel:'tS. Past Master
Point Loma No. 620.-8teve Sulek, Master·-·-··-·----···-········-···
Forrest R. Powell, Senior Warden
Otis N. Presley, Junior Warden

58.20
8.40
8.40
8.40

56.98
56.98
56.98

8.40
8.40
56.98

56.98
67.42
66.22
56.98

64.64
64.64
56.98
56.98

67.70

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Na':"!'of~,1e

No. of Lod~

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

. llepreaenta&ivea

Harold K. Rankin, Past Master
Cecil J. Rogers, Past Master
The Gardens ····-····----No.621.._Clare J. V. Parker, Muter·-·-····-·--···········
Richard C. Watson, Senior Warden
Harry Kaprielian, Junior Warden
Floyd S. Vandegrift, Past Master
Wayne L. Watson, Past Master
Kenneth F. Watts, Past Master
AtWater -··-··--···-·-···~·No. 622-Emil Robert Johnson, Master..................•.......
Victor Leon Frank, Senior Warden
Gilbert Harold Peterson, Junior Warden
Oha'l'les F. Chapman, P.M. and lnspeotor....
Frederick H. Chapman, Past Master
Menorah ···---·-····-···-No. 623.-Morris J. Pollack. Muter-----·-····-····-··,··
J. Leonard Penner, Senior Warden
Fortitude ··-······----No. 624.-David S. Hislop, Master
.
Sam Tishkowsky, Senior Warden
James B. Barbero, Junior Warden
Edward L. Bacher, Past Master
Alfred L. Costa, Past Master
Ralph McDermott Webb, Past Master
Russell G. Worth, Past Master
Angeles Mesa ---·--No. 625....J\ilvie 0. Holton, Master-····-·-·-···-··-·
Harold 0. Larsen, Senior Warden
Donald M. Coleman, Junior Warden
George C. Culuris, Pa.st Master
Gordon Scott Duncan, Past Master
Walter R. Gentry, Past Master
Chula Vista --·-----..No. 626.-Tames H. Fortner, Jr., Muter·-··--······-~·-·······
David E. Avery, Senior Warden
Alvin A. Nelson. Junior Warden
John H. Greife, Past Master
Veme F. McLean, Past Master
Charles E. Smith, Past Master
Lamanda Park -·-···········No. 627..- William C. Root, Muter....·-·--·················-···
Charles C. Love, Senior Warden
Truth ---··---····--No. 628.-R. Roy Forkner, Sr., Master............•.......·-·····
Frank B. Myers, Senior Warden
Allen Curry, Junior Warden
Osker E. Kopperud, Past Master
Leland Roberts, Past Master
Fairview _ _ __,No. 629..-Russell C. Harris. Maata-............·-·············Kenneth E. Greene, Senior Warden
Donald G. Butts, Past Master
Ben L. Irwin, Past Master
Harold C. Mudgett. Past Master
Ingleside ··-·-··-················No. 630.-Roy S. Foster, Master
Rci>ert E. Barnett, Senior Warden
Lloyd E. Wilson, Grand Secretary
Henry C. Clausen, Judge Advocate
John D. Miller, P.M. and lnspectOl'
Raymond W. Blosser, Past Master
Phl1 S. Tolman, Past Master
Benevolence -···········-~..No. 631....Buford E. Rhodes, Master......•..·-····--······Lester R. Spivak, Senior Warden
Clarence H. McCullough, Junior Warden
Roy H. Schwieger, Past Master

Name of Loda;e

56.98

56.98
56.98
56.98

56.98

67.70

58.20
56.98

56.98

56.98

No. of Lodge

Repreteru:ativea

461
Mi1eaa;e Allmn°d

Normal Heights _,_. __ No. 632....Ewald J. Harell, Senior Warden-.....---··- · 67.70
Robert S. Hoyle, Junior Warden
Winfield S. McLees, P.M. and Inirpectm____ 67.70
Bentley W. Buck, Past Master
Benjamin T. Salmon, Past Master
Poinsettia ···-·----No. 633.. _Clifford S. Fouhse, Master------··-········- 49.78
·
John W. Burris, Senior Warden
Harold D. Minster, Junior Warden
Louis C. Drapeau. Past Grand Master.......... 48.24
Guy S. Harts, Sr., P.M. and Inspector._..... 49.78
Rd>ert J. Campbell, Past Master
Conley L. LaForce, Past Master
Arthur T. Mead, Past Master
Lloyd M. Ryckman, Past Master
Victorville ···--···----·No. 634.. _Alfred E. Johnson. Master·-···-··-················· 65.74
Willard F. Cameron, Senior Warden
.
Russell F. Bragg, P.M. and Inspector... _....... 65.74
Riverside ····-····--..-No. 635.-Denzil C. Ralston, Mal!lter---·····-··-···- 62.40
Mahlon G. Gove, Senior Warden
Benjamin J. Whelan, Junior Warden
Gordon F. Black, Past Master
Charles H. Grace, Past Master
Lewis S. Snyder, Past Master
John Marshall ···--··-·-No. 636..-Tess L. Williams, Master•.....·-·····················-· 56.98
l:,_yle S. Hubbard, Senior Warden
Clyde B. Austin, Past Master
Rd>ert A. Crigler, Past Master
Chester C. Davies, Past Master
Atwill Morgan, Past Master
Richard A. Peterson, Past Master
Edward A. Underwood, Past Master
Palisades --··-·---.No. 637....Robert Hove Atwater, Master·-··--······-·····- 56.98
Frank Lanes, Senior Warden
Jdhn Clayton Boggs, Past Master
Gordon F. Johnson, Past Master
E. Ray Koegler, Past Master
lncllan Rock .....•.... _ _..No. 638....Wallace Theodore Masters, Master
:·
Cyril Gilbert Page, Senior Warden
Frederick John Artus, Junior Warden
Edward Lamory Kearney, Past Master
Royce Nunn Welclt, Past Master
c.ompos1te -----No. 639-Rci>ert H. Pittler, Muter·--·····-··················· 56.98
Irving I. Levine, Senior Warden
Arthur Drltz, Junior Warden
Arthur Dvorin, Past Master
Veritas _ _ _ _ _ _ No. 640•.-Stanley R. Flowers, Master
David D. Tewell, Senior Warden
Irving J. Kohnke, Past Master
Washington I. Kohnke, Past Master
Oscar W. Norman, Past Master
.
William F. Poynter, Past Master • ·
James A. Foshay...........•..No. 641.._Wayne Richardson, Senior Warden............ 56.98
G. D. Morgan-Browne, Junior Warden
Joseph L. Young, Sr., Past Master
La Cumbre -·--··-····No. 642.-Frands G. Preston, Senior Warden.............. 47.20
.
John P. Franklin, Junior Warden
Alta Loma ··--···--·---No· 643._Bert B. Bond, Muter-·-···-··--···················· 56.98
·
Alan V. Shilling, Senior Warden
Carl C. Oster, Junior Warden

i62
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativea

463

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Mileage Allowed

Lomita ··--·····---····-No. 6+t....Earl 0. Brown. Master-··-··--····-··-·······- 56.98
Frank W. Tenney, Senior Warden
Donald D. Hansen, Junior Warden
John Roy Winters, Past Master
A. F. E. Irwin............-._No. 645..-Sitanley C. Stratton, Senior Warden.·-·········· 56.98
John N. Rodgers, Junior Warden
Warren W. Garrison, Jr., Past Master
Metropolitan ·--···-····-···No. 646..-Lester 0. Lohmann, Master......·-········-····-··· 56.98
Carl A. Miller, Senior Warden
Gordon T. Nicklin, Junior Warden
Frank Everett, Past Muter
Hawthorne ···········-····-No. 647..-James C. White, Master......·-··-······-··-···-·- 56.98
William J. Rosenber~. Senior Warden
Udell Woods, Junior Warden
John A. Owen, P.M. and Inspector-·-···-- 56.98
Charles D. Goodale, Past Master
Damascus ·········-······--·No. 648..-Howard Blain Pasley, Master......·-············-· 61.94
James Scott Maddock, Senior Warden
Joseph L. Ousley, P.M. and Inspector.....-... 61.94
William Granville Chamberlain, Past Master
Hediert Warren Robbins, Past Master
Florence -··············-·-······No. 649....Maeser Wilson, Senior Warden..........·-······· 56.98
William Sheue, Junior Warden
La Brea -·--·-·---.No. 650..-Charles Y ecsmen, Malter...----··-······-·-·- 56.98
William G. Lee, Senior Warden
George W. Burch, Jr., Past Master......·-······· 56.98
Francis C. FOT"d, Past Master
Russell Lee, Past Master
W. James Mann, Past Master
Emil 0. Ostrom, Past Master
Ray S. Smith, Past Master
Yohn W. Swank, Past Master
Menlo Park ......- ............No. 651....Robert F. Gil:berg, Master·-··········-····-··········· 2.82
Reginald H. Stevens, Senior Warden
Nbert F. Koula, Junior Warden
Robert Oh:ristiansen, Past Master
Royal Hodge, Past Master
David Wright, Past Masttr
Crescenta Valley ···-·--··No. 652..-Robert M. Waddell, Master••.•·-············-····· 56.98
Thomas J. Dale, Senior Warden
James L. Lenarth, Junior Warden
Henry Welch, Past Master
Fontana --·--·--···-No. 653..-James W. Reasoner, Senior Warden............ 58.06
William M. R!Ches. JuniOT" Warden
lordan ··········-··············-·-No. 654..-William F. Schaaf, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
Monte Vista ···············-··No. 655•.-James E. ArmstTong, Master.....•......- •••..--. 56.98
Willis A. Langdon, Senior Warden
Abraham Harder, Past Master
Citro! -····--··-······--··No. 656.-Elmer I. Edwards, Master.............................. 58.06
Marlon B. Titcomb, Senior Warden
Frank E. Blystone. Junior Warden
John D. Spreckels.....__.No. 657-Fred M. McPheeters, Muter....·-················· 67.70
Froman Barrett, Senior Warden
Charles M. Broderick, Junior Warden
Horace H. Blair, Past Master
Livingston ····--·-···-··-·No. 658...-L. 'Thornton Powell, Senior Warden.-······-- 11.82
Gordon H. Winton, Sr., Past Master
La Habra ····-···---·········No. 6S9....WHbur A. Quist, Master..................·-··-··- 58.06
Arthur E. Corbett, Senior Warden
Milan M. McGraw, Junior Warden

Name of Lodge

Representatives

No. of Lodge

Mileage Allowed

Riley L. Blurton, P.M. and Inspector............
Harold Murvall Dick, Past Master
Bert R. Dobbs, Past Master
Baldwin Park ····-···---No. 660.-0ren Ira Sparks, Master................·-··········-···
James Brueckner Faris, Junior Warden
Fred L. Ferguson, Sr., P.M. and Inspector...•
Marion Mell, Past Master
Malta -·-·--·---···No. 661....William S. Bailey, Senior Warden.----····-···
Henry Knox ---··-··-No. 662..-Peter A. Hedin, Master·-······----·-·········Frank D. Thomson, Senior Warden
Harry B. Keeling, Junior Warden
S. Roy Howell, Past Master
Paul R. Nichols, Past Master
Ojai
No. 663-James L. Hickman, Junior Warden................
Kaweah --·······--·_No. 665....Charles H. Beringer, Master·-····-··--·············
..•-No. 666.._Harland E. Peckinpaugh, Master.................•
Reseda
Wm. Maurice Crane, Senior Warden
Frank S. Barnard, Past Master
Robert F. Ward, Past Master
Meridian -----····-No. 667....Ralph A. Coler, Master·-········--··--··-·······ohn M. Swan, Senior Warden
ames Whitcomb Brougher, Jr.,
Grand Chaplain···································-····-·
John R. Moore, Past Grand Master·-·······-·Frank W. Raddatz, P.M. and Inspector.......•
Daris L. Aharta, Past Master
San Gorgonlo ---····-·····No. 668._Vem C. Mills, Master......·-·····-·-············-···B. J. Skipper, Senior Warden
Lloyd J. Goodman, Junior Warden
John Raatz, Past Master
John P. Jarman···-··-·····No. 669....Allan Merville Letcltworth, Master..·-······-···
Fred Nickander Anderson, SenlOT' Warden
Rodney Vere Gupton, Junior Warden
Kenneth Glenn Hardy, Past Master
Nels Hjalmar Johnson, Past Master
Oscar Ray Lattin, Past Master
Greenleaf _ _ _ _ _No. 670_Carl A. Green, Master-···-···---···-··--·
George C. Stumpf, Senior Warden
Hugh M. Topping, P.M. and Inspector.-...
San Clemente _ _No. 671.....Howard E. Massie, Master·-··-·····-··-··-··Chrls Abel, Junior Warden
David H. Blakelock, Past Master
Laguna Beach _ _ _No. 612..-Joe Penna, Senior Warden.........·-·····--····-···
W. Ben Sorrells, Assistant Grand Lecturer..
Far West
.No. 673..-Charles L. Foster, Master
Walter E. Barrus, Senior Warden
S. Myron Tatarlan, Junior Warden
N. Walter Anderson, Past Master
John 0. Clasby, Past Master
Wm. Clement Kunz, Past Master
Walter Lubchenko, Past Master
Rowland E. Mason, Past Master
Earl B. Myers, Past Master
Cecil M. Prior, Past Master
Earl W. Rudeen, Past Master
Albert S. Sandell, Past Master

J

58.06
56.98
56.98
56.98
56.98

49.90
36.14
56.98

56.32
56.32
56.98
56.32
65.22

4.54

58.38
58.38

6M8
58.74
58.74

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
Name of Lodge

No. of Lodge

Repreaentativu

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA
Mileage Allowait·

Los Cerritos .................... No. 674.. _Paul M. Davidson, Senior Warden.............. 56.98
Bernard Paul Friedland. Junior Warden
Samuel E. Leddell, Past Master
Arthur J. Sissom, Past Master
Modesto ··--····-··----- -No. 675.-Frank C. Shaw, Past Master
Willow Glen --···-····-No . 676....Raymond W. Lockhart. M118ter..·-···············- 4.54
Norman L. David, Senior Warden
James A. Minor, Junior Warden
Frank N. Long, P.M. and Inspector.............. 5.14
Carl J. Deiss, Past Master
Holger G. Hansen, Past Master
Almer W. Laederich, Past Master
Harold S. Medo, Past Master
Thornton D. Webster, Past Master
Liberal Arts ······-···-·--N o. 677....Raymond D. Gail, Master;-·····-··················· 56.98
Clarence G. Hall, Senior Warden
John F. Porter, Junior Warden
Ellsworth Meyer, Past Grand Masta-............ 58.20
James G. Heagy, Past Master
Frank H. Reinsch, Past Master
Altadena ····-·-··--······· ·No. 678._William E. Graves, Master.·-·····-·······--···- 58.20
Joseph L. Schwinn, Junior Warden
Austin H. Hazard, :Past Master
Canby Cross ·-········---No . 679_William B. Allen, Senior Warden.-............. 55.90
Lester M. Cushman, Junior Warden
Carmel - - - - - - N o . 680._Wm. A. BJornvold, Master-···-···········-······· 13.52
Ralph W. Thompson. Past Master
Dos Palos --··-·--·····-N o. 681_Harvey S. Moore, Master-·-·-···· ·-·-····-···- 13.40
'Thornton W. Owen. Senior Warden
.
Kenneth B. Haslam. Junior Warden
Richard D. Crowe, Past Master
Barstow --··---N o. 682.-Robert Carlton McDowell, Senior Warden.. 50.50
John Henry Marsh, Junior Warden
Redwod Empire _ _ _No. 683...Lvnwood L. Lindley, Master--· -···-··· 31.32
11oward E. Martin, Senior Warden
Trona -··-··---- -No. 684_Thomas Coe Hagar, Master·--·- ·····-··· 52.98
Raymond S. Miller, Junior Warden
Lynn Allen Blackmun, P.M. and Inspector.... 52.98
Hardin I. Lineback, Past Master .
Charles E. Ousley, Past Master
San Marino _____No. 685.-C. N. McDowell, Master-·-· ···-·····-- 58.20
W. Glen E. Irwin, Senior Warden
Stephen J. Collins. Junior Warden
George R. Friederich, Past Master
William B. McKesson, Past Master
G. Wesle:y Parr, Past Master
W. J. Williama, Past Master
Albany _ _ _ _ _-No. 686.. _Warren Bryant. Master
C. E. Cummings, Senior Warden
E. E. Jourdan, Junior Warden
Ambrose R. Graham, Past Master
Mason Young, Past Master
Vbta
687_Clarence A. Engleman, Masts......·-············· 64.20
William M. Ford, Senior Warden
Lewis H. Field. P.M. and Inspector.......-..... 64.20
Andrew H. Chung, Past Master
Frank L. Jewell, Past Master

----··---No.

Name Of Lodae·

No. of Lod1e

Repreaental:ivu

465
Mileage Allowcd

Oildale --·------ No. 688_George F. Fowler, Muter--·· ··--·--- 41.08
Theron J. Oaks. Senior Warden
LeRoy E. Halbert, Junior Warden
Fred C. Epperson, Past Master
Pohona - - - - - - N o . 689..-Behrend H. Hullen, Muter-···-··- -········· 37.92
Clifford A. Marston, Senior Warden
San Carlos ··--··----N o. 690..-Atfred R. Pedersen, Master
Homer W. Lang, Senior Warden
Richard E. Robinson, Junior Warden
E. Ross Baylis. P.M. and Inspector
Forrest R. Hassell, Past Master
Walter C. Simon, Past Master
Indian Wells Valley..- ...No. 691.-John C. Wiiiiams. Master······--······················· 51.28
Otarles D. Radcliff. Senior Warden
Howard S. Clark. Past Master
Travelers ····-···---···--Na. 692.. _Charles V. Green, Master····-·-··-·········-·-···· 8.40
.
Gilbert G. Green, Senior Warden
Alfred E. Gebhett, Past Master
Palm Springs ····-·----No . 693..-John H. Spargur, Senior Warden....._....:...... 66.62
William Bronstein, Junior Warden
Frederick A. Morrison, Past Master
·
·
Raymond M. Sorum, Past Master
San Antonio _ _ __No, 694.-Robert Paul Murray, Malter....·-····--··-······· 56.98
Owen Perrin Leffingwell, Senior Warden
Robert Collier, Past Master
Meudell ------N'o. 695-Jame a T. 'Thompson, Master_···--····--- 41.08
James Tyadc, Junior Warden
Frank C. Kmg, Past Master
Crossroads -·--···--N o. 696..-Leonard G. Reavis, Muter......·-····-··············· 67 .70
·
Manley Torbert. Senior Warden
James B. McEiwee, Junior Warden
Francis S. Firkins, Past Master
Ray W. Hatch, Past Master
Garth B. Ryan, Past Master
• .
Earle F. Sheffield, Past Master
St Elmo ______ ___No, 697-Erwin Paul Oberlander, Master
·.
Rooert H. Burrows, Past Master
George C. Ferenz, Past Master
·
.
James S. Pursley, Past Master
.
Roibert E. Voortmeyer, Sr., Past MastetWilliam D. Stephens......_No. 698.-Grover C. Fayles. Master-···············-·····.· -··- 56.98
Walker S. K!Sselburgh, Senior Warden
Elmer P. Bromley, Junior Warden
Wybren Hiemstra, Past Master
Vierling Kersey, Past Master-····-·-··-··- 56.98
John X. Turk, Past Master
Bixby Knolls -~No. 699-1:~~fi~r&:;;·w;;.d;~--·-····--···-- 56.98
Ponderosa
No. 70<LTohn W. Dorney, Senior Warden..........- ...... 30.98
. .
Ned J. Harnish, Junior Warden
Santa Ynez Valley._.._.No. 701.-Hans F. Skytt, Master...........·-····-······-·········· 49.40
·
Walter Carl Heinrich, Senior Warden
William. Francis McGuire, Junior Warden '
Rosemead --~-No. 702_James F. Graham, Malt«--···- -·-······-·- 56.98
.
Dewey Andersen, Senior Warden
Westchester .:..:..--···---....No. 703....Edward Daniel Ross Master..·-·······-··-·········· 56.98
Gerald Finney Rader, Senior Warden
RObert A. Millhouse, Sr., Junior Warden
Janies L. Miles, P.M. and Inspector................ 56.98
L. Melvin Hall, Past Master

466
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE
No. of Lodae

Repreaeotative.

Mi1eaae Allowed

Orinda --·-·····-···- --No. 70f••-Jdhn J. Prentice, Master
Elbert A. Dawson. Jr., Senior Warden
Edgar W. Slusser, Junior Warden
Sherer G. Culver, Past Master
Martin J. Lewis. Jr., Past Master
Vernon K. L. Patterson, Paster
El Cerrito ····--····-····-N o. 705•._Emest R. Mitchell, Master
George R. Ioy, Senior Warden
Charles E. Waters, Junior Warden
Gene C. Otwell, Past Master
Ralph P. Partridge, Past Master
John L. Wixon, Past Master
Hunters Point Naval......No. 706._Frank R. Bennett. Master
Louis J. Wells, Senior Warden
Alfred R. Zeller, Junior Warden
Rodger S. Shour, Past Master
Frank C. Stewart, Past Master
Lake Tahoe -······-···--··N o. 707.._Lester S. Nagy, Master·-···-···--················-·us E. Claar, Senior Warden
ames B. Wines, Jr., Junior Warden
don F. Hillhouse, Past Master
Seafaring -·-·-----N o. 708.-Max A. Owen. Senior Warden......·-········-·Lorenzo ·-····-·-·········- ···No. 709..-James L. Jacobs, Master
Melvin W. McClellan, Senior Warden
Cecil L. Biggs. Junior Warden
Edward C. Will, P.M. and Inspector
Lawrence C. Bourland, Sr., Past Master
Linford W. Hunter, Past Master
.•....·-·········-···············
Anacapa ···--·-···--··· ·No. 710....Ronald B. Carr, MasterWarden
Harvey J. Day, Senior
Warden
Junior
Trotter,
Crawford
Lewis A. Pugh, P.M. and Inspector.-...........
Rim of the World..._....-No. 711...J)onald Grattldge, Master....·--··-·················
Rienne A. Stubbs, Senior Warden
Burdh 0. Brown, Past Master
Los Altos ______ No. 712-Eugene A. Plumley, Master.... ·-···-··········-·
Egbert W. Laub, Senior Warden
Raymond W. Bente, Junior Warden
Milton L. Gagnon, Past Master
Castro Valley ---·····-·No. 713..-Wallace E. Reid, Master
Ralph E. Harlan, Senior Warden
Ralph E. Shulenberger. Junior Warden
Carl F. La Vo, P.M. and Inspector
Edmund W. Silverfoote, Past Master
Blue Lakes -·--·--··-N o. 714.._Cli!lton P. Co!liander. Master
M. R. Sorensen, Junior Warden
Salvador 0. McDonald, Past Master
Gordon E. Robinson, Past Master
Magnolia Park -····-·No. 715....Amold D. Malcomson, Master....·-·················
Jahn F. Sherre~l. Senior Warden
Qifton H. Darnell, Junior Warden
Harold A. Morrison, Past Master
Jeremiah G. Staples, Past Master
Edward Serviss, Mastet'-·······--··-···
_George
•.
716
-·-········-No.
Belmont Shore
Omer Donald Akin, Senior Warden
Nat Frank. Past Master
Francis H. Gentry, Past Master
Harvey W. Trueman, Past Master

32.06

I;

58.06

50.72
50.72
63.61
2.94

56.98

56.98

Name of Locf&e

No. of Lodae

ReprueotatJ.u

467
Mileage Allowed

Wayfarer ·-------N o. 717•...Richard D. Williams, Master............. _...•..... 58.38
John E. Porter. Senior Warden
San Lorenzo Valley...- ...No. 718.._WiUiam E. Frick, Senior Warden......·-········· 8.44
Robert H. Ludlow, Past Master
Harry L. Worley, Past Master
Estero ----····--···- -·No. 719-Harold G. Whiting, Muter·-···-··· ····-·····- 35.50
Chad Horton, Senior Warden
Niels Jeppesen, Junior Warden
Mineral King ········-··--No. 720..-Berry Wright Baley, Master.......................... 35.04
Harold Dale Wooten, Senior Warden
Merlin D. Winter, Past Master......·-····-··-··· 35.04
Home ··--···-·-····· -··No. 721..-Midhael Gamer, Master·-····-····················-··· 56.98
Ar.thur D'Avellar, Jr., Senior Warden
Abe Marks, Junior Warden
Wm. H. Eyler, Past Master
George E. Tutt..._.........._.No. 722.. _George S. French, Master................................ 5.34
D. Leonard Detrick, Jr., Senior Warden
Almer W. Laederich, Jr.• Junior Warden
Lawrence E. Hendricks, Past Master
M. Glogovac, Muter-····-···· ···--··· 1.70
William
_
..
723
No.
Acalanes ---~---Robert M. Seay, Junior Warden
B. H. Burnett, Past Master
Donald H. Fibush, Past Master
San Ramon Valley.....•....•.No. 724-Arven R. Scott, Master....·-·······-·······-··········· 2.20
James 0. Kyle, Senior Warden
Robert A. Shipley, Junior Warden
··· 1.90
Saint John's --···-·--No . 725•.Jiarold F. McNeil, Master.•·-···--··············
Wayne C. Davidson, Senior Warden
Russel E. Henderson. Junior Warden
Mar.tin H. Quinn, Past Master
63.18
Yucaipa ______ _ No. 726..-Russell T. Pilkington, Master
Robert Adrain, Senior Warden
Joseph L. Hofer, Past Master
Verdugo HUis ··-···---No. 727..-William G. Miller, Master...·-·-··········- - 56.32
Richard G. McCall, Senior Warden
Ariel C. Harris. Past Master
Fred H. Kimpel, Past Master
Philip B. Stone, Past Muter·-··--···- ···-······· 56.98
Lakewood --··---·-N o. 728.-Don W. Penrose, Master...·---·-··--······· ···· 56.98
Gordon L. aark, Senior Warden
Floyd 0. Mason, P.M. and Inspector............ 56.98
Fred B. Gray, Past Master
Kennellh L. Hemphill. Past Master·-·--···· ····· 56.98
Centennial ····-··-····-···-·N o. 729-James W. McKaig, Master·-·········-·-·····-··· 56.98
Herbert T. Goins, Senior Warden
Richard E. Blum, Past Master
Polaris ···-·····-···-· --No. 730-James David Mathews, Master-...................... 8.40
Malcolm A. Nelson, Senior Warden
Wm. C. Neuffer, Jr., Junior Warden
Charles V. Shaffer, Past Master
Jack G. Switzer, Past Master
Elmer E. Voight, Past Master
No. 731-James H. Ford, Senior Warden...................... 56.98
Two Rivers....
Fred Kopplin, Jr., Junior Warden
Claude B. Riles, Past Master
San Juan ··----No. 732-Wm . F. Dreyer, Senior Warden.................... 8.40
Gamet B. Fleming, Junior Warden
Norman L. Langness. Past Master

468
Name of Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No. of Lodge

Repreaentatlvea

Mileage Allowed

Golden Empire ·······-··-···No. 733..-Wm. A. Tice, Multier·---····-·-·-··········-··;- 8.40
A. Ellis Burritt, Senior Warden
Gwinn R. Anderson, Junior Warden
Robert K. Titus. Past Master
Kit Carson ···-······--·No. 7.34....Dean Counter, Master..........·-······-················· 8.40
Samuel A. Hudson, Senior Warden
Delwin K. Barber, Junior Warden
Iiloyd F. Cole, Past Master
Truman N. Fassett, Past Master
Oasis of Mara..- •.............No. 735....Edgar N. Dyer, Master....•............................... 69.12
Parker E. Harrington. Senior Warden
Carl J. Couture, Junior Warden
Lemon Grove ··--··----No. 736.._Lfonel A. Thorogood. Master.....- ...........•....... 68.40
Francis L. Paltlterson, Senior Warden
John R. Gregory, Junior Warden
William E. Rife, Past Master
Hillsborough ·······-···········No. 737....Albert E. Roth, Master
Winslow Wetherbee, Senior Warden
A. Powell Cassidy, Junior Warden
Ernest L. Oaks, Past Master
Arvin --··-··········-·-··No. 738..
~~~~"\Varel~················ 42.78

_ltobertvt

Clave I. Kittell, Junior Warden
La Canada ····-·-····--··-·No. 739....Mark Thomas Smith, Jr., Senior Warden.... 56.98
Lawrence E. Oakander, Junior Warden
Railph W. Collins, P.M. and Inspector........ 56.98

~~if~~-~~~---················· 56.98

Opportunity ·····-···--··-No. 740_f=8tt.
Philip C. Benson, Senior Warden
Harald A. Zillman, Junior Warden
Horace E. Grant, Past Master
Tyre ························-··-No. 741 ...•Cliarence E. Gray, M&lter.....--·············-·····
John H. Dean, Jr., Senior Warden
Stanley H. Millers, Past Master
Morningside Park ..........No. 742..-Franklin M. Linde, Master:--··-··········-···
G. Lawrence Pilj, Senior Warden
Albert E. Linde, Past Master
Oakwood -········----..No. 743••-Jerrell C. Babb, Master...·--·······················
Phil M. Brown, Senior Warden
Lee H. Behymer, Junior Warden
Oarence E. Glaze, Past Master
San Leandro ···········-···-No. 7+4.-LeRoy C. McKisslck, Jr., Master
Elmer R. Baker, Junior Warden
JOihn W. Parker, Past Master
Peninsula ········-····-·-··.No. 745....Jdm G. Maddux, Master
Richard E. Giesin, Past Master
Westley P. Jones, Past Master
William D. Rigler, Past Master
Soquel ···············-···········-No. 746.·-i:e~t'.14~~~~~~nl~~~;d~~················
f;is Aver, Junior Warden
Arvin William Wendt, Past Master
Claude H. Morrison........No. 747....}Jton F. Jackson. Master-·········-··················
Paul W. Bennett, Senior Warden
Thos. L. Walston, Past Master
Highland ···········-·············No. 748..•.Gradclie W. Hart, Master·-···························
Walter S. Brooks, SenlOr Warden
Guy W. Whelchel, Past Master
Merced ·····-·----~.;.••;._.PNo. 749_William A. Jensen, Master·-····-····················'
Paul King, Grand Pursulvaot.....- ..........•..•...

56.98
56.98
56.98

7..34

67.70
61.94
25.82
25.82

Name of Lod1e

No. of Lod1e

Repreaentativea

469
Mileage Allowed

Mother Colony -··--·-No. 750.•..Fred J. Rector, Maater-·····-··-···-···········-···- 58.06
Hamllton -·---··-No, 751-Robert C. Remley, Master-········--·····-···-- 1.80
William T. Miazga, Senior Warden
Harvey E. Slocum, Junior Warden
..
P. D. Sprague, Past Master
Luther Burbank ...;.~----···No. 752.._Douglas L. McCorquodale, Senior Warden.. 4.86
No 753 Phillip E. Graham, Senior Warden.......... ·-··· 56.98
Lawndale
· ··
· ·---:···-··-····- • ····Hardlld G. Albright, Junior Warden
Elmer F. Mohr, Past Master
San Pablo --··---~---···.No. 754....Fred A. Barringer, MasWter d
John E. Marvin. Junior ar en
Golden Bowl _____No. 755....Elmer E. Warner, Muter-····-··-··················· 56.98
Otto J. Ouistensen. Senior Warden
William W. Deuel, Junior Warden
Richard Traylor Brassell, Jr., Past Master
Oayton Valley -·--···-··No. 756••-Bert E. Dawe, Master.....--······················-····· 2.10
Alan L. Austin, Senior Warden
Alfred Pimental, Junior Warden
Hal A. Mishler, Past Master
No. 757....Charles N. Clarkson, Master........._.........·-··· 7.94
Channel ...-...
West Covina _____No. 758.-Herbert W. Meyerlnck. Jr., Master................ 56.98
James E. Laird. Jr., Senior Warden
Paul Hillman, Junior Warden
Herbert Van Riper, Past Master
Carl Robert Young, Master·-····-··················· 58.38
El Rancho -·······-···-·-No. 759····Ebner
C. Hughes, Senior Warden
Lakeside
No 760 .Edwin G. Gimble, Master·-···-········-············· 68.80
·--·-·-·-· '
···Vivian Ritter, Senior Warden
Byron J. Conrad, Past Master
Josiah W. Roller..._••..•_.No. 761.._Thelo A. Perrott, Master·-·-······-··················· 2.94
Warren P. Todd, Senior Warden
Thomas J. McWilliam, Junior Warden
Coastside __________No. 762....ChafBe C. Gill, Master
William Murphy, Senior Warden
Arabic -··-···--·No. 763..-Leo H. Sadd, Master....·--····-··············-····-··· 56.98
Norman A. Barakat, Senior Warden
Heritage ·-··-··--···-·-..No• 764..-John David Bowman, Senior Warden.......... 56.98
Paul Abraham Basting, Junior Warden
C. Thomas Loudon, Past Master
Dana R. Weller...•............No. 765...•Philip F. Lucas, Senior Warden....·-······-····· 56.98
Harold C. Mclendon. Past Master
James H. Kew....._______No. 766....Sberman Davis, Senior Warden....·-········-·- 56.98
Oscar E. Hill, Junior Warden
William Robusch, Past Master
William Rhodes Hervey..No. 767.. _A!fred J. Navin, Master......·-··--·····-···-- 56.98
Earle A. Gray, Senior Warden
Raymond W. Phebus, Junior Warden
Edgar W. Otto, Past Master
Zenith ·················--·-···Nai 768....Wilbur J. Scott, Master._................................. 56.98
Ralph Pratt, Senior Warden
Reginald Fudge, Past Master
Palmdale ··········-··--..:No. 769...•Floyd J. Lecher, Master.·-·-·····--··············- 50.H
Sanford J. Robertson, Senior Warden
·
Robert D. Rietzke Junior Warden
Lake Chabot ·······---···-·No. 770..•.Glen P. Loomis. Master
Harold Chesnutt, Senior Warden
Martin Relte, Junior Warden
Arthur R. McGinley, Past Master

470
Name of Lod1e

No. of Lod1e

No. 77L.James William Yates, Master_ _ _ _ _ 67.70
ames LeRoy Rogers, Junior Warden
Joseph L. McSparran, Past Master
Avenal -·-·-···-----No. 772-..CorwiD Maurice Peart, Master---···-········ 35.88
Gordon M. Cameron, Senior Warden
Kenneth L. Abell, Junior Warden
Robert L. Abell, Past Master
No. 773.... Floyd L. Kimball, Master...___ .......---····--·-- 41.08
Tejon -····-··········
Louis B. Smith, Senior Warden
George C. Poloynls, Junior Warden
H. Guy Walford, Past Master
Waikiki - ·······-·---·No. 774..••William Z. Fairbanks, Senior Warden..·-··· 350.90
Charles Merritt Peters, Sr., Past Master
San Dieguito ·-----No. 775-..William Ray_ McNair, Master....·--········· 64.20
AddiSOD N. Turner, Past Master
East Whittier _ __No. 776_..E!mer A Bentley, Mast«--·-·-···-··- 58.38
Richard M. Lustig, Senior Warden
Joseph C. Freeland, Junior Warden
Pinnacle ··-·-····-·-No. 777_.Pen:y Henry Dunlap, Master......·-·-···-·--·- 13.06
Henry Ellis Leffingwell, Senior Warden
William Martin Head, Junior Warden
Ralph Waldo Dunham, Past Master
La Mirada ···········--···--·No. 778....James B. Baker, Muter·-···-··-···-··-·-······· 58.06
Carl E. Jernberg, Senior Warden
Five Points ···-··-··-···-No. 779....Milton Emlein, Master...................................... 56.98
Howard C. Goldblatt, Senior Warden
Clifford L. Davis, Junior Warden
Gauss Lor.er, Past Master
Riviera -·---··--·--No. 780....Thomas . McKimson, Master........................ 56.98
F. Mike Hopwood, Junior Warden
John Andrew Jackson, Past Master
Richard R. Kennedy, Past Master
R~ling Hills ______No, 781....H. Willys Copenhagen, Senior Warden.-... 56.98
Boyd M. Corwin, Junior Warden
Silver.ido --··--·····-_No. 782....Lowe R. Snyder, Master-···-·····-···-··-········· 3.26
Romayne H. Bantz, Senior Warden
Cecil James Ballard, Junior Warden
Mojave
.__No. 783....George W. Bennett, Master............................ 47.48
Julius Levett, Junior Warden
Leland Stanford ......... _._No. 784..•.William F. George, Master·-························· 28.64
Albert J. Quiggle, Senior Warden
Paramount ---··-······-···No. 785....Miles R. Wilson, Master·-···-···--··················· 56.98
Thomas L. Buford, Senior Warden
Mission Bay - ·

Rio Lioda ···--········-·--·.No.

786-..~~~y~:~~·
l:f:':r~~---··············
Charles V. Shaffer, Senior Warden

Westm.inster ---·--..No. 787-Paul A Burtner, Master..................................
Gaylord T. McCoy, Senior Warden
Jake R. Stewart, Junior Warden
Sierra ····-·-······-···--··-··.No. 788.... Frank George Robion, Master........................
Linton Blmer Forrester, Junior Warden
Oak Plains ···-··············-···No. 789....Robert L. Wade, Master..........·--········-·········
George A. Moore, Senior Warden
William C. Green, Junior Warden
Granada Hills ..................No. 790....Carl A Halter, Master.•...·--·-····--········--···
General Henry H.
LeRoy W. Schlaeg~l, Senior Warden
Arnold -·-··---···-·····-No. 791 ....James 0. Payne, Master...·----·---·Qyde B. Tyler, Junklir Warden

TOTAL

8.40
58.06
37.98
8.40
55.10
31.68

$34,99059

LIST OF CONSTITUENT LODGES

Wiith Membership, Oharter Dates, Fees, Dues, Degrees conferred, Per Capita Payments, Coatributions.
Column titled "G. L. Per Capita" Includes $2.25 for Grand Lodge plus 50c for Masonic Homes, and Degree Fees.
Column titled "Members Contributions" includes Homes Contribution of $25.00, G. W. Memorial Contribution of $1.00 and California
Memorial Temple Contribution of $9.00.
Statistics appll to the year ending June 30, A. L. 5958.
For location o Lodges see Alphabetical List of Lodges page 510:
Lodge

No.

~embers

Cherter
Issued

DeqrH
Fees

Affil.
FHI

Dues

lnlt.

Passed

Relsed

509
195
826
235
257
466
546
572
180
243
372
119
51
817
909
448
672
326
205
61
278
147
611
120

1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1850
1851
1851
1851
1851
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1852
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853
1853

100
100
100
75
75
50
75
125
50
75
50
100
50
125
75
175
100
78
50
50
75
125
100
50

20.00
20.00
10.00

18
15
15
12
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
18
15
12
16
12
12
12
12

9
2
25
7
9
13
12
10
11
4
6
1
2
19
24
4
9
8
3
1
10
3
7
1

10
5
21
5
6
13
8
8
8
3
7
2

8
3
28
4
7
9
12
7
6
2
5

15
15
12

25

2
23

2
26

.3

7

B

\6

\'2

\\

\7

\'566.'25

4'70.00

'DRJISI

15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
15
12
16
12
12
12
15
12
15
12
24
12
16
12
12
12
12
16
16
12
15
12

34

26
13
36
9
5
13
1
3
1
9
5
27
13
2
5
12
16
3
16
10

25
17
37
9
3
9
2
3
1
10
5
25
16
6
5
15
22
3
19
12

23\&.00
1227.00
2577.00
333.25
1034.25
640.75
147.00
314.50
231.25
751.00
270.75
1895.25
2035.75
246.50
537.00
2732.00
955.00
236.50
1898.25
1048.50
195.25
343.00
1528.25
276.50
329.00
655.50
3246.75
117.00
198.25
375.50
229.00
291.50
1456.75
307.00

\'M0.00

3\02..7'2
369.78
1887.50
12.91
449.50
451.00
23.00
245.50
118.00
63.68
68.50
540.25
1535.00
127.50
207.00
2000.00
675.00
53.50
1360.00
231.50
42.00
92.00
1057.00
80.00
106.50
55.00
1767.00
12.00
146.50·
274.00
H8.00
66.81
874.75
130.50

1 California .......................... 1
2 Western Star ···---·---------- 2
3 Tehama - .................... _ 3
4 Benicia ...........................- 5
5 Tuolumne ........... _..______ 8
6 Corinthian ........................ 9
7 San Jose ---------·- ·----... 10
8 Yount ......._....................... 12
9 Nevada ·······-·---····--·-······ 13
10 Temple --- ..----------······-- 14
11 Eureka ---·----··-··· · - 16
12 La Parfalte Union····-·-··· 17
13 Mountain Shade __ ........... 18
14 San Joaquin ·············----- 19
15 Washington ····-·······--..-- 20
16 Hawaiian ··-······................ 21
17 Occidental ····----···--·--······ 22
18 Madison···----- -----· 23
19 Mariposa - ·-···-······-··· 24
20 Georgetown __ ............-... 25
21 El Dorado ---------------·-----· 26
22 Trinity ·····-----·-··------·-·· 27
23 Golden Gate - - - -·· 30
24 Gold Hill --··-···---· 32
25 Ophir ------·-----------· 33
26 San Dlego
35

90

1853

107-t

185.3

37

269

1854

so

576

18st

100

\.()()

822
437
912
111
375
223
53
114
83
269
101
668
745

1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1854
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1855
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856
1856

75
75
125
75
100
125
50
50
60
75
50
75
75
50
75
75
75
50
100
50
50
85
75
50
50
100
75
50
50
50
60
55
90
50

10.00

'rl Howard

so

HO

·----2.00
5.00
5.00
6.00

...........
2.00

-----·

15.00

·----·-·

--·-···

10.00
10.00
25.00
... . __

_

·····-

5.00

.............
5.00
10.00
1.00
4.00

-J.00

1

-

-

-

19
25
5
7
5
4
1
10
5
7
1

13
22
4
9
4
4

9
4
7
1

& . L.
Per C.plte

~embers

1391.00
529.75
2345.50
656.75
715.00
1308.25
1506.00
1529.25
500.75
666.25
1019.00
313.75
142.25
2264.75
2543.25
1236.75
1834.50
902.50
558.25
169.75
760.50
416.25
1668.25
333.00

390.00
70.00
875.00
295.00
315.00
455.00
420.00
350.00
385.00
190.00
235.00
35.00
70.00
665.00
840.00
140.00
315.00
305.00
105.00
35.00
350.00
105.00
245.00
35.00
35.00

230.50
2983.50
722..00

Contrlb.

1010.00
105.00

Endow.
Contrlb.

1433.00
170.00
1983.00
529.15
274.50
15.00
801.50
779.50
93.50
162.58
293.00
161.00
440.00
2170.00
935.00
703.00
218.00
443.00
145.00
654.00
63.00
994.00
87.25
2442.50
239.00

~

28 Santa Cru:s ----·---··---- 38

----=-=-----

29 Sacramento
40
30 Martinez - - · - ·- 41
31 Los Angeles--- --··---·- 42
32 Hiram .................- ------·-···· 43
33 Mount Moriah --- ---------· 44
34 Crescent ------- - ----- 45
35 Texas ................................ 46
36 Fori>estown ...........- ..:...... 50
37 Illinoistown ····-·····-··-----· 51
38 Suisun ···-··-···--····-·..- 55
39 Volcano ····--·················- 56
40 Santa Rosa ...................... 57
41 Union ................................ 58
42 Gravel Range .........- ....... 59
43 Plumas ...................._...... _ 60
44 Live Oak ...........- ............. 61
45 Natoma ............................ 64
46 Amador ........- ....·-······- -- 65
47 Morning Star .................. 68
48 Enterprise ........................ 70
49 Bear Mountain ................ 76
50 Calaveras --·---·-·······--·- ·- 78
51 Humboldt ...- ....·..······--·- 79
52 lone ..........................._....... 80
53 Yolo ............. __ ................ 81
54 Vesper .............................. 84
55 Naval .......-....................... 87
56 Rose's Bar _.................... _ 89
57 North Star·····----------·····- 91
58 St. Helena ····-------····- ..- 93
59 Henry Oay ----·- ···-···-·-- 95
60 Hornitos ............................ 98
61 Yosemite ............................ 99
62 Clay ·······---·--······--101

99

192
988
328
87
678
378
74
123
543
98
116
235
1213
40
75
137
80
tot
517
108

-·--

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
5.00

-----·--···

10.00
5.00
10.00

.......... ...
2.50
25.00
5.00
5.00

.........
5.00
3.00
10.00

-······

.............
..............

. . .......
10.00
5.00
5.00
1.00

----

10.00
.............

----

9
40
10
6
11
1
6
1
6
5
20
13
2
10
10
15
5
7
9

-

-

-

3
18
3
1
6
15
3
4
3
3
2
14
2

5
12
2
4
4
19
2
7
2
3
4
20
4

5
23
4

5
16
2
5
2
20
2
3
2
3

315.00
1600.00
385.00
210.00
385.00
35.00
210.00
35.00
210.00
200.00
750.00
480.00
95.00
350.00
350.00
560.00
175.00
245.00
315.00

-

105.00
630.00
130.00
35.00
210.00
650.00
105.00
140.00
130.00
105.00
95.00
490.00
70.00

Lod9•

No.

63 Oroville

103
lot
64 Lexington -··
106
65 Arcata
110
66 P9Jaro
67 Chico
111
68 Summit
112
113
69 Eden
117
70 C.Oncord
71 Fidelity
120
72 Alamo
122
73 Sotoyome
123
74 Table Mountain - - 1 2 4
7S Lafayette
126
76 Hermann
127
77 Visalia
128
78 Nicolaus
129
79 Woodbridge
131
80 Sincerity
132
81 Vacaville
134
82 Valley 13S
83 Pacific
136
84 Crockett
139
BS Curtis
140
86 Grafton
141
87 Franklin
143
88 Oriental
144
89 Vitruvlus
HS
90 Abell
146
91 Eel River
.147
92 Lassen
149
93 Molino
150
94 Woodland
156
95 Keystone
161
16t
96 ~y
16«5
167
98 Alameda
99 Redwood Oty --168
169
100 Mission
173
101 Elk Grove
174
102 Orytown
17S
103 Antioch ··-·
104 Phoenix
·--178
179
105 Mendocino
180
106 Petaluma
181
107 Russian River
182
108 Arbuckle
183
109 Oear Lake
110 Sierra Valley - - - 1 8 4
-18S
111 Oaibome
112 Evening Star - - - 1 8 6
--187
113 Keith
188
114 Oakland
I IS Northern Light --···--190
191
116 Marin ..
192
117 Santa Barbara
193
118 Ferndale
119 Mountain View -···-194
19S
120 Buckeye
196
121 San Simeon 198
122 Wilmington
_199
123 Hartley •
124 Truckee ··-·--··--20 0
..201
125 Sllveyvllle
02
126 Pentalpha
..203
127 Confidence
.204
128 Salinas
205
129 Olivet
__-2()6
130 Stanislaus
07
131 Anaheim
08
132 Rio Vista
91 &cdalor

M-bers

377
644
345
431
601

S3
463

383
S6S
461

237
266
236
18S

S63
110
197
100
268
98
S61
S21
87
113
140

3S7
123
358
244
2Sl
163
299
36

Chartw
luued

D991"H

1856
1856
1857
18S7
18S7
1857
1857
1857
18S8
1858
18S8
18S8
18S8
18S8
1859
1859
1859
1859
1859
1860
1860
1860
1860
1860
1861
1861
1861
1861
1861
1862
1862
1863

65

Fees

150
100

7S
90
50
105

.....

Alli.

5.00
1.00
1.00

--

-·S.00

7S

-10.00

100

IS.00

7S
7S

-S.00

80

1.00

7S

-

100

20.00

7S

-······

so
so
100

S.00
S.00
S.00

7S

-·12.00

100

20.00
2S.OO
S.00

so
7S

so
so
7S

100

so
so
so

100

so

so

so

s.oo

S.00
10.00
1.00

lnlt.

Paued

Raised

PerC.plfe

15
12
IS
18
IS
12
IS
IS
IS
IS
lS
IS
IS
18
IS
12
12
12
IS
lS
16
IS
12
12

16
22
8

16
28

17
20

1080.25
1832.75

7

7

970.7S

7

10
16

9
17

l 189.2S
1601.7S
163.00
1289.7S
1078.7S
IS72.7S
1293.SO
666.SO

2S

-1.00
-2.50

lS
lS
12
12
12
12
15
16

5.00

12

IS
6
10
9
12
12
8
12
4

7

7

11
10
14
10

5

12
12
IS
12
8
8
6
2
13
1
6

4
20
2
12
8

20
2
12
9

-

-

7
8

s

3

3

8
1
3
4
18
4
13
6

8
1

s
s

-

J
9

J
9

832.00

1864

100

25.00

15

3

1864
1864
1864
1865
1865
1865
1866
1866
1866
1866
1867
1867
1867
1867
1867
1868
1868
1868
1868
1868
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1869
1870
1870
1870
1870

75
100
100

5.00
1.00
S0.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
S.00
S.00

12
18
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
12
IS
12
15
15
18
IS
12
12
12
12
lS
IS
IS

10
10
10

ti
14
8

7

2

72S
124
339
126
83
121
36

79
70
194
858
99
546
358

9S
363
147
91
660
228
136
162
484
74
638
134

670
479
178

50

75
75
100
80

7S

-S.00

50

1.00
10.00

so

so
so
so
so
7S
65

100

-···5.00
····--

2.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

7S

·····.....__

100

S.00
S.00

so
7S

so

100

65
90
90
100

7S
7S

so

7S
100

75

-··--

10.00
10.00
5.00
20.00

-

··--

-....- ..
-

1.00

12
lS
18
12
18
IS

-

18
35
4

3

-

-

17
30

2
3

s

1
17
21
2
4

3

3

5

4
12

s

16
22

3

1
10
1
4

3

23SO.SO

11

260.00
1518.25

7

7

971.7S

2
13

2
14

269.25
1031.25
418.00
243.SO
1841.00
636.25
343.00
443.SO
1334.00

7

s

2
14
4

4
21
4
8
3
4

10
19
4
18
19
1

68.00
'Ml't.'511)

3

9
22

-

\766.50
962.50

6
11
2
13
9
4
17
10
1
13
4
9
3

3

416.SO
1331.SO
93.78
544.SO
239.00
514.00
58.00
645.00

76.50
10.00
12.00
596.SO
10.00

375.00
375.00
350.00
270.00

3

s

35.00
305.00
280.00
36S.OO
17S.OO
225.00
60.00
410.00
60.00

S26.SO
1303.00
276.SO
195.SO
llS.00
109.00
410.00
1383.6S
41.00
140.SO

\05.00

3
5

5

903.00
1298.00
739.00
871.00
1238.42
40.00
340.00

1819.25
1819.25
1762.25
401.7S
166.00
1088.7S
1980.75
332.50
923.00
345.SO
230.25
353.00
102.00
224.SO
203.SO
S43.00

7

7

560.00
795.00
280.00
270.00
S2S.OO
210.00
450.00
410.00
420.00
420.00
35S.OO
470.00
16S.OO
105.00
280.00
35.00
130.00
140.00
65S.OO
140.00
455.00
23S.OO
105.00

\U,7.'25

6
1

12
2
12

End-.
Con!Tlb.

ConlTlb.

6

3
1
1

M-bers

16
16
9

4

-

445.75
97.25
82.50

-

"

-

989.7S

s

221
674
648
147
62
392

so

s

6S3.00
514.00
1552.SO
302.7S
542.00
290.00
784.00
277.SO
1S16.SO
1431.00
249.SO
310.7S
389.00
3S2.2S
1020.SO
683.2S
690.SO

'ISO

J

2

74S.7S

3
15
4
4

so

-

s

1
6
3
12
6

1
8
8
9

1
1J

7

s

3

-

1863
186f

.30

&.L.

Du•

7

226.75

IS
4
18
22

1802.25

s

378.75
1886.2S
1369.2S
493.00

655.00

1250.00
140.00
155.00
140.00
210.00
60.00
105.00
175.00
210.00
385.00
70.00
480.00
340.00
140.00
595.00
350.00
3S.OO
505.00
140.00
340.00
105.00
175.00
315.00
830.00
17S.OO
585.00
795.00
105.00

796.SO
327.00
92.SO
212.SO
ISot.50
46.50
73.00
109.SO
82.00
43.00
43.00
268.58
1026.00
1243.00
837.00
82.00
850.00
630.50

95.SO
1372.79
166.SO
436.SO
250.50
1435.00
199.17
931.50
149.00
1068.00
965.10
415.70

Lodge

No.

133 King David's ..........._ ....20'J
134 Friendship ··-···-··--······210
135 San Benito ··-·--·-······211
136 South San Francisco ......212
137 San Buenaventura ..........214
138 Oak Grove - - - -..•..215
139 Doric -------··---2 16
140 Monterey · · · - -..........217
141 Mosaic ..
........-218
142 Speranza ltaliana ......._ ..219
143 Downey --···-----··22 0
144 Inyo ·-·-·-·--···--······ ·221
145 Roseville ----·--··-........222
146 Bakersfield ·······---.....224
147 Brooklyn ..........- .............225
148 San Mateo ·--··-··--226
149 Athens ··--·-·-·-····--·2 28
150 Solano ·-·--·-·-·-······.......229
151 Nor.th Butte -·---·-··---230
152 Covelo ·---·-·-···-··-2 31
153 Jonesville ----··-·--·-···232
154 Calistoga -·-·-·-··-···..233
155 Hope -··--·------···2 3-t
156 Surprise Valley ........- ...235
157 Hills Ferry ··---···-·--236
158 Guadalupe ---···-·--2~
159 Colusa ··············-·······---240
160 Santa Ana -··------241
161 Magnolia -·--···-.........242
162 Eucalyptus ···-··--··--243
163 Alcatraz ------2.t f
164 Laurel .........-..~
2i5
165 Pomona
116
:HT
166 Prano - - 167
168 Aitunlll
Adfn _________ RB

_m

.253
169 Landmark
170 Reading _ _ _-254
·.171 Welcome
255
172 Lodi _ _ _ _ _ _256
__
.258
173 Penrhyn
174 Evergreen _ _ _..259
175 King Solomon's _ _260
176 Tuscan
61
.-262
177 Lompoc:
26't
178 Hesperlan
26S
179 Orland
266
180 North East
267
181 Galt
.268
182 Durant
269
183 Olive Branch
184 Snow Mountain --··-271
272
185 Pasadena
273
186 Anchor -·
274
187 Arroyo
188 Oakdale _ _ _;__..27S
_.277
189 Selma
190 .Southern California ___...278
.279
191 Hanford
80
192 Madera
.281
193 Mount Shasta
194 CalayOIDi --·---·-·-282
283
195 South West
196 San Miguel _ _ _ _ _285
197 Paso Robles ______.286
287
198 Winnedumah
....288
199 Maxwell
200 Elsinore ·--··---·--·28 9
201 East Gate
·-··290
202 Santa Paula -·-----291

Members

433
735
170
242
442
590
466
326
233
262
811
170
435
808
532
615
193

Charter
Issued

155
196
159
588
462
533
591
255
435

1870
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1871
1872
1872
1872
1872
1872
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1873
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1874
1875
1876
1876
1876
1877
1877
1877

7S2

1878

577
233
73
161
120
121

77

DegrH
Fees

Alfll.
Fees

80

1.00
5.00
1.00
10.00

75
50
95
100
100
100

-3.00

12
12
12
12
15
18
15
15
12
12
12
15
15
18
15
18
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
12
12
18
15
15
12
15
12
12
18

..............
1.00
10.00

75
75

.............
..........

100
125
50

-·---

75
100

75

·····-

5.00
10.00

............
. . . . .....

100
50

·····-

75
75

10.00

50

...............
1.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
10.00
...............
10.00
1.00

75
50
50
50
50

75
50

75

-------

--···-

100
99

·-···-

75

10.00
5.00

so

50
80

Dues

---···

187

1878

65

1.00

18

107
118
269
212
403
157
737
465
101
199
395
157
60
91
467
324
43
576
624
166
208
238
483
234
275
153

1878
1879
1879
1879
1879
1880
1880
1880
1880
1881
1882
1882
1882
1883
1883
1883
1884
1884
1884
1884
1884
1885
1885
1885
1885
1886
1887
1887
1887
1887
1887
1888
1888
1888
1888

50
50
90
90
50

2.00
1.00
5.00
................

12
16
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
12
12
15
12
12
15
15
12
15
20
12
12
15
12
12
15
12
12
12
12
12
18
12
15
12
18

74
560
72
284
242
63
147
756
406

50
75
115
50

75
75
5'l>

...............
3.00

.............

········
---·····

1.00

-2.00

50
50
80

5.00
5.00
5.00

75
75

-·-···

115
125

·------

50
75
80

6.00
1.00
12.00

75

----··

1.00

..........

100
50

.................

90

---···

50
105
50

75

3.00
5.00
1.00
10.00
3.00

100
75

..............

75
75

----·-·

50

-····-

10.00
------

lnlt.

Paued

Raised

Per Capita

&.L

Members
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrlb.

7

6
17

8
12
4
3
8

320.00
550.00
70.00
200.00
260.00
245.00
280.00
305.00
490.00
105.00
1240.00
165.00
770.00
435.00
270.00
480.00
175.00
200.00
190.00
140.00
130.00
105.00
105.00
105.00
315.00
105.00
695.00
595.00
630.00
175.00
245.00
840.00

866.04
437.50
352.90
490.50
1140.50
435.50
255.00
222.00
232.60
304.50
2184.55
398.00
405.50
1461.89
607.50
1571.43
271.50
312.75
77.50
35.00
271.00

226.00
733.00
1006.00

13

8
10
12
3
31
3
16
12
6
16

5
5

5

5

6

4

7
3

8
2
3

4
3
3
3
3
9
3
17
17
18
5

5

5
3
1
2
3

24

3
1
2
3
6
1
16
10
17
5
6
15

5
17

1206.25
2040.50
478.50
624.25
1220.00
1603.75
1275.25
911.75
655.50
692.75
2278.25
472.00
1234.50
2228.75
1462.75
1704.25
529.25
1575.50
651.00
201.25
451.25
333.50
332.25
210.50
427.00
553.50
440.50
1645.00
1301.25
1509.25
1587.25
713.75
1241.25

19

16

22

2116.75

6510.00

1514.00

"'1

3

'2

5'\5.00

'\"ILO.DC>

U\..DC>

1

1

2

1
12
14
7
3
27
2
3
7
7
9
1
3
3
8
2
8
29
5

2
13
14
8
3
36
3
3

8
9
8
2

35.00
. 70.00
320.00
515.00
355.00
165.00
950.00
70.00
140.00
245.00
210.00
210.00
35.00
105.00
165.00
280.00
95.00
445.00
985.00
105.00
210.00
420.00
175.00
155.00
315.00
210.00

97.00
24.50
392.00
236.25
. 246.00
45.00
1006.69
801.73

5

291.75
32L25
749.75
616.75
1106.50
408.75
2065.25
1241.75
268.50
563.50
1081.50
442.00
157.00
252.75
1271.25
909.50
124.25
1588.75
1786.25
464.00
588.25
679.00
1302.50
628.50
771.00
435.00
202.00
1582.50
195.50
808.25
692.00
172.50
403.00
2024.75
1149.75

15
2

5

5

3

7
5

6

7
8
8
14
3
33
4
22
11

7

-

7

7
14
8
4
25
2
4

7
6
6
1
3
4
8
2
12
25
3
6
12
5
3
9
6

11

14
16
1
2
7
13

9
8
2
9
6
1
15
2
9
9
1
3
6
10

5
8
11
8
2
28
3
14
14
6
17

5
2
17
12
14

7

5
7
9
1
2
2
8
2
15
30
5

5
5
3
22
1

7
7

2
7
13

-

385.00

-

515.00
585.00
35.00
70.00
245.00
455.00

55.50
219.00
415.50
491.88
53.00
1230.35
1426.25

1115.60

414.40
3457.50
124.00
9.00
26.00
566.00
212.00

-

1156.55
1353.55
333.17
264.92
485.00
2032.20
291.50
433.75
93.00
25.00
1256.50
108.00
512.00
514.67
183.00
327.25
2002.99
938.00

Lod;e

No.

203 Los Gatos --··-···-·····-292
204 Orange Grove ··········--··293
205 Traver · - - · - - · - 2 9 4
206 Mt. Jackson -······----295
207 Silver Gate -·-·-··-296
208 Dunsmuir -·-··---·---297
209 Liberty ----·-·--·--299
210 Redlands -··--··---.300
211 Onl!ario -···-·-···-···--301
212 Santa Lucia --···--··-·.302
213 Porterville _ _ _ _ _303

Members

366
316
151
121
1290
272
356

475
499

214 Reedley ···-··-····-···-..304
215 Azusa -·-····--·-····-··305
216 Ashlar ·····--·----.306
217 Santa Monica
307
218 Monrovia --·---·-···308
219 Delano -·-·------····309
220 Sisson -----···-···-310
221 Los Banos -·-···-······-312
222 Tehachapi ----····-.313
223 Temescal -···--·-··-314
224 Norwalk _____ __315

165
507
165
3H
343
408
326
241
111
162
205
286
379

225 Sanger -------··--316

347

226 Fallbrook
17
227 Emanuel -···----318
228 Hollenbeck .
.319
229 South Gate ·---··-··-··-320
230 Alisa! -·--···----321
231 Alhambra --·-···-·-322
232 Whittier _ _ _ _ __323
233 Corooa ..
324
234 Consuelo
325
235 Needles
326
177
236 1-g Beech

166
91
908
583
169
621
829

%37 Redoado - - - - . 3 2 8

450
326
356
638

Charter
luued

Decare•
Feet

Affll.
fHI

Dues

!nit.

Passed

Raised

1888
1889
1889
1889
1889
1889
1890
1890
1890
1890
1890
1891
1891
1891
1891
1891
1892
1892
1892
1892
1893
1893
1893
1893
1893
1894
1894
1894
1894
1895
1895
1895

75
75

·----··
1.00

80
50
150
50

1.00
5.00

13
17
1
1
21

15
14
1

14
19
2
1

100
75
75
50
75
100
75
100
100
115
90

18
18
15
18
15
12
12
15
12
15
15
15
16
15
15
18
18
12
12
18
15
12
12
15
12
15
15
12
18
12

1896
1896

125

75
75
75
75
50

75
115

55
125
100
100
50

75
75
75

75

679

1897

125

238 Vallee de France ···-······329
239 Kilauea _ _ _ _ _ _330
240 Pacific Grove -··--······331
...332
241 San Pedro - ·
242 Alta ···-----··-·····333
243 Covina ··--··-···--···.334
244 West Gate --··-·-·--·335
.336
245 Fruitvale .
_____337
246 Carquinez
247 San Jacinto -·--····-··-338
248 Fullerton --··-·-·····339
249 Oxnard ---·-------.341
250 San Fernando ····-···---·343
251 Starr King -·----···-344
252 Brentwood _
••.345
253 Palo Alto -··--·-·--·346
254 McKinley -----··347
255 San Bernardino -·--··--·348
256 Sequoia _ _ _ _.349

127
208
278
511
125
Hl
1212
826
202
108
386
448
712
520
154
761
493
878
1033

100
125

257 Palestine -·--·----···351

535

1897
1897
1897
1897
1897
1898
1899
1899
1899
1899
1900
1901
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1902
1903
1903
1903
1904
1903
1903
1903
1903
1904
1904
1904
1904
1904
1905
1905
1905

___352
258 Sunset - 259 Pinole _
353
260 Presidio _ _ _ _ _ _.354

. 355
261 Hollywood
262 Mill Valley _ _.356
263 Buena Park _ _ _ _ _357
358
264 Golden State
.359
265 Loyalton
266 San Francisco ···----360
267 Fort Bragg _____ .361
..362
268 Charity -·-··
-363
269 Berkeley
365
270 Willits
271 Las Palmas ---··.366
272 South Pasadena ____367

353
180
483
1276

HO
299
721
99
283
151
183
629
160
1071
632

75
125
53
100
215
100

75

·-·---

---------··
-------·-···

···--·····

---·----

15.00

............
..........
2.00
................
1.00
2.00

...........

--·-··

5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00

100

75
75
80
100

4

4

13
2
15
15
13
8

21
2
18

25
15
10

4

5

2
2
10
6
35

3

4
9
7
31
7
10

580.00
620.00
60.00
35.00
860.00
175.00
820.00
800.00
890.00
105.00
245.00
210.00
470.00
655.00
520.00
350.00
235.00
140.00
70.00
305.00
270.00
1110.00
210.00
245.00
140.00
640.00
305.00
95.00
480.00
505.00

742.25

402.75
323.75
3599.00
736.75
1029.75
1327.00
1426.00
462.00
1432.50

455.50
985.50
982.00
1145.50
910.75
639.25
314.25
448.00

579.75
790.00
1133.75
972.25
473.00
255.00

4

5
5
4
11
6
2
11
13
6

10
6
1
11
23
10

1225.25

455.00

927.25

470.00

5

2422.50

387.00

2610.50
388.50
741.50
1004.00
605.20
335.50
863.00

727.75
236.00
833.73
660.00

504.50
42.00
257.00
97.50
247.00
815.68
220.50
104.00
1928.85
1240.10
340.00
1250.00
2173.10
904.00
J&f.00
863.00

15

12

12

15

J.00
25.00

12

11

994.50

iJ0.00

J6

JO
19

JJ

16

16

1786.25

670.00

12

T1

30

T1

\937.50

\090.otl

15
15
15

4

4

4

347.50

1"\0_.00

1.~S.00

559.25

35.00
490.00
550.00
140.00
945.00
1245.00
375.00
175.00
70.00
585.00
365.00
1165.00
620.00
105.00
820.00
350.00
1920.00
625.00
280.00
385.00
105.00
245.00
940.00
250.00
· 480.00
400.00
70.00
190.00
235.00
375.00
280.00
105.00
490.00
450.00

506.50
358.83
843.07
334.50
1234.46
2579.00
1660.61
186.00
113.00
791.70
189.00
1521.94
1045.00
141.50
1621.75
670.75
1391.04
2102.50
1080.86
1154.00
210.75

12.00

-.....
__

25.00
5.00

··----·

25.00
5.00

-···-

.............

75

2
8
7
31
6
7

1
23
11
18

1034.75
910.75

IS'

75
75

50
100

4

2
26
9
21

End-.
Contrlb.

--··-......_

-----

-·----10.00

75

21
20
23
3
7
6
12
18
12
10
6

25

Memben
Contrlb.

9
8
2
13
13
13

50
75
100
125
100
65
100

100
100
100
100
100
125
100
100

5

-22

6.L
Per Capita

···---

10.00

---·

5.00

10.00
1.00
10.00

···-···

20.00
10.00
15.00

·-····-·-·-····-···

24
12
12
18
16
12
15
12
18
15
15
15
12
15
15
18
18
15
18
15
15
18
12
15
12
15

5.00

24

··---··

12
12
18
15

5.00
1.00
5.00
10.00

14

11
14
15

-

16
15

-17
14

4

4

7

27
32
10

27

25
46

5

49
12
3

15

4

2
16
9
29
17
3
22
10

-

52

43

7
47

15
8
11
3
7

15
6
10

16
6
6

4
5
27

5
5

24
5
12
9
2

4
6
10
8
3
14
10

9
9
28

14
5
12
6

7
14

11
3
3
7
8
10
6
22

11

1
11
12
33
15
8
14

23
11
17
14
3
1
6
12
14

1568.25
461.50
1734.50
2290.25

803.25
1394.25
353.25
1261.50
3363.75
2259.00
562.00
294.50
1094.75
1245.50
2034.25
1437.50
431.25
2118.75
1362.25

2460.25
2837.25
1466.50
997.75

465.75
1328.75
3478.50
1200.00
837.75
1989.25
272.00

764.25
434.25
527.75
1723.25

5

445.75

23
15

2946.50
1760.25

1290.70
\~~

541.50
3740.00
913.00
615.00
1616.07
10.50
600.50
3.25
453.00
284.50
28.00
2150.00
1290.34

Loci;•

No.

273 Unity ·-·----···.368
274 Ocean Park -·-······-··..369
370
275 Amity - · - - ·
276 Le Progres de L'Oceanie 371
277 Gardena ______..372
278 West Los Angeles ····-····373
279 Jewel ·-·-····-···-·--···374
280 Richmond -·······-····-··-··..375
281 Francis Drake -·-········376
282 Artesia --··---.311
283 Mizpah -·-···---·-······.378
284 Fillmore - - · - - ·_-.379
285 Huntington Beach -···-···380
286 Oceanside ·-··----381
287 Highland Park -·-·--····.382
383
288 Oros! - - - ·
289 El Centro -·'"···-···-·--384
2'0 Dinuba --··---385
291 Coalinga ···-----387
292 .Parnassus ··-··--·--388
293 Palos Verdes _..--389
294 Imperial ____ __:J9()
295 East Belt -·---··-391
296 West Lake -··----··.392
393
297 Balder -···-····
298 University ·---··--.394
299 Turlock -----~---····-··-··--·.395
396
300 Apollo - - - ·
397
301 Rising Light
...
.--399
302 Fraternity
fOO
303 Burlingame
401
304 Bay View
i02
.3 05 Brawley
306 Y . d - 8 -

40S

-··----40t
308 Moneta --············-···········«P.!f
309 Burbank --·-··--··406
310 La Mesa --······--·--·····407
311 Sierra Madre ···--··-·······408
312 Honolulu ··-----·--·-··409
313 Charter Rock ···-···-·-····410
314 Perris -·--··-··-·-·······----f11
315 Calexico --·-···-·············--412
316 Arlington --··-·······-·-····•iH
317 Silver Trowel ······-··-----415
318 Lindsay ---·-·······--······416
319 Oovls --······-········--417
320 Elysian --·····--·····--418
321 Upland -·-·····--····-··-419
322 Kerman -···-··--···--420
323 Inglewood ···--·---·--421
324 Eagle Rock -···-···-···--422
325 York ---------···--423
____424
326 Exeter
327 Holtville --·-----·······425
328 Midway ···-·-······-··--426
329 Chino Valley ····--·--·--427
330 San Dimas --···-···-------428
331 Pittsburg -··-······-·-··-429
332 McCloud ·······-··--------430
333 Alpha ------···--·431
334 Hammonton ---······-··---ill
335 Maricopa -·-···-···--·---434
336 Fairmount ••
HS
337 Oaremont ·--·-··---436
338 Lancaster --·-------··437
339 Acacia --·----------------438
340 Tyrian ··-----··-·---439
341 Standard ---·····-------+f<>
342 Coronado ---·-·····-····--441
301' Glendora

Charter
l11ued

DeqrH
Fees

Affil.

Members

616
534
403
730
466
485
200
491
427
236
417
242
345
484
632
150
503
296
401
780
677
134
114
842
482
586
414
460
1023
444
692

1905
1905
1905
1905
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1906
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1907
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908
1908

125
115
100
175
105
125
100
100
100
115
100
50
75
75
100
65
75
75
100
100
125
75
50
100
100
100
75
75
100
100
100

------1.00

666

1909

245
912

1909
1909

75
75

-----·-

..............

·------

.............

___....

.............

--·

10.00

-----..............
5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00

----·1.00
·------

5.00

-----5.00

Raised

Per Capita

Members
ConfTib.

End-.
ConfTib.

15
15
18
15
16
15
12
12
18
12
12
15
15
15
15
20
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
15
15
12
15
18

9
6
7
H
26
H
3
12
12
16
3
5
13
15
7
4
31
7
10
8
15
11
4
9
15
4
7
8
26
7

11
9
6
13
27
19
3
9
15
10
6
5
10
11
10
3
26
7
10
7
12
6
2
13
18
7
5
10
25
8
9

11
13
8
H
32
25
4
13
16
12
7
5
12
21
9
2
19
7
8
8
H
5
3
12
12
10
9
9
24
11
13

1714.00
1452.50
1112.75
2034.75
1336.25
1378.00
557.25
1367.75
1184.25
670.50
1149.00
680.50
967.25
1367.00
1742.00
413.25
1442.75
815.75
1125.25
2132.25
1828.50
385.00
317.00
2316.50
1365.00
1599.50
1134.75
1253.50
2849.75
1244.25
1904.75

390.00
235.00
245.00
540.00
910.00
540.00
130.00
420.00
445.00
585.00
105.00
175.00
480.00
625.00
330.00
140.00
1185.00
245.00
375.00
355.00
525.00
385.00
H0.00
365.00
525.00
215.00
270.00
305.00
985.00
270.00
400.00
690.00

2528.50
1070.95
867.50
1500.00
1152.40
1111.47
178.50
251.50
607.00
495.24
1778.50
501.00
136.25
872.52
667.79
372.32
1029.50
223.00
802.00
1707.00
608.00
281.50
109.00
1970.75
1002.~5

1428.82
834.90
948.34
1277.14
815.50
1987.75

16
6

16
B

1874.25
692.75

100

25.00

15

II

14

175.00

13

2532.25

3115.00

------____
,._

12

\0

\0

\3

65't.'50

3'50.ao

\"5.00

12
15
12
15
15
15
12
12
15
15
18
12
16
12
12
15
15
15
15
12
18
12
15
16
12
12
12
15
18
15
15
18
12
15
15

7
31
26
7
12
2
9
2
6
11
4
19
9
15
1
12
12
4
3
4
12
9
5
11
3
14
7
9
8
10
50

5
27
25
7
9
2
5
3
6
12
4
24
11
15
1
16
13
5
6
3
11
5
4
6
4
11
4
9
10
10
42

4
33
28
8
7
3
5
2
7
10
5
21
9
H
1
18
17
9
5
1
9
5
2
5
4

295.00
1170.00
910.00
270.00
445.00
70.00
340.00
105.00
210.00
460.00
H0.00
690.00
350.00
600.00
35.00
445.00
420.00
H0.00
105.00
190.00
420.00
315.00
175.00
385.00
130.00
550.00
270.00
315.00
280.00
400.00
1910.00

133\.39

-

-

11
8
11

11
11
13

1649.50
2359.75
1792.25
585.75
1172.00
821.00
464.50
416.75
863.25
1133.00
631.75
1499.50
1228.00
794.75
390.75
2130.50
1472.00
1027.25
654.75
434.25
1382.25
492.00
464.75
968.00
297.00
1455.25
238.75
570.75
1271.00
442.50
1438.50
126.50
609.50
1015.50
1194.00

1909

75

105
125
125
75
175
75
50
50
75
125
50
80
120
50
75
125
100
100
50
75
50
50
55
75
50
75
50
50
100
75
115
75
50
75
100

420

25.00
1.00

Passed

25.00

1909
1909
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1910
1911
1911
1911
1911
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1912
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1913
1914
1914

360

----5.00
-. - ..

lnlt.

10
19
5

226

210

10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00

8.L

Dues

12
15

613
836
627
207
419
299
165
150
317
412
226
536
447
277
142
764
527
375
236
155
501
174
166
351
106
520
83
200
458
153
479

so

F-

5.00
3.00

-------

10.00
5.00
3.00
5.00
................

10.00
...............

-------

50.00
3.00

-------

25.00
................

...............
................

----------

................

------·

1.00
...............

----·--··------................
-····-·

---

-··------...............

H
5
11
10
10
32

-

10
12
15

m.oo

525.00
1090.00

-

1638.25
925.00
428.60
867.00
338.00
57.00
184.00
708.30
1010.05
624.50
922.70
900.00
474.39
290.00
1585.00
1105.77
358.83
552.00
133.75
556.50
238.00
363.25
209.81
163.50
410.50
45.00
405.77
718.00
170.00
1000.00
113.50

376.00
330.00
410.00

258.25
872.50

Lodve

Ho.

343 Blackmer --··--·----ff2
344 Scofield -·-·-·-·--·-ff 3
iff
345 Carpinteria
_ff5
346 Wilshire 347 La Puente --·--·--446
H7
348 Torrance 349 Mount Diablo _ _ _448
ff9
350 Park 351 Van Nuys _ _ _ _ .i50
352 Montebello ·--·-····-·········i51
353 San Pasqual -··-·-·-····452
.453
354 Bethlehem
355 Crocker ···---·-·-··-··45 4
356 Golden West ·····-·-455
457
357 Ramona
358 Henry S. Orme ·----···458
359 Riverbank ···-·····-·--i59
360 Mount Oso _ _ _460
361 Argonaut ··--·--·---461
362 Paul Revere ·--··-····462
363 Morgan Hill --·--463
364 Alta Vista
365 Center -·-·····-··--·-··4 65
366 Libertas - - · - - 4 6 6
367 Culver City ·-··--·-467
368 Rockridge ··-···--···---468
369 Yorba Linda ···-···-···469
370 Lincoln --·-----47 0
371 Delta ····-······-·-·--·· ·i71
i72
372 Maui
_473
373 Blythe
474
374 Victory
?.75 America

----·--·-46i

'\76 Coachella

'°'

:"t76

377 Temblor --····-··---····" "

378 Thousand Oaks --··-··-···478
379 Golden Rule ··-··-··-····.479
380 Fellowship ······-················480
381 Mt. Davidson -···- ···-··481
382 Clarence F. Smith ...•......482
383 Bell ···--··-····--- -483
384 Albert Pike ···········-·--.484
385 Chowchilla --··-··-·-····i85
386 Caledonia ··-···--··-·-486
387 Vallejo ··--··--·-·-····4 87
388 Patterson ··-·--······--··.488
389 East Bay ··--····-····--··.489
390 Corcoran ···--··-··----··i90
391 Woodstock -··-··---··i91
392 Garvanza -·-·-·--·······492
393 Atascadero ·-·····-·--····493
394 Acom ···-··--·-----4 9-t
395 Lebanon --·······--···········495
396 Fremont ···----·---··--·497
397 Stockton ·---·---·49 8
398 Capital City ···········-·······499
399 Roosevelt --·-·--···.500
400 Westwood -·- ···--501
401 Harbor ········--··-·-··-··-5 02
402 Point ·······---·-··--······.503
403 Seaside ·--·-····--·-··5 0i
404 Silver Cord -·············-····.505
405 Mount Olive -······-··-·506
406 El Segundo - ·····-······-·507
407 Joppa -···-··-······-······-·· .508
408 Benjamin Franklin ····-·-.509
409 Cupertino -···--··-·-·510
410 Sunnyvale ····-·-----·511
411 Palms -·········--·····--·- 512
513
412 Cahuenga

Memben

1238
308
128
525
212
535
431
H6
1119
705
586
245
432
564
543
646
147
347
413
619
162
252
578
711
426
473
174
338
506
215
174
276

-

Charter
IJ&Ued

D99rH
Feet

1914
1914
1914
1914
1904
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1914
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1915
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1916
1917
1917
1917
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919

150
125
50
125

75
110
75
100
125
100
115
100

75
75
100
125

75
80
115
100

75
75
80
100
100
115
50
100
80
85

75

1919

100

1920

-t92
235

1920

75
75

154

1920

so

534
690
319
391
361
785
249
187
553
399
153
366
128
438
335
137
664
423
543
200
625
216
275
615
330
559
520
982
468
92
357
220
388
502
548

1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1920
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921
1921

75

75
75
100
75
100
100
100
100
75

75
75
75
75
75
75
80
100
100
80

75
100
85

lnlt.

Paned

Raised

&.L

Du11

Per Capita

Members
Contrlb.

Endow.
Contrlb.

16
25
2
10
16
22
13
8
29
25
17
1

16
22

22
23

3420.00
914.25
353.00
1442.75
618.00
1545.00
1224.75
1211.75
3119.75
1995.75
1644.00
666.75
1178.75
1563.00
1507.25
1783.75
413.00
986.25
1144.25
1701.00
449.75
708.50
1619.50
2030.75
1199.75
1291.00
483.25
942.75
1424.00
601.25

5.00

15
12
16
15
12
15
16
15
15
12
15
18
12
12
15
15
15
12
18
12
12
18
15
15
15
18
15
18
15
12
15

25.00

18

585.00
900.00
70.00
425.00
560.00
845.00
480.00
280.00
1115.00
935.00
645.00
35.00
330.00
245.00
680.00
470.00
210.00
410.00
140.00
260.00
105.00
245.00
375.00
1120.00
495.00
340.00
140.00
385.00
410.00
105.00
200.00
105.00

2485.00
628.00
33050
703.50
23.00
1141.55
1057.75
700.00
2590.13
1148.75
1407.81
384.50
901.00
535.00
1119.47
1330.75
34.50
141.00
432.50
1423.00
196.00
824.30
829.78
746.25
1289.00
314.00
391.25
1100.00
719.00
496.00
188.50
196.00

15

Affll.
fell

---5.00

-

25.00
1.00

-......._

10.00
10.00
10.00

...........

-·-

10.00
10.00
12.00

-···-··

..........

6.00
10.00
10.00
1.00
10.00

···--··

-·-···

-·····

10.00

···-···

-·-···

···--·
--··

--

--··
5.00
..............
1.00
10.00
...............
..............
........... ....
5.00

..............
10.00
5.00
10.00

-······

1.00

---.....

---·

10.00
...... ....
10.00

-

··-----

10.00
15.00
10.00

75
75

..............

125
75
125
100
50
100

...........
1.00
25.00

75
75

----···
5.00

125
100

······-

-------·

----5.00

...............

5.00

7
7
18
12
6
11
4
6
3

5

5

11
10
29
23
6
38
25
17
2

11
9
31
20

7

7
7
7

9
11
8
6
8

7
47
29
15
1

12
5
13

5

5

10
2

13
2

7

7

7

10
32
12
9
3
11
11
3

10
32
15
9

10
28
15
8

5

5
16
17
5

5

11
10
2
6

3

2
8
7

1352.25

:U0.00

114.02

J5

9
7

4
7
9

666.SO

270.00

511.50

15

4

5

"l'25.5()

\"l().00

33\:75

15
12
15
18
15
15
15
12
15
12
12
15
15
16
12
16
15
18
16
18
12
15
12
12
12
15
15
12
12
12
18
12
12
15

7
30
3
3
12
26
6

9

1455.75
1967.00
888.00
1080.75
1014.75
2204.75
693.00
527.50
1548.25
1123.50
470.00
1015.75
358.00
1218.00
939.25
367.00
1849.50
1202.25
1532.75
557;25
1776.50
612.00
762.50
1718.75
932.00
1551.00
1475.50
2725.75
1355.00
258.00
987.25
640.00
1147.00
1422.75
1490.50

270.00
1075.00
165.00
130.00
445.00
1060.00
210.00
200.00
655.00
260.00
760.00
140.00
140.00
350.00
270.00
95.00
445.00
490.00
585.00
140.00
725.00
140.00
165.00
350.00
355.00
555.00
760.00
700.00
995.00
105.00
270.00
470.00
1005.00
470.00
380.00

530.50
1407.50
154.25
1004.25
814.25
1718.18
218.50
170.50
901.18
246.60
137.00
175.00

15

26

7
4
10
22
3

5

5

18
6
21
4
4
10

12
12
17
4
1
9
6

7
2
12
14
16
4
19
4
4
10
8
13
16
19
25
3

7
12
28
12
8

-

7

..7
19
9
4
11
31
2
6
14
11
14
4
1
11

5

9
14
14
3
22

2
19
11
15
3
25

7

7

2
13
10
17
12
25
1
6
11
26
18

3
21
12
9
18
19
18
1
9
12
26
15

7

7

11

493.75
765.25

304.24
703.80
344.00
338.50
863.50
1434.71
127.00
1382.00
313.00
356.00
448.00
275.00
1131.85
1050.00
2289.55
664.00
124.00
761.09
247.50
844.50
1036.90
1290.90

Lodc;ie

No.

413 Argonne __________514
414 Vermont Square ____ .515
--516
415 Taft
416 Mount Vernon _ _ _ 517
--518
417 LaJolla
418 Euclid _ _ _ _ _ _519
419 Ionic ----···--···-520
420 Piedmont -···-······-·-·····521
421 Sunrise ·-·--------522
422 Bel!Hower _______523
423 Catalina Island -···-·--524
424 George Washington •.....525
425 Bay City - - · - - ····-526
27
426 Covenant
427 Beverly Hills _____ _528
29
428 Loyalty - ·
429 Sun Garden _____ _.530
430 Alexandria _________531
431 Smyrna - ·· · · - - · ··-·532
432 Azure -···-··-- ··-··- ·533
433 Forest Hill _______534
434 Alexander Hamilton _____ 535
435 Seal Rock ________--536

537
436 Utopia - - ·
437 Ascot _ ______-538
438 Belvedere ___ __ _539
439 Queen Beach --·-·-··.540
440 Henry Morse Stephens....541
441 North Hollywood __ -542
442 Signal .
..543
Sff
443 Glendale
st5
444 Jonathan
546
445 San Gabriel
+t6 Arcadia

"'°

ff7 Triangle ------·--------..!Ha

448 /ustice - ·····-- ··············-····_m

449 Seaport -·- - ·--·-···-550
450 Lakeshore ___ _____ 551
451 Semper Vireos
552
452 Educator - - - ·····-·-.554
453 Whirte Pine - · -······- ·555
454 Fairfax - -- --·-- - - ---556
455 Hermosa ···-··--···-···--··557
456 Point Firmin ···-···········.558
457 Craftsmen -·····-··-·······559
458 Plymouth ·-··--··-··-··-560
459 East San Diego ··-······-··561
460 Pyramid ·--··-·--·-562
461 South Park ····-·-········561
462 Foothill - - · ··-··-·- -564
463 West Adams ---··-··-565
464 James A. Garfield ··-·······.566
465 Searchlight _ _ __ __567
466 Park Boulevard -···-·····568
467 Chateau Thiery .............569
468 Military Service ·······- ·····570
469 Francis K. Shattuck ........571
470 James Madison ···-·······.572
471 Hillcrest - -·-··-··-··-···573
472 S. W. Hackett ···-············-574
473 Fort Crook ···--·-····-·-·.575
474 El Cajon Valley ·····-······.576
475 Sunnyside ·- - · - -··-···577
476 Progressive ···-···--- --578
477 Warren G. Harding..._...579
478 Santa Maria _ ____580
479 Security ---·-··-··········581
480 Rialto ·--··--····- - --582
481 Wasco -·-·······-··-···-.583
482 Harding -·-········-············584

Charter
Issued

Degree
Fees

Affll.

Members

FHs

Dues

375
514
335
226
341
386
1076
251
320
612
154
470
424
313
585
587
563
178
176
321
208
299
207
712
363
205
202
342
1060
542
818

1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1922
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

100
100

5.00
15.00
..... .......
10.00

2U8

f923

15
15
16
18
12
15
18
18
15
12
15
15
18
15
12
15
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
15
15
15
18

534
573

1923
1923

50
80
105
100
215
80
100
175
100
100
100
100
125
150
80

--······

...............
25.00
5.00

....... .......

.............

'"-·····

10.00

............

-----20.00

10.00

75

5.00

70

...... ........

75

............

100
100
100
100
100
100
80

10.00
5.00
10.00

75

5.00
5.00

-····-·

..............

···-···

-----···

125
100
100
100

--·····
.............

125

25.00

100

S.00

-

342

1923

115

400
229
274
333
404
106
479
429
360
412
418
805
316
422
1005
354
246
466
447
373
348
251
377
84
618
195
485
453

1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923
1923

100
100
100

10.00
10.00

50

................

80

5.00
2.00
...............

550
640
120
424
283
349
302

1924

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924

55
100
100
125
100

75

75
100
100
100
100
125
110
100
100
100

75
100

75
130
100
100
125
100
125
80
100
115
80
115

5.00

··-··-

..............

·-----··

5.00

·-------

12.00

·-----·
5.00

···- -·

75.00

·-----·

......... .....
10.00
10.00
5.00
. .... ......

·-·--··
---·----

5.00
. . ... . ...
20.00
10.00
10.00

_

·--------------

5.00
...............
5.00

lnlt.

Passed

Raised

3
9
6
2

1

1

7
7

11
5

2
8

2
8

7

5

5
5

44

34
6
3
18
1
8
13
9
14
21
18

33
3
3
25
2
10
10
10
16
27
15

5
7

5
7

18
2
6
6
10
10

17
4
6

15
2
4

5

5

7

9

11

2
4
37
14
24

5

7

3
41
13
31
5

3
54
19

5
3
18

5
13
8
11
24
8
4

7

7

5

5

8

10

25
7

6.L
Per Capita

Members
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrib.

1033.50
1426.75
933.75
627.50
958.75
1051.00
3067.25
696.00
883.50
1741.25
423.75
1310.00
1188.25
863.00
1633.25
1672.50
1583.75
503.50
499.50
932.75
580.00
827.25
582.50
1958.50
1007.25
590.75
558.50
945.00
3014.00
1520.00
2315.75

35.00
245.00
245.00
70.00
380.00
245.00
1665.00
175.00
105.00
705.00

204.00
1048.82
682.00
339.55
157.00
1012.73
2160.00
625.00
694.50
515.93
319.50
956.00
338.75
643.25
1531.42
1497.50
1145.00
364.63
269.00
460.60
249.00
604.00
367.00
1427.27
899.19
447.75
427.00
809.25
2142.30
1096.43
1811.62
420.00

588.25

175.00
480.00
280.00
435.00
865.00
280.00
140.00
245.00
680.00
70.00
210.00
210.00
350.00
350.00
245.00
120.00
140.00
1430.00
565.00
965.00
270.00

14

1509.50

725.00

1216.90

28

18
23

17

1611.00

1080.00

1256.60

15

11

16

19

975.50

'\{i().00

7"ll .'\"k

18
18
18
15
15
12
18
16
12
16
15
12
16
15
16
15
18
16
15
16
15
12
12
15
12
15
12
12
12
12
15
15
15
15
15

6
10
6
18

8

8
6
6
18
9
4
19
15

1108.25
650.00
767.00
967.25
1134.00
290.50
1359.75
1205.50
1003.00
1127.75
1173.75
2282.75
887.50
1160.25
2849.75
985.50
695.00
1296.50
1267.25
1034.75
959.75
697.25
1058.75
232.25
1746.00
544.50
1437.00
1256.50
1540.00
1805.00
332.50
1170.25
826.00
987.75
850.50

235.00
350.00
235.00
630.00
245.00
70.00
455.00
565.00
105.00
105.00
355.00
1220.00
210.00
480.00
1055.00
340.00
350.00
245.00
445.00
175.00
340.00
95.00
315.00
120.00
600.00
130.00
1115.00
165.00
480.00
735.00
105.00
445.00
620.00
410.00
245.00

431.25
468.00
550.00
775.25
265.00
111.00
728.00
255.00
465.49
504.58
407.50
915.00
453.70
861.38
1527.50
240.76
600.00
286.50
899.50
231.00
378.50
183.50
314.00
38.53
719.80
392.00
1283.50
928.00
1152.03
1290.50
268.45
456.50
292.00
771.50
620.00

JS
12

20

7
7
21

7

7

2
12
14
3
3
8
32
6
13
28
9
10

4
17
16

7
12

5
9
2
9
2

14
3
29
4
13
21
3
12
17
11

7

5
4
9
36
9
10
31
12
8
10
13
6

7
2
6
1
18
4
37
6
15
17
3
14
20

7
12

5
7

10
34
9

7
27
13
6
9
13
9
6
3

7
1
20
4
40
9
16
18
2
14
19
10
12

..,e..
..,e..

00

o-1

c
\.

Lod11•

No.

483 Manchester _____ .. 585
484 Garden Grove _ __ _....586
485 Valley Forge _________587
486 El Sereno --·---········588
487 Kauai - - - - -··-··589
488 Compass
-·····590
.....591
489 Escalon
____ 592
490 Tujunga
_
_
-593
491 All States
492 Service - - - · · - -········.594
493 Alexander Graham Bell..595
494 Guardian ______.596
495 Pearl Harbor _ _ __ ....598
496 Carmelita ··-··--····-··-599
497 Lynnwood ----···-·- ···600
498 Grizzly ··-·-··-····-······----601
499 Melrose ··-··-····--··- ···602
500 Dimond - - - - · -- ·····-603
__ 604
501 Jubilee
502 Glassel! Park
60S
503 Sojourner - - ·- ···········607
.......608
504 Granada
505 Provident - - - ···-······-609
506 Elmhurst -·····--···-······-···610
507 Canoga _ _ ____611
508 Temple City _ _ _...612
509 Three Pillars -···-··-·--613
510 Larchmont -·····--·--614
511 Hemet - - - · · - - - 6 1 5
512 R. E. Dolley _ _ _ _..616
513 Big Bear
617
SH Southland
618
619
515 Neptune
- · __A20
S16 Point Loma
517

ne Gardena - ··--···---821

518 Atwater
622
519 Menorah
623
520 Fortitude - - -- - - -- 624
521 Angeles Mesa ·······-·········625
522 Chula Vista - - ·- -····626
523 Lamanda Park -········-···627
524 Truth ····-·-- - ···········628
525 Fairview
629
526 Ingleside - --··----630
527 Benevolence - - - ···-·····631
528 Normal Heights -···---632
529 Poinsettia
633
530 Victorvl11e --·--·-···----.634
___635
531 Riverside
532 John Marshall
636
533 Palisades ··--····-··-·637
534 Indian Roc:k -······-···---638
535 Composite - - -····-·639
536 Veritas
..640
537 James A. Foshay ···-·---641
538 La Cumbre
642
539 Alta Loma · - · - -- ---643
540 Lomita ···--·-··-··- ····-·644
541 A. F. E. Irwin ···--···-645
542 Metropolitan
••..646
543 Hawthorne ______647
544 Damascus
•.648
____649
545 Florence
546 LaBrea
·---650
547 Menlo Park --··-·-··-····651
548 Crescenta Valley ·--652
549 Fontana
653
550 Jordan
·- -654
551 Monte Vista _ _ _655
__656
552 Otrol

Charter
Issued

DeqrH
Fees

Affll.
Fees

125
120
100
125

20.00
1.00

75

10.00

359
308

1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1924
1"925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1.925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925

708

192S

125

10.00

SM

1925

100

__ ....

377
1035
218
732
602
291

1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1925
1924
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927

75

Members

383
343
401
454
119
336
166
351
550
908
295
987
598
374
538
133
267
291
403
415
276
859
500
278
374
536
455
420
215
251

174

247
305
230
263
796
756
260
524
297
456
226
588
145
236
315
407
353
279
173
569
689
473
286
321
588
394
429
803
245

115
50
125
100
100

75
100
150
115
125
50
90
100

75
75

Dues

--------

-·----

-

------

25.00

---·-

-----·
5.00

-······

15.00

-----

··--·--

10.00
....... ....
5.00
1.00

-----·

100
100

...........

75

10.00
10.00
15.00

100
135

75

-------

···- ·

125
100
50
100

10.00
5.00

75

--···

100
JOO

175

···-····5.oo

_

25.00

75

5.00

125
125

----1.00

75

...............
10.00
3.00

115
100
75
100
105
100
74

75
100
100

75
125
100
100

75
100
125
125
100
100

75
125
100
125
90

75
100
125
125

...........
.............

-

...... ......

···5.00
-··-

5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00

····-··

··-··-·-

-······

5.00

-·-5.00

5.00

-10.00
...........
25.00

-----

·--···

-·-···

15
15
15
15
15
15
12
12
15
12
15
15
12
16
12
12
15
18
15
15
15
15
15
16
16
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
J2
15

Passed

Raised

6.L

lnlt.

Per Capita

Membws
Contrlb.

Endow.
Contrlb.

7

6
23
9
16
2
21
4
18
18
34
8
37
20
8
35
2

8
24
9
13
3
20
4
17
18
37
9
35
18
8
30
3

7

5

6
17

6
16
10
18
28
21
13
38
15
16
8
13
9

1074.25
1014.00
1113.50
1278.75
334.25
980.00
467.50
1009.00
1526.00
2582.75
829.00
2760.75
1702.50
1042.25
1559.50
359.00
751.25
808.25
1150.00
1163.25
812.25
2405.75
1435.50

245.00
1195.00
420.00
525.00
70.00
525.00
105.00
805.00
610.00
1250.00
315.00
915.00
700.00
235.00
910.00
70.00
175.00
245.00
620.00
445.00
700.00
625.00
805.00
400.00
1410.00
680.00
280.00
350.00
495.00
270.00
105.00

801.60
837.75
910.06
597.80
263.25
781.04
92.00
482.20
1117.00
1991.87
1336.69
2124.20
936.00
802.00
1188.90
197.00
225.00
609.25
1020.70
652.85
282.89
721.12
1294.00
600.65
759.80
1313.48
1005.95
850.00
574.75
673.00
221 .00

32
12
15
2
15
3
17
16
34
9
24
20
6
26
2

5
7
17
12
20
15
23
10
35
18
8
10
12

7

11

18
17
22
13
37
13
15
10
9
8

797.75
1127.50
1517.25
1290.25
1166.50
619.75
703.25

5

5

488.75

10

1020.25

480.00

652.00

9

10
6

5

858.75

365.00

28

27

29

2022.75

1080.00

656.09
939.50

3
13

15

16

'20

29

1477.75

730.00

f>\3.:n

15
12
15
15
15
16
18
15
18
18
15
15
18
15
15
15
18
12
18
12
18
15
15
18
15
15
12
15
15
12
15
12
12
16
18

11

7
28

6
35
10
13
22
8

1055.25
2942.50
619.50
2044.00
1721.75
820.75
692.00
858.75
662.75
734.50
2321.00
2148.00
764.00
1505.50
829.50
1302.00
617.00
1709.00
418.00
660.25
898.25
1127.75
996.75
787.25

460.00
1410.00
105.00
870.00
985.00
340.00
350.00
210.00
350.00
280.00
1590.00
925.00
540.00
820.00
270.00
785.00
75.00
1570.00

839:45
3231.26
108.50
1524.00
877.25
335.00
556.19
858.09
266.00
232.66
719.75
1530.87
158.00
1065.20
602.75
1796.85
213.50

295.00

154.00
709.00
1055.50
829.90
731.50
481.05
379.00
626.32
557.40
515.95
569.51
648.50
1190.50
342.07
894.80
1689.62
259.17

36
3
22
25
9
10
6
10
8
H
24

H
22

7
21

7
18
22
9
6

7
11
8
54
22
16
23
6
18

-

-

42

32

7

7
5

4
9
14
19
11

5
34
35
6
9

11
22
35
10
36

5

12
13

H
11
4
31
30
6
10
16
21
34
9
45
8

5
7
12
9
45
23
19
25
8
20
1
29
8

5
11
9
15
9
6
31
36
9

11
18
23
33
11
32
8

490.75
1649.75
1954.50
1316.25
811.00
927.75
1658.25
1177.25
1201.50
2313.00
678.25

140.00
515.00
515.00
740.00
385.00
175.00
1190.00
1275.00
210.00
315.00
510.00
845.00
1325.00
350.00
1310.00
250.00

1420.00

..c:

°'a

Lodge

No.

553 John D. Spreckels ........_657
554 Livingston ··-········-·--658
555 La Habra -··-------659
556 Baldwin Park -··-·-·-660
557 Malta ________661
558 Henry Knox --·········-····662
559 Ojai -·····--·-···--663
560 Kaweah ·--····-·-···-·····--665
561 Reseda ·----··--··----··666
562 Meridian --·-···-···---667
563 San Gorgonlo ·-···--·-··-668
564 John P. Jarman ···-·-·--···669
565 Greenleaf ···-··-·······---670
566 San Clemente --··---···671
567 Laguna Beach ·······-------672
568 Far West ·------·-··--··-673
569 Los Cerritos ··-···-----614
570 Modesto -··-·······------675
571 Willow Glen ·········-····-····676
572 Liberal Arts --················677
573 Altadena -·-··········-··········-678
574 Canby Cross ··--·····-----679
575 Carmel --···-········--··-·-680
576 Dos Palos ····-·-········-···-··681
577 Barstow ········-······--·---682
578 Redwood Empire ·····-··-683
579 Trona -·······-··········---684
580 San Marino ····-··-·····----685
581 Albany -·-····----·-686
582 Vista ---····-··-·--·687
583 Oildale -------688
68Q
584 Pohona - - - · ·
585 San Carlos ·-···- ___690

Members

0.artw
l11ued

664
214
224
273
253
457
154
133
627
538
252
299
792
126
218
343
467
520
388
378
548
164
238
149
398
118
155
437
223
299
236
83

1927
1927
1927
1927
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1928
1929
1929
1929
1929
1930
1930
1930
1935
1935
1939
1940
1940
1941
1944
1945
1945
1946
1946

410

1946
19i6

1947
1947
1947
1948
1948
1948
1948
1949
1949
1949
1949
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1950
1951
1951
1951
1951
1952
1952
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953
1953

586 lndLan Wells Valley •.--691

400

587 Travelers ........................-:N!fl

211

588 Palm Springs -··-········-···-693
589 San Antonio •.............._69-f
590 Meudell -·····--·········--695
591 Crossroads ··········--··-----696
592 Saint Elmo -··--·-··-697
593 Wm. D. Stephens ·-······-698
594 Bixby Knolls ········-·-··----699
595 Ponderosa ·---······--·-···700
596 Santa Ynez Valley -·-·-·--701
597 Rosemead --·--··-···702
598 Westchester ---··----103
599 Orinda ·-·--···-·--····-704
600 El Cerrito -····--···-···-··705
601 Hunters Point Naval ......706
602 Lake Tahoe --···-····207
603 Seafaring --··--··-----108
604 Lorenzo ----·····--··709
605 Anacapa ·-·----110
606 Rim of the World ··-···--711
607 Los Altos ·---··--·····-···712
608 Castro Valley -··---·····713
609 Blue Lakes ---··--···714
610 Magnolia Park _ _ _715
611 Belmont Shore _____716
612 Wayfarer __________717
613 San Lorenzo Valley _____718
614 Estero ___________719

207
249
180
320
182
137
312
343
114
178
409
176
181
234
72
327
294
200
132
179
226
186
201
264
175
75
121
89
331
140
150
147
165
135
90

615 Mineral King ···--·-·-··720
_ _721
616 Home
617 George E. Tutt ····--········722
618 Acalanes ---··--······723
619 San Ramon Valley ···---···724
620 Saint John's ---·---225
621 Yucaipa _.---·--···-126
622 Verdugo Hills _____ 727

Dues

lnlt.

Pa11ed

Raised

6.L

F-

Per Capita

Memben
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrlb.

--------

25.00
10.00
...............
...............

15
15
12
12
15
15
15
12
15
15
12
15
12
15
15
15
15
12
15
15
15
16
15
12
12
18
12
15
12
12
15
12
18
J2

9
11
8
12
17
7
3
2
58
15
7
7
43
8
3
8
20
11
11
11
20
2
10
6
20
5
4
14
11
8
21
5

10
9
10
14
15
9
3
1
55
17
7
8
37
8
3
7
22
12
17
10
20
2
8
5
12
4
4
15
10
9
15
7

1836.50
622.50
632.00
797.75
741.00
1265.75
433.50
365.25
1874.25
1512.00
717.00
840.75
2270.25
376.50
590.25
960.75
1343.25
1457.75
1103.00
1065.25
1547.25
460.00
675.00
428.00
1143.50
339.50
440.25
1249.75
645.25
841.50
696.50
240.50

305.00
540.00
365.00
785.00
560.00
140.00
190.00
70.00
1840.00
645.00
375.00
315.00
1010.00
615.00
165.00
305.00
630.00
580.00
280.00
455.00
615.00
175.00
330.00
375.00
620.00
210.00
210.00
690.00
385.00
300.00
595.00
105.00

476.25
10.00
609.00
697.25
569.47
561.63
478.50
135.50
1260.88
1141.90
525.00
170.00
696.53
121.00
144.00
688.00
825.00
641.50
265.00
1017.80
1104.84
332.50
488.00
310.00
835.50
62.00
316.50
1191.52
450.00
109.00
154.50
171.00

100
100

---·---5.00

8
14
9
21
16
4
4
2
48
17
10
9
26
14
4
8
17
13
8
13
14
5
8
10
17
6
6
19
11
5
17
3
14

13

19

1173.50

540.00

1053.46

22

24

18

1164.00

770.00

1033.00

125

10.00

15

4

6

6

596..25

\f>S.00

226.50

100
125
115
80
100
125
100
80
75
75
125
75
75
100
75
100
100
75
75
100
100
100
125
125
100
100
75
75
125
75
75
75
75
75
125

5.00

20
16
15
12
15
20
16
18
15
16
15
15
15
15
18
16
12
18
15
12
18
18
15
16
12
16
12
15
16
18
15
15
15
12
16

8
14
10
12
28
12
17
14
2
12
22
7
10
9
7
16
29
11
5
6
26
7
14
31
12
5
9
5
36
8
12
6
14
10
6

12
14
7
12
20
4
21
18
3
11
25
5
13
9
7
19
23
12
5
5
26
9
12
32
20
5
7
4
39
4
12
8
12
8
5

10
19
8
13
17
3
15
29
3
9
24
10
11
14
6
20
27
17
6
5
25
12
10
29
20
3
9
4
45
9
13
8
20
10
6

599.25
723.50
520.00
917.00
565.50
395.75
908.25
1004.25
310.50
518.75
1195.75
506.00
531.75
670.00
218.00
954.25
887.50
590.00
379.00
508.25
698.50
539.50
588.75
812.50
533.25
216.50
357.75
257.75
1030.25
403.25
449.50
426.25
499.75
399.25
264.50

330.00
515.00
375.00
445.00
1030.00
445.00
595.00
515.00
95.00
420.00
930.00
245.00
350.00
340.00
270.00
685.00
1040.00
460.00
225.00
285.00
1010.00
270.00
565.00
1210.00
420.00
175.00
315.00
175.00
1445.00
280.00
420.00
235.00
490.00
475.00
210.00

468.50
532.00
446.00
905.00
612.25
891.33
994.60
952.00
288.00
394.16
1005.88
153.00
189.25
671.75
259.00
694.25
631.50
406.00
305.00
364.00
458.50
445.00
478.75
642.22
519.40
154.00
298.00
244.00
674.00
189.50
200.50
271.50
586.75
274.50
244.20

l>ecarH

F115
50
125
65

75
125
75
50
120
100
75
75
100
75
75
75
175
75
100
125
115
65
75
100
65
100
75
100
75
75
100
50

Aflil.

----···
----···
............
-·25.00
-·--··

.............
............

-1.00
5.00
25.00

--1.00

10.00

···-··
.........

10.00
10.00

.............
1.00
3.00
. ---···
10.00
1.00
......_. __

...............
..............
...............

10.00
................

10.00
...............

1.00
----···
15.00

···----..............

1.00
10.00
1.00

·-----·

..........

5.00
5.00
20.00
5.00

---·-·

..........

...........
1.00
................
..............

10.00
10.00
15.00
.

----··

···-··

................

-···

Lod;e

No.

_728
623 Lakewood _
624 Centennial ----·-·-···7'1.9
625 Polaris --·····-·--··730
626 Two Rivers ·--······-·········731
627 San Juan ·····---·--···-732
628 Golden Empire --·-···733
629 Kit Carson ·······-····-·-···.734
630 Oasis of Mara ·······-·······735
631 Lemon Grove --······-736
632 Hillsborough ---··--737
633 Arvin -·-··········-··-·-···-·-738
634 La Canada ··-···-·····-····739
635 Opportunity ··-----·-740
636 Tyre ---····-·--·--·- 741
637 Morningside Park ............742
638 Oakwood ···-······-···-·······743
639 San Leandro ·-····-··-··-···744
.._745
640 Peninsula -···
641 Soquel ········-·-·-················746
642 Claude H. Morrison .....•..747
643 Highland ·-··--··-·-148
_749
644 Merced -·
--···········750
Colony
Mother
645
646 Hamilton __ ;_··-·-···-·-·751
647 Luther Burbank •............ _752
648 Lawndale ·····--···-·-·-···753
649 San Pablo ·····--··-······---154
650 Golden Bowl -·-···········--755
651 Clayton Valley -···-··-···756
652 Channel _ _ _ _ _ _757
653 West Covina --······-··--·758
654 El Rancho -··-·--·-····759
60
655 Lakeside
656 Josiah W. Roller-_._761
657 Coastside ···········-··-·-······767
658 Arabic ··-·-··-····-····763
659 Heritage -···-·-·-·-···-764
660 Dana R. Weller ·····-····-765
661 James H. Kew ···-·········-766
662 Wm. Rhodes Hervey ___ 767
768
663 Zenith --·-·
664 Palmdale -···-·--·--·-769
665 Lake Chabot -·····-·······770
666 Mission Bay --···-----111
772
667 Avenal
668 Tejon ·--·····-·-·-·-·773
669 Waikiki ··------······-·-·-774
670 San Dieguito ·--·-·····775
671 East Whittier ______776

672 Pinnacle -···--··--··--·177
673 La Mirada ····-····- ·--···-·778
674 Five Points ·----····-··----119
675 Riviera ---------- -·-·_j8Q
676 Rolling Hills -·-·-······-·781
677 Silverado -··-·-····-·······-782
678 Mojave -·-···-·-······ · -···-783
679 Leland Stanford ···-··-···784
680 Paramount ··················-····785
681 Rio Linda ·······-········--····-786
682 Westminster ·--····-······--787

Memben

183
120
112
139
136
102
137
89
247
120
102
104
166
1'1.9
151
80
128
88

111
79
137
118
94
107
137
138
75
117
137
89
121
129
74
123

Members
Contrib.

Endow.
Contrlb.

655.00
505.00
340.00
725.00
690.00
330.00
620.00
330.00
895.00
470.00
280.00
340.00
725.00
455.00
490.00
130.00
375.00
485.00
340.00
435.00
800.00
490.00
670.00
735.00
410.00
445.00
385.00
630.00
855.00
330.00
830.00

501.65
361.15
290.00
344.79
356.50
226.50
445.25
65.00
512.50
612.50
194.50
413.50
416.87
348.36
344.20
178.75
385.95
304.00
227.50
201.00
299.00
253.00
210.00
230.25

25
32

574.25
380.00
338.00
434.25
420.00
301.50
426.75
275.75
768.25
364.00
304.50
318.00
533.50
395.75
453.25
231.00
392.00
274.00
333.25
245.25
436.00
363.50
299.50
351.25
413.75
426.50
247.25
380.75
446.75
269.75
402.75
434.75

7

8

228.50

830.00
400.00

169.00

12

17

379.25

520.00

475.50

D99rH
Fees

Affll.

Fees

Dues

lnlt.

Passed

Raised

1953
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1954
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1955
1956
1956
1956

125
125
100
100
75
90
100
90
115
100
100
125
115
100
125
115
150
100
100
75
75
90
100
115
75
100
75
100
80
75
115

··---

18
15
15
12
15
15
12
15
15
18
15
18
15
16
12
12
18
15
18
15
12
15
15
12
15
15
12
12
12
16

17
13
9
20
19
8
17
8
22
12
8
9
20
12
13
3
10

25
17
13
16
16
8
17
11
39
11
8
11
32
16
13
6
18
10
11
8
20
13
11
17
16
21
17
22
24

···-···

18
12

23
23

29
20
8
16
11
5
16
12
28
11
8
12
25
13
12
2
12
12
8
9
23
12
13
19
10
16
14
19
23
7
22
25

1956

100

12.00

12

10

1956

100

5.00

12

12

6
13
19
22
8
5
21
23
11
14
6
27
11
19
30
i
32
14
12
19
15
21
20
11
9
12

100

··--·-

10.00

.............
10.00
10.00
10.00

............
10.00

.....-

................

25.00
................
.... _,,_

...............
10.00
50.00
10.00
................

1.00

............

···--·

...............

...............
5.00
5.00

.............
................

...............

--·-···

-----·

61

19!>b

IOU

10.00

15

97
90
94
90
86
137
144
63
84
49
84
54
104
76
42
62
55
74
65
63
59
53
49
55
46

1956
1956
1956
1956
1956
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1957
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958
1958

140
100
105
115
125
125
115
100
115
lQO
100
175
75
100
75
100
125
125
125
125
75
90
125
100
100

15.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

15
15
16
15
15
15
15
15
12
12
15
15
12
15
15
15
15
15
15
18
15
15
18
15
16

237,654
81
Northern Calif. Research...._........•
100
Southern Calif. Research..............
50
El Camino Research. ........... ·-·······

&.L.
Per C.plt•

Charter
Issued

...............

10.00
................

10.00
10.00

--···

3.00
10.00
5.00

---···

··-----·

10.00

·-----·

25.00
.........
6.00
...........
...............
...............

10.00
1.00

10

9
11
19
14
17
21
11
10
10
18
23
8

-

7606

10

9

188.75

210.00

\25.00

17
24
22
7
6
33
18
15
17
6
16
9
16
12
3
19

505.00
715.00
795.00
305.00
350.00
810.00
890.00
385.00
675.00
235.00
1070.00
410.00
890.00
1200.00
140.00
1170.00
515.00
520.00
690.00
550.00
935.00
1025.00
760.00
440.00
695.00

242.75
197.05
204.00
238.25
308.50
413.75
347.00
145.50
112.00
67.50
178.25
112.00
120.41
163.05
88.00
180.02
112.88
335.75
130.00
137.00
151.25
136.00

6
7
4

309.75
312.50
314.75
267.50
252.50
453.75
456.00
213.25
278.00
153.75
292.00
176.50
339.00
269.00
126.50
243.50
187.25
231.50
225.75
212.25
219.25
190.75
159.75
172.50
149.50

7905

668,040.75

288,861.00

6
13
22
15
5
5
23
19
14
16
7
18
8

18
18
4
22
14
9
17
12
19
15
8

-

8
7

7542

457.75
151.00
316.50
319.80
364.50
306.70
53.00

8
7
11
12
17
10

-

131.00
90.00

226.00
421,633.62

""'
~

492

4
4
6
7
7
9
11
15

26
28
29
31
34
36
37
39
47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63
66
67
69
69
71
72
73
74
75
77

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

EXTINCT LODGES

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued

Berryman, Sacramento, 1850. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings, Sacramento. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Sutter, Sacramento, 1850. Charter surrendered May 6, 1853.
Davy Crockett, San Francisco, 1850. Name changed to San Francisco
Aug. 18, 1852.
San Francisco, San Francisco, 1850. Charter revoked May 13, 1859.
Marysville, 1850. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 69 as Corinthian No.
9, Dec. 1874.
Willamette, Portland, Ore., 1850. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
La Fayette, La Fayette, Ore., 1851. Transferred to jurisdiction of Oregon,
Nov., 1851.
Nashville, Nashville. Dispensation granted Dec. 24, 1851. Charter never
issued.
Pacific, Valparaiso. Dispensation granted May 5, 1853. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1853. Name changed to El Dorado Oct. 10, 1929.
Columbia, Columbia, 1853. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and Mt
Jefferson No. 107, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 15, 1891.
Diamond, Diamond Springs, 1853. Charter surrendered Oct. 18, 1873.
Mokelumne, Mokelumne Hill, 1853. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct. 13, 1883.
Santa Clara, Santa Clara, 1853. Charter revoked Oct. 15, 1887.
Butte, Bidwell, 1854. Charter surrendered Sept. 3, 1864.
St. John'sbYreka, 1854. Consolidated with Howard No. 96, as Howard
No. 37, ec. 8, 1924.
Yuba, Marysville, 1854. Consolidated with Corinthian No. 9, as Corinthian No. 9, June 16, 1916.
Michigan City, Michigan Bluff, 1854. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
Grass Valley, Grass Valley, 1854. Charter surrendered May 6, 1856.
Lebanon, San Francisco, 1854. Charter revoked June 29, 1857.
Rough and Ready, Rough and Ready, 1854. Charter surrendered Nov.
1864.
Franklin, Sacramento, 1854. Charter surrendered May 10, 1856.
Saint James, Jamestown, 1855. Charter surrendered Feb. 20, 1875.
George Washington, Chinese Camp, 1856. Consolidated with Tuolumne
No. 8, Sept. 15, 1919.
Iowa Hill, Iowa Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Oct. 29, 1857.
Forest, Alleghany, 1855. Consolidated with Gravel Range No. 59, September 27, 1955.
Minnesota, Minnesota, 1855. Charter surrendered May 14, 1859.
Ind. Royal Arch, Marysville, 1855. Name changed to Corinthian No. 69,
May 2, 1855.
Corinthian, Marysville, 1855. Consolidated with Marysville No. 9, as
Corinthian No. 9, Dec., 1874.
Nebraska, Michigan Bar, 1855. Consolidated with Ione No. 80, Oct. 15,
1887.
E. K. Kane, Nevada, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 1, 1858.
Tyro, Drytown, 1855. Charter surrendered Dec. 27, 1859.
Franklin, Meadow Valley. Dispensation granted 1857. Charter never
issued.
Wisconsin Hill, Wisconsin Hill, 1855. Charter surrendered Aug. 29, 1857.
Mountain Forest, Eureka North, 1855. Charter surrendered May, 1870.
Petaluma, Petaluma, 1855. Consolidated with Arcturas No. 180, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.

493

82 Mountain, Don Pedro's Bar, 1856. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
83 Rising Star, Forest Hill, 1856. Consolidated with Eureka No. 16, Sept. 2,
1919.
85 Indian Diggings, Indian Diggings, 1856. Consolidated with St. Mark's
No. 115, as St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
85 St. Mark's Fiddletown, 1857. Charter revoked June 26, 1894.
86 Saint Louis, Howland's Flat, 1856. Consolidated with Gibsonville No.
158, Nov., 1882.
88 Unity, Orleans Flat, 1856. Name changed to Quitman, May 8, 1856.
88 Quitman, North Bloomfield, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13, Oct.
13, 1910.
90 Polar Star, Poorman's Creek, 1856. Charter surrendered May 8, 1858.
92 Acacia, Coloma, 1856. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, as Palmyra
No. 26, March 29, 1916.
93 Caymus, Yountville, 1856. Removed and name changed to St. Helena,
Oct. 10, 1867.
94 Mount Hermon, Elizabethtown, 1856. Charter surrendered Dec. 24, 1859.
96 Howard. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, as Howard No. 37, Dec. 8,
1924.
97 Jefferson, La Porte, 1856. Consolidated with Forbestown No. 50, July 19,
1926.
98 Quartzburg, Quartzburg, 1856. Name changed to Hornitas.
99 La Grange, Merced, 1856. Name changed to Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16,
1913.
100 Campo Seco, Campo Seco, 1856. Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78,
Oct., 1898.
102 Manzanita, North San Juan, 1856. Consolidated with Nevada No. 13,
Oct. 13, 1910.
105 Siskiyou, Henley, 1856. Consolidated with St. John's No. 37, Oct. 11, 1876.
107 Mount Jefferson, Garrotte, 1857. Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8 and
Columbia "No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8, Oct. 11, 1876.
108 Owen, Scott's Bar, 1857. Consolidated with North Star No. 91, Oct. 15,
1908.
109 Dibble, Omega, 1857. Charter surrendered Sept. 27, 1879.
114 Mt. Zion, Grizzly Flat, 1857. Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 11,
1911.
115 Saint Mark's, Fiddletown. Consolidated with Indian Diggings No. 85, as
St. Mark's No. 85, Oct. 17, 1874.
116 Windsor, Windsor, 1857. Charter surrendered May 18, 1861.
Folsom, Folsom. Dispensation granted Feb. 14, 1857. Charter never issued.
118 Vallecito, Vallecito, 1858. Charter surrendered Jan. 5, 1859.
119 Clinton, Igo, 1858. Consolidated with Western Star Lodge No. 2, Oct. 15,
1936.
121 Ionic, Iowa Hill, 1858. Charter surrendered Oct. 8, 1905.
125 Progress, San Francisco, 1858. Charter revoked Oct. 14, 1870.
130 Unity, San Bernardino, 1859. Charter revoked May 13, 1863.
133 Yosemite, Coulterville, 1859. Consolidated with La Grange No. 99, now
known as Yosemite No. 99, Oct. 16, 1913.
137 Oro Fino, Oro Fino, 1860. Charter surrendered June, 1862.
138 Violet, Spanish Flat, 1860. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
142 Colusa, Colusa, 1860. Consolidated with Equality No. 240, as Colusa No.
240, April 1, 1882.
148 San Luis Obispo, San Luis Obispo, 1861. Charter surrendered Dec. 2,
1865.

494

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
151
152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171
172

Doris, North Fork. Dispensation granted Jan. 11, 1861. Charter never
issued.
Palmyra, Placerville, 1862. Consolidated with El Dorado No. 26 as
Palmyra No. 26, Oct. 16, 1902.
Josephus, Brush Creek, 1862. Charter surrendered Oct. 11, 1864.
Rising Sun, Brandy City, 1862. Charter surrendered July 16, 1864.
Carson, Carson City, Nev. Ter., 1862. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Mount Carmel, Red Dog, 1863. Charter surrendered Aug. 16, 1872.
Washoe, Washoe City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Gibsonville, Gibsonville, 1863. Consolidated with Jefferson No. 97, Oct.
15, 1908.
Gilroy, Gilroy, 1863. Charter surrendered Sept. 28, 1864.
Pilot Hill, Pilot Hill, 1863. Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25, Dec.
1898.
Virginia City, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction
of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver City, Silver City, Nev. Ter., 1863. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Silver Star, Gold Hill, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Esmeralda, Aurora, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Escurial, Virginia City, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of
Nevada, Jan. 16, 1865.
Lander, Austin, Nev. Ter., 1864. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
Jan. 16, 1865.
Alpine, Markleeville. Dispensation granted May 25, 1864. Charter never
lSSUed.

175 Claiborne, Antioch, 1865. Name changed to Antioch.
176 Merced, Snelling, 1865. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1879.
177 Aztlan, Prescott, Ariz. Ter., 1866. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
180 Arcturas, Petaluma, 1866. Consolidated with Petaluma No. 77, as Petaluma No. 180, Dec., 1898.
182 Meridian, Arbuckle, 1867. Name changed to Arbuckle, Oct.16, 1919.
185 Arenas, Punta Arenas, 1867. Name changed to Claiborne.
189 Latrobe, Latrobe, 1868. Consolidated with Natoma No. 64, Dec., 1884.
197 Paradise, Haywards, 1869. Charter surrendered July 20, 1872.
Rocklin, Rocklin. Dispensation granted July 30, 1870. Charter never
issued.
205 Newville, Newville, 1870. Consolidated with Olivet No. 364, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
213 Bodega, Bodega, 1871. Charter revoked Oct. 12, 1889.
218 Pleasanton, Livermore, 1872. Name changed to Mosaic, Oct. 18, 1881.
222 Granite, Rocklin, 1872. Consolidated with Roseville No. 432 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
223 Maui, Wailuku, Hawaii, 1873. Charter surrendered Nov. 17, 1877.
226 Hayward, Half Moon Bay, 1873. Changed to San Mateo, San Mateo No.
226, Oct. 13, 1905.
227 Contra Costa, Samersville, 1873. Charter surrendered Oct. 15, 1897.
238 Tyre, Gold Run, 1875. Charter surrendered Oct. 16, 1884.
289 Pescadero, Pescadero, 1875. Charter surrendered Sept. 26, 1890.
340 Equality, Colusa, 1875, Consolidated with Colusa No. 142, as Colusa No.
UO, April 1, 1862.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

495

EXTINCT LODGES-Continued
249 Greenville, Greenville, 1878. Consolidated with Sincerity No 132 Oct.
16, 1896.
•
•
251 Brotherhood, Duncan's Mills, 1878. Charter surrendered April 19 1888.
252 Boiiis. Bodie, 1878. Consolidated with Winnedumah No. 287, Dec. 20,
1
257 Arizona, Phoenix, Ariz. Ter., 1879. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
Solomon, Tombstone, Ariz. Ter. Dispensation granted June 4 1881
Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona, March 25, 1882.
'
·
.263 Tucson, Tucson, Ariz. Ter., 1881. Transferred to jurisdiction of Arizona,
March 25, 1882.
270 Fall River, Burgettville, 1883. Charter revoked Oct. 10, 1895.
276 Westport, Westport, 1884. Charter surrendered May 26, 1888.
284 Tyrian, Dunnigan, 1887. Consolidated with Woodland No 156 Oct. 11
1911.
.
•
•
298 Mokelumne Hill, Mokelumne Hill, 1890. Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78, Dec. 25, 1919.
311 H'lio~~e, Hueneme, 1892. Consolidated with Oxnard No. 341, Oct. 16,
340 Santa Maria, Santa Maria, 1900. Consolidated with Hesperian No 264
Oct. 13, 1910.
.
'
342 Manila, Manila, P. I., 1901. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
350 Cavite, Cavite, P. I., 1903. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
364 Olivet, Corning, 1904. Consolidated with Newville No. 205, as Olivet No.
205, Oct. 1, 1917.
371 Oceanic, ?onolulu, Oahu, T. H., 1905. Name changed to Le Progres de
l'Oceame No. 371, Oct. 12, 1916.
372 Vetera~, Sawtell: Name changed 1939 to West Los Angeles Lodge.
386 Corregidor, Manila, P. I., 1907. Transferred to jurisdiction of Philippine
Islands, Dec. 19, 1912.
398 Fowler, Fo\\'.ler, .1908. Consolidat~ with s.elma No. 277, Oct. 14, 1915.
413 Waucoba, Big Pine, 1910. Consohdated with Inyo No. 221, as Inyo No.
221, Jan. 10, 1945.
432 Roseville, Roseville, 1912. Consolidated with Granite No. 222 as Roseville
No. 222, May 29, 1919.
438 Germania, Los Angeles, 1913. Name changed to Acacia, Oct. 16, 1918.
456 K~g~~~t, Kennett, 1915. Consolidated with Reading No. 254 Dec. 19,
496 Riverdale! Riverdale. Consolidated with Welcome No. 255, May 18, 1943.
542 Lankershim, North Hollywood, 1923. Name changed to North Hollywood No. 542, October 12, 1950.
553 Golden City, San Francisco, 1923. Consolidated with Educator No 554
.
'
Feb. 16, 1940.
597 Truth, Los Angeles, 1924. Consolidated with Beacon of the West No 628
as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
·
611 Owensmouth, Canoga Park, 1925. Name changed to Canoga Oct 15
1931.
•
. •
612 W~~~an, Temple City, 1925. Name changed to Temple City, Oct. 10.
616 Seal Beach, Seal Beach, 1925. Name changed to R E Dolley No 616
Oct. 14, 1937.
. .
.
'
628 Beacon of the West, Los Angeles, 1926. Consolidated with Truth No.
5~7 as Truth No. 628, Feb. 14, 1939.
664 OTS:lz.El Centro, 1928. Consolidated with El Centro No. 384, Aug. 30,

496

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN1A

Elected Officers Grand Lodge of California, F. & A. M.
Since Its Organization, April 18, A. L. 5850
1850
Jonath•n D. Stevenson .. G. M.
C.llfornl• No. I
lorn Jan. I, 1100
Died Feb. 14, 11'4
John A. Tlltt_____D. G. M.
C•leb Fenner_ _S. G. W.
S•shel Woods____J, 6. W.
Levi Stowell _ _ _ _.. 6. T.
John H. 6lhon._____ 6, S.

18Sl
John A. TutL...............G. M.
Teham• No. i
Born Feb. 4, 1815
Dled May 19, 1900
Benj. D. Hyam .......... D. 6. M.
E. F. F. Ellls.._ _..s. 6. w.
Benj. S. Olds _____J. G. W.
Townsend A. Thomes.._..6. T.
Levi Stowell ______ _ 6, S.

1852
Benlamln D. Hyam........6. M.
11.ntci. No. I
lorn M•rch I, 1113
Died July 12, 1"3
Ches. M. Radcliff. __ ..D. 6. M.
Addison M•rtln ......._. ___ 6.T.
J. R. McConne fL __J, 6. W.
Addison M•rtin ....._ .._ ..6. T.
Levi Stowell...........- ...- ..6. S.

1853
Charles M. RedclifL ...G. M.
Tuolumne No. I
lorn Feb. 5, 1118
Died Dec. 31, 1118'
T. A. Thomes.....___ D. G. M.
Jno. R. Crand•IL.....S. G. W.
Richard F. Knott..____ J, G. W.
Addison Martin......- ..... G. T.
Levi Stowell ______ _6. S.

1854
William H. Howerd ...... G. M.
San Jot• No. 10
lorn AuQ. ~ 1110
Dlad S•pt. I•, 116'
Nath. G. Curtls........ D. G. M.
Rector E. Cole......_.S. G. W.
Robt. N. Wood ..........J. G. W.
Addison Mertln ..............G. T.
Levi StowelL................-.6• S.

1855
William H. Howerd ...... G. M.
T. A. Thomas..........- .. D- G. M.
Jno. A. Raymond. _...S. 6. W.
Sam. A. Merritt........J. G. W.
Addison Mertin ....... _.....6. T.
Levi Stowell _
6. S.

1856

1863

William H. Howerd ......6. M. William C.
Belcher
John A. Reymond .. _D. G. M. Gil. B. Cl•ibom ........G. M.
e_.D. G. M.
Lemuel Lyon ..______s. G. W.
Louis Cohn.....___ s. G. W.
Peter W. Randle ......J. G. W. Wm. A. Devtes.__J.G.W .
Addison M•rtin ......_____ G. T.
Alex G. Abefl. ____ 6. S. James Laldl•Y- ---·-··-6• T.
Alex G. Abel'-- -----6· S.

1857

Nathenlel 6. Curtls...... G. M.
1864
W•thln9ton No. 20
lorn Feb. I 1125
William C. Belcher........ G. M.
Dled July 12, 11197
Charles Manh ___ o. G. M. Gil. B. Clalborne.._.. D. G. M.
Aaron D. Perl.______$. G. W. Wm. A. Devles..---·S. G. W.
John B. Pope.._ .. ____J. 6. W. Isaac S. Tltvs.. ___ __J, G. W.
James
Addison Martin _ _ _6. T. Alex G.Laldley____.. 6. T.
Abefl.______ 6. S
Alex G. Abell _ _ _&. S.

1858

1865
Nathaniel G. Curtis......6. M.
P. W. Shepheard ...... D. G. M. Gilbert B. Claiborne ......&. M.
S•n Jo•quln No. 19
Wm. McCormi cl..... S. G. W.
Born 1121
Jes. W. BicltnelL.....J. 6. W.
Dl•d Dec. I, 1908
Addison Martin _____..&. T.
Wrr:.
Alex G. Abell ..____.....G. S. Isaac A. DevleL--- --D. G. M.
S. Titva..............S. G. W.
Henry H. H•rtley .._•.J. G. W.
1859
Nathaniel G. Curtis......6. M. James Laldley..._. _ _..6. T.
P. W. Shepheard ..-.D· 6. M. Alex G. AbelL.______6. S.
Ebenezer Lane..........S. G. W.
Thos. P. H•wley ..- ....J. G. W.
1866
Addison Martin--- ··-·····&• T. Gilbert
B. Claiborne ......G. M.
Alex G. Abefl..___________ G. S.
Henry H. H•rtley...... D. G. M.
Wm. H. Petenon ......S. G. W.
1860
Nathaniel G. Curtis...... G. M. Thomas Becft...______J, G. W.
P. W. Shepheerd ...... D. G. M. James Laldley........._, __ 6, T.
Wm. C. Belcher........S. G. W. Alex G. Abefl .. _______6. S.
Alvinza Heyward ......J. G. W.
Addison Martin _____&. T.
1867
Alex G. Abell ..________..... G. S.
William A. Davles... _.....6. M.
1861
Columbl• No. 28
Born Feb. S, 1127
James L. Engllsh ...... _....6. M.
Dled June 20, 1916
Sacr•mento No. 40
Born June !i. lllJ
Henry H. Hartley.... D. G. M.
Dled May n, 118'
Thomas Becft..._____S. G. W.
Wm. C. Belcher........ D. G. M.
Leonidas E. Pratt......J. G. W.
John W. Harvllle ......S. G. W. James
A. Laldley._..._...6. T.
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ....J. G. W.
James Laldley ._._....G. T. Alex G. Abefl .. _..............6. S.
Alex G. Abell.._..............G. S.
1862

1868

William C. Belcher........ G. M. Charles Manh .....----- ··6· M.
Nevada No. IJ
Corinthian No. 6'
Born Dec. 6 1125
lorn Deo. 12, 1120
Dled
Aprll 2i, 117•
Dled Sept. I, 18'S
Gil. B. Claiborne.•_.D. 6. M. Theo. G. Cockrifl.._..S. G. W.
John W. Harvllle......S. G. W. Leonid•• E. Pratt...... D. 6. M.
John B. Hewson ....._J. G. W. Fredk. F. Bans..--J. G. W.
James Laidley. _______..6. T. James L•ldley.... ______ 6. T.
Alex G. AbeU _ _ _ (9. S. Alu G. Ai,..u ____ &. S.

1869

1876

Leonidas E. Pr•tt.....-G. M. John M. Browne.....-._.G. M.
Mountain Sh•d• No. II
Chas. L. Wiggin __ D. G. M.
Born A119. 29, IW
Wm. S. Wells......._.s. G. W.
Died Oct. 25, 1186
Isaac S. Titua.._ _ o. G. M. Solon W. Crelgue....J. G. W.
John S. W•rd .....- - S. G. W. James Laldley...- ....- .....G. T.
Richard Dafe_____J, G. W. Alex G. Abell-..---···6· S.
James Laldley______6, T.
Alex G. Abell_ _ _ _&. S.
1877
John M. Browne.._ .......G. M.
1870
Chas. L. Wiggin _ .. D. G. M.
Leonrda1 E. Pratt.....- .....G. M.
Isaac S. Titvs_ ___ D, G. M. Wm. W, Traylor........S. 6. W.
Wm. 1-\. Crane..........J. G. W.
Chas. L. Wlggin.____ s. G. W. Moses
Heller _ _ _ 6, T.
Benj. H. Freeman ......J. G. W.
James Laidley__________ 6. T. Alex G. AbelL--- -····-G• S.
Alex G. A~ell ______6. S.

1878

1871

497
1883

Jonathan D. Hlnes...-.6· M.
Sen Bueneventur• No. 214
Born Jan. I, 1825
Died Dec. 30, 1886
Wiley J. Tinnin........D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson _.S. G. W.
Hiram N. Ruclter__.I. G. W.
Mose• Heller
6. T.
Alex G. Abefl.____6, S.

1884
Jonathan D. HinH-.....6. M.
Wiley J. Tinnln._.... D. G. M.
Edm. C. Atkinson ..__$, G. W.
Hiram N. Rucker._ .J, 6. W.
Moses Heller
.6. T.
Alex G. Abefl ..____...6. S.

John M. Browne._........G. M.
Leonidas E. Pr•ff•...- ..6. M. Wm. W. Traylor.__.D. G. M.
Chas. L. Wiggln ........ D. G. M. Wm. H. Crane.•. _ ....S. G. W.
1885
Ben. H. FrHmen......S. G. W. Robt. C. Broder___J, G. W. Wiley J, Tinnln .._. ___6.
M.
Geo. C. P•rkins.._ ...J. G. W. Moses Heller _______ 6. T.
Trinity No. 'II
Alex
6.
Abell
_
_
_
.6.
James Laldley
S.
6. T.
BornOd.7 1129
Alex G. Abell_._______ G. S.
Died Nov. 24, 1910
Edm.
C. Atklnson._.D. G. M.
1879
1872
William W. Traylor........G. M. Hiram N. Rucker..- ..S· G. W.
Leonid•• E. Pratt......-.G• M.
Henry H. Knepp_.. J, 6. W.
Cellfornla No. I
Born March 17, 1122
Benj. H. Freemen ...... D. G. M.
Nathan W Se•uldlng ....6. T.
Died Jan. II, 1183
Geo. C. Perkins...._.$. G. W.
Alex 6. Abell..________ ...6. S.
John M. Browne....._.J, G. W. Samuel C. Denson.... D. G. M.
James Laldley_..........___ 6. T. Clay W. Taylor._ .S. G. W.
1886
Alex G. AbelL_........... _G. S. John Q. Adam1 _J. G. W.
Moses Hellar
6. T. Edmund C. Atltinson....G. M.
Alex
G. Abell________ 6, S.
Sacr•m•nto No. 40
1873
Born Nov. 17 IQ7
l1eec S. Tltua................6. M.
Died March :ici, 1911
San Joaqaln No. 19
1880
Hiram
N. Ruclter_ .. D,
Born Oct. 14 1127
Samuel C. Denson ........G. M. Morris M. Estee........ 6. M.
Died Aprll 22, 1"2 •
S. G. W.
Unlon
No.
58
Geo. C. Perkin1--_.. D. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin.. _.J, 6. W.
Born Sept. 13, 183'
Jno. M. Browne........S. G. W.
Died July 26, 1917
Nathan W Seauldlng ....G. T.
Chas. E. Mitchell......J. G. W. Clay W. Taylor........ D. 6. M. Alex G. Abelf.._____..6. S.
James Laldley_ _ _ .. 6. T. John Q. Adams ........ S. 6. W.
Alex G. AbelL____6. S. O. W. Hollenbe cL.J. 6. W.
1887
Moses Heller ______ 6. T.
1874
Alex G. Abell_____ &. S. Hiram N. Rucker _ _&. M.
Le 6rania• No. '9
George C. Perkins... _ .. G. M.
Born Sept. 6l 1844
Orovllle No. IOI
1881
Died Dec. b, 1905
lorn AuCJ. 23, llH
Clay W, Taylor.............. G. M. Morris M. Estee........D. G. M.
Died Feb. 2•, 1'2J
Western Star No. 2
John M. Browne........ D. G. M.
Alvah R. Conklin_...S. G. W
Born Sept. I0( 1844
Wm. B. Perlier..- .....S. G. W.
Wm. Jo~nston ..........J. 6. W.
Died Mey I, 897
Wiley J. Tinnln..........J. G. W. John Q. Adams.. ...... D.
G. M. Nathan W Speuldlng ....6. T.
James Laldley____ G, T. Jonathan
D. Hlnes ___S, 6. W. Alex 6. AbelL. .......- ...G. S.
Alex G. AbelL-- -··---6• S. Thos. J. Bowera._ _J. 6. W.
Moses Heller _ _ _ _ 6. T.
1888
1875
Alex G. Abell..._____ 6. S. Morris
M. Estee......._.6. M.
John M. Brown•.. ·-··---6· M.
Nav•I No.17
Calllornla No. I
1882
Born May 10, IUI
Born Nov. 2J, 1834
Clay W. Taylor..______ 6, M.
Dled Dec. 7, 1194
Dled Od. 7, 1903
Chas. L. Wlggin ..._.D. G. M. Jonathan D. Hines.... D. G. M. Alvah R. Conklin ...... D. G. M.
Wiley J. Tlnnin......_..S, G. W. Edm. C. Atkinson ......S. G. W. William Johnston ..._S, G. W.
Jacob H. Neff.. _ ..J, G. W. George Hlnds____J G. W. Marc. D. BorucL.....J. G. W.
James Laidley
6. T. Moses Heller
6. T. Nathan W Seauldlng ....6. T.
Alex G. Abel
6. S. Alex G. Abell _ _ _ _ &. S. Alew G. Abell
6. S.

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1889

Morris r.4. EstH___G, M.
William Johnston _.. D. G. M.
Chas. R. Grltman ____ s. G. W.
Henry S. Orme_.J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _G. T.
Alex G. Abell-·-·-·····G• S.

1890
Alvah R. Conklin___ G. M.
Inyo No. 221
Born 1835
Died Oct. I, 1897
William Johnston ...... D. G. M.
Chas. R. Gritman ....S. G. W.
Henry S. Orme..._...J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding .... G. T.
George Johnson ____ G, S.

1891

1895

1901

Edward M. Preston.-...G. M.
Nevada No. 13
Born May 4, 1841
Died Aprll 24, 1903
Wm. T. Luc111_____ D. G. M.
Thomas FlinL___s. G. W.
F. M. AngellottL....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman......_G. T.
George Johnson ____G. S.

William S. Wells .....-.6. M.
Martinez No. 41
Born June 24, 1861
Died Jan. 23, 1919
0. S. Henderson.._.. D. G. M.
Chas. W. Nutting _s, G. W.
Geo. W. Hunter _J. G. W.
Edward Coleman....._&, T.
George Johnson _ _ G, S.
Wm. H. Edwards .. ___&, L

1896

1902

William T. Lucas............G. M.
Guadalupe No. 237
Born March 18, 1850
Died March 21, 1931
Thomas Flint.............. D. G. M.
F. M. AngellottL._.s. G. W.
Chas. L Patton..._ ..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ___G S.

Orrin S. Henderson ...... G. M.
MornlnQ Star No. 68
Born June 2, 1863
Died June 25, 1940
Chas. W. Nutting .... D. G. M,
Geo. W. Hunter......S. G. W.
Motley H. Flint._..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman.......- ..G• T.
George Johnson ___G, S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............6. L

1897

William Johnston ......-.G• M.
Thomas Flint.
6. M.
Franklin No. 143
Texas No.46
Born June 2, 1825
Born May 191. 1858
Died Nov. 14, 1905
Died Nov. le, 1936
Chas R. Gritman ...... D. G. M.
Henry S. Orme __s, G. W. F. M. Angellotti.._... D. G. M.
Chas L Patton..____ S. G. W.
Jas. B. Stevens.--...J. G. W. Jas. A. Foshay____J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding __ G. T.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ···-·--6. S. George Johnson ___G, ~-

1892
Charles R. Gritman ___G. M.
Yount No. 12
Born Dec. 10, 1838
Died May 14, 1894
Henry S. Orme..- ... D. G. M.
Jas. B. Stevens..........S. G. W.
Edw. M. Preston........J. G. W.
Nathan W Spaulding _.G. T.
George Johnson --·---·G• S.

1893
Henry S. Orm•--·--·G. M.
So. California No. 278
Born March 25, 1837
Died Nov. 29, 1912
Jas. B. Stevens--...... D. G. M.
Edw. M. Preston ..____ s. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas..___J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
George Johnson ..____ G. S.

1894
James B. Stevens ______ G, M.
Yount No. 12
Born March 77; 1841
Died Dec. 6, I 19
Edw. M. Preston ........ D. G. M.
Thomas Rint______J. G. W.
Wm. T. Lucas____s. G. W.
Edward Coleman.____G. T.
George Johnson ____ G. S.

1903
Charles W. Nutting ......6. M.
Evenln11 Star No. 186
Born Oct. 3 1852
Died Sept. 20, 1917
Geo. W. Hunter ...... D. G. M.
Motely H. Flint.. _ ..S. G. W.
Edw. H. Hart____J. G. W.
Edward Coleman .......- ..G. T.
George Johnson -·-··G• S.
Wm. H. Edwards _____.&. L

1907

1913

1919

George M. Perine........G. M.
Pacific No. 136
Born 1852
Died Oct. 6, 1933
Reuben H. Lloyd ...... D. G. M.
Oscar Lawler..____$, G. W.
W. Frank Pierce..- ...J. G. W.
Edward Colemen.___ G. T.
George Johnson _ _ G, S.
Thomas J. Baker._____ G, L

John D. Murphey.....- ..G. M.
Alta No. 3l3
Born July 7, 1863
Died Sept. 15, 1945
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ D. G. M.
Alb. G. Burnett.._ ..$. G. W.
F. V. Keesling .......- ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher....._ .......G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- ..G. L.

Charles Albert Adams..G. M.
Excel1lor No. 166
Born Nov. 25, 1867
Geo. F. Rodden ........ D. G. M.
Sam. E. Burke_____ s. G. W.
Wm. A. Sherman._..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_ _ _ _ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker...- - G . L

1914

George F. Rodden ........G. M.
Marin No. 191
Born Dec.24, 1867
Died March 8, 1934
Sam. E. Burke......,_.. D. G. M.
Wm. A. Sherman......S. G. W.
Arthur S. Crites........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..........-.G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.____..G. L

1908
Oscar Lawler
..
G. M.
East Gate No. 290
Born Aprll 2, 1871
W. Frank Pierce........ D. G. M.
Dene R. Weller __$, G. W.
A. J. Monroe..___J. G. W.
Edward Coleman..- .......&. T.
John Whicher_______ G. S.
Thomas J. Baker...___G. L.

1909

W. Frank Plerce..______ G. M.
Oakland No. 188
Born Jan. 16, 1855
Died Oct. 3, 1910
Dana R. Weller ........ D. G. M.
A. J. Monroe.--....S. G. W.
Wm. P. Filmer ___.J. G. W.
Edward Coleman............G. T.
John Whicher..·--·-·-··G. S.
Thomas J. Bak.er____ G. L

1898

1904

Frank M. Angellottl.._.6, M.
Marin No. 191
Born Sept. 4, 1861
Died May 23, 1932
Chas. L. Patton ........ D. G. M.
Jas. A. Foshay_____s. G.
Wm. S. Wells...___J, G. W.
Edward Coleman....._G, T.
George Johnson ··--····G• S.

w.

George W. Hunter.._.&. M.
Humboldt No. 19
Born 1854
Died Oct. 14, 1921
Motley H. Flint........ D. G. M.
Edw. H. Hart............S. G. W.
Geo. M. Perine ___J. G. W.
Edward Coleman......- ..G• T.
George Johnson ..._ ......G. S.
Wm. H. Edwards ..... _.6. L

1899

1905

Charles L Patton .......... G. M.
Calllornla No. I
Born 1865
Died April II, 1923
Jas. A. Foshay.......... D. G. M.
Wm. S. Wells........-.S. G. W.
0. S. Henderson ......J. G. W.
Edward Coleman....,_..G. T.
George Johnson - -..•.6. S.

1911

Motley H. Flint..............G. M.
East Gate No. 2'0
Born Feb. 19, 1865
Died July 14, 1930
Edward H. Hart..- ... D. G. M.
Geo. M. Perine........S. G. W.
Reuben H. Uoyd._..J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.....--G. T.
George Johnson _____ G, S.
Wm. H. Edwards ..... _.6. L

Alonzo J. Monroe....- .•G. M.
Humboldt No. 19
Born Oct. 19 1858
Died June 14, 1922
Wm. P. Filmer.....-.D. G. M.
J. D. Murphey•._ ....$. G. W.
Benj. F. Bledsoe.....•..J. G. W.
Edward Coleman....._G, T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker·-····-···G• L

1900
James A. Foshay............G. M.
So. C..llfornla No. 271
Born Nov. 23, 1856
Died Jan. 14, 1914
Wm. S. Wells._........ D. G. M.
0. S. Henderson ......S. G. W.
Chas. W. Nuttlng ....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman....._.G. T.
George Johnson ____G, S.
Wm. H. Edwards ............6. L

499

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1906
Edward H. Hart ............ G. M.
Live Oak No. 61
Born 1858
Died Sept. 26, 1917
Geo. M. Perlne..- ... D. G. M.
Reuben H. Uoyd ......S. G. W.
Oscar Lawler ___.J. &. W.
Edward Coleman... ___G, T.
George Johnson ___6. S.
Wm. H. Edwards_ _&. L

1910
Dana R. Weller_..........G. M.
So. Callfornla No. 278
Born March 24, 1874
Died Jan. 9, 1947
A. J. Monroe............ D. G. M.
Wm. P. Filmer..........S: G. W.
J. D. Murphey __.....J. G. W.
Edward Coleman....._ ..G. T.
John Whicher............._ ..G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..._ .•.-G. L

1912
Wm. P. Filmer................ G. M.
KlnQ Solomon No. 260
Born March 2, 1866
Died Nov. 22, 1942
Jno. D. Murphey...... D. G. M.
Benj. F. Bledsoe........ S. G. W.
Alb. G. Burnett ___J, G. W.
Edward Coleman.•- ......G. T.
John Whicher______E;. S.
Thomas J. Baker....- - 6 • L

Benj. F. Bledsoe ............G. M.
San Bernardino No. J4I
Born Feb. I, 1874
Died Oct. JO, 1931
Alb. G. Burnett........ D. G. M.
F. V. KHsling ....__.. G. W.
W. Rh. Hervey..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher_____..6. S.
Thomas J. Beker..............G. L.

s.

1915
Albert G. Burnett..........G. W.
Santa Ro111 No. 57
Born April 9£ 1856
Died Au11. ID, 1923
F. V. Keesling ............ D. G. M.
Wm. Rh. Hervey ......S. G. W.
Bradford Webster....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer....,_..G. T.
John Whicher.._____G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.........- ..G. L.

1920

1921
Samuel E. Burke.. _ .._ ..G. M.
Sunset No. 352
Born Feb. 13, 1870
Wm. A. Sherman...... D. G. M.
Arthur S. Crites........S. G. W.
David J. Reese..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher..................G. S.
Thomas J. Baker.____..G. L

1922

William A. Sherman...... G. M.
Presidio No. 354
Francis V. Keesling ...- ..G. M.
Born Sept. 17, 1880
California No. I
Died Feb. 19, 1940
Born Feb. 17, 1m
Wm. Rh. Hervey...... D. G. M. Arthur S. Crites..- .. D. G. M.
David J. Reese..•.•- ..S. G. W.
Bradford Webster....$. G. W.
Alb. E. Boynton._•...J. G. W.
Charles A. Adams....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.-.....G. T.
John Whicher....._ ........G. S.
John Whicher......._ ........G. S.
Thomas J. Baker._____ G. L. Thomas J. Baker..............G. L

1916

1917

1923

1918

1924

Wm. Rhodes Hervey....G. M. Arthur S. Crites ............G. M.
lakersfleld No. 224
Pentalpha No. 202
Born Feb. 4. 1179
Born March 26, 1870
Died Apr. 21, 1957
Died Feb. I, 1953
Bradford Webster.... D. G. M. David J. Reese.......... D. G. M.
Charles A. Adams....S. G. W. Alb. E. Boynton........$. G. W.
Geo. F. Rodden ..•_ .. J. G. W. Geo. L Jones............J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.-.....G. T.
John Whicher.......- ........G. S. John Whicher___........G. S.
Thomas J. Baker..............G. L. Thomas J. Baker....- .......G. L.
Bradford Webster ........G. M. David J. Reese..............G. M.
Live Oak No. 61
Sen Buenaventura No, 214
Born Dec. 14, 1869
Born Au9. 22, 1871
Died June 4, 1941
Died Nov. 9, 1934
Charles A. Adams .... D. G. M. Alb. E. Boynton ........ D. G. M.
Geo. F. Rodden .. _ ..S. G. W. Geo. L Jones._____$, G. W.
Sam. E. Burke...- ......J. G. W. Will H. Rscher..........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer.____ G. T.
John Whicher.______6. S. John Whicher_ _ _ _E;, S.
Thomas J. Baker_ _ _ e, L Thomas J. Baker..._ _&, L

1925

1931

Albert E. Boynton.. _ .....G. M.
Orovllle No.IOJ
lorn Oct. f, 1171
Died Feb. 2Z, 1941
Geo. L JoneL._____ o. G. M.
Will H. Fischer_ _ $. G. W.
GuL A. Huteff..____ J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..- .....G. T.
John Whlcher.•__ ,_.....G. S.
ThomH J. Beker.........- ...G. L.

Robt. B. Gaylord ..___ G. M.
Oakland Mo. 188
lorn Nov. 24, 1876
Died Au9. 4, 1953
Frank W. Mlxter_.o. G. M.
James 8. Glst_ _ s. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton ..- ..-.J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..•.......G. T.
John Whicher·--·- ······G· S.
Thomas J. 8eker·-·-········G• L.

1928

1932

George L Jone1 _ _c;. M.
Madison No. 2J
Born Mey II, 187J
Died June 22, 1956
Will H. Fischer.____ o. 6. M.
Gus. A. Huteff..........S. G. W.
C. M. Wollenberg.. _J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...- ....6. T.
John Which•r-- -·-···-·-G. S.
Thomes J. Beker..._....- ..G. L

1927

1937
James T. Fraser....·-·-····6· M.
Humboldt No. 7'
Born Au9. 29, 1868
Died Jun• 26, 1953
Leon 0. Whitsell.._.. D. G. M.
William H. Waste....S. G. W.
William 8. Ogden ....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..•....•..6. T.
John Whicher.. ________ c;. S.
Leslie E. Wood ..·-·-·······G· L

1938

Leon O. WhiheJL_... c;. M.
Frank W. Mlxter-........ 6. M.
Oran;e &rove No. 293
Ex•t•r No. 424
Born July 10, 1876
Born D•c. 30, 1873
Williem H. Waste.... D. G. M.
Dl•d Mey 22, 1947
James 8. Glst...__.... D. G. M. William 8. Ogden ....S. G. W.
Wm. A. Sitton._____$. G. W. Lloyd E. Wilson ........J. G. W.
R. V. Whiting__ .•. J. 6 . W. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer.._......G. T. John Whlch•r-···-·· ·-···G. S.
John Whicher__________ .G, S. Leslie E. Wood.·-·-·--- .6. L
Thomas J. Baker._____... G. L

1939

1933
William B. Ogden.....-.G. M.
Will H. Fischer......- ..&. M.
Hollywood ~o. 355
James 8. Gist.. .............. G. M.
WllshlreNo. 4tl
lorn Au9. 26~ 1876
202
No.
Pentelpha
Born Sept. II, 1171
Died S•pt, I~, 1954
Born Au;. 8, 1868
Died Oct. 4, 1'53
E. Wilson ........ D. G. M.
1954
25,
Lloyd
April
Died
M.
6.
D.
...
..•..
Huteff
A.
Gus.
D. G. M. Fronk M. Smith.. _ ...S. G. W.
............
Whiting
V.
R.
W.
G.
$.
....
C. M. Wollenberg
J. S. Rou.____..... ___J. G. W. Earl Warren.. ____ $. G. W. Leslie E. Wood ........J. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller..___J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer.. _......G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer...- ...•.G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer___G. T. John Whlcher._,__ ........6. S.
John Whicher- ---···-···6. S. John Whlcher_______G. S. Walter Leonard·-·-·······G. L
Thomes J. Beker..............6. L
Thomas J. Baker·-- ·········G• L.
1928

Gustav A. HutefL....... G. M.
Dunsmuir No. 297
Born Oct. 5, 1879
Died Oct. 17, 193J
C. M. Wollenberg .... D. G. M.
J. S. RosL---··- - ·····S. G. W.
Robt. 8. Geylord.-.J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
John Whicher.·-- -··-·····6. S.
Thomas J. Beker........- ... G. L.

1929
C. M. Wollenberg.•......&. M.
Sterr ICT119 No. J4C
Born March 13, Im
John S. Rou•..•·-···-·D. G. M.
Robt. 8. Gaylord_ $. G. W.
Frank W. Mixter...- ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Fllmer.......... G. T.
John Whlcher_ __..... 6. S.
ThomH J. Baker...........- .G. L

1930

1934

1940

E. Wilson .......- .....G. M.
Randolph V. Whitin9 ....G. M. Lloyd
ln9lesld• No. 630
Kln9 Solomon No. 260
Au9. 16, 1895
Born
Born Nov. 30, 1870
Frank M. Smith ..........D. G. M.
Died F•b. 4, 1952
Earl Warren ....._ ..O. G. M. Leslie E. Wood ........ S. G. W.
Rollie W. Miller..--..S. G. W. Claude H. Morrison ..J. G. W.
James T. Freser........J. G. W. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
Wm. Parker Filmer.....•.... G. T. John Whlcher....·-···-- ··G• S.
John Whicher___......- .. G. S. Walter Leonard......______G. L
Leslie E. Wood ................G. L
1941
1935
Fronk M. Smith ........- ....G. M.
East &at• No. 2fO
Earl Warren.____ __ &. M.
Born April I, 1894
Sequoia No. J49
Died April 7, 1951
Born March 19, 1891
E. Wood .......... D. G. M.
Leslie
Rollie W. Miller...... D. G. M.
James T. Fraser.....-.S. G. W. Claude H. Morrlson .. S. G. W.
Leon O. Whitsell......J. G. W. G. C. DeForest........J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer.......... G. T. Wm. Parker Filmer..........G. T.
- .....G. S.
John Whicher-·--···········G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ...............
G. L
Leslie E. Wood.·-···-·······G• L Chester H. Warlow

1936
John Stewart Ross _ ...6. M.
Rollle W. Miller._ __ ... G. M.
El C•ntro No. 384
Sunset No. 352
Born Mey21 1879
lorn Oct. 17, 1883
Dl•d Au9. 31, 1952
T. Freser._.....D. G. M.
James
M.
G.
D.
......
Gaylord
Robt. 8.
Frank W. Mixter........S. G. W. Leon 0. Whltsell......S. G. W.
James 8. Glst.. _ ____J, G. W. William H. Weste....J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer..·--···G• T. Wm. Parker Filmer.....- ...G. T.
John Whlcher_ _ __ c;. S. John Whlcher______c;, S.
Thomes J. Beker_ _ _ c;. L Leslie E. Wood____&. L

501

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

500

1942

Leslie E. Wood .........- ...&. M.
Provld•nt No. 609
Born April 2, 1897
Claude H.Morrlson .. D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest..S. G. W.
Lawrance C. Kelley ..J. G. W.
Wm. Parker Filmer...- ....G. T.
Lloyd E. Wll1on .....--.6· S.
Chester H. Warlow..- ..6. L

1943

1948

1953

Claude H. Morri1011,___c;. M. Edward H. Siems...... _..&. M. Frank Harwell, Jr-.•..•..G. M.
San Dle90 No. 35
Benrly Hiiis No. 528
Plymouth No. 560
Born July 10, 1187
Born October 4, 1898
Born December 7, 1903
Died Nov. 2, 1953
Meyer.. _.... D. G. M. Hanry C. Clausen.... D. G. M.
Gilbert C. DeForest.. D. G. M. EllsworthPeulsen
....____s. G. W. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr-S. G. W.
Lawrence C. Kelley..S. G. W. Arthur
W. L. Harold Andenon ..J.G. W.
Arthur W. Brouillet..J. G. W. Louis C. Drepeau .._..J,•...G.
Francis V. Keesling. ___c;, T.
Francis V. Keesling. __..G. T. Francis V. Keesling .._ G. T.
Wi11on ....... _____G, S.
Lloyd E. Wilson. _ _ _ G, S. Lloyd E. Wilson ... _.......G. S. Lloyd E.W.
DevlL ___ c;. L
Elbert
L
-·-··G•
..
Warren
M.
Arthur
L
G.
....
..
Chester H. Werlow

1944

Gilbert C. DeForest___ G. M.
Readln9 No. 254
Born S•pt. 18, 1889
Died Jan. 25, 1952
Lawrence C. Kelley .. D. G. M.
Arthur W. Brouillet..S. G. W.
John R. Moore ......- ..J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesling. ___ G, T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..-·-···G• S.
Chester H. Warlow_ ..6, L

1945
Lawrence C. Kelley._.G. M.
Pentalpha No. 202
Born July 231 1889
Died Oct. 24, 1941
Arthur W. Brouillet......G. M.
Park No. 449
Born Jan. 21, 1884
Died Sept. 18, 1953
John R. Moore.__ $, G. W.
Francis V. Keesling._G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .. _. _ _G, S.
Chester H. Warlow. __ c;, L

1949

1954

Ellsworth Meyer ·- ····-6. M.
Liberal Arts No. 677
Born Feb. 27, 1905
Arthur Paulsen ..........D. G. M.
Louis E. Drapeau ......S. G. W.
Arthur M. Warren ....J. G. W.
Francis V. Keeslin9 ...- ... G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ..............G. S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G. L

Henry C. Clausen ..._____G.M.
ln9leslde No. 630
Born June 30, 1905
Edgar V. Stewart, Jr•.. D.G.M.I
L Harold Andenon_.S.G.W.
Leo E. Andanon .. _......J.G.W.
Edward H. SlemL......--G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson .•.....______G.S.
Elbert W. Davis.. _ _ _G.L

1950

1955

Arthur Paulsen _ _ c;, M.
Trinity No. 27
Born May 4, 1890
Louis C. Drapeau ..._.O, G. M.
Arthur M. Warren ....S. G. W.
Frank Herwell, Jr__J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng ____ G, T.
Lloyd E. Wllson.____ ..G, S.
Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L

Edgar V. Stewart, Jr-...G.M.
Loyalty No. &29
Born Oct. 3, 1901
L Harold Anderson .. D.G.M.
Leo E. Anderson ...- ... S.G.W.
Phil N. Myers.........__J,6.W.
Edward H. Siems...__..G.T.
Lloyd E. Wilson ...._ _ G,S.
Elbert W. Davi1......._.6,L

1951

L Harold A11derson. _____G.M.
Palo Alto No. 346
Born March 29, 1900
Leo E. Anderson ... __ o.G.M.
Phil N. MyerL•.._____s.G.W.
Joe L Shell..________J.G.W.
Edward H. Slem1..•_ ___6.T.
Lloyd E. Wllson ..·- ·····-·G.S.
Elbert W. Davis..-·····- ·-G.L

1946
Louis C. Drapeau ..._.(i, M.
John R. Moore ..____ G. M.
Polnsettle No, 63J
M•rldlan No. 667
Born AUIJI. JO, 11181
lorn Sept. 1893
M. Warren .. D. G. M.
Arthur
M.
G.
D.
..
Chester H. Warlow
Edward H. Siems_S, G. W. Frank Harwell, Jr-S. G. W.
Ellsworth Meyer._.J. G. W. Henry C. Clausan .._J. G. W.
Francis V. Keesllng._..G. T. Francis V. Keesllng ... _ ..G. T.
Lloyd E. Wilson _ _ _ G. S. Uoyd E. Wilson .... __.._..G. S.
Arthur M. Warren._•...•.. G. L Walter H. E. von Konsky G.L.

1956

1957

Leo E. Anderson ............6.M.
Hollywood No. 355
Born February 20, 1902
Chester H. Warlow.. _.6. M. Arthur M. Warren ........G. M.
481
No.
Mt. Davidson
Phil N. Myers.......- ...D.G.M.
Fresno No. 247
Born December 27, 1901
lorn June 30, 1889
Joe L Shell..._ ..........S.G.W.
Edward H. Slems...... D. G. M. Frank Harwell, Jr-... D. G. M. Alfred F. 8reslauer......J.G.W.
Ellsworth Meyer.._....S. G. W. Henry C. Clausen ....S. G. W. Edward H. Siems............G.T.
Arthur Paulsen........J. G. W. Edgar V. Stewart, Jr. J, G. W. Lloyd E. Wilson ................G.S.
Francis V. Keesling .._ •.. G. T. Francis V. Keesling ...- ...G. T. Elbert W. O.vis................6.L.
Uoyd E. Wllson .....-_....G. S. Lloyd E. Wilson ______..G. S.
1958
Arthur M. Werren ______ G. L Elbert W. Davls_ __ G. L
Phil N. Meyers................G.M.
McCloud Lod9e No. 430
Born, January 12, 1897
Joe L Shell... .......- ......0.G.M.
Alfred F. Breslauer......S.G.W.
Guy 8. Mize........ - .....J.G.W.
Edward H. Siems........._ .G.T.
Lloyd E. Wllson ................G.S.
Elbert W. Davis.............-.G.L

1947

1952

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

502

lrupector1

LIST OF INSPECTORS
lrupecror1

Dale of Commiasion

Diitrict

..-.January 27, 1925..·---·-··-···---.3M
..S. Leslie Hawken_
Clarence L. Fraser----··-··----·- ··.December, 1927-·--------·-··°'
Wm. s. Thompson..·-······---· ·-··--··-··--····.March, 1928..·-··-··-·-··-·-··-··412
R1;1dolph M?hr, Jr.....·-·--····---·-····--··.Ja nuary, 1929......·-··-··-··-··-··-··~=

~~:~~-ir.JI;rgr:a;e:=~--==-==.s-e:pie~b;:l~: ~~g~==--=::::::---·418

...January 2, 1935..·--·-·----·378
John Behrens-·--··-··-Samuel Dollar ---··-··-··········-···- ·- .December, 1935--··--·-··-··-·-- 416
Willard G. Babcock...-···-····-··-····---.Janu ary 10, 1936•.·---··-·-··-----···616
Carl F. Peters.........- .............................. .November 1, 1936...- ......•....- ..............~~
George S. Ward.....................................- ...January 1, 1937.......- ......---·······....642
Fr~d Weed... - .........:-····· ..·-···················· ...September, 1938.·-··-·-··-···-·--..306
Guido de Ghetaldi........................................October, 1938·--······-··-··-······-···354
Roy H. Lenthall...............- ........- ...................January, 1939·--··-·---··-····---· 224
J. Wesley Sibole...._, ___ .........................December, 1939.·-··-··-··-··-···········
Harold S. Morrison.--·-·-··-- -··-.December 1, 1940---·-·--·-··-··.5 12
Elmer M. Hopper...-·-····-··-··-··---······-.May 10, 1943·-·--·------···~g:
Melvin R. Berbower.....- ................- ...November 10, 1943....·-··--····-··-··-···
Frederic E. Clark........·-········-····-······-.January 26, 1944..·-··-··········-···-·-···530
Dwight C. Freeman..·-··-····-····· ·--·-··-··.March 2, 1945.·-··-······-··-······-···548
James B. Lawson.-......._______.March 6, 1945......---··-··-·-·--·426
Arch Balchin.....·------·--·-..M arch 27, 1945_.__________392
Edward C. Lohmeyer.......---······-···September 27, 1945........·-··-··-···--·..322
Alexander Duncan.................................- ...October 9, 1945.------··-·-··-·=~~
Robert w. Nicol.......................... _............October 24, 1945.......-·-··-··-··.........536
Louis L. Cunningham....................... _.......August 2, 1946_.. ___ ......- ...........360
W Ralph Anderson..._._......................November 4, 1946..·-·-·-·-··-··-···..··
fiank W. Johnson...................- ...- ......November. 21, 1946.......- ..................- ...544
Stephen E. Skidmore......_...........- ..--······-··.Aprµ 7, 1947·--······-··-·-······-···608
Fred C. Pritschke-..-··--··--·-·..- ......-.April 7, 1947--··-··-····--·-··-·..428
Harry Burrows _ _ _ _ _ _ __December 15, 1947... ------··-··-·-302
Russell N orthrop...- ....-··--··---··-··.Decemb er 20, 1947-·-·--··----. 524
Frank R. Killinger, Jr.........·-··-··-····.December 29, 1947.-...·--······-··-·......366
Howard S. Kaulbach ........................... .December 29, 1947...- ..-··-··-···..·····-···3158
Stanley Hurst Wentz..................................Marc!J. 16, 1948... _.. _..........- ..- .......2:
Roy T Kiele....................................................Apr1l 22, 1948....._.... _...................5112
Elmer· Glen Van Tassell. ...................September 11, 1948.·-··-·-···--···..·- ···
Reginald Reynolds................................November 5, 1948...- ...........................108
Louis H. Mahler........................................January 31, 1949...- ..................- .......520
Orin Compton..-----·· -··----·.February 9, 1949..·-··-··-······-..-··-···420
John A. Owen..·-··-··--- --·_.May 16, 1949... ________ ..550
Chas. A. Thomasset... ·-·····-··-··-..----.....June 28, 1949.......-·-··-·........- ...570
William Nankervis, Jr.......... _............- ..- ...June 30, 1949.......- ..- ......- ...... _...362
Wilson Ernest Lathrop....·-····-·-..·····-·....October 1, 1949__ ..........- ...............410
Robert H. Taylor...- .. - ....····-·-··---...November 7, 1949... _.. _..····-·-··- ··-·..348
.January 16, 1950.......- ..- ......- ..- .......342
Maurice E. Coffey____ ..
Earl Caldwell..-·-··-··--··- ·--..··-·····......January 16, 1950._.._.. _.. _...............324
Delbert E. Luck..·-··-············--· ·-··-·-··-...April 14, 1950...............·-·-··-..-·..406
Elmer R. Lotz.----··..··-·-··..---·-·-.April 14, 1950.......·-·-··-·-·..··-...522
Elven C. Drake...---···-···--···-·--.. April 14, 1950.......---····---- ..--526
Anson McArthur.........-····-········--·--····--··. May 8, 1950·- -··-··-·..···········-···552
Chas. W. Lunsford...·-··-·-··-····-··-··-··-·· .May 8, 1950.•·-··-··-··-··········-·..556
Martin O. Veland.---··-···-· ----··-·.May 8, 1950..·-···-·-··-..- •.- .......558
___562
.. May 8, 1950
_
Paul Thompson.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIPORNIA

503

Dale of Commission

Distrid

8, 1950.·-··-·······-·············638
Hugh D. Good..·-·---····· -··------May
....May 8, 1950..._____........- ......614
.
Ted R. Siems
Leland E. Wallace..·--·-·-··-··---·Septe mber 7, 1950--··---··--······-··. 204
Walter Edward Sanner.................- ...November 24, 1950...- ..........- ...............326
Frank W. Raddatz...- ..- .............. _.....November 24, 1950..........·-·-..-...........546
Olen F. Turner............·-··-..- .......- ...November 24, 1950.......... _ .. _.. _...........630
Joseph Myron Ruggiero....................December 21, 1950.......- -...................332
Guy S. Harts, Sr....- ..............- ......- ...December 21, 1950...-..- .......- ..............508
J. Ralph Dawdy..............._.................. _...January 26, 1951.........._ .............._...422
Andre L. Armand...............- ...._...._.. _ ..January 26, 1951.............- ............_...376
Jack Walton Leishman.........- ........- ........_.May 18, 1951...........- ....·-······-...337
Loren Alton Lloyd...- ..--··- -·----...... .May 18, 1951--··--··--··-··-···370
George H. Olmsted.........- ............ _....._.October 18, 1951.........--·-··-······-...216
Reginald Bunce.........- ........................ _...October 23, 195L....... _ ................ _...545
Charles Joseph Savage..........................November 6, 1951...-..........- ...............640
Carl F. La Vo...............- ................- ...December 15, 1951...- .................- .......366
Carroll C. Doane......._..........................- .. .January 1, 1952.·-·-·-..-·.--.......307
Ballard White, Jr........---··--·········-···Decem ber 12, 1951...................- ...........120
Kenneth C. Stanley......-.-.....................February 7, 1952................................636
Wilfred W. Partridge·-··--·-·-·· --·-..- ...March 31, 1952...- ...........................502
Lynn A. Blackmun....... _.._..- ...- .............. .March 31, 1952................... -...........503
______ .May 12, 1952................... - .. - .......208
Edward Farley...-Burrell Clifford JulL.................... _ ..............May 12, 1952..- ..- .......................212
Harry K. Widup..................................November 10, 1952................................344
Milton H. Lang... _...•_..................- .......November 14, 1952................................540
J. Harry Snowden.....-·--·-··-....December 9, 1952...............- ..........- ...606
Fred L. Ferguson ......................................January 1, 1953..·-··-··-·--..-·_...618
Henry P. Lawborn...................-......... _...January 19, 1953...........- ...................1566
Paul F. Ruff...........- ...................-.............February 4, 1953..·-·-··-··-··-..- .. _...361
Harry H. Aiman....- ..--·-··-...................March 2, 1953..·-··-··-·-··-······-···644
Paul A. Hackler... - ....- ....·-···..--.......... -...March 26, 1953... _.. __.....- ·-·····-·..330
__ ...........April 17, 1953..- -..- .........- .......1528
Samuel Steelman.._
Sam Lovell..·-·-·-··--·-- --··-··-··-··-··.June 25, 1953...- .............- ...........214
Robert Edgar.·----- ---··-...August 27, 1953..................._...........384.
Ray Earl Burdg..._ .._____.........September 5, 1953·---·-··--··-·-·.2 1'1
.October 10, 1953.-----·-··--·3 26
James E. Finley_
Albert Kiecble·--··---·-·- ·-··---..- ..October 26, 1953...............- ...............572
E. Lloyd Hanson...........--..-·-·······-·-··.January 1, 1954...................- ...........350
John H. Ferguson........................................J anuary 1, 1954...................- ...........622
Raymond Glenn Hollar.. _ ............ _...........January 1, 1954................................220
Milton Hoffe Sharp...- -.............---···February 1, 1954...- ...···-·-··-···-·-...210
Gordon F. Porter............................... _...February 10, 1954...- ......- ......- ..........514
Claiborn Schonhoff......................................March 12, 1954................... _...........402
Wallace H. Fiske..........................................March 12, 1954................... _...........404
Fred Walker Waitman. .................................April 19, 1954........... _...... _..- .......518
Hugh M. Topping.......- -..------··-·.April 19, 1954...- ......... _.. _...... _...568
Norbert Peter Tester......- ....··--···-..........June 30, 1954......·-··-·-··-·····-···646
Otto F. Link............................................November 17, 1954................................215
Ralph W. Collins....................................December 15, 1954................................515
Ray Smith. ...............................................December 15, 1954...................- ...........554
Charles M. Coffland....................................January 1, 1955._.. ____.......- .......564
Palmer A. Wells ................................ _ .......January 7, 1955..............·- ·--······.222
Clarence C. Smith ......................................January 7, 1955.......................- .......338
John D. Miller..............................................January 7, 1955.......- .......... _...........340
Alva A. Daniells........................................January 13, 1955...........-·-·-··-··-···42'1
Henry Drashner....... __________ ..February 14, 1955.........·-·-··-·---...504
William C. Brouillard.---··-- --··---.April 8, 1955.......- .......................116
Adolph H. Franzen...-····-···-··-··········....- .....May 1, 1955.......- .......................336
Harry L. Muller·-··-·-··---·· -··-··-··-·....May 11, 1955...- ...... _.. _...............319
Edward C. WilL _________ _.July 14, 1955·-·-··-·-··-·..........367

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

504
lnspecton

Daze of Commission

FOREIG N GRAND LODGES

Dicid

Frank Leroy SutlliL ...................................August 9, 1955..........---····-······--.aet

Carl E. Moore ................................................October 3, 1955................................431
··-..318
Ralph M. Hinds..........................................October 29, 1955......·-················
549
James L. Miles..........................................December 9, 1955................................382
Hector McD. Moir.................... ..............December 15, 1955...............- ...............
Charles Frederick Chapman....·-····-·······J anuary 6, 1956.............. --·-·-·-·········560
William M. McKenney..............................January 6, 1956................................430
William Waters Shugart·-- ····-·-········ ···January 6, 1956................................431
390
Ernest A. Harrison..................................January 20, 1956·-········-·················..
Freeman George Sanders......................January 20, 1956....................... -.......39t
···-··--372
Frederick L. Brown ......................................March 5, 1956..·-···············............
388
Harold F. Trafton..........................................April 24, 1956....................
A. Bird Cross....................................................May 20, 1956........... _...................629
Marion Bruce Myers......................................May 20, 1956................................118
Russell F. Bragg................... - .........................July 16, 1956...... ·-····················--601
Daniel Kleiman ..............................................July 16, 1956................................411
Ralph N. Holden..............................................July 16, 1956........................... _...108
Joseph L. Ousley............. _.............................July 16, 1956.---···· ·-··-··-··-··- 602
E. Ross Baylis..................................................July 25, 1956......·-··················-··.365
Floyd 0. Mason ................................................July 30, 1956..·-······-···················625
Kenneth Dowell ........................................August 20, 1956..·-··-··-··-··-······-···606
Earl Moore Vigus....................... ·--·········-.August 23, 1956..·-··········-······-··-···603
Hubert J. Raymond ..................................August 29, 1956---·-· ·-··-··-·---- 632
··-··-···516
Ralph W. Cutler ....................................... .August 31, 1956..·-··-············........••..
206
Wayne A. Dahling..............................September 11, 1956....................
·-··--..238
·-··············-·
..
1956
11,
r
.5eptembe
-......
..........
....................
Evan E. Hall
Harold N. Richards...................- .......September 11, 1956.......................- ....•..218
1956......·-··············-··-···4.21
Walter Clayton ···················-·······-···-.November 23,
Field Thompson •.................................November 27, 1956................................538
Leslie S. Wayman................................November 27, 1956................................539
Lewis Arthur Pugh................................December 3, 1956---·····-··-··········--510
··31'
George T. Rowse.-...................................January l, 1957---······-··············-·
308
Glendall W. McDermot t........................January 1, 1957 ................................333
Ulysses George Patropulos ....................January 1, 1957................................519
George Q. Evans......................................January 4, 1957....................... - .......556
George W. Perkins..................................January 16, 1957................................
Walter V. Durst............... _.......................January 17, 1957..•.............................312
Clarence E. Shoaf....................................January 25, 1957................................316
Berrell Roberts Ries....................................April 1, 1957................................634
Alton T. DuRant............. _.............................April 18, 1957.......................- .......620
John Allen Kline ..........................................April 18, 1957................................ 626
Sidney A. Webster..........................................May 9, 1957................................300
Lewis Hugh Field ................... - .................... .May 15, 1957................................637
Winfield Scott McLees................... ...............May 15, 1957................................639
Riley L. Blurton......................... _...................May 24, 1957..·-··········-···············638
···················.374
Frank N. Long ............... - ...............................July 31, 1957·--·······
Victor Prenk ........................................ September 5, 1957.......................- .......320
R. Wayne Milton .................................. September 5, 1957..............·-··-····-··J 06
Richard W. Clark................................December 15, 1957..........·-···········-·-···310
James E. Bacon....................................December 15, 1957..............·-······-·······511
Arno Ragghiant i.. .... _...............................January 1, 1958.·-··-·- -··-······-···3 68
Philip Stembridg e Hunt... ·-··-··-··-···- ···January 1, 1958..·-··-··-··-··-··-··-··-610
Lester Howard Casagrand e....................January 1, 1958..·-··-··-··-·- -··--117
Albert A. Bryceson..................·-··-··-······· January 1, 1958......·-········-····-··-··-110
Jack R. Grove..·-······-··········-············-··.Januarr. 15, 1958.......... ·-··-··-······-·--109
Hugh G. Martin..·-·· -··-··-··-······ ······-··-··--·. April 28, 1958..................·-······-··.227
Lloyd Arlo Countryma n. .. _.....................August 13, 1958..·-······-······-···········114
Edward A. Stone......·---··-··-····· ·-···Septem .ber 16, 1958......·-··-······-······-···532

R•GOgniuJ tmtl in Prillfflltll R.t.dions with 1h1
of Clllifomi.
wtmtl

w,.

Argentina:
Alcibiades Lappas, Grand Secty.,
Cangallo 1242, (R. 28), Buenos Aires, Argentina
Austria:
Fritz Blum, Grand Secty.,
Dorotheerg asse -12,
Vienna 1, Austriai
Bolivia:
Carlos Cernadas Villalobos, Grand Secty
"
Casilla Correo No. 554,
La Paz, Bolivia.
Brull:

The Grand Lodge of Amazon and Acre
Fernando De Lemos Falcone, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 162, Manaus, Amazonas, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Minas Gerais
Sei:gio Alexandre Ivanenko, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Caixa Postal No. 5, Belo Horizonte, Minas Gerais, Brazil.
The Grand Lodge of Piaui
En_iesto Evangelist a, Grand Secretary
Cal.)Ca Postal No. 10, Teresina, Piaui, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of Rio de J anelro
Mario Herdy Silva, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2215, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, S. A.
The Grand Lodge of Sao Paulo
The Grand Lodge of the State of Ceara
Jose CarvalJl,o Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal 76, Fortaleza, F.stado do Ceara, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Para
Ot~o L. Hiltner, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Cal.)Ca Postal 156, Belem, Para, Brazil
The Grand Lodge of the State of Parahyba
Odemar Nacre Gomes, Grand Secty.,
Caixa Postal No. 3, Joao Pessoa, Parahyba, Brazil
The Grand Oriente of the State of Rio de Janeiro
W8;1ter Oliveira Costa, Grand Secty., Rel Ext.
Caixa Postal 122, Niteroi, Rio de Janeiro, Bra:d1.
The Grand Symbolic Lodge of Rio Grande Do Sul
~aldo Baucke, Grand Secty. of Foreign Relations
Cal.)Ca Postal 683, Porto Alegre, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil
The United Grand Lodge of Bahia
Ivo Lopes da Silva, Grand Secty.
Rua Carlos Gomes No. 21, Salvador, Bahia, Brazil
Canada:
AlbertaEdward H. Rivers, Grand Secty.,
330 -12th Ave., S.W., Calgary.
British Columbia J. H. N. Morgan, Grand Secty.,
692 Seymour St, Vancouver , B. C.

505

506

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

Canada-(Province of Ontario)
Ewart G. Dixon. Grand Secty.•
P. O. Box 217, Hamilton. Ontario.

Dominican Republic:
Alfredo de la Cuesta, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 856, Ciudad Trujillo, Dominican Republic.

.
ManitobaThomas C. Jackson, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Winnipeg 2, Manitoba.

Ecuador:
S. Clemente Perez Sanchez, Grand Secty.,
Casilla No. 932, Guayaquil, Ecuador, S. A.

New BrunswickA. C. Lemmon, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 430, St. Johns, New Brunswick.

Egypt1
The National Grand Lodge of Egypt.
El Sayed Kamil El Sharkawy, Grand Secty.,
Beite Postale No. 1714, Cairo, Egypt.

Nova Scot1aHarold F. Sipprell, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 522, Halifax, Nova Scotia.
Prince Edward IslandF. A. Van Iderstine, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 337, Charlottetown, P. E. I.
QuebecR. W. Louthood, Grand Secty.,
1559 St. Marks SL, Montreal, Quebec
SaskatchewanRobt. A. Tate. Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 246, Regina, Saskatchewan.
Chiles
Cesar Bunster C., Grand Secty.,
Casilla 2867, Santiago, Chile, S. A.
China:
David W. K. Au, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 758, Taipei, Taiwan, China
Colombia:
Gran Logia de Colombia,
Apartado 2519, Bogota, Colombia, S. A.
Gran Logia Occidental,
Julian Hoyos Rebolledo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Aereo No. 4020, Cali, Colombo
National Grand Lodge of Colombia at Barranquilla
Oriental Grand Lodge "Francisco de Paula Santander"
National Serene Grand Lodge of Colombia at Cartagena
Juan Manuel Guzman Barrios, Grand Secty.,
Apartado NaL No. 16, Cartagena, Colombia.

El Salvador (Cuscatlan):
Carlos Alfonso Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
2a Calle Oriente No. 27, San Salvador, El Salvador, C. A.
England:
James W. Stubbs, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, London, England.
Finland:
Lauri Sarkia, Grand Secty.,
P. Esplanaadikatu 35E, Helsinki, Finland.
France:
French National Grand Lodge,
Mark S. Drabble, Grand Secty.,
65 Boulevard Bineau, Neuilly-sur-Seine, Paris, France.
The Grand Lodge of France,
Emmanuel Drapanaski, Grand Secty.,
8 Rue Puteaux, Paris 17, France.
Germany:
United Grand Lodge of Germany,
Chancellery
P. 0. Box 16~88, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.
Greece:
Dr. Panayiotis Hadjipetros, Grand Secty.,
33 Skoufa St., Athens, Greece.
Guatemala:
Lauro A. Rivera F., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 48, Guatemala City, C. A.

Costa Rica:
Rafael Obregon L., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 3282, San Jose, Costa Rica.

Honduras:
Tiburcio Guerrero D., Grand Secty.,
Apartado 28, Tegucigalpa, Honduras, C. A.

Cuba. Isle of:
Jose F. Castellanos, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 72, La Habana, Cuba.

Iceland:
Olafur Gislason, Grand Secty.,
Borgartun 4, (Box 44) Reykjavik, Iceland.

• Csecho·Slovakla:
Grand Lodge Lessing at PragueNational Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia at Prague.

Ireland:
J. 0. Harte, Grand Secty.,
Freemasons Hall, Dublin, Ireland

Denmark:
National Grand LodieAlfred Nyvang, Grand Secty.,
Blegdamsvej 23, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Israel:
Grand Lodge of the State of Israel,
E. Dubinsky, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 2080, Tel-Aviv, Israel

507

508

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ltalys
The Grand Oriente of Italy,
Umberto Genova, Grand Secty.,
Via Giustiniani, 5, Rome.

.
Japan
George B. Morgulis, Grand Secty.,
No. 13-1, Shiba, Sakae-Cho, Minato-Ku, Tokyo, Japan.
Mexico:
York Grand Lodge of Mexico
Mino M. Covo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 1986, Mexico, D. F.

Grand Lodge of Baja California
Fernando Cesena Castro, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 57, Tecate, Baja, California.
Grand Lodge "Cosmos"
Enrique Rosales Alonso, Gr~d Secty.1
Apartado 171, Chihuahua, Chih., Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the Pacific
.
Alonso Castenedo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 20, Guaymas, Sonora, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of the State of Nuevo Leon
.
Fidencio Cantu Gonzalez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 309, Monterrey, Nuevo Leon, Mexico.
Grand Lodge of Tamaulipas
Ruben Marquez RoII?-o, Grand Secty.,.
Apartado 419, Tampico, Tamps., Mexico.
Grand Lodge Unida Mexicana
Enrique Guzman Garcia, Grand f?ecty.,
Apartado 56, Veracruz, Ver., Mexico.
Grand Lodge "Valle de Mexico"
Miguel Ruiz Dominguez, Grand Secty.,
Apartado Postal 10, Mexico, D. F.
Netherlands:
Grootoosten der Nederlanden,
Dr. P. J. vanLoo, Grand Secty.,
22 Fluweelen Burgwal,, The Hague.
New South Wales:
United Grand Lodge of New South Wales,
James S. Miller, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Hall, Sydney, N.S.W.
New Zealand:
F. G. Northern, Grand Secty.,
P.O. Box 1833, Wellington C. I., New Zealand.
Nicaragua:
.
.
Greg A Tapia, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 102, Managua, Republic of Nicaragua.
Norway:
Odd Lie-Davidsen, Grand Secty.,
Masonic Temple, Nedre Vollgate 19, Oslo, Norway.
Panama:
Nathan A Reid, Grand Secty.,
Apartado 84, Panama, Republic of Panama.

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

509

Peru:
Carlos Landa.z uri Sandoval, Grand Secty.
Apartado 587, Lima, Peru.
Philippine Islands:
Esteban Munarriz, Grand Secty.,
1440 San Marcelino, Manila, P. L
Puerto Rico:
E. Isales, Grand Secty.,
P. 0. Box 8385, Santurce, Puerto Rico.
Queensland:
V. I. Carter, Grand Secty.,
Box 675, K. G. P. 0., Brisbane, Australia.
Sco!land:
Alexander F. Buchan, Grand Secty.,
96 George St., Edinburgh, 2, Scotland.
South Australia:
F. J. Ellen, Grand Secty.,
Box 19, Rund.le St. P. 0., Adelaide, So. Australia.
Sweden:
Sven Svedin, Acting Grand Secty.,
Frimurareorden , Blasieholmsgat an 6, Stockholm, Sweden.
Switzerland:
Grand Lodge Alpina,
Ernst Hagmann, Grand Secty.,
Bogenschutzens trasse 8, Berne, Switzerland.
Tasmania:
H. A WilkinsOh, Grand Secty.,
1177 MacQuarie St., Hobart, Tasmania.
Venezuela:
P. A. Ruiz Paz-Castillo, Grand Secty.,
Apartado de Correos 927, Caracas, Venezuela.
Victoria:
United Grand Lodge,
C. W. Davis, Grand Secty.,
25 Collins St., Melbourne, Australia.
•vienna:
Western Australia:
N. J. Munro, Grand Secty.,
G.P.O. Box D-177, Perth, Western Australia.
•Yugo1lavla1
Grand Lodge of the Servs-Croats & Slovenes.

•Recognized by the Grand Lodge of California prior to being rendered
inoperative before and during World War II, subsequent to which no resumption of fraternal relations has been effected.

510

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRANO LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES

ALPHABET ICAL LIST OF LODGES-Co ntinued

A
A F. E. Irwin (645), San Pedro.
Abell 046), Ukiah.
Acacia (438), Los Angeles.
Acalanes (723), Lafayette.
Acorn (494), Oakland.
Adin (250), Adin.
Alamo (122), Walnut Creek.
Alameda (167), Fremont.
Albany (686), Albany.
Albert Pike (484), Los Angeles.
Alcatraz (244), Oakland.
Alexandria (531), San Francisco.
Alexander Graham Bell (895),
Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton (535),
Los Angeles.
Alhambra (322), Alhambra.
Alisal (321), Pleasanton.
All States (593), Long Beach.
Alpha (431), Richmond.
Alta (333), Bridgeport.
Altadena (678), Altadena.
Alta Loma (643), Long Beach.
Alta Vista (464), Daly City.
Alturas (248), Alturas.
Amador (65), Jackson.

America (475), Los Angeles.
Amity (370), San Francisco.
Anacapa (710), Oxnard.
Anaheim (207), Anaheim.
Anchor (273), Compton.
Angeles Mesa (625), Los Angelea.
Antioch (175), Antioch.
Apollo (396), Alameda.
Arabic (763), Los Angeles.
Arcadia (547), Arcadia.
Arbuckle (182), Arbuckle.
Arcata (106), Arcata.
Argonaut (461), San Francisco.
Argonne (514), San Francisco.
Arroyo (274), Arroyo Grande.
Arlington (414), Los Angeles.
Artesia (377), Artesia.
Arvin (738), Arvin.
Ascot (538), Gardena.
Ashlar (306), Colton.
Atascadero (493), Atascadero.
Athens (228), Davis.
Atwater (622), Los Angeles.
Avenal (772), Avenal.
Azure (533), Fullerton.
Azusa (305), Azusa.

B
Bakersfield (224), Bakersfield.
Balder (393), San Francisco.
Baldwin Park (660), Baldwin Park.
Barstow (682), Barstow.
Bay City (526)l San Francisco.
Bay View (401J, Oakland.
Bear Mountain (76), Angels Camp.
Bell (483), Bell.
Bellflower (523), Bellflower.
Belmont Shore (716), Long Beach.
Belvedere (539), Monterey Park.
Benevolence (631), Los Angeles.
Benicia (5), Benicia.
Benj. Franklin (509), Beverly Hills.
Berkeley (363), Berkeley.

Bethlehem (453), San Francisco.
Beverly Hills (528), Beverly Hills.
Big Bear (617), Big Bear Lake.
Bixby Knolls (699), Long Beach.
Blackmer (442), San Diego.
Blue Lakes (714), San Bruno.
Blythe (473), Blythe.
Brawley (402), Brawley.
Brentwood (345), Brentwood.
Brooklyn (225), Oakland.
Buckeye (195), Winters.
Buena Park (357), Buena Park.
Burbank (406), Burbank.
Burlingame (400), Burlingame.

c
Cahuenga (513), Hollywood.
Calaveras (78), San Andreas.
Caledonia (486), Bakersfield.
Calexico (412), Calexico.
California (1), San Francisco.
Callayomi (282), Middletown.
Calistoga (233), Calistoga.
Canby Cross (679), Tulelake.
Canoga (611), Canoga Park.
Capital City (499), Sacramento.
Carmel (680), Carmel.
Carmelita (599), Pasadena.

Carpinteria (444), Carpinteria.
Carquinez (337), Crockett.
Castro Valley (713), Castro Valley
Catalina Island (524), Avalon.
Centennial (729), Compton.
Center (465), Fresno.
Channel (757), Stockton.
Charity (362), Campbell.
Charter Rock (510), Berkeley.
Chateau Thierry (569), Oakland.
Chico (111), Chico.
Chino Valley (427), Chino.

511

Confidence (203), Castroville.
Chowchilla (485), Chowchilla.
Consuelo (325), Escondido.
Citrol (656), Brea.
Corcoran (490), Corcoran.
Chula Vista (626), Chula Vista.
Corinthian (9), Marysville.
Claiborne (185), Point Arena.
Corona (324), Pasadena.
Claremont (436), Claremont.
Clarence F. Smith (482), Los Angeles. Coronado (441), Coronado.
Covelo (231), Covelo.
Claude H. Morrison (747),
Covenant (527), Los Angeles.
Chula Vista.
Covina (334), Covina.
Clay (101), Dutch Flat.
Craftsmen (559), Los Angeles.
Clayton Valley (756), Concord.
Crescenta Valley (652), La Crescenta.
Clear Lake (183), Lower Lake.
Crescent (45), Crescent City.
Clovis (417), Clovis.
Crocker (454), Daly City.
Coachella (476), Coachella.
Crockett (139), San Francisco.
Coalinga (387), Coalinga.
Crossroads (696) San Diego
Coastside (762), Pacifica..
Culver City (467), Los Angeles.
Colusa (240), Colusa.
Cupertino (510), Cupertino.
Compass (590), Pomona.
Curtis (140), Cloverdale.
Composite (639), Los Angeles.
Concord (117), Sacramento.

D
Damascus (648), San Bernardino.
Dana R. Weller (765), Gardena.
Delano (309), Delano.
Delta (471), Stockton.
Dimond (603), Oakland.
Dinuba (385), Dinuba.
Doric (216), San Francisco.

Dos Palos (681), Dos Palos.
Downey (220), Downey.
Drytown (174), Plymouth.
Dunsmuir (297), Dunsmuir.
Durant (268), Berkeley.

E
Eagle Rock (422), Los Angeles.
El Rancho (759), Whittier.
East Bay (489), Berkeley.
Elsinore (289), Elsinore.
East Belt (391), Tuolumne.
El Segundo (507), El Segundo.
East Gate (290), Los Angeles.
El S~reno (588), Los Angeles.
East San Diego (561), East San Diego. Elysian (418), Los Angeles.
East Whittier (776)., Whittier.
Emmanuel (318), Biggs.
Eden (113), San Leandro.
Enterprise (70), Yuba City.
Francisco.
San
Educator (554),
Escalon (591), Escalon.
Fortuna.
Eel River (147),
Estero (719), Cayucos.
Cajon.
El Cajon Valley (576). El
Eucalyptus (243), Hayward.
El Camino Research, Mountain View. Euclid (519), Los Angeles.
El Centro (384), El Centro.
Eureka (16), Auburn.
El Cerrito (705), El Cerrito.
Evening Star (186), Etna.
El Dorado (26), Placerville.
Evergreen (259), Riverside.
Elk Grove (173), Elk Grove.
Excelsior (166), San Francisco.
Elmhurst (610), Oakland.
Exeter (424), Exeter.
Fairfax (556), Larkspur.
Fairmount (435), San Francisco.
Fairview (629), Los Angeles.
Fallbrook (317), Fallbrook.
Far West (673), San Francisco
Fellowship (480), Oakland.
Ferndale (193), Ferndale.
Fidelity (120), San Francisco.
Fillmore (379), Fillmore.
Five Points (779), Long Beach.
Florence (649), Los Angeles.
Fontana (653), Fontana.
Foothill (564), Oakland.
Forbestown, (50), Forbestown.

F
Forest Hill (534), San Francisco.
Fort Bragg (361), Fort Bragg.
Fort.Crook (575), Fall River Mills.
Fortitude (624), Oakland.
Francis Drake (376), South San
Francisco.
Francis K. Shattuck (571), Berkeley
'
Franklin (143), Courtland.
Fraternity (399), San Jose.
Fremont (497), Oakland.
Fresno (247), Fresno.
Friendship (210), San Jose.
Fruitvale (336), Oakland.
Fullerton (339), Fullerton.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES-Co ntinued
G

ALPHABET ICAL UST OF LODGES-Co ntinued

512

Galt (267), Galt.
Garden Grove (586), Garden Grove.
Gardena (372), Gardena.
Garvanza (492). Los Angeles.
General Henry H. Arnold (791),
Edwards.
Georgetown (25), Georgetown.
George E. Tutt (722), Campbell.
George Washington (525),
San Francisco.
Glassell Park (605), Los Angeles.
Glendale (544), Glendale.
Glendora (404), Glendora.
Golden Bowl (755), South Gate.

Golden Empire (733), Sacramento.
Golden Gate (30), San Francisco.
Golden Rule (479), San Jose.
Golden State (358), Los Angeles.
Golden West (455), San Francisco.
Gold Hill (32), Lincoln.
Grafton (141), Knights Landing.
Granada (608). Alhambra.
Gran·a da Hills (790). San Fernando.
Gravel Range (59), Camptonville.
Greenleaf (670), Whittier.
Grizzly (601), Portola.
Guadalupe (237), Guadalupe.
Guardian (596), South Gate.

H
Hamilton (751), Novato.
Highland Park (382). Los Angeles.
Hammonton (433), Sutter.
Hillcrest (573). Berkeley.
Hanford (279). Hanford.
Hills Ferry (236), Newman.
Harbor (502), Richmond.
Hillsborough (737). Burlingame.
Harding (584). Los Angeles.
Hiram (43). El Dorado.
Harmony (164), Sierra City.
HoHenbeck (319), Los Angeles .
Hartlef (199), Lakeport.
Hollywood (355), Hollywood.
Hawaiian (21), Honolulu, T. H.
Holtville (425), Holtville.
Hawthorne (647). Hawthorne.
Home (721). No. Hollywood.
Hemet (615), Hemet.
Honolulu (409), Honolulu, T. H.
Henry Clay (95) Sutter Creek.
Hope (234), Beckwourth.
Henry Knox (6S2). Los Angeles.
Hornitos (98), Hornitos.
Henry Morse Stephens (541). Berkeley.Howa rd (37), Yreka .
Henry S Orme (458) Los Angeles.
Humboldt (79), Eureka.
Heritage (764), North Hollywood.
Hunters PoiJ?-t Naval (706),
Hermann (127) San Francisco.
San Francisco.
Hermosa (557),'Hermosa Beach.
Huntin~on Beach (380),
Hesperian (264). ~anta Maria.
Huntmgton Beach.
Highland (748), Highland.

I
lliinoistown (51), Colfax.
Imperial (390), Imperial.
Ingleside (630), San Francisco.
Inglewood (421), Inglewood.
Indian Rock (638), Berkeley.

Indian Wells Valley (691), Ridgecrest.
Ione (80), Ione.
Ionic (520), Los An1eles.
Inyo (221), Independence.

J

James A. Foshay (641). Los Angeles. John P. Jarman (669), San Jose.
James A. Garfield (566), Los Angeles. Jonathan (545), San Francisco.
Joppa (508), San Joaquin.
James H. Kew (766), Inglewood.
Jordan (654). Los Angeles.
James Madison (572), Los Angeles.
Josiah W. Roller (761), Palo Alto.
Janesville (232), Janesville.
Jubilee (604), Santa Ana.
Jewel (374), San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels (657), San Diego. Justice (549), San Francisco.
John Marshall (636), Beverly Hills.

K
Kauai (598), Lihue, T. H.
Kaweah (665), Woodlake.
Keith (187), Gilroy.
Kerman (420), Kerman.
Keystone (161), Milton.

Kilauea (330), Hilo, T. H.
King David's (209). San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's (260), San Francisco.
Kit Carson (734), Sacramento.

513

L
La Brea (650), Los Angeles.
Lemon Grove (736), La Mesa.
La Canada (739). La Crescentia.
le Progres de l'Oceanie (371),
La Cumbre (642), Santa Barbara.
Honolulu, T. H.
La Fayette (126), Sebastopol
Lexington (104), El Monte.
Laguna Beach (672), Laguna Beach. L!beral Arts (677). West Los Angeles.
La Habra (659), La Habra.
L1bertas (466). Bakersfield.
La Jolla (518). La Jolla.
Liberty (299), Santa Clara.
La Mirada (778), Buena Park.
Lincoln (470), San Francisco.
Lake Chabot (770), Castro Valley.
Lindsay (416), Lindsay.
Lakeshore (551), Oakland.
Live Oak (61), Oakland.
Lakeside (760), El Cajon.
Livingston (658). Livingston.
Lake Tahoe (707), Bijou.
Lodi (256), Lodi.
Lakewood (728). Long Beach.
Lomita (644), Lomita.
Lamanda Park (627), Pasadena.
Lompoc (262), Lompoc.
La Mesa (407), Le Mesa.
Long Beach (327), Long Beach.
Lancaster (437), Lancaster.
Lorenzo (709), San Lorenzo. .
Landmark (253), Esparto.
Los Altos (712), Palo Alto.
La Puente (466), La Puente.
Los Angeles (42), Los Angeles.
Larchmo!lt (61~). Los Angeles.
Los Banos (312), Los Banos.
La Parfa1te Umon (17), San Francisco. Los Cerritos (674), Long Beach.
Las Palmas (366), Fresno.
Los Gatos (292). Los Gatos.
Lassen (149), Susanville.
Loyalton (359), Loyalton
Laurel (245). Willows.
Loyalty (529). Los Angeies.
Lawndale (753), Hawthorne.
Luther Burbank (752), Santa Rosa.
Lebanon (495), San Francisco.
Lynwood (600) Lynwood
Leland Stanford (784), Chico.
'
·

M
Madera (280), Madera.
Mission Bay (771), San Diego.
Madison (23), Grass Valley.
Mizpah (378), Los Angeles.
Magnolia (242), Santa Barbara.
Modesto (675), Modesto.
Magnolia Park ~715), Burbank.
Mojave (783), Mojave.
Malta (661). Los Angeles.
Molino (150). Tehama.
Manchester (585). Los Angeles.
Moneta (405). Los Angeles.
Maricopa (434). Maricopa.
Monrovia (308), Monrovia.
Marin (191). San Rafael.
Montebello (451), Montebello.
Mariposa (24), Mariposa.
Monterey (217), Monterey.
Martinez (41), Martinez.
Monte Vista (655), Long Beach.
Maui (472). Maui, Kahului, T. H.
Morgan Hill (463). Morgan Hill
Maxwell (288), Maxwell.
Morningside Park (742). Inglewood.
Mccloud (430), Mccloud.
Morning Star (68), Stockton.
McKinley (347), Richmond.
Mosaic (218), Livermore.
Melrose (602). Los Angeles.
Mother Colony (750). Anaheim.
Menlo Park (651). Menlo Park.
Mountain Shade (18). Downieville.
Menorah (623), Los Angeles.
Mountain View (194).
Mendocino (179), Mendocino.
Mountain View.
Merced (749), Merced.
Mount Davidson (481). San Francisco.
Meridian (667), Glendale.
Mount Diablo (448). Concor~
Metropolitan (646), Los Angeles.
Mount Jackson (295). Guemeville.
Meudell (695) Bakersfield
Mount Moriah (44), San Francisco.
Midway (426), Taft.
Mount Olive (506), Los An1eles.
Military Service (570). San Francisco. Mount Oso (460), Tracy.
Mill Valley (356), Mill Valley.
Mount Shasta (281). Anderson.
Mineral King (720), Visalia.
Mount Vernon (517), San Francisco.
Mission (169), San Francisco.

514

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued

N
Natoma (64), Folsom.
Naval (87), Vallejo.
Needles (326) Needles.
Neptune (619), Long B~ach.
Nevada (13), Nevada City.
Nicolaus (129), Wheatland. .
Normal Heights (632),. San Diego.
North Butte (230), Gndley.

North East (266) , Fort Bidwell.
North Hollywood (542),
North Hollywood
. .
Northern Light (190), Millville.
North Star (91), Fort Jones.
Northern California Research
Lodge, San Francisco.
Norwalk (315), Norwalk.

0
Oasis of Mara (735),
Twentynine Palms.
Oakdale (275), Oakdale.
Oak Grove (215), Alameda.
Oakland (188), Oakland.
Oak Plains (789), Sacramento.
Oakwood (743), La Cresce~ta.
Occidental (22), San Francisco.
Ocean Park (369), OceaD; Park.
Oceanside (381), Oceanside.
Oildale (688), Bakersfield.
Ojai (663), Ojai.
Pacific (136), San Franc~sco.
Pacific Grove (331), P~cific Grove.
Pajaro (110), Watsonville.
Palestine (351), Los Angele~.
Palisades (637), Santa Monica.
Palmdale (769), Palmdale.
.
Palm Springs (693), Palm Sprmgs.
Palms (512), Los Angeles.
Palo Alto (346), Palo Alto.
Palos Verdes (389). Long Beach.
Paramount (785), Hollydale.
Park (449), San Francisco.
Park Boulevard (568), Oa~and.
Parnassus (388), San Francisco.
Pasadena (272), Pasadena.
Paso Robles (286), Paso Robles.
Patterson (488), Patterson. .
Paul Revere (462), San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor (598), Honolulu, T. H.
Peninsula (745), San Mateo.
Penrhyn (258), Penryn.
Pentalpha (202), Los Angeles.

Olive Branch (269), Tulare.
Olivet (205), Cornin~.
Ontario (301), Ontano.
Ophir (33), Murphys.
Opportunity (740), Hawthorne.
Orange Grove (293), OraD;ge.
Oriental (144), S!J-n Francisco.
Orinda (704). Ormda.
Orland (265), Or~and.
Orosi (383), Orosi. .
Oroville (103), Oroville.
Oxnard (341), Oxnard.

p
Perris (411), Perris.
Petaluma (180), Petaluma. .
Phoenix (178), San Bernardmo.
Piedmont (521), Piedmont.
Pinnacle (777), Soledad.
Pinole (353), Hercules.
Pittsburg (429), ~ittsburg.
Plumas (60), Qumcy.
Plymouth (560), Oakland.
Pohona (689), Yosemite Valley.
Poinsettia (633), Ventura.
Point (503), Richmond.
Point Firmin (558), San ~edro.
Point Loma (620), San Diego.
Polaris (730), No. Sacramento.
Pomona (246), Pomona.
Ponderosa (700), Fresno..
Porterville (303), Portervµie .
Presidio (354), San Francisco.
Progressive (578), Los Angeles.
Provident (609), SacrameD;to.
Pyramid (562), San Francisco.

Q
Queen Beach (540), Long Beach.

R

Reedley (304), Reedley.
Ramona (457), Mont~rey Park.
Reseda (666), Reseda.
Reading (254), Reddmg.
Rialto (582), Rialto .
Redlands (300), Redlands.
Richmond (375), s.an ~nclsco.
R. E. Dolly (616), Seal Beach.
Rio Linda (786), Rio Linda.
Redondo (328), Redondo Beach..
Rio
Vista (208), Rio Vista.
Redwood City (168), Redwood C1~y.
Redwood Empire (683), Garberville.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES-Continued
Rim of the World (711),
Lake Arrowhead.
Rising Light (397), Huntington Park.
Riverbank (459), Riverbank .
Riverside (635), Riverside.
Riviera (780), Pacific Palisades.
Rockridge (468), Oakland.

Rolling Hills (781), Lomita·.
Roosevelt (500), San Francisco.
Rosemead (702), Rosemead.
Rose's Bar (89), Smartsville.
Roseville (222), Roseville.
Russian River (181), Windsor.

s
Sacramento (40), Sacramento.
Security (581), Bakersfield.
Saint Elmo (697), Oakland.
Selma (277), Selma.
Saint Helena (93), St. Helena.
Semper Virens (552), Eureka.
Saint John's (725), Walnut Creek.
Sequoia (349), Oakland.
Salinas (204), Salinas.
Service (594), Long Beach.
San Antonio (694), South Gate.
Sierra (788), Bass Lake.
San Benito (211), Hollister.
Sierra Madre (408), Sierra Madre.
San Bernardino (348), San Bernardino. Sierra Valley (184), Sierraville.
San Buenaventma (214), Ventura.
Signal (543), Long Beach.
San Carlos (690), San Carlos.
Silvera.do (782), Napa.
San Clemente (671), San Clemente.
Silver Cord (505), Santa Ana.
San Diego (35), San Diego.
Silver Gate (296), San Diego.
San Dieguito (775), Cardiff-iby ~theSea. Silver Trowel (415), Hollywood.
San Dimas (428), San Dimas.
Silveyville (201), Dixon.
San Fernando (343), San Fernando.
Sincerity (132), Greenville.
San Francisco (360), San Francisco.
Sisson (310), Mount Shasta.
San Gabriel (546), San Gabriel.
Smyrna (532), Ceres.
Sanger (316) , Sanger.
Snow Mountain (271), Stonyford.
San Gorgonio (668), Banning.
Sojourner (507), Duarte.
San Jacinto (338), San Jacinto.
Solano (229), Vallejo.
San Joaquin (19), StocktOIIl.
Soquel (746), Soquel.
San Jose (10), San Jose.
Sotoyome (123), Healdsburg.
San Juan (732), Fair Oaks.
Southern California (278)
San Leandro (74'), San Leandro.
Los Angeles.
'
San Lorenzo Valley (718),
South Gate (320), Los Angeles
Boulder Creek.
Southern California Research
San Marino (685), San Marino.
Lodge, Hollywood.
San M!J-teo (226), San Mateo.
Southland (618), Los Angeles.
San Miguel (285), San Miguel
South Park (563), Los Angeles.
San Pablo (754), San Pablo.
South Pasadena (367),
San Pasqual (452), Pasadena.
South Pasadena.
San Pedro (322), San Pedro.
South San Francisco (212),
San Ramon Valley (724), Danville.
San Francisco.
San Simeon (196), Cambria.
South West (283), National City.
Santa Ana (241), Santa Ana.
Speranza Italiana (219),
Sant-a Barbara (192), Santa Barbara.
San Francisco.
Snta Cruz (38), Santa Cruz.
Standard (440), Oakland.
Santa Luc~a (302), King City.
Stanislaus (206), Modesto.
Santa Mari.a (580), Ramona.
Starr King (344). San Francisco.
Santa Monica (307), Santa Monica.
Stockton (498), Stockton
Santa Paula (291), Santa Paula.
Suisun (55), Suisun.
·
Santa Rosa (57), Santa Rosa.
Summit (112), Knights Ferry.
Santa Ynez ¥alley (701), Solvang.
Sun Garden (530), Fresno.
Schofield (443), Wahiawa, Hawaii.
Sunnyside (577), Los Angeles
Seafaring (708), Newport Beach.
Sunnyvale (511), Cupertino. ·
Seal Rock (536), San Francisco.
Sunrise (522), Los Angeles.
Seaport (550), San Francisco.
Sunset (352), Los Angeles.
Sear~hlight (567), Long Beach.
Surprise Valley (235), Cedarville.
Seaside (504), •L ong Beach.
S. W. Hackett (574), San Diego.

515

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICA L UST OF LODGES-Contin ued

T
Table Mountain (124), Paradise.
Taft (516), Taft.
Tehachapi (313), Tehachapi.
Tehama (3), Sacramento.
Tejon (773), Bakersfield.
Temescal (314), Corom1.
Temblor (477), Fellows.
Temple (14), Sonoma.
Temple City (612), Temple City.
Texas (46), San Juan Bautista.
The Gardens (621), Los Angeles.
Thousand Oaks (478), Berkeley.
Three Pillars (613), Sacramento.
Torrance (447), Torrance.

Travelers (692), Sacramento.
Traver (294), Kingsburg.
Triangle (548), Venice.
Trinity (27), Weaverville.
Trona (684), Trona.
Truckee (200), Truckee.
Truth (628), Los Angeles.
Tujunga (592), Tujunga.
Tuolumne (8), Sonora.
Turlock (395), Turlock.
Tuscan (261), Williams.
Two Rivers (731), Bell.
Tyre (741), Downey.
Tyrian (439), Manteca.

u
Union (58), Sacramento.
Unity (368), Glendale.
University (394), Los Angeles.

Upland (419), Upland.
Utopia (537), Los Angeles.

v
V1acaville (134), Vacaville.
Valle de France (329), Los Angeles.
Vallejo (487), Vallejo.
Valley (135), Linden.
Valley Fovge (587), Los Angeles.
Van Nuys (450), Van Nuys.
Veritas (640), San FrancISco.
Verdugo Hills (727), Glendale.

Vermont Square (515), Los Angeles.
Vesper (84), Red Bluff.
Victorville (634), Victorville.
Victory (474), San Francisco.
Visalia (128), Visalia.
Vista (687), Vista.
Vitruvius (145), Bloomfield.
Volcano (56) , Volcano.

w
Waikiki (774), Honolulu, Hawaii.
Warren G. Harding (579),
North Sacramento.
Wasco (583), Wasco.
Washing.t on (20), Sacramento.
Wayfarer (717), Whittier.
Welcome (255), Lemoore.
West Adams (565), Los Angeles.
Westchester (703), Los Angeles.
West Covina (758), Baldwin Park.
Western Star (2), Shasta.
West Gate (335), Los Angeles.
West Lake (392), Los Angeles.
West Los Angeles (373), Los Angeles.
Westminster (787), Westminster.

Westwood (501), Westwood..
White Pine (555), Weed.
Whittier (323), Whittier.
William D. Stephens (698),
Los Angeles.
William Rhodes Hervey (767),
Los Angeles.
Willits (365), Willits.
Willow Glen. (676), San Jose.
Wilmington (198), Wilmington.
Wilshire (445), Los Angeles.
Winnedumah (287), Bishop.
Woodbridge (131), Woodbridge.
Woodland (156), Woodland.
Woodstock (491), Alameda

y
Yerba Buena (403), Oakland.
Yolo (81), Yolo.
Yorba Linda (469), Yorba Linda.
York (423), South Gate.
Zenith (768), Van Nuys.

Yosemite (99), Merced.
Yount(12),Napa.
Yu~ (726), Yucaipa

z

CORRESPONDENCE REPORT
ANNOUNCEMENT
Reviews of the Proceedings of other Grand
Lodges have appeared quarterly in the "California Freemason," two copies of which have been
sent to each Grand Lodge. This program will be
continued.
The "California Freemason" will be issued quarterly and each issue will carry additional reviews.

.

Hence, they do not appear in these Proceedings.

517

PROCEE DINGS OF THE

518

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFO RNIA

B

INDE X FOR 1958
Page

A
Adams, Charles Albert, P.G.M.

_

Additions and Replacements Reserve

358 378

~~~b~eM~~-:~:~--~-~-f-~~~-~-~~.-:~-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::::::::::::::::::·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::::::::::::::::::: _______

23
151

A~~::~~~~t~:::-j~~~~~~~~~:-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::: !~~
Airplane Steward's Eligibility

__

29

Al~~~~~I~fsz:~-:::r:~:~-~::·::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::: ;~~
Amendments to By-Laws
~;~~dbbyce:~~~~t~:~~~----_-_-_-_-_-_-_:·_-_-_:·.:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-~::.·.:·_·_-_-_-_-_-_·_-_-_-_:·_-_-_:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-__:·_-_-~---_:-_·_

71
::: 239

Anderson, Leo E.

Frontispiece

~[q§:~'.~;~;~~~;~;.;~: _: ~~ ;: _ ::::~~:_ :~ :::::~··

~cl~atl~~;-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ..---:::::::::::::::::::____

li!i

Recommendations -------------------------------------------------··················
Receptions and Breakfasts--------------------·-------------------------------------------------------------·-:::: 37
34
Special Comm unications 1957-1958 .. ------------------------------------------------------------------39

~=:a~r~~!~~i= ~-~-~-~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 321

An~~!~~:~;;~~

::=: ::==~ ~==:=:: =~ =:~: ==: ~- m

A1a'endix1

-------------------------------------------------------------------------

111

A:fifE~~----i~~~----;~~~i-~;~~::·::-:-::_:_:_:_:.::-:::·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 472
Application for Degrees

i~:~~~~f~

-__ ~~--::- : : : _ --:~:__ :: :: : :Jl
-------------------------------

49

Ape:r::£J:~~:.~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::. 3i~

At~ ~ :-:-.-.-_-_._-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_: : : -.-_-_-_-_._-_._-_-_-_-_-_-_._._-_: : :·_-_: : : ·_-_-_-_-.-_-_-_-_-_._._._-_-_-_._._-_-_-_-_._-_._._._._._._._-_._-_-_-_._-_._-_-_-_-_-_._-_._._._-_._._:-.: : : : : s: ii~
Attendance of Lodge Officers

------- 29
r~~~l~e~s~~~-~~-·--~?.::-_·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:·.:::::·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:·_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_-_:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ------------____________________ 285

Aw~~~~J:

_:: ~_.=.=.:~

: ; .:

519

~ ;=:=~ :- ~~ m

Page
Biography, Leo E. Anderson.. ....... ---·-·····-········--·--·--······································
················
1
Board of Control
Repo!1t oL ... -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·-------------------- 196
Members Listed --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 199
Boards of Relief
Resolllltion Presented..... ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------54, 57
Legislation --------------------------------------------·············------------------------------------------------------- 295
Brigham Scholarship Fund A udit... .............. ------------------------------------------------------361, 365
Brougher, James Whitcomb, Jr.
Devotional Service by Grand Ohaplain ...... --------------------·---------------------------------------9
Budget
Recommenda:tion of Grand Treasur er.. ---------------------·-·····--------------------------------------- 104
Legislation ---------·-----------------------------------·------------------------------------------------------------------- 289
Report of Committee on Finance..........................
............... --------------------------------------- 316
3

By~±r:n~~;
~i:~;~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Report of Committee..................................................•.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ;:
...................... ________________________ 239

c

CaHfornia Freemason
Auditor's Report ........................ ------·-···-····································------------------------------- 334
Distribution -----------------------------------------------------···································
······-················· 53
Grand Master's Reference..................... ------------·····················-----------------------·---------- 23
Legislation --------------··-----------------------------------------------···--------------------------------·-------------- 292
Proclamation ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------·------------------ 41
Report of Correspondence Commilltee......................... _..........................
......... __________ 208
Resolution Presented.... --------------------------------·------------------------------------------------------------ 53
California Masonic Memorial Temple

~:f~~[!o~::::::::::::::::·.::::·.::::·.:·.:·.-.:~_::·.::·.-_::::~:-_·_:::·.::·.:·.-_:·_-_-_::·_·_·_-_:::·_-_::::::·.:::::::::·.:::·_·_:::·.:·.::::22: 3~}

Merit Rolls.. ------------------------------------------·-···-····----------------------------------------------·-----167, 172
Officers and Trustees......... ------------·--------------------·-------------------------------------- 419
Open Book.......................................-------········
.....................•...........................................
.......... 166

S?:=~gJrP.'HM:-si~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::~::::::::::::::::::: f~g

Trustees Appointed -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 322
Trustees Report ......------------····································--------------------------------------------------------------- 154
Calling Up Proceclu:res...... -------------·-··································-·············-·-······················---- 302
Candy and Cookie Sales
G.M. Decision No. 6..........-------··········---------------------·-----------------------------------------·-··· 25
Legislation --------------------------------·································-·················-----------········----------- 286
Card Parties and Bazaars
G.M. Decision No. 14.......................................................................................
......... 26
Legislation --------------·····-------------------····················----------···-··········-··········-···········-------- 286
Cemeteries (Masonic)
Report of Committee......................... ----······-·····························------------------------------- 251
G.M. Reference .................. --------------·················-····················-------------Legislation ---------------------------------------------------------·············-·------------·····-···········--------· 22
··············-········ 286
Centennials Observed....... ------·----------·········-······················································---------- 39
Certification ······--·------·-····························-·······---------···-····-·······------------------------------· 4
Changes of Meeting Place

~:: ~r ¥;~E~ws;cr~t"t~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ?~

Charges, Notice of
Resolution Presented ·····················-····························································-------------· 48
Legislation ···························-··-·····················································--------------------------- 301
No. 33........-------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 30
Legislation ·········································--------------------------·-······················
····················· 286

ChG~ ~~~~

520

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

521

Page

Oharter MemberShi Limitation

Page

~.

3't-····-··················-············-····-··-········-··········-········-··-····-··- 30
G.M. Decision
Legislation ·····-··-····-··-····-································-········-··························--··--······· 285
Charters
Report of Commi11tee•..•.-··-··--·······---····-··-···-········-·-··-··-··-···········-····-··· 199
Granted ·····································-········-····························-········-························-··· 200
Charts, Use of
Resolution Presented.....-········-··-········-····-····-········-··-··-·····--······--············-··· 58
Resolution Witlbdrawn ·········-····-······-····-····-··-········-····-········-·······-··-········-··- 16
Christmas and Entertainment Reserve
Audit ·-········-········-··-········-····-··-··············-········-··-····-··········-·······-···-····..3S8, 379
Contributions ·for Covim---·-····-··-····-··-····-······-····---·----·······-··-··-··-··· 402
Contributions for Decoto..·-·-·-··················-··--··-····-··-····-··················-··-······-··· 396
Ctubs Organized to Pcirm Ledges
G.M. Decision No. 23••••••••·-··--······--··-····························-···-··-··-········-··-··-··· 28
Legislation ·····-············-····-············-····-··-··············-····························--··-··········· 279
~~:s~f ~~~jttee Repolt..·--··-..•·- ..- ....- .....· •-·•-•m_ .._ .. __ •mm•-·•-•• 259

Action

On~~· J~·--··-··--·-·-··-··--··-····-·····-·-··-···-······-······-········-··· 280
No. 4..

---·--·-··-·----·-·---·-·--·-----·--· 286

fl~ ~~-8:::::~::::::::::~==:=:~::::::~:::=:::::::::-::::::::::::::: ~~

No. 9, 10. 1,i-:Tf;;ri~---··-··-·-·····--·--·······-··-····-········-····-·· 291
·-····-······--··-··--··-··--··-·--··-·······-······-···- 281
No. li ao:l 15

G.M. i:>ecision No. 16•..· -·-····-··-········-··-··········-·······-··-···-··-····- ········--··-··· 27
Legislation ·····-········-············-····························-····-··········--······-··-··-··········--··· 282
Code Commission
Report of Commiittee.............. ·-··················-································-······················-··· 340
Reaolutlan Presented....·-··-····-··················-··········································--··--··-····· 47
Legislation ·-··-····-·-····-··-····-··-········-··············-··-··--··-····-··-····-··············-····· 294

~~ttee..·---··-·-·-..··-----·----·-··-·-----·····-·---·--·-··-!·----···-··-····-··- 306
~=
Legislation ·····-··················-············-····-··········-············-··················-····--····-··-··· 288

Commercialism
Report of Canmittee-······-········-···-··-···-········-··-····-········-··-····-··-····-··-····-··· 122
Regulaitiona . Propoaed..·-··-···-·········-········-········-··-···--·--··---········-··--··· 125, 126
Legislation ···········-········-··-················-··--··················-····-············-······················· 289
Committee Appointments
For CcaimUDication......-········-······--····-··-····-··-····-··-····-·········--··-··········-··.. 18
For 1958-59 ····-·····---····-··-··--··-····---····-········-··················-····-··-··--··--··· 412
Committee Reports (See Reports of Committees)
Constituen:t Lodges Listed
Al:pihaheticaJly ·····-··-··································-··-····-··-········-······-··············-··-········· 510

eo~~::~~r&;;<l~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :;~

Constiltution Observance
Grand Master's Proclamation. .....................................·-··················-········-········-··· 46
Report of Committee....·-····························-····························-····················-········· 211
Constitutions of Lodges...•. - .•······-··············-········-··········-········-··-····-··-····-······:·-··· 34
Gooitributions
Ohristmas and Entertaimnent Reaerve..................·-··········-··---··-··--··-····-···396• 402
Endowment Fund..·--··-········----··-····-··-········-···-·······-··-··-··-······-····-···113, 472
Special Re.serves. ...---··-··-·--··--······-····-····-··-········---······-········-······-··· 407
5
Copyright NOtice......·-······-····-····-···-··-····-··-······-·-·-·-····-·--··-·-······--·Correspondence, Committee Repart....--··---···-·······---·-·-·-·--····-··--··.208
Covina Home
Christmas end Enter:tai11111ent Chotrlbution.s.........-····-········-············-················-··· 402

~~~f ~=~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

Special Reserve Oootributlons...-········-····-··-····-············-····-··········-········-········-···407
Credentials, Repol1t of Cammi~---··-··-····-········-········-··-···-·········-··-······-········-··· 215

D
Davis. Elbert W.
106
Report of Grand Lecturer••·-··-····-··-···-··-····-········-·······-·-····-··-·-··--···-··
·
Decisloos of Grand Muter
Reported ·-·-······-··-···--···-··--·-·-··-···-··-·----··-·--··-···-···---·25 -31

Decolo Home

~=~ =i=~=nt ~--

. .- . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . _ _

396

~=:r~e!:::1c.w.b;f~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: M~
Dedication of BubUc Schoo! Bldg:·················-········-··-····-········-············-··············-··· 407
Resolution Presented _
--······-·---··························-··············-············--······-····-··· 50
Legislation
Dedication of Thmpl!! " ..·············-····•..·-··················-····················-····-···········-······ 288
Grand Master's ~

~~~~~~~~~~~~~.:

·-········-··-····-············--··-··-······-········· 472
De Molay, Report of Special Oimaittt
ee.....••...........·-····-········-············-····-············· 206
D evotional Service _ _

'~~~~~~~~~i~~~

Distinguished QJe11t.a

-············-··························-·····-······--······-····· 279

98
~~~Lodge....·-··-········-···-········-··················-··-· .
··--··-····.,.···-···-··-··················-····.:.········--···::.::::::::::::::::::::::: 88
e
0oo.r
.
·
· ·
G.M Dedsioos 7 and 8..: ·
_ ••.,....................·.- ·--·-·--·-···-·-···-··-·'"--····--····· 25
r ~1s1atton

Prizes

~
D ues

·····-·-···-·-·-····-······--··-····-········-··-··-·········-············--···-····-··· 291 ,

..-··-·---···-··-···-··-···-······-··- 65
~~y~~tary-········-··--··--···-·-··-...-·--...-..-·-·-·····-·-·-·····----.........___ ·~·--··- 472
.

522

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

523

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Page

E
Addrea hY-·-··-·-·--------·-···--·-·"·-····-·················-· 93
Earl of Scaibrouigh.
EI Camino Research Lodge
Dispensation Granted.•.---·-····--·--·····-···· ··-···-···-···--·--········ ···-······-- 67
Charter Authorized_____________________________ ·······--·-···-·-····-···-···--··-····---------·----···---·--------· 200
Blected Officers Grand Lodge Since 01"Q0!11zation. April 18, A.L. 5850 ______________________ 496
Eleotion of Officers......... - ..................----······-······-···-······-··-----··--··----·····------------·····-··· 321
Emergent Matters considered.....-···-·-··-···········-··········-··-········-···············-··-············· 61
Endowment Board
Contributions analv:ed--·-··-···-····--····-·-·-·-··-···--·····-········-······-············· 113
ConJtributions tbrc:mgh LodgeL.·-·--··--···-··-··-····-··-··-············-········-··· 472
113
Compmttion of
Report of.. ..........·-····································-··-·························--·····················-······-··--- 109
E~nct Lodges....... ----··········-······················-········-···---······················-····-·····--·······-····· 492

Board.---------·-----·---··---···-·-···--····-···
F

Far West Lodge, Rem.oval of Ban..................·-········-········-····--·-························-··· 232
Fees for Degrees

~iJ~~jby~e~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 4~

Felony Conviction
G.M. Decision No. 3S...•·-······-·······--····-········--·················-········!·····-···········-··· 30
Legislation ·-···-····························----··············-············-················-···········-·-··········· 299
Fiddletov.rn Ceinetery
G. M. Reference·---·····················--···-··--····--···-··········-·····----···········-···-··-··-················ 22
Report of Committee.........·-········-··············-························---·-·------------------------·------ 251

~!~!!~=-=3:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: :r!

First Degree Ohart
Resolution Presented...... -----------------------········------·--·-·-····-------------------------------·--·····-··- 58
Resolution Withdrawn.... --····-······-----········-····--·-····--·········-·------·--········----·--··-·······-·-· 61
Fliillt TnISt Fund Audit ............................................................................................357, 364
Foreign Grand Lodges
Report of Committee.............................................................. --.-····-----··------·-···-·····--·-- 258
List of Recognized Jurisdictions.. .... _........................................................................... 505
Funeral Allowance
Resolution Presented.....---······-··-····-········-····························-········-············-···-··· 61
Legislation -·-···--·················-··········································-····-···············-·--·--·········--·- 294
Funeral Reserve, Audlt......-·-·····-·······-·-··--········-·-·····-··········-·······-··············.358, 379

Oratwa..:...----·-·-·---·-

Grand~-· D~~

·---·-·-··-·-··-·-

··-·-·-···----··----··---········-······-··

R-· ····-··-···-··-··-·-·

··--------····--··-···

128
40

62
Gr d T'"'""'T•
G an. r;r~eport of••·--·-···--··-····-········-- ···-·-····-······--··-··--··- ··-··-··· 100
Gr~etiaga R v ;;t······-········-··-··---··----···-··-··-··-··--·······-······· 302
Grie~:rF'1 ~ttee...- ....- .....·-··-·-·----·-···--·-----· ·-·-·------271, 312
Und !Udit.•.·-··················-··-·····-·-····-··················-········-·······357, 364
ross

H
Addreu hY---·-···-··-·--··---··--·-··-·--·-·-·-··-·- 98
re~ !fu;.ard ~
f ··-····-····-········-············-··-·--··-······-··-····-········-··-··-········ 8
~':?Sita=o Conmilttee-····-············-········-····-···········--·-··-···-················-··· 202

H "st.<Yr1c Rible

::~~~~:~~==-=~~:~:~~=_::~-~~-~~:~:~=:::~~:~~:~=-~~~~:::~~i: m
~~e~~~-~~:~. Re:~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

~~s.

I
ofii·····-·-········-···········-··-·--············································--·················-···· 502

Lr

lnstitu~i:nof Lod :-s..····-······················-··············-········--···················-··········--·-····-· 322

~eport 1~~ ~ry·-······----···-····-·······--···-············-·····················--········--····-·· 65

Inve~at~ ~edure . ·········-········-·········-····-········-···················---·-····---···--··---·-··· 36

t~~ecision 21 ..·-··················--··························-·······---····-···································-···
G

28

-················--··-····-·········-··--····-······-··-··-··········· 281
lf De~~sk;·Nb··9--······
. ·····-··-··················-··············-········-·························-··············· 26

~tSlati

lnvestmen~f p;;;i, ----······-··--·······-·········-···-·····--··-······-···-·······-··········· 281

-·-····--··---- ·-·---··-·--··· ···· 21
G.~. Decbion 21
I Leg1slatiR ·····---~---·-··--·········------········-········-··-··-··-········--·················-··· 282
Coamiittee....·-··-··············-········-··················-················-··-··· 190
nvesmnent, eport

J

~:Jli!resen~t;;([··-········-·-····-······---·····--········-····-··-····-··--······-···-···-······· 153

G
Garay, General Fidel Cristino. .Address by..·-·····--········-··-················-·············-······· 98
General )\ppendix.....•...•.............--··-·················--·····-··················-·················-··········· 411
General Henry H. Amo1d Lodge No. 791

lurisprud~:e. Repo.t-;f"~--;;:-·---···..-·-···-···--·..·-···-···--··········-···········

40
··-··-·······-·······-······-- ·············279, 292, 312

g:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~.:·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: J~

Lawler, 01Ca', P.G.M.

~~;::t:::::::::::::~.------~---------~-----~----.-:.-.:~.---.:~.-.-.-_-_-_-_-_:::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 28~

Lec~rseic:Uon 202

Gtfta Pttsented to Grand Lodge....·-········-··-····-··-··················-····-·····--··············-··· 97
Granada Hilla Lodge No. 790
Grand Olaplain
Devotional Service..... ______________ ........-················--······-·······-······-····-·-··---··-·-·---····--··

Page

Grand Master (See Andermn. Leo E.)
Grand
Grand Representativ 21.--.1-ted.

9

~ i:i~~el\~L.~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: jgg

···-···-·····-··· 25
GrG.A~~~~---· ·-·················--·············-····-··············-········-······---··--··-··-······-·-············- 286

Legislation ·····--····--············-········-····-········-····················
Grand Lodges Represented. .............-·-··-------·......- ...-·········----·--·-·····--·-· ....... .88, 303

L

G. M. Refumce..-.~-·----·----·-·-------··- 23
185
-·-·
Tribute ---··

·

·------·-·-

~e:illlted ···-····-----·-·--······-··----·······--····-·-·-····-····················-········-··· 47

Ame!vne~~s;;tk;2oT·······-·-·-····---···-·-······--·--··········-···· 29-t
Pre~ed ···--············-···-··················-·······--········-·····-·····-············-··········· 53
Am~dm~oi"~·223·······-····-············-····-····························-···········-···-·- 292

r~wi::;·:::::::::·:.:·::.:·.::::::·.::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2g~

524

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Page
Amendment of Section 332.1
G.M. Decision No. 23--···-·······--·-·-··-·--········-··-··---·-·-······---···-·-·• 28
···-··---··--·-····-··--··········-··· 279
Legislationof········-···-············-····-·······--······Sedloo 332.2
Amendment
G.M. Recommmdatton...--...........................- ..........._ ..._________ ......... _..........-- 24
Legislation ·····-··················-······················-····-··-··············-··················-······-··- 279
Amendment of Section 401
G,M. Decisions 17, 18...................................-·················-·---···-·-········-21• 297, 298
Legislation ·········-····-··················-········-································-········-····-············· 280
Amendment of Section 403
G.M. Decision No. 21 ....·-····················--····························-················-··············· 28
Legislation ···············-········-············-··--··············-········-······-····-········· ·····-········· 282
AlmeOOmeot of Section 517-s
Legislation ·····-······················-··································--······-······················-····-··· 282
Amendment of Section 527
Presented ·····-············-··································-············-····--········-·············--·········· 49
Witlhdrawn ·····-··················-··········································--···········--················--·-·-- 61
G.M. Decision No. 22..................................·-········-········-··-··············-········-·····- 28
Legislation ·····-····························································-····························-······-··· 283
Amendment of Section 681-b
Presented ···--··-·····-·-···-··················-············-··············-········-····················-··· 47
Legislation ·········-··--····················-············-··············-··········································· 300
Amendment of Section 692.4
Presented ·····-········-········-··················-··-········-····-········-··········.. ········-············· 48
Legislalt:lon ·····-········-····························-············-········-··············-··················-··· 280
Amendme111t of Section 7<11
Presented ·····-········-········-··· ·····························-····-············································· 48
Legislation ·········--··-··-····-····-········-·-··-····-········-···-··-···-······-~---···-··· 301
Amendment of Section 732
Preeeated ···-····-··-····-········-··············-··-········-···················-·············-··-···-·· 49
Withdrawn ···--·····-·-········-·······--···············-············-··-······-··--·····-···-··-··· 61
Boards of Relief
Red&tloo Presented.... _ ................................................-··-······---···--······--·-... .54, 57
Legislation ···················-··················-························-········-························-······· 295
Calilomia Freemason
Resolution Presented...•.-··-··················-·-····-···-············-·· ·-···-····-········-······· 53
Legislation ·····-··················-····-··-········-··················-··················-··-··-··············· 292
Cemeteries (Masonic)
Committee Recom.mendations.. .............. _............................- ................-................. 251
Co~i~:i~ndld~t~·················-········-········-························-················-··········-··· 286
G ..M. Decision No. 16....·-··-····-············-····-······················-··················-········-··· 27
Legislation ·····-········-········-························-····-··················································· 282
Dedication of Public &:bool Buildings
Resolution Presented. ..••-········-············-····-··················-··-····-·······-·············-··· 50
Legislaition ·····························-········-······························-······-··-··-····················· 288
First Degree ClJart
Resolution Presented.•••·-······-·········-········-········-········-········-··················-······· 58
Resolution Withdrawn. ..............- ..······-········-······················-········-········-··········· 61

Li~~~~".".°.~·-·······-········-····-···-········-········-··-····-········-··············-··· 22

Legislatlon --·--·······-···-····-·······-·······-·····················-··-····-··········-····-····-··· 287
Public Schools Fund
Resolution Presented ·······-····························-····························--··················-··· 60
Legislation .............................................................................................................. 296
Past Masters' Aprons
Resolution Presented. ...·-············-····-········-·················-···· ······-· ..·················--· 58
Legislation .........:........................................................................................1 •••••••• -... 311
Pension Plan
Resolution Presented ·······-····························-····························--············-····-··· 60
Legislation ·······-··················································-··········-··········-························· 61

525
Page

Perambulation Ritual

~ution Presented···-········-·················-···················-······························-··-··· 59
Tiler, A::~·-;;,---··-·····-··--·-····--··-····-··-····-····----··-···-····-·-···-- 311
GM. Dedlkln ~ 29••••·-··-··--··--··-···-·-··-··---·-···· ---········-···-··· 29

w~~~;;;;~;:::~;;~;;;:~;;;;;~;~ ~

Wake Island Jurisdiction
~· Decision No. 10...............- ..- ..················-························-······-··········-··-·· 26
r.e1~1:d -wg;·N;;:·1s4-············-····-········-············-····-··················-····-··-··· 281

f

g~sai~~d ···············-··-·············-··--····--··········-·········--··--··-······-··-··· 65

=~s~~:i.::.~.~;.;.~.::~.:-.:·;;::::;;;::::=~~~;·;~·:··;·: ~
Grand Secretary's Repont of-···-········-·-··-··--··-··········---·---···-·········-·-- 70

~~s~f~·t:.;f-g;~-~::.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~?~

~liabetical I.ul.---····-·········-·-·---····-········-··-····-··-··-······-··················-:- 510

J?.:~~~~~~~·~1~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~-~~ j

:::•=.::::=.~:-::.:::::~::::.~~== ~
!~?.:~~::~::•=.::::-::.~
Funds-~~es
ee.

Lodge

············································-····················• 232

L~;=:~~;;~:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: J~

~§~~~~~~~~~=~~~--~~~~t~~~E~ i
Masonic Oubhouses

M

~ecial G:munittee Report..·---·····-·······-··-········-····-··-········-···················•··.259, 287
de'Tge8~~ubhouse, Re~ of Trustees..............·-····································-··-··· 261

B

M

T~s~ei Listed:~:-~-----~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::::::::.. ~~

M=~ H~~·

eport of Commilttee OO..--'···········-············-··-············-················· 202

~~~~~~t~r~~~~1--~-~~~~~~~~=: mm

~!~s z:~~:r~.~~-~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

526

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GR.AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Page
Masonic Homes Endowment Board
Audit ·······--··-··-·· ················-· ···-·············· ·················· -····-········-··· ············ ............ 360
Contribution s tlhrough ~es. ....... ·-························-············-····-···················113, 472
Honor Roll ·-···--·-·-··· ---····-······ ······-·····-·· ···--····-····· ···········-··· ·····-··-··· 116
Members llDd OficeTa, 1956-59••·-····-··················-··-····-············-····-····················· 417
Memorials ····------· ···------- --····-··-· --··-··---· ·-····-·-··· ··----·· 115
Proclamatioa. of Gland Master•....•.••.....•.....•.·-··············- ·······-···-····- ········-··-·····
·· 44
Report of
109
Tenns of Membera.....
-··--·-··--- ···-··-··-··· ···-···-····· ·-····-- 113
T estameotary
114
Masonk: Service Board
Resolution Preseoted -···········-··-·-··············-············--··-···-··-··-··········-········..54-57
Legislation ···--··-·-·-·· ·-··--·-··-··· ···-········-·· -···-········-· ·-············· ·········-··· 295
Ma.sonic Trial Procedures (See Tria1 Procedures)
McQueen, Donald Demian, Address
98
MeetJng Place--Oha nges listed by Grand Seadary........·-··-···-····-··················-··· 62
Members Contribution s by Lodges......-·······-···-··- ········--··-··· ·-·······--··--· ·-··---·-··- 472
Memben'hlp
Analysis by Grand~-··············-··················-········-··-····-············-·············· 62
Represented at Dedicatl00---.-···-····················-··--·--·-··----·-·--···-·--· 303
Tabulated by Lodges.••-·-··--·-·······················-·········-·-····-············-····-········--··· 472
Memorials · · · · · · · - - - - - - - - ·
·-----·-·- --··-····-- ····· 115
Memorial Service ·····--·-····-··· ·····-······-···· -····-·····-····· ·-·--············ ·················· ······· 218
Memorial Temple .(See Califomla Masonic Memorial Temple)

Boanl..----·---·-----····-·-·····--····-·····-····-·-········-··-··-···
Glfta.---······-···-····-········································-·······-·······-··--··-···
by-··---··--···---····-·····-·-··-··--·············

=

M.erltRal
DlltrkD LIDd..._·---··-······· ···--···-···- ···-----···- ·····---·--- ·--··----·-- - 168

~::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=:::: 1~~

Message cif Grand Ma.st.er--·-····-·-··------····-······-------······-·-····--········-··-··-·····

. . .--..----·. .---.. _. . . _. _.______________________.

Mi~~p~~.t~rc:'Uee

19
215

Tabulation of Payments....·-··················-··-····················--········---··········-····-··········· 420

M~.::ur
:: ~~---··-····----··-·····. .-·· --·---··-· -----·· · --·-· · · · -· ---·· · · ·-· · · · 65
Charter Aulhorized ·····-······---··

······-········-······-·········-·-··-········--·······-····-····-····· 200

Masonic Golf Tournamen ts
G.M. Decision No.
25
LegiSlatlon ············- -·-··--··-·· -····-···--· ···-··------ -----·--···· ··-······· 286
Messages of Gireetings and Claogratu'laltloo.•....•••....••----····--··-·· ··-·······--·-·· ··---····· 302

3-·······-···-----······--·-········-····-··-···--·-·-·--·--··-·······--

M~M~~e~
~~~~ ~~---··-········---······--·······-···-·-·-··-··-·-··--··-·--·-······-··· 29
Legislation

···-·····-·-····- ········-··------ -········-········ ················-· ···-·············· ··············· 299

Moral Offenaes

Resolution Presented·······-··-····-··-········-····-········-··-·····--·-····-········-········-·······-- 47
Legislation ·····-········-·- ···-··-········· ···----···-···· -····-·········· ·-··-···-····-·· --··········· 300
Mutual Aid Associations, Committee Repcrt. •.•·-···--···-······--·········--···-······················· 217

N
Necrology, Report of Committee•.·-·-·-·--·· -·-······-· -···-······· -·-···--··· 218
New~

a...a Authorized..---·--·--·--·--·--·--·----·-·-·-·---···-···· 200

Constituted ··--·---·· -·--·-····· ··---··-··· ······----- ·-·--·---· ·-····· 34
OispensatiJOns
65
Instituted · · · · · - - - - - · - - · - - - -·---- ·..36 • 65
Notice of Chga
Resolution Plle-te<l ......- ...-----·- ·------ -·...... - · - · - - - · - 48
Legislation -···-·--·-····· ················ ·········--···· ··-·-····-····· -·--·······-··- -····--·-- 301

Granted.-···-···-··---··-··············-··-·--···-··--·-·-··--··--·······-

0

527
Page

o~i!I!:J:
~.;;;~-~~---·················-············-························································· 68
Charter Authorized. ..............
--·-··························································-····················· 201

o=~n:f ~958-59..............·-····-································-······························· 321

Attending from othtt Jurisdictions...................-····-········-· ·····--····---- --···········-·· 88
ElectionOL .-..
· - · · - - - · · · - · - · - · - · · - - - · · · - - - - - - · 321
Installed for 1953-59•••••_________..........-············-··· ········-·······
-···-··-·-·-··- ··----- 322
Present at Communk:atlaa...·-···-·-······· -········-······ ······-·--··-·· ······-····---· ··--··
7
Since Organizatio n..... -··-··············-··················-············································-········· 496
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles, Report of C-ommittee
....................................... ....... 308
Opening of 109tih Annual Co=unicat ion. ............................ ---··········-·······················
7
Oration by Grand Orator.... ·-······················································································· 128
Order of the Sword of Bunker Hill
G JM . Decision No. 37.·-·········-· ··················· ············-····· ··················· -········ ...··-····· 30
Legisiation ···-···-···-····-············-···················--········-············-································· 285

p
Pardon After Convtction of Felony
G.M. Decision No. 20.•.·-····--·········· ··-········-········-············-·· -·········-······ ·······-··-· 28
Lepis}ation ·····-···---··- ···---····-···· ····-······-··· -····---····-·· --··-········-· ·····-··-··· 298
Past Grand Masters

~m: ~~=~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 49g

Villtorl at Owwnmbtlcn. ..................- ....- ........_........- ...........-............................. 88
Put Muterw' Apana

Resolution Presented ·········-········ -··-····-··-··--- ----··--··-····· ··················- -·······-···-···· 58
Past Masters--N ecrology Report. .................·-····---········ ········-········· ···-····-········ -··· 222
Pay of Members
Report of Committee.............................................--··············· ··-·········-···· ·······-·-··· 215
Tabulation of Pieymenta...•.•••.••.•.•.-········-····························-········-······················-··· 420
Pension Plan

Legi~tion ·····-······································-··················-··························-··················· 311

Resolution Presented........·-····-·--····-···········-·····-······-··········-······--·-··-·-·---··· 60
Legt91atlon ·--·-··-········ ·-···-···-······ ·····-····-····· ·············-··· -····-··-······· ·············· 61
Perambulati on Ritual
Resolution Presented --·····-············-····-··-········-··············-········-········-······--··········· 59
leQ!slation ·····-··-····-··- ·················· -····-··-········ ····-··-····-···· ················-· ···········-··· 311
Per Capita Cost of Hemes ()peratton.....--·----·-···---··---······---····-·---------·---·-------·---- 406
Per Capita Pa~by ~es. ...·-··-············· ···········-······ ······-···············--·········-······· 472
Perine Endowlneot Fund AuCIJt. •••·-··-········-··--··-····--······-··-········-··-····-·-···..357,
Pixley, Melvin A., Oration.................... .... ·-································································· 362
128
Plea of Guilty, Procedure
Resolution Presented. ............................................ -................................................... 48
Legislation ·························-············-··············-········-······································-······· 280
Policy and General Purposes Committee,
Report of... ......................................... 286, 292
Poritratts of Past Grand Masters
Recommendation of Temple Trustees. ....................................................................... 176
Leqlslation ------··-·-··- ··-------···-· ··--··----····- -·····-··--····· --·····----···- · ,,,..,.,,••.• 290

PG~:~~ S--··-··············-············-····-······-···-·--..2....-~~--- ··· 25

Leqislation ····-·········-··················-·····································-······--···········--· ·············· 293
Proclamatio ns
California Freemason.... ·-············-··· ·········································································· 41
Constitution Observance Month........................................................................... -... 46
Masonic Homes Endowment Month... ········-····························- ······························· 44
Public Schools Week. ............................................ -········-········································· 43
Royal Order of Caritas. ...................................... -························-··-··-···············42, 45
Public Schools
Grand Master Refumce.........................................- - · - · · - - · - - - - 32

528

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

529

Page

Page

Proclamation by Grand Master..·-··-·-·-·······-····--···· ···--····-··-··--··-··········· 43
G.M. Decision No. 36--·--·················-··--· --··--·····-···········-········ ··-············-·- 30

Taxation ·····-··················· ·············-·············································-·-··········· -······-··· 307
Trial Procedures. ... -----····--·-·············--···--·····························-··-··········-····-·············-··· 250
Visual Aids ... _............................................................................................................. 265
Repar¢s of Officers
Grand Chaplain__,Devotional Ser.vice.........................-·················-······················· 9
Grand Lecturer ·········-········-··············-································-········-····-··················· 106
Grand Master.............................................................................................................. 19
Grand Orator.......................................................-································-·· ········-··-··· 128

~~~~~=~~~~~~~:?.~~;n

Paramount~ No. 785

g~:~o~:~e~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~ 2~
R

Receptions and Breakfasts Repcrted.·-·-····-············-············-············--·-···-···-··· 37
~~:da':fo'!isMjJeG~n~ali: ...- ..- ....- ........- ........- ......- ..- ......................... _ 420

~=~n N~~·T::::=:::::::::::::::::::::.-:-.::::.~:.·.~::::::::::.::·.:::::·:.:::::·~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~

No. 2 ·····-················································-············-··································· 291
No. 3 ···················-····-········-········-··················-········-··············-············· 300
No. 4 ·····························-··················-······································-··········-··· 279
No. 5 ·---··-···-···-····-·-···-··-····-·······-········-········-··-··············-··--··· 290
Recognition of PareilJll Grand Lodges

g~~~ ~=::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~:::~::::::::: 1~

R~esof Lodges

.R oster of
Researcli

~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~5

~~~~~~~~:~~I;~I~~~~~~~~~~ ~

Reserve Tor Additions and Replacements

~~ lht;J:::::::::::::.-~·-·::::=:::::::::::.·:::::::::::=::::.-~·::::::::::::~.-.-:::::=:==~~'. !b~

~=ni~~~~;·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~M
0
Re~~ !fc~L~·-·•-•m•···-··-·H-m•m••••··-••m•mH•••····- ...........................-........... 196
~~1;;:~;~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~~

Reserve ·FWMl'Audits.-············································-··········-·········-··-··············-···358, 378
Residence Qualifk:ation
G.M. Decision No. 19..........·-······································-············-········-····-·-···-······· 27
Re~:::~H.;;;;;···-·····················-··-····································-··-···-·-····--····-··-····- 282

~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~

Statistics ·······-········-······················-·······················--·········-························--············· 406
Residents' Deposiits Audit.. ...................................... -····-····-···-··-············-············-357, 366
Resolutions Presented (Also see legislaition) ·····-······················-··············-··-········-··· 47
Retirement Pension Plan
Report of Committee on PfnaDce............................................---················-·-·····-··- 315
Legislation ·····-············-····-········-·· ······-··················-········- ··-··········-············-·-··- 60
Revolving Funds
G.M. Decisions No. 17, 18....•.•.·-··--················-···-·-······--···---··-··.27• 297, 298
Legislation ---·····-····-··-····-···· ·-····················-····· ···-········-··-······--· 280

Charters ·························-········-········-········-········-················································-·· 199

Commercialism ···········--················-······ .. ·---··············-·-······-·-·-··-···········-········-··------·-· 122
Constitution Observance ·························-········-········-························-········-·········· 211

~!t:I~~~~..:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
~~~a~••::::::::::~.·:.·:::::::::::·::::=::::::::::::~:::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::::·:::::=::::::::::~:::::::::::: ~~

Grievances ···---···--········-··-····-············-··················-··········"········-······-····.217, 312
lnvestmeillt ·-·······················-··················-··················-········-··-······-·····················-··· 190
Jurisprudence ·························-······--··-····-········-·······-······-"-~·····---··.279, 292, 312
Lodge .Financing ·······································-·····························-············-··-·········---·-· 232
Masonic Clubhouses

J5{~S~~~:~~=:~~;;~~~~~~~~~~~;;;~:~~~;: ~

Ma.sonic Hoanes Endowment Board..•.·-··-····-··-···-········--·-···········-······-······-··· 109

Masonic Homes Trustees..........................·-····-··················-············-···-···········-····· 136

~::a1IA::1'!':~.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~i

Necrology ·································-········-········-······················································-··: 218
Old Masonic Hall at Los Angeles.................-············-··················-·· ··-··-'·-······-··· 308
Pay of Members·············-······················-························-········-········-·····----··········· 215
Policy and General Purposes....................•.·-········-··············-················-····-·..286• 292
Public SChodls ·········-··················-··················-········-········································-··-···180
Research ·····-········-········-········-········-··················-········-············-··········-··-··-··-·· · 241
Recognition of Foreign Grand Lodges. ...·-············-····-········-··················-······-······· 258
Ritual ·······-········-········-··················-··-······-··-······················-··-····-············-····-··- 311

~=!~~::::=::::::::::::::::·:·:·:·::·:::::·:::·:·::·:~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::=~:==::::::=::::::::==::: ~

Covina ·········-····-············-······· ·······-··················-··-····· ·········-···········-··-····-··-·· ··· 400
Decoto ···············-············-····-- ·-····-······-······················· ·························-············ ··· 388

Ri&~!a~L........._.._.............._........-..··········-·······················-··--······· 66

Charter Authorized ·········-····-··································-······-··············-················--··· 200
Riltual Committee, Report of....·-······································-···························-············· 311
Roll Call-·········-·-···-········-··-········-·········-···-··································-······-··············· 7

RC~%:'°is~~and 13.·-·-············-··-····-··············-··-··-.··--········-········-····· 26

legislation ···············-··-····-······--··················································-····-········-····-··· 281
Proclamations ·--·-···--·-·---·-··-···-· ··-········-·-···-·--···-·· -··············-·;·42, 45

R•Cf.M~~i:i No. lS....·-·····--·-···--···-........- ......._..................._..................-........... 27
Legislation ·····-········-······················ ······································ -··········-··········-··········· 286

Sc:ho1anhlps

s

G.M. Referenc:ea..........- •.-···-··-····-······················-··············--····-·······--······-··· 21

Report of Special Comalittee--·--··-····-········-··--·-······-·--····-··-·-···-····-··--- 270
Scholarship Fund Audit.-········-················································-········-··-············..357, 365

ser;=
CamnKtee
Report

ol~:=:=:::::::=·.::=::::::.:.:~.::::::=:::::::::::::::::::::::=:::: 1M

530

PROCEEDINGS OP THE

GRAND LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Page
Schools of lnstnwtion-Haw ail
·
G.M. Recommendatioo ·······-··-····-············-····-································-··············-····· 24
Legislation ·····-········-········-··················-··-······················································-······· 291
Sessions of Communication
Monday Morning ...................... -------·······-------·---·······················----··········---·············· 7

f:i~ ~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: l~i

~~~~E~~l~~~:~~~~l~1~~~~~~~:~~f: ~

~::ns~~!fi. ~~··················-··················-····-············-········-····-············-··· 62
Grand Treasurer'• Repcwt._.-·-·-···-·-··-···-····-·-····-·················-······-··········· 100
Tribute············································-----·-·······- ----······································-······-······· 179
Sierra Lodge No. 788
Dispensation Granted....................·-································································---········ 68
Charter Authorized. ..........................................................--···------------------------------------ 201
Signs on Temple Buildings
G.M. Decision No. 21·-··············-································-····-··················-··················· 29
Legislation ·····················-··--····························································-························· .301
Silverado Lodge No. 782
Charter Aufuorized. .................................. -·-··························-····················-·············· 200
Social Qubs
•
G.M. Decision No. 22---------·--···-··-··---··--··-····"··-···-··-···-······- 28
Legislation ·····-··················-········-············-····-········-························-··--··············· 283

~~=A;;p~=-~-~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: fil

~~~ E:!~r~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: : : : : :::::::::::::::=::::=::::::::::::::::: ~
4
Sponsoring Entertainment
G.M. ·Decisions No. 24 and 25--··-···············--·-····-·--····-········-···-····-··-·····28• 29

.

Page

f ~~ ~::,~~es, Report of Commatee•..•••..•..••.•...·-··-······-··························-··········· 250
~~:!~eb~f:ee~·-·····-··········-······-··························-··························· 73

T

b "d

A.~-·····-······· ···-··············-··················-····-··-··-··············· 271

Cl

T~~~e: ~f,Ma~=~eHoi:ies . ogy for............·-·············································-············· 220

T.[r,!=~====:==~=====::::::::::::=~==~=:=.=:: H~

Tuilooh, Davfd ~t;i;;··suJogy······-··f;;'··········-··············-······-··-··············-···········357, 360
•
···············-··-······················-······-··-················· 219

u
Unfinished Business from 1957
UnBnished Business for 1959 ···-··················-··········-································-··············· 62

~~k~i:::~:~::~:~::::::::=:::=:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
::::: ::: ill
·-··········-·······················25t,

Specia~ep~°':'"ec1~1H~ • • • and 10..............
287
Recommendation of Committe:';;~-~';ii·········-··········································· 287
SID. ••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• •••••••••••••••••••• 289
Veteran Buttons Presented

i

T
Tabernacles of ltlhe Hol)" Royal Arch Knight Templar Priem
G.M. Decision~ 38.--····-··-··-······-······-······---··············-··········-··········-··········· 31
Legislation ···························-··················-··-································-······-··················· 285
Taxaition. Report of O>mmilitee..••••.•..•••.•.••.••••- .•-·-····-······-····-··-······-··--········-···- 307
Tax Exemption
G.M. reference ···········-··················-··················-··-··-··········-············-··········-······· 32
G.M. Decision No. 36---·--····-··-··--····-··-····---···--··-··············-······-····· 30
Legislation ···-··········-····································-··················-··········-··················-······· 299
Tehachapi Lodge, Jurisdiction of•.·--··-------··- ·-··-·-·----···· ··--··--········· 232

i!~~=:&&;;·:::::::::::::::::::::::: ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1}~
Tiler, Attendance of
G.M. Decision No. 29----··-··-··-··--···---···-·--·~·-···-·--··----·- 29

T~~~!~~o-~.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 28~
Trial Expenses
G.M. De.c:i.sion No. 28----··--·- -----··

·-·-··-··--·- 29

u 111s1at1on ···········-··················-··-··················-···;··········-······-····-·························-- 298

76

::a1Ai~embers -~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3g;

~~!i;!tecibal ~~---..................- .............................. _....................... 265
y

lfttt.......................- .................. _ ............. - ...... _... 304

w

Supplemental Appropriations

~~R~iltt;;·;;·~;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3~

v

~~ ==~ :~·-····-··················-······-··-······-······-························-··················-···

~f

sJ:%:ga~!r;;;iit;;~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~
Auclitons Report ···············-····-············-····-········:..·-··········-······································· 343

531

Wadleigh Fund Aadlt..·-·····················-······························-····························-···357, 363
Waiting Period after Third Degree
p-~ ~:Cision No. 22..·-···············-······-··-······-······-······-··-··············-··-······-··· 28

~=~~: ~:i~~·:::~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2*

Waiver of Jurlldlctlaa, Intentate

p~~~l~i~~-~~-~:::::::::::::::::::::::~-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~§

Wake Island, Jurisdidlon
f~slDeciionslon No. 10......·-··-······-··················-·····-··········-··············-······-··········· 26
~I at
···················-······-· ·····················-······ -··-··············-····•••• •••·······-············· 281
Westminster Lodge No. 787
Graedated ···-··············-··-··· ···-··········-······-·-· ·-··········-··-··-··-··· ···-··· 67
GD~nsaAtlonth
,.......er u oriz ·······-··-··-··-··········-··············-··························-······················· 200

Wheeler, Ira Danford, Eulogy for..........·-······-······-··················-···························- 219
Working Tools presented.··········-··-··-······-··························-··-······················-··-··-· 153

y
Y outlh Organization Sales

G.~. 1Decis.ion No. 6-·-······-······-·-··-···-····-·-·-··-··-·-···········-····-······· -··-- 25
Leg1s atioo ···············-········-············-····-········--··-··-····-··-··············----·-·-~·-······ 286

