Albert Eugene Boyp.ton
Grand ~•. 1925-19~

en ttl ~ meti hJ a ha.H ~l of' ll!~ to ~PY. t0 J.rp
~~ -mt~ 11 ,., ' qut State~
l'r.
~·
' (;'r~ ~t J
WQ'
I
I "t IH ~ ~ }$1,.5~ WR,$ ~tccf .front d'llt
~I Jm
· t #t 1~4, ~ • 1 I' I 11 , t•
I
:M#;h~ itl lOOQ', .ta t~. :a-r
' I II

, ,,

as married to" Mm S~ Oir~ nwf8; a. Vffi1t1'.irt ~ ~it
I
and Pi'~ WOO ha# !\
I lt ~~ indeed.
~
,·~io~ • fr~$I
'j. ~
I I ~~I ftii•11~ ~ th4 ~
liter ~ f~ ~· fQ '
t(j J):t'llet~ 1
:w:Jl$ tnadl! a trustee , • the ,
.11,
, 19()6 ~ 1907, ; t ~~ ~ in Sin U~¢ ~~
1 se¥mteitn Yf!'ar~ be was~~ ·" c1
~$~~ JI·, ·
~ ' tj24;
• 11:8 the' ~ii.It t'1J~' I ttJt- lndU!ltt~
I
wfiiclt ~~ ~ lwtds at tb/t· Pt*nt tmle. I 19(}1
I

St.J~ ~(

J
'
~ SWto.tiat 1 I
®tttpt1'ii!¥.
S«t~ Y~ a*1 ~ anU ~ II ' '.I
was n "
1»'4 tem and R~~ tt«ir ~ci 1
. 1
~ b'iim. 1911 to.· l9l5. He ~as ~ht·
t~~~ l ·,J ' C&ti.furim in ms and 1919; was a
~~ d«t01> in Wt6, illd ~ 1910 a~d tht ~

lit!<'

1 the~~asa~.

h.e was~ hf ~~ $t~ a$ ~Jnmui th.~
e~ on ~ amt . 1 11 ~ m 1920 was

~ tli¢ ~~ ~r& of ~~ l>ir'«ti>t.$ i~ a fetmbut ~ in m•, He was ~i~ of ~- llt,wb~

~ M Cati~ f~ 1922 tc 1924.
&~. illa-...roft~ 1
•
Ot~~
~eiat and M~ dubs of ~ .-.. ' ' is a~
1 ~ ~km. the Ca11~ BIU'
~o ll'ar &sociat~it, Ue la afao a 1

M. j

ALBERT EUGENE BOYNTON
Grand Master
1926

,,

1

'

I •• I

r . ~ Sail

most of his fratm11al ~tivitks have ~n iderttifiod
found tinie •· serve as fresident of .A~u,t '.

Albert Eugene Boynton
Grand Master, 1925.1926

It is given to few 111en in a half ce11tury of life to occupy so large
a space in the political, bushiess and fraternal history of our State as
does Albert Eugene Boynton, our fifty-ninth Grand Master. He was
born at Oroville, California, October 9, 1875, was graduated fro111 the
Union High School of his native city in 1894, and from the law department of the University of Michigan in 1900. In 1901, at Afton, Glenn
County, he was married to Miss Susie Clark Davis, a wonnn of splendid
attainments of mind and person, who has proved to be a helpmeet indeed
and who is loved by her legion of friends. Four children, Robert.
Katherine, Elizabeth and Jeannette, have blessed this union.
Shortly after returning from college to Oroville to practice law,
our Grand Master was made a trnstee of the city of Oroville, serving
during the years 1906 and 1907. He has resided in San Francisco since
January, 1907, where for over seventeen years he was identified with
some of the largest business concerns of California. On July 1, 1924,
he was chosen as the Managing Director of the Industrial Association
of San Francisco, which position he holds at the present time. In 1907
he was elected State Senator for the Sixth Senatorial District, comprising
the counties of Butte, Sutter, Yolo and Yuba, and served continuously
until 1915. He was President pro tern and Republican floor leader of
the California State Senate from 1911 to 1915. He served as preside11t
of the Commonwealth Club of California in 1918 and 1919; was a
Republican Presidential elector in 1916, and in 1920 attended the Chicago
convention of the Republican party as a delegate.
In 1919 he was appointed by Governor Stephens as chairman of the
California Committee on Efficiency and Economy and in 1920 was
appointed a member of the State Board of Prison Directors for a term
of ten years, but resigned in 1924. He was chairman of the Republican
State Central Committee of California from 1922 to 1924.

Senator Boynton is a member of the University, Olympic, Commonwealth, Commercial and Masonic clubs of San Francisco; is a member
of the American Bar Association, the California Bar Association, and
the San Francisco Bar Association. He is also a director of the San
Francisco Y. M. C. A.

ALBl:RT EUG l>:Nf: I~ r\"N'TOX
';mud ~h1"'h"'
l~llt\

While most of his fraternal activities have been identified with
Masonry, he found time to serve as president of Argonaut Parlor, No. 8,

N. S. G. W. of Oroville, and as Noble Grand of Oroville Lodge, No. 59,
I. 0. 0. F. of Oroville. He is a life member of Chico Lodge of Elks,
No. 423.
Brother Boynton became a Master Mason in Oroville Lodge, No. 103,
F. & A. M., of which he is a life member, on May 25, 1897, and served
as Master of that Lodge in 1903.
He joined Washtenaw Chapter, No. 6, Royal Arch Masons, on
December 15, 1899, at Ann Arbor, Michigan, and is now a life member
of Franklin Chapter, No. 20, R. A. M. at Oroville. He received the
Royal and Select Master degrees on February 22, 1900, and the Super
Excellent degree on March 7, 1900, in Union Lodge, No. 11, R. & S. M.
at Ypsilanti, Michigan, but is now a life member of California Council,
No. 2, R. & S. M. of San Francisco.
He received the Order of the Red Cross in Oroville Commandery,
No. 5, K. T., on March 6, 1901, and the Temple and Malta, on April 3,
1901. He was Eminent Commander of Oroville Commandery in 1904,
and served as Grand Warder in 1916, and regularly through the stations
to Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery K. T. of California in
1923.
He is a member and officer of San Francisco bodies of the Scottish
Rite; a member of Islam Temple A. A. 0. N. M. S.; St. Francis Conclave, No. 15, Order of the Red Cross of Constantine, of which he was
Sovereign in 1922; San Francisco Pyramid, No. 1, A. E. 0. S.; and the
Order of the Eastern Star. He is trustee of the University of California
Masonic Club House, at Berkeley, and is one of the twelve directors of
the George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association which
has in charge the construction at Alexandria, Virginia, of the Washington
Memorial Temple.
Brother Boynton was Orator of the Grand Lodge of California,
F. & A. M., in 1919-20, and was elected Junior Grand Warden of the
Grand Lodge in October, 1922, Senior Grand Warden in 1923, and Deputy
Grand Master in 1924, and Grand Master in 1925.

~ratth i&nhge nf aialtfnrttht
I, ]OHN WHICHER G

d

Secretary of the M · W .
°f Free and Accepted' Mran
.
· · · ·Grand Lodge
asons of the Juri d" t"

h ere by certify that the f II
0

.
s tc ton of California, do
owing pages cont ·
transcript of the proceedings of th G
am a tru@ and faithful
at rand Body t 1"t S
A nnua1 Communicationa s eventy-seventh
at the cit
f S
T.uesday, the twelfth d commenced
f 0
y o
an Francisco on
.
ay
o
ctober
A
L
5926
F nday, the fifteenth day f "d
' · ·
! and terminated on
o sa1 month.

Jn &t11timo1111 llfi,rrrof

il ):

I have hereunto appended
official signature and have affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the city of
San Francisco, this twenty-first
day of October, in the year
of Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred and Twenty-six.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M.·. W.·. GRAND LODGE
OF

1J1rrr auh i\rrrptrh 11unnns
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Seventy-seventh Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCING ON

Tuesday, October 12, A. D. 1926, A. L. 5926
AND TERMINATJNG ON

Friday, October 15th, A. D. 1926, A. L 5926

SAN FRANCISCO:

SHANNON ..CONMY PRINTING COMPANY

1926

GRAND LODGE

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

J'rtt uuh i\rrrptth j!u5ou£1
OF THE

For the Year Commencing, October; A. L 5926

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Master................................ --·--·----··--·····-·····-··--George .L. Jones (23)
Nevada City
Deputy Grand Master.----······-··-··-·-···········-·-···· .. -· .. Will H. Fischer (445)
1107 Edison Building, Los Angeles
Senior Grand \Varden ............................................ Gustav A. Hutaff (297)
Dunsmuir
Junior Grand Warden .................................. Chas. M. Wollenberg (344)
Relief Home, San Francisco
Grand Treasurer .................................................... William P. Filmer (260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco
Grand Secretary....................................................................John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Lecturer ........................................................Thomas ]. Baker (58)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Chaplain ............................................ Rev. Herbert P. Shaw (630)
2520 Bush Street, San Francisco
Grand Orator ........................................................ Fletcher A. Cutler (45)
Burlingame
Assistant Grand Secretary.................................... Frank G. Hobbs (531)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal................................................ Henry G. Mathewson (514)
State Building, San Francisco
Grand Standard BeareL...................................... Eugene Benjamin (20)
3517 T Street, Sacramento
Grand Sword Bearer.................................... Frederick L. Arbogast (188)
1121 Washington Street, Oakland
Grand Bible Bearer.._ ......................................... Michael D. Lininger (16)
Auburn
Senior Grand Deacon .................... ,. ........................ Ben G. "Wright (358)
740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles
Junior Grand Deacon ............................................ Edward E. Conn (260)
27 Clay Street, San Francisco
Senior Grand Steward ........................................ Charles C. Pittam ( 443)
Box 2693, Honolulu, T. H.
Junior Grand Steward ................................................Thomas Ingram (23)
Grass Valley
Grand Pursuivant ........................................................ Warren D. Gill (445)
1307 South Harvard Blvd., Los Angeles
Grand OrganisL. ........................................... Robert Fletcher Tilton (22)
135 Kearny Street, San Francisco
Grand Tiler ............................................................ Frank G. Watson (354)
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco

Seventy-seventh Annual Communication
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the jurisdiction of California commenced its seventyi.1•\•c11th Annual Communication in the Masonic Temple, at the
rit.v of San Francisco, on Tuesday, October 12, A. L. 5926, at
10 o'clock a. m.

For half an hour prior to the formal opening, the Grand
R. Fletcher Tilton, entertained the representatives
with an organ recital.
< h-g-anist,

H.oll call disclosed the presence of the following:
Grand Officers

M:. \V.". ALBERT EUGENE BOYNTON ................. ........................ Grand Master
f{.". w:. GEORGE L. ]ONES ............•.........•....................... Veputy Grand li.1aster
!{.". \V.". \Vru, H. FrsCHER ........................................... .Senior Grand rvarden

I{:. \V:. GusTAV A. HuTAFF ...................................... ..Jimior Grand Warden
V. ·. W. •• \VILLI AM P. FtLMER................................................ G rand Treasurer
v.·. w.·.JoHN WmcHER.......................................................... Grand Secretary
v.·. w:. THOUAS J. BAKER......................................................Grand LectHrer
V .·. R. ·.HERBERT P. SHAW ................................................ ....Grand Chaplain
\V:. EzRA \V. DECOTO ............................. ............................. Grand Orator
\v.·. FRANK G. HOBBS .................................... Assistant Grand Secretary
\V. ". HENRY G. MATHEWSON .............................................. Grand Marshal
\V. ·.EUGENE BENJAMIN ...................................... Grand Standard Hearer
\V.". \VILLIAM P. READ.............. . .........................Grand Sword Bew·er
\V. ·.MICHAEL D. LININGER ...................................... Grand Bible Bearer
\V.·. ARTHUR ]OEL ......................................................Senior Grand Deacon
w:. CHARLES 0. HAMILTON ................................ ..Junior Grand Deacon
w:. BEN R. \VALKER. ........................................... Scnior Grand Steward
\V. ·.CHARLES C. PITTAM .................................... ..Junior (;rand Steward
Vi/.·. \V ARREN D. GILL .................................................... Grand Pursui'l.•ant
w.·. R. FLETCHER TILTON .................................................. Grand Organist
W. ·.FRANK G. WATSON .............................................. ............ Grand Tiler
(7)

PHOCEEDINGS OF' THE

8

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9.

Past Grand Masters

w:.
w:.

M.'.
WII.L!AM T. LccAS
M.'.
THOMAS FLINT
M.'. \V.'. 0RRJN S. HENDERSON
M.'. w:. GEORGE M. PERINE
M.'.
DANA R. WELLER
]\f.'.
WILLIAM P. FILMER
M.'. \V.'. JoHN D. :viuRrHEY
M.'.
BENJ. F. BLEDSOE
M.'. \V.'. FRANCIS v. KEESLD!G

w:.
w:.
w:.

w:.

M.'.
WM. RHODES HERVEY
M.'. \V:. BRADFORD WEBSTER
M.'. w:. CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS
M.'. w:. GEORGE F. RODDEN
M.'. w:. SAMUELE. BURKE
M.'. w:. WILLIAM A. SHERMAN
M.'. w:. ARTHUR s. CRITES
M.'. w:. DAVID J. REESE

Distinguished Visitor
Edgar H. Sensenich, Grand Master of Masons in Oregon.

And the officers and representatives of 526 chartered
Lodges and delegates from 22 Lodges under dispensation.
The Grand Master filled the only vacancy by the following
appointment:
Committee on By-Laws: V.'. E.' ·Perry.

And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the
Grand ]\faster, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain and a song
by Brother Frank Muller.
TELEGRAMS

The fallowing telegrams were read :
WASHINGTON, D. C., October 12, 1926.
Albert E. Boynton, Grand Master, San Francisco, Calif. .
'.
Regret exceedingly that necessary absence from California makes
impossible my attendance at Grand Lodge this week. Fr~ter~al greetings to you all, with best wishes for a successful communication.
F. M. ANGELLOTTI.
Los ANGELES, October 12, 1926.
Albert E. Boynton, Grand Master, San Francisco.
The officers and members of the Order of the Eastern Star send
greetings and best wishes for a happy and constructive session.
CORA SPRING HoLLANO, Grand Matron.
PmLADELPHlA, PA., October 12, 1926.
Albert E. Boynton. San Francisco.
Best wishes for happy and harmonious communication. Regret indeed
enforced absence.

SAMUEL E. RODDA, Inspector 74th District.

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER
The Grand Master then read his Annual Message, which
wus hy the Deputy Grand Master referred to the following
('ommittee for segregation and distribution: Robert B. Gaylord,
William T. Lucas, William A. Clark.
llrrlhren of the Grand Lodge:
Our Constitution expressly provides that it shall be the duty of the
(;rnnd Master "to present, at each annual Communication a written
1111•ssage, therein setting forth all his official acts during the year,
1•xhibiting the general condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, and
recommending such legislation as he may deem necessary or expedient
for the welfare of the Craft."
My year as the titular head of this great fraternity in the jurisdiction of one of the largest and most influential Grand Lodges has been
one of mixed pride and humility; pride in that my brethren elevated me
to the exalted station of Grand Master and that they have so cordially
amt whole-heartedly co-operated with me and supported me in my
l'lldeavors to keep the ship of Freemasonry on an even keel; pride in
the evident ambition of my brethren to sustain the reputation of our
venerable Institution for the practical application of our avowed virtues
of brotherly love, relief, and truth; pride in the splendid men who have
in the year been added to the rolls of our membership; pride in the
applied Masonry evidenced in your hearty support of our two visible and
noble monuments to Service, the Masonic Homes, one for the care of
the bodies and the solace of the souls of our aged brethren, their wives,
widows and mothers who, through fickle fortune, have been deprived of
home; and the other for the children who have been bereft of their
natural guardians, in which Home the fraternity is engaged in the Godgiven work of building character and good citizenship. More than even
all this, I am proud of the quiet and unostentatious work of relief conducted by our Lodges and our brethren to those who are in need and
concerning whom the public knows naught. This work is necessarily like
a light hidden under a bushel, but it illustrates the finest characteristics
of Freemasonry and constitutes an enduring monument greater than
marble, not visible except through the eyes of the hearts of those whose
sorrows and distresses hqve been assuaged by the helping hand and the
open purse.
With it all, I have felt humble and inadequate to the work of truly
representing the Masonry of California and the Islands of Hawaii.
"He hath showed thee, 0 man, what is good; and what doth the Lord
require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

10

11

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

with thy God?"
am keenly sensible of my shortcomings and my
inability to carry on the program of visitations established by some of
my predecessors. I have, however, earnestly tried to do justly, to love
mercy, and to walk humbly before God.

General Condition of Masonry
The condition of Masonry within the jurisdiction, in the main, is
good. "We are prospering probably as never before, both in material
resources and in the character of our novitiates. We are living in an
age of marvelous scientific clevelopment and in a land favored above
most of the earth, and Peace and Plenty are smiling at our doors. The
blessings which have been showered upon us should make us rejoice as
with David of old: "The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want. He
maketh me to lie down in green pastures: He restoreth my soul. Surely
goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life; and I will
dwell in the house of the Lord forever.''
Twenty-three Lodges are now working under dispensations issued by
the Grand Master, three of them by my predecessor. I believe that each ·
of the new Lodges fills a real want. Before granting any dispensation,
I made careful inquiry concerning the reason why the Lodge should be
formed, and every reasonable precaution was taken to know that the
formation would redound to the social and moral benefit, not only of
Masonry but of the community in which it was to work as a Lodge.
For I hold to the belief that no group of :VIasons should be permitted to
organize as a Lodge unless it first be shown that thereby they will be
an asset to the social and moral life of the State and to the community
in which it is to exist.
A list of the new Lodges, with dates of dispensations and the names
of the original members, will be shown in the report of the Grand
Secretary.
Politics and Masonry
There seems to be a tendency on the part of some misguided and
over-zealous members of our fraternity-and happily they are few in
number-to lose sight of the scheme of our ancient Institution by trying
to inject partisan politics into the Lodges. A few days prior to the
State primary election of August 31, a printed slip was given general
circulation among the Craft in the city of San Francisco, reading as
follows: "Dear Brother: Enclosed herewith is a list of the members
of the Craft, to be voted on at the coming primaries, prepared and
checked over by
Lodge. This list is authentic,'' and followed by
the signature of the :\faster and the name of his Lodge. It was un-

fortunate in several respects. In the first place, it was a reflection on
the intelligence of the voters to. whom it was sent. Secondly, the list did
nnt contain the names of all the candidates who are members of the
fraternity and it did contain the names of some who are not members.
T11irdly, the Master should have known that no Lodge is justified in
nllt•mpting to advance the interest of any candidate or group of candi1latcs for public office. The Old Charges of 1722 respecting the behavior
0£ Masons have ever been a safe guide, and the injunction that we are
"resolved against all politics, as what never yet conduced to the welfare
n£ the Lodge, nor ever will," is a doctrine which must not be infringed.·
The duty of a Mason to take an intelligent interest in all affairs
relating to the public weal is, of course, obvious. As a citizen, he should
give careful consideration to the fitness of a candidate for public office,
and this consideration should go to the individual worth and ability of
aspirants for public favor. The circular sent out by the Master of the
Lodge was a plain and unmistakable intimation that none but Masons
should be voted for at the primary election, without regard to the competency or moral worth of any candidate, thus rightly, in the minds of
non-Masons, placing the Masonic fraternity in a most unenviable light
as being supporters of men merely because of their affiliation with our
Craft.
At the time of the issuance of this political propaganda, I was
visiting the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands, but a copy was forwarded
to the Deputy Grand Master George L. Jones, at Nevada City, and as
Acting Grand Master he promptly telegraphed to the offending Master,
ordering him to discontinue the distribution of the list of candidates
seeking office.
Another instance of a violation of Masonic ethics was brought to
my attention in July. The secretary of a candidate for one of the
highest offices in the gift of the people sent out a circular letter
addressed "To Masonic Bodies and Affiliated Organizations," extolling
the virtues of his candidate because he was a Mason. \Vhen the offending circular was called to my attention, a letter was at once dispatched
to the Master of the Lodge of which the candidate is a member, reading
in part:

"It is extremely unfortunate that a candidate for public
office should permit matter of the sort to be sent out, for it is
highly un-Masonic and generally results in a reaction against
such candidate. No Mason having regard for the tenets of our
Institution should use or attempt to use his memhership in a
Lodge to further his political ambitions. As Master of the
Lodge in which this candidate is a member, I direct that you
call this matter to the attention of the campaign manager and of

12

PIWCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the brother himself. I assume that a mere intimation of the
impropriety will be sufficient. A Mason has no right to subordinate Masonry to his business or political interests and you should
make this very clear to the two offending brethren."

condition which ought to be determined as intolerable and without the
pale of legitimate Masonic ethics.

It should be apparent to every thinking man that Freemasonry
cannot be legitimately employed as an aid to secure public favor or to
gain the confidence of others for the furtherance of political ambitions.
Every man of our fraternity, before even his petition is received by
the Lodge, is required to subscribe to a solemn declaration that he is
prompted to solicit the privileges of Masonry because of a sincere wish
to be serviceable to his fellow creatures, and promises, if accepted, to
conform to all the ancient usages and regulations of the fraternity. I
sincerely hope and believe that our brethren generally will resent the
~fforts .of over-zealous members to involve the good name of Masonry
m partisan political activities. It is happily true that Masons are in the
main good citizens, that in every community they are at the forefront in
all social, civic and moral endeavors for the advancement of the interests
of all the people. But we must not lose sight of the fact that there are
good men and true in the world who are not members of our Fraternity
and who, notwithstanding, are eminently fit to hold public office.

Flag Day
The 14th day of June, 1927, will mark the one hundred and fiftieth
anniversary of the official recognition of the flag of the United States
and it has been suggested to me that the Masonic fraternity of California'
as a testimonial to their fealty to the government for which the fla~
stands, should celebrate the sesqui-centennial of this glorious symbol by
appropriate public ceremonies. Assurances have been made by the Grand
Commander of Knights Templar that the Templars would be pleased to
c?-operate and participate in any program which may be initiated by
Grand Lodge. 1 submit the proposition for your careful consideration.

Masonic Insurance
Complaints of the activities of life insurance companies that profess
to confine their business to Masons only, seem to be perennial. By reference to the annual messages of Grand Masters for many years back
my brethren will note that the subject has been one of much concern and
~ di~icult problem to satisfactorily solve. The past year's experience
m this respect has been but a repetition of the complaints which have
heretofore been made and I believe that Grand Lodge should at this
Communication take affirmative and definite action to put a stop to a

13

One particularly aggravating case, which is typical, is noted here in
the following copy of a letter I wrote to the president of a life insurance
company doing business in California :
"Complaints have reached me from time to time that agents of
your Association, in their zeal for business, have approached
petitioners for the degrees of Masonry for the purpose of soliciting insurance in your Association. Many times the petitioner or
the Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft has been advised that
the Masonic fraternity approved of your business and that a
policy in your Association was necessary to advancement in
Masonry.
"A concrete case is that of a present member of a Lodge
in California who received his first degree December 10, 1925;
the second, January 21, 1926, and the third, May 20, 1926. On
or about January 22, 1926, he was approached by an agent who
solicited insurance in your company from this Fellow Craft,
receiving therefor the sum of $16.40 and giving a receipt on
which was written 'Policy to be dated February 16, 1926.' This
Fellow Craft was led to believe that the insurance thus solicited
was authorized by the Masonic fraternity. As soon as he discovered that the company using same was not so connected, he
ordered that the policy be di?continued.
"This is an intolerable situation, and if your Association
persists in soliciting insurance among the Masons of California
with the implied assurance that our members are being thereby
protected by the fraternity, we will take such steps as may be
necessary to protect our brethren from such further imposition."
The reply of the president of the association was long and specious,
stating, among other things, that "Our agents have the most specific
instructions that no implication should be made as to any connection
with Masonry. Our men throughout the United States are instructed
never to mention their business in a Lodge room, ante-room or any
Masonic building, and to limit their solicitations to occasions when they
call upon the prospect at his home or place of business. It is a fact
that all of the officers and agents of this Association are members of
the Fraternity and that we limit our business to ::Vfasons." Nevertheless,
this association does impose upon the brethren rather than go into the
open field of business endeavor and compete with other life insurance
companies along strictly business lines.

14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

lnM a~ I"issue d a general circular letter to the Craft (printed as

::e wor s

Appednd'.~Mhereto) in which reference was made to the misuse of

ason" and "M ason1c,
· " wh"ch
1etter called forth a protest
d"
I
irector
of
one
leadin
M
·
r£
·
rom
a
stated th t "Wh"l .
g
asomc I e msurance
company who
a
I e m general I agree with what you have said regarding
th em and some of their p rac ( ices, I k now from personal observation
and
contact that one of them (the one he represented) is worthy of the
s~p~ort of the Masoni~ fraternity. It is conducted solely for the benefit
o its '.11embers and l~s beneficiaries and not for profit." This latter
expression, of course, is true only in a limited sense.
Some
· r£
·
f f d of the so -call ed M asomc
1 e msurance
companies require
f.roo 0
eath to be made by the Secretary of a Lodge and if as some
i;:es happens, the policy-holder dies whiloe under suspension' for non~
p yment of dues, such proof cannot be made and the beneficiary is
frequently compelled to sue in the courts of the land
M
.
any of these companies have attempted to evade the spirit of the
usages ~f Mas.onry by eliminating the word "Masonic" from the corf~r~t\ ht.le, without, however, in any wise changing the character of
k eir usmess, an evasion which amounts in fact to an admission of
n.ow.ledge that the business is not in accord with sound M
.
prmc1ples.
asomc
f

Many years ago, the Jurisprudence Committee of our Grand L0 d
composed
then as now o f d 1stingmshed
· ·
·
ge,
Masonic jurists-Belcher Claib
' orne, .~avies, Marsh and Estee-reported that "the use of the' name
Masomc for a corporation violates the true spirit of the unwritten la
?f Masonry, and that. it would be a correct assertion of its dignity
15• due to the Fratermty, that the Grand Lodge declare that it does not
give countenance to and has not sympathy with such misuse."

an~

Lotteries and Raffles
In May I. re:eived a protest from the Master of a Lodge who stated
~hat an orga111zat1on which was composed entirely of Masons had entered

mto a progr~~ to sell chance subscriptions on an automobile for the
purpo:e o.f ra1smg funds to defray the expenses of a convention of said
orgamzat1on. It was further complained that a roulette wheel was b .
used to encourage the sale of tickets. I replied to the Master as foll
"If
ows.
you k1~ow of any Mason who sold tickets or chances
on an automob1~e, you may advise him that it is my order that
all moneys received from the sale of chances be returned to the
purchasers. The sale of chances on an automobile is in violation
o~ th~ penal laws of the State of California and, of course, is in
v10lat10n of the law of Masonry. The fact that the sellers are

em~

15

members of another organization which requires its members to
be of our fraternity will not absolve them from their duty as
Masons. In a few days I will issue a general order to the
Craft calling attention to the fact that membership in other
societies does not relieve Masons of any of their obligations to
the law of the land or to Masonry."
The circular was issued and appears as an appendix hereto. We
cannot too often emphasize the fact that Masonry is not in business,
is not in politics, and cannot connive at violations of law.

Discipline
From time almost immemorial, it has bt:en the custom of the Grand
Master to officiate at the annual installation of officers of the five old
Lodges located at Sacramento, a city distinguished in many ways, but
particularly, in that the convention which eventuated in the formation of
our Grand Lodge was held there. These ceremonies are by custom always
held on the festival day of St. John the Evangelist, December 27, or, if
that festival falls on a Sunday, the Lodges there usually meet on the
evening of the following day for the purpose of receiving the Grand
Master and for the installation of their officers. The several Lodges of
Sacramento fixed Monday, December 28, 1925, for their annual installations and all incoming officers and members were duly notified of the
date and the purpose. It so happened that another organization in that
city had arranged to officially receive the titular head of that organization on the same date and also to hold a ceremonial of initiation, and
for reasons of its own-which may have been good reasons-refused to
change its time of such reception. I wrote to the Masters-elect that this
would be a splendid opportunity for them and the other incoming officers
to determine whether the Sacramento brethren owed their first allegiance
to Ancient Craft Masonry or to another organization which depends for
its very life upon the favor of members of Lodges; that the presence
of every officer-elect and appointed would by me be expected, and that
any officer who absented himself for the purpose of attending the function of the other organization should not be installed at all. Notwithstanding this admonition, one officer-elect appeared to take the view that
the Lodge was secondary in his allegiance and refused to be present at
the installation ceremonies, and did attend the ceremonial of the other
organization. Subsequently, by my request, the resignation of the offending officer was accepted and another was appointed in his place, one
who would not recognize any fraternal call in preference to that of
the Lodge.

16

17

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Right of Master to Refuse Petition

and effort of Masters to correct. One Lodge organized twelve years
ago suspended eighteen of its members in June of this year. Two were
restored in the same month. The returns for the current year of
twenty-eight Lodges, taken at random, disclosed suspensions of 418
members, with fifty-six restorations. It is possible, but not probable,
that these suspensions were necessary and for the best interests of the
Lodges and the fraternity, but I am inclined to the belief that in tbo
many instances suspensions are ordered without diligent effort on the
part of the Masters, Secretaries and committees to make every reasonable
inquiry concerning the financial condition of the delinquents and their
attitude of mind with relation to a continuation of membership.
There is only one valid reason why any member should be suspended
for non-payment of dues, and that is that the member desires to definitely withdraw from all Masonic work and interest. The Master
should appoint a committee composed of members who have a knack of
reaching the hearts-and purses-of men, and who will, personally or
by letter, interview every delinquent member and impress upon such
member that his Lodge is the best Lodge in the jurisdiction, and this
without disparagement to any other Lodge ; that there should be a pride
in the membership; that, if the brother is ill or out of employment or
otherwi~e in distress, the dues will be remitted and a receipt issued to
him for the amount of the delinquent dues. Or, if it be ascertained that
the brother may be living beyond his means or has developed some had
habit that entails the expenditure of too much money, to encourage him
into a better mode of living. Some of our larger and more prosperous
Lodges work on this plan with satisfactory results.

A question involving the right of the Master of a Lodge to refuse
to permit a petition for the degrees to be read in the Lodge was presented
to me, concerning whieh it is desired that Grand Lodge should definitely
decide. Two instances will be cited:
1. The Master of a Lodge, for particular reasons which were not
disclosed, directed the Secretary of his Lodge to withhold the petition of
one who, in the opinion of the-Master, was not fit material for membership. Tbe Master claimed that his objection was tantamount to a
rejection which would follow if the petition had been received, referred
and gone to ballot.
2. A Lodge received the petition of a notorious prizefighter who
manifestly was not under the tongue of good report. In this instance,
a storm of protest arose but, as reported to me, the officers of the Lodge
insisted that the petitioner was a moral young man and they intended
to see that he was elected to receive the degrees. It was even alleged
that brethren who protested were threatened with reprisals if their objections to the petitioner were not withdrawn. I am firmly of the belief
that the election and conferring of the degrees in this instance would have
brought odium on the Craft, and that I would have been justified, in
that event, in suspending the charter of the Lodge and ordering charges
preferred against the Master. I advised the Master to that effect. At
a subsequent stated meeting, the. investigating committee reported adversely on the petition and the obnoxious petitioner was declared rejected.
Our law distinctly states that "No Lodge
shall receive an
application for the degrees of Masonry unless the applicant be . . .
of moral conduct" and recommended by at least two members of the
Lodge. In the case of this pugilist, I believe the Master should not only
have refused to permit the petition to go before the Lodge, but that it
was his duty to order his Junior \Varden to prefer charges of unMasonic conduct against the two members of his Lodge who so far
forgot their obligations to the fraternity as to sponsor and recommend
a notorious character whose membership would be a stench in the
nostrils of all decent Masons and make a laughing-stock of California
Masonry.

Suspensions for Non-Payment of Dues
The matter of suspensions of members because of non-payment of
dues has given me concern. By reference to the annual reports of the
Grand Secretary for the years 1912 to 1926, I note the losses by suspension to have been more than 9,000 members and only some 3.000
restored. This is a serious problem which ought to engage the thought

Tuberculosis
Sponsored by the Grand Lodge of New Mexico, the National
Masonic Tuberculosis Association has been incorporated, having for its
object "to disseminate among the Freemasons of America and their
families and others, scientific knowledge and useful information as to
the causes and methods of treatment for -·the prevention, relief and cure
of tuberculosis." The president of the corporation is M:. \V.". Herbert
B. Holt, Grand Master of Masons in New Mexico. This jurisdiction,
by reason of its climate, has become a sort of mecca for hundreds of
people who are suffering from the dreadful "white plague," and interested
brethren are now endeavoring to enlist the co-operation of the Masonic
fraternity throughout the entire country. It goes without argument
that the problem of caring for tubercular people should be our concern.
How best to help in such work is a question not easily answered. Hence,
I appointed a committee of eminent :\1asons who have been making a
survey of conditions in our jurisdiction and who, by reason of experi-

18

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ence and a sympathetic interest, are competent to investigate and form
conclusions upon which our Grand Lodge may base its action relating
to the subject of the care of tubercular Masons and their families. This
committee is composed of M:. \V.'. William P. Filmer, M:. w:. David
J. Reese and W.'. Charles M. Wollenberg. I commend their report to
your earnest and sympathetic consideration.
Territorial Jurisdiction of Lodges
Because of the rapid growth of population in California and the
incorporation of many cities abutting the corporate lines of adjacent
municipalities, the question of territorial exclusive jurisdiction of Lodges
is one which now frequently causes friction and suggests whether it
would not be wise to change our time-honored policy in this respect. The
territory comprising Culver City is partly within the municipal lines of
the city of Los Angeles; the Lodge room occupied by Ocean Park Lodge
is in two cities, the Master's station being in one city and the station
of the Senior Warden in another city; Beverly Hills is a municipal
corporation within the corporate limits of Los Angeles; Signal Hill is
really a part of the city of Long Beach, and so on. Yet, under our
present laws, these Lodges cannot, without the cumbersome process of
having petitioners secure waivers of jurisdiction, receive applications for
the degrees from nearby neighbors. Several Lodges located in Los
Angeles County have this year presented petitions for special jurisdictional territory under the provisions of section 92a of our Constitution
which, if granted, will afford only temporary relief. I respectfully
request your thoughtful inquiry into this problem and, if by you deemed
necessary, that appropriate legislation be enacted to relieve what is now
a frequent cause of irritation.
Grand Lodge of Manila and the Shrine
Last spring I received a communication from the Grand Lodge of
the Philippine Islands regarding an ineffectual protest against the holding of a Shrine ceremonial in that jurisdiction. It appeared from the
communication that the Potentate, of Affifi Temple had gone to Manila
without invitation for the purpose of conducting a Shrine ceremonial,
and that, notwithstanding the protest of the Grand Master and of several
Past Grand Masters and the resolution of Grand Lodge, the ceremonial
was held with the approval of the Imperial Potentate, resulting in much
ill-feeling as between over-zealous Shriners and the leaders of Craft
Masonry in the Islands. The moral support of the Grand Lodge of
California was requested.
I viewed the controversy as one in which the Grand Lodge of California should not participate for the particular reason that the Grand

19

~a~te: and ?rand Lodge of the Philippine Islands had fult power to
d1sc1phne their members and other Masons who violated the order of
the Grand Master and the resolution of the Grand Lodge.
Special Communications of Grand Lodge
Grand Lodge was convened in Special Communication by the officers
noted, at the times and places following:

By the Grand Master:
Constituted the two newly-chartered Lodges at Sacramento October

~I~~

I

At Colusa, October 24, 1925, to lay the corner-stone of the Union
High School.
At Los Angeles, October 30, 1925, constituted the newly-chartered
Lodge of Los Angeles.
At Wilmington, October 31, 1925, to lay the corner-stone of the
Masonic Temple at that city.
At San Diego, November 5, 1925, constituted Peninsula and Chula
Vista Lodges.
At San Francisco, November 10, 1925, instituted Ingleside Lodge,
U. D.
At Hayward, December 4, 1925, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at
that city,
At San Luis Obispo, December 12, 1925, to lay the corner-stone of
the Federal building at that city.
At San Francisco, December 21, 1925, to install the Grand Treasurer.
At Long Beach, March 13, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the
Scottish Rite Temple at that city.
At Montebello, March 13, 1926, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at
that city.
At San Bernardino, April 10, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the
Court House at that city.
. At Berkeley, April 23, 1926, to institute Indian Rock Lodge at that
city.
At Sacramento, May 15, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the Municipal Auditorium at that city.
At Oakland, June 12, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the Elmhurst
School Annex.
At Dunsmuir, July 17, 1926, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at that
city.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At Alameda, September 25, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the
Masonic Temple at that city.

Decisions

20

By Deputy Grand Master Jones:
At Roseville, May 1, 1926, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at that
city.
By Senior Grand Warden Fischer:
At Wilmington, January 23, 1926, to dedicate the :\1asonic Temple
at that city.
At Los Angeles, April 19, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the
Wilshire Masonic Temple.
At Los Angeles, April 24, 1926, to dedicate the West Gate Masonic
Temple at that city.
At Los Angeles, May 8, 1926, to dedicate the University Masonic
Temple at j:hat city.
At Sawtelle, August 4, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the Masonic
Temple at that city.
At Los Angeles, September 30, 1926, to dedicate the Masonic Temple
of Wilshire Lodge at that city.
At Fullerton, October 2, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the BreaOlinda High School.
By Junior Grand Warden llutaff:
At Yreka, August 14, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the Masonic
Temple at that city.
By Past Grand Master Rodden:
At Guerneville, December 19, 1925, to dedicate the Masonic Temple
at that place.
By Past Grand Master Crites:
At Bishop, April 10, 1926, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at that
place.
By Inspector John Stewart Ross:
At Brawley, January 22, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the Junior
College at that place.
By Inspector Walter B. Ilowes:
At Arrowhead Lake, September 11, 1926, to lay the corner-stone
of the school building at that place.
By Past Grand Jfaster Burke:
At Huntington Beach, September 25, 1926, to lay the corner-stone
of the high school.

21

Many requests for decisions have been received in the year and,
as is usual, most of them could have been answered by the Masters by
referring to the Constitution and Regulations. Many of the answers
were mere reaffirmations of decisions as printed in the Constitution and
I will not burden the record with them. Two may involve new interpretation of law, and are printed herewith.
1. A resolution to amend the by-laws was presented and in due
course was brought to vote and defeated. It was immediately again
introduced with a request that its consideration take the usual course
of going over until the next stated meeting.
I held that the resolution could not again be presented at the meeting at which a similar resolution was considered and voted on; that the
subject as to that meeting was closed; for it is a principle of parliamentary law that no question can be again offered which is substantially
the same as the one upon which the house has already expressed its
judgment. "If a question which has been determined by the Lodge
should again be proposed at the same communication, either in the
same language or in language substantially the same if it has been
negatived, or in language of a directly contrary import if it had been
adopted, it would be the duty of the Master to rule it as out of order,
and refuse to present it for consideration." (Mackey's Jurisprudence.)
2. A member of a T.odge purchased a life membership for his
father, who was a member of the same Lodge. At that time our section
129 of the Constitution providing a plan for life membership, read that
"only the income thereof shall be used by the Lodge, the original amounts
to be forever kept and maintained as and for a permanent life membership fund." At the annual communication of 1923 the section was
amended by adding this proviso: "Provided. nevertheless, that upon the
death of a life member, such sum as he shall have paid into said fund may
be withdrawn therefrom and become a part of the general fund of the
Lodge." The life member (the father) died subsequent to 1923 and
the Lodge, pursuant to the term of section 129 as amended, transferred
the amount paid by the son for the father's life membership to the
general fund. The son appealed to me that his payment constituted an
irrevocable contract and that the money paid for the life membership
should remain forever in the permanent life membership fund as a
memorial to his father.
I held that the Lodge had the right. under the terms of section 129
as amended, to allocate to the general fund any moneys paid into the
life membership fund for account of any deceased life member.

22

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

'

Co-operative Masonic Service Bureaus
At our annual communication of 1924 a resolution was adopted
providing "that the Grand Master appoint a committee of three to
investigate relief and employment matters and report at the next communication their findings and recommendations." Accordingly, a committee was appointed consisting of Brothers Louis Sutter, Brooklyn
Lodge, No. 225; Harry K. Wolff, Pacific Lodge, No. 136, and Leo
Bruck, Jewel Lodge, No. 374. This committee, by letter and otherwise,
consulted with brethren throughout the United States and reported to
Grand Lodge at our last annual communication, finding that there are
Boards of Relief in our jurisdiction whose organizations are unnecessary
and expensive, and recommending that a permanent Board of Control
should be appointed by the Grand Master, to which Board of Control
all applications for the formation of local Boards of Relief should be
referred. The committee presented the following resolution which, after
reference to the Committee on Policy, was adopted:
"Resolved, that the Grand Master appoint a Board of Control for Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus, consisting
of five members, one to serve three years, two to serve two
years and two to serve one year, and each Grand Master shall
appoint the successors to those whose terms expire, said successors to serve for a period of three years."
The Committee on Jurisprudence was directed to prepare the necessary leg is la ti on to carry the report into effect. That committee requested
that the matter of submitting a plan for carrying out the intent of the
resolution be deferred until this annual communication, and I assume
that it will present legislation thereon for your consideration.
It is an important question, and it is engaging the earnest thought
of other Grand Lodges. The matter of helping the unemployed and of
dispensing relief is, in the opinion of many Masons, one in which the
Pacific Coast jurisdiction should co-operate. At the annual Communication of the Grand Lodge of Oregon held last June, Grand Master
Percy R. Kelly reported that through the efforts of the manager of
the Masonic Service and Employment Bureau of Oregon, an organization is being effected whereby co-operation may be had between the
jurisdictions of Washington, Idaho, California and Oregon, and he stated
that "When this is accomplished, it will serve to render the work of our
bureau more effective and, 'at the same time, guard and protect us from
the unworthy and dishonest." The Grand Lodge of Oregon thereupon
adopted the following recommendation of the special committee which
had been studying the problem:
"That the Trustees of this Grand Lodge be authorized and
empowered to assist in the formation of a co-operative organi-

!l3

zation among such Masonic Service and Employment Bureaus
and Masonic Boards of Relief as, in their judgment, may be
proper."
In this connection, I have had several letters from Brother Walter
L. Stockwell, President of the Masonic Relief Association of the United
States and Canada, soliciting the membership of the Grand Lodge of
California. This Association issues a monthly circular to all subscribers,
in which is printed a list of imposters and beggars not worthy of
Masonic consideration. The correspondence will be placed with our
Committee on Jurisprudence for consideration in connection with the
subject of a Central Board of Control.

Sunday Picnics
received a communication from the Master of King David's Lodge,
No. 209, in which he desired to know the attitude of Grand Lodge with
respect to picnics by Lodges on Sunday. My interpretation of the
attitude of Grand Lodge and of my own views on this subject are
expressed in the following letter which was sent to the Master:
"This seems to be a perennial question, and probably the
best answer is contained in part of the Address of Grand Master
Sherman (page 461, Proc. 1923) in which he recommended that
Lodges be prevented from advertising and selling tickets for
Sunday outings. He added that 'there can be no objection to
a quiet gathering of Masons and their families for an outing
on Sunday; nevertheless, the promiscuous advertising or sale of
tickets is not in keeping with the dignity of our fraternity.' The
Committee on Jurisprudence, commenting on the address and
recommendations, said that 'It is difficult to define with absolute precision in written law the duty of Masons in this regard,
and in any event we cannot believe that anything beyond bringing this matter to the attention of the membership is essential.
We heartily approve the sentiment expressed by the
Grand Master in this regard.'
"It would be unwise and unfair for a Lodge to hold a
picnic on a Sunday because many members 'Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy,' and could not participate in such an
outing without offense to their religious beliefs; and no Lodge
should sponsor any gatherings which could not be attended by
every member. If, however, it is desired by some of the members to foregather for an outing on Sunday, taking their lunch
baskets and their wives and children to some selected rendezvous
and there indulge in a sociable picnic, I would say that s.uch an

24

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

outing would not in any wise derogate from the dignity which
should and does attach to membership in our ancient Institution. Invitations to such outings should be personal or by sealed
enTelope and never in a newspaper."

Base Hospital at Palo Alto
In 1924 Grand Master Crites, having in mind the welfare of those
of our brethren who had served their country well, and were, by reason
of infirmities contracted in the service, confined to the United States
Base Hospital at Palo Alto, appointed Past Master Seale of Palo Alto
and the Masters and ·wardens' Association of San Francisco a committee
to look after those afflicted brethren. Much good work and good cheer
resulted. A small sum of money was allocated for the use of the committee from Grand Lodge funds and the recipients-families of patients
as well as the ex-service men-were made glad, not only by the pecuniary
help but by the kindly interest manifested by our brethren. A small
balanoe is still in possession of the Masters and \Vardens' Association,
and I recommend that it be left there to be used in any way suggested
by the Association.
Masonk: History
At our last annual communication there was adopted the recommendation of Grand Master Reese that a committee be appointed to
report at this communication a plan for the preservation of the Masonic
history of California. I was fortunate in enlisting the services of three
splendid and enthusiastic brethren as members of the committee, namely,
Brothers Arthur M. Ellis, Sydney B. Brown and Milton J. Ferguson,
who will doubtless present to you their views on this important subject.
Brother Ellis, in his letter accepting the chairmanship of this committee,
tersely indicated his ideas, to which I heartily subscribe. He said, among
other things, that:
"There are four important matters that must be eonsidercd
by the Grand Lodge with reference to the subject: The first is
that we have been remiss in our observation of the memories of
a great many very worthy men. Active steps should be taken
to acquaint the ordinary Master Mason with the careers and
and deserts of our illustrious early Masons. Secondly, we should
take immediate steps to overcome the great loss in the burning
of the records of the old Masonic Temple. It is becoming increasingly more difficult to get mementos of our early members.
This should be done by interested and wealthy members of the
Craft in donating materials of this sort. I know of one collector ·in San Francisco, who is not a Mason, who has many of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

25

the writings of the first Grand Masters and, likewise, some of
the records of the early Lodges located in the mining regions.
"Thirdly, we should endeavor to put the Craft in the right
light before the public with reference to the services of its early
members. For instance, the explorations of California were
largely directed by Kit Carson. He was a Mason and a Senior
Warden of one of the military Lodges. Some of the first American settlers of California were Masons. A good illustration
of this is George C. Yount, who established a frontier blockhouse and outpost of American civilization in the Sonoma Valley
before Sutter had even come to California. The making of the
original Constitution of 1849 was largely in the hands of
Masons. Robert Semple, long Treasurer of Benicia Lodge, was
President of the Convention. The actual working out of the
details of the Constitution was put in the hands of Myron Norton, a delegate from San Francisco who later moved to Los
Angeles and who took the first steps in that city toward the
organization of a Masonic Lodge.
"Fourth, the investigation of these matters should serve to
render many of the old Lodges of the jurisdiction more active
in restoring their records and in inspiring their members with
interest in their history."
The points made by Brother Ellis are worthy of the serious attention of Grand Lodge, and I cordially commend them to your consideration and action.
Necrology
Grand Lodge and the world have, in the year past, lost two wellknown brethren in the passing of the Very Reverend Dean William
MacCormack, who served as Grand Chaplain in 1918, and Henry D.
French, who for many years was active in Masonry as an Inspector
and Secretary of Evergreen Lodge at Riverside.
These two Brethren reflected in their lives the best principles of
Freemasonry and the cleanest standards of manhood, and we who knew
them and loved them have profited by their exemplification of all that
goes to make fine, helpful men and good citizens. Each of them earned
and reaped an earthly reward by being dearly beloved by a legion of
men and women, and their influence for good will be felt for many,
many years.
Our Committee on Necrology will present a suitable memorial of
their passing.

26

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

Masonic Homes
At the beginning of my term as Grand Master, it was my pleasure
to reappoint Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams as a Trustee
of the Masonic Homes, to succeed himself. It was with much gratification to me that this brother, burdened as he is with many interests, would
again accept this appointment.
Few of our brethren know or can
visualize the tremendous amount of thought and work that are involved
in the management of our two visible monuments to applied Masonry.
It has been my pleasure many times to visit both Homes and see with
my eyes the material labor accomplished, and hear with my ears the
stories told by the old men and women and little children of the loving
interest manifested by all the members of the Board of Trustees in
the welfare of our wards. The Board is a splendidly balanced one:
the President, Brother Wollenberg, is a noted sociologist, and by reason
of natural gifts and long experience in welfare work, is an invaluable
member; the Vice President, Brother Gist, is a banker with a reputation
for industry and ability in the world of finance; Past Grand Master
Samuel E. Burke, through his long experience with the Homes and his
professional skill, is well qualified for useful labor; and Past Grand
Master Adams has not only endeared himself to all the residents of
the Homes but renders-without fee-valuable legal service.
These
Brethren, with the Deputy Grand Master and the Senior and Junior
Grand Wardens, comprise a Board to which we may justly point with
pride.

Hospital at the Masonic Home
One of the outstanding events of my year was the formal presentation by the Grand Commandery of Knights Templar of a hospital at
the Covina Home. The project was initiated at the annual conclave
of the Grand Commandery in 1924, at which time I had the honor of
being Grand Commander, by a donation of $10,000 as a nucleus for a
fund to build a hospital for the benefit of the children. At the annual
conclave in 1925 this fund was augmented by a further gift of $40,000,
all of which was devoted to the erection of the hospital. On the 18th
of September, 1926, the Grand Commandery assembled on the Home
grounds, and by appropriate ceremony the building was declared finished.
The Right Eminent Grand Commander, Auguste J. DeLamare, in his
usual graceful manner, introduced Past Grand Commander Dr. William
C. Hassler, who, in fitting speech, formally presented the hospital to
the Masonic fraternity of California. It was accepted by me as titular
head of the Craft, and the keys to the building were by me delivered
to and accepted by the Trustees of the Masonic Homes.
Hundreds of friends of the Homes were present, including all the
officers of Grand Commandery, drill corps of Southern California,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

ladies, and others interested in the great work of caring for the children
who are being schooled and trained to become useful citizens.
It afforded me great pleasure, indeed, to accept this magnificent and
useful gift, not only because of its utility and necessity as a part of the
Home equipment, but because it was indicative of the cordial good will
and spirit of co-operation as between Craft Masonry and the Order of
Knights Templar in California. In the name of the whole fraternity,
I here reiterate my sincere thanks to the Fraters of the jurisdiction for
this noble gift.

White Pine Lodge
On the 15th of August fire destroyed the hall in which White Pine
Lodge, No. 555, located at Weed, held its meetings, and there being
no other hall in that community, permission was granted by Acting
Grand Master George L. Jones for the Lodge to meet for six months
at Shasta. It is expected that at the expiration of this period the Lodge
will have arranged for the use of a suitable hall in the town of Weed.

Public Schools Week
Following the plan successfully commenced by Past Grand Master
Adams and what has now become an established policy of Grand Lodge.
I caused a proclamation to be issued (a copy of which is appended hereto)
fixing the week commencing Monday, April 26, 1926, for the seventh
annual observance of Public Schools Week by the fraternity in the
Past Grand Master Adams, notwithstanding his
entire jurisdiction.
numerous other Masonic and business activities, again accepted the chairmanship of the general committee, and with the hearty co-operation of
his fellow members, the week was observed in a fitting manner, redounding not only to the credit of the fraternity but, I believe, to the benefit
of our public school system. Reports from all over the jurisdiction
indicate that the splendid work of the committee and of the many
brethren who assisted in the work of bringing the subject of education
of the youth of the land to the attention of the whole public, entitled
all who in any way participated, to the commendation of the Craft. I
feel that we, as Masons and as citizens, should continue this great
work, to the end that our public schools will become, as of right, the
peers, and more, of all educational institutions. The idea is growing in
favor, and this year's observance was undoubtedly the most successful
that has been held since its inauguration. It has attracted national
attention, both in the fraternity and among educators, and in an article
in a Masonic publication of an eastern city, was referred to as one of
the most outstanding movements that was ever attempted by any Grand
Lodge and as an example that might well be followed in the jurisdiction
in which the paper was published.

28

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It was particularly gratifying to me to receive from the superintendent of schools of one of our largest and most progressive counties
and who is not .a Mason, a letter commending the work that was being
done by the Masonic fraternity and expressing his appreciation of it.
I am informed, by the way, that he was of material assistance in assuring the success of the meetings held in his county.

live rovering letter. They have handled 900 other communications. They
lmvc held meetings in 80 per cent of the districts in our jurisdiction.
Tlwy have furnished 119 addresses. They have held twenty Sunday
11ftemoon services over the radio. They have organized sub-committee:;
on education in approximately one-third of our Lodges, and have es tab·
lished direct contact with active results in 50 per cent. This is a record
nf achievement for one year which I believe is unequalled in any similar
movement. Amongst it all, the feature most prominent to my mind is
the organizing of local Lodge educational committees with a chairman
who is the representative from the Lodge to the Grand Lodge Committee.
This group of energetic and interested Masons will in time become a
source· from which can be obtained true and genuine leadership in
s1ireading the light of knowledge and information.
I believe Grand Lodge should be proud that it has placed California
in the vanguard in the matter of this educational program. In the year
1850, when ritualistic work was different in many Lodges, because of
the different jurisdictions from which the members had come, the movement to draft and choose a ritual which would truly represent the
Masonic spirit as we know it, was started. Our present glorious ritual
resulted. It took until 1899 to bring it to its present shape, with the
exception of the minor corrections made in 1924. That was the first
great step in Masonic education in California. \Ve have now entered
upon our second great step, and I am convinced that there has been laid
down. for us, in the plan adopted last year, a program that will mean
that in years to come our members will have a full and deep knowledge
which will tie them even closer to Masonry than now. Our educational
program appeals to me as a forward movement which should have the
unanimous support of every Lodge and member within our jurisdiction.
I earnestly recommend that Grand Lodge, at this session, adopt the report
of the Educational Committee.

Because of my great interest in the undertaking, I carefully read
each of the many reports, before sending it to the chairman of the
committee with a copy of the letter I had written in acknowledgment
of the receipt thereof. As will, I understand, be pointed out in the
report of the committee, there were two particularly pleasing features
disclosed by the reports: One was that there were several Lodges
which for the first time had joined in the observance this year; and
the other that certain Lodges had redeemed failures in the past by
holding extraordinarily successful meetings this year.
I desire now, publicly, as I have already privately through personal
correspondence, to express my sincere thanks for the co-operation and
assistance received from those Masters, Inspectors and other brethren
whose efforts made the seventh annual observance so great a success.

Masonic Education
Our Committee on Masonic Education will present to you its report
of the efforts which have been put forth during the year to further the
problem of educating the members of our fratemity in the history,
achievements, hopes and aims of this ancient Institution. \Ve were fortunate in securing again a committee compose<! of brethren who have
earnestly and intelligently endeavored to bring matter worth while to
the attention of the Lodges and brethren, and I believe that we are
getting splendid results. Of course, we cannot expect to make every
member a Masonic student, nor can we hope to entirely agree as to
the best method of imparting instruction.
In conformity with the authorization at the 1925 session of Grand
Lodge, I appointed an Educational Committee of twelve members. Upon
the committee reorganizing, the members thereof recommended to me
the appointment of Brother Reynold E. Blight, of Los Angeles. as
the executive director. My investigation proved the accuracy of the committee's recommendation and I, therefore, appointed Brother Blight to
that position. He has pursued his work energetically and capably, and
I believe the accomplishments of our Educational Committee and its
executive director write a bright page in the history of our Grand Lodge
for this year. Tl1ey have issued twenty printed bulletins on timely and
appropriate subjects and sent them to 1,105 officers and committeemen
in the subordinate Lodges. Each bulletin was accompanied by an instruc-

29

Special Committees Appointed
In the able and constructive message of Grand Master Reese presented to you at the annual communication of 1925, a number of
important matters were presented and recommendations made, action as
to some of which was deferred until this communication. The unfinished
business will appear, as required by the Constitution, in the Report of the
Grand Secretary. Four of the recommendations adopted by Grand Lodge
provided for the appointment of certain special committees, all which has
been given official attention by me, and the following committees were
in due time appointed, reports from which will doubtless be presented :
Lassen Monument Site. Hugh C. Chamberlain, Greenville; Jules
Alexander, Susanville; Ernest C. Bonner, Alturas.
Unfortunately,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

30

31

PROCEEDINGS OF TH.E

Brother Chamberlain died April 29, 1926, and in his passing the fraternity
lost one of the fine characters in Masonry. He was a leader in his community, taking a personal interest in all matters which affected the
welfare of the community, and we will long miss his genial presence
and wise counsel. As successor to Brother Chamberlain, I appointed
Past Grand Master Reese as chairman of the committee. The function
of this committee was to secure from Mrs. Hulsman a deed to the two
acres of land on which the grave and monument to Peter Lassen are
located; to fence it and establish there a memorial park. An appropriation
of $500 was made to defray the expenses of the preliminary work.
Western Star Lodge. Gilbert C. DeForest, Redding; Joseph Jones,
Shasta, and Otto G. Trautz, Cottonwood, were appointed to take steps
to protect and preserve the old building which houses the Lodge, toether
with the priceless records stored therein, in order that this old Lodge
may some day be the Mecca of Masons.
Masonic History. Arthur M. Ellis, Los Angeles; Sydney B. Brown,
Los Angeles; Milton J. Ferguson (State Librarian), Sacramento. Tbis
committee was provided for the purpose of reporting at this communication "a plan for the preservation of the Masonic history of California
and the feasibility of the appointment of a Masonic historian." I am
informed that a report will be made, accompanied by stereopticon pictures of early-day Masons.
Necrology. Ben G. Wright, Los Angeles; Max A. Plumb, Berkeley;
Walter L. Berger, Los Angeles.
In my opinion the above committees should be continued and legislative action taken at this communication of Grand Lodge to accomplish
that purpose.
Visit to the Hawaiian Islands
One outstanding and pleasant experience in my year was a visit to
the Lodges in the Hawaiian Islands, aptly and well named "the Paradise
of the Pacific." Accompanied by Mrs. Boynton and my son Robert (a
Mason), I sailed on the 14th of August for Honolulu, at which port we
arrived in the early morning of the 21st, where we were joined by our
daughters Katharine and Elizabeth who had preceded us. W. ·. Charles C.
Pittam, Junior Grand Steward and the Inspector of the 95th District, had
arranged a carefully-planned ititierary and he, with the Masters and other
brethren, met us with a welcome so warm and cordial that we were at
once made to feel and know that our hosts were imbued with a generous
hospitality peculiar to the people of the islands of the Pacific, a hospitality which seems to be a blend of all the loving impulses of the heart
and mind. And we were glad to know that now we were permitted to
"View them near at home, where all their worth and pride is plac'd;
And where their hospitable fires burn clear."

Each day of our visit was but a repetition of the hospitality distilaycd on every hand. By Brother Pittam's genius for organization and
trum-work, the Lodges of the entire group of islands joined in making
our stay memorable.
The genial Governor of the Islands, Brother Wallace A. Farrington,
wns present on numerous occasions, as were all the old-time wheel-horses
of Masonry, and the Masters of the several Lodges with their officers
uml brethren were in evidence with kindly attention at each meeting.
I was privileged to visit every one of the eight Lodges: Hawaiian,
No. 21, le Progress de l'Oceanie, No. 371, Honolulu, No. 409, Schofield,
No. 443, and Pearl Harbor, No. 598, on the island of Oahu; Kilauea,
No. 330, at Hilo, island of Hawaii; Maui, No. 472, at Kahului, and
Kauai Lodge, No. 589, at Lihue. And each island could in truth be
rnlled "the isle of golden dreams." These Lodges are composed of men
who stand in the forefront of the social, moral and political life of the
islands and are a credit to the fraternity. Tbey are growing in membership slowly, as compared with Lodges in our more populous centers, yet
their accessions are, as a rule, not merely names on the roster but are
men apparently fully imbued with the seriousness and significance of their
duties as members of our ancient Craft.
Some of the side-lights of my visit were a flight in a sea-plane from
Pearl Harbor· a dinner which I gave to the Governor, Inspectors,
Masters and 'wardens as partial return for the lavish hospitality
bestowed upon me and my family, and a reception at the Moana Hotel
on the eve of our return home, attended by the brethren generally and
their ladies. The reception was preceded by a concert by the Shrine
Band which was highly appreciated.

Emergency Relief
The newspapers of Sunday, September 19, chronicled the informa·
tion that the west coast of Florida had been visited by a hurricane which
killed and injured many people, destroyed much property and left many
homeless and in dire need. Realizing that in calamities affecting a
considerable population, the old adage that "He gives twice who gives
promptly" is true, after conference with Deputy Grand Master Jones
and Junior Grand Warden Hutaff, I directed the Grand Secretary to
dispatch an authorization to assist the stricken people, which was done
by wire, as follows:
"San Francisco, September 20, 1926.
"Wilbur P. Webster, Grand Secretary,
Jacksonville, Florida.
"The Grand Master and all your Brethren of California
express sincere sympathy in distresses of the people of Florida.

32

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Please draw on me by wire if necessary for twenty-five hundred
dollars. More will be forthcoming if you indicate such need.
"]oHN \\THJCHER, Grand Secretary."
The reply of the Grand Secretary was that "So far we have been
able to handle the situation. Our Lodges that were not affected have
been fine in offering assistance and that, together with what our Grand
Lodge can do, has so far taken care of it. If we find we will need
outside assistance, you may be sure we will feel at liberty to call upon
you and greatly appreciate your offer at this time."
Under date of September 27 I telegraphed to Grand Master Cary
B. Fish, at Sarasota, Florida, renewing our authorization for him to
draw on us by wire. To date no draft has been received against our
funds and we conclude that our good brethren of Florida have been able
to handle the situation without outside assistance.

Receptions
Lodges and brethren have been cordial and generous i.n the recept~o:1s
accorded to me and to them I offer my sincere thanks. In all my v1s1ts
I have found ; spirit so fully expressed by the Psalmist, "Behold, how
good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in un!ty." . It
would be quite impossible and really unfair to attempt to parttcular.ize
as to these numerous receptions, yet two of them were of such outstandmg
proportions that I may be pardoned for mentioning them: One at Los
Angeles on the 18th of September, attended by .every ~faster and \Varden
of the ninety-five Lodges participating. This affair was held at the
Shrine mosque and was graced by the presence of more th~n ten thousand
Masons and their ladies. It was truly a memorable occasion. The other
was a wonderful reception tendered on the evening of Oct~ber 11 by
the fifty-two Lodges of San Francisco, represented by all their Masters,
Wardens, and many other officers, and their ladies. It was held in the
beautiful and spacious rooms of the Fairmont Hotel.
I now tender as I did on both occasions, the thanks of Mrs. Boynton
and myself for ;hese manifestations of fraternal and friendly interest.

Masonic Clubhouse, University of California
One of the monuments to which all Masons in California may point,
with pardonable pride, is the Masonic clubhouse of the University of
California in Berkeley. The building, made possible by the generous
contributions of our members, is well adapted to the purpose fo~ w~ich
it was intended; and the use that is being made of it completely Justifies
the expense involved in its erection and maintenance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

33

College life is entered at the most impressionable and vital age;

1rntl the social conditions of our American universities and colleges are
hl'il!g severely arraigned.

Whether or not there is justification for the

~I riclures being made on college students, there can be no doubt that such

institutions as we are fostering and encouraging through the clubhouse
an· of material benefit in counteracting the effects of conditions of which
romplaint is made. Youth is particularly susceptible to environment;
a11<l in the clubhouse at Berkeley there is an environment that will result
111 the development of many a useful life. I make this statement not
mt'rcly because of my knowledge of the situation, but also because it is
the consensus of opinion of many men and women at the University of
I 'alifornia including, among others, President Campbell, Dean Cadman,
I lean Lucy Stebbins and other administrative officers of the University.
It has been my pleasure to visit the clubhouse on many occasions,
and I recall that on one of these I was filled with pride on hearing the
terms of praise with which President and Mrs. Campbell expressed their
appreciation of what the Masons in California had done for the student
ho<ly in the erection of the clubhouse. They referred especially to the
wonderful influence of the "fire-side gatherings" held every Sunday evening
tl11ring the semester, to which are welcomed not only the members, but
likewise their friends and associates.
As is of course known to Grand Lodge, the clubhouse is used in
common by the l\fasonic Club of the University of California, the \\l omen's
Masonic Club, the De Molay Club and the Ashlar Club, composed of sons
of Masons; and to it are welcomed all sons and daughters of Masons even
though not members of any of the particular organizations referred to.
l ncluded in the clubhouse .council also is a representative of Henry Morse
Stephens Lodge, composed of members of the faculty of the University
of California, administrative officers and students. This contact is, of
course, especially valuable.
It is the clubhouse council which directs the activities under the
supervision of the resident hostess, Mrs. Sally Pease, who also acts as
guide and counselor to all the young people; but the building itself, and
the use which may be made of it, is under the control and supervision of
Grand Lodge acting through a Board of Trustees. At the head of this
Board is the Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of California, Brother
'William H. Waste, to whom too much praise cannot be given for the
wonderful service he is performing.
It is perhaps too soon to make plans for the erection of a clubhouse
in each of our other great institutions oi learning in California; but
one of the problems we must solve in the future is how to provide for
the students at the University of Southern California, and at Stanford
and the University of California, Southern Branch, if not elsewhere,

34

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the opportunities now being enjoyed by those at Berkeley. My successors
will, no doubt, entertain the same hope that I have; and I am certain it
will be as close to their hearts as it has been to mine. I can only refer
to it in passing with the confidence that when the time arrives will "come
the power with the need."

Order of De Molay
In 1922 this Grand Lodge placed itself on record regarding the Order
of De Molay, and again reaffirmed its position in 1924. In its inception
the organization was an experiment, but the numerical growth of this
wonderful movement and the results of its efforts among the young men
of our land has justified its existence and warranted the confidence that
we reposed in those who were inspired to found the Order and have
governed it to the present time.
While it is not a Masonic organization, its importance in the future
of the Craft is one that we cannot overlook. I bespeak for the Order of
De Molay a continued interest by the Masons of this jurisdiction along
the lines embodied in the resolutions above referred to. Our future membership must come from the young man of today. If he is thoroughly
conversant with the principles and teachings of the Masonic Fraternity,
even though taught to him in an organization that is not Masonic but
labors under its shadow, just so far will our future strength and efficiency
be multiplied.
·
There is a time in the life of every boy when some man or older boy
is taken as an ideal. That exemplar may be a good one or an evil one,
but in the initial instance that is not considered. Only after-years can
determine whether his mind has been turned in the proper direction.
I believe that every man and Mason should continually carry this idea
and ask himself the question: "Am I the kind of man I would like to see
my own son or the young man of today become?" Individually and
collectively, Masonry owes a duty to the coming generation. An interest
in an organization that has for its object the building of character and
good citizenship is one that will produce splendid dividends.

Suspension Upon Conviction of Felony Involving Moral Turpitude
Section 192 of our Constitution provides that, upon the conviction of
a Mason in the State or ;Federal Courts of a crime involving moral
turpitude, charges shall be preferred against him in any Lodge having
jurisdiction. To preserve our self-respect and to promptly purge our
roll of unworthy members, it would seem that this section should be so
amended that, upon the conviction of a Mason of a felony involving moral
turpitude, he should be automatically suspended from all the rights and
privileges of Masonry from the moment of his conviction. The Grand

35

Master, where the circumstances demand d
.
11ower to refer the case t th
. e expulsion, would have the
amendment would obviate toh e ap~ropnate Lodge for trial. Such an
e necessity and expens 0 f
.
outcome is a foregone con 1 .
d
e
many trials whose
c us1on, an would el" · t
now bears heavily upon smaller Lod
imma e an expense which
ges.
Kentucky and Montana have ado t d 1
similar law might be adopted t th : c . aws o~ the above lines; and a
jurisdiction. I therefore recom:en~ t:~e~~eand mc;eased dign~ty of our
prepare and submit to Grand Lod
Committee on Jurisprudence
accordance with the above
t" ge an amendment to Section 192 in
sugges 10n.

Inspectors
Constant vigilance is the price we
and our degree work
"f
h
must pay to keep our ritual pure
T
uni orm t roughout this j · d" ·
d
uns 1ct10n.
o one who
listens to the ritual" t"
is ic a~ watches the floor work in any of the de rees
it is a
.
g
'
pparent how easy mistakes and subst"t f
this, we are depending on those s 1 d"1 u 10ns may creep m.. To avoid
pen. id m~n _who are servmg Grand
Lodge as Inspectors of th .
respective districts Tb
k f
1nspector is largely a labor eir
f
H.
. · . e wor o an
0
1
that comes from th
.
ovc.
is only reward is that satisfaction
·
e consciousness of a duty
11
f
d
we per orme ; not infrequently at a sacrifice of h".
.
is persona 1 comfort and c
·
H
st1tutes one of th l" k b
onven1ence.
e cone 111 s etween Grand Lod
d th
.
•md not only is h h
.
ge an
e c:mstituent Lodges
e c argec1 with the duty 0 f ·
·
h
'
msurmg t e exactness of the
esoteric work in his Lod
b h
ges, ut t ere devolves upon h" th
"b" .
for the execution of the plans of th C
im e respons1 1hty
de d·rand Master, and the maintenance
and support of the Const"t f
1 od e of C .
.
I u 10n an
e icts of Grand Lodge. The Grand
• g
ahforma has been indeed fort
t · b ·
the services of men of abilit . 1 d k una e m emg able to command
The immensity of the task y, zca an
n?wledge to serve as Inspectors.
the growth of th . . d" '. however, contmually increasing as it is with
e Juris 1ction seems to n1al
plan hitherto pursued.
'
'e necessary a change in the
It was a recognition of the
th
. .
.
Grand Master Ad
. 1920evcn en ex1stmg situation t.hat prnmpted
ams m
to recommend th
·

~~~~\~::ne:t:eect~~=~gs ew~~· t~ndcr th~. direction ~f ~~~a~or~n~f L~~~;!~:

G

c esote11c work and of D" t · D
' .
is net eputy
rand Masters who would discharge the th
the Inspectors. This would f
o er ~utles now devolving upon
th
ffi
' o course result m abolish"
t h e Inspector; but it would be natural1' .
mg e o ce of
ranks of those who had s r d
I y, m great part, at least, from the
Grand Masters and Deput: ~:an~s L nstcctors that the District Deputy
ec urers would be appointed
The recommendation was referred to th C
.
.
Purposes, and that committee filed
e omm1ttee on Policy and
legislation which fully covered 11 ~hrecommendatory report presenting
a
e amendments necessary to bring

36

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

about the change. Grand Lodge, without an opposing vote, adopted the
report of the Committee on Policy and Purposes and thereafter the Committee on Jurisprudence was directed to pass upon the amendments
submitted. The Jurisprudence Committee filed a report recommending
that the matter be referred to the successors of both committees and that
its consideration be postponed until the next annual Communication.
It appears that no definite action was taken in 1921. Grand Master
Rodden, however, in his message to Grand Lodge, referring to the plan
presented by Grand Master Adams, reported that, with the idea that the
practicability of the plan could best be determined by experience, he had
taken it upon himself to follow it so far as he could within the law; and
had authorized the Inspectors of a few districts where the work had been
impeded by the difficulties of travel or communication to appoint a few
competent men to supervise the esoteric work, leaving the Inspector to
have general supervision of his district; and that the reports had been
most gratifying. He concluded by saying, "Wherever the above plan has
been inaugurated more men have been enlisted in service, new ambitions have been stirred, and the ritualistic work has been improved,
by reason of the immediate and ever-present personal supervision."
Grand Master Reese revived the idea by reporting that his travels
through the Masonic districts of California and his contact with Lodges
and the brethren had convinced him that there wa.s need for representatives of the Grand Master in various sections of the State; and, after
referring to the recommendation made in 1920 and to what had been
said with respect thereto by Grand Master Rodden, expressed himself
as being "satisfied after personal inspection and after conferences with
Inspectors of the State, that the plan is not only practicable but that it
is desirable, and that it will furnish relief in a great measure to the
Grand Master in the discharge of his duties"; and he recommended that
legislation be enacted for the creation of District Deputy Grand :Vfasters.
The Committee on the Message of the Grand Master reported as
follows:
"The Grand Master's recommendations in reference to
district representatives of the Grand Master meet with your Committee's unqualified commendation. We believe that the adoption of his recommendations pertaining to this subject would
not only relieve the Grand Master of a large portion of his ever
increasing duties, but would result in greater proficiency in the
ritualistic work and the standing of our fraternity would be
improved in every district in the jurisdiction.
"Leaders in their communities could be induced to take over
the responsibility of seeing that the Constitution and edicts of
the Grand Lodge are maintained and supported and that the

37

plans promulgated by the Grand Master are carried out. but

t~e. very reason which makes them leaders precludes them 'f
g1v1~~ to the ritualistic work the time it requires . . . rom
We therefore recommend that Grand Lodge at th'
.
adopt ti
d ·
·
is session
1e recommen ations of the Grand Master in regard t th'
matt.er and '.hat the Committee on Jurisprudence, to whicl~ th::
f:rtJ~n of his message is h~reby r:ferred, be requested to submit
this G~and Lodge at this session suitable legislation putting
t he same mto effect.''
I

'The recommendation of the Grand Master was not, however adopted

;ec~use of an adverse report of the Committee on Policy and Purposes.
11

its report that Committee said:
··
"It
·1 ·
appears to us that no persuasive reason exists for cur
ta1 mg the duties of the Inspectors or for establ" h'
f G
is mg a new
~:oup o
rand. Lodge officers. After a more mature considerat nh of '.he sub!ect, we may come to a different conclusion, but
a t e ~1 esent time we are not prepared to concur in the
mendation."
recom-

I ha Ve rehearsed the situation at length in order that Grai1d Lod
as at present constituted, may be fully advised 0 f 1"t
d b
ge,
h
h ·
, an
ecause I
b r
e ieve t at t e time has now arrived when there should be given t; th
matter the further consideration that the Commt"ttee 011 p .
e
po ses m
· t"imate d m1g
· ht ·mduce it to endorse the plan.
o1rcy am1 Pur-

I
I realize, of course, the hesitation with which Grand L 1 .
very proper)
cl
'
o< ge, am
y, a opts any new plan in the place and st . d f
1
established
d
·
l·h
· ca o one ong
.
an agamst w 11c there is no general complaint. Ma, I not
remmd m~ brethren, however, that the condition which confron:
.
s us ts
one of which an exact and definite knowledge is less likelv t
~rand Lodge as a body, or even to a committee, than it is ,to ~h~~::~~
m the performance of their duties observe its actual effect Th
given by my pr d
f
h
· · e reasons
sel
. e ecessors or t e adoption of the plan commended themves to my Judgment. It is, however primarily because of
personal exper·
d. ·
h
'
mv own
ience urmg t e year just past that I now so h~artil
th.e propo~ed ch~nge. Incidentally, it may be said that it is fa~
om be1~g ~11 mnovatmn because similar plans have long bee .
.
in other JUnsdictions.
n 111 use

::vor

t"
Something must be done to relieve the Grand Master of a
of the ev r ·
·
d ·
•
por 1011
e -mcreasm.g uties and complexities of that office, not for his
codmforth and convenience, but for the benefit of the fraternitv and in
or er t at he may more e ff"1c1ent
· 1y d"ischarge those duties which
' <
he
c~n~~t d:Je~te to another. This would be accomplished by the creation
0
istnct eputy Grand Masters who would relieve the Grand Master

·

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of many duties that could be as well performed by them if they posse'l<Sed
the requisite authority. That the ritualistic work would be improved by
the appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers who would have no other
duties, was proven by the experiment made by Grand Master Rodden.
There is a still further benefit that I believe would undoubtedly follow
the creation of the office of District Deputy Grand Master and which
Grand Master Adams had in mind when he said "Tbe creation of that
office would make available the services of some of the ablest and most
influential Masons in the State for whom there is no place under our
present system-they are leaders in the civic life of their communitiesif they have not devoted to Masonry the time and effort they are willing
to expend, it is only because the way has not been pointed out to them."
I therefore recommend the enactment of such legislation as will
provide for the appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers to be appointed
by the Grand Lecturer and under him to have charge of the esoteric
work of the Lodges; and of District Deputy Grand Masters to be
appointed by the Grand, Master to discharge the other duties now devolving upon the Inspectors and such others as may be delegated to them by
the Grand Master, or fixed by Grand Lodge.
George Washington Masonic Memorial
During the last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, Grand
Master Reese presented the following telegram from Past Grand Master
Louis A. Watres, President of the George Washington Memorial
Association:
"The work of the George Washington Masonic National
Memorial Association of erecting at Alexandria, Virginia, a
suitable memorial temple to Washington the Mason, which in
durability and beauty will express the exultant and undying
esteem of the three million Masons in the United States for
him in whose memory it shall stand through the coming years,
is progressing very satisfactorily. The charter of the association is perpetual under the laws of Virginia. Every one of the
forty-nine Masonic jurisdictions have contributed and are contributing to the work. The quota of each jurisdiction is as many
dollars as there are members. At this writing over one million
By the
eight hundred thousand dollars have been paid in.
February meeting construction will have reached the cornice
entirely around the temple. It is most essential that money shall
be received rapidly enough to keep the work constantly going.
"Your good jurisdiction, with 108,000 members, has paid in
eighteen thousand dollars, which includes the recent generous
contribution of your Grand Lodge. It would be a wonderful

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

39

!:s~~:a~~~i:~ryou;

assdociation and to all the brethren, as well as
oar composed of Chief J f
T f
Leonard Wood G ,
r
us ice a t, General
' h O\ ernor ,,ow den, Townsend Scudder Gover
nor Gold b
. d S s oroug , Senator Glass, Senator \.Varren Ad .. -I
Bair
, enator Chamber! . . f
'
m1ra
and mak
d f' .
am, t you would endorse the project
G d r eda e imte recommendation to Grand Lodge and . f
ran ,,o ge would take such t
ha
'
i
brethren of Calif
·
f h
s eps as 5 11 fully inform the
ornia o t e far reach
d d
· ·
of our mighty movement.
an
eep significance
f
"The building of this temple is
ever put forth ·n M
. one 0 the greatest efforts
Masons not on! I
asonr~. It will be the rallying place for
the whole wort; of !he U~rte~ States but_ ev.entually throughout
Under its roof Masonic ideals will flourish
It w1'11 be more .than
a
· 1
·
. .
memoria to \.Vashington: It will be a
m~nu;nent to c1v1l and religious liberty and to a stable an I
ore er Y government. Erected of endurin
.
c
will stand through the ages. It ··11 g material, ou~ temple
\\ r carry to gener~t10ns yet
unborn and to those t
h
0
w. om we may seem an ancient rac
h
c,
t e message of human brotherhood It ·u
but
f If d ·
·
Wt perpetuate the attries o se - emal, patriotism, love of country and of f 11
~en which were exemplified in the life and wo;·k of the e ow
l 1ason, master builder of our nation."
great
N"o action wa s t ak en on tJus
• most important
•
matter.
At the annual communication of 1924 G.1
following resolution. "R 1 d
' and Lodge adopted the
from the fu~ds of this Gresodv~ ,dt 1~at the sum ~f $5,000 be appropriated
.
an ,,o ge as a donat10n to the Ce r
\V h
·
1
that' tTii:e
hereafter for th·15
b.
. .
ppropnat10ns should be made
purpose Y this Grand Lodge."

~:~of~n~lf~:~~~io~ a~1~~a!h~;e~~or;~~t~~~s~ciation,. a~1d

smnasb~

. ~ am firmly convinced that Grand I.odgc
positron taken in 1924 and ive ti .
should reconsider the
which it is entitled so thatg ultim~:cfreat _work t.hc ~inanc!al st1pport to
at least one dolla
b
Y out contnlmtmn will alllount to
r<inance C
. r per mem er, and I earnestly recommend that the
result.
ommittec work out the necessary details to bring about that
Grand Secretary
Like the hour hand of the 1 1 l
,
circuit of his year's work . d
kc oc<, tie (,rand Master makes the
,m ma ·es way for his s
H·
occupancy of subordinate offices fit h.
.
. ucccssor. . is previous
office in the Grand Lodge b t
s mb1, m a m~asure, for the highest
f k
1
, u even at est, one is handicapped b I k
o ·now edge and experience in dealing with the m lt't d'
Y ac
u t u 111ous problems

40

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that confront each succeeding Grand Master. It is then that we get to
appreciate the value of one whose thorough knowledge of all things
pertaining to the Craft, and whose wide experience in remembering
precedents in this and other jurisdictions makes light the work and
enables the Grand Master to say the right word, or do the right thing
at the right time. That my predecessors have spoken in heartfelt and
eulogistic terms of the many qualities of heart and mind of our Grand
Secretary, John vVhicher, does not preclude me from reiterating and
reaffirming those sentiments, for after a year of intimate and constant
contact with him, I can speak of his faithful and efficient cooperatio;
only in the most glowing terms. California Masons have in the person
of their Grand Secretary one who measures up in every way to the
highest demands of his office. The personal qualities of John Whicher
are equally matched by his astounding familiarity with all things pertaining to Masonry and his courtesy, efficiency, ability, and good judgment have endeared him to every Grand officer. He possesses all of
those qualities which go to make up a successful captain of industry or
a leader in every other form of human activity.
The Craft in this jurisdiction should feel honored in having his
valuable services, and I earnestly recommend to the Finance Committee
and Grand Lodge that the compensation of the Grand Secretary be
increased to a figure commensurate with the great work he is now
doing in his dual capacity as Grand Secretary and Secretary of our
Masonic Homes and will be called upon to clo in the future.

Appreciation
To the elective and appointive officers and the various committees
comprising my administration, I owe deep and everlasting thanks which
cannot be expressed in mere words. To my associates, I extend sincere
thanks for their co-operation and for the courtesy and kindness they
have displayed at all times in helping me to carry out the manifold
To mention each by
duties attaching to the office of Grauel Master.
name, as well ·as others who have perfor.med a like service, would be to
compile a roster of the active workers in this Masonic jurisdiction. To
each and every one of them, I gratefully acknowledge the obligation
I am under.
I feel it appropriate, however, to express my appreciation, especially,
of the work done by several of the Grand officers who were so closely
associated with me during the past year.' I have already referred to the
splendid qualities and great service rendered by Grand Secretary Whicher.
I desire, in addition, to especially think Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker,
Grand Marshal Henry G. Mathewson, and Grand Tyler Frank G. Watson.
These brethren have given me of their time and help without stint, and
they have made my work easier in many ways.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

41

Conclusion

. In bringing to a close a year of arduous but happv work I d
with m~~~led feelings .of gratitude and sadness-gratit~de th~t I ~a~~
been privileged to preside over so fine a bodv of men and 5 cl
h
· t'
ff' ·
'
,
a ness t at
my m 1mate o ic1al contact with them is at an ei1d I
I'
· h'
h · h ff·
·
11 re 111qu1s mg
my 1g o ice, I pledge contin:ied support of the principles of ot1r
beloved .Order, and I hope that 111 returning to the ranks I shall still
be permitted to work for the upbuilding and advancement of Masonry.

I n co~c 1us1on,
·
may I offer the prayer of one who labored long and
earnestly m the educational field:
"Let my heart find contentment in my work and give me f 'th ·
the fulfillmei1 t f
ff
'
ai 111
o my e orts. Let my sympathies be universal that I
may deal gently with ignorance and have no scorn for stupidity.' Make
~e content to advocate no creed. Teach me to become as a little child
t tt I may better understand my task. Make me to rejoice in the fancie~
o my youth, that my sympathies may be warm and tender. Let me
understand the rights
of ch t'ldh oo d and at all times
·
.
pay homage to the
G~;den Rule. Give me wisdom to inspire and a warmth of heart that
w1 make th.e world of childhood my friend. Enable me to ·
·
others to their o:"n possibilities. Give me grace to serve, fortit~n;:1~~
endt1re, and a smile that fadeth not in the face of adversitv G ·
faith in h
.t
d h .
•.
ive me
uman1 Y an t us 111 myself, with patience to await the harvest."

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand Master
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

PROCLAMATION
SEVENTH ANNUAL OnsERVANCE PuBLrc ScnooLs \VEEK

To the 1'vfasters, Wardens and Brethren of the
Several Lodges in This Jurisdiction:
The institution of Public Schools Week by the Masons of California
furnished evidence of our belief in, and active championship of, free
public education for all the children of all the people. Its annual observance is now an established policy of Grand Lodge.
The first observance was practically confined to Masons who assembled with their families and friends in meetings held in their Lodge
rooms. The scope gradually broadened; and last year almost everywhere
throughout the entire State, Public Schools \Veek was observed as a
community affair.
As it was last year, the primary objective this year will be to afford
the public in general, and the parents of school children in particular, an
opportunity to become informed with respect to certain phases of our
public school system that are being discussed and criticized. They will
thus be enabled to determine for themselves whether or not the criticism
is warranted; and if it is, how the defects may be remedied.
Kow therefore, I, Albert E. Boynton, Grand Master of Masons in
the Jurisdiction of California, do now designate and appoint the week
commencing Monday, April 26, 1926, for the Seventh Annual Observance
of Public Schools Week in the Masonic Lodges in this Jurisdiction; and
I do now request and direct that during that week there be held in every
community in California in which there exists a Masonic Lodge at least
one public meeting (and more if practicable), through which the people
of that community may have their attention directed to matters that
vitally affect our public schools.
It is likewise my request and direction that wherever practicable,
the meetings be held in the auditoriums of public schools; and that all
local organizations interested in civic work be urged to co-operate with
the idea and purpose of making the meetings public in every sense of
the word.
A Bulletin containing suggestions for arranging and conducting
meetings and with respect to the nature of the program desired will be

GRAND LODGE OF CALIJ)'OHNIA

43

i.~sued by the General Committee.
Every Mason, however, is hereby
directed to immediately fix a date for a meeting to be held during that
week, and to hold no other meeting or entertainment of any sort that
might interfere with the proper observance of Public Schools Week; and
our Inspectors are requested to give to the Lodges in their districts the
fullest co-operation and assistance.
Dated at San Francisco this 12th day of February, 1926.
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Gratid Afaster;.
i\ ttest :
JoHN WHJCHER, Grand Secretary.

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand Master
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

San Francisco, ~farch 11, 1926.
To Inspectors of the Jurisdiction:
The primary responsibility for the success of Public Schools Week
of course rests on the Masters of the Lodges; but they should have the
active co-operation of the Inspectors. Jt would materially aid the Committee if they could look to the Inspectors for assurance that the necessary arrangements were being made hy all the Masters of Lodges in
their districts.
The Masters will endeavor to secure their own speakers; but if
unable to do so, they will communicate with their Inspector, and he
should make an effort to secure a speaker before making application to
the Committee. There are few communities in which a qualified speaker
cannot be secured from among the school men and women; and in many
communities there will be found men (or perhaps women) who, although
without any special knowledge of the subject, may readily qualify themselves with the Bulletin for Speakers that will he issued by the Committee and which may be had on application to the Secretary, Bro.
Vaughan MacCaughey, No. 930 Phelan Building, San Francisco.
Herewith enclosed you will receive a copy of the Bulletin Containing
Suggestions for Arranging and Conducting Meetings. Please read it
carefully, and assure yourself by inquiry of the Masters of the Lodges
in your district that they are making· their arrangements in consonance
therewith.
I should like to have a report from yon not later than the 1st day
of April, 1926, advising me of what has heen clone in your district for
the proper observance of Public Schools ·week.
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand Master.

44

PROCF~EDING8

OF THE

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand ,"tfaster
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

To the llllasters of the Several Lodges of This Jurisdiction:
One of the splendid accomplishments at the last Stated Communication of Grand Lodge was the adoption of the report of our Educational
Committee and the authorization of a similar Committee for this year,
together with the necessary appropriation for the carrying on of its work.
Tbat Committee is now well organized and has commenced to function. Its membership is as follows:
Irving Magnes, Chairman, 514 Easton Building, Oakland; ]. Karl
Lobdell, Vice-Chairman, 819 Hellman Bank Building, Los Angeles;
Charles H. Adams, Oakland; James B. Giffen, Sacramento; A. F. Heuer,
San Francisco; Maj. W. S. Overton, Piedmont; Alexander M. Cuthbertson, Redwood City; George B. Morgridge, Sierra Madre; Judge Ira
F. Thompson, Los Angeles; Cyrus Field Willard, San Diego; A. Huber
Winder, Riverside; Walter K. Tulter, Los Angeles.
Perhaps all of these brethren are well known to most of you, at least
in the respective districts in which they reside. Many of them paid
visits to various of the Lodges throughout the State last year in furtherance of the work of the Committee. Suffice it to say that they are deeply
interested in the work at hand and are anxious to lend every assistance
and support in bringing it to a successful fruition.
After a careful canvass, the Committee recommended the appointment of Brother Reynold E. Blight, 706 Stock Exchange Building, Los
Angeles, as the Executive Director for our Educational work. This
recommendation met with my hearty approval. Brother Blight could
hardly have been more highly recommended for this position than he
was. His Masonic experience is complete. He has been engaged in one
form or another of Masonic endeavor practically all his life. Moreover,
he comes to us with a record of both general and Masonic education and
study which well qualifies him for the work. He has been organizing
the program during the past several weeks and is now ready to present
it to you for your use.
I feel that if the program of our Educational Committee under the
direction of Brother Blight is put in operation in all the Lodges of our
jurisdiction, a long step forward will have been taken in California
Masonry.
I therefore urge that yon offer the Committee your whole-souled
co-operation by lending every assistance possible. I suggest that you
immediately select from your membership some brother who you know
is interested in our work and appoint him Chairman of your local Educa-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

45

Ilona! Committee. You and he should then appoint as many other members
us you deem advisable. The Chairman should be held responsible for
I he work in your Lodge and should be the member who will be in contact
with the Grand Lodge Committee. He should preferably be a brother
who can serve for several successive years in order that he may become
more efficient by experience. I further suggest that when your Lodge
t 'ommittee presents material for the use of your Lodge that you use it
am! let the Grand Lodge Committee have the benefit of your observation as to its results. I also suggest that you calt on the Grand Lodge
( :ommittee for all the assistance you may desire in the matter of
speakers, program arrangements, answers to questions and such general
i11 formation as you may not be enabled to acquire yourself, it being the
function of that Committee to fill such demands.
You will shortly receive a letter from Brother Blight outlining the
work and advising you what he has ready for you, and I cordially
request that you take up the subject matter thereof upon its receipt.
I am much interested in the success of the plan. It is laying the
foundation for a generation of Masons who will have more knowledge
to work with than did you or I. If we do not experience the immediate
results from this plan of work it does not mean that it is of no value;
on the contrary we are pioneering in a field of endeavor that has long
appeared necessary; we are now on the threshold of it. Let us extend
t•very effort toward its success.
Dated at San Francisco this 18th day of February, 1926.
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
ALBERT E. BoYNTON, Grand Ii-foster.

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand .~faster
SAN FRAXCISCO, CALJFORNIA

May 1, 1926.
/!car Brother Inspector:
It has been a custom, inaugurated by my predecessors and conformahly to the provisions of Section 56 of the Constitution, to request annual
reports from Inspectors in the form of answers to a questionnaire.
Conditions now suggest to me the desirahility of asking Inspectors
tn report in their own way and on matters which to them should enlist
the attention of the Grand Master and the Grand Lodge.
'Nill you therefore please write to me and very frankly express your
views on any matters which in your judgment should be the subject of

46

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

special inquiry, or correction, or commendation. I will particularly
welcome any remarks concerning the work of our Committee on ~fasonic
E~u.cation, and also whether your Lodges are diligent in conforming in
spmt as well as letter, to the provisions of Regulation 110, which requires
the appointment of a Committee on delinquent members.
With every good wish, I am

wht'cl was used to further the sale of the tickets. I have advised the
Master of the Lodge who called the matter to my attention, that he should
clircct the Masons who thus violated the laws of Masonry and of California. to return to the buyers all moneys paid for such tickets, failing
in which charges of unmasonic conduct should be preferred against them.
( )ur brethren who are members of other organizations are not by reason
of such other relation released from their obligations as Masons, nor are
thl'Y thereby absolved from any violation of the moral or statute law.
Conducting a lottery is gambling, and is forbidden by the penal laws
of our State, and of course is opposed to the law of Masonry. In order
that our brethren may know the State law relating to the selling of
tickets for chance, I here quote Section 319 of the Penal Code of
California:
"A lottery is any scheme for the disposal or distribution of property
hy chance, among persons who have paid or promised to pay any valuable
consideration for the chance of obtaining such property or a portion of
it, or for any share or any interest in such property, upon any agreement,
understanding, or expectation that it is to be distributed or disposed of by
lot or chance, whether called a lottery, raffle, or gift enterprise, or by
whatever name the same may be known."
The punishment prescribed by law for violation of the above provision is imprisonment in a county jail not exceeding six months, or by
a fine not exceeding five hundred dollars, or by both.
Your Grand Master has only the kindest feelings of friendship
toward other organizations made up of members of our Craft. Many it
not all such societies are doing good and assisting to a large degree in
raising the standard of citizenship and ameliorating the distresses of the
poor. But I insist that Masons must observe the laws of the land
and the laws of Masonry, whether operating under the guise of membership in other organizations or not.
The Old Charges of a Freemason say that "A Mason is obliged by
his tenure to obey the moral law," and a resolution adopted by our own
Grand Lodge states clearly and boldly that "the stern morality of
Masonry is practicable."
We make no pretense of controlling or attempting to control any
other organization, but we do have full penal jurisdiction over all Masons
within the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California, whether
affiliated here or elsewhere, and in the exercise of such control I now
declare and order that from and after this date, any Master Mason who
conducts a lottery or sells tickets or chances in contravention of Section
319 of the Penal Code of California, or who otherwise violates the laws
of the land or of Masonry, shall be charged with unmasonic conduct by

Sincerely and fraternally yours,
ALBERT EUGENE BOYNTON, Grand Master.

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand Master
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

May 28, 1926.
To All Masons in the Jurisdiction Wheresoever Affiliated:
Your Grand Master has received many complaints that members of
o~r . Fraternity engage in the conduct of circuses, carnivals, Sunday
p1c111cs and other forms of amusement, in which games of chance raffles
and kindred diversions are employed for entertainment purposes ~nd for
raising funds.
Protests have also come to the Grand Master from
Masters of Lodges and from brethren, relating to the misuse of the word
"Mason" and "Masonic" for purposes of personal gain. Insurance companies professing to insure "Masons" only and conducted without profitmerely for the purpose of doing good !-have solicitors in our jurisdiction
who make it their particular business to select newly-made Masons for
their specious line of argument concerning the duty of the member to
carry life insurance in a company which insures Masons only· and either
directly or by inference gives the "prospect" to understa~d that the
corporation is established solely on altruistic lines and with the moral if
not financial indorsement of the Fraternity. Some of the more zealous
agents even go so far as to solicit insurance from men who have only
received one degree in Masonry.
All these are in contravention of the spirit and some of them of the
law of Masonry, and should not be countenanced by members of our
Craft.
I have recently been informed that a group of Masons, as members
of an organization which requires membership in a Masonic Lodge as
a prerequisite to membership therein, had entered into an engagement to
sell chance subscriptions on an automobile to procure funds to meet the
expenses of a coming convention of said organization, and that a roulette

47

48

PROCEEDINGS OF THB

the proper officer of the Lodge having jurisdiction, a just and fair trial
given, and upon conviction, full and adequate punishment, in good faith.
shall be inflicted.
Let this Order be read in every Lodge in the jurisdiction and a copy
be posted in the ante-room.
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand i\:fasler.
Attest (SEAL) :
JoHN \VHicHER, Grand Si!crelary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

Report of Experts
'/'o the Finance Committl!e of Grand Lodge

Tn accordance with your authorization we have made an examination
of the financial records of the Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Grand J1aster
SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

COMMITTEE ON TUBERCULOSIS
San Francisco, June 26, 1926.
To Masters of Lodges and Boards of Relief:
Sponsored by the Grand Lodge of New Mexico, the National
Masonic Tuberculosis Sanatoria Association has been incorporated, having for its object ''To disseminate among the Freemasons of America,
and their families and others, scientific knowledge and useful information
as to the causes and methods of treatment for the prevention, relief and
cure of tuberculosis." The co-operation of the Masons of California has
been requested.
In order that we may know with some degree of exactness the
actual conditions relating to the subject in our jurisdiction, and for the
purpose of informing our brethren, I have appointed a Special Committee
to investigate and report what, if anything, should or may be done by
the Masons of California along the lines suggested by the national association. This Committee consists of Past Grand Masters William P.
Filmer and David J. Reese, and the President of the Board of Trustees
of our Masonic Homes, \Vorshipful Brother Charles M. Wollenberg,
who will report their findings and conclusions at the next annual communication of Grand Lodge.
The questionnaires inclosed have been approved by me, and Masters
of Lodges and Boards of Relief are requested to give heed to them
and return their answers to the Committee before August 10.
Fraternally yours,
ArJlERT E. BOYNTON, Grand Master.

d11ring the fiscal year ended July 31, 1926, and present herewith the
frollowing exhibits:

I. Grand Treasurer's report of cash receipts and disbursements for
the fiscal year, and schedule of assets.as at July 31, 1926;

2. Grand Secretary's report of cash receipts and disbursements fot
!lie !]seal year, General Fund;

3. Cash receipts, Masonic Homes ;
4. Emergency Relief Fund.
We certify that, in our opinion, the finances of the Grand Lodge
have been properly accounted for during the fiscal year ended July 31
1926, and that the attached statements are correct.

RucKsTELL & LANll,
Certified Public A cco1mtmit.1
/!y FLOYD T. WEBB.

Cash balance on hand, July 31, 1925
Receipts
Crand Secretary .................................. ..
Bank interest ........................................ ..
rnterest on public utility bonds ........... .
Interest on Liberty Loan bonds ......... .

$ 43,289.46
$157,279.16
' 1,228.17
3,620.00
1,139.00

Total receipts ................................. .

163,266.33

Total to account for. .....................

$206,555.79

50

$4,000 California Oregon Power Co., SY,o/o _______ _
$4,000 Great Western Power Co., SY,o/o ___________ _
$4,000 Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Co., SY,% ....... .

Disbursements
Grand Secretary's warrants ... ------------Advance to Masonic Homes of
California -------------------------------------------Securities purchased :
Masonic Temple Association
stock --------------·----------------------------------· $20,800.00
$4,000 Southern California Edison
Co. bonds ---------------------------------------·
4,0S0.00
$4,000 California Oregon Power
bonds -----------------------------------------------3,970.00
$4,000 Great Western Power
3,9S0.00
Co. bonds ---------------------------------------$4,000 Pacific Gas & Electric
4,040.00
bonds -----·-----------------------------------------$4,000 Los Angeles Gas &
3,93S.OO
Electric Co. bonds -----------------------2S0.09
Brokerage and accrued interest _____ _

$137,713.68
20,000.00

3,970.00
3,9SO.OO
3,93S.OO

7S,830.00

1st Liberty Loan converted, 4 174/.4 o/o ________________________ $ 100000
,
.
2nd Liberty Loan converted, 4~ %------------------------ 10,SOO.OO
4th Liberty Loan, 4~ %-------------------------------·-------·---· lS,300.00

26,800.00

l T. S. Liberty Loan bonds at par:

Masonic Temple Association stock
A(lvance to Masonic Homes __________ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

S68,300.00
10,000.00
$688,777.02

Total assets
CAPITAL ACCOUNT

I!;dance July 31, l 92S ____________________________________________________ $688,474.46
Increase to July 31, 1926______________________________________________
302.S6
40,99S.09

Total, as above ______ _

$688,777.02

$198,708.77

Total disbursements ---------------------Cash balance on hand, July 31, 1926:
San Francisco Savings & Loan
Society ·------------------------------------------Union Trust Co .. --------------------------------Crocker National Bank. __________________ _

51

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

WILLIAM

$

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

962.42
2,311.66
4,S72.94 $

7,847.02

$

7,847.02

ASSETS

Cash ·---·----------------------------------------------------------------------------Public utility bonds at cost :
$7,000 Blue Lake Water Co., 6%.-----------------------$
$6,000 Southern Pacific Co., 4% ... ------------------------·
$9,000 Calif. Gas & Elec. Corp., S%------------------··
$8,000 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., So/o ... ------------------$2,000 Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Co., So/o _____________ _
$S,OOO Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Co., 6% .. -----------$S,OOO Southern Pacific Edison Co., S%---·-------·
$4,000 Southern Calif. Edison Co., SY,% .. -----------$S,OOO Southern Calif. Gas Co., SY,%.--------------·-$S,OOO Pacific Gas & Elec. Co., S0%-----------------$S,OOO Pacific Gas & Elec. Co., So/o ... ------------------$4,000 Pacific Gas & Elec. Co., Sy;!% ..................

7,700.00
S,S80.00
8,SS0.00
8,000.00
1,860.00
S,068.7S
4,712.SO
4,0S0.00
4,787.SO
4,906.2S
4,720.00
4,040.00

P. FILMER, Grand Treasurer.

52

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE 0.B' CALIFORNIA

Suspensions and Restorations

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
In the providence of God I am permitted to present to you my
nineteenth annual report of the transactions of the Grand Secretary's
office, with an account of all moneys received and a summary of disbursements, together with all unfinished business. A detailed and
itemized statement of the disbursements of Grand Lodge has been
submitted to the Committee on Finance as required by the Constitution. I also append, merely for your information an account of receipts subsequent to the close of the fiscal year, July 31, 1926, to and
including October 5.
Membership
The membership of chartered Lodges as of July 31, 1925, was
114,555; Lodges under dispensation, reporting October 1, 1925, gave 962
additional members, the total membership then being 115,517. Chartered
Lodges this year show a membership of 121,656, and Lodges under dispensation report a membership of 756, the total being 122,412, a net gain
for the year of 6,895.
The total number of Lodges chartered and constituted since the
organization of Grand Lodge is 627. By consolidation and surrender of
charters 98 Lodges have been listed as extinct and our last number is now
529. If the twenty-two Lodges now working under dispensation are
granted charten at this communication, we will have 551 going Lodges
on our registry. The table following may be of interest:

1918
Lodges organized..................................................
4
Initiations reported.............................................. 4,890
Passed .................................................................... 4,677
Raised .................................................................... 4,551
Affiliated ..............................................................
930
Reinstated ............................................................
245
Withdrawn ..........................................................
725
Suspended non-payment of dues......................
609
Deaths reported....................................................
810
Exempt from dues.............................................. 3,690
Number members October !.................
. 63,936
Increase over previous year.............................. 3,593

1922
26
8,348
8.510
8,771
1,586
210
1,481
467
1,044
639
93,179
7,998

53

1926
22
8,102
8,165
8,147
1,870
222
1,719
982
1,255
844
122,412
6,895

In the matter of yearly growth, California stands third in all
the jurisdictions of the world, Illinois being first and New York
second.

In the last fifteen years our Lodges have suspended for non1111.vmt·nt of dues, 8918 members, and 3021 have been restored. Taking
11f rand0111 the reports of thirty Lodges for the year ending Jul. 31
_1•1211, I find that 432 were suspended and 160 restored. For all Lo~~e~
111 I'J26, ~82 were suspended and 222 restored. The previous year's
!'!'ports disclosed that 818 were suspended and 222 restored. It is
Inn apparent that Lodges are failing in their duty and that much of
th1·ir clegree work is for naught.

Arcadia Lodge
\Vhen the charter for Arcadia Lodge, Ko. 547, was granted
( '_!'fol_>er 11, 1923, it :was by ~greement with Monrovia Lodge, No. 308:
I'' rm1tted to meet m the city of Monrovia pending a time when a
s1111able hall .should be provided in Arcadia. In March, 1926, satisl:11:tory s.howmg was made that a hall had been erected in Arcadia
s111tab~ 1~ all re.spects for Masonic purposes, and the Grand Maste;
or'. ~re t at an mdorsement be made by the Grand Secretary on the
11
ng1~al charter of Arcadia Lodge, No. 547, defining its place of
n:e:tmg_ a~d exclusive territorial jurisdiction as being within the mu111c1pal limits of the city of Arcadia.
Consolidation of Lodges
.

The Grand Master approved the proceedings for the consolida-

t 1011 o'. Kennett Lodge, Ko. 456, with Reading Lodge, No. 254, the

eonsohdated Lodge to be known as Reading Lodge, No. 254, approved December 19, 1925; Jefferson Lodge, No. 97, with Forhestown Lodge, No. SO. to be known as Forbestown Lodge, Ko. SO.
Approved July 19, 1926.
Aprons for Past Grand Masters
Pursuant to the orders of Grand Lodge as adopted last year I
caused t? ~e made suitable aprons for all living Past Grand Masters. Comcrdent with their mailing I took occasion to write to each
of these distinguished brethren a letter, in which was expressed the
hope th~t h_e would wear it with pleasure and proper pride at all
commurncat1ons of Grand Lodge and at all Lodge functions whereat
lie may be a_ gu~st, an'.! that he would live yet many years to grace
nnr commun1cat10ns with his presence and counsel.
Certificates for Masters and Past Masters
Last year Grand Lodge adopted a resolution directing the Grand
Secretary to "issue to any Master of a Lodge a certificate . . .

54

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

cedfying that such brother is Master of a Lodge, giving its name
and number and the period for which he has been installed; and any
Past Master may have issued to him a similar certificate showing
his period of service as Master of any Lodge in this jurisdiction."
Pursuant to this resolution I prepared forms of certificates and
mailed one to each Master in the jurisdiction, without fee. The Committee on Accounts was of the opinion that the cost of the certificate was so small that Grand Lodge could afford to absorb it. The
certificates for Past Masters were also prepared and issued on requests of Secretaries. The body of the certificate is 8~ by 11;4 inches,
on pure linen paper 14 by 17 inches, leaving ample white margin
for framing. A facsimile of the certificate is herewith shown. By the
close of the fiscal year 1417 Past Master's certificates had been
issued.

55

56

57

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Representatives Appointed

Virlorville, Victorville, San Bernardino County. Dispensation
Murt'.11 11, 1926. Edward Henry \Villiams, Master; Melvin Merrill
lll11ek and William Franklin McEwen, Wardens; and James Hubert
S111ilh, Willard E. Robinson, Frank 'White McCorkle, Ralph Hough
Wehh, Clarence Simmons Crain, Guy Alfred Marsh, Rollie William
I '1111r;ul, Robert Martin Willson, Hugh Henry Sharon, \Villiam
Frn11kli11 McEwen, Kenneth Leonard Taylor, Claude John Goodrich,
Fri•clerick William Lang, \:Villiam E. Bell, Jesse Ross Damaree, Ray111ond F. Foster, Fred Peterson, \Valter Allen Rankin, Cllfford
Marion 7'.1oon, \Vatter Gustav Robert, John S. Garrison, Samuel
I I 1·nry Goodman and Sam B. Stevens.
Riverside, Riverside. Dispensation March 20, 1926. William
I ',vrus Gunnerson, Master; Henry \Vilson Coil and Guy Sylvester
11 arts, Wardens; and Raymond Treat Sullivan, Andrew Watson
\Vude, John Henry Prater, Jesse \Villiam McLean, Raymond Philip
;\Jlt·ti, Claude T. Chamberlain, Fred Lee McEwen, Richard Kay
I 'raig, James Bernard McElroy, Roy Wilson Ashbrook, Hilman Roland Alrick, William Burdick Wells, Lewis Edwin MacEwen,
1 ·1iarlcs Rupert Dyer, Horace Thomas Roberts, Elmer Albert HendC"rson, James Neal Thrasher, \Villiam Fred Bauer, Arthur Leonard
l lolmcs, Frederick John Fleischer, and Chester Charley Savage.
John Marshall, Los Angeles. Dispensation March 27, 1926. David
Walter Noble, Master; Joseph Raymond Perry and George Leroy
Schmutz, Wardens; and Clyde Boise Austin, Otis Abel Blethen,
John Allen Cameron, Thomas Campbell, Warren Truman Hull,
.I l'sse Lee Hartley, Harris Olie Hatlestad, Edward Earle Henderson,
Clement Bayless Hill, Leonard Hohl, Arthur \Vellington, Ingram,
I '.onrad Gustinus Kins tad, Kenneth Kerr Knapp, William Dominick
I .arrabee, \Villiam Hugh Ledgerwood, Atwill Thomas Morgan, Lee
Murphey, Robert Frederick John Olfinger, Joseph Raymond Perry,
Lewis Clark Poor, Clarence Walter Reid, Fred Arnold Robinson,
Elmer Elsworth Smith.
Palisades, Santa ~1onica, Los Angeles County. Dispensation
April 10, 1926. Ira Danford Wheeler, Master; George Robert Kingdon and Claude Charles Crawford, Wardens; and George '\Villiam
Bachmann, Floyd William Marshall, Frank Marion McBurney,
Charles Atkinson McFadden, Arthur C. Moffatt, Charles Herbert
Richmond, Harry Herman Wetzel, Mearle William Wilkinson, John
Andrew Jackson, \:Villiam Leonard Blanchard, Frederick John
Cross, Frank E. Duna, Clyde Everett Ellis, Otto Jacob Fehling, Harold Franklin Foell, Leland Merritt Ford, Eugene Franklin Gates,
Harvey August Hilderbrandt, Fred Wesley Kasi, John Nellis Kennedy, Henry Edwin Pasek and Hugh Dye Palmer.

May 26, 1926, to G. Layton Grier as our Representative near
the Grand Lodge of Delaware.
New Lodges Formed
There are now 23 Lodges working unqer dispensations issued by the
Grand Master, as follows:
Beacon of the West, Los Angeles. Dispensation December 18,
1924. (Members listed in 1925 Proceedings.)
Fairview, Inglewood, Los Angeles County. Dispensation October 2, 1925. (Members listed in 1925 Proceedings.)
Ingleside, San Francisco. Dispensation October 5, 1925. (Members listed in 1925 Proceedings.)
Benevolence, Los Angeles. Dispensatiori November 18, 1925. Otto
Henry Jaroch, Master; Otto Gates Stowell and Benjamin Mathewson Black, Wardens; and Lynden Ellsworth Behymer, Wesley Cunningham, John Stewart Daggett, George \Valter Dale, David Oliver
Davis, John Stanley Doork, Frederick Jabez Griffin, Walter Sylvester Hertzog, Otto Henry Jaroch, Philip Lorenzo Johnson, Carl
Klemp, Harry Alvin Morgan, Joseph Musgrove, Guy Charles Primmer, Samuel Jack Rosenberg, Otto Gates Stowell, Paul Dewey
Tarr, Louis George Wagner, John William Woolard.
Normal Heights, San Diego. Dispensation February 3, 1926.
George Carman Van Marter, Mastei:; Percival Cornelius Wilson and
Fred Edward Griesemer, Wardens; and Charles Logan Reasoner,
Frank Evamont Hungate, \Villiam Henry Cervin Schutte, Frank Ellis
Mohler, Robert Anthony McBurnie, Harry Hubbard \Vilder, James
Loren Kallam, \lVilliam Livermore White, Clyde Newton Harmer,
Ralph Viard Ellis, William Henry Washington, Porter William Pemberton, Harland LeRoy Dussell, Joseph Emmor Peairs, Raymond
Columbus Heuler, William Kenneth Ray, Phillip Henry Smith, Carl
E. Dewey, Walter Eugene Hannah, James Alexander Montgomery,
Rea Farnell Stetson, and Albert Clifton O'N eall.
Poinsettia, San Buenaventura, Ventura County. Dispensation
March 1, 1926. Louis Claude Drapeau, Master; and Conley Louis
La Force and Cassie Dot Starnes, Wardens; and Arthur Thomas
Mead, Edwin Earl Beabout, Ernest Clare Culbertson, John Robb
Church, Chester William Inman, Angus Robert Calder, LeRoy T.
Mcintyre, Walter Norman Frank, Daniel Martin Bernt, Jr., Edgar
G. Hull, \Valter Rae Beene, Albert Hugh Jones, Frederick Lowe,
Robert Lindsay Georgeson, Earl Wilder Edson, Edwin S. Cole,
William Harold Glover, Hyman Shipman, Zeb Allen Dyer, and ·winfield Varcoe Scott.

58

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

Indian Rock, Berkeley, Alameda County. Dispensation April
12, 1926. George Henry Senger, Master; Arthur Nels on Hall and
Frederick Tyler Herrick, Wardens; and William Theodore Jenkins,
Oney McCutchan Nicely, Charles Alexander Turner, William Watts,
Walter Jennings Dodge, Walter Philip Ballard, Harry William Carlson, Roy Edward Collom, Charles Harold Webber, Theodore Edward Glazier, Lucius Allen Ashley, Edward August Nickel, Harold
Friedley Trunk, Arthur Bisbee, Davidson, Carroll Thomas Blanck,
Charles Clarence Charles, John Ritchie McKee, Harold Richardson
Hackett, Frank George Duttle, James Tobias Forster, and Randall
Hershey Hepfer.
Composite Lodge, Los Angeles. Dispensation April 23, 1926.
William Herman Schrey, Master; James Walter Milaw and Louis
Merton Bloch, Wardens; Samuel S. Adler, Harry Jacob Bilkiss,
Louis Merton Bloch, Alfred Oliver Buckingham, Charles Ehrlich,
Hugo Freed, Nathan Abram Friedman, Ben Goldstein, Abraham
Henry Horwitz, Nathan Nathaniel Jaffe, Benjamin Edward Karon,
David Kleinman, Henry Michel, James Walter Milaw, Joseph Phillips, Jacob Harry Pine, William Herman Schrey, Morris Silver,
Joseph Max Wapner, Joseph Finkelberg.
Veritas Lodge, San Francisco. Dispensation May 14, 1926. Washington Irving Kohnke, Master; Percy Archibald Millar, and Preston
Wallace King, Wardens; and Louis Theodore Cranz, Leonard Sumner Leavy, Hiram Morse Ogden, John F. Krayenbuhl, Thomas
Edward Shumate, Samuel William Means, Edward Washington Bender, Shelby Phipps Strange, Adolph James Kahn, Ira Henry Larsen, Frederick William Roth, Thomas Arthur Allan, Edward Chas.
Fabre-Rajotte, Rufus Lee Rigdon, Fred Andrews Burgess, Kenneth
Marsh Brown, John Henry Thiel er, Gilbert Michael Barrett, William
Gladstone Merchant, Fred C. Bense, Seth H. King, Willard S. Beach.
James A. Foshay Lodge, Los Angeles. Dispensation May 24,
1926. Henry P. Starbuck, Master; Ernest L. Riley and V. C. Wear,
Wardens; and Benjamin A. Coates, Harry Oswald Comstock, William Henry Gribble, Frank Raymond Gellenbeck, Lee Eugene
Greene, Otto Julius Hoog, James Jay Jerome, Ernest Bruno Leidholt, William Harold McKinsey, Thomas Griswald Miller, Samuel
Lemuel Nichols, Theodore Roosevelt Pfalsgraf, Roscoe Henry Pfeifer, Ernest Leon Riley, Curtis Nye Rinehart, Mills Donald Shortz,
Tyler Thomas Smith, Wesley James Schneider, Jam es Trcvolyn
Tingley, James Titus Warner, Andrew Wistrand.
La Cumbre Lodge, Santa Barbara. Dispensation May 25, 1926.
William Wallace McKee, Master; Arthur Judson Young and Charles
Ellsworth Kenyon, Wardens; and John Merton Moore, William Carl

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

59

l'nttison, Leonard Cromwell Miles, Ward Johnston, Melvin Edward

11 11 wman, James Thomas Laughlin, Floyd Eugene Shaw, Henry
l'n·dcrick Thiem, Philip John Lucking, Anson Clayton ldleman,
1larry Walter Fell, Daniel Roy Wagner, Clyde Burton Rizor, John
( "ritlcnden Grim Earl Charles Franklin, Frank D. Kraft, Harry
l\risch, Daniel William Beisell, Wistar Durwart Hays, Charles Wil~1111 Blair, Edward Holt and Archibald Campbell McKellar.
Alta Loma Lodge, Signal Hill, Los Angeles County. Dispensati1111 June 8, 1926. Lester Lloyd Krepps, Master; Arthur William
I 'i·ase and Alfred Grogson Peet, Wardens; and Arthur Lemon Arn11ld, Lewis Karl Bergloff, Stephen Ezra Miller, James Franklin
West, Thomas Nepolien Nelson, William Walter Wilson, Wesley
Mitchell Stevens, Christian Kesselring, Frank Lee Birdsey, Chester
Arthur Salter, Ray Jackson Miller, John P. Burgher, Ira Arthur
llatien, Stanley Coates, Melville Richards Alcott, Walter Bertram
Scott, John Cowan Ort, Jr., Carroll Benjamin Waite and Arthur A.
l,udwig.
Lomita Lodge, Lomita, Los Angeles County. Dispensation June
28, 1926. Oscar William Thistle, Master; and John Roy Winters
and John Glen Wilson, Wardens; and Barron Archer Beckham, Andrew Edwin Perkins, Thomas Sidebotham, William Stevens King,
Arthur Garfield Plumb, Edgar Shaw Harvey, Leslie Maur McClary, Alfred Moore McDonald, Norman Percy Herr, Tom Willacy,
Frank Leland, George M. Trips, Leroy Cox, William J. Sager,
Claudms Preston Roberts, George Warren Towne, Jay William
Barnes, Frank Laski, Chas. Greig, Chas. Luther Morris, Ernest
William Brumpton, Llewellyn J. Hunter.
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge, San Pedro, Los Angeles County. Dispensation July 8, 1926. Claiborne W. Puckett, Master; and Fred W.
Smith and Samuel M. Law, vVardens; and Elmer Andrew Journey,
Roy William Stratton, Albert Sherman Mason, Karl Jennings Caldwell, Harry A. Hansen, Abraham S. Barkey, James M. McGuigg,
Louis J. Harris, Harry H. Well, Arthur Eugene Genter, James A.
Simmons, William Logan Boyd, Charles J. Genter, Harry H. Morehead, Thomas Anderson Stirling, Alfred C. Clark, Louis B. Butterfield and Harry E. Wright.
Metropolitan Lodge, Los Angeles. Dispensation July 14, 1926.
Chester Marston Glass, Master; and John Randolph Burgess and
Fred Richard Hill, Wardens; and Harry A. Huntoon, William T.
Lindstrom, Creed Fulton Moore, James Grainger, Frederick William
Riler Charles Willard Lindsay, John Randolph Chambers, George
Eise~, Andrew Maselle, Leonard Griffin, Arthur Lenox Long, Robert Crowder Winn, Richard Charles Glass, Edward Dean Monroe,
Fred Richard Hill, Louis A. White, and Joseph William Fonte.

60

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Hawthorne Lodge, Hawthorne, Los Angeles County. Dispensation July 15, 1926. Jerome Bert Combs, Master; and Lee Freeman
Miller and Oscar Francis Munson, Wardens; and Ashely J. McGee,
William Graham Dreisbach, Philip Henry Judd, Clyde James Loring, Earl Russell Forsberg, Lawrence McLean, Joseph Washington
Morris, Edward Jones Parker, Carl \Vebb Faucett, Wells Osborn
Abbott, Edward Melvin Sholl, Charles Edward Stevens, Jesse Earl
Briley, James Loughridge, Roy Francisco, Franc Alley, William
Julius Kaiser, Lawrence Weishaar, Raymond Ver Umsted, Evan
Lewis James, Bert William Frazey and Ewald Mallard.
Damascus, San Bernardino. Dispensation July 30, 1926. Thomas
Rockwell Brown, Master; Thomas Roy Hartle and Richard
::\ edderson, Wardens; and George R. Bartram, Robert R. Eby, Gilbert E. Gunnett, Harry S. Hill, William R. Johnson, Harry Vv.
Stahl, James D. Palmer, Jacob Lax, Lorenzo C. Close, Harry \Villiam Haynes, Guy Edwin Tullis, Ray N. Halsey, Edward C. Sherer,
Allen R. Drake, Fred W. Mosher, Fred C. Baer, William D. Yancy,
Emmett A. Anderson, W. C. Bateman, and J. P. Kemmerer.
Florence, Florence, Los Angeles County. Dispensation August.
9, 1926. Lee Sheldon Pratt, Master; Frank Hoyt Beeson and Alfred
Edward Gorton, Wardens; and Thomas Henry Gray, Adam Henry
Maud, James E. Ferris, Wilfrid Barlow, Cornelius Ross, Raymond
Chester Menker, George Eugene Davis, Claud Howdeshelt, William
Sharp, Frank \Vebster Wickham, William Earl Schaller, James August Finch, \Villiam \Vallace Johnson, \Villiam Otto Hansen, John
Baker \Veaver, Albert Parsons Radich, Charles Clayton Tranger
George Frederic Barbour, Clay Mendenhall, \Villiam Albert Glas~
son, and Milton Adelbert Finch.
La Brea Lodge, Los Angeles. Dispensation issued October 5, 1926.
William Thomas Wheeling, Master; Brothers William Horatio Parcels
and Roy Lyon Haslett, Wardens; and Clyde Curtins Caillet, Anthony
Conrad Paguet Zeuner, William Henry Barker, Philip Kalich, Edwin
Jackson Meister, William Wallace \Vedding, Russell Lawrence Ray,
Harold Caywood Hall, Fred Perry Lowe, Floyd Herbert Fruehling, Frank
Hanson Schepler, Albert Lee Wilson, John Samuel Holmes, Ben Arthur
Burton, Zellner Oakes Hart, William Mellenthies, Ross Henry Quimby,
Roy Cassell Burton, Abraham Solomon Allen, Horace Jarvis Bortos,
Franklin E. Horne, Jay Otis Burnett.

Degrees by Courtesy
As usual, and not for the best interests of Masonry, but rather
for the convenience of candidates, degrees have been conferred as a
courtesy to California Lodges by other jurisdictions, and likewise we
have extended such favors to Lodges outside. \Ve have asked other

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

61

jurisdictions to confer 61 degrees on candidates of our Lodges, and
have approved requests from sister jurisdictions to the number of
369 degrees. In a few instances the requests were for the conferring
of the second and third degrees upon candidates who were unavoidably absent from home for an indeterminate time, but who did not
contemplate remaining within our jurisdiction permanently. Requests
as to such candidates were reasonable. Many requests, however,
were in behalf of men who, after receiving one degree at the old
home, removed to California with their families with the avowed
intention of making a permanent home here. In common with the
sentiments e::tpressed by many Grand Masters and GJil.nd Secretaries
of other jurisdictions, I believe we should adopt the policy that
those who make their homes here and earnestlv desire to become
Master Masons, should secure <limits or waivers .of jurisdiction from
the old home Lodges and in due time regularly petition a Lodge
near their new home for the remaining degrees. In no other way ean
they have an opportunity to engage in any active Masonic work. I
submit this for your thoughtful consideration, in the belief that if we
do adopt some such policy, we could not be accused of a lack of
proper courtesy, but on the contrary we would thereby encourage
active interest in matters Masonic by men who under our present
regulations are given the privilege of merely becoming another name
on the roster of a Lodge, concerning whose activities they would
necessarily know nothing.

Life Memberships
The Grand ~faster has approved resolutions providing for life
memberships as follows :
Texas Lodge, No. 46, $150; Morning Star Lodge, No. 168, $200;
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166, $175; Northern Light Lodge, No. 190, $150;
lfesperian Lodge, No. 264, $175; Hollywood Lodge, No. 355, $150; Sierra
:Madre Lodge, No. 408, increased to $200; Yorba Linda Lodge, No. 469,
$150; Delta Lodge, No. 471, $200; Stockton Lodge, No. 498, increased
to $200; Beverly Hills Lodge, No. 528, increased to $200; Jonathan
Lodge, No. 545, $150; Lakeshore Lodge, No. 551, $200; Elmhurst Lodge,
No. 610, $150.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master has approved requests for special dispensations
for various purposes, as follows :
To reballot upon candidates rejected within twefoe months: Howard
Lodge, No. 37; Live Oak Lodge, No. 61; Vesper Lodge, No. 84; Dorie
Lodge, No. 216; Oxnard Lodge, No. 341; Eagle Rock Lodge, No. 422;
La Jolla Lodge. No. 518; Utopia Lodge, No. 537 (2); Fairfax Lodge,
No. 556; Menorah Lodge, No. 623.

63

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To elect officers at a time other than that fixed bv law: Western Star
Lodge, No. 2; Corinthian Lodge, No. 9; Gravel R;nge Lodge, No. 59;
Humboldt Lodge, No. 79; Ione Lodge. No. 80; Pajaro Lodge, No. 110;
Clinton Lodge, No. 119; Harmony Lodge, No. 164; Excelsior Lodge,
No. 166; Phoenix Lodge, No. 178; Monterey Lodge, No. 217; Inyo
Lodge, No. 221; Hope Lodge, No. 234; Welcome Lodge, No. 255;
Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269; Santa Lucia Lodge, No. 302; Hollenbeck
Lodge, No. 319; Alisa! Lodge, No. 321; West Gate Lodge, No. 392;
Burlingame Lodge, No. 400; Charter Rock Lodge, No. 410; Kerman
Lodge, No. 420; Lancaster Lodge, No. 437; Schofield Lodge, No. 442;
America Lodget No. 475; Coachella Lodge, No. 476; Thousand Oaks
Lodge, No. 478; Chowchilla Lodge, No. 48S; Woodstock Lodge, No.
491; Silver Cord Lodge, No. SOS; George Washington Lodge, No. 52S;
Loyalty Lodge, No. S29; Sun Garden Lodge, No. 530; Pyramid Lodge,
No. 562; Escalon Lodge, No. 591 ; Sunnyside Lodge, No. 577 ; Provident
Lodge, No. 609.
To receive and act upon petitions from members of the army and
navy who did not hm;e the req1iired residential qualifications: Benicia
Lodge, No. 5; San Diego Lodge, No. 35 (8); South West Lodge, No.
283; Long Beach Lodge, No. 327; Vallejo Lodge, No. 487 (2); S. W.
Hackett Lodge, No. 574; Service Lodge, No. 594 (6); Kauai Lodge,
No. 589; The Gardens Lodge, No. 621.
To receive and act upon Petitions without reference to Committee:
Madison Lodge, No. 23.

$12; La Mesa Lodge, No. 407, to $12; Sierra Madre Lodge, No.
408, to $12; Tyrian Lodge, No. 439, to $12; Woodstock Lodge, No. 491,
to $12; Stockton Lodge, No. 498, to $12; Taft Lodge, No. 516, to $20;
lleverly Hills Lodge, No. 528, to $12; Alexander Hamilton Lodge, No.
53S, to $12; Hermosa Lodge, No. 5S7, to $12; El Cajon Valley Lodge,
No. 576, to $10.
Increasing fees for degrees: Eden Lodge, No. 113, to $80; Crockett
Lodge, No. 139, $130; Curtis Lodge, No. 140, to $75; Eucalyptus Lodge,
No. 243, to $70; Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, to $100; Mill Valley
Lodge, No. 356, to $100; Apollo Lodge, No. 396, to $10S; Fairmount
Lodge, No. 435, to $JOO; Tyrian Lodge, No. 439, to $80; Golden
West Lodge, No. 45S, to $105; Culver City Lodge, No. 467, to $100;
Benjamin Fra11klin Lodge, No. 509, to $100; Beverly Hills Lodge, No.
528, to $125; Lankershim Lodge, No. 542, to $100; Jonathan Lodge.
No. S4S, to $80; San Gabriel Lodge, No. 546, to $80; East San Diego
l,odge, No. 561, to $60; Pyramid Lodge, No. 562, t9 $80; South Park
Lodge, No. 563, to $80; Francis K. Shattuck Lodge, No. 571, to $80;
8. W. Hackett Lodge, No. S74, to $80; Progressive Lodge, No. S78,
to $80; All States Lodge, No. 593, to $80; Glassell Park Lodge, No.
605, to $80; Benevolence Lodge, {;. D., to $130.
Decreasing fees for degrees: Pasadena Lodge, No. 272, to $80;
Owensmouth Lodge, No. 611, to $50.
Changing time of stated meetings: Vesper Lodge, No. 84; Lexington Lodge, No. 104; Summit Lodge, No. 112; Alamo Lodge, No. 122;
Visalia Lodge, No. 128; San Simeon Lodge, No. 196; Downey Lodge,
::\o. 220; Inyo Lodge, No. 221 ; Guadalupe Lodge, No. 237; Dunsmuir
Lodge, No. 297; Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307 ; West Gate Lodge, No.
335; Mill Valley Lodge, No. 356; San Francisco Lodge, No. 360;
Waucoba Lodge, No. 413; San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452; Bethlehem
Lodge, No. 453; Ramona Lodge, No. 457; Mount Olive Lodge, No. S06;
Ionic Lodge, No. S20; Bellflower Lodge, No. 523; Justice Lodge, No.
549; Golden City I..odge, No. S53; Fairfax Lodge, No. 556; Francis
K. Shattuck Lodge, No. 571; S. W. Hackett Lodge, No. S74; Pearl
Harbor Lodge, No. 598; Workman Lodge, No. 612; Southland Lodge,
No. 618; Peninsula Lodge, No. 620; The Gardens Lodge, No. 621;
Menorah Lodge, No. 623; Angeles Mesa Lodge, No. 625; Beacon of
the West, U. D.; Fairview Lodge, U. D.; Ingleside Lodge, U. D.

62

Amendments to By-Laws
Following is a list of proposed amendments to by-laws which have
had the approval of the Grand Master:
Fixing and increasing fees for affiliation: Eden Lodge, No. 113,
to $5; Crockett Lodge, No. 139, to $25; Oak Grove Lodge, No. 21S, to
$S; Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243, to $5; South Pasadena Lodge, No. 367,
to $15; Pyramid Lodge, No. 562, to $25; Benevolence Lodge, U. D.,
to $30; Beverly Hills Lodge, No. 528, to $5; Justice Lodge, No. S49, to
$25; James A. Foshay Lodge, U. D., to $20.
Eliminating affiliation fee: Pasadena Lodge, No. 272; Ocean Park
Lodge, No. 369; Queen Beach Lodge, No. 540; El Sereno Lodge, No.
588; All States Lodge, No. 593; Poinsettia Lodge, U. D.
Increasing dues: Antioch Lodge, No. 175, to $12; Wilmington Lodge,
No. 198, to $12; Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215, to $10; Magnolia Lodge,
No. 242, to $15; Arroyo Lodge, No. 274, to $12; Santa Paula Lodge, No.
291, to $12; Eucalyptus Lodge, No. 243, to $12; Mt. Jackson Lodge,
No. 295, to $12; Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296, to $12; Sunset Lodge, No.
352, to $12; Mill Valley Lodge, No. 356, to $15; Apollo Lodge, No. 396,

to

Trial Records
Transcript of trial records have been received from Lodges and
placed with the Committee on Grievances, as follows:
No. 2S7-Petition for restoration of former member of Hawaiian
Lodge, No. 21, tried by Mission Lodge, No. 169. Expelled 1919. Protest
by Lodge.

64

65

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rlIE

No. 245-Petition for restoration by a Fellow Craft of Speranza
Lodge, No. 219. Expelled October 3, 1918.

No. 475-A Fellow Craft of El Centro Lodge, No. 384.
1w11dt•d January 4, 1926.

No. 271-Petition for restoration by Evergreen Lodge, No. 259, in
behalf oi member expelled in 1920.

No. 476-A member of South Gate Lodge, No. 320.
J1111uary 6, 1926.

Suspended

No. 302-Petition for restoration by former member of Fillmore
Lodge, No. 379. Expelled December 7, 1921.

No. 477-A member of Highland Park Lodge, No. 382.
f l1•ecmber 7, 1925.

Expelled

No. 371-A correction of a trial had by Lexington Lodge, No. 104.
No. 418-Retrial by Redondo Lodge, No. 328. Expelled January
7, 1926.
No. 420-Retrial by Berkeley Lodge, No. 363. Expelled March 4,
1926.
No. 434---Retrial by Yorba Linda Lodge, No. 469.
Suspended
January 7, 1926. Appeal by the accused.
No. 464---A m::mber of South Gate Lodge, No. 320. Expelled
October 7, 1925.
No. 465-An Entered Apprentice of Loyalty Lodge, Xo. 529. Expelled October 6, 1925.
No. 466-A member oi Delta Lodge, No. 471, tried by Washington
Lodge. No. 20. Suspended November 5, 1925. Appeals by accuser and
·
accused.
No. 467-A member of Fellowship Lodge, No. 480.
Expelled
November 6, 1925.
Ko. 468-A member of Mission Lodge, No. 169. Expelled November
4, 1925.
No. 469-A member of Alta Vista Lodge, No. 464.
Expelled
December 4, 1925.
No. 470-A member of Welcome Lodge, No. 255. Expelled December 7, 1925. Appeal by the accused.
No. 471-A member of Fremont Lodge, No. 497. Suspended December 2, 1925.
No. 472-A member of Torrance Lodge, No. 447. Expelled December 4, 1925.
No. 473-A member of Delta Lodge, No. 471, tried by Washington
Lodge, No. 20. Sentenced to reprimand October 1, 1925. Appeal by
accuser.
No. 474---A member of Alexander Graham Bell Lodge, No. 595.
Suspended December l, 1925.

Sus-

No. 478-A member of Catalina Island Lodge, No. 524. Suspended
Frhruary 5, 1926.
No. 479-A member of Eel River Lodge, No .. 147.
rnary 13, 1926.

Expelled Feb-

No. 480-A member of West Gate Lodge, No. 335.
January 7, 1926.
No. 481-A member of Pacific Lodge, No. 136.
.!, 1926.

Suspended

Expelled March

No. 482-A member of Victory Lodge, No. 474, tried by California
Lodge, No. 1. Expelled ~farch 4, 1926.
No. 483-A member of Capital City Lodge, No. 499, tried by Con·
ronl Lodge, No. 117. Expelled March 8, 1926.
No. 484---A member of Temblor Lodge, No. 477, tried by Bakersfield
l.ntlge, Ko. 224. Expelled March 4, 1926. Appeal by accused.'
No. 485-A member of Social Lodge, No. 86, Terre Haute, Indiana,
Expelled March 4, 1926. Appeal
hy the accused.

1ricd by Bakersfield Lodge, No. 224.

No. 486-An Entered Apprentice of Balder Lodge, No. 393. Expelled
l\larch 5, 1925. Appeal by the accused.
No. 487-A Fellow Craft of King David's Lodge, No. 209. Expelled
January 6, 1926.
No. 488-A member of Chowchilla Lodge, No. 485. Expelled March
.!, 1926.
No. 489-A member of Truckee Lodge, No. 200. Expelled January
2, 1926.

No. 490-A member of Eden Lodge, No. 113.
.!, 1926.

Expelled January

No. 491-A member of Bell Lodge, No. 493. Expelled May 6, 1926.
No. 492-A member of Silver Trowel Lodge, No. 415, tried by
Southern California Lodge, No. 278. Expelled May 6, 1926.
No. 493-A member of Francis K. Shattuck Lodge, No. 571.
Jll'nded May 4, 1926.

Sus-

67

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PRO<;EEDINGS OF THE

66

Unfinished Business
No. 494-A member of Washington Lodge, No. 20.

Expelled June

3, 1926.
No. 495-A member of Seaside Lodge, No. 504. Suspended January
4, 1926.
No. 496-A member of Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296. Expelled June
4, 1926.

No. 497-A member of San Diego Lodge, No. 35.

Expelled May

7, 1926.
No. 498-A member of Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244.

Expelled July l,

1926.
No. 499-A member of Temblor Lodge, No. 477.

Expelled July 5,

1926. Appeal by the accused.
No. 500-A member of Center Lodge, No. 465.

Expelled July 3,

1926.
No. 501-A member of Hope Lodge, No. 234, tried by Plumas
Lodge, No. 60. Acquitted July 12, 1926. Appeal by the accuser.
No. 502-A member of Dinuba Lodge, No. 385. Suspended July
13, 1926.
No. 503-A member of San Diego Lodge, No. 35. Expelled October
2, 1925.
No. 504-A member of San Diego Lodge, No. 35. Expelled August

Legislation on
with
the Committee
J refer
.
~nee to control of relief work. Referred to
. .
. unspru ence. (1925, pp. 606, 644 690)
Prescnbmg Jewel for p t G
'
.
fcrred to Committee on Ritu:l~ ( ;;;5d Mas4ter and Past Master. ReR 1 ·
• pp. 23, 706 )
..
eso ut10n of Brother Wagstaff to r
of 1924. Referred to Committee
R' etore the ritual to its status as
Th C
.
on itua. (1925, pp. 641 693)
e omm1ttee on Jurisprudence
d'
'
.
1926 annual communication
.. was irected to submit at the
r;
some prov1s10n of 1
h' h .
,rand Master of the burden f d fi .
aw w tc will relieve the
physically fit for the degrees of ~ nmg to Masters of Lodges who are
o
asonry. ( 1925, p. 689.)
Th e recommendation of the Co
·
poses that section 115 of th C
.mn.uttee on General Policy and Pur.
e onstitut10n be am d d
ec 1ct of Grand Master R
en e to conform to the
l ·
eese, was referred t 0 th C
e ommittee on
) unsprudence. ( 1925, p. 6Y2.)

Financial Report of the Grand S ecretary
CASH RECEJPTS AND DISIJURSEM ENTS, YEAR ENDED JULY 31,
GENERAL FUND

July 31, 1925, cash balance with
Grand Treasurer ··········-···············

6, 1926.
No. 505-A member of Stockton Lodge, No. 498. Suspended August

Receipts
Dues from Lodges ......... .
Charter fees
· ..................... ..

6, 1924.
No. 506-A member of Huntington Beach Lodge, No. 380.

for various pur poses ....
p pensatton
.

pended July 7, 1926. Appeal by the accused.
No. 507-A member of Colusa Lodge, No. 240.

Expelled May 6,

1926.
No. 508-A member of Inglewood Lodge, No. 421.

Expelled April

7, 1926.
No. 509-A member of Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292, tried by Calexico
Lodge, No. 412. Expelled June 12, 1925.
No. 513-A member of Stanislaus Lodge l'\o. 206.

Expelled August

5, 1926.
No. 514-A member of Stanislaus Lodge No. 206.

Expelled Septem-

ber 2, 1926.

$ 43,289.46
$110,461.38
1,350.00
2,100.00
340.00

........ ..

Sus-

1926

l)ispensation -~~ .. f~~~.. -~~~-i"<l
Dis
.
o ges .. ..

remmms collected on Secretaries'
and Treasurers' bonds
Notes, Masonic Homes of.. c~i·i·f~;·1;i~
Refunds and reimbursements .
San Diego Board of Relief: ........... $
Long Beach Board of Relief
..
Honolulu Board of Relief ........... .
San Francisco Board of
j:.. f .... ..
Oakland Board of Relief e ie .... ..
Los Angeles Board of R~jj~£ ........ ..
Reading Lodge, No. 254, reli~f .......
advanced
Whittier Lod~~: ..N~:··323; ;~j·i~·f .......

R..

1,769.70
25,000.00
30.33
19.50
10.00
826.35
25.00
734.65

.

25.00

advanced ············-···············

25.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

68

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

Traver Lodge, No. 294, relief
advanced ........................................ ..
North Butte Lodge, No. 230,
relief advanced ............................ ..
Merchandise returned .................... ..
Refund American Railway
Express Co ................................... ..
Refund pay roll... ............................. ..

142.47
13.30

Sales:
Constitutions ...................................... $ 7,288.9S
Monitors ............................................ .. 1,983.40
Lodge receipts .................................. .. 1,122.00
880.6S
Blanks ................................................ ..
788.20
Small diplomas ................................. .
401.30
Large diplomas ..................................
lSl.OS
Receipt holders ................................ ..
708.SO
Past Master's diplomas ....................
so.ss
Card cases and Lists of Lodges .... ..
Installation Services and
S4.77
Proceedings .................................. ..
Bound volumes and Funeral
500.l S
Services ....... ·--·----....... -·-----· .. -.......... .

rnterest on bonds and bank balances :
Bank interest .................................... ..
$7,000 Blue Lakes Water Co., 6% ..$
$6,000 So. Pac. R. R. Co., 4% ........
$9,000 Calif. Gas & EL Corp., 5% ..
$8 000 Pac. Tel. & Tel. Co., 5% ......
$2',ooo L. A. Gas & Elec. Co., 5% ..
$5,000 L. A. Gas & E!ec. Co., 6% ..
$4,000 L.A. Gas & Elec. Co., 5)/zo/o
$5,000 So. Calif. Edison Co., 5% ....
$4,000 So. Calif. Edison Co., 5)/zo/o
$5 000 So. Calif. Gas Co., 5)/zo/o .. ..
$5',ooo Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 5% .. ..
$9,000 Pac. Gas & Elec. Co., 5)/zo/o
$4000 Ca!.-Ore. Pwr. Co., 5)/zo/o
$4',ooo Gt. Wstrn. Pwr. Co., 5)/z%
$26,800 Liberty Loan bonds, 474 %

Disbursements
Salaries .................................................... $ 20,470.00
Printing and binding, office use........ 4,796.43
Printing and binding, for sales ______ .. __ ,, 10,642.00
Colitingent expense, Grand Lecturer.. 1,194.98

300.00

2.30
174.66

~~~:~;effi·~-e

2,328.S6

13,929.52

157,279. !6

$ 1,228.17
420.00
240.00
450.00
400.00
100.00
300.00
110.00
250.00
247.50
137.50
2SO.OO
495.00
110.00
110.00
1,139.00

~:~~:~~

.. ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
Grand Lodge appropriations................ 64,344.00
Telephone anad telegrams....................
2S9.21
Drayage and expressage........................
S3.S7
Office expense ......................................
684.47
Premiums and Secretaries' and
Treasurers' bonds .............................. l,86S.20
Sundries .................................................. l ,03 I .2S
Payroll representatives ........................ 17,414.93
Committee, Masonic Education.......... 6,913.S7
Public Schools Week ____ ,,......................
79S.16
Sundry expenses, Annual
1, 112.06
Communication ..................................
Grand Lodge activities, Annual
Communication .................................. 2,224.2S
Decorations, Annual Communication
2SO.OO
Aprons for Past Grand Masters........
2S8.00
Refund Bakersfield Lodge, No. 224..
20.00 $1.17,763.68
Advance to Masonic Homes .............. ..
Securities purchased:
Masonic Temple Association stock .. $ 20,800.00
Public utility bonds............................ 19,94S.OO
Accrued interest on bonds purchased
200.09

20,000.00

40,94S.09

Total disbursements .................... ..
July 31, 1926, cash balance with
Grand Treasurer ....................... .

198,708.77
$ 7,847.02

Cash Receipts-Masonic Homes
Per capita tax, Maintenance Fund .................................................... $ 28,688.7S
Per capita tax, Building Fund............................................................ S7,377.SO
From initiations, $20 from each initiate .......................................... 186,320.00
4,759.00

--------- $206,5SS.79

Total to account for, General Fund

69

Total collected for Masonic Homes ..........................................$272,386.ZS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

71

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

70

Emergency Relief Fund
f I fiscal year was as
The condition of the fund at the close o tie

Afternoon Session

follows:
. b k
.$5 555.10
July 31, 1925 balance, cash m an ................................... '.ooo.oo $9,555.10
4
$4,000 1st Liberty Loan bonds,

Receipts
Interest on bank deposit.. ......................................................$ ~~..~
365.59
Interest from Liberty Loan bonds.................................... _ _ _ _ _ _ __
July 31, 1926 balance .................................................. ..

$9,920.69

Cash Received Since August 1, 1926
...............w 30,392.75
Home Maintenance Fund
60,785.50
Home Building Fund............................................................................ 53,020.00

Initiates, $20
Total receipts account Masonic Homes ...................................$144,198.25
4,572.94
Cash on hand, August l:t,
.
. ...............$139,884.50
Cr· nd Lodge, Gene\;al I•und, per capita tax..................
225.00
, a Dispensations to form Lodge......................................................
10.00
Dispensations, various purposes ............................ ···::::::::::::::::::
1,234.35
Sales of Supplies ........................................ ··· ....
10 000.00
Note receivable, Masonic Ilomes ............... :................................
' 61.25
Reimbursement San Diego Board of R_ehef............................
40.00
Reimbursement Oakland Board of Rehef................................
51.15
Bank interest
Bond interest

455.00

.
d' g cash on hand ..$156,544.19
Total receipts since close of fiscal year, me1u m
28 412.81
Total disbursements to October 1, 1926................ ....................... __' _ _
·
O tober 1, 1926........................$l2B,l 21 ·38
Net cash with Grand l reasurer, c
JOHN 'NHICHER, Grand Secretary.

Referred to Committee on Grand Master's Message.

Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

Tuesday, October 12, 1926.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

ANNUAL ORATION

w:. Ezra VI/. Decoto, Grand Orator, delivered his annual
oration, which was received with every manifestation of
approval· and delight by the representatives present. The
delivery of the Orator seemed to bring his audience into
more intimate touch, and the cold type cannot do full justice
to the brother's effort. At the conclusion of the oration,
llrother Decoto was tendered a rising vote of thanks and
he was requested to furnish a copy to the Grand Secretary
for publication in the Proceedings, and also that copies be
printed for distribution to the several Lodges. The full
text of the oration follows :
My brethren, I am not sufficiently versed in the history of Masonry
to address you upon its origin, its accomplishments of the past, or its
hopes for the future. Neither am I a deep enough scholar or philosophc1·
to expound to you the real or fancied meaning of its symbols and to
n·ad into its ritual a covert meaning. But I have been permitted, through
my profession and my public service for the last twenty years, as permitted few men, to delve into the lives and motives of many men, to peer
into the minds of many people, to weigh what is worth while in life,
to see the failure of those who strive for false things and to measure
lhc happiness of those who, from instinct or reasoning, seek the real
lhings of life, and when found, treasure them as they sho11ld be trcas11rcd.
An older lawyer once said to me; "The friends who will be your
friends in the days of your prosperity. not envious of what you have
already accomplished, wishing further and continued success, rejoicing
in your advancement, and sharing quietly but none the less deeply in
«very bit of good fortune that comes to you; the friends who will seek
you out in adversity to offer you their assistance or their substance; the
friends who will come to you in the hours of bereavement, sit by your
Ni<le, utter words of comfort and lift the burden of suffering from your
troubled heart; the friends who will follow you alike in adversity as

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

72

73

PROCEEDIXG'3 OF THE

well as in prosperity, in sorrow as well as in happiness; the friends who
will cling to you as a mother clings to her child. with that same faith,
that same pride, that same hope, and that same love-those friends can
be numbered upon the fingers of one hand."
In my youth I doubted him, but as I approach maturity I am more
inclined to agree with him.
Next to love of parents and wife and child and home, my experience
has taught me to place the love of frieI'.d. If there were some one who
had the power to fulfill a promise and he should say to each one of you,
"My brother, your greatest desire will be granted, your dream of years
will be made to come true, you will have all for which you have striven,
the goal of your ambition will be reached, but, in payment for these
things you must walk through the days and years of the future bereft
of frien<ls," unless the boon sought meant the reclamation of some life
very near and dear to you, your answer would uniformly be, "Although
you give the things for which I've longed, for which I have devoted my
life, for which I have fancied I would give my all, still the price you
ask is too great. I might as well be alone upon a desert isle, as well be
adrift alone upon the sea, as travel through this life without friends."
There is no better example of the value of friendship than the price
put upon it by large financial institutions. Every big business, in the
last few years particularly, has awakened to the value of friendly relations between its own personnel and the people with whom it does business.
This has brought about the department of "public relations." All large
corporations, banking businesses and public utilities are stressing more
than ever the value of "public relations." In every service club, in all
fraternal Orders, in all public spirit movements you will find some high
official of some large business institution, some man of executive ability,
willing to take the time and give the energy necessary· to the enterprise.
He is not only permitted by the head of his organization to do this, but
he is encouraged to do it. In every golf club of the country you will
find leading men of big business taking the afternoon off in the miclclle
of the week to play golf. While such recreation has a value of its own,
its main value is the friendships that are formed or continued, a closer
personal touch with those upon whose good will big business depends.
It is a recognized principle of business that one of the most valuable men
that can be employed is one that can keep the friendship of those whose
business is essential.
May I quote from the philosopher, Emerson? "Pleasant are these
jets of affection which make a young world for me again. Delicious is
a just and firm encounter of two, in a thought, in a feeling. How
beautiful, on their approach to this beating heart, the steps and forms of
the gifted and the true! The moment we indulge our affections, the
world is metamorphosed : there is no winter and no night : all tragedies,
all enemies vanish-all duties even; nothing fills the preceding eternity

but the forms all radiant. of beloved persons Let the
that somewhere in the universe it sho cl
. : .
. soul be assured
f
ul reJom its friend, and it woul<l
be content and cheerful I
I
a one or a thousand vc .
A f ·
we I be reckoned the masterpiece of natt;re" . ars. . . .
riend may
If it be true that next to love f
.
child there comes the I
f d
o parents and wife and home and
ove o
evoted friends
d th I
riends, should we not
k
an
e ove for devoted
.
f .
ma e more than a casual ff t
riends and devote a reasonabl
t 0f
e or to acqmre new
those fine and rare friend h' \par
our clays to the cultivation of
Wh
d
s ips t at can and do exist between men?
ere o we find friends so val bl ? I
.
in the schools in sports in th b,
ua e.
n youth they are found
.
I
'
•
e ov scout movement and k' d d
n young manhood the Y are
. sti'II f ound .111
t. wns.
t m· re
b organiza·
111 our universities In u ·
..
spor s, m usmess and
·
mvers1t1es particularly h
h
f ' ·
• as one t e greatest
opportunities for the formati
young men of the highe t onb' ~ c1os~ and lasting friendship. There
f
s am 1tion with the best f
·
'
or the quality of their minds and ;h . d .
o . motives, selected
are assembled with common d .
e1r es1.re to cultivate those minds,
If I had a son who wa f t esires, common 111terests and common ideals
s or unate enourrh to I · t
·
I would point out to him that all the fi~,, . c es~re o attend a university,
Id ~ th111gs m college were not found
in books and laboratories I
desirable to absorb as m~ h wohu pomt out to him that, while it was
.
h
h
c as e could from these
.
. sou1 ces, t ere was
anot er most important study th t
university-the study of h' f Ila was not written m the curriculi of the
is e ow men I
Id I ·
.
as he set aside a certain numbe
f I .
wou ac vise him that just
study of the prescribed course; o ~houris leach day for preparation and
·
so s ou c he also set
·I
d · .
amount o f time each day for clos
d f .
. . . as1c e a efm1te
. e ~1.1 nendly association with his fellow
students. There in those
•
u111vers1ttes are mai1 0 f h
near future will be the gr ea t sc ho Iars
' the great
Y d t e men
t' who in the
awyers and doctors the f
'
.
rama 1sts, the great
I.
'
oremost men of busmess a d th I d'
Ciers. There open to him f
th
n
e ea mg finanleaders of th~ state and nat~r e seeking' is the friendship of the future
10n.
In more mature years, where then is h fi
.
who would be friends and who
lei
. t e . cld that is open to men
in the service clubs in fraternal ;o~ prize friends? It is in business,
f re ers, an? particularly it is and should
be found within the Lod
ges o our organization All th
.
our 0 rder are conducive to th b
f
·
e teachmgs of
whole ritual there runs its conti:uecle~~ o I fr~enclships. Throughout the
rounds our Order friendship sh 11 ;cac :- n the atmosphere that surgrows and blosso~s in the most o~~ .. ~~rish ~ncl blossom as the plant
01
I b I'
h
a e envlronment.
e ieve t e most lasting friendshi s
ste~ out of their business selves and ~a are f ormecl when men relax,
p Y· Then they are free from
busmess cares for the t'
'
ime exempt from worry k'111 ell .
cl
. ·~
y, mterested in
eac h other, heart open for the entr
All M
h
ance an enshrmmg of a valued friend
asons ave a common interest ll M
.
the same things, all Mason h
b
. : a
asons have been taught
s ave een s1m1larly admonished · All M asons

74

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

night after night listen to the same inspiring words which, in their final
analysis, teach love of our fellow man. As we sit together, bou~d by
the same sacred vows, one to the other, with the same common ideals,
the same code of ethics and the same sound philosophy, there is and can
be no more fruitful opportunity for the approach of friendship. When
the serious work is done and we gather around the festive board, singing
the songs we love, hearing the brothers we honor speaking to us their
words of wisdom, the mind at rest, the cares of the day forgotten, there
can be no greater chance for the consummation of the most sincere and
lasting friendships.
Again, among the officers of each Lodge, as they climb the ladder
step by step from the least important position to the supreme office of
master, there is the same common interest, the same periods of hard work
and the same periods of relaxation, and there slowly but surely grows
up between them a friendship that exists through the hurrying years and
year by year grows deeper and more enduring. There is to be found the
friendship of the princes among men.
In the entertaining of other Lodges, in fraternal visits, in the meeting
of the Masters and \Vardens Association, in our various Masonic clubs,
there is the same friendly opportunity. If it were left to me to point
out to all the Masonic Lodges of this state their greatest opportunity
toward their members and toward the Craft, I would seek to impress
upon them the desire for good fellowship, which, in the ultimate analysis,
is good friendship. I would point out to them the personal pleasure and
the personal gain that comes to them through the time spent in cultivating
the closer association with the good men of their own Lodge, and I would
try to impress upon them the treasure in store for them in the love and
admiration of their friends, and I would also impress upon them that
"the only way to have a friend is to be one."
There can be nothing more open to criticism than the failure of any
man to remember the welfare of his friend. Nothing can be more open
to censure than the failure of any man to speak up and defend his friend
when he is falsely accused.
Turn with me to Hamlet and listen again to the words of Polonius
in that comprehensive admonition he gave to his son, Laertes, as the
young man was leaving for France:
"There, my blessings with thee!
And these few precepts in thy memory
See thou character. Give thy thoughts no tongue.
Nor any unproportioned thought his act
Be thou familiar, but by no means vulgar.
Those friends thou hast and their adoption tried,
Grapple them to thy soul with hoops of steel."

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

75

In conclusion, let me leave with you these words:
"Life's story has been often told yet each must solve anew its problems for himself. Our time upon the stage of action is but brief yet
in the drama each must play a part. The character is left for us to
choose, a villain, if we will, or a man of honor holding high above all
things, high as hope's great throbbing star above the darkness of the
dead respect for virtue and love of wife and home and friend."

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MESSAGE OF
GRAND MASTER
The executive ability, sound judgment and personal sympathy of the
M:.w:.Grand Master are exemplified in his message to Grand Lodge.
Terse, yet comprehensive, firm where decision is required, broad in its
humanity, and ever upholding the lofty standards of Masonry, it may well
serve as a model for many a Grand Master to come.
Your committee recommends that its subject matter he segregated
and referred as follows:
I.

To the Committee on Jurisprudence:
Lotteries and raffles.
Master's duty in connection with reception of petitions.
Decisions.
Board of Control for Boards of Relici and Employment Bureaus.
Penalty for conviction of a felony, involving moral turpitude.
Direction that charges he preferred against members r;f the Craft
who conduct lotteries or other games of chance.

II.
To the Committee on Policy and General Pnrposcs:
Observation of the 150th anniversary of the United States Flag.
Pre-eminent obligations of Ancient Craft J\fasonrv. Discussed
tmder the heading of "Discipline."
.
Assistance to he extended to sufferers from tulicrculosis.
Friction between the Grand Lodge of the Philippine lslands
the
Shrine.
Erection of additional ::\:Iasonic club-houses.

aml

76

l'HOCEEDINGS OF THE

UL
Jointly to the Committee on Policy and Gener.al Purposes and the Committee on Jurisprudence:
Use of the name of the Craft by insurance companies 'and by other
organizations or individuals for business or personal advantage.
Territorial jurisdiction of Lodges.
Sunday amusements.
Continuance of work of special committees heretofore appointed.
Appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers and District Deputy Grand
Masters.

IV.
To the Committee on Finance:
Surplus of appropriation for benefit of bretluen confined to the
Base Hospital at Palo Alto.
Florida relief.
George Washington Memorial.
Compensation of Grand Secretary.

v.
To the Committee on Necrology:
Necrology.
111e message of the Grand Master primarily stresses three great
aspects of Masonic obligation: humanitarian, civic and moral.
It may well serve as a chart not only for the present Communication
and the activities of Grand Lodge during the coming year, but it equally
deserves careful perusal and intelligent application by the individual
members ol our Order.
At the outset emphasis is fittingly laid upon the unostentatious relief
work conducted by the Lodges and the brethren, and which the Grand
Master appropriately designates as "an enduring monument greater than
marble." Attention is also directed to the more public benefactions for
brethren suffering from tuberculosis, and the emergency created by the
recent disaster in Florida. Such needs as these, and the continuing
fraternal service of the care for youth and old age extended by our
Masonic homes, deserve unremitting attention on the part of the Craft.
Civic obligation is well emphasized by early reference in the message
to the solemn preliminary declaration of every Mason that he is prompted
by a sincere desire to be serviceable to his fellowmen, and to the fact
that while all Masons owe a primary duty of good citizenship, nevertheless the good name of Mas01iry as an organization must not become

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

77

involved in partisan politics, and that in the absence of personal qualification. no man deserves political support merely because of his fraternal
affiliations. In this same connection, the Grand :\faster most fittingly
reminds Grand Lodge, as he has had occasion to previously admonish us,
that as Masonry pre-supposes good citizenship, and good citizenship presupposes obedience to constituted authority, so should the fair name of
our Order be carefully preserved from connection with lotteries, raffles
and other violations of the law of the land. The emphasis laid upon
the observance of Public Schools \N eek illustrates another aspect of
civic duty, and the fact that our hope for the future rests in the proper
education of American youth.
The moral attitude of Masonry, and the broad spirit of toleration
which must exist among men of many minds who meet upon the level,
is illustrated by the Grand Master's treatment of the ever-recurring
questions regarding the conduct of Sunday amusements. He reminds us
that organized Masonry should not be officially connected with promiscuous Sunday amusement, and, on the other hand, that toleration on both
sides should exist between those who desire private recreation on the
first day of the week, and those who strictly "remember the Sabbath day
to keep it holy." The need and the obligation for greater enlightenment
on the part of the Craft regarding our history, our aims, our opportunities and our accomp1ishments is mentioned in connection with the work
of the Committee on l\fasonic Education; an enterprise which deserves
the sympathetic cooperation of Grand Lodge, Blue Lodge and individual
Mason. As the civic welfare of the nation rests with the youth of today.
equally is the moral welfare of generations to come determined by the
early acquirement of such virtues as those which Masonry inculcates.
The Order of De Molay is strongly commended by the Grand Master as
a titting object for Masonic solicitude; its present conditions are promising, and it is recommended as an appropriate instrument for developing
a proper moral foundation for the lives of young men of Masonic
affiliation. Many of the leaders in the next generation will be found
among those who are now attending institutions for higher education,
and your committee joins with the Grand Master in commending the work
conducted by the Masonic Club House at Berkeley. and in recommending
the extension of that activity to other institutions in California.
It is regrettable that so many Grand Masters have found it necessary
to admonish the brethren against improper use of the name of our Order.
The man whose fraternal affiliations are animated by mercenary motives
has no proper place in Masonry, and we hope that the recommendations
of the Grand Master will lead to such legislation, and to the development
of such an attitude upon the part of members of the Craft as will preclude
the necessity for future rebuke in this connection.
The references in the message to the large number of suspensions for
non-payment of dues deserves fitting emphasis. It is a crying evil; and

78

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

the recommendation that greater care be exercised in the reception of
members, and that greater attention be devoted to the existence of the
necessity for suspension, deserves most thoughtful consideration.
The preservation of outstanding features of Masonic history, both
physical and intangible, has been too lightly regarded and too long
neglected; the work of the special committee having charge of that
activity, and the recommendations of the Grand Master in connection
with it, are timely.
The presentation to Grand Lodge by the Grand Commandery of
Knights Templar of a hospital for the children at Covina, is an outstanding feature in the history of the past year. · The presentation was appropriately dignified by the ceremonies which attended it, and by the men
who participated in those ceremonies. It is to be hoped that other bodies
will further demonstrate the cooperation and good will which exist
between Ancient Craft Masonry and the organizations coordinating with
it, and thus exemplify the virtue of Masonic charity.
One of the most important recommendations in the message concerns
the appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers and District Deputy Grand
Masters; it is to be hoped that these recommendations will inspire legislation solving this oft-recurring and vital problem of recent years.
The message is a worthy valedictory of a Worthy Grand Master.
Throughout his term of office, and during the activities of many previous
years, he has endeared himself to the Masons of California. His ability
and integrity, his self-sacrifice and modesty, his loyalty to his friends
and to the brethren of the Craft, his abounding sympathy and humanity,
are too well recognized to require recital. He has worn the mantle of
authority with credit to himself and with honor to the fraternity, and
his message fittingly closes his year of service.

W. T. LUCAS,

w. A. CLARK,
RoBERT

Adopted.

B. GAYLORD.

79

MASONIC HISTORY
\V.". Arthur M. Ellis, chairman of the Committee on
Masonic History, presented an interesting and instructive
talk, illustrated by stereopticon views, on early-day Masons
and Masonry, following which the report of the Committee
on Masonic History was read, as follows :
To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Tl1e committee appointed by the Grand Master at the last Stated
Communication to report a plan for the preservation of the Masonic
.history of California, and on the feasibility of the appointment of a
Masonic Historian, respectfully present the following:
We found at the outset that the problems confronting us in this
State are without any parallel. We have been able to gain practically
nothing from considering the practices in other jurisdictions. In order
to get our feet on the ground we, the committeemen, have individually
and separately as private enterprises travelled practically all over the
the State during the past year. We have had three meetings and are in
complete harmony in our views. 1his report is not signed by Committeeman Milton Ferguson for the reason that he has been absent from the
State for some time on official business as State Librarian.
The first thing con fronting us is that a vast amount of historical
material of the utmost value has been lost. The destruction of the
Grand Lodge Temple by fire was an overwhelming calamity. At every
turn we meet some puzzling historical query which could be readily
answered if the old records had not been destroyed. Next, we find that
an unusually large number of lodges became defunct early in the history
of the Grand Lodge. By 1870 thirty lodges had ceased to exist, some
of which had large memberships in their day. comparatively speaking.
For instance, Rough and Ready Lodge and Polar Star (which latter
had been located at the forks of Poor Man's Creek), were among those
that had disappeared. Jn 1856 Rough and Ready had 55 members,
whereas in the same year the Los Angeles Lodge had 42, Oakland 29 and
San Diego 29. Polar Star boasted 26 members. With reference to
most of these lodges, we are in abject ignorance, although we know that
some of them in the mining regions functioned vigorously and effectively.
In 1854, the Nevada City Lodge had 94 members, and was the largest
lodge in the State excepting the lodges in San Francisco and Sacramento.
But the great outstanding fact relative to early Masonry in this
State is that there was an extensive field of Masonic activity independently of the lodges. Many Masons completely lost touch with their home
lodges through the extreme difficulties of transportation and communica-

80

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

tion and were not in good standing. This did not prevent them from
making themselves known as Masons. The Masonic tie was recognized
in places where there were no lodges and Masonic charity had heavy
demands made on it and to which it fully responded, both through individuals and groups. This phase of Masonry we believe should receive
iinniediate attention, as most of the facts rest in the memories of a very
small number of men, which number is being rapidly diminished by death.
This Grand Lodge is fortunately situated in one respect. The Bancroft Library at the Dniversity of California, and the State Library at
Sacramento contain vast collections of first-hand accounts of early
Masons and their activities and at present the curator of each is a member of this Grand Lodge.
It is our recommendation that for the present the activities of the
Grand I.odge in the historical field be directed actively to the collection
and' storing of authentic information in these fields, namely, the early
history of our older lodges. the extra-lodge :Vfasonic activity of California pioneers and the biographies of such early Masons as were important figures in making this State.
Should this suggestion. or a portion of it, meet the approval of the
Grand Lodge and the matter of establishing a mode of procedure to
accomplish this end, then we make the following recommendations:
First, that three depositaries be established in the State-one to be
the Grand Lodge Temple in San Francisco; one in the :\1asonic Library
in Los Angeles; and one in some suitable place in Sacramento. That all
material deemed worthy of preservation be copied in triplicate and that
one copy be placed in each depositary and there made available to any
interested Masonic student.
It is our view that no responsibility in connection with this work
should he placed on any of the regular lodge officers; they have sufficient
duties as matters now stand. A discussion of this phase of the matter
directly brings us to the matter of the appointment of a Masonic Historian which was referred to us. It is our view that a directing head
will be necessary to any successful work in this line. However, this
State is so large and the scope and sources of historical information
are so scattered and various that we see little hope of achievement without a subdivision of the work. vVe, therefore, recommend that a Grand
Historian be appointed and three Deputy Historians, one to represent
the central Bay region and tribufary territory; one the early mining
regions ; and one Southern California. We believe this is desirable ii1
preference to .the constitution of a Historical Committee as we think
little can be done without giving to those who carry on this work both
official standing and power as well as imposing direct respons.ibility on
them. It is our suggestion that the different Inspei.:tor's districts be
divided among the three Deputies and the Inspectors be instructed to aid

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

81

thl'm in finding in each lodge at least one member who will work in
m11formity with instructions from the Historians. Thus far this com111ittee has worked entirely without expense to the Crand Lodge. It is
apparent, however, that clerical and stenographic work will be entailed
f anything is to be accomplished. If this work is once started, too,
it may as well be admitted at the outset, there will be a future printing hill.

!

.
The ma:ter of gaining zealous cooperation from the various lodges
is one on which we are looking for further light. It is somewhat difficult
to obtain men with the training, time and inclination to do work in this
line that will be worthy of permanent recordation. We do not wish t~
ch-cd;e the members of the Grand Lodge with any roseate pictures of
11ronused results. A year of experiment will make us much more certain
as to what can be expected and also give us some definite idea as to how
wt· can proceed. It has suggested itself to us that it might be desirable
to honor the three lodges in each subdivision that do the best work in
this line during the year by placing them on a special roll of honor with
sp~·cial. recognition to the one of each group adjudged best by the Grand
I ltstonan. We do not believe that much time of the Grand Lodge in its
annual communication can be diverted into historical channels. \Ve
think it would be feasible, however, to have au evening session at some
time during the week at which matters of this sort could be presented and
discussed.

Tt will soon be one hundred years since the first immigrant Mason
h«came a Californian. Since that time we have passed through changes
and developments that in earlier eras would have required a thousand
years. We have spread ourselves over an area with the extent and resources
of an empire. In the work of this empire-building Masons and Masoni~
lrnlg~s have had a p~rt that is but faintly. visioned by the members of
the ~raft, and of which the profane world is absolutely ignorant. Duty
n·qm:es ~hat prop~r respect be inculcated to the memory of our patriarchs,
that Justifiable pride be engendered in us and that permanent records be
made for the multitude of Masons not yet born who will constitute this
<:rand ~odge in generations yet to come. The most effective ways to
a~:complish these .ends, in our opinion, can only be found by experiment.
1·01· the present, 1t seems to us that the mode herein outlined will prove
to he effectual.
Respectfully submitted,
ARTHUR
SYllNEY

M. Er.Lls,
B. BROWN.

Referred to Committees on Policy and Finance.

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

83

RESOLUTIONS
Resolutions were presented proposing to amend Sections 73, 78, 200;/z, 101, 198, 200, 82, all which were referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
A resolution was also presented proposing to amend
Section 41 of the Constitution, which was referred to the
Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

OF ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE
.,.o the REPORT
M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of C l"f
.

a 1 or111a:
We, the members of your End
.
'.Jomes of California, appointed b t~:ment Committee of the Masonic
l on1munication of the Grand Lo/ e b Grand Ma~ter at the last Annual
as to the condition of th E d
g , eg to submit the following report
e n owment Fund as of J I 31 h"
. h
l .as
on hand, August 1, 1925 ........
u Y , t 1s year:
.. ..................................................$ 1,464.12
I >onations

RECEJI'TS

A resolution was presented proposing to amend Section
70 of the Constitution, which was referred to the Committees on Policy and Finance.

~It~:!~;~tsR~~:~-i;·;~·:·:·:·:::·::·_:::::::·:::·:::o,·:::·:.::::::::::::·:::_: ..::::::$4i~~:E

A resolution was presented declaring that the manual
for the conduct of trials proposed in 1925 by Walter F.
Haas, chairman of the Committee on Grievances, shall be
the official Manual of this Grand Lodge for the conduct of
trials. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Stocks and Bond R d
.
'S h
.
.
s e eemed Ditring the year
-· s ares Caltforma Cotton Mill
2 honds, City and Count S F W s ........................$ 2,500.00
y · ·
ater.................... 2,000.00

$47,784.40

~otes receivable, General Home Fund
Cash on hand, July 31 1926
.................................. ..
'
------·---·

$ 52,284.40

MEETING ROOM OF GRAND LODGE
The Inspectors of the San Francisco districts presented
the following, which was referred to the Committee on
Policy:
WHEREAS, the attendance at Grand Lodge is growing in considerable
numbers at each Annual Com~unication and;
WHEREAS, it is obvious that the accommodations therefor are inadequate and the places of assembly greatly overtaxed; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That a Committee of Three be appointed by the
M.' .W. '.Grand Master to survey the entire situation with reference to
the facilities for the meeting of Grand Lodge in its Annual Communications, and to report thereon not later than the next Annual Communication; and be it further
Resolzied, That the Committee be and it is hereby authorized to
expend such moneys as may be necessary for this purpose under the
direction and with the approval of the M. '. W.' .Grand Master.

46,320.28

The Lewis Securities Donated and Received During

Co .......

.

4,500.00

..

t~; ..;~-~-1~

22,083.72
30,200.67

. ..........................

I•:. ~anders, Univ :.. M~~-;~;~ T-~~ i~
$2,500.00
I,ou1s A. Colton 5 sh
!\"
~ .......................... 100.00
•
ares iaso111c Tempi
50.00
Ilana Gardina widow of p t
S
e............
,
e er, peranza, No. 217 500.00
l'"h

Composition of Endowment Fund
Humboldt Savings Bank
Notes, Masonic Homes of Calif~-;~·;-- ..................................... ..
a ............................... .
15
•
,

..
United States Go·vernment Ob!i t
I• trst L. L. Bonds Cov 41
ga ions
Second L L B d, c' 74 .................................... $
500 00
;. .
· · on s, ov. 474.......
·
01
lh1rdLLB d c
.........................
1120000
,
· . · on s, ov. 474.......
'
·
...................... .... 46 150.00
l•ourth L L B d C
· · on s, ov 4%
'
Fnnrth L. L. Bonds Cov · 41/.
107,350.00
,
. ,'!.................. ............ 75,000.00

30,200.67
67,083.73
$ 97,284.40

240,300.00
$337,584.40

85

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

84

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Other Securities

lu~•klet has accomplished the purpose of showing to our members who
do not attend lodge, the increasing results and growth of our two great
monuments to Masonic Charity.
The Endowment Committee has remained inactive for several years,
t•ach individual member of the committee doing what he could to increase
the fund. There seems to be no necessity for continuing this committee
;is we have practically nothing to do, and will not have unless the Grand
l.oc\ge should determine that an intensive campaign should be carried on
to bring the Endowment Fund up to a million dollars or more. We
ht·lieve this should be done if we arc to have an Endowment Fund that
is worth while, and again this matter is presented to the Grand Lodge,
to determine whether or not an intensive campaign shall be conducted
throughout the entire jurisdiction, in order to build up this fund.
This matter is worthy of serious consideration, and we believe the
fund can be doubled by cooperation and active work. An old-fashioned
"drive" for this purpose would seem to be timely, and surely would
accomplish splendid results.
Fraternally submitted,

Par Value

.
f A hi d 5ot Water Bonds 1959 .............$ 9,000.00
s an
/"
'
5 000.00
City o
City of Richmond M. I. 5%, 1933... ...................d....
'
·F 501 City Hall Bon s,
City and County S · · 1o
21 000.00

Ci~~3~~~0 c~~~~~--s: . F·.--·s·%""'M'~~:--R;:·:·1934:::::::::: 101:~~~-~

.
d C
t s F Sewer 1945/7. 5'fo............
' ·
C1ty an
oun Y • · •
'
4000000
.
d C
t
f S F 4;4% Water, 1942......
• ·
City an
oun Y 0
1934 11 287.50
·
•
Citv of Santa Barbara, 4;4% Mun. Imp.,
.. 1'00000
Cit~ of Santa Barbara 4;;;?% Mun. Imp., 1948.... 3\2s'ou
.
f U 1 d 1\Kun Imp 6%
' .
1' ' 1935/42....... .... .. 1000000
C1ty o
Pan m ·
·
'f
. G & Elec
, .
Cai
l orma as
~
· Corp ., 5%, 1933..........
900000
'f
·
('
& Flee Corp 5%, 1937................
' ·
Ca l 1 orma ,as
~
·
·•
'iOO 00
6
• ·
. I & Tel Co Spokane 5%. 193 ............
H ome T e ·
·
.,
'
·
5,000.00
Los An~eles Ry. C~., 5%. 1938................. ~...... ..... 1,000.00
No. Cahf. Power Co., 5'fo, 1948..
-------··-··-·---·-.. 5 000 00
Pacific Gas & E.lec. Co., 5%, 1942.......................... 16'000:00
Pacific Tel. & 1el. Co., 5%, 1937............................ 3'00000
Spring Valley Water Co., So/o, 1943 ..................... 10'000'00
Calif. Cotton Mills, Com. 100 shares...................... 6,350'.oo
Masonic
Taft Masonic Temple ................................................
Olympic Dredging Co., 10 shares................. .... .......
L. A. Investment Co., 440 shares..............................
Colma Land Co., 25 shares ...................................... ..
!\ B 1 d

GILBERT
JoHN

100.00

ALEXANDER LEVY,

W. W. DOUGLAS,
FRANCIS H. THROOP,

25.00

Hucar C. CHA.\HEl!LAIN,
Committee.

1,000.00
3,750.00
100.00
2,500.00

12-1, 1926, 7% ........................................................ ..
University Masonic Club ........................................ ..
1he Lewis Co. of San Jose .................................... ..
H

........ .

................ ..

176,177.50
.. ..$513,761.90
49,470.28

C
'ttee report for the year ending July 31,
The Endowment omm:
.
t $464 291 62 . consequently
f
d
t
that
time
amountmg o
· · '
5
1925, showe d un a
$49 470 ?8 Not large by any
the increase during the year amounts to . ' ·- ·. •
means but reasonably satisfactory.
\. 1x oklet setting forth what the Endowmen~ Fund exp~ts to
1
J
· h
hoto ra hs of the Masomc Homes at ecoto
accompli~h, togethe~
d ~ in ~h/ p~mphlet which was most carefull_Y
and Covma, wereS i~c uGe d Warden Brother Will H. Fischer. This
prepared by the emor ran
'

wt

B. 0CHELTHEE,

vv. KEMP,

W. H. EnnY,

1.~~~:~

~~~~ha;e~~~~ ~~ ~iddes ~ j;h~-iH~~;~~-.--d~~

.As of July 31, 1926 ........................... ~--·- ... :..........
Increase for the

MOTLEY H. FLJNT,
GEORGE M. PEI<l NE,

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
Grand Lodge was then called off until
Wednesday morning.

I) :30

o'clock

•

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Morning Session
Wednesday, October 13, 1926.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9:30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding until 10 :30, when the Deputy Grand Master
was called to the chair.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and
approved.
Telegrams of felicitation were received from Searchlight
Lodge, No. 567, and from the Masonic students at the
University of California.

REPORT OF THE GRAND LECTURER
To the 111:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
.
It is with a great deal of pleasure that I herewith submit my
nineteenth annual report, most humbly thanking our Heavenly Father
for the many pleasures, comforts and health which we hav: been permitted to enjoy during the past year, and also for the contmued p~os­
perity of our beloved fraternity. I doubt if we really fully apprec1a~e
all these blessings which have been bestowed upon us, but rather ta ~
all this somewhat as a matter of course. I trust, however, th~t sue
is not the case, but that on the contrary, we are deeply conscious of

•

these blessings.
I have visited all the districts in the State, and have. held lodg_es
·
t'
·
ch and in many individual lodges ; also m some disf
o mstruc ion m ea ·
11
11 tt d d
tricts more than once. These meetings have been genera Y we a . en e
by the officers and brethren, striving to perfect themse~ves m. _the
R't I The lodges with but few exceptions, are in splendid condition.
1
M a~~ ·beautiful ne~ temples have been ere~ted and dedicated this year,
and several are now in course of construction. Most of the lodges are
fairly prosperous, and doing plenty of work. The Inspectors. ~11 rep~rt
the lodges over which they preside to be in a healthy cond'.t10n, w_1t~
very little trouble or discord, but rather a most harmomous spmt
· t'
I take this occasion to thank the Inspectors and the brethren
ex1s mg.
11 ·
d
for their kindly assistance and courtesies accorded me at a . times, an
to assure the Inspectors that their efforts are greatly appreciated.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

I was reading a report from one of our sister jurisdictions regarding the Inspectors, which said, "The Inspector who is to make a success
of his work should have certain outstanding qualifications for his
duties, but no substitute has yet been found that will satisfactorily
take the place of 'good common sense'." Section 56 of our Constitution explains the powers and duties of the Inspector, and he should give
these the most careful study, so that he may preserve a proper balance
hetween his own prerogative and the recognition due to the officers
and members of the lodges. The Inspector who thinks more of his
powers than of his duties, and who "drest with a little brief authority"
loves to make a display of arbitrary power, will soon find himself the
possessor of a fruitless crown and a barren sceptre. And yet there
arise occasions where firmness is the only alternative left, and where
after all other reasonable means have been exhausted, the Inspectors
must show themselves to be "Men who their duties know, but know
their rights, and knowing, dare maintain."
There have been twenty-two new lodges formed this year. :VIost
of these are in the southern part of the State. Our great concern is
not so much in numbers, but in the implanting of the real precepts of
Masonry, the making of Masons and not mere members, the building
into every life the fundamentals of manhood and the principles of our
institution, the development in all men of those cardinal virtues and
correct tenets which will give them the mastery of themselves and the
ability to serve God, our Country and our fellows. The selection of
officers by the "Who best can work and best agree" method, and not to
reward some personal friend, but by selecting those who when they
become ~faster, which means teacher, their attitude may be devout and
humble and their service a masterful one, considering all men as
brethren, and exercising a real influence in the community in which
they live, by teaching the Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of
man. This may be only the ideal, but surely worthy of imitation.
I would recommend that some definite plan be adopted for the
examination of visitors, whereby the Master of the lodge shall appoint
a selected committee to conduct the examination, they to find out if
the brother is a Master Mason, and not try to find out how much he
knows. Too often committees will keep a visitor answering propounded
<Juestions for a half hour or more. Any visitor should be able to convince a committee in not over fifteen minutes if he knows anything
at all. This may be done simply by the visitor telling the story in his
own way and words, and not by any method of interrogation or
catechism. The first thing for the committee to do is to look up his
receipt and his lodge in the list of regular lodges, and if found correct,
then to administer to him the Test Oath. This method would save much
time and trouble, and be far less humiliating for the visitor. I trust

88

PROCEEDINGS l1F

'l'Hl<~

that some action may be taken in this respect which will be of great
benefit to the lodges, and a blessing and comfort to the visitor.
I have accompanied the M:.w:.Grand Master on many of his
visits to lodges, and various ceremonies, which he has performed. All
these meetings have been productive of much interest and benefit to
the lodges and brethren.
I rlesire to thank the v:.w:.Grand Secretary for the useful information and courtesies extenrled to me in his office during the year, all
of which is greatly appreciated.
It is with much regret that I report the death of Brother Henry
Dearborn French, Inspector of the 98th District, comprising Riverside
County. Brother French occupier! the position of Inspector for sixteen
years, having been appointed in 1910, and a more painstaking and
conscientious officer could not be found, one loved and admired by all
who knew him. Brother French loved his Masonry, and practiced out
of the lodge the real precepts he was taught therein. He was a most
devoted husband and father, an honorable citizen and county ofncial.
In his death Masonry has lost a valuable brother, his lodge and the
community in which he lived, an active member and man.
Thanking the Grand Lodge and the brethren for the confidence
reposed in me as your Grand Lecturer.
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS J. BAKER, Grand Lecturer.

Referred to the following committee: Charles \V. Go(J(lwin, Gilbert C. DeForest, Roy H. Parkinson.

89

GRAND LODGE OF' CALIFORNIA

REPORTS OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
The following reports of Boards of Relief were presented and all referred to the Committee on Finance:
Fresno Board of Relief
Receipts
Cash on hand, August l, 1925 .......................................................... $ 266.90
l,odges, California ..............................................................................
90.50
Lodges, other jurisdictions in United States ............................. . 1,100.38
I ,odges, foreign jurisdictions ........................................................... .
10.00
Grand Lodge of California ..............................................................
96.00
I' res no Lodges ................................................................................... . 800.25
Allied bodies ......................................................................................... . 900.00
Total receipts, plus balance ......................................................$3,264.03

Disbursements
Relief and cxpcnscs ............................................................................ $2,915.46
Balance on hand.................................................................................. 348.57
Funerals
During the year the following have been buried with Masonic
honors or their remains shipped according to the wishes of their
families:
Date
1925

Oct. 27
Dec. 19
Dec. 22
Dec. 22

Name

Lodge

Location

Robert H. McCormick .... Dinuba No. 385 ........... .California
Frederick Tegeler ............ Libertas No. 466 .......... Bakersfield
Jewett A. Colburn ............ Bodley No. 1................ Illinois
Daniel E. Mason ...............Groton No. 496 ............ N cw York

1926

Jan. 23
Feb. 2
Feb. 27
Mar. 21
Mar. 24
Mar. 29
Mar. 31
May 27
June 28

Ernie F. Swartz................Winona No. 18.............Minncsota
Harley E. Aye ...................Waterman No. 728 ......Illinois
Levi A. Stokes ................... Alcatraz No. 244..........0akland
James A. Cross ................. Collins No. 19.............. Colorado
Willard W. Cochran ........Temescal No. 314 ........Corona, Calif.
Charles S. McKay............ Acacia No. 8 ................. Nova Scotia
Nicholas D. Justy............. Argonaut No. 461.. ..... .San Francisco
Charles E. Innes ............... Newburgh No. 309 ..... New York
Laura V. McKeehan........Union No. 56 ................ New York
SPEED B.

LEAS, President.
H. \V. CUSHING, Secretary.

90

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Honolulu Board of Relief

Jan. 27 Morris Orton _______________ Lebanon No. 34 ________________ .Langdon, N. Dak.
l'eb. 18 Harmon L. Childs .......Olive Branch No. 269 ......Tulare, Calif.
Feb. 19 Christian Peterson ......Minden No. 127 _________________Minden, Neb.
Mar. 19 B. C. Landis _________________ Pontiac No. 294 ________________ .Pontiac, Ill.
May 4 C. F. Underhi!L. ......... Genesee Falls No. 507 ..... Rochester, N. Y.
May 30 C. F. Neilsen ________________ Denver No. 5_____________________Denver, Colo.
June 4 Henry A. Barbee ........Kilwinning No. 265 .......... Pratt, Kan.
June 28 Louie M. Hecht.. ........ Phoenix No. 178............... San Bernardino.
July 27 John A. Persson _________ Park No. 449 _____________________ San Francisco
Aug. 11 Kingsley C. Howe ..... Adelphic No. 509 .............. Des Moines, Iowa
Aug. 13 L. C. Hoover ............... Humble No. 797 ................Humble, Texas
Sept. 7 Ralph W. Tullis ..........Gyatt No. 205 .................... Brooklyn, N. Y. ·
Sept. 15 August Berjing ...........Eureka No. 20 ................... Seattle, Wash.
Sept. 20 William Mc Williams.Social No. 86 ......................Terre Haute, Ind.
Sept. 22 A. W. Boyd .................. Wright'sGroveNo.779 ....... Chicago, Ill.

/Jate

Receipts
Balance on hand, September 1, 1925 ..... -----------------------------------------$ 882.67
Refunds and assessments·----------------------------------------------------------------- 154.96
Disbursements
Relief ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------$ 403.33
August 31, 1926, balance on hand·------------------------------------------------- 634.20
W. C. SHIELDS, Secretary.

Long Beach Board of Relief
Receipts
October 1, 1925, balance ____________________________________________________________________ $ 652.00
From Long Beach Lodges---------------------------------------------------------------- 3,495.23
Reim burs em en ts, sundry relief________________________________________________________ 2,568.83

Name

Lodge

Disbursements
Relief and funerals------------------------------------------------------------------------------$6,344.45
Balance on hand·--------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 370.61
Funerals
Name

Lodge

Location

1925

Oct. 7 Harold B. Schuck. ...... Crookston No. 141.. _________ Minnesota
Oct. 9 Walter A. Gerry _________.Pacific No. 64 ____________________ Exetei:, Maine
Oct. 10 I. L. Eno _______________________Warren No. 53 .................. Indianola, Iowa
Oct. 12 J.C. Mehler _________________ So. Denver No. 93 ____________ .Denver, Colo.
Dec. 7 E. C. Doxie __________________ Solar No. 134 _____________________ Clarks, Neb.
Dec. 10 Claud A. Swanson ______ Braden No. 168 _________________ .St. Paul, Minn.
Dec. 21 R. W. Barner ............... Northern Light No. 81.. .. Mauston, Wis.
Dec. 22 Hugh M. Murray........Evergreen No. 259 ............Riverside, Calif.
Dec. 22 Emil Goldman ____________ ,Midway No. 426 _______________ .Taft, Calif.
Dec. 23 James P. Cree ..............Wheeler No. 398 ...............0debolt, Iowa
Dec. 23 Fred S .. Hazelton ________ Norton No. 199 _________________.Norton, Kan.
Dec. 28 Richard S. Steiner ______ Badger Mountain No. 57... Waterville, Wash.
1926

Jan. 6 Robert R. Finlay .........Galltin No. 6 ______________________ Bozeman, Mont.
Jan. 16 Linton N. Ralph ......... Lodge No. 45 _____________________ Pittsburg, Pa.
Jan. 23 T. G. Killingsworth ....Emporia No. 12 ________________ .Emporia, Kan.

Location

In addition, we have rendered assistance to the families of forty
deceased brethren whose remains were shipped elsewhere for burial.

Total receipts and balance ________________________________________________________ $6, 715.06

Date

91

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GEO. W. HousE, President.
EnwIN T. DA;r1', Secretary.

Long Beach Employment Bureau
Men and Boys Women and Girls
Applications received______________________________
636
243
Positions secured--------------------------·--------528.
201
Temporary positions secured________________
427
70

San Jose Board of Relief
Receipts
Reimbursement from Grand Lodge .. ----------------------------------------------$ 79.16
Reimbursement from Lodges, California jurisdiction ________________ 1,936.70
Reimbursement from Lodges, other jurisdictions ---------------------- 820.00
San Jose Chapter No. 31, 0. E. S .. ----------------------------------------------- 120.00
Crown Chapter No. 72, R. A. M., Pasadena .... ---------------------------·
25.00
Interest -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------57.95
Local bodies·----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 679.23
Disbursements
For relief, members California jurisdiction ---------,----------------------$2,057.14
For relief, members other jurisdictions-------------------------------------- 797.50

92

PROCEEDI,NGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OJ,' CALIFORNIA

Funerals

Dis burscments
Advanced to Masons in California ................................................$1,419.05
Advanced to Masons, other jurisdictions .................................... 4,741.41
Advanced to Masons, foreign jurisdictions..................................
20.00
Advanced to individual Masons ...................................................... 1,391.81
Advanced to widows and orphans ................................................ 1,870.18
Advanced for funerals........................................................................ 810.49

The following funerals of sojourning brethren were arranged
for, conducted, and in several instances paid for, by this committee:
Date
1925

Oct. 22
Dec. 23
Dec. 26
Dec. 28
Dec. 30

Name

Lodge

Location

Wm. R. Hervcy...........Olympia No. 808.............. FarRockaway,N.Y.
Orio B. Hull... ..............Porterville No. 303 ...........Porterville
Richard F. Bullock .... Live Oak No. 6L ............ Oakland
John F. Morgan ...........Paso Robles No. 286 ........Paso Robles
Albert M. Johannson.St. Johns No. L .................. Newport, R. I.

1926

·Jan. 2 Robert S. Cormack .... .Kerman No. 420~ .............. .Kerman
Jan. 4 Henry Victors .............San Miguel No. 285 ..........San Miguel
Jan. 13 Russell H. Chandler...Yuma No. 17 ..................... Yuma, Ariz.
Jan. 22 Phil Hodgkin ...............Winchester No. 20 ........... Winchester, Ky.
Feb. 5 Harold F. Clark..........Sou. California No. 278 ... Los Angeles
Feb. 11 Thos. J. Gillespie ......... Warren No. 53 ................. .lndianola, Iowa
Feb. 15 James L. Ramsey ........ Bosworth N'o. 597 ............. Bosworth, Mo.
May 3 J.E. Harris .................. Redwood City No. 168.....Redwood City
May 29 Fred. W. Schroeder.. .. Doric No. 216 .................... San Francisco
July 21 A. McAllister.. ............. Blythswood No. 817.........Glasgow, Scot.
Aug. 3 Louis Thiebault ........... Lassen No. 149................. Susanville

'vV. F. ANTH.ES, JR., Secretary.
San Diego Board of Relief
Receipts
Balance on hand ................................................................................ $4,245.59
Received from Grand Lodge.......................................................... 231.22
Received from Local Lodges.......................................................... 532.75
Received from foreign jurisdictions ..............................................
· 5.00
Refunded by California Lodges...................................................... 871.76
Refunded by Lodges, outside jurisdictions ................................ 4,734.26
Refunded by individual Masons .................................................... 2,338.01
Refunded by widows and orphans ................................................ 1,798.35
Refunded for funerals of Masons.................................................... 585.56
Donations..............................................................................................
22.37
Interest .................................................................................................. 128.70
$15,493.57

93

$10,252.94

Funerals

Following are the funerals conducted during the year:
/)ate

1Vame

Lodge

Location

1925

Sept. 11 John A. Stinson .......... Portland No. 499 .............. Portland, Ark.
Sept. 24 Fred Saxer................... Tyrian No. 333 ................. Springfield, Ill.
Oct. 7 Jacob Lando................ Hawaiian No. 2L ............. Honolulu
Nov. 16 E.T. MarshalL........... Evergreen No. 259 ........... Riverside
Nov. 17 Ralph S. Marsha!L. ....Wilkinsburg No. 683 ....... Wilkinsburg, Pa.
Nov. 30 Otis P. Maxfield .......... Montrose N'o. 63 ............... Montrose, Colo.
Dec. 15 J. \V. Heineman .......... Basin Springs No. 386 .....Eureka Spgs .. Ark.
Dec. 19 Orin L. Burns .............. Lihanus No. 80 ................. Lewishurg, Ohio
1926

Jan. 15 S. G. Humphreys ........ Albert Pike No. 303 ......... Wichita, Kan.
Jan. 19 Wm. L. Balduff... ........ St. Johns No. 25 ............... 0maha, Neh.
Feb. 6 Chas. \V. Rust .............. Montezuma No. 145......... Dolores, Colo.
Feb. 8 Alfred Bollier ...............East Gate No. 630 ............ Kansas City, Mo.
Feb. 25 Newton E. McClory ... Klamath No. 77 ................ KlamathFalls,Or.
Mar. 1 John Bemesch ............. Garfield No. 686 ................ Chicago, Ill.
Mar. 11 William Roberts ......... Cascade No. 34................. Great Falls, Mont.
Apr. 12 W. A. McPherson ...... Tonawanda No. 247 .........Tonawanda, N. Y.
Apr. 26 \Vm. E. Farrar ............True Brothers No. 8 ........ Crapaud, P. I.
May 3 John S. Robinson ....... Delta No. 62 ...................... Delta, Colo.
May 11 Andrew S. Ennis ......... Chichindarn No. 18 .......... Guanajuato, Mex.
May 26 E. E. McCartney ........ Solomons No. !.. .............. Savannah, Ga.
June 3 Frank Fiscus ............... Fostoria No. 288 ............... Fostoria, Ohio
June 4 W.]. Boyd...................St. Francis No. 24 ............ Smith Falls, Ont.
June 7 Wm. E. Spotten .......... Hankinson No. 57 ............ Hankinson,N.D.
June 10 John Knapp ................. Aurora No. 267 ................. St. Louis, Mo.
July 1 Thomas R. Heustis .... Alamo No. 44 ....................SanAntonio,Tex.
July 1 Henry C. Knight... ..... Newton No. 136 ................Burkeville, Texas
July 15 Joseph Luxon ..............Columbia No. 14...............Boulder, Colo.
July 23 Alexander \Viley ........ So. Pueblo No. 31.. ........... Pueblo, Colo.
Aug. 11 \V. 0. Chamberlain ....Minneapolis No. 19 ..........Minneapolis,Minn.

94

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We have furnished transportation and sent the following to
various points in the East:
A brother to Wallingford, Conn., Masonic Home.
A brother's widow to Detroit, Mich., to a daughter.
Four children of a Mason to Alexandria, La.
A brother and wife to Utica, N. Y., Home.
A brother to Sullivan, Ill., Home.

wALTER FEATHERINGJLL President.
R. \V. BELDING, Secretary.
San Diego Employment Bureau

Masonic non-Masonic \Vomen
Applications received.............................. 444
140
114
Applicants placed in positions.............. 300
62
56

Funerals

''"'"
l'J25

Name

Lodge

Location

Sr1}t. 2 Charles J. Thorne ............ Petaluma No. 180.............Petaluma
Srpt. 11 Arthur E. Blake............... Katahdin No. 98 ................ Patten, Maine
Srpt. 14 William H. Bourke ..........Oriental No. 74................. Spokane, Wash.
Oct. 3 Flora L. Laird ................... Deming No. 12..................Deming, N. M.
(kl. 6 Fabin Randa!L ................ Auburn Park No. 789 ...... Auburn Park, Ill.
(kt. 8 Charles F. Mess ................ Mosaic No. 218 ..................Livermore
(kl. 19 John E. Foster .................. Ferndale No. 193.............. Ferndale
Nov. 23 James N. Shafter............. ~Sycamore No. 134............ .Sycamore, 111.
Nov. 30 Joseph R. Nichols ............ Antioch No. 175 ................Antioch
I )('C. 10 James S. Nicholas ............Sacramento No. 40 ........... Sacramento
I h·c. 16 Henry A. Nyman..............Balder No. 393................... San Francisco
I lt•c. 16 Charles S. Brooks, Jr .......Corinthian No. 9 ............... Marysville
lh·c. 26 Amos B. Ackley ............... .Struckrath No. 430...........Pittsburg, Pa.
1'126

J1111. 8 Eugene G. Ware............... HenryL.PalmerNo.301.. .... Milwaukee, Wis.

JULIUS KEMMER, President.
R. W. BELDING, Secretary.
Oakland and Berkeley Board of Relief
Receipts
Balance on ua.uu....................................
.. .............. "' 5,603.50
Refunded by California Lodges.................................................... 3,125.05
Refunded by outside jurisdictions................................................ 5,099.09
Refunded by foreign jurisdictions................................................
125.00
Refunded by individuals.................................................................. 1,823.36
Grand Lodge, account sundry jurisdictions................................
516.54
Interest ................................................................................................
190.64
Received from member Lodges.................................................... 4,782.31

Total ..............................................................................................$21,265.49
Disbursements
For California Lodges
4,397.84
For other jurisdictions ............................................
6,212.66
For foreign jurisdictions ........................................... :::::::::::::::::::::::
243.70

6,959.77

Jun. 13 George A. Hazzard .......... Covina No. 334 .................. Covina
Jun. 23 George A. Bockstatt... ..... St. Helena No. 93 ............. St. Helena
Jnn. 25 R. F. Hutchinson ..............Lafayette No. 52 ............... Montezuma, Iowa
1•1·h. 2 Louis A. Farnsworth ....... Lakeside No. 739 .............. Chicago, Ill.
l•'t•h. 13 Hugh A. Gillchrist... .........State No. 68 ....................... Tacoma, Wash.
F1·h. 19 George G. Bystle...............W es tern Star No. 2.......... Shasta
Jirh. 24 Olaf F. Petterson ..............Balder No. 393 .................. .San Francisco
F1·h. 25 George Ochsenbein.......... St. Johns No. 25 ................0maha, Neb.
Mar. 11 George L. Hughes ............N evada No. 13 .................. Nevada City
Mar. 15 Henry E. Kent.. ................Monterey No. 217 .............Monterey
Mar. 19 Louis Demson ...................Weber No. 6...................... 0gden, Utah
Apr. 15 William Matheson ............Mt. Diablo No. 448 ........... Concord
May 1 Edward D. Grant.. ........... Evergreen No. 51.. ...........Tacoma
May 7 Edwin C. Aldrich ............. .Santa Cruz No. 38 ............ Santa Cruz
May 11 James McCrosson ............ Armstrong No. 26 ........... Newport, Del.
May 13 Peter Farre!L.................... Cedar No. 103................... Chanute, Kan.
May 26 Manuel S. Bent ................. Golden Gate No. 30......... San Francisco
Jnne 5 Frank E. Baker .................Occidental No. 22 ............ San Francisco
June 5 John W. Kramer .............. \Vadena No. 156............... Wadena, Minn.
Jm1e 8 Elizabeth Pettus ...............Big Creek No. 204 ............ Big Creek, Miss.
June 30 Hinman S. Robinson ....... \Varren No. 147................Union Spgs., N.Y.
June 30 Waldemar F. Mygind ..... Blanco No. 48 .................... Marshfield, Ore,
July 16 Dwight A. Henderson .....Pulaski No. 415 .................Pulaski, N. Y.
July 31 William C. Williams ........Madison No. 23 ................. Grass Valley
Aug. 2 David W. Smith ................ Forest No. 66.................... Alleghany
Aug. 4 Michael J. Furlong.......... Columbia No. 114............. Portland, Ore.
Aug. 19 Lincoln M. \Voodfield ....San Francisco No. 360 ..... San Francisco
Aug. 20 Howard Church ............... .Ashlar No. 3...................... Nanaimo, B. C.
Aug.26 Fred E. Ettleson.............. .San Pedro No. 332 ............ San Pedro
WILLlAM L DAY, Secretary.

97

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

96

I Jute

Oakland and Berkeley Employment Bureau

Receipts
From East Bay Masonic bodies ......................................................$4,340.52
Interest ..................................................................................................
; 9 ·~6
Received from Grand Lodge............................................................
0.

7

$5,149.66

Disbursements

~:~:~~: ~~fe~n~~~-::::::::::::::::::·_·_:::::::::::::::·.:·.::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~'.~~ii~:
FRED L. ARPOGAST, Manager.

Board of Relief of Los Angeles

Receipts
Grand Lodge cemetery account
1.900.00
Grand Lodge'. relief account.......................................................... 3,383.55
Sister jurisdictions ............................................................................ 25,494.34
Disbiirsements·

Cemetery
1,900.0~
Jurisdictions ........................................................................................ 28,190.9
Christmas dinners were supplied to 400 persons, and clothing
and household goods to the amount of $2,500.00, supplied to 250
people.
J. W. KEMP, President.
J. M. DUNSMOOR, Secretary.
Funerals
Date
1925

Name

Lodge

Location

July 30 John Richard Millcr ........ Lemmon No. 151.. ............ Len~m~n, S. D.
July 30 Marcus L. Levin ...............Suburban No. 740............. Lomsville, Ky.
Aug. 6 Leon V. Wiles ..................Argenta No. 3.................... SaltLakeCity,Utah
Aug. 8 Jacob T. Schain ................ Kodahya No. 153.............. Browns'Valley,:Vin.
Aug. 11 Chas. F. Clark ...................Springville No. 351.. ........ Springville, N. Y.
Aug. 13 James H. Joss ................... Acacia No. 111.................. \Vinnepeg, Man.
Aug. 14 Reid R. Gove .....................Chas. A. Welch ................. Maynard, Mass.
Aug. 15 Byron E. Finley ................ Beacon No. 3.................... .St. Louis,_ Mo.
Aug. 16 Samuel R. Stofer .............. South Gate No. 547 .......... Kansas City, Mo.

Name

Lodge

Location

Raymond H. Wood ......... Garden City No. 141........ Chicago, Ill.
Burton A. Cummings ...... Collingwood No. 457........Toledo, Ohio
Hiram D. Buck. ................ \Vatertown No. 49 ............\Vatertown, N. Y.
Henry HempeL...............Douglas No. 361.. .............. Mascoutah, III.
Harry R. Wickler ............ Robt. Morris No. 247....... Minonk, Ill.
Howard W. Greene ......... Kensington No. 211.. .......l>hiladelphia, Pa.
John H. Powers ............... Aurora No. 48 .................... Portsmouth, Ohio
Constantine Schwartz ..... Mt. Moriah No. 179 .......... Kinsley, Kan.
James Birney....................Thomas J. Turner, 409 ..... Chicago, Ill.
Charles Clawson .............. Taft No. 516 .......................Taft, Calif.
Chas. S. Labofish ............. Pentalpha No. 202 ............ Washington, D. C.
Chas. R. Beal... ................. Clearwater No. 28 .............Clearwater, Minn.
Louis Dukes ......................Island No. 56 ..................... Havana, Cuba
James B. Mason ............... Palestine No. 486 ............. Atlanta, Ga.
Elbert B. Grates ............... St. Johns No. 25 ................0maha, Neb.
Harry M. Chapler............ Hanna No. 61.. .................. \Vabash, Ind.
Ira Barnes ......................... Henry Clay No. 277 ......... N. Y. City, N. Y.
Claude 0. Whitman ........ Colttmbia No. 819 ............. Chicago, Ill.
John James Dunn ............ Jefferson No. 104.............. New Albany, Ind.
Otto Olsen ......................... Rising Star No. 450 .......... Yonkers, N. Y.
James Gage ....................... Costanaula No. 113.......... Rome, Ga.
I kt. 1 George W. Tramme!L ... Forest Park No. 1054 .......0ak Park, Ill.
I >rt. 1 Adolph C. Rojahn ............. Pilgrim No. 180 ................. Fremont, Mich.
(>rt. 3 Joseph Craig..................... Brooklyn Xo. 288 .............. Brooklyn, N. Y.
I let. 3 Martha Barton ..................Cleburne No. 315 .............. Cleburne, Texas
I kt. 3 Curtiss E. Young .............. Hope No. 214..................... Delphos, Ohio
l Id. 5 Emmett McKee ................ East Gate No. 113 ............. Holly, Colo.
St•pt. 19 Dewey D. Quick. ............. .Northside No. 292 .............Richmond, Va.
I l«I. 10 Richard H. Mills ..............Abbeville No. 192 ..............Abbeville. La.
I lrl. 4 John E. Wills .................... High Springs No. 137 ...... High Springs, Fla.
I kl. 10 John A. Graham ............... Queen City No. 552..........Toronto, Can.
I kt. 12 Leo Freeman ..................... Fulton No. 216 .................. Atlanta, Ga.
I let. 15 Henry Clay Bell... ............ Beggs No. 319 .................. Beggs, Okla.
I let. 17 Severo Morelli... ............... L'Union Francaise, 17 ........ N. Y. City, N. Y.
I kt. 20 Thos. R. CaldwelL........... Haddonfield No. 130 ........ Haddonfield, N. J.
I >rt. 22 Lewis E. Brayton .............St. John No. 41.. ............... .Springfield, Vt.
I let. 26 George A. Beebe.............. .Alameda No. 167 .............. Centerville, Calif.
I Ir!. 25 George Hallock. ................ Prosperity No. 962 ........... N. Y. City, N. Y.
I l!'I. 27 Henry Heilbronner ..........Clinton No. 19 ................... Petersburg, Ill.
<let. 30 Henry R. East... ................ F. R. Lawrence No. 797.. Rochester, N. Y.
I let. 28 Thomas A. Kirk ................ Lincoln No. 19 ...................Lincoln, Neb.
Nov. 6 Richard B. Harlow...........\Vashington Cent'nl, 17.. ., ..\Vashington, D. C.
I >ct. 30 Albert J. Seamon..............Pe Ell No. 157 ................... Pe Ell, Wash.
Alllo!'. 22
All!{. 23
Aul{. 27
Alli{. 30
S1•pt. 3
S1•pt. 5
S1•pt. 6
S1•pt. 6
S1•pt. 8
Srpt. lO
Srpt. 10
Srpt. 10
S1·pt. 15
St•pt. 14
St·pt. 16
Srpt. 20
S1·pt. 22
Sept. 24
Sept. 24
Srpt. 25
S1·pt. 25

Date

N ame

Lodge

99

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

98

Location
· M' h

Detroit No. 2..................... Detro1t, ic .
N
Cananea Mex.
Nov. 8 Charles B. ·J ones...............
h 1
Sonora o. 12 ....................
'
Nie o as..............
Br wley Calif.
Nov. S Richard
.
.
Brawley No. 402............... a
'
.
Cit No 129 .............. Bay City, Mich.
Nov. lS Loms L. Sqmer.................
Nov. 16 Mrs. Anna 1:-· Palmer.. .... Bayian ~o S08 .................. Sioux City, Iowa
·
Duluth Minn.
Nov. 20 Mrs.AnnaM1chelstetter.. .. Try_
Iomc No 186.....................
'
Nov. 23 Dr. John H · C arson......... Alamosa ·No. 44................ Alamosa ' Colo.
John
Law...........................
Cambridge,
Mass.
Nov. 23
John
H.
Baker..
................
Putin!
am\
.....
k
...
N
........
3
..
1
..
9
..........
LosAngeles,Cali
f.
Nov. 23
Ho en Jee
o.
.. ....... .
l080
...........
Dallas,
Texas
Nov. 19 Don R. Fox........................
0
N . N 80
Milwaukee, Wis.
Nov. 2S Ward Arlington Orlopp .. Pentagon
I dependence ~ .... ..................... n .
Chica o Ill.
Nov. 28 Geo. N. Gray
Umversal No. 98S............
g '
. fi Id
Dec. 2 Frank Weis e . ................Mt Carmel... ..................... L Ynn ' Mass.
b
0
.
N 9 St Louis Mo.
Dec. 2 George H. R ·11·ie.............. Geo· Washmgton
o. .. A · d b ' Iowa
·
Dec. 8 Harriet P. W 1 1ams.........Veritas
No. 392 .......... !...... u u on,
Dec. 6 Gillard H. Jones................Ashlar No. 308.................. Chica g o ' Ill.
Ind.
Dec. 10 Wm. W. M urray.............. Gary No 677 ..................... Gr
a y,
Ier.............
·
F ette City, Pa.
Dec. 1 Henry A. V.oss
b
Gummert No. 2S2............. ay
.
I a City Iowa
Dec. 10 John T. Salis ury............. Iowa City
No. 4................ ow
'
ff
W.
Pfa
..................
.
N
s
Chas.
Cleveland, Ohio
Dec. 11
Service o 6 8................ .
M
Donald
G.
oore..............
.
·
M
kwonago,
Wis.
Dec. 11
B wn
Laflm No. 247 .................... u
.
.
J
Rev.
Thos.
.
ro
........
hurum
No
112
...............
Minneapohs,Mmn.
Dec. 11
Dec. 11 LeRoy F. Hough ..............K an Nu s No 4SO ............ Van Nuys, Calif.
Dec. 13 Moses P. Murray ............. .V. hla:d Park No. 382 ... LosAngeles,Calif.
H1g
Tucson Ariz.
Dec. 17 Wm. H. Featherstone ..... Tucson
No. 4.....................
'
. N S24
A val on Calif.
Dec. 17 John Balm..........................
Richey
..........
Catalmal'
No.
60
................
Little
Rock,
Ark.
Clarence
F.
Dec. 18
Magno ia o. ...............
.
d
Wm.
S.
Sny
er.................
h'
N
S42
Lankershim,
Calif.
Dec. 19
Lankers
1m
o.
.
.......
.
.
Hamilton, Can.
Dec. 2S Abby B. Buekl m............... Done
No. 382 .................. ..
.
Virden, Ill.
Dec. 29 John S. Shepar d .............. ., Virden
No. 161................ ..
Alex
L.
Cooper.................
Ogden, Utah
Dec. 29
Wm. Jesse Jones .............. Weber No. 646 .................. Peoria Ill.
Dec. 28
Dec. 30 Dr. Edward C. DuMars .. Temple N~ :2"3"6.............. ThiefRvr.Falls,Mn.
Clifford D. McCubray ..... Northern o.
.. ............ Westfield, N. J.
Dec. 27
.10 tt ................ . Atlas No. 12S ................... ..
Howar
Ell
d
Dec. 31
1926
.
Lon Beach No. 327 ........ Long Beach, Calif.
g
S
N. Y. City, N. Y.
Jan. 1 Henry Harrison................ Gramercy
No 37............ .
Jan. 4 Alfred J. Weber ................ ucson No. 4 :....................Tucson, Ariz ..
N
Cleveland, Ohio
Jan. 7 Emmer J. Reese ............... .T.
Stanley R. Wishart.. ........Bigelow o. 243 .. ............. Lawton, Okla.
Jan. 8
Lawton No 188................
'f
.
'N 400
Burlingame, Cah ·
Jan. 9 James W. H a11 ey..............
Ne oS.SO ......... St. Louis, Mo.
Jan. 11 Horace E. H. Ruggles .....BurlmHg~lml
.. ......... ..
Rose 1
o.
ion No 232 ................... Glasgow, Scot.
Jan. 17 Zary G. ~outh...................
·
Jan. 16 Alex Crmckshank .............Un

Date

Name

Lodge

Location

Jan. 18 Joseph S. Marshall... ........Palestine No. 204.............. N. Y. City, N. Y.
Jan. 18 Samuel S. Wisdom ........... Consuelo No. 32S ..............Escondido, Calif.
Jan. 22 Theodore Hopkins ...........Garfield No. SO ..................Erie, Colo.
Jan. 23 E.W. Childs ...................... Homer No. 3S2 .................. Homer, N. Y.
Jan. 23 Joseph C. Brill... ................Gramercy No. 537 ............ N. Y. City, N. Y.
Jan. 26 Angelo Guifrida ................Alba No. 891... ................... N. Y. City, N. Y.
Jan. 26 Albert.S. Greene ............... Atlantic No. 81.. ................ Portland, Maine
Jan. 26 James L. Monnet... ........... Ashlar No. 306 ...................Colton, Calif.
Jan. 30 Walter B. Kennedy .......... Girard No. 631.. ................. N. Y. City, N. Y.
Jan. 30 Harmon Hall... ..................Lake Geneva No. 44 ......... Geneva, Wis.
Feb. 4 Henry Gehlbach ............... Cyrus No. 208 .................... N. Y. City, N. Y.
Jan. 26 James M. Bost.. ................ New Albany No. 656 ........ Westminster, Tex.
Feb. 5 Warren H. Lambert... ...... Manila No. !.. .................... Manila, P. I.
Feb. 7 Alfred Greene .................... Bee Hive No. 184.............. 0maha, Neb.
Feb. 4 B. T. Vial... .........................Cerrillos No. 19 .................Cerrillos, N. M.
Feb. 8 Enos J. Strawn .................. Alamosa No. 44 ................. Alamosa, Colo.
Feb. 8 John Charles ...................... Lakeside No. 739 .............. Chicago, Ill.
Feb. 11 James E. Paine ..................Great Lights No. 181.. ..... Decorah, Iowa
Feb. 9 Lilburn M. Hardy ............ Standard No. 873 .............. Chicago, Ill.
Feb. 12 Henry M. Muench ............ Fecleral No. 961.. ...............Chicago, Ill.
Feb. 14 Chas. J. Hathaway ............ Petaluma No. 180............. Petaluma, Calif.
Feb. 16 George Moore ...................! onic No. 90 ....................... Seattle, Wash.
Feb. 16 Nathaniel S. Risden ......... Consuelo No. 325 .............. Escondido, Calif.
Feb. 17 Thos. R. Bennett... ........... Enterprise No. 48 ............. Jersey City, N. J.
Feb. 18 John H. Twohey...............Rising Sun No. 22 ............ Ashtabula, Ohio
Feb. 20 John C. Piester.................. Iola No. 38 ......................... Iola, Kan.
Feb. 21 Alfred J. Seed ....................Cass No. 147 ...................... Harrisonville, Mo.
Feb. 21 Cecil F. Mowder............... Kalamazoo No. 22 ............ Kala111azoo, Mich.
Feb. 26 Ralph L. Burkhart.. ..........Mishawaka No. 130..........Mishawaka, Ind.
Feb. 27 Harry M. Baker ................Brainard No. 336 ............... Fremont, Ohio
Feb. 28 Stanley M. East... ............. Normal No. 673 ................ Normal, Ill.
Mar. 1 Chas. E. Corkran ..............John Abhott... ................... Somerville, Mass.
Feb. 27 Chas. E. Manning .............Orient No. SL. ................. .Topeka, Kan.
Mar. 8 Joseph W. Smith .............. San Luis Obispo K.T ...... SanLuisObispo,Cal.
Mar. 7 Wm. Harrold Jennings ... Kosmos No. 896 ................ Chicago, Ill.
Mar. 8 Hiram L. Johnson ............Willcox No. 10.................. Willcox, Ariz.
Mar. 9 Walter E. Crossman ........ San Jose No. 10.................San Jose, Calif.
Feb. 27 Geo. D. Stonetreet.. .......... Prince of Orange No. 16.N. Y. City, N. Y.
Mar. 12 Edwin G. Potter ................ Minneapolis No. 19 .......... Minneapolis,Minn.
Mar. 12 Dr. Bert Wyatt.. ............... Washington Park, 956 ....... Chicago, Ill.
Mar. 13 John Trenberth ................. Warren No. 10.................. Jacksonville, Ore.
Mar. 14 James M. Miller ................ Wichita No. 99 .................. Wichita, Kan.
Mar. 14 David R. Thornber .......... Gardena No. 372 ............... Gardena, Calif.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

100
Date

101

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Lode
.
A
g
Locatum
lfred W
R. Ebenreiter
......
Oriental
N
74
4 Alfred
0
B
· ................ Spokane Wash .
· assett.. .......... Somerset No 34
N
. h'
·
Juuc 5 Norman Wake!
. · ....... · ..... orw1c , Conn.
Ch'
Ill
ey .............Constellahon No. 892
June 5 Robt C H
h
...... 1cago
, Ohio
.
J1111c 6 Chas.. H. B arts
· . · 243 ·· · ........ Cl eveland,
k orn......... Bigelow No
Smith No 613
'[' l d Oh'
June 10 Frank H. pa er................. Barton
.
·
····· o e o,
10
osta .............. ·Braidwood :No · 704 ........ B ra1'd wood, Ill.
Jum· IO Nicholas · Lind
t... .............. Redlands No. 300 ............. R e dl an d s C ahf
.
JlllH' 12 Joseph F M K'
·" c mney ....... Golden Fleece No. 89 .....Litchfi Id' M' ·
Jt111{' 12
has. B Knowlton .......... B e11 mg
- h am Bay No 44 I' 11· he , • mn.
.
,l11m• 14 C
Chas H· K'
· ... "e mg am \\ash
· mg
...................
Mount
Tabor
No
42
p
tl
d
o'
,llllH' 8 Geor . e W
L
T
•
••••••••
or an , re. .
Junl' 15 Thomg B· koop .............. Fraternal No · 170··· ......... L"mn K an
ur e .................Doddridge No. 556
D dd' 'd . A
Ju11t• 16 Sam'! as
H Pi
.
........
o n ge, rk.
· erce................ St. Croix No 56
H d.
\V'
.l111H· 17
Lee
M.
Boyce
....................
Tucson
N
u son, .rn.
0
.lum• 20 Albert L Gre
· ............ · ..... Tucson, Ariz.
.
·
,I um• 24
g 0 ry ............V eritas No. 926....
Ch·
Ill
. .... icago, .
July 2 Theodore Ellsaesser........ Braymer X o 135
I !11tc

Name

Lodge

Location

Mar. 19 Forsten Lind ..................... Ezel No. 732 .......................Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mar. 20 Sylvester B. McQuinn .....Yeatman No. 162 .............. Cincinnati, Ohio
Mar. 22 Chas. W. Neal... ................Argenta No. 3....................SaltLakeCity,Vtah
Mar. 25 Edward G. Stevenson ......Star of Bethlehem, 332....... Brooklyn, N. Y.
Mar. 25 Pembroke R. Proctor...... Des Peres No. 85 .............. De Pere, Wis.
Mar. 26 Joseph L. Weaver .............Union No. 7....................... Denver, Colo.
Mar. 26 Elmer McClintock ............Cache No. 416 ................... St. Louis, Mo.
Mar. 28 Joseph Topham ................ Fresno No. 247..................Fresno, Calif.
Mar. 28 Nicholas Eby.....................Sheboygan No. 11.. ...........Sheboygan, \Vis.
Mar. 29 Eli W. Krieder .................. Morse No. 93 ..................... Morse, Sask.
Mar. 30 Clarence E. Holman ........ Wasatch No. L ................ SaltLakeCity,Utah
Apr. 6 John W. Allington ........... Acacia No. 176...................WebsterCity,Iowa
Apr. 7 Edgar D. Smith ................ Greybull No. 34 ................. Greybull, Wyo.
Apr. 6 Moses P. Davis .................Reno No. 140.....................Hutchinson, Kan.
Apr. 7 Victor J. Blonier...............Wadley No. 616.................Franklin, Ill.
Apr. 7 John Frank Kelly ............ Allegheny No. 223 ............ Pittsburgh, Pa.
Apr. 12 Bert Chamberlain .............Grizzley No. 601.. ............. Portola, Calif.
Apr. 14 Oscar W. Roberts ............ Deming No. 12 .................. Deming, N. M.
Apr. 16 John Syfritt.......................Hiram No. 68 .....................Leavenworth,Kan.
Apr. 19 Anson Higby .....................Deadwood No. 7............... Deadwood, S. D.
Apr. 20 Wm. Grant Lehman ........ Libertas No. 466 ................Bakersfield. Calif.
Apr. 23 James Robeson .................Reno No. 13 ....................... Reno, Nev.
Apr. 27 James A. Busby ................ Pana No. 226 .................... Pana, Ill.
Apr. 25 James J. Stephens ............ Westhope No. 74 .............. Westhope. N. D.
May 2 Winfield Hinckley...........Jop pa No. 300 ....................Minneapolis,M inn.
Apr. 30 Wm. L Peck ........ " .......... .Siloam No. 276 ................. .0klahomaCy.Okla.
May 4 John Olsen ........................Ivanhoe No. 1100............. Chicago, Ill.
May 5 John(Jack)E.Donohew ..... San Diego No. 35 ............ San Diego, Calif.
May 5 Frank H. Murphy............ Ancient Craft No. 377 ..... Kansas City, Mo.
May 7 Elmer G. Wirth ................ Corinthian No. 9 ............... Marysville, Calif.
May 5 Jacob Murray....................Florcnce No. 261 .............. N ew Florence,'f..fo.
May 9 Merritt A. Sawyer.. .......... Black River No. 85 ........... Ludlow, Vermont
May 11 Cyrus J. Peters ................. Pataskala No. 404 ............. Pataskala, Ohio
May 12 August F. PagenkofL ..... Schiller No. 263 ................. Detroit. Mich.
May 13 Allan A. Cunningham ...... Pacific No. 50 ....................Salcm, Ore.
May 18 Nathaniel E. \ValthalL. .. Wyandotte :.\' o. 3.............. Kansas City, Kan.
May 18 Jesse H. PenewiL. ........... Omaha No. 3..................... 0rnaha, Neb.
May 23 Terry Scott ........................ Koochiching No. 270 ....... lnternational Falls
May 23 Robert E. Browning........Porterville No. 303 ...........Porterville, Calif.
May 15 J.C. McDaniels .................Washburn No. 421.. .........Washburn, Ill.
May 26 Edmund F. Millett ........... Adelphi No. 63 .................. N ew Haven, Conn.
May 29 Alexander G. Twigg........ Arctic No. 394 ................... NewHarmony,lnd.
May 31 Robert C. Moorefield ...... .Mystic Tie No. 398 .......... .Indianapolis, Ind.

) HIH~

4 ................

Wilmot W Mitch II
. . • ·
.............. Braymer, Mo.
e ........ Mend1an ................ · ······· N
. k , •M ass.
4 Wm J Hill·
• at1c
· ·
yer ..................South Gate No. 547
K
C
,luly 6
T. Wendling.......Tipton No. 33
.......... ansas ity, Mo.
July 8 Edward
David W. Beech
.............. · .. Logansport, Ind.
teL. ........ Mercury
July 9 Anna Ma
.
• No ~ 950·· .......... M
' ercury, T exas
......................
Fa1th
No.
ll:i8
\•r·
July 16 Harr C. pes
Hollin
.............. · •v 1ch'1ta I''a 11 s, Tex.
Y Port
ger ......... Spokane No · 34 ............... s po k ane, \Vash.
,luly 16 Clinton
July 16 Ro \V St er
h ..................Western Star No · 21 ........ y oungstown Ohio
· Sh
ep ens .... - ...... Anchor No
· '"
July 13 AdaY :M
• · 424 ............... -~S·<111 A ntomo
I ex
p ti d 0'
.
m • . annon .......... Portland No 55
July 21 Richard
C \V r
· ............ · · or an . re.
. o den .......... Bakersfield No. 224.
Bakersficlcl C l'f
July 24
osep A Wh el
.
· .......
. a1•
e er...........Eastern Light No. 126 Gree
N y
J111.v 24 J . h .
B enJ W S · h
.
· ··· '
ne, . .
. . m1t ................. lomc No · 186··
July 24
.........D u Iu th , M'
l mn.
July

I

Los Angeles Employment Bureau
Appl~cat~ons

rece'.ved-men and boys ..................... ..
Applications received-women and .
........................... 2,911
girls......................
896
• s't'
o 1 ions secured-men and bo s
....................... .
I
Positions secured-women and Y i;j·~····--·--·--·----··------- ........................... 1,425
g
.......................................... ..
375
FRED

T. PURDY_, :\fanager.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

102

San Francisco Board of Relief

Sacramento Board of Relief
Receipts
Cash on hand ..................................................................................... $1,!;~:~~
Refunds from Grand Lodge ........................................................... .
Refunds from other Lodges ............................................................ 836.00
Refunds from individuals .................................................................. 1,135.50
From local Lodges.............................................................................. 873.51
LOO
1\[ iscella neous ~-·· ··---··· -~··········· H•················----··H·-····-·--··· .. ·--------···~ ..---·

---$4,643.34

Disbursements

730.02

General relief
:Miscellaneous relief ........................................................................... . 1,630.00

---$2,360.02

Funerals
Date
1925

Oct. 27
Oct. 30
Oct. 31
Dec. 8
Dec. 21
Dec. 31

Name

Lodge

103

Receipts
Crand Lodge
9,189.40
California Lodges .............................................................................. 8,328.31
10,408.17
Other jurisdictions, U.
l•'oreign jurisdictions ........................................................................ 1,694.70
Disbursements
Relief, California Lodges
7,642.88
Relief, other jurisdictions, U. S ..................................................... 11,067.59
Relief, foreign jurisdictions............................................................ 1,875.61
Funerals
During the year the following have been buried or their remains
~hipped according to the wishes of the families:
/111/c

Location

Winfield S. Honsinger .... Dunkirk No. 547 ............... Dunkirk, O_hio
Frank Pigman ................... Galion No. 414 .................. Galion, Ohio
Joseph C. Grant ................ Illinoistown No. 5L ........ Colfax
r
Charles H. Corson ........... Tacoma No. 22 .................. Tacoma, Vv ash.
Melville H. Baker............ Anchorage No. 221.. ........ Anchorage,Alaska
Alvin B. Hawley ............... Northern Light No. 75 .... Poplar, Mont.

1926

k
Jan. 3 Edward B. Palmer........... (N o record of)
Westhope •N.Da .
th
W
Leonard
F.
Barton...........
es
ope
iN o. 74 ···;··········
Jan. 21
Jan. 30 Benj. VvaterfalL. .............. Berkeley No. 363 .............. Berkeley
Feb. 13 Mathew A. Smith ............. Molino No. 150................. Tehan;a
·11 N 22
Roseville
.
Mar. 7 Thomas Newton ............... R osev1 e o. ................
Frederick
W.
Ehrmann
..
Oroville
No.
3
...................
0rovtlle
Mar. 8
· N 19
Stockton
June 3 E. E. Wyncoop .................S an J oaqum. o. ........ ._ .
J.
H.
Bussey
......................
Utica
No.
147
.....................
~tica c·
June 4
· d N 13
Nevada tty
June 13 Harry Cook.......................N ev a a • o. .................. .
Dr.
F.
Martin
....................
Franklin
No.
143
...............
Courtla~dl
June 21
·
1 11
p 1 · No. 26·················Placerv1l
e
.
Aug. 5 Ralph Lewis Co we •...... a myra
Earnest
H.
Escher
...........
Mill
Valley
No.
356
..........
Mtll
Valle~
Aug.19
·
H
· No 264 ··········· .Santa Mana
Sept. 13 Fredenck H. Lay............. esperian • ·

Name

Lodge

Location

1•125
l'\t·pl. 8 Charles H. Beesley............ Drytown, No. 174.................... Plymouth, Calif.
14 Oscar Swanson .................. Friendship, No. 210....
.. ..... .San Jose, Calif.
17 Albert J. London ................Washington, No. 20 .....................Sacramento, Calif.
22 John B.Jeffery ....................Wm. B. Warren, No. 209 ...........Chicago, Ill.
22 Israel Hepp......................... St. Mark·, No. 38...........................Halifax, N. S.
I kt. 7 Georgia Platts.................... .Isthmian........................................ Pedro Miguel, C. Z.
22 Arthur P. Field .................. Altemont, No. 26 .......................... Peterborough, N. H.
23 Abraham L. Sams ............. .Los Gatos, No. 292....................... Los Gatos, Calif.
Nov. 12 Frank M. Bean................... American Falls, No. 58 ...............American Falls, Ida.
16 George W. Shriner.. .......... Palestine, No. 141......................... Portland, Ore.
17 Holland Rubottom .............Hancock, No. 311.. .......................Ft. Leavenworth, Kas.
18 William C. Alberger ......... Ancient Landmark, No. 441... ....Buffalo, N. Y.
18 Stella M. Meredith ............ Western Star, No. 2 .................. Shasta, Calif.
30 Wyatt H. Stover................ Southern Cross, No. 6................. Manila, P. L
11!-c. 2 Burbon Bowles ...................Petaluma, No. 180........................ Petaluma, Calif.
19 John C. Ragsdale ................La Fayette, No. 265 ......................Milwaukee, Wis.
1926
Jun. 5 Peter Johnson .................... Eucalyptus, No. 243 ..................... Hayward, Calif.
6 James C. Titchworth .........Wilson, No. 113.............
....Waterford, Ont.
11 William R. Kelley ............. Ocean Park, No. 369.......
.... Ocean Park, Calif.
11 Harry M. Buck ...................Waukesha, No. 37.
.............Waukesha, Wis.
19 Marcus N ewfield ................Lodi, No. 256.................
.........Lodi, Calif.
27 George A. Williams ...........Western Star, No. 2................... Shasta, Calif.

104

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Date

Name

Lodge

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOH.NIA

105

Location

Feb. 2 John L. Wagner________
_Robinson, No. 266...
....... Louisville, Ky.
6 A. Edward Falkenstein .... .Vallejo, No. 487 ___________________________ .Vallejo, Calif.
9 Ted Grethen ________________________ Linwood, No. 167_________________________ New Orleans, La.
12 John McLaughlin _______ ..... Ancient Landmark, No. 319...... Jndianapolis, Ind.
13 James Mc Vicar __________________ St. John Dalziel, No. 406 ____________ Motherwell, Scot.
22 William Lewellyn ________ .... .Tuolumne, No. 8. __________________________ Sonora, Calif.
29 Cecil E. Gillis
.........Arcata, No. 106____________________________ Arcata, Calif.
Mar. 16 Camille A. J. Ginaca... _.... Pentalpha, No. 202...................... Los Angeles, Calif.
16 Jerome L. Hartman ...........Union, No. 58. _______________________________Sacramento, Calif.
16 James E. Hibbard .............. Oakland, No. 188.
.....Oakland, Calif.
31 Martin V. Gregg ................ Enterprise, No. 70....................... Yuba City, Calif.
Apr. 1 Lloyd D. Skinner.............. Jnyo, No. 221... ..............................Independence, Calif.
8 Harold EarL. ..................... Anchorage, No. 221.. ................... Anchorage, Alaska
9 Harry Tangeman...............Alpha, No. 431... ........................... Richmond. Calif.
13 John Harrigan ................... Alcatraz, No. 244.........................Oakland, Calif.
27 Charles F. Jenner ............. San Juan Bautista, No. 12.......... San Juan, P. I.
May 5 Joseph StotL ..................... Cannongate Kilwinning, No. 2.. Edinburgh, Scot.
10 Leonard N. Parks ............. .Natoma, No. 64.............................Folsom, Calif.
17 Walter W. Stocker.. ..........San Joaquin, No. 19 --------------------Stockton, Calif.
19 Loris W. Lyon ..................Thespian, No. 256 ....................... Sidney, N. S. W.
21 William F. Miller............. Solano, No. 229............................ Vallejo, Calif.
26 John :\kintosh ................... Bremerton, No. 117..................... .Bremerton, Wash.
June 19 Charles C. Smith............... Sisson, No. 310............................. Mt. Shasta, Calif.
20 Adolph SchwartL ........... South Gate, No. 320.....................Los Angeles, Calif.
21 Frank Monroe .................... Piscataguis, No. 44...................... Milo, Me.
July 3 Adam Brehm.......................Marin, No. 191..............................San Rafael, Calif.
23 Henry Wentz ......................Dunsmuir, No. 297.......................Dunsmuir, Calif.
Aug. 8 Isadore Goldtree................ Tucson, No. 4.............................. Tucson, Ariz.
16 Charles R. Watson ............ Acanthus, No. 719........................Brooklyn, N. Y.
23 Elemuel H. Misncr ............ Summit City, No. 170 .................. Fort Wayne, Ind.

A. J. SEVJER, Chairman.
LEo BRUCK, Secretary.

San Francisco Employment Bureau
Positions secured-male -·----··---·-·---·-·-··-------------··--·-----····--------·---··----··----1,243
Positions secured-female ...................................................................... 517
Positions secured-boys .......................................................................... 783
Average cost per position, $1.05.
SAMUEL J. RASETTE, President.
ANDREW BURKE, Secretary.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON INVESTIGATION OF
TUBERCULOSIS
Past Grand Master Filmer presented the following report, which was adopted :
To the M.'. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
llrethren:
Your committee, to which was referred the request of the Grand
Lodge of New Mexico to join with that Grand Lodge and others in the
United States in the matter of caring for members of the Fraternity
suffering from tuberculosis, begs leave to report as follows :
In this matter, our first thought was as to what extent California
is involved; that is, the number of cases requiring financial assistance
of Lodges, whether the Lodges are giving all the assistance needed,
whether Lodges can possibly render all the assistance required, as to
whether hospitalization is available in the jurisdiction of California and
as to the number of cases that go out of the State for treatment.
In order to ascertain this information, the committee circularized
the several Lodges of the jurisdiction, asking each to report on the same,
covering a period of three years, to wit: 1923, 1924 and 1925:

1. Total number of cases, alive and dead.
2. Total number of deaths.
3. Number of patients aided.
4. Number of families aided.
5. Number of members now afflicted.
6. Number of members of families now afflicted.
7. Names and addresses of such sufferers.
8. Addresses of family of each.
9. Members of other jurisdictions suffering from 'tubcrclllosis living
in this vicinity.
'
10. Amount, if any, of assistance given in such cases.
11. Did Lodge of which the brother is a member assist, and to what
amount.
l<EMARKS:
, . The committee received reports from live hundred thirty-nine Lodges.
l hese Lodges reported for the three years three hundred thirty-nine
cases of tuberculosis, one hundred forty deaths and that they had spent
$62,830.88 in caring for afflicted members and their families; that nearly
all cases had been cared for in tubercular hospitals within our borders;

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

that during the three years which our investigation covered the number
of members that had left the State for treatment was negligible and that
most of those who had done so returned after a short absence.
Lodges have spent from a minor sum to five thousand dollars on a
single case of tuberculosis, which indicates their desire to do their duty
to these unfortunates. Many Lodges,· however, have reported small
expenditures and, while we have no reason to question any Lodge, we
believe that the appointment of a speci<!-1 committee to carry on the work
in the hope of gathering further data might be of benefit in solving this
important question.
The California Tuberculosis Association, receiving its information
from the National Tuberculosis Association, reports one hundred fiftythree deaths of Masons in California in 1925, and states that there is
an estimate of about thirteen hundred seventy-seven Masons in the State
who are now suffering with the disease.
Tuberculosis is an expensive disease to combat. One of the principal
causes assisting the cure of a patient is relief from worry, but the man
who is obliged to quit the working activities of life is often soon without
means of support to himself and his family and the worry incident thereto
is often fatal in its results. Very few Lodges can bear the expense
necessary in such cases and, in our opinion, these Lodges should be
helped by Grand Lodge.
From various sources of information we learn that those afflicted
were rendered remarkably uneasy in their environment and were prone,
after staying a short time in one location, to try another. This, we are
told, is due to the nature of the disease.
If Grand Lodge wishes to engage in the work of helping the brethren
of this jurisdiction who are affiitted with tuberculosis, through a bureau
or committee caring for said brethren or for a member or members of
his family in the sanatoriums of th~ State and in relieving the families
of said brethren, we believe that either or both could be done less
expensively than if this Grand Lodge should join with the proposed
National Tuberculosis Sanatoria Association. We further believe that
if this plan be followed the patient will, in all probability, be nearer,
and have the consolation of, his family.
The California Tuberculosis Association informs this committee that
there are thirty-eight tubercular sanatoriums in California; twenty are
county institutions, subsidized by the California State Board of Health.
The California Tuberculosis Association is a State institution and works
in cooperation with all hospitals in an educational way. It sends its
nurses into the homes of families affiicted with tuberculosis, to instruct
said families in curative measures, in avoiding contact with and in
preventing the spread of the disease.

We realize that the New Mexico plan contemplates a hospital, or
hoKpitals, the location of which has not yet been presented, and that the
hoKpitalfaation is for the Masons of the United States; but, at this time,
uot thoroughly knowing our own problem, we do not believe it wise to
rlll(age in any national enterprise because the money thus used might be
•tx-nt right here upon the hospitalization and care of our own brethren
1111d their dependents.

106

107

We cannot, however, but sympathize with our brethren of New
M1·xico in their endeavor to alleviate the sufferings of Masons afflicted
wii h tuberculosis and in their present intention to establish sanatoria and
liospitals. But we have the problem ourselves. The whole Southwest is
h1volved as the place where the sufferers are wont to go in order to
rrnch a favorable climatic condition necessary to a cure, if a cure can be
nlfocted, and here in California we have such climatic locations and
clraw the affected from all parts of the United States.
From reports received, we believe the Lodges are caring for afflicted
~lasons in their distress fairly well at an expense, small, as compared
with what is requested of us by the New Mexico organization, and,
•lumld we join with them, we believe the Lodges would still be obliged
to hear the local burden themselves.
WM.

P. FILMER,

DAVID

J. REESE,

c. M. WO!.LENBERG.
RESOLUTIONS
Resolutions proposing to amend sections 96 and 129 of
the Constitution were presented and referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF TRUSTEES, U. C. MASONIC CLUB

A number of smaller gifts from individual Masons have been
received and duly acknowledged.

108

Brother William H. Waste, president of the Masonic
Club of the University of California, read the report of the
Trustees of that organization, and it was adopted except
as to that portion relating to a proposed appropriation by
Grand Lodge, which was referred to the Committee on
Finance:
To the 1v1.'.FV.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of
California, Inc., submits the following brief report :
Since Grand Lodge met one year ago, student activities at the clubhouse at Berkeley have continued along the now well established lines
of conduct, and in harmony with the approved regulations controlling
such functions at the university. A narrative of what has been done,
and a list of the various activities carried on by our students of .Masonic
affiliation would be merely a recapitulation of what has been said on previous occasions concerning the same matters. Suffice it to say that under
the watchful direction of the beloved "Club House Hostess," Mrs. Pease,
and the carefully considered administration of the student "Club House
Council," there has been no letting down from the very high plane on
which these activities have functioned from the very beginning. The
outstanding feature of the whole matter is that it is the unreserved opinion
of students, faculty members, and of the administrative heads at the
university that no one institution of its kind, on, or near the campus. has
a more stabilizing or beneficent influence on the student body than that
reflected by the Masonic Club House and its constituent activities.
During the year, Masons generally throughout the state have shown
an increasing interest in the Club House. The East Bay Masters and
vVardens Association has been a most helpful and encouraging factor in
bringing about this result. The following donations were received:
$1000.00 from the Grand Chapter Order of Eastern Star, donated,
and used, for the purpose of reducing the debt on the club house property.
$500.00 from the Grand Chapter Royal Arch Masons, donated for
furnishings for the club house; $250.00 used in the purchase of a "grandfather's clock"; $250.00 yet to be expended.
$125.00 from Palos Verdes Lodge, Long Beach, for the purchase of
hooks for club house library.
$100.00 from East Bay Masters and vVarclens Association, for the
purchase of books.
Nine copies of the "Blue and Gold" from 1890 to 1898, inclusive,
a rare gift, from Bro. E. C. Bonner of Alturas.

109

The club house property has been kept, and is at all times maintained,
in a most excellent state of repair by Brother Shepardson, the efficient
superintendent of the building and grounds.
A complete audit of the books and accounts of the Masonic Club
of the University of California, Inc., for the fiscal year, ended September
30, 1926, has been made.
During the year, from donations, payment by Oakland Lodge, No.
188, of the balance of its subscription, and by transfer of funds, payments
totaling $2250.00 were made on the note payable, held by the First
National Bank in Berkeley. The amount owing on this note as at September 30, 1926, was $15,250.00.
One year ago, on the basis of an estimated budget of $10,192.44,
Grand Lodge appropriated the sum of $10,000.00 for the operating
expenses of the Masonic Club House. The actual expenditures for such
purpose during the year was $10,249.87. As shown by the budget just
made by the executive committee, for the fiscal year next ensuing the
sum of $10,397.15 will be required for operating expenses. It will therefore be necessary for a continuance by Grand Lodge of the appropriation made one year ago.
The budget for the year follows:
MASONIC CLUB BUDGET-OPERATING EXPENSES
Based on Expenses of fiscal year ended on September 30, 1926.
Budget
Expenses Increase
Budget
or
1925-26
1925-26 Decrease 1925-26
Resident Hostess ........................$ 1,800.00 $ 1,800.00
$ 1,800.00
Superintendent ........................... . 1,500.00
1,500.00
1,500.00
Social Service, Bookkeeping....
600.00
533.71
66.29d
600.00
Attendants ................................. .
600.00
462.50 137.SOd
600.00
Heat and Light... ........................ .
840.00
38.85d
801.15
825.00
Telephone ..................................... .
120.00
147.17 27.17
150.00
\Vater ........................................... .
90.00
119.23 29.23
120.00
Garbage ........................................
15.60
20.00
4.40
20.00
Office Supplies, Postage ........... .
60.00
128.34 68.34
115.00
Janitor Supplies ............................
180.00
95.49 84.51<1
125.00
Repairs, Replacements ............... .
480.00
491.37
1U7
500.00
Newspapers, Periodicals ........... .
60.00
100.40 40.40
80.00
Taxes ............................................ 2,407.30
2,612.15 204.85
2,612.15
389.54
Insurance ..................................... .
417.68 28.14
425.00
Interest ...................................... . 1,050.00
1.020.68 29.32d
915.00
$10,192.44 $10,249.87

57.43

$10,397.15

110

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We offer the following resolutions:
Resolved, That the report of the Board of Trustees of The Masonic
Club of the University of California, Inc., be and the same is hereby
approved and adopted; be it further
Resolved, That the sum of ten thousand dollars be and is hereby
appropriated out of the funds of the Grand Lodge for the operating
expenses of the club house at Berkeley for the fiscal year ending September 30, 1927.
Fraternally submitted,
MASONIC CLUB OF THE UNIVERSITY OF CALIFORNIA, INC.,
VV'ILUAM H. WASTE, President.
CHAS. AI.BERT ADAMS, Secretary.

MONUMENT TO SAMUEL BRANNAN
Brother \V m. Penn Humphreys offered the following,
which was adopted:
Resolved, That a Committee of Three, two of whom shall be residents of the City of San Diego, be appointed to ascertain the cost of
procuring perpetual care for the grave of Bro. Samuel Brannan, in Mount
Hope Cemetery, San Diego, and of erecting a modest but suitable
monument thereon, and to report concerning the above at our Annual
Communication in 1927.

GR•.\ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

111

REPORT OF TRUSTEES MASONIC HOMES
Charles M. Wollenberg, president of the Board of Truste~s of the Masonic Homes, presented the report of the
Board, which was adopted, except that portion which related to the fixing of the per capita tax, which was referred
to the Committee on Finance:
To the M:. W:. Grand Lodge of California:
Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California
presents herewith its annual report of the property, condition and operation of the Homes for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1926, with a roster
of the residents of the two Homes as of September l, 1926.
Following the last annual communication the Grand Master appointed
M:. W:. Chas. Albert Adams as Trustee, vice self, term expired, and
with the newly-installed Junior Grand Warden, the Board organized by
re-electing W.'. Charles M. Wollenberg as President, and W.'. James
B. Gist as Vice-President. The Board as now constituted is as follows:
President, Chas. M. Wollenberg, term expires 1926;
Vice-President, James B. Gist, term expires 1927;
Samuel E. Burke, term expires 1928;
Chas. Albert Adams, term expires 1929 ;
The Deputy Grand Master, George L. Jones;
1be Senior Grand Warden, Will H. Fischer;
The Junior Grand Warden, Gustav A. Hutaff.
By Constitutional provision, the Grand Treasurer is Treasurer of
the Homes, and the Grand Secretary is Secretary of the Board of
Trustees of the Homes.

History of the Homes
It may be of interest to Grand Lodge to note here that the beginnings
of the Homes date from the annual communication of 1891, at which
time a resolution was adopted "That a committee of nine be appointed
by the Grand Master, whose duty it shall be to organize a Masonic
Widows' and Orphans' Home Association, or corporation." The committee was duly appointed, and in 1892 a plan of operation was reported,
and adopted, in which it was distinctly made clear that the Home should
always be under the supervision of Grand Lodge, and that the organization "should be only the executor of the charitable intentions of the

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fraternity and in perfect touch with it at all times." The brethr n
throughout the jurisdiction approved of the proposed work initiated or
the purpose of relieving Lodges of the burden of caring for tq ir
dependent members in a central Home and to the expense of which! all
members personally and through their Lodges, would have an opportunity to contribute.
In 1893 a site near the town of Decato, consisting of 267.46 acres,
was purchased at a cost of $33,093, and plans for a building were
approved. Progress on the project was slow, owing to the general
financial conditions of the country, and little headway was made until
1896, when (October 14, 1896) the corner stone of the Widows' and
Orphans' Home was laid by Grand Lodge. The original building was
completed and dedicated October 12, 1898, and it was opened for the
reception of residents March 1, 1899. The intention to limit the privileges
of the Home to widows and orphans was soon changed to include
d~pendent Masons, and later to mothers.
At that time the gross membership in the jurisdiction was less
than 20,000. More than one hundred thousand good men and true have
since been added to our rolls.
An Endowment Fund was created in 1910, and through the persistent
and untiring efforts of Past Grand Master Motley H. Flint, who has
been Chairman of the Committee for many years, this fund has now
grown to the respectable sum of $513,562, the interest only of which
may be used for the maintenance of the Homes.
In September, 1909, the Masonic Home of Southern California
donated to Grand Lodge a large building originally built for a tourist
hotel, located near San Gabriel, and the children of the Home at Decato,
forty-eight in all, were transferred to San Gabriel.
In 1915 the San Gabriel site was disposed of, and a site for a new
home (35.1 acres) near Covina was purchased. Permanent buildings
were at once erected, and on September 8, 1916, they were with appropriate ceremonies solemnly dedicated to the practical ideals of our
Institution-to applied Masonry.

', The reports of the Homes for the years ending as of September 1st
follbwing, indicate the number of residents for the several years:

112

Growth and Cost of the Homes
It is not necessary that we should in this very brief sketch tell
the story of the building operations which have brought our two Homes
Our brethren know, from
to their present respectable proportions.
personal observation. They do not, however, all know of the steady
growth. in the numbers of children and old people who have been and
are cared for by the grace of their generous and regular contributions..

YEAR
Men
1899 .................... 16
1910. .................... 60
1916.................... 100
1921 .................... 87
1923 .................... 88
1925 .................... 107
1926 .................... 114

Women
5
32
52
59
69
98
104

Total
21
92
152
146
157
205
218

Boys
10
25
32
38
52
73
85

113

Girls
6
20
24
41
61
80
86

Total
16
..! .~

56
79
113
153

171

It will be noted that in th'e last five years the number of children at the Covina Home has more than doubled, and that the residents at the Decato Home have increased more than twenty-five.
Notwithstanding this rapid influx of population, the cost of mainknance has not materially increased. The following table exhibits
the cost of maintenance of the two Homes for the years 1,924-5 and
1'125-6. The gross cost of caring for our wards is necessarily growing, but the average cost per resident is much less:
1924-25
1925-26
Decato
Covina
Decoto
Covina
Yr. cost home maint... ..$87,977.74 $80,649.22 $89,099.23 $87,701.25
/\ v. no. residents per yr
194
213
144
165
/\v. opr. cost per mo .....$ 7,331.48 $ 6,720.77 $ 7,424.94 $ 7,308.44
/\ verage cost per day....
244.38
247.49
224.02
243.61
/\ v. cost per resi. per yr
453.49
418.30
560.07
.531.52
/\ v. cost per res. per mo
37.79
46.67
34.86
44.29
/\ v. cost per res per day
1.259
1.551
1.162
1.476
/\ verage no. employes....
26.5
22.
27.
23.

Responsibility of Lodges
In our report to Grand Lodge last year we adverted to the matter of Lodges accepting members who become immediate subjects
for relief and who apply for admission to the Home within the
time limit-three years-very wisely fixed by Grand Lodge. We
stated in our last report that your Trustees interpreted their duty
to the Lodges with the widest latitude consistent with what we
conceive to be the fair intent of the craft .in the conduct and management of the Homes; and while it is embarrassing to deny the application of any Lodge in behalf of a needy member, yet we must
adhere to the proposition that Lodges should not attempt to shift

I

I
114:

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

/.

I

to the Homes their proper work of relief. A particularly urgent ~ase
was recently presented by a Lodge having a membership ofi less
than one hundred, who elected to affiliation a Mason who had /been
a member of an Eastern Lodge for some thirty years. He had!been
a resident of the community in which the Lodge is located for
some six years, when he was prevailed upon by the members to
join the local Lodge. He was at that time well over sixty years of
age and an apparent liability. The Lodge was of course within its
rights to admit this good brother to membership. But in a short
time-much less than three years-he became a charge upon the
Lodge, and application was made in regular form for his admission to the Home. The application _was denied. Your Trustees are
of the belief that however difficult it may be for this small lodge
to maintain this brother, it would be unfair to the other Lodges
of the jurisdiction to shift the burden.
Another application filed in January, 1926, was in behalf of the
mother of a member who affiliated with a California Lodge in September, 1924, from another jurisdiction. The mother was at the tim..:
a patient in a psychopathic institution. The application was denied
for three reasons; That the son was able to maintain his mother;
that his membership here was but little over one year; and that the
mother was mentalty ineligible to the privileges of the Home.
Another case: A Lodge in September, 1924, admitted to membership, on affiliation from another jurisdiction, a brother who was
over the age of seventy, and a sufferer from an affliction of the
heart. In January, 1926,-fifteen months after his affiliation-the
Lodge applied for his admission t_o the Home, ac·companying the
application with bank checks aggregating over two thousand dollars. The Board took the view that the responsibility for the care
of this brother was primarily with the Lodge and returned the checks
with its denial of the application.
Yet another instance: A Lodge applied for the admission of a
member who was prominent in the work of another organization
which maintains a good home for its dependent members. The
brother was possessed of some property, and two of his children
were living, but with whom he preferred not to live. Inasmuch
as the applicant had two sources of relief other than the Lodge and
the Masonic Home, the Trustees were of opinion that the entire
fraternity of our jurisdiction should not be charged with this support, and the application was denied.
Recently application was made in behalf of the mother of two
young brethren, both whom were earning good salaries, but who
did not want the bother of maintaining a household by a hired com-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

115

panion or housekeeper. The Trustees are firm in their belief that
these sons, even at some possible sacrifice to their own conveniT.ce. should not expect the fraternity at large to support their
mother. Needless to say, the application was denied.
At the August meeting of the Trustees an application for admission to the Home was presented from a Lodge in behalf of a
hrother who had been restored to membership at a stated meeting
held July 8, 1926, and the application for admission was dated Au~nst 11, 1926. It was evident that the brother was restored to
~tanding for the express purpose of placing him in the Homeif the Trustees would consent. Of course the application was denied.
It L probably true that the brother is in distress, and entitled to the
sympathetic interest of members of the fraternity, but we submit in
;di candor that the Masonic Home should not be made a mere conV('nience, and that an approval of such an application would have
111 en unfair to the other Lodges of the jurisdiction.
Your Trustees of ~he Homes are· the agents of the entire meml>l'rship, and are endeavoring to faithfully and fairly administer the
~plendid trust we have assumed as your agents. It is no little task
hut it is a work which appeals to our hearts and to our best
lhoughts, and we present some of our problems and embarrassments
to you, not in the way of complaint, but rather that you may
lH" advised of some of the prohlems which confront us, and in the
hope that Lodges may realize that the Homes are maintained hy
.von for the purpose of caring for those of our brethren who are
nrtually dependent, their wives, widows, mothers and children, and
11nt for mere convenience.

Student Loan Fund
During the year the Student Loan Fund has been the recipient
of gifts from the following good friends of the children:

Crand Chapter, 0. E. S. (Pierce Scholarship) ........................$ 600.00
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection........................................... .
750.00
( 'alifornia Lodge of Perfection .................................................. ..
750.00
Taft Lodge, No.
50.00
Estate of Fred M. Miller, Las Palmas, No. 366 ..................... .
lO<J.00
(;rand Chapter, R. A.
2,290.00
(;rand Council, R. & S.
1,090.00
August 1, 1925, cash balance..................................................

$ 5,630.00
5,270.08

Total .......................... :......................................................... $10,900.09
1.oaned to Students during year.................................................. 4,053.75
August 1, 1926, in Fund ..........................................................$ 6,846.33

I
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Since the close· of the books on July 31, the Grand Chapter of
the Order of the Eastern Star has contributed $840 for the benefit
of a worthy girl graduate of the Home, to be credited to the Elizabeth Mary Marshal Scholarship Fund, and $600.00 from the Darwin Willson Pierce Scholarship for boys. We have also received
$500.00 from the estate of John Henry Morrow, \ii/ est Lake Lodge,
No. 392, and $750 from San Francisco Lodge of Perfection, Scottish
Rite.
In May, 1926, one boy was graduated from the dental department of the University of Southern California as a full-fledged dentist and he is now making his own living. In a few years he hopes
and expects to repay to the Fund the entire amount advanced for
his professional schooling.
Another boy who matriculated in the department of architecture of the University of Southern California in the fall of 1924 is
making satisfactory progress.
One ambitious girl finished a business course in July and is
now holding a position with the Southern California Edison Company.
Seven girls, graduated from the Home and the Covina High
School, are participating in the benefits of this useful fund. Two of
them are at the training school for nurses in San Francisco. They
are all worthy of this assistance, and are all ambitious to make the
most of their opportunities.
The Lodges whence the children came are (E. A. R.) Mizpah
Lodge, No. 378; (M. B.) Wilmington, No. 198; (E. G. K.) South
Gate, No. 320; (R. S.) Parnassus, No. 388; (E. P.) Amador, No.
65; (A. M. V.) Mizpah, No. 378; (H. A. A.) San Jose, No. 10; (S.
V. V.) Mizpah, No. 378, and (M. S.) Adin, No. 250.
Since the first of August another girl has been added to the
list, Miss M. McK. of Vacaville Lodge, No. 134, who has entered
a business college at Oakland for the purpose of preparing herself
for secretarial work.

Estate of Harry Washauer ........................................................... .
250.00
Estate Hannah Gadina (Pietro, Speranza Italiana, No. 219)
S00.00
Estate of Harriet S. Fudicker ....................................................... . 18,906.00
Estate of Samuel Bernstein, Fidelity, No. 120 ....................... . 2,000.00
Louis H. Mueller, Standard, No. 440 ....................................... .
10.00
A. U. Toenjes, Ocean Park, No. 369 ....................................... .
35.94
Chas. J. Dodd, Golden Gate, No. 30 ....................................... .
10.00
W. S. Brown, Martinez, No. 41.. ................................................. .
20.00
S. N. D. Smullin, Forbestown, No. 50 ....................................... .
10.00
Tharald Steen, Santa Monica, No. 307 ..................................... .
50.00
Howard B. ).{elendy, Humboldt, No. 79 ................................... .
5.00
Simon Powell, Salinas, No. 204 ................................................. .
10.00
Con Elliotte, Tehachapi, No. 313 ................................................. .
5.00
Wm. J. Goodman, Bay View, No. 401.. ................................... .
50.00
\i\/arren S. Transul, Cahuenga, No. 513 ................................... .
10.00
C. W. Curtis, Albert Pike, No. 484........................................... .
12.00
E. Parker Jones, le Progress de l'Oceanie, No. 371.. ............. .
10.00
Thomas F. Vanasek, Ramona, No. 457..................................... .
5.00
G. Plat, San Jose, No. 10.............................................................. .
25.00
Raymond D. Jones, Eden, No. 113............................................. .
5.00
H. J. Schneider, Alcatraz, No. 244 ............................................. .
150.00
W. T. Olney, Ionic, No. 520 ..........................................................
25.00
Ralph E. Larson, Fresno, No. 247, and
R. G. Schroater, East Gate, No. 290 ......................................... .
22.50
George McRoberts, Presidio, No. 354 ....................................... .
25.00
Alex. McRae, Laurel, No. 245 ..................................................... .
10.00
Frank G. \i\/atson, Grand Tiler................................................... .
105.00
Robert Harbicht, Point Firmin, No. 558 ................................... .
10.00
J. R. Jones, Live Oak, No. 61.. ..................................................... .
5.00
Jonas B. Heal, San Pedro, No. 332............................................. .
20.00
Alex. MacKay, Fruitvale, No. 336 ............................................ ..
8.00
John W. Day, Gardena, No. 372 ................................................. .
5.00
Paul Thomsen, Hollenbeck, No. 319 ......................................... .
5.00
Lewis Chamberlain, Mission, No. 169 ...................................... .
100.00
Frank S. Balster, Durant, No. 268 ............................................. .
50.00
A. P. Frederickson, Liberty, No. 299 ......................................... .
10.00
\Vm. 1. McDonald, Oakland, No. 188....................................... .
12.50
Harry Stone. Silver Trowel, No. 415 ....................................... .
5.00
Nick Davis, Las Palmas, No. 366 .............................................. ..
5.00
L. Cohn, Paso Robles, No. 286 .................................................. .
6.00
Francis M. Casal, California, No. 1.. .. ........................................ .
25.00
Meyer Liberman, Naval, No. 87 ................................................. .
25.00
· A. J. Kelm, Apollo, No. 296 ........................................................ .
2.50
W. F. Mullen, Bakersfield, No. 224 ........................................... .
5.00

116

Endowment Fund
The good work of attorneys who draw ~vills for members of
the fraternity is beginning to be evident by the increasing number
of bequests to the Homes. The report of the Secretary will show
the condition of the Endowment Fund at the close of business J nly
31. The detail of gifts for the year are as follows:
3,210.72
Estate of Chas. Yarneberg, California, :No.
1,675.93
Estate of James K. Griffith, San Pedro, No. 332 ........... ..
100.00
Estate of Chas. A. Vandenbos, San Mateo, No. 226 ................

117

118

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

C. H. Frese, Vesper, No. 84........................................................... .
Members of McCloud Lodge, No. 430................................... .
Amos L. Bangle, Yerba Buena, No. 403 ..................................
Ross R. Chorley, Mission, No. 169 ............................................
John T. Richardson, Solano, No. 229 ....................................... .
A. E. Kauffmann, Francis Drake, No. 376 ..............................
E. P. Kauffmann, Francis Drake, No. 376 ............................... .
James Taylor, Francis Drake, No. 376 ....................................... .
Jos. W. Wilson, Park, No. 449 ................................................... .

5.00
150.00
10.00

10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

10.00
5.00

$28,092.09
The gross amount to the credit of the Endowment Fund as of
July 31, from all sources, was $513,761.09, an increase of $49,470.28
in the year.
Since the first of August, 1926, the Endowment Fund has been
enriched by the following gifts:
5.00
A. C. Hansen, Standard Lodge, No. 440.................................... $
5.00
Howard B. Melendy, Humboldt Lodge, No. 79 ....................... .
5.00
T. ]. Burke, Midway Lodge, No. 426 ....................................... .
Estate of Harriet Teresa Noah (Harry Ascroft) ....................... . 7,706.66
50.00
W. J. Goodman, Bay View Lodge, No. 401... ............................ .
Estate of D. Schroeder, Corona Lodge, No. 324 ....................... . 3,662.50

Finances and . Building Operations
Your Trustees are dosing the year with a considerable indebtedness, due to the building program necessitated by the rapid
growth of population at both Decoto and Covina. The amount of this
indebtedness will be seen in the Secretary's report.
We feel that our income is sufficient to take care of this indebtedness and to provide funds for the further building operations
that are necessary.
The Administration Building at Decoto (the original building)
is in a dilapidated condition and a survey of the plumbing and
wiring installation indicates that it will all have to be repaired at
once. It has been found that .it will cost something like $35,000 to
make these replacements. After expending this money we still have
a brick exterior with wooden floors and partitions, a dangerous situation from both the standpoint of fire and sanitation. We have, therefore, decided to abandon this building as rapidly as possible for
housing purposes and to erect immediately to the south a new building of sufficient size to care for a hundred residents. Plans are now
being prepared for this purpose. It is estimated that this building

119

will cost approximately $200,000. lneluded in this estimate is the
rerr.odeling of the Administration building, by removing the third
story and converting it into a semi-roof garden, using th~ first
floor as at present for administration purposes and the second floor
for the housing of female employes.
Plans are on exhibition in the Grand Secretary's office, showing various studies to effect this change.

Improvement at Covina
The farmer employed at the Covina Home who is one of our
most valued employes, has been living in a rented house several
miles distant from the Home. Your Trustees were of the unanimous
opinion that he could render better service by living on the Home
grounds, and thereby be subject to instant call for the many emergent duties which pertain to his work. Accordingly a small structure
which was buitt several years before as a bachelor quarters for transient help was remodeled by adding a bed room 12x14, a screen
porch 8x16, a laundry porch 6xl2, and a garage 10x16, all with
necessary doors and windows, electrical fixtures and wiring, automatic heater, gas stove, kitchen sink, laundry trays, toilet, and such
other accessories as were necessary to make a comfortable small
home. The brother who holds the position of farmer, George Gradler, has been with the Home for six years, is happily married to
an estimable woman, and the Trustees consider him to be a real
asset to the Home. The entire cost of reconstructing the cottage
was $1,500.
It was necessary to construct cement curbs, gutters and driveway cuts on the Covina Home grounds, and the following work
has been done: 1000 feet of 18 inch curb and 30 inch gutter, 104 feet
of 4 inch curb on north side of the Superintendent's cottage, 200
feet of gutter 10 inches wide along the front of the hospital, and
to make six cuts and apron approaches to the ground from the
Home driveways.

Camp Tucker
Brother Mervyn Newberg, with his usual tireless energy and
love for the children, has again placed the fraternity under obligations by selling, for account of the Homes, all the holdings at Balboa Island on the west side of the canal, and purchased lots in Section 5 of block 7, where all the Camp buildings are now located. The
Camp site now has twenty-three of the twenty-eight lots in the
block. Sixteen wooden structures in all have been erected, and the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

accommodations for comfortable camp life are complete. Through
the persuasive efforts of Brother Newberg, two cottages for House
Mothers were built in June of this year, at a cost to the Homes in
money of only $1,432, but at considerable other cost in labor and
finishings generously donated by the following big-hearted brethren,
mostly members of El Sereno Lodge, No. 588, and Euclid Lodge,
No. 519:
Pat Quinn
James E. Cohee
T. A. Mc).fillan
J. T. Montano
N. M. Rita
A. B. Barrett
Fred Blakley
A. S. Nichols
Harry Everett
C. T. Vaughan
H. E. ).fcKinley
Lester Fraser
George W. Smith
James Shelley
H. 0. Griffith
J. H. Richardson
S. Cravello
E. R. Small
G. W. Small
W. H. Hunter
Lee C. Miller
J.
Stewart
Howe Brothers
Marion Vannucci

mettle, two secured work as nurse girls; seven were general housemaids; three worked as mothers' helpers; one took charge of a
baby for a tired mother; and one distinguished herself and made
good as a cook. All these children returned very happy with money
honestly earned, deposited it with the Superintendent for their reasonable use from time to time, and are properly proud that their
training at the Home made them competent to take advantage of
their opportunities. It may be of interest to note that the earnings of
one of the girls-the cook-were sufficient to provide her with
clothing for the winter.

120

w:

Cash Gifts to Camp Tttch:r
Rialto Lodge, No. 582 ..........................................................................$ 13.07
Ocean Park Lodge, No. 369 .............................................................. 100.00
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42................................................................ 301.10
Veteran Lodge, No. 373...................................................................... 71.70
Standard Lodge, No. 440...................................................................... 10.00
David F. Marshall, Naval, No. 87..................................................
1.00
Bethel, No. 4, Job's Daughters, Los Angeles..................................
5.00
The Lodges composing the Los Angeles Board of Relief have
also displayed in a practical manner the live interest of the brethren
by agreeing to finance the building of a much-needed sea-wall on the
canal front of the Camp property. This will cost approximately
two thousand dollars.

Vacation Employment
Some of the children took advantage of vacation time by seeking-and finding-gainful employment rather than to enjoy the
pleasures of camp life. Fourteen girls and seven boys found work,
and many others were offered employment at labor which was not
considered suitable for them by the Superintendent. One ambitious
boy cut lawns; two worked in stores; one washed dishes in a restaurant; two worked as laborers on new buildings; and one expert
swimmer got a job as a life guard. Of the girls who showeJ their

121

\Ve take pleasure and some pride in reporting the vacation work
of the children, not only as tending to show the character and selfreliance of the youngsters, but as well that the Home is teaching
them the dignity of honest toil, even though it may be what is too
frequently termed menial labor.

Knight Templar Hospital
At the last annual communication of Grand Lodge an appropriation was made for the purchase of $40,000 par value of the stock
of the Masonic Temple Association which had been donated by
the Grand Commandcry Knights Templar of California for the purpose of providing a hospital on the grounds of the Home at Covina.
With the money thus provided plus the ten thousand dollars donated
by the Grand Commandery in 1924, the Trustees caused a hospital
building to be erected, and on September 18, 1926, it was duly and
formally presented by the Grand Commander to the Grand Master
as representing the entire fraternity, and 'in turn the Grand Master
delivered the care and custody of the hospital to the Board of Trustees of the Homes. The program of exercises was in charge of the
Grand Commandcry, and was as follows:
1 :30 p. m.-Paradc at Covina
2:30 p. m.-Administration building, Covina Home
Music-Commandery band
Invocation-Reuben H. Sink, Grand Prelate Emeritus
Song-Children of the Home
Introductory Remarks-Auguste J. DeLamare, Grand Commander
Address of Presentation-Dr. William C. Hassler, Past Grand
Commander
Acceptance of Hospital for the Grand Lodge-Albert Eugene
Boyton, Grand Master
Acceptance of Care of Hospital-Charles ).{. Wollenberg, President, Board of Trustees

122

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

123

Song-Children of the Home
Benediction-William H. Thomas, Grand Prelate
3 :30 p. m.-Exhibition drill and review on Home grounds

noted in the report of the Superintendent, we extend the ~hanks
of the Trustees to the following for cash d_onations to the room
furnishing fund:

The Grand Commander was accompanied by his staff of officers
and more Past Grand Commanders than were ever before represented at any gathering other than an annual conclave. Templars
in full uniform from three Inspection Departments were present
in large numbers, and with the numerous friends of the Home present, the occasion was a most happy and memorable one.

San Francisco Chapter, No. 1, R. A. M.......................................
Signal Lodge, No. 543........................................................................
Union Lodge, No. 58..........................................................................
Penrhyn Lodge, No. 258..................................................................

Description of Building.
The building is one story and is of fire proof construction. The
exterior of the building is of dark red brick with cream colored
terra cotta trim to match the other buildings of the Home, and has a
red tiled roof. The building covers an area of one hundred seventy
feet by fifty-seven feet, and has a capacity of twenty beds. Each
room opens on to an open terrace or uncovered porch so that the
patient may be wheeled out direct to the porch for sun baths, etc.
The building also contains a large operating room, where major
operations may be performed if necessary, X-ray room, sterilizing
room, Doctor's scrub-up room, office, head nurse's room, dental
room with two chairs, diet kitchen, and an attractive sun parlor and
play room for the children. In the basement is a large room for
laboratory, work shops, etc.
One attractive feature of the hospital is that the corridor side of
all bed rooms is constructed of plate glass, so that the nurse may
keep an eye on the patients without disturbing them by entering
the room. The building is completely equipped with the very latest
type of hospital furniture and equipment, the furniture being of
steel and having a dark mahogany finish, so that the cold appearance
or atmosphere of an institution is missing and the character of the
Home and restful feeling is established.
The architects of this building were Roth and Parker of Hollywood, who had direct supervision of all construction.
Many generous gifts have been made for the furnishing of the
hospital, all which are noted in the comprehensive report of Mrs.
Miller, Superintendent of the Covina Home.

Gifts for Furnishings, Covina Home
The Homes are indebted to many who have evinced a friendly
interest in the children, and in addition to the acknowledgements

~eannnket~.L~~::,elN.~:··45;;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: $~~~:~~
100.00
303.85
62.66
75.00

Visit to Decoto Home.
\Vednesday of this week the representatives to Grand Lodge will
have a·n opportunity of visiting and inspecting the Home at Decoto,
where they will have the privilege of personal contact with the work
of the fraternity in caring for those of our brethren, their wives,
widows and mothers who are domiciled there. As we stated last
year, we ask you to bear in mind that each one of you is a partner in
this enterprise, and that criticism of the management of the enterprise, if of a constructive nature, will be welcomed by the Trustees.
We request that the per capita tax for the maintenance of the
Homes for the year ending July 31, 1927, be fixed at fifty cents.

C. M. WOLLENBERG, President,

J. B. GIST, Vice President,
SAMUEL

E. BURKE,

CHAS. ALllERT ADAMS,
GEORGE
WILL

L. JONES,

H. FISCHER,

G. A. HUTAFF,
Tmsfee.

124

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of Experts

Exhibit 1
Sept~mber

20, 1925.

Board of Trustees,
Masonic Homes of California.

Secretary's Report
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITUHES

Gentlemen:
Pursuant to your authorization, we have examined the financial
records of the Masonic Homes of California during the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1926, and present herewith certain statements as follows:
Exhibit 1-Secretary's Summarized Statement of Revenue and
Expenditures.
Exhibit 2--Distribution of Expenditures and Revenues in Detail.
Exhibit 3-Balance Sheet, July 31, 1926.
Exhibit 4-Pcr Capita Costs.
Exhibit 5-Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit 6-List of Securities-Special Rule
posited.

125

16-Securiti~s

De-

Exhibit 7-List of Securities-Building Fund.
Exhibit &-Analysis of Notes Receivable and Notes Payable Accounts.
We certify that, in our opinion, the finances of the Masonic
Homes of California have been properly accounted for during the
fiscal year ended July 31, 1926, and that the attached statements are
con ect.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL & LAND,
Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1926
Revenue
Maintenance Fund ......................
$ 217,104.62
Farm Produce Sales-Decato..$
5,846.97
Farm Produce Sales-Covina ..
10,227.35
16,074.32
Farm Rent-Decato ................. .
614.08
Stores Account-Covina ..........
36.40
Salvage--Decoto ........................
168.50
Merchandise Sales-Covina ... .
1,123.57
Maint., Sub. Lodges-Decato..
1,016.90
~faint., Sub. Lodges-Covina ..
5,933.00
6,949.90
General Expense Fund (net)~.-----­
536.85
Int. on Endowment Fund Sec.
14,970.16
Total revenue ..................... .

Expenditi;res
Mainten·ance-Decoto
Maintenance-Covina

50,650.09
50,338.64

100,988.73

Farm-Decato ............................
Farm-Covina ............................

6,610.50
13,102.66

19,713.16

Laundry-Decato ......................
Laundry-Covina ......................

3,380.15
3,564.83

6,944.98

11,484.62
12,786.35

24,270.97

Payroll-Decato ........................
Payroll-Covina ........................

-----

General Expenses-Decato......
16,973.87
General Expenses-Covina......
7,908.77
Trustee's Expense .. H-·H·---~-·h--··· - - - - Pensions ......... _............................
General Office Accounting.... ..
Taxes ............................................
Miscellaneous Gen. Expense ..
Insurance ................................... .
Outside Relief ........................... .
Interest ....................................... .
1,013.52
Interest, Special Rule 16........ ..
1,937.16
Total expenditures ........... .
Excess of Rev. over Expend ...

-----

257,~78.40

24,882.64
1,064.80
315.00
900.00
3,020.16
785.69
2,718.25
7,170.00
2,950.68
195,725.06

$

61,853.34

126

Deco to

Exhibit2

Pay Roll
Wages ..........................................
Salaries ....................................... .

Masonic Homes of California
DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATIYG EXPENDITURES AND REVEYUES lN DETAIL

E.rpenditures-lvfaintenance
Deco to
Covina
Groceries ......................................$
5,862.58 $ 11,158.95 $
Meats ......................................... .
2,665.60
4,239.09
Fish ..............................................
587.94
92.26
Provisions (cured and smoked
meats) ..................................
2,967.05
1,313.91
2,120.97
Fruit and Vegetables ............... .
2,979.40
Butter, Eggs and Milk........... .
11,329.48
7,839.50
1,854.02
Baker Supplies ..........................
4,378.30
Medical Supplies & Drugs ..... .
513.55
148.62
3,635.30
Hospital Expense ................... .
7,126.35
Dental Expense ....................... .
39.86
Clothing ......................................
2,839.72
2,546.97
2,829.65
Shoes ........................................... .
226.28
246.88
Bedding ..................................... .
448.10
School Supplies & Instruction
1,360.30
Outside Instruction ............... .
831.48
Kitchen and Dining Room:
Repairs and Maintenance ....
197.76
Operating Expenses ........... .
1,876.81
1,208.57
Miscellaneous ....................... .
2,394.86
3,559.48
Payroll ................................... .
6,830.48
2,738.66

Total
17,021.53
6,904.69
680.20

4,280.96
5,100.37
19,168.98
6,232.32
662.17
10,761.65
39.86
5,386.69
3,055.93
694.98
1,360.30
831.48
197.76
3,085.38
5,954.34
9,569.14

Total maintenance ..............$

50,650.09 $

50,338.64 $ 100,988.73

Farm
Tools and Equipment .............. $
Seeds ............................................
Feed ............................................. .
Labor ........................................... .
General expense ....................... .

376.30 $
103.15
3,522.41
1,200.00
1,408.64

30.00 $
99.97
5,131.50
4,033.16
3,808.03

406.30
203.12
8,653.91
5,233.16
5,216.67

Total Farm ........................$

6,610.50 $

13,102.66 $

19,713.16

2,396.60
983.55

2,628.85
935.98

5,025.45
1,919.53

3,380.15 $

3,564.83 $

6,944.98

Laundry
Labor ............................................
Expense ......................................

Total Laundry ..................$

127

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Total pay roll ......................$
General Expense
Light, Heat, Power & Water..$
Plant Repairs and Maint.........
Freight and Express ................ ..
Traveling Expense .................. ..
Printing and Office Supplies ..
Furniture and Equipment ....... .
Telephone and Telegrams ....... .
Miscellaneous ........................... .

Covina.

Total

6,984.62
4,500.00

10,386.35
2,400.00

17,370.97
6,900.00

11,484.62 $

12,786.35 $

24,270.97

7,214.45 $
1,175.40
1,535.70

4,285.20 $
1,069.91
289.44
824.13
483.75
766.63
189.71

11,499.65
2,245.31
1,825.14
824.13
812.69
1,162.22
578.48
5,935.02
24,882.64

328.94
395.59
388.77
5,935.02

Total general expenses ......$

16,973.87 $

7,908.77 $

Grand total Home expen ..$

89,099.23 $

87,701.25 $ 176,800.48

Common Expense
Trustees Expense ..................... .
Pensions ..................................... .
General Office Accounting..... .
Taxes ........................................... .
Miscellaneous ............................
Insurance ....................................
Outside Relief ..........................
Interest ....................................... .
Interest-Special Rule 16 ........

$

1,064.80
315.00
900.00
3,020.16
785.69
2,718.25
7,170.00
1,013.52
1,937.16

Total common expense ....

$

18,924.58

Grand Total Expenditures

$ 195,725.06

Revenue
Maint., Subordinate Lodges ....$
Merchandise Sales ................... .
Farm Produce Sales ................. .
Farm Rent ..................................
Stores account ........................... .
Salvage ........................................
Funeral expense ....................... .

Total operating revenue ..$

1,016.90
5,846.97
614.08

5,933.00
1,123.57
10,227.35
36.40

168.50
536.85
8,183.30 $

17,320.32 $

6,949.90
1,123.57
16,074.32
614.08
36.40
168.50
536.85
25,503.62

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Decoto
Summary of Operating
Expenditures and Revenue
Maintenance -·-·-------·----------·----·-Farm «•••··--···-·-··-·--------------···--------Laundry
Pay Roll
General Expense ---------------·-·---Common Expense ......................
•H••··-····-~•-H••••••••••••••••••••

-----·------~------------------------·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Covina

50,650.09
6,610.50
3,380.15
11,484.62
16,973.87

50,338.64
13,102.66
3,564.83
12,786.35
7,908.77

100,988.73
19,713.16
6,944.98
24,270.97
24,882.64
18,924.58

Covina Home:
Land ....................................... .
Buildings ............................... .
Building Equipment ............
Improvements ........................
Laundry Machinery .......... ..
Furniture and Fixtures ....... .
Farm Equipment ..................
Hospital Construction ....... .

24,300.00
474,330.09
7,044.49
24,804.77
3,586.80
13,875.50
135.00
40,447.19

588,523.84

12,463.23
10,203.51

22,666.74

Total

Total Operating Expend ...$
Deduct Operating Revenue ....

89,099.23 $
8,183.30

87,701.25 $ 195,725.06
17,320.32
25,503.62

Camp Tucker: Real Estate
Improvements ....................... .

Net Tot'! Home Expense$

80,915.93 $

70,380.93 $ 170,221.44

Sundry Real Estate Invest.....
Automobiles .............................. ..
Stores and Supplies-Decoto..

BALANCE SHEET, Jl::LY

Assets
Cash:
In Banks
Petty Cash-Decato
Petty Cash-Covina

Securities:
Permanent Endowment Fnd
Special Rule 16 ....................
Endowment Fund Loan to
General Fund .................. ..
Covina Hospital Construction Account .................... ..
Deco to Home:
Land ....................................... .
Buildings .............................. ..
Building Equipment .......... ..
Improvements ...................... ..
Power Plant and Laundry ..
Furniture and Fixtures ....... .
Farm Equipment ................. .
Farm Investment ................. .

1,279.22
3,543.78
3,012.95

Total assets ............................ ..

Exhibit~

31, 1926

51,683.40
500.00
500.00

52,683.40

416,477.50
27,277.69

20,000.00

45,469.90
971,175.70
56,452.55
34,468.71
68,073.38
53,359.84
5,406.00
8,000.00

$2,444,954.93

Liabilities
Permanent Endowment Fund
Notes Payable ........................... .
Residents Deposits ................. .
Special Rule 16......................... .
Special Rule 16, securities ........
Entertainment Fund ............ ..
Students Loan Fund ............... .

513,756.90
152,083.73
13,509.13
52,280.51
27,277.69
631.89
6,846.33

Total liabilities ......................

766,386.18

Net worth ............................

$1,678,568.7 5

•

67,083.73
530,838.92

1,242,40::1.08

129

Capital Account
Capital Account July 31, 1925,
previous report ..................... .
Less: Adjustments-prior periods-Automobile Account
Written down to depreciated
balance ....................................
Minor differences books and
bank account ........................ ..

Capital Account July 31, 1925,
as adjusted ............................ ..

$1,515,049.36

5,711.25
.20

5,711.45

$1,509,337.91

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Grand Commandery Hospital
Fund Donation ..................... .
Excess of Revenue over Expenditures for fiscal year
ended July 31, 1926............... .
Building Fund Collection ........

50,000.00

61,853.34
57,377.50
$1,678,568.75

Exhibit 4
PER CAPITA COSTS

1924-1925
Decato
Covina

1925-1926
Decato
Covina

Cost of maintaining homes $87,977.74 $80,649.22 $89,099.23 $87,710615.25
'd t
194
144
213
Average number res1 en s
6 720 77
7,424.94
7,308.44
Av opr. cost per month...... 7,331.48
'
.
47 49
243 61
.
d
244.38
224.02
2 .
.
Average cost per ay............
18 30
531.52
Av. cost per resident per yr
453.49
560.0;
\4· 86
44 29
Av. cost per resi?'~ per mo
37.~9
~6S~l
t.i62
i.476
Av. cost per res1d t per da
1.2 9
2Z
27.
23.
Av. number of employees....
26.5
·

Exhibit 5
CASH RECEIPTS A:!':D DISBURSEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JULY

31, 1926

Cash Balance in Banks July 31, 1925 ..................$
Less: Adjustment minor difference book
bank balances
...................................... .

34,121.06
5.20

-----

Receipts
Grand Lodge Maintenance Fund ..................
Grand Lodge-Building Fund ······················
$20 Home Tax....................................................
Endowment Fund ............................................
Endowment Fund Interest.. ............................
Interest ..................................................................

28,688.75
57,377.50
186,320.00
34,244.53
14,970.16
1,093.38

34,115.86

Special Rule 16 ................................................... .
Maintenance, Subordinate Lodge, Decoto..
Maintenance, Subordinate Lodge, Covina ... .
Merchandise Sales, Covina ............................. .
Farm Produce Sales, Decoto ..........................
Farm Produce Sales, Covina......................... .
Residents Deposits ............................................
I•arm Rent, Decoto ........................................... .
Funeral Expense Refund ..................................
Miscellaneous Maintenance ............................
Scholarship Loan Fund ................................... .
Notes Payable ....................................................
Entertainment Fund ......................................... .
Real Estate-Camp Tucker............................. .
Endowment Fund Securities ......................... .
Insurance Refund ............................................. .
Taxes ....................................................................
Refund-Trustees ............................................ ..
Salvage-Covina ·················---·--·········-·······'·······

131

15,802.97
1,016.90
5,933.00
1,123.57
1,224.74
1,387.57
8,403.88
614.08
2,071.29
4,042.22
5,630.00
30,000.00
7,667.73
5,134.05
24,500.00
1,554.86
2.00
54.79
168.50

Total receipts ................................................. .

439,026.47

Total to account for ................................. .

$ 473,142.33

Disbursements
Maintenance ....................................................... .
$20 Home Tax..................................................... .
Power, Plant and Laundry-Decoto ........... .
Furniture & Fixtures-Covina ......................
Scholarship Loan Fund .................................. ..
Notes Payable ................................................... .
t)utside Relief ..................................................... .
Trustees Expense ..............................................
Insurance ............................................................
Special Rule 16................................................... .
l~ntertainment ................................................... .
Covina Improvements ......................................
Covina Buildings ............................................... .
Interest-Special Rule 16................................. .
Hcsidents Withdrawals ................................... .
Real Estate-Camp Tucker ............................. .
l·"uneral Expense Refund ................................. .
Furniture & Fixtures-Decoto....................... .

167,679.32
220.00
28,242.63
1,438.58
3,953.75
25,000.00
7,170.00
1,119.59
4,273.11
2,977.79
7,710.19
1,711.63
90,823.48
1,937.16
9,964.82
6,025.00
1,534.44
3,073.18

132

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND -LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

Automobiles-Covina
Taxes ....................................................................
H otes Paya hie ................................................... .
Interest-Notes Payable ................................. .
Covina Hospital Construction .........................
Laundry Machinery-Covina ......................... .
Total Disbursements ................................... .
Cash Balance, July 31, 1926:
Anglo California Trust Co ...........................$
Anglo California Trust Co., Endowment
Interest Account ....................................... .
Pacific Southwest Trust & Savings Bank
Berkeley Commercial and Savings Bank
Humboldt Savings Bank. .............................
Security Trust & Sav. Bk., Build. Acct. ....
Security Trust & Savings Bank, Hospital
Construction ................................................
F. B. Hartman-Trustee ............................... .

1,455.11
3,022.16
10,000.00
106.90
40,447.19
1,572.90

Bonds
C. H. and D. R. R. Company (No. 680)
* 50 yr. ~ortgage Bond 4%% ........... .
* U. ~· Liberty Loan Bond, 3rd 474
Pacific Gas & Electric 6% ....................... .

%::::::

133

1,000.00
100.00
1,000.00

2,100.00

421,458.93
Notes and Agreements of Sale Face V alue
Book Value
Mrs. J. 0. Mellis
$
John Toome
························ 4,000.00 $
2,745.00
E. L. Dre e~ ······························ 1,650.00
232.47
Cora A. Jar;~~~-························· 700.00
700.00
+A K
.
······:··················· 700.00
700.00
. angns & Mane Kangris 1 984 25
1,984.25
*Mary McGuire
'
·
*W. H. Morriso~························· l·~90.80
1,340.80
3,865.17
*Thomas R. Howa~d·················· 1'500.00
*Edward R. Zule
·················· ' 00.00
1,260.00
+A A
........................ 2,400.00
1,600.00
· · Butterworth .................... l,lOO.OO
750.00
Total

4,341.44
8,030.94
578.55
889.69
30,195.67
190.27
9,552.81
1,009.13
54,788.50

Deduct overdraft, Security Trust and
Savings Bank ............................................. .

$
*These Securities were acquired

3,105.10

Total Cash Bal in Banks July 31, 1926

$

15, 177.69
27,277.69

during current fiscal year.

51,683.40
Exhibit 7
S ernrities-Building F1tnd

Exhibit 6

V. r.scnic Temple Assn. (2000 shares) ........... .

LIST OF SECURITIES-RESIDENTS OF HOME

Corporate Stock
Southern California Edison Co. Common
(Shares 20) .................................................. $
State Mutual Building and Loan Assn.
(Cert. 66405) ............................................. .
Visalia Build. & Loan Assn. (Shares 10)
San Jose Build. & Loan Assn. (Shares 6)
Mutual Building and Loan Assn. of San
Jose (Cert. 202) ....................................... .
Kern County Mutual Building and Loan
Assn. (Shares 15) ....................................... .
*Pacific Gas and Electric Co., Preferred
Stock (Shares 52) ........................................

JOHN WHICHER,

500.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
300.00
500.00
1,500.00
5,200.00

10,000.00

$

20,000.00

Secretary.

134

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Report of the Superintendent, Decoto Home.

The new laundry is equipped with modern machinery, a water
softener process has been installed in the basement of the men's
new building and a new 220 horse power boiler, water and oil pumps
have been placed in that part of the power plant formerly occupied
hy the old laundry. These improvements enable the Home to handle
the laundry work with greater economy and the service is adequate
for some years to come.

To the Board of Trustees, Mason,ic Homes of California:

I herewith present for your consideration my seventeenth annual report for the year ending August 31, 1926.
There has been the usual routine in the management of the
Home without any special changes during the year.
The gradual increase in the number of residents will, in the near
future, necessitate additional rooms, it having been necessary to use
the fourth floor of the men's new building for women employes and
the rooms at the cottage for men employes.
The members of our large family have cheerfully rendered assistance according to their strength, in the general routine work.
A loyal' effort on the part of each one has created a special spirit in
the Home and has resulted in a greater degree of contentment and
happiness.
The general health in the Home has been remarkably good,
with the exception of those who are feeble and infirm, owing to advancing years.
There arc now at the Home 218 residents, 114 men and 104
women. During the year there have been 37 admissions, 19 men and
13 women.
There are now 35 members being cared for in our hospital department, where they are receiving every care our physician and
nurses can give them.
The number requiring hospital care is gradually increasing. Additional room, when needed, can be provided by the completion of
the interior of the second floor of the two wings of the hospital
building.
A number of the brethren have assisted by their labors in the
carpenter and paint shops, store room, care of the garage, mail,
passenger and express service, office work, attending phones and
messenger service and light duties in a general way.
All minor repairs during the year have been made by the brethren. The boundary fences have been put in order and two buildings
have been built for farm machinery and tools.
The women residents attend to all the making, mending and
marking of household linen and clothing, and have taken charge not
only of their own rooms, but, as well, the ~alls, stairways, wash
room~ hand laundries and other parts of their departments. They
also a~tend to the changing of table linen and assist at times in work
connected with the pantry and kitchen.

135

As heretofore, the greater part of the hill ranch has been leased,
t•ither on shares or cash rental. The farm has supplied plenty of
fruit for the table, the surplus being dried and stored for future use.
The hay crop has given good returns. The garden has supplied
vegetables, berries and plenty of greens. The hog ranch has also
given good returns. The chicken ranch has furnished all eggs for
table use, the surplus being sold and preserved in water glass for
winter use.
Our deep well pump continues to furnish a plentiful supply of
water for household, garden, irrigating and building purposes.

Social Life.
The social life of the Home has been greatly enriched during the
year by literary and musical entertainments by generous volunkcrs from Oakland, San Francisco and nearby towns. The new assembly hall, with our modern stage and moving picture equipment,
has made possible the presentation of dramatic plays given by visiting Lodges and friends, all of which has contributed to the pleasure
of the members of the family. The evening programs often close
with dancing.
Moving picture entertainments are given every Thursday cvc11ing, card parties on Tuesday evenings, chorus practice on Friday
l'vcnings. Every Sunday afternoon finds the residents of the Home,
with their visiting friends and relatives congregated in the Assembly
I !all for Sunday service, after which a selected program is given
hy the Home Orchestra.
All holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. The
specials were those held on New Years Eve, New Years day, Lincoln's birthday, Washington's birthday, Easter, Memorial Da·y,
Fourth of July, Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.

Library.
The steady growth of our library continues, there being at the
present time, in our main library and bra11ches, 5000 volumes on the
shelves. In addition we are the recipients, through members of the

136

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fraternity, of daily papers and periodicals, which are placed on the
reading tables in the men's club room and the women's social rooms.
The Alameda County Free Library has opened a branch at the
Home, which enables our family to obtain many of the latest books
and gives us the opportunity to send for special books.
The donations for the year have been generous and are another
evidence of the deep and growing interest taken by the Fraternity
in the welfare of the Home.
Most \Vorshipful Grand Master, Albert E. Boynton and members of the Grand Lodge have made a number of visits to the
Home, also, many of the brethren and friends have spent many
pleasant hours with us.
I wish to extend my appreciation of· the services rendered by
the officers and employes throughout the year, in their respective
departments and express to the members of the Board of Trustees
my sincere gratitude for the counsel and advice given me when
meeting the various problems connected with the management of
the Home.
Fraternally submitted,
FRANK B. HART.MAN,
Superintendent.

Visitations to Decoto Home.
September 12, 1925, Golden Chain Chapter, No. 303, 0. E. S.
September 19, Official visit of Worthy Grand Matron, Cora
Spring Holland, to the Eastern Star Chapters, 20th District. The
officers and members of the following Chapters were present: Golden \Vave, No. 103; Carita, No. 115; Semper Fidelis, No. 135, and
Orient Chapter, No. 177, 0. E. S.
September 20, Speranza Italiana Lodge, No. 219.
September 26, Sequoia Lodge, No. 349.
September 27, Chanters, Aahmes Temples, A. A. 0. N. M. S.
October 14, Officers and representatives of the Grand Lodge,
F. & A. M.
October 24, Live Oak Lodge, No. 61.
November 4, Hayward Chapter, No. 331, 0. E. S.
November 13, Palo Alto Lodge, No. 346, conferred third degree.
November 21, Standard Lodge, No. 440.
November 23, Alameda Chapter, Order of DeMolay.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

137

December 5, Oak Grove Lodge, No. 125. Presentation of play
"Arrival of Kittie."
December 1, Santa Clara Matrons and Patrons Association of
Sa1:ta Clara County gave a stage play entitled "A Colored \Vedding."
December 12, San Jose Sciots, Pyramid No. 9.
January 10, 1926, Foothill Lodge, No. 564, conferred thir<l
degree.
February 13, Musical Club from Berkeley.
February 22, California Chapter, Order of DeMolay, cxemplili~d the work of the first degree.
April 11, Henry Bryan Chapter, Jeanne D'Arc, Assembly No.
I, exemplified their ritualistic work.

April 24, Excelsior Lodge, No. 166.
May 1, Alameda Lodge, No. 167, and Orient Chapter, No 177,
0. E. S.
May 7, Etude Musical Club.
May 15, Apollo Lodge, No. 396.
May 21, Peninsula Chapter, Order of DeMolay.
May 22, Alameda Sciots, Pyramid No. 5, band concert.
May 23, Burlingame Bethel, No. 7, Job's Daughters: Ritualistic
work.
June 5, Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225.
June 19, Justice Lodge, No. 549.
June 24, J ewe] Lodge, No. 374, band concert.
June 26, Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336.
June 29, Hayward Dancing Class.
August 21, Golden West Lodge, No. 455.
. August 28, Oakland Lodge, No. 188, accompanied by Chateau
~h1erry Lodge, No. 569, Park Boulevard Lodge, No. 568 and Lal
Shore Lodge, No. 551.
'
'e

Donations to Decoto Home.
Henry :'-shcroft-1 dresser, 2 Morris chairs, 4 arm chairs, 4 rocking
chairs, 1 large solid oak table, 1 center table, 4 chairs, 1 I th a ca
calendar clock, 11 sofa pillows, 24 framed pictures, 1 jardiniere,
an.d stand, 1 leather foot rest, 1 paper basket, 1 brass card receiver, 1 glass case with souvenier badges, 1 pheasant on

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

138

139

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

stand, 1 owl on stand, 1 pair brass book ends, 1 horn handle
loving cup, 3 vases, 1 trunk with clothing, 1 cedar chest with
clothing, 1 hassock, 7 framed mottoes, 1 small marble statue,
1 umbrella, 1 cane, 1 wicker cane holder, 1 marble stand, 1
pitcher, 1 wicker settee, 1 table.
East Bay Matrons' Association-I patch-work quilt, 13 flannel night
gowns, 20 comforters, 110 jars of jelly and fruit.
Burlingame Chapter, Ko. 275, 0. E. S.-40 night gowns.
Almona Chapter, No. 214, 0. E. S.-99 boxes Christmas candy.
W. P. Rockwell-1 large framed picture.
F. D. Ackley-3 gramophone records.
H. \V. Marshall-1 package magazines.
Amity Lodge, No. 370-5 volumes fiction.
Josephine Daniels-1 package clothing.
T. H. Roscoe-1 package magazines.
Mrs. James E. Parmelee-5 pairs men's shoes.
Mollie Bowman-4 gramophone records.
Speranza Italiana Lodge, No. 219-150 cigars, 100 boxes car.dy.
S. A. Vandegrift-10 boxes apples, 1 sack turnips, 1 sack carrots.
Agnes M. Downing-! package periodicals.
Doris Goodwin-1 package ladies' clothing.
Fred A. \Veaver-50 cigars.
J. Borland-1 box candy.
Live Oak Lodge, No. 61-100 cigars, 100 boxes candy.
Mrs. Chauncy A. Parmelee--1 large package clothing.
West Gate Chapter, No. 290, 0. E. S.-20 jars fruit and jelly.
Masonic Home, Covina, California-19 ladies' aprons.
Cora C. Gabbs-1 reclining chair (wicker).
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336-100 boxes candy, 150 cigars.
Alameda Lodge, No. 167-27 large cakes-.
Orient Chapter, No. 177, 0. E. S.-35 jars fruit.
M. A. Craig-12 vols. miscellaneous books.
Jessie M. Stevenson-1 invalid chair.
R. & L Meyers Co.-10 vols. fiction.
Mrs. E. J. Murphy-17 gramophone records.
J. F. Hink & Son-1 package silk samples.
B. Sturmthal--68 boudoir caps, 1 fur, 1 jacket, 1 sweater, 1 cape, 1
waist.

M. E. Hickox-1 gramophone cabinet, 15 records.
John E. Ellis-7 vols. miscellaneous books, 1 package magazines.
Sunkist Raisin Co.-3 boxes raisins.
I 'orterville Lodge, No. 303-3 boxes oranges.
F. C. Busby-20 doz. cookies, 20 cakes.
Franklin Chapter, No. 20, R. A. M.-5 gallons ripe olives.
( ':ilifornia Crematorium-1 telephone tab.
11. E. V erble-3 boxes raisins.
S. E. Burch-1 package periodicals.
Berkeley Furniture Co.-1 box silk samples.
Sperry Flour Co.-1 case wheat hearts, 1 case pancake flour.
W. A. Sherman-1 box candy.
Mrs. W. W. Fairchild-2 vols. (50 yrs. in Masonry).
I•:. J. Hazard-1 box apples.
H. A. Lowenstein-1 package men's clothing.
C. W. Dobie--64 vols. fiction.
l rnity School of Christianity-1 yr. subscription to Unity Magazine.
I Iattie Grant-4 vols. fiction.
Santa Clara County Past Matrons and Patrons Association-1 large
framed picture (The Lute Players), 220 boxes cake.
Martha E. Langworthy-Oriental porch furniture, ( 1 settee, 2
chairs, 1 table, 2 rockers, 1 arm chair).

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home.
Lodges
Lodge
No.
Acorn ........................ ..494
Alamo .......................... 122
Alcatraz ......................244
Alisa! ............................ 321
Alameda ...................... 167
Alturas ....................... .248
Alta ..............................333
Amador ...................... 65
Amity ..........................370
Anaheim ......................207
Apollo .......................... 396
Argonaut ....................461
Artesia ........................ 377

Amt.
$10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
50.00
15.00
10.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Arrata .......................... 106
Ashlar ........................ 306
Atascadero ................ ..493
Argonne ...................... 514
Balder .......................... 393
Bay View ................. .401
Bear Mountain .......... 76
Berkeley ...................... 363
Benicia ....... ................ 5
Brooklyn ..................... .225
Buckeye ........................ 195
Burlingame ............... .400
Carquinez ..................337

Amt.
20.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
50.00
10.00

140

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Caledonia ....................486
California .................... 1
Cahuenga ....................513
Center ..........................465
Charter Rock ............410
Chico ............................111
Charity ........................362
Claremont .................. 436
Clay .............................. 101
Corona ........................ 324
Coachella .................. ..476
Coalinga ......................387
Confidence ............... .203
Compass ......................590
Corcoran ....................490
Colusa ..........................240
Coronado ....................441
Corinthian .................. 9
Crockett ...................... 139
Crescent ...................... 45
Cupertino .................... 510
Curtiss ........................ 140
Culver City ................467
Delano ........................ 309
Dinuba .......................... 385
Dimond ........................ 603
Doric ............................ 216
Downey ....................... .220
Dunsmuir ................... .297
Durant ...................... 268
East Bay .................. --489
East Gate .................. 290
Eden ............................ 113
El Centro ..................384
Emmanuel .................. 318 ·
Enterprise .................. 70
Escalon ........................ 591
Eucalyptus ................. .243
Excelsior .................... 166
Euclid ........................ 519
Fairmont ................... .435
Ferndale ..................... .193
Fidelity ........................ 120
Forest .......................... 66

Amt.
15.00
50.00
25.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.90
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
25.00
7.50

Lodge
No.
Fraternity ....................399
Fremont .................... ..497
Francis Drake .........:..376
Fresno ........................247
Friendship ..................210
Franklin ...................... 143
Galt .............................. 267
George Washington ..525
Glendale ...................... 544
Gold Hill .................... 32
Golden Gate ................ 30
Hammonton ................433
Hanford ...................... 279
Hartley ........................199
Hawaiian .................... 21
Henry S. Orme..........458
Henry Morse
Stephens .................. 541
Herman ...................... 127
Henry Clay ................ 95
Hesperian ..................264
Hiram ........................ 43
Highland Park .......... 382
Hollenbeck ................ 319
Howard ...................... 37
Hollywood ..................355
Honolulu ....................409
Humboldt .................. 79
Illinoistown ................ 51
Ione .............................. 80
Jewel ............................ 374
Jonathan ...................... 545
Jubilee ........................604
Kennett ........................456
Kilauea ........................330
King David's ........... .209
Las Palmas ..............366
La Parfaite Union .... 17
Lake Shore ................551
Lincoln ...................... ..470
Liberty ....................... .299
Live Oak .................... 61
Lompoc ....................... .262
Long Beach ................327

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
50.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
26.60
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
50.00
10.00
25.00

Lodge
No.
Lodge de Progress
de L'Oceanie ..........371
Los Angeles .............. 42
r..odi ..............................256
Maricopa .................. ..434
Marin ......................... .191
Madison ...................... 23
Martinez ...................... 41
Mendocino ..................179
Mill Valley ................356
Military Service ........570
Mizpah ........................ 378
Midway ........................426
Mission ........................ 169
Mountain View ........194
Mosaic ......................... .218
Mount Moriah .......... 44
Monterey ....................217
Molino ........................ 150
Montebello ................ ..451
Mt. Diablo..................448
McKinley ....................347
Natoma ........................ 64
Naval .......................... 87
Nevada ........................ 13
Needles ........................326
~icolaus ..................... .129
Northern Light ........ 190
Oakland ...................... 188
Oak Grove ............... .215
Oceanside ....................381
Occidental .................. 22
Olive Branch ............269
Orosi ..........................383
Oriental ......................144
Orland ........................265
Oxnard ...................... 341
Pacific ........................136
Palos Verdes ............389
Paul Revere ..............462
Park ............................449
Palmyra ...................... 26
Parnassus ..................328

Amt.
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
35.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
15.00
25.00
15.00
5.00
20.00

No.
Lodge
Pajaro ........................ 110
Paso Robles .......:......286
Patterson ....................488
Pasadena ....................272
Pacific Grove ............331
Petaluma .................... 180
Phoenix ......................178
Pinole ..........................353
Pittsburg ....................429
Piedmont ....................521
Plumas ........................ 60
Point Lodge .............. 503
Pomona ......................246
Point Firmin ............ 558
Ramona ......................457
Reading ......................254
Redondo .................... 328
Redwood City .......... 168
Rising Light ............397
Rio Vista .................... 208
Richmond ..................275
Roosevelt ....................500
Rockridge ..................468
Russian River ........... .181
San Jose .................... 10
San Diego .................. 35
San Dimas ................428
San Buenaventura ....214
San Francisco .......... 360
Sanger ........................316
Salinas ........................204
San Mateo ................226
San Pedro .................. 332
San Jacinto ..............338
Santa Paula ............. .291
Santa Monica .......... 307
San Pasquale .......... ..452
San Be•1ito .............. .211
San Fernando ............343
San Miguel ................285
Santa Cruz ................ 38
Santa Barbara ......... .192
Santa Maria ..............580

141
Amt.
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
8.00
10.00
5.00
7.50
12.50
5.00
10.00
75.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
27.50
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

'

\

142

\

· PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Lodge
No.
Santa Rosa ................ 57
San Bernardino ........348
·San Simeon ................ 196
Sequoia ......................349
Silver Trowel ..........415
Silver Cord .............. 505
Sierra Madre ............408
Silveyville ..................201
Silver Gate ................296
Sincerity .................... 132
Snow Mountain ....... .271
South Gate ..................320
South Pasadena ........ 367
So. San Francisco ......212
Speranza Italiana ....219
St. Helena .................. 93
Standard .....................-440
Starr King ................334
Stockton ...................... 498
Sunnyvale .................. 511
Suisun .......................... 55
Sunset ..........................352
S. W. Hacket. ........... 574
Taft ............................516

\

Amt.
12.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
20.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Tehachapi ....................313
Tehama ····················- 3
Texas .......................... 46
Tbousand Oaks ....... .478
Truckee ......................200
Triangle ......................548
Temblor ......................477
Tuolumne .................... 8
Tuscan ........................ 261
Union .......................... 58
Upland .......................-419
Visalia ........................ 128
Vacaville .................... 134
Washington ................ 20
Western Star ............ 2
Wilmington ................ 198
Winnedumah ..............287
Woodstock ............... .491
Woodbridge ................ 131
Woodland .................. 156
Yount .......................... 12
Yosemite ...................... 99
Yolo ............................ 81

Amt.
20.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
12.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
12.50
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
25.00
2.SO

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Alameda ...................... 70
Antioch ...................... 65
Berkeley ...................... 92
California .................... 5
Chico ............................ 42
Corinthian .................. 51
Coalinga ...................... 114
Colusa .......................... 60
Crov.m .......................... 72
Cyrus .......................... 15
Donner ........................ 39
Doric .......................... 66
Fidelity ........................ 96
Fresno ........................ 69

Chapter
No.
Amt.
$10.00 Fruitvale .................... 111
10.00 Grass Valley .............. 18
20.00 Howard ...................... 14
50.00 Huntington Park ..... .127
10.00 Keystone ...................... 56
5.00 Martinez ......................311
5.00 Marin .......................... 102
5.00 Mendocino .................. 88
10.00 Mission ........................ 79
5.00 Mill Valley ................ 108
10.00 Napa ............................ 30
5.00 Naval .......................... 35
10.00 Nevada ........................ 6
5.00 • Palo Alto .................... 93

Amt.
5.00
5.00
10.00
6.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

143

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chapter \
No.
Plumas ....
.107
Redondo ······\1···············101
Santa Monica Bay.... 97
San Luis ..... ~ ............. 62
Salinas ..........\.............. 59
Sacramento ................ 3 ·
Santa Ana .................. 73
San Mateo ··············'·--106
Santa Rosa ................ 45
Santa Cruz ................ 38
Shasta .......................... 9

J...............

Amt.
2.50
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00

No.

Chapter
Sonora .......................... 2
St. James .................. 16
St. Helena .................. 63
Sutter .......................... 11
St. James .................. 16
Taft ........................... .128
Tulare .......................... 71
Visalia ..... ,.. :............... 44
Washington ................ 13
Woodland .................. 46

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00

2.50
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No.
Alameda ...................... 58
Auburn ........................ 52
Berkeley ...................... 42
California .................. 1
Chico .......................... 12
Colusa .......................... 24
El Dorado .................. 4
Fresno ........................ 29
Marysville .................. 7
Modesto ...................... 57
Mt; Shasta ................ 32
Mt. Olivet .................. 20
Napa ............................ 34
Nevada ........................ 6

Amt.
$10.00
2.50
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Commandery
No.
Oakland ...................... 11
Pacific ........................ 3
Pasadena .................... 31
San Francisco .......... 41
San Luis Obispo ...... 27
Sacramento ................ 2
San Jose .................... 10
Santa Cruz ................ 44
Santa Ana .................. 36
Santa Rosa ................ 14
St. Bernard ................ 23
Ventura ...................... 18
Visalia ........................ 26
:Watsonville ................ 22

Amt.
10.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
24.30
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00

Coimcils, R. & S. M.

Council
No.
California .................... 2
Pasadena .................... 16
S1nta Cruz ................ 17
San Jose ...................... 20

Amt.
$10.00
10.00
15.00
5.00

Coimcil
No.
Siskiyou ...................... 24
Sonora ........................ 5
Valley .......................... 27

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00

Lodges of Perfection, A. & A. S. R.
No.
Lodge
California •••H••••••••••••• 10
Fresno -··--··••••H ... ##.OO•H 6
Isaac Davis •••H••••••u•n 4

Amt.
$25.00
10.00
25.00

Lodge
No.
Oakland
2
San Francisco ............ 1
8
San Diego
H••••••••••••••••••••

HH••H••••••H#•

Amt.
25.00
25.00
25.00

144

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE 01'' CALIFORNIA

Pyramids, A. E. 0 S.

Names of Residents, Decoto

Pyramids
Alameda ......................

No.

Amt.

8

$15.00

Followin~ is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto Home,
the date of tneir admission, their respective ages, the name and number
of the LodgeJ nominating them, and the location of such Lodges, complete to August 31, 1926:

Temples, A. A. 0. N. M. S.
Temples

Amt.

MEN, 114--Average Age, 73.8 Years

Islam ......................................$100.00

Name

Chapters, 0. E. S.
No.

Amt.

Amapola ..................... .119
Clear Lake ............... .137
Corona ........................ 107
Golden Wave ............103
Golden Rule ..............267
Martha Washington.. 13

$25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
16.00
10.00

Chapters

No.

Amt.

Mercedes .................... 126
Mira Monte ............. .141
Mill Valley ............... .219
San Rafael ............... .215
Sunnyvale ..................250

5.00
5.00
20.00
25.00
10.00

Chapters

Jndh-id1lals and Miscellaneous
Donor

Amt.
Benson, John A. ......................$ 2.00
Broderick, C. A....................... 5.00
Linkenfelt, 0. E....................... 1.00
Martin, Fred J......................... 1.00
McManaman, I. W................. 2.00
Ross, Chorley R. ...................... 10.00
Taylor, Bertha E..................... 2.00

Donor

145

Ami.

Bethel Chapter No. 4, Job's
Daughters, Los Angeles...... 5.00
So. San Joaquin Valley Past
Mat. & Pat. Assn ................. 20.00
Novato Masonic Club.............. 5.00
Two-Thirty-Three Club,
Hollywood ............................ 50.00

Admitted

i\rnlcrson, Alfred ..........June 1, '20
i\nnantage, Wm. L ......... Apr. 19, '22
t\11sley, James G............... Feb.28,'26
llt•ck, Herman H ............. Aug. 28, '24
lkll, Bradford ................ Dec. 12, '15
· llt·rnstein, Jacob A ......... June 26, '24
ll1'St, Willard A. ..............July 12, '21
lll'iceno, Carlos J ............. Feb. 1, '25
Brown, Clement A ......... N ov. 24, '24
Browne, John L ............. Sept. 11, '24
lluchanan, Alexander .... Dec. 8, '24
lh1ckley, Peter ................ May 21, '19
Bull, Clinton M............... Aug. 11, '21
llnrkett, Thomas R. ........ Aug. 22, '24
ll11rtchael, George ........June 12, '26
llyrd, Thomas ]. .............. Oct. 10, '25
I 'ambis, Emanuel .......... Mch. 19, '23
l'hat field, Thos. F ...........J une 26, '25
<:hapman, John M ........... Oct. 6, '11
<:Jiarlesworth, B. W .......]an. 15, '23
I 'hase, Willis S ............... Mch. 19, '22
( 'lmrch, Palen ................ Sept. 23, '25
( :lcgg, Robert ................ Feb. 1, '23
Cole, Wilson N .................Jan. 18, '18
l'ollins, Nelson W ......... Sept. 12, '19
l'ook, Hiram S............... Sept. 11, '24
Corse, John M ............... Mch. 1, '22
('rough, John A. .............. Dec. 23, '23
I l;dnes, B. J .....................N ov. 18, '22
I >a vis, John M .................J uly 26, '17
I ldzelle, Wm. R. ............Jan. 31, '26
I >ePenne, Frank L ......... Mch. 19, '26
I >rake, Oscar B............... Dec. 18, '23
Fallai, Guy ......................Jan. 15, '25

Lodge

No.

Gravel Range ...... 59
San Bernardino..348
Jonathan .............. 545
Nicalaus .............. 129
Mount Jackson .. 295
Berkeley ..............363
Consuelo ..............325
Golden State ......358
Pentalpha ............202
King Solomon's ..260
Alcatraz ..............242
Hawaiian .............. 21
Moneta .............. ..405
Woodbridge ........ 131
Oakland ..............188
Gravel Range .... 59
Benicia ................ 5
Concord .............. 117
Concord ............. .117
Coalinga .............. 387
Turlock ................395
McKinley ............ 347
Molino .................. 150 ·
Long Beach ........ 327
Calistoga ............ 233
Maxwell ..............288
Tuscan ................. .261
King Solomon's ..260
Georgetown ........ 25
Keith ................... 187
Excelsior ........... .166
Moneta ............... .405
Hartley ................ 199
Silver Gate .......... 296

Town

Age

Camptonville ....75
S'n Bernardino 74
San Francisco .. 64
Wheatland ...... 72
Guerneville ......83
Berkeley ..........72
Escondido ........ 78
Los Angeles ....56
Los Angeles ....81
San Francisco .. 72
Oakland .......... 78
Honolulu .......... 79
Los Angeles ....49
Woodbridge ....77
Oakland ..........72
Camptonville .. 92
Benicia .............. 80
Sacramento ...... 71
Sacramento ......77
Coalinga ............67
Turlock ............ 76
Richmond ........ 77
Tehama ............66
Long Beach ....91
Calistoga ..........64
Maxwell .......... 78
Williams ..........81
San Francisco..68
Georgetown ...... 68
Gilroy ................ 77
San Francisco..67
Los Angeles .... 52
Lakeport .......... 73
San Diego ........ 60

I

146

I
'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

/Town

Age
Name
~s
Angeles
....
75
Fehrenson, Louis H ..... May 14, '24 Hollenbeck ..........319
$an
Francisco
..
74
King
Solomon's
..
260
Felter, Wm. R. ................July 26, '23
San Francisco ..87
Herman
...............
.127
Fink. Conrad .................. Aug. 23, '12
'san Francisco ..78
Frank, Isadore ................ Jan.10, '16 LaParfaite Union 17
Elk Grove ........67
Elk
Grove
...........
.173
Freeman, Isaac L........... May 17, '18
S'n Bernardino 80
Phoenix
................
178
Gilliam, James A. ............Jan. 25, '25
Berkeley ............91
Gompertz, Chas. L .........Oct. 19, '18 Durant ..................268
San Francisco..67
Gough, William G......... May 23, '25 Pacific ................. .136
Long Beach ....72
Long
Beach
........
327
Grenzin, John A ............. June 22, '23
So. San Fran...73
Guerra, John .................. Aug. 19, '24 Francis Drake ....376
San Francisco.. 84
California
............
1
Hand, William H ........... Apr. 13, '24
Los Angeles ....85
Hardage, James M ......... Mch. 13, '17 Sunset .................. 352
Orland .............. 74
Orland
.................
.265
Harriger, Geo. W ........... May 24, '21
Los Angeles .... 50
Harris, Louis ..................Jan. 13, '23 Los Angeles ........ 42
Downey ............74
Downey
................
220
Harris, Ranse B............. Mch. 26, '24
San Jose ..........62
Hazard, Emil John ........ Aug.10, '25 San Jose .............. 10
San Pedro ........65
San
Pedro
..........
332
Hogue, Joseph M ........... May 3, '24
Sonora ..............89
Tuolumne
............
8
Hoskins, Joseph ............ Mch. 18, '26
San Rafael ...... 79
Marin
...................
.191
Jacobs, Francis J ............. Feb. 16,'23
Los Angeles ....63
Palestine
..............
351
Jensen, Alfred T ........... May22, '25
Tuolumne ........ 73
East
Belt
............
391
Johns, Josiah.................... Apr. 15, '12
Richmond ........79
Alpha
..................
..431
Jones, Samuel A............. Apr. 11, '26
San Jose .......... 69
San
Jose
..............
10
Kalfus, Joseph L ............. Dec. 12, '17
Honolulu .......... 72
Honolulu
..............
409
Keech, Alvin W ............. Aug.10, '20
Redlands .......... 79
Redlands
..............
300
Kennedy, Duncan ..........June 19, '17
Wheatland ......81
Kesner James P ............. Nov. 14, '23 Nicolaus ............. .129
Anaheim ..........86
Anaheim
.............
.207
Keyes, ' John .................... Feb. 10,'26
Gilroy ................ 77
Keith
...................
.187
Kilpatrick, Sam W ......... Dec. 27, '23
San Francisco..79
Klaassen, Henry ............ Nov. 1, '17 Herman ............... .127
Glendora .......... 76
Glendora
............
..404
Kneeshaw, Robt. D ....... Apr. 7, '23
San Francisco.. 70
Lagomarsino, G. ............ May 12, '22 Spernza Italiana 219
San F rancisco ..83
Board
of
Relief...
.....
Laskey Benjamin G....... J uly 25, '20
San Francisco ..65
King
Solomon's
..
260
'
N
5
'24
Lavng. John B................. ov. ,
• '
'22 Star; King ......... 344 San Francisco .. 63
Lunger, Henry E........... May 29,,
Los Angeles ....86
Maas Adolph Jules ........ Nov. 14, 25 Mizpah ................ 378
Fullerton ..........76
Fullerton
............
339
Macd~nald, Samuel ...... Aug. 22, '24
Bakersfield ......74
Bakersfield
.........
.224
MacMurdo, Wirt R. ........Feb. 23, '25
Richmond ........ 78
Alpha
..................
..431
Marshall, Ianthus E .......July29, '25
Maxwell ..........86
Maxwell
..............
288
Marshall, James W ....... Mch. 22, '23
Santa Cruz ......61
Santa
Cruz
38
~fartin, Benjamin R. ...... May 15, '24
Napa ..................72
Yount
.................
12
Matthews, Edwin D ....... Aug. 7, '22
Fresno .............. 74
Mattingly, John B ........... Oct. 1, '24 Fresno ..................247
Watsonville ......81
Pajaro
..................
110
McEwen, John H ........... Aug. 21, '13
Admitted

Lodge

No.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

N 11mc
Admitted
M1•hrtcns, Richard ........ Nov. 12, '13
Mrinccke, Robt............. Mch. 16, '24
Mrtzlcr, Herman ............ May 2, '23
M<'ycr, William D ......... Aug. 31, '12
M illictte, Chas. J .............Dec. 2, '22
Nnnnestad, Henrick .... Mch. 8, '23
( llMon, Peter S ................. Apr. 28, '20
( lwcn, William L........... Aug. 12, '22
l'nrr, Edv,.-ard W .............Dec. 27, '25
l'otling, Henry F ........... May 2, '11
l'rkc, Thomas G........... Oct. 12, '25
1'11rcly, Wm. F ................ June 21, '24
lfra, Henry A. ................ Feb. 2, '22
Uil{hetti, Robert ............ Mch. 9, '18
· Hohcrts, Joseph L ...........Jan. 28, '25
l(uhinson, Henry J ......... N ov. 8, '23
lfolfc, Earnest ................ Oct. 17, '23
Shaw, Thomas W ........... Dec. 16, '25
Smith, James D ............. May 12, '19
Slafford, Ralph L ......... Oct. 5,'22
Stone, Walter M............ .June 9, '26
~tone, Harry .................. July 14, '26
lnylor, Geo. McC. .......... July 14, '25
Thurman, John ................ Oct. 26, '21
l'n•nchel, Aug. F ........... Sept. 18, '25
I lmhs, Jesse .................. Mch. 15, '24
Vun Metre, George ........ Oct. 13, '19
Walker, Joshua ............ Aug. 19, '24
Wallace, Thomas W ..... Nov. 24, '24
Warner, William .......... Mch. 31, '25
Watson, Matthew P ....... lfay 16, '25
Whitelaw, John F ......... Mch. 7, '25
Wildman, William ........ Oct. 6, '19
Wilson, Hiram ................ Dec. 17, '22
Woods, Robert .............. Nov. 16, '20
Yo1mg, Lars G................. Apr. 1, '23
Zrmansky, Samuel ........ Apr. 11, '26

Lodge
No.
Crockett .............. 139
Acacia ................ ..438
Crockett .............. 139
Mountain View ..194
Hollenbeck ..........319
Doric .................... 216
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Mission ................ 169
Winnedumah ......287
So. San Fran ...... .212
Orosi .................... 383
San Diego ............ 35
Marin .................... 191
Pentalpha ............202
Porterville ..........303
East Gate ............290
Hermann .............. 127
Los Angeles ........ 42
Eden .................... 113
Roseville ;........... .222
Mendocino ..........179
Brentwood ..........345
Excelsior .............. 166
San Diego ............ 35
Live Oak .............. 61
Phoenix ................178
Trinity .................. 27
Richmond ............375
Pentalpha ............202
Covina ..................334
Long Beach ........ 327
Table Mountain .. 124
Pomona ................246
Azusa .................... 345
Mission ................169
Oak Grove ......... .215
Pacific ................. .136

147
Town
Age
San Francisco.. 79
Los Angeles ....48
San Francisco..68
Mount'n View ..65
Los Angeles ....73
San Francisco..80
Santa Cruz ......80
San Francisco ..67
Bishop ..............63
San Francisco.. 77
Orosi ................ 76
San Diego ........66
San Rafael ...... 76
Los Angeles .... 74
Porterville ........ 77
Los Angeles .... 76
San Francisco ..66
Los Angeles .... 79
San Leandro ....80
Roseville .......... 76
Mendocino ......73
Brentwood ........ 74
San F rancisco ..64
San Diego ........82
Oakland ............ 75
S'n Bernardino 86
Weaverville .... 79
San Francisco .. 65
Los Angeles .... 75
Covina .............. 77
T.,ong Beach ...... 74
Cherokee .......... 75
Pomona ............ 70
Azusa ................84
San Francisco .. 70
Alameda .......... 76
San Francisco ..88

WOMEN, 104-Avcrage Age, 72.3 Years
Amerman, Fanny ..........June 21, '22
Ames, Minnie P ............... Oct. 21, '12
Amlrus, Mabel R. .......... Feb. 7, '24
t\rmantage, T. A. .......... Jan. 5, '19

Eden ...................... 113
Oak Grove ......... .215
Live Oak .............. 61
Needles ................ 326

San Leandro ....89
Alameda ..........68
Oakland ............ 78
Needles ............69

148

PHOCEEDINGS O:tr 'l'HE

Name
Admitted
Baxter, Mary F ............... Apr. 16, '02
Benjamin, Eliz. C. .......... Aug. 27, '25
Bernstein, Cordelia ......June 26, '24
Black, Mary E .................J une 7, '26
Bonham, Marie H ........... Aug. 5, '23
Bowman, Mollie ..............Jan. 25, '25
Boyd, Isabelle L ............... May 25, '25
Bradley, Nannie .............. Apr. 30, '25
Brown, Mary E ............... Aug. 27, '23
Brown, Rosalind V ......... Mch. 27, '24
Bryant, Rachel .............. Aug. 2, '23
Buchanan, Isabel S ......... Dec. 8, '24
Burtchael, Gertrude ...... June 12, '26
Carlson, Laura L ........... Feb. 10, '20
Cash, Anna ...................... July 7, '22
Charlesworth, Mary A. .. Feb. 16, '19
Cohn, Sarah ....................Sept. 8, '22
Cottrell, Minnie E ......... Dec. 5, '20
Conger, Martha A ......... Feb. 12, '26
Cowley, Cerita J ............. Sept. 18, '25
Crough, Eva L ................. Aug. 9, '23
Davis, Eliza A ................. July 26, '17
Davis, Grace G ...............J uly 25, '16
Dickson, Alice W ...........June 11, '21
Donaldson, Abigail ...... Mch.10, '14
Dougherty, Lucy H ....... April 3, '26
Dunton, Ada F ............... Nov. 1, '25
Dunn, Annie C................June 22, '25
Dryden, Sarah S ............. Feb. 26, '26
Ellis, Josephine A ........... Aug. 21, '25
Evans, Mary ]. ................ Dec. 18, '23
Felter. Eliza D .................July 24, '23
Fortri~e, Auguste E ..... Apr. 24, '25
Garland, Susan G ........... Aug. 18, '25
Grant, Hattie H ............... Feb. 6, '22
Hall, Maria A ................. Aug. 22, '19
Hammerly, Mary ............Jan. 8, '21
Hazard, Marie ................ Aug. 10, '25
Beith, Catherine ............ Oct. 16, '10
Humaston, Isaphene .... Sept. 11, '24
Jackson, May R ............... Aug. 27, '25
Jacobs, Martha E ............. Feb. 24, '23
Jeffries, Viola H ............. Nov. 8, '23

Lodge
No.
Santa Rosa ......... 57
San Pedro .......... 332
Berkeley ..............363
Oakland ................ 188
Charter Rock ......410
Fidelity ................120
Mount Moriah .... 44
Oriental ................ 144
Corinthian ............ 9
Natoma ................ 64
Golden Gate ........ 30
Alcatraz ..............244
Oakland ................ 188
Excelsior ..............166
South Gate .......... 320
Oxnard ................341
Los Angeles ........ 42
East Gate ............ 290
Pasadena ............. .272
Berkeley ..............363
Mission ................ 169
Keith ....................187
Navel .................... 87
Pacific ................. .136
Vacaville .............. 134
Parnass·us ............ 388
Palmyra ................ 26
Oroville .. ,. ............ 103
Tyrian ................ ..439
Berkeley ..............363
Whittier ..............323
King Solomon ... .260
Crockett ..............139
Consuelo .............. 325
San Jose .............. 10
Live Oak .............. 61
Corinthian .......... 9
San Jose .............. 10
Fresno .................. 247
Mountain View .. 194
Lompoc ............... .262
Marin .................. 191
Los Angeles ........ 42

GllAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Town
Age
Santa Rosa ......89
San Pedro ...... 71
Berkeley .......... 73
Oakland ............ 56
Berkeley ..........73
San Francisco.. 66
San Francisco .. 70
San Francisco..58
Marysville ........84
Folsom City .... 71
San Francisco .. 79
Oakland ............ 72
Oakland ............55
San Francisco ..63
Los Angeles ....67
Oxnard ............74
Los Angeles ....69
Los Angeles .... 72
Pasadena ..........81
Berkeley .......... 70
San Francisco .. 72
Gilroy ................ 79
Vallejo .............. 72
San Francisco 66
Vacavilte ..........93
San Francisco ..66
Placerville ........ 74
Oroville ............ 79
Manteca ............85
Berkeley ..........61
Whittier ..........72
San Francisco ..64
San Francisco ..49
Escondido .:...... 77
San Jose .......... 53
Oakland ............90
Marysville ........ 72
San Jose .......... 56
Fresno ..............80
Mount'n View .. 72 '
Lompoc ............67
San Rafael ...... 67
Los Angeles .... 74

Name
Admitted
Johnson, Amanda .......... Mch. 1, '21
Jones, Rosa ...................... Apr. 27, '19
Jones, Johanna ................ Jan. 23, '26
Kalfus, Sarah W ........... Jan. 29, '19
Lambert, Emma ..............Jan. 1, '25
Langworthy, Martha E. July 23, '26
Laufman, Anna .............. Aug. 27, '24
Lawrence. Lucy P ........... Nov. 21, '16
Lewis, :\Iargaret ............ Dec. 26, '25
I ,inder, Elvena B. .......... May 1, '18
Mast, Frances C............. Aug. 31, '12
Matthews, Louise L ....... Aug. 7, '22
McAfee, Julia F ............. Oct. 21, '23
McFadden, Victoria ........ Apr. 8, '24
McKinnon. Mary A. ...... Dec. 31, '01
Mellis, Jane .................... Aug. 5, '23
McGuire, Mary ..............July 14, '26
Miller, Mary ]. .............. Dec. 27, '24
1\1 itchell, Mary A. .......... June 27, '25
Mouser, Elizabeth J ....... Feb. 16, '22
J\.Toore, Ellen B............... Feb. 24, '26
Nickerson, Mary D ....... Mch. 12, '23
Nyhuis, Marie H ........... Mch. 21, '25
( )rman, Ella J .................June 21, '25
()wen, Mary L ............... Mch. 31, '24
Pawley, Maria C........... Apr. 28, '26
!'each, Mary A............... July 21, '24
l'cck, Sarah E ............... Nov. 4, '25
Pohlman, Mary .............. July 15, '21
l'opple. Jennie F ............. Feb. 15, '24
Proll, Annie R. C ........... Feb. 5, '15
lfoa, Martha L. ................ Mch. 25, '23
Ricardo, Celina E ........... Feb. 20, '21
Hichardson, Julia A ....... Mch. 13, '16
Rogers, Leonora ............ Oct. 6, '25
Hohde, Anna .................... Aug. 3, '23
Rohrbacher, Emma ........ Feb. 27, '23
Rowell, Jane .................. June 10, '22
Sawyer, Ella B. .............. Sept. 18, '13
Schwain, Mary ................ Jan. 22, '25
Sly, Ellen S ..................... Nov. 5, '13
Smith, :Marana F ........... Nov. 21, '19
Stokes, Mary M ............... Feb. 17, '26

Lodge
No.
Laurel ................. .245
San Diego .......... 35
Jefferson .............. 97
San Jose .............. 10
Woodland ............ 156
San Perl ro ............ 332
Sincerity .............. 132
Board of Relief... .....
Gravel Range .... 59
South Gate ..........320
Yosemite .............. 99
Yount .................... 12
Friendship ............ 210
San Miguel ......... .285
Morning Star ...... 68
Marin .................... 191
Alcatraz .............. 244
Gardena ................ 372
Argonne .............. 514
Charter Rock ..... .410
Arcata ..................106
Sotoyome ............ 123
Naval .................... 87
Burlingame ..........400
Dunsmuir ............297
Friendship ......... .210
Mount Moriah .... 44
Madera ................ 280
Porterville ..........303
Oroville ................ 103
King Solomon's ..260
East Gate ........... .290
Western Star .... 2
Live Oak .............. 61
King David's ......209
King Solomon's .. 260
Doric .................... 216
Golden Gate ....... 30
Natoma ................ 64
Bakers field .......... 224
Silver Gate ..........296
Morning Star ...... 68
East Gate ........... .290

149

Town
Age
Willows ............85
San Diego ........82
La Porte ..........81
San Jose ..........63
Woodland ........ 74
San Pedro ........56
Greenville ........ 75
San Francisco 64
Camptonville .. 78
Los Angeles ....77
Merced ..............81
Napa ................ 71
San Jose ..........84
San Miguel ......84
Stockton ............ 78
San Rafael ......65
Oakland ............ 72
Gardena ............78
San Francisco 66
Berkeley ..........75
Arcata .............. 76
Healdsburg ...... 71
Vallejo .............. 76
Burlingame .... ..77
Dunsmuir ........ 67
San Jose ..........84
San Francisco.. 68
Madera ............68
Porterville ........67
Oroville ............ 80
San Francisco .. 67
Los Angeles .... 71
Shasta .............. 76
Oakland ............ 76
San L's Obispo 62
San Francisco .. 69
San Francisco .. 54
San Francisco .. 81
Folsom City .... 76
Bakersfield ...... 72
San Diego ......80
Stockton ·-········81
Los Angeles ....69

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Surface, Emma .............. Aug. 19, '16
Templeton, Phebe .......... Aug. 30, '26
Thurman, Abigael D .......J une 18, '24
Titcomb, Elizabeth ........ Aug. 30, '26
Van )vfarle, Helen B..... Nov. 5,'24
Walls, Jessie .................. Nov. 4, '19
Walton, Ida May............June 22, '25
Wehmer, Anna A. .......... Aug. 31, '22
Weil, Esther ....................July 26, '17
\Veisenfeld, Marianne ..June 8, '24
Wetmore, Eveline ........ Dec. 12, '20
White, Ada L ................. Mch. 15, '24
Wilder, Marion C. ..........July t4, '21
Williams, Laura A ......... Mch. 22, '25

Lodge
No.
Ione ...................... 80
San Mateo ..........226
San Diego ............ 35
Oriental ................144
Occidental .......... 22
Pacific ................. .136
Oakland ................ 188
West Lake .......... 392
Henry Clay ........ 95
Thousand Oaks ..478
Bay View ............401
Mendocino ......... .179
Hawaiian ............ 21
Chico .................... 111

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Ione ....................73
San Mateo ......84
San Diego ........67
San Francisco..85
San Francisco ..66
San Francisco..76
Oakland ............67
Los Angeles ....69
Sutter Creek ..81
Berkeley .......... 76
Oakland ............ 70
Mendocino ......67
Honolulu .......... 71
Chico ................65

Outside Relief
Adams, James E ............................................................... Perris Lodge, No. 411
Black, Nathaniel... ............................................... Palos Verdes Lodge, No. 389
Buchanan, George W .......................................................... Lodi Lodge, No. 256
Canavan, Martha.............................................................. Azusa Lodge, No. 305
Carter, Elizabeth Gilmore......................................... Antioch Lodge, No. 175
Ballinger, Daniel R. ......................................................Needles Lodge, No. 326
Fallai, Guy ............................................................... Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296
Green, William ........................................................ Ocean Park Lodge, No. 369
Jack, Frances NL .............................................................. Chico Lodge, No. 111
Simpson, Edward M. (Died June 29, 1926) ........... California Lodge, No. 1
Smith, Laura Belle (Died Aug. 9, 1926) ............Henry Clay Lodge, No. 95
Stephenson, Isabel E ............................................... Sacramento Lodge, No. 40
Varcoe, George .......................................................... San Benito Lodge, No. 211
Died During the Y ear-26
Ag_e
Name
· Alexander,Harriette E. 77
Allerton, Charles H ..... 73
Blake, Ann ....................88
Brunson, Rosa V ........... 73
Edmunds, Mary C.......83
Finn, Alexander ............87
Foucht, Mary E ...........78
Fowler, Emma E ...........66
Furniss, Herbert 0 .......65
Hakes, Lyle ..................81

Lodge
No.
So. California... .278
Hawaiian ............ 21
Bay View .......... ..401
Tuolumne .......... 8
Hartley .............. 199
Alameda .............. 167
Porterville .......... 303
Occidental .......... 22
Live Oak ............ 61
Vitruvius ............145

Date
Aug. 21, '26
Dec. 15, '25
Feb. 24, '26
May 31, '26
Feb. 16, '26
Dec. 25, '25
Sept. 1,3, '25
Oct. 27, '25
Oct. 26, '25
Aug. 31, '26

Buried at
Los Angeles
Deco to
Deco to
Sonora
Oakland
Deco to
Vandalia, Ill.
Deco to
Oakland
Petaluma

Name
Age
I landlin, Sarah J .........69
I lansen, Hans ................62
11 ighland, James R. ......80
Joyce, Thomas M ......... 70
Knight, Anna R. ............77
Knowles, Edwin I......... 75
LaBonte, Francis L .......77
l,awler, Nancy .............. 86
I,t•c, Mary A................... 77
I 'arini, Daniel ..............86
l<ouse, Ernest C.............68
Smith, Harriet A. L .....89
Stephens, James A. ......82
Walton, Jesse ................88
Wl'bber, Isabella C.......62
Wright, Sarah G...........87

Lodge
No.
Union .................. 58
San Pedro ..........332
San Joaquin ...... 19
Hollywood ........ 355
Evergreen ..........259
Oakland .............. 188
Reading ..............254
Olive Branch ....269
Vesper ................ 84
Nevada ................ 13
Friendship ..........210
Chico ................. .111
Excelsior ............. 166
Oakland ..............188
El Centro ..........384
Eden .................... 113

Date
Mch. 20, '26
Apr. 2,'26
Sept. 4, '25
Aug. 4, '26
Apr. 24, '26
June 15, '26
Feb. 22, '26
Nov. 3,'25
Feb. 8,'26
Apr. 13, '26
Aug. 6, '26
July 16, '26
Mch. 9, '26
May 2, '26
Nov. 28, '25
July 12,'26

Hil

Buried at
Vallejo
San Pedro
Stockton
Deco to
Deco to
Oakland
Oakland
Tulare
Red Bluff
Deco to
San Jose
Deco to
Oakland
Oakland
Deco to
Oakland

Report of Superintendent, Covina
To the Trustees of the lv1 asonic Homes:
At the close of another year I am glad of the opportunity to
hricfly give you a report of the Home and of our family.
Each year brings its anxieties, its problems that are hard to
solve, its joys and sorrows; but after all, at the close of the year
we look back and see that our every effort has been repaid. We can
see some good that we have done, some child we have been able to
help, and we are able to understand each child a little better, help·
ing them to become men and women able to go out into the world,
carrying with them a realization of all the advantages that have been
theirs through the loving kindness and efforts of the Masons of
California.
The routine has changed very little, and we believe we have
kept up to as high a standard as was previously maintained. Each
child has some duty in keeping the Home in order, the smaller ones
in caring for their respective dormitories, and the larger ones have
added duties in the dining room and kitchen, and in keeping and
beautifying the grounds. This not only teaches them how to work
constructively, but contributes to their own mental and physical
growth, and fits them for more efficient service in future years.
The farm, orchard, garden and lawns have been well cared for
under the excellent supervision of M. G. Gradler, who has been in

152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

charge of this work for a number of years. The larger boys assist
in this work during their leisure hours.
We have now 172 children in the Home. Out of this number
six are under school age and 53 are in High School. During the
past year the school grades, especially those of the High School
children, proved that they were taking more interest in their work
than they had ever done before. Three girls and two boys were
graduated from High School last June. One girl, who has been an
honor student through her High School course, is now to enter
Pomona College, one is taking a nurse's training course in Lane
Hospital, San Francisco, and one is to take a business course. The
two boys are working at present, but are planning to enter the
university later. One other girl from the Home decided she preferred to enter· a hospital and fit h~self for a nurse before completing her High School course. These children are very deserving of
the opportunity to continue their education and they are very appreciative. Many tears are shed when the time comes for them to leave
the Home that has been a home to them for so many years. Some
may think, since we have so many, that we would not miss the few
that leave us each year, but we do. We have grown to love them
as our own, and although they go out from the shelter of the
Home, they are still our children and we are interested in their welfare. We have one girl who is entering her second year at Univerdty at Berkeley, and another one her second year at the Normal
School at San Jose. Many of the boys and girls who were formerly
in the Home are holding good positions in various places. We keep
in touch with them and they come to see us occasionally.
The progress made by the music pupils the past year is very
gratifying indeed. The music room has been a center of much interest
and activity during this year, and is proving indispensable to the
normal development of the children. Realizing to the fullest the refining influence of music, Mrs. Ambos, the music instructor, has
spared no effort in training the children both in voice and instrumental music. A separate report of this work is appended hereto.
We consider the Sunday School a vital factor in the lives of our
children. The truths contained in the lesson each week are made
practical by applying them to the needs of the every day life. We
find it to the advantage of the children of various ages to divide the
Sunday School into four departments. This permits the children to
conduct their own services in their several buildings, thus giving
each child an opportunity to take. active part. By this means we feel
that the spiritual development of the child will grow naturally and
normally and works out the greatest good to the greatest number.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

153

Lodge, No. 79; entered Home June 16,
1916; graduated from Home October 31, 1920.

ESTHER M. FERGUSON, Humboldt

Ashlar Lodge, No. 306; entered Home April 7,
1906; graduated from Home August 24, 1917.

FERDINAND FRENCH,

----···-------·····- ......•..................
Our first Sunrise Easter Service was a memorable one. As the
sun' rose, the bugle sounded the church call of the United States
army from the distance, and just as the last note was dying away,
the children's voices arose in a Hallelujah Chorus mingled with the
singing of the feathered songsters gathered about. The raising of the
flag by two Boy Scouts during the singing added solemnity to the
occasion long to be remembered. We enjoyed this service, and we
extend to you a cordial invitation to attend our Sunrise Service
next Easter and enjoy it with us.
Another very beautiful and joyful occasion was the first wedding of the Home. Two of our former children-Ferdinand French
aad Esther Ferguson-both full orphans, desired to come home to

. 152

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

charge of this work for a number of years. The larger boys assist
in this work during their leisure hours.
We have now 172 children in the Home. Out of this number
six are under school age and 53 are in High School. During the
past year the school grades, especially those of the High School
children, proved that they were taking more interest in their work
than they had ever done before. Three girls and two boys were
graduated from High School last June. One girl, who has been an
honor student through her High School course, is now to enter
Pomona College, one is taking a nurse's training course in Lane
Hospital, San Francisco, and one is to take a business course. The
.t wo boys are working at present, but are planning to enter the
university later. One other girl from the Home decided she preferred to enter · a hospital and fit h~self for a nurse before completing her High School course. These children are very deserving of
the opportunity to continue their education and they are very appreciative. Many t'ears are shed when the time conies for them to leave
the Home that has been a home to them for so many years. Some
may think, since we have so many, that we would not miss the few
that leave us each year, but we do. We have grown to love them
as our own, and although they go out from the shelter of the
Home, they are still our children and we are interested in their welfare. We have one girl who is entering her second year at University at Berkeley, and another one her second year at the Normal
School at San Jose. Many of the boys and girls who were formerly
in the Home are holding good positions in various places. We keep
in touch with them and they come to see us occasionally.
The progress ~ade by the musk pupils the past year is very
gratifying indeed. The music room has been a center of much interest
and activity during this year, and is proving indispensable to the
normal development of the children. Realizing to the fullest the refining influence of music, Mrs. Ambos, the music instructor, has
spared no effort in training the children both in voice and instrumental music. A separate report of this work is appended hereto.
We consider the Sunday School a vital factor in the lives of our
children. The truths contained in the lesson each week are made
practical by applying them to the needs of the every day life. We
find it to the advantage of the children of various ages to divide the
Sunday School into four departments. This permits the children to
conduct their own servii:es in their several buildings, thus giving
each child an opportunity to take. active part. By this means we feel
that the spiritual development of the' child will grow naturally and
normally and works out the greatest good to the greatest number.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

153

ESTHER M. FERGUSON, Humboldt Lodge, No. 79; entered Home June 16,
1916; graduated from Home October 31 , 1920.
FERDINAND FRENCH, Ashlar Lodge, No. 306; entered Home April 7,
1906; graduated from Home August 24, 1917.

-······· ..............•....•..............•..

Our first Sunrise Easter Service was a memorable one. As the
sun· rose, the bugle sounded the church call of· the United States
army from the distance, and just as the last note was dying away,
the children's voices arose in a Hallelujah Chorus mingled with the
singing of the feathered songsters gathered about. The raising of the
flag by two Boy Scouts during the singing added solemnity to the
occasion long to be remembered. We enjoyed this ·service, and we
extend to you a cordial invitation to attend our Sunrise Service
next Easter and enjoy it with us.
Another very beautiful and joyful occasion was the first wedding of the Home. Two of our former children-Ferdinand French
aad Esther Ferguson-both full orphans, desired to come home to

155

PH.OCEEDINGS OF THE

GH.AND LODGE OF CALIFOH.NIA

be married, and we were very happy to give them a home wedding. As the bridal party descended the stairs, preceded by two little flower girls, our Girls' Junior Sextette sang the "Bridal Chorus"
from the opera of Lohengrin, with a beauty of tone quite unusual in
such young voices a.nd showing evidence of careful training. The
Vice President of our Board of Trustees, J. B. Gist, gave the bride
away. The assembly room was beautifully decorated, and after the
: ceremony a wedding supper was served. We are indebted to many of
the Masons and Eastern Star ladies for their interest and cooperation
in making that a beautiful wedding for their wards.
A greater effort is being made each year to better equip the dormitories. The children are enjoying their large living rooms very
much, where they meet socially, read, or study. The smaller children have a story hour of evenings and are encouraged to read, tell
or write stories. Some of these stories show quite a little originality
and some ability, and a few have been published.
The health of the children has been carefully guarded by the
doctors in charge, with the result that there has been comparatively
little sickness in the Home in the past year. This efficient service is
appreciated by all.
Every child is encouraged to take care of his teeth. The dentists
who have charge of this work have been generous with their services, so that the children's teeth are kept in good condition.
The new hospital, a gift from the Grand Commandery Knights
Templar of California is a beautiful structure, and is now completed.
It has a dental room, surgical room, sterilizing room, the nurse's
room, diet kitchen, linen closet, a solarium, and eleven wards which
. have been furnished by different lodges and individuals whose names
appear on another page in this report. The surgery, dental room, and
diet kitchen, as yet are not furnished. This is a gift that will be
appreciated far more than is possible to express in words, and will
do much toward promoting the health and the happiness of the
children.
We are most grateful to John F. Taylor of Cleveland City
Lodge, No. 15, for his most generous gift to us. It was his desire to
give something that would be of real value in our new hospital, and
he gave us a new Burdick Air and Water Cooled Quartz Lamp with
applicators. It has already proved itself to be of great value.
Another very necessary addition has been made to our laundry.
A new washing machine and another Prim press have been installed,
making a very complete laundry, and enabling us to meet the laundry problem of our fast growing family.

vVe have greatly appreciated the help given us by the ladies of
San Fernando Chapter, 0. E. S., the 0. E. S. Club of Lyra Chapter,
No. 144, Sunshine Club of Burbank Chapter, 0. E. S., and the Social
Club of Lankershim who have visited the Home and kindly aided us
in the sewing and mending for the children.
The Masons have continued to remember the family with entertainments of various kinds throughout the year. We are especially
indebted to Jack Brown of the Covina Theater, who has often
brought to the Home pictures of special interest and also invited the
children to his theater in Covina on numerous occasions.
The vacation at Balboa is always very enjoyable and looked forward to with much anticipation. It not only gives the children a
change, but affords them an opportunity to enjoy healthful sports.
Each year sees a few more comforts added to the already wellcquipped camp. The children are delighted with their double-decked
beds which were contributed by Mr. Wollenberg. Two new cottages
have been built in the last year. These are supplied with all necessary equipment and add much to the comfort and happiness of those
who have supervision of the children. Thanks to M. J. Newberg,
for this added comfort, for it was through his efforts that they were added.
Concrete walks have been added until practically all dormitories are
now connected with one another and with all other buildings. There
is great need of a new sea-wall to protect our camp during the high
tide, and we have bright prospects of having this built soon. The
Lodges comprising the Los Angeles Masonic Board of Relief have
contributed $2000.00 toward it.
To you, our Board of Trustees, I most sincerely appreciate your
labors and interest, and I cannot praise you enough for your kindly
support and untiring patience with me at all times. I wish also,
through this report, to thank the members of the fraternity for their
hearty support given us during this year. We cannot be too grateful
to them for their continued cooperation.
Respectfully submitted,
MAUDE E. MILLER, Siiperintendent.

164

Music Report for Season Ending June 21, 1926.
In submitting my report of the activities of this department, I
will endeavor to give a summary of the work done by the pupils of
the Home, the results of which have been most satisfactory.
Interest and desire for study has been maintained throughout.
Practice periods, a record of which is kept, show few absences and

156

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'IIE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

those mostly on account of illness. One pupil shows a perfect record,
not having missed during the entire year.
Class piano instruction has proven of great value and has enabled ·21 boys and girls to study. Three hours a week is devoted to
this branch of the work. This, in conjunction with the private lessons, makes a total of 43 studying this instrument.
Those who play other instruments are encouraged in their work
by giving them an opportunity to play in Sunday School and on
programs. We have two playing the cornet, one the saxophone, and
one the violin. No child showing musical talent in any direction is
neglected.
The vocal pupils show much progress and several children have
manifested marked singing ability. In order to give as many as possible the advantage of vocal instruction, groups of two, four, six
and eight are given the same work as is given to those who have
individual lessons. Ten pupils have two private lessons per week
of thirty minutes each. Class instruction is a factor in this department. These range in groups of 18, 32, and 47, the latter being
junior boys. These meet once a week and a portion of the time is
devoted to vocal technique.
One of our girls sang an important part in an operetta given by the
Covina High School. In Grammar School the singing by the children
of the Home has received favorable mention, a fact of which we feel
jusly proud.
All holidays are appropriately observed. A program was given for
Highland Park Lodge during "Music Week in the Public Schools," and
other programs have been given throughout the year.
Owing to the number of pupils taking part, three recitals were given
in Studio Hall to close our season's work. It proved of great interest
to the children and gave them an opportunity to demonstrate their ability.
That the love for the best in music is being stimulated in the minds
of the children, is perhaps the most gratifying of all, for the "study of
music exalts life."
BEI.L

M. AMBOS.

8-Upland Lodge, No. 419.
8-Westlake Chapter, No. 268, 0. E. S.
15-Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319, and Hollenbeck Chapter, No. z;is, .

0. E. S.
JS-Belvedere Lodge, No. 539, and Belvedere Chapter, No. 402,

0. E. S.
15-Wilshire Lodge, No. 445, and Wilshire Chapter, No. 329, 0. E. S.
22-Artesia Chapter, No. 253, 0. E. S.
29-Highland Park Lodge, No. 382.
December, 1925:
13-Granada Chapter, No. 442, 0. E. S.
13-Mt. Olive Lodge, No. 506.
20-Long Beach Chapter, No. 173, 0. E. S.
20-Alhambra Lodge, No. 322, and Alhambra Chapter, No. 193,

o. E. s.
20-Granada, Lodge, No. 608.
January, 1926:
3-Fullerton Lodge, No. 339.
10-Y orba Linda Lodge, No. 469.
24--Jinnistan Grotto and Jinnistan Vale, No. 1.
February, 1926:
21-Whittier Chapter, No. 44, 0. E. S.
March, 1926:
11-Social Club of Lankershim.
14--Albert Pike Lodge, No. 484.
14--Playa :C.inda Chapter, No. 425, 0. E. S.
April, 1926:
4--Bettina Chapter, No. 399, 0. E. S.
11-El Sereno Lodge, No. 588, and El Sereno Chapter, No. 430,

0. E. S.
Visitations
We were pleased to have the following Lodges wisit the Home
during the year:
November, 1925:
1-Signal Lodge, No 543.
1-Gardena Lodge, No. 372, and Gardena Chapter, No. 260, 0. E. S.

157

23-San Fernando Chapter, 0. E. S.
May, 1926:
1-Employes of the Edison Company of Southern California.
2-Corona Lodge, No. 324.
9-Glendale Commandery, No. 53, K. T.

!!"'
'I

ii
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

158

159

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

15-Atwater Lodge, No. 622.
16-Redlands Lodge, No. 300.
16-La Puente Lodge, No. 325.
23-Temescal Lodge, No. 441, and Crown Chapter, No. 162, 0. E. S.
23-Hollywood Bethel, Job's Daughters.
June, 1926:

4--0. E. S. Club of Lyra Chapter, No. 144.
6--Tujunga Lodge, No. 592.
6-Seal Beach Lodge, No. 616.
13-Guardian Lodge, No. 596.
13-San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452.
27-Euclid Lodge, No. 519, visited Camp at Balboa.
July, 1926:
18-Service Lodge, No. 594, visited Camp at Balboa.
August, 1926 :
I-Masonic Board of Relief, visited Camp at Balboa.
2-Sunshine Club of Burbank Chapter, 0. E. S.
We are indebted to Highland Park Lodge, No. 382, Mt. Olive Lodge,
No. 506, Jinnistan Grotto and Jinnistan Vale, Glendale Commandery, No.
53, K. T., Guardian Lodge, No. 596, and San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452,
for entertainments given at the Home.
The Masons of Monrovia were hosts to the Masonic Home children
December 17. Members of the Lodge called for the children with automobiles and took them first to the Colonial Theatre, Monrovia, where
"Little Annie Rooney" was shown, after that to the Masonic Temple
where there was a beautiful Christmas tree and Santa Claus with a
gift for each child. Refreshments were then served. Mr. Baudine,
Mr. Foy and others from Warner's Moving Picture Studio were present
and helped with the entertainment at the Temple.
The Masters and Wardens' Association gave the children a Christmas
party at the Home, December 21. All gathered around a beautiful
Christmas tree and joined in singing "Silent Night." Miss Edith E.
Echholz assisted with the short program that followed, and Monte Blue,
of Utopia Lodge, No. 537, gave a very interesting and entertaining talk
and later came in a real, jolly, good Santa Claus, giving out presents
that had ben furnished by the Masters and Wardens' Association.
On December 25 "Billy Lord" and the children of Radio Station
KMTR brought Christmas cheer to the children at the Home. They

gave a musical entertainment, dancing, singing and instrumental numbers, and after the program the orchestra furnished music for all to
dance.
The Covina Masonic bodies took the high school and eighth grade
children of the Home to the football game (Covina and Bakersfield
teams playing) at the Coliseum in Los Angeles.
The Friars Club from the Goodyear Tire and Rubber Co. visited
the Home and entertained the children with a minstrel show given by
the members of the club.
Glen Chapter, No. 357, 0. E. S. entertained the children of the
Home, taking them to the theatre at Glendora and after the show treated
them to ice cream cones.
A concert under the auspices of San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452, was
given at the Home June 13. The music was furnished by the Pasadena
Sciots' Band, Pasadena Chapter DeMolay Glee Club, Mrs. Edna Holbrook Bliss, violinist, and Miss Helen Dorothy Bliss, harpist.

Donations to Covina Home
Buena Park Lodge, No. 357-5 qts. canned fruit, 12 qts. jams and jellies,
2 Y,-gal. crocks jam, 26 glasses jelly.
Electa Circle of Burlingame Circle, No. 275, 0. E. S.-24 little gingham
dresses, 2 linen table runners.
Dr. Emma L. Anderson-20 lbs. candy beans.
Mr. and Mrs. H. T. 13rookmiller, Westlake Lodge, No. 392-9 glasses
jelly.
R. L. Darrow-1 sweater.
Gardena Lodge, No. 372, and Gardena Chapter, No. 260, 0. E. S.-222
qts. canned fruit, jams and jellies; 31 glasses jelly, 20 lbs. sugar.
F. X. Ffaffinger-24 books.
Dr. A. D. Cranstoun, University Lodge, No. 394--8 volumes by Rudyard
Kipling.
Social Club of Orienta:! Chapter, No. 258, 0. E. S.-1 marble statue,
Bust of Martha, with pedestal.
West Lake Chapter, No. 268, 0. E. S.-2 qts. canned fruit, 5 pts. jam.
M. A. Newmark-12 4-lb. jars jam.
Mrs. D. J. Brownstein-2 boys' suits, 1 dress, 4 shirts, music books and
sheet music.

161

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Belvedere Lodge, No. 539, and Belvedere Chapter, No. 402, 0. E. S.1 gal. honey; 27 qts. canned fruit, jams and jellies; 30 glasses jelly,
2 glasses peanut butter, 4 tins canned fruit.
Wilshire Lodge, No. 445, and Wilshire Chapter, No. 329, 0. E. S.-4
boxes and 1 basket apples, 27 lbs. candy, 5 lbs. nuts, 5 lbs. figs, 2
lbs. dates, 25 lbs. prunes, 5 lbs. mixed fruit, 64 pkgs. Jell-Well, 4
lbs. plum pudding, 16-lb. fruit cake, 1 bottle olives, 2 pkgs. Shredded
Wheat, 3 pkgs. Corn Flakes, 1 pkg. graham crackers, 1 pkg. mixed
cakes, I ham, 3 cans fish; 145 qts. canned fruit, jams, jellies; 41
glasses jelly.
Mrs. Florence
glasses jelly.
Hal H. Philbuck-turkeys for Christmas.
Made center pieces for the dining room-Mrs. B. B. Schmidt, 1 ; Mrs.
B. F. Steele, 1; Mrs. J. C. Levy, 1; Mrs. S. Burgess, 3; Flora Way,
3; Mrs. Marsh. 1; Mrs. 0. Torode, 2; Mrs. I. L. Merchant, 4; Mrs.
C. E. Danner, I; Mrs. Holmes, 2; Mrs. Ida Ganbatz, 3, and 4
doilies; Mrs. Florence Gower, 4; Mrs. M. Bakman, 1; Mildred
King, 1; Mrs. Addie E. Odell, L
Ladies of Corona Lodge, No. 324, 0. E. S.-21 center pieces.
Those furnishing moving pictures-Euclid Lodge, No. 519; Henry S.
Orme Lodge, No. 458; Belvedere Lodge, No. 539; Mt. Olive Lodge,
No. 506; Chester Conklin, University Lodge, No. 394; George S.
Strait, Euclid Lodge, No. 519; W. A. Inglis, Hollywood Lodge, No.
355; Jack Brown, of the Covina Theatre; W. A Osgood, of Balboa;
Jinnistan Grotto, Vv est Coast Theatre, Pathe Film Exchange.
School rugs, Grammar School pins, and one membership to
DeMolay-J. W. Voshell, A. G. Richards, L. Rubbins, C. E. Adair,
A. F. Artman, A. Arthur, Morgan Brown, L. R. Brown, A. Brockman, E. Cunningham, W. Carr, W. Criuley, A. Cook, Wm. Desmond, C. A. Denning, J. Elliott, J. Frenlick, F. J. Feicher, T.
Sodenburg, R. L. Schrock, W. Sprowl, J. Seiler, L. Freidlander,
A. W. Freedman, J. Hersholt, L. Hyderman, A. Hall, J. Hinds, R.
Hill, R. Hunter, C. D. Hall, J. Humm, C. Ives, C. L. Joiner, G. Koff,
E. Hull, H. Krohn, W. Leslie, E. Sloman, C. Smith, E. Smith, E.
Laemmle, J. Lawton, G. Lundy, D. Mandell, E. W. Monroe, W.
Mueller, W. Monroe, J. A. Moulin, M. Murphy, C. W. Murphy, .H.
Mason, P. B. Nippell, R. Pierce, D. R. Paxton, D. R. Robbms,
L. Reynolds, R. Slosser, D. Townsend, A. B. Tbumberg, S. D.
Tenney, W. Terhume, S. Thompson, C. Wright, N. ·watt, G. Walker.
High School cardinals and photos for senior boys and girls-T. V. Hatfield, Judge Russell and C. J. Groh, Highland Park Lodge; S. J.
Rosenberg, P. D. Tarr and Ben M. Black, Benevolence Lodge.

East Bay Past Matrons' Association-5 gingham dresses, 2 vanity dresser
sets, 2 comforts.

160

F. B. Comfort, University Lodge, No. 394.-9 lugs pears, 120 pkgs. gum,
3 bunches bananas, 121 lbs. cherries.
University Lodge, No. 394--600 lbs. watermelons, $1 for each child.
R. B. Harper, Anchor Lodge, No. 273-30 pkgs. caramels, 228 Love
Nests, 48 Toddle Bars, 30 Nu Chu, 24 rolls Necco Wafers, 30 Pola
Bars, 24 almond chocolate bars, 325 sticks gum, 150 Cherry Flapper,
24 Hershey cholocate bars, 60 pkgs, Jelly Rolls, 30 Salt Lake Fairy
Sticks, 30 caramel bars, 24 chocolate bars, 20 lbs. Elva Milk Chocolate
Wafers, 210 candy bars, 30 Ta Ta Candy Bars, 20 gals. ice cream.
Belvedere Lodge, No. 539-ice cream freezer.
I follenbeck Lodge, No. 319, and Hollenbeck Chapter, No. 248, O. E. S.59 qts. jams and jellies, 43 glasses jelly, 3 qts. pickles, 8 qts, canned
fruit, 10 lbs. apples, 80 lbs. walnuts, 3 lbs. dried fruit, 6 dresser
scarfs.
Ben M. Black, Benevolence Lodge, U. D.-17 books of history and fiction, 180 French pastry, 6 doz. doughnuts, 1 bride's cake, 1 groom's
eake, 35 doz. rolls.
1lanry B. Day Co.-upholstery remnants.
Young's Market-101 Santa Claus cookies, 61 German cakes.
Kingsbaker Bros. Co.-6 pineapple, 7 lugs peaches.
Pentalpha Chapter, 0. E. S., and the Areme Club-7;,4 qts. canned fruit,
14 pts. jam, 7 glasses jelly, 10 lbs. raisins.
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378-turkeys for Christmas.
Pomona 0. E. S. Social· Club-5 lbs. sugar, 3 glasses jelly, 36 pts. jams
and jellies, 12 qts. canned fruits.
:\rtesia Chapter, No. 253, 0. E. S.-9 qts. canned fruit and vegetables,
3 pts. canned fruit and vegetables, 7),4 qts. jams and jellies.
Wm. T. W. Curl-I box apples.
Wilshire Lodge, No. 445-1 box apples.
I lighland Park Lodge, No. 382-22 small turkeys for Thanksgiving,
4 25-lb. boxes prunes, 2 25-lb. boxes dried apricots, 2 25-lb. boxes
dried pears, 4 cases 6/10 peach jam, 2 cases 6/10 apricot jam, 10 cases
6/10 pumpkin, 4 cases 6/5 fruit jam, 2 cases 24/15 assorted jelly, 6
5-lb. cans Ghirardelii ground chocolate, 15 gals. honey, 16 lbs. candy,
27 qts. canned fruit, 2% qts. honey, 153 glasses jams and jellies, 48
pts. jams and jellies, 12 %-gals. jam, 2 pkgs. dates, 2 pkgs. figs, 1
fruit basket.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452-37 qts. canned fruit, 91 qts. jams and
jellies, 125 glasses jelly, 20 boxes apples, 4 8-oz. boxes dates, 1 side
bacon, 20 lbs. cranberries, 15 lbs. nuts, 2 bunches bananas.

Mrs. I. W. Campbell-2 qts. jam, 3 qts. canned fruit, 5 glasses jelly.
La Granada Sewing Club, Alhambra, Cal.-2 hand-embroidered luncheon
sets, 3 hand-embroidered dresser sets, 2Y, qts. jam and I glass jelly.
L: Tavares, Sunset Lodge, No. 352-large bundle shirting remnants.
Lmden Chapter, No. 372, 0. E. S.-50 lbs. nuts, 12 lbs. figs, 1 paper
cap, 1 scrap book, 1 powder can doll, I pkg. material for doll clothes
3Yz lbs. Jumbo Fiestas.
'

162

W. C. Loughboum-2 turkeys.
F. G. Anderson, Traver Lodge, No. 294-24 lbs. raisins.
Mrs. E. E. Merrill--4 vols. "The \Vorld's Best Music."
Mr. and Mrs. Faber, University Lodge, No. 394-1 sack nuts.
A. H. Wittenberg, Mission Hosiery Mills-3 pr. ladies' hose, 3 doz. asst.
children's hose, 16 doz. pr. stockings and sox.
Tom Hatfield, Highland Park Lodge, No. 382--800 pkgs. fire crackers,
miscellaneous supplies, 1 Deluge chemical fire cart.
Spartan Grocery-31 cases Pep, Corn Flakes, Krumbles, All Bran; 2Yz
cases sardines, 1 case sauerkraut.
Mrs. F. B. Spencer-1 sack corn, 3 lugs peaches, 1 lug tomatoes, Yz lug
string beans.
Bro. Leonard Kingsbaker-3 bunches bananas.
U. S. Wallick, Jr., Temple Lodge, No. 6, Albuquerque, N. M.-14 doz.
Bishop's chocolate cream cakes.
D. W. Peterson and Dave Meday, El Segundo Lodge, No. 507-5Yz
qts. canned fruit, 2 qts. jam.
Boden's Photographic Studio, Santa Ana, Cat-pictures of camp at
Balboa.
I. Weiner, Balboa, Cal.-14 doz. rolls, 14 doz. weiners.
Dr. L. Ludlow Haight, Sunset Lodge, No. 352-2 lugs grapes.
Raymond Hopper-labor and material for closing camp at Balboa.
Mrs. F. M. Krogh, Arcata, Cal.-1 gal. jelly.
P. A. Behannesey, Two Thirty Three Club-1 piano.
Mr. and Mrs. Jas. V. Hutchins--4 pts. jelly, 6 glasses jelly.
George L. Smith-children's worn clothing.
L. E. Forshlom and Harry G. Manville-9 qts. canned fruit.
Lyra Chapter, No. 144, 0. E. S.--4 qts. canned fruit, 3 pts. jam, 2
glasses jelly.
Shrine Club of Paso Robles, Cal.-1 sack almonds.
J. H. Logie, Redlands Lodge, No. 360-2 boxes apples.
Long Beach Shriners' Club-$1 to each child, 168 lbs. chocolate candy,
120 lbs. Christmas mixed candy.
Mr. and ~1rs. T. A. Ekinan-basket of toys, 8 dolls.
Mt. Olive Lodge, N 0 . 506-13 qts. jams and jellies, 10 glasses jelly, 8
qts. canned fruit, 6 4-lb. crocks jam, 1 book paper dolls, 1 set
child's dishes.

163

l\frs .. J. G. Waterman, Fresno, Cal.-17 lbs. home-made candy, 8 lbs.
Jelly beans •. 2 lbs. stuffed dates, 3 lbs. Christmas mixed cand 30
lbs. dates,. figs and :aisins; 10 lbs. nuts, 1 doz. oranges, 2 grape~;uit,
1 can fruit, 3 pts. Jelly, 9 glasses jelly.
Los Angeles Soap Co.-100 cakes \.Yhite King soap, 36 cakes Mission
Bell soap.
H. E. Verble, Fresno, Cal.-3 boxes raisins.
Mrs. W. E. Bensinger-2 mama dolls and 6 gifts for little girls.
(~eo. Beubler-67 lbs. dates.

Fred M. Weiss, Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42-50 lbs. prunes.
Fillmore Lodge, No. 379, and Fillmore Chapter, No. 361, O. E. S.-72
qts. canned fruit, 270 qts. jam, 25 glasses jelly 28 lbs nuts
1
8 /2
tbs. rtma beans'. ?~ lbs. apricots, 1 box apples, •4 doz. oranges,
·
•
"
1 lb. dates, 1 lb. ra1S1ns, 1 pkg. Christmas cards, 6~ lbs. nut candy,
2Y, lbs. candy, 10 books, 9 games and toys, 4 lbs. pop corn, I hdkf.
doll, 1 string beads, 1 aluminum griddle.
West Gate Lodge, No. 335--45 lbs. mixed candy.
Amaranth Needle Club, Bakersfield Court, No. 32-5 comforts.
Atascade~o Eastern Star-2 lbs. home-made candy, 20 lbs. raisins, 3 pair
s~ockmgs, 6 qts. canned fruit, 11 pts. jam, 1 glass jelly, 1 pint

pickles, 1 can pumpkin flour.
Southern California Music Co.-17 horns.
Fred A. Weaver, Independence, Cal.-15 lbs. bro k en mix
· can dy, 5 lbs.
chocolates, 120 suckers.
The Ma:;ters and \Vardcns' Association-Christmas tree and gifts for
all the children.
Coronado Lodge, No. 441-9 toys, 6 pr. little shoes, box children's,
clothing.
Pomona Lodge, No. 457-175 candy canes.
Pacific Whole5ale Grocery Co.-6 gals. jam.
Broadway Department Store-30 lbs. cream-mixed candy.
Franklin Chapter, Oroville, Cal.-1 keg olives.

164

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

Lexington Lodge, No. 104-.30 lbs. candy.
Long Beach Chapter, 0. E. S.-$1 for each child.
.
Gate City Social Club-1 hand mirror, 1 hair brush, 1 dressmg comb,
1 hair receiver, 1 powder box, 1 perfume bottle and ho!der, 1 buffer,
1 cloth brush, 1 tray, 1 file, 1 button hook, 1 scissors, 1 shoe
horn, 1 cuticle knife.
l925 Martha's Club of the F.ast Bay District-5 sets of Miessner Music
Books.
R H DeWitt Yreka Cal.-subscription to John Martin's Book.
. fl·. Cha t, No'379 O. E. S.-6 bars soap, 3 dresser scarfs, 1 doll,
G•ra m
P er•
·
'
t bo ' t ·1 t
Y s 01 e
3 boxes stationery, 2 boxes candy, 1 child's apron,
case, 2 doz. handkerchiefs, 1 emb. towel, 2 bath towels, 1 collar, 2
wash cloths.
.
Azure Lodge, No. 533-3 doz. vases, 10 doz. carnations.
v
k Lod
N 0 423-44 qts canned fruit, 3 cans soup, 1 can bakmg
i or
ge,
2 k
K llo 's
•
·
• II
P gs. e gg
powder, 20 pts. jams and jellies, 8 glasses ie y,
Krumbles.
Molin, H. Molin and F. D. Cruse, Mizpah Lodge, No. 378---6 2-lb.
F.
h 1t
4 1 lb boxes chocolates 25 5-cent pkgs. salted
boxes c oco a es,
- ·
'
peanuts.
Mrs. W. H. Kiger-10 lbs. marshmallows.
The Betty Bolton Candy Co.-100 lbs. Varsity Jellies.
Yorba Linda, No. 469-27 qts. canned fruit, 1 can honey, 15 qts. jam.
4 glasses jelly, 1 crock jam.
.
Occidental Chapter, No. 160, O. E. S.-1 doz. tennis balls. .
F
the Estate of the late Harry Ashcroft-I piano, 1 Victrola with
rom
d
· box 1 bronze statuette with pedestal, 1 cuckoo
recor s, 1 music
,
l k 2 boxes books, collection of minerals and shells.
c oc ,
5
E S 17
h
Past Matrons of Ocean Park Chapter, Xo. 24 , 0. · .was
dresses for little girls.
10 t J·am, 2 pts. canned fruit,
Mizpah Chapter, No. 100, 0 · E · S .- P s.
4 glasses jelly.
Fullerton Lodge, No. 339-49 qts. jam, 62 glasses jelly, 8 qts. canned
't 2 do apples 2 boxes oranges, 5 lbs. salted peanuts, 2 lbs.
f rm '
z.
'
h'I'
58' ,._ lbs
;2
·
candy, 100 lbs. jam, lY, qts. honey, 2 qts. c 11 sauce,
walnuts.
Mrs. Edward Scott, Monrovia, Cal.-155 pop corn balls.
Oakland Lodge, No. 188-hall clock for Sr. Girls' Building.
Brownstein-Louis Co.-1 doz. corduroy pants.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

165

Western Soap & Chemical Co.-1 bbl. Queen Flake soap, I bbl. Solvay
laundry soda.
Coodyear Tire & Rubber Co.-500 toy balloons.
I )r. E. H. Kelly, Monrovia, Cal.-1 child's slide.
Cole's Transfer & Storage-hauling donation to home.
I Tarry Rhymer-fruit and kiddy car.
Jinnistan Vale, No. l, and Jinnistan Grotto-73 Yz-lb. boxes chocolates,
9 lbs. candy, IO:Vz qts. canned fruit, 5 pts. honey, 26i.1 qts. jams and
jellies, 25 glasses jelly, 1 doll, 4 toys, 1 stereopticon and cards.
John F. Taylor, Cleveland City Lodge, No. IS-game of lawn bowls .
C. R. Berry, Guardian Lodge, No. 596--17 small cartons Pep, I large
carton Corn Flakes and Bran Flakes.
Sierra Madre Chapter, 0. E. S.-33 pillow cases.
E. S. Christiansen, Covina, Cal.-ambulance service.
If. P. Balcom, Santa Paula Lodge, No. 291-36 lbs. walnuts.
Mrs. M. W. Thompson-bundle of papers.
Whittier Chapter, No. 444-12 qts. canned fruit, 31 glasses jelly, 23 pts.
jams and jellies, 12 sheets.
B. S. Bingham, Pomona Lodge, No. 246-bathing suits.
Albert Pike Lodge, No. 484-27 qts. jams and canned fruit, 5 glasses
jelly, 10 chocolate bars.
l'laya Linda Chapter, No. 425, 0. E. S.-2 pts. and 9 glasses jam.
llettina Chapter, No. 399, 0. E. S.-21 qts. jams and jellies, 19 glasses
jelly, 10 qts. canned fruit, 9;.1 lbs. sugar, 2Yz lbs. candy.
Officers' Association, 87th Masonic District-3 clocks.
El Sereno Chapter, No. 430, 0. E. S. and El Sereno Lodge, No. 5882 comforts, 9 qts. canned fruit, 22 pts. and 8 glasses jams and
jellies, 1 cake.
Colby & McDermott-240 Abba-Jaba's.
II. L. Lipsett-19 books.
Georgina M. Wilkinson, Hadsaah Chapter, Xo. 133, 0. E. S., Boston,
Mass.-5 Music and Youth ::Vfagazines.
Raphael Weill & Co.-1 c~se toys.
W. Sweigart, Bell Lodge, No. 483-20 pts. and 4 glasses jams and
jellies.
E. Serretto-2 crates artichokes.
Corona Lodge, No. 324-8 gals. ice cream.
Arthur M. Brown, Corona Lodge, No. 324-magazines.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A. Levin, Inglewood Lodge, No. 421-2 crates canteloupes.
Atwater Lodge, No. 622-2 pkgs. Quaker Oats, 2 pkgs. Wheatena, 2
cans milk, 3 cans soup, 9 qts. canned fruit, 14Y, lbs. candy, 8 qts.
and 27 glasses jams and jellies, 1 cake, 7Yz lbs. cookies, 2Y, lbs.
macaroons, 120 Lolly Pops, 120 Abba-J a bas.
Redlands Lodge, No. 300-471, qts. canned fruit, 2 qts. jam, 1 pt. honey,
3 glasses jelly.
Jas. M. Mardesica, Point Firmin Lodge, No. 558-1 case tuna.
Mrs. S. S. Shelley, Golden State Chapter, 0. E. S.-10 glasses jelly,
1 jar jam.
L. R. Ardouin, Southgate, Cal.-a book each month for the boys, as
requested.
Glen Chapter, No. 357, 0. E. S.-picture show and an ice cream cone for
each child.
Melvin Mayo, Coronado Lodge, No. 441-10 lbs. marshmallows.
Hollywood Bethel Job's Daughters-24 story books, 180 chocolate

Alhambra Chapter, No. 193 ' 0 · E · S ., Alh am b ra Lodge N 3?2 F
A. M., Granada Chapter, No. 442 o E S G ., o. - ' · &
608 F & A M S
.
, . . ., ranada Lodge, No.
Alh .
. ., an Gabriel Valley Chapter, No. 100 R A M
ambra Commandery No 48 K T A
' · · .,
DeMol
'.
·
' . · ., lhambra Chapter Order
ay, No. 766--1 mtercolleg1ate foot ball 2 ·
.
nets, 4 tennis raquets 1 doz t
. b 11 3
,
imported temus
-- emus a s,
bats 6 fielders' 't 1
d
b
b
.
,
oz. ase alls, 6 Brownie kodaks 24 rolls films' 4 b ti
b m1 s,
11. J. Padgham, Hollenbeck Lodge ~o 319-8 t '
a 1 ro es.
·
1
'
·
q s. canned fru't
1 1 t
Jam,
pt. preserves, 2 glasses jelly.
'
P·
I larbor Chapter , No . 174, 0 . E . S .-Chnstmas
.
gift for each ch'ld
1
Long Beach Chapter ' No. 173 ' o · E '· S .-$1 f or each child
.
·
Mrs. Fred Fath, Moneta Chapter No 315-2 qt
d .f .
11 I
'
·
s. canne
rmt
o lywood White Shrine-SY, lbs. cookies 1 lb
. .
.
.
.
1 qt. canned fruit, SY, qts. jams and j'ellies: ;:1sf1::~rls9 glasses Jelly,
Merribee Club ' O · E · ·s.-15"" 11andkerchiefs
·
<'. Guenther-45 lbs. mixed candy.
.
l 'orcoran
Chapter ' No · 370' 0 · E · S .-a g1.f t f or each child.
.

166

creme cakes.
Temescal Lodge, No. 441, and Crown Chapter, No. 162, 0. E. S.-8
qts. canned fruit, 4 qts. jam, 2 glasses jelly.
John F. Taylor, Cleveland City Lodge, No. 15-New Burdick SelfContained Mobile Combination Unit (air- and water-cooled quartz
lamps) with applicators.
San Francisco Chapter, No. l, R. A. M.-desk for boys' study.
Walter Piper, Rising Light Lodge, No. 397-bathing suits.
Harry Rhodes-box of toys.
Thrift Baker-set Nelson's Loose-leaf Encyclopedia with renewal pages
for several years.
Seal Beach Lodge, No. 616-SY, qts. jam, 9 glasses jelly, 1 lb. walnut
meats.
Walter Berger, Westlake Lodge, No. 392-12 qts. canned fruit.
The Dept. Officers of the G. A. R., Dept. of Calif. and Nevada, by
H. L. Jude!!, San Francisco, Cal.-1 American flag (army regulation size).
Guardian Lodge, No. 596-2 pts. canned fruit, 5 pts. jam.
Mrs. Bess Bradley and Committee, Glen Chapter, No. 357, 0. E. S.3 cakes for wedding.
Whittier Chapter, No. 444, 0. E. S.-3 cakes for wedding.
T. Don Smith, Granada Lodge, No. 608-2 Hickok belt sets.

167

l olt~:dc~e~fi::~· No. 211, 0. E. S.-51 qts. canned fruit, 27)/, pts. jams
l'orterville
. . ·Lodge ' No · 303- 5 lb s. choco Iates, 24 Todd! B
e ars, 18 1bs.
ra1sms, 12 lbs. nuts.
l,ucerne Chapter, No. 127, o. E. S.-62 b
gift for each child.
oxes Christmas candy and a
< Jroville

Lodge, No. 103-1 keg olives.
Vermont Square Lodge ' No · 515-4 doz · fold'mg ch airs.
.
l<alph Clapp, San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452-magazines
John Milner-out board motor.
·
C. S. Stoll, Palestine Lodge, No. 351-toys.
I.a Paloma Chapter, No. 202, 0. E. S.-3 cakes for wedding.
University Lodge, No. 394--orchestra for dance.
l,ynwood Lodge, No. 600-porch swing.
John Pierson-1 lug pears.
Sunshine Club of Burbank Chapter, O. E. S .-3 qts. jellies and ;'am•.,
1 g Iass jelly.
·'
Charles. M. Wollenberg-100 double-deck beds for camp

I lo~lyw~od Chapter, No. 120, R. A. M.-6 indoor balls, ~ indoor bats.
l1111vers1ty Lodge, No. 394--4 lugs grapes, 2 lugs tomatoes.
A. C. Johnson-worn clothing.

16~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

F. C. Hardy, Snug Harbor Cafe, Balboa, Ca!.-30 doz. doughriuts, 10
cans pop corn crisp.
I. Weiner Candy Kitchen, Balboa, Cal.-Candy.
W. A. Osgood, Balboa, Cal.-picture show.
One day's service given to the Home by each of the following-Construction Foreman E. T. Little, H. G. Dwyre, George Betz, W. I.
Hogan, E. W. Burch, C. Allison, E. A. Burk, P. Gonzales, G. W.
Ackley, Philip Earnst, H. Erickson, S. E. Fromm, L. P. Neilson,
R. C. Bigelow, K. Schamel, J. Moore.
Raymond Hopper-gave labor and material for closing camp at Balboa.
Euclid Lodge, No. 519-did plumbing in new buildings at camp at Balboa.
M. H. Levy and F. B. Comfort, University Lodge, No. 394-furnishecl
orchestra for Senior High dance.
E. J. Gillette-$10 prize for honor student.
For furniture for hospital-M. J. Newburg; Hollywood Lodge, No.
355; University Lodge, No. 394; Jas. E. Phillips, Unity Lodge, No.
368; Herbert J. Evans, Monrovia Lodge, No. 308; Service Lodge,
No. 594; West Lake Lodge, No. 392; West Lake Lodge, No. 335 ;
Loyalty Lodge, No. 529; American Lodge, No. 475; Ionic Lodge,
No. 520; Redondo Lodge, No. 328; Henry S. Orme Lodge, No. 458 ;
Inglewood Lodge, No. 421; Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42; Palos
Verdes Lodge, No. 389; San Pedro Lodge, No. 332; Norwalk Lodge,
No. 315; El Sereno Lodge, No. 588; Vermont Square Lodge, No.
515; Monte Blue, Utopia Lodge, No. 537; Point Firmin Lodge,
No. 558.
Fullerton Lodge, No. 339-furnished study hall in Senior Boys' lluilding.
Palos Verdes Chapter, 0. E. S.-a building at Balboa Camp.
Given for Porch Furniture

Gen. Robert Wankowski.. ..........................................................................$ 10.00
Gustav A. Hutaff.......................................................................................... 10.00
Chas. Albert Adams.................................................................................... 10.00
Samuel E. Burke.......................................................................................... 10.00
James B. Gist................................................................................................ 10.00
A. J. DeLamare............................................................................................ 10.00
Ezra Decoto .................................................................................................. 10.00
Audrey Parks .............................................................................................. 10.00
John Whicher .............................................................................................. 10.00
Albert E.· Boynton........................................................................................ 10.00
Charles M. Wollenberg.............................................................................. 10.00
George F. Jones .......................................................................................... 10.0U
Mrs. C. M. Wollenberg............................................................................ 5.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

169

To the Treat Fund

W. Neil Mouro, Oakland Lodge, No. 188.............................................. $ 15.00
H. H. Hegw?od, Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319...................................... 1.00
R. K. Corkh1ll, Winslow Lodge, No. 13................................................ 100
~~::arrdC:r~~~rip, LaFayette Lodge, No. 81........................................ 1:00

~.--A-~d~~~~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.......... ~:~~

Mr. and Mrs.
Taft Chapter, No. 128, R. A. M. (in memory of E. S. Kirk)........
Upland Lodge, No. 419..............................................................................
Wm. MacDonald ........................................................................................
~rs'. ~~~~oe, Wilshire Chapter, No. 329, 0. E. S.........................

10.00
12.50
5.00
5.UO

Van6u~-~~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 2~:~~

PhJ A.
C. S. Reynolds ............................................................................................ 5 00
F. M. Coil .................................................................................................... 5:00
Wm. Ambler
5.00
~o:er~ Arthu;···::::::·.:::::·.:·.·.:·.:::::::::::::::·.:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 5.00
o n toner ...................................................................................
15.00
Roy Dancy ............................. .
L. S. Lightner ........................ :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
J. E. Robbins .................................................................................
15.00
Walter Sullivan
Henry Scheiler,

~:~~

P~~~~~~-~~ ..L~d;~: .. N·~: ..388:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ;:~~

~il~o~:~:~ ~~ll~~beck Lodge, No. 319.......................................... 5.00
.
g '
. 9.............................................................................. 37.UU
Children of Radio Station KMTR. ......................................................... 288.4U
S. A. Vandegrift, Table Mountain Lodge, No. 124.............................. 5.UU
C. G. Woodbury, Pleasanton Chapter, No. 294, 0. E. S...................
I.OU
Wm. T. Robinson, Fullerton Lodge, No. 339........................................ 5.00
"Dad" Holcomb, Fullerton Lodge, No. 339..........................................
I.OU
I. C. Faller, Doric Lodge, No. 216..........................................................
1.00
Mrs. J. M. Bashor, Monrovia Chapter, No. 227, 0. E. S................... 1.00
Claremont Chapter, Order of DeMolay.................................................. 17.00
Mercedes Chapter, No. 126, 0. E. S....................................................... 5.00
Bro. and Mrs. Clifton L. Fleming.......................................................... 10.00
Mrs. W. H. Davis ......................................................................................
1.00
Lily M. Thomas, Columbus, Ohio............................................................ 1.00
Arnold H. Faber, Vermont Square Lodge, No. 575............................
5.00
Joseph A. Kelly, Mizpah Lodge, No. 378.................................
10.00
J.o~n Grey, San Pedro Lodge, No. 332............................................
J.00
F~nc Arntsen, Florence Lodge, No. 107................................................
2.00
0. E. Lenkenbelt, Elysian Lodge, No. 418.......................................... 1.00
A Friend, Glendale Commandery............................................................ 2.00

170

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFbRNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

H. C. Lengfeld............................................................................................
C. M. Scoville, Temescal Lodge, No. 314..............................................
Mrs. W. J. Williams, Palos Verdes Chapter, No. 310, 0. E. S.....
David J. Reed, ]\1t. Moriah, Salt Lake City. .....................................
Bell Lodge, No. 483......................................................................................
Gladys Gilks ..................................................................................................
Acacia Country Club ..................................................................................
Ann L. Williams, Hollenbeck Chapter, No. 248, 0. E. S..................
Sherman Longfellow, Truckee Lodge, No. 200....................................
Walter A. Carbinier ..................................................................................
Miscellaneous donations ............................................................................
,_\{. H. Levy, University Lodge, No. 394, toward piano......................
F. B. Comfort, University Lodge, ~o. 394, toward piano..................

10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
1.00
5.00
32.40
1.00
1.00
6.00
22.40
15.00
20.00

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations to Covina for 1925
Lodges
No.
Truckee ......................... .200
Visalia ........................... .128
Olive Branch ..............269
Culver City ................. 467
Alamo ............................ 122
Mountain View .......... 194
Concord ........................ 117
Russian River .............. 181
Hammonton ................ ..433
Neptune ........................619
Fairmount ......................435
Palos Verdes ................ 389
Loyalty .......................... 529
Ocean Park .................. 369
Crockett ........................271
Point .............................. 503
Benicia .......................... 5
Gardena ........................ 372
Palo Alto ...................... 346
Corona .......................... 324
Fraternity ...................... 399
Cupertino ...................... 510
Norwalk ........................ 315
Temescal .... ., ..................314
Lodge

Lodge
No.
Amt.
$ 5.00 Bakersfield ................... .224
10.00 Glendora ........................404
5.00 Washington .................. 20
33.00 Sacramento .................. 40
10.00 Lindsay ......................... .416
5.00 Redondo ........................ 328
20.00 Corinthian .................... 9
5.00 South Pasadena .......... 367
15.00 Fortitude ......................624
10.00 ](ennett ........................ ..456
10.00 Charter Rock ............ ..410
15.00 Silver Cord .................. 505
30.00 Sierra Madre .............. 408
25.00 Caledonia ......................486
25.00 Sunnyvale ......................511
5.00 Eureka Masonic Club,
El Sereno Lodge .... 588
10.00
10.00 Unity ............................ 368
10.00 Santa Paula ..................291
25.00 ·Justice ............................ 549
10.00 La Parfaite .................. 17
2.50 San Jacinto .................. 338
5.00 Oakland ...................... .188
5.0D Ashlar ............................ ~06

Amt.
25.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
24.10
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
27.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Bell ............................. .483
San Gabriel .................. 546
Laurel ............................ 245
Silver Gate ..................296
Suisun ............................ 55
Woodstock .................... 491
Argonaut ......................461
Santa Monica ................307
Tujunga ........................ 592
Lakeshore .................... 551
Hiram ............................ 43
Alpha ..............................431
San Pasqual ................ ..452
Escalon .......................... 591
Ontario .......................... 301
Marin ............................191
Oak Grove ..................215
Peninsula Lodge of
Perfection .................. 14
Forest ............................ 66
Long Beach .................. 327
Nicolaus ....................... .129
Rising Light .................. 397
Eden ................................113
Temblor ....................... .477
Palmyra ........................ 26
Presido .......................... 354
Mt. Diablo ....................448
Yount ............................ 12
Occidental ...................... 22
Howard .......................... 37
Orosi ..............................383
Dinuba ............................385
Center ............................ 465
Acorn .......................... ..494
Benevolence .............. U.D.
Cahuenga ...................... 513
Coachella ......................476
Stockton ..................... ..498
Coalinga ........................ 387
Fremont ...................... ..497
.Monrovia ...................... 308

Amt.
25.00
10.00
5.00
.25.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
14.00
5.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
25.00
8.00
25.00
10.00
12.00
5.00
15.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
12.50
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
20.00

No.
Lodge
Compass ........................ 590
Monterey ......................217
Redwood City .............. 168
Charity .......................... 362
Excelsior ...................... 166
Jubilee ........................ U.D.
Martinez ........................ 41
Pomona .......................... 246
Palestine ........................ 351
Stanislaus ......................206
Kauai .............................. 589
Santa Ana ................. .241
Libc rty ......................... .299
Con f idencc ................... .203
I'ajaro ............................ 110
Claremont ...................... 436
Molino .......................... 150
Roosevelt ...................... 500
A tascadcro ....................493
Oxnard .......................... 341
Plumas .......................... 60
Crescl·nt ....................... 45
East !fay ........................ 489
Paso Rohlcs ..................286
( ;1cmlalc ........................ 544

W omtland ...................... 156
llartlcy .......................... 199
Lodi ............................. .256
l lcnnann ...................... 127
Pasadena ........................ 272
Capital City ................. .499
Madera ..........................280
I lilt's Ferry .................. 236
Santa Barbara ............. .192
Santa Hosa ...... ............. 57
I lcnry Clay ................ 95
Nccdles .......................... 326
Inglcwood ................... .421
l'oint Firmin ............... 558
Sisson ........................... :110

Tuscan .........................261
Silver Trowel ............. .415

171
Amt.
5.00
14.25
25.00
5.90
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
7.50
5.00
25.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
l(l.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
10.00
12.50
2.50
5.00
25.00
10.00

10.00
10.00
25.00

1'12

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Veteran .......................... 373
Trinity ............................ 27
Live Oak ...................... 61
San Bernardino ............ 348
Patterson ..................... .488
Sincerity ........................ 132
Pacific Grove ..............331
Dunsmuir .....................297
Piedmont ......................521
Richmond ...................... 375
Rockridge ...................... 468
£an Dimas ................... .428
San Buenaventura ......214
San Simeon .................. 196

Amt.

29.35
5.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
12.50
25.00
10.00
10.00

Lodge
No.
Artesia ..........................377
Midway ..........................426
Winnedumah ................287
Hesperian ......................264
St. Helena .................... 93
Phoenix .......................... 178
Oriental .......................... 144
Clay ................................ 101
The Garden ..................621
Sauger .......................... 316
Dimond ..........................603
Alta ................................333
Friendship ......................210
Standard ........................440

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amt.

10.00
25.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Commanderies, K. T.
C ommandery
No.
Vacaville ...................... 38
San Luis Obispo ........ 27
Sacramento ............ ...... 2
Napa .............................. 34
Golden West ................ 43
Marysville .................... 7
Los Angeles .................. 9
Eldorado ........................ 4
Glendale ........................ 53
Watsonville .................. 22

Amt.

$10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
5.00

5.00
10.00

Commandery
No.
Visalia ............................ 26
Mt. Shasta .................... 32
Santa Ana .................... 36
St. Omer ........................ 30
Ventura ........................ 18
St. Bernard .................. 23
Calvary ........................ 62
Pasadena ...................... 31
Santa Rosa .................. 14

Amt.

10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

Chapters, 0. E. S.
No.
Chapter
Santa Clara ... :.............. 195
Atascadero .................... 344
Wheatland .................... 48
Past Matrons and Past
Patrons of Idlewild.. 19
Onisbo .......................... 164
Pomona .......................... 110
San Rafael ....................215
Sunnyvale ..................... .250
Vesper .......................... 20
Clear Lake .................... 137

Amt.

$10.00
5.00
20.00

10.00
50.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00

Chapter
No.
Marysville .................... 55
Mira Monte ..................141
Corona .......................... 107
Josephine ...................... 104
Chispa ............................ 151
Bethlehem ...................... 95
Santa Paula ................. .185
Golden Wave ................ 103
Buena Vista ..................364
Martha Washington .. 13

Councils, R. & S. M.
C011ncil
No.
Valley ............................ 27
Los Angeles .................. 11

Amt.

$10.00
10.00

Council
No.
Pasadena ...................... 16
Siskiyou ........................ 24

Amt.

43.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
10.00

Amt.

10.00
5.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No.
Monrovia ..................... .129
St. James ...................... 16
Napa .............................. 30
Visalia ............................ 44
East Gate ..................... .103
Sacramento .................. 3
Keystone ........................ 56
Santa Ana .................... 73
Taft ................................ 128
Tulare ............................ 71
Los Angeles .................. 33
Fruitvale ...................... 111
Plumas .......................... 107
Huntington Park ........ 127
Cyrus .............................. 15
Doric .............................. 66
Acacia ............................ 64

Amt.

$10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
2.50
6.00

5.00
5.00
5.00

Chapter
No.
Corinthian .................... 51
Coalinga ........................ 114
Mission ...... .................... 79
La Purissima ................ 104
Dixon ............................ 48
Inglewood ..................... .131
Washington .................. 13
Woodland .. .................... 46
St. Helena .................... 63
Humboldt ....................... 52
Redondo ....................... .101
Sutter ............................ 11
Signet ............................ 57
Crown ..................... :...... 72
San Diego ...................... 61
Petaluma ........................ 22
Marin ............................. .102

39.3~

25.00
24.35

173

Miscellaneous

Amt.

5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

5.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

5.00
Amt.

Pasadena Lodge of Perfection, A. & A. S. R. ....................................$ 25.00 .
San Diego, A. & A. S. R., No. 8............................................................ 25.00
East Bay Past Matrons' Association...................................................... 75.00
Alhambra Court, Order of Amaranth, No. 42.................................... 10.00
San Joaquin Valley Past Matrons and Past Patrons........................ 20.00
Noble John A. Benson................................................................................
2.00
Harold Steen .............................................................................................. 25.00
E. B. Adams .............................................................................................. 20.00
Fred C. Hardesty ......................................................................................
5.00
Mrs. Bertha R Taylor.............................................................................. 2.00
Geo. J. Groves .............................................................................................. 5.00
H. Seibel ........................................................................................................ 5.00
Wm. A. Crinley ..........................................................................................
5.00
Clifford T. W eismeyer ............................................................................ 10.00
Two Thirty Three Club.............................................................................. 50.00

174

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Thomas Awburn ..........................................................................................
Mr. and ~lrs. A. R. Waters......................................................................
Rudolph Rosenberg ....................................................................................
Ralph M. Hendricks .................. ...............................................................
Virginia E. Huntley ..................................................................................
F. G. Watson ................................................................................................
Henry Hilzingcr ..........................................................................................

10.00
10.00
50.00
1.00
5.00
10.00
2.00

Children at the Covina Home September 1, 1926
BOYS, 85

Name
Admitted
Aby, Robert S ................ Aug. 23, '21
Allen, Orin ......................July 7, '21
Allen, Colin F ................. Feb. 20, '26
Anderson, Alvin A......... Sept.10, '25
Anderson, Walter D ..... Sept. 10, '25
Baker, Paul Geo.............July 7, '20
Bailey, James K. ............ Sept. 10, '25
Boast, Irvin F ................. Nov. 17, '24
Boast, Alvin B................. Nov. 17, '24
Boast, Alfred G............... Nov. 17, '24
Chapin, Philip R............... Oct. 30, '25
Chapin, John E. ................ June 22, '22
Chapin, Wm. McCann....June22, '22
Chapin, Robert Dodd......June22, '22
Clapp, C. Donald............ Sept. 12, '25
Cox, Clark Wm ...............Jan. 13, '25
Chetham, Alfred H ....... Aug. 31, '24
Cates, Edward C............. Sept. 27, '24
Cranstoun, Andrew W ...June 27, '25
Cranstoun, George F ..... June 27, '25
Darling, Charles W ....... May 21, '21
Darling, H. Buell............ Mar. 22, '24
DeNike, Edward E ......... Nov. 14, '23
Day, John A. .................... Apr. 10, '24
Davies, Parker N ........... Apr. 27, '24
Ede, Clarence ................ Aug. 24, '26
Edwards, Arthur F ....... Sept. 27, '25
Fischer, Douglas E ......... Oct. 14, '16

Lodge
No.
San Jose .............. 10
Molino .................. 150
Fairmount ..........435
Apollo ..................396
Apollo .................. 396
Union .................. 58
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Roseville ..............222
Roseville ..............222
Roseville ..............222
Redwood City .... 168
Redwood City .... 168
Redwood City .... 168
Redwood City .... 168
San Pasqual ........452
Center ..................465
Sequoia ................349
Pentalpha ........... .202
University ............ 394
University ............ 394
Natoma ................ 64
Hollenbeck .......... 319
Presidio ................ 354
Lompoc ................262
Martinez .............. 41
Hope .................... 234
Richmond ............375
Mas. Bd. Relief... .....

Location Age
San Jose ............ 10
Tehama ............ 11
San Francisco ..13
Alameda .......... 12
Alameda ......... .10
Sacramento ...... 13
Honolulu .......... 12
Roseville ......... .14
Roseville .......... 11
Roseville. .......... 9
Redwood City.. 10
Redwood City.. 14
Redwood City..12
Redwood City.. 11
Pasadena ..........12
Fresno .............. 16
Oakland ............ 9
Los Angeles .... 15
Los Angeles .... 7
Los Angeles ... .16
Folsom .............. 17
Los Angeles .... 10
San Francisco .. 9
Lompoc ............10
Martinez .......... 13
Beckwith .......... 12
San Francisco.. 11
San Francisco .. 14

N anie
Ad milted
Fischer, Eugene A. .......... Oct. 14, '16
Fisher, Harrison ............ Mar. 8, '14
!icrmond, E. Maurice.... Nov. 12, '24
!ireenberg, Roy J ............. May 20, '24
1larris, John F ................. June 24, '23
Harris, Charles W ......... June 24, '23
1layward, Stewart L ....... Apr. 12, '26
I lavward, S. Kirkland.... Apr. 12, '26
I loibrook, Raymond S ... Apr. 4, '23
Isbell, Guy F .....................Feb. 5, '22
Jackson, Ernest .............. Dec. 13, '23

'\
Kennedy, Ralph E ........... May 11, •z6
King, Charles H ............... Dec. 21, '19
Kuykendall, Melvin ...... Nov. 2, '21
Kuykendall, Charles ...... Nov. 2, '21
Lemmon, Robert A ......... Feb. 6, '26
McAteer, Eugene ..........June 6, '25
McKinley, Philip F .......Aug. 31, '21
McKinley, Douglas S..... Aug. 31, '21
McKinnon, John, Jr ....... Dec. 15, '24
:Vfann, Clifford .............. Sept. 11, '21
Merrill, Grayson ............ Sept. 4, '21
Mole, Henry Gordon ......Mar. 13, '21
Mole, Wesley Edwin...... Mar. 13, '21
Morrison, Delbert .......... Nov. 5, '21
Narinian, Stephen M ..... Mar. 9, '22
Odell, J. Wesley.............. Mar. 12, '22
Parrent, Arvin Mahin ....July 9, '19
Pascoe, Richard Hedley.. Sept. 6, '17
Pettersen, Herbert O ..... Mar. 17, '26
Prewett, R. Harland ...... Mar. 3, '19
Plat. Edward .................. Oct. 24, '22
Ray, Myron J ................... Mar. 5, '22
Reynolds, Walter .......... Nov. 5, '24
Reynolds, Earl ................ Nov. 5, '24
Rogers, Dee S ................... Dec. 27, '26
Rogers, Ralph H ............. Dec. 27, '26
Rogers, Buford F ...........Dec. 27, '26
Rogers, Grant J ............... Dec. 27, '26
Rouch, Herbie A. ............ May 4, '26
Rouch, Melvin R ............. May 4, '26

175

Location Age
Lodge
No.
Mas. Bd. Relief... ..... San Francisco .. 15
Presidio ................354 San Francisco ..17
Pasadena ..............272 Pasadena .......... 11
Lebanon ............ ..495 San Frandsco.. 11
Oakland ................ 188 Oakland ........... .13
Oakland ................ 188 Oakland ............12
Burlingame .......... 400 Burlingame ...... 8
Burlingame .......... 400 Burlingame ...... 4
King David's ......209 S'n L's Obispo .. 15
East Gate ........... .290 Los Angeles ... .15
Le Progres de
Honolulu ....... .12
l'Oceanie ..........371
Mount Oso ..........460 Tracy ............... .14
South Gate .......... 320 Los Angeles ... .17
Excelsior .............. 166 San Francisco.. 16
Excelsior .............. 166 San Francisco ..14
Santa Paula ........291 Santa Paula .... 10
Presidio ................ 354 San Francisco.. 10
Vacaville ............. .134 Vacaville .......... .11
Vacaville .............. 134 Vacaville .......... 9
Sequoia ................349 Oakland ............ 6
Buena Park ........357 Buena Park ... .15
Highland Park .. 382 Los Angeles ....14
West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles ....15
West Gate ..........335 Los Angeles ... .12
York ......................423 Watts ................15
Fairmount ............435 San Francisco.. 12
Mizpah ................ 378 Los Angeles ... .16
Golden State ........ 358 Los Angeles ....17
Amador ................ 65 Jackson ............16
J:!alder ..................393 San Francisco .. 8
Sisson ..................310 Sisson ................14
San Jose .............. 10 San Jose ..........16
;\-fountain View .. 194 Mountain View 9
Live Oak .............. 61 Oakland ............15
Live Oak .............. 61 Oakland ............13
Plumas .................. 60 Quincy ............. .12
Plumas .................. 60 Quincy .............. 10
Plumas .................. 60 Quincy .............. 7
Plumas .................. 60 Quincy .............. 4
Traver .................. 294 Kingsburg ........ 9
Traver .................. 294 Kingsburg ........ 6

176

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Admitted
Name
Runkle, Thomas E ......... Nov. 13, '22
Runkle, Robert .............. June 14, '25
Schwartz, Emil ............. _June 29, '17
Schwartz, Sidney ............June 29, '17
Schulte, Carl .................. Apr. 2, '25
Schierenbeck, Albert
E., Jr ............................. July 7, '26
Sharrer, Raymond ...... Jan. 2, '22
Stevens, Frank F., Jr .....June26, '26
Taylor, C. Vaughn........ Aug. 29, '21
Taylor, Lauryn H ........... Aug. 29, '21
Taylor, Floyd S............... Oct. 19, '22
Taylqr, Edward M ....... ,.Apr. 12, '25
Treverton, E. Roy .......... Dec. 2, '23
Williams, Robert R ......... May 27, '25
Withers, Stanley L ......... Dec. 29, '23
White, Lawrence A ......... Apr. 27, '24

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Lompoc ................ 262
Lompoc ............... .262
West Gate ............ 335
West Gate ............ 335
Hermann ........... .127

Location A e
Lompoc ........... 10
Lompoc ......... .!. 7
Los Angeles ., ..17
Los Angeles ... .15
San Francisco .. 11

Oak Grove .......... 215
Veteran ................373
East San Diego .... 561
Woodstock .......... 491
Woodstock ......... .491
Woodstock .......... 491
Silver Trowel .... 415
Palmyra .............. 26
Artesia .................. 377
Parnassus ............388
Park ...................... 449

Alameda .......... 11
Sawtelle ........... .11
E. San Diego .... 9
Alameda .......... 12
Alameda .......... 10
Alameda .......... 8
Los Angeles ... .11
Placerville ...... 9
Artesia .............. 8
San Francisco .. 8
San Francisco.. 14

GIRLS, 86
Allen, Loretta B...............July 7, '23
Bailey, Muriel A ............. Sept. 10, '25
Brown, Wilda ................ July 14, '24
Brown, Alberta .............. July 14, '24
Barjas, Katherine .......... Apr. 28, '24
Boynton, J. Helen ............ May 2, '25
Boynton, Vesta M ........... May 2, '25
Clapp, Ruth B................. Sept. 12, '25
Cl<1pp, Elizabeth O .........Sept. 12, '25
Coburn, Harriet C........... May 9, '23
Cox, Emily P ................... May 16, '26
Cox, Mary G...................Jan. 13, '25
Clark, Frances N ........... June 15, '26
Clark, Phyletha B........... June 15, '26
Clark, Dorothea O .........June 15, '26
Chetham, Demaris H ..... Aug. 31, '24
Cranstoun, Christobel ..June 27, '25
Darling, Fern Elva........ May 21, '21
DeNike, E. Jean .............. Nov. 14, '23
Ede, Thelma Ruth .......... Aug.
'26

Molina .................. 150
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Dunsmuir ............ 397
Dunsmuir ............397
Ramona ............... .457
Liberty .................. 299
Liberty ................. .299
San Pasqual ........452
San Pasqual ........ 452
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Center ................. .465
Center ..................465
So. California .... 278
So. California .... 278
So. California .... 278
Sequoia ................349
University .......... 394
Natoma ................ 64
Presidio ................354
Hope ....................234

Tehama ........... .13
Honolulu .......... 10
Dunsmuir ........ 13
Dunsmuir ........ 6
Monterey P'rk 15
Santa Clara .... 15
Santa Clara ... .13
Pasadena .......... 15
Pasadena .......... 13
Honolulu .......... 9
Fresno .............. 4
Fresno .............. 12
Los Angeles .... 5
Los Angeles .... 4
Los Angeles .... 3
Oakland ............ 12
Los Angeles .... 13
Folsom ........... .12
San Francisco.JO
Beckwith ..... _... 10

Name

Admitted

1:i~cher, Doris C............... Oct. 14, '16
Fi~her, Muriel ............._. .. Mar. 18, '14
I ;crmond, A. Ramona .... Nov. 12, '24
<:crmond, Dolly Jean .... Nov. 12, '24
( ;rcenberg, Emma .......... May 20, '24
I lartman, Betty Jane ...... Mar. 6, '26
I larris, Anna Belle .......... June 24, '23
I lanson, Alice M ............. Feb. 5, '25
I lolbrook, Gwendolyn .. Apr. 4, '23
I lolbrook, Ethel B........... Apr. 4, '23
I lolbrook, Frances D ..... Apr. 4, '23
Ishell, Lucile M............... Feb. 5, '22
Ishell, Edith May ............ Mar. 29, '25
·Jackson, Martha ..............July 2, '25

l\aford, Lois E ............... Mar. 19, '26
l\1•cley, Marguerite ........ Apr. 26, '20
l\cith, Viola D ................. Mar. 24, '22
l\ing, Mildred M ............. Nov. 21, '19
I\ nudsen, Gertrude ........ July 2, '21
l\nudsen, Alida ................July 2, '21
Mann, Evelyn ................ Sept. 11, '21
Mer rill, Eunice .............. Sept. 4, '21
!\le Millan, Ruth .............. Apr. 14, '24
Nutting, Edna ................ Dec. 21, '24
Nutting, Olive ................ Dec. 21, '24
( >dell, Betty A ................. Mar. 12, '22
()'Connell, Florence .... Nov. 18, '23
()'Connell, Pauline ........ Nov. 18, '23
(>'Connell, Alice L ......... Nov. 18, '23
!'arsons, Alberta M .........June 29, '25
l'lat, Madeline ................ Oct. 24, '22
I'oole, Dorothy C........... Mar. 3, '18
l'oole, Ruth Mary .......... Mar. 3, '18
lfaftery, Martha ............ Dec. 3, '17
Raftery, Mary ................ Dec. 3, '17
Ray, Bessie Eva............ Mar. 5, '22
Ray, J. Eliece ................ Mar. 5, '22
lfogers, Opal L ............... Dec. 27, '25
Runkle, Demba .............. Nov. 13, '22
Runkle, Jean .................. Nov. 13, '22
Schellpeper, Mildred ...... Feb. 22, '19

Lodge
No.
Mas. Bd. Relief... .....
Presidio ................ 354
Pasadena .............. 272
Pasadena ............. .272
Lebanon ............. .459
Union .................... 58
Oakland ................ 188
Golden State ...... 358
King David's ......209
King David's ..... .209
King David's ..... .209
East Gate ........... .290
East Gate ........... .290
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Silver Gate .......... 296
Highland Park ... 382
University ............ 394
South Gate .......... 320
Pacific .................. 136
Pacific .................. 136
Buena Park ........ 357
Highland Park .. 382
Crockett .............. 139
Sunset .................. 352
Sunset .................. 352
Mizpah ................ 378
Silver Trowel .... 415
Silver Trowel ... .415
Silver Trowel ... .415
South Gate .......... 320
San Jose .............. 10
Pasadena .............. 272
Pasadena .............. 272
Mizpah ................ 378
Mizpah ................ 378
Mountain View .. 194
Mountain View .. 194
Plumas ................ 60
Lompoc ................ 262
Lompoc ................ 262
Parnassus ............ 388

177
Location Age
San Francisco .. 17
San Francisco .. 15
Pasadena .......... 10
Pasadena .......... 7
San Francisco .. 14
Sacramento ..... .10
Oakland ........... .11
Los Angeles ... .12
S'n L's Obispo 14
S'n L's Obispo 12
S'n L's Obispo 10
Los Augeles .... 16
Los Angeles .... 5
Honolulu .......... 14
San Diego ........ 14
Los Angeles ... .17
Los Angeles .... 14
Los Angeles ... .14
San Francisco .. 17
San Francisco .. 13
Buena Park .... 10
Los Angeles ... .11
San Francisco.. 7
Los Angeles .... 15
Los Angeles .... 13
Los Angeles .... 9
Los Angeles .... 12
Los Angeles .... 11
Los Angeles .... 6
Los Angeles .... 13
San Jose .......... 12
Pasadena .......... 12
Pasadena .......... 13
Los Angeles ... .14
Los Angeles .... 14
Mount'n View .. 14
Mount'n View .. 13
Quincy .............. 13
Lompoc ............ 13
Lompoc ............ 11
San Francisco .. 15

178

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Schofield, Vera L ........... Feb. 27, '21
Schierenbeck, Ruth L .. July 7, '26
Schulte, Elsa .................... Apr. 2, '25
Schulte, Margaret ........ Apr. 2, '25
Schulte, Helen ................ Apr. 2, '25
Sheppard, Catherine .... Mar. 24, '21
Sheppard, Mary Bella.. Mar. 24, '21
Shaw, Isabelle ............... Jan. 13, '23
Shaw, Beryle ....................Jan. 13, '23
Shaw, Lorraine .............Jan. 13, '23
Shipley, Eva V ............... Aug. 17, '18
Shipley, Frances W ....... Aug. 17, '18
Shipley, Hazel Fern...... Aug. 17, '18
Tappendorf£, Doris ...... Mar. 18, '22
Tappendorf£, Ida .......... Mar. 18, '22
Tappendorf£, Ada ........ Mar. 18, '22
Theissen, Florence ........ Mar. 20, '23
Treverton, Evelyn A ..... Dec. 2, '23
Tyler, Dorothy A ...........Jan. 9, '26
Tyler, Barbara Jane........ Jan. 9, '26
Virgo, Winifred ............ Dec. 5, '13
Walker, Dorothy C. ........ Mar. 12, '22
Ward, Marguerite .......... Oct. 30, '24
White, Yvonne ................ Apr. 27, '24
Wittenberg, Carol E .......June 17, '25

Lodge
No.
Jefferson
........ 97
Oak Grove ......... .215
Hermann .............. 127
Hermann .............. 127
Hermann ..............127
Ad in .....................250
Adin ......................250
King David's ..... .209
King David's ..... .209
King David's ..... .209
Santa Ana ......... .241
San ta Ana ..........241
Santa Ana ..........241
East Belt ..............391
East Belt .............. 391
East Belt ..............391
Golden West ..... .455
Palmyra .............. 26
Palo Alto ............ 346
Palo Alto ............346
Mizpah ................378
Highland Park .. 382
Dinuba ..................385
Park ...................... 449
West Gate .......... 335

/

(

Location ,{lge
;
La Porte ...... /.. .13
Alameda ...... '. ... 9
San Francisco.. 14
San Francisco..13
San Francisco .. 8
Adin ..................17
Adin ................. .15
S'n L's Obispo 14
S'n L's Obispo 13
S'n L's Obispo 9
Santa Ana ....... .19
Santa Ana ....... .16
Santa Ana ....... .14
Tuolumne ........16
Tuolumne ........ 13
Tuolumne ....... .13
San Francisco ..16
Placerville ........ 7
Palo Alto ........ 8
Palo Alto ........ 4
Los Angeles ... .16
Los Angeles .... 13
Dinuba .............. 10
San Francisco .. 11
Los Angeles .... 13

Outside Care
Chandler, William MarshalL ..................................... Alpha Lodge, No. 431
Chandler, John Smith...................................................... Alpha Lodge, No. 431
Daugherty, Helen .............................................................. Selma Lodge, No. 277
Haviland, Lura Frankie .............................. .le Progres de l'Oceanie, No. 371
Haviland, Fred Eugene ............................... .le Progres de l'Oceanie, No. 371
Lord, Edmond Joseph ........................................ Golden West Lodge, No. 455
Lord, Raymond Philip ....................................... Golden West Lodge, No. 455
Owen, Martha Luella ................................................. Vacaville Lodge, No. 134
Owen, Clyde Lawrence ............................................ .Vacaville Lodge, No. 134
Swartz, Lowell Frederick ............................................ Mt. Oso Lodge, No. 460
Swartz, Virginia Elaine ................................................ Mt. Oso Lodge, No. 460

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

179

Admitted During the Year
BOYS, 24
Name
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Allen, Colin F ................. Feb. 20, '26 Fairmo~nt ........... .435
Anderson, Alvin A .........Sept. 10, '25 Apollo .................. 396
Anderson, Walter D ..... Sept. 10, '25 Apollo .................. 396
Bailey, James K ............. Sept. 10, '25 Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Clapp, C. Donald ............ Sept. 12, '25
San Pasqual ...... ..452
Chapin, Philip R. ............ Oct. 30, '25 Redwood City ... .168
l•:de, Clarence ................ Aug. 24, '26 Hope ................... .234
Edwards, Arthur F ....... Sept. 27, '25 Richmond ............375
1layward, Stewart L ....... Apr. 12, '26 Burlingame ......... .400
I layward, S. Kirkland .. Apr. 12, '26 Burlingame ........ ..400
l\cnnedy, Ralph E........... May 11, '26 Mount Oso ........ 460
J ,emmon, Robert A ......... Feb. 6, '26
Santa Paula ........291
.'vlole, Harry, Jr ............. Sept. 10, '25 West Gate ............ 335
Pettersen, Herbert O ..... Mar. 17, '26 Balder .................. 393
lfogers, Dee S ................. Dec. 27, '26
Plumas ................ 60
lfogers, Ralph H ............. Dec. 27, '26 Plumas ................ 60
Rogers, Buford F........... Dec. 27, '26 Plumas ................ 60
lfogers, Grant J............... Dec. 27, '26
Plumas ................ 60
lfouch, Herbie A ............. May 4, '26 Traver .................. 294
Houch, Melvin R. ............ May 4, '26 Traver ..................294
Stevens, Frank F., J r .....June 26, '26 East San Diego.... 561
Schierenbeck, Albert
E., Jr .............................July 7, '26 Oak Grove .......... 21~
GIRLS, 14
Bailey, Muriel A ........... Sept. 10, '25
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Clapp, Ruth B ................. Sept. 12,
San Pasqual ...... ..452
t 'lapp, Elizabeth O ......... Sept. 12, '25
San Pasqual ...... ..452
Cox, Emily P ................. May 16, '26 Center .................. 465
Clark, Frances N .............June 15, '26 So. California ... .278
t 'lark, Phyletha B ......... June 15, '26
So. California ....278
nark, Dorothea O ......... June 15, '26 So. Califorma ... .278
Ede, Thelma Ruth .......... Aug. 24, '26
Hope .................... 234
1lartman, Betty Jane .... Mar. 6, '26 Union .................. 58
l\aford, Lois E. .............. Mar. 19, '26 Silver Gate ..........296
ffogers, Opal L. .............. Dec. 27, '25
Plumas ................ 60
Schierenbeck, Ruth L ... July 7, '26
Oak Grove ......... .215
Tyler, Dorothy A ...........Jan. 9, '26
Palo Alto ............ 346
Tyler, Barbara Jane ...... Jan. 9, '26
Palo Alto ............ 346

'ZS

•

Location Age
San Francisco.. 13
Alameda .......... 12
Alameda .......... 10
Honolulu ..........12
Pasadena .......... 12
Redwood City.. 10
Beckwith .......... 12
San Francisco.. 10
Burlingame ..... 8
Burlingame ...... 4
Tracy ............... .14
Santa Paula .... 10
Los Angeles .... 5
San Francisco.. 8
Quincy .............. 12
Quincy .............. 10
Quincy .............. 7
Quincy .............. 4
Kingsburg ........ 8
Kingsburg ........ 6
E. San Diego .... 9
Alameda .......... 11

Honolulu .......... 10
Pasadena .......... 15
Pasadena ..........13
Fresno .............. 4
Los Angeles .... 5
Los Angeles .... 4
Los Angeles .... 3
Beckwith .......... 10
Sacramento ...... 10
San Diego ....... .14
Quincy .............. 13
Alameda .......... 9
Palo Alto ........ 8
Palo Alto ........ 4

lSO

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

181

Departures During the Year
BOYS

Name
Admitted
Barlow, Earl .................. Sept. 30, '24
Buswell, Howard ............Jan. 30, '22
Coburn, Milton ..................................
Delosa, Vincent ..............Dec. 8, '19
Day, William .................. Apr. 10, '24
Fowler, Arnold .............. Apr. 1, '25
Kuykendall, Nephi ........ Nov.11, '21
Mole, Harry, Jr ............... Sept. 10, '25
Stephen, Lloyd .............. Mar. 22, '25
Sharrer, Harvey .............. Jan. 2, '22

Departed
Returned to mother.................... Feb. 4, '26
Returned to mother .................... June 17, '26
•••••••••~u••••••••••••••••••••••••.,.••••n•••••••••••d~•••H•••••••••OH*"n

Dismissed for misconduct........ Apr. 14, '26
Dismissed for misconduct ........ Nov. 3, '25
Returned to mother.. .................. Apr. 30, '26
Returned to father ......................June 22, '26
Returned to father.. .................... May 5, ~26
Returned to mother.................... Dec. 22, '25
Returned to mother....................June 22, '26
GIRLS

Conley, Louise ................ Nov. 16, '16
Delosa, Mary .. ., .............. Dec. 8, '19
Gilliam, Helen .............. Sept. 31, '19
McKinley, Margaret .... Aug. 31, '21
Sheppard, Marguerite .. Mar. 24, '21
Torrens, Leona B........... Oct. 24, '24
Torrens, Betty Jane ........ Oct. 24, '24
Virgo, Sadie .................... Dec. 5, '13

Returned to mother.................... Sept. 10, '25
Returned to mother.................... June 22, '26
Employed, Ross Hospital... .....June
'26
At School .................................... Aug. 8, '26 ·
Training at Hospital... ............. Aug. 21, '26
Returned to mother .................... Sept. 9, '25
Returned to mother .................... Sept. 9, '25
Training at Hospital... ............... July 29, '26

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK
San Francisco, October 12, 1926.
To the M:. w:. Grand Lodge of California:
At the request of the M:. W:. Grand Master this report of the
Committee on Public Schools \Veek is made directly to Grand
Lodge.
It is extremely gratifying to your Committee to be able to begin
their report with the statement that the seventh annual observance
was undoubtedly the most successful that so far has been held; and
this notwithstanding the fact that a very high mark was set last year.
Interest in the movement has evidently become far more widespread; and there seems to be a more general recognition and appreciation of its worth and importance by both members of the Craft, and the
public at large. This was made evident by the notable increase in attendance reported by the Lodges, and also, amt more particularly, by the fact
that there were several communities where the observance this year was
the first that had been attempted. Severnl of the• Masters reported increases in attendance over previous years in terms of percentage varying
from 50% to 300%; and there were many occasions where the auditorium
in which the meeting was held was not large enough to accommodate
all who sought admittance. In some cases, under such circumstances,
overflow meetings were held; while in others hundreds were turned
away. This was the situation even iJl one of our largest cities which
heretofore had been one of the "dark" spots; and this notwithstanding the fact that during the week there were seven meetings held in
that city. In more than one report from a small community it
appeared that at least one-half the entire population attended the
meeting.
The observance this year was apparently made more of a community affair than was even that of last year; and in far more numerous instances the chairman of the meeting was selected because
of his position in the civic life of the community without regard to
his fraternal affiliations. The reports disclosed the fact that where
particularly successful meetings were held, those in charge had
sEcured the cooperation of the local service clubs as well as of the
Parent Teacher Associations and the school people. There were
meetings at which the Presidents of the local service clubs were
guests of honor and were provided with seats on the p)atform. This
was in strict accord with the desire of the Grand Master and carried
out a suggestion emphasized by our Committee. It must be remem-

182

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

bered that our appeal is community wide; and that we are especially
desirous of enlisting the support and active cooperation of not only
the school people and the Parent Teacher Associations, but also of
all civic organizations in the community such as the Chamber of
Commerce and the service clubs. Our purpose in this is two-fold.
In the first place it will, of course, be of material assistance in securing a large attendance at our meetings; and in the second place it
will carry into those organizations a knowledge of the work in which
we are engaged. If we could secure for our movement the active
cooperation of such organizations as the Rotary, Kiwanis, Lions,
Exchange and similar service clubs, we would have gone far in the
effort we are making to arouse in every community an active interest
in our public schools.
The arrangements made by our Committee were substantially
the same as those adopted for the sixth annual observance. \Ve,
therefore, deem it unnecessary, in view of the very comprehensive
and extended report made last year, to detail our proceedings; and
instead, we purpose contenting ourselves with a recital of some of
the outstanding features disclosed by the reports from the Lodges.
In passing, however, it may be said that considerable material was
added to the Speakers Handbook issued by the Committee; and that
tl:erc were incorporated therein such portions of the "Public School
Catechism" prepared by Bro. A. R. Heron as it was believed would
prove of value to the speakers. A sufficiently large edition was
printed to not only meet the demands from speakers, but as well to
provide a supply for more general distribution. Copies may be
obtained on application to the Grand Secretary; and in this copnection it is interesting to note that several Lodges have already
secured a sufficient number for distribution to their members.
Reports were received from 462 Lodges. Of the Lodges reporting, there were only 14 that did not hold a meeting either separately
or jointly with some other Lodge. Of these 14 there were 7 whose
:Masters gave reasons which in the judgment of the Grand Master
and that of your Committee were believed to be good and sufficient;
and there were 3 others who had fairly good excuses. In addition
to the reports received from the Masters on the questionnaire prepared by the Committee, there were communications received from
some of the Inspectors reviewing in general terms the meetings
held in their districts with several containing extremely valuable
suggestions for the future.
We believe that public mention should be made of the fact that
the Grand Master acknowledged the receipt of every report by writing a personal letter to the Master of the Lodge reporting. This was
not merely an exceedingly gracious and thoughtful act which was,

of course, duly appreciated by the Lodges, but one, we believe, that
will result in great good; because the expression of his appreciation
of the splendid work that had been done, and of his gratitude for
the cooperation received from the Lodges, and his kindly words of
encouragement where the results were not all that they might have
been, will certainly be an incentive to further effort in the future.
The reports received by the Grand Master were promptly forwarded
to our Committee with copies of the letters he had written; and if
there was anything in any report that seemed to call for further
word from our Committee it was immediately forthcoming. This
was, generally speaking, in two classes of cases: One where the fact
that a meeting had not been the success that was anticipated was
attributed to local conditions, and it appeared from the report that
those in charge of the meeting had not followed the suggestions
made by our Committee; and the other where there was constructive criticism of either something in connection with the particular
meeting reported, or with respect to the general plan.
It was evidently a matter of great surprise to some of the
Masters with whom we corresponded with respect to their
reports, to learn that it was not a pro forma proceeding, or even
merely to ascertain whether or not a meeting had been held, that a
report was required ; but that each was carefully analyzed not only
with the purpose of securing data with respect to the instant observance, but as well to obtain information on which might be predicated
suggestions for the future. In passing it may be said that many of
the reports will prove of great value; and your Committee is particularly obliged to those Masters who not only fully answered the
questionnaire on which the report was made but who amplified it
with an accompanying letter. Many valuable suggestions were
received and have been noted and tabulated so that they will be available to the Committee in charge of next year's observance. Among
them was one from the chairman of a joint committee appointed by
a Masters and Wardens Association in charge of the observance in
a large city suggesting that in future separate plans be outlined for
communities in which the observance would be handled by a Masters
and Wardens Association, or some similar organization, or by a joint
committee from several Lodges in the same com~unity. By a
curious, coincidence there came to the Committee from another large
city the suggestion of a plan for handling the observance that was
very similar to that which had been pursued in the city first referred
to; including the idea of having no "work" in any Lodge on the
night in which a Public Schools Week meeting was being held in
that community. This was one of the things that had been done
in consonance with the ideas of the joint committee, and

183

184

PROCEEDINGS OF TIJl1J

also in compliance with the express desire of the Grand Master of
which every Lodge in the jurisdiction had been notified. In this connection it may be said, not by way of criticism, but merely as a
matter of information, that there were ideas suggested under the
belief, of course, that they were original, that were identical with
those set forth in the Suggestions for Arranging Meetings issued
by our Committee; and this was not the only indication that we
might cite of the fact that those charged with the arrangements of
a meeting had evidently not made themselves familiar with the suggestions contained in the pamphlet issued by our Committee.
As has been intimated, it is not our purpose to make specific
reference to every suggestion that we believe valuable. There is
however, one other to which we think attention should be herein
called because it was received from several sources, and also
because the advisability of its adoption in the future is made
apparent from facts disclosed by the reports; and that is, that
so-called "neighborhood Lodges" should not be requested to join
with any other Lodge outside of its immediate neighborhood. This
would not preclude arrangements for neighborhood meetings being
made by a Masters and Wardens Association, or similar organization, or by a joint committee acting for all the Lodges; but contemplates only that a separate meeting should be held in the auditorium
of some school in the neighborhood in which a Lodge is located.
So successful were the meetings held this year in the residential districts
of a large city that there is being seriously considered the idea of next
year holding a meeting in every school possessing an auditorium, and
having the necessary facilities, with the purpose of making an especial
appeal to the parents of the children of that school and the public of that
particular district; it being understood that where there is a neighborhood
Lodge, the details of the meeting should be handled by that Lodge.
This would also afford an opportunity to have the particular school
in which the meeting is held opened to the public either before or
after the meeting, with exhibits of work in the manual training,
domestic science and art departments.
In more than one report of the type to which we have referred
as being of great value to your Committee appears criticism of the
program, and in some instances of the speakers, which would appear
to be well founded. Generally speaking, indeed with very few exceptions, the programs were excellent, admirably arranged, and must
have proved exceedingly entertaining as well as instructive. Many
of the Lodges this year, as last, made the meeting itself only an
incident of the observance; including as a part of their program
visits to the schools and a display of school work either on the
evening of the meeting or on some other day or evening during the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

185

week. At more than one meeting there were provided refreshments
which had been prepared and were served by pupils of the domestic
science department, or the "chef's class," in some particular school.
There were, however, some programs which were entirely too
long and badly arranged with respect to the speakers. If a speaker
is placed at the end of a long program not only is he called upon to
address a tired and jaded audience, but perhaps because of the
nature of the program there has been created an "atmosphere" not
conducive to the kind of talk our speakers are expected to make.
Furthermore, it occasionally results in many of the audience leaving
before the speaker's place on the program is reached; some because
it is not the speaker's address that attracts them to the meeting, and
others who really would like to hear the speaker but who are unwilling to remain until a late hour even for that purpose. The very
f.rst consideration that should be uppermost in the minds of those
arranging a program is that it should not be too long; and generally
speaking, the "entertainment," particularly if by school children,
should follow, rather than precede, the speaker's address.
This
would not, of course, in any event, preclude an opening number by
a school choral or glee club.
The principal criticism with respect to the speakers was that
the address was not such as was expected and was inappropriate
to the occasion. While this is to be deplored, we do not see how it
can well be avoided; unless some arrangement could be made to
assemble prospective speakers at three or four meetings held in
different parts of the State some weeks, or perhaps months, before
the date of the observance. If this could be done, we might perhaps
be assured of speakers who would confine their addresses to subjects
we particularly desire discussed, and disseminate the information
promised the public. That, of course, was the primary purpose with
which our Handbook for Speakers was prepared; but although a
copy was furnished every speaker whose name was reported to the
Committee, it developed that unfortunately there were some who
made absolutely no use of it. Not only did they not familiarize themselves with the data therein contained, but their subjects were entirely foreign to the purpose of the observance. Instead of preparing
an address appropriate to Public Schools Week the speaker was
apparently content to repeat one, excellent in itself, but prepared
for a totally different occasion.
While on the subject of speakers, we feel we might here properly
call attention to the opinion expressed by one of the ablest of our
Inspectors who has been of great assistance in the work in which we
are engaged. He believes that wherever practicable the speaker should

186

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

be a man conversant with the local situation with respect to the schools.
\Ve are in accord with the views he entertains, provided of course that
there be kept in mind at all times the fact that at no meeting by any
speaker should there be any discussion with respect to any controversy
between individuals, or groups, in a community; even though it be in
connection with, or grow out of, public school matters. It is undoubtedly
true that the people composing the average audience are more interested
in the discussion of the school problems of their own community than
they are in a general dissertation on the subject of education; and it is
with respect to their own schools that they desire, and should have defi·
nite, authentic information. The speaker need not be necessarily a local
man; but he should be conversant with local conditions.
There were two particularly pleasing features disclosed by the
reports. One was the fact, to which reference has been already made,
that this year meetings were held by Lodges which have heretofore, for
one reason or another, failed to make any effort to join in the observance
of Public Schools Week; the other, that wonderfully successful meet·
ings were reported by Lodges whose officers had become discouraged
and disheartened by failures in the past, but who had persisted in the
face of apathy and even opposition.
As we stated in our report last year, we are not disposed to mention
any Lodge by name with either praise or censure ; because for obvious
reasons we could not name every Lodge entitled to great credit, and no
good purpose would be subserved by calling public attention to the few
whose Masters did not api)arently possess that vision, ability, energy and
courage so essential to leadership when difficulties are to be met and
overcome. We cannot, however, forbear making specific mention of a
few instances illustrative of the two features to which we have referred.
Among those which this year for the first time joined in our annual
observance, was a little Lodge with about 60 members located in a
sparsely settled community away up in the extreme northeastern portion
of the State, practically isolated from even the adjoining county. In past
years, everyone apparently assumed that the condition absolutely precluded
all hope for a meeting; and no one had the temerity to suggest that an
attempt be made. This year, however, perhaps encouraged by what had
been done by that little mountain lodge to which reference was
made in our report last year, it was decided to at least make an effort.
A committee was therefore appointed and the chairman promptly com·
municated with our committee explaining the situation and asking for
advice. In his letter he stated that they could not of course expect us to
send them a speaker but that if we would send them our literature they
would endeavor to obtain some one in the community to prepare an
address. \Ve were of course more than willing to be of such assistance

as we could be, and a program was prepared along lines suggested by us.
With what spirit these brethren engaged in their undertaking is indicated
by the fact that not only did they secure as their speakers the Judge of
the Superior Court and their Superintendent of Schools, but they had
the school children present the play "The Critical Hour" written . last
year for our committee. The meeting was a great success. Indeed, with
the spirit in which it had been undertaken, and the indomitable will,
energy and intelligence with which the arrangements had been made and
carried into effect, it could not have been otherwise.
We have made especial mention of this meeting not to give the praise
so richly deserved (because there are other Lodges no less entitled to
mention on that ground) but because it was typical of what was done
by other Lodges similarly handicapped, if not to the same extent, which
this year for the first time joined in our annual observance. Furthermore,
it furnishes a complete answer to those Masters, fortunately few in
number, who believed that conditions peculiar to their locality precluded
the possibility of a successful observance and were therefore unwilling
to make any attempt. If a Lodge handicapped as is this one can hold a
successful meeting, there would seem to be no reason for failure anywhere. It confirms our belief that the success, or failure, of any meeting is not determined by the size of the community, its geographic
location or the character of the population. Our meetings are public
meetings, with a community-wide appeal. However the people of any
community may differ in their views with respect to other matters, they
are all, generally speaking, interested in their schools; and wherever there
are school children there are parents constituting a prospective audience
for the right sort of meeting.
No less pleasing than the reports from Lodges for the first time
joining in our observance were those from Lodges which had each year
held a meeting, but this year, for the first time, had secured results they
believed anything like commensurate with the effort that had been made.
There were scores of such instances !mt we shall make mention of only
three.
It may be perhaps remembered by some, that in our report last year
we made mention of a comparatively large community having four Lodges
with an aggregate membership of nearly 1,000 in which the meeting was
a total failure for lack of an audience, there being only 15 persons
present. The reason given was "lack of cooperation." This year apparently that cooperation was not lacking, because instead of a failure they
reported one of the most successful meetings held anywhere. Not only ·
did the Masters of the four Lodges work in the utmost harmony, but
thev obtained announcements of their proposed meeting from the Rotary,
Ki~vanis, and Civic Commercial clubs, and secured the assistance and
active cooperation of the County Superintendent of Schools, the City

187

188

PROCEEDINGS OF THE:

Superintendent and the Boards of Education, and also of the Principals
of the High and Grammar Schools. Incidentally it may be stated
that all the meetings held in that county were particularly successful,
and that we believe it was due in great part to the fine cooperation given
by the school people.
There was another community in which a splendid success was
achieved this year where last year "the meeting was a disgrace to
Masonry"; and lest the characterization of last year's meeting may seem
too harsh, and unwarranted under any circumstances, we hasten to add
that the language is not ours, but is quoted verbatim from the report
made to the Grand Master. Fortunately the Master making that report
was able to add, "but this year it was a credit to all of us, and we are
very proud of the result." And well might they be. The attendance last
year was 45. This year it was 1,500; and a particularly gratifying fact
was that the Masons in the community were not "conspicuous by their
absence," 60 per cent of the membership of one Lodge being represented.
In making their arrangements it appears that they followed very closely
the suggestions made by our committee, giving especial attention to
securing the cooperation of the school people and of the civic organizations in the community.
The results achieved this year in the two communities to which reference has just been made indicate that in the last analysis success is largely
a question of the zeal, industry and intelligence with which arrangements
for a meeting are made and carried into effect. If further evidence were
needed, it would seem to be furnished by the last report to which we
purpose calling attention as illustrative of the instances in which successful meetings were held this year in spite of failures in the past.
This was from a Master who with evident, and justifiable pride
reported the success of a meeting which he had arranged in the face of
not only the apathy of the members of his' Lodge, but of even the pronounced opposition of some of them including most of his officers. They
had become disheartened and discouraged by failures in the past, and
because of their belie( that there was such a lack of interest in the
community that it would be impossible to hold a successful meeting
endeavored to dissuade the Master from making any attempt. He, however, in view of the proclamation of the Grand Master, believed it
was his duty to make an effort even though it might not be crowned
with success; and the effort he made was certainly not a half-hearted
one.
Apparently recognizing the fact that he could not depend to any
great extent on the Masons, he devoted almost his entire effort toward
awakening an interest in the remainder of the community, which by the
way was a small one. In the prosecution of his plans he made an

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

189

especial appeal to the parents of the school children. To do this he
first secured the cooperation of the County Superintendent of Schools
and of the principals and teachers of the Grammar School in his town
and also of the consolidated Union High School located in an adjoining
community. Through them he had the children take home to their
parents typewritten, or perhaps mimeographed, notices of the meeting
which was arranged to take the form of practically a school entertainment. It was these parents, with their relatives and friends, that apparently constituted the greater portion of the audience, but many others
of the community were also attracted to the meeting; and best of all
there were many members of the Lodge who although opposed to holding
a meeting nevertheless through loyalty to their Master, and recognizing
the interest that was being aroused, gave it their earnest support. So
successful was the meeting, and so pleased were all who were in attendance that, as he wrote, "Now everyone is delighted and we are all
looking forward to a rousing meeting next year."
Although there continues to be a more or less general complaint of
the failure of the Craft at large to attend our meetings, there was this
year a material improvement in this respect. This was probably the
result of the letter sent out by the Grand Master, and read in all the
Lodges, calling attention to the fact that the only disappointing feature
of last year's observance was that even at particularly well-attended meetings Masons did not constitute the proportion that would be naturally
expected; and perhaps also because of special eFforts made by the Maste~s
with their brethren. Several Lodges reported the percentage of their
members in attendance. It varied from 30 to 87 per cent, with one Lodge,
a comparatively small one it is true, reporting as present all its officers
with the exception of the Junior Warden who was ill and every member
with the exception of three who, as the Master put it, "could not possibly
get there."
The attendance apparently con,tinued to be the measuring stick by
which the success of a meeting is gauged by most of the Masters reporting; and of course this is not at all surprising. We ca.nnot, however, too
often remind our brethren that attendance after all 1s only one factor
to be considered. Keeping in mind the fact that the real purpose of an
annual observance such as ours is to direct attention of all the people in
the State to the same thing at the same time, it should be evident that the
mere fact that a meeting is held in any community in the observance of
Public Schools Week of itself accomplishes something; because the attendant publicity (and we have never heretofore had so much as was gi:en us
this year both through the press and by radio) focuses the attention of
the people of that community, at least for the time being, on their public
schools.

191

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It is of course desired that all our meetings shall be well attended;
but if that desire were everywhere achieved it would be extraordinary.
The fact of the matter is that we are prone to expect too much. '!hose
arranging the meetings work hard and earnestly and, not unnaturally,
are disappointed and perhaps discouraged if their efforts do not result
in attracting the attendance for which they hoped. They lose sight of
the fact that they are contending with a condition which of itself militates against the probability of a large attendance. Indeed, paradoxical as
it may seem, there would be no need for holding meetings if they were
as well attended as they should be. The lack of attendance of which
we complain is due primarily to the apathy that brought about the
conditions that gave birth to the idea of Public Schools Week, and it
is to overcome and dispel that apathy that these meetings are being held.
The problem is of course one of education pure and simple. No good
will be accomplished by "scolding," and our brethren will pay little
heed to an appeal to their duty until they are awakened to a realization
of the worth of the movement in which we are engaged. It is the concrete only that appeals to those who have not the vision to sense the
opportunity presented to the Craft in California by the annual observance
of Public Schools Week; and it would be of course extremely difficult
to point out any definite tangible result that is being accomplished. It
would seem, however, that they should recognize the fact that the movement in which we are engaged is certainly well worth while, or it would
not have received the commendation and support of those who because
of their intimate connection with our public schools are best qualified
to form an opinion. In this connection we may say that among many
other letters received by our committee was one from the Acting Commissioner of Education in Washington in which he characterized Public
Schools Week as being "of tremendous value," and expressed the opinion
that no one with a knowledge of the situation would question that statement; and that one of the most influential Masonic publications in the
United States referred in glowing terms to our annual observance and
commended it as an example that might well be followed in the jurisdiction in which the paper is published.
Perhaps as succinct and comprehensive a statement of the idea
underlying our observance as has ever been made was contained in an
article in a newspaper published in a county particularly proud of its
schools. That article appeared in the form of an editorial and was
written by the County Superintendent of Schools. Referring to existing
conditions, and advocating and encouraging a fit and proper observance
of Public Schools Week in that community, it was therein said, "To
combat this destructive criticism, to correct errors which may creep into
an institution dealing as intimately with humanity, and to cement an
abiding friendship, faith and confidence with the public and patron,

there must be close contact between the public and its schools together
with free and open discussion of all questions involved." That, brethren,
is the real aim and purpose of Public Schools Week, and we celebrate
its annual occurrence in the belief that we are thereby doing our part
to assure to every child his rightful heritage to a sane, sound education
fitting the individual for a life of self-respecting, self-supporting, lawabiding citizenship.
All which is respectfully submitted.

190

ROBERT A. ODELL,

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,

ARTHUR M. B1mwN,

ARTHUR H. CHAMBERLAIN,

VIERLING KERSEY,

Roy

HARRY

FRED M. HUNTER,

s. LASKER,

vV. CLOUD,

LEE T. :\1ULLEN,

\VESLEY W. KERGAN,

A. GAYLORD BEAMAN,

ELIAS ELLISON,

VAUGHAN MACCAUGHEY,

Report adopted as read.

PROPER HANGING OF FLAG
A resolution was presented by Brother Sutherland, proposing that the flag of our country should not be draped on
any wall, rostrum, platform, table or any article of furniture within a Lodge room, but that always when in the
Lodge room the flag shall be hanging freely from a staff or
hung flat against a wall, but preferably from a staff. Referred to the Committee on Policy.

TO INCREASE FEES FROM INITIATES
The Finance Committee introduced the following proposed amendment to the Constitution, which was referred
to the Committee on Policy:
Resolved, That subdivision 1st of Section 41 of the Constitution be
amended to read twenty-five instead of twenty dollars.

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge, Free and Accepted Masons of the
Jurisdiction of California:
Brethren:
Your Educational Committee, authorized by the last session
of this Grand Lodge and pursuant to such authorization, having
been appointed by the Most Worshipful Albert E. Boynton, Grand
Master, herewith presents this report of its work for the year past.
The membership of the committee is as follows:
Charles H. Adams, Oakland;
Alexander M. Cuthbertson, Redwood City;
James B. Giffen, Sacramento;
A. F. Heuer, San Francisco;
George B. Morgridge, Sierra Madre;
Maj. W. S. Overton, Piedmont;
Judge Ira F. Thompson, Los Angeles;
·waiter K. Tuller, Los Angeles;
Cyrus F. Willard, San Diego;
A. Heber Winder, Riverside;
J. Karl Lobdell, Vice-Chairman, Los Angeles;
Irving Magnes, Chairman, Oakland.
The first item of importance was the appointment of an Executive Director for this Committee. After a careful survey of those
brethren who might be available for such work, The Most Worshipful
Grand Master, on the recommendation of the Committee, appointed
Brother Reynold E. Blight of Los Angeles. Brother Blight came
to us with the highest recommendations as to his qualifications not
only from a Masonic standpoint but generally, and the manner in
which he has proceeded with the work has, in the opinion of your
Committee, justified his appointment. He has given to the Craft
the benefit of his extensive education and wide experience and this
Committee feels that too much cannot be said with respect to the
good results which have been obtained from his energetic attention
to the work.
The Committee calls attention to its report of last year wherein
was set forth the plan of action for its guidance, which plan was
adopted by Grand Lodge. The effort of the Committee has been to
follow such portions of this plan as were deemed advisable and to
put in operation the general features thereof. Pursuant thereto the
following items represent the activities of the Committee during the
past year:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

193

1. Contacts have been formed with every Lodge in the jurisdiction

(a) By correspondence with all Lodges;
(b) By personal visits to many.
The correspondence has included letters of information indicating how the work of this Committee can be advanced within the
Lodges and pursuant to such advice numerous bulletins or pamphlets
hereinafter referred to have been furnished the Lodges.
Personal contact has been made by visits which the members of
the Committee have made to eighty. per cent of the districts in the
State; at such meetings the purpose of the work and the methods
of pursuing it have been outlined.
2. The most important feature of the Committee's work (incidentally one which is entirely new and not used in any other jurisdiction) is the establishment of contact men between the local
Lodges and the Committee. The Masters have been requested to
appoint local Lodge Educational Committees, the Chairman of which
are the representatives from the local Lodges to the Grand Lodge
Committee. This Chairman is the person who is responsible for the
educational work in the Lodge. He arranges for the meetings and
addresses, establishes and supervises the study circle, encourages
the ~oung Masons to read and study, takes care of the Lodge library,
and m every way cooperates with the Master in promoting an int~rest in Masonic affairs. Over three hundred of these representatives have been appointed and additionally many Masters have written to the E~ecutive Director saying that for the time being at
least they desired to handle the educational work in their Lodges
themselves. The Committee feels that as a result of these efforts
during the past year Masonic education is a vital factor in the
affair_s of the vast majority of the Lodges in our State. By the
appomtment of these representatives the Master has been relieved
of the burden of the work, has had an earnest, active worker cooperating with him in this distinctive Lodge activity and a nucleus
of ':orkers ha.s be:n form:d who will continue to function sympathetically and mtelhgently irrespective of changes in the official body
of the Lodge. Your Committee feels and recommends to the local
Lo~ges that s~ch representative should be retained in his position
durmg successive years (unless, of course, it should be found that
he cannot handle the work) in order that, having gained experience
he may utilize such during succeeding years. Of course, new mem~
bers may be added to the Committee and from these additional
members the Chairman of future years. may be chosen.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

3. Development of local speakers. The Committee feels that
in the past too much dependence was had upon Masonic speakers.
These speakers were availahle only for Lodges within a close radius
of the centers of population and even in the cities small Lodges
were reluctant to ask busy business and professional men to give
the time necessary to make such speeches. Speakers who were well
versed in Masonic law a11d were qualified to make authoritative
addresses on Masonic themes were few. Other speakers, while interesting and authoritative upon their own special subjects, were
often diffuse and platitudinous when they speak on Masonic topics
and were prone to indulge in "glittering generalities," so that the
result was frequently unsatisfactory from an educational standpoint.
For the benefit of those Lodges that can not have well known Masonic speakers local talent is developed. This is done through the
medium of bulletins prepared by your Committee and which have
had in mind the express idea of being valuable for the use of local
speakers. The bulletins contain specific data of a Masonic character. The local speaker can find at the public library general information on the topic and the advice of the Committee has been
that m!'mbers of the Lodges whose interest has been and can be
aroused should use these bulletins as the basis of a talk, never to
exceed fifteen minutes, furnishing the Lodge thereby with the information contained in the bulletins issued by your Committee. A
very large number of Lodges have followed this plan and the results
appear to have increased interest and attendance at the meetings. As
times goes on these speakers will naturally develop and your Committee feels that they will constitute a large body of members who
can present in an interesting and instructive manner information,
Masonic and otherwise, to their own Lodges as well as to other
Lodges which they may visit.

books from which the information can be elaborated. The bulletins
issued by your Committee during the past year have been as
follows:
No.
1 George Washington, Master Mason
2 Meetings and Lectures
3 Some Divergencies in the Ritual
4 Our Masonic Charities
5 Our Masonic Presidents
6 St. John Baptist's Day and Assembly at York
7 How to Organize a Study Circle
8 Books for Masonic Reading and Study
9 Questions for Study Circles
10 Freemasonry in the American Revolution
11 Masonry, a Progressive Science
12 George Washington, Mason (reprint of No. 1 amplified)
13 Making Masons at Sight
14 The Constitution of the United States
15 More About Divergencies in Ritual
16 Informal Talk. Prior to Degrees
17 Informal Talk. After First Degree
18 Informal Talk. After Second Degree
19 Informal Talk. After Third Degree and one extra-Article
on The Constitution.

194

4. The development of study circles. These instruments of instruction are wholly voluntary and are conducted informally. The
subject matter and data is furnished by this Committee and the
responses have been very encouraging. Not only do these circles
enable the attendants to profit by the Masonic researches of the
studies but members prepare addresses to be read at the Lodge
meetings by which the entire Lodge is benefited.
5. The publication of bulletins. These are in pamphlet form and
contain authoritative information. They are designed not to be read
in the Lodge but that their contents should be digested by the local
Lodge representative or some other brother to whom they are assigned by the Master and thereafter presented to the Lodge in the
short talk above referred to. The bulletins also contain lists of

195

Prominent among these bulletins are those numbered 16 17 18
and 19, which the Committee feels constitute its most im~or~ant
contribution toward education along Masonic lines this year. These
bulletins last mentioned are styled informal talks to be given to the
candidate in an informal manner prior to his receiving the First
Degree and after receiving each of the Degrees. It is not to be considered that they are in any sense final or all that can be said. They
are merely the first effort along these lines and as the Committee
acquires information from their use revisions and additions will be
made.
The bulletins were mailed to 1105 members.
The foregoing represents one phase of the Committee's work
during the past year. There are of course others which were contemplated by the plan and which have been only lightly touched
upon during this year. It should be continuously remembered that
this work is not for one year or two but will derive strength and
effectiveness as it is pursued over many, many years.
6. The Committee has furnished speakers to many Lodges. In
all there have been 119 addresses delivered by speakers who have

196

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

been supplied directly through the agency of the Committee. A
roster of speakers has been compiled and furnished to every Lodge.
This roster is necessarily incomplete and is subject to revision in
future years, particularly so as new speakers are developed. Each
of the speakers listed in the roster has received a copy of the bulletins issued by this Committee.
The Committee has received during the past year approximately 425 communications from Lodges with respect to its w?rk;
approximately 4oo communications from individuals. The .co'.1'~mttee
has written to Lodges 650 communications and to other md1v1duals
300. These latter communications have been in response to questions propounded and information requested and do not include circulars and routine communications sent out.
7. During the winter of 1926-26 the Committee conducted rad~o
services over Station KHJ, Los Angeles, on Sunday afternoons. This
service consisted of a program of music with two ten-minute talks,
one by the Executive Director and one by some Masonic speaker.
Addresses were given by the Grand Master, Albert E. Boynton; the
Grand Secretary, John Whicher; Benj. F. Bledsoe, P. G. M., J. Karl
Lobdell, Irving J. Mitchell, Dr. Ford A. Carpenter, Rt. Rev. W.
Bertrand Stevens, D. D., James M. Ross, Judge Frank C. Collier,
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, P. G. M.; Judge Ira F. Thompson, Judge J.
Walter Hanby, Judge Douglas L. Edmonds, Walter K. Tuller, R~bt.
L. Van Landt, Judge Edwin F. Hahn, Judge Charles E. Hass, \\. m.
A. Schreider, Perry W. Weidner, Rev. David R. Covell and Irvmg
Magnes. The music has always been appropriate to the occas~on.
The Committee has received numberless letters and commumcations of commendation and appreciation and feels that this portion
of its work is a success. It must be understood that this Sunday
afternoon hour over the radio is presented in a quiet and dignified
stvle and reference to our Order is merely that the program is under
the auspices of the Educational Committee of the Masonic Grand
Lodge of California.
The Committee expresses its gratitude to our Most Worship·
ful Grand Master for his kind and enthusiastic support and counsel.
The Committee likewise expresses its appreciation of the support which has been rendered by the various Inspe~tors throug~out
the State, particularly in the calling and arrangmg of meetmgs
which the Committee has held in the respective Districts.
The Committee also expresses its gratitude to the various speakers who have at various times responded to its call.
The Chairman of the Committee expresses his thanks and appreciation of the generous cooperation afforded by all the members

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

197

and particularly to the Vice Chairman, Brother Lobdell, who has
been of invaluable assistance.
The Chairman also expresses his fullest appreciation and thanks
to Brother Blight, for his most excellent work.
Your Committee feels that along with the many other Grand
Jurisdictions of our country who are now interested in the subject
of education, California is now in the forefront and should remain
in that position. It is the consensus of opinion of the Committee,
formed after rigid investigation, that the value of the results of this
work can only become apparent after a sufficient lapse of time
inasmuch as the younger members and the junior officers present
the most fertile field. While some of the detail of the work has
naturally been experimental in its nature and issued for the purpose
of securing reactions, the results so far obtained far exceed expectations and we are convinced that the effect of the efforts to date has
placed the schedule of expectancy at least a year ahead of our
original calculation. The eagerness with which the suggestions are
accepted and looked for, the inquiries that are coming in and the
many manifestations of approval are gratifying evidence that the
work is proceeding along right lines and the benefit of the past two
years' experience should so dictate our future work as to insure
d~finite re.suits. Fundamentally the idea is to increase knowledge,
dispense hght and fulfill to the greatest extent possible the basic
conceptions of our Order.
The Committee respectfully recommends:
I. That Grand Lodge adopt this report.
2. That the Grand Master for the year 1926-27 be authorized
and instructed to appoint an Educational Committee of twelve members to hold office during the ensuing Masonic year of this Grand
Lodge, such committee to have power to proceed with the educational program adopted by Grand Lodge at its session of 1925.
3. That Grand Lodge appropriate for the use of said Committee
the sum of ten thousand dollars.
Respectfully submitted,
EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE OF 1926.

Report adopted as read, except recommendation No. 2
providing for appointment of an Educational Committee of
twelve members, which was referred to the Committee on
Policy and General Purposes; and recommendation No. 3,
providing for an appropriation, which was referred to the
Committee on Finance.

1!18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON REPORT OF THE
GRAND SECRETARY
Perhaps the most important subject matter in the report of the
Grand Secretary is found in the comparative tabulation of the membership of the Craft. The net increase in 1926 was nearly double the
increase in 1918, and during this period of eight years, the membership
has expanded from 63,986 to 122,412 Masons in California. The net
increase for 1926, however, is approximately 1000 less than the net
increase in 1922.
The discouraging feature of the report is found in the heavy
increase in the number of those who have been suspended for nonpayment
of dues. In 1918, 609 were suspended for this cause; the number was
reduced to 467 in 1922, but in 1926 it increased to 982. The suggestions
of both the Grand Secretary and the Grand Master, that serious consideration be given to this loss and the causes which contribute to it,
cannot be too strongly emphasized.
The report contains many statistical features, which are of interest
to the Craft, but which do not require special mention in this report, as
they speak for themselves.
\Ve recommend that the report be segregated and referred as
follows:
1. To the Committee on Policies and General Purposes: Affiliation of
resident Masons, whose membership is in other jurisdictions (considered
under the heading "Degrees by Courtesy").
2. To the Committee on Jurisprudence: (a) Legislation with reference to the control of relief work (unfinished business). (b) Physical
qualifications for Masonry (unfinished business). (c) Amendment of
Sec. 115 on the Constitution (unfinished business).
3. To the Committee on By-Laws: Amendments to By-Laws.
4. To the Committee on Ritual: (a) Jewel for Past Grand Master
and Past Master (unfinished business). (b) Changes in the Ritual
(unfinished business).
5. To the Committee on Finance: Financial Report of the Grand
Secretary.
We join most sincerely with the M.'.W.'.Grand Master, in expressing the appreciation of the Grand Lodge for the manner in which the
office of the Grand Secretary is administered. We are deeply indebted
to the present Grand Secretary for the many evidences of administrative
efficiency and ability. We cherish even more highly his unfailing kindness and courtesy, and the daily manifestations of his ability and his
desire to promote the welfare of the Craft. Words can only feebly

199

express the affection for him which is found in the hearts of the
brethren. We trust that, for many years to come, he will continue to
be the cornerstone of Grand Lodge administration.
Respectfully submitted,

w. T. LUCAS,

w. A. CLARK,
ROBERT

Adopted.

B. GAYLORD,
Committee.

MASONIC LAW AND CUSTOM
A resolution was introduced proposing that the booklet
"Masonic Law and Custom" be reprinted and furnished to
Lodges without fee. Referred to the Committee on Policy
and General Purposes.

~rand Lodge vvas then, at 11 :30 o'clock, called off until
10 o clock Thursday morning.

200

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

3Ju "raub 1Lnhgr
Morning Session
Thursday, October 14, 1926.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the G;an,d
Master presiding. The minutes of yesterday mornmg s
session were read and approved.

REPORT'S OF COMMIT'T'EE ON JURISPRUDENCE
The Committee on Jurisprudence presented the following reports :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

201

counties, cities or towns intervening. With that in mind, therefore, we
have prepared, and now propose, an amendment to the Constitution to
read as follows:
"Sec. 82a. Anything in this Constitution to the contrary notwithstanding, without any waiver of any sort being sought or obtained, a
petition for the degrees of Masonry may be presented by any person
otherwise qualified to receive the degrees, if such person shall reside
within ten miles of the lodge room of the lodge to which such petition
is addressed. If such petitioner shall reside in territory within the concurrent jurisdiction of two or more lodges, pursuant to the terms of
this section or otherwise, then the procedure to be followed in acting
upon such petition shall be that prescribed in cases of concurrent jurisdiction."

Adopted, and Section 82a made a part of the Constitution by unanimous vote.

Territorial Jurisdiction of Lodges
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
So many controversies have arisen and are cont!imally. ~rising over
the question of jurisdiction of lodges over prospectl~e petitione;s, particularly in cases of territory lying immediately adiace1~t,_ or m near
proximity, to the exterior boundaries of one or mo_re m~mcipal ~orpora·
tions, that your Committee on Jurisprudence, ha~·m~ g1v_en patient and
painstaking consideration to the matter, and v1ewmg _it from every
available angle, feels that a simple and yet somewhat radical amendment
to our law will serve to eliminate much, if not al_l, future. controver~y
from the particualr source indicated. In the framm~ of this change 111
the law, we have gone upon this fundamental assumption: that ~he. p~ce,
harmony and well being, •not only of the lodges ~ut o'. the md1~1dual
members thereof, will be contributed to very_ ~atenally. l~ proport10n as
opportunity is accorded to a prospectiv~ petitioner to iom. th~ l~dge ~f
his choice. Normally, his Masonry will be most enthusiast:c m ~h~t
lodge where most of his friends may be found. This opportumty to )01:1
the lodge of his choice, however, should be limited t~ the ex:ent that it
must be the joining of one in such reasonable relation to his ~lace of
residence as to negative the inference or implicatio~ that he ~1ght not
be acting in good faith-that is, that he was not. try'.~g to get i~to some
lodge far removed from his home because of m~b1hty to get mto one
near thereto. We therefore considered that ten miles would be a reaso~­
able distance within which a man might reasonably and regularly m
good faith be expected to attend lodge and tha~ within. that distance from
his place of residence, two or m~re l~dges be'.ng available, he sh?uld be
allowed the opportunity of choice, irrespective of boundary Imes of

Duty of Junior Warden to Prefer Charges
In collaboration with the Committee on Grievances your Committee
on Jurisprudence has been endeavoring to formulate some legislation
that would make the transfer of a trial from one lodge to another on the
score of the disqualification of the Master less frequent. The added
expense, time, and labor involved in virtue of such transfer are cause for
rather frequent complaint. Of course, if the lodge itself, for some
cause be disqualified, transfer should and may always be had. A disqualification and consequent trans fer arising, however, out of the disqualification of the Master, due to his directing the Junior Warden to
prefer charges may, we think, with propriety be avoided. To that end
therefore we recommend that Section 189 of the Constitution be amended
by adding thereto, at the end thereof as it now reads, the following:
"If facts shall be brought to the attention of the Junior Warden of a
lodge showing any member, of whom his lodge has jurisdiction, to be
guilty of un-Masonic conduct, and if, for the period of thirty days following the bringing of such facts to the attention of the Junior vVarden, no
Master Mason in good standing shall have preferred charges against
such member, then and thereupon it shall become the official duty of
such Junior Warden to prefer such charges, in the manner in this
section provided as for a Master Mason."

Upon the adoption of the foregoing, in our judgment, paragraph 410
of the Regulations will no longer be necessary. vVe, therefore, recommend that it be repealed.

The report was adopted and Section 189 amended by
unanimous vote; and Regulation No. 410 repealed.

202

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Right of Master to Refuse to Receive Petition

It will be noted that the procedure so prescribed is general in its
terms and without exception.· It would seem in the instant case that this
procedure so prescribed was strictly followed. The proposal to amend,
limited as it was, was in the opinion of your committee such notice as is
contemplated by that portion of Article XIII, just quoted.
The Grand Master has apparently confused the proposal with the
consideration of the proposal. It is unquestionably true that the amendment could not be considered or acted upon at the same meeting at which
it was defeated. Nor could it be acted upon at the same meeting at
which it was introduced. But we can find nothing in our law which
prevents a resolution to amend a By-Law being introduced at any meeting irrespective of any action which might have been taken at that meeting upon this or any other subject.
We find ourselves unable to agree with the Grand Master's decision,
and we therefore recommend that the same be not approved.

The Grand Master presents two matters concerning which, he says,
the Grand Lodge should definitely decide :
'( 1) The Master of a lodge "directed the secretary of the lodge to
withhold the petition" of one who, in his opinion was not fit to be
received. This was done by the Master under the belief that his action
"was tantamount to a rejection which would follow if the petition had
been received, referred, and gone to ballot."
In this we think the Master was in error. The action of the Master.
was the equivalent of a refusal on the part of the lodge to "receive" the
petition at all. This may be done only by a majority vote of the lodge,
see Section !01 of the Constitution, and not by the Master acting upon
his own motion. Nor was this the equivalent of a rejection following
reception of petition and unfavorable ballot. In the latter case jurisdiction over the petitioner with respect to his right again to petition for
the Degrees would be retained for a year. In the instant case, the petition
not having been received at all, it was substantially the equivalent of a
withdrawal and no jurisdiction was retained.
(2) The Grand Master recites the tendering to a lodge of a petition
for the Degrees from a person manifestly not under the tongue of good
report and notoriously unfit for membership. It is to the credit of the
lodge, these things being known, that upon consideration by the investigating committee the candidate was declared rejected. This prompt and
efficacious action served to advise the world that such proposed membership would not be tolerated and I think we may safely rely upon our
lodges to guard our interests in similar fashion should an exigency
again occur.

Report adopted.
Proposal to Amend By-Laws May Be Reintroduced Immediately
After Adverse Vote
Your committee has had under consideration the decision of the
Grand Master that a resolution to amend the By-Laws of a lodge could
not be reintroduced at the same meeting at which such an amendment was
defeated. It seems in the case under consideration that while such a
resolution was introduced, it was so introduced with the expressed
stipulation that it should not be considered until the next Stated Meeting.
Article XIII, of the Uniform Code of By-Laws definitely prescribes the
procedure where an amendment is contemplated, as follows :
"These By-Laws may be amended at any Stated Meeting by the
votes of two-thirds of the members present; provided, that written notice
of such amendment shall have been given at the Stated Meeting next
preceding."

203

Report adopted.
Board of Control
In response to the direction of the Grand Lodge at its last Annual
Communication the Committee on Jurisprudence was directed to prepare
legislation to create a Board of Control to supervise and control the
activities of the several Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus
operating under the supervision and direction of the Crand Lodge, State
of California.
Section I. There is hereby created a Board of Control to consist
of five members to be appointed by the Grand Master. The term of office
of the members of the Board of Control shall be three years; provided
that the members of the first Board of Control to be appointed after the
adoption of this resolution shall hold office as follows:
Two members for the term of three years.
Two members for the term of two years, and
One member for the term of one year.
Their successors to be appointed for the full term of three years.
Section 2. The Board of Control shall have control over and
supervise the activities of Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus
now existing or hereafter to be crt'ated under the authority of the
Grand Lodge of California.
Section 3. Immediately upon assuming office the Hoard of Control
hereby created shall cause a survey to be made of all Boards of Relief
and Employment Bureaus now existing. and shall make a report to the
Grand Master as to the efficiency, usefulness, and necessity for each of
said boards; and shall also make such investigation as it deems proper
with reference to the creation of new Boards of Relief and Employment

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Bureaus in other localities other than those organizations now existing
and make such recommendations to the Grand Master with reference
thereto as they shall deem advisable.
Acting upon the report and recommendation of the Board of Control
the Grand Ma~ter shall have full power to abolish any Board of Relief
or Employment Bureau now operating and existing and upon a~plication
therefor to create such new and additional boards as in his Judgment
will best serve the interests of the Craft in this State.
Section 4. All applications to organize new and additional Boards
of Relief or Employment Bureaus shall be directed to the Board of
Control. The board shall make such investigation as in its judgment the
situation warrants and report its conclusions and recommendations to
the Grand Master, who shall take such action as in his discretion he
shall deem advisable.
Section 5. All applications from Boards of Relief or Employment
Bureaus or lodges for funds or reimbursement shall be made to the
Board of Control at least thirty days prior to each Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge. The Board of Control shall make thorough
investigation of the merits of such applications and report its findings
and recommendations to the Chairman of the Finance Committee of the
Grand Lodge on or before the opening day of each Annual Communication of said Grand Lodge.
Section 6. The Board of Control shall make such rules and regulations as they shall deem necessary for the effectual operation of the
several Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus within this State,
and shall endeavor so to standardize the work that the operations of the
several Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus may be conducted
economically and efficiently.
Section 7. The members of the board shall be entitled .to their
actual necessary expenses incurred in the performance of their duty;
claims for which shall be itemized and presented to the Grand Master
for his approval and when so approved shall be presented to the Grand
Secretary, who shall draw his warrant in payment of same on the Grand
Treasury.

Report adopted by unanimous vote.
Your committee to which was referred the decision of the Grand
Master with reference to the allocation of Life Membership Funds to
the General Fund of the Lodge. have had the same under consideration,
and respectfully report as follows:
In his decision the Grand Master says :
"2. A member of a lodge purchased a life membership for
his father, who was a member of the same lodge. At that time

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

205

our Section 129 of the Constitution providing a plan for life
membership, read that 'only the income thereof shall be used
by the lodge, the original amounts to be forever kept and maintained as and for a permanent life membership fund.' At the
Annual Communication of 1923, the section was amended by
adding this proviso: 'Provided, nevertheless, that upon the death
of a life member, such sum as he shall have paid into said fund
may be withdrawn therefrom and become a part of the general
fund of the lodge.' The life member (the father) died subsequent to 1923 and the lodge, pursuant to the term of Section
129 as amended, transferred the amount paid by the son for the
father's life membership to the general fund. The son appealed
to me that his payment constituted an irrevocable contract and
that the money paid for the life membership should remain forever in the permanent life membership fund as a memorial to
his father.
I held that the lodge had the right, under the terms of
Section 129 as amended, to allocate to the general fund any
moneys paid into the life membership fund for account of any
deceased life member."
In presenting its report to the Grand Lodge in 1923, with reference
to the adoption of the proviso to life membership legislation above set
out in the quotation from the Grand Master's decision, this committee
used the following language :
"At the last Annual Communication the Committee on
Policy reported against the proposed change, and this committee
concurred in the view of the Committee on Policy. \Ve still
adhere to the view then expressed by both committees, and
present the proposed amendment without recommendation, for
such action as the Grand Lodge desires to take. In doing so
we think it proper to state that it is necessarily prospective in
effect and applicable only to future resolutions."

It is manifest from this language that in the opinion of the Jurisprudence Committee, this legislation could have no retroactive effect,
and we are firmly convinced that the proviso above referred to, is
ineffectual for the purpose it was intended to accomplish. The relationship between the life member and his lodge is a solemn binding contract
between the parties that cannot be abrogated except by the unanimous
consent of all the parties interested therein. It is our judgment that
before funds paid in by a life member may be diverted to the General
Fund of the lodge, a resolution to that effect must be concurred in by
unanimous vote of the lodge. It follows from the foregoing that the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

conclusion of the Grand Master that the lodge had a right to allo:ate
the funds of the life member to the General Fund of his lodge, can not
be sustained.
In order to present this matter fairly to the Grand Lodge to the end
that there may be a clear understanding as to the status of life membership funds, we recommend that Section 129, appertaining to life membership, be amended as follows :

Manual for Conduct of Trials

206

Section 129, page 125, Constitution and Regulations, Second Edition,
beginning on line 26 and ending on line 30 of said page, so that same
will read as amended as follows:
"Provided nevertheless that upon the death of a life member such
sum as he shall have paid into said fund, may be withdrawn therefrom
by unanimous vote of the members present at a stated meeting of the
lodge, provided notice in writing of such proposed action, shall have
been mailed to all of the members of the lodge at least thirty (30) days
prior thereto; and upon such unanimous vote, said sum shall become
a part of the General Fund of the lodge."
If this legislation is passed, we are satisfied that any lodge desiring
to divert such life membership fund to the General Fund of the lodge
may do so under this iegislation, and the diversion may be accomplished
both retrospectively and prospectively.
It may be suggested that before this amendment shall become
effective, it will be necessary for any lodge intending to divert such life
membership funds to the General Fund, to incorporate the provisions of
this amendment in its life membership resolution, after the same notice
as was required for the adoption of the original resolution.

The report was adopted, and Section 129 of the Constitution was amended by unanimous vote.
Pay of Stenographic Reporters
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to whom was referred a petition
asking that Section 200Y, of the Constitution be amended by striking
out the provision requiring certain Masonic trials to be reported for onehalf the legal rate, recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That Section 200y;; of the Constitution be amended by
striking out the following words. at the end of the section-"and provided further that the maximum amount of said fees shall not exceed
one-half the fees allowed by law to stenographic reporters in the courts
of the State."

Report adopted, and Section 200;7'2 amended accordingly
by unanimous vote.

207

Your Committee on Jurisprudence to whom was referred the following preamble and resolution:
"\VHEREAS, In 1925 Brother Walter F. Haas, Chairman of the Committee on Grievances, prepared a Manual for Conduct of Trials, with
the approval of David J. Reese, then Grand Master, and,
"WHEREAS, Said Manual is available in printed form from the Grand
Secretary and serves well the purpose for which it is intended. and has
proven of inestimable value in the conduct of Masonic trials therefore
be it
'
'

"Resolved, that the Manual of the Constitutional Provisions and
Regulations governing Masonic Trials, compiled by Bro .. Walter F.
Haas, be, and the same is hereby declared to be the official Manual for
the conduct of trials, of this Grand Lodge," recommend the adoption of
the same.

Recommendation adopted.
Past Master May Preside at Trial, by Appointment
Your Committ:e on Jurisprudence to whom was referred a proposed
amendment to Section 200 of the Constitution relative to :Viasonic trials,
recommend t{te adoption of the following, to be added at the bottom of
Section 200 :
"Whi;:n the Master is disqualified or for a~y reason cannot preside
at the trial, the Grand Master may appoint any Past Master of this
iurisdic~ion in good standing and skilled in Masonic law, to preside at
such trial. Such Past Master shall preside at such trial with the same
force and effect as the Master whose place he takes. The record of the
trial shall be signeq by the Master.or Past Master presiding thereat."

Report adopted and Section 200 amended by unanimous
vote.
Relative to Objection to Candidate
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred the following proposed amendment to Section 101 of the Constitution:
"Add after the words 'Grand Secretary' the following: The sixty
days shall commence to run from the day the objection is made to the
Master; no committee of investigation· shall be appointed by the Master
after the receipt of an objection, unless the same be withdrawn· if an
~biection is received ~fter the appointment of a committee of in:estigatlon the Master may direct the committee to discontinue their investigation

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND l,ODGE OF CALIJ:<'ORN[A

until the objection is withdrawn," recommend that the same be not
adopted, as we believe the present law is sufficient for the purpose.

This seems to us to be proper, and we, therefore, recommend that
Subdivision 1, Section 41. of the Constitution, be amended by inserting
after the word "affiliation," the following: "or who joins in a petition
to form a new lodge."

208

Report adopted.

209

Appointment of Counsel at Trials

Report adopted and the section amended by a fivesixths vote.

Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred a proposed amendment to Section 198 of the Constitution, relative to the
appointment in Masonic trials of counsel for the prosecution and defense,
recommend that the same be not adopted.

Automatic Expulsion of Members Convicted of Crime

Report adopted.
Relative to Meetings on Holidays
Your Committee on Jurisprudence to whom was referred a proposed
amendment to Section 78 of the Constitution reading as follows:
"Each lodge shall have not more than one stated meeting in each
lunar month, which shall be designated as such in its By-Laws, and
when such stated meeting falls on a holiday, it may, after due notice
to the membership, be held a week later," recommend that it be not
adopted.

Report adopted.
Dispensations Issued by Grand Master
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the record of the
issuance of dispensations and approval of resolutions of life membership
by the Grand Master, and find the same in accordance with law.
'We therefore recommend that the action of the Grand Master in
that respect be approved.

Report adopted.
Fee for Joining in Formation of New Lodge
Brother Newburg proposes an amendment to Subdivision 1. Section
41, of the Constitution, providing that a member of a lodge outside of
California who joins in a petition to form a new lodge shall pay into
the funds of the Masonic Hornes the same amount as is required of an
affiliate.

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration.
amendments proposed by the Grievance Committee regarding expulsion
of Masons convicted of crimes involving moral turpitude, and submit
the following :
Section 192. "Whenever the charge is for an offense which is the
subject of proceedings in the courts of the land, the .:V1asonic trial may,
in the discretion of the Master, be deferred until 5uch proceedings are
concluded."
Section 192a. "In the event of a final judgment of conviction against
a Mason in the State or Federal Courts, of a felony, or any other crime
punished by incarceration in a penitentiary, if such brother be a member
of a lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California, the
secretary of the lodge of which such brother is a mC'mber, shall as soon
as such conviction shall come to his notice, procure, at the expense of
his lodge, a certified copy of the final judgment of such Mason, which he
shall file with the records of said lodge. At the next stated meeting,
ten days' notice of the action to be taken having been given to such
Mason by registered mail forwarded to his last known place of address,
the Master shall announce to the lodge the fact that such certified copy
has been filed and that the required notice has been given; thereupon the
Mason so convicted shall stand expelled from all the rights and privi·
leges of Masonry, and it shall be so noted in the minutes. The secretary shall transmit to the Grand Secretary a copy of the record of such
minutes and the certified copy of the final judgment. which shall constitute the record required by Section 207.
"If such Mason be a member of a lodge under foreign jurisdiction,
it shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary, upon such final judgment
being brought to his notice, to procure two copies thereof and ten days
notice of the action to be taken having been given to such Mason by
registered mail at his last known place of address, file one of the same
with the records of the Grand Lodge and transmit the other copy thereof
to the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction of which
the lodge to which such convicted Mason belongs is constituent. Upon

PROCEEDINGS OF '£HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the filing of such certified copy in the records of the Grand Lodge by
the Grand Secretary, together with a statement of the notice given, such
convicted Mason shall likewise automatically stand expelled from all the
rights and privileges of Masonry in this jurisdiction.
"On receipt of the record the Grand Secretary shall notify any such
convicted Mason by registered mail of the fact of his expulsion from
all the rights and privileges of Masonry."
Section 192b. "Acquittal in said courts, or the refusal of a grand
jury to indict for an offense is no bar to a Masonic trial. Vv'henever it
shall appear by the record of conviction from another Masonic jurisdiction, recognized by us, that a member of one of our lodges, resident in
such jurisdiction, has been suspended or expelled for un-1\fasonic conduct
in such jurisdiction while a resident thereof, it shall be the duty of the
Junior \Varden of the lodge in this jurisdiction of which he is a member,
to prefer charges against him for the acts and conduct alleged in the
charges preferred in the foreign jurisdiction, and of which he was there
convicted, and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had as in ordinary
cases; provided that the record of conviction of the foreign jurisdiction
shall be received on the trial as prima facie evidence of the guilt of the
brother of such acts and conduct."

clence. No witness shall be examined or any testimony taken without
an opportunity given the accuser and accused to be present.

210

The above report was recommitted to the committee,
and subsequently defeated.
Relative to Procedure at Trials
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom was referred. a proposed amendment to Section 202 of the Constitution, recommend the
adoption of the following :
Sec. 202. The Master, or other person designated by the Grand
Master to preside at the trial, in event of the inability to act or disqualification of the Master, shall decide what and how much testimony
shall be heard, but the commissioners are the sole judges of the facts
proven.
Technical objections as to form shall not be permitted, but the
ordinary rules of evidence as employed by the Courts of the State of
California, shall be followed as nearly as the circumstances shall permit.
Affidavits or depositions taken without notice cannot be received. Hearsay evidence is not admissible. Admissions or confessions of the accused
such as would be admissible in the courts of the land, are admissible'.
Where guilt is sought to be proven by one witness, great caution is to
be exercised. The records and reporters' transcripts of testimony made
in courts of the land, properly authenticated, may be allowed in evi-

211

Report adopted and the section amended by unanimous
vote.
Master May Receive Request for Waiver of Jurisdiction
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has proposed an amendment to
Section 96 of the Constitution, and reports thereon as follows:
The amendment is to permit a Master to receive request for waiver
and appoint committee to investigate the required matters, and report
to the lodge at the stated meeting following, which can thereupon take
action, thus saving one month's time in such cases. This amendment is
intended to facilitate action upon requests for waivers, and seems to fill
the requirement.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the amendment proposed,
which reads as follows :
Sec. 96. Except that in the case of one who has the qualification
of residence, the lodge within whose jurisdiction he resides may, upon
his request in writing and for good cause shown, authorize another lodge
to receive and act upon his application. The Master shalt receive the
1·equesl and a committee shall be appointed to investigate as to whether
or not the lodge actually possesses jurisdiction, and whether or not the
reasons alleged for the request are good and sufficient, which committee
shall report at the next stated meeting. The request may be granted
by majority vote; and except in the case of a person belonging to the
army or navy of the United States, whose application, though he have
not that qualification of residence, may be received hy dispensation from
the Grand Master, as provided in Section 43.

Report adopted and the section amended by unanimous
vote.
DAN A R. WELLER,
BENJAMIN F. BLEDSOE,

V. KEESLING,
D. MURPHEY,

FRANCIS
JOHN

BRADFORD WEBSTER,
THOMAS FLINT,

Committee.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES

212

To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of Ca.lifornia:
Your committee charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the officers or
representatives fo attendance from each lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers, Past Grand Masters, chairmen and members of standing committees and Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure to and from the
Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged that duty and
submit the following statement :
Representatives ...........................................................
................... $15,294.69
Grand Officers .............................................................
.................
431.86
Past Grand Masters ..............................................................................
274.78
Members of Standing Committees............ .........................................
504.42
Inspectors ....................................................
...................... ......... ....... 2,191.86
Total ......... .

.................... $18,697.61

Your Committee on Pay of Members recommends amendment of
Section 6 of the Constitution eliminating the words "an unlimited firstclass railroad fare," as we are advised by the railroad companies that
they no longer issue this class of transportation.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
"Resolved, That Section No. 6 of the Constitution be amended by
the elimination of the words "an unlimited first-class railroad fare."
Loms SUTTER,
]OHN H. McGEHEE,
HOWARD D. KERCHEVAL,
CHARLES D. BARNETT.

The report of the committee was adopted. The proposed amendment to Section 6 was referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and Finance, and subsequently
laid over for consideration next year.

213

To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes respectfully reports
as follows:
Flag Celebration
1. The Grand Master in his excellent message submitted for the
careful consideration of Grand Lodge a proposal to celebrate the 150th
anniversary of the official recognition of the Flag of the United States
by appropriate public ceremonies.
Your committee feels that the patriotic character of this suggestion
is a sufficient warrant for making a recommendation without arguing over
propriety.
Your committee recommends that the Grand Master in his judgment
make such arrangements and give such directions as may seem to him
best for the holding of such celebration .

Adopted.
University Club Houses
2. Your committee is in entire sympathy and accord with the Grand
Master on the subject of the Masonic Club House at the University of
California; and also relative to club houses which is hoped can hereafter
be provided for the students of Stanford University, University of
California, Southern Branch, and the University of Southern Califor111a,
so far as the means of Grand Lodge will afford.
It is the view of your committee that substantial assistance should
be given in providing a Masonic headquarters on or near the campuses of
the larger institutions of higher learning.
An effort of this character must of necessity be of slow growth and
our ideal must be realized through the years. The work has had a
splendid beginning in the Masonic Club House located at the University
of California. In the years to come undoubtedly proper recommendations
will be presented to the Grand Lodge for appropriate and well timecl
action.

Adopted.
Lassen Monument
3. The Grand Master recommends that the Special Committees
hereinbefore appointed by the Grand Master on the Lassen Monument
Site, Western Star Lodge, Masonic History and Necrology be continued.

214

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your committee concurs in the opinion of the Grand Master and
deems that it is desirable that the Special Committees be continued for
the accomplishment of the tasks assigned to them. The Grand Master
has the authority in the exercise of his official powers to continue the
existence of each of the above mentioned committees and no recommendation by this committee is necessary or expedient.

215

munication of this Grand Lodge. During the interim your committee
will attempt to secure a solution to a vexatious and difficult problem that
will at the same time relieve the burden of the Grand Secretary and
the subordinate lodges and be fair and courteous to our sister jurisdictions.

Adopted.
"Masonic Law and Custom"

Adopted.
Masonic Insurance
4. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes commends the
utterance of the Grand Master on the subject of Masonic insurance, and is
of the opinion that at times unwarranted advantage is taken of candidates
and young Masons at the period when they are most susceptible to
influence by reason of their enthusiasm for Masonry and their zeal to
conform not only with every requirement but with every expectation with
respect to Freemasonry.
It often happens that the candidate or young Mason is solicited to
buy insurance, books, periodicals, to join clubs, and to do other things
in response to solicitation based upon the representation that it is his
Masonic duty to do so. It can be well said that a candidate has the
right to exercise his business discretion and judgment and that the fact
of his receiving the Masonic Degrees does not deprive him of the right
to contract or refuse to contract in any business matter. While Grand
Lodge does not condemn nor endorse any legitimate business enterprise,
nevertheless, it is true that abuses are practised by reason of the misunderstanding of the initiate or by reason of his zealous effort to conform
at every point with what is represented to him to be his duty. In order
to correct such abuses, and in order to avoid a repetition of such complaints as those concretely stated by the Grand Master, your committee
is of the opinion that instruction on this point should be given to the
candidate at the time he receives the First Degree.
Your committee, therefore, recommends that the Committee on
Education prepare a statement on this subject, for use throughout this
entire jurisdiction, which statement may embrace other matters upon
which a candidate should be informed, and that such statement be given
by the Master in writing to each candidate at the time he receives the
First Degree of Masonry.

Report adopted.
Degrees by Courtesy
5. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes desires to have
a consideration of the recommendation of the Grand Secretary on the
subject of Degrees by courtesy postponed until the next Annual Com-

6. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the resolution asking for the reprint and distribution of "Masonic Law
and Custom" and finds that the supply of these books has been exhausted
and that there are many applications for copies thereof.
It appears to your committee that it is desirable that an additional
supply of these books be provided for distribution and your committee
recommends that the book be reprinted at the expense of this Grand
Lodge and sold to the lodges.

Adopted.
Proper Usage Concerning the Flag

7. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has carefully
considered the resolution presented by Brother ]. G. Sutherland, on the
proper usage concerning the American Flag in the lodge room, and is of
the opinion that no recommendation should be made with reference
thereto.
There are certain definite rules regarding the use and handling of
the American Flag, which through usage by the United States Army
and Navy and by adoption of various patriotic societies, in the course
of time has become an unwritten code for our guidance. We are very
sure that the members of our institution are imbued with patriotic
sentiment and that their good taste and good sense will govern their
use and handling of our Flag, and that no rule or regulation on the
subject is necessary or desirable.

Adopted.
Time of Notice to Apply for New Lodge
8. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the resolution introduced by Brother Leo Bruck, providing for the
amendment of Section 73 of the Constitution by changing the time of
notice of intention to apply for dispensation from forty-five to ninety
days.
Your committee is of the opinion that sixty-five days is ample time
to accomplish the purpose .intended by said Section 73 and, therefore,

216

PROCEEDI:'.'IGS OF THE

recommend that said Section 73 be amended by substituting sixty-five
for forty-five days and that the Committee on Jurisprudence prepare
and submit the form of amendment.

The Committee on Jurisprudence approved the form of
the above, and Section 73 of the Constitution was amended
by striking out forty-five days and inserting the words
sixty-five days in the fourth line of page 93 of the second
edition of the Constitution and Regulations.
Proposal to Defer Ballot on Petitions
9. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes to which was
referred the resolution introduced by Brother William G. Greene
on behalf of South San Francisco Lodge 212, proposing a change in
Section 82 of the Constitution, to provide that no ballot shall be taken by
a lodge on a petition until the second stated meeting after the receipt by
the lodge of said petition.
Your committee is of the opinion that the proposed amendment would
not constitute an improvement of our present law with respect to the
matter of notices among lodges having concurrent jurisdiction. We are
not sure that there is a weakness in the practice as observed by the lodges,
but we do not feel that the proposed amendment would cure such weakness that may exist and, therefore, recommend that it be not adopted.

Report adopted,
Relative to Endowment Committee's Report
10. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has carefully
considered the report of the Endowment Committee of the Ma:.onic
Homes of California, and are gratified that the Endowment Fund raised
by the committee now amounts to in excess of $500,000.00.
The Endowment Committee is of. the opinion that the fund could be
doubled by co-operation and active work and that an "old-fashioned
drive" for such purpose would be timely.
Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes is not disposed
at this time to recommend a drive for funds and submits this matter
to the Grand Lodge without recommendation. It may be that the Grand
Lodge is disposed to enter upon a campaign to increase the Endowment
Fund to $1,000,000, but your committee is not advised of its wishes in
this respect.

On motion, Grand Lodge voted that a "drive" at this
time is inadvisable.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

217

Facilities for Meetings of Grand Lodge
11. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has considered
the resolution introduced by the Inspectors of San Francisco that a
Special Committee of Three be appointed by the M:.w:.Grand Master
to survey the situation with reference to the facilities for the meeting
of Grand Lodge in its Annual Communication, and to report thereon at
the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
Your committee is of the opinion that this subject matter is entitled
to careful consideration, and that the convenience of Grand Lodge should
be promoted as far as possible, and that a commodious and appropriate
place of meeting should be secured if possible.
We therefore recommend the adoption of the resolution.

Report and resolution adopted.
Pay of Expenses of Inspectors
12. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes has carefully
considered the resolutio~ introduced by the Masters and Wardens Association of Los Angeles providing that each of the elective Grand Officers
and Inspectors shall be entitled to receive payment for the amount of his
necessary expenses in attending Grand Lodge or any of its Communications, which expenses shall be ascertained by the Committee on Finance,
and report to and allowed by Grand Lodge.
Your committee does not think that any change should be made in
the present law respecting the allowance to Officers and Inspectors of the
cost of transportation to and from the sessions of Grand Lodge.
In our opinion it would be impossible during the brief Comm11nication
of the Grand Lodge to ascertain and audit the varying expenses of hundreds of individuals. some coming to the Communication by automobile,
others by train, and still others by boat.
So far as this committee has been able to ascertain the elective
Grand Lodge Officers have received exactly the same payment that has
been allowed to the representatives of subordinate lodges and Inspectors.
Your committee, therefore, recommends that the resolution be not
adopted.

Consideration of the above was made special order for
2 o'clock this afternoon, at which time, by request of the
proponents of the resolution, the matter was laid over for
consideration at the next Annual Communication.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

218

219

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Educational Committee
13. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes recognizes the
the excellent work performed during the past year by the Educational
Committee as displayed in its report to Grand Lodge, and your committee
recommends that the . Grand Master appoint an Educational Committee
of twelve members to hold office during the ensuing Masonic year, and
that such committee shall have power to proceed with the educational
program adopted by Grand Lodge at its session of 1925.

Adopted.

has directed our attention to defects and inconsistencies appearing upon
the seal. If Grand Lodge is to have an heraldic seal it should be formed
in accordance with the laws and rules of heraldry.
Your committee therefore recommends that the Grand Master appoint
a committee consisting of three members to make a study of the seal of
the Grand Lodge of California, and to recommend at the next Communication such revision of the seal as to said committee may seem best.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge Not a Political Body

District Deputy Grand Masters
14. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes, to which was
referred that portion of the Grand Master's address relative to the
appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers and District Deputy Grand
Masters, are of the opinion that the subject matter is of such far reaching
importance and will require so many changes in our organic law that it
would be wise and expedient to postpone a consideration of the matter
until the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge. During the
interim the subject matter may be carefully considered by the Committees
on Jurisprudence and Policy and General Purposes, and the subject
may be more fully and fairly presented at the next Annual Communication than is possible at the present time.
We, therefore, respectfully recommend that the entire matter be
referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and Policy and General
Purposes, with the direction that they report thereon at the next
Annual Communication of Grand Lodge.

Report and recommendation adopted.

17. There have been referred to your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes several resolutions which seek to commit this Grand
Lodge to the approval or disapproval of subjects of legislation which will
be acted upon by the California electorate at the forthcoming general election. The Grand Lodge is not a political body, and its policy during all
the years of its existence has been to refrain from any participation in
political controversies, and from this policy it should never depart.
Your committee therefore recommends that Grand Lodge refuse to
indorse or condemn any measure of legislation pending before the people
of California.
WM. RHODES HERVEY,
GEO.

F. RODDEN,

DAVID ]. REESE,
EUGENE E. ELKUS,
WM.

H. WASTE,

FRANK W. MrxTER,

Committee.

Report adopted.

Fee to Be Paid by Petitioners
15. Your Committee on Policy and General Purposes respectfully
recommends the adoption of the resolution that Subdivision !st, Section
41, of the Constitution, be amended to read "$25.00" in the place of
$20.00.

The above was approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence, and the section amended by unanimous vote, to
become effective on and after February 1, 1927.
Seal of Grand Lodge
16. It appears that the seal of the Grand Lodge of California is
open to serious question as to the technical accuracy of its devices, and
it has been criticized for lack of heraldic accuracy. Brother ]. H. Logie

Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock thi&
afternoon.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

220

General
I.mlge
~an

Afternoon Session
Thursday, October 14, 1926.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, with a song
by Brother Harry E. Perry, the Grand Master presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Returns presents its report. In his report the
M:.\v:.Grand Master has commented on the quality of the members
joining the fraternity. And in his report the v:.w:.Grand Secretary
has given you the information concerning the number of candidates
raised and the net gain for the year. Far be it from this committee to
wish to take issue with the .M:.w:.Grand .'.\faster, or the v:.\v:.Grand
Secretary on· this matter.
We feel that the standard of membership is being fully maintained,
and it is for the constituent lodges to see that there is no deterioration.
We have to report that each lodge of the jurisdiction has made its
.rmual returns and remitted the amount of its dues.
JOS.

H. SANDE!lS,

FRAZEE BURKE,

R. E. ALLAN,
FRED

Vi/. LEBALLlSTEll,

Committee.
The amounts for dues for which the Lodges of the jurisdiction were
indebted for the year ending July 31, 1926, together with the Lodges
under dispensation for the term ending September 30, 1926, all of which
have been paid:
Lodge

Numbe1·

California ......................
Western Star ........ ........
Tehama ..........................
Benicia ............................
Tuolumne ......................
Corinthian ......................

1
2

3
5
8
9

General
Home
::\Iaiuterwn(·e
Pund

$800.55
96.30
4S8.65
178.90
217.85
358.60

$187.25
23.50
106.75
40.50
50.75
82.00

221

GRAND I,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Building

$20.00
Honie Tax

$374.50
47.00
213.50
81.00
101.50
164.00

$600.00
20.00
460.00
160.00
200.00
340.00

Total

$1,962.30
186.~0

1,248.90
460.40
570.10
944.60

Number

Jose .......................... 10
Yount .............................. 12
Nevada .......................... 13
Temple ............................ 14
Eureka ............................ 16
l,a Parfaite Union ........ 17
Mountain Shade............ 18
San Joaquin .................... 19
Washington .................. 20
I lawaiian ........................ 21
( lccidental ...................... 22
Madison ........................ 23
Mariposa ........................ 24
<:mrgetown .................. 25
I 'almyra ........................ 26
Trinity .......................... 27
(;olden Gate.................... 30
Cold Hill ...................... 32
( >phir ............................. 33
San Diego .............. ........ 35
I loward .......................... 37
Santa Cruz ...................... 38
Sacramento .................... 40
Martinez ........................ 41
1.os Angeles .................... 42
lliram ............................ 43
Mount Moriah .............. 44
( '.rcscent ........................ 45
Texas .............................. 46
Forbestown .................... 50
Ill inoistown . ................ 51
Suisun ........................... 55
Volcano .......................... 56
Santa Rosa .................... 57
Union .............................. 58
Crave! Range ................ 59
l'lumas .......................... 60
l,ive Oak ........................ 61
Natoma .......................... 64
1\mador .......................... 65
Forest ............................ 66
Morning Star ................ 68

~'und

552.60
261.95
160.65
13320
199.15
207.60
28.50
659.50
550.65
414.20
901.85
183.20
114.15
54.45
215.05
90.85
851.10
111.00
46.70
747.80
256.15
362.80
650.15
192.05
921.80
40.35
618.45
124.30
53.75
63.05
79.25
177.40
29.45
451.85
601.05
35.25
83.35
1,137.65
130.55
67.45
45.65
488.45

Home
llaintennnce

Home
Building

$20.00
Home Tax

127.00
60.25
36.75
34.00
49.25
52.00
7.50
157.50
121.75
99.00
215.75
39.00
24.25
12.75
49.75
20.75
204.50
25.00
11.50
176.00
59.25
86.00
144.25
44.75
206.00
8.25
142.75
28.50
11.25
14.75
18.75
38.00
7.75
100.75
139.75
8.75
18.25
271.75
32.25
17.75
11.75
112.75

254.00
120.50
73.50
68.00
98.50
104.00
15.00
315.00
243.50
198.00
431.50
78.00
48.50
25.50
99.50
41.50
409.00
50.00
23.00
352.00
118.50
172.00
288.50
89.50
412.00
16.50
285.50
57.00
22.50
29.50
37.50
76.00
15.50
201.50
279.50
17.50
36.50
543.50
64.50
35.50
23.50
225.50

480.00
240.00
160.00
40.00
100.00
40.00
440.00
600.00
340.00
580.00
220.00
200.00
40.00
160.00
80.00
480.00
100.00
20.00
600.00
240.00
380.00
660.00
140.00
1,000.00
20.00
460.00
100.00
60.00
60.00
40.00
220.00
420.00
500.00
100.00
760.00
80.00

400.00

Total

1,413.60
682.70
430.90
275.20
446.90
403.60
51.00
1,572.00
1,515.90
1,051.20
2,129.10
520.20
386.90
132.70
524.30
233.10
1,944.60
286.00
101.20
1,875.80
673.90
1,000.80
1,742.90
466.30
2,539.80
85.10
1,506.70
309.80
147.50
167.30
175.50
511.40
52.70
1,174.10
1,520.30
61.50
238.10
2.712.90
307.30
120.70
80.90
1,226.70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

222
Lodge

Number

Enterprise ...................... 70
Bear Mountain.............. 76
Calaveras ···········--------··· 78
Humboldt ------------·-------·· 79
Ione ................................ 80
Yolo ................................ 81
Vesper ............................ 84
Naval .............................. 87
Rose's Bar ...................... 89
North Star .................... 91
St. Helena...................... 93
Henry Clay .................... 95
Hornitos -····-··········-------- 98
Yosemite ------------------------ 99
Clay ................................ 101
Oroville .......................... 103
Lexington ...................... 104
Arcata ............................ 106
Pajaro ............................ 110
Chico ............................. .111
Summit .......................... 112
Eden ............................. .113
Concord ......................... .117
Clinton ............................ 119
Fidelity ......................... .120
Alamo ............................ 122
Sotoyome ...................... 123
Table Mountain ............ 124
La Fayette ...................... 126
Herman ......................... .127
Visalia ............................ 128
Nicolaus ........................ 129
Woodbridge .................. 131
Sincerity ........................ 132
Vacaville ....................... .134
Valley ............................ 135
Pacific ............................ 136
Crockett ........................ 139
Curtis .............................. 140
Grafton .......................... 141
Franklin ........................ 143
Oriental .......................... 144

General

Home

li,und

~Iaintenance

272.40
86.70
122.05
529.25
75.60
77.55
208.20
668.85
44.80
66.45
119.15
56.35
81.70
197.10
62.85
297.40
182.90
199.20
277.90
366.65
34.20
208.55
267.80
44.65
758.20
124.90
230.50
87.00
196.20
281.15
277.55
91.65
134.15
118.30
183.45
68.45
868.25
828.15
81.55
59.95
95.15
530.35

58.00
21.50
29.75
123.75
17.00
17.25
49.00
150.75
11.00
12.75
29.25
13.25
16.50
49.50
15.75
68.00
40.50
49.00
60.50
86.75
9.00
47.25
61.00
11.75
179.00
30.50
57.50
20.00
49.00
64.25
67.25
21.75
29.25
28.50
42.75
17.75
208.75
194.25
17.25
15.25
24.25
128.25

Home
Building

116.00
43.00
59.50
247.50
34.00
34.50
98.00
301.50
22.00
25.50
58.50
26.50
33.00
99.00
31.50
136.00
81.00
98.00
121.00
173.50
18.00
94.50
122.00
23.50
358.00
61.00
115.00
40.00
98.00
128.50
134.50
43.50
58.50
57.00
85.50
. 35.50
417.50
388.50
34.50
30.50
48.50
256.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
~20.00

Home Tax

Total

280.00
40.00
60.00
400.00
60.00
140.00
14-0.00
64-0.00
20.00
120.00
60.00
20.00
120.00
60.00
40.00
280.00
220.00
100.00
34-0.00
320.00

726.4-0
191.20
271.30
1,300.50
186.60
269.30
495.20
1,761.10
97.80
224.70
266.90
116.10
251.20
405.60
150.10
781.4-0
524.40
446.20
799.40
946.90
61.20
550.30
670.80
79.90
1,775.20
276.40
463.00
207.00
423.20
733.90
659.30
196.90
421.90
263.80
431.70
161.70
1,914.50
2,050.90
253.30
125.70
187.90
1,215.10

200.00
220.00
480.00
60.00
60.00
60.00
80.00
260.00
180.00
4-0.00
200.00
60.00
120.00
4-0.00
420.00
640.00
120.00
20.00
20.00
300.00

Lodge

General
Number

Vitruvius ........................ 145
Abell .. :........................... 146
E.el River ........................ 147
I.assen ............................ 149
Molino ............................ 150
Woodland ...................... 156
Keystone ....................... .161
1larmony ........................ 164
Excelsior ........................ 166
Alameda ........................ 167
Redwood City................ 168
Mission .......................... 169
Elk Grove ...................... 173
l)ry Town ..................... .174
Antioch .......................... 175
Phoenix .......................... 178
Mendocino .................... 179
Petaluma ...................... 180
Russian River.. .............. 181
Arbuckle ........................ 182
Clear Lake ..................... .183
Sierra Valley.................. 184
Claiborne ...................... 185
Evening Star ................ 186
Keith .............................. 187
Oakland ........................ 188
Northern Light ............ 190
Marin .............................. 191
Santa Barbara .............. 192
Ferndale ........................ 193
Mountain View............. .194
Buckeye .......................... 195
San Simeon ................... 196
Wilmington .................. 198
Hartley ......................... .199
Truckee ......................... .200
!'ilveyville ..................... .201
Pentalpha ...................... 202
Confidence ................... .203
Salinas ............................ 204
Olivet ............................. .205
Stanislaus ..................... .206

223

Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

$20.00
Home Tax

79.15
189.75
198.95
208.90
122.95
250.75
32.4-0
12.40
630.50
166.35
289.40
926.35
102.20
37.15
197.10
476.75
162.80
310.95
118.95
89.95
40.05
49.30
60.85
39.90
193.90
1,005.70
85.65
468.55
4-07.20
160.35
203.80
108.45
61.00
376.00
192.30
138.80
126.25
826.70
34.45
257.45
126.50
363.60

19.25
41.25
45.25
45.50
30.25
56.25
8.00
3.00
152.50
38.25
63.00
233.25
24.00
9.25
44.50
111.25
41.00
75.25
30.25
20.25
9.75
8.50
15.75
10.50
45.50
236.50
21.75
107.25
89.00
33.25
46.00
22.75
15.00
60.00
43.25
31.00
28.75
191.50
7.75
57.75
32.50
82.00

38.50
82.50
90.50
91.00
60.50
112.50
16.00
6.00
305.00
76.50
126.00
466.50
48.00
18.50
89.00
222.50
82.00
150.50
60.50
40.50
19.50
17.00
31.50
21.00
91.00
473.00
43.50
214.50
178.00
66.50
92.00
45.50
30.00
120.00
86.50
62.00
57.50
383.00
15.50
115.50
65.00
164.00

2ff00
260.00
220.00
340.00
40.00
300.00
20.00
420.00
120.00
320.00
340.00
100.00
20.00
140.00
340.00
40.00
200.00
20.00
100.00
20.00
100.00
20.00
120.00
780.00
460.00
520.00
240.00
200.00
180.00
40.00
1,220.00
180.00
120.00
100.00
660.00
40.00
300.00
20.00
420.00

Total

156.90
573.50
554.70
685.40
253.70
719.50
76.40
21.40
1,508.00
401.10
798.40
1,966.10
274.20
84.90
470.60
1,150.50
325.80
736.70
229.70
250.70
89.30
174.80
128.10
71.40
450.40
2,495.20
150.90
1,250.30
1,194.20
500.10
541.80
356.70
146.00
1,776.00
502.05
351.80
312.50
2,061.20
97.70
730.70
244.00
1,029.60

225

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS 01'' THE

224
Lodge

Number

Anaheim .............. ........ .207
Rio Vista ...................... 208
King David's ................. .209
Friendship ..................... .210
San Benito..................... .211
So. San Ftancisco ....... .212
San Buenaventura ....... .214
Oakgrove ..... ............... .215
Doric ........................... .216
Monterey. .................. .217
Mosaic .... ...................... .218
Speranza Italiana ......... .219
Downey ..........................220
Inyo ............................... .221
Roseville ....................... .222
· Bakersfield ................... 224
B~ooklyn ........................225
San Mateo ..................... .226
Athens ........................... .228
Solano ........................... .229
North Butte ........ .......... .230
Covelo ······- ................ .231
Janesville ..................... .232
................ .233
Calistoga
..................... .234
Hope
Surprise Valley ........... .235
Hills Ferry .................. .236
Guadalupe .. ................. .237
Colusa ....................... .240
Santa Ana ... ................ 241
Magnolia ....................... .242
Eucalyptus ................... .243
Alcatraz ........................244
Laurel ........................... .245
Pomona ............... ......... .246
Fresno ····--·-·-·----········· .. 247
Alturas
··-···········-- .... .248
Adin ............................... .250
Landmark ..................... .253
Reading .......................... 254
Welcome ....................... .255
Lodi ............................... .256

General
Fund

Home
~fuintenance

325.30
84.95
281.90
529.95
160.90
312.40
330.85
708.30
615.85
155.60
143.60
413.30
210.15
88.10
297.70
491.80
690.05
296.80
151.65
501.80
135.70
45.15
66.90
117.50
106.40
89.40
107.70
60.95
147.75
575.70
358.90
210.30
648.05
214.70
415.85
607.25
129.75
79.25
93.55
229.90
122.10
297.65

73.50
20.25
60.50
115.25
35.50
73.00
70.75
163.50
150.75
37.00
32.00
93.50
44.25
19.50
71.50
116.00
164.75
66.00
31.75
116.00
31.50
9.25
15.50
27.50
23.00
18.00
21.50
15.25
36.25
136.50
75.50
48.50
154.75
46.50
95.75
143.75
26.25
18.75
22.25
55.50
29.50
71.75

Home
Building

147.00
40.50
121.00
230.50
71.00
146.00
141.50
327.00
301.50
74.00
64.00
187.00
88.50
39.00
143.00
232.00
329.50
132.00
63.50
232.00
63.00
18.50
31.00
55.00
46.00
36.00
43.00
30.50
72.50
273.00
151.00
97.00
309.50
93.00
191.50
287.50
52.50
37.50
44.50
111.00
59.00
143.50

$20.00
Home Tax

360.00
80.00
400.00
580.00
160.00
240.00
380.00
600.00
320.00
160.00
120.00
400.00
340.00
120.00
200.00
320.00
420.00
320.00
240.00
460.00
.120.00
80.00
60.00
80.00
100.00
140.00
180.00
60.00
480.00
560.00
280.00
380.00
260.00
340.00
340.00
240.00
40.00
60.00
140.00
120.00
160.00

Total

905.80
225.70
863.40
1,455.70
427.40
771.40
923.10
1,798.80
1,388.10
426.60
359.60
1,093.80
682.90
266.60
712.20
1.159.80
1,604.30
814.80
486.90
1,309.80
350.20
152.90
173.40
280.00
275.40
283.40
352.20
106.70
316.50
1,465.20
1,145.40
635.80
1,492.30
614.20
1,043.10
1,378.50
448.50
175.50
220.30
536.40
330.60
672.90

Lodge

Number

l'cnrhyn •w--M••·--··· ......... .258
Evergreen ..................... .259
h:ing Solomon's ........... .260
Tuscan ........................... .261
Lompoc ......................... 262
I lcsperian ..................... .264
I lrland ......................... .265
North East. .................... .266
<~alt ............................... .267
I >urant .......................... .268
! llive Branch................ .269
Snow Mountain ........... .271
I'asadena ....................... .272
.\nchor ......................... .273
:\rroyo ............................274
I )akdale ......................... .275
~!'Ima ............................. .277
So. California............... .278
I Ian ford ....................... .279
l\ladera ......................... .280
Mt. Shasta ..................... .281
( '.allayome ..................... .282
~on th West... ................ .283
~an Miguel ................... .285
I'aso Robles .................. ..286
Winnedumah ............... .287
Maxwell ....................... .288
Elsinore ......................... .289
l•:ast Gate ....................... .290
Santa Paula................... .291
I .o •s GatoL .................... .292
( lrange Grove ............... .293
Traver ........................... .294
.~It. ] ackson ................... .295
Silver Gate ................... .296
ll1111smuir ..................... .297
l,ih1·rty .......................... 299
lh·dlands ...... ...............300
t lntario .......................... 301
Santa Lucia .................. 302
l'ortcrville .................... 303
lfr1·11ley ..........................304
t\wsa ............................ 305

Home
Home
General
Maintenance Bulldlng
Fund

$20.00
Home Tax

Total

58.50
234.50
430.50
38.00
77.50
116.00
69.50
27.50
32.50
400.50
106.50
29.00
305.00
85.50
34.50
52.50
108.50
348.00
78.00
84.00
31.50
27.00
77.00
44.00
54.00
74.00
47.50
47.50
457.00
138.50
99.50
106.50
66.00
71.00
346.00
103.00
112.50
182.50
100.50
53.50
149.00
64.00
75.50

40.00
540.00
480.00
40.00
140.00
220.00
140.00
20.00
40.00
360.00
140.00
60.00
540.00
40000
60.00
200.00
160.00
640.00
140.00
180.00
20.00
20.00
160.00
40.00
160.00
160.00
120.00
80.00
740.00
100.00
140.00
200.00
40.00
60.00
740.00
260.00
140.00
500.00
220.00
180.00
360.00
260.00
100.00

244.90
1,401.30
2,006.70
175.20
422.50
642.40
397.40
117.50
159.50
I.767.70
527.10
166.60
1,635.00
747.70
185.30
404.50
552.90
1,898.20
430.20
494.60
130.10
114.80
442.80
194.60
366.60
435.60
294.50
251.50
2,415.80
585.90
488.30
586.10
271.40
309.40
2,008.40
629.20
546.50
1,182.50
588.70
385.90
910.60
514.60
363.70

117.15
509.55
&'50.95
78.20
166.25
248.40
153.15
56.25
70.75
806.95
227.35
63.10
637.50
219.45
73.55
125.75
230.15
736.20
173.20
188.60
62.85
54.30
167.30
88.60
125.60
164.60
103.25
100.25
990.30
278.15
199.05
226.35
132.40
142.90
749.40
214.70
237.75
408.75
217.95
125.65
327.10
158.60
150.45

29.25
117.25
215.25
19.00
38.75
58.00
34.75
13.75
16.25
200.25
53.25
14.50
152.50
42.75
17.25
26.25
54.25
174.00
39.00
42.00
15.75
13.50
38.50
22.00
27.00
37.00
23.75
23.75
228.50
69.25
49.75.
53.25
33.00
35.50
173.00
51.50
56.25
91.25
50.25
26.75
74.50
32.00
37.75

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

228
l.o<lge

Number

Rising Light .... .............397
Fraternity ...................... 399
Burlingame ....................400
Bay View........................ 401
Brawley ......................... .402
Yerba Buena................ ..403
Glendora ........................ 404
Moneta ..........................405
Burbank .......................... 406
La Mesa ........................ ..407
Sierra Madre ..-........... ..408
Honolulu ...................... ..409
Charter Rock .............. .410
Perris ............................ .411
Calexico ....................... 412
Waucoba ....................... Al3
Arlington ......................414
Silver Trowel ................ 415
Lindsay ..........................416
Clovis ............................. .417
Elysian .......................... 418
'Opland ......................... .419
Kerman ..........................420
Inglewood .................... ..421
Eagle Rock .................. ..422
York ............................. .423
Exeter ............................ 424
Holtville ...................... .425
Midway ......................... 426
Chino·Valley ............... ..427
San Dimas ...................... 428
Pittsburg ....................... .429
Mc Cloud ........................ 430
Alpha ............................. 431
Hammonton ................ ..433
Maricopa ...................... ..434
Fairmount ..................... .435
Claremont .................... .436
Lancaster ..................... .437
Acacia ............................438
Tyrian ............................439
Standard ........................ 440
Coronado ...................... 441

GRAND LODGE OF CALil<'ORNIA

Home
Home
General
:Maintenance Building
Fund

$20.00
H-0me Tax

217.50
207.50
233.00
205.00
76.50
197.50
52.00
367.00
105.00
48.50
56.50
135.50
263.50
44.50
76.50
25.00
172.50
180.00
75.50
103.00
256.50
62.00
32.50
157.00
112.00
83.00
75.00
60.00
192.50
31.00
41.50
57.00
42.00
211.50
34.00
91.00
322.50
46.50
65.50
51.00
56.00
162.50
83.50

1,120.00
460.00
520.00
220.00
320.00
220.00
220.00
1,060.00
420.00
80.00
120.00
140.00
260.00
140.00
360.00
20.00
460.00
380.00
200.00
340.00
560.00
220.00
80.00
500.00
680.00
240.00
220.00
220.00
440.00

529.25
450.25
508.70
424.50
191.35
409.25
118.80
838.30
256.50
98.15
125.35
277.45
538.65
103.55
190.35
48.50
387.75
405.00
172.45
249.70
567.35
133.80
68.75
376.30
303.80
190.70
166.50
148.00
442.75
59.90
85.85
127.30
93.80
448.85
67.60
194.90
678.75
102.35
166.45
105.90
118.40
353.75
183.65

108.75
103.75
116.50
102.50
38.25
98.75
26.00
183.50
52.50
24.25
28.25
67.75
131.75
22.25
38.25
12.50
86.25
90.00
37.75
51.50
128.25
31.00
16.25
78.50
56.00
41.50
37.50
30.00
96.25
15.50
20.75
28.50
21.00
105.75
17.00
45.50
161.25
23.25
32.75
25.50
28.00
81.25
41.75

100.00
140.00
120.00
360.00
20.00
160.00
520.00
120.00
360.00
80.00
80.00
280.00
160.00

Total

1,975.50
1,221.50
1,378.20
952.00
626.10
925.50
416.80
2,448.80
834.00
250.90
330.10
620.70
1,193.90
310.30
665.10
106.00
1,106.50
1.055.00
485.70
744.20
1,512.10
446.80
197.50
1.11 l.80
1,151.80
555.20
499.00
458.00
1,171.50
105.40
248.10
352.80
276.80
1,126.10
138.60
491.40
1,682.50
292.10
624.70
262.40
282.40
877.50
468.90

Lodge

:N'umber

Blackmer ........................ 442
Schofield ........................ 443
Carpinteria .................... 444
Wilshire ........................ 445
I.a Puente ..................... .446
Torrance ........................447
Mount Diablo ................ 448
!'ark ................................ 449
V:m :\'uys ...................... ..450
Montebello .................... 451
San Pasqual ................ ..452
Bethlehem .................... ..453
('rocker ........................ ..454
c-:olden West... ............. ..455
Ramona .......................... 457
I lenry S. Orme............ .458
Hiverbank ..................... .459
Mount Oso...................... 460
A1·gonaut ...................... 461
I'au! Revere ................... 462
Morgan Hill .................. 463
Alta Vista ...................... 464
( \·nter ............................ 465
I,ihertas ......................... .466
( :ulver City......... ..... .467
lfockridge ...................... 468
Vorba Linda ..................469
l.incoln ..........................470
I lelta ..............................471
Maui .............................. ..472
Blythe ............................ 473
Victory ..........................474
America ......................... .475
( :oachella ........................ 476
T1·mblor ......................... .477
Thousand Oaks ............ ..478
(;olden Rule ................... .479
Fellowship .................. 480
Mt. Davidson ................481
Clarence F. Smith ........ 482

Ill-II ................................. .483
Albert Pike ..................484
l 'howchilla .................... 485

General
Home
Fund
:Mnintennnec

537.30
229.80
61.25
586.20
85.90
252.20
141.50
540.50
259.80
263.45
367.65
419.85
255.70
552.80
262.90
797.60
68.75
189.85
368.50
620.50
85.40
329.15
324.IO
247.05
264.15
395.45
144.55
320.90
294.35
127.00
71.70
242.40
445.85
95.35
179.20
356.25
272.60
226.05
316.40
269.45
171.10
213.55
56.80

Home

229
$20.00

Building

Home Tax

108.50
217.00
46.00
92.00
13.75
27.50
139.00
278.00
20.50
41.00
44.00
88.00
32.50
65.00
122.50
245.00
51.00
102.00
52.75
105.50
71.75
143.50
95.75
191.50
56.50
113.00
136.00
272.00
55.50
l l l.00
167.00
334.00
16.25
32.50
40.75
81.50
82.50
165.00
142.50
285.00
18.00
36.00
74.25
148.50
69.50
139.00
54.75
109.50
49.25
98.50
87.75
175.50
32.25
64.50
70.50
141.00
68.25
136.50
30.00
60.00
16.50
33.00
58.00
116.00
95.75
191.50
18.25
36.50
39.00
78.00
73.75
147.50
52.00
104.00
44.75
89.50
68.00
136.00
52.75
105.50
34.50
69.00
42.25
84.50
11.00
22.00

Total

900.00
340.00
80.00
440.00
40.00
580.00
160.00
540.00
440.00
500.00
720.00
380.00
180.00
240.00
340.00
1,200.00
20.00
240.00
360.00
560.00
120.00
240.00
500.00
320.00
720.00
420.00
180.00
340.00
260.00
100.00
60.00
180.00
700.00
140.00
240.00
620.00
560.00
420.00
380.00
400.00
380.00
360.00
120.00

l,762.80
707.80
182.50
1,443.20
187.40
964.20
399.00
1,448.00
852.80
921.70
1,302.90
1,087.10
605.20
1.200.80
769.40
2,498.60
137.50
552.10
976.00
1,608.00
259.40
791.90
1,032.60
731.30

1,131.90
1,078.70
421.30
872.40
759.10
317.00
181.20
596.40
1,433.10
290.10
536.20
1,197.50
988.60
780.30
900.40
827.70
654.60
700.30
209.80

230

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
General
Lodge

Numbe1·

Caledonia ············- _______ .486
Vallejo ___________________________ .487
Patterson ______________________ 488
East Bay _______________________ .489
Corcoran ______________________ __490
Woodstock ____________________ 491
Garvanza ______________________ --492
Atascadero ____________________ 493
Acorn _____________________________ .494
Lebanon ________________________ --49S
Riverdale ______________________ 496
Fremont ________________________ --497
Stockton ________________________ 498
Capital City __________________ --499
Roosevelt ________________________ soo
Westwood ______________________ SOI
Harbor ____________________________ S02
Point ______________________________ S03
Seaside __________________________ S04
Silver Cord ____________________ sos
Mount Olive __________________ S06
El Segundo ____________________ S07
Joppa ______________________________ sos
Benjamin Franklin ______ S09
Cupertino ______________________ SlO
Sunnyvale ______________________ Sl I
Palms ______________________________ S!2
Cahuenga ______________________ SIJ
Argonne ________________________ Sl4
Vermont Square ____________ SlS
Taft ________________________________ Sl6
Mount Vernon ______________ Sl7
La Jolla __________________________ SlS
Euclid ____________________________ Sl9
Ionic ________________________________ S20
Piedmont ________________________ S21
Sunrise __________________________ s22
Bellflower ______________________ S23
Catalina Island ______________ S24
George Washington ______ S2S
Bay City _________________________ S26
Covenant ________________________ S27

E'und

1S9.10
2Sl.2S
80.3S
307.SS
8S.10
163.lS
166.3S
SO.SS
267.10
293.SO
S3.60
193.20
121.8S
141.20
126.00
17S.4S
lS0.80
106.4S
262.00
226.0S
290.00
134.2S
68.SO
2S8.SS
6S.20
81.50
176.3S
374.6S
320.30
3S7.0S
194.70
232.lS
108.40
2S8.80
263.20
208.40
173.90
168.70
131.0S
312.9S
131.6S
279.70

Home
1'faintenance

34.SO
48.7S
18.2S
62.2S
19.SO
34.2S
33.2S
12.2S
S4.SO
62.SO
12.00
39.00
2S.7S
29.00
2S.OO
27.7S
31.00
22.7S
4S.OO
44.7S
40.00
28.7S
12.SO
42.2S
14.00
17.SO
28.2S
56.7S
63.SO
64.7S
31.SO
39.2S
23.00
Sl.00
39.00
48.00
3S.SO
26.SO
24.7S
S0.2S
36.7S
46.SO

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Building

$20.00
Home Tax

Total

69.00
97.SO
36.SO
124.SO
39.00
68.SO
66.SO
24.SO
109.00
12S.OO
24.00
78.00
Sl.50
SS.00
S0.00
SS.SO
62.00
4S.SO
90.00
89.50
80.00
S7.SO
2S.OO
84.SO
28.00
3S.OO
S6.SO
113.SO
127.00
129.SO
63.00
78.SO
46.00
102.00
78.00
96.00
71.00
S3.00
49.SO
100.SO
73.SO
93.00

200.00
S60.00
60.00 480.lJO
100.00
220.00
240.00
40.00
460.00
320.00
60.00
340.00
160.00
220.00
160.00
S40.00
220.00
120.00
720.00
soo.oo
1,100.00
220.00
160.00
780.00
80.00
180.00
S40.00
1,180.00
660.00
860.00
600.00
S20.00
240.00
soo.oo
760.00
220.00
300.00
460.00
340.00
740.00
240.00
620.00

462.60
9S7.SO
19S.10
974.30
243.60
48S.90
S06.10
127.30
890.60
801.00
149.60
6S0.20
3S9.10
448.20
361.00
798.70
463.80
294.70
1,117.00
860.30
1,Sl0.00
440.SO
266.00
l,16S.30
187.20
314.00
801.10
1,724.90
1,170.80
1,411.30
889.20
869.90
417.40
911.80
1,140.20
S72.40
S80.40
708.20
S4S.30
1,203.70
S31.90
1,039.20

Lodge

Number

Beverly Hills _______ ,__________ S28
Loyalty ____________________ ., ____ S29
Sun Garden _______ ,____________ S30
Alexandria ____________________ S31
Smyrna __________________________ S32
Azure _______________ ., _____________ S33
Forest Hill --------- __________ S34
Alexander H amilton ____ S3S
'Seal Rock_ _______________________ S36
Utopia ____________________________ S37
Ascot ______________________________ S38
Belvedere ______________________ S39
Queen Beach. _________________ S40
ITenry Morse Stephens S41
Lankershim __________________ S42
Signal ____________________________ S43
Clendale ________________________ S44
Jonathan ________________________ S4S
San Gabricl ______ .. ____________ S46
Arcadia __________________________ S47
Triangle _______________________ S48
Justice ____________________________ S49
Seaport -----------------·------- sso
Lakeshore ______________________ SS!
Semper Vircns ______________ SS2
Colden City ____________________ SS3
l•:ducator ______________ ., ________ SS4
White Pine -------·-·------·---SSS
Fairfax __________________________ SS6
11 ermosa ________________________ ss7
Point Firmin __________________ 5S8
(' ra f tsmen ____________________ SS9
I'lymouth ______________________ S60
l•:ast San Dicgo ____________ S61
I'yramicl ----·----------·--------S62
South Park _________ ., _________ S63
Foothill ---------·--·-------------S64
West Adams __________________ S6S
James A. (~artield ________ S66
Searchlight ____________________ S67
Park Boulevard ____________ S68
( :J1ateau Thierry ____________ S69
Military Scrvice .. __________ s70

General
l~'und

206.4S
IS l.20
269.00
IS2.0S
66.0S
164.35
120.40
83.80
124.6S
374.3S
273.2S
200.40
133.4S
2S9.9S
193.3S
309.10
393.2S
200.0S
129.00
9S.20
134.6S
IS8.60
164.90
212.SO
106.10
99.70
1S2.90
103.10
68.40
109.6S
214.IS
2S6.9S
142.2S
170.7S
166.7S
431.70
173.70
203.70
109.60
332.70
168.4S
116.8S
218.SS

Home
J\Inintenance

&me
Building

231
$20.00
Home Tax

Total

32.7S
6S.SO
680.00
984.70
29.00
S8.00
320.00
SS8.20
4S.OO
90.00
760.00
1,164.00
29.7S
S9.SO
280.00
S21.30
14.7S
29.SO
100.00
210.30
33.2S
66.SO
340.00
604.10
23.00
46.00
240.00
429.40
16.00
32.00
180.00
311.80
21.7S
43.SO
320.00
S09.90
S3.2S
106.SO 1,260.00
1,794.10
38.7S
77.SO
960.00
1,349.SO
38.00
76.00
280.00
S94.40
22.7S
4S.SO
400.00
601.70
SO.ZS
100.SO
480.00
890.70
38.2S
76.SO
320.00
628.10
49.SO
99.00
920.00
1,377.60
63.7S
127.SO 1,080.00
1,664.SO
29.7S
S9.SO
600.00
889.30
2S.OO
S0.00
340.00
S44.00
19.00
38.00
260.00
412.20
21.7S
43.SO
320.00
Sl9.90
27.00
S4.00
440.00
679.60
30.SO
61.00
300.00
SS6.40
32.SO
6S.OO
660.00
970.00
19.SO
39.00
240.00
404.60
16.SO
33.00
260.00
409.20
20.SO
41.00
S20.00
734.40
19.SO
39.00
300.00
461.60
13.00
26.00
160.00
267.40
21.7S
43.SO
220.00
394.90
34.2S
68.SO
S60.00
876.90
40.2S
80.50
S40.00
917.70
23.7S
47.SO
360.00
S73.SO
31.2S
62.SO
360.00
624.SO
26.25
S2.SO
440.00
68S.SO
SI.SO
103.00 1,640.00
2,226.20
26.SO
S3.00
S80.00
833.20
26.SO
S3.00
780.00
1,063.20
17.00
34.00
300.00
460.60
Sl.50
103.00 1,060.00
1,S47.20
27.7S
SS.SO
480.00
731.70
20.7S
41.SO
340.00
S19.10
37.2S
74.SO
480.00
810.30

232

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Lodge

Number

Francis K. Shattuck_ ___ 571
James Madison ______________ 572
Hillcrest ________________________ 573
S. W. HacketL_. _________ 574
Fort Crook ----····--·-----····575
El Cajon Valley ............ 576
Sunnyside ····--··---··---------577
Progressive ·······------····-578
Warren G. Harding .... 579
Santa Maria ······--------····580
Security ----···-·------··--·------581
Rialto -------·--------···----------·582
Wasco ····----·-··--·-----·---··-·583
Harding --··--------···-------····584
Manchester ·····-----··--------585
Garden Grove ________________ 586
Valley Forge·--··------·····--587
El Sereno _______ ·····-·--··-··---588
Kauai ---·--------···-------····----589
Compass ---·--·-------···-------590
Escalon ---···------····-- ....... 591
Tujunga --··-----··-------··------592
All States ______________________ .. 593
Service -------·-·- ______________ .. 594
Alexander Graham Bell 595
Guardian --···-------··-- _____ .. 596
Truth -----··-----·-------··-·-·----597
Pearl Harbor -----··· ______ .598
Carmelita ······--·····---- -- 599
Lynwood ····--···-····-----··---600
Grizzly --···-·-·······--···-------·601
Melrose ----···· --···-·----···---602
Dimond ····--····-----····------ 603
Jubilee ·-··----····--······------··604
Glassell Park ···------···----605
Sojourner --···-······-----··---607
Granada ·------··-----··------·-608
Provident -------···
___ 609
Elmhurst ____________________ 610
Owensmouth -----·-----·----611
Workman ··--···------·-----·-·612
Three Pillars .................. 613
Larchmont .................... 614

General
Home
Fund
.Maintenance

169.65
137.15
38.05
219.05
79.05
81.45
339.60
288.05
89.35
50.20
146.85
57.40
47.95
140.75
261.50
54.85
216.60
114.20
76.95
100.20
52.00
76.20
249.70
203.00
181.70
123.20
93.50
123.40
136.90
56.45
79.00
100.15
113.35
57.80
218.30
92.15
127.85
63.90
119.15
104.65
62.95
97.20
144.40

26.75
19.25
9.75
34.75
14.75
17.75
52.00
34.75
18.25
9.00
25.75
13.00
10.25
21.25
32.50
10.75
27.00
19.00
15.25
19.00
10.00
14.00
26.50
25.00
21.50
19.00
17.50
18.00
20.50
12.75
15.00
14.25
18.25
11.00
23.50
19.25
15.75
10.50
19.25
16.75
10.25
14.00
18.00

Home
Building

$20.00
Home Tax

Total

53.50
38.50
19.50
69.50
29.50
35.50
104.00
69.50
36.50
18.00
51.50
26.00
20.50
42.50
65.00
21.50
54.00
38.00
30.50
38.00
20.00
28.00
53.00
50.00
43.00
38.00
35.00
36.00
41.00
25.50
30.00
28.50
36.50
22.00
47.00
38.50
31.50
21.00
38.50
33.50
20.50
28.00
36.00

500.00
440.00
40.00
620.00
180.00
100.00
860.00
1,080.00
160.00
160.00
360.00
200.00
180.00
380.00
880.00
120.00
880.00
240.00
200.00
320.00
80.00
260.00
1,040.00
840.00
640.00
340.00
180.00
380.00
440.00
80.00
180.00
360.00
300.00
140.00
1,040.00
200.00
540.00
180.00
280.00
460.00
180.00
280.00
580.00

749.90
634.90
107.30
943.30
303.30
234.70
1,355.60
1,472.30.
304.10
237.20
584.10
296.40
258.70
584.50
1,239.00
207.10
1,177.60
411.20
322.70
477.20
162.00
378.20
1,369.20
1,118.00
886.20
520.20
326.00
557.40
638.40
174.70
304.00
502.90
468.10
230.80
1,328.80
349.90
715.10
275.40
456.90
614.90
273.70
419.20
778.40

General
Home
11,und
.Maintenance

233

Home
Iluilcling

$20.00
Home Tax

Total

27.50
12.00
11.00
32.00
20.50
13.50
29.00
27.00
23.00
18.50
48.00
29.50
20.00

240.00
80.00
100.00
420.00
340.00
100.00
680.00
720.00
640.00
340.00
1,920.00
260.00
340.00

364.50
132.80
149.40
598.80
450.70
161.90
879.60
911.80
790.20
446.90
2,293.20
390.30
446.00

Total chartered Lodges ... .138,679.40 30,203.25 60,406.50 174,600.00

403,889.15

Lodge

Number

I lemet ·-----··········--- _______ 615
Seal Beach __ ········------····· 616
llig Bear ················--------617
Southland ··-·········-----·····618
Neptune --········----·······---619
I'eninsula ·---·-·······--·-·······620
The Gardens .................. 621
Atwater ----··············-·······622
Mcnorah ----······--·-·-··-·····623
l.'ortitude ------···········-···---624
Angeles M esa ................ 625
("hula Vista .................... 626
l,amanda Park ..............627

83.25
34.80
32.90
130.80
79.95
41.65
156.10
151.30
115.70
79.15
301.20
86.05
76.00

U.D. LoDGES
76.55
12.25
44.80
6.00
98.70
11.50
60.45
7.75
111.55
12.25
50.15
9.25
86.20
14.00
64.00
10.00
88.25
13.75
42.45
7.75
48.70
6.50
67.45
12.75
39.50
7.50
30.55
7.25
37.60
7.00
59.85
5.75
55.20
9.00
25.95
5.25
28.75
6.25
24.05
4.75
36.60
7.00
27.80
6.00

llcacon of the WesLU.D.
l.'airview ---········-··-----···U.D.
I ng-leside -------········-··----U.D.
ll<•nevolence ··-------·-·····U.D.
Normal Heights .... ____ U.D.
I 'oinsettia ·-------····-······· U.D.
Victorville .................. U.D.
I~ iverside ·····--·-·········-· U.D.
.John Marshall ....... _____ U.D.
Indian Rock -----···········U.D.
0

l 0111posite .................... U.D.

l'alisades ·····---------······U.D.
.James A. Foshay ..... ___ U.D.
I,a Cumbre .................. U.D.
V<·ritas ---······-·······-------U.D.
Alta Loma ---·-···--········U.D.
I.c1mita ----------·-·--··------- U.D.
A. F. E. Irwin ____________ U.D.
I lawthorne .................. U.D.
Ml'!ropolitan ·---···-····-·U.D.
I >amascus ------··············U.D.
lo'l11rence ·····------···········U.D.
Total Lodges U.D.............

13.75
6.00
5.50
16.00
10.25
6.75
14.50
13.50
11.50
9.25
24.00
14.75
10.00

1,205.10

General
li,und

189.50

Home
.:.\Ialntenance

24.50
12.00
23.00
15.50
24.50
18.50
28.00
20.00
27.50
15.50
13.00
25.50
15.00
14.50
14.00
11.50
18.00
10.50
12.50
9.50
14.00
12.00

280.00
180.00
440.00
220.00
500.00
160.00
280.00
260.00
440.00
100.00
240.00
480.00
120.00
40.00
60.00
480.00
280.00
120.00
60.00
60.00
140.00
100.00

393.30
242.80
573.20
303.70
648.30
237.90
408.20
354.00
569.50
165.70
308.20
585.70
182.00
92.30
118.60
557.10
362.20
161.70
107.50
98.30
197.60
145.80

379.00

5,040.00

6,813.60

Home
Building

$20.00
Home Tax

Total

( "hartered Lodges ........$138,679.40 $30,203.25 $60,406.50 $174,600.00 $403,889.15
l.odg-cs U.D. ·············--1,205.10
189.50
379.00
5,040.00
6,813.60

Total ..........................$139,884.50 $30,392.75 $60,785.50 $179,640.00 $410,702.75

;;34

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
To the M:. W.' .Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on By-Laws has had under consideration the twentytwo lodges under dispensation and finds them all to be in proper form.
They have also carefully considered the eighty-nine amendments to the
by-laws of regular lodges and with the exception of a few minor corrections, which have been made by the committee, they were found to be
in proper from, and we therefore recommend that they all be approved.
s. B. FORCE,
JAMES W. BELL,

v. E. PERRY,
J. H. McG1u,
J. H. MURRAY,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY
To the lrf:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Necrology presents the following report :
While we realize that life is ours but for a span, and that as God
has given, so shall He take away, none of us is desirous of making the
change ourselves, nor are we ever quite prepared to have our friends
pass from us into that mystic land of life eternal. He who has lived an
honorable, upright life here is assured of admission into that Celestial
Lodge above, for has not the Great Master of love said: "Let not your
heart be troubled; ye believe in God, believe also in me. In my Father's
house are many mansions; if it were not so, I would have told you. T
go to prepare a place for you. And if I go and prepare a place for you, I
will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye
may be also."
During the past year death has removed from our midst many of
our brethren-staunch and true, among them being the Very Reverend
Dean William MacCormack, and Worshipful Bro. Henry D. French.
Brother MacCormack was born in the year 1866, and answered the
final summons Monday, January 4, 1926. His was a lovely life, and a life
of love. During his eighteen years as Dean of St. Paul's Protestant Episcopal Cathedral in Los Angeles, he endeared himself, not only to the members of his congregation and his :\fasonic brethren, but to all who knew
him or knew of him. His going was a distinct loss to all. Dean :\facCormack possessed all those attributes which go to make a man's man, and he

235

was truly' such. He possessed to a marked degree that essential characteristic of the Great Architect of the Universe-love. Love-which serves
without hope of reward and gives without expectation of return. 'vVe
hear much about the influence of love; its kindness, unselfishness, and
its pleasures and delights, but too little do we realize that love is more
than all these-it is power, a force that is mighty. It never fails, and it
alone can endure to the end, and will survive when all else succumbs.
Love is not boastful, nor does it behave itself unseemly. "How rare and
how precious is the jewel of love." Brother Maccormack showed us
what love is; in fact he gave it to us and it will keep him with us, and
will not let him go.
Dean MacCormack served as Grand Chaplain of this Grand Lodge
and, at the time of his death, was orator of the Scottish Right Bodies of
the Valley of Los Angeles. He was an honorary member of the Supreme
Council 33°. He was also a Knight Templar, and a member of the
Shrine, and served both bodies in a number of offices of distinction.
Brother Henry D. French of Riverside, Inspector of the 91st Masonic
District, answered the call on July 19, 1926. He was born in 1863 and,
as he grew to manhood, developed attributes of the highest type. For
nearly twenty-five years he gave much of his time to, and used his
splendid abilities for, the advancement of Freemasonry in the City an<l
County of Riverside, and throughout our California jurisdiction.
"By their works ye shall know them," and by his works was Brother
French best known. Not only did he labor faithfully in the Masonic vineyard, the Blue Lodge, Chapter, Commandcry, Consistory and the Shrine,
but took an active part in city and county civic affairs, as a result of
which he earned, through his untiring efforts, the love and esteem of his
brethren and the confidence of all who knew him.
Many others of our brethren-good men and true-have been taken
from our ranks during the year and, while it is not possible for us at
this time to chronicle their names, or their deeds of love and kindness,
we have no doubt but what they have found an abiding peace in "that
spiritual building; that house not made with hands-eternal in the
Heavens."
Respectfully submitted,
BEN G. \VRIGHT,
MAX A. Pr.UMll,
w ALTER L. RERGE!l,
Committee.

The report was adopted, and Grand Lodge was called
up in silent tribute to those of our brethren who have
passed to the realm "where the rainbow never fades."

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee on Necrology was most anxious to carry out the
instruction given us to include in our report "those who have labored in
and served their lodges as officers," but we found that the necessary
information was not available for the reason that our lodges are not now
required to report this most important data.
We, therefore, recommend that necessary arrangements be made
requiring all lodges to furnish the Grand Secretary full information
regarding the deaths of members serving, or who have served, their
lodges as officers.
Respectfully submitted,
BEN WRIGHT,
MAX

A. PLUMB,

w ALTER L. BERGER,
Adopted.

Committee.

PRESCRIBED JEWELS
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Ritual, to whom was referred the matter of
prescribing a form of jewel for Grand Master, Past Grand Master and
Past Master, respectfully recommend that the jewel of the Grand Master
be the compass extended to sixty degrees on the fourth part of a circle,
and quadrant, with an effulgent sun in center; that the jewel of a Past
Grand Master be the same except that the center shall be an all-seeing
eye; that the jewel of a Past Master shall be the compass extended tu
sixty degrees on a quadrant, with an effulgent sun in the center.
Designs for the jewels are submitted herewith.
THOS.

J. BAKER,

DANA R. WEUER,
WILLIAM

P. FILMER,

Report adopted.

Committee.

PAST
GRAND MASTER

GRAND MASTER

PAST MA$TER

237

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

io the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
This is the report of your Committee on Charters:
, The great fraternity of Freemasons throughout its entire existence,
(and who dare say how many years that represents?-) has always insisted that men should come to its doors entirely of their own free will.
It wanted as new members only those freeborn, worthy, reputable .men
who had formed a favorable judgment about the fraternity, and came to
it for that excellent reason and not from feelings of curiosity. It did
not then, and does not now, acquire members by solicitation.
There is no such rule, however, about acquiring new lodges. Naturally, based on residence and life work, Masons form different family or
lodge groupings, and change these from time to time. In some cases,
our western cities and towns have grown so fast that inevitably the
time came where one lodge would no longer serve, but two or three, or
dozens more, have been added from time to time. The advantage of
many new lodges is great. The membership in each such lodge being
smaller, know each the other brother, and know something of his work,
his family, his general welfare. In these small bodiPs, no doubt there is
more cordiality and good fellowship, more lodge friendships and brotherly handshakes, more conviviality at banquets even though the banquets
are perforce more. frugal, more open and generous and helping hands to
the distressed Mason and to his widow and orphan children. The only
possible advantage a lodge in excess of 300 members has over small
lodges, is in its financial ability to erect, as a credit to the fraternity, the
many superb Masonic temples that have been builrled in the past five
years in this State.
Probably no one has been more insistent in declaiming the advantages
of many lodges (many members are not wanted if they merely become
members and not Masons) than Past Grand Master Samuel Edgerton
Burke. His Grand Master's message and many addresses in the year
1922, emphasized his belief; his own year brought to us 26 new lodges;
that of Brother Grand Master Sherman, his successor, brought 39; of
Brother Grand Master Crites, in 1924, 21 lodges; of Brother Grand
Master Reese last year, 27 lodges. This year, under our Grand Master
Albert Eugene Boynton, your present Committee on Charters, had to
consider the cases of 22 new lodges. The aggregate for the five years
is 135 lodges or an average of 27 new lodges yearly.
It is interesting to observe that these 22 dispensations this year were
issued on petitions for dispensations which were signed by 626 brothers;
and their returns show 125 affiliations and 130 members raised, or a
total membership of 881.

23$

I

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

239

GRAND LODGE OF t.::ALIFORNIA

f

Your committee has carefully examined the records of these ';fl
applicant-lodges. We find them clear of all debts, as they are requir/rl
to be, and should be. Aside from minor omissions in some of the recortls,
which have been promptly and cheerfully corrected upon . our request,
they now in all instances substantially comply with the requirements of
our Constitution; and we find that these lodges under dispensation have
been conducted in due Masonic manner ; and we recommend that charters
issue to them in the order of their respective dispensations, with the
following numbers :
Beacon of the West Lodge, No. 628, at Los Angeles;
Fairview Lodge, No. 629, at Inglewood;
Ingleside Lodge, No. 630, at San Francisco;
Benevolence Lodge, No. 631, at Los Angeles;
Normal Heights Lodge, No. 632, at San Diego;
Poinsettia Lodge, No. 633, at San Buenaventura;
Victorville Lodge, No. 634, at Victorville;
Riverside Lodge, No. 635, at Riverside;
John Marshall Lodge, No. 636, at Los Angeles;
Palisades Lodge, No. 637, at Santa Monica;
Indian Rock Lodge, No. 638, at Berkeley;
Composite Lodge, No. 639, at Los Angeles;
Veritas Lodge, No. 640, at San Francisco;
James A. Foshay Lodge, No. 641, at Los Angeles;
La Cumbre Lodge, No. 642, at Santa Barbara;
Alta Loma Lodge, No. 643, at Signal Hill;
Lomita Lodge, No. 644, at Lomita;
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge, No. 645, at San Pedro ;
Metropolitan Lodge, No. 646, at Los Angeles;
Hawthorne Lodge, No. 647, at Hawthorne;
Damascus Lodge, No. 648, at San Bernardino;
Florence Lodge, No. 649, at Florence, California.
Fraternally submitted,
RALPH A. CHASE,
THOMAS INGRAM,

D. w. MOTT,
WINFRED

J. SANBORN,
Committee.

The report was adopted and charters ordered to be
issued accordingly.

\

REPORT ON LASSEN MONUMENT SITE

T~the M.'.W:.Gra11d Lodge of California:
\Your Special Committee on Lassen Monument Site begs leave to
repdrt that the unfortunate and regrettable illness and death of Brother
Hugb C. Chamberlain, chairman of the Committee, delayed any and all
actio~ as far as the duties imposed upon this Committee were concerned;
that the delay thus occasioned necessitated the re-organization of the
committee until so late a date that it was impossible to complete the
negotiations or to follow the directions of the Grand Master.
The sum of $500.00 appropriated by this Grand Lodge at its 1926
communication is still intact and 110 further appropriation is needed at
this time.
We respectfully recommend a continuation of the committee, subject
to the direction and instruction of the incoming Grand Master.
D. J. REESE,
JULES ALEXANDER,
E[{NEST

c. BONNEil,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

REPORT ON WESTERN STAR LODGE
To the M.'.W:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee appointed to investigate and report to this Grand
Lodge what necessary steps should be taken to restore, preserve and
safeguard the old Masonic Building o_f Western Star Lodge No. 2 at
Shasta, its old records and relics, beg leave to report as follows :
In order to fully advise you .of the conditions surrounding this
matter a brief description of this Masonic Building is necessary.
The Masonic Hall building at Shasta is a two-story and basement
brick building constructed of native brick in 1853. As was customary
in those days the doors and windows are iron shuttered ; in fact the
whole ensemble is remindful of the days of '49. The lodge room is
upstairs and its furniture is likewise of an ancient vintage, the only
modern thing in the1 building being electric lights.
The town of Shasta is situated about seven miles from Redding
on the Weaverville lateral of the State Highway system which forms
the connecting link of the Eureka or Coast to Sacramento Valley Highway terminating. at Redding. More and more travel passes this old
Masonic Building yearly. In his annual report, Past Grand Master
Reese marked the fact that the Tiler's register shows numerous visitors
annually viewing the relics of this old lodge.

240

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Western Star Lodge has acquired a two-story brick building, 3Sx
feet, immediately adjoining the hall which, if the plan herewith subm' ted is carried out, will be used for its meeting place in the future.
It is proposed to leave the old lodge room intact, to be used, h wever, as a Masonic Museum where may be seen the old records, f niture and relics which have accumulated there for the past eighty y ars.
The building will be substantially fireproof, it being proposed to re 10ve
therefrom such inflammable material as can be dispensed with.
I
A competent architect has carefully gone over the buildings and
has estimated the cost of restoring the buildings to approximate seven
thousand dollars. Your committee feels that the expenditure of this
amount of money is justified by the end gained for the fraternity at
large. That the records, building and relics should be preserved there
is no question but they also should be accessible to the travelling Masonic brother when good fortune brings him into this locality and this
can only be accomplished by the plan proposed.
Your committee therefore respectfully suggests that the sum of
seven thousand dollars or any such part thereof be appropriated by this
Grand Lodge for the purp<;>ses aforesaid, said money to be spent under
the direction of a committee of three appointed by the Grand Master.
Respectfully submitted,

G. c. DEFOREST,
TosEPH }ONES,
OTTO

G.

TRAUTZ,

Committee.

Referred to the Comm.ittee on Finance.

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
Omnibus Report
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:
·Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the following· trial records, to wit:
Record No. 464 from South Gate Lodge, No. 320 ;
''Record No. 46S from Loyalty Lodge, No. S29;
Record No. 467 f ram Fellowship Lodge, No. 480 ;
"Record No. 468 from Mission Lodge, No. 169:
Record No. 418 from Redlands Lodge, No. 328;
Record No. 469 from Alta Vista Lodge, No. 464;
Record No. 471 f ram Fremont Lodge No. 497 ;
Record No. 420 from Berkeley Lodge No. 363;
Record No. 477 from Highland Park No. 382;
Record No. 474 from Alexander Graham Bell Lodge, No. S9S;

\

241

Record No. 479 from Eel River Lodge, No. 147;
I Record No 481 from Pacific Lodge No. 136;

Lo1ec~~~ ~o: 482 from Victory Lodge No. 474, tried by Californi<.
ecord No. 487 from King David's Lodge, Ko. 209;
ecord No. 488 from Chowchilla Lodge No. 485 ;
Record No. 491 from Bell Lodge No. 493;
Record No. 41S from South San Francisco Lodge, No. 212;
Record No. 492 from Silver Trowell Lodge, No. 41S;
Record No. 494 from Washington Lodge, No. 20;
Record No. 49S from Seaside Lodge, No. S04 :
Record No. 496 from Silver Gate Lodge No. 296;
Record No. 497 from San Diego Lodge, No. 3S;
Record No. 498 from Alcatraz Lodge No. 244;
Record No. S03 from San Diego Lodge, No. 35;
Record No. S04 from San Diego Lodge No. 3S;
Record No. SOS f ram Stockton Lodge No. 498;
Record No. S08 from Inglewood Lodge, No. 421:
Record No. S09 from Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292.
Respectfully reports that after careful examination it finds that in
each of these cases, so referred to the committee, there was at least a
substantial compliance with the constitution and regulations ; that in
those cases where the same were not strictly complier! with, the error in
no way prejudiced either the accused or accuser. Tn none of these cases
was an appeal taken and in each instance the substantial rights of the
parties was safeguarded.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption :
"Resol'l!ed, that the action of the trial commissioners in each of the
cases hereinabove referred to be, and the same is hereby approved, sustained and affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
!\o. 484, fro)Tl Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, recommend the adoption of
the following resolution:
Resol'l!ed, that the judgment of the trial commissioners in this case
be and the same is hereby reversed and the case remanded for a new
trial upon proper specifications, directly charging the accused with
offenses charged, instead of charging him with being arrested, pleading
guilty and sentenced by the Federal Court in pursuance thereof; and
that in the event of a retrial, the accused be given the opportunity to
produce evidence in exculpation or extenuation of the offense charged.

Adopted.

PIWCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial rec d
No. 485, from Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, find the same errors a.5.J in
case No. 484, and recommend that the case be remanded for a rw
trial upon proper specifications.
(

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No, 486, an Entered Apprentice, tried by Balder lodge No. 393 and
expelled, from which judgment the accused has appealed, report that
we find no error in the record and recommend that the judgment of
the lodge be affirmed.

242

Adopted.

(

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 514 from Stanislaus Lodge No. 206, beg leave to report as follows:
The specifications in this case are fatally defective in that the same
do not charge the accused with the commission of any offense, but only
that he plead guilty of the crime of embezzlement and was sentenced
to San Quentin. This is insufficient as the specifications should have
charged him with committing the crime. No te~timony of any kind was
offered in support of the charge. The Master stated that the Court
records showed that the accused plead guilty to the charge of embezzlement and was sentenced. This was hearsay, not competent testimony.
A certified copy of the record of conviction of the accused should have
been introduced.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption.
"Resolved, that the judgment in this case be reversed and the case
remanded for a new trial on amended specifications to be filed."

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the petition
for restoration of H. A. S., a former member of Hawaiian Lodge, No.
21, expelled by Mission Lodge, No. 169, recommend that inasmuch as
Hawaiian Lodge interposes strong opposition to such restoration, the
prayer of petitioner be denied without prejudice.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the petition
of Evergreen Lodge No. 259 for the restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry of C. H. D., a former member of said Lodge, expelled upon appeal taken to this Grand Lodge in 1921, find that there
appears to be no good reason for refusing to grant such petition, and
recommend that C. H. D., formerly a member of Evergreen Lodge No.
259, be and he is hereby restored to all the rights and privileges of
Masonry, as a member at large, under the jurisdiction of this Grand
Lodge.

Adopted.

243

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 506, from Huntington Beach Lodge No. 380, begs to report that
the record discloses that the judgment of suspension by the lodge was
inadequate to fit the provein charges, and recommend that the judgment
of the trial commissioners be sustained but that the penalty fixed be and
the same is hereby raised to expulsion.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom trial record No. 507, from
Colusa Lodge No. 240, F. & A. M., begs leave to report as follows:
The accused in the case was charged with unmasonic conduct in
manufacturing illicit and intoxicating liquor.
The accused, as shown by the charges, was a member of the lodge
in which he was tried, and the charges were preferred by the Junior
Warden by direction of the Master.
The procedure was a violation of Section 410 of the Regulations,
and the lodge was without jurisdiction to try the case. It should, under
the circumstances, have been referred to another lodge for trial.
Other substantial defects appear in the record, such as, the absence
of a certificate showing that the accused, who was not present at the
trial, or represented by counsel, had ever been duly served with the
summons.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption :
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by trial record No.
507 be, and the same is hereby reversed, and the case remanded for
new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial Record No. 500, from Center Lodge No. 465, F. & A. "M., begs leave to
report, as follows :
The Trial Commission failed to find upon the charge of un-Masonic
conduct, and for this reason the judgment must be reversed and the
case remanded for a new trial; but in addition to this, the record of the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

244

II

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

245

(

trial discloses a disregard for the well established rules of evidence
that should not be countenanced. It contains much hearsay, conclusibns
and surmises of witnesses, and on the whole is unconvincing and unsatisfactory.
Upon a retrial of this case the trial commission should scrupulously
insist that the well known rules of evidence and procedure prescribetl
by our constitution shall be strictly adhered to, for a failure to do so
will only result in unnecessary expense and trouble not only to the Trial
Lodge but to the Grand Lodge, and such practices often result in gross
injustice.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption :
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by the Trial Record
Ko. 500, be, and the same is, hereby reversed, and the case remanded for
a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances. to whom was referred trial record
No. 490 from Eden Lodge No. 113, begs leave to report as follows:
lt is regrettable that the trial as shown by the record was so replete with fatal errors that the judgment must be reversed and the case
remanded for a new trial, for if the charges are true the extreme penalty would be well merited.
First, the record shows that the accuser was elected a member of
the trial commission, took part in the trial, deliberations and decision,
in violation of Section 197 of the constitution.
Second, the Master named the 7th day of December, 1925, as the
time for the first meeting of the trial commissioners, and directed the
issuance and service of summons to the accused to appear at that time.
The record shows that the summons was served on the accused on the
28th day of November, 1925, less than ten days, thus failing to meet
'
the requirements of Section 199 of the Constitution.
Third, the evidence in the case is almost entirely hearsay, if not
quite so, and therefore inadmissible under Section 202 of the constitution.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption :
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by the trial record
No. 490, be and the same is hereby reversed, and the case remanded
for a new trial.

Adopted.

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial No.
480, from \Vest Gate Lodge No. 335, F. & A. M., begs leave to report,
as follows:
The accused was charged with un-Masonic conduct, in that he did
on a certain date commit the crime of forgery, to which charge he plead
guilty and was sentenced to the State Prison. The record shows that
the accused was charged with fifteen other counts of forgery by the
indictment and that he had been for some months engaged in systematic
course of perpetrating frauds by which he and his wife, his co-defendant,
were reputed to have secured in the neighborhood of $100,000.00.
The case seems to be a peculiarly aggravated one and it is hard to
understand why the trial commission imposed merely the penalty of
suspension.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution, and
moves its adoption :
Resolved, that the finding of the trial commission in trial record
No. 335 be, and the same is, hereby affirmed, but that the penalty be, and
the same is, hereby modified and fixed at expulsion.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 434, from Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469, begs leave to report that
the evidence fully justified the judgment of suspension imposed by thr
trial commissioners, and we recommend that the judgment and penalty
be approved.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Appeals and Grievances to whom was referred
the petition for restoration of I. C., a Fellow Craft and former member
of Speranza ltaliana Lodge No. 219, expelled by that lodge in October,
1918, beg leave to report:
This petitioner was tried by the above lodge <ind expelled for violation of Section 13 of the Selective Service Act of May 18, 1917 (Draft
Act) which section prohibited the keeping or setting up of houses of
ill-fame within a certain distance of a military camp, post or mobilization place; or the receiving of any person in or the permitting of any
person to rerriain for immoral purposes in any place. structure or building used for the purpose of lewdness, assignation nr prostitution within
the above prohibited distance. The violation of this section was denounced as a misdemeanor punishable by a fine of not more than $1000
or imprisonment for not more than 12 months, or both.

241

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The record shows that the petitioner was given the maximum of
imprisonment by Judge Dooling, a very fair and impartial judge;
whether he was fined does not appear from the record.
Due notice of the filing of the petition was given to the lodge; and
the petition is accompanied by five recommendatory letters from five
Master Masons of good standing; but in view of the sordidness of the
offense of which the petitioner was found guilty, and in view of the
degraded character of a man who was guilty of such an offense, we do
not feel that any adequate showing has been made for his restoration
at this time, and we feel that the petition should be denied.
We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the petition of I. C., a Fellow Craft, for his restoration to his rights and privileges as a Fellow Craft Mason, be, and the
same is, hereby denied.

this unfortunate jurisdictional defect the decision of the trial commission must be set aside and the case sent back for a new trial. We recommend that it be remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Appeals and Grievances, to whom was referred
the petition for restoration of S. B. G., a Master Mason expelled by
Fillmore Lodgti No. 379 in 1921, beg leave to report as follows:
Absolutely no showing is made by the petitioner in his behalf, and
there is no reason why the petition should be granted.
'vVe therefore offer the following resolution, and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the petition for restoration of membership of S. B.
G., formerly a member of Fillmore Lodge No. 379, be and the same
is hereby denied.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 476, tried by South Gate Lodge No. 320, beg leave to report that
the judgment of the trial commissioners showed improper leniency to
a depraved member, and we recommend that the finding of guilty of
the accused be approved, but that the penalty awarded by the trial commission be modified from suspension to expulsion.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 489, from Truckee Lodge No. 200, beg leave to report that the
summons to the accused, who was out of the county, was mailed less
than thirty days before the date set for the trial. The trial commission therefore did not have jurisdiction over the accused to try him
for the offense charged, and the trial was in consequence a nullity. For

247

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 501, a member of Hope Lodge No. 234, tried by Plumas Lodge No.
60, and acquitted, from which judgment Hope Lodge appealed, report
that we have carefully read the long record and briefs in the case, and
find that there is no merit in the appeal. We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, that the decision of the trial commission in the above
record be and the same is hereby affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was rnferred trial record
No. 513 tried in Stanislaus Lodge No. 206 respectfully reports as
follows:
Accused was charged with un-Masonic conduct as set forth in one
specification: "That on or about the 25th day of Ivfarch, 1924, he was
arrested and convicted of the crime of bootlegging." At the trial the
Master stated that the court record was the testimony of the guilt of
the accused, from which the charge was made. The record then shows :
"No further testimony being offered, the matter was submitted to the
commissioners for decision." It must be obvious that as a matter of
fact no competent evidence was presented. The bare statement of the
Master, which is the rankest sort of hearsay evidence, unaccompanied
by a certified copy of the court records and unsupported by any other
ev!dence cannot justify the action of the trial commission. In addition,
it appears from the record that no vote was taken on the specification,
the vote being only on the charge of un-Masonic conduct. This is not
in accordance with the provisions of Section 205 of the constitution
which requires that a vote be taken on each specification and on the
charge of un-Masonic conduct.
Your committee is of the opinion that the judgment of the trial
commission must be reversed and therefore offers the following resolution and moves its adoption :
Resolved, that the judgment of the trial commission in the case
covered by trial record No. 513 be and the same is hereby reversed
and the case is remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.

248

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 472 from Torrance Lodge l'\o. 447, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused, a member of Torrance Lodge, was charged by the
Junior Warden of Torrance Lodge, acting under the direction oi the
Worshipful :\faster of Torrance Lodge with un-Masonic conduct as set
forth in two specifications.
Torrance Lodge convened for the purpose of electing trial commissioners and by vote of the lodge determined that the number of
commissioners should be five: The Master named the time and place
of the first meeting of the commissioners and at the time and place so
designated, the trial was had. After all of the testimony had been received, the commissioners proceeded to deliberate upon th~ir verdict and
sentence. The vote on the first specification was "Not Guilty."
No vote was taken on the second specification. The vote on the
charge of un-Masonic conduct was "Guilty."
Your committee is of the opinion that the judgment of the commission must be reversed and the same remanded for a new trial, for
the reason that the trial of the accused was had in a lodge which had
-ro jurisdiction to try the case; the charges having been made by the
Junior Warden of Torrance Lodge acting under the direction of the
Master. Regulation No. 410 at page 334 of the Constitution and Regulations, 2nd edition, 1925, provides that the lodge or Master may be the
accuser and may direct the junior warden to prefer the charges, in
which case the trial cannot be held in that lodge, and the charges shall
be presented to the Grand Master, who will designate the lodge in which
the trial shall be had. It may not be amiss in passing to call attention
to the fact that the number of commissioners elected by the lodge may
not be less than seven-Section 196 of the constitution-and that a vote
for guilty or not guilty shall be taken upon each specification and upon
the charge-Section 205 of the constitution. In the instant case such
vote was taken upon only one specification.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution:
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by trial record N'o.
472 be, and the same is hereby reversed and the case remanded for a
new trial in a lodge which shall have jurisdiction of it.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 475, from El Centro Lodge No. 384, begs leave to report as
follows:
The accused, a Fellow Craft, was charged with un-Masonic conduct
as set forth in two specifications. The lodge convened for the purpose
of electing trial commissioners on Dec. 9, 1925, and the Master named

249

December 15, 1925, as the time for the first meeting of the commissioners. The record shows that on December 10, 1925, the secretary
wrote a letter to the accused addressing him at Portland, Oregon, advising him that the commissioners elected by the lodge would meet on
December 15 to try him on a charge of un-Masonic conduct and, that
"Masonic law states that we must give you ninety days in which to
appear but if it is agreeable with you we would like to proceed Dec.
15th." The record fails to disclose the issuance or service of summons
or that the secretary furnished the accused with a copy of the charges.
On December 15, 1925, a telegram from the accused dated at Portland,
Oregon, on December 14, 1925, was received by the secretary acknowledging receipt of the secretary's letter of December 10, stating that it
was impossible for him to be present but that he had wired an attorney to appear for him so that the commissioners might proceed with
the trial on December 15. The accused was not present but was represented by an attorney.
Section 199 of the constitution provides that "if the accused be without the state and his residence i.e known the summons and copy of the
charges shall be issued at least ninety days before the trial and shall be
forwarded to his address by the secretary by mail or other usual mode
of conveyance." The provisions of this section are mandatory and compliance with them is requisite to enable the lodge to secure jurisdiction
of the accused. Waiver of such compliance by the accused will not
serve to cure the jurisdictional defect.
Your committee is therefore of the opinion that the judgment of
the trial commission must be reversed and the same remanded for a
new trial on the ground that jurisdiction was not acquired in the manner provided by the constitution.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution:
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by trial record
No. 475 be, and the same is hereby reversed, and the case remanded
for a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 483 from Concord Lodge No. 117, begs leave to report as follows:
The accused, a member of Capital City Lodge No. 499, was charged
by the Junior Warden of Capital City Lodge by direction of the lodge
with un-Masonic conduct, as set forth in two (2) specifications. The
case was duly assigned for trial by the Grand Master to Concord Lodge
No. 117. The latter lodge convened on January 26, 1926, for the purpose of electing trial commissioners, and the \Vorshipful Master named
February 9, 1926 as the time for the first meeting of the commissioners.

251

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The trial commissioners met on February 8, 1926, and adjourned to meet
again on February 16, 1926. On February 1, 1926 a summons issued
requiring the accused to appear for trial on February 16, 1926. This
summons was personally served on February 4, 1926. On February 16,
1926 the trial was had resulting in the conviction of the accused.
Section 200 of the constitution provides: "The commissioners shall
assemble at the time and place appointed ..." This provision is mandatory and may not be omitted. The failure to meet at the time set
by the Master for the first meeting of the commissioners ipso facto dissolved the commission (Haas' Manual, page 30).
Your committee is of the opinion that the judgment of the trial
commission must be reversed and the same remanded for a new trial.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution:
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by trial record No.
483, be, and the same is hereby reversed, and the case remanded for
new trial.

the charge of un-Masonic conduct. Section 205 of the Constitution
clearly and unequivocally states that a vote for "Guilty" or "Not
Guilty" shall be taken upon each specification and each such vote recorded, and a similar vote shall thus be taken upon the charge of unMasonic conduct, and b~ thus recorded. Its prqvisions are mandatory
and must be followed.
Your committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by trial record Ko.
493, be, and same is hereby reversed, and the case remanded for a new
trial.

250

Adopted.

•

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 493, tried by Francis K. Shattuck Lodge No. 571, respectfully reports as follows :
The accused was charged with un-Masonic conduct, as set forth in
two specifications. Service of summons was made by mail at the last
known address of accused in the City of Los Angeles, being a place
without the jurisdiction of the trial lodge. The summons is dated March
29th, although the secretary's certificate shows service of summons on
March 20th. The trial was had on April 23rd. At this time the secretary stated that efforts to reach the accused by mail had been unsuccessful, whereupon the Master announced that the trial would proceed
ex parte. No reasons other than the declaration of the secretary that
efforts to reach the accused by mail had proven unsuccessful are set
forth in the record and the Master's action in ordering thei trial to proceed ex parte would not appear to be justified. Upon the trial, the
single witness called was the accuser, who stated that his testimony was
all contained in the charge and copy of ·court proceedings, which was
attached to and by reference made a part of the charge. Inasmuch as
it is elementary that the charge cannot be considered as evidence against
the accused, it follows that no evidence whatever was presented justifying the action of the commission. The record shows that after sufficient
consultation and deliberation, a vote for "Guilty" or "Not Guilty" was
taken by ballot and the vote thereon was "Guilty." It would appear that
the vote was taken on the two specifications and the charge together
and it is impossible to ascertain whether the accused was convicted of

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
Ko. 502, tried by Dinuba Lodge No. 385, respectfully reports as follows:
The accused was charged with unmasonic conduct, as set forth in
one specification. The record in this case is complete and unusually
well prepared. Unfortunately, it appears from the record that the
charge was made by the Junior Warden of Dinuba Lodge ~o. 385 by
direction of the Master of said lodge and that the case was tried in
Dinuba Lodge. Regulation No. 410 provides that the lodge or Master
may be accuser and may direct the Junior Warden to prefer the charges,
in which case !the trial cannot be held in that lodge, and the charges
shall be presented to the Grand Master, who will designate the lodge
in which the trial shall be had. The reason for the rule thus announced
is obvious. The lodge or its titular head being the accuser, common
fairness precludes the trial of the accused by his accuser. For this reason your committee is of the opinion that the judgment must be reversed,
and, therefore, presents the foilowing resolution, and moves its
adoption:
Resolved, that the judgment in the case covered by trial record No.
502, be, and the same is hereby reversed and the case remanded for
a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
Ko. 478, from Catalina Island Lodge Ko. 524, feel that the evidence
was amply sufficient to sustain the conviction of the accused, but that
the penalty imposed by the trial commission was not commensurate with
the offense, and recommend that the finding of guilty by the trial commission be affirmed, but that the penalty be and the same is hereby
modified to expulsion.

Adopted.

252

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRA"1D LODGE OP CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 470, from Welcome Lodge :-Jo. 255, on appeal by the accused from
a judgment of expulsion, begs leave to report that an examination of
the record shows that no error in procedure appears and that the
accuser presented evidence which, if believed by the trial commissioners.
would amply support the charge and specification, and the penalty
fixed is only commensurate with the seriousness of the offense. Further,
the long-established rule that a verdict should not be set aside unless
there has been a gross miscarriage of justice, precludes in our opinion
a reversal of the judgment in this ease. We therefore offer the following resolution and move its adoption :

The trial commission fixed the penalty at reprimand. adding "The
commission was also unanimously of the opinion that the entire fault
in the case did not lie with the accused, but that Delta Lodge, by and
through its Finance Committees and officers in charge of the affairs of
the lodge, had been lax over a period of years in permitting the default
of the accused to continue unnoticed. The commission desires to incorporate in the record the statement that this feeling of remissness on the
part of the lodge influenced their vote and that the Master of the lodge
in reprimanding the accused in open lodge express these views of the
commission."
The commission may also have been influenced in its vote by the
strong plea of the attorney for the lodge, the accuser, on behalf of the
accused. In fact he says "Brother (the accused) has been a very
loyal and devoted worker in Delta Lodge, and whatever the commission
sees fit to do in this case, whether it be a reprimand or a suspension,
or whatever you feel justified in meeting out here, will be satisfactory
to Delta Lodge."
There is ample testimony to justify the trial comm1ss1on in its
observations relative to the remissness of the Finance Committee and
officers in charge of the affairs of the lodge but your committee is
of the opinion that the trial commissioners should neither have allowed
the above fact nor the plea of the attorney for the lodge accuser to
have influenced their vote as to the penalty for the un-Masonic conduct
of the accused. He had used such of the lodge funds as he needed in
his business and deposited the balance to his account as Treasurer of
the lodge. He continued to use this money in his business from 1919
to 1925.
In the opinion of your committee reprimand is not a penalty commensurate with the offense the accused admits he continued to commit
for six years. Your committee offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption.
Resolved, That the finding of guilty by the trial comm1ss1011 in
trial record No. 473 be and the same is hereby affirmed, but that the
penalty be and the same is hereby modified to suscpnsion.

Rcsoh•,,d, That the judgment of the trial commissioners in trial
record No. 470, of \Velcome Lodge No. 255, be and the same is hereby
affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 499, from Temblor Lodge No. 477, begs leave to report that the
testimony appears to be hearsay except as to one who was evidently not
free from bias and prejudice. Your Committee feels that had not the
trial commissioners given consideration to the prejudicial hearsav testimony, it might have found that the testimony of one witness ~howed
animus and vindictiveness. For this prejudicial error your committee
is of the opinion that the judgment of the trial commission must be
reversed and the same remanded for a new trial, and we so recommend.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 473, from \Vashington Lodge No. 20, begs leave to report as
follows:
A charge of un-Masonic conduct was presented by the Junior
Warden by direction of Delta Lodge No. 471, and transferred by the
Grand Master to Washington Lodge for trial.
The trial commission found accused guilty upon the specification
in the charge and upon the charge of un-Masonic conduct. The specification sets forth that in the period intervening the ninth day of October, 1919, and the twenty-fourth day of May, 1922, while Worshipful
Master and later as Treasurer of Delta Lodge No. 471, he did appropriate to his own use, funds of said Delta Lodge Xo. 471, entrusted to
his care, aggregating the sum of $1088.55 without the knowledge or
consent of said Delta Lodge No. 471.
The accused admits that he took the money and used it in his
business at the time alleged, and continued to use it in his business
until April 30, 1925, when a demand was made upon him for its payment.

253

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 466, from Washington Lodge No. 20, begs leave to report as
follows:
A charge of un-Masonic conduct was presented by the Junior
Warden by direction of Delta Lodge No. 471 and transferred by the
Grand Master to Washington Lodge for trial.

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The charge of un-Masonic conduct was set forth in fourteen specifications. The accused was Secretary of Delta Lodge for a period of
four years.

evidenced by the duplicate deposit slip. In thus doing we feel that the
Secretary carried out his duty as prescribed. Furthermore the evidence
in this regard is that while the accused was Master of Delta Lodge
the Treasurer had appropriated to his own use funds of the lodge. That
the Auditing Committee had so informed accused as Master and also
that the Treasurer was going to make up the defalcation soon thereafter. The accused claims that he believed it was made up at that time
and the further testimony is that the Treasurer made out his check for
the amount, retaining the same in his possession; the then Secretary
made the proper entry but the check was not cashed nor the money put
to the credit of the lodge or in the bank. The accused testifies that it
was because he knew that the Treasurer had once appropriated lodge
funds to his own use, that he adopted the method of turning over to
him the duplicate deposit slips from the bank instead of the money, which
he might do as before, use such part of it as he needed in his own business
and deposit the balance in the bank to his account as Treasurer. This
appears to have justified the action of the accused in this particular and
he should be commended for it rather than found guilty of un-Masonic
conduct.
That the accused concealed the defalcation of the Treasurer from
January 1, 1921, to April 16, 1925, as charged in the ninth specification
there is no evidence at all. It is admitted by accused that he knew .of
the defalcation when he was :\faster, which was prior to January 1,
1921, when he became Secretary, but had been informed that the defalcation had been made good.
The record shows that upon the discovery of the defalcation of
the Treasurer of the Lodge in 1920, the Auditing Committee recommended that such defalcation be kept secret to prevent the possible
disintegration of the lodge, to which recommendation the accused, then
:.\faster, agreed. At most this would only be said to be a mistake in
judgment made in good faith for the benefit of the lodge and not a
Masonic offense.
Neither is the charge in specifications fifth to eighth, inclusive,
borne out by any evidence. His report as Secretary did not and had
no occasion to report cash in bank for it was the Treasurer and not the
Secretary that has or should have cash in bank.
The first four specifications relate to shortages of the accused as
Secretary. According to the audit on which the charges are based, for
some periods of his incumbency as Secretary he was short, for other
periods he was long, but in the aggregate he was short some $690.20.
No one, however, can read the trial record without being astounded
at the lax method of the accused during all his terms of office, in
performing his clerical duties. It is hard to see how anyone could keep
accurate accounts, who attended to his duties as spasmodically as he

The first four specifications charge accused with wilfully, wrongfully and fraudulently appropriating certain amounts of money belonging to Delta Lodge to his own use.
The fifth specification charges that accused as Secretary, wilfully,
knowingly and intentionally on or about November 30, 1921, made a
false and fraudulent annual statement to the lodge in this that he knew
the Treasurer was short $588.55 and notwithstanding this knowledge he
reported to the lodge the said sum of $588.55 as cash on hand in bank,
when in truth and in fact he knew that said bank account was short
to that extent. The sixth, seventh and eighth specifications are the
same as the fifth except as to date of statements, which are for 1922,
. 1923 and 1924.
The ninth specification is that accused was Secretary from January
1, 1921, to April 16, 1925, and did during the entire time knowingly,
wilfully and intentionally conceal the defalcation of the Treasurer.
The eleventh specification is that the accused as Secretary, from
December 1, 1920, to December 1, 1921, failed to pay moneys over to the
Treasurer. The twelfth, thirteenth and fourteenth specifications are the
same as the eleventh but apply to the next three succeeding years.
The trial commission find accused guilty on all of the above specifications. On the tenth specification he was found not guilty.
The trial record in this case covers approximately 600 typewritten
pages. Much of it is complicated accounting. Because of the importance of the question herein involved both to the lodge and to the
brother accused and because of the further fact that a more just conclusion might reasonably be reached by those who have the typewritten
transcript before them than by those who heard the oral testimony from
time to time, and did not have the benefit of having the testimony
reduced to writing for their study, because of these considerations the
members of your committee have separately and collectively given a
great deal of earnest study and consideration of this very lengthy
transcript and to its careful analysis.
The charge contained in the last four specifications, eleventh to
fourteenth inclusive, your committee consider is not sustained by any
evidence in the record. Section 150 of the Constitution relating to
duties of Secretaries provides "4th. To collect and receive all moneys
due to the lodge and pay them over to the Treasurer." The Secretary
is accused of having not paid the moneys over to the Treasurer. The
evidence is that the Secretary deposited the money in the bank to the
account of the Treasurer, took a duplicate deposit slip from the bank
and turned it over to the Treasurer and took his receipt for the money

255

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

256

did. Each Master under whom accused acted as Secretary failed in
his duty when he did not remove the Secretary from office becaU5<! of
his lax methods in performing his duties.
The auditor who made the audit on which these specifications are
based served on the Auditing Committee two separate years, which
committee audited the books of the Secretary and Treasurer. This,
too, is the same auditor who signed a report of an audit November 29,
1924, as follows:
"We, the committee appointed to audit the books of the Secretary
and Treasurer for the year ending December l, 1924, have checked
the same and found them to be correct.
"\Ve wish to commend the Secretary and Treasurer for the efficient
manner in which the records have been kept."
This auditor is now Secretary of the Lodge.
The Senior Warden who participated in the preparation of these
charges was also on the auditing committee in 1923 and 1924 who gave
the Secretary and Treasurer a clearance as above noted.
Had any auditing committees ever performed its duties that acted
during any year accused held office as Secretary, affairs of the lodge
wonld certainly have been better off today. Furthermore the accused
had a right to rely on the reports of these auditing committees and
believe that an audit had been made and that his accounts were correct.
There is a vast difference between moneys lost by embezzlement
and moneys lost by careless or negligent handling. One is a criminal
offense; the other merely civil.
There is no attempt to show, and no showing of any intentional
misbehavior on the part of the accused as to his handling of lodge funds
and diversion of these funds to his own use. On the contrary it is
shown that at all times he had sufficient personal bank balance so that
he had no need of lodge funds for his own use and ample to pay any
deficiency that ever occurred. He was able and did voluntarily pay his
shortages as soon as the amount thereof was ascertained.
There being no •testimony in the record sufficient to sustain a finding
of un-Masonic conduct, your committee is of the opinion that the judgment of the trial commission should be reversed, and therefore offers
the following resolution and moves its adoption :
Resolved, That the judgment in the case covered by trial record No.
466, be and the same is hereby reversed.
Fraternally submitted,
JoHN STEWART Ross,
WALTER

F. HAAS,

vVM. PENN HUMPHREYS,
LACY

D. JENNINGS,
D. \VHITING,
Grievance Committee.

RANDOLPH

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

257

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
\V.'. William P. Jeffries, chairman of the Committee
on Finance, presented the following reports for his committee, all which were adopted as read:
Reimbursement of Boards of Relief
Your Committee on Finance has examined the reports of and requests for reimbursement by the various Boards of Relief, which are
operating under authority of this Grand Lodge.
Ten Boards of Relief, located at Bakersfield, Fresno, Honolulu,
Los Angeles, Long Beach, Oakland and Berkeley, Sacramento, San
Diego, San Francisco and San Jose, reported to this Grand Lodge.
No requests for reimbursement were received from the Boards of
Relief located at Honolulu or Long Beach.
At the 1925 communication, there was appropriated the sum of
$15,166.71, to reimburse Boards of Relief and subordinate lodges, for
money expended on account of Masons from foreign jurisdictions,
sojourning under the Grand Lodge of California.
Of this amount, there was refunded to the Grand Treasurer, during the year ending July 31, 1926, $1,838.30, indicating that the efforts
of the Grand Secretary to collect moneys from other jurisdictions has
met with some measure of success.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoptien :
Resolved, That the sum of $9,052.38 be and is hereby appropritated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to reimburse the Boards of
Relief for moneys advanced, to be divided as follows :
To the Board of Relief of Bakersfield ..............................................$ 69.00
To the Board of Relief of Fresno......................................................
62.50
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles ........................................... 3,728.58
To the Board of Relief of Oakland and Berkeley.......................... 453.75
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento............................................ 646.52
To the Board of Relief of San Diego.............................................. 339.24
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco ....................................... 3,725.29
To the Board of Relief of San Jose.............................. ...................
27.50

$9,052.38
A number of California lodges were reported as delinquent to
the various Boards of Relief, but on being called before the Finance
Committee, they all agreed to make settlements, hence we have deducted from the reimbursements to the various boards the amounts due
from California lodges.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

258

Reimbursement of Subordinate Lodges
your committee has examined the correspondence in the following
cases:

B
h Lodge No 269 Tulare for reimbursement of the
.
01 tVe ranc
'
·
'
'
· f f Br ther
sum of $366.30, account of moneys expended for the rehe o
o
N. M. Porter, of Atlanta Lodge, No. 463, Atlanta, Texas.
.1
L dge No 206 Modesto for reimbursement of the
S tams aus
o
'
·
'
'
h
l' f f Brother
account of moneys. expended for t e re 1e o
sumo f $125 ·00 ,
C'
was h ·
John Cruthers, of Fall City Lodge No. 66, Falls .1ty,
Santa Ana for reimbursement of the
'
·
idow
S anta A na L odge No · 241'
f $158 22 account of moneys expended for the relief of the w
· '
.
'fi L d
N 233 New Yark
sum o
of Brother Edward Thurnauer, of Pac11c o ge o.
'
City.
26 Placerville for reimbursement of the sum
'
·
·d
f
P a 1myra Lodge No · ,
of $140.00, account of moneys expended for the bunal of the. w1 o:' o
Brother William H. Shaw, of Sturgis Lodge No. 365, Sturgis, Miss.
Athens Lodge No. 228, Davis, for reimbursement of the sum of
$55 18 account of moneys expended for the relief of Brother A. J.
Ne~s~m, of Cleburne Lodge No. 315, Cleburne, Texas.
~.r · Lod No. 191 San Rafael, for reimbursement of the sum
1narm
ge
'
d f
h
!' f of Brother
of $377.18, account of moneys expende
or t e .re 1e
Roger H. Meredith, of Sincerity Lodge No. 292, L1ve~pool, Eng.
. C't Lodge No 45 Crescent City, for reimbursement of
· 1 f
C rescent 1 Y00 account · of ' moneys expended for the buna
o
t h e sum o f $75· · k ' C Jorgensen of Hazel Lodge N o. 573 , E as t
Brath er F re d enc
.
,
Peru, Ia.
of
Ocean Park Lodge No. 369, Ocean Park, for reimburseme.nt
the sum of $145.00, account of moneys expended for the burial of
Brother Henry Combs, of Harmony Lodge No. 61, Denver, Colo.
All of the correspondence in connection with these case.s has bee~1
he Grand Secretary and eventually a portion of this
turned over t o t
'
.
.
money will be refunded to this Grand Lodge.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoptlo'.1:
Resolved, that the sum of $1,441.88 be .and is hereby appr.opnated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to reimburse the foregomg subordinate lodges, in the amounts stated.

Los Angeles Board of Relief Graves

In the 1918 Proceedings, page 207, the Los Angeles Board of Relief
reported as follows :
"The Masonic fraternity of Los Angeles has had no satisfactory
· d d
t'l th's
1 year ' when arrangements
place for the burial o f its ea un 1

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

259

were made with the Forest Lawn Memorial Park to set aside a beautiful
tract of land withfo its boundaries, which will receive perpetual care
and be forever kept green. This tract of land is known as the
'Masonic Plot,' in which only Masons or members of their families
will be interred. The cost of these interments is considerably lower
than can be obtained for a like situation in other cemeteries."
At the time these arrangements were made with the Forest Lawn
Memorial Park, a contract was entered into by the Masonic Board of
Relief of Los Angeles, to purchase 1000 graves, at $19.00 each, paying
therefor an installment of $1,900.00 annually. Annual appropriations
have been made by this Grand Lodge, 1918 to 1925, inclusive (eight
years), or a total of $15,200.00.
The Los Angeles Board of Relief has now come forward and
offered to pay the remaining two installments out of its trust funds
thereby relieving the Grand Lodge f ram any further appropriation~
on this account.
In the 1922 proceedings, page 276, your committee made the following recommendation, which was adopted:
"That the Board of Relief of Los Angeles keep a separate account
of all moneys received on account of the sale of said graves; that all
moneys so received be repaid to this Grand Lodge by said board ; and
that the Grand Secretary be annually apprised of these facts and figures,
so that proper record may be kept."
We recommend that these instructions be strictly adhered to.

Employment Bureaus
Your committee has examined the reports of the various Employment Bureaus, located in the cities of Long Beach, Los Angeles, Oakland and Berkeley, San Diego and San Francisco, and are particularly
impressed by the practical Masonry carried on by these bureaus, most
of which are operated in conjunction with the Hoards of Relief. We
know of no activity of the fraternity productive of better immediate
results, because to furnish a position is far better than to extend relief.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, that the sum of $4,750.00 be and is hereby appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided into the
following donations:
To the Employment Bureau of Long Beach .................................. $ 500.00
To the Employment Bureau of Los Angeles ................................. 1,500.00
To the Employment Bureau of Oakland and Berkeley.................. 750.00
To the Employment Bureau of San Diego........................................ 500.00
To the Employment Bureau of San Francisco ................................ 1,500.00

$4,750.00

260

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Portrait of the Grand Master
Your committee recommends that the Grand Master, Albert Eugene
Boynton, have his portrait painted and present a bill for same to the
Grand Secretary, who is hereby authorized to pay the same, and that
after the portrait is painted, it be suitably framed and hung upon the
walls of the Grand Lodge, as part of the gallery of our Past Grand
Masters.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

261

Grand Tr
I
and the p:~~~:=~~:sE:;ol as those of the Masonic Homes of California
all books
d
wment Fund. These accountants have certified
· an accounts to be correct.
This audit discloses that the net worth of the G

d Lod
h ge, on
period 1925. Of this amount $568 300 00 .
. over t e same
Masonic Temple Association 'of Glifo.rnia1.s represented by stock m the

Jul~ 31, 1_926, was $688,777.02, an increase of only $302 5~an

Salaries
Your committee recommends that the annual salaries of the Grand
Officers, and the allowance for traveling expenses of the Grand Master,
be as follows :
Grand· Secretary ......................................................................................$8,400.00
Grand Lecturer ...................................................................................... 6,000.00
Assistant Grand Secretary .................................................................... 3,000.00
Grand Tiler ............................................................................ .................. 200.00
Committee on Correspondence.............................................................. 500.00
Grand Organist ........................................................................................ 100.00
Contingent expenses of the Grand Master ........................................ 2,500.00
We also recommend that the traveling ·expenses, incurred within the
State of California by the Grand Lecturer, Grand Officers or members
of the Grand Lodge who may be traveling by authority of the Grand
Master, be paid as heretofore, after having been audited by the Committee on Accounts.
Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration that portion
of the Grand Master's address referring to our Grand Secretary and his
many years of efficient service, and containing the recommendation that
he should receive a compensation commensurate with the great work he
is now doing in his dual capacity as Grand Secretary and Secretary of the
Masonic Homes.
It has also had a personal conference with the Grand Master and
the Trustees of the Homes.
In consideration of the long and efficient service which the Grand
Secretary has performed for the Masonic Homes, and as it always ·has
been the policy of this Grand Lodge to keep all expenses pertaining to
the maintenance and operation of the Homes separate and payable from
the allowances accorded the Homes, this committee would therefore recommend to the Grand Lodge, that it recommend to the incoming Board of
Trustees of the Homes, the paying to the Grand Secretary for the
services which he is rendering to the Homes, the sum of $1600.00
annually.

Audit of Accounts
Your committee employed Ruckstall & Land, certified public account•
ants, to examine the books and records of the Grand Secretary and

Maricopa Lodge, No. 434
1 o o-You~ committee _is in receipt of a communication from
Maricopa
' d.,,e, No. 434, Maricopa, requesting that they be reimburs I
for over)layment of Grand Lodge dues, running back as far as l92!ec
your committee is of the opinion that tius
. request should.
be denied.

Purchase of Masonic Temple Stock
Your committee has had be for · h
h
.e it t e request of Naval Chapter
No. 35 R A M V II .
' · · • " a eJo, t at this Grand Lod
h
'
of stock in the Masonic Temple A · . .
f g~ pur~ ase 100 shares
ssoc1at10n o Califorma, at a par value
of $10.00 per share.
Your Finance Committee d

r

ec mes to recommend the purchase.

Proposed New Temple
Your committee has had before it
. .
Fugene W L
.
a commumcation from Brother
'
· • evy, proposmg that a site be p h
I
erected thereon, to house all Masonic b d. . . urc ~sec a?d a, building
I
.
f
o ies m the City of San I• rancisco.
n view o the fact that so much of th f d
.
are tied up in the Masonic Te 1 f S e un s ?f this Grand Lodge
deems it inadvisable that this
ed oL dan Francisco, your committee
.
l
.
ran
o ge should in any manner become mvo ved 111 the proposed enterprise.

;r

Traver Lodge, No. 294
During the year 1924, the then Grand l'v
finding Traver Lodge No 294 K' b
faster, Arthur S. Crites,
loaned this lodge $300
y ' mgs u_rg, t~ be in great need of funds,
· ·
our committee ts glad to be bl t
t 1m.t same was repaid on December 16 192"
.
a e o report

00 ·

'

:i.

Masonic Club of the University of California, I nc.
\Vith reference to the report of the Trustee 0 f
nf the University of California Inc B k · s
the Masonic Club
no wav in which this insn f '
., beer eley, your committee can find
.
. i u ton can
maintained, without the annual

262

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

support of the Grand Lodge. The budget submitted by the Trustees calls
for approximately $10,000.00. After careful scrutiny, ~e have been
unable to suggest any material reduction in the same.
'vV e offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :

Resolved, That the report of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Club of the University of California, Inc., Berkeley, be and the same
is hereby approved and adopted. Be it further
Resolved, That the sum of $10,000.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the operating expenses of the
club house at the University of California, Berkeley, for the fiscal year
ending September 30, 1927.

Educational Committee
Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration the report
of the Educational Committee referred to it, and we offer the following
resolution and recommend its adoption :

Resolved, That the sum of $10,000.00 be and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, for the use of the Educational
Committee during the coming year, under the direction of the Grand
Master.

Masonic Homes of California
The annual report of the Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California, together with their financial statements, have been carefully
examined by your committee.
Because of the tremendous increase in number of residents of the
Homes, both at Decato and Covina, the Trustees have been forced to
spend large sums of money in the erection of new buildings, and are at
present in debt approximately $140,000.00, which money has been expended entirely in the construction of said new buildings.
Your committee is of the opinion that this indebtedness should be
wiped out at the earliest possible date.
Your committee is of the opinion that this object can be best accomplished by raising the tax on initiates from $20.00 to $25.00 rather than
by an increase in the per capita tax against lodges.
Your committee has, therefore, caused a resolut.ion to be introduced,
amending the Constitution, in order to bring about this objective, which
amendment has been adopted by this Grand Lodge.
Your committee recommends that the $25.00 tax on initiates be
collected on each petition for degrees and application for affiliation received by the subordinate lodges on and after the first day of January,
1927. (This was made effective February 1, 1927.)

263

your committee also believes that the 25
t
.
maintenance of the Homes should b
. -cedn per capita tax, for the
'
e contmue .
RW e /offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption.
eso ved, That the sum of 25-cent
.
.
.
membership for th
·
s per capita be levied upon the
,
e ma111tenance of our Homes t D
payable July 31, 1927.
a
ecoto and Covina,

George Washington Masonic Memorial
Your committee has h cl
d
.
.
Master's address under t~ ~1 ~~ cons1derat10n that part of the Grand

Memorial and are in accor~ :i~hn:~e obr~~;r~; ~as~1ington Masonic
tfhat Grand. Lodge should reconsider the position ::k::1 ~: his conviction
urther assistance to this enterprise.
1924 and give
. It is also of the opinion expressed b
h
Masters that California should contribute ty t e two previous Grand
whatever contributions are made should beat~ this movement, and that
of the fraternity.
equally upon all members
It appears to the committee the on!
.
for Grand Lodge to appropr1'at f .
Y. wafy to accomplish the result is
e tom its unds fr
t.
.
surplus funds are available Such an
. '. om tme to time as
year from the surplus that. ap
·1a1ppropnat1on could be made this
.
pears w1 remaii1
h· d f
appropriations have been made
d th
f
on an a ter all other
.
, an
ere ore offers ti f 11 ·
1ut10n
and recommends i"ts ac1op t"ion:
1e o ow111g reso-

Resolved, That the sum of $5000
.
.
of this Grand Lodge as a cl
t"
.00 hbe appropriated from the funds
ona ton to t e C'eorge W h"
National Memorial Associati" on.
'
as mg ton Masonic

Drytown Lodge, No, 174
The representative of Drytown Loci e N
county, appeared before your F"
Cg
o. 174 of Plymouth, Amador
·
mance ommittee and
pro bl ems confronting the lod
.
. .
presenter1 to 1t the
1 acqmrmg of a proper place for
ge m tie
it to meet.

It appears that the lodge has used c
.
to secure a temple and i"n d .
h
ons1derable care in its effort
'
omg so as expen I d ll f ·
funds and therefore has applied t
. c e a o its available
in order to fully complete and f o. ~ohur. committee for additional funds
ut ms its temple.
The lodge has had a good record in r
I
..
members' charitable needs.
p oper Y prov1<l111g for its own
Your committee is of the 0 i ·
1
the lodge is desirable. that th pl nd10n th1at the acquiring of the hall by
.
'
e o ge as shown d
d·
·
.
expenditure of money for the h ll th
.
ue 1scretton 111 the
f
a ; at its application t G
d
or some assistance is reasonable a d th
f
.
o ran Lodge
resolution and recommends i"ts d' t"n
ere ore offers the following
a op ion:

264

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolved That the sum of $500.00 be loaned to Drytown Lodge,
N 174 the '1oan to bear interest at the rate of 4% per annum, and to
b o.for ;uch period as the Grand Master deems advisable, and that an
a~propriation of that amount be made from t!1e funds of Grand Lodge.
Western Star Lodge, No. 2
Your committee has had under consideration the rep~rt of. th_e committee appointed to restore and preserve the Masonic building of
Western Star Lodge, No. 2, of Shasta.
From the reading of this report, your committee is unable to ?etermine whether the amount asked for, viz., $7,000.00, is to be use~ m the
preservation of the old building, or if a portion of the money 1s to be
used in the preparing of a hall for Western Star Lodge No. 2, on the
adjoining property.
We believe that the amount of money requested is far in excess
of the amount which should be expended on this undertaking; v:e the.refore recommend that the whole subject be referred to t~e. mcom~ng
G a d Master with request that he investigate the propos1t1011 durmg
th: ~oming ye~r and report at the next communication of Grand Lodge.
Grand Lodge Week Activities
'There has come to the attention of the Finan~: Commit'.ee t~e
expenditures made by the Grand Lodge \Veek ~ctiv1t1es Co~mitt.ee m
providing for the entertainment of the representatives and their lad~es at
this session of Grand Lodge. The exact amount of these. expen~1tur:s
has not been presented to your committee but information 1s that it will
exceed $5000.00.
.
.
your committee recognizes the benefit of s11ch entertamment m
promoting good fellowship and acquaintance a1:d b~lieves :iiat the encouragement of such activites is desirable. Yet, it views with s~n;e. apprehension the continued mounting of expenses for these act1v1t1cs, the
expenses having risen from no appropriation by this Grand Lodge a few
years ago to the sum mentioned above.
This committee recognizes the difficulties encountered by the .Grand
Lodge Week Activities Committee in providing suitable e?tertamme1~t
ithout the expenditure of considerable money. It also believes that it
:ould be unwise to attempt to appropriate a definite
for that
It, therefore, recommends that hereafter all expenditures for this purpose be authorized and carefully supervised by the Grand Master.
"WILLIAM P. ]EFFRlES,

s~m

ARTHUR

p~rpose.

s. CRITES,

FRANK

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON REPORT OF
GRAND LECTURER
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee, to whom has been referred for consideration the
report of the V.'.W,".Grand Lecturer, respectfully submits the following:
We congratulate the Grand Lecturer on his nineteenth annual report.
Replete with beauty of expression and words of Masonic wisdom, it
clearly indicates that time has not dimmed his vision, nor lessened his
efforts in behalf of the Craft.
Coming, by the very nature of his activities in close contact with
the lodges through the officers and coaches, he has endeared himself to
the members of the Craft by his ever willingness at all times and with
personal sacrifices, to aid and assist, not only in connection with the
rendition of the work, but with a desire to inculcate the spirit of the
fraternity.
His advice to the Inspectors is timely, for they are in a sense the
instruments provided for the carrying out of his policies, and upon their
actions and accomplishments are reflected in a large measure, the final
analysis of his efforts.
His suggestion as to the consideration of quality; rather than
quantity is highly commendable, as the very essence of our order is
dependent upon those definite fundamentals which are the basis of the
requirements of the initiate.
His comment in relation to the selection of officers is most important,
and Masters of lodges should give due and serious consideration to the
qualifications required of the Brother to be appointed.
His recommendation for the adoption of some definite plan for the
examination of visiting brethren is worthy of serious consideration, and
your committee suggests that some definite method be adopted universally
throughout the jurisdiction, thereby avoiding much confusion to committees and saving unnecessary embarrassment on occasions to visiting
brethren.
Finally your committee expresses its sincere appreciation to the
Grand Lecturer for the service he has rendered, and we ask of Our
Supreme Grand Master who Rules our destinies, to give unto him
continuous Wisdom to direct him, Strength to support him and the Beauty
of Holiness to adorn his labors during his allotted time.
Respectfully submitted,

C. W. GOODWIN,

LEO BRUCK,

c. RUPPEL,

Roy H. PARKINSON,

G. c. DEFOREST,

J. M. ARGARBlTE,
Committee.

265

The report was adopted as read.

Committee.

266

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Brother Robert B. Gaylord, chairman of the Committee
on Credentials, reported the following officers and representatives of 524 chartered Lodges, delegates from 22
Lodges under dispensation and Past Masters by service
within the jurisdiction as being present, namely:
Mileage Allowed
Representatives

California .................. No. 1.. .. Harvey E. Teller, Master
Joseph E. Potter, Sr. Warden
Thornhill Carmony, Jr. Warden
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Edward Peabody, Past Master
H. A. Marvin, Past Master
Francis V. Keesling, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Western Star ........... N o. 2 .... J oseph Jones, Master .......................... $24.42
Tehama ..................... N o. 3.... Chas. A. Schwartz, Master..................
Joseph T. Stacy, Sr. Warden
Clarence M. Dorman, Jr. Warden
Theodore J. Milliken, Past Master
Benicia ...................... No. S.... John E. Wagner, Past Master and
Rep.......................................................
Tuolumne ................. No. 8.... Homer D. Rose, Master......................
M. F. Sims, Sr. Warden
J. B. Warne, Past Master

6.48

3.48

Nevada ...................... No. 13 .... Wade Armstrong, Master .................. 20.64
Wm. E. Meservey, Past Master and
Insp ....................................................... 20.64
W. M. Gracey, Past Master
Temple ...................... No. 14 .... Alfred J. Rubke, Master......................
Louis Bosch, Sr. Warden

3.60

Eureka .......................No. 16 .... Edward K. McCabe, Master..............
J. H. Jeffreys, Past Master
John C. Kemp, Past Master
M. D. Lininger, Past Master and
Grand Bible Bearer..........................

9.12

9.12

La Parfaite Union ... No. 17 .... Chas. H. Viguie, Master
Edward L. Charpentier, Sr. Warden
Maurice G. Litou, Jr. Warden
Adolphe Huguenin, Past Master and
Insp.
M. E. Diebold, Past Master
Louis Figeac, Past Master
A. P. Girard, Past Master
Mountain Shade ...... N o. 18 .... Marcellus P. Fischer, Master ............ 31.00

2.40
6.96

Corinthian ................ N o. 9 ... Chas. W. Heyl, Master...................... 9.00
Melvin H. Jacobsen, Sr. Warden
Arthur W. Gluckman, Past Master.. 9.00
L. B. Wilcoxon, Past Master and
Insp....................................................... 9.00
S. Lervek, Past Master
San Jose .................... No. 10 .... George P. Peterson, Master..............
Roy Shatto Field, Sr. Warden
Joseph S. Greeneley, Jr. Warden
J. H. McGehee, Past Master..............
Alex Wesley Hess, Past Master
C. H. Wheeler, Past Master

Yount.. ...................... No. 12 .... George Wayne Yates, Master............
Percy S. King, Past Master

267

3.48

6.48

San J oaquin ..............N o. 19 .... J am es F. McClory, Master..................

6.12

Washington ............. No. 20 .... Robert E. Asher, Master.. ..................
Frank N. Killam, Sr. W ardcn
H. Douglas Hill, Jr. Warden
Henry Levy, Past Master
Eugene Benjamin, Past Master and
Grand Standard Bearer..................
William A. Sitton, l'ast Master

6.48

6.48

Hawaiian .................. No. 21.. .Elwood C. Wilder, Sr. Warclen ....... .250.00
James L. Frill, Past Master
Occidental... ............. No. 22 .... Harrison A. Jones, Sr. Warden
Boyd Oliver, Jr. Warden
William Penn Humphreys, Past Master
S. H. Clawson, Past Master

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN!A

Madison.................... No. 23 .... Leonard A. Prisk, Master .................. 20.28
George L. Jones, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Master ...................... 20.28
Thomas Ingram, Past Master and
Insp ....................................................... 20.28
W. J. Merrifield, Past Master

Sacramento ............ -.N o. 40 .... Rodolph M. Bettens, Master.............. 6.48
James B. Giffen, Past Master
George J. Golder, Past Master
Fontaine Johnson, Past Master

Mariposa ................ __ No. 24 .... Thomas B. Price, Master.................... 28.28
F. M. Catherwood, Past Master
James P. McElliott, Past Master
Georgetown........... -.No. 25 .... W. H. Bryson, Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 15.76
Palmyra .................... No. 26.... Matthew J. Murray, Master .............. 11.76
George C. Rolleri, Past Master
R. F. Roddan, Past Master and Insp. 11.76
Trinity.................... __ No. 27.... C. A. Paulsen, Past Master and Rep. 35.42
Golden Gate ............. N o. 30.... Henry F. Kay, Master
Edwin L. Meyer, Past Master
S. A. Clarke, Past Master
A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Edward C. C. Wellesley, Past Master
Gold HilL. ............. _.No. 32 .... Roscoe Allen, Master.......................... 8.52
H. P. Jansen, Past Master and lnsp. 8.52
Ophir ......................... No. 33 .... Allen C. Grant, Master ........................ 18.46
San Diego ................. No. 35 .... \Valter Featheringill, Master.............. 54.64
Louis H. Voeltzel, Sr. '\Varden
Harry E. Hopkins, Jr. Warden
R. W. Belding, Past Master
J. N. McLees, Past Master and Insp. 55.64
H. A. Croghan, Past Master
E. R. Mills, Past Master
Howard ..................... No. 37 .... Marion Dayley, Sr. Warden .............. 34.70
S. E. Butler, Past Master and Insp. 34.70
Santa Cruz ............. _.No. 38 .... Golden B. Falconer, Master................ 8.52
A. C. Parsons, Past Master
Willatt \Vare, Past Master
Chas. D. Hinkle, Past Master

Martinez.................... No. 41....Gilbert C. Archibald, Master............
Herbert F. Brackman, Sr. Warden
Frank E. Kennedy, Jr. Warden

269

2.52

Los Angeles ............. No. 42 .... \Villiam]. Fleckenstein, Master ........ 43.08
Edward F. '\Vhittemore, Sr. Warden
S. K. Lehman, Past Master and Insp. 43.08
Hiram ........................ No. 43 .... Harry '\Voodbury Gay, Master.......... 11.16
Mount Moriah ......... No. 44.... Milton Wm. Morrison, Master
T. C. Conmy, Past Master
Dan B. Richards, Past Master
W. E. Anderson, Past Master
Crescent .................... N o. 45 .... Albert T. Manuel, Master.................... 48.50
Orrin Dudley, Past Master
Texas ........................ Jfo. 46 ....Joseph E. Regan, Master.................... 7.36
Thomas Flint, Past Master and Past
Grand Master .................................... 6.60
Forbestown .............. No. 50 ....'\Valter P. Bean, Master...................... 16.80
Illinoistown ........... _.No. SL.William J. Eddy, Master .................... 10.92
Suisun ....................... .!\ o. 55 .... Chester C. Roberts, Master................ 3.60
Harry Kelson, Sr. Warden
Arthur Garben, Jr. Warden
John H. Murray, Past Master
Santa Rosa ............... No. 57 .... James M. Daw, Master........................ 3.96
Chas. Jacobs, Sr. Warden
Harry T. Kyle, Jr. Warden
James T. Mailer, Past Master and
Insp....................................................... 3.96
C. D. Barnett, Past Master................ 3.96
Union ........................ No. 58 .... Albert E. Hart, Master........................
Thomas ]. Baker, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer
R. B. Carlton, Past Master and Insp.
J. F. Morgan, Past Master
Fred W. Arnold, Past Master
George Beale, Past Master

6.48

6.48

270

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Gravel Range .........•. No. 59 .... \Villiam 0. Grant, Master ................... 19.00
Fred J. Joubert, Past Master and
19.00
Plumas ....................... No. 60.... Willie C. Reynolds, Master. ............... 27.34
J. 0. Moncur, Past Master and Insp. 27.34
W. C. Reynolds, Past Master

North Star................ No. 91.. .. Kelsie B. Glendenning, Sr. Warden .. 37.70

Live Oak.................•. N o. 61.. .. Raymond M. Alvord, Master
George K. Porter, Sr. Warden
William B. Joseph, Jr. Warden
Ezra W. Decato, Past Master and
Grand Orator
N. F. Sturtevant, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Mast€r and
Past Grand Master
Natoma..................... No. 64.... Edward W. Strouse, Master..............

St. Helena ................. No. 93 .... John M. Booth, Master........................
Fulton I. Mather, Sr. Warden

271

4.80

Henry Clay............... No. 95 .... Louis A. Socal, Master ........................ 11.62
Hornitos ................... No. 98 .... John W. Riggins, :Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 23.38
Yosemite ................... No. 99 .... 0. T. W. Fowler, Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 10.08
Clay ..........................No. 101.... Frank Murray, Master........................ 12.00

8.16

Amador...................... N o. 65 .... Myron S. Matson, Master.. ................ 11.62

Oroville................... No. 103.... Albert E. Boynton, Past Master and
Grand Master
Chas. 0. Hamilton, Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 10.80

Forest........................ No. 66 .... William H. Goldsworthy, Master.... 31.64

Lexington ............... No. 104.... William E. Shugg, Master.................. 44.16
Chas. H. Sotow, Sr. Warden

Morning Star............ No. 68 .... John J. Cavanagh, Master.................. 6.12
0. \V. Henderson, Past Master and
Past Grand Master

Arcata......................No. 106.... Samuel Beer, Master............................ 30.00
James Davidson, Past Master

Enterprise................. No. 70 .... Louis K. Newfield, Master ................
Frank N. McCollum, Sr. \Varden
Truston P. Coats, Jr., Jr. Warden
E. Briick, Past Master

8.76

Pajaro ...................... No. 110.... Earl W. Baumgardner, Master........

7.08

Bear Mountain ......... No. 76 .... Thomas H. Davey, Rep ....................... 15.96

Chico........................N o. 11 L .. Herschel S. Giles, Sr. Warden .......... 12.24
Harry H. Hume, Jr. Warden
D. E. Zumwalt, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 12.24

Calaveras .................. No. 78.... Chas. Preston, Past Master and Rep. 11.12

Summit... .................N o. 112.... Herbert Collins, Rep ........................... 11.52

Humboldt ................. No. 79 .... William J. Boyd, Master .................... 29.40
L. H. Valentine, Past Master

Eden.........................No. 113 .... Llcwellyn G. Morgan, Master............
C. Fred Cooper, Sr. Warden
Max A. Riegels, Jr. \Varden
Sidney B. Force, Past Master
Jos. B. Mills, Past Master and Insp.

Ione ............................ No. 80.... 0lof Nelson, Master............................
H. A. Harper, Past Master

9.12

Yolo........................... No. 81.. .. George H. Baham, Master................. 6.60
C. F. Hayden, Past Master
Vesper ....................... No. 84.... Gcorge A. Trabue, Master .................. 20.78
NavaL. ...................... No. 87 .... Jos. Chas. Harrison, Master..............
Elmer Lafayette Cave, Sr. Warden
David R. Doherty, Jr. Warden
C. E. Zander, Past Master
C. W. Causbrook, Past Master

2.40

Rose's Bar................ No. 89 .... Chas. V. Ray, Jr. Warden .................. 12.00

Concord ...................No. 117 .... R. L. Hery, Past Master
F. ]. Harris, Past Master
A. B. Oldfield, Rep...............................

1.08

6.48

Clinton .....................No. 119.... F. H. Allbright, Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 26.42
Fidelity .................... No. 120 .... Leo H. Susman, Master
George K. Manheim, Sr. Warden
Phillip Jacobovics, Past Master

272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alamo...................... No. 122.... Guy Fremont Spencer, Master.......... 3.84
Jesse B. Near, Sr. Warden
J. H. Demartine, Past Master
Sotoyome................ No. 123.... Harold F. Phillips, Master..................
George T. Hansen, Past Master
J. A. Reiners, Past Master
\V. W. Ferguson, Past Master

4.92

La Fayette .............. No. 126 .... E. Paulson, Master..............................

4.44

Hermann .................No. 127.... Paul H. Posch, Master
Willie F. Baat, Sr. Warden
Otto F. \V. Koch, Jr. Warden
Louis Muller, Past Master and Insp.
E. A. Neumarkel, Past Master
Visalia ......................No. 128 .... Robert E. Erwin, Master.................... 23.28
·
Earl W. Westcott, Sr. Warden
Billie A. Landis, Jr. Warden
K. \V. Nicholson, Past Master
Nicolaus .................. No. 129.... Henry H. Huffaker, Master................ 9.00
Clyde Waltz, Past Master
Woodbridge ........... No. 131.. .. Harry T. Bailey, Master...................... 6.72
Earle M. Journeay, Sr. \Varden
Chas. E. McDonald, Jr. Warden
C. Dexter, Past Master and Insp..... 6.48
Sincerity ..................No. 132.... Forest L. Talley, Master .................... 27.88
Vacaville ................. No. 134....William F. Deakin, Sr. Warden........
F. H. Clark, Past Master

4.80

Valley.......................No. 135 .... Clarence C. Anderson, Master.......... 7.12
P. M. Foote, Past Master and Insp. 7.12
Pacific....................-No. 136.... Leo A. Levy, Master
Eugene E. Rebstock, Sr. Warden
Isadore M. Sommer, Jr. Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Thomas Anderson, Past Master and
Insp.
George M. Perine, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
H. H. Hoxie, Past Master
Harry K. Wolffe, Past Master

Crockett .................. No. 139 .... Joseph A. Olson, Master
Daniel A. Stivers, Sr. Warden
H. J. Gaevert, Past Master
Thomas Rowlands, Past Master
H. W. Maass, Past Master
Arthur G. Servier, Past Master
Curtis .......................No. 140 .... George Cavilli, Master........................

Table Mountain .....No. 124.... Albert W. Ballard, Master .................. 16.80
S. A. Vandergrift, Past Master

273

6.24

Grafton ....................No. 141.... Roy Edwin Belveal, Master................ 6.96
Franklin .................. No. 143.... Loyal D. Mealer, Master.................... 6.40
William M. Bates, Sr. Warden
John Krull, Jr. Warden
H. D. Kercheval, Past Master.......... 6.40
OrientaL ................ No. 144.... Frederick R. Bowes, Master
C. T. Clark, Sr. \Varden
E. H. Hurst, Jr. Warden
Walter Leonard, Past Master and Insp.
0. L. Gibson, Past Master
H. M. Jeffreys, Past Master
\Vm. E. Connor, Past Master
Richard Quedens, Past Master
\V. S. Hamilton, Past Master
J. F. Clute, Past Master
V. E. Mathews, Past Master
R. C. Jewell, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
Thomas Harris, Past Master
John Toningson, Past Master
James L. Hawks, Past Master
George B. Lake, Past Master
W. F. McHugh, Past Master
F. C. Martin, Past Master
Abell... ..................... No. 146.... Irving M. Brazier, Master..................

8.28

Eel River .................No. 147.... George L. Perrott, Sr. Warden ........ 30.00
Lassen ..................... No. 149 .... Ivor B. Clark, Master .......................... 32.12
John B. Spalding, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 32.12
Molino.....................No. 150.... Edward S. Trevethick, Master .......... 13.56

274

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Woodland ......·......... No. 156 ....Thornton E. Cranston, Master.......... 6.24
Henry C. Gray, Sr. Warden
William E. Underwood, Jr. Warden
B. F. Hillhouse, Past Master and
Insp. .................................................... 6.24
Keystone .................No. 16L .. Francis R. Hood, Master.................... 8.28
Harmony ................ No. 164.... Ernest M. Innes, Master.................... 36.38
Excelsior.. ............... No. 166.... Fred Wm. Kolb, Master
Edmund C. McMillan, Sr. Warden
Walker Peddicord, Jr. Warden
Edwin L. Forster, Past Master
J. W. Crosby, Past Master
Rod G. Guyett, Past Master and Insp.
Darrell A. Hare, Past Master
Chas. Albert Adams, Past Master
and Past Grand Master

Phoenix................... No. 178.... George H. Seager, Master .................. 47.28
\Valter B. Howes, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 47.28
M. J. Newberg, Past Master.............. 47.28
Mendocino ..............No. 179 .... Andrew Hansen, Jr. Warden ............ 26.38
Chas. Banker, Past Master
Petaluma .................No. 180... .John Struven, Master..........................
W. S. DeTurk, Past Master

2.88

Russian River .........No. 181.. .. Richard S. Hagadorn, Master............

4.56

Arbuckle .................No. 182.... Irvin A. Griffin, Master......................
Joseph C. Hornall, Sr. Warden

8.28

Clear Lake .............. No. 183 .... John Francis, Master .......................... 13.90
Sierra Valley......... So.184 .... Wilber D. Johnson, Master... ............. 34.98
Claiborne .................No. 185 .... Arthur L. McCallum, Master............ 24.58

Alameda .................. No. 167.... Henry M. Springer, Master................
Michael J. Overacker, Sr. Warden
Albert Harris, Past Master
F. B. Hartman, Past Master

2.40

Redwood City........ No. 168 .... Philip E. Brand, Master......................
Percy E. Long, Sr. Warden
David Richard Stott, Jr. Warden
C. G. Lambert, Past Master
F. T. Smith, Past Master
L. A. Heiner, Past Master

1.92

Evening Star..........No. 186.... Frederick H. Williams, Master........ 38.36
Keith ........................No. 187 .... Edward M. Johnson, Master............
Delmon B. Hall, Sr. Warden
George E. Skillcorn, Past Master
Elmer J. Chesbro, Past Master
Chas. H. Pierce, Past Master

5.64

Oakland................... No. 188.... William N. Munro, Master
Harold H. Meredith, Sr. \Varden
Wm. M. Huffman, Jr. Warden
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Master
F. L. Arbogast, Past Master
R. M. Ford, Past Master and Insp.

Mission .................... No. 169 .... Chas. W. Goodwin, Master
Carl R. Thomson, Sr. \Varden
George H. Becker, Jr. \Varden
Robert E. Allan, Past Master
E. \V. Tucker, Past Master
Lew E. Wallace, Past Master

Northern Light ..... N o. 190 .... Alonzo E. Cleland, Master.................. 25.92

Elk Grove ............... No. 173 ....Thomas W. Venn, Master.................. 7.80
T. L. Conrad, Past Master
Drytown ..................No. 174.... John J. Myers, Past Master and Rep. 13.12
Antioch ....................No. 175 .... Hugh H. Harren, Master....................

275

3.96

Marin ....................... No. 191.... Eugene W. Smith, Master..................
George E. Kendall, Sr. \Varden
Carl E. Bradley, Jr. Warden
W. L. Chamberlain, Past Master
R. A. Cranston, Past Master
Joseph Block, Past Master
John Clute, Past Master
George F. Rodden, Past Master and
Past Grand Master

1.05

276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Santa Barbara ........ No. 192.... Wm. W. Fitkin, Master...................... 34.02
John McRae, Sr. Warden
Ferndale .................•No. 193 .... Henry E. Codoni, Master .................. 31.20
Walter L. Hillgardner, Sr. Warden
Mountain View......No. 194.... Glenn W. Wilson, Sr. Warden.......... 2.64
Buckeye...................N o. 195 ....Chas. A. Elliott, Master......................
R. B. Bigelow, Past Master

6.00

San Simeon .............No. 196.... Nels C. Hansen, Master...................... 29.00
Edmund Barlogio, Sr. \Varden
F. J. Lowell, Past Master
Wilmington ...........• No. 198 .... August J. Lembke, Master ................ 44.52
Kirdwood S. Wallace, Sr. Warden
Hartley ....................No. 199 .... Wendell Henderson, Master.............. 12.32
Danile B. Morrison, Sr. Warden
Truckee ................... No. 200 .... Robert A. Tonini, Master.................... 23.16
George Carson, Past Master
Jos. H. Sanders, Past Master
Silveyville ............... No. 201.. .. John Maxwell Cowden, Master........
Edward C. Watson, Sr. Warden

4.92

Pentalpha ................ No. 202... _John Park Dougall, Master................ 43.08
\Vm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Master
and Past Grand Master.................. 43.08
Confidenee.............. No. 203 .... W. C. Buttle, Past Master and Rep.

7.80

Salinas..................... No. 204.... Alfred J. Price, Master........................

8.28

Olivet.......................No. 205 ....John D. Cramer, Master ...................... 12.96
H. D. Crooks, Past Master
Stanislaus ................No. 206 ....Travis B. Townsend, Sr. Warden.... 7.44

277

Friendship .............. N o. 210 .... Henry H. Buell, Master...................... 3.48
T. M. Wright, Past Master and Insp. 3.48
F. T. Edmans, Past Master
San Benito.............. No. 21L..Albert Wm. Hinz, Sr. Warden.......... 6.60
Frederick F. Wilson, Jr. Warden
Richard W. O'Bannon, Past Master
and Insp. ............................................ 6.60
So. San Francisco.No. 212 .... Fred H. Todd, Master
·
Raymond Kaufman, Sr. Warden
0. ]. Spindler, Past Master
Wm. G. Green, Past Master
C. W. Behnke, Past Master
W. J. B. Warner, Past Master
San Buenaventura.No. 214.... Clarence E. Thompson, Sr. \Varden 37.56
John E. Barker, Jr. Warden
David J. Reese, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 37.56
F. E. Jones, Past Master
Jos. A. Argabrite, Past Master .......... 37.56
Oak Grove.............. No. 215 .... Francis G. Thornton, Master
Will Crocket, Sr. Warden
W. H. Ochleman, Past Master
Doric ........................No. 216 .... Nathan J. Glass, Master
Carl Neuer, Sr. \Varden
Philip F. Ringole, Jr. Warden
Simon Myerson, Past Master
F. W. Stapff, Past Master
Wm. P. Read, Past Master and
Grand Sword Bearer
Monterey ................ No. 217.... William F. Allen, Master....................

8.88

Mosaic ..................... N o. 218 .... Victor D. Black, Master......................
John H. Colldeweih, Sr. Warden
Glen 0. Smallcomb, Jr. Warden
M. J. Clark, Past Master

3.48

Anaheim ..................No. 207 .... Clyde S. Williams, Master .................. 45.00
Rio Vista................. No. 208 .... Frank H. Miller, Sr. Warden............

3.40

King Davids ...........No. 209 .... Warren G. Overpaek, Master ............ 24.00
Ruben R. Long, Sr. Warden
W. D. Adriance, Past Master and
Insp..................................................... 24.00
M. F. Dyer, Past Master
John Whicher, Past Master and
Grand Secretary

278

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Janesville ................ No. 232 .... Francis L. Wilbur, Master ...... ., .......... 34.12

Speranza ltaliana .. No. 219 .... Giovanni Fracchia, Master
Frank Caroli, Sr. Warden
Frank Pagone, Jr. Warden
J. M. Icardo, Past Master and lnsp.
G. Scalminini, Past Master
Perseo Righetti, Past Master
C. Peini, Past Master
N. Colapietro, Past Master
G. B. Cordano, Past Master
Emil V. Louigo, Past Master
A. Cagliandro, Past Master

Calistoga ................. No. 233 .... Andrew Rocca, Master........................
Harry E. Decker, Sr. Warden
Joseph J. Fereday, Jr. Warden
C. A. Carroll, Past Master

5.40

Hope ........................ No. 234 .... R. A. Emerson, Master ........................ 31.20
Chas. Garrison, Past Master
Surprise Valley ...... No. 235 .... Chris H. Hansen, Master .................... 47.24

Downey ...................No. 220 .... Leon W. Rudd, Master ........................ 43.92
R. B. Harris, Past Master
lnyo......................... .No. 221.. .. Lester H. Baxter, Master .................... 55.86
Roseville ................. No. 222 .... John C. Mugford, Master....................

279

7.80

Bakersfield ............. .N o. 224 .... Chas. S. Curran, Master ...................... 29.34
Walter Nortensen, Sr. Warden
Albert E. Burton, Jr. Warden
Henry Eissler, Past Master ................ 29.34
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 29.34

Hills Ferry ............. No. 236 .... Wm. S. Thompson, Master................
Marshall E. Walden, Jr. Warden

7.92

Guadalupe ............... No. 237 .... Raymond D. Carse, Master ................ 25.68
William T. Lucas, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 26.68
L. D. Waller, Past Master
Colusa ...................... No. 240 .... Melvin A. Sparks, Master..................

9.72

Santa Ana ............... No. 241.. .. Chas. V. Doty, Master ........................ 45.48
Herbert M. Sammis, Sr. Warden
E. B. Trago, Past Master and Insp. 45.48
L. L. Whitson, Past Master
Magnolia ................. N o. 242 .... Martin C. Martinson, Master ............ 34.02
Edward L. Abbott, Sr. Warden
F. L. Johnston, Past Master

Brooklyn ................. No. 225 .... Warren A. Divoll, Master
Kenneth H. Keefer, Sr. Warden
Charles Grandjean, Jr. Warden
Louis Sutter, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master and Insp.
San Mateo............... No. 226 .... 0rland J. L. Byers, Master................

1.32

Athens ..................... No. 228 .... John F. Henle, Master........................

5.52

Solano ..................... No. 229 .... Albert B. Cushing, Master..................
Howard Gee, Sr. Warden
H. A. Frahm, Past Master
W. S. Thomas, Past Master
E. N. Sanders, Past Master
F. A. Hensley, Past Master
James E. Sanderson, Past Master

2.46

North Butte ............ No. 230 .... Chas. A. L. Schirmer, Sr. Warden .. 10.32
Covelo ..................... No. 231.. .. George P. Baker, Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 21.86

Eucalyptus ............. No. 243 .... Hugo Frank, Master............................
Joseph B. Prowse, Sr. Warden
Joseph E. Hollingshead, Jr. Warden

1.56

Alcatraz .................. No. 244 .... Frank C. Cochrane, Sr. Warden
Ferdinand S. Smith, Jr. Warden
Anthony D. Childers, Past Master
L. T. Corwin, Past Master
E. A. Clothier, Past Master
W.W. Neal, Past Master
Laurel... ................... No. 245 .... Gilbert A. Ostrom, Master .................. 10.92
J. J. Lawrence, Jr. Warden
Pomona ................... N o. 246 .... David Howard Biller, Master ............ 45.60
George C. Smithen, Jr. Warden

280

PROCEEDINGS OF ·rHE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fresno ..................... No. 247 .... Thomas D. Brown, Sr. Warden ........ 20.04
Chester H. Warlow, Jr. Warden
H. F. White, Past Master
Ben R. Walker, Past Master and
Senior Grand Steward ...................... 20.04
S. B. Tombs, Past Master

Orland ..................... No. 265 ... .John E. Faltings, Master
Wade H. Hightower, Sr. Warden .... 12.00
Willard Clark, Past Master
R. C. E. Weber, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 12.00

Alturas .................... No. 248 .... Gilbert R. Armstrong, Master.......... 44.24
C. S. Baldwin, Past Master and Insp. 44.24
Landmark ............... No. 253 .... Samuel Wells, Rep...............................

7.32

Reading ...................No. 254.... Gilbert C. DeForest, Master .............. 22.92
McCoy Fitzgerald, Past Master
Earl Lee Kelly, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 22.92
Welcome .................No. 255 ....John H. Brother, Sr. Warden ............ 23.16
M. C. Carter, Past Master
Lodi... ...................... No. 256.... George W. LeMoin, Past Master
and Rep............................................... 6.48
Penrhyn .................. N o. 258 .... Howard M. Lusk, Master..................

8.52

Evergreen ............... No. 259 ....James F. Davidson, Master ................ 47.28
Hiram P. Whitehead, Sr. Warden
James McDougall, Past Master
Oakley M. Morton, Past Master and
lnsp ..................................................... 47.28
A. Heber Winder, Past Master
King Solomon ........ No. 260.... Christian T. Struven, Master
Albert H. Ross, Sr. Warden
Frank J. Hayman,' Jr. \Varden
Wm. K. Cullen, Past Master
Randolph Whiting, Past Master
Edward E. Conn, Past Master
William P. Filmer, Past Master and
Grand Treasurer

281

North East... .......... No. 266 .... Edward C. McConnaughy,Past Master
Galt.. ........................ No. 267 .... Wallace B. Sawyer, Master................ 6.48
Durant.................... No. 268 .... Edward A. Van Wynen, Sr. Warden
Ralph E. Hoyt, Jr. Warden
Walter W. Bradley, Past Master and
Insp.
Robert Greig, Past Master
William H. Waste, Past Master
F. H. E. O'Donnell, Past Master
Franklin S. Beckett, Past Master
Edmund D. D. Thomas, Past Master
W. H. H. Gentry, Past Master
Olive Branch .......... No. 269 .... Samuel I. Ragan, Master.................... 23.28
Snow Mountain .....No. 271.. .. Samuel A. Porter, Master.................. 15.72
Pasadena ................. No. 272.... Chas. H. Kelley, Master...................... 44.04
Lewis W. Rowley, Sr. Warden
Anchor.................... No. 273 .... Alfred G. Kennedy, Master................ 43.92
Arroyo..................... No. 274 .... Morris 0. Pruess, Master.................. 24.90
Oakdale ...................No. 275 .... B. F. Hoisholt, Jr., Sr. Warden........ 8.52
Selma...................... No. 277.... John L. Mitchell, Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 21.24

Lompoc ...................N o. 262.... Alexander Main, Sr. Warden ............ 30.06

So. California......... No. 278 .... Hubert W. Swender, Master.............. 43.08
George H. Seymour, Sr. Warden
William F. Barshfield, Jr. Warden
James G. Scarborough, Jr., Past
Master and lnsp ............................... 43.08
Dana R. Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08
Wm. P. Jeffries, Past Master............ 43.08
Edward B. Spencer, Past Master

Hesperian............... No. 264.... Nathaniel B. Libbey, Sr. Warden .... 26.68

Hanford .................. No. 279 .... William R. Cochrane, Sr. Warden .. 22.56

Tuscan .................... N o. 261.. .. Ralph F. Fouch, Past Master and
Rep....................................................... 9.12
A. W. Kimball, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Madera .................... No. 280.... Jay S. Bondeson, Master .................... 18.60
H. W. Shuman, Jr. Warden
Harry Munter, Past Master and Insp. 18.60

Liberty.................... No. 299 .... Harry W. Mcintyre, Sr. Warden.... 3.24
C. A. English, Past Master and Insp. 3.48
Carl A. Linderoth, Past Master
A. 0. Meyers, Past Master

282

Mt. Shasta .............. No. 281.. .. Glenn H. Bishop, Master.................... 22.08
Otto G. Trautz, Past Master
South WesL.......... No. 283.... James Wm. Halleck, Sr. Warden.... 56.06
San MigueL .......... No. 285 .... Casper J. Weir, Master........................ 14.64
Paso Robles ........... No. 286 .... Herman L. Anderson, Sr. Warden .. 15.36
Winnedumah .........No. 287 .... Frederick M. Hess, Master................ 57.58
George 0. Clark, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 57.58
Maxwell... ............... No. 288 .... John Coshow, Sr. Warden.................. 9.72
Elsinore ...................No. 289 .... Robert H. Kirkpatrick, Master.......... 48.08
John Egelund, Jr. Warden
East Gate................No. 290 .... William D. Taylor, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
Harry H. Sherrard, Jr. Warden
Fred Otto Hoffman, Past Master
Frederick W. Heuser, Past Master
Santa Paula ............No. 291.. .. Fred Pressler, Master .......................... 38.76
J. N. Proctor, Sr. Warden
D. W. Mott, Past Master.................. 38.76
Los Gatos ............... No. 292 .... George F. Shaner, Master.................. 3.72
Herbert W. McAuley, Sr. Warden
Orange Grove ........ No. 293 .... Lewis W. Thompson, Master............ 45.48
Prentiss F. Curl, Sr. \Varden
Mt. Jackson ............ No. 295 .... \Valter F. Fonda, Past Master and
Rep .......................................................

5.40

Silver Gate .............. No. 296 .... Virgil Bruschi, Jr., Master.................. 55.64
B. E. Crain, Sr. \Varden
Howard J. Leggett, Jr. Warden
James L. Squire, Past Master and
Insp..................................................... 55.64
Dunsmuir............... No. 297.... Alva R. .Wilkins, Master .................... 28.98
Stephen S. Kent, Sr. Warden
Benjamin R. Fauber, Past Master
and Insp ............................................... 28.98
Gustav A. Hutaff, Past Master and
Junior Grand Warden...................... 28.98

283

Redlands ................. No. 300.... Harry T. Nott, Sr. Warden ................ 48.00
A. P. Crim, Past Master and Insp•.. 48.00
Ontario ................... No. 301.. .. John G. Pennington, Master ............. ; 45.96
Frank S. Hayes, Past Master
Santa Lucia............ No. 302 .... Arnold Frew, Master .......................... 11.52
Porterville .............. No. 303 .... George P. Simpson, Master................ 25.08
D. D. Webster, Jr. Warden
Reedley ................... No. 304.... Floyd C. Caskey, Master .................... 24.10
0. S. Smith, Jr. Warden
Azusa...................... No. 305 .... Peyton E. Calvery, Master............ _.. 44.88
Ashlar..................... No. 306 .... Hubert W. Finlay, Master .................. 47.28
Santa Monica ......... No. 307 .... Victor R. McLucas, Master ................ 44.64
Alfie Dee Marrs, Sr. Warden
Frederick W. Martin, Past Master
Roy F. Howard, Past Master
Frank M. Wise, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 44.64
George 0. Bechtel, Past Master

•

Monrovia ................ No. 308 .... Thomas A. Coleman, Master'""······-- 44.40
H. L. Alexander, Sr. Warden
R. A. Densmore, Jr. Warden
L. M. Renaker, Past Master and
Insp..................................................... 44.40
Delano ..................... No. 309 .... Aaron 0. Finley, Master.................... 27.06
A. Sheppard, Past Master
Sisson...................... No. 310.... Howard S. Glidden, Sr. Warden ...... 30.06
Los Banos ............... No. 312 .... J. E. Place, Past Master and Rep...

9.36

Tehachapi............... No. 313 .... Wilbur S. Smith, Master.................... 32.88
Harry J. Beauford, Past Master
Temescal... .............. No. 314 .... Emett A. Boylan, Master .................... 48.36
Frederick W. Juster, Sr. Warden

285

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Norwalk..................No. 315 .... Arthur M. Okell, Master.................... 44.28
D. '-N. Ludy, Past Master

Kilauea .................... No. 330 .... John Adam C. Kennedy, Past Master and Rep .......................t .................283.00

Sanger..................... No. 316 ....James H. Tener, Master.................... 21.12

Pacific Grove......... No. 331.. .. Chas. L. Cope, Master........................ 9.00
Chas. K. Tuttle, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 9.00
E. S. Johnston, Past Master

284

Fallbrook. ............... No. 317 .... Ellis B. Walton, Rep ........................... 53.30
Emanuel................. No. 318 ....J. A. Foster, Rep ................................... 10.56
Hollenbeck............. No. 319 .... Harry L. Killingsworth, Master...... 43.08
Wm. B. Osborne, Sr. Warden
Clarence Edw. Hargan, Jr. Warden
W. J. Sanborn, Past Master.............. 43.08
John M. Dunsmoor, Past Master
South Gate ..............No. 320 .... Chas. Ruble, Master ............................ 43.08
Forrest W. Monroe, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Griffith, Past Master and
Insp. ···················--···················'··········· 43.08
John W. Kemp, Past Master
AlisaL ..................... No. 321.. .. Arthur J. Hansen, Master..................
Andrew M. Kamp, Sr. \Varden

3.00

Alhambra................No. 322 .... Chas. B. Netterberg, Master.............. 43.68
George A. Houser, Sr. \Varden
Whittier .................. No. 323 .... Roy I. LeFever, Master...................... 44.52
Sam Melvin Jackson, Jr. \Varden
Corona .................... .No. 324 .... Herbert Laughton, Master ................ 44.04
L. L. Test, Past Master
Chas. L. Pease, Past Master
Consuelo................. No. 325....Lloyd H. Woodnutt, Master .............. 53.58
Arthur Paul, Past Master and lnsp. 53.58
Needles ................... No. 326.... Carl C. Mikesell, Master .................... 57.80
Long Beach ............ No. 327.... Robert B. Hawthorne, Master.......... 44.64
Uriah Whitehead, Sr. Warden
Clark H. Shaw, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 44.64
George W. Huese, Past Master
Redondo.............~ .... No. 328.... David Mowatt Taylor, Sr. Warden .. 44.64
Edward J. Reeder, Jr. Warden
Vallee de France ... No. 329 .... Charles Bertrand, Master.................... 43.08

San Pedro ............... No. 332 .... Alfred W. Hartley, Master ................ 44.64
Jesse A. Jackson, Sr. Warden
J. D. Rudbach, Past Master
Alta.....c.......•......•••.•• No. 333 .... John D. Murphey, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Covina ..................... No. 334 .... Ben Bolt Jenks, Sr. Warden .............. 44.48
West Gate ...............N o. 335 .... Marco Ross Newmark, Master.......... 43.08
Fred R. Mason, Past Master
Fruitvale ................. No. 336 .... Benjamin F. Morris, Master
Lawson Howatt, Sr. Warden
Robert S. Grant, Jr. Warden
Carquinez ................No. 337 .... John Joseph Nalond, Master.............. 2.16
Benjamin franklin Scribner, Jr. Warden
J. E. Hughes, Past Master and Insp. 2.16
San Jacinto .............N o. 338.... Arthur R. Hazeltine, Master............ 50.94
Fullerton .................No. 339 .... William T. Rodger, Master ................ 44.48
Arthur M. Thompson, Sr. Warden
Harold E. Hale, Jr. Warden
H. C. McMaster, Past Master
Oxnard .................... No. 341.. .. Henry C. W. Otte, Sr. Warden ........ 38.28
San Fernando ........ No. 343 .... Harry E. Waite, Sr. Warden .............. 41.64
Clifton Welsin Juty, Past Master
Starr King .............. No. 344.... Rudolph Rosenberg, Master
Merrill N. Howe, Sr. Warden
Herbert Bendheim, Jr. Warden
C. 0. Munson, Past Master and Insp.
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Master
Benard J. Joseph, Past Master
Chas. 0. Clausen, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brentwood .............. No. 345 .... Cornelius L. Kreim, Master.............. 4.56
George K. Anderson, Sr. Warden

Hollywood............. No. 355 .... Thomas B. Buchan, Master................ 43.68
George T. Foell, Sr. Warden
0. L. Moore, Jr. Warden
Wm. B. Ogden, Past Master
Homer W. Glidden, Past Master

286

Palo Alto ................ No. 346 .... Willard T. Tyler, Master....................
James W. Mansfield, Sr. \Varden
James B. Blois, Jr. Warden
Newton \V. Glaser, Past Master

2.28

McKinley ................ No. 347 .... Arthur C. Rogers, Sr. Warden.......... 1.20
B. E. Scoble, Past Master and Rep. ·
San Bernardino..... No. 348 .... Raymond E. Hodge, Master .............. 47.28
Ralph H. Logsdon, Sr. \Varden
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Maste.r and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08

Buena Park ............ No. 357.... Worth C. Miller, Master.................... 44.64

Loyalton ................. No. 359 .... Attilio Lombardi, Master.................... 31.98
J. S. Conklin, Past Master and lnsp. 31.98

Palestine ................. No. 351.. .. Chas. P. Hutton, Master .................... 43.08
Walter F. Haas, Past Master............ 43.08
Sunset ..................... No. 352 .... Bernard A. Hodges, Master .............. 43.08
Wm. P. Schofield, Sr. Warden
Rollie W. Miller, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 43.08
James \V. Bell, Past Master
Ralph A. Chase, Past Master ............ 43.08
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 43.08

Presidio ................... No. 354 .... John E. Houston, Master
Coford Johnson, Sr. Warden
Frederick A. Cawthorne, Jr. Warden
Wm. A. Sherman, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Eric R. Johnson, Past Master and
lnsp.
Ed H. Wilkins, Past Master
Frank G. Watson, Past Master and
Grand Tiler

.96

Golden State.......... No. 358 .... Lester E. Bennett, Sr. Warden .......... 43.08
Ben G. Wright, Past Master

Sequoia ....................No. 349 ... Albert D. Beuttel, Master
Andrew F. Peterson, Sr. Warden
Earl Warren, Jr. Warden
J. V. Moore, Past Master
Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master and
Insp.
Charles Husband, Past Master
Howard L. Burdick, Past Master

Pinole ...................... No. 353 .... 0rvin N. Nichols, Master..................
U. B. McKenzie, Past Master

Mill Valley ............. No. 356 .... Fred Wm. Glahn, Master....................
Keith McLellan, Sr. Warden
Thomas F. Bagshaw, Jr. Warden
Alonzo Coffin, Past Master
Kent J. C. Seymour, Past Master
Louis Lyman Jauer, Past Master

287

1.68

San Franciseo ........ No. 360 .... Eddy Tallman Boyd, Master
John E. Rebard, Sr. Warden
Henry D. Oliphant, Jr. Warden
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Fred 0. Shutts, Past Master
Fort Bragg ............ No. 361.. .. Chas. H. Stephens, Master ................ 24.08
Harry Burrows, Sr. Warden
Charity .................... No. 362.... Lionel T. Lennox, Master..................
Merlin J. Bohnett, Sr. Warden
Leon S. Miller, Past Master

3.72

Berkeley ................. No. 363 .... Frank C. Bishop, Master
Howard M. Smitten, Sr. \Varden
James E. \Varren, Jr. Warden
Chas. A. McKelvey, Past Master
R. P. Arnold, Past Master
C. J. Stone, Past Master
Willits ..................... No. 365 .... G. A. Smart, Sr. Warden .................... 10.04
Jerome E. Winstandley, Past Master
Las Palmas ............ N o. 366.... Ernest M. Myers, Master .................. 20.04
Orval G. Roberts, Sr. Warden
Rhine G. Meyering, Jr. Warden
H. Earnest Verble, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 20.04
Andrew \V. Horn, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

288

289

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

South Pasadena .....No. 367 .... George D. Bragonier, Master ............ 43.80
William C. Snyder, Sr. Warden
John W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity ....................... No. 368 .... William E. Moody, Master ................ 43.68
George H. Blyth, Sr. Warden
Dwight W. Stephenson, Past Master and lnsp ....................................... 43.08
Ocean Park. ........... No. 369 .... Joseph R. Hughes, Master.................. 44.64
W. Blair Gibbens, Sr. Warden
John L. Herwick, Jr. Warden
T. H. Hanna, Past Master
Amity ...................... No. 370 .... Raymond M. Henry, Master
Marcus Wm. Dunbar, Sr. Warden
James E. Cowden, Jr. Warden
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ............. No. 371.. .. Lehr A. Whitney, Jr. Warden ......... .250.00
Lester E. Forrest, Past Master and·
Insp ..................................................... 250.00
Gardena .................. No. 372 .... Verner Wm. Gray, Master .................. 44.04
Louis W. Ernst, Sr. Warden
Veteran ................... No. 373 .... 0ris F. Jewett, Master ........................ 44.28
Jewel... ..................... No. 374 .... Clare'nce J. Shipaugh, Master
Wm. D. Williams, Sr. Warden
Chas. E. Anderson, Past Master
Leo Bruck, Past Master
Otto G. Freyermuth, Past Master
John Hopper Adams, Past Master
John A. Snell, Past Master

Mizpah .................... No. 378 .... Albert R. Martin, Master.............. :..... 43.08
Clyde N. Driskell, Sr. Warden
Fillmore .................. No. 379 .... Eugene E. Dorman, Master ................ 39.48
Harry B. Schumacher, Sr. Warden
Huntington B'ch ... No. 380 .... Alfred E. Frink, Master...................... 46.08
Oceanside ............... N o. 381.. .. Swein Shuidshift, Master .................... 51.46
Highland Park .......No. 382 .... William Taylor, Master ...................... 43.08
Wm. Robert Binnie, Sr. Warden
Orosi... ..................... No. 383 .... Edwin Richard Hoff, Master .............. 26.40
El Centro ................ N o. 384 .... Walter D. Garey, Master .................... 68.16
Chas. H. Knights, Sr. Warden
John S. Ross, Past Master and lnsp. 68.16
Dinuba .................... No. 385 .... Clarence A. Tillotson, Past Master
and Insp ................................................ 22.20
Abner Frazer, Past Master
Clarence W. Martin, Past Master
and Rep ............................................... 22.20
Coalinga ................. No. 387 .... Lee Andrew Tune, Master .................. 26.16
F. A. Wells, Past Master and lnsp. 26.16
Parnassus ............... No. 388 .... James Evans White, Master
William Harry King, Sr. Warden
C. I. Dorman, Past Master
l'alos Verdes .......... N o. 389 .... Hayler 0. Shuster, Master................ 44.64
James F. Dougan, Sr. Warden
lmperial... ............... No. 390 .... John F. Carlson, Sr. Warden ............ 67.80
East Belt ................. No. 391.. .. Herbert H. Shirley, Master ................ 16.80

Richmond ............... N u. 375 .... Henry C. Gaylord, Master
Rudolph T. Haas, Sr. Warden
Emil Hoerchner, Jr. Warden
George H. Bradner, Past Master
F. C. Ruppel, Past Master
Francis Drake ........ N o. 376 .... Chas. W. King, Master........................
Peter Bollinger, Sr. Warden
Martin L. Spangler, Jr. Warden
J. W. Colbert, Past Master

West Lake .............. No. 392 .... Walter L. Berger, Master .................. 43.08
Lisle L. Smith, Sr. Warden
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master and lnsp. 43.08
Harry G. Manville, Past Master
.72

Artesia ..................... No. 377 .... John H. Niemes, Master ...................... 44.40
Franklin D. Caldwell, Past Master
and lnsp ............................................... 44.40

Balder ...................... No. 393 .... Arthur M. De Vall, Master
Fred J. Boehm, Sr. Warden
Chas. G. Johnson, Past Master
F. 0. Sjogsen, Past Master
T. S. Mellin, Past Master
John Olaf Hansen, Past Master
Elias Elison, Past Master

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

University.............. .No. 394 .... William S. McFaddan, Master .......... 43.08
Gilman Bean, Sr. Warden
Arthur W. Ellis, Past Master
Irving J. Mitchell, Past Master
.N 395 .. :.John \Valter Guy, Master..................
T ur I oc k ................... o.
Henry S. Bowers, Sr. Warden

8.40

Wm. W. Abbott, Past Master and
Insp. .................................................... 9.12

291

Honolulu ................ .No. 409 .... Clifford F. White, Sr. Warden.......... 250.00
Charter Rock......... No. 410 .... Lawrence R. Chilcote, Master
Thomas H. Beatty, Jr. Warden
John Allan Wolcott, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
Perris ....................... No. 411 .... \Valter Henry Ziders, Master............ 48.82
Calexico.................. No. 412.... Edward E. Kiefer, Master .................. 67.22

Apollo................... :..No. 396 .... Henry A. \Veichart, Master
Karl L. Mallard, Sr. Warden
E. N. Clintsman, Past Master
Chas. B. Greeley, Past Master and
Insp.

Waucoba ................. No. 413 .... Norman R. Schalten, Jr. Warden .... 58.72
Arlington ................ No. 414 .... William C. Trimble, Master.............. 43.08
Charles P. Lyndall, Past Master and
lnsp..................................................... 43.08

· · L'1gh t...........N o. 397 .... Archibald G. McLav,
R1s111g
• Master ............ 43.38
Fraternity ............... No. 399 .... Raymond B. Leland, Master..............

3.48
1.20

Burlingame .............No. 400 .... Claude Emmet Thomp'sond, Master ..
Chas. J. Orman, Sr. War en
Samuel L. Hawken, Past Master and
Insp .................................................... . 1.20
W. H. Eddy, Past Master
Bay View................ No. 401.. .. W. Leonard Carver, Master
Walter S. Brown, Jr. Warden
F. W. Wetmore, Past Master
N 402 Earl McReynolds, Master .................. 66.84
Braw I ey................... o.
.... John A. Irelan, Jr. Warden
Yerba Buena .......... K o. 403 .... Lloyd D. Barzee, Master
Preston E. Snook, Sr. Warden
Albert B. Cosad, Past Master
F. Wm. LeBallister, Past Master
Glendora................. No. 404 .... Fred Long, Past Master and Rep ..... 45.12

Silver Trowel... ......No. 415 .... Nils Gilliam, Master ............................ 43.08
Clinton H. Williams, Sr. Warden
Pascal Pontecorvo, Past Master
Lindsay................... No. 416.... E. B. Gould, Sr. Warden .................... 24.36
Clovis .......................No. 417 .... Chas. E. Matthews, Master................ 21.00
Elysian .................... Ko. 418 .... Robert F. Callender, Master.............. 43.08
Dudley S. Valentine, Sr. \Varden
Upland..................... No. 419 .... Wiley W. Mather, Master .................. 46.08
W. R. Fanner, Past Master
Kerman ................... No. 420.... Leslie G. Sandell, Master.................... 19.20
Inglewood .............. J:\o. 42L.Walter H. Ulm, Master...................... 45.16
Thomas L. Bennett, Sr. Warden
Eagle Rock. ............ No. 422 .... Arthur L. Clark, Jr. Warden .............. 43.98
York ......................... No. 423 .... Cyril Westmoreland, Master.............. 43.92

No. 405 .... William Roane, Master.. ...................... 43.08
one a....................
Nathaniel B. Johnson, Sr. \Varden

Exeter.. ................... No. 424 .... Elon Parker Close, Master................ 23.88
Francis F. Badouz, Sr. Warden
Frances W. Mixter, Past Master and
lnsp..................................................... 23.88

Burbank.................. No. 406 .... Abel E. Dufur, Master ........................ 42.36
Jack A. Lockwood, Sr. \Varden
Walter E. Lawrence, Past Master

Holtville.................. No. 425 .... William H. Meyer, Sr. Warden........ 65.76

M

t

La M esa................. .No. 407.... Raynor De Burn, Master. ................... 56.34
.
·u d
""'o 408 .... Harold E. Allen, Master...................... 44.04
S 1erra ;via re ..........n •

Midway ................... No. 426 .... James C. Womac, Master.. ................ 33.78
Earl W. Smith, Sr. Warden
J. M. Hovis, Past Master
L. M. McCandler, Past Master

292

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chino Valley __________ No. 427.... Albert Wm. Laforge, Master ____________ 45.96
San Dimas .............. No. 428 ....James G. Helwick, Sr. Warden ________ 45.24
A. E. Tangeman, Past Master and
lnsp. ·······················------····--·-·····-······---- 45.24
Pittsburg ............... ,No. 429 .... Edward P. Pendleton, Master... ------···

3.60

293

Blackmer................. No. 442.... David W. Schick, Master.................... 55.64
Omo Ernest Tyler, Sr. Warden
Daniel McRae, Jr. \Varden
Warren E. Libby, Past Master... ..... 43.08
Lacey D. Jennings, Past Master...... 55.64

McCloud ................. No. 430 .... John M. Longden, Master.................. 32.42
W. P. Gleason, Jr. \Varden

Schofield ................. No. 443 .... Andrew Anderson, Sr. Warden ....... .250.00
Chas. C. Pittam, Past Master and
Junior Grand Steward ...................... 250.00

Alpha....................... No. 43L .. William P. Self, Sr. Warden............
John Wm. Smiley, Jr. Warden

Carpinteria ..............No. 444.... John Keer Miller, Master.................... 36.36

1.20

Hammonton ...........No. 433 .... Pratt De Voe Sprague, Master.......... 10.50
James H. McGill, Past Master
Maricopa ................. No. 434....John George Rupp, Sr. Warden ...... 33.42
Fairmount.. .............No. 435 .... Pierter A. De Vries, Master
Gerald E. Morrison, Sr. \Varden
Fred B. Hofheinz, Jr. Warden
George Pollitt, Past Master
D. G. Wagstaff, Past Master
Henry F. Harwood, Past Master
George \V. Gerhard, Past Master
Ed F. Leonard, Past Master

La Puente ............... No. 446 .... Robert M. Philebar, Master ...:.......... 44.52
Torrance ................. No. 447 ....John Henry Fess, Master.. ................ 44.28
John Robertson Guyan, Sr. Warden

ClaremonL. ............No. 436 .... Colin A. McLean, Rep ....................... 45.72
Lancaster................No. 437 .... Jack D. Zimmerman, Master ............ 37.44
Lewis S. Tudor, Sr. Warden
Joseph A. Martin, Jr. \Varden
Acacia ......................No. 438 ... Otto K. Werner, Master...................... 4.3.08
Karl L. Ratzer, Insp. and Past
Master ................................................ 43.08
Tyrian .................... _No. 439 .... F. G. Williams, Rep............................

Wilshire .................. No. 445 .... Ernest L. Webster, Sr. \Varden ...... 43.08
Frank B. Belcher, Jr. \Varden
Thomas A. Dille, Past Master
Warren D. Gill, Past Master and
Grand Pursuivant .............................. 43.08
Sidney B. Brown, Past Master
J. Karl Lobdell, Past Master
Will H. Fischer, Past Master and
Senior Grand Warden ...................... 43.08

6.24

Standard ................. No. 440 .... George Ed \Vorster, Master
Clarence H. Brown, Sr. \Varden
Alfred J. Hooper, Jr. Warden
\V. F. Wood, Past Master
CoroniJ.do ................ No. 44L .. Harry M. Omar, Master .................... 55.76
C. G. Burwell, Sr. \Varden

Mount Diablo ........ No. 448 .... Wayman E. Ballenger, Master.......... 3.24
Sam Bell, Sr. Warden
John Abner Cash, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 3.00
l'ark. ........................ No. 449 ....John Ferguson, Master
Glenn W. Maynard, Sr. Warden
Ernest R. Smith, Jr. \Varden
Foster G. Dyer, Past Master and Insp.
Albert \V. Stokes, Past Master
Arthur H. Wilde, Past Master
A. W. Brouillet, Past Master
John Tassell, Past Master
Van Nuys ................ No. 450 .... Carl B. Sartwell, Master .................... 43.08
Carl B. Barkla, Past Master and Insp. 41.88
Montebello..............No. 45L .. Archie G. Malin, Master ...................... 43.08
San PasquaL. .........No. 452.... John Herbert Allin, Master................ 44.04
Chas. F. Dennison, Sr. Warden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

294

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

295

Morgan Hi!L......... No. 463 .... Robert B. Stewart, Master ................ 4.92

Bethlehem ............... No. 453 .... Clyde N. White, Master
Eli Murray Blansford, Sr. Warden
Leighton T. Stewart, Jr. Warden

Alta Vista ................No. 464 .... Roy Maxwell Leeds, Master
Rea C. Newman, Sr. \Varden
Larned T. Kimmerle, Jr. \Varden

Crocker.................... No. 454 .... Kenneth McLean, Master
James Syme, Sr. Warden
William Kahrau, Jr. Warden
George Watson, Past Master
A. Campbell, Past Master
G. E. Archer, Past Master

Center ......................:N' o. 465 .... Robert Hall Ellithorpe, Rep ............... 20.04
Libertas ................... No. 466.... J. J. Taylor, Sr. Warden .................... 29.34
E. J. Nielsen, Jr. Warden
Culver City ............. No. 467.... Albert W. Mayer, Master.................. 43.08
Adin A. Randall, Sr. \Varden
Chas. E. Shillito, Past Master

Golden West .......... No. 455 ... Robert L. Husted, Master
Wright P. Hall, Sr. Warden
Paul F. Doring, Jr. Warden
Adolph Bernhardt Muller, Past Master
G. Robert Brockman, Past Master
Elmer M. Hundley, Past Master
Frank M. McNulty, Past Master

Rockridge ............... No. 468 .... Fred P. Henchell, Master
Yorba Linda ........... No. 469 .... Ralph C. Shook, Master.. .................... 45.00

Ramona ................... No. 457 .... John W. Robinson, Sr. Warden ........ 43.68
VVilbert J. Stewart, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 43.68
Frederick H. Vercoe, Past Master
Henry S. Orme ......No. 458 .... Robert 0. Crowe, Master .................. 43.08
Fred C. Warner, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 43.08

Lincoln .................... No, 470 .... David L. \Volf, Master
Alex. Z. High, Jr.
Samuel M. Straus, Jr. Warden
Arthur D. Layne, Past Master
Arthur Joel, Past Master and Insp.
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Albert L. May, Past Master
Robert A. Peabody, Past Master
Dclta ........................ No. 471.. .. Mitchell A. Michelson, Master..........
Robert M. Warren, Sr. Warden

6.12

Riverbank. ..............Ko. 459 .... F. R. Shepherd, Sr. Warden..............

7.92

Maui.. ....................... No. 472 .... William A. Clark, Master ..................266.70

Mount Oso ............• No. 460 .... Chas. A. Slack, Master........................

5.00

lllythe ...................... No. 473 .... Tony Seeley, Master ............................ 68.26

Argonaut .................No. 461.. .. Chas. A. Rice, Master
Joseph A. Steinmetz, Sr. Warden
Homer P. Thyle, Jr. \Varden
Harry P. Rollermel, Past Master
W. R. Bowden, Past Master
Jos. A. Blackford, Past Master
Paul Revere ............Ko. 462 .... Wentworth S. Wright, Master
Joseph F. Jensen, Sr. Warden
Wm. A. Fogalsang, Jr. Warden
William A. Gerder, Past Master
Louid S. Smith, Past Master
George Washington Kennedy, Past
Master

Victory .................... No. 474 .... David \V. Cooper, Master
Max M. Alexander, Sr. Warden
William H. Dufton, Jr. Warden
America ................... No. 475 .... La Verne M. Watson, Master............ 43.08
Paul Save, Sr. Warden
Harry L. Lohr, Jr. \Varden
Roy Edgar Perry, Past Master
W. A. Schreider, Past Master and
Insp..................................................... 43.08
\Villis A. Wiley, Past Master
Chas. Emory Wright, Past Master
t 'oachella ................ No. 476 .... Henry M. Schmid, Sr. Warden ........ 59.88

296

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Temblor .................. No. 477 .... Russworth J. Bennett, Master .......... 35.38
Guy C. Parker, Past Master
Thousand Oaks ..... N o. 478 .... Percy S. Williams, Master
Herbert J. Watt, Sr. Warden
Henry M. Bakken, Jr. Warden
L. V. Hitchcock, Past Master and
Insp.
Golden Rule. .......... No. 479 .... 0ren Perry Holaday, Sr. Warden....

297

\Voodstock ............. No. 491.. .. Nicolas B. Choice, Master
Richard W. Parkinson, Sr. Warden
Ralph W. Merrich, Past Master
Garvanza................. No. 492.... Frank R. Schaefer, Master .................. 43.08
Clarence W. E. Smith, Sr. Warden

3.48

Fellowship ..............No. 480 .... Wi!liam G. Ewing, Master
John P. Addison Greenwood, Sr. Warden
Emil Paul Ziegler, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ......... No. 481.. .. Hugh E. Oliphant, Master
William C. Hobdy, Sr. Warden

Atascadero .._. .......... No. 493 .... William E. Yost, Master .................... 16.20
David L. Balderson, Sr. Warden
Acorn ....................... N o. 494 .... Arthur R. McPhail, Master
Asa G. Kazebeer, Sr. Warden
Clarence M. Lake, Jr. Warden
Charles Michael Herkenham, Past
Master
Robert Hervey Wright, Past Master

Clarence F. Smith.No. 482 .... Wales MacPerdue, Master .................. 43.08
Frank G. Falloon, Past Master and
Insp..................................................... 43.08

Lebanon .................. No. 495 .... Alexander E. \Vm. Rochfort, Master
George T. Black, Past Master
Benjamin H. R. Roberts, Past Master

Bell... .......................No. 483 .... Martin E. McCune, Master ................ 43.46

Riverdale ................ .No. 496 .... Alfred T. Lewis, Master ..................... 21.60

Albert Pike ............. No. 484 .... Joseph R. Knapp, Master.................... 43.08
Joseph M. Jacobson, Sr. Warden

Fremont.. ................ No. 497 .... Alfred C. Meadows, Master
Harry Miller, Sr. Warden
Ira E. Prosser, Jr. Warden
C. C. Morris, Past Master and Insp.

Chowchilla............. .No. 485 .... B. 0. Webber, Master.......................... 11.40
Caledonia ................ N o. 486,... Robert \V. Nelson, Master ................ 29.34
Leland J. Runyan, Sr. Warden
Clyde E. Mallachowitz, Jr. Warden
Alexander I. Frazer, Past Master

Stockton .................. No. 498. ... Parks L. Hutchison, Master.............. 6.12
Capital City............ No. 499 .... William D. Richards, Master............ 6.48

Valtejo ..................... No. 487 .... Thomas B. Pollard, Master................
Mervin F. Wilson, Sr. Warden

2.40

Roosevelt ................ No. 500 ....J oseph Scannell, Master
William F. Traverso, Sr. Warden
Louis Ferrari, Jr. Warden

Patterson ................ No. 488.... William A. Logan, Sr. Warden........
John Lindquist, Past Master

7.08

Westwood ..............No. 50L .. W. Norman Lindersmith, Master .... 32.12

East Bay................. No. 489 .... Roy H. Parkinson, Master
Frank A. Sewell, Sr. Warden
George S. Bennett, Jr. \Varden
Boyd Lee Wilson, Past Master
Alonzo Coleman Shurtz, Past Master
David Samuel Roberts, Past Master
C0 rcoran ................. N o. 490 .... Herbert E. Ames, Master.................... 23.46

Harbor.................... No. 502.... William E. Peterson, Master............
lngvald E. Johnson, Sr. Warden
James L. Eakle, Jr. Warden

1.20

Point.. ......................No. 503 .... Carl E. Peterson, Master....................
Chas. J. Peterson, Past Master

1.20

Seaside .................... No. 504.... Albert E. Foreman, Master................ 44.64
William J. Courtiour, Sr. Warden
Silver Cord ............. No. 505 .... Chas. H. McCausland, Master .......... 45.48
Owen A. Murray, Sr. \Varden

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

298

299

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mount Olive........... No. 506 .... Paul C. Washburn, Master ................ 43.08
George A. Carey, Sr. Warden
El Segundo ............. N o. 507.... Robert Jam es Doh le, Master ............ 44.28
Joppa ....................... No. 508 .... Emerel E. Overton, Master ................ 19.32
Benj. Franklin,...... No. 509 .... Samuel D. Alrich, Master .................. 43.08
Walter B. Rorick, Sr. Warden
George W. Marshall, Past Master
and Insp............................................... 43.08
Cupertino ............... .Xo. 510 .... Harold C. Jepsen, Master....................

3.38

Sunnyvale .............. .Ko. 511.. .. Lloyd T. \Vhite, Master......................
Wilber L. Epps, Sr. Warden

2.88

Palms .......................No. 512 .... Richard F. Johnson, Master .............. 44.28
Cahuenga ................No. 513 .... Dana H. Bennett, Master .................... 43.08
Everett R. James, Sr. Warden
Argonne ................. No. 514 .... Prentice 0. Courtemanche, Master
Russell B. Tripp, Sr. Warden
Guy A. Barker, Jr. Warden
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Vermont Square .... No. 515 .... Clay M. Gale, Master .......................... 43.08
James E. Boaz, Sr. Warden
Tait... ....................... No. 516 .... H. E. Osburn, Sr. Warden ................ 33.78
Harry M. Beatty, Past Master
Mount Vernon ....... No. 517 .... Timothy W. McCarthy, Master
W. R. Adams, Past Master
C. T. Smith, Past Master
La Jolla ................... No. 518 .... \Varren R. Parker, Sr. Warden ........ 55.64
Euclid ...................... No. 519 .... George Wm. Smith, Master.............. 43.08
Ionic .........................N o. 520 .... Edgar E. Lampton, Master ................ 43.08
Piedmont... ............. No. 521.. .. George H. Bragg, Master
Chas. H. Wilson, Sr. Warden
Bradley Carr, Jr. Warden
Sunrise .................... No. 522 .... Ralph E. Mcintyre, Master.. .............. 43.08
Ernest W. Atkins, Sr. Warden

Bellflower ................No. 523 .... Harry A. Lansing Canfield, Master 44.40
Homer M. Goodrow, Sr. Warden
Catalina Island ...... No. 524 .... Chas. Jacob Dash, Master.................. 47.58
James D. Malloch, Jr. \Varden
A. L. Lawrence, Past Master
Geo. Washington .. No. 525 ... Opie L. Warner, Master
Clyde E. Bowen, Jr. Warden
Bay City ..................No. 526.... Edgar U. Meyer, Sr. Warden
Covenant... ..............No. 527 .... Josiah F. Lyon, Master.. .................... 43.08
Peter L. Kiefer, Sr. Warden
Claudius Mathias Johnson, Past Master
Beverly Hills .........No. 528 .... Steve A. Glassell, Master .................... 43.92
Loyalty.................... No. 529 .... Neal Edward Engman, Sr. \Varden 43.08
Victor E. Stewart, Jr. Warden
Sun Garden ........... ;N o. 530 .... Harry B. Hunter, Master.................... 20.04
Alexandria ............. No. 53L ..James E. Travelstead, Sr. Warden
F. B. McAtee, Past Master
Frank G. Hohhs, Past Master and
Asst. Grand Secretary
Smyrna .................... No. 532 .... John Roy Gill, Master..........................
Thomas E. Wilson, Past Master

7.80

Azure ....................... No. 533 .... R. J. Starbuck, Sr. Warden ................ 44.88
L. L. Tanner, Jr. \Varden
Forest HilL. ...........No. 534 .... H. E. Ridenour, Jr. Warden
Myron Close, Past Master
Alex. Hamilton ...... No. 535 .... Edward Hervey, Master .................... 43.08
Ernest Wm. Jakobs, Sr. Warden
Seal Rock. ...............No. 536....John K. Wright. Master
Utopia ......................N o. 537 .... Arthur T. Mitchell, Master ................ 43.08
Ascot ........................ N o. 538 .... J ohn Allen Wilson, Master ................ 43.08
Belvedere ................N o. 539 .... William Rudolph, Master.................... 43.08
Evan H. Davies, Sr. Warden
George A. French, Jr. \Varden

301

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Queen Beach ..........No. 540.... Leon E. Conover, Master.................... 44.64

White Pine ............. No. 555 .... Edmund R. Ballard, Master .............. 30.90

Henry Morse
Stephens ............. No. 541.. .. Merle Randall, Master
Chas. F. Shaw, Sr. Warden
Carlisle D. Nielsen, Jr. \Varden
Val Arntzen, Past Master

Fairfax .................... No. 556 .... Earl B. Reineger, Master..................
Floyd Spence, Sr. Warden
William H. Stine, Jr. Warden

300

Lankershim ............ No. 542 ....Walter H. Roberts, Master................ 42.24
Harvey E. Oatman, Sr. Warden
SignaL. .................... No. 543 ....Julius Tank, Master .............................. 44.64
Laurel 0. Stevenson, Sr. Warden
Glendale .................. N o. 544 .... Alfred R. Ireland, Master .................. 43.68
Richard 0. Montanye, Sr. Warden
Jonathan ................. No. 545 .... Clarence E. Schoenduby, Master
T. H. Breurs, Past Master
San Gabriel... ..........N o. 546 .... Edgar H. Hale, Master........................ 43.80
Arcadia................... .X o. 547.... Lloyd R. Hopkins, Master ................ 44.40
Triangle.................. No. 548 .... William G. Karpe, Sr. Warden .......... 44.64
Justice ......................Ko. 549 .... Wm. A. Speers, Master
Milton F. Conklin, Sr. Warden
Leland Peoples, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
H. C. Christiansen, Past Master
Seaport .................... No. 550 .... 0tto A. Holtzen, Master
Adolph C. C. Von Konsky, Sr. Warden
Louis C. Muller, Jr. Warden
James Jackson Yates, Past Master
Lakeshore ............... No. 55L .. William E. Pitcher, Master
John Roger Wood, Sr. Warden
Thomas M. Lewis, Jr. Warden
Semper Virens ....... N o. 552 .... Isaac S. Minor, Master ....................... 39.40
Golden City .......... No. 553 .... Arthur V. Annette, Jr. Warden
Educator ................ No. 554... W. C. Leavitt, Sr. Warden
R. L. Smirle, Jr. Warden
\Vinfield G. Overton, Past Master

1.32

Hermosa.'................ No. 557 .... James C. Jenkins, Master .................. 44.64
Point Firmin.......... No. 558 .... Montgomery Phister, Master ............ 44.64
Chas. T. Crane, Sr. Warden
Craftsmen ............... No. 559 .... Arthur W. King, Master .................... 43.08
Arthur H. Inman, Sr. Warden
Plymouth ................ N o. 560 .... Herbert E. Mathiesen, Master
Wm. G. Thumann, Sr. Warden
Frederick C. Hasemann, Jr. Warden
Charles L. Rakestraw, Past Master
Charles Keadle Baxley, Past Master
East San Diego ..... .No. 561.. .. Eugene B. Smith, Sr. Warden .......... 55.64
Walter LeRoy Kirby, Past Master
Pyramid .................. No. 562.... Alexander G. Middleton, Master
H. H. Janssen, Sr. Warden
George Forfar, Jr. Warden
South Park............. No. 563 .... Francis B. Slaughter, Master ............ 43.08
Chalmers E. Lones, Sr. Warden
Foothill... ................ Xo. 564 .... William M. Jensen, Master
Ben J. Small, Sr. Warden
Robert L. Taylor, Jr. Warden
West Adams .......... :'.lfo. 565 .... 0scar Holmes, Master ........................ 43.08
Jas. A. Garfield ...... No. 566 .... Leonard E. Thomas, Master.............. 43.08
Clyde C. Shoemaker, Sr. Warden
Searchlight............. No. 567 .... Hubert D. Logan, Master.................. 44.64
Clarence ]. Hill, Past Master and
Insp ..................................................... 44.64
Park Boulevard ..... No. 568 .... Paul R. Roller, Master
James E. Hammond, Sr. Warden
Walter G. Thomas, Jr. Warden
John McEwing, Past Master
Charles H. Adams, Past Master

302

PROCEEDINGS 01<' THE

--l·

Chateau Thierry....No. 569 .... \Villiam C. Heine, Master
David L. Babcock, Sr. \Varden
Francis H. White, Jr. Warden
Military Service.... .No. 570 .... August Siedler, Master
Chas. Sutherland, Sr. \Varden
William J. Murphy, Jr. Warden
William Sample Edgar, Past Master
Lovett Morton Nichols, Past Master
Eugene Nichols, Past Master
Francis K.
Shattuck. .............No. 571.. .. Daniel Ross McCurdy, Master
Donald H. Atherton, Sr. Warden
Bruce Bartholomew, Jr. Warden
G. B. Ocheltree, Past Master
James Madison ...... No. 572 .... Walter H. Benn, Past Master and
Rep ....................................................... 43.08
Hillcrest.:: ............... No. 573 .... Courtney L. Barham, Master
W. F. M. Edwards, Jr. Warden
S. W. Hackett... ..... No. 574 .... Raymond S. Penwarden, Master... ... 53.38
Paul B. Gurrad, Sr. Warden
Chas. W. Partridge, Past Master
Fort Crook. ............ .No. 575 .... Willis E. King, Master........................ 34.42
Horace B. Wanzer, Past Master
Otho Stewart, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

303

Rialto .......................No. 582 .... Lloyd A. Mills, Master ........................ 47.16
Wasco ......................No. 583 .... William Hall Scott, Master................ 27.70
W. M. Wiley, Past Master
Harding...................No. 584.... Louis E. Sage, Master.......................... 43.08
Chas. G. Slick, Sr. Warden
Manchester.............No. 585 .... Herbert 0. Strickland, Master.......... 43.08
Garden Grove ........ N o. 586.... Richard Raster, Master.. .................... 44.76
Valley Forge ..........No. 587 .... Eugene Boose, Master ........................ 43.08
Ferdinand A. Hamilton, Sr. Warden
·El Sereno................ No. 588 .... James E. Cohee, Master...................... 43.08
George 0. Cornish, Sr. Warden
Kauai... .................... No. 589 .... Walter F. Sanborn, Jr. Warden ........ 272.00
Compass ................. No. 590 .... Samuel M. Fields, Master.................... 45.60
Escalon ....................No. 591.... Carl H. Peterson, Master..................

7.56

Tujunga ................... No. 592.... Clyde T. Sanderson, Jr. Warden ...... 42.60
All States ................ No. 593 .... Victor M. Winebrener, Master .......... 44.64
John R. Mitchell, Sr. Warden
Service .....................No. 594 .... 0tto F. Reinen, Master ...................'. .. 44.64

El Cajon Valley .....No. 576 .... William Cameron, Master .................. 56.70

Alexander
Graham BelL. ....No. 595 .... Henry Boyle Allen, Master ................ 43.08

Sunnyside ............... No. 577 .... Thomas C. Ebersole, Master.............. 43.08

Guardian ................. No. 596.... Horace R. Middlemiss, Sr. Warden 43.08

Progressive ............ No. 578 .... Darrel Wm. Starr, Master .................. 43.08
Wm. A. Crane, Sr. Warden
\Varren G.
Harding..............No. 579 .... Chas. L. Gilmore, Master.................... 6.48
Winfred E. Peck, Sr. Warden

Truth ....................... No. 597.... Frazee F. Burke, Master .................... 43.08
Frederick W. Heathcote, Sr. Warden

Santa Maria ............ No. 580.... Ralph Jasper, Sr. Warden.................. 58.38
Cleason Ambler, Jr. Warden

Lynwood................. No. 600.... Clyde R. Seward, Master .................... 43.78
Gus L. Deines, Rep.

Security .................. .No. SSL.Chas. B. Bradford, Master.................. 29.34
Clyde S. Maledy, Sr. Warden
Frederick E. Kathan, Jr. Warden
Earl B. Gilbert, Past Master

Grizzly .....................No. 601.. .. Simeon C. Chapman, Master .............. 49.46
Alfred N. Waite, Sr. Warden

Pearl Harbor ......... No. 598 .... George W. Bigler, Master..................250.00
Carmelita ................ No. 599 .... Edmund A. Lockett, Master .............. 44.04

Melrose ....................Xo. 602.... James L. Goode, Master .................... 43.08
Walter V. Goodfellow, Sr. Wardeh
J. E. C. Adamson, Past Master

)

I
304

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

. Dimond ....................N o. 603 .... Frederic Smith, Master
Arthur B. Currier, Sr. Warden
James A. Wilson, Jr. \Varden

Menorah ................. No. 623 .... George D. Gartler, Master ................ 43.08
Isaac B. Benjamin, Sr. \Varden

Jubilee..................... No. 604.... Judson G. Sutherland, Sr. Warden .. 45.48
Glassell Park.......... No. 605 ....Jay E. Thompson, Master.................. 43.08
Sojourner........•.......No. 607.... Stillman C. Moore, Jr. Warden ........ 44.40
Gtanada...................No. 608 .... Edwin G. Dessieux, Sr. Warden ...... 43.68
B. A. Tucker, Past Master and Insp. 43.80
ProvidenL .............. No. 609 .... 0dia E. Howe, Master........................
James A. L. Wells, Sr. Warden
August F. Brinkman, Jr. Warden

305

6.48

Fortitude ................. No. 624 .... George E. Weagant, Master
Frederick L. Shaw, Sr. Warden
Angeles Mesa ........ No. 625 .... L. H. Phillips, Master .......................... 43.08
H. E. Marston, Sr. \Varden
Chula Vista............. No. 626 .... Howard L. Carrell, Sr. Warden...... 56.24
Lamanda Park .......No. 627 .... Chas. L. Henrietta, Master ................. 43.08
Henry B. Rickard, Sr. Warden
Be<1con of the WesL .. U. D ..... Chas. D. :McPherson, Master ............ 43.08
Fairview ...................... U. D ..... Robert Mack Overpeck, Master........ 45.16

El:r;nhursL...............No. 610 .... Carl E. Boorman, Master
Roy H. Winning, Jr. Warden
Phil H. ·weber, Past Master

Ingleside ..................... U. D ..... Raymond W. Blosser, Master
Frank Enos, Sr. Warden

Owensmouth ......... No. 611.. .. Edward J. Canavan, Master .............. 41.28

Benevolence ............... U. D ..... Otto H. Jarock, Master.. .................... 43.08
Otto G. Stoweli, Sr. Warden

Workman ............... .No. 612 .... Ben K. Wilson, Sr. \Varden .............. 43.08
Three Pillars .. ,....... No. 613 .... John Frank \Vagner, Master .............. 6.48
Larchmont... .......... .No. 614 .... Richard G. Wilcox, Master ................ 43.08
Edward F. Jost, Sr. Warden
Hemet ..................... Ko. 615 .... Sidney C. Moon, Sr. Warden ............ 50.56
Seal Beach .............. No. 616 .... Harry H. Newton, Master .................. 44.40
Big Bear .................. No. 617 .... Winslow L. Rideout, Master ............ 59.78
Southland ................No. 618 .... Merle A. Thompson, Master .............. 43.68
Frank Heron, Sr. Warden
William L. Hovis, Jr. Warden
\Vm. F. Gallin, Past Master
Neptune.................. .No. 619 .... Harold Kemp, Master. ......................... 44.64
George H. Haddock, Sr. \Varden
Peninsula................ No. 620 .... Franklin A. Plank, Master .................. 55.64
The Gardens .......... .No. 621.. .. Edward Payson Woods, Sr. \Varden 43.08
Atwater ................... No. 622.... Reuben Francis Brown, Master.. ...... 43.08
Clayton S. Decker, Sr. Warden

Normal Heights ........ U. D ..... Gcorge C. Van Marter, Master..... '. .. 55.64

'

Poinsettia .................... U. D ..... Louis Claude Drapeau, Master ........ 37.56
Conley L. LaForce, Sr. \Varden
Victorville ................... U. D ..... Edward H. Williams, Master............ 47.28
Riverside ..................... U. D ..... \Villiam C. Gunnerson, Master ........ 47.28
Henry W. Coil, Sr. Warden
John Marshall... ......... U. D ..... David W. Noble, Master .................... 43.08
Joseph R. Perry, Sr. Warden
George L. Schmutz, Jr. Warden
Palisades ..................... U. D ..... Ira D. Wheeler, Master...................... 44.64
George R. Kingdon, Sr. Warden
Claude C. Crawford, Jr. \Varden
Indian Rock. .............. U. D ..... George H. Senger, Master
Arthur N. Hall, Sr. Warden
Frederick T. Herrick, Jr. Warden
Composite .................. U. D ..... William H. Schrey, Master ................ 43.08
James W. Milaw, Sr. \Varden

I

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

306

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.
U. D ..... Washington I. Kohnke, Master
Ventas .... --------------------d S L
Past Master and
Leonar
. eavy,
Insp.
Louis T. Cranz, Past Master
James A Fos h ay _______ U ·
·

D

·----

Henry P. Starbuck, Master.--------------- 43.0 8
W d
Ernest L. Riley, Sr.
ar en

.
U. D ..... William W. McKee, Master ..... --------· 34.02
La Cumbre ... -------------.
U. D ..... Lester L. Krepps, Master .................. 43.08
Alta Loma ..... ---·--··----· .
Lomita ......................... U. D ..... John Roy Winters, Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
.
U D Claiborne W. Puckett, Master .......... 44.64
A. F. E. Irwin.......... . ····-Fred W. Smith, Sr. Warden
.
U D
Chester M. Glass, Master .................. 43.08
Metropolitan .......... ---- . ····-John R. Burgess, Sr. Warden
. D ..... Jerome B. Combs, Master .................. 43.0 8
Hawthorne ................ .U
U. D.' ... Thomas R. Brown, Master ................ 47.28
Damascus .................. .
... Frank H. Beeson, Sr. Warden .......... 43.56
Florence ...................... U. D.

Grand Lodge was then, at
10 o'clock Friday morning.

5 :15 o'clock, called off until

307

3Jn "raub ijobgr
Morning Session
Friday, October 15, 1926.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.

ANNUAL ELECTION
The annual election of officers was then had, resulting
as follows:
The R. ·. W.". George L. Jones of Madison Lodge, No.
23, was elected Grand Master.
The R.". W.". Will H. Fischer of Wilshire Lodge, No.
445, was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". W.". Gustav A. Hutaff of Dunsmuir Lodge,
No. 297, was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W.". Charles M. Wollenberg of Starr King Lodge,
No. 344, was elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V.". W.". William P. Filmer of King Solomon's
Lodge, No. 260, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V.". W.". John Whicher of King David's Lodge,
No. 209, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.". W.". Thomas J. Baker of Union Lodge, No.
58, was re-elected Grand Lecturer.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M.". W." .Grand lodge of California:
Your Committee on Accounts, whose duty it is to approve all Grand
Lodge expenses for the year, pursuant to Constitutional requirements, beg
leave to report that we called at the office of the Grand Secretary on
the last Saturday of each month and audited all bills, claims and demands
against the Grand Lodge, as were received by the Grand Secretary.
EDWARD E. CONN,
JOHN

0. HANSON,

WM. LEWIS CHAMBERLAIN,

Adopted.

w. H. H. GENTRY,
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

308

BALLOT BOX AND THE BIBLE

REPORT OF THE MASONIC TEMPLE
ASSOCIATION
Receipts and disbursements from October l, 1925, to October 1, 1926:
RECEIPTS

Balance on hand October 1, 1925................................. ·············· ......$ 7,076.30
From rentals 12 months ............................................... $41,275.52.
.
'
1168
From
discounts,
12 months..........................................
·
Bank interest on balance, 12 months........................
209.59
41,496.79
Total receipts ............................................. ··· ······ ···· ·············· .....$48.573.09
DISBURSEMENTS

Taxes ..............................
..............................$10,987.31
Current expense (light, fuel, water, etc.)............ 4,789.29
Supt. and janitors' service.......................................... 9,330.15
Repairs and improvements ........................ ················ 3 ·i;~:!~
Insurance ................................................................ _.
900.00
Secretary ···---····-·························-······· ................... .

30,177.78

Cash on hand Oct. 1, 1926................ --···· -·············· ··············· $18,395.31
There is no indebtedness.

Adopted.

309

\VM. H. CROCKER,
President.

CENTENNIAL COMMUNICATION
Representatives of Sacramento Lodges presented the
following, which was adopted:
WHEREAS, this Grand Lodge was conceived and born in th: City
of Sacramento in the year 1850, and thereafter flourished therem for

many years; and,
.
WHEREAS, it is fitting and proper that upon the lOOth anmvers~ry
of the founding of this Grand Lodge its appoinkd place of meetmg
should be at Sacramento; and,
WHEREAS, The Masters & \Vardens Association of Sacra:nento have
extended to this Grand Lodge the invitation of all tl1e Masomc Brethren
of the Capital City to hold its regular annual meeting marking .the lOOth
anniversarv of its founding at Sacramento; now, therefore, be it
Resol~ed, that it is, and it is hereby declared to be, t~e sense of
this Grand Lodge that the lOOth anniversary of the foundmg thereof
be celebrated at said City of Sacramento by holding the regular annual
meeting thereof in the year 1949 in said city.

A resolution was presented in behalf of sundry brethren,
providing that the ballot box should never be placed on
the Bible. Referred to the Committee on Ritual.

MASONRY IN FOREIGN COUNTRIES
Past Grand Master Hervey delivered an interesting talk
on the condition of Masonry in European and South American countries, in which the hope was expressed that Masonry
in foreign countries would ere long be conducted along
lines somewhat akin to English-speaking Lodges and become committed to the doctrine of pure fraternity without
political bias or interference.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the list of
appointive officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. Herbert P. Shaw of Ingleside
Lodge, No. 630.
Grand Orator, Fletcher A. Cutler of Crescent Lodge,
No. 45.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria Lodge, No. 531.
Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson of Argonne
Lodge, No. 514.
Grand Standard Bearer, Eugene Benjamin of Washington Lodge, No. 20.
Grand Sword Bearer, Frederick L. Arbogast of bakland
Lodge, No. 188.
Grand Bible Bearer, Michael D. Lininger of Eureka
Lodge, No. 16.

310

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Senior Grand Deacon, Ben G. vV right of Golden State
Lodge, No. 358.
Junior Grand Deacon, Edward E. Conn of King Solomon's Lodge, No. 260.
Senior Grand Steward, Charles C. Pittam of Schofield
Lodge, No. 443.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

retiring Grand Master, each piece bearing the seal of Grand
Lodge, the address being made by Past Grand Master
Reese in his inimitable happy manner; the presentation to
the Grand Master by Past Master Boynton of the Charles
Albert Adams Grand Master's button; the transfer of lapel
buttons from senior to junior officers.

Junior Grand Steward, Thomas Ingram of Madison
Lodge, No. 23.
Grand Pursuivant, ·warren D. Gill of Wilshire Lodge,
No. 445.

At two o'clock and twenty minutes, all business being
~ow completed, the Seventy-seventh Annual Communicat1011

was closed in Ample Form.

Grand Organist, R. Fletcher Tilton of Occidental Lodge,
No. 22.

GEORGE L. JONES, Grand Alaster.
JOHN \VHICHER,

Grand Tiler, Frank G. vVatson of Presidio Lodge, No.

354.
Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites was appointed
Master of Ceremonies, and all the officers, elect and appointed, were installed in due and ancient form by the
retiring Grand Master.
Before the newly-installed Grand Master was fairly
seated, W. ·. Thomas Ingram, in behalf of his brethren of
Madison Lodge No. 23, presented to M.·. vv.·. Brother Jones
a beautiful gavel fashioned of native free-gold quartz, with
handle of manzanita wood-all the product of Nevada
county.
The Grand Master announced the appointment of Albert
Eugene Boynton, Junior Past Grand Master, as a member
of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes, vice
Charles M. Wollenberg, elected Junior Grand \Varden.
The usual felicitations followed, beginning with the
presentation of a beautiful set of silver table service to the

311

Grand Secretary.

312

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Standing Committees

Jurisprudence-Frank M. Angellotti, Mills Building, San Francisco;
Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los A.ngeles; Benjamin F.
Bledsoe, California Bank Building, Los Angeles; Francis V. Keesling.
De Young Building, San Francisco; John D. Murphey, Court House,
Oakland; Brad ford Webster, 304 Ray Building, Oakland ; Thomas Flint,
Hollister.
Policy and General Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, Pacific
Southwest Bank, Los Angeles; George F. Rodden, 177 Post Street, San
Francisco; William A. Sherman, Lombard and Batt~ry Streets, San
Francisco; David J. Reese, Forum Building, Sacramento; Wm. H.
Waste, State Building, San Francisco; Eugene Elkus, 729 Mission
Street, San Francisco; Frank W. Mixter, Exeter.
Grievances-Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los
Angeles; John Stewart Ross, El Centro; William Penn Humphreys,
Balboa Building, San Francisco; Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock
Building, San Francisco; Lacey D. Jennings, 1053 Front Street, San
Diego.
Finance-William P. Jeffries, 115 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Leo Bruck, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; J. M. Argabrite, Ventura; Louis Sutter, Anglo-California Trust
Company,. San Francisco.
Credentials-Robert B. Gaylord, Claus Spreckels Building, San
Francisco; Chas. G. Johnson, State Capitol, Sacramento; Warren E.
Libby, 1015 Spring Arcade Building, Los Angeles; F. W. LeBallister,
1214 Central Bank Building, Oakland; Paul Roller, 1206 Hollywood,
Oakland.
Accounts-Frank C. Ruppel, 58 Second Street, San Francisco; P. A.
DeVries, 1242 Twelfth Avenue, San Francisco; John 0. Jfanson, 250
Wawona Street, San Francisco; Andrew Burke, Masonic Temple, San
Francisco; C. W. Goodwin, 324 Mission Street, San Francisco.

'

Returns-Robert E. Allan, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco;
Mervyn J. Newburg, San Bernardino; Frazee Burke, Pacific Mutual
Building, Los Angeles; William D. Richards, Sacramento; H. W.
Beatty, Taft.
Ritual-Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Dana R.
Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles; Wm. P. Filmer, 330
Jackson Street, San Francisco.

313

Correspondence-Jesse ~1. Whited, 519 California Street San Francisco; Wm. B. Ogden, 711 American Bank Building, Los Ang~les; Victor
McLucas, Santa Monica; Olin L. Berry, United Bank and Trust Company Building; Harry K. Wolfe, Bal four Building, San Francisco.
Pay of 11,J embers-Percy King, Napa; J. H. McGehee, State Capitol,
Sacrai;iento; Edward Hervey, 507 Van N uys Building, Los Angeles ;
W. W. McKee, Oxnard; William Taylor, Box 922, Los Angeles.
Library-Denman S. Wagstaff, 1703 Broderick Street San Francisco; George G. Bechtel, Dudley Building, Santa Monica; J.' E. Houston,
Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; H. G. Burrowes, Mills Building, San Francisco; Arthur Brouillet, Humboldt Bank Building San
Francisco.
'
. Charters-Ralph A. Chase, 3339 San Marino Street, Los Angeles;
Wade Armstrong, Nevada City; E. B. Power, Humboldt Bank Building,
San Francisco; David \V. Mott, Santa Paula; Frank A. Barnes, Los
Angeles.
By-Laws-Sidney B. Force, 101 Post Street, San Francisco; Harvey E._ Teller, 550 Folsom Street, San Francisco; Irving J. Mitchell,
:Vfasomc Club, Los Angeles; A. H. Lawrence, Pomona; C. 0. Hamilton,
Oroville.
Grand Lodge 'VVeek Acti<1ities-(Not appointed yet).
Special Committees
Emiowmcnt-Motley H. Flint, Pacific Southwest Bank, Los Angeles;
George M. Perine, 739 University Avenue, Palo Alto; Wm. T. Lucas,
Santa Maria; William P. Read, Flood Building, San Francisco; Ezra W.
Decoto, State Building, San Francisco; Robert 0. Crowe, Los Angeles;
Frederick Baker, Glendale; Grover 0. Stout, San Diego; Hayter O.
Shuster, Long Beach; Alexander Levy, Dunsmuir.

Masonic Education-Irving ~1agnes, chairman, 514 Easton Building,
Oakland; J. Karl Lobdell, Hellman Bank Building, Los Angeles;
Charles II. Adams, 160 Perry Street, Oakland; James B. Giffen, Sacramento; A. F. Heuer, 509 Sansome Street, San Francisco; Winfield S.
Overton, 220 Hillside, Piedmont; Ira F. Thompson, Court House, Los
Angeles; George B. Morgridge, Sierra Madre; Cyrus Field Willard,
621 West Ivy Street, San Diego; A. Heber Winder, Riverside; A. M.
Cuthbertson, Redwood City; Walter K. Tuller, Title Insurance Building, Los Angeles.
Public Schools Week-(Not yet appointed).

tl

~~

~
&.

J:-<

Vi

..., c
-~ c
::i

::r

0

~

-

Ill

0

'<

s

-

c
q,..,

'O

l'I)

tl

-

::I

(I)

(/1 '<

25

22
23
24

12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21

11

4
5
6
7
8
9
10

3

1
2

:z;

::I

8

.Cl

.........

Town.

f',ounty.

..............

Places of Location.

.......

...........
...........

........

.........

.

..........

.

California
1 San Francisco •••.•• San .Francisco ••••.•
Western Star ••••. 2 Shasta .............. Shasta •....••.•.•••
Tehama
3 Sacramento •.•.•••• Sacra men to ..••••••
Benicia
5 Benicia ...........• Solano .•...•..•••••
Tuolumne
8 Sonora ....•••.•••.. Tuolumne •.••••••••
9 Marysville
Corinthian
Yuba
San Jose ........ 10 San Jose .....••.••. Santa Clara •••.••••
Yount ..•••..•.•• 12 Napa ....••••••.•.• Napa ••••••••••••••
Nevada • . . • • • . • • 13 Nevada City ........ Nevada •..••••.••..
Temple ••..••••.• 14 Sonoma ••••.•••••.• Sonoma ...•..••••••
Eureka .......... 16 Auburn ......••... Placer ........••..•
Parfaite Union •. 17 San Francisco •••... San Franciaeo ...•..
Mountain Shade. . 18 Downieville
Sierra .............
San Joaquin ...... 19 Stockton .......•..• San Joaquin •..•••.•
Washington ...... 20 Sacramento ............ Sacramento ........
Hawaiian •••.... 2l!Honolulu, H. T ••.•.. Hawaiian Ter •••••••
Occidental • • • • • • • 22'San Francisco ..••..• San Francisco ••••••
Madison ......... 23 Grass Valley •...... Nevada •.••••••••••
Mariposa • . . • • . . • 24 Mariposa ....••••... Mariposa ...•..•••••
El Dorado •..••••...
Georgetown ..... 25 Georgetown
Palmyra •...••••• 26 Placerville •..•..•.• El Dorado •.••.•••••
Trinity .......... 27 Weaverville •......• Trinity ............
Golden Gate . . . . . 30 San Francisco •..... San Francisco •....•
Gold Hill .. . • . . . . 32 Lincoln ............ Placer .............
Ophir ........... 33 Murphy '11 •••••••••• Cal•vera1

.......

Names of Lodres.

.,...

.;

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

Nov.
May

"

May

"
"

"

Nov.

"

"
"
1851,

"
"
"

1850.

"
"

"6,
."
"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"

"

" "
" "
" "
20,
"
5, 1853.
" "

"6,
" "
"7, "
"
5, 1852.

"
"
"27,
"

"

"
"

19,

April

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Ol<I)

.....

~

>

g

('")

"'q . {g
s"' Y'-·

Ul::i.

~ ~

~ ..,
t:l:l .
'<

-· t:d ~
Sf·
I

~

(ti~ 5_·
t""

c ::I
sc:r -"'•

-1'1)

'1:1~

~g

p. "'

.>~
"'

w

~ ~

:>'

l'I)

...,
g~

,.;;.

::;:

ji;1~

°' t""

';-' "'

"'0

Still

160
98
53
201
85
82~

10
9
9
9
9

12
991

398

12

4€

100

487

12
9
12

6.~2

3(J

II

12

9

12

II
12
9

167

427

9-I

751i

~~

!lOfi
328
516
243
152
137
198
208

9
9

9
12

9

12

<

.:

~.:

-

::Ir

0

~~

i5::~

-· c

I); t:l:l

[~

"' !::..

>
t:d
::I Ill

..,.;
""' .s.:

.;

A

Ill

i;§·

-

~-z

"'
x ::r

(/)

~:::::
00.

50 . ....
4Q
2
50 ......
75
5
30 ······
80 ......
75 10
80 10
100 25
53 ......
36
5
30 .
50
5
50
5
100 10
50
1
50
4

60 ......

<

1'<!13,

100 20
50
6
75 10
50 ......
50
2
50 ......
50 ......

l'<A

..

...0"'.; ,..d
00
-"'
.,,,!
., ... -'.l:'!
.,,_

..,

iii §"' ::r;

lj

tr.l
tr.l

()

'1i
!:ti
0

.......

.,,

~

"J

CY

....
"'

z
;;:

~
6
!:ti

()

0

l;i

0

lj

0

t"

lj

0

tr.l

P:i

0
"J
1-3

0

rtl

-· z
i5::~ S'.... §' ~·
.."'

(:!..~
l'I) •

IJQ

~

~ i:ll
~ Q{....,

t'l>

c
.::i •.(/1 ...
;:

0

(Jq

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 5926 •

('()

~

c...,

t:l:l

rn ~,-.

& ;:l hi

::i ,..,.
::i rn
c
P.
0 -

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

-~

......
0

c...,

g.

>
...,

::i
"'

l'I)

a..:i
rn •• o:nn
Ill
0

?

Ill

:::::

Q.,

~
::i '-'
~

l'I)

;;i

l'I)

~

"' "'8.
'8 a
5· 2..

'O

!?.

G)~3_~·~'-""
...,
"' m trl ~ '-'

~· i5.. q ~c :;:;
!;:i

yi

0I ._.
g ::::: - "'t:d
::i -· e: >.
5· g g. 0: 0

p.

~

~ ~

;;;

5'"

'<
~

'Tl >
;:!

rn

.... oq

> (/1 .
::r

<> rn

8·.., •.~ ~ z;I z ~
;?.

"' .

~::::

l'I)

11)

~
i
..., <-.;

?- oq :::;

1l"
::i

-

"'
Ul ~
~'O
....

0 g. '<;

~

~

~

..

::!

g:;:

~

0

(/)

b~

> ::t; ~
(/)~
P.c:.
I
~ c: ~ ~

:;. ~ :4. ~·

P. .....

\'.: ~ :::: ~

.... 'Tl "'
~ t=.:. ~

. g- ~ ...:;!: .:"'

~

J:-<

::i

c

J1' c

T

'""

~

<::>

~J:-<

2. I:>.
~

~

i5::"d(l~

;.::

~

s - :;:

~ ~ ..._. 't:

~ ::!

::;;:: ~

s: 4l
::i

lo-"•

Cl~~
""1
\0

11>-w
::::00'-l

<

Ill

County

.May
May

72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
8.)
86

71

44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53

..

I

I

.....

3,

May

"
July

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
""

"
"

"
"

"·

"
"

"
"~'
"

"

1853.
1854.

"
"

"

"

"

1860.
1860.
ll,
10,

"

"
"

"
"
"
1859.
"
"
"

13,

"
"14,

"

"
"

"
"
"
"15, "
"
13, 1858.
" "

"
"
"

"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
15,
"
14, 1857.

1855.
1856.

8, 18.56

"
"
"

1,
8,

"

" "
"
"
"4, "

"
3,
"
"
"2, 1855.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"2, "
"
" "
" "

"
"

"5,

"

"
"

"
"

3,

7,

"
"

Yolo ............ 81 Yolo ............... Yolo .......•.•..•. •1 May
Vesper ....•....• 84 Red Bluff .......... Tehama .....••...•.
"
Naval ......•...• 87 Vallejo ..••..•...•• Solano ••.•..•.•••. .,
"
Rose 's Bar . . . • . . 89 Smartsville ...••••.• Yuba .....•....•••.
"
North Star • • • . . . 91 Fort Jones , ••••••.• Siskiyou •.••••••••.
"
St. Helena . . . . • . . 93 St. Helena •••••••.• Napa ••.•..•.••.•..
"
Henry Clay . . • . . • 95 Sutter Creek ..•••... Amador ••••.•••••.•
"
Hornitos . . • . . . . . . 98 Hornitos ••.•••••••. Mariposa ••.••.•••••
"
Yosemite ....••.. 99 Merced ••••..•.••.. Merced ...••..•••••
"
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer •...•••••..••
"
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ...••.••.••• Butte " " .. " " .. ' "
"
Lexington ..•••.• 104 El Monte .......... Los Angeles ..•••..•
"
Arcata .......... 106 Arcata •.........••. Humboldt .......... May
Pajaro ........... 110 Watsonville ..•..••• Santa Cruz •.....•••
"
Chico ..........• 111 Chico .....•.......• Butte ..........•.•.
"
Summit .......... 112 Knight's Ferry ..... Stanislaus .....••..•
"
Eden ......•..... 113 San Leandro ••...•. Alameda ...........
"
Concord .......•. 117 Sacramento •.••..•. Sacramento •••....•
"
Clinton .......... 11!.J Igo ................ Shasta •......•..••. May
Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco ..•.•• Sh F•h""'' ..... · 1 "
Alamo ........... 122 Walnut Creek ••••.. Contra Costa ....•.•
"
Sotoyome ........ 123 Healdsburg ....•.... Sonoma ...••.....••
"
Table Mountain .. 124 Cherokee ........••.• Butte •..•.•..•..•.•
"
J,a Fayette ....... 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma ......•....•
"
Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco •....• San Francisco ......
"
Visalia .......... 128 Visalia •..•....••..• Tulare .••.•.•...••• May
Nicohus ........ 129 Wheatland ......... Yuba •...•.••••••••
"
Woodbridge ...... 131 Woodbridge •.••••.• San Joaquin •.•.••..
"
Sincerity ........ 132 Greenville ..••..... Plumas ••••..•.••..
"
Vacaville .....•.. 134 Vacaville .....•.... Solano .............
"
Vallev ........... 135 Linden ..••.•.••.•.• San Joaquin ....•.. May
Pacific ........•. 136 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco •..•.. May
Crockett ......... 139 San Francisco ....... San Francisco •..•..
"

I
was Issued

D..te When Charter

54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70

Town

Places of Location

San Diego •...•.. 35 tian Diego ......... ,San Diego ..••..•..
Howard ......... . 37 Yreka .......•.•.•.• Siskiyou ••••.••.•.•
Banta Cruz ••.... 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz ........ .
Sacramento ..... 40 Sacramento •....... Sacramento ..••.•.•
Martinez ...•.... 41 Martinez •..•..•.••• Contra Costa ...... .
Los Angeles .... . 42 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •.......
Hiram ......... . 43 El Dorado ...•••.•.• El Dorado •.....•..•
Mount Moriah ..•• 44 San Francisco .•..•. San Francisco ....•.
Crescent ......•. 45 Crescent City ....... Del Norte ......... .
Texas .•...•..... 46 San Juan ••••..•..• San Benito •.•.•....
Forbestown ....•• 50 Forbestown . . • • . . . • utte .•.....•..•...
Illinoistown ..... 51 Colfax .....••..•..• Placer •.•..•......•
Suisun
..•.•.•. 55 Suisun .•........... Solano •........•...
Volcano ........ . 56 \' oleano •.••••...•.• :Amador •...•.•.....
Santa Ro.sea ..... . 57 Santa Rosa .••...... Sonoma .....•......
Union .......... . 58 Sacramento •.••.... Sacramento ....... .
Gravel Range ... . 59 Camptonville ••.•..• Yuba ............. .
Plumas ...•..... 60 Quincy •••.....•.•• Plumas ....••......
Live Oak ....... . 61 Oakland .•.•••.•.•.• Alameda ....•....••
Natoma ........ . 64 Folsom ..•••••.....• Sacramento ...•....
Amador ........ . 65 Jackson .•....•....• Amador ........... .
Forest ......•... 66 Alleghany •......... Sierra .......•.....
Morning Star ... . 68 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ....... .
Enterprise ...... . 70 Yuba City •••.•...• Sutter .........•.••
Bear Mountain .. . 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras •....••...
Calaveras •.....• 78 San Andreas .••••.. Calaveras .•....•.••
Humboldt ..•...• 79 Eureka ..•..•••••.. Humboldt .•.....•••
Ione .......•...• 80 Ione •.....•..•••..• Amador •..•.•.....

z

s

j

26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43

Names of Lodges

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

1

8

-<

... 0

10

9
9
9
9
12
12

91
9

12

9

\.I

12'
12

-I 91
12

5
51
101
o.
501
5
5
1

75
35
50 ......
100 20
8
50
5
50
5
50
5
50
75 ......
30 ......
100 20
130 25

so

75
30
100

so,

9
12
9

)~I 1512
10

55
50
55
50

9
9
15
9
12
12
9

9

9

9
9

9
9

12
9

9

12
9

!)

9'
9
9

9

9

9
9

9
9

~I
~I
12'

91
12,

12
9

5
1

55

""

718
240
350
580
179

:i:i;i;

... .,
.,.:
t: £

67
201
63
278
16:?
198
244
351
39
190
248
47
729
124
230
81
199
260
270
87
121
117
172
71
817
782

54

610
44
51
117

61:1
196

119
497
6!

88

74
1095
129
74
49
461
233

37

59
77
153
31
406
561

48

33
578
114

(".)

:i:
0

0

<»
,...

-··

>

z

:i:

>
t'
....
~

0

>;!

t'J
0

0

u

0

t:!
t:'

:<:

>

:i:

t'J

::i:

...,

"'!

0

0
rn

51

u

t'J
t'J

~1 8:H "'

l~I

<=I

-<"'

~

50

60 ......

......

30' ......
50
80 10
50
5
35
5
30
1
60 ......
36
5
50 ......

50
6
30
1
30 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 .... ..
30
5
75
5
75 10
50 ......
50
,'i
75 25
50
5
50 .... ..
50 ..... .
80 ..... .
50
5
50
3
50
5
50 ..... .
50 ..... .

80

80
1
75 10
50 ......
100 10
75 20

80
I 50

... .,

"' A
.s ! .g~
<0:=;:
.,"''"'"' ~E ~
l'.A

.....
""'
""

E

z"
Town.

I

County.

...............

Ph1ces of Location.

D"'" ............

21T.n

···········
···········

············
·············

···········

...........
···········

!l
9

75 ......
50
5
1
75
100 25
1
30
8
50
50 ......
60 12
50
1
50 ......
30 27-f
30
5
80 10
50
5
80
1
100
5
50 10
50
5
50
5
55
3
50
5
80
5
50
1
50
1
55 10
30 ......
30 ......
30 ......
1860.

"

"
"

Oct.

"

"
May

May

"

"
"
"

May

"

"

"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"

1868.

"

"
"

1873.

"
"
"

..

18,

14,

" "
" 1869.
"
" "
" "
"14, 1869.
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"
14, 1870.
" "
" "
"
" "
14, 1871.
" "
"
"
" "
" "
" "
"ll, 1872.
"
" "
" "
" "
12, 1912.

" "
15, 1868.

15,

..

" "
16, 1861.
" "
" "
" "
17,
"
15, 1862.
"
"14, 1863.
" "
13, 1864.
" "
" "
" "
" "
13, 1865.
" "
12, 1865.
11,
"
" "
" "
" "
10, 1867.
" "
" "
"
" "

10,

<

i"<A

"' t<

""'
"

A

:n

661
266
127

467

233
131
328
2!l6
81
242
464
144
294
288
655
615
149
128
380
179
79
286

188
949
91
42!l
361
135
184
91
60
240
176
128
115
781

948
99
38
17\J
452
170
305
121
81
39
34
64
42

2.~s

0

trJ

~

"']

0

(/).

0

z

trJ
trJ
tJ

C'.l

;ti

16i)

'd

00

.....
"'°

18.)
183
123
226
32
12
620
15•

61
!JS
51fi
79

69

::a~

.,.;

.£ i::
~~

50
l• 9
80 30 12
3
35
9
80 ...... 12
80 ...... 15
50 ......
9
50 ......
9
50
5 ......
30 ......
9
5 12
80
30 ......
9
5
9
60
5
60
9
105 20 12
40 ......
9
9
50 ......
50 ...... 12
9
50 ......
50 ......
9
1
.50
9
1 24
80
50 ......
!l
1 12
30
80 ...... 12
50 ...... 12
80
5 10
100 10 12
9
80
5
50 ...... 12
105 35 12
30 ......
9
1 20
50
50 2Yz
9
75 ...... 12
80 ......
9
50 ...... 18
50 ......
9

!l

9
12
9
12
9
12
12
18
12
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12

\I

12
9
9

1·

i::
i::

Oi

<

May

..............

. . .. . .. . ... .

.........
···········

.:

... 0

.,., ~ii§

Keith ........... 187 Gilroy ••••.••.••••• Santa Clara ••.••... Oct.
Oakland ......... 188 Oakland
Alameda •.•.••..
"
Northern Light ... 190 Millville
Shasta •..••••.••••. Oct.
Marin ........... 191 San Rafael •.•••••.. Marin
. "
Santa Barbara ...• 192 Santa Barbara •.••• Santa Barbara •••••
"
Ferndale ........ 193 Ferndale
Humboldt •••••••••• Oct.
Mountain View ... 194 Mountain View ••••• Santa Clara ••.•••••
"
Buckeye ......... 195 Winters ••••••••.•. Yolo ••••...••..•.••
"
San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria •••••.•••.. San Luis Obispo ...•
"
Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington ••••...• Los Angeles •••••.•. Oct.
Hartle.y ••....... 199 Lakeport •••...•.•• Lake •...••••••••••
"
Truckee ......... 20\J Truckee
Nevada •.........••
"
Silveyville ....... 201 Dixon
Solano •..••.•...•••
"
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles •...•• •. Los Angeles ••••••.•
"
Confidence ....... 203 Castroville ••••••••• Monterey ••••••••.•
"
Salinas .......... 204 Salinas ....•...••.. Monterey ••••.••••.
"
Olivet ........... 205 Corning ...•••..•••• Tehama ...••.••.•.•.
Oct.
Stanislaus .....•. 206 Modesto
Stanislaus •••••••••.
"
Anaheim . . . . . . . . 207 Anaheim
Orange •.••.•••••••.
"
Rio Vista ........ 208 Rio Vista ...••...••• Solano ...•..•.•••••
"
King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo ..•.. San Luis Obispo ...•.
"
Friendship ....... 210 San Jose ••••.....•• Santa Clara •..••••• Oct.
San Benito ....... 211 Hollister .........•. San Benito ••..•••••
"
So. San Francisco. 212 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco •••••.
"
San Bnenaventura.214 Ventura •.••......• Ventura •.•••••••••.
"
Oak Grove ....... 215 Alameda •...•...... Alameda ••••.••••••
"
Fr.mciKO ••.••. San Francisco ••••••
"
Monterey ...•.... 217 Monterey •.••...•.• Monterey ••••••••••
"
Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore •.••.....• Alameda ••••••••••. Oct.
Speranza Italiana. 219 San Francisco •.•. "· San Francisco ••••..
"
Downey ......... 220IDowney ...•••••..•. Los Angeles •..•••••
"
Inyo ............ 221 Independence ••••••• Inyo •.••.••.••.•.••
"
Roseville ........ 222 Rocklin ••••..•..••• Placer ....••••••••. Oct.
BakerBfield ...... 224 Bakersfield •.••..•.• Kern
Oct.
Brooklyn ........ 225 East Oakland ••••••• Alameda •••.••.•••.
"
San Mateo ...•... 226 San Mateo •.••••••• San Mateo •••••.••.
"
Athens ........•. 228 Davis •••••••...... Yolo ••.••••••••••••
"

.........

..............
.............

... .;

O·~
.....0"'~ ..........
o,).$

.;

Date when Charter
was Issued.

"
........ Oct.
"
Oct.
"

.............

Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale •.••.•..• Sonoma .•..••••••••
Grafton . . . . . . . . . 141 Grafton .•.••••••••• Yolo
Franklin ........ 144 Courtland ...•... ~· . Sacramento •....•.•
Oriental . , ....... 144 San Francisco ••••.. San Francisco ••.••.
Vitruvius ........ 145 Bloomfield ...•••..•• Sonoma ............
Abell ........... 146 Ukiah ••.••.••....•• Mendocino •••.....• 1
Eel River ........ 147 Fortuna .....•..•.. Humboldt ..........
Lassen .......... 149 Susanvllle ...•...... Lassen ....•.......•
Molino .......... 150 TPhama .......••.•• Tehama •.•••.•..••. 1
Woodland ........ 156 Woodland .......... Yolo .......•••.••••
Keystone ........ 161 Milton ..••.•.•..••. Calaveras •...•.••.•
Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City ........• Sierra
Excelsior ........ 166 San Francisco ••.••. San Francisco ••.•••
Alameda ......... 167 Centerville •..••... Alameda ..•.•••..••
Redwood City .... 168 Redwood City ••.••• San Mateo •..•••••.
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco •.•••• San Francisco •..•••
Elk Grove ........ 173 Elk Grove •.•••••••• Sacramento
Drytown ........ 17 4 Plymouth .......... Amador •..•.•••••••
Antioch ......... 175 Antioch ••....•...•• Contra Costa •••.•••
Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino ••.•• San Bernardino •••••
Mendocino ....... 179 Mendocino •.•••••••• Mendocino .••.•..••
Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma •••••.••• ·!Sonoma ••••••••••••
Russian River .... 181 Windsor •••.••••••• Sonoma ••••..••••••
Arbuckle ........ 182 Arbuckle . • . • . . • . . . Colusa ••••..••..•••
Clear Lake ....... 183 Lower Lake ••••..•• Lake
Sierra
Sierra Valley ..... 184 Sierra ville
Claiborne ........ 185 Point Arena • : .••••• Mendocino
Evening Star ••... 186 Etna Mills ••••••••• Siskiyou

115
116
117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
129
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151

87
88
89
90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
114

Names of Lodges

.;

.,...
.c

List of the Sunordinate Lodges, etc.-Cont1.nued.

0

;ti

...
.......

>

z

;ti

0

~

>
t<

C'.l

"']

0
trJ
0

tJ

t<
0

tJ

>
z

II>

~

Town.

Places of Location.

Oounty.

·I
·I

..............

·1

·I

hi!

181
182
183
.184
185
186
187
188
189
190
191
192

"

...........

"

"
"

"

.............. "

..

..............

1878.

"

"

"
"
1877.

"
1874.
"
''
"
"
"
"
187.5.
1876.

1881.
1882.

"

1885.

"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
" "
" "
IO, 1889.
" "
"

"

" "
" "
"11, 1888.
"

U, 1886.

"

"

"

.

16,

11,

" ""
" 1883.
"
" "
16, 1884.
" "
16, 1884.

15,
12,

'

." """ ''""

I

" "
" "
16, 1879
" "
" "
" "
15, 1880.

10,

"
"

"11,

"
16,
"
''
"
"
" .
"
14,
12,
''

Ts;···:ran.

Da.te when Charter
wa.s Issued.

. . • . . . . . . . ••
o<it: ~
North Butte ...... 230
•...••.....• Butte . . • • • . . . . . . . ••
"
Covelo .......... 231 Covelo •...........• :Mendocino . . . . . . . . . Oct.
.Janesl'ille .. , .... 232 Lassen ....... , ..... Lassen . . . . . . . . . . . ..
"
Calistoga ........ 23~ Calistoga •........• Napa • • • . . . . . . • . . . .
''
Hope ............ 234 Beckwith .......... Plumas • . . • . • • • . • . .
"
Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville ...••.•... Modoc . . . . • • . . . . . ••
"
Hill's l!'erry ...... 236 Newman .....••.... Stanislaus . . . • • . . . ..
"
Guadalupe ....... 237 Guadalupe •......•. Santa Barbara . • • . .
"
Colusn ........... 24U Colusa ............. Colusa . . . . . . . . . . . . . Oct.
Santa Ana ........ 241 Santa Ana ...••.... Orange . . . . . . . . . . . •• Oct.
Magnolia .•...... 242 Santa Barbara •..•.. Santa Barbara . . . . ..
''
Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards . , ....•••. Alameda •..........
"
Alcatraz ......... 244 West Oakland ...•.. Alameda •..•......
Oct.
Laurel .......... 245 Willows •......•...• Glenn . . . • . . . . . . . • .•
"
Pomona ......... 246 Pomona ...........• Los Angeles ..••....
''
Fresno .......... 247 Fresno ..•••..•... ; • Fresno ; ...........
Oct.
Alturas .•........ 248 Alturas .....•.••.•• Modoc . . . .. . .. • • . • •
"
Adin ............ 250 Adin .......•••.... Modoc ..•••.•.•...•
"
Landmark ....... 253 Espa:to ........... Yolo · • .. · · · · .. • · ·
Oct.
Reading ......... 254 Redding •.•.......• Shasta . . • . . . . • • • • . .
"
Welcome ........ 255 Lemoore ••......... Kings . .- .......... .
"
Lodi ............ 256 Lodi .......•...... San J'-0aquin ....... .
"
Penrhyn ......... 258 Penryn ............ Placer ........... , , ) Oet.
Evergreen ....... 259 Riverside •........• Riverside •...••••.• · "
King Solomon's .•• 260 San Francisco •...• San Franeiaeo .... : •
Tuscan .......... 261/Williams •••...•..•• Colusa •••..••• , .. , •

E
~

,Q

Lom,...,.,. . . . • • . . • . :!I;:! Lompoc .••••.••.••• Santa Barbara ..... Oct.
Hespc•rian ....... 264,Santa Maria •..•.•.. ·Santa Barbara ..••
Orlanrl .......... 265 Orland •.....•.•••.• Glenn .• -. •• '" ....... Oct.
North East ....... 266 Fort Bidwell ....... Modoc' •..••...••...
Galt ............. 267 Galt •....••••..••••
"
Dursnt •......... 268 Berkeley •.••.••••.• S§\!J'amento ••••..•• Oct.
Alameda ...........
Olive Branch ..... 269 Tulare •••..•••••..• T11Iare
"
Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford •.••..••
"
Colusa ••...••.••..• Oct.
Pasadena ........ 272 Pasadena ...........
Loa Anieles ••••••••
Anchor ....... , .. 273 Compton ...•...••••
Loa AnjJeles ••••.•.•
Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande ••••• San Luu Obispo ..••. Oct.
Oakdale ......... 2·75 Oakd:aJ.e •••••••.••.• tanislaW1 ••...••.•.
"
Selma ........... 277 Selma
"
Fresno ,. ............ Oct.
Soutl::.c-rn Calif.. .. 278 Los Angeles ••••••.• Los An1tele11 •..•..••
19:~
Hanford ......... 279 Hanford •....••••.• Kings ..............
"
194 Madera ......•... 280 Madera ...••••..•.•
"
Madera ••.•.....•••
"
195 Mount Shasta •.•. 281 Anderson
196 Callayomi ....... 282 Middletown •..•...• Shasta .............
Lake
Oet.
197 South '\Vest ....... 283 National City •.••••
198 San :M'iguel ....... 285 San Miguel ........ San :Diego ..........
"
199 Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles .......• San Luis Obispo ••••.
"
San
Lui11
Obispo
.•.•.
200 Winn,~dumah ..... 287 Bishop .....•••..•.•
"
Inyo
••••..••.•....•
201 :M'a :xwell ......... 288 Maxwell .......••.•
Colusa
........•..•.
Oct.
202 Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore •••.....•..•
203 East Gate ........ 290 Los Angeles ........ Riverside •.•....•••
"
Los
Angeles
.....•.•
204 San ts Paula ...... 291 Santa Paula ..•.....
"
205 Los Gatos .•...... 292 Los Gato11 •.....•••• Ventura ..•.•••....
"
206 Orange Grove ..... 293 Orange .•• , •••••• , •• Santa Clara ••••....
"
207 TraYer ........... 294 Kingsburg .....••.• Orange ............ Oct.
208 :M' t. ,Jackson ...... 295 Guerneville ...••.... Fresno ••.••••.••.•.
"
209 Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego .....•.••• Sonoma ..•........•
"
210 Dunsmuir ........ 297 Dunsmuir .••......• San Diego ..........
"
211 Liberty .......... 299 Santa Clara ••.••..• Siskiyou ...........
"
212 Redlands ........ 300 Redlands ..•..•••.•. San ta Clara ........
"
213 Ontario . . . . . . . . . 301 Ontario •..•..•••••• San Bemardillo .••..
"
San Bernardino •..•.
214 Sant2. Lucia ...•.. 302 Kings' City •...••.• Monterey
..••••....

};!<

153
154
155
156
157
158
159
l 60
161
162
163
164
16'5
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
H7
178

152· Solano . . . . . . . ..

Na.mes of Lodires.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.~Continued.

5

~

40r . ··

......

.

~I

§ I ~~

95

159
88
108
148

54

95
928
277
200
214
182
143
i04
206
228
372
202
108

12

121

9
9

µ

u

i;'l

~

I.';>

:;

z

0
:0

~

>
t-<

Q

0
"'.l

ti
0
trJ

0

ti
t-<

z>

~

.,..

61
14!)
558
302
194
624
186
391
5-8
](5
75
89
226
120
200
]]7
478
873
77

9
12
9'
15
12
9
12
12
9
9
15
9
12

155
236
139
55
65
804
215
59
616
175
69
106
2:!1
708
162
170
63

86

9

9

9

9

126
37
62
111
9!1
72

24
9
9

-9---'464

<j

i

i I sa
~5?

50
!}
50
12
50
2 12
30
5
9
30 ......
9
80 IO
9
50 ...... IO
1
30
9
80 ....... 12
80 ......
9
30
6 12
50
1
9
80 12
9
130 15
9
80 ...... 22
3 }j
50
30 ... ..
9
30 ....
9
1
50
9
30 10 12
3
50
9
50 ...... 20
30 .......
9
30 ......
9
80 25
9
bO ...... 12
50 ······
9
55
1
9
50 ······ 15
55 10 12
80
12
50 ...... 12
50
9
50 ......
9
50 ......
9
9

so

50
3
80
3
40
1
70 ..... .
40
1
50
8
50 .... ..
50 .... ..
30
3
50 ..... .
15
50 ..... .

5C

50 ..... .
40 ..... .
50
1
55
5
50 10
30
1
80 ......
50 10
50 ......
50
1
80
3
70
5
50 ......

75

r..~ ~~

•>.~

~~

~! ~g

""'f
:ii too

~

~

1-3

~

rJ1

0

z

::;

trJ
trJ

g

"d

"°
N>
0

I

..............

County.

"

...

"

"
"

.

''

. ,,
.."" ,. ''

"
"

"

"
"

..

"
"
"

"

-<

l"<A

100

25

12

~I

ii/'

537

78
51
12
22
67
53

::a)l

old

... .;

$°'
.. g

..

'1l

~

il:l
t::I

>-3

0
"1

0[/)

z

lj

1::1

ti:!

Q

0

!:!J

""""

C-0

C-0

""

50 ..... .' 12
218
50 .... ..
9
100
80 ..... . 12
520
9
40
53 ······
9
237
80 ······
80 20
9
784
130 ······ 12
701
50 ..... . 12
156
40 ..... .
9
146
75 ..... . 12
460
50
1 12
251
50 ......
9
197
z
100 10 12
607
d
55 ...... 12
116
t'
9
55 4.J.l!
4fil
0
9
d
332
55 ······
55
5
9
465
~
80
1 121 1012
0
80 ......
91 607 llj
mo. 25 1'>i 592
Q
50 ......
>
148
75 15
!::
603
100 10
1187
;:i
100 ..... . 15
::c
363
z
30 ..... .
146
;;;:
80 ..... .
970
50 .... ..
9
51
448
75 ······ 12
50
5
9
99
30 ......
120
9
80
5
9
648
50
1
9
1&2
80
3
9
608
80 15 JO
408
80 10
9
494
80 ......
9
352
C-0

.....~1

9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9

~

"'
!j

-;;

!ti

A

.;

80r .. ···
80 ......
50 ......
2
50
50 ......
100
1
50
g
30
50
9
30 ·····51
9
50
5
9
100 10
9
100 15
9
50 ......
9
80 ......
9
g
55
3
80
8 12
30 ......
9
50
1
\l
130 ......
9
80 ......
9
80 12 12

50 ......
50 ······
50 ......
50 ......

"., £~

""'ll

,...;
....
o"' co

-~
., ti

"
"
"
"11, 1893.
"
" I
" "
" "
" 1894.
"
11,
"
"
" "
"
"ll, 1895.
" "
"13, 1896.
"
" "
15, 1897.
" "

12,

"

"
"
"
1892.

"
"
"

"

1890.
1891.

16,
14,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Porterville ..•.•.. 303 Porterville •...•.•.. Tulare .........••.. , Oct.
Oet.
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley ..•....••.. Fresno ..••......••.
Azusa .•.......•. 305 Azusa ......••..... Los Angeles ....•...
"
Ashlar •......... 306 Colton •.....•...... San Bernardino ..•.•
"
Santa Monica ..... 307 Santa Monica ...•.. Los Angeles •.••.... I
:M:onrovia ...•.... 308 Monrovia ••...•••.. Los Angeles .•.•..•. 1
"
Delano ..•....... 309 Delano ..•..•••....• Kern ...•..•....•••
Oct.
Sisson ...•......• 310 Mount Shasta ...... Siskiyou
"
Los Banos ..•..... 312 Los Banos ......... Merced ............
"
Tehachapi ••••••• 313 Tehachapi .......... Kern ...............
"
Temescal ........ 314 Corona ...•.•......• Riverside •.....••.•
Oct.
Norwalk ......... 315 Norwalk ...•..•.... Los Angeles ........
"
Sanger •......... 316 Sanger ............ Fresno •............
"
Fallbrook ........ 317 Fallbrook ••.....•.. San Diego ..........
"
E1nmanuel ....... 318 Biggs •.•...••••.... Butte ...•....•.••••
"
Hollenbeck ....•. 319 Los Angeles •••..... Los Angeles .....•••
Oct.
South Gate ....... 320 Los Angeles •.••..•. Los Angeles ..•.....
"
Alisa! ......•.•.. 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda .....••....
"
Alhambra ........ 322 Alhambra ...•..•... Los Angeles •....•..
"
Whittier ......•.. 323 Whittier ...•..•... Los Angeles .....•••
Oct.
Corona •......... 324 Pasadena ..••.•.... Los Angeles •.......
"
Consuelo ........ 325 Escondido •.•....•.. S~ Diego ..........
"
Needles ••.••.••. 326 Needles ••....•.••.. Ban.. Bernardino ..... Oct.
Long Beach ...... 327 Long Be11.ch •.•..... Los Angeles •...•.•.
"
Redondo •.•. : ..• 328 Redondo •..••••••.. J:.os,,Angeles •..•.•••
Oct.
u
Vallee de France •• 329 Los Angele1 ........ Los Angeles ........

Town.

Places of Location.

242 Kilauea •..••.••. 330 Hilo ••• , •••.••••••. 'Hawaiian, Ter. • ..•.•.
Oct.
15, 1897
243 Pacific Gro>e ..... 331 Pacific .Grove ..••..• Monterey ......... ·/
'.
'
San
Pedro
.......
332
S&n
.Pedro
..........
Los
Angeles
•••••..•
"
244
''
"
Alta
............
333
Bridgeport
•••..••••
Mono·
.....
,
..••••.
"
245
''
"
"
246 Covina .......... 334 Covina •.....•.•.••• Lol!l Angeles ••••.••
Oct.
14, 1898.
247 West Gate ....•.. 335 Los Angeles •••..•.• Los Angeles .....
Oct.
14, 1899.
248 Fruitvale ........ 336 Oakland ....•.•.... Alameda •...••.•
,, ''
"
249 Carquinez .•.•••• 337 Crockett •....•...•• Contra Costa .•••
''
"
San Jacinto ...... 338 San Jacinto •......• Riverside ...•••.
250
'' ''
Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton ••.••....• Orange .•••......
251
Oct.
11, 1900.
252 Oxnard .......... 341 Oxnard ............ Ventura •.......•
Oct.
10, 1901.
253 San Fernando .... 343 Fernando ••...•.... Los Angeles •••••.
Oct.
15, 1902.
Starr King ....... 344 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco ••..
254 Brentwood ....••. 345 Brentwood ........• Contra Costa
"
"'
,,
,,"
255
Palo Alto ........ 346 Palo Alto .......... Santa Clara .....•
256 McKinley ....... 347 Richmond •...•..... Contra Costa
''
"
257
San Bernardino .•. 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino ..
"
''
258
Sequoia ......... 349 Oakland •..•..•.••. Alameda ..•.•....
'' ''
259 Palestine ........ 351 Los Angeles ..••.... Los Angeles ••...
"
''
260
Oct.
16, 1903
Su.ns~>t . . ....... 352 Los Angeles .•••.... Los Angeles ..... .
261
"
Pinole ........... 353 Pinole.............. Contra Costa ••••.
'' ''
262
"
263 Presidio ......... 354 San Prancisco ...... San Francisco ..••
Hollvwood ....... 355 Hollywood ......••. Los Angeles •....•
264 Mil(Yalley ....... 356 Mill Valley ......... M~rin ...•.......
,,'' ''"
"
265
"
" ''
266 Buent>. Park ...... 357 Buena Park ........ d'range •..•.••.•..
Golden Gate ...... 3.58'Los Angeles •....•.. Los Angeles ..••••.
"
267
Oct.
13,
1904.
Loyalton ...•.... 359 Loyalton •.....•.... Sierra •..•........
268
"
'' "
269 San Francisco .•.. 360 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco •.•..
."
''· ''
270 Fort Bragg ....... 361 Fort Bragg ....•••.• Mendocino ••.•.•••
'' "
271 Charity .......... 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara ..... ..
'' ''
272 Berkeley ........ 363 Berkeley •.••••..•.. Alameda •.•.•••...
'' "
273 Willits .......... 365 Willits ............!Mendocino •• • .•. •.
Oct.
12, 1905.
274 Las Palmas ....... :166 Fresno ......••..... Fresno •..••...•••
,, ''
Pasadena
..
367
South
J•asadena
•..•
Los
Angeles
......
.
"
275
,, (''(
_ .••.....••• 368 Glendale ........... Los Angeles ...... .
276
277 Ocean Park ...... 36U Ocean Park ••.•.•.. Los Angeles •••••••
'' ,,
Amity ........... 370 San Francisco ...... San Fnnciaco .... .

::!U

215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240

Names of Lodges.

"
~
z.

..."'

.IO

rdinate Lodees. etc.-Continued

E
;:i

z

... ........

Town.

Places of Loce.tion,

...........

County.

304 Fraternity ....... 399 San J'ose ........... Santa Clara ..... .
305 Bmlingame ...... 400 Burlingame ..•••..• San Mateo ..••••.
306 Bay View ........ 401 Oakland ........... Alameda ........ .
307 Br;twley .•....... 402 Brawley ........... Imperial •.......•
308
Y erba Buena ..... 403/0akland. . .......... Alameda ....... ..
309 Glendora ........ .404 Glendora ........... Los Angeles ..... .
310 Moneta ........• .405 Los Angeles •.•..•.. Los Angeles •••...
311
Burbank ......... 406Burbank ........... Los Angeles ..... .
312 J,a Mesa ........ .407jLa Mesa ............ San Diego ........ .
313
Sierra Madre ..... 408 Sierra Madre ..•••••. Los Angeles ..•••••
314 Honolulu ..•.... .409 Honolulu .......... Hawaii. .......... .
315
Charter Rock ...• .410,Berkeley •....•.••.. Alameda ..•..•..•.
316 Perris ........... 411Per:ris ............. Riverside ........ .
317 Calexico ........ .412'Calexico ........... Imperial ......... .
318
Waucoba ....... .413Big Pine ........... Inyo ............. .
319 Arlington ....... 414,Los Angeles ••.••... Los Angeles ...... .
320
Silver Trowel. .... 415 Los Angeles •••..... Los Angeles ...•...
321
Lindsay ......... 416 Lindsay ........... Tulare ·" ......••.
322
Clovis ........•.. 417 Clovis •..•.......•. Fresno .....•••...
323
Elysian ......... .418 Los Angeles ...••... Los Angeles ...... .
324 Upland ......... .419 Upland ............ San Bernardino ... .
325
Kerman .....•... 420 Kerman •••.••••.•.• Fresno ••...•.••....
326 Inglewood ..••... 421 Inglewood ••••••••... Los Angeles .......
327 Eagle Rock ••..•• 422 Eagle Rock ......... Los Angeles ...••.••
328 York ............ 423 Watts .............. Los Angeles ...... .
329 Exeter ........•• 424:1Exeter ..••.....•.. Tulare .........•••
330 Holtville ........ 425 Holtville ............ Imperial ......... .
331 :Midway ...•..... 4::l6'Taft •••.•...•.•••.• Kern .......•.....
332 Chino Valley .... .427 Chino ••...•..••..•. San Bernardino ..•.
333 San Dimas ....... .428 San Dimas ..••..••• Los Angeles ••.••..
334 Pittsburg ....... .429 Pittsburg ..••..•... Contra Costa ..... .
335 McC!oud ......•. .43'0 Mc Cloud .......... _ Siskiyou ......... .
336 Alph!l .......... .431 Richmond .......... Contra Costa .•..••.

...

...........
...........

Hawaiian Ter•••••••
"'
l'Oeeanie .....
Los Angeles ••••.•••
279 Gardena ........
Los Angeles ••••...•
280 Veteran ......
Francisco •....• San Francisco ••...•
281 Jewel ..........
282 Richmond ........ 375 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •••..•
283 Francis Drake .... 376 South San Francisco. San :M:ateo •••••••••
284. Artesia •......... 377 Artesia ........... ,. Los Angeles ••••••••
285 Mizpah .......... 378 Los Angeles ......•• Los Angeles ........
286 Fillmore ......... 379 l!'illmore ........••• Ventura •.•..•••••••
287 Iluntington Beach. 380 Huntington Beach •. Orange ••••••.••.••
288 Oceanside ........ 381 Oceanside ••....•..• San Diego ..........
289 Highland Parle ... 38:! Loos Augeles ..•.•.... Los Angeles ..••••.•.
290 Orosi ............ 383 Jrosi .............. Tulare .••••.•.•.••.
291 El Centro ......... 384 SJ CPutro .......... Imperial ..•.....•..
292 Dinuba .......... 38:) Dinuba .•....•..... Tulare ...••••••••••
293 Coaliuga ......... 387 :oalinga ........... Fresno ......•••••••
294 Parn:1..~sus ........ 388 -:ia n Francisco .••..•• San Francisco ••.••••
295 Palos Verdes ..... 389 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles •••.••.•.
296 Imperial ......... 390 Imperial ........... Imperial •.• , .....•.
297 East Belt ........ 391 Tuolumne .......... Tuolumne ........•.
298 West Lake ....... 392 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles .......•
299 Balder .......... 393 San Franeiseo •.•..•. San Francisco ...•••.
300 University ....... 394 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
301 Turlock ......... 395 Turlock ........••. Stanislaus
302 Apollo ......•.... 396 Alameda ........••• Alameda •.••••.••..
303 Rising Light ..... 397 Huntington Park .•• Los Angeles ••••••.••

Names of Lodires.

.,...

ui
.a

"

"

"

"

"
"

"
"

"
Oct.
"
"
"

..
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
"
"

"
"

.

Oct.
Oct.

"

Oct,

"
"
""

Oct.

"

"

..

"
"

u

Oct.

..

"

"
""
"
"

Oct.

''

''
''

''

''
''
''

''

'',,
''
,,

'' ''
''11, 1911.
''
''" ,,''
'' ''
12, 1912.
" ''
'' ''
'' ''
'' ''
'''' ,,"
'' ''
'' ''

''''
''
''
''
''
''
''
''

14, 1909.
13, 1910.

''

1908

'' "
14, 1909.
'' ''II
II

15,

..

"
" "
"
"
10, 1907.
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
"
"
15, 1908
"
"
"" ""
"
"
"
" "
" "

"

"
"

"

"
"

.. """

"
"
"

"

12, 1905.
10, 1go6.

"
"

"
"
"

Oct.

Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

List of the Subordinat.e Lodges, etc.-Continued.
.;

~

"

A

12
9
9
12
12
9
9
9

9

9
9
9
10
9
9
9
12
12
!J
9

35 ......

80
3
80 ......
80 ......
50 ......
50 ......
100 ......
50 ......
55 ......
50
1
50 ......
55 ......

5o ......
9
80 ...... 1
; 12
105
I' 12
50
5
9
80 25 12
30 ......
9
1051......
9
50 ......
9
50
3 12
80 ..... 12
8
10 12
80
5 12
30
3 10
50
5 12
30 ........... .
105 ......
9
105 25
9
50 ......
9
5Q......
9
80
5
9
3
9
50

......

,..;
$"'
., 0

4
I
7

3

0

"'

>
lll9

84
426

114

83

151
120
388
62

~
l:t1

.,..
""'""'

z

316
224

~

"lj

0

l'.l

t"
0
t:I

zt:I

>

l:t1

207
515
124
66

346
361
163

530
89
154
50

155
:195
105
739
211
10'2
115

410

466

416

93
65
435

8a

62

25

57

6
99

:i::

l'.l

3
0
37

0

1-3

~

"(/l

~

t:I

t:J

53

Q

~

t;j

('}

""'
"""

1

0
5
1

0

9
00

II"'
::;l:;i
=
<=

]

75
30 . ....
80 15
1 15
50
50 ......
9
50 ......
9
100 20 12
I
50
15
80 10 12
9
50 ......
100 ...... 12
80 10 12
9
130 ......
50 IO 12
1)0
5
9
9
180 50
100 20 12
100 . 30
9
80 ...... 18
1 12
100
110
12

100

51
31
20
10
5

101

&:ii
<

i'«A

80
100
50
80,

.,!:

... ~

oO
-'.ll

., bl>

.,.,

..

.....0.,.,...

.,,,;

C'-'

:i

~

Town.

Places of Location.

County.

"
''

3~

""·s.. F""'""· ...

·r.

'='""· ......

"

..

"
"

"

••

"

"
''"
''

"

"
"
""

"
''
,,

"

.

"

''
'' ''
'' ''
'' ''
'' ''
14, 1915.
"
"
"
"
" "

51
3

"'

12
12
12
12
9

9
9
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
!l
9
12
15
12
12
9

~

~81""6
.. ·io

I

100 15
80 10
105 10
100 ......
130 25

~ 101"·12

10
3

80
80
80

80 ......

50,......
100]-.....
100 ......
50 ......
55
5
100 10
80 ......
80 10
50 ......
80 ......
80
5
50 ......
200 80
40
1

<

6

204
211
288
384
229
54.f.
222
668

490

184
56
562
83
176
130

438

182
647
,93
131
103
112
325
167

HS

.,i::

-o

- ....."' ...,"'
::a:a

<D

"'
A

Ci

i..o
o..... ~
"'~
!«el

~! ,,_ .."'
Ci
&:~

... .,

.........

... . .. . . ....

"

.."

"

"

"

"

"

••

"

"

"

······

~.

......

""'""

363 Bh-erbank •...•• .459 Ri~erbanli: ...•.•... Stanislaus ......•... ' Oct.
22, 1915
9
364 Yount Oso .....•. 460/Tracy .......... ···/San Joaquin ...•.... Oct.
65
12, 1916
12
163
365 Argonaut ....... .461 San ~'rane~sco ....... San Franc~sco .••..•.
'
"
"
12
366 p,.1 R"""· ....
330
"
1~g1
"
"
12
367 Morgan Hill ...... 463 Morgan Hill .•...... Santa Clara ......••
570
Alta
Vista
......
.464
San
Francisco
......
San
Francisco
.......
"
"
1
"
50
9
368
72
Center ......••. .465 Fresno .....••..••.. Fresno .•.••..•••••
"
105 ...... 12
369 Libertas
302
...•.... .466 Bakersfield ...•.•.••
......
"
80
"
9
Kern ..
278
370 Culver City ...... .467
..
Oct.
11, 1917.
80 ...... 12
371 Rock ridge .•.•... 468 Culver City ......... Los Angeles .••••••.
219
"
Oakland
...........
......
"
100
!l
372 Yorba Linda ••... .469
197
AJameda •.•.••••.••
"
80 10 12
"10, 1918.
373 Lincoln ......... 470 Yorba Linda ........ Orange ..•..••••...
"
351
Oct.
San
Fralleisco
.•..•.
50
9
374 Delta ........... .471
130
San Francisco ••...•
0
100 10 12
"
"
375 Maui ...•........ 472 Stockton ........... 1San Joaquin ....•••
284
::a
Kahnlui
80 ······ 12
"
376 Blythe ........... 473
...•.....••. Hawaiian Ter. . .•..
273
"
>
"
"
.........
"
377 Victory ......... 474 Blythe .........•... San Bernardino ....•
...... tlz
Oct.
16, 1919.
5
75
9
378 America ........ .475 San Francisco ..•..• San Francisco ......
66
t'
80 10 12
" 14, "
379 Coachella ....... .476 Los Angeles .•....•. Los Angeles ••.••.•.
232
0
Oct.
1920.
80 ······
9
380 Temblor ......... 477 Coachella •.....••.. Riverside ..........
38.~
tl
50 .......
0
"
9
" "
381 Thousand Oaks .. .478 Fellows ..•...•..••. ern ...............
74
l?i
"
100 ........ 15
"
156
382 Golden Rule ...... 479 Berkeley ........... Alameda ....•••....
0
"
80
5 12
" "
295
383 },ellowship ..... .480 San Jose ...•...•... Santa Clara ••••..•.
J:tj
"
9
"
208
"
75 ······
384 Mt. Davidson .... .481 Oakland ....••..•.•• Alameda ......•..•.
c
80
J 12
"
179
" "
385 Clarence F. Smith. 482 San Francisco ....... San Francisco •••..•
>
105 .,, ..... 24
"
"
"
t'
272
386 Bell ............. 483 Los Angeles ..•..... Los Angeles ........
....
80
.......
"
9
Bell
.....•.•.•...•..
"
"
211
387 Albert Pike ...... 484
Los Angeles •.......
100 ....
"
!l
139
"
388 Chowchilla ....... 48;} Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ..•••.••
::a
80 15
Chowchilla
.....•••.
"
!l
" "
169
z
389 Ciiledonia •...... 486
Madera .....••.••.•
"
50
Bakersfield
•.•..•••.
I
12
" "
44
Kern .....
"'"
390 Vallejo .••.•..... 487
.....
>
l30 ...... 12
138
" "
391 Patterson ....... .488 Vallejo ••.•....•••.. Solano •..••.•......
6(1
"
Patterson
....••..•.
I
10
9
19!)
"
392 East Bay ....... .489
Stanislaus ••••......
70
2
fl
"
73
" "
393 Corcoran ......... 490 South Berkeley ..... Alameda ..••....•••
80
"
" "
12
249
394 Woodstock •..... 491 Corcoran •.•.••••••• Kings •...•••••.••••
75
10 12
"
80
" "
395 Garvanza .....••. 492 Alameda ..•...•..•• Alameda .........•.
80
1 12
137
" "
396 Atascadero ..... .493 Los Angeles .••...•. Los Angeles ........
80
10
9
133
397 Acorn .......... .491 Atascadero ...•...... San Luis Obispo ...•.
"
100 25 12
Oakland ........... Alameda .•.•..••...
50
"
"
'="'
80 10 12
218
" "

1

''

''

"
"
"
"
15, 1914.
'' "
'' ''
''
"'' ,,

1913.

16,

was Issued.

Date when G'harter

337 Hammonton ..... .433 lianimonton .•.•••.• 1Yuba ...•..•.•••.•• Oct.
338 Maricopa ........ 434 Maricopa ••....•... Kern •....••....•••
"
339 Fairmount ...•.. .435 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ....•.
"
340 Claremont ....... 436 Claremont ..•..•... Los Angeles •....•.
"
341 Lancaster ...... .437 Lancaster ...•••••• Los Angeles •••.•..
"
342 Acacfa. .......... 438 Los Angeles .•..••• Los Angeles ••.•.•• , "
343 Tyrian .......... 439 Manteca ..........• San Joaquin ..... ..
"
344 Standard ........ 440 Oakland •..••••.... Alameda ......... .. Oct.
345 Coronado ....... .441 Coronado ...•••.... San Diego •.••....•
''
346 Blackmer ........ 442 San Diego ........• San Diego ......•..
''
347 Schofield ...•..... 443 Schofield Barracks ..• Hawaiian Ter .•••..•
""
348 Carpinteria ...... 444 Carpinteria ......•. Santa Barbara .••••
349 Wilshire ...•..... 445 Los Angeles ....... Los Angeles ...•....
,,
350 La Puente ....... .446 Puente ............ Los Angeles ....... .
''
351 Torrance ........ 447 Torrance ...••••••.• ,Los Angeles •.•.•...
"
352 Mt. Diablo ....... 448 Concord ·: .......•. ,.Contra Co~ta ..••.•.
353 Park ....•.....• .449 San Francisco .....• San Francisco ..... .
"
354 Van Nuys .....•.. 450 Van Nuys .•.••.... ,Los Angeles ....... .
355 Montebello ....•. 451 Montebello ••...••.• Los Angeles ..••.•.•
"
356 San Pasqual ...... 452 Pasadena ......•••. L()s Angeles •....•••
"
357 Bethlehem ••.... .453 San Francisco .....•. San Francisco ...... . Oet.
358 Crocker .......... 454 Daly City ........... 1,San Mateo ......... .
"
359 Golden West ..... .455 San Francisco ..•..•. 1san Francisco .•....•
"
360 Ramona •......• .457 Monterey Park ...... 1Los Angeles .••.....
361 Henry S. Orme ... 458 L<is Angeles ..•••••. ·\Los Angeles ••......

Names of I..odges.

=
.,

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

l?i

~

~

(/).

0

z

~

l?i

c

"d
:i:l
0

""""'"'"

a"'

r;

z"'

,0

Town

County

..

B..llflow" ....... "T''llftow,. .........

i

..
."

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
Oct.
"
"

"

"
"
,,"
"
''
"
""
"
''
"
''
"
"
.'

Oct.

"

"

'' ''
" "
" ''
,," ""
" "
'' "
'' ''
'' "
'' "
" "
'' ''
" "
" "
12, 1922
''
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "

'' "
" ''
"" ""

1:3, 1921

Date when Charier
was Issued
!'«<

""""

12
9
9
9

12
12
9

121

12

~ I

:;:'.!

i:::

55, ......

100......

9

80 .......... ..
5010
9
80 5
9
I
50
9
35 ......
9
100
\.I
50 •• ...
9
50 ......
9
70 4Yl!
9
10010
!J
100 5
12
8010
9
100 ...... 20
8010
12
100 ......
9
80 ......
9
10010
9
80 5
12

55 .....

80 ......
7510
80 5
5510
55 ......

55 2Yl!
f;O 1

100 10

"'S

"'"

......

~

"

"
""

.
..

"

"

....
::a;:a

......
I 55~l"'2

~

~.

~

~

······

......

87

84
78
53
87

t\6

201
154
198
260
119
100
76
87
108
122
130
78

213
155
153
91

106
99
201
147
186
131
116
180
119
59
133
92
65

192
142

156

157
92
204

259
126

227
255

114

70

116
101
111
124
92
182
179
160
115
50

156
103

250
48

I. . g.. ~.. ~:!lw:il

... ~-::;
a1:=:

¢)~

i..M
~~

"

•n

•Ir,,, AogeJ" ........ October 12, 1922
9
428 satalin~ I~land ... 524Avalon .............. Los Angel~s ........
"
"
80 ......
"
(,eo.
\'
ash1ngton
.525
San
Francisco
......
San Francisco ......
9
429
"
"
" 100 10 12
430 Bay City ......••. 526,San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
"
"
100 10 J2
431 Covenant ........ 527jLos Angeles ........ T..1os Angeles ........
"
"
50
9
432 Beverly Hills ..••. 528jBeverly Hills ....•.. Los Angeles ........
" 125 5 12
"
"
433 Loyalty ....•.... 529JLos Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
"
"
Sun
Garden
..•...
530
Fresno
.............
Fresno
.............
80 20
9
434
"
"
50
Alexandria ...... 531 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
9
435 Smyrna
......... 532 Ceres .........•....
80
" "
5 12
&'tanislaus ....... .,.
436 Azure ........... 533
"
70 . .....
9
"
437 Forest Hill ....... 534 Fullerton .... ..... Orange ............
12
" " 100 ...
San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
438 Alex. Hamilton ... 535 Los
Angeles ........
"
"
55 10 12
"
439 Seal Hock ..•....• 5361San Francisco ...... Los Angeles ........
"
"
"
80 10 12
San Francisco ......
440
"
Utopia .......... 537/Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
80 10 12
"
441 Ascot
........... 538 Los Angeles ........
"
"
100 10
9
"
442 Belvedere ........ 539 Belvedere ......... Los Angeles ........
"
80 30
" "
9
443 Queen Beach ...... 540 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles ........
" 1923
"
80' ......
9
Los Angeles ......... Oetober 11,
444 Henry Morse
80 .. ...
9
Stephens ...... 541 Berkeley ........•...
u
445 Lankershim ....•. 542 Lankershim ......•.. Alameda ........•...
80
"
"
9
5
446 Signal ..•......• 54:3 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles ........
100
"
"
5
9
447 Glendale ........ 544 1Glendale ........•... Los Angeles .........
80 ......
"
"
9
"
448 Jonathan ........ 545'San Francisco ....... Los Angeles .........
80
"
5
9
"
449 San Gabriel ...... 546ISan Gabriel. ...•.... San Francisco .......
80
"
5 12
"
"
450 Arcadia ...•..... 547 Arcadia ............ Los Angeles .........
"
"
80 20
"
9
451 Triangle ......... 548,1Venice .............. Los Angeles .........
"
"
"
12
55 .....
Los
Angeles
.........
452 Justice ....•.•••• 549 San Francisco .......
80
"
"
5 121
"
453 Seaport .......•.• 550 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
"
80 10 12,
"
454 Lakeshore ..••••. 551 Oakland ............ San Francisco .......
80 10 12
"
"
.Alameda ..........
80 20 12
455 Semper Virens •••. 552Eureka .............. Humboldt ...........
"
"
70 ...... 12
"
456 Golden City •••... 553San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
"
5 12
80
"
"
457 Educator ........ 5541San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
12
"
"
"
458 White Pine ....... 555 Weed ............... Siskiyou ............
9
"
"
459 Fairfax .......... 556Fairfax ............. Marin.·············
"
12
"
"
460 Hermosa ......... 557jHermosa Beach ..... Los Angeles .........
80i 10 121
"
"
"

426
421

Lebanon ....•... .495 San .l!'rancisco ....•. · li::lan Franci~eo ...... .
1
......... · j~'rcsno ............ .
399 Riverdale ........ 496;Riverdale
400 Fremont ........ .49710akland ............ 1 Alameda ........•..
401 Stockton ...... .498St.ockton .......... ·1·san Joaquin ........ .
402 Capital City ...... 499 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ........ .
403 Roosevelt ........ 5001San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
404 Westwood ....... 501 Westwoorl ......... ;Lassen ............ .
405 Barbor .......... 502 Richmond ........•. Contra Costa ....... .
406 Point ............ 503 Richmond .....•..•• Contra Costa .....•..
407 Seaside .......... 504 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles........ .
408 Silver Cord ....•.. 505 Santa Ana .......... Orange ...........•.
409 Mount Olive ...... 506 Los Angeles ........• Los Angeles ........ .
410 El Segundo ....... 507 El Segundo ......... Los Angeles ...•.....
411 .Toppa ........... 508 San Joaquin ........ Fresno ............ .
412 Benj. Franklin .... 509 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
413 Cupertino ........ 510 Cupertino .•........ Santa Glara ........ .
414 Sunnyvale ....... 511 Sunnyvale .......... Santa ()Iara ........•
415 Palms ........... 512 Palms .............. Los Angeles ........ .
416 • Cahuenga ........ 513,Los Angeles ......... f,os Angeles ........•
417 Argonne ...••.••. 514ISan Francisco ..... San Francisco ..... .
418 Vernon Square .... 515JLo.s Angeles ...... Los Angeles •.......
419 Taft ..........•• 516 Taft .............. Kern ............•.
420 Mount Vernon .... 517 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
421 La Jolla ......... 518 San Diego .......... San Diego ........ .
422 Euclid ........... 519 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .......•
423 Ionic .........•.. 520 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles ......•.
424 Piedmont ........ 521 Piedmont .......... Alameda .......... .
425 Sunrise ......••.. 522 Los Angeles ......•. Los Angeles ....... .

Names of Lodges

Places of Location

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

'!:!

Q

N>

°"

""'

>

z
....

~

0

iij

~

0
"1
0

t;c;

0

ti

0

t"'

zti

>

:0

t;]

~

~

00

~

t'1
ti

0
ti=J

0

:0

""

Nl

°"

Z

a

s
Town

Places of Location

County

..

"
"
"
"

··-"

"

"

.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

""

"
"

"
"

"
"

''

"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
" "
" "
15, 192.5.

"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

I

• 40' ~ • •

80 5
100
······
130 50
80 1S
100 15
80 ······
50 10
100 3
60 1
so 1
80
······
80 .....
80 s
75 10
80 1
50 1
50 .....
7S 10
10012S

~

so .......

9

78

9

9
9
12
12
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
12
9

9
12
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
9
9
9

9

64
42
77
67
41
56
72

77

94

44

86
76
70
72
82
51
00
57
7!:!

103
52
41
85
130
43
108
76
61
76
40
56
106
100

36

59
71

·I

107
77
119
139
2!J8
139

12

"::d
z>

..........

~

z
....

0
::d

'"lj

t<
,_.

f;

'"lj

0

0
t<J

0
t1

t1
t<

l'=J

l'=J

"'!
>'!
::C:

o

~
oo

,_.

~

g
206

106
106
68
206
111
83
149

!:a

"d

0

~

125
105

95

137
161

.,
t ~
~ s;
~~

12
9
12
10
9
9

9

l!l24 .................

50 3
80 .....
55 ······

"

"

80 S
80 10
80 .....
80......
75 1
50 ......
105 4~
8015

"

l6
Ort.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1'

<

~

1:1

-;;;

"'
~

A

80 10
60 ......
80 10
80 ...... ,
80 S
80 10
100 30
9
80 ......
9
80 S
12
80 1 ......
8010
12

ie

§

80 20
SS
80 .......
125 25
SS 20
so 1
80 12~
80
so 10
70 2

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"'

ti ~ f3:a
- ;o - .;!
g;.,
!'<A ""'<

16, 1924

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

Was Issued

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
'.'

,

Date when Charter

484 Seenrity ...•..... 581 Bakersfield .......... Kern ...............
485 Rialto ........... 582 Rialto .............. San Bernardino .....
Oct.
486 Wasco .......•..• 583 \Vaseo ............••
"
487 Harding ......... 584 I.os Angeles ......... Kern ................
"
488 Manchester ...... 585 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
"
489 Garden Grove ..... 586 Garden Grove ....... Los Angeles .........
"
490 Valley Forge ..... 587;Los Angeles ......... Orange ..............
"
Los
Angeles
.........
491 El Sereno ·: ..... . 588 Los Angeles .........
"
492 Kauai ........••. 589 Lihue ............... Los Angeles .........
"
Kanai,
T.H
..........
493 Compass •........ 590Pomona .............
"
494 Escalon .......... 591 Escalon ............. Los Angeles .........
"
495 Tujnnga ..••.... ;592Tujunga ............ San Joaquin .........
"
496 All States .....•.. 593 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
"
497 Service .......... 594 Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
"
Los Angeles .........
498 Alexander Graham
I
"
Bell ........... 595 Los Angel~s ......... Los Angeles .........
499 Guardian
•....... 596south Gate ..........
"
500 Truth ........... 597 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
"
Los Angeles .........
501
"(
(
502 Pearl Harbor ..... 598 Honolulu ............ Oahu, T. H ..........
1)03 Carmelita ........ 599 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles .........
"
504 Lynwood · ... · ... 600Lynwood ............ T;os Angeles .........
"
505 Grizzly .......... 601 Portola ............. Plumas ............. Oct.
506 Melrose •.. · . · •• · 602 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
507 Dimond .......... 603 Oakland ........... Alameda ...........
508 Jubilee .......... 604 Santa Ana ......... 'Orange .............
"
509 Gl~ssl'll Park ..... 605 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
510 SoJourner ........ 607 Monrovia .......... J,os Angeles ........
511 Granada ......... 608 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ........
512 Provident ..••... 609 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ........
Elmhurst ........ 610 Oakland ............ Alameda
"
513
........
..... 611 Owensmouth
!)]4 Owensmouth
J,os Angeles .....•••
Workman ......•. 612 rrfemple ... ............
"
,. ..... Los Angeles .......•
515 Three Pillars ••... 613 Sacramento .........
"
Sacramento
516
Larchmont ••....• 614 Los Angeles .......• Los Angeles •••..•••

461
462 Craftsman
463 Plymouth . . . . . . .
464 East Ran Diego. .
San Diego. . .. ..
Diego. . . . . .. . . . .
465 Pyramid . . . . . . . .
Francisco ....... San Francisco... . . ..
466 South Park ...•••• 563
Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
467 Foothill ... , ...... 564/0akland ............. Alameda. . . . . . . . • . . .
468 West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
469 James A. Garfield.566,Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
470 Searchlight .....• 567jLong Beach ......... Los Angeles.........
471 Park Boulevard ..• 568,0akland ............. Alameda............
472 Ohate:rn Thierry .. 569,0akland ............. Alameda............
473 Military Service .. 570,San Francisco ....... San Francisco.......
474 Francis K.
Shattuck ...... 571 Berkeley ............ Alameda. . . . . . . . . . . .
475 James Madison ... 572Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
476 Hillcrest ........ 573.Berkeley ............ Alameda............
477 S. W. Ha.ckett ..•. 574San Diego ......... "'San Diego..........
478 1'~ort Crook .•••.•. 575Fall River Mills .•.. Shasta..............
479 El C3.jon Valley .. 576EJ Cajon ........... San Diego..........
480 Sunnyside ....••. 5771Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
481 Progressive ...... 578Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
482 Warren G.
I
Harding .....•. 579 North Sacramento ..• Sacramento. . . . • • • • • .
483 Santa Maria ...•.. 580.Ramona .....••.•.... San Diego..........

Names oi Lodges

~

~

List of Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

...""

"

§
z

,.0

Town

..............

County

----·-··--Places of Location

543
544
545
546
547
548
549
550
551
552

.542

541

"
"

"

"

9
12
12
15
9
9
12
9

91
9

10

...

80
55

53

......

100 10
105 20
100
55
······
80 ......
80
5
100 25

80

80

5

.... ·5
80 ......

~g1

9
9
24
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
12

12

9
9

12
12

.

...

0

z>

25

J;ll

tr:

~

'%)

0

r.n

0

z

c

t=!

tr:

't

80

28
24

23
36
21
19

26
28
30

51
31

55

40

54

37

24
46
31
49

49

24
22
64
41
27
58
54
46
37
96
59
40

"' <I
::il;:!l

...

~~

""

Total •.••.....•.........•..••...•.•••..••...•.•

"

w

<;>

Ci;)

>

H

z

~

"'.l
0

....

>
t"

0
"'.l
0

8l:'J

t'
0

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

~

......
.

15

1
1
100
100 23
105 *•····
130 30
60
100 ....
55 IQ

80

50

so ......

55 ······
105 10
80
1

9
9
9
9
9
80
5
80 ......
60 ......
50 .....

9

12

-<

i=

~i=

6S ......
80 30

-<

&;~ ~$

A

§

t!

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

14, 1926

"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"

1926

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

14,

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

... 0

o-"
.,; -~
,,-

i=

~~ :::::: .....~

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"

"

Oet.

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

Date when Charter
Wa8 Issued

...0 .,"

Ci;)
Ci;)

Total Membership, July 31, 1926, Chartered Lodges ....
Lodges under Dispensation, September 30, 1926 ......•

Co~posite ....••. 639 Los ..!\ngel~s .•....... Los Angel~s. . ..... · 1
1
Ventas ....... .- .. 640ISan}
rane1sco ....... San Frane1seo ....... .
James A. Foshay •. 641 Los Angeles ....•.•.. Los Angeles ........ 1
La Cumbre ..••••. 642 Santa Barbara ....•.. Santa. Barbara ...... .
Alta Loma ....... 6431Signa1Hill .......•.. Los Angeles ........ .
Lomita ......••.. 644 Lomita. . . . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles ........ .
A. F. E. Irwin .... 645/San Pedro .......... Los Angeles ........ .
Metropolitan ••••• 646,Los Angeles •..••.••. Los Angeles ........ .
Hawthorne ....... 647jHawthorne .......... Los Angeles ........ .
Damascus •..•..•. 648 San Bernardino ...... San Bernardino ..... .
Florence ....•.... 649 :F'lorence ............ Los Angeles ........ .
La Brea ......•. U.D.'Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .

518 Seal Beach ....•.. 616 Seal Be~~h · : : : : : : : : : Orange .........•••.
519 Big Bear ..••..••. 617 Pine Knot ......... San Bernardino ....
520 Southland ••••••• 618 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .•......
521 Neptune ••..••... 619 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles ........
522 Peninsula ........ 620 San Diego ......... San Diego ..........
523 The Gardens ..•... 621 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles ........
524 Atwater ......... 622 Los Angeles ...•.... Los Angeles .....•..
525 Menorah •........ 623 Le>s Angeles .•...... £,os Angeles .....•..
526 Fortitude ........ 624 Oakland .......•... Alameda ...•..•.•..
527 Angelus Mesa ..•.. mm Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
528 Chula Vista ...••. 626 Chula Vista ........ San Diego ..........
529 Lamanda Park .... 627 Pasadena ...•....... Los Angeles .....•..
530 Beacon of the
West ••..••...... 628 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .....•••
531 Fairview ........ 629 Inglewood .......... Los Angeles ........
532 Ingl?side ........ 630 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •.....
533 Benevolenee ..••. 631 Los Angeles •.....••. Los Angeles •..••.•..
534 Normal Heights .•. 632 San Diego ........... San Diego ...........
535 Poinsettia ••..••• 633 San Buenaventura ... , Ventura .............
536 Victorville ....•.. 634 Victordlle .......... San Bernardino ••.•..
537 Riverside ........ 635 RiYerside ........... Riversioe ...........
538 John Marshall .... 636 Los An1reles ......... Los Angeies .........
539 Palisades ........ 637 Santa Monica ........ Los Angeles .........
540 Indian Rock ....•• 638JBPrkeley ••.......... Alameda ............

Names of Lodges

::::::::.:::::=--====:::::.._--=--~--

List oi Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Contiirq.ed.

Location.

County.

1

Chartered.

'Became Extinct

Remarks.

Minnesot.a ..••.•• Minne.sota .•...•. !Sierra ..•........ ,May
Ind. Royal Arch .• Mary~ville •....• Yuba .....•..... May

2, 1855 May
2, 1855 IMay

Berryman ........ Sacramento ...... Sacramento •....• April 19, 1850 .............. Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings .....•... Sacramento ...... Sacramento ........•.••..••••.• May
6, 1856 Charter surrendered.
Sutter ..•........ Sacramento ...... Sacramento .....• May 7, 1850 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Davy Crockett .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 18, 1852 Name changed to San Francisco.
San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
Wiilamette ....... Portland ........ Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
La Fayette ....... La Fayette, Ore ................... May 9, 1851 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
Nashville ........ Nashville ....... El Dorado •....• ·1Dec. 24, 1851* .............. Charter never issued.
Pacific .......... Valparaiso ...... Chili ............ May 5, 1853* .............. Charter never h1sued.
Columbia ........ Columbia ....... Tuolumne ....... May 5, 1853 Oct.
15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
Diamond ......... Diamond Springs. El Dorado ....... iMay 5, 1853 Oct.
18, 1873 Surrendered.
Mokelumne ...... Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras ....... :May 5, 1853 Oct.
13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
Santa Clara ....... Santa Clara ...... Santa. Clara ...... IMay 5, 1853 Oct.
15, 1887 Revoked.
Butte ............ Bidwell ......... Butte ........... !May 3, 1854 Sept.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
Yuba ........... Marysville •••••• Yuba ........... ,May 3, 1854 June 16, 1916. Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ... Placer .......... May 3, 1854 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
Grass Valley ...... Grass Valley ..... Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
L.ebanon ........ San Francisco .... San Francisco .... May 3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 Nov.
1864 Surrendered.
Franklin ......... Sacramento ..... Sacramento ...... May 3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
Saint James ...... Jamestown ...... Tuolumne ...... ·1May 2, 1855 Feb.
20, 1857 Surrendered.
Geo. Washington. Chinese Camp .•.• Tuolumne .....•• May
8, 1856 Sept. 15, 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8.
Iowa Hill ........ ,Iowa Hill ........ Placer ..•....... May 3, 1855 Oct.
29, 1857 ·Surrendered.

Natne.

LODGES.

- .~-;

14, 1859 Surren<:Iered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
. . 69.
69 Corinthian ...•.•• 1Marysville ...... Yuba .....•..... 1May 2, 1855 !Dec.,
1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
71 Nebraska ..•.•.• ·fMichigan Bar .... Sacramento ...... May
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. SO.
72: E; K. Kane ..•..•• Nevada ......... Nevada ......... May 2, 1855 Oct.
2,
1855
Dec.
1,
1858
Surrendered.
73 Tyro ...........• Drytown -. ....... Amador ......... May
27, 1859 Surrendered.
Franklin .....•... Meadow Valley ... Plumas ......... May 2, 1855 Dec;
74 Wisconsin Hill ...• Wisconsin Hill ... Placer .......... May 15, 1857* . . . . . . . . . . . . • • Charter never issued.
3, 1855 Aug.
29, 1857 Surrendered.
75 Mountain Forest .. Eureka North .... Sierra ........... May
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
77 Petaluma .....•.. Petaluma ........ Sonoma ......... May
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
82 Mountain ........ Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne ....... May
8, 1856 IMay
18, 1861 Surrendered.
83 Rising Star ......• Forest Hill ...... : Placer .......... May
8, 1865 Sept.
3, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16.
85 Indian Diggings ... Indian Diggings .. El Dorado ....... May
8, 1856 Oct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
86 Saint Louis ........Rowland's Flat ... sierra ..•....... May
8, 1856 [Nov.,
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
No. 158.
88 Unity ........... Orleans Flat ..... Nevada ......... May
8, 1856 May
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
88 Quitman ..... ;- ... North Bloomfield. Nevada ; ........ May
8, 1856 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13.
90 Polar Star ........ Poorman 's Creek. Plumas ......... May
8, 1856 May
8, 1858 Surrendered.
92 Ac11ocia ' ........... Coloma ..•..•••• El Dorado ....... May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No.
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
93 Caymus .......... Yountville •..... Napa ..•........ May
8, 1856 !Oct.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
St. Helena.
94 'Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown ..• Plumas ........•. May
24, 1859 Surrendered.
96 St. John's ...... :. Yreka ........... Siskiyou ......... ,May 8, 1856 Dec.
3, 1854 Dec.
8, 1924 Consolidated with Howard No. 96
1
as Howard No. 37.
97 -J~fferson .......... La Porte ... : ·. : ... Plumas ........... May
8, 1856 July 19, 1926 Consolidated with Forbestown
No. 50.

69

67

47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63

34
36
39

29
31

28

15

11

6
7
7

4

4

No.

EXTINCT

.........

;;

O
~

l:;J

':cJ
~
t"

o

0
t'J

t)

t<
0

zt)>

0
::Ii

t'J

~

0
':cJ

...,

w.

o

z

t'J
~

g

"Cl
::Ii

""'
""'
"'"

Name.

I
Location.

I
County.

Oro Fino .•••••••• '.Oro Fino .....•..• Siskiyou ....••.• May

133
137

~emarkll.

San Luis Obispo ••• JSan Luis Obispo. ·1San Luis Obispo .. !May 16, 1861 IDec.

~

3

i:'J

~

..,

~

rn

Q

:2

0

~

n

'"ti

""'
"'""'

151 Palmyra ••••••••• Placerville ....•• El Dorado .•••.•. !May 16, 1862 Oct.

""'
""

2, 1865 ISurrendered.
10, 1911 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
152 Josephus ..••••••• Brush Creek ...... Butte .•...••..•. ,May
11, 1864 Surrendered.
153 Rising Sun •.••••• Brandy City ..... Sierra ..•.... , .. May 15, 1862 Oct.
154 Carson ........... Carson City .....• Nevada Ter ...... May 15, 1862 July 16, 1864 Surrendered.
155 Mount Carmel ••••• Red Dog ......•.• Nevada ........ ·1May 15, 1862 July 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
157 Washoe ..••.••••• Washoe City ..••• Nevada Ter ...... May 14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872 Surrendered.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. 0~
158 Gibsonville •••.•• Gibsonville .••..• Sierra .....•..•. ·1May 14, 1863 Jan.
15, 1908 L:onsoli'latetl with Jefferson No. 97. ~
159 Gilroy ..•..•••••• Gilroy .......... Santa Clara ..•... May 14, 1863 Oct.
o
160 Pilot Hill ...•.•.•• Pilot a:m ........ El Dorado ...••.• May 14, 1863 Sept. 28, 18641Surrendered.
18981 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
t'
162 Virginia City ••••• Virginia City••••• Nevada Ter ...... May 14, 1863 Dec.,
163 Silver City ....... Silver City ....... Nevada Ter ...... May 14, !863 .Jan. 16, 1865 Tra.naferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.. 0
16, 1865 TranBferred to juri•dietion of Nevada.
165 Silver Star ....... Gold Hill ........ Nevada Ter ...... Oct. 15, 1863 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. fu
170 Esmeralda .•••••• Aurora .....•.... Nevada Ter ...... Oct. 13, 1864 Tan.
171 Escurial ••••••••• Viri?inia City .... Nevada Ter ..•.•• Oct. 13, 1864 .Tan. 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. 0
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. ":!
172 Lander .......... Austin ........•• Nevada Ter ..•... Oct. 13, 1864 Jan.
14, 1864 Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada, (1
Alpine ••••••••••• M.arkleeville •..• Alpine •... ·• ·. · ·1May 25, 1864* Oct.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
~
115 Claiborne •••••••• Antioch .....•••. Contra Costa ..... Oct.
:;;
176 Merced .••••••••• Snelling •••...••• Merced ......... Oct. 12, 1865 ...•••...•.... Name changed to Antioch.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
o
111 Aztlan ..••••.•••• Prescott ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct. 12, 1865 Oct.
11, 1866 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
~
Arizona.
~
180 Arcturas ......... !Petaluma ....... ISonoma ....•••.•. !Oct. 1 l, 1866 IDec.,
1898 Consolidated l ith Petaluma No ;..
77 as No. 180.
182 Meridian •••••••• Arbuckle •••••• , Colusa .......... Oct.
16, 1919 Name changed to Arbuckle.
185 Arenas ..•.••••••• •unta Arenas .... Mendocino ...•.. Oct. 10, 1867 Oct.
189 Latrobe •••••••••• ,,atrobe .....•..• El Dorado ....... Oct. 10, 1867 .....•.••.•... Name changed to Claiborne.
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
197 Paradise ••••••••• qaywards ..••••• Alameda ..•..... Oct. 15, 1868 Dec.,
14, 1869 July
20, 1872 Surrendered.
Rocklin •••••••••• iocklin ......••• Plaeer ........... July
30,
1870*
.
.
.
•
•
•
.
.
•
.
.
. . . Charter never issued.
U3 Bodega • • • • • • • • • • lodega ..•..•.•• Sonoma ...••.... Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
218 Pleasanton •••.••• Livermore _, ...••• 1Alameda •....•.. Oct. 14, 1871 Oct.
<:<>
11, 1872 Oct.
18, 1881 Name changed to Mosaic.

HS

1

138 Violet ••••••••••• Spanish Flat ....• El Dorado ..•...• May
142 Colusa .••••••.••. 1Colusa ...•••.•.• Colusa ...•••..•• May

111
125
130

118

116

Windsor ••••••••• Windsor .....••. Sierra ........... \May
Folsom •••••••• ··1F.olsom .....•.... Sacramento ..•..• !Feb.
Va.llecito •••••••• Vallecito •.••...• Calaveras •.....• 1May
Ionic ..•.••..•••• 1Iowa Hill .......• Placer ....•.... ·1May
Progress ....••.•• \San Francisco .... San Francisco....
Unity ..•.••••••• San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May
Yosemite •.••.•• ·\Coulterville •.•••• Mariposa •.•••••• May

1

108 Owen •••••••••••• Beott 's Bar .••...• Siskiyou •.••..•.• May

I

.
I
109 Dibble ••••••••••• Omega ..•..••••• Nevada .•.•••••• May
114 Mt. Zion •••••••• Grizzly Flat ..••• IEl Dorado ....... \May
ll5 Saint Mark's ••••• Fiddletown .....• Amador •....•... May

107 Mount Jefferson ••• (iarrotte .....••.. !Tuolumne •...... May
j

102 Manzanita •••.•• , North San Juan .. Nevada ..••.•••• May
105 Siskiyou ••••••••• Henley .....•••. Siskiyou .••...• ·\May

Became Extinct

S, 1856 •....•.•...... Name changed to Hornitas.
9, 1856 Oct.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
8, 1856 Oct.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
8, 1856 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13.
15, 1856 Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
No. 37.
14, 1857 Oct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuolumne No. 8.
14, 1857 Oct.
15, 1908 Consolidated with North Star
No. 91.
14, 1857 Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
14, 1857 Oct.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26.
14, 1857 June 26, 1894 Revoked.
14, 1857 May 18, 1861 Surrendered.
14, 1857"1.Tan.
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
13, 1858 Jan.
5, 1859 Surrendered.
13, 1858 Oet.
8, 1905 ~urrendered.
1858 Oct.
14, 1870 Revoked.
13, 1859 May 13, 1863 Revoked.
13, 1859 Oct.
16, 1913 ('.onsolidated with La"llrange No. 99,
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
10, 1860 .June,
1862 Surrendered.
10, 1860 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
10, 1860 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 241).

Chartered.

98 Quartzburg •••••• , Quartzburg ...••• !Mariposa ..•..•.. May
99 La Grange ••••••• Merced .••..•••• Merced ••••..... May
100 Campo Seco ..•..•• Campo Seco ..•..• Calaveras .•.•..• May

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

Remarks

••••.••••••••• Consolidated with Newville No.
205, M Olivet No. 205.
10, 1907 Dee. 19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
15 1908 Oct.
14, 1915 Consolidated with Selma N<>. 277.
11' 1872 May 29, 1919 Consolidated with Roseville No.
'
432, as Roseville No. 222.
16, 1913 Oct.
10 1918 Name changed to Acacia.
lil
14, 1915 Dee.
18: 1925 Consolidated with Reading,
~
No. 254.
z

Newville No. 205 •. !Corning

Corregidor ........ Manila •.•••.••• Philippine Islands Oct.
Fowler ....•...•.. Fowler .•.•••.... ll'resno ...••• , ..• Oct.
Granite No. 222 ... Rocklin ......... Placer ........ , • Oct.

364
386
398
432

* Date of dispensation.

#1

e--tv>4fflt-$±.4;d-FJ;·~·.{'7:<,,.'.·>'

438 Germania ......•. Lo.i;i Angeles ••••. Los Angeles . , •• Oet.
456 Kennett •...•..... Kennett •......... Siskiyou .......•. Oct.

13, 1904

15, 1903 !Dee.

Cavite ........... :lcavite .......... !Philippine Islands!Oct;

350

...••.•• Oct.

Oct.
May
Oct.

11, 1883
16, 1884
14, 1886
16, 1890
12, 1892
11, 1900
10, 1901

Fall River ••...•. Burgettville , .... Shasta .....•.••. Oct.
Westport •.•••... Westport ........ Mendocino ....... Oct.
Tyrian ........... Dunnigan ........ Yolo ............ Oct.
Mokelumne Hill ... M<>kelumne Hill .. Calaveras .•.•••. Oct.
llueneme ........ Hueneme ........ Ventura ......... Oct.
Santa Maria.; •.. · Banta Maria ...... Santa Barbara .•.. Oct.
Manila .•...•• •••• Manila ••.••••••• Philippine Islands Oct.

270
276
284
298
311
MO
342

.•...•.• Tehama

15, 1881 Meli.

Tucson ..•.•••.•• Tueson •.••.•..• Arizona Ter ...... Oct.

263

Oct.
Oct.
Dec.

i )&C.

4, 1881 * Mch.

Solomon •.•. ; ..•• !Tombstone ....... !Arizona Ter ...... ,June

13, 1910 Consolidated with Hesl>'lrian No. 264.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.

>

~

~

t"

~

':xJ

0

~

ij

s

ij

11, 1911 Consolidated with Woodland No.156 t=l
25, 1919 Consolioated with Calaveras No. 7X.
16, 1902 Consolidated with.Oxnard No. 34].

~

"J
..:i

0

~

~

S

t=l

Q

16, 1879 Meh.

Arizona •.•...•••. I Phoenix .....••. !Arizona Ter ...•.. !Oct.

~

o

00

""'""'

257

17, 187'1 Surrendered.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
16, 1884 Surrendered
26, 1890 Surrendered.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142
as Colusa No. 240.
16, 1896 Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132
Hi, 1888 Surrendered.
:?O, 1918 Consolidated with Winnedumah
No. 287.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
10, 1895 Revoked.
26, 1888 Surrendered.

,--------------

Became Extinct/

10, 1878 Oct.
10, HHS April
IO, 1878 Dec.

1-------1

Chartered

Gree.nville......... Greenville .....•• Plumas ..........!Oct.
Brotherhood .. ; •. Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma ..•.•..•• Uet.
Bodie ••.•••••••• Bodie ..•.•..•••• Mono .•........• o,.t.

I

County

2'9
251
252

Location
18. 1873 Nov.
18, 1873 Oct.
14. 1875 Oct.
14, 1875 Sept.
14, 1875 April

---~I

Name

223 Maui ............ Wailuku ..••••..• Hawaii ......... Pet.
227 Contra Costa ...... ?.omersville ...... Contra Costa ..... (I.it.
238 Tyre . . • . . . . • .. .. Jold Run .•..••.. Plaeer •.....•... Oct.
239 Peseadero : • ; : ; ; ; ; Pescadero ..•..•. San Mateo ..•...• Oct.
240 Equality •••..••.. Colusa .......... Colusa •.......•. Oct.

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

343

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

342

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

M. ·. W.'. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF' THE
SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Year.
1891
1897
1898
1899
1900
1901
ld03
1903
1904
1906
1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915
1916
1917
1918
1919
1920
1921
1922
1923
1924
1925
1926

Grand MHter.

Deputy
Grand MHter,

Senior
Grand Warden.

18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 6860

•

William T. Lucu ........ Thoma.a Flint .• ,.,,., Frank M. AngellotU.
Thoma.a Flint..... ,,, •.•• ,, Frank M. Ancellottl .. •Charles L. Patton
Frank M. Angellottl., .... •Charlea L. Patton.,,. •James A. Foshay.
•Charles L. Patton .. , •. , .• •James A. Foahay .... . •William s. Wells.
•James A. Foshay ....... .. •William S. Wells ... .. Orrin S. Henderaon.
•w1111am s. Wella ........ . Orrin s. Henderaon, , •Cha.rlea W. Nutting,
Orrin S. Henderson., .• ,, •chllrlea w. Nutting, , •George W. Hunter.
•Charles W. Nutting ... , .• •George W. Hunter. , , Motley H. Flint.
•George W. Hunter ..• ,,,, .t Motley H. Flint .• ,,,, •Edward H. Hart.
Motley H. Flint •• , •..•••• Edward H. Hart ••.. . Geor&'e M. Perine.
'Edward H. Hart., •••• , •• Geo. M. Perine ••• , .• , •Reuben H. Lloyd,
George M. Perine , • , , , , • , •Reuben H. Lloyd, , , , , 01car Lawler.
Oscar Lawler .......... .. •w. Frank Pierce ... ,, Dana R. Weller.
•w. Frank Pleroe .• ,,,,,,, Dana R. Weller ...... , •Alonzo J . Monroe
Dana R. Weller.,,,,,,, . , •Alonzo J, Monroe .• ,, Wm. P. Filmer.
•Alonzo ;/. Monroe.,,,.,., Wm. P. Filmer. , • , , , John D. Murphey,
Wm. P. Filmer.,,.,,,, •• John D. Murphey.,,. Benj. F. Bledsoe.
John D. Murphey ........ Benj. F. Bledaoe .. ,,, •Albert G. Burnett .
Benj. F. Bledaoe.,,,., .• , •Albert G. Burnett. , ,, Francia V, Keesling.
•Albert G. Burnett.,, , ,,,. Francia V. Keesling ,, Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Francia V. Keeellnc, •. , , • Wm. Rhodea Hervey. Bradford Webster.
Wm. Rhodee Hervey, , , , , Bradford Webster.,, Charles A. Adams.
Bradford Webster.,,,,,,, Charlea A. Adama .. , . George F. Rodden.
Charles Albert Adame.,, George F. Rodden, , . , Samuel E. Burke.
George F. Rodden., .••• • • Samuel E. Burke .... William A. Sherman.
Samuel E. Burke .. ,. ... ~,
William A. Sherman.
Arthur S. C'rltea,
William A. Sherman .... .
Arthur S. Crites .. , .. David J. Reese.
Arthur S. Crites.,,,,,.,,
David J, Reese.,, .. ,,
Albert E. Boynton
David J. Reese ... .. .... . Albert E. Boynton .. , George L. Jones.
Albert E. Boynton .• ,,,,, George L. Jones.,,.,
Will H. Flecher.
George L. Jones .. , •• ,, ,. ,
Will H, I<'lscher .. , , , , Gustav A. Hutatl'.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand TreHurer.

Grand
Lecturer.

Grand
Secretary

•George Johnson., •• ,.
Charles L. Patton ... Edward Coleman .•.••
•George Johnaon.,.,,.
•James A. Foshay .... •Edward Coleman .... .
•George Johnson. , •• • ,
•William S. Welle .... •Edward Coleman .... .
•George Johnaon .••• ,.
Orrin S. Henderson .. •Edward Coleman .••••
•George Johnaon .• , , .,
•llharles W. Nuttlng ..•Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .• ,,,. Wm. H. Ed wards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
lleorge w. Hunter., .•Edward Coleman ..• ,.
•George Johnson .•••••
Motley H. Flint ..... •Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson.,,,,, Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edward&.
flQllward H. Hart .... .'Edward Coleman .... .
•George Johnson.,.,., Wm. H. · Edward1.
lleorge M. Perine .... •Edward Coleman .... . •George John1on .• , .,,
Wm. H. Edward1.
IHeuben H. Lloyd .... •Edward Coleman .... . •George John1on.,,,,,
Wm. H. Edwards.
()1car Lawler ....... •Edward Coleman .... . •Geor&'e John1on.,,,,, Thome.a J , Baker.
•W. Frr.nk Pierce .• , .•Edward Coleman ... .. John Whlcher.,, ••• ,, Thomae J. Baker.
•Alonzo J. Monroe . ..• •Edward Coleman .• , .. John Whlcher ....... , Thomas J, Baker.
William P. Filmer ... •Edward Coleman .. .. John Whlcher .•• ,,, ,, Thomas J, Baker.
lohn D. Murphey .... •Edward Coleman ... .. John Whlcher .•• ,., ,, Thoma.a J, Baker.
llenj. F. Bledsoe .... •Edward Coleman .... . John Whlcher.,,, •••• Thomas J. Baker.
Albert G. Burnett ... •Edward Coleman ... .. John Whlcher., •• , ••• Thoma.a J . Baker.
f'rancis V. Keesling .. Wm. P. Filmer .. , ...• John Whlcher.,., ., , , Thomas J , Baker.
tN. Rhodes Hervey •• Wm. P. Filmer .. , •.•. John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
llradrord Webster . . , Wm. P. Filmer......• John Whlcher .• ,,,,,, Thoma.a J. Baker.
llhaa. Albert Adami. Wm. P. Filmer., .... , Johl\ Whlcher ...... .. Thomas J, Baker.
lhorge F. Rodden ... Wm. P. Filmer ...... . John Whlcher .• , .•••• Thomaa J , Baker.
llamuel E. Burke .... Wm. P. Filmer .... . .. John Whlcher.,, .. .. , Thomae J. Baker.
William A. Sherman. Wm. P. Filmer.,,, , ,,
John Whlcher ...... .. Thoma.a J, Baker.
Arthur S. Crlte1 ••• ,, Wm. P. Filmer.,.,,.,
Johlt Whlcher .. , .•• ,. Thoma.a J, Baker.
l)avld J. Reese ....... Wm. P. Filmer ... .. .. John Whlcher ....... . Thoma.a J, Baker
Albert E. Boynton.,, Wm. P. Filmer •• ,,, ••
John Whlcher ...... . Thomaa J, Baker.
lt1orge L. Janee .•• , •. Wm. P. Filmer . .• ,.,.
John Whlcher • , , , , , • Thomas J, Baker.
Will H . Fischer . , .. ,. Wm. P. Filmer., , ,,,
John Whlcher , , . ... , • Thomas J. Baker.
1tu~tav A. Hutaff,.,. Wm. P. Filmer. , , •.•
Thomas J. Baker.
John Whlcher .. . .. . .
llha.s. M. Wollenberg. Wm. P. Filmer ... .. .
)

'

•Deceued.

, ,,;

344

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta ................ S. Y. Taylor ...............Calgary
Brazil. ................ J. W. Soares Rinto ....... Rio de J aniero
British Columbia ....... W. A. De Wolf-Smith ...... .New Westminster
Canada (Ontario) .......Wm. M. Logan ..•........ ,Hamilton
Chili ...................Carlos Schurmann Riller .•. Cassila No. 2687
Costa Rica ...........•. G. F. Bowden ............ ,San Jose
Cuba.················· Aurelio Miranda ....•..... Habana
Ecuador ............... ·Dr. Carlos A. Roland ...... Guayaquil
England •....•..•.....• P. Colville Smith., ....... ,London
France (Grand Lodge of)
8, rue Puteaux,
Paris
Indepe.ndent National Norfolk Dane ............. 1, rue Belgrade,
Grand Lodge of France
Paris
Guatemala .............. Irving Stahl .............. Guatemala
Hamberg ...••......... Herman Beyer ....••...... Weil,ker Str. ilh
!lam burg
Honduras .••..........• S. Hernandez y Hernandez ..Tegucigalpa
Ireland ................ Henry C. Shcllard (Dep.) ... Dublin
Holland (Netherlands) ..H. P. Van Nieuwenberg .... The Hague
Manitoba .............. J. A.,Ovas ................Winnipeg
New Brunswick ..•..... J. Twining Hartt .......... Saint ,John
New South Wales ...... Arthur H. Bray ..•........ Sydney
New 'Zealand ..•.....•..George Barclay .....•......Christ ch ureh
Nova Scotia .....•..•.. James C. Jones ........... Halifax
Panama .....•.....•....D. Leslie Sasso ........... Panama
Peru ...•.•..•........•. .Tose Angel Escalante ...... Lima
Philippine Islands ..•... Newton C. Comfort ........ Manila
Porto Rico .............Jose G. Torres ............ San Juan
Prince Edward Island .. E. T. Carbon el. ........... Charlottetown
Quebec ..........•.....W. W. Williamson ........• Montrenl
Queensland ..... , .......Chas. H. Harley ..•........ Brisbane
Saskatchewan .......... W. B. Tate ............... Regina
Scotland .....•......... David Reid ............... Edinburgh
South Australia ......•. Cl1as. R. J. Glover ......... Adelaide
Tasmania .....•........ W. H. Strutt .....•........Hobart
Victoria .••...........• W. Stewart ..•............ Melbourne
Western Australia ...... J. D. Stevenson ....•...... Perth
York (Mexico) ......... Chas. I. Arnold ........... Aparta. 1986,
City of Mexieo

GHANO LODGE OJ<' CALU'ORNIA

345

ALPHABETICAi.. LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
A. l'J. F. Irwin ...... 645 San Pedro .............. I,os Angelos.
Abell · ............. 146 Ukiah .................. Mendocino.
Acacia ............. 438 Los Angeles ........•... Los Angeles.
Acorn ............. 494 Oaklan<l .....•.........• Alameda.
Adin .............. 250 Adin ................... Modoc.
Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek .......... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville .....•••.••.• Alameda.
Albert Pike ....... .484 Los Angeles ......... ~.. Los Angeles.
Alcatraz ........... 244 Oakland ••......... , ..• Alameda.
Alexandria ......... 531 San J'rancisco .••.• , •••• San l<'ranciseo.
Alexander Graham
Bell · ·. · .......... 595 Los Angeies . , ......•.. ,Los Angeles.
Alexnnder Hamilton.535 Los Angeles •........... Los Angeles.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra .............. ,J,os Angeles.
Alisul .. ·• · ......... 321 Pleasanton .............. Alameda.
All States .......... 593 Long Beach ............. T,0 8 Angeles.
Alpha · · · · · ....... .431 Richmond ............... Contra Costa.
Altll! . · ............. 333 Bridgeport .............. Mono.
Alta Vista ......... 464 San .l!'raneisco ........... San l<'rancisco,
Alta Lorn it. . . . . . • . . • 644 Signnl !Iii!. .............Los AngeillM.
Alturas ............ 248 Alturas ................. Modoc.
Amity · · · · ......... 3 70 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Amador ·. • ......... 65 .Jackson ................ Amador.
America ........... 475 Los· Angeles ......... 1 • • • Los Angeles.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ................ Orange.
Anchor ...........• 273 Compton ................ r,08 Angeles.
Angeles Mesa ....... 625 Los Angeles ............. J,os Angeles.
.Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ................. Contra Costa.
Apollo ............. 396 Alameda ................ Alameda.
Arcadia ........... 54 7 Ar<'iulin ...••••......... .r.ns Angeles.
Arbuckle .......... 182 Arbuckle ................ Colusa.
Arcata ............ 106 Arcata .................. Humboldt.
Argonaut .......... 461 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Argonne ........... 514 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande .......... San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ......... .414 Los Ancreles
•nge l es.
,..,
• • • • • • • • • • • • T, 08 .'1
Artesia ............ 377 Artesia ................. Los Angeles.
Ascot .............. 538 T;es Angeles · · · · ·. · .. ·. ·· I , 08 Angel es.
Ashlar ............. 306 Colton .................. San Bernardino.
Atascadero ....... .493 Atasc11dero .............. San Luis Obispo.
Athens ..•......... 228 Davis ................... Yolo.

347

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

346

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

County.
Atwater ........... ,622 Los Angeles ...•......... Los Angeles.
Azure . . . . . . . • • . • • • . . . Fullerton ............... Orange.
Azusa ....•........ 805 Azusa ..........•.•...... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Balder ............. 898 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Bay City .•..•....• 526 San Francisco ....•.••.. San Francisco.
Bay View ........... 401 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Beacon of the West.628 Los Angeles .••••.•.•••. Los Angeles.
Bear Mountain ..•... 76 · Angels Camp ............ Calaveras.
Bell ............•. .488 Bell ............•...... Los Angeles.
Bellflower ......... 528 Bellflower •••..•... · •.. Los Angeles.
Belvedere . • . . . . . . . • • • • Belvedere .....••.•.... Los Angeles.
Benevolence ....• , • , 631 Los Angeles ....... · · ....Los Angeles.
Benicia .. . • .. .. .. • . 6 Benicia ................ Solano.
Benj. Franklin ...... 509 Los Angeles ........ · ..•• Los Angeles.
Berkeley •.•........ 363 Berkeley ......•.....•.. Alameda.
Bethlehem ......... 453 San Francisco ........... San Frandsco.
Beverly Hills ..••.. 528 Beverly Hills ...• ·• •• ·.Los Angeles.
Big Bear ........... 611 Pine Knot ..........•.• San Bernardino.
Blackmer ..•....... 442 San Diego .......... · .... San Diego.
Bl y th e ........... .. 478 Blythe .... , ............ San Bernardino.
Brawley •.....•.... 402 Brawley .......• ·.· ..•. Imperial.
Brentwood .. , •..... 345 Brentwood ............. Contra Cost11.
Brooklyn ..•....... 225 East Oakland ........... Alameda.
Buckeye ...•....... 195 Winters ........ ··.· .•.. Yolo.
Buena Park, ..•.•... 357 Buena Park ..... · · · .... Orange.
Burbank ..• , ...•.. .406 Burbank ............... Los Angeles.
Burlingame ........ 400 Burlingame ..•......... San Mateo.
Cahuenga .......... 518 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Caledonia ..•...... .486 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Calexico ..•.•..... 412 Calexico ............... Imperial.
California ..... , . . . . 1 San Frandseo .......... ,San I<'rand~co.
Calaveras .......... 78 San Andreas ...........• Calavt>ras.
Cal'layomi ..... , .... 282 Middletown ..... · · · .... J,alrn.
Calistoga .. , . , ..... 288 Calistoga .............. Napa.
Capital City ......... 499 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Carmelita .•.•....•. 599 Pasadena ............... Los Angeles.
• ••.•..•. 444 Carpinteria ............• Santa Barbara.
· t er1a
Carp1n
·
......... . 337 Crockett ............... Contra Costa.
Carquinez
Catalina Island ..... 524 Avalon ..••.•.. • · · · .. · · J,os Angeles.
Center .....•.. , .... 465 Fresno ................ l<,resno.
't ........... . 862 Campbell .............. Santa Clara.
Ch any
Charter Rock ...... .410 Berkeley ....... · · · · · · . ·.Alameda.
Chateau Thierry .. , .569 Oakland ....... ·•··· .... Alameda.
Lodge.

No •• ·

Post Of'l'ice.

Lodge.

No.

Chico ......•.•..... 111
Chino Valley ..•.... 427
Chula Vista ........ 626
Claiborne .......... 185
Claremont ......... 436
Clay ........••..... 101
Clear Lake ....•.•..• 183
Clinton ............ 119
Clovis .........•.. .417
Coachella .. , .••.... 476
Coalinga .....•..... 387
Compa8i; ........... 590
Concord ...•........ 117
Confidence ......•.. 203
Consuelo .......•... 325
Corcoran ........... 490
Colusa ..•...••..... 240
Composite ....••••.. 639
Corinthian . . . • • . . • . 9
Corona ............ 324
Coronado ••.......• 441
Covclo .......•.•... 231
Covenant ....•.•••. 527
Covina ............. 334
Clarence F. Smith ... 482
Craftsmen .••...... 559
Crescent ...•.. , , ... 45
Crocker .....•...... 454
Crockett ........... 139
Culver City ...... , .. 467
Cupertino .......•.. 510
Curtis .....•.• , .•.. 140
Chowchilla •....... .485
DamaRcuR .......... 648
Delano .......•..... 809
Delta .....•..•.•••. 471
Dimond ............ 608
Dinuba ............ 885
Doric .........••... 216
Downey .......•.•.. 220
Drytown .....•..... 174
Dunsmuir .......•.. 297
Durant ......••..•• 268
Eagle Rock ......•.• 422

Post Ol'flce.

County.

Chico •.•..............• Butte.
Chino ..•..............• San Bernardino.
Chula Vista .••......•. San Diego.
Point Arena ............ Mendocino.
Claremont ............. Los Angeles.
Dutch Flat ..........••• Plaeer.
Lower Lake .•.•........• Lake.
Igo ..........•..•...... Shasta.
Clovis •...........•.... Fresno.
Coachella ........•..... Riverside,
Coalinga ..•..•......... •rulare.
Pomona ...........•.... Los Angeles.
Sacramento ..... , •. , ••• S11cramento.
Castroville ... , ...•..... Monterey.
Escondido ............. San Diego.
Corcoran ..•............ Kings.
Colusa ..•... : .•.. , ..... Colusa.
Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
Marysville •............ Yuba.
Pasadena .....•........ Los Angeles.
Coronado ............... San Diego.
Covelo •................ Mendocino.
Los Angeles ...•....•.• Los Angeles.
Covina ................ ,Los Angeles.
Los Angeles .......• , •.. Los Angeles.
Los Angeles, ••...•• , •.• Los Angeles.
Crescent Uity ...•....... Del Norte.
Daly City ............... San Mateo.
San l!'rancisco ........... San l!'rnncisco.
Culver City ............. I,os Angelos.
Cupertino .............. Santa Claru.
Cloverdale ............. Sonoma.
Chowchilla .........•... Riverside.
San Bernardino ......... San B!'rnnruino.
Delano ................. Kern.
Stockton ............... San Joaquin.
Oakland ....••...•••..• Alameda.
Dinuba .....•....... , .. Tulare.
San Francisco .......... , Sfl.n Francisco
Downey ................ J.;08 Angeles.
Plymouth .............. Amador.
Dunsmuir •............. Siskiyou.
Berkeley ............... Alameda.
Engle Rock .....•....... Los Angeles.

348
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

East Bay .•...••••. .489
East Belt ......•... 391
East Gate ......•••. 290
East San Diego ..... 561
Eden .......••..•.. 113
Educator ••...••••. 554
Eel River ........•.. 147
El Cajon Valley ...•• 576
El Centro ........... 384
Elk Grove ..•......• 173
Elmhurst ........... 610
Elsinore .....•....• 289
El Segundo .....•... 507
El Sereno .......... 588
Elysian ......•..•.. 418
Emmanuel •........ 318
Enterprise . . . . • • . . . 10
Escalon ....•....••• 591
Eucalyptus ......... 243
Euclid ...•..•.•.•.. 519
Eureka ............ 16
Evening Star .•.••.. 186
Evergreen ......••• 259
Excelsior ...•.•.... 166
Exeter ............. 424
Fairfax .........••. 556
Fairview ...•...... 629
Fairmount ......•. .435
Fallbrook ..•..•.•.. 317
Fellowship ........• 480
Ferndale .....•..... 193
Fidelity ..•........ 120
Fillmore •.•........ 379
r'lorence ........... 649
Foothill .....••.... 564
Forbestown ........ 50
Forest ........•.... 66
Fort Bragg •....... 361
Fort Crook ..•..••. , 575
Fortitude ........... 624
Franklin ........... 143
Francis Drake ...... 376
Francis K. Shattuek.571
Fraternity ......... 399

Post Office,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

County.

Berkeley ................Alameda.
Tuolumne .............• Tuolumne.
Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
East San Diego ......... San Diego.
San Leandro ........... Alameda.
San Francisco .......... .San Francisco.
Fortuna ............... Humboldt.
El Cajon ............... San Diego.
El Centro ............... Imperial.
Elk Grove .............. Sacramento.
Oakland .............. Alameda.
Elsinore ............... Riverside.
El Segundo •............ Los Angeles.
Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Los Angeles •.......... Los Angeles.
Biggs .................. Butte.
Yuba City .............. Sutter.
Escalon ............•....San Joaquin.
Haywards .........•...• Alameda.
Los Angeles .••.....••. Los Angeles.
Auburn ................ Placer.
Etna Mills ............. Siskiyou.
Riverside .............. Riverside.
San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Exeter .......•........• Tulare.
Fairfax .................Marin.
Inglewood .............. Los Angelos.
San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fallbrook ......•....... San Diego.
Oakland ............... Alameda.
Ferndale .....•.......... Humboldt.
San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fillmore ................Ventura.
Florence ................ Los Angeles.
Oakland ................ Alameda.
Forbestown ........••. ,Butte.
Alleghany .....•....•.• Sierra.
Fort Bragg ............. Mendocino.
Fall River Mills ........ Shasta.
Oakland .............. Alameda.
Courtland ..•........... Sacramento.
South San }'rancisco ..... San Mateo.
Berkeley ................Alameda.
San Jose ............... Santa Clara.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

349
County.

Fremont .......• , •. 497 Oakland ............... Alameda.
l<'resno .•...•....... 247 }'resno ................. Fresno.
Friendship ....•.•.. 210 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .......... 336 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Fullerton ........•• 339 }'ullcrton .............. Grange.
Galt ............... 267 Galt .................... Sacramento.
Garden Grove ...... 586 Garden Grove ........... Orange.
Gardena .•.....•... 372 Gardena ........•...... Los Angeles.
The Gardens ........ 621 Belvedere Gardens ..... Los Angeles.
Garvanza ..•...... .492 Los Angeles ........•.... Los Angele;1.
Georgetown .•.•...• 25 Georgetown ............ El Dorado.
George Washington .. 525 San F•·ancisco .........• San Francisco.
Glassell Park ....... 605 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
Glendale ........... 544 Glendale ......•........•Los Angelos.
Glendora ..•...•... .404 Glendora ............... Los Angeles.
Golden City .•....... 553 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Golden Gate. . . . . . . . 30 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Golden Rule ........ 479 . San Jose .....•......... Santa Clara.
Golden West ..•.... 455 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Golden State ........ 358 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Gold Hill .....•..... 32 Lincoln ................ Placer.
Grafton ............ 141 Grafton ............... Yolo.
Granada ............ 608 Alhambra ............. Los Angeles.
Gravel Range ....... 59 Campton ville .......... Yuba.
Grizzly ............. 601 Portola ..............•. Plumas.
Guadalupe ....•••.. 237 Guadalupe ............. Santa Durbara.
Guardian .......... 596 South Gate ............. LoH Augele~.
Hammonton .......• 433 Hammonton ........... Yuba.
Hanford ..•........ 279 Hanford ............... Kings.
Harbor ............. 502 Richmond .............. Contra Costa.
Harding ........... 584 Los Angeles ............ Los A ngoles.
Harmony ...•.•.... 164 Sierra City ............. Sierra.
Hartley ...•....•... 199 Lakeport .............. Lake.
Hawaiian ........... 21 Honolulu .............. Hawaiian Ter.
Hawthorne .......•• 647 Hawthc.rrw ............. Los Angeles.
Hemet ............. 615 Hemet ................ Riverside.
Henry Clay. . • . . . . . • 95 Sutter Creek ............ Amador.
Henry Morse
Stephens •....••.. 541 Berkeley ...•........•. Alameda.
Hermann ........... 127 San Francis<'o .......... San Francisco.
Hermosa .....•••.•• 557 Hermosa Beach ....... Los Angeles.
Hespcrian ..••...... 264 Santa Maria ...........• Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ...... 31'2 Los Angeles, ............ Los Angeles.
IIill nest .......... ; 573 Berkeley ................Alameda.

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

County.
Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Newman
...............
Stanislaus.
Hill's Ferry......... 236
Hiram ............. 43 El Dorado .............. El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme ..... 458 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck ........ 319 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Hollywood ......... 355 Hollywood ............. Los Angeles.
Holtville ......... .425 Holtville .........•••.• Imperial.
Honolulu •......... .409 Honolulu .............. Hawaiian Ter.
Hope .............. 234 Beckwith .............. Plumas.
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos ............... Mariposa.
Howard ............ 37 Yreka ................. Siskiyou.
Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . 79 Eureka ................ Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beach ...... Orange.
Illinoistown ........ 51 Colfax ................. Placer.
Imperial ........... 390 Imperial ............... Imperial.
Ingleside ........... 630 San Francisco ......... San Francisco.
Inglewood ......... 421 Inglewood .........•... Los Angeles.
Fairview .......... 629 Inglewood ............ Los Angeles.
Indian Rock ........ 638 Berkeley ............... Alameda.
Inyo ............... 221 Independence .......... Inyo.
Ione ....... , ....... 80 Ione .................. Amador.
Los Angeles.
James A. Foshay .... 640 Los Ange1es ............ .
Los
Angeles
...........
Los Angeles.
Ionic .............. 520
James A. Garfield ... 566 Los Angeles .....•. : .... Los Angeles.
James Madison ...... 572 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Jefferson . . . . . . . . . . 97 Laporte ................ Plumas.
Janesville ......... 232 Lassen ................. Lassen.
Jewel ............. 374 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
John Marshall ...... 636 Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
Jonathan .......... 545 San Francisco ....... , .• San Frandsco.
Joppa ............. 508 San Joaquin ........... Fresno.
Jubilee ............. 604 Santa Ana .............. Orange.
Justice ............ 549 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Kauai ............. 589 Lihue .................. Kauai, T. H.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ................. Santa Clara.
Kerman .......... .420 Kerman ................ Fresno.
Keystone .... ; ..... 161 Milton ................. Calaveras.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ................... Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo ......... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon '11 •••• 260 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
La Brea ........... U.D. Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
La Cumbre ......... 642 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
La Fayette ........ 126 Sebastopol .............. Sonoma,
La Jolla ........... 518 San .Diego ............. San Diego.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Lodge.
No.
Post Office.
County.
Lakeshore ......... 551 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Lamanda Park ..... 627 Pasadena ............... Los Angeles.
La Mesa ........... 407 La Mesa ................ San Diego.
Lancaster ......... 43 7 Lancaster .............. Los Angeles.
Lankershim ........ 542 Lankershim ............ Los Angeles.
Landmark ......... 253 Esparto ................ Yolo.
La Puente ......... 446 Puente ................. Los Angeles.
Larchmont .......... 614 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Las Palmas ........ 366 Fresno ................. Fresno.
Lassen ............ 149 Susanville .............. Lassen.
Laurel ............. 245 Willows ................ Glenn.
Lebanon ........... 495 San Francisco ........•. San Francisco.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ........ 371 Honolulu ............... Hawaiian Ter.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ............... Los Angeles.
Libertas ........... 466 Bakersfield ............ Kern.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara ............ Santa Clara.
Lincoln ............ 470 San Francisco .......... San Francisco,
Lindsay , .......... 416 Lindsay , ...... , , ....... Tulare.
Live Oak .......... 61 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Lodi .............. 256 Lodi ................... San Joaquin.
Lomita ............... Lomita ................. Los Angeles.
Lompoc ............ 262 Lompoc ................ Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Be1J,ch ............ Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos .....•........ Merced.
Los Gatos .......... 292 Los Gatos .............. Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton ............... Sierra.
Loyalty ........... 529 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Lynwood ........... 600 Lynwood .............•. Los Angeles.
Madera ............ 280 Madera ................ Madera.
Madison ........... 23 Grass Valley ........... Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
Manchester ....... . 585 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Maricopa .......... 434 Maricopa .............. Kern.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael ............. Marin.
Mariposa .......... 24 Mariposa .............. Mariposa.
Martinez .......... 41 Martinez .............. contra Costa.
Maui .............. 472 Maui, Kahului. ......... Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell ........... 288 Maxwell ............... Colusa.
McCloud ........... 430 McCloud ............... Siskiyou.
McKinley .......... 34 7 Richmond .............. Contra Costa.
Melrose ............ 602 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
Menorah ........... 623 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.

351

352

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

County.
Post Ofl'iee.
No.
Lodge.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino ............. Mendocino.
Metropolitan ....... 646 Los Angeles............. Los Angeles.
Midway ........... 426 Taft .................. Kern.
Military Service .... 570 San Francisco .......... .San Francisco.
Mill Valley ......... 356 Mill Valley ............. Marin.
Mission ......•..... 169 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Mizpah ......•..... 378 Los Angeles .....•...... Los Angeles.
Molino ........•..• 150 Tehama ............... Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Montebello •........ 451 Montebello ............• Los Angeles.
Monrovia .......... 308 Monrovia .............. Los Angeles.
Monterey .......... 217 Monterey .............. Monterey.
Morgan Hill ..••.... 463 Morgan Hill ............ Santa Clara.
Morning Star ..•.... 68 Stockton ............... San Joaquin.
Mosaic ............ 218 Livermore ............. Alameda.
Mount Davidson ... .481 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Mount Diablo ....... 448 Concord ..•.........•.. Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson ..... 295 Guerneville ..........•. Sonoma.
Mount Moriah ...... 44 San Francisco ......•... San Francisco.
Mount Olive •....... 506 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Mount Oso ..... , ... 460 Tracy ................. San Joaquin.
Mount Vernon ...... 517 San Francisco ..•.•..... San Francisco.
Mountain Shade. . . . . 18 Downieville ............ Sierra.
Mount Shasta ..•.... 281 Anderson .............. Shasta.
Mountain View...... 194 Mountain View ......... Santa Clara.
Natoma ......•..... 64 Folsom ................ Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo ................ Solano.
Needles ...........• 326 Needles ............... San Bernardino.
Neptune .....•..... 619 Long Beach ......•.... Los Angeles.
Nevada ............ 13 Nevada City ........... Nevada.
Newville ........... 205 Paskenta •............. Tehama.
Nicolaus .....•..•.. 129 Wheatland ............. Yuba.
Normal Heights ..... 632 San Diego .............. San Diego.
North Butte ........ 230 Grhlley ................ Butte.
North East ......... 266 Fort Bidwell ............ Modoc.
Northern Light...... 190 Millville ............... Shasta.
North Star.......... 91 Fort Jones .............. Siskiyou.
Norwalk ........... 315 Norwalk ......••....... Los Angeles.
Oakdale ............ 275 Oakdale ............... Stanislaus.
Oak Grove ..••...•.. 215 Alameda ............... Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Ocean Park ......... 369 Oceanpark ............. Los Angeles.
Oceanside ..•....... 381 Oceanside .............. San Diego.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

353

Lodge.
No.
Post Oftlce.
County.
Olive Branch ....... 269 Tulare •.•.............. Tulare.
Olivet ........•..•. 2')5 Corning ................Tehama.
Ontario ............ 301 Ontario ...........•.... San Bernardino.
Ophir •..........•.. 33 Murphy's ..•........... Calaveras.
Orange Grove ....... 293 Orange ................ Orange.
Oriental ..•..•..•.. 144 San Francisco .......... San l!"rancisco.
Orland .........•.. 265 Orland ................ Glenn.
Orosi .............. 383 Orosi .................. •rulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ............... Butte.
Owensmouth ...... ,611 Owensmouth .......••.. Los Angeles.
Oxnard •........•.. 341 Oxnard ..............•. Ventura.
Pacific ............. 136 San Francisco .•........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....•.. 331 Pacific Grove ........... Monterey.
Pajaro ............. llO Watsonville ............ Santa Cruz.
Palestine ........... 351 Los Angeles .....•...... Los Angeles.
Palisades .......... 637 Santa Monica ........... Los Angeles.
Palms ..........••• 512 Palms ..•.............• Loa Angeles.
Palmyra ........... 26 Placerville ............. El Dorado.
Palo Alto........... 346 Palo Alto ..•••.•....•... Sarta Clara.
Palos Verdes .......• 389 Long Beach •........... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union. . . . . . 17 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Park ........•..... 449 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Park Boulevard ..... 568 Oakland ........•...... ,Alameda.
Parnassus ......••.. 388 San Francisco ..•....... San Francisco.
Pasadena .......... 272 Pasadena •............. Los Angeles,
Paso Robles ........ 286 Paso Robles ............. San Luis Obispo.
Patterson .......... 488 Patterson .............. Stanislaus.
Paul Revere ........ 462 San l!'rancisco ........•. San Francisco.
Pearl Harbor .•.... 598 Honolulu ............... Hawaiian Ter.
Peninsula .......... 620 San Diego ............• San Diego.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn •............... Placer.
Pentalpha ...•...... 202 T.1os Angeles ........•... Los Angeles.
Perris .........•.. .411 Perris ................. Hiverside.
Petaluma .......... 180 Petaluma .............. Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ......... San Bernardino.
Piedmont ..•....... 521 Piedmont ..•........... Alameda.
Pinole ......••..... 353 Pinole ................. Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .......... 429 Pittsburg .............. Contra Costa.
Plumas ............. 60 Quincy ................. Plumas.
Plymouth .......... 560 Oakland ................ Alameda.
Poinsettia ......... 633 Ventura ................ Ventura.
Point .............. 503 Richmond ............... Contra Costa.
Point Firmin ....... 558 San Pedro .............. Los Angeles.
Pomona ............ 246 Pomona ................. Los Angeles.

354
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

County.

Porterville ......... 303 Porterville .............. Tulare.
Presidio ........... 354 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Progressive ........ 578 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Provident .......... 609 Sacramento ............. Sacramento.
Pyramid ........... 562 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Queen Beach ...... ,540 Long Beach ............. Los Angeles.
Ramona ........... ,457 Monterey Park ......... Los Angeles.
Reading ............ 254 Redding ................ Shasta.
Redlands ........... 300 Redlands ............... San Bernardino.
Redondo ............ 328 Redondo ................ Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City .......... ,San Mateo.
Reedley ........... ,304 Reedley ................ Fresno.
Rialto ............. ,582 Rialto .................. San Bernardino.
Richmond .......... 375 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Rio Vista ........... 208 Rio Vista ............... Solano.
Rising Light ....... 397 Huntington Park ....... Los Angeles.
Riverbank ......... 459 Riverbank .............. Stanislaus.
Riverdale .......... 496 Riverdale ............... Fresno.
Riverside .......... 635 Riverside ............... Riverside.
Rockridge .......... 468 Oakland ................ Alameda.
Roosevelt .......... ,500 San Francisco ......... ,San Francisco.
Rose's Bar . . . . . . . . . . 89 Smartsville ............. Yuba.
Roseville ........... 222 Roseville .............. ,Placer.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor ................ Sonoma.
Sacramento . . . . . . . . 40 Sacramento ............. Sacramento.
Saint H!llena, ....... 93 St. Helena .............. Napa.
Salinas ............ ,204 Salinas ................. Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 Hollister ............... ,San Benito.
San Buenaventura .. 214 Ventura .......•........ Ventura.
San Diego .......... 35 San Diego .............. San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas .............. Los Angeles.
San Gabriel ........ 546 San Gabriel ............ Los Angeles.
Sanger ............. 316 Sanger ................ ,Fresno.
San Bernardino .... 348 San Bernardino ......... San Bernardino.
San Fernando ....... 343 Fernando ............... Los Angeles.
San Francisco ...... 360 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 San Jacinto ............ Riverside.
San Joaquin ........ 19 Stockton ............. ; .San Joaquin.
San Jose . . . . . . . . . . . 10 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo .............. San Mateo.
San Miguel ......... 285 San Miguel. ............ San Luis Obispo.
San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasadena .............. Los Angeles.
San Pedro .......... 332 San Pedro .............. Los Angeles.

Lodge

No.

Post Office.

356
County.

Santa Ana .......... 241 Santa Ana .............. Orange.
Santa Barbara ...... 192 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz . . . . . . . . . 38 Santa Cruz ............. Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ........ 302 Kings City ............. Monterey.
Santa Maria ........ 580 Ramona ................. San Diego.
Santa Monica ....... 307 Santa Monica ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ......... 291 Santa Paula ............ Ventura.
Santa Rosa ......... 57 Santa Rosa ............. Sonoma.
San Simeon ......... 196 Cambria ............... San Luis Obispo.
Schofield ........... 443 Schofield Barracks ...... Hawaiian Ter.
Seal Beach ......... 616 Seal Beach ............ Orange.
Seal Rock .......... 536 San .l!'rancisco .......... San Francisco.
Searchlight ........ 567 Long Beach .............Los Angeles.
Seaport ............ 550 San Francisco ...........San Francisco.
Seaside ............ 504 Long Beach ............ Los Angeles.
Security ..........• 581 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Selma ............. 277 Selma ................. Fresno.
Semper Virens ...•.. 552 Eureka ................. Humboldt.
Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Service ........... . 594 Long Beach ............ Los Angeles.
Sierra Madre ...... .408 Sierra Madre ........... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ....... 184 Sierraville ............. Sierra.
Signal ............. 543 Long Beach .............Los Angeles.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon ................. Solano.
Silver Cord ......... 505 Santa Ana .............. Orange.
Silver Gate ......... 296 San Diego ............. San Diego.
Silver Trowel. ..... .415 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville ............. Plumas.
Sisson ............. 310 Mount Shasta ........... Siskiyou.
Smyrna ...........• 532 Ceres ..•..•........... Stanislaus
Snow Mountain ..... 271 Stony Ford ............. Colusa.
Sojourner .......... 507 Monrovia .............. Los Angeles.
Solano ............. 229 Vallejo .................Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg ..........•. Sonoma.
Southern California .. 278 Los Angeles ........... ·Los Angeles.
South Gate .......... 320 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Southland .......... 618 Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
South Park ......... 563 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
South Pasadena ..... 367 South Pasadena ......... Los Angeles.
South San Francisco. 212 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Sou th West ......... 283 National City ........... San Diego.
Speranza Italiana .•• 219 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Standard ........... 440 Oakland ...•.•......... Alameda.
Stanislaus .......... 206 Modesto ..•............ Stanislaus.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

356

Lodge

Lodge

357

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Post Office.

County.

Starr King.......... 344 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Stockton ..•....... .498 Stockton ...........•.. San Joaquin.
Suisun ............. 55 Suisun ................. Solano.
Summit ............ 112 Knights Ferry .......... Stanislaus.
Sun Garden .......• 530 Fresno ........•..•.... Fresno
Sunnyside •......... 577 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale .....•... 511 Sunnyvale ............. Santa Clara.
Sunrise ..........•. 522 Los Angeles .•.....•••• Los Angeles.
Sunset ............. 352 Los Angeles ...........•. Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley ..... 235 Cedarville ..•..•....... Modoc.
S. W. Hackett ...... 574 San Diego .............. San Diego.
Table Mountain ..... 124 Cherokee ............... Butte.
Taft ..............• 516 Taft .................• Kern.
Tehachapi .......... 313 Tehachapi ............. Kern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento .............Sacramento.
Temescal ........... 314 Corona ................ Riverside.
Temblor ........... 477 Fellows ••..........••.. Kern.
Temple ............ 14 Sonoma ................ Sonoma.
Texas .............. 46 San Juan ............... San Benito.
Thousand Oaks ..... 478 Berkeley .............. Alameda.
Three Pillars ....... 613 Saeramento ........... Sacramento.
Torrance ........... 447 Torranee ............... Los .\.ngeles.
Traver ............. 294 Kingsburg ............. Fresno.
Triangle ........... 548 V eniee ................. Los Angeles.
Trinity ...•........ 27 Weaverville ............ Trinity.
Truckee ............ 200 Truckee .............•. Nevada.
Truth ............. 597 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Tujunga ..........• 592 Tujunga ................ Los Angeles.
Tnolumne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora ................ Tuolumne.
Turlock ............ 395 'l'urlock ................ Stanislaus.
Tuscan ............ 261 Williams .............. Colusa.
Tyrian ............. 439 Manteca ............... San Joaquin.
Union ........•.... 58 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale ............... Los Angeles.
University ........• 394 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Upland ........•... 419 Upland .....•.......... San Bernardino.
Utopia ......•...... 537 Los Anr;eles ........•.• Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville ............•• Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Vallejo ............ 487 Vallejo .....•.......... Solano.
Valley ............. 135 Linden ................ San Joaquin.
Valley Forge ...•.• 587 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Van Nuys .......... 450 Van Nuys .............. I,os Angeles.
Veritas ............ 640 San Francisco ........... Sun Francisco.

No.

Post Office

County

Vermont Square .... 515 Los Angeles •.••.•.••.. Los Angeles.
Vesper .....•.... , .. 84 Red Bluff ........•..•... Tehama,
Veteran ..•••....•.. 373 Sawtelle ......•........ Los Angeles.
Victorville ......... 634 Victorville .............. San Bernardino.
Victory ............ 474 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Visalia ............. 128 Visalia ............... .'fulare.
Vitruvius ..•....... 145 Bloomfield ............. Sonoma.
Volcano ...•........ 56 Volcano ................Amador.
Warren G. Harding.579 North Sacramento ....... Sacramento.
\Vasco ............. 583 \Vasco .................. Kern.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Waucoba .......... 413 Big Pine ............... Inyo.
Welcome ........... 255 Lemoore ............... Kings.
West Adams ........ 565 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Western Star .. . .. . . 2 Shasta ....... , ........ Shasta.
West Gate ..•....... 335 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Westwood .......... 501 Westwood ............. Lassen.
White Pine ......... 555 Weed ...........•....... Siskiyou.
Whittier ........... 323 Whittier .............. ,J,,os Angeles.
Willits .•......•.... 365 Willits ................ Mendocino.
Wilmington •....... 198 Wilmington ...........• Los Angeles.
Wilshire .......... .445 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ......• 287 Bi.shop ................ Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ............ San Joaquin.
Woodland .....•.... 156 Woodland ............. Yolo.
Woodstock ......... 491 Alameda ..... , ......... Alameda.
Workman .......... 612 Temple ........•.....•. Los Angeles.
Yerba Buena ........ 403 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Yolo ........•...... 81 Yolo .......... : . ...... Yolo.
Yorba Linda ....... 469 Yorba Linda ........... Orange.
York .............. 423 Watts .••.............. Los Ange~P,S.
Yosemite ........... 99 Merced ....•..•........ Merced.
Yount ............. 12 Napa ..........•..•.... Napa.

$58

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

LOCATION OF LODGES
Alphabetically Arran~ed

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Adin ........................... Adin ........................... 250
Alhambra ...................... Alhambra ...................... 322
Alhambra ...................... Granada ....................... 608
Alameda ........................ Oak Grove ..................... 215
''
....................... ,Apollo .......................... 396
''
........................ Woodstock ..................... 491
Alleghany ..................... ,Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Alturas ......................... Alturas ......................... 248
Anaheim ....................... Anaheim ....................... 207
Anderson ....................... Mount Shasta ................... 281
Angels Camp ................... Bear Mountain ................. 76
Antioch ........................ Antioch ........................ 175
Arroyo Grande .................. Arroyo ......................... 274
Auburn ......................... Eureka ......................... 16
Arbuckle ....................... Arbuckle ....................... 182
Arcadia ........................ Arcadi·a ....................... 547
Arcata .......................... Arcata ......................... 106
Artesia ......................... Artesia ......................... 377
Atascadero ..................... Atascadero ..................... 493
Avalon ......................... Catalina Island ................ 524
Azusa .......................... Azusa ......................... 305
Bakersfield . . . . . . . . . . .......... Bakersfield ..................... 224
''
.................... . Libertas ....................... . 466
''
..................... Caledonia. . ..................... 486
''
..................... Security ........................ 581
Beckwith ...................... ,Hope ........................... 234
Bell ........................... ,Bell ............................ 483
Bellflower ...................... Bellflower ...................... 523
Belvedere Gardens .............. 'rhe Gardens ................... 621
Benicia ........................ ,Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley ...................... ,Durant ......................... 268
''
..................... .. Berkeley ...................... ,363
''
....................... Thousand Oaks ................ . 478
''
....................... Charter Rock .................. 410
''
...................... . East Bay ...................... . 489
''
....................... Henry Morse Stephens . .......... 541
"
...................... ,Francis K. Shattuck ............. 571
''
...................... . Hillcrest ....................... 573
Berkeley ....................... Indian Rock ................... 638

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

359

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Beverly Hills ................... Beverly Hills ................... 528
Big Pine ....................... Waucoba ....................... 413
Biggs .......................... Emmanuel ...................... 318
Bishop ......................... Winnedumah ................... 287
Bloomfield ..................... Vitruvius ...................... 145
Blythe .......................... Blythe .......................... 473
Brawley ........................ Brawley ........................ 402
Brentwood ..................... Brentwood ..................... 345
Bridgeport ..................... Alta ............................ 333
Buena Park .................... Buena Park ................... ,357
Burbank ........................ Burbank ....................... 406
Burlingame ..................... Burlingame .................... 400
Calexico ....................... ,Calexico ........................ 412
Calistoga ...................... Calistoga ....................... 233
Cambria ........................ San Simeon ..................... 196
Campbell ....................... Charity ........................ 362
Campton ville ................... Gravel Range . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 59
Ca/l'pinteria .................... Carpinteria ..................... 444
Castroville ..................... Confidence ..................... 203
Cedarville ...................... Surprise Valley ................ 235
Centerville ..................... <\lameda ....................... , 167
Ceres ........................... Smyrna ........................ 532
Cherokee ....................... Table Mountain ................ 124
Chico .........................• (Jhico ........................... 111
Chino .......................... Chino Valley ................... 427
Chowchilla ..................... Chowchilla ..................... 485
Chula Vista ..................... Chula Vista .................... 626
Claremont ...................... Claremont ...................... 436
Cloverdale ....................• Curtis ......................... ,140
Clovis .......................... Clovis .......................... 417
Coachella ....................... Coachella ....................... 476
Coalingai ........................ Coalinga; ....................... 387
Colfax .......................... Illinoistown .................... 51
Corcoran ....................... Corcoran ....................... 490
Corona; ..... , ................... Temescal ....................... 314
Courtland ...................... Franklin ....................... 143
Covelo ......................... Covelo ......................... 231
Colusa ......................... Colusa .......................... 240
Colton ....... , .................. Ashlar ......................... 306
Covina ......................... Covina ......................... 334
Compton ....................... Anchor ........................ 273
Concord ........................ Mt. Diablo ..................... 448
Corning ..... , .................. Olivet .......................... 205

360
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Coronado ....................... Coronado ....................... 441
Crescent City .................. Crescent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Crockett ....................... Carquinez ...................... 337
Culver City ...................• Culver City .................... 467
Cupertino ...................•.. Cupertino ...................... 510
Daly City ...................... Crocker ........................ 454
Davis .......................... Athens ......................... 228
Delano .•.........•.•..•...•••. Delano ....••..........•...... 309
Dinuba ..•..•.........••••••. , Dinuba ..........•............. 385
Dixon .............•..•..•..•• Silveyville .................... 201
Downey ..•...•..............• Downey ....................... 220
Downieville •.................• Mountain Shade . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18
Dutch Flat ..................•• Clay ...............•........•. 101
Dunsmuir ...•. , ....•...••.••• ;Dunsmuir ................•.... 297
Eagle Rock ..................• Eagle Rock ................... 422
El Cajon ....................... El Cajon Valley ................ 576
East San Diego ................. East San Diego ................ 561
Elk Grove .................••. Elk Grove ...••................ 173
El Centro •...•.........•....•. El Centro ...................•. 384
El Dorado ...............•.... Hiram . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43
El Monte ......•...........•.• Lexington ..................... 104
El Segundo .................... El Segund.i .................... 507
Escondido ..... , . . . . . . . . . .... Consuelo •..................... 325
Elsinore .•............•.......• Elsinore .................•.... 289
Escalon ........................ Escalon ....................... 591
Esparto ..•. , • . . . . . . . . . . . ..•.• Landmark .....•.............. 253
Etna Mills ..•..............•..• Evening Star .................. 186
Eureka . , •.... , ......... , ...... Humboldt ....................• 79
''
........................ . Semper Virens ........... , ..... 552
Exeter ........•..••..•.....•.• Exeter •...................... 424
Fairfax .... , .........•.....•..• Fairfax ....................... 556
Fallbrook , ••.•........•....... Fallbrook ..................... 317
Fall River Mills ...... , ..........Fort Crook .................... 575
Fellows .................•..... Temblor •.•.................... 477
Ferndale .. , ................••.Ferndale ................•.•... 193
Fillmore .....................• Fillmore ..............•......• 379
Florence ........................Florenee ...................... 649
Forbestown ...... , ........•.•• Forbestown ....... , .... , .....• 50
Folsom ..•.•..................• Natoma ..••................... 64
Fort Bidwell .........•.......• North East .... , .............. 266
Fort Bragg •••...............•• Fort Bragg ................•.. 361
Fort Jones ••...•...........••• North Star ...............••..• 91
Fortuna .......•..........••.•• EelRiver ...................... 147
Fresno ••...................... Fresno •....... , .........•.... 247

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

361

Lodgo.

No.

Fresno ..................••..• ,Las Palmas ...............•.•. 366
''
.......................... Center .............. "' ........... . 465
''
...................... ....• Sun Garden ..................... . 530
Fullerton •••••............•••• Fullerton ...••.•...••..•.....•• 339
''
~ ...................... Azure .......................... . J33
Galt ••..•..•....•.........•..• Galt •...•...•..•.....•...••... 267
Garden Grove .................. Garden Grove ................. 586
Gardena ••.•.••••••••.•.•••••• Gardena .....•..••........... , . 3 72
Georgetown ...•.•............. Georgetown ..••.•..........•.• 25
Gilroy ...•...•.....•........•. Keith •...••.............•.••. 187
Glendale ...........••........• Unity .•...•.........•......•. 368
''
........................... .. Glendale ...................... . 544
Glendora ..•................•.. Glendora ..••............. , , •.. 404
Grafton ..•....•........•••.••• Grafton .....••........... , .••• 141
Grass Valley •................. Madison ...•.•............•••. 23
Greenville ... , ........•.....•. Sincerity .... , , ..••............ 132
Gridley ......••........•....•• North Butte .•.. , .•...... , •... 230
Guadalupe ....••...•.......••.• Guadalupe .....• , .............. 237
Guerneville ..................•. Mount Jackson ...............• 295
Hammonton ................... Hammonton .•...............•• 433
Hanford ...........••......•.• Hanford .................•..•. 279
Hawthorne .................... , Hawthorne .................... 647
Haywards ....•....... , ........ Eucalyptus ............ , ....... 243
Healdsburg ..........••......• Sotoyome ............... , ..... 123
Hemet ........................ , Hemet .. ·....................... 615
Hermosa Beach ................. Hermosa ....................... 557
Hilo, T. II. ....................• Kilauea .........•....•........ 330
Hornitos ......•............••• Hornitos ..••.................• 98
Ho1lister ....................•. San Benito ..•..........•...... 211
Hollywood .................... Hollywood .............•...... 355
Holtville ...................... Holtville .•... , ............... 425
Honolulu, T. H ................. ,Hawaiian ...... , , . , ............ 21
................ le Progres de l 'Oceanie ......... 371
"
...............• Honolulu ..•.•...... , .......... 409
"
· · · · · · · · · .... · · · Pearl Harbor ................. 598
"
Huntington Beach ..•.......... Huntington Beach ............. 380
Huntington Park ....•......... Rising Light ..............••.. 397
Igo ........................... Clinton ......................• 119
Imperial ...................... Imperial .................•••.. 390
Independence , ................. Inyo ..•..•.................•.. 221
Inglewood .......•.... , ......• Inglewood .................... 421
Inglewood ...................... Fairview .... , ...............•. 629
Ione ........................•. Ione .........•.............••• 80
Jackson ......................• Amador . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65

362

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Kahului, T. H .•................ Maui ......................... 472
Kerman: ....•................• Kerman ...................... .420
Kingsburg •................... Traver ........................ 294
King City .....•................ Santa Lucia ..•................ 302
Knights Ferry .................. Summit ..•.................... 112
Lakeport ......•................ Hartley ...................... 199
La Jolla ........................ La Jolla ....................... 318
La Mesa •.•.•................• La Mesa ...................... 407
Lancaster ..................... Lancaster ..................... 437
Lankershim ..................... Lanker shim ................... 542
Lassen ....•................... Jan es ville ..................... 232
Lemoore ...................••. Welcome ...................... 255
Li hue .......................... Kauai ........................ 589
Lincoln ....................... Gold Hill . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
Linden ....................•..• Valley ........................ 135
Lindsay ...................... Lindsay ...•.................. 416
Livermore ...........•......... Mosaic ........................ 218
Lodi .......................... Lodi .•........................ 256
Lomita ......................... Lo mi ta ........................... .
Lompoc ...•.•...........•..... Lompoc ..••.•................. 262
Long Beach ................... Long Beach ................... 327
''
................... Palos Verdes ................. 389
''
................... Seaside ....................... 504
''
.................. .Queen Bea~h ................... 540
''
.................. .Signal ........................ 543
''
.................. .Searchlight .................... . 567
''
.................. . All States .................... . 593
''
.................. . '.5ervice ........................ 594
''
................... . Neptune ....................... . 619
Los Angeles ..................• Los Angeles . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
''
..................• Wilmington ................... 198
Pentalpha .................... 202
''
................... Sou them California ........... 278
''
................... East Gate ..................... 290
''
................... Hollenbeck .................... 319
"
.................. South Gate .................... 320
''
................... Vallee de France .............. 329
''
................... West Gate .................... . 335
''
................... Palestine ...................... 351
''
................... Sunset ........................ 352
''
................... Golden State .................. . 358
''
................... Mizpah ...................... . 378
''

•••••••••••••••••••

1

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE_ OF CALIFORNIA

363

Lodge.

No,

Los Angeles ........•.......... Highland Park ................. 382
................... West Lake .........•.......... 392
"
................... University ........•........... 394
"
................... Moneta .•..................... 405
"
..................• Arlington ..................... 414
................... Silver Trowel .............•... 415
"
................... Elysian ..............•........ 418
"
................... Eagle Rock ................... .422
"
................... Acacia ....................... 438
................... Wilshire ...................... 443
"
..................• Van Nuys .................... .450
"
................... Henry S. Orme ...............• 458
"
................... America ...................... 475
"
................... Clarence F. Smith .............. 482
..................• Albert Pike ................... 484
................... Garvanza ..................... 492
"
..................• Mt. Olive ..................... 506
"
................... Benj. Franklin ............•... 509
......••...•....•.. Cahuenga ..•.................. 513
"
..........•••.•.... Vermont Square .......••...•... 515
"
......•...••....... Euclid •...•.....•.............. 519
"
............•......
Ionic .•.....•.................. 520
"
................... Sunrise ........................ 522
................... Covenant ...................... 527
"
.............•..... Loyalty ....................... 529
"
................... Alexander Hamilton ............ 535
"
................... Utopia ......................... 537
"
................... Ascot •........................ 538
................... Belvedere ...................... 539
................... Craftsmen ..•.................. 559
"
................... South Park .................... 563
"
................... West Adams .................• 565
"
................... James A. Garfield .............. 566
"
................... .James Madison ................. 572
"
...........••.•..•• Sunnyside ..................... 577
"
•....•.••..•••.••••Progressive ..................•. 578
"
.........•......•.• Harding ....................... 584
"
................... Manchester .................... 585
"
................... Valley Forge .................. 58 7
"
................... El Sereno ..................... 588
"
................... Alexander Graham Bell ......... 595
"
.................•• Truth ..........•.............. 597
"
.................... Melrose ........................ 602
"

"
"

"

364
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

365

Lodge.

No.

No.

Los Angeles .................... Glass ell Park .................. 605
''
.................. .. Larchmont .................... . 614
''
.................. . Southland ...................... 618
................... Atwater ........................ 622
................... Menorah ....................... 623
''
................... Angeles Mesa .................. 625
................... Benevolence ................... 631
''
................... J"ohn Marshall ................. 636
''
................... Composite ..................... 639
''
.................. ..Tames A. Foshay ............... 641
''
................... Metropolitan .................. 646
''
.................. ,La Brea ...................... U.D.
''
................... Beacon of the West . ........... 628
Los Banos ..........•..•...... Los Banos ..................... 312
Los Gatos ..................... Los Gatos ..................... 292
Lower Lake ..•..•.••..••.•.•••• Clear Lake •.•................. 183
Loyalton ...............•.••••. Loyalton ...................... ::159
Lynwood ....................... Lynwood ....................... 600
Manteca ...................... Tyrian ........................ 439
Maricopa ...................... Maricopa ..................... 434
Marysville .................... Corinthian . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 9
Maxwell ...................... Maxwell ...................... 288
Madera ...................•... Madera ..•••.................. 280
Mariposa ...........•........• Mariposa . . • . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
Martinez ...........•.....••... Martinez . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 41
McCloud ........•............. Mc Cloud ...................... 430
Merced •...................... Yosemite ...................... 99
Mendocino ..........•...•..••. Mendocino .................... 179
Middletown ................... Callayomi ..................... 282
Milton ........................ Keystone ..................... 161
Mill Valley ••..............•.. Mill Valley .................... 35fl
Millville ...................... Northern Light ................ 190
Modesto .................•.... Stanislaus •...•................ 206
Monrovia ...............•..... Monrovia ..................... 308
''
..................... .Sojourner ...................... 607
Montebello ......•..••.......•. Montebello .................... 451
Monterey .............•...•... Monterey ....•................ 217
Monterey Park ................. Ramona ....................... 4fi7
Morgan Hill .................. Morgan Hill ................... 463
Mount Shasta .................. Sisson ........................ 310
Mountain View .............•.. Mountain View ................ 194
Murphy's ..................... Ophir . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 33
National City ................. South West ................... 283

Post Office.

Napa ......................... Yount ........................ 12
Newman .....................• Hill's Ferry ................... 236
Needles ..........•............ Needles ....................... 326
Nevada City· .................. Nevada ....................... 13
North Sacramento ...............Warren G: Harding ............. 579
Norwalk ...................... Norwalk .............•........ 315
Oakland ...................... Live Oak ...........•......... 61
''
...................... Oakland ..................... . 188
''
...................... Brool{_lyn ...................... 225
''
...................... Sequoia ....................... 349
''
...................... Alcatraz ...................... 244
''
...................... Fruit,rale ..................... 336
''
...................... Bay View .................... . 401
''
...................... Yerba Buena ................. . 403
''
...................... Standard ..................... 440
''
...................... Rockridge .................... 468
''
...................... Fellowship ................... . 480
''
...................... Acorn ....................... . 494
...................... Fremont ...................... 497
....................••• Lakeshore ...................•.. 551
"
....................... Plymouth ..................... 560
"
....................... Foothill ....................... 564
''
...................... . Park BouJevard ............... . 568
''
...................... . Chateau Thierry .............. . 569
''
....................... Dimond ........................ 603
•'
....................... }Jlmhurst ...................... 610
''
...................... . Fortitu<lc ..................... . 624
Oakdale ....................•• Oakdale ...................... 275
Oceanpark ..................... Ocean Park ................... 369
Oceanside ..................... Oceanside ..................... 381
Ontario ....................... Ontario ....................... 301
Orange ....................... Orange Grove ................. 293
Orland ........................ Orland ..•..................... 265
Orosi ......................... Orosi ......................... 383
Oroville ....................... Oroville ...................... 103
Owensmouth .................... Owensmouth ................... 611
Oxnard ....................... Oxnard ....................... 341
Pacific Grove ................. Pacific Grove .................. 331
Palms .....................••. Palms ........................ 512
Palo Alto ..................... Palo Alto ..................... 346
Pasadena ..................... Pasadena ..................... 272
..................... Corona ........................ 324
.......•............• San Pasqual ................... 452

"

"

"
"

366
Post Office.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

No.

Pasadena .........•.•........•• Carmelita ..................... 599
''
............. ~ ......... Lamanda Park ................ ~627
Paso Robles ................... Paso Robles .••...............• 286
Patterson ....•......•........• Patterson ....•............... .488
Penryn ••.............. , ...... Penrhyn ....••................. 258
Perris •...........•..........• Perris ....•...............•... 411
Petaluma ..•....••.•.•......... Petaluma ..................... 180
Piedmont ...................... Piedmont ..................•... 521
Pine Knot ....................• ,Big Bear , ..................... ,617
Pinole ..............••........ Pinole ........................ 353
Pittsburg ..•.................• Pittsburg ..................... 429
Placerville : ..............•..•• ·Palmyra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • • 26
Pleasanton •.................•• Alisal •.•.•...............•..•. 321
Plymouth ......••.......... , .. Drytown .............••.•..... 174
Point Arena .•...•.•.......... Claiborne ....................• 185
Pomona ••••••.... , , ........... Pomona .•......•.............• 246
''
........................ Compass ....................... 590
Porterville • , •...............•. Porterville ...................• 303
Portola ...•.••................ Grizzly ......................... 601
Puente ....•••................. La Puente ..................... 446
Quincy •...•........•........• Plumas • • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . 60
Ramona .••....................• Santa Maria ................... 580
Redondo ........•.••.........• Redondo •...................•. 328
Redding .•.•.•...............• Reading .•.................... 254
Redlands .•.•..........•.....• Redlands ....................•• 300
Reedley ....••..........•.....• Reedley ..•.•....... : ........•• 304
Redwood City ...........••.... Redwood City ...............•• 168
Red Bluff .•....•............•• Vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 84
Rialto .......................•..Rial to .......................• 582
Richmond ..•................•. Alpha ..•..................... 431
''
........................ McKinley ......•...•...•...••• 347
''
...................... Harbor ........................... 509
''
.......................... Point ............................ 503
Rio Vista •.............•...•.. Rio Vista· .............•....... 208
Riverbank ...........•••....•. Riverbank ............•.......• 459
Riverdale .......•.....•....••• Riverdale .............••.....• 496
Riverside ......•........•...•• Evergreen •...•..••••........•• 259
Riverside .•..................••. Riverside ..•...............••• 635
Roseville ••.......••.•.•...... Roseville •.•................... 222
Sacramento .•.....•..••.....•• Tehama . • • . . . . . . . . . . • • • . . . . . • • 3
''
...................... Washington ........................ 20
''
.......................... Sacramento ......................... 40
"'
........................ Union .......................... 58

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

367

Lodge.

No.

Sacramento •.................•. Concord .. , .......... , .•..... , .117
''
..............•...... CapitalCity ..........•........ 499
''
..................... Provident . ,,. ........ .- ............ 609
''
..................... Three Pillars ................... 613
''
..................... Normal Heights ................. 632
Saint Helena ............•..... Saint Helena •............•.... 93
Salinas ......................... Salinas ... , ................... 204
San Andreas .................• Calaveras . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 78
San Bernardino ......•........• Phoenix , .•.............•...•• 178
''
........••...... San Bernardino , .......•..... , 348
''
................ Damascus ....... : ...•....•...... 648
San Diego ..........•.........• San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 35
''
......... ~ ............ Silver Gate ......... ~ .......... 296
''
· · · . · · · · · · · · ......... Blackmer •.................••. 442
''
· · · · · · · · ... · .........• S. W. Hackett ........•.......•. 574
''
..................... Peninsula
620
San Dimas ..................... San Dimas ·::::::-.-.·.·.·.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.':428
San Fernando ...................San Fernando ........... , ..... 343
San Francisco ................. California ..... , . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1
..........•....•. Parfaite Union ................ 17
"
...............•• Occidental •................•.• 22
"
.......•........• Golden Gate .... , . • . . . . . . . . . • • • 30
"
......••.......•. Mount Moriah . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 44
"
......••......... Fidelity ...•.......... , . , . , .. , .120
"
................. Hermann •••.................. 127
"
"
..............••. Pacific ..................•....• 136
..........••.•..• Crockett •.................•.•• 139
"
........••....... Oriental •....... , .............• 144
"
"
..............••. Excelsior ...................•. 166
..........•...••• Mission .•.................•••• 169
"
..............•.. South San Francisco ...•••..••• 212
"
.......•.•....... Doric .•....••.......... , ...... 216
"
"
.........•....••. Speranza Italiana ........••... 219
"
.. · .•.....••.••.. King Solomon's .......... , ..•. 260
..............••. Starr King ..................•• 344
"
......••.•......• Presidio ...•.... , , .. , •...•. , •• 354
"
.....•.••......•• San Francisco ......•.......... 360
"
.. • ............•• Amity .....•••..............•• 370
"
......•....•.•••• Jewel ........••.•.....•....•• 374
"
.......••.•.••... Richmond ................ , ••.• 375
"
"
............•.•.• Parnassus ••.....•..•.. , •.•...• 388
••.•.•••.....•••• Balder .........•••....••...•.. 393
"
....•..•...•..••. Fairmont •......•...........•• 435

"

368

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

Po~t

Lodge.

Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
No.

'San Francisco ................• Park ...... · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · 449
•..............•• Bethlehem .........•......... · 453
................• Golden West ......... · ... · · · · ·::~
Argonaut ........... · · · · · · · · · ·
................. Paul Revere .............. · .... 462
................. Alta Vista ................... .464
................. Lincoln ................ · · · · · · .470
. .. ..............
74
Victory ............. · ·. · · · · · · .4
................. Mt. Davidson ................. 481

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

... ··············

................. Lebanon ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 495
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Roosevelt ......... ·. · · · · · · · · · · 500
14
Argonne .......... ···. · · · · · · · · · .5
................·:Mount Vernon ................. 517
. . . . . . . . . . . .. . .
George Washington ........••.. 525
.
526
. •. . . . . . . . . .. . . . .
................. Bay City ...... ··· ··· · · · · · · · · · · ·
531
. . . . . . . . . . . ... . .. Alexandria ..................... 534
i<'orest Hill .................... .
Seal Rock .............. · · .. · · · 536
. . . . . . . . . . . ... .
545
0

••••••••••••••

••

••

:::::::::::::::::~~:~~~a~.:::::::::::::::::::::

:549
Seaport .............. · · . · · · · · · 550
................• Golden City .......... · · .. ·. · · .553
................. Educator .......... · · · · · · · · · · · .554
.. .. .......... ...
562
................. Pyramid ... · · . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
................. Military Service .......... ·. · .. 5 70
...................... 640
630
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Ingleside
.
................. Ventas ............. · · · · · · · · · ·
"
San Gabriel. ................... San Gabriel . ·. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 546
'Sanger ......................... Sanger ....................... . 316
San Jacinto ................... San .Jacinto ..... ·. ·. · · · · · · · · · .338
10
Aan Jose ....................... San J ose ...................... 210
, , ....................... Friendship .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
"
....................... Fraternity . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 399
'' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Golden Rule •................. 47
5089
San Joaquin ...... ············· .Joppa
San Juan .....•............... Texas

························
46
........................ 113

San Leandro .. · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · ·Eden · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
San Luis Obispo ............... King David's · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 209
San Mateo .................... San M ~ t eo .................... 226
285
.
1 .•. · · · · · · · • · · · · · • · · • San Miguel ......... · · · · · · · · · · 332
San M igue
S
P e d ro ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · San Pedro .... ·················· 5-g
·~an
,,
...................... Point Firmin .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ;i
"
A . E . F. Irwin ................. 64 5

.. . .. .. ... ..........

Post Office.

Lodge.

369

No.
San Rafael ................... Marin ..............••.....•.. 191
Santa Ana ..................•. Santa Ana ..............•••... 241
"'
.................... Silver Cord ................... 505
''
.................... J11bilee ......................... 604
Santa Barbara ................ Santa Barbara ................ 192
''
................ Magr1olia ..................... 242
''
................ l~a, Cu1u bro .................... 642
Santa Clara ................... I~iberty ....................... 299
Santa Cruz .................... Santa Cruz .................... 38
Santa Maria .......•.......... Hesperian ..................... 264
Santa Monica ................. Santa Monica ................. 307
''
................... . l>a]isades ...................... 637
Santa Paula .................. Santa Paula .................. 291
Santa Rosa ................... Santa Hosa .................... 57
Sawtelle ...................... Veteran ...................... 373
Seal Beach ..................... Sual Beach ..................... 616
Schofield Barracks ............. Se hofield ...................... 443
Sebastopol .................... La Fayette .................... 126
Selma .......................• Selma ......................... 277
Shasta ........................ Western Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2
Signal Hill. .................... Alta Loma ..................... 643
Sierra City .................... llarmony ..................... 164
Sierra Madre .................. Sierra Madre .................. 408
Sierra ville .................... Sierra Valley ................. 184
Smartsville .................... Hose's Bar . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 89
South Gate ..................... Gnar<lian ...................... 59(i
South Pasadena ............... South Pasadena . . . . . . . . . . ..... 367
South San Francisco .......... Francis Drake ................. 376
Sonoma ....................... 'l'emple . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 14
Sonora ........................ Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8
Stockton ...................... San Joaquin .................• 19
''
...................... Morni11g Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 68
''
...................... Delta ........................ . 471
....................... Stockton ..................... 498
Stony Ford .................... Snow Mountain ............••.. 271
Sunnyvale .................... Sunnyvale .................... 511
Susanville ........•............ Lassen ....................... 149
Sutter Creek .................. Henry Clay ................. , . 95
Suisun .•...................... Suisun . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Taft .......................... Midway ...................... 426
'' .......................... Taft ........................... 516
Tehama ....................... Molino ........................ 150
Tehachapi ...............•..... Tehachapi ..................... 313

370
Post Office

PROCEEDINGS 01<' THE

Lodge

!'!o.

\Vorkman ....................... 612
Temple .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •1·orrance .......•..... · · · · • • • · 447
Torrance . · · · · · • · · · · · · · · • · • • • • ·• Mt. Oso ..................•..• .460
Tracy . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . Truckee ...................... 200
Truckee . · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · ·
592
Tujunga ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Tujunga · · · · · '· · · · · · · · · '·' .... •Olive Branch . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 269
Tulare ... · · · · · · · · · · · · • • · ···'···East Belt ..................... 391
Tuolumne · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · ·
395
• Turlock ......... · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Turlock . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ' · · · · · · Abell ........................• 146
Ukiah .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ''' '' •
. 419
l:plaud ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Upland .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·····'·Naval ........................ 87
Vallejo . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·······Solano ........................ 229
''
. . . . . . . . . . ••. . •
.
487
,,
......................• ValleJO ..... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Vacaville ........... ·· · · · ·. · · .134
Vacaville . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • •
450
Van Nuys ....... · · · · · · · · · · · • ·
Van Nuys . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · • • •
548
.
. . Triangle ........ · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Vemce. · · · · · · · · · · · · '· · · · ·. ·. · ,San Buenaventura · · · · · · · · · · · · .2l4
Ventura · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·' · · · Poinsettia ............... , , .... 633
''
· · · · ' ' · · · · · ' · .......... Victorville .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 634
Victorville .. · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · ' · · · ·
.
128
Visalia ............. · · · · · · · · · · ·
Visalia
· · · "· · · · · ·······Volcano . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Volcano
· · · · · · · · · ···•···Alamo ..................... , .. 122
Walnut Creek · · · · · · · · · · ······•Wasco ........................ 583
Wasco .. · · ... .. ....... ... .....
110
.
PaJ· aro ...... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
W atsonv111e . · · · · · • · · • • • • • • • • • '
423
York ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
\Vatts ... · · · · · · · · · · · · "· • · • .. •
27
Weaverville ... · · · · · · · · • • · • • · • · Tri~ity ; · · · · · ' · · · · · · · · · · · · . · · . 555
\Vh1te Pine . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Weed ........ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Westwood .................... 501
Westwood . · · ·
129
\Vheatland .............. • •• • •• Nicolaus
................... 323
. .
•\Vhittier ........... · · · · · · · · · · ·
\Vh1 ttier ... · · · · · · · · · · · · · • • • · •
195
\Vinters .................. " ••• Buckeye ...................... 365
• • \Villits ......... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
. .
Willits .... · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · • Laurel ........................ 245
Willows .. · .. · · · · .. · · · · · · "· ·"
.
181
\Vindsor ............•......••• Russian River ................. 261
, • .ams ................... ,. ••• Tuscan
. ~ .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·" · ·
\\ 1111
.. .
..• Wilmington ........... · · · · · · · .198
W ilrrnngton .. · · · · · · • · · · · · • ·
.
131
·
, Woodbridge ........ · · · · · · · · · · ·
Vv oodbr1dge · · · · · · · · · • · · • • • ·' · Woodland ..................... 156
Woodland .... • · · · · · · ·· ·· · · · · ·•
81
Yolo ....... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
010
469
y
· · · • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • ' • • •• Yorba Linda · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Yorba Linda . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · •
37
Howard .... · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Yreka .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · • • · • ·•
70
Enterprise . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
Yuba City . · · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · · ·

REPORT
of the

Committee on Correspondence
October, 1926
By JESSE M. WHITED

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
Herewith my Sheth Report as Chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence. The expressions of opinion under the various subjects as heretofore, are those only of the Chairman.
The Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges show that the
fraternity generally is pursuing "the even tenor of its way," some of
them endeavoring to put into practical operation the great idea of
service in fields of endeavor most useful to their respective communities.
The outstanding question in a large number of jurisdictions
appears to be "What should our Institution do in the affairs of the
world either through the individual or collectively."
As Brother Raymond Daniel of Georgia has said: "It is an
axiom of Holy Writ that no man liveth to himself and no man dieth
to himself. This imperishable statement is true of individuals and
equally true of every profession and business or calling."
He also says that the life of every Mason is divided into three
cycles-ONE, the Age of Awakening; TWO, the Period of Performance; THREE, the Millenium of Achievement."
It would appear that we are passing from the "Age of Awakening" into the "Period of Performance."

The Grand Master of Delaware perhaps best answers the question as to how a Mason individually can serve his community as
follows:
"First of all he can give his moral and financial and physical
support to those institutions in the community which make for its
welfare. He can lend the church a helping hand, whether he likes
the minister's sermons or not. The minister isn't the Church any

2

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

more than the Master of a Lodge is Masonry. He can get behind
the task of public education and work to see that the boys and girls
of the present generation have the best schooling in books and character building that money and brains can give them.
He can
encourage public playgrounds, libraries, night schools, hospitals,
De Molay Chapters, and Y. M. C. A., and Y. W. C. A. movements.
To him who has the spirit to serve, opportunities are not lacking."
The following from a talk made a few months ago by Dr. J.
Fort Newton, Masonic reader, speaker and scholar, rector of St.
Paul's Church, Philadelphia, outlines what one writer has termed
could be the corporate contribution of American Masonry to the
world's civilization:
"The future of Freemasonry depends on the knowledge that is
imparted to the young men of today, because they will assume our
duties in the future. I have no criticism to offer against the young
people. They are honest and candid in their actions. I believe in
them, and want them to have their own philosophy of life. In this
day and time they are subject to much adverse criticism, but they
are only doing on the front porch what their parents did on the back
porch. I would suggest that a committee of men, thoroughly familiar
with the history of Freemasonry, write a series of lectures to be
given every year for the benefit of young men who wish to know the
principles on which we conduct our association. It would be the
answer to a question that is universally unknown, and it would
enable the next generation to know more about Freemasonry and
use it to better ends. This method already has been adopted in the
state of Massachusetts, and eventually will become universal.
"There are three things which we must do, one of which I have
mentioned as providing for the education of young men in Freemasonry. Another important step is to do our part in healing
America of her racial rancour, which is the mother of war and yet
the undertone of jurisdiction in every American community today.
There is room for everything in this great free country except bitterness and hatred, and this great issue should not come between
us and. the prospects of the greatest civilization ever known.
"The last thing ·we can do is to heal America of her religious
rancour. We want peace and harmony, where religion is based
on religious principles that give religious satisfaction. It was William Penn who said, 'Men who fight about religion have no religion
to fight about,' and he was right. We must work together in this
fellowship of Freemasonry, considering all it has done and all it
can do."

3
The obligation we 0
t h
Bodies and Grand L d we o t e Secretaries of the several Grand
.
o ges of the United St
M asomc
Publications and other
.
.
ates, the Editors of
writers is hereby acknowledged.
The duty of the Chairman of Co
.
f mm1tt~e on Correspondence is
a pleasant one and the privile
the result of his labors . ge o presenting to the Grand Lodge
· .
is appreciated
I
.
opinions we have endeavored t
.
n expressing personal
o remember:

"~oys flying kites call in their white-winged bird

o~ cannot do that way when you are fl i
s,
Things that we think will
.
Y ng words.
sometimes
fall
back
d
d
B ut G od Himself can't k"ll h
.
ea
1 t em when their
said."

Yours sincerely and fraternally,
JESSE M. WHITED , Ch airman.
·

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited Chairman.
Perseo Rhigetti. '
Henry Mottet.
William B. Ogden.
Elias Ellison.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ADVERTISING
There does not seem to be a dissenting opinion from the proposition that advertising one's connection with Mas?nry: as a. m~~::
of securing favor, political, commercial or otherwise, is \:;~l~ho
Masonic ethics. Unfortunately there are some mem
no higher conception of our
than
h
s It appears m some cases
a
use it for sue pu;pose:
f
. • •
Drastic laws have been
have been their mcent1ve or Joining.
f
•
ed to
ut ea~h year some newly discovered subte: u~e is us
passded,
eva e nobt on ly the law but also the fundamental prmctple.

~!ve

or~anization

t~o ta!~~~~u!~

Alabama (1925):
.
.
G d Lodrre the use of the
Unless approved by resolution ot the .ran.
"'.' .
bl" fon
word Masonic in connection withhany orga~1:~~:1t~~· ~us~~:~~~ ~~e:1se'.
advertising device or other sc eme, co .
punishable as may be determined by Masonic law and usage.
Colorado (1925):
t b
Grand Master: I have had occasion to pass upon a. reques ..Y
th
of a so-called Masonic Directory, for

~~~ishers

t~e

inforr.n~tton r~lat.ne

kloctaotio~1sas~~i;1~~~:s b~:iet~isthJu~~:~~io~s e~~~~

toe
nahmes ahooml
f:r
to give t ese
s
"
distribution among their members.
d th t they
I have felt obliged to refuse such requests. on the groun
a
,
to a
ould be necessan'I Y u sed for advertising. purposes
.
. ~ and would
.
w
. ex ten t involve a commercialization ol ~,1asonry. . .
greater
or Iess
T d t0 learn that sanction for such publications
I have been gratl ie
the Grand l\Jasters of
has also been refused my some of my co 11eagnes,
'
other Masonic jurisdictions.
Florida (1925):
24 M · W ·
The Grand Master: Under the date of August 13,
I· •
d.
,
forwarded to me a newspaper advertisement, . ea e
Brother
.
M asons.." a nd disiilaving
very prommently
t'
"Attention
,
.
. h h Massey
wit t e cap ion,
. t sell a division of land exclusively
the Square and Compa.ss, proposmf p:rchase and other details of sale.
to Masons and presentmg terms o
.
The Lodges of Orlando promptly and properly announc;d m t.~e
th t the scheme was not authorized by the raterm Y
Orlando
any .business• venture to be
and
that papers
Masonry ad"d
I
no t allow. or tolerate
.
conducted under the guise of bemg sanctioned by Masonry.

!9 , h d

5

J commended the action of the Lodges in suppressing the scheme,
and suggested that inasmuch as they had taken the initiative, to insist
that there be no further advertising of business purporting to be
Masonic.

Indiana (1924):
Your attention is directed to the fact that the Grand Lodge does not
assume responsibility for any commercial organizations that may appeal
to Masons on the ground that they are owned and operated by Masons,
and that they only do business with Masons. Nor does it stand sponsor
for any papers or publications not specially authorized by it. The only
paper that has received its approval is the very excellent journal published by our Masonic Home.
Iowa (1926):
Sometimes Masons act more like sheep than like Masons.
And yet there is a touching side to the matter after all, one which
shows a Mason's faith in his institution. Tell him a thing is "Masonic,"
and he is for it right then and there without question or hesitation, so
great is his faith in his beloved institution.
Maine (1925):
The Committee on Jurisprudence emphatically disapproves of the
use of the adjective l\fasonic in connection with private publications,
and calls attention to the General Regulation which prohibits and forbids the use of such designation, or the use of any Masonic emblem, as
part of the business name or concern or to adopt such word for any
such newspaper or like publication as any part of the name thereof.
He (Grand Master, Texas) also warned the brethren against the
alleged "Roberts Texas Masonic Directory." This correspondent is
moved to say that in this leviathan of annual reports of more than
one thousand pages, the entire roster of the Texas membership is printed
in full, so why a directory when 132,774 names and addresses are
given. What a fruitful field for Klan propaganda, on the quiet! What
a bonanza for patent medicine advertisers! Or insurance sharks! Or
anything under the sun that wants to get "a toe-hold" for its wares or
its alleged message and mission. We may be sure that such a field is
being surreptitiously plowed and furrowed and assiduously tilled by all
these designing organizations and commercial enterprises.
Missouri (1925):
Any Freemason using the word "Masonic" or any other term, sign
or symbol of Freemasonry for commercial or other business enterprises,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

6
shall be deemed guilty of unmasonic conduct; provided, that this section
shall not apply to Masonic books, journals or periodicals, or a legitimate
trade i.n Masonic supplies ; and provided that any Freemason engaged in
the business of publishing any Masonic book, journal or periodical, who
permits the printing of any advertisement in any such publication using
the word "Masonic," or any other term, sign or symbol of Freemasonry
for commercial or other business enterprises, the use of which is prohibited by the Grand Lodge by-laws, shall be deemed guilty of unmasonic
conduct.
Montana (1924):
The following resolution was adopted :
Improper Use of Emblems. Resolved, that this Grand Lodge reprehends the practice indulged in by many Masons of using and wearing
Masonic Emblems and signs for the purpose of attracting attention to
wares or merchandise which they expose for sale. The use of the
Square and Compass for other than Masonic purposes is hereby prohibited.
Pennsylvania (1924):
The Grand Master : During the past year there have been received
in the Grand Master's office many complaints which show a tendency to
commercialize Freemasonry. The complaints cover life insurance, subscriptions principally for Masonic publications and books, mainly exercised against new initiates, and it is alleged that even threats are made
to stop advancement unless the subscription is forthcoming. It has come
to my attention recently that a general advertising company has circularized all the Lodges in this Jurisdiction for information as to officers,
addresses, and phone numbers. I cannot say too strongly that all these
matters are strictly unmasonic, and any specific case where assistance
has been given to these outside life insurance companies or book agencies
and publications enabling them to prey upon new initiates will be summarily dealt with, and the Secretaries of Lodges should be thoroughly
conversant, as also the members, that the furnishing of any information
concerning the Lodge to any publication or any company not authorized
by the Grand Lodge is prohibited.
Pennsylvania (1925):
The Grand Master : Recently I was obliged to call a halt on a
number of Lodges which had formed, in a given district, a Masonic
Bowling League. The use of the word "Masonic" or the name "Freemasonry," it has been repeatedly decided by my predecessors, is not
permitted for outside functions by any social club or association, and
I do not believe from my knowledge of the rivalry which generally pre-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

7

vails in such contests that th
. .
will be either maintained orepsp1nttodf brotherly love and good fellowship
.
romo e .
Washington (1924):
The Grand Master. Durin I
.
attention twice that so:ne s - ~I ~1e ye.ar it has been brought to my
~ ca e . busmesses were advertising "For
Masons Only" Whil th
.
·
e ere 1s nothmg that
b d
this practice, so far as I can learn et I d
can e. one legally to stop
on our membership
Let n1e ti' y f o condemn it as base proselyting
·
, 1ere ore urge e h f h
remember that Mason
· ·
'
ac o t e brothers to
channel for business a~~a~sce1sn a11nod stense 1~ business-connecting link or a
'
o rea 1ze that a " · M
,
..
or a brother advertising his M
.
pm- ason' solicitor,
inducements "to Masons onl " daso111c connecti?ns, or one holding out
..
y, oes not come w1thi th
I f
respectability or dependability ' an d shou Id be shunned
n by
e pa
o usMasonic
all eof
I, therefore, recommend that th
.
committee with instructions t
k e matter be referred to a proper
o ma e provisi
f
.
protect the brethren against such unscrupu1ousons,
so ar as possible, to
methods.
Wisconsin (1925):
'.'s we write we have before us a co
.
published
in an adjoining st a t e, wh'1ch contams
p~ of · a Maso111c
Magazine '
·
·
Just before last fall's electio
. h
m one issue, put forth
.
n, m01e t an forty p 'd d
·
can 1dates for all kinds f ff'
. .
ai a vert1sements of
d. . .
.
o o ices, mu111c1pal count
an iud1c1al, in which the · d'd ,
'
y, state, leg1slative
Cd
d
can ' ates membership i Lod
C
omman ery, consistory and Shrine
.
n
ge, hapter,
Masons for the office aspired t
A are given, to appeal for the votes of
o.
most shameless
t' · ·
masonry to secure politi ca I pre f ermcnt I Such d prost' itutlon of Freea ver isements furnish
£oo d for our enemies and those h b .I'
political organization to furth thw ? e ieve that Masonry is simply a
er e mtercsts of its
b
.
mcm ers. And what
s a we say of a Masonic M
t'h 11
·
agazme that would
bl' h
1seme11ts, or the Grand Lodge th t
Id
.
pu is such adverof Masonic ethics to go with ta wou permit such flagrant violations
G
ou protest or rcbuk
W
e.
e arc glad the
rand Master of Texas called a halt.
APPLICANTS
The flood of applicants due to th
.
stopped. We have always bee
f he w~r. period, appears to have
to secure too much informationn f o t e op1.mon that it is impossible
of accepting or rejecting is u ro~ a pehtio~er. While the burden
still there is a greater responsi~~?t t e ~omm1ttee of Investigation
mended a petitioner Th
I I y restmg upon those who
1 10
·
e appearan.ce of the peft"
t ose recommending him b f
.
ner, together with
h
' e ore an mformal Committee previous

recom~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

8

9

REPO"RT ON CORRESPONDENCE

d t th Lodge, and referred
o
e
.
to the time the application is presente
'tt
h s proven an effective
C
to the regular Investigating . omm~ . ee .~
method of keeping out "undesirable c1t1zens.
· 1 1 called to the drastic
The attention of the reader is part1cu a~ y
.

M~ster o~ P~:::y~vas~l~ta!~ t:~e~~m~~~~rsi~

action by the Grand
was pursued ge~erally it. wou: t 'tally affect the Institution that
comes to correcting practices t a v1
jurisdiction knows how to act.
Canada (1926):
h' k
little of the Order
The superficial student of Masonry wlhlo t m r: s~eals the institution
·tr t open the door to a come ,
d
.
that h e is w1 mg o
b
ho allows his persanal piques an
just as deadly a blow as .the mem. e~ w t One lets the worst material
prejudices to dethrone his better JU ~men . One is misled by a shallow
in and the other keeps the best matenal ~ut.
t the level of a combreadth of view that reduces thhe M~sonb1c Loeddgewi~h a narrowness that
.
and the ot er 1s o sess
1
.
1 for himself and for
mon meetmg Pace,
would retain the privileges of the frater~1ty on~ h h'
d who are
the few who have been intimately associated wit
I~\ an
sharers of his own distorted outlook on the problems of I e.
Nova Scotia (1925):

.
b th
.
· t normal conditions, many ro ers
Freemasonry is rapidly ret~;.m~~d o u " thinking they could obtain
who during the Gre~t. War JO f
d ptheir mistake and have either
something without g1vmg, dha;.e 't~~n or allowed themselves to be sustaken the honorable step an
tmt e
pended for non-payment of dues.

Pennsylvania (1924):
r nd Master for one of his
We do most particularly commend the G a
f
d Masonic
..
as not under the tongue o goo
d
The Grand Master not only
actions, where a petttwner w
ft' n was presente .
.
report when h ts pe 1 10
• k
f
the rolls and fees and dues
..
' name stnc en rom
ordered the petitwner s .
.
h Lod e expel the first recommender
returned, but succeeded m havmg t e
g
and censure the other in open Lodge.
Pennsylvania (1925):
d
nd Committees on Inquiry
.
h
· d hen recommen ers a
The time as arnve . V:.
h
of unworthy petitioners
must bear their respons1b1ltty for t e approva1
for initiation and membership.

Pennsylvania (1925):
No greater responsibility can be placed upon a member of the
Lodge, than a careful scrutiny of the fitness of those who knock at
our doors for admittance. The recommenders are both to know the
petitioner. This knowledge should be close, personal, intimate. They
should both know, beyond a question of doubt, that he is a man above
reproach; that he is one with whom they are, themselves, glad to associate, and to recommend to the association of their brethren, and whom
they can and do introduce, without hesitation or doubt, into their own
homes. Nor should the second recommender depend on the statements
of the first. His responsibility is as great, and his knowledge ~hould
be as complete and his acquaintance at least as long as that required of
the first. The Ahiman Rezon provides that one of the recommenders
shall have known the petitioner for at least a year, which would seem
to point to the inference that the personal knowledge of the other is of
minor importance.
The investigation of the Committee of Inquiry should be thorough,
searching, all-embracing. It is not enough that they know of nothing
that would seem to render the petitioner unworthy. Their knowledge
should be positive, not negative. They should satisfy themselves, beyond
the possibility of a doubt, that the statements cbntained in the petition
are true, and should vouch for what, if their duty has been well and
truly performed, they have definitely ascertained to be a fact, that the
petitioner is worthy of having the prayer of his petition granted.
Queensland (1925):
The regulations governing admission to membership in a Lodge are
very strict. Candidates must be known personally to those who propose
and those who second their applications, for a specified period of time.
The information obtained by the investigating committee must be submitted to the Grand Lodge Committee on "Permission to Ballot," together
with a definite recommendation accepting or rejecting a candidate.
Texas (1925):
The following 1s lifted in its entirety from the Grand Master's
Address:
Under this heading, can do no better than quote from our former
brother, George C. Connor, who in the Proceedings of 1891, page 791,
laid clown the following suggestive rules as a test of applicants for
admittance into the Fraternity:
I. The applicant should be a gentleman, as Americans interpret th;:it
word. He should be of refined manners and tastes, no matter what his

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

standing in the so-called social world. vVe have known hod-carriers to be
more refined than some Senators of the United States.
2. He should believe in the existence of a Supreme Being, Creator,
and Master of all.
3. He should believe in the Immortality of the Soul. An annihilationist cannot participate in our Mysteries, and would be an atom of
foreign matter in our Ceremonials.
4. He should be able to make himself known to the Craft by the
means of Recognition unknown to the profane. ·The details of that
ability should be entrusted to the individual Lodges.
5. He should be known to be a good citizen, a true friend, a kind
father, or son, or husband, or brother.
6. He should be a man who seeks the general good of his kind,
and is not a greedy or selfish person to the known detriment of others.
7. He should be a temperate man in eating, drinking and in speech;
orderly, forebearing, not contentious, nor inclined to speak evil of others.
Such men are worthy of admission within our portals; aye, such are
capable of "holding the My;tery of the Faith in a pure. conscience."

giving of a book will not insure its reading. "You can lead a horse
to water, but you can't make it drink" will apply as far as this
custom is concerned as it will in any attempts to educate or instruct
one by persuasion, direct or implied.

10

Utah (1925):
The Committee on Jurisprudence, in line with the decision of the
Grand Master, recommended the adoption of a by-law providing that
no member shall recommend a candidate for the degrees who has not
been known to him personally for at least one year. The proposed by-law
was adopted.
West Australia (1925):
With us, the brethren so "carefully refrain from recommending"
any applicant whose value to the Craft is doubtful, and so close is the
inquisition into the life, character and antecedents of each applicant
before he is proposed to any Lodge, that what is termed a "foul" ballot
is the exception, and rejections would scarcely amount to a percentage.
BIBLES
Whether the presentation of the Holy Bible to a newly raised
Brother produces any lasting effect, other than for the moment of
the ceremony, is a debatable question. Every well regulated household undoubtedly should possess a volume of the Great Light.
Whether it is perused there. or elsewhere will depend entirely upon
the individual. Without an incentive other than possession, the mere

11

Iowa (1926):
The Grand Master : We are wondering whether the custom of p.resenting Bibles on any occasion has resulted in getting the recipients to
read and study them. If it has, then the custom cannot help but prove
a wholesome one, good not only for the reader of The Great Light but
for every one with whom he comes in contact.
New York (1924):
It would appear that out of 884 Lodges reporting, no less than 563
are now presenting their newly made Master Masons with copies of
the Holy Bible. This is worthy of note.
Ohio (1925):
The Grand Master favors the obligation of each candidate upon
an individual Bible and the presentation of the Bible, suitably inscribed,
to the candidate. His views were apparently approved by the Committee
on Jurisprudence and adopted by the Grand Lodge. Such use and presentation of the Bible will be voluntary on the part of the Lodges, "an act
of love and not of law."
Philippine Islands (1926):
The Grand Master: One of the most impressive little ceremonies
that I have ever witnessed is that of presenting a Bible to a newly
obligated brother, on the occasion of his being raised to the sublime
degree of Master Mason.
This beautiful custom has been adopted by the Lodges of many of
our sister Grand Jurisdictions, the presentation being made in some cases
when the candidate is initiated, and in others when the candidate becomes
a Master Mason.
The Ritual as adopted by our Grand Lodge does not provide for this
ceremony, and there has been no action. of our Crand Lodge that could
be construed to be against such a presentation.
Wyoming (1925):
Therefore, Be It Resolved, That the Cram! Lodge A., F. & A. M.
of Wyoming, in Annual Communication at Sheridan, \Vyoming, recommend that the Lodges of vVyoming adopt the practice of presenting to

12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

each initiate such a Bible. And that the practice may be uniform, that
the Grand Secretary be authorized to arrange for the purchase of s~ch
Bibles to be supplied to subordinate Lodges at cost plus transportat10n.

BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS
· Reports of the various Committees on Correspondence, afford
an opportunity for us to see ourselves as others see us.
The following is taken from the Proceedings reviewed as comments on the Annual Communication for the year in question.
The 75th Annual Communication, Arthur J. Crites, Grand Master, October 14, 1924.
Alberta (1925):
The annual address of the Grand Master gives a comprehensive
report of the manifold duties discharged by him during the year.
The brethren of this jurisdiction seem to be unduly burdened
by those of other jurisdictions in the matter of conferring "Courtesy
Degrees."
w:. Bro. Jesse M. Whited presented his fifth repor.t on F~r­
eign Correspondence and his topical summary makes very mterestmg
reading.
Georgia (1925):
Not only was the year a Diamond Jubilee insofar as the observance of the three-quarters of a century milestone, but also on account
of the splendid achievements of the passing twelve months. One
reads with pride of the many educational and benevolent features
of the grand jurisdistion.
The topical review-more of an essay-is presented by Brother
Jesse M. Whited-his fifth. It is introduced with a condensed sy1~op­
sis, and followed by extracts from various Grand Lodge proceedmgs
with regard to many subjects. There are several paragraphs from
Georgia's proceedings.
There will always be differing opinions as to the the value of
"topical" reports.
Idaho (1925):
A special feature is made of the Grand Oration. It is carefully constructed, the theme being the qualifications for Masonry,
its teachings, ideals and practical application.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

13

This is contributed by Brother Jesse M. Whited, who closes
five years' service in this capacity. Attendance at Lodge meetings,
the Use and Misuse of the Ballot, Masonic Trials, Masonic Education and other matters, are editorially reviewed and summarized
in the preface. The report is of the "topical" order; that is, the subjects are taken about as enumerated in the preface, and then what is
said or done in the sister jurisdictions on a particular subject is collated under that head. Thus from the Idaho Proceedings of 1923
are taken Grand Master Scott's observations on Masonic Education, the Masonic Service Association, and other matters. Very
fine statistical tables are forthcoming, and there is a very complete
list of Masonic publications in the United States, amongst which
The Idaho Freemason appears. Another useful tabulation is that
of the various Grand Lodges, with their dates of meeting.

Louisiana (1926):
We only regret that further details of the report cannot be reproduced for the benefit of our brethren.
Brother Jesse M. Whited presents his fifth report on Foreign
Correspondence, which is in topical form. The review is extensive
and highly educational, covering one hundred and fourteen pages of
gripping interest.
Mexico (1925):
The report of Grand Master's report is an exceedingly able
and exhaustive report and touches on every angle of Masonic activity.
Can you wonder what the climate of California does to the
Masonic spirit and inspiration? Let's imitate the example even if
we can't enjoy the climate.
An excellent report was made by the Grand Lecturer * * *
Missouri (1925):
The proceedings of the Grand Lodge of California for 1924 have
been read with unusual interest on account of the fact that they
record the Diamond Jubilee of the Grand Lodge. The volume before us abounds with many outstanding items~ of importance.
The reports of the Boards of Relief are very noteworthy. Much
is being done by them, and California Masonry is to be congratulated
on its efforts in this direction.
The report of this committee is the fifth prepared by Brother
Jesse M. Whited, and is topical in form. There are many items of
general interest.

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nebraska (1925):
Chapter on "The Other Bodies" is a soft pedal denunciation of
their practices and desirability in some cases.
It is apparent from the Grand Master's report that the. year
was one of industry on his part. His duties were many, and his devotion to the cause was sincere and untiring.
Relief and Masonic home affairs are well supported and admintered.
The review on correspondence is written for the committee by
Brother Jesse M. Whited. He terms it "topical." Without speaki?g
as plainly as Sherman we would put an "r" in at least. As he mamtains it is for "home consumption" only, we let it alone.
New Hampshire (1925):
This was their Diamond Jubilee. Of course, that fact is naturally
the first thing encountered in the address.
The Grand Master declared that it had been a strenuous year,
and then proceeded to prove it.
Their Boards of Relief are wonderful affairs, doing great things
for those who need some help. That they have so much to do may be
the penalty for having such an attractive state in which to live.
The correspondence is a topical thing. As commonly understood, no particular reviews appear in the report. For its. kind th!s
California product is just about the best that may be devised. This
is largely due to the way things said or copied are arranged. After
its careful perusal we have reached the conclusion that its structure
is too complicated for the New Hampshire writer to undertake. If. a
paper of such style is ever wanted here, the other fellow will
build it.
One has to hunt to find the words "New Hampshire" in the
report, but they are there in pleasing degree.
We want to credit the California Correspondent with having
briefly, yet accurately, defined the rift between Kansas and New
Hampshire.
North Carolina (1926):
We are permitted to read from the Grand Master's hand a very
interesting address; and this comes with but little of preliminary
matter.
The chairman of the Committee on Correspondence is Bro.
Jesse M. Whited, who as usual gives a wonderfully complete topical
report. The like of it we never saw. At its end there are several very
interesting and quite valuable tabulations. We regret to see his name

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

15

displaced on the cover of the book by another; but we extend a
cordial welcome to Bro. John Louis Matthews, the new writer.
Oregon (1925):
\Ve share with our readers the pleasure of listening to the first
paragraph of the Grand Master's annual message.
The committee on educational service gave an interesting report.
The Grand Master's account of his visit at the Hawaiian Islands
and the lodges there, is full of interest.
Bro. Jesse M. Whited presented his fifth report on correspondence. It is a topical report. The topics are treated briefly and keenly
in a practical and interesting manner.
Texas (1925):
The Educational Committee maintained by the Grand Lodge,
appears to be doing a splendid work in the way of Masonic Education.
We fully agree with Brother Crites in what he says about the
large lodge.
This Grand Lodge maintains Boards of Relief and Employment
Bureaus, in all the larger cities, and these boards and bureaus are
doing a commendable work in the way of finding employment for
deserving applicants.
Bro. Jesse M. Whited gives us another of his interesting reports on Foreign Correspondence, 120 pages of well selected Masonic information. While we do not like the topical plan followed
by Brother Whited, we admit that his presentation of the various
subjects and propositions treated by him, evidences a close scrutiny
of the proceedings of the several Grand Lodges under review. His
review is well worth reading.
Virginia (1926):
We find another Foreign Correspondent Report of the topical
variety, but somewhat different in form this time. It is all quotation,
largely from the reports of Foreign Correspondents. All that Virginia got was of that sort and yet we do not like it at all. We
could compile twenty like it with less labor than we use on one
under what we think the only proper form.
We had contemplated a somewhat severe retort to their attitude
on the George Washington Memorial Association, but on thinking
it over have decided to omit it altogether. Kindliness is best even
toward the erring. However, the temptation was great. They had
only contributed $5,200 previously and added another $5,000. On

16

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

the ground that few of their members w~uld ever see it,. the stipulation was made by the committee that this w?~ld be their ?nal contribution, and yet they claimed that the ongmal suggest10n came
from California.
West Australia (1925):
The reports of the Trustees and Superintendents of the two
California Masonic Homes make delightful reading.
The Review of Foreign Correspondence is by Bro. Jesse M.
Whited who we are pleased to have again at the Round Table.
The re~iew is on the lines known as "topical," and every paragraph is worth while. He must value the West Australian Proceedings as he has quoted us on no less than nine times in the course of
the review.
An excellent oration was delivered by Bro. Ben R. \Valker,
Grand Orator.
Bro. Whited's report shows a great deal of care and work in
preparation; in fact, he always gets out one of the best in topical
form.
West Virginia (1925):
The report on correspondence by Brother Jesse M. "Whited is
indeed a fine one, and the result of great pain.s and ca~etaking, co~­
taining valuable information, the result of his _an.alys1s of the . different Grand Lodge Proceedings. Arranged as 1t 1s under headings
of subjects instead of proceedings of the different states, .and yet
reviewing the proceedings of different Grand Lodges pertment to
such headings. All Masons should appreciate the same in a bound
volume with permanent place in library.
Wyoming (1925):
The Report on Correspondence is by Brother Jesse M. Whited,
who presents his fifth report. The review is of the topical form and
contains many interesting subjects.
The 76th Annual Communication, David J. Reese, Grand Master,
October 13, 1925.
Alberta (1926):
The most outstanding feature of the year in California was the
work of the Education Committee, a special committee appointed
by the Grand Master.
The annual oration of Grand Orator Robert B. Gaylord is a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

17

most inspiring message to the Craft whether in California, Alberta
or elsewhere.
Kansas (1926):
The writer, having had the personal acquaintance of John
Whicher for a number of years, heartily endorses every word the
Grand Master says concerning this faithful servant.
The Grand Secretary's report, as· usual, is interesting from beginning to end.
Mexico (1926) :
The Report on Masonic Homes is a very interesting and complete document.
Lack of space prevents us from going into more details explaining the wonderful work being done by individual Brothers and the
various committees in this Jurisdiction.
Minnesota (1925):
Grand Master Reese delivered a remarkably interesting address.
Brother Robert B. Gaylord, the Grand Orator, delivered a very
forceful oration.
New York (1926):
Many other serious matters are touched upon by the Grand
Master which may well be pondered by those who have the welfare
of the Craft at heart.
The whole address shows that the Grand Master sought by
every means in his power to "safeguard and protect Masonry from
misunderstanding without-from indifference, apathy, prejudice and
intolerance within."
California has at last given trial to the commonly used plan of
reviewing individual jurisdictions rather than give a topical survey
of the whole :field. Bro. Jesse M. Whited, whose annual reports
were always read with interest, will again have charge of the Correspondence Report.
Oklahoma (1926):
With one exception we pronounce Brother Matthews' review
tip-top, and that exception is that he travelled from the Atlantic to
the Pacific and failed to see the Grand State of Oklahoma.

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Dakota (1926):
Public School Week was a great success. Several of the Di~­
trict Inspectors reported the largest public gatherings ever held m
their districts.
Then we come to the oration of the Grand Orator Robert
B. Gaylord and after reading it we do not wonder that at its close
that great Grand Lodge rose as one man with prolonged applause.
The eighteenth annual report of Grand Secretary \Vhicher is
full and complete.
California has a world wide reputation for its Masonic charities
and it must needs be so, since it is the mecca for so many eld~rly
Masons retiring to spend their declining years in that salubrious
climate.
Everything possible is done to make the Homes real homes to
their guests.
An interesting Correspondence report is presented by Brother
James Lewis Matthews. In closing our report on t_his. gr~nd and
glorious jurisdiction we realize we have not done 1t Justice. The.
half has not been told.
Tennessee (1926):
When one takes a glance at the picture of David John R~ese,
Grand Master, which appears as the frontispiece of the pro~eedmgs
of the Grand Lodge of California, and sizes up the firm set Jaw and
determined look, he is bound to expect something, and he gets it.
We have quoted his remarks in full, because here is a Grand
Master who has the effrontery, the gall, or whatever you are pleased
to call it to say exactly not only what California, but every other
jurisdicti~n, has been doing for several years-making members, but
not making Masons. Brother David John, we extend our hand to
you and say, "Congratulations, brother. You have told the truth,
even if you did not shame the devil." Let us hope that other Grand
Masters will have the backbone to "go and do likewise."

CHARITY
The growth of the Fraternity has necessarily required the administration of Charity upon a more businesslike basis. Accidental
publicity has created in the mind ?f the profane th_e .idea that. it
is our main function and has made 1t a beacon to guide those with
this belief to the door of the Lodge. Some come uninfluenced by
this natural desire to provide for the future, but too often it ii

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

19

otherwise. The belief seems to come from a preconceived notion
that we are primarily a beneficial organization.
British Columbia (1925):
Unfortunately a large section of the public, and too many of our
own ·members, are already of the opinion that the Craft is bound to
support its members during life and to pay their bills after they have
departed, and it is hoped that a leaflet will do something towards correcting this impression.
Canada (1925) :
Charity is primarily an obligation of the individual member and
of the Lodge to which the Brother belongs. It is, moreover, a duty
th~t can neither be evaded nor delegated.
Grand Lodge is ready and
will always be ready to assist where assistance is required. But no effort
of Grand Lodge, however great it inay be, can ever take the place of
the direct personal interest of the private Lodge, of the word of encouragement and sympathy from a Brother to a Brother, of the relief that
is given with a "covered hand," that appears upon no balance sheet
and that is received without any sense of humiliation. And a privat~
Lodge that seeks to pass on the benevolent fund of Grand Lodge an
undue portion of its responsibilities is not only acting unfairly to the
?ther Lodges, _but is. an enemy to its own best interests, for Masonry
m a Lodge which neither knows nor practices charity, like faith without
works, is a thing that is dead.
Montana (1925):
From observation and knowledge of individual cases it is clearly
shown that the Masonic Lodges are looked upon by some as an easy
place to get financial help, and even hospital assistance, and by encouragement along that line, the Masonic membership will before long be
a beneficial association, instead of a Masonic organization. Our membership should be taught what Masonry is, as well as what it is not.
Th~re are wa_ys of extending Charity and assistance other than by the
lavish showering of money. Let us practice more of what the forefathers
in Masonry considered Charity.
Nevada (1925):
The Grand Master: We have come to the conclusion from our
experience that Masonry's position on this question should be given
grea~er atte~tion. It ~s a re~rettable fact that in the mind of the general
pubhc there is a growmg belief that Freemasonry is a beneficial organiza-

I

I

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

tion, and not a few of our members of recent years are imbued wit~ a
similar belief. Our beloved Institution has always extended ~ helping
hand to the needy, and it will always continue to do so. It ~s fundamentally a part of the Fraternity. But we must not .let e1t?er o.ur
initiates, or the general public, get the idea that membership carne~ with
it sick and disability allowances. or a pension in old a~e. It is ~ur
duty to see, as well as to know, that our candidates get a right conc~phon
of what Masonry realty means; that its primary purposes are to enlighten
the mind, to awaken and arouse the noble and uplifting impul~es of t~e
heart, to build character, to promote brotherly love, and that its charity
is intended for those who, from unforeseen circumstances and through no
fault of their own, have met with misfortune.
North Carolina (1925):
The Grand Master : Permit me to say here that I am convinced
that some of our Lodges spend too much for entertainment and pleasure,
and too little for charity, thereby creating in the minds of .the profane
that a Masonic Lodge is simply a place of amusement. It .1s wrong~
grievous wrong-my brethren, that will work untold harm tf we per~1t
it to continue. One of the fundamental principles of our great F:atermty
is Charity, to help the needy and distressed. We shou'.d practice. what
we teach, for the greatest good we can do in this world 1s the service we
render to suffering humanity.
Oregon (1924):
Charity should not be linked to one organization. It . should be
universal. Whenever one Masonic body institutes and carnes on a~y
particular charitable work, all the Masonic bodies should co-operate '.n
that work. The Ancient Arabic Order of the. Nobles ?f the Mystic
Shrine has erected at Portland a hospital for crippled chtldren. When
this building was finished, the matter of furnishing it was under consideration. and your Grand Trustees furnished certain of the beds. for
the hospital, in the name of the Grand Lodge of. Oregon. It furn1~hes
a concrete example of the possibilities for the relief of human suffering.

Scotland (1924):
The Grand Secretary was instructed to advise the Masoni~ ~elief
Association that any Scottish Lodge, by granting a life membership. hck~t,
did not shed its responsibilities for a member and that he remained m
good standing in such Lodge, and that his Lodge and not the Lodge ~broa;:t
should relieve him if he required assistance. Small comfort m this
decision to a Scottish Freemason who is hard up say at Wyalcatchem.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

21

South Dakota (1925):

Six pages of decisions are reported-nothing of unusual interest.
Two of them related to two Masons who dimitted long ago and who
wished to be reinstated. One, who withdrew 36 years ago, lives in
another state, and the other, who has dodged responsibility in connection
with the Craft for 25 years, now wishes to be reinstated so he can be
taken care of by the Fraternity! Probably the Grand Master's decision
accords with South Dakota's law-that in each case applications might
be entertained by the Lodge ! Probably the ballot box will take care
of these enthusiastic Masons! The one who wished to regain standing
so that he might give the brethren the privilege of caring for him-what
a hyper-sensitive, unselfish character he must be: so thoroughly and
keenly alive to the real meaning of Masonry. But in another way, that
man in effect says: While it is true that I have spurned Masonry for
25 years, this organization may be good enough for me to permit it to
take care of me in my old age. Really will not reinstatement jeopardize
the morals of that applicant (if he ever had any) ? Surely in such a
case a Lodge should move carefully, otherwise lasting harm might be
done to this man's nervous system, and this is something to be avoided
at all hazards. We are quite overwhelmed by the unmistakable evidence
of that man's bump of unselfishness and the strong desire he manifests
to do-the other fellow, for alt that he can. Really, brethren of South
Dakota, the unrelieved contemplation of such high and lofty ideals is
too much for our own sensibilities. \Ve must cease-knock off-quitturn to other and less harrowing subjects.
Utah (1926):
We note with interest the Correspondent's (Quebec) quotation from
Connecticut's experience with a California Lodge, where the latter
expended a large sum and then expected to be reimbursed. We have in mind instances in which California Lodges and Boards of Relief have
expended goodly sums of money without authority and then have billed
lJtah Lodges. The price of a telegram is a small one to pay for the
prevention of friction over such cases. Sometimes unworthy or suspended
members have succeeded in gdting assistance.
Virginia (1926):
More than fifteen years ago our Grand Lodge adopted exactly what
is recommended in Georgia only to have it repealed the next year,
unfortunately. By this time it would have been the cause of the accumulation of a great sum and not one of the men who contributed to that
fund would have regretted having done so. First impressions are always

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

lasting and when they are good impressions are of great value. The
profane who knocks at our doors should learn that he is assuming
obligations to his fellow man, and especially to the unfortunate. He
should also be impressed with the fact that he is about to enter a great
Brotherhood in which he will De his brother's keeper. If this compulsory
contribution should drive any away Masonry will be the gainer.

Associations, Senior Deacons' Clubs, Fellowcraft Clubs, also High
Twelve, Low Twelve, Acacia, Level, Square and Compass, National
League of Masonic Clubs, International High Twelve Clubs and Blue
Lodge Councils.

22

Wisconsin (1925):
The Grand Lodge has decided to have a Wisconsin Masonic Foundation, and to that end a committee was appointed in 1924 to draft a
declaration of trust for such foundation. The committee made an extended report incorporating a resolution, which was adopted with the
report, providing "that a board of nine trustees be and hereby is created
for the purposes of encouraging charity, benevolence, education and
philanthropy, and of securing greater uniformity of purposes, powers
and duties of administration in the management and control of property
given, devised or bequeathed for charitable, benevolent, educational or
philanthropic purposes, and that such board of trustees or any corporation organized by them for the purposes herein provided may accept
gifts, devises and bequests of property for the uses and purposes, and
with the powers and duties, hereinafter set forth, which board of trustees
and successor corporation, if any, and the property so held shall con~titute and be known as the Wisconsin Masonic Foundation.

CLUBS
Clubs of various kinds having as a pre-requisite for joining membership in the Masonic Fraternity continue to multiply and thrive.
There must be a demand for them, otherwise they could not succeed.
It comes back to the original proposition that these clubs are trying
to fill a want that is not supplied by a subordinate Lodge.
If the Organizers and Members bear in mind the fact that they
are Masons first last and at all times, there should be little cause
for complaint. Generally they have been conducted satisfactorily,
and the exceptions are undoubtedly due more to misguided enthusiasm than a desire to violate the written or unwritten laws of
Masonry. In such cases the individual should be disciplined rather
than the entire organization.
Kansas (1925):
Masonic clubs are all the rage now, so if you cannot spring a new
side-order start a club. There are Past Masters' Associations, Wardens'

23

Louisiana (1925):
The Grand Master: We do not believe it wise for this Grand Lodge
to endorse or approve several Masonic Clubs, at once, without having
made any investigation of same. These organizations are doubtless doing
a good work, but this matter in each individual case rests with the
Grand Master, and the Grand Lodge expresses to these Social Clubs
our good will and hope that they will always remember the cardinal
virtues of this order: Fortitude, Prudence, Temperance and Justice.
As a legal proposition, no social club has the right to use the name
Masonic in connection with its title unless the same shall be authorized
by the Grand Lodge.
Massachusetts (1924):
It was observed that in their functioning these organizations in
varying measure revealed the virtues and the shortcomings that all
purely social groupings possess. Yet bearing the title Masonic they
became representative even in their inevitable shortcomings, of the Craft
in general. There was slowly growing in the public mind a confusion
as to who or what "~epresented Masonry; a confusion that was more
than liable to resolve itself into a conclusion that was false. The consistently public nature of their life may be considered an excuse for the
Past conditions warranted their
clubs being placed in this position.
being falsely regardtd as Masonry's representatives. In consideration
of these two things, one a fact, the other a possibility very nearly
approaching a reality, your present Grand Master reiterated the suggestion made by Most Worshipful Brother Prince and in a more or less
direct way brought the matter to the attention of the clubs. Their
response has been most gratifying. Some have already eliminated the
term Masonic from their titles. In other clubs the change is in process.
New Jersey (1925):
The Grand Master : The Masonic Club or organization of Masons
for social purposes is quite general throughout this Grand Jurisdiction.
The club furnishes a means of social intercourse and provision for
the exchange of hospitality which cannot well be accomplished by the
Lodge for the· reason that the Lodge meets at intervals only, while,
through the instrumentality of the club, it is possible to provide rooms
open at all hours where the brethren may meet socially.

24

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

On a trip across the continent in 1923, I found in the Ma~onic Cl~b
in San Francisco a most cordial hospitality and welcome which I will
tong remember and I believe that this condition exists wherever there
is a good Masonic Club.
So long as these clubs and their members bear in mind th~t t~ey
are Masons and maintain the high character which that word unphes,
they are good. The danger lies in a relaxation of tho~e standa;:-ds. While
there is some justification for criticism along these Imes, I find that, as
a general rule, and with few exceptions, these clubs are careful to
refrain from any activity which might bring censure on the Craft.

Pennsylvania (1924):
In passing it is but fair to state that those guiding the destiny of
these outside organizations manifested a true Masonic spirit and cooperated in a whole-hearted manner to bring about the desired end.
At present the chief offenders are to be found in many of . the
so-called Masonic clubs, a number of which have recently sprung mto
existence and most of which lack the funds necessary to give adequate
support, ~ith the result they are tempted to engage in practices to raise
funds that are either unlawful or unbecoming a body of Masons, or as
has been the case in some instances, both.

Utah (1925):
All Masoni~ Clubs, or similar organizations for social purposes in
this Jurisdiction, that shall require as a prerequisite to membership that
the members thereof shall be Masons, shall be subject to the regulatory
supervisions of the Grand Lodge, and all such organizations hereafter
formed shall submit to the Grand Master for his approval their Constitution and By-laws and a statement of the scope of their intended activities.
Such organizations shall not commence their proceedings or activities
without such approval from the Grand Master, and it shall be the duty
of the Grand Master, whenever it comes to his attention that such an
organization is in existence, to require such organization to comp!! with
the terms of this By-law. No such organization shall engage m any
activity which is in conflict with the established customs and practices
of the Craft.

Victoria (1925):
So long as these clubs and members bear in mind that they are
Masons and maintain the high character which that word implies, they
are good. The danger lies in a relaxation of these standards.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

25

West Australia (1925):
Grand Lodge (Virginia, 1924) amended its law relating to Masonic
Clubs by making it read: "It is a violation of Masonic law for a number
of Masons to form themselves into a club and meet for social purposes
and adopt the name Masonic Club. The organization of any club within
the membership of a Lodge is forbidden by this Grand Lodge." Well,
there are clubs and clubs--especially in the United ·States, where
thousands of organizations which, formed for purposes, social, political,
electioneering, and otherwise, instead of calling themselves committees
or societies, prefer the high-sounding title "club." Exactly what a
Masonic Club would be in America may not be obvious· but in Australia
including our own State, there are Masonic Clubs, formed for sociai
purposes, just the same as there are in some Masonic jurisdictions in the
United States (this writer was made an honorary member of two of
them), and up to the present it has not been felt that their establishment
was "a violation of l\fasonic law." But, of course, there is no Prohibition (Eighteenth Amendment) in Australia.

COORDINATE BODIES
The desire to legislate regarding membership in co-ordinate
Bodies appears to have died out. Some of the Grand Lodges that
passed laws requiring certain length of time to elapse before Master
Masons could petition some of the so-called "higher Bodies" have
acknowledged that this did not produce any material results as far
as attendance at Lodge was concerned, or increase the enthusiasm
of the average member.
Every man fits into a certain place in the Masonic Fraternity,
and if it is provided for him, his interest and activities will be continuous in the brymch that most appeals to him. Regulating the
individual by too many laws will have the same effect in Masonry
as in National and State affairs.
British Columbia (1925):
It is scarcely ~ecessary to remind our readers that in the past few
years new societies, or associations or orders based upon or claiming
connection with Masonry have been established in the republic to the
south of us with a prodigality rivalling France in the eighteenth century.
It is gratifying to note that many Grand Masters, as well as writers
of these Reports, apparently realize that it is time to call a halt, and
more or less practicable suggestions are offered to remedy this state of
things. Just how effective these remedies may be remains to be seen,
but we fear that none of them strikes at the root of the evil.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

26

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Canada (1925):
In addition to the well-known branches of the Scottish Rite Chapter,
Council Preceptory and Shrine, we find mention made of "The Mystic
Order ~f the Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm," more familiarly
known as The Grotto; "Tbe Tall Cedars of Lebanon";_ "The .Order
of the Pyramids"; "The Egyptian Mystics"; "The White Shrme of
Jerusalem"; "The Sciots"; "The Sons of Hiram"; "The Order of :he
Eastern Star"· "The Order of Builders" ; "The Order of the Rambow"; "The D~ughters of Job"; "The Order De Mola_y'', a~d th: ~nd
is not yet. Even the Ku Klux Klan through its organizers ts cla1mmg
Masonic affiliation.
Illinois ( 1925) :
The Grand Master : In one instance a Lodge planned to give a
banquet and dance in a well-known cafe, on Sunday night. In other
cases entertainment of a vulgar nature were proposed. One Lodge gave
an extremely undignified entertainment but was promptly disciplined
when knowledge of it reached this office. In the other cases the entertainments were canceled at my order.
Good wholesome entertainment in a Lodge at the proper time is
very desi~able. Masons must realize, however, tha: our fraternity is a
dignified and honorable institution, founded upon ideals of respect ~nd
reverence, and will not tolerate questionable entertainment or desecration
of the Sabbath Day.
Iowa (1926):
We wonder whether it is not better for the Grand Lodge to cndo_rse
certain regular and well-established Masonic organization: of other rit~s
than to let the matter run wild without any such restramt or recogmtion? Our experience in Iowa has been that it is.
Maine (1925):
There is an ever increasing organization of new societies that are ·
endeavoring to hitch their handslcds to the Masonic bobsled. The train
has become a long one and the driver of the bob may have to heed the
admonition and "whip behind."
attempt to do so, however, meets
with a howl of protest on the part of the friends of the youngsters ':ho
prefer to see them dragged up the hill, even at the expense of the vehicle
that is dragging the entire load. We hope they may not become so
numerous as to stall the team.

Manitoba (1924):
Resolved, That it shall be deemed an act of unmasonic conduct
for any member of any Lodge under the Grand Jurisdiction of Manitoba
A., F. & A. M. ·to use his membership in Freemasonry as a basis for
securing admission into or membership of any Body or Society hereafter
to be formed or established in this Grand Jurisdiction which requires
Freemasonry as a basis for such membership.
Manitoba (1925):
There are certain troubles which are common to many Grand Masters
and Grand Lodges; one of the most, if not the most, persistent of these,
being the fact that various organizations would like to make it appear
that they actually form a part of Freemasonry, are branches of it, or
are under its fostering care. Tbe Freemasons of the present day hope
to hand Masonry down to those who come after them as clean as it
was when they received it. In order to do this it is necessary to be conservative, e'ven at the risk of being accused by those who are not
members of the Craft, and even by some who are, of being too much so.
Dangers from without consist largely of the attempted grafting of such
growths which do not properly belong to the Masonic body, on to it,
and can be guarded against. Freemasonry has successfully withstood
attacks of many kinds from without for centuries, and can keep on
doing so.
Massachusetts (1924):
The Grand Master: These bodies have been aptly designated by an
unbiased analyst as "semi-Masonic" or "pseudo-Masonic." To the
existence of these organizations per se we have no objections. It is
possible that our temperament as a people has encouraged these Social
Constructions. They are here regardless of the presence or absence of
any necessity as a basis for their existence. What concerns me is not
that they are, but rather the measure of value which the Masons who
are members thereof place upon them.
It becomes a matter of concern to the administrators of the Craft
when it is observed that Masons, as they sometimes do, substitute in the
seat of sovereign interest a pseudo-Masonic body for one that is recognized as purely Masonic.
As time goes on I trust that the criticisms of Master Masons,
namely, that they care nothing for the Lodge and have no time for its
labors because of their absorption in semi-Masonic organizations, will
lose its validity. We must continually remind ourselves that faithfulness
to the duty imposed upon us by our membership in a Lodge is the first

28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

matter of our concern, and a careful regard for what we owe Masonry
is paramount when compared with the invitations which other interests
present to us.

our Order. The "Thises" and that "Thats" and the "Others"; the
"Caves," the "Tunnels" and the "Pitfalls"; the "Shrouded," the
"Swathed" and the "Bandaged"; the "Scrub Pines,'' the "Sage Brushes"
and the "Loco Weeds," the "Black Arks," the "Blue Reliqueries" and
the "Green Graves" all have one avowed ( ?) and one real purpose,
the avowed one being sociability presumably, the real one being to
multiply individual honors, titles, offices and honoraria for the few and
to satisfy what appears to be an insatiable desire on the part of the
American public for something new, startling and "secret." ·wm this
desire run its course and subside like a fever?
Will these warts
gradually dry up and drop off? Will they keep on swelling and swelling
and then, like a bubble, "burst"? Can Masonry afford to iJe calm, but
firm, and await the Day? Or should there be a decided setting down of
the foot and saying: "Out with you all as far as using Masonry as a
test of your membership is concerned unless you are recognized as a
part of Masonry"?

Michigan (1925):
The Grand Master : During the past week information reached me
as to certain illegal activities of a non-Masonic organization, which
requires as a prerequisite to membership therein some sort of a Masonic
connection. Believing that the situation presented is serious enough for
some decided action and not wishing to move hastily without being in
possession of all the facts, I therefore recommended that a special committee of three be appointed to make an investigation of this and other
organizations which may be organized and operating along similar lines,
and bring the information thus obtained to the attention of the Grand
Master for his action, and to make a report with suitable recommendations for the guidance of Grand Lodge at its next Annual Communication.

29

Vermont (1925):
Nevada (1925):
The spirit of intolerance is somewhat natural to mankind, but the
Mason, if sincerely conscientious, is tolerant. He is taught to be gen- "
erous in his estimation of others; every human being has a claim upon
his kind offices, but more especially the household of the faithful. It
would be well if members of the Shrine, and kindred organizations,
would "look to the rock from whence ye were hewn," and yield greater
love, respect and obedience to the fundamental lessons of the Blue Lodge.

We see her becoming something else than Masonry. The Grand
Master may be right, but we fear a too great exuberance of foliage will
impair the fruitfulness of the old tree. \Ve prescribe severe prunning,
fearing that otherwise these extraneous organizations may suck all the
sap from the old stock and Masonry become, like a palm tree, a barren
trunk with a top knq,t of herbage, De!violays, Rainbows, Daughters and
what nots as the only signs ~f existent life.
Virginia (1924):

Pennsylvania (1926):
The Grand Master: \Vithout in any wise reflecting upon organizations of this character now in the field, I am clearly of the opinion
the time has come to halt further development along these lines. It is
my thought that the time is ripe for the enactment of regulatory measures
that will deny to members the right to accept membership in any outside
organizations, predicating its membership on Masonry, except any such
of these organizations as may at this time be in existence, unless permission for creation of such organization shall first have been obtained
of this Grand Lodge. This would put a stop to a growing tendency
which is calculated to weaken the influence of Masonry and leave to the
future the solution of problems that may arise because ofthe existence
of organizations already formed and now in operation.
Philippine Islands (1924):
It is rather sickening to see the growth of epimasonic mushrooms
that in the past few years have become excrescences upon the body of

The Grand Master: That since there are at the present time at
least eight or ten new organizations that are claiming some sort of
Jl;fa~onic relationship or connection with some of its appendant orders,
or m some manner under the protection or sponsorship of the appendant
orders of Masonry, and realizing that Freemasonry must finally accept
the responsibility for all of these many newly created organizations, I
am persuaded that I would not be acting for the best interests of
Masonry would I give my consent.
Virginia (1925):
The Grand Master: It has come to my attention that organizations
making Masonry a basis for membership have been demeaning themselves contrary to the usages and laws of the Grand Lodge of Virginia.
Every Grand Lodge claims and exercises the right to prescribe the
conditions necessary to obtain membership in any Lodge under its Jurisdiction. This is an inherent right exercised from the first foundation
of Masonry. The Grand Lodge also claims and exercises the right to

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

pass laws governing the Craft and this right cannot be questioned,
therefore, in consequence of which sovereignity over the Craft the Grand
Lodge has the undoubted right to prescribe the conditions under which
a Mason can retain his membership. Masons as individuals, or in
groups, or in organizations as Masons, are therefore amenable to the
laws and authority of the Grand Lodge. Organizations whose prerequisite
to membership is Masonic affiliation are Masons acting as such just as
much as if they were a group of brethren from a Blue Lodge, no matter
how many degrees may intervene between that organization and the
Blue Lodge. Therefore, as a consequence, they are amenable to Grand
Lodge authority. As a consequence, also, the Grand Lodge by authority
inherent in it can prohibit Masons as such from becoming members of
any organization whose laws do not prevent and whose policies encourage
a violation of a spirit of Ancient Craft Masonry.

CORNER STONES
In some cases in various communities the laying of Corner
Stones under Masonic auspices has produced friction. This should
not be so, if it could be brought home to the general public that the
ceremony is not intended as advertising propaganda, or self aggrandizement. The Correspondent from North Carolina has perhaps
given us a modern idea.
In olden times the ceremony had a significance that does not
exist today, either from an historical or practical standpoint.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

31

in other than the northeast corner." It was for a Shrine temple, and
the attention of the Master of the Lodge was called to it, with the
request that the location be changed to the northeast comer, which. was
promised, but which was not done.
The Grand Master ordered
the inscriptions removed, which was finally done, "leaving no Masonic
record on the stone."
North Carolina (1926):
The contents of a "corner stone" would sometimes make a jackass
laugh. One never sees accounts of any two corner stone layings in
• which the list of things deposited within the cavity is given, in which
the same lists are shown as inventory. Somebody will make a great
fuss about presenting a Lincoln penny to be included therein : some other
will put in a lot of old badges; some scribe of great talent will write
a "Letter to a church a hundred years hence" (every generation feels
it to be its duty to utter solemn warning to those succeeding) ; and the
town paper will almost always find its way into the sacred stone. Thereis something fascinating about the idea of leaving a record which future
generations may read; the small boy climbs a little higher up the tree
than any one else has gone, there to carve his initials, picturing to himself these magic letters as they will be seen in the dim future; the great
man who has spent his life in amassing a fortune, as the day of dissolution approaches, gives the millions to the founding of a great institution,
that this may bear his name to his honor after all that is mortal of him
shall have gone to join the immemorial dust; and parents name their sons
with the names of their fathers.

Florida (1926):
Referring on one corner stone laying, the Grand Master states it
was preceded by a lunch, the company on which occasion included "representatives of the Grand Commandery, Elks, Odd Fellows, Knights of
Columbus, the Mayor and a number of others." This reminds us of that
old saying, "What strange bedfellows politics do make."
A.t the laying of the corner stone of the Administration Building of
the Masonic Home the vVorthy Grand Matron of the Order of the
Eastern Star had "a hand in spreading the cement." This is the first
time we recall where a woman took part in this form of "operative"
work.
Mississippi (1925):
One peculiar case is reported, where a deputy, "not being familiar
with directions and it being a gloomy, rainy day, the stone was laid

CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS
It is unfortunate tliat the Correspondents Report of the various
jurisdictions are not available to the Craft generally. Published only
in the Proceedings they generally reach but the Lodges, their Officers and those in attendance at the Grand Lodge, where advance
copies are distributed. Some of the Messages of the Grand Masters
favor the idea that a way should be devised whereby the labors of
those who perform this work can be made more generally available.
Let us hope that some method can be found toward this end. The
recommendation of the Committee from New South Wales is one
workable plan.
While we cannot agree entirely with the pessimistic idea expressed by the Correspondent from New Mexico, still there is considerable truth in what he says.

32

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Florida (1926):
We observe that the report for 1923 covered 120 pages of the
printed minutes of the Grand Lodge, or approximately one-seventh
of said minutes and that the reprinting of this report cost the Grand
Lodge approximately $450. In view of this cost we think that it
is advisable in the future for the chairman of said committee to
shorten and make more brief said report if possible.
At the same time over five hundred pages are devoted to the
returns of Lodges, which apparently gives the name of every officer
and member of every Lodge, as well as those suspended and reinstated. While this is of great value to the mail order concern it also •
causes one to wonder if its educational value is equal to the one
hundred and over pages given to an instructive and thoughtful review of what is being done in the great realm of Freemasonry
which is in fraternal relations with the Grand Lodge of Mississippi.
,Idaho (1924):
The report of the correspondent in this state is topical in character, which, for the benefit of those of our rank and file who
are not likely to read this effusion, means that a particular subject
is taken and everything noteworthy under that heading in any
of the Jurisdictions is collated under the said caption. This is a
method which enables anyone to get a very good idea of what has
been done as a whole on any one thing, but for the egotistic it presents the difficulty that it is hard to ascertain exactly what has been
said with regard to a particular Jurisdiction.
Illinois ( 1924) :
A review of the proceedings of the Grand Lodges of the world
furnishes almost a liberal Masonic education, and the reading by
the individual Masons of a review of such proceedings should give a
more comprehensive and accurate view of the trend of Masonic
thought and legislation than can be obtained in any other way. In at
least one Grand Jurisdiction the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
prepares a synopsis of the Grand Lodge proceedings and this is
read in the various constituent lodges. We were impressed with the
value of such a course, as it affords all the officers as well as the
members of the individual lodges knowledge of what their own
Grand Lodge is doing. Few officers or members will read the entire
proceedings, and indeed much of the published proceedings would
not be of interest, but a properly prepared synopsis could be made
extremely interesting as well as instructive reading.

33

New Hampshire (1925):

.· 1:

year ago the restrictions were removed, thus permitting the
M1ch1gan C~rrespondent to offer such a report as seemed to him
best., The evidence seems to be that he frolicked and revelled to his
hearts content.' Never have we encountered anything like it, and right
here we want it t~ be und~rstood that the document is a mighty good
one. Its volume 1s the thmg about which we have commented. We
expec_t never to look upon its like again, because its writer-he is no
compiler-says that he will be briefer hereafter.
New Mexico (1925):
. One year ago, when the subscriber accepted the job of Foreign Correspondent, he was laboring under several delusions.

A~10ng t~1ese may be mentioned the idea that the fabrication
of an _mterestmg and informative report upon the activities and accomplishments of our Sister Jurisdictions would be a mere bagatelle
a~d . that the chie_f ~rt would be the compressing of such repor~
w1th111 allowable l11111ts of verbosity.
After ploughing through the Proceedings, in alphabetical order
from Alabama to Nebraska, I found on a review that there was a
monot~nous sameness in my abstracts, which even my pride of
paternity coul~I no~ overlook or condone-guilty of the one thing of
all others which 1t was my determination to avoid. Yet, beyond
some local matters of real interest to the particular jurisdictiou, and
of no conce_rn to any one else, there was little that could not have
been used mterchang~a~ly. in_ reporting the aims and accomplishme'.1ts of the several Jtmschct10ns. Having so signally failed on the
maJor half of the field, in all frankness, the remainder have been
gone t~rough with the single idea of finding something out of
the ordmary course, and of interest to the Craft in general. This
effort has also been a failure.
A few jurisdictions took slaps at the Ku Klux Klan which ma
be regarded as of _doubtful propriety since that organization owe~
the greate_r part of its growth to the publicity given it by those who
have decried it.

~~ully ~s many are exercised over what some are disposed to
cla~s'.fy (without saying so in definite terms) as pernicious political
achv1t?' on the part of a concordant branch of Masonry in insisting
up~n 1~s membership memorializing Congress for the enactment of

leg1slat10n that may be classed as political. In this, as in regard to
the Ku Klux Klan'. the_re is little occa_sion for alarm. Memorializing
Congress on anythmg 1s a harmless pastime, and this supposed ac-

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

tivity is a handy smoke screen to hide the fact that the particular
offender hinted at is not doing anything itself to which the membership may "point with pride."
New South Wales (1924):
Your Committee recommends a circular letter be sent from
Grand Lodge to each Lodge in the Jurisdiction, drawing attention
to the various articles contained in its report, and submitting them
to the Lodges as affording suitable matter for short lectures when
there is no regular Lodge work, or during intervals in the regular
routine of making, passing and raising Brethren.
New York (1925):

Occasionally it has been said that our reviews are severely condensed. They are. In no other way would it be possibel to present
in comparatively few pages a record of the trend of Masonic thought
and action the world over. The reviews include decisions rendered
on serious and puzzling questions of Masonic law; memoranda
of changes in membership and administration; reference to improved
methods for making the benevo.lcnces of the Craft accomplish the
greatest amount of good; indications of dangers threatening regular
Masonry from without and within; evidences, in many quarters, of
a renewed determination to uphold the fundamental principles of the
Craft, to resist departures therefrom, reaffirming particularly the
the Fatherhood of God as a necessary condition for the promotion
of the brotherhood of man, and also checking influences which would
persuade the Lodges to occupy themselves with contentious political
questions more or less subtly introduced. All these and other matters
are noted as they appear in the various Proceedings which have
come to us during the year.
North Carolina (1926):
We thank him (Bro. Eggleston, Virginia) for his kindness when he
says, "We call his attention to the adage idiots and fools, only, never
change their minds." Not being quite sure as to just what use he
would think we should best make thereof, we accept it as an admonition we should do well to "change our mind." Well, we venture
to propose a little game that both of us twain may play. Whenever
Brother Eggleston discovers that he has "changed his mind," we
surmise that, if he were to glance at the mental state of this scribe,
he would discover that the North Carolina reviewer will have done
the same equally as often-and very probably more often. That's
fair; is it not?

.REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

35
The reader will of course
t f
North Carolina pays for printi~o th~rget th~t the Grand Lodge of
thereof to every Mason
g
is material, and giving a copy
present at the A
I C
. .
the Grand Lodge, chiefly if not sole!
nnua
omm~mcation of
may know what Masons in
y that North Carol111a Masons
doing. They want our
the great world outside arc thinking and
comment on what
what to think but to st1'm I t h
we see, not to tell them
•
u a e t em to do th ·
h' .
are a part of the plan of North C
.
cir ?wn t 111k111g. We
a "Mutual Admiration Bureau" 't:rohhna Masonic Education-not
WI
ot er Correspondents.

* * *

This writer acknowledges th
·
.
.
both direct and indirect The Re pa.111sta~111g .assistance of Mrs. Allen,
·
ev1ewer s wife d
d
pathy; she not only must ne d
d
eserves ouble symshe must endure the R . e s en urc as does the Reviewer but
ev1ewer as well M
.
'
foregoes the desire for
.
.
any a time and oft, she
.
conversation and
I
.
silence, while he is seen to be b
b d .
re axat10n, working in
·
a sor e 1n the th·
h
111 some unknown place months ag F
ll
111gs t at happened
of a sacrifice must be paid by so;~bo~~.a that one does, the price
Utah (1925):
The present writer ma be
d
before stated in his reportsy
p~r o~cd for repeating what he has
compliment that h
' name y, t at he can think of no higher
e can pay members of th "R
d
ot h ers, than to say that th .
e
oun Table," or
h
•
eir arguments or state
t
. men s are of such a
c aracter as to compel him to think a~d
the foundations upon which
t h' ,
possibly to look again at
1s own concl ·
Th
res
muc h of "namby-pamby" st ff th
.
.
us10ns.
ere is so
at
s1'bl e stretch of the imagin ut'
. gets 111to t Y p c, w h'ic h bY no posa ion is worthy of or
mental reaction.
•
ever secures, any
Utah (1926):
Utah' s writer
·
of Correspouden
b I'
f
ce e ieves ully in expression of
opinion. When circums.tanc
such an opinion, he does no~s b~~~vpr~se~ted that s.eem to call for
or scraping, before some p
e I~ ~uss.y-footmg," or bowing,
er son, or mstitut10n f
h
h. h
w ic • some pseudo-sanctity is claimed
. or . w om, or for
protect from any adverse com
t
' and wh1~h Is supposed to
If writers of these reports h men , ?~ courteous dissent or criticism
concern to the Craft for H ave ,op11110ns on matters of interest o~
•
eaven s sak 0 t · h
•
to a "gone" feeling when we
e ~ wit them! We confess
"hems," and "haws" and " I run ~P aga.111st a correspondent who
•
sa aams, and 111 well
d I d
assures the Brethren that h
Id
mo u ate · accents
e wou not, for a half-interest in King-

36

REPORT ON CORHESPONDENCE
HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

dom-come, presume to assume to criticize the output of a Grand
Master, or of a Grand Lodge. Bah! Shades of the sturdy, outstanding and outspoken writers of these reports in other days. Page the
smelling salts, please!!

Utah (1926):
Now and again we come upon a Report on Correspondence that
hasn't enough of real life to it to even suggest the possibility of
stirring our interest. In this connection we place-or they place
themselves-those who wouldn't for the world venture to assume to
express an opinion of their own concerning the doings of Grand
Masters and other representatives of Grand Lodges and Grand Jurisdictions. "The Brethren want to know what is going on in other
jurisdictions-they don't care about our comments," etc. That's
about as poor an alibi as we know anything about-it's about as
thin as a late-fall calf, fed on skimmed milk, and stabled in a fence
corner, on the shady side of a snowdrift, through a Michigan winter, when spring comes. Our Pennsylvania Brother's reports are not
in this class, hence our sincere appreciation of his production, even
while we dissent decidedly from some of his statements and from a
certain air of finality with which he sets forth opinions on subjects
about which there appears to us to be room for debate. For example
his references to the land-marks, more especially to certain propositions which he asserts are among these fundamentals. They may be
so regarded in Pennsylvania and it is entirely within the province
of the Grand Lodge of the Keystone State to declare what shall be
so understood within its own jurisdiction. But it's a cat of a different stripe to assume that therefore any divergence, or departure
from certain propositions is of necessity an "innovation." Whenever we meet with warnings against innovations in the "body of
Masonry" some trick of fancy, or vagrant train of association
brings to mind that story told in the "Golden Ass" of Apuleius,
which relates how a valiant citizen attacked three robbers who
were breaking into his house, and how he ran them through with hi,;
sword and slew them all. When required later by the Magistrate
to uncover the bodies of the supposed robbers they were found to
be no more than three inflated wine-skins pierced in various parts!
West Australia (1925):
It is gratifying to the Committee to know that each year the
report grows in popular favor and becomes more widely read by
local brethren. The Committee would take this opportunity of recommending the volume to Worshipful Masters as a means of filling
in an evening in a profitable way when no degree work is offering.

37

It is suggested that after a perusal of th
I
W ar d ens an d Secretary to who
. e vo umc by the Master,
'
m copies are supplied readings of
ex t racts should be arranged and d"
.
. .
,
1scuss1ons invited.

COURTESY DEGREES
Conferring degrees at the request of oth
J . . .
rally falls heaviest on the sist J . d' .
er unsd1chons natu·
f
er uns 1ct1ons cont · ·
o population, and Grand Lodges in self
.a1mng 1arge centers
pelled to pass limiting regulations W
p~ote~t1~n ~ave been comtha t the Lodge which accepts th~ p e. ~eheve it is right and proper
the First Degree, and be res
'bl efhho~er should at least confer
..
.
pons1 e or his entry into the fold
If a Petitioner is actuated by the
.
alone should produce this des·
proper motives, sentiment
ire.
Montana (1924):
The Grand Master. Courtesy d
too common. I think th t 1"f
egr~es have become altogether
1
a
a man waits until h ·
part f rom a community bef
h h"
e is a Jout to de.
ore e t mks of Ma
h
Just a tinge of mercenary
f
. h'
sonry, t ere must be
mo !Ve m is thought Th
·
cI ca I o f merit in a jurisdicf
f .
·
ere is a great
.
wn re usmg to confer th E t
d
ttce degree as a courtesy.
e n ere Appren, Th
.
ere are emergency cases and there .
vHlcd for the handling of
h
is a way that can he prosuc cases I ho
th· G
consider whether we ca
t
. ·
pc
is ,rand Lodge will
re o contmue to co f
ti
]'
.
prenttce degree for other · . . .
n er 1e <..ntered ApJunsc11cttons.

Saskatchewan (1924):
. This. is a subject that is growing 1'11
th1 s service are becoming more fre uent importance. Rec1uests for
looks as if Lodges in som
q
year by year and it almost
e quarters were s
·
out with the impress of M
~ anx10us to send a man
.
.
asonry
upon
him
bef
h I f
d 1stnct for other parts th t th .
.
ore e e t their
a
e1r attitude was not always Masonic.

South Dakota (1925):
The Grand Master: The Grand Lod e
.
.
Indiana, Colorado New yo k N
g s of Cahforn1a, Wyoming
laws which do no; permit thr '
efw ersey and Pennsylvania hav~
e con erring of the Ent
I A
rI egree by any Lodge other th
h
. erec
pprentice
either for their own or outside a~r~n~ ~ne. el.ec:mg the candidate,
ommend that a law of this
t
b
unsd1ct10ns. I would recna ure e adopted by this Grand Lodge.

!

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Texas (1925):
The Grand Master: I received communication from Fraternity
Lodge, El Paso, Texas, in which was stated that "On June 2, 1923,
White Mountain Lodge No. 3 of Globe, Arizona, was requested as
a courtesy to this lodge, to confer the degrees upon Lewis M.
Robinson, a candidate of this lodge. On January 10, 1925, the Arizona lodge conferred the Third Degree upon the brother, and sent
us a bill of $7.75 for a banquet given at the end of the degree.
This is such an unusual thing the lodge instructed me to ask your
advice in the matter. You will understand that courtesy degrees
are constantly being conferred by all lodges and it would seem
to me quite unmasonic to begin the practice of making a charge
for the work."
I replied in a suggestive way that it occurred to me, that too
many Masons and too many lodges were placing everything on a
commercial basis, and the sooner we put a stop to such things the
better off the Masonic Fraternity would be. If through a spirit of
generosity we should pay such charges it would set a precedent for
such requests in the future and we had just as well commence right
now to stop such things.

own hands and suspended the off d"
serious to be passed over in silenceen t~ Brother. The. matter is too
for the lodge to say that the ff
t I~ a ve.ry. plausible argument
heart, that he has simpl
od en m~ rather IS not a criminal at
peated, and that it is no[ t~ea e ra mistake ~hich will not be reman who is already down 0 pa t of Masonic charity to strike a
·
· ne can understand and
·
d es1re
to assist one who has f ll
..
. appreciate the
more than our duty. But sure! at~~ ~~drehab1htate. himself; it is no
at large as well as to the off yd"
B ge owes a duty to the Craft
'
en mg rother Maso
·
.
o~ today only or of this local"t
.
nry is not a thmg
1 Y a 1one. It. is
a
great
t
.
'
a wor Id -wide organization It . b ·1
sys em and
confidence and respect. I~s
t up.on a found~tion of mutual
upon the maintenance of a standardn~ss: i.ts very e~1stence depends
ability of a foreign jurisdiction t
m_1ts m_embersh1p, and upon the
those whom we permit to
o receive with confidence and safety
Masonry would soon forfeit c~~ry ou.r. creden.tials: And Canadian
through a mistaken idea of our e d~~i:1:10n which it now h_olds if,
purge the Order of those wh h
as Masons, we hesitate to
upon themselves but upon the ~ra:tve b;o~fht dishonour not only
the free exercise of our rights
d '.a~ a ow them to continue in
an pnv1 eges wherever they may go.

33

d.

u::fut

Kansas (1925):
CRIMES
In a body composed of men drawn from all walks and conditions of life there must necessarily be at times unworthy ones. At
times there is a tendency to favor the individual at the expense of
the Lodge and overlook the "greatest good to the greatest number." One undesirable Brother, if continued on the rolls, will do
more to bring the Fraternity into disrepute than the work of perhaps the entire membership of the Lodge itself.
No human organization is composed of saints, but when we have
offenders among us our duty is clear.
Canada (1925):
The Grand Master: There is perhaps no more disturbing characteristic of the times in which we are passing than the evidences
which we constantly see of the prevalence of dishonesty in high
places and among those who are in positions of authority and
trust, and I have been greatly disappointed to find on the part of
a number of our lodges a reluctance amounting almost to an unwillingness to deal with those who have been accused and convicted
of offences of a serious and criminal nature. In one instance the unwillingness was so pronounced that I finally took the case into my

The sorrow of the year's work h
Brethren who have been cited f
as _been our Lodge trials.
tion, hired counselors to set
or wr~ng domg, have without excepmembership before and at theupt _snl10 ~ screens, and work upon the
na' usmg business chu h
l" ·
;, n d personal connections to · fl
h
. '
re • po 1tical
.
h
m uence t e votmg again t
.
t 10n,
rat er than a strict weigh.
f h f
s conv1cmg o t e acts Office
d M
f
.
o experience and standing ha
t d
..
rs an
asons
sought to shield members
. ve s _oo. against known facts, and
of our ethical and moral ~t~11!1~ o; m;1stent and flagrant violations
organize the uninformed to ear .s. ome ~ave gone so far as to
duty. All this in the face of t~e na~1ze an officer who would do his
the preservation of the reputatiocn a~f~ht: ;very 1.f aster Mason that
be his constant care Not a . 1
h ratermty unsullied must
h
·
smg e case as come to
.
w ere a brother, overtaken in a fault h
h
our attention
tion, admitted his misconduct de I ' dahs .s own a Masonic disposi1s regret sho
h·
.
'
c are
tence and desire of amendment.
•
wn Is pemKentucky (1924):

Pfrolvide~, hows ever, that when a member shall be
Of
e ony m a tate or Federal
convicted
Court, such member shall automatically stand suspended from
date of beginning of confinement

a

39

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

in penitentiary from all the rights and privileges of Masonry, and
shall not be reinstated within one (1) year from the date of his
release from imprisonment, and thereafter only upon application
as provided in Section 181 of the Constitution.

Penn$ylvania (1924):
Grand
Lodge can on I Y on the facts in the
.
expulswn and restore th B th
case remove the
·
e ro er to good Masonic t d'
severed his connection with the L 0 d
s an n_1g. The
1f he had never been a
.
ge as effectively as
Brother in condition to n::~~e~.o ~h:cs~:;t~on will only place the
he may select for ad · ·
g ' or any other Lodge
t· . 't h
'
m1ss10n to membership by petition and to 0 barn 1 e must pass the ordeal by ballot.
'

40

Montana (1925):
A member of a Lodge in this Jurisdiction who shall have been
convicted of a felony in any State or Federal Court shall be deemed
suspended from all the rights and privileges of Masonry as of the
date of the entry of the final judgment of his conviction. He shall
not be re-instated to any of the rights and privileges of Masonry
within one year from the date of his release from imprisonment
pursuant to the judgment, and then only after his application for
restoration to membership, reference of the application to, and report by, an investigating committee, and a unanimous ballot in
his favor by the Lodge of which he was a member when suspended,
if the Lodge be then in existence; if the Lodge be defunct, then he
may be restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry only by the
unanimous vote of the Grand Lodge in his favor. This section is
retroactive as well as prospective in operation.
Ontario (1924):
It is found that there is too much leniency extended to Masons
who are guilty of criminal offences. This shows either a spirit of indifference, or a readiness to conceal or forgive crimes which should
not be tolerated. The constitution is clear on the question of crime.
A Masonic trial should be inaugurated and if the Brother is found
guilty, expulsion should follow.
Masons are not perfect men. Among our hundred thousand,
there are sure to be some "black sheep"; but in order to preserve
our order pure and unsullied, it should be purged of all offenders
against the laws of God or man.
Immorality in every form must be banished from our lodges.
Our laws must be enforced. He who violates the laws of God or
State must be expelled from the body of Masonry. See to it that
Masonry means something in your community. Guard well the
outer door. Let no unworthy man be admitted. If you arc in doubt,
give the Lodge, give Masonry the benefit of that doubt. The standard
of Masonry must not be lowered. The institution of which we are
so proud must not suffer from unworthy members. At all hazards,
and under all circumstances, let us purify our lodges, that they
may, with God's blessing, become beacon lights for humanity.

41

~xpuls10n

Pennsylvania (1925):
During the year my attention wa
11 d
attempt on the art of
.
s ca c by a Lodge to an
the home of a f:ilow n on~ .of its ~1cmhcrs to invade and break up
.
B
1em Jcr, and it was suggested that the ff
I
mg
.
not cl rothcr hbe rcque s t c d t o resign
under the threat that if ohe enc
didIn ti ~ so, c ar~es would be preferred and the Brother he expelled
11s sugges!Jon I could not concur T 0 h
suggested would d
ti . , h
·
~ ve settled tthe1 case as.
ou 1J css ave been the easiest wa
about
the lesson to the C ra ft , th e c h argc was a sc . Y ou , JU!. what
.
mg as it did not only th
nous one, mvolvf
M
e c11aractcr o one who hears the st·
f
asonry, but who was identified with the Fratcrnit .
I amp o
Y 1ll sue l a way
as to involve its good name In all su h
preferred and the accused
be
show to the Fraternity th t
• 1
g ' w 1c 1 would
of Masonic principles Su : we < o not co~ntena1:cc such violations
.
c a course was directed m this case.

c~pcllccl f~o~1 ~~~~c~~o~t:rgcsh .s~ould

Utah (1926):
vV c marvelled not a little, when the re Jo
.
on Grievance and Appeals (Alberta (1925) I
\he Committee
of the accused arc given .
. · was rcac 1cd, as names
by displaying to th
l1ln flu!!. Possibly some good encl is served
.
. e wor c t 1c names of those
h • 11 •
.
clomgs brought them under the rod of Mas : I"."
a cgcd n11s-just now that in oth
omc < iscip me. We rcc all
•
ished for th .
.
er <1ays, not only were certain criminals punthe forfeit t~~ ~r::::tso;i~hthc c~ca_th !penalty,. but after life had paid
f
c crnmna was displayed over th
·
tohe the cityl At the same time, perhaps, the body was
sevcra parts fixed upon the corners of the cit.y 's
11
horrors were on I Y possible
.
wa s-I
. .
under despotic and tyran111'
IJU! such
con d 1t10ns.
ca

r~ o~-

~sic;

~:~c

0

qu:r~:~~.

Washington ( 1924) :
Grand Lodge adopted the G
I M
,
trials by committees instead of l;;a;~rdgesas~:~ s ~cco~11~enclation for
that the commission form of t . .
·d· . c ram
aster stated
f
ll
na 1 IS USC Clther exclusively or 0p10na y, by the following Grand Jurisdic;ions;

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Arizona California Connecticut, District of Columbia, Idaho,
'
'
Illinois, Kentucky,
Massachusetts,
Missouri, New Ha?1ps h'ire, N evada, Maryland, New York, North Dakota, Pennsylvania, South D.akota, Tennessee, Oregon, Vermont, Virginia, Alberta, Nova Scotia,
Ontario, and Quebec.
DEMOLAY
The Order of DeMolay is perhaps occupying more attention in
the Masonic World than any other activity at the present time.
In preparing a report of this character, material is ~rranged
according to subjects. The average amount for each sub1ect was
between four and five pages, while that regarding DeMolay covered
32 pages.
Five of the Jurisdictions followed California in holding that as
the Order of DeMolay was not a Masonic body, individual Lodges
could not act as sponsor for Chapters. Even with this ruling, the
highest praise was given the Order for the great good it has accomplished.
Five Grand Lodges, who had existing laws that only a Masonic
Lodge could meet in the Masonic Temple, changed the same so that
DeMolay Chapters were given this privilege. One of the great
English statesmen truly said: "The Youth of today i~ the Trustee
of posterity." Masonry's interest in the boys and girls of today,
whether through the Order of DeMolay, the Daughters of Job or
the Order of the Rainbow, means building for that future,
The Order of DeMolay is not a junior Masonic organization,
and this is firmly impressed upon its members. Neither is it a
Masonic kindergarten or a preparatory school for Masonry. We
kn9 w, however, that a young man who h~s graduated froz;n its ranks
is in a better position to understand the ideals and teachings of the
Masonic Fraternity than one who has not.
The Order now exists in every State in the United States, Canada, Mexico, Porto Rico, Panama, France and Italy. The membership is over 155,000, embraced in over 1500 Chapters.
Arkansas (1925):
Grand Master Whaley: If my year's work is ever recalled in ~ny
man's memory, I would rather he would r~member me as havmg
raised my voice and used my utmost effort m behalf of better educational opportunities for our children.
I therefore, am strongly in favor of the DeMolay. I believe
one ~f Masonry's greatest opportunities is among the near Appren-

43

tices. I fear your apprenticeship and mine began too late to make
of us the finished workmen and conscientious Masters that we
should be. Masonic scholars in all ages have been disappointed in
the small part of Masonry that the average Mason ever grasps
or understands, but the Mason is not to blame. For the first 21
years of his life he has been kept in total ignorance and darkness
regarding its teachings. If he dares to show any boyish interest or
curiosity, he has been met with a wise shake of the head and a
knowing smile and told to wait until he is 21 years of age before
trying to learn anything about Freemasonry.
The truth is if we would turn the average boy of from 14 to
20 years of age loose in a Masonic library, he would absorb more
of its history and teachings than the average Mason learns in four
years of Lodge work. I am proud that my generation has given to
the world the DeMolay. When a DeMolay knocks at the door of
our preparation room, he will come not as one groping in ignorance, but one filled and saturated with the fundamental principles of
Masonry.
·
Delaware (1925):
This organization for young men has shown a very substantial
growth during the past year. Many men prominent in the Craft in
our State have actively taken up the work, and their earnestness
and zeal is commendable.
·
All the aims of this organization are praiseworthy, but surely
that essential which tends to make better boys, better men, better
citizens is a factor in itself. An institution working with such symbols as the Holy Bible, the American Flag and the school-books, is
surely worthy of our interest and support.
Iowa (1926):
So far as we are personally concerned, we arc willing to make
an exception in favor of this order and to exclude it from the rest
of the barnacle organizations which are having such a destructive
effect upon the good work of our institution. 'N c know that in our
own comn11111ity it is doing a great anrl a good work for the youth
of our city, a work of which auy institution might well he proud.
As we sec it, it is hardly fair to class the Order of DeMolay for
boys with these shabby barnacle societie~. This for two reasons:
First, mrmbcrship in the DcMolay is not based on Masonic membership, and, second, it is a boys' and not a men's order.
We believe this Order is doing a great and good work in helping the young men of our day to find themselves. This Order

44

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

enters into their lives with its beneficent influence during the period
of adolescence, for, if ever, a guiding and a controlling hand is
needed, it is then. Many a young man who does not get the right
sort of kindly· and helpful guidance in his own home is being absolutely saved by the splendid work of this Order, a fact which can
readily be verified by conversing with the members of the various
Masonic advisory councils who have the tutelage of these boys'
chapters within their care.
Kentucky (1924):
The Grand Master says: We are convinced that Freemasonry
is today engaged upon a greater field of service, doing more constructive work, exhibiting a larger degree of the true spirit of fraternity, than ever before in its history. To have had a part in this
great work will be, to me, a treasured memory. That our membership in Kentucky may continue to march in the front ranks of accomplishment, with other forces for good, is my fondest hope.

Missouri (1924):
The Grand Master: I do not want this occasion to pass without
formally approving the splendid work that is being done by the
DeMolay organization in this and other states. While this is not a
Masonic organization, yet it is a movement for the improvement
and protection of the youth of the land and, therefore, I am deeply
interested in the movement and heartily approve of all that has been
accomplished by it so far.
Missouri (1925):
The Grand Master: The DeMolay organization which has many
chapters throughout the State, and is being sponsored by the best of
the Masonic Fraternity, should receive the support of all Freemasons. This organization is engaged in the work of associating young
men between the ages of sixteen and twenty, and instructing them
in the great principles of the brotherhood of man, reverence for God,
rectitude of conduct and good citizenship. Its work cannot help but
be a blessing to every young man who has become associated with
it. and its benefits will no doubt be reflected in the future lives of
these young men as citizens. Some have mistakenly termed this
organization "Junior Masonry," which is wrong. It is not a Masonic
organization, although it has the active support of and is sponsored
by Freemasons.

REPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

45

New Hampshire (1925):
In the address the Grand Master (Montana) made a rather
savage attack upon the DeMolay, building, as we read it, a thing
of straw. The Grand Lodge told him, by vote, that he was wrong.
New Mexico (1925):
Masonry is assuming a new attitude toward its purposes, and is
translating its beautiful philosophy into terms of constructive usefulness. Chapters of DeMolay are multiplied; the Order of Rainbow
for girls and the Daughters of Job are spreading over the country.
Vigilance in the perpetuation and improvement of our public schools
characterizes the Fraternity. Boy Scouts and Camp Fire Girls are
being trained in the fundamentals of useful citizenship, obedience to
law, respect for authority and recognition of the rights of others.
In short the rising generation is recognized as our greatest treasurehouse. Drought may wither our crops, financial institutions may
crumble and war may lay us waste, but the youth of our land holds
in its keeping the elements of our future destiny.

North Carolina (1926):
We read something today-at a place in Texas we believe,that a cornerstone-laying procession was formed, in which were the
DeMolays. This proclaims to the world something which is not a
fact. So does their meeting in lodge rooms, we believe. We think
it would be very well that they be given the privilege of using portions of the Temples, but there is some doubt about this matter of
using the lodge rooms-unless in conditions like that in Korth Carolina, where nobody seems to care what or how many organizations
meet in the same hall, if the local members are satisfied. Joint
occupancy is the rule in small places.
Oklahoma Masonry supports the Boy Scout movement; it supports the DeMolay movement; it organized the Rainbow work; it
has done and is proud of, many things that some few other Grand
Lodges regard as anathema-and Oklahoma Masonry is thriving,
as much as, or more than, these other jurisdictions. It is far from
being ruined yet, or in the future.
North Dakota (1925):
The Grand Master: About twenty Grand Masters express their
high appreciation and approval of the Boys Order of DeMolay,
which seems to be spreading very rapidly. Two Grand :Vfasters refused to recognize it or permit meetings in Masonic Lodge Halls.
Grand Master Bell of Montana put on his roughest of rough-riding

46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE:<'!CE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

clothes and gave an exhibition of real Wild West bucking and kicking that entitles him to a place in any rodeo. I don't agree with all
he says but I do admire the courage shown in expressing his convictions.
South Dakota (1925):
The Grand Master of Ohio wa.s obliged to decline dispensations
to lodges to act as sponsors for lodges of DeMolay because he construed the Grand Lodge by-laws to prohibit it. He says:
"I wish to be understood in this regard that I am deciding
purely from a legal standpoint and bear no ill will whatever against
the Order concerning which you speak."
We hope to see the day when every Grand Lodge will amend
its laws to permit the sponsoring of this splendid Order by the local
lodges.
\Ve feel that with all the noble aspirations of the Fraternity
and its propaganda of education and all that goes to make better
men, we as Masons cannot do too much to contribute to the making
of better men out of boys.
DUES
Masonry is a luxury, and as such those who desire to avail
themselves of it should pay the cost. Jurisdictions are beginning to
realize this and establish a minimum fee which will be able to take
care of the expenses of the Lodge and its charities. It is a business
proposition and should be handled as such, without regard to sentiment. The decrease in the purchasing power of the "Almighty Dollar" operates in Masonry the same as in every other walk of life.
Florida (1926):
Much importance is attached to the efficient work of the District Lecturers, which brought out a laxness in the payment of annual dues. It was contended that a Brother "is either able to pay
his dues or he is not," and that in the case of those who are able to
pay, but do not, "the sooner you proceed against such a Brother,
the better it will be for the Lodge and for Masonry."
Georgia (1925):
The statement "that the suspension for non-payment of· dues
does not deprive a Mason of any except lodge privileges," strikes
us as too broad. If a member of a lodge able to pay his dues (and

47

dues are remitted for those unable to pay) does not think enough
of Freemasonry to pay the yearly pittance, then he should not be
entitled to any privileges. This, however, does not make it any more
right for a Freemason to assault a suspended member than to attack
a profane.
Kansas (1926):
Notwithstanding the adoption by the Grand Lodge of a standard form of record books and blanks to be used by all lodges,
which includes a form of warrant for the payment of all claims
against a lodge, it is found that in the payment of Grand Lodge
dues many personal checks of secretaries are used, indicating that
not only the per capita tax but the settlement of all bills against the
lodge is paid in the same manner.
This naturally raises the question whether all money received
by the secretary is paid over to the treasurer and whether the treasurer is paying out moneys of the lodge on the order of the Worshipful Master with the consent of the lodge.
The new warrant is in practically the same form as the drafts
now used by banks, indicating that it is drawn on the treasurer,
and payable at a certain bank in which the funds are kept, thereby
granting to every lodge an up-to-date business system for keeping
and protecting the funds of the lodge.
The practice of paying Grand Lodge clues by personal checks
of the secretaries has grown to an extent where the method of handling the funds of such lodges should receive consideration at the
hands of the Grand Lodge.
Louisiana (1925):
The Grand Master: I find that a great many Lodges have fixed
their dues so low that they have nothing left after paying their
Grand Lodge dues and their per capita tax to the Orphanage, with
whi~h to care for their own afflicted and dependent ones. They are
constantly calling on the Grand Master for relief which they should
be in a position to render themselves. I am of the opinion that if a
man's Masonry is not worth fifty cents per month to him, that he
should not remain a member of the Order, because he is getting
nothing out of it, and giving nothing to it, and is a liability rather
than an asset to his Lodge.
I recommend that no Lodge shall be permitted to hold a Charter that has less than twenty-five active members living within hail.
Too many of our weak Lodges are merely drifting along and instead
of being an assistance to the Fraternity they are a drawback and

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

48

a hindrance, and the members themselves of these Lodges are not
getting any Masonic inspiration from their membership, and it is
my opinion, that it would be far better for them to surrender their
Charter and affiliate with other and stronger Lodges where they
can accomplish something both for themselves, and the Fraternity.

North Carolina (1924):
The Grand Master feels that Masonry is cheapened, if it costs
little. He says:
In the first place, there is constant grumbling among large
numbers of the brethrer: at the "high cost of Masonry." I am well
aware of the fact that a great many of our members have a hard
struggle to support themselves and their families. But I do not
believe any man has any business joining a Masonic lodge unless he
is not only able but happy to bear his share of the expenses of the
Order and to take some worthy part in contributions to the great
objects fosterecl by the Grand Lodge. The day when Masonry could
be run as a sort of cheap charity show has passed, and I, for one,
thank God for it. Moreover, it is undeniably true that "where your
treasure is, there will your heart be also."
North Carolina (1926):
There is, to our way of thinking, only one prohable danger in
small gain. It is that in some places, where lodges have been living to large extent on fees, the shortage of revenue will pinch their
programs; that for this reason they will look too long and longingly
at the offered fees of undesirable candidates; and that as a result
those may be received who will be undesirable material, and will
hurt the Craft in years to come. The same condition prevails generally; and the same danger is everywhere apparent. The business
of living on initiation fees has crept on some of the lodges by
stealth; they had more money from fees in boom times than they
had ever had before, and at the same time the purchasing power of
their dues dollars decreased. They paid the difference from balance
"on hand." How we do object to raising those little dues we pay!
And how we do like to have a "feed" at lodge expense some-

like. We wonder if these projects are in all respects necessary to
good Masonry. It is so easy to tax. There are so many ways in
which money can be put to good use. And he who invents a new
form of Masonic Charity wins such honor. But taxes are burdens.
May not the time come when those who are charitable with the
living of their less affluent brethren may be swept from power by
;,h~ rank and file of Masonry which now is only "grumbling" at the
high cost of Masonry?" The per capita tax for the next year
was set at $2.50.

Virginia (1926) :
All over the land the Craft seems to have waked up to the
lamentable conditions. W c arc all, or nearly so, operating on the
same fi.nancial basis as we were when a dollar was real money. The
;esult is t?at now that. mon<? is easy we are spending the money
111 t.he Shn~e and Scottish Rite for what might be described as Masonic luxuries, and are not doing the work that we talk about.

*. * *
Ever~where

dues and fees are far too low. \Vith us they date
from a time when, as financiers figure, thirty-three cents would
buy what a dollar will today. Fees should be our fund for all good
works and dues should be ample for the regular expenses. The
great trouble is that delegates to Grand Lodge who must make our
laws seem to fear that their record of Masons made will be adversely
affected. The reverse would be true. Human nature is still human
n.aturc. The m?re costly anything becomes the more it is appreciated. There is another argument in favor of making Masonrv
more expensive. The world, and even many in our ranks value th~
other bodies which have, unfortunately, grown up and t~y to be a
part of .Masonry, more than they do Masonry, and it is largely, if
~ot cntt:ely out own. fault. They arc costly and therefore attractive while Masonry 1s still cheap and held of little importance.
Thousands seeks our doors as a stepping stone to something they
deem of value far above. It is all wrong and the only way we ca
remedy the evil is to raise both fees and dues, but especially due;

times!

Vermont (1925):
While it is true that a man ought not to join a lodge unless
he can afford the expense, it is no less true that many Grand Lodges
are doubling and then redoubling the cost of maintaining good
standing by their expensive projects for charity, education and the

49

EDUCATION
The safety of our Nation and its institutions can only be perthrough the. development of our Public Schools System.
This is a field where Masonry as an institution can function without
danger to itself and for the greater good of all. At the present time
pet~a~ed

50

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

it seems there is a tendency to pass some of the responsibility of
the Home and Church on to the Public Schools. If this continues,
it calls for increased interest, not only on the part of Masonry but
every American citizen to strengthen this bulwark of our liberties.
In some of the previous reports we have given our opinion as
to the George Washington Memorial Temple at Alexandria. We
cannot help but think that if in place of being only a Memorial it
had been made a great National University an untold good would
have been accomplished. Our interest in the Public Schools and
the boys and girls attending them should be active rather than
passive.
This Grand Lodge, with the "Public Schools Week," has Eur
nished one example "worthy of all emulation."
Mississippi (1924):
It would be well if the Masters of our Lodges developed the
practice of acquainting themselves with the subject matter to be
presented by lecturers whom they invite; many a false impression
upon new members would not then be made, the real purpose of our
association would not be clouded; it would be impossible for any
political, sectarian, or religious dogma to invade those portals within
which they could never, in very nature of the case, be anything
but stranger.
Missouri (1924):
Twenty-five centuries ago Diogenes said: "Education is the
basis of the Greek State."
Freemasonry has always stood for the education and enlightenment of the masses with equal opportunity for all children,
and to that end, I urge all Freemasons at all times to support and
develop our public school system, including alike the rural school!>
the city schools, teachers' colleges and the State University. The
public school systems of the several States are the very foundation
stone of our government, and the best means for the education
of the American children and certainly, the only proper means for
the Americanization and amalgamation of the constant stream of
foreigners and their children coming to our shores. Let us make
the public school, non-partisan, non-sectarian and for al! the children of all the people, all the time.
New Hampshire (1925):
'When the Lodge is at refreshment the Grand Master (Manitoba) feels that the tyling should be as strict as at other times. He
goes that far as to affirm that the banquet room should be as care-

51

fu'.ly gu~rded as the Lodge room, and questions the propriety of
usmg non-Masons as entertainers, at the tables. This may shock
some, others will give it careful thought.

New Jersey (1924):

?·

G. M. Louis A. Watres, of Pennsylvania, said in the course
of his speech before the Grand Lodge of New Jersey:
May I suggest a prophecy? I believe that the time has come
for ~asons to do more than erect Masonic Temples, and they are
erecting. ~~em everywhere-the time has come for doing more
than to.m1hate as you do, 5,000; and as we did, 9,500 in Pennsylvania
-the .time has com~ for doing more than even building the George
\Vashmgton Masonic National Memorial Temple at Alexandriathe time has come when we must impress upon the hearts and minds
of those who are already in, and those who come in, the spirit of
Freemasonry and to translate into our lives the teachings of that
Book and its principles. The prophecy is this: I believe-when I
do not know, and where, I do not know-nor do I pretend to sa;but, you mark my words, that Masonry in its growth and onward
movement of this great mighty phalanx, will some day, somewhere
-I hope, at an early day-establish a university; a university where
the tenets of our Fraternity will be given to the world in no uncertain way; a university which will be the nursery for magistrates
for st~tesmen, for diplomats; a university that will give to the worlcl
the thmgs t.hat were embodied in the life and the teachings of that
great American of whom we are all proud to hail and revere as a
Master Mason-George \Vashington.

North Carolina (1926):
Freemasonry has always stood, and stands today, for free and

com~ulsor~ education. Good citizenship rests in the ideals and in-

tegnty of its ~lectorate, and a man's ideals and integrity can be no

bette~ than his knowledge. The American public school system is

a heritage han?ed down to the Masons of today to guard, protect
and foster. It is our Masonic duty to see to it that the American
Public School .is. maintained at the highest degree of efficiency, under
the sole domnuon of the state, and entirely free from interference by any other influence, political or ecclesiastical. It becomes
our. duty to .s~e. ~o it that those who teach our children recognize
their respons1b:httes; and that they shall be not only citizens of our
co~~try, speaking our language, but imbued with the spirit that
?ngmated our public school system and who cherish American
ideals beyond any other influence.

52

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

\Ve second the motion, and beg to amend by adding that they
ought to be most valuable assistants to the Educational. Progr~m
of Masonic Education. There isn't any sense whatever m havmg
one group to teach the ritual, who either cannot or will not ,do
valuable work in carrying on the Masonic educational work; nor
would there be any reason in an Educational Committee that decried
ritualistic excellence. They ought to work hand in hand. If we were
to be Grand Master for the next twenty-five years there would
never be another Lecturer with education so limited that he could
not or vision so narrow that he would not push Masonic education
witi1 a great, mighty, effective and tactful push. Masonic parro~s
and ritual botchers are both in the discard around here-and m
Tennesse.e.
It makes us tired to find great swarms of people who don't
know one thing about' them, rip and roar and snort with dogmatic
positiveness, about the common schools until they get the public
into a hopeless state of doubt which only causes hurt to the schools.
K othing damages schools so much as agitation.
Philippine Islands (1926):
There is room for difference of opm1on on any such subject
as the Masonic Service Association. The spoken word may be all
right, when properly spoken, but you cann?t comp<:I peo.ple to
come or go to hear it. A campaign of Masonic edu~ati~n with ~he
aid of the printing press may be much mor: effective. m reach1~g
the rank and file of the Fraternity and getting them mterested m
Masonic study than the occasional spoken word. Both m:thods are
advantageous, and neither should be used to the exclusion of the
other.
Tennessee (1925):
The inculcation of a system of education is in the very nature
of things, a slow process and yet the campaign of t.he Masonic
Fraternity, begun less than four years ago, to educate .i~s members
and the public generally as to the deplorable cond1t.10~ of o~r
rural school system, and the appalling percentage of 1lhteracy m
Tennesse~-has produced amazing results. The despised public
school now has friends on every side and a strange and marvelous
thing has been brought to pass. A Governor of our State has had
the temerity to recommend, as a matter of primary importance, a
comprehensive educational program, which includes an eight months
term for rural schools. ).fore than that, he has dared to demand
drastic taxation on measures to put his plans in operation. Stranger
still, we have a legislature apparently in full sympathy with the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

53

position of the chief Executive. Stranger than all, we find a citizenship in our State thoroughly aroused and ready for the new era, and
willing to pay almost any price to bring an equality of opportunity
to all the children of Tennessee.
The members of this organization have had a large and import·
ant part in bringing about a sentiment for better education in the
State, but the struggle has just begun.
Tennessee (1926):
Aside from persons actually engaged in the teaching profession
there was little interest in the problem of education from a Statewide standpoint with the result that a few localities enjoyed school
systems of the highest character, but for the most part our public
schools and especially those of a rural nature did not offer the
children of the State an equality of opportunity. Many of our principal roads and especially those leading to schools were in a pitiable
condition-practically impassible during a part of the school term.
Through the activities of the Masonic bodies great progress has
been made in correcting those evils.
The Legislature has provided a new and workable code of
school laws.
The State has appropriated large sums of additional money to
assist in providing higher salaries for teachers and longer school
terms.
An ambitious road huilding program is under way.
Many counties have undertaken the work of school consolidati on.
Texas (1925):
\Ve folly agree as to the duty of Masons in the' matter of pub·
lie education, except, that we cannot endorse the recommendation
that the Masons of Alabama should write their Congressmen urging
the passage of the Sterling-Reed bill now pending in Congress.
Masonry must keep aloof from all partisan political controversies, or
we will soon be in the chaotic condition of Masonry in some of the
Central and South American countries. If the time should ever come
when Masonry as an organization shall become enmeshed in partisan political questions, then Masonry is on the road to disintegration and ruin. As this writer sees it, the Congress of the United
States is already encroaching too much on the reserved rights of the
States and local governments. At the rate we are going it will not

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

be many years until it will be necessary to get a permit from some
bureau in Washington when a man and woman want to marry, or
when one of them wants a divorce. This writer believes that the
least governed people are the best governed.
The Grand Master also favors a Federal Department of Education, with a Secretary of Education in the Cabinet of the President, and a National University located in \Vashington, D. C., and
supported by the Federal Government. In this we cannot agree.

Utah (1926):
While the Orator was jockeying for a start, he said: "The
land-marks of Masonry need no explanation before a body of men
who have come to the degree of acquaintance with its tenets that
make them worthy to be selected as representatives of Grand
Lodge." Wasn't that well done? Who among the several hundred
representatives and others who heard that address could, or would
ask the good Dr. any troublesome questions about the land-marks
after such a subtle assumption, and gracious compliment!!
ENTERTAINMENT
The Masonic Lodge should only furnish clean, wholesome entertainment for its members either at strictly Masonic functions 01·
those open to the general public. We cannot help but think that
where there has been cause for criticism, it has been due more to
mistaken judgment rather than a deliberate intent to depart from
our traditions.
The social side of life offers the greatest avenue for education.
Bound by no general set rules it offers such a wide field that abuses
can easily creep in.
Illinois (1925):
The Grand Master: Many of our Masters seem to have a rather
distorted idea of the kind of entertainment the members of their
Lodges desire. Several cases have been brought to my attention during the year of proposed entertainments not in keeping with the
dignity of the fraternity. Ih one instance a Lodge planned to give
a banquet and dance in a well-known cafe, on Sunday night. In
other cases entertainments of a vulgar nature were proposed.
Kansas (1926):
There seems to be a tendency upon the part of some of our
lodges to engage in the theatrical business, and to turn their lodges

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

55

into ordinary clubs or social gatherings by giving or sponsoring
minstrel or burlesque shows, circuses, box suppers and barn dances,
and advertising them in the public press. Such entertainments
cheapen the dignity of the Fraternity, and should be discouraged.
In one case an entertainment was cancelled upon order of the
Grand Master.

Massachusetts (1924):
The Grand Master: The lighter hours of our association as
Brethren when feasting and fun are the items on the program are
as essential and helpful as the more serious times when together
we labor for a deeper understanding of the ideals and purposes of
our profession.
Brethren, I give it you strictly in charge to see to it that this
entertainment is in no sense inconsistent with the serious business
that has gone before or is to follow. Questionable jokes, songs of
doubtful significance, are both a poor preparation for and valuelesi,
as a supplement of the reception or witnessing of a Masonic degree. Ko one should be better fitted for enjoyment than a Mason
and no one should know better than a Mason that real fun is clean.

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
We sympathize with our Brethren in Italy. From press reports
at the present they have bowed to the inevitable. We can only hope
that time and enlightenment will change the present condition of
affairs.
The invasion of the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania by the Grand Orient of France terminated the fraternal
relations existing between practically all of the Grand Lodges of
the United States who had heretofore recognized the Grand Orient
and those Grand Lodges. Perhaps it is only by such a drastic method.
that European Grand Bodies, who are inclined to differ from the
American Masonic idea of exclusive jurisdiction, can be brought to
time.
Arkansas (1925):
Throughout the entire foreign jurisdictions there is a spirit of
umest; the enemies of Freemasonry are very active in their efforts
to suppress Masonry.
This is especially true in the Grand Orient of Italy, where after
the clashes between Masonic Lodges and the enemies of Masonry,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

i6

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

known as the Fascisti party, which occurred at Florence, Italy, on
October 3, last year, where a great number were killed and injured on both sides.
The Grand Master at Rome issued an order to suspend all
Masonic meetings until the law abolishing secret societies "shall
be made void." This law was laid before parliament by Premier
Mussolini last January, which declared all secret societies illegal,
and an order to dismiss all government employes who belonged to
any secret society. This was only a stab at Freemasonry, yet it
included all secret societies.
British Columbia (1925):
The efforts by certain bodies derived from the Ancient and
Accepted Rite to secure recognition by regular and legitimate Masonry still continue, and we regret to report that many Grand
Lodges are yielding to the pressure-some in a follow-my-leader
game, and others more or less honestly in pursuit of the will-o'the-wisp known as "Universal Masonry."
Minnesota (1926):
Whereas, it appears that a clandestine body styled the "Regional Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania" and calling itself "Ancient
Accepted Scottish Rite Universal Freemasonry,'' claiming the right
to confer the first degrees in Freemasonry and to institute new
Lodges in the United States wherever it may deem expedient, has
invaded the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania;
And, whereas, it appears that said clandestine body has been
taken "under the wing" of the Grand Orient of France, by a formal
contract made between them, under which the said clandestine body
shall receive warrants issued by the Grand Orient of France for new
Lodges created and instituted in the State of Pennsylvania and in
any other State or Territory of the United States, except the States
of Alabama, Iowa, Minnesota, Rhode Island and New Jersey, with
whom the Grand Orient of France is in fraternal relations;
And, whereas, the Grand Lodge of Minnesota regards the Grand
Lodges of the several States and Territories of the United States,
which have heretofore been recognized by it, as supreme and sovereign and holding exclusive jurisdiction over the Symbolic Degrees
of Freemasonry within the territorial limits of their respective States
and Territories, and regards any attempt on the part of any other
Masonic Grand body, whether recognized as legitimate or not, to
invade the territorial jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of any State

57

or Territory of the United States, as a violation of that paramount
and fundamental principle of American Freemasonry, which lies
at the foundation of the supreme sovereignty of the Masonic Grand
Lodges of this country;
And, whereas, the Grand Lodge of Minnesota regards the aforesaid action of the· Grand Orient of France as an invasion of the
jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania and a violation of
the principle of exclusive territorial jurisdiction;
Resolved, that the Grand Lodge of Minnesota supports the
efforts of the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania to sustain and maintain inviolable the American Masonic doctrine and principle of exclusive territorial jurisdiction of Grand Lodges.
That the fraternal relations now existing between the Grand
Orient of France and the Grand Lodge of Minnesota be, and are
herehy terminated, and that the commission heretofore issued to
Bro. Antonin Languine, appointing him as Grand Representative of
the Grand Lodge of Minnesota near the Grand Orient of France, be,
and is hereby revoked, and that Bro. W. N. Kendrick who has been
commissioned by the Grand Orient of France as Grand Representative of the Grand Orient of France near the Grand Lodge of
Minnesota, be, and is hereby directed to return said commission
to the Grand Orient of France.

New York (1925):
Among the outstanding events of the past year indicative to a
certain extent of the trend of the times, have been .the withdrawal
of the great Jurisdiction of New York from membership in the International Masonic Association in 1924, and their terminating of fraternal recognition and intercouse with the Grand Orient of Belgium
in 1925, because the latter have "abandoned the requirement of belief in God and have removed the Bible from their altars."
Philippine Islands (1926):
The Grand Lodges are unusually alert on the subject of clandestinism. The reviewers generally condemn the Gran Oriente
Espanol for having chartered lodges here in violation of the sovereignty of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands. New York
severed relations with the Grand Orient of France because the latter
took under its wings a district grand lodge in Pennsylvania composed of the clandestine lodges in Pennsylvania which were formerly under the Gran Oriente Espanol. Other Grand Lodges are
taking similar action, and doubtless more will follow. The Grand
Lodges of New York and the Philippines withdrew from the Inter-

58

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

national Masonic Association because the latter admitted irregular
bodies to membership. The Gran Oriente Espanol was admitted in
1924 under a promise not to interfere with Masonic affairs in the
Philippine Islands and Porto Rico. It desired to submit to the arbitration of the Association the matter of the future government of its
lodges in the Philippines and Porto Rico, but their spokesman in
the Association said that the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands
had withdrawn from the L M. A. and refuses to enter into any
negotiations with the Gran Oriente Espanol.
The latest proceedings of the International Masonic Association
show that one of the applicants for membership in 1925 was the
"Gra11 Logia de! Archipielago Filipino," which is the spurious body
organized in the Philippine Islands by the clandestine lodges chartered here in recent years by the Gran Oriente Espanol. It also
appears that the "Gran Logia de! Archipielago Filipino" wants the
I. M. A. to act as "referee" between it and the Grand Lodge of the
Philippine Islands. Comment is unnecessary.
Portugal (1924):
It appears that Latin Freemasonry has quite different objectives from Anglo-Saxon Freemasonry, because the latter is almost
exclusively a benevolent society and clings stubbornly to ritualistic
traditions and the dogmatic worship of the Great Architect of the
Universe, while the former has developed in a more broadly liberal
sense and has a tendency to intervene in politics, in the true sense
of that word, and to emancipate itself from the old ritualistic practices and choose instead a simpler and more modern ritual. It seems,
nevertheless, that there is a tendency in Universal Freemasonry to
work towards an agreement on a general point of view, leaving each
"N[asonic power to give its own interpretation to the symbols to
which our Bro. Orator has referred in such eloquent words.
Utah (1926):
The Grand Master also spoke of having had correspondence
with the Grand Orient of France relative to the invasion by that
Orient of the Jurisdiction of Pennsylvania, and of the severing of
all relations with that Grand Orient. We note the name of one
of those clandestine organizations mentioned by him: "Ancient Accepted Scottish Rite Universal Freemasonry." That has a familiar
sound to us. Apparently this a fragment of Mathew McBlaine Thomson's structure. If anyone is desirous of communicating with the
architect of that spurious building, he may be addressed at the
Leavenworth Penitentiary, where he is serving a two-year sentence,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

59

for activities in behalf of "Universal Masonry." A former colleague
of Thomson's, Dominic Bergera by name, and by title "Treasurer
General," may also be found at the same place, having been one
of Uncle Sam's guests since early in November, 1924.
FUNERALS
It is true that there is a lack of attendance of Brethren at
Masonic funerals. In this day and age the inclination is for a private
ceremony rather than a public function. We believe this is right and
proper.
The remarks of the Correspondent of the Grand Lodge of Utah
are applicable to a large number of Lodge Funerals.
Connecticut (1925):

It is not generally known in American lodges that there is no
~fasonic funeral nor burial service in Great Britain, though there is
m some of the colonies. In England the brethren pass around the
grave and deposit a sprig of evergreen, but there is no national
religion which has the burial service. There is, however, a hard and
fast burial service in every Grand Lodge in the United States, and
ma.ny Masters, probably believing it came down to us like an apostolic succession, stickle for it as vigorously as if it were a landmark
frequently offending an attending clergyman, and at other times be~
ing offended by a sensitive preacher.
New Hampshire (1925):
One Lodge sent out notices for a funeral, hut only two of
the brethren reported for duty. We think it to be true that there
is a growing dislike to attend a Masonic burial. It does not
seem to be as stylish as it once was. Nevertheless, the duty remains.
Novia Scotia (1925):
In connection with Funeral Rites, information was requested as
to whether it would be in order to wear Tuxedo suits on these
occasions to which the Grand Master (Indiana, 1924) replied that:
If the funeral is held after 6 :00 p. m. and a dinner is served it would
be appropriate to wear Tuxedo suit.
Tennessee (1925) :
The Grand Master granted a dispensation to bury with Masonic
honors a Fellowcraft, who was killed the day he was to have been
raised. From time immemorial it has been handed down to the fra-

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ternity that Entered Apprentices and Fellowcrafts cannot be 1uried
with Masonic honors, and yet here comes a Grand Master who
grants a dispensation to do a thing which he knows is not only
a violation of the law, but the setting aside of all precedents. Why
an Entered Apprentice or Fellowcraft cannot even appear in a
Masonic funeral procession. The learned Committee on Grand
Master's Address also approved this dispensation.
True, brother, true. You look at it in the right light, but how
about the fellow who doesn't attend? The family of the brother
who never attends a Masonic funeral howls the loudest when he
comes to die and but a quorum shows up to deposit him in the
grave.
The Grand Master also referred to the poor attendance of
brethren at Masonic funerals. He added: If we continue to disregard our duty in this respect it would be better to discontinue entirely Masonic burial services than to have them so neglected or
performed in such slipshod manner with so few Masons attending
and thus to bring the Fraternity into disrepute.

GAMBLING

60

Utah (1926):
The Grand Master: My observation is that our Fraternity often
makes a very poor impression upon the public upon practically the
only occasions when it appears in public, namely, at funerals, because of thoughtlessness on the part of the brethren and lack of
familiarity on the part of the officers and brethren with the funeral
ritual. I am of the opinion that Grand Lodge such recommend to
the constituent Lodges that their officers and members at convenient times rehearse the funeral ceremonies contained in the ritual
both for use at the public funeral ceremonies and at the grave, until
both officers and members are thoroughly familiar with the service
and the various signs and movements which are a part of it. I
would not go so far as to suggest that each Lodge designate some
Past Master regularly to officiate on all such occasions, but such a
suggestion might not be amiss. The brethren also ought to be cautioned by their officers to refrain from smoking on such occasions
and from loud conversation or laughter while the members are in
view of the public.
Wisconsin (1925):
To assist in the burial of a deceased brother is one of the most
sacred duties of a Master Mason. Every Mason, even at a sacrifice, or at some inconvenience, to himself, should feel in duty bound
to render this last service to a worthy member of the craft, even
though it may have been asked for an utter stranger.

61

The edict of Grand Master Boynton is in line with the action
of a large number of Jurisdictions and one consistent with Masonic
teachings. While we may legislate against Masonry as an organization sponsoring any affair wherein gambling, games of chance,
etc., are permitted, still it will be hard to prevent the individual,
Mason or profane, from "taking a chance."
Connecticut (1925):
The Grand Master: I feel that a marked change has come over this
Grand Jurisdiction in this last year. Every one has loyally upheld the
regulations regarding lotteries passed at our last Annual and the sentiment is overwhelmingly against such practices. Other bodies such as the
Shrine and the Grotto have put their stamp of disapproval upon them.
This being so in regard to this one phase of respect for law let us press
forward to the point where all the citizens of these United States, Masonic or otherwise, shall have that supreme regard for the law of the
land and the constituted authority the lack of which is placing us as a
nation in such poor light.
Illinois ( 1924) :
The Grand Master: It is my firm conviction that the practice of
holding any raffle, circus or any form of chance or gaming for the
use and benefit of any Masonic Lodge, and the use of punch boards
for the distribution of prizes in connection with and under the auspices
of constituent Lodges or members thereof, are detrimental to Masonry
and not in keeping with the principles of our great Fraternity. Individual
Masons who participate in the activities as outlined above are liable to
Masonic discipline under Section No. 235 of the Grand Lodge By-laws,
which is as follows :
"All Lodges and the members thereof are strictly forbidden to
give, or attempt to give, the aid or countenance of Masonry to any
raffle, lottery or gift enterprise."
From and after the date hereof, no Lodge of Masons nor member or
members of any Masonic Lodge shall engage in or have any part in the
conduct of any raffle, circus, or any form of chance or gaming. Furthermore, no Lodge of M'asons nor any member thereof, may use or participate in the use of punch boards, or similar devices, for the distribution
of prizes in connection with any enterprise conducted in the name of
Masonry or directly or indirectly for the pecuniary benefit of Masonry
or any Masonic Lodge, or any organization when membership is com-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

62

63

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

posed solely of 'Masons; neither shall any Lodge of Masons, nor organization of Masons, accept any of the proceeds of any enterprise as outlined
in this Edict.
It is ordered that this Edict be read in full in open Lodge at the
first stated meeting after it is received; and it is further ordered that
it be entered in full upon the records of each Lodge and be made a part
of the proceedings of said Lodge at the meeting at which it is read.
Kentucky (1924):
The use of gambling devices of any nature, such as raffles, lotteries,
punch boards, paddle wheels, spinning jenneys, and games of chance of
whatsoever nature, for the raising of funds for charitable or other
purposes, in connection with circuses, carnivals, theatricals, musicals,
fairs, bazaars, games, shows, or entertainments of any description,
whether held or operated under the auspices of any Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons itself, or any of its auxiliary organizations, such as
clubs, band, drill team, drum or bugle corps, orchestra, glee clubs, etc.,
also the giving away of chances on prizes whether attached to admission
tickets for such affairs, or otherwise, shall be strictly prohibited.
This amendment in no way bars legitimate entertainments for the
raising of funds, without gambling features in any form.
Louisiana (1924):
To the \Vorshipful Masters, Wardens, Officers and Members of Constituent Lodges under the Grand Lodge of Louisiana.
Brethren:
The tendency of the Masonry of the State of Louisiana to indulge
in the practice of giving fairs, circuses, and bazaars, the raffling of
automobiles or any other commodity, and the use of punch boards,
paddles, and other devices, for the distribution of prizes, under the
auspices of Lodges, and organizations composed entirely of Masons,
reflects upon the good name of Masonry and is not in keeping with the
tenets and principles of our beloved Fraternity; and, therefore, it now
becomes my duty to issue this Order prohibiting such practice by any
Lodge, Organization of Masons, or Mason.
The things forbidden in this Order are simply forms of gambling
and lottery which are prohibited by the laws of the state.
When any Masonic Lodge or Mason participates in, or carries on,
one of these gambling devices they not only violate the laws of the
State of Louisiana, but violate the law of Masonry.
Every Masonic Lodge, Organization composed of Masons, carrying
on these practices, and every Mason participating in these practices, is
guilty of un-Masonic conduct and subject to discipline.

You are directed to read this Order in your Lodge, and to warn
members against the things mentioned, and to see that charges are preferred against any Mason who violates the terms of this Edict.
Massachusetts (1924):
One of the fundamentals of our profession as Masons is respect
for the law. Now, while, as Masons, each of us may be privately guilty
of some infraction of the law, when as a Lodge or group of Masons
we indulge in a lottery we are making a public proclamation that our
profession is not to be taken seriously. The excuse is given that other
organizations conduct lotteries, why shouldn't we; and it is pointed out
that the law is not enforced upon them. What other organizations do or
do not do does not enter into the case. It is a question of what we
should do. It ill becomes us to engage in any practice, however it might
be excused by the presence of a necessity, which often does not exist,
that will give anyone an opportunity to sneer at our profession. The
position of Masonry is too high to be in any manner endangered; its
contribution to life is too valuable to be impaired in even the slightest
degree by any practice which, while it may be winked at, still remains
and in the last analysis will be regarded as a deliberate violation of the
statutes.
Lotteries. A lottery or raffle is a financial operation forbidden
by the law. The operation of lotteries and the sponsoring of financial methods that partake of the character of gambling by the Masonic Lodges of this jurisdiction will be adjudged a Masonic offense; and for the sake of our continued harmonious association, and
for the sake of the good name and character of our Fraternity,
such practice must cease.
Michigan (1924}:
The Grand Master found that an order issued by him to support an order against gambling devices was disregarded in some
cases. After making full report, he says:
I am satisfied, however, that Masons generally have come to a
realization of the fact that it must not be done, and feel that in the
future there will be no further cause for complaint.
Masonry is too big an institution to be obliged to run a gambling
house or give questionable entertainment for the purpose of raising
money to build Temples which are dedicated to certain holy things,
or to furnish the same, and, as this also was· the sentiment of Grand
Lodge, I have tried to eliminate these things from Masonic activities,
and have endeavored to drive home to Master Masons the idea that

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonry stands for something worth while, and should be an influence for good in the community, and that certainly it does not
countenance law breaking in any form. This institution of ours was
never intended to be popular in its present-day sense, and, above all
things else, it never was intended to be a playground for "jazz" and
the wearing of red pants.
Every tree is to bear fruit, and every institution must be productive. If the underlying principles of these organizations are not
such as to give them life and maintain a respectable standing in the
community without Masonic connection, then surely there is no good
excuse for their existence. The devising of new titles and jewels
for men to wear, and the desire to don some distinctive or outlandish garb, furnish no just argument to compel Masonry to stand
the criticism for their inexcusable activities.
Masons who live in the memory of their fellows, are those who
serve their fellows. The din and the noise and the display, and those
who cause it, are forgotten when they are gone. What we do or fail
to do to promote the welfare of those about us, is the test of service, not the regrettable parade and blare of trumpets and ribald
songs which cause decent, clean-minded men to hang their heads in
shame.
Mississippi (1925):
All forms of lottery, raffle, and games of chance in connection
with Masonic enterprises or entertainments, either direct or indirect are unmasonic and not permissible. This includes the selling
or buying of tickets that entitle the holder to a chance at something
and the selling or buying of something, with or without value, and
giving or receiving tickets that entitle the holder to a chance to win
something.

New Hampshire (1925):
The raising of Masonic money, in questionable ways, no sooner
got its start in Connecticut than it was hit by the Grand Master.
The folks who are eager to risk a gamble better not do it for our
fraternal purposes.
New Jersey (1925):
The Grand Master: I do hereby order that the use of emblems
and symbols of the Craft upon any gambling device or game of
chance is unmasonic and is prohibited; that lodges, clubs and associations composed of members of the fraternity shall not solicit
funds in any manner, except from their own members, without the

65

approval of the Grand Master, and I do further order that the
sending by members of t~e Craft of chain letters containing a hope
of reward or threat of misfortune is prohibited.
North Carolina (1926):

Th~ Gr~nd Master (Ohio) finds one lodge that has-would
you believe 1t ?-started a real, old-fashioned, unadorned raffle for
!odge funds-no camouflage about it. We thought such were obsolete
m. the~e st.ates. B~t it looks as if we can get a specimen of anythmg 1mag111able, tf we only wait for it to show up, in the Masonic
world.
The old bromide, "Our lodge room burned and we had no
.
msurance ;-may we not send out a broadcasted appeal for aid to the
lodges?" showed up as usual, but Ohio has already stopped this
by ample precedent,
North Dakota (1926):
What some men call their "minds" work in a peculiar manner.
Some ~aso~s.' who would not intentionally do a thing to harm the
Fratermty, JOln some other society, membership in which is based
on_ Mason_ry, and, under the name of that body, do all sorts of
th~ngs which they know are unmasonic. For example, nobody would
th1~k of conducting a lottery or other game of chance in a Masonic Lodge ?r u~der the name of Masonry. Notwithstanding this,
we find t~a.t m eight Grand Jurisdictions during the year, Masons
who had JOmed some parasit~ body were either admonished by the
Grand Master, ordered to desist or even proceeded against to compel
them to stop such practices. Most of the enterprises consisted of
raffling off automobiles or other merchandise or selling chances on
some article by means of a punch-board. As the "Big Masonic Playground" has called a halt in these practices maybe we will hear less
of them in future.
Nova Scotia (1925):
A Lodge of another Jurisdiction desired perm1ss10n to sell

lo~tery tickets to all the members of the Craft in Nova Scotia, to
raise funds for a new hall. In refusing such permission, the Grand
Master did not discuss the moral or legal principles involved but
simply declared that "no such wholesale scheme of canvass ~s is
suggested could be authorized by me."
Oklahoma (1925):
The following resolution was adopted by the Grand Lodge:
Any kind of gambling, including all games of chance, the use of

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

profane language, obscene talk and acts, are hereby declared to be a
Masonic offense, and a bar to initiation, passing, raising and affiliation, and shall subject the offender to suspension or expulsion.
Texas (1925):
As the writer sees it the Masonic lodge is no place for the man
who habitually uses vile and filthy profanity, and all such men ought
to be kicked out. About the most disgusting thing we can think of
is for the master of the lodge to open the lodge with prayer, and
close it with another prayer (always taking off his hat when he
mentions the name of God) and then go out on the public streets
and vomit vile and filthy profanity, like Vesuvius in eruption. Such
conduct ought to make a monkey blush with shame.
Virginia (1925):
The Grand Master: It has come to my attention that organizations making Masonry a basis for membership have been demeaning themselves contrary to the usages and laws of the Grand
Lodge of Virginia. Every Grand Lodge claims and exercises the
right to prescribe the conditions necessary to obtain membership in
any Lodge under its jurisdiction. This is an inherent right exercised from the first foundation of Masonry. The Grand Lodge also
claims and exercises the right to pass laws governing the Craft
and this right cannot be questioned, therefore, in consequence of
which sovereignty over the Craft the Grand Lodge has the undoubted right to prescribe the conditions under which a Mason can
retain his membership. Masons as individuals, or in groups, or in
organizations as Masons, are therefore amenable to the laws and
authority of the Grand Lodge. Organizations whose prerequisite to
membership in Masonic affiliation are Masons acting as such just
as much as if they were a group of Brethren from a Blue Lodge,
no matter how many degrees may intervene between that organizatio~ and the Blue Lodge. Therefore, as a consequence, they are
amenable to Grand Lodge authority. As a consequence, also the
Grand Lodge by authority inherent in it can prohibit Masons as
such from becoming members of any organization whose laws do
not prevent and whose policies encourage a violation of a spirit of
Ancient Craft Masonry.
West Virginia (1925):
The Grand Master issued the following:
Whereas, this office is reliably and credibly informed that there
has been, and is at present, in operation in some parts of the State
certain raffles or lotteries,· under one form or another, for the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

07

alleged
purpose
of providin
. organizations, in the
operation
of which
.
g hfu n d s f or certain
various sc emes not on! th B h
general public are solicited, which a~ts te d Y . e 1. ret ren, but the
1
of Masonry, and being thereto prompted
Therefore, by virtue of the
.
.
Y•
as Grand Master of Mas
. pWower a?d. a~thority m me vested
ons m
est V1rg1111a I do he eb
d
an d decree, and enjoin upon all L d
'
r Y or er
within the Jurisdiction of the Granod g{~d and members .of. ~odges,
servance of the laws of the Stat
'd' ge of West V1rgm1a, obconcerned in raffles lotte .
e prov1 mg such penalties for being
ries or any game 0 f h
'
as well as others enacted·
.. s
c ance whatsoever,
inhibit, restrain, forbid andbint~:~i:tuthor:~1~s ~f our State, and. do
by any member of any Lodg
f A p~r 1c1pat10n, or concernment,
sons in this Grand Jurisdictio: ~
nc1ent Free and Accepted Maor other games of chance f ' m anyd and all such raffles, lotteries
, or rewar or profit
d
h
name conducted and more
. II
• un er w atsoever
tempted to be ~onducted un~;:,ect1~e yn:;y and all. s~ch as are ator associations claiming to b
es of societies, or bodies,
e composed only 0 f M
conducted in or about our 1, emp1es d e d'1cated to G dasons,
d Mwhether
o.r elsewhere, and do order and decree that for a~ an
aso.nry,
tlons of these laws ' or of th'is Ed'
andd all · v10la- IC t , each and eve Y L
·
.
fair
. trial
. ry ando ge m this
G·rand
. Jurisdiction shall cause to b e given
v1ctlon, adequate punishment sh a II b e m
. fl'1cted.
'
upon con-

~Y t~ :':s~ r0 ~h~f~~~~ ~~~ ~

GRAND HISTORIAN
Time is removing from our midst man
the early history of the Frater "t .
~ wh.o were familiar with
Historian will necessarily be m Y inf Cl ahforma. The labor of an
L d
h
one o ove. A number of G
d
ran
o ges ave taken steps to collect d t th
or election of a Grand Historian It i: a
rough. the appointment
followed to advantage by this Gr~nd Lo~::. we think that could be
• It has been said, "It is not deeds or
written record of those deeds and acts."
acts that last; it is the
Idaho (1925):
It shall be the duty of the Grand M t
d H' as ~r at the beginning of
each Masonic year to appoint a G
be to collect historical data in I rt~n
istorian, whose duties shall
Id h
re a !On to the Mas . F
.
a. o and to present a short historical k
omc ratermty of
subiect at each Annual Co
. . s etch on some phase of the
mmumcat10n He m
b
II
compensation as the Grand L o d ge f rom year
·
ay shall
e a owed
such
to year
determine.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

68

69

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Kansas (1925):
.
lied to the importance
Once more the attention of thhe flotdhg:s ilsodcgae This sketch should
h·
· 1 ketc o
eir
·
of preparing an istonca s
d"
at the time the lodge was
1
"th the surroun mgs
·
deal very !arge y w1
hould furnish photographs not only of their
first orgamzed. Lodges s
b "Id"
"1n which their lodge has met
t of everv UI mg
·
present quarters, b u
· .
Every lodge should appomt
· ·
"ble to obtam same.
wherever 1t 1s possi
f
th" work confining the mem.
"tt
t look a ter
is
'
.
h t th work could be carried on
a special comm1 ee 0
bership to one brother only, so t
e
of the other members.
without taking up the time of consu mg any

\f

Nova Scotia (1924):
.
d . getting out real history.
The Grand Historian is enghage m pleted the history of their
. d"
·
"ght Lodges ave com
Under his irection ei.
similar compilation and eleven seem
bodies. Ten are workmg on a
H
however says that only ;;bout
to be getting slowly under ~~yd w~h Grand 'Lodge directions, the
half the Lodges have cor:ip ie h ther any record goes down to posbalance apparently not carmg .w e.
nt in Idaho. As a general
The same feeling is curre
terity or not.
wake up when it is too late.
rule on these matters we
Wyoming (1925):
.
I c
un
.
d b the Grand Lodge at its last Annua
omm . As mstructe
Y.
.
bl" h d the Grand Lodge His. .
G
d Historian had pu is c
.
1cat10n, our ran
h G
d Jurisdictions recogmzed 1JY us,
\ was sent to t e ran
. . ·
0
tory. ne eac 1
d"
L d e in this Grand Junscltct1on.
and one to each subor mate o g

GRAND LODGES
.
b rshi in Grand Lodges ha> natuWith the increase of m~m e
p
The Board of General
t' e to legislate to excess.
rally come the prac ic
G
d Lodge of England, and thos·":!
· t"mg in the ran
Purposes, as ex1s
h k
.
Ian has acted there as a c ec .
following that P
'
h
.
f the Proceedings. Where
.
t' eable in t e size o
The result is no ic
d L d
itself generally handles only
such a Board exis~s the Gra~
f~r g:he entertainment and instrucroutine matters, with more ume
•
.
f 't Members in attendance.
tions o 1 s
England (1925):
d.
t only the Grand Master
th Grand Lo ge e1ec s
.
I
In Eng 1an d
e
t the personal discret1011 of t 1e
r and 1eaves o
T
and the Grand reasure .'
of the other Grand Officers. In the same
Grand Master the selection 1 d" t Lodge) elects only the Master
the Private Lodge (Su JOr ma e
way,

and the Treasurer, and leaves it to the Master's discretion to select
his own officers. The Pro Grand Master informed the Brethren of
the Grand Lodge that this is a wise principle of governance which
has stood the test of time. The Grand Master, in dealing with the
matters which are left to his discretion, calls to his assistance some
of his principal officers, and this committee of personal advisers
is known as the Grand Master's Council.
Montana (1925):
Brother Hepner: The purpose of the Grand Lodge is to elect
all the Grand Officers above Grand Tyler. Out of forty-nine Jurisdictions, besides Montana, in the United States, forty-two,-or twenty-eight, to start with, absolutely have the same law as ours: California, Colorado, Delaware, Florida, Illinois, New York, New Mexico, North Dakota, North Carolina, Ohio, Michigan, Pennsylvania,
Rhode Island, South Dakota, Texas, Utah, West Virginia, and so
forth; they elect exactly the same way as we do. There are five who
elect in addition one other officer to those; the other officer that
they so elect is the Grand Lecturer. The reason for making that
provision is because the Grand Lecturer comes in close contact with
the respective officers of the Lodges, and so they feel that he, by
all means, should be one whom they should select. So, there are five
of those. Oklahoma in addition, elects for some reason or other,
the Grand Tyler, and they elect the others the same as we do. In
Alabama, it is the same. The Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens, the Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, which is the
same as ours, except the Deputy Grand Treasurer is elected in Iowa
and Massachusetts. In Massachusetts they have no Deputy Grand
Master. In Iowa, the Deputy Grand Master is a personal appointee
of the Grand Master. Mississippi elects the six we do, and in addition to that, the Grand Chaplain. They are particular as to their
Grand Chaplain, and they take no chances. In New J erscy and Wisconsin, they elect the same as we do, except they make the office
of Assistant Grand Secretary an elective office. In Washington, they
elect the same officers, except that they have no Grand Treasurer.
In the states of Kentucky and Virginia, they elect the first six officers we elect, an.cl in addition to that, the Senior and Junior Grand
Deacon. In Oklahoma, they elect the Grand Orator and Grand
Lecturer. All the officers are annually elected in the District of Columbia, Michigan and Arkansas, except the Grand Chaplain and the
Grand Tyler. In Georgia, in 1923, they elected the same as we did.
In the last report I have, there is a resume of the election and
installation without any suggestion that there was any change.
In forty-two out of the forty-nine, practically, they are elected
exactly the ~ame as we do.

70

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

A void Excessive Legislation. Masonic Grand Bodies, especially
in the last few years, have found themselves affected by the same
malady or disease which has attacked all public organizations,
namely, an excessive desire to legislate. When an assumed evil is
called to attention, the desire seems to be almost overpowering to
deal with it by legislation, regardless of what the results of such legislation might be. No one is especially to be blamed for this malady
which seems to have affected our entire civic and political life. But
it is time to remind our brethren that Masonry does not depend
upon legislation for its existence. If Masonic bodie.s cannot exist
without the regulation of the minutest details, not only for their own
procedure, but also of the life and conduct of the individual members and those who would seek to unite with the Fraternity, then
the process of decay of the Fraternity has already commenced. We
are usurping the functions of the Master, whose duty it is to set the
Craft to work and give them good and wholesome instructions for
their labors.
New Mexico (1925):
In looking through the various Proceedings, I find that some
jurisdictions, to save the Grand Master and to relieve the steady'
grind of Committee work, have Grand Orators, and they orate.
Many of these efforts are truly eloquent, and so long as the speakers
k~ep in the open waters of Masonic ethics and citizenship, what
they have to say deserves a better fate than interment in the pages
of Annual Proceedings where not one percent of the local membership and only the Committees on Foreign Correspondence ever read
them. Possibly this is well, for when some of these orators leave the
safe waters of ethics and hit the shallows of Risto-Traditional
Masonry, a student is filled with wonder, and a desire to know where
they get the authority for the stuff they deliver themselves of. Of
one thing we may be assured, Masonry will never have an acceptable
and accepted history, so long as these orators are permitted to inflict their imaginings on their "less informed Brethren."
New Zealand (1924):
Whenever a vacancy occurs in the office ·of Grand Secretary,
the Board of General Purposes shall advertise such vacancy in the
official paper of the Craft, and invite applications for the position,
and shall submit all such applications to a special committee of four
Past Grand Masters who have filled the position of Grand Master,
one from each of the four centers, who shall consider all such applications and make recommendation, the Grand Master will appoint,
and at the proper time Grand Lodge will confirm.

~EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

71

North Carolina (1925):
The Jurisprudence Committee recommended that th G
Lodge declare itself in favor of abolishin
.
.
e . r~nd
Grand Lodge Officers Th C
.
~ rotat10n m appomtive
.
e omm1ttee believes that the I
.
now stands with respect to the power f h
aw as it
appointive officers, is wise and just
~ t e Grand Master as to
nized prerogative of the G
an a proper and well-recogbe thorough!
d
rand Master, yet they believe that it should
Y un erstood that ther ·
..
that s h
. .
.
e is no prov1s1on or suggestion
.
uc appointive officers be promoted in 0 ff
b
h
mg Grand Masters.
ice Y t e succeedNorth Carolina (1926):
Brother Wilson (Kansas) himself "

~oys say. After permitting a lot of routine c~h~es to the bat,''. as the
t10n for a season he gives th
mgs to engage his attenwhat they deserv~ in the wa ofse c~reless lodge secretaries exactly
y o write-up on account f I k
o d s of preparing documents which will
o s ac methuf the Grand Lodge One b1" d
d
become permanent records
·
r use several hu
f · k
es o. m -and on the
s.ame page, too. Another, being in a hurr
ti on of ditto marks; a third never had y, thr:w m ~ great collecwr,rld than a common le d
·1
gone higher in the literary
th'
h'
a penc1 -no; dozens of them d"d th
ings, w ile others forgot to wash th F d
'
ese
before they began writing
e or grease off their hands
"- s first and others did th~ ~:u:t~~~~:~d t~7e lod ge, r~ll backward,
many such things four or five hund d
n~s. 1sn t it queer how
which to plague an efficient Grand ~ee s~cret~nes can hatch up with
letter, or an official's report is h"
ere ary. We hold that a man's
•
is personal or official
b
d
ar,d we do not care for lead pen ·1
b
am assa or;
c1 am assadors or
h
that proclaims as loudly as is h
•
any ot er sort
watch me!"
uman 1Y possible, "I am careless;
Oklahoma (1925):
.
Oklahoma never opens her Grand Lod e
.
.
mg promptly presented th
f
g sess10ns without hav't
e report rom the
<ind order of business This com "tt
comm1 tee on rules
·
mi ee presents a well
· d
program that not only greatly e
d"t
orgamze
xpe
I es matters
but
assu
th
b re th ren t h at no important matter shall b
I 'k
res
e
e over oo ed.
South Dakota (1926):
vVe read on the Title page "It · th d
i1faster to have the printed proceedin1gss e uty of each Worshipful
of the Grand Lodge read in

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE .
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

that no brother can plead ignorance of ~he tran:actions
open
ot
theLodge
Grand Lodge, " and wonder if that mandate is ever hved up
to :i~ it should be.
Texas (1925):
d
1 ine cases reThe Committee on Appeal~· (Ala~a:~aln ~~e
~pace of three
:~rred to them, and these were £1spf oste
d giving only the concluitting all statement o ac s, an
.
p~ges,
.
Th'is 10 oks like the sensible thmg to do.
>
mn of om
the committee.

::o;t

West Australia (1925):

d

n

0

The Report of the ~oa:d ~e ~~;:~iti~n ~£ c~na:i~~~~bl~a~=ng~h.
the reports of the 32 D1s/r~~d
too ~ften disregard instructions
0
It regrets that Masters
. g d
'th th doings at each Annual
to make their brethren acquamte w1 . e k h ve ever had an
Communication. How many members£, Git asds,Lo~ge proceedings?
.
f
d'
the volume o
ran
opportumty o rea mg .
f th elaborate reports and reviews,
Committees labor to bnng d ~r the circumscribed audiences comwhich should not be reserve
or
b h' The review of Fra. 1 f G
d Lodge mem ers 1p.
posed exclusive y o
:ant 00 rich a storehouse to be locked up from
ternal Correspondence is
•
k
ledge It deplores the ten.
ekers of Masomc now
·
the anx10us se
h
rowth of concordant or auxdency to ~la.borahte ord enco:r;a~~e~/ f~r their influence and wholly
iliary Societies t at epen
.
.
for their membership on Craftsmen or their km.

et

GRAND MASTERS
G
d Master are many and varied.
The duties devol;ing upon a ran ntend with is answering fool
One of the worst thmgs he has to cto th t could be solved if the
d · ·ons on mat ers a
k.
queries and ma mg ec1s1
lt the Blue Book and exerc:sc
party who makes them would consu
his brain.
r of Minnesota list only a few
The remarks ~f the. Gra~~ hM:st~s supposed to interest himself.
of the other questions m w ic
e
District of Columbia (1924):
change and men change with them.
The Grand Master: Times
.h
.
ideas of the relative
and go wit varymg
Grand Masters co?1e . h o~r Fraternity is concerned. What apvalues of matters m whic
b
regarded by my successors;
d .
t t to me may not e so
. .
peare
1mpor
an
e
but we have the comfortab 1e assuranc that the policies, prmc1p 1es

73

and ultimate purposes of Freemasonry are fixed and that necessarily
the efforts of all are directed toward the same worthy end. Under
such conditions energetic cooperation in the larger things will always
produce the desired results, and, if we couple with fraternal unity
of action a respect for and a broad tolerance of the views of others,
we shall reap the reward that follows upon conscientious effort.
Kansas (1926):
Like many others he (Grand Master of Louisiana) consumes
considerable space in reporting a list of cases where special dispensations were refused. We consider this portion of a Grand
Master's address absolutely useless.
Minnesota (1925):
Various requests have heen received enlisting the action of the
Grand Master, the Grand Lodge or its approval, some of which
follow: Anti-Vivisection. Edict of the Order of Veiled Prophets.
Appeal for Anderson, in Sing-Sing Prison, New York. In connection with Prohibition. Pleading for funds to build an 0. E. S.
Temple in Washington. Appeal for aid in feeding the German
children. "Near East." Appeal by the Grand Logia of Cuba, for our
assistance in obtaining a ratification of the Treaty before the United
States Senate. United States Bulletin, with the action of the Grand
Lodge of Kentucky, regarding the Liquor and Narcotic traffic. Appeal of the Knights Hospitaler for the naming of a Grand Commander of the State. "Soul of Masonry" a drama for Masonic
Lodges, requesting a letter of approval, for use among the Lodges.
Appeal, with an extensive report, from the Masons of Texas, New
Mexico and Arizona, in favor of a Tuberculosis Sanatoria to be
located in that section of the country, and asking co-operation. Official Publication Proposal, from a Publishing Co. of Mount Morris,
Ill., all of which are in the office of Grand Secretary, for action
by the proper committees.
Montana (1925):
Grand Master Bell said he did not believe he had been elected
Grand Master to tell the brethren what they knew to be the beautiful part of Masonry, and that it was his duty to tell of things he
believed were wrong, and proceeded to do so, frankly and openly.
North Carolina (1926):
Grand Master David E. Moulton evidently finds the duties
of Grand Master exacting; for he remarks in the exordium, in his
Annual Address, that "it is a source of wonder" how Grand Masters

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

in the past have "contributed so much to the Craft from out their
busy lives." It is a matter of the difference between the outside looking in, and the inside looking out. The average Mason looks on the
Grand Master as a figurehead who puts on a six-quart hat to lay a
corner stone once in a while, or makes a nice speech at a lodge banquet when he feels like going, or at the end of his year dolls up in his
best clothes, reads a paper, opens Grand Lodge, tells a few of them
they are out of order or are recognized, invites them all to say
"aye" or "no" in proper season, and calls it a year of glory. The
Grand Master with a year's experience in office knows better. He
verily is no lounge lizard!
We also agree with this. We simply cannot see how any Grand
Master may say to a lodge, "Your by-laws say you shall meet on
the first Monday at eight p. m., I give you permission to make
Thursday at four a regular meeting." And yet a dozen of them are
doing this very thing, and "getting away with it" under the "prerogative" claim. We do not believe any man or set of men has any
right or prerogative to cause disrespect for law-deliberately-and
yet that is what such a dispensation does. An ordinary man like
themselves can say, "Yes, go on and meet when you wish, tomorrow afternoon, and ballot and transfer business." The fact that they
installed him as Grand Master a while ago make little difference;
he is only a man like themselves. Next time, they will ask for the
dispensation; and, if it is slow in coming, they will say, "Well, it
will be all right. Let's go ahead!" Then next time, they forget to
ask for any dispensation; and the law to them is worth the proverbial tinker's dam.

ship in the Order of the Eastern Star from being blackballed?"
The first was referred to the calendar, and answered the second,
"It is none of our business."

74

Tennessee (1925) :
Among the invitations to attend functions that the Grand Master declined were the following: To address a meeting of Shriners
at Sacramento; to address the school children at Fernley; to address
the Scioto Club, and to be the guest of an Eastern Star Chapter.
Now of what interest is all this stuff to the Masons of Nevada?
Is it to show the great popularity of the Grand Master or to pad
his address?
The Grand Master (Michigan) had a great many queries submitted to him during the year, the bulk of which the Blue Book
could have answered. The Grand Master did not tumble to the fact
that the propounde;:s did not care a rap about the question of law.
All they did want was a letter from the Grand Master.
The questions asked have run the gamut, from "When is the
ful! of the moon?" to "How to prevent lady applicants for member-

75

Western Australia (1925):

'!f

e have always held firmly to the opinion that our system of
keeping the Grand Master in office for a number of years is better
than that adopted in many Grand Lodges in the United States
of changing the Grand Master every year. Here we have an admis~
sion from a Grand Master that his term of office is not long enough
to accomplish really serviceable work for the Craft, but nevertheless he is obliged to stand aside in order to make room for another
Brother who in turn has to learn the work.

HIGHER DEGREES
After selecting this title the following, written by Albert Pike,
came to our attention:
"It may be too late to change a common terminology. But,
however we may refer to these ancillary of appendant degrees let
us not make the mistake of pretending that a 33• Maso~ is
'higher' than a Master Mason, much less than the Master of a
Lodge. Let us by our conduct and our speech always acknowledge
the Grand Master of Masons in his own Jurisdiction to be the highest officer the Masonic World has ever known or ever can know."
. It ~s a~ true today as when penned. Education along this line
m!ght m time tend to eliminate the practice with corresponding
good results.
Maryland (1924):
And he;e it must be noted that a grave responsibility rests upon
the Symbolic lodges-the constitutent bodies which form this great
and. noble Grand Lodge. The lodges which are represented here
are the very cement and support of Freemasonry. You are the foundation of Ma.sonic endeavor in whatever form it may choose to assume .. To~ little attention is given to the importance-the over:Vhelmm~ in:portance-of the Blue Lodge so that one of the dangers
m America is t~e fact that too often Symbolic Masonry is regarded
as a me.:e. step~mg-stone to other degrees which in the final analysis
are no higher' than the first three.
. The M~son .who wears the emblem of Commandery, or Scottish
Rite: or Shrme, IS erroneously and too frequently considered to have
received those "arcana" which entitle him to greater Masonic knowledge and standing when, as a matter of fact, it is the practical appli-

76

REPORT ON .CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

cation of those truths we have learned in the Symbolic Lodge which
entitle him to Masonic regard. How seldom do we see the "Square
and Compasses" in comparison with the emblems of other degrees!
Let it not be thought we wish to detract from a due regard for
Chapter, Council, Commandery or Scottish Rite, but here is the
thought intended to be conveyed; all of these are outgrowths of
the Symbolic Lodge and are appendant orders only. All of them are
not only appendant but dependent upon the first three degrees,
not only from the fact that a man must be a Master before he can
join these other bodies, not only because the history of our Order
tells us that all Masonic effort sprang from the "Blue" Lodges, but
also because a man must continue to be a Master Mason if he
wishes to remain in the above-mentioned appendant orders.

whether a man is going to be a good Mason is in the committee on
investigation. The conflict which was thus brought on between the
so-called higher degrees and the Grand Lodge became very acute,
and I asked the Grand Commander of the Knights Templar, the
Grand High Priest of the Royal Arch Chapter, and the Gruud Inspector-General of the Scottish Rite degrees, and the Potentate of
the Shrine at Portland, to appoint committees to meet with a committee which I appointed, to go over this part of the by-law• :111 cl
see if some provision could be arranged which would be har111:11iious to all the bodies. In the Code which is now up for revision I
believe a new section is suggested, which will be harmonious 11°11,(
acceptable to all the bodies named. This revised Code is submitted
through the Committee on Jurisprudence for your consideration,

North Dakota (1925):
It is not probable that we will ever get rid of the term "Higher
Degrees" or that many within the Craft will ever get to know that
there is no such thing as a higher plane than the level of equality
on which we all stand. The desire to take additional degrees and
to be the holder of sounding titles will always persist and we shall
reach the time when the question will not be under discussion. One
Grand Master suggests making the Lodge so interesting by study,
discussions and research that the members will not need to seek
elsewhere for entertainment and information. In other Grand Jurisdictions an attempt to curb aspirants for advancement is in the form
of restrictive legislation, requiring proficiency in certain lectures or
work, or that a prescribed time must elapse between taking the
Master Mason Degrees and petitioning for the degrees in the Chapter or Scottish Rite. This is largely a moot question. Some men
will become Masons. A whole lot will never be anything but
Joiners.

Philippine Islands (1924):

Oregon (1924):
The Grand Master: The by-laws of the Grand Lodge are under
revision. At our last Communication we passed a by-law which prohibited a Master Mason from applying for any of the so-called degrees until after he had been a Mason one year, and had passed
a satisfactory examination in the candidate's lecture of the third
degree. This provision has worked a great injury upon the Royal
Arch Chapter and the Knights Templar, and I presume on other
organizations dependent upon Blue Lodge Masonry. It has never
been my idea that one could force a man to be a good Mason by prohibiting him from seeking more light in it. The place to determine

77

It has so often been iterated and reiterated that the higher de·
grees are no part of Freemasonry. This statement is no more a tor·
rect one than for the grade school principal to say that there is no
more to education after the student has gotten his eighth grade
diploma or for one to say that arithmetic is all there is to mathematics. Scottish Rite Masonry is just as much Masonry as is that
of the Blue Lodge and it is high time that those who are instructors
in our Order admitted it and endeavored rather to make a distinction
which will be intelligible to the neophyte.
Ancient Craft Masonry comprises the three degrees hut Ancient
Craft Masonry in Scotland and England contemplates more than
three degrees. In the United States it is confined to three and it is
these three that our Grand Lodges guard with justifiable jealousy.
But to say that they are all there is of recognized Masonry is misleading and equivocal, especially when our Grand Lodges at their
Communications received and honor as such, high officials in Chapter, Commandery and Consistory and work in cooperation with them
in charitable and benevolent enterprises, sharing their temples and
in fact often being the same individuals in one or the other of all
these higher bodies. Let us get away from the dissimulation and get
a ground of common understanding and expression and phraseology.
Call ourselves Ancient Craft Masons, or Blue Masons, but let us not
arrogate to ourselves the only right to be called Masons for this is
not correct.
Virginia (1925):
The old notion that Blue Lodge Masonry knows nothing of
"Higher D'egrees" is as derogatory to the sense of Blue Lodge Masons as it is contrary to the facts.

78

79

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Wyoming (1925):
Several jurisdictions have passed legislation prohibiting its Master Masons from petitioning the "Higher Bodies" until a certain
period of time has elapsed after taking the third degree and an examination as to proficiency passed. It would seem best to us if this
legislation came from the "Higher Bodies" themselves.
.
One Grand Master welcomed his distinguished visitors by calling them the "Big Masons." This is one reason why the conscientious
Masons are beginning to think that the profane only consider the
"Three Degrees" as the gate-way to Masonry and it is a "Big Mason" they want to be, their only desire is to reach the "66th" · by
the easiest route. \Vhat is to become of the "Blue Lodge Mason" if
this attitude to Masonry should grow? Are we making "Masons" or
are we just sprouting a plant that is to "bloom" when it reaches the
"steenth degree?"
The writer has every respect for those organizations which
draw their membership from the Masonic ranks, as there are many
beautiful lessons taught and the aim of most of them is to make
"B ett er M asons, " no t "b'igger ones. " I know this, because I belong to
some of them.

fails to meet these requirements, the American government should
place him on a boat and return him to the land from whence he
came.
If such statements be unmasonic, then wipe from our charges
that Masons shall not countenance disloyalty and rebellion, but be
quiet and peaceful citizens, trne to their country and just to their
government. If such an expression be improper, then obliterate forever from memory the Masonry of \Vashington, and those Masonic
statesmen, who gave much and gave all to plant upon the battlements of enduring liberty the fadeless Stars and Stripes.

HISTORY
Masonry has played its part in the affairs of the past and especially in the foundation of the United States.
_Too often, however, Grand Orators and others jump at conclusions and make themselves ridiculous. Before giving utterance to
such statements they should remember the adage "Be sure you're
right, then go ahead."
'
The tendency is to claim too much for Masonry operating as
an organization, in such fields of service.
Georgia (1924):
If an alien comes to America to earn his living and make this
land his home, he must be taught to realize that this is the best
country on earth and that he must take out his papers of American
citizenship. He must learn that we are not running an I. W, W.
boarding school with a Bolsheviki curriculum. He must understand
that there is only one language spoken here and that is the American language. He must know to the fullest that America has no
place for any per~on unless he believes in one flag and that flag
the Stars and Stripes. If after due and proper time such a person

Maine (1925):
An exchange has this to say about the first Grand Master under
the American system:
Prior to the American Revolution all charters for Masonic
Lodges in this country were issued by the authority of a provincial Grand Master, appointed from Great Britain, or the Grand
Lodge of England, Scotland or Ireland granted warrants.
When the Declaration of Independence was issued there was
a movement at once among our Masonic Lodges to declare their
independence. Eventually they elected John Blair, an attorney of
note at Williamsburg, who with his officers, was installed October
30th and the American system was established. The system is now
the same in every State in the Union.
George Washington recognized Blair's ability as a jurist by
making him a member of our first Supreme Court in 1789. This able
lawyer, loyal citizen and Mason died at Williamsburg in 1800.
Massachusetts (1925):
These. Latin-American Grand Lodges are constantly accused of
being political. Those which we have investigated are no more po·
litical than our own Masonic. bodies before and during the American Revolution. The principles of liberty, equality, and fraternity
were taught in our Lodge rooms and then the brethren as citizens,
though not as Masons, put these principles into practical effect in
their civil lives. Paul Revere did not make his famous ride as a
Master Mason, but as a citizen. General Warren did not fight at
Bunker Hill as a Mason, but as a patriot. Washington did not lead
the soldiers of the Revolution as a Mason, but as an officer duly
authorized by organized government. Yet the principles which actuated their public lives were taught in their Masonic Lodge rooms.

80

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Michigan (1924):
Ancientness is not necessarily a sign of greatness. The py;amids
of Egypt are worth less than the modern school house. Things of
value are slow coming. They travel over roads that are long and
travel slowly. There is no instantaneous greatness, perfection is the
last to come.
The flag that floats over the nation and that adorns our lodge
rooms has in it every bit of emblem that was ever unfurled in
the name of liberty. It has taken the tears of Israel, the conq~sts
of Alexander, the victory of Marathon, the campaigns of Caesar,
the ashes of Savanarola, the exile of Dante, the blood of William
the Silent, the daring of Martin Luther, the Magna Charla, the
will of Cromwell, the slaughter of the Huguenots, the landing of
the Pilgrim Fathers on Plymouth Rock, the career of Napoleon, the
valor of \Vashington, the chivalry of Jefferson, and the martyrdom of Lincoln, Garfield and McKinley to make its field so blue, its
bars so red and its stars so bright.
Missouri (1924):
At the end of that struggle (the American War of Independence) when Masonic Lodges here turned away and constituted
themselves independent of the Parent Grand Lodge, the Grand
Lodge of Pennsylvania communicated to the Grand Lodge of England an expression of the wish that the friendly fraternal relations
which had existed between the English and American Freemasons
would continue; and though England at that moment was smarting,
as any proud nation would have done, under defeat, hy her own
children, the Grand Lodge of England responded at once with a
communication which the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania values
among its records, a communication which thoroughly and heartily
reciprocated the good wishes of the Brethren in Pennsylvania, and
gave from the Grand Lodge of England, to American Freemasons
then, and for all time, fraternal good wishes.
Oregon (1924):
Whereas, Edwin Markham is the dean of American poets and is
especially noted for his poems on the brotherhood of mankind, and
Whereas, the said Edwin Markham was born at Oregon City,
Oregon, on the 23rd day of April, 1852, and was initiated, passed
and raised to the sublime degree of a Master Mason in Acacia
Lodge No. 92, at Coloma, California, and is now a resident of the
state of New York, and is known both at home and abroad for the
excellence of his poems and his upright virtuous character;

REPORT GN CORRE3PONDENCE

81

Be it Therefore Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Ancient,
Free and Accepted Masons of Oregon does hereby nominate him for
the honorable position of poet laureate of Masonry for the United
States;
Be it Further Resolved, That the Grand Secretary be instructecl
to transmit copies of this resolution to the various Grand Lodges
of the United States, with the request that they concur in this
resolution.

Scotland (1924):
A matter of ancient history has come to light. It appears that
in 1872 the Earl of Dalhousie was presented with a bust of himself subscribed for by members of Grand Lodge and other craftsmen, and that after paying expenses the promoters of the Fund
had £ 150 left over. Upon the Earl being consulted as to the disposal of this sum he directed that it should he placed in the hands
of a Committee to form a special charity to he known as "The Dalhousie Annuity"; the annual proceeds to he paid to the aged wife
or widow of a Scottish Freemason. The application of the interest
seems to have been lost sight of, or at all events no action was
taken, and at the present day the original £ 150 has increased to
£648, so it was decided to get to work forthwith and spend the interest earnings.
South Carolina (1924):
From a brief report of the Grand Historian, we excerpt the
following passage which is very interesting:
I happened to come across a passage, in my endeavor to recover
something of what Sherman burned up in the South, which is well
worth preserving. I find that there was a rapid recovery from the
strain of the war on the other side of the line. In 1866, the Masons
of one northern state voted $3,400.00 to the Masons of South
Carolina.
In 1906, the Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania celebrated the bicentennial of the birth of Benjamin Franklin, and in the elegant
volume of the proceedings of the occasion, I find this interesting
and important item on page 125:
"The Pennsylvania Gazette, No. 480, February 15 to 21, 1737-8,
tells of a Masonic celebration in Charleston, South Carolina, where
Freemasonry had been introduced as early as 1731 or 2, by Brother
Thomas Whitmarsh, a partner of Franklin and fellow member of
St. John's Lodge, who had gone to Charleston to set up a press and
establish a branch printing office."

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

In confirmation of this statement, in part at least, King in his
Newspaper Press of Charleston, says on page 8: "Thomas Whitmarsh arrived in Charleston early in 1731, and was the publisher of
the Gazette."
In the Charleston Library the invaluable file of this ancie::nt
newspaper shows that it was "published by Thomas Whitmarsh and
the first number was issued January 6th, 1731-32."
Virginia (1925):
California-As Washington and most of his Generals, several of
the signers, Thomas Jefferson and Patrick Henry were all Virginians, it is up to this writer to set him straight. Contrary to his
bold statement· the fact remains that Jefferson was not a Mason nor
was Patrick Henry. It cannot be shown that all the signers of the
Declaration of Independence except four were Masons, nor that
Masonic pins were worn in Paul Revere's day and time. It is true
that the country was organized chiefly by Masons and along Masonic lines, but while nearly all Washington's Generals were Masons, Charles Lee was the exception, and not Benedict Arnold who,
unfortunately. was, till expelled.
I have on my desk a pamphlet published by the Smithsonian
Institution relating in detail the discovery in North Carolina of a
buried Lodge some six feet by nine with all the characteristics
of a Lodge including the skeletons of the Stationed officers with the
gavels, stone pedestals, and a stone altar. Each of these were in
their proper places with nothing in the north. The article is elaborate and the conclusion was irresistible to the investigator that it
was a Masonic Lodge of great antiquity and that it proved that
the Indians had Masonry prior to the settlement of the land by
white men. This conclusion is not mine. I think that members of
Sir Walter Raleigh's lost Colony of Roanoke Island, whose bodies
were never found, were prisoners of the Indians and left this as the
best possible notification to future generations of the fact, because
those of those generations would know that it was necessarily the
work of Englishmen and hence of members of that lost Colony.
This goes to show, if my reasoning is correct, that there was Masonry in that lost Colony in what was then Virginia. The document is copied verbatim in the work I am slowly doing on a history .of Masonry in Virginia.
West Australia (1924):
The Grand Master: I want to give you an instance of the
strength of that power which came to my personal notice only a few
weeks ago. I was visiting a Lodge under the English Constitution,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

83

~v~: t~:d ~~:~r p~f tt?a\;o~ge hwas a. very able and gallant soldier,
F

r

m

e

out

African war, and is a most ardent

~~emason. He. told me that the circumstances of his initiation were
~a e\extraordmary. He was initiated in a Lodge in Wales just beore t e outbreak of the war in South Afr1'c
d h
d · d ·
a, an
e was passed
an .. ra1s~ m Sout~ Africa during the war in a Lodge held in the
~rit1sh Imes, of which Lodge no less than four of the office-bearers
~~ere B:ers. These office bearers presented themselves at the British
:ne un der. a flag of truce, and were brought blindfolded through thf'
lmes an mto the Lodg . ft
h
h
.
ff b
e, a er t ey ad earned out their duties as
;hr~:~he~~e;sli~!s~h:n;oa~f:w:~e~owere again bli~dfolded, conducted
instance which h
go home. I give you that as an
f F
a: come t~ my personal knowledge that the bond
o
reemasonry is somthmg stronger than warfare somethin
:tronger than any political tie, and something which .:Ve ca 1 ~
orward to, as being able to help us to solve our difficult"
n oo
1es.
News Item:
. The cost of the most magnificent of modern b "ld"
.
trifle compared to that of Solomon's temple which a ou1 . mgs is .a
mates given in the bulletin of the Illinols Societycc o~d1Ang ht~ est1reached the tre
d
re 1tects
.
men ous tota1 of more than $87 000 000 000
'
mg to present-day values.
, ' '
' accord-

~he. account further states that the cost of Solomon's
and its mternal decorations and the paraphernalia
Temple
wonders of the olden time.
was one of the

i:cc~rding to Vi~lapardus, the talents of gold, silver and bra
use m its construction were
1 d t h
ss
399,110,000.
va ue a t e enormous sum of $34,-

d

high:r~eh;~:;se~: ~~we!~ is gener~lly placed at a figure equally as
god, according to Josephus were valu d

~40,000 talents, which reduced, according to Chapel': reduction t:bl at
o every day coinage, equals the sum of $1,876,481,515.

es,

fll The vessels of silver, according to the same authority were
s I more v.alua~le, being set down as worth $3,246,720,000. '
The priests vestments and robes of sin ers $
g ·' 10,050,000; the
trumpets were worth $l,OOO,OOO.
To the above add the expense of buildin
.
etc., ~nd some wonderful figures present themsefve~aterials, labor,
1 en thousand men he ·
d
80 000 h
f
wmg ce ars, 60,000 bearers of burdens
f '
ewers o stone, 3,300 overseers, all of whom were em I
or seven years, and upon whom b . d
h .
P oye
es1 es t e1r wages Solomon bestowed $33,669,885.

d

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

If the daily food was worth forty-five cents each, the sum total
for feeding this army of workmen during the time of building totals
up to $344,385,440.
The material in the rough is estimated as having been worth
$12,726,685,000.
The several estimates show the total cost to have been $37,212,210,840.

1. Children of deceased Master Masons.
2. Children of Master Masons who by reason of age or permanent physical disability are unable to care for their children.
3. Children of Master Masons who have been adjudged insane.
4. Children of a Master Mason whose wife is dead or who is
separated from his wife and who is able to provide them food and
clothing, but who cannot provide a suitable home for them.
5. Children of a Master Mason who, if living, is separated from
his wife, such children being under the control of their mother or
others who are able to furnish them food and clothing, but not in a
position to provide a suitable home for them.
6. Children of Master Masons who are temporarily unable to
care for their children, or whose children by reason of the death of
their father or otherwise arc under the control of others who are
temporarily unable to care for them.

84

HOMES
These Institutions already in existence are and will remain
monuments to the Fraternity. It will always be a debatable question
as to whether this is the cheapest and the best form of handling this
activity.
Some Grand Lodges who have Homes question whether greater
efficiency could not be had and at less expense through a system
other than an institution. Having once started, however, they must
continue.
Georgia (1925):
In all of its undertakings the Masonic Home is the most
prized and deeply loved feature of our institution. We know the
history of its progress, but there should be laid upon the heart and
conscience of every Georgia Mason its hopes and its needs. We are
the big brothers of those who are following on, and their future and
their success depend upon us. This Committee points with pride to
the successful administration of the Home's affairs during the past
year. In the development of the institution an interesting feature has
arisen. Following a careful inquiry it has developed that there are
instances where orphan children can be kept in the homes of their
mothers provided an appropriation be made for their maintenance.
In a number of cases the expense would be less than the cost
of the care of the child at the Home. Under our present law, the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Home is not authorized to make
such appropriations, and your committee recommends that the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Home be clothed with this authority.
This statement would seem to bear out the idea that an institution is not always the best solution for all cases of needed relief
and assistance. The inmates of the Masonic Home number 154 boys
and girls, and two old ladies.
Louisiana (1925):
In starting a children's Home their sensible list of the eligible is:

85

Maine (1925):
Is Masonry in Maine doing the amount of benevolent work
which it should do? Many states are maintaining Masonic homes,
hospitals, orphan asylums and schools. New York with approximately 300,000 members spends annually for charitable purposes
more than $350,000. Illinois with its 270,000 members spends $130,000
per year in maintaining its Masonic homes, besides doing other
charitable work. Pennsylvania with about 200,000 Masons maintain~
several homes and hospitals including one which accommodates
over 700 guests and is the largest Masonic home in the world. It
has more than $2,000.,000 devoted to benevolent purposes. To accomplish these results every initiate in Pennsylvania has been required to contribute $20.00 for charity in addition to the regular
fees for the degrees. Last year this amount was raised to $40.00
to be paid by each initiate. Compare this contribution with the
minimum fee of $30.00 charged by most of our Lodges in Maine
where oftentimes the entire amount is spent for running expenses
of the Lodge before the end of the year, leaving nothing for
charity. Ohio with 187,000 members already has a home for over
200 guests and is building a hospital to cost $700,000. Indiana with
120,000 Masons spent last year nearly $100,000 in running its home
where over 300 guests are cared for. Georgia with 67,000 Masons
spends over $40,000 per year for charity. Alabama with 50,000 members cares for its adult dependents and orphans at an annual expense of $65,000. Connecticut with 41,000 members spent in 1923
over $100,000 in charitable work. New Jersey with 78,000 cares for
its dependents at an annual expense of over $65,000 and also pro-

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

vides adequate hospital facilities for the sick. Kentucky with 72,000
Masons spends $75,000 per year for its orphan children and is raising a fund of $1,000,000 to provide a home and hospital. Massachusetts has recently voted an annual assessment of $2.00 per year,
for each member, for charitable purposes. These instances show that
Masonry in Maine is not doing as much charitable work as other
jurisdictions.
Maryland (1925):
Up to the present time they have collected over $82,000 toward
their proposed Masonic Home. The Grand Master says:
There has been offered for sale, nearly the whole state of Maryland and each particular location presenting very forcible arguments
as to why his should be selected.
Pennsylvania (1925):
Grand Lodge (Minnesota) is performing a fine work of Masonic philanthropy at Rochester, Minn., where the noted Mayo
hospitals are located. It has a representative there who calls upon
and, when necessary, gives aid and relief to Masons and their kin
who are there for treatment. In 1924 he made 6,601 such calls; he
took care of 28 ambulance cases; and in 77 cases of death made all
arrangements for caring for the bodies, routing and shipment, and
often attending to railway tickets and sleeper reservations for
friends. As we understand the statement, for this service $3,149.83
was disbursed during the year. This is a fine demonstration of practical Masonry.
North Carolina (1926):
Isn't the inventory of donations to ·an Orphanage a queer thing,
"fearfully and wonderfully made?" In the list found in this book,
we discover "two boxes satsumas," and then the list very immodestly
exposes to our unfeminine gaze twelve pairs teddies and one "camesole," which, if the lister had been a woman, would' have beeu
spelled correctly. Others are "one beautiful lady's cloak," (we are
not told who the "beautiful lady" was); some pork and beans; some
cigars; and a box of flowers, together with more satsumas.
Texas (1925):
Past Grand Master S. M. Bradley submits a very comprehensive report on Correspondence. We copy his table of Masonic Home
statistics:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

No. Guests
Alabama.........................................................
346
Arkansas........................................................
86
California (two
250
Connecticut....................................................
166
Delaware.......................................................
15
District of Columbia....................................
52
Florida............................................................
49
Georgia...........................................................
144
Illinois (two Homes)...................................
291
Indiana............................................................
330
Kansas............................................................
156
Kentucky (two
175
Massachusetts...............................................
57
Michigan.........................................................
101
Minnesota.......................................................
14
Mississippi......................................................
168
l\.fissourL........................................................
304
l\.iontana .............:...........................................
21
Nebraska (two Homes)..............................
82
New Hampshire............................................
14
New Jersey....................................................
121
New York......................................................
522
North Carolina..............................................
442
Ohio.................................................................
220
Oklahoma.......................................................
128
Oregon............................................................
14
Pennsylvania (two Homes).......................
350
Tennessee (two Homes)............................
290
Texas (two Homes) ................................... 449
Virginia..........................................................
133
Washington...................................................
46
Grand Totals.........................................

5,747

87

Cost of
Maintenance
$ 65,000
39,500
150,000
93,500
10,000
32,000
20,000
34,000
130,000
%.700
42.000
78,000
35,000
50,000

20.000
46,000
148,000
21,000
40.000
14,000
67,500
250,000
160.000
133,000
42,000
20.000
160,000
70.000
150.000
44,600
19,000
$2.898.000

Virginia (1925):
The Grand Master: I must ask your indulgence while I call your
attention to a few of the thirty-three Grand Lodges which have established and are now maintaining institutions of this character.
First, let me show you that, as stated above, every jurisdiction touching Virginia is engaged in these laudable enterprises and for your
information and comparison I give the Masonic population of membership of these jurisdictions. North Carolina, with a membership

REPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

of 38,348, maintains a home for the old people at Greensboro with
forty guests; Tennessee, membership 42,000, shelters and cares for
seventy-five adults with hospital facilities; Kentucky with 71,000
Masonic population has ·eighty-four adults in its $350,000 home, and
is now raising $1,000,000 more for increased facilities; \Vest Virginia, with membership of 29,000, has erected a home at the cost
of $220,000, with an endowment fund of $200,000, and an additional
relief fund of $38,000; the District of Columbia, membership 21,000,
has provided a home with every comfort and modern convenience
for its forty-five adult guests; Maryland, with a membership of
30,000, has hitherto maintained a relief fund similar to our Grand
Charity, but this being inadequate, is raising by volunteer contributions $1,500,000, a per capita tax amounting to fifty dollars; little
Delaware, with only 5,600 Masons, is indeed a true example of self
abnegation and devotion to duty maintaining a $100,000 home with
twenty guests, provided with every necessity and comfort of life,
while Virginia, in the center, under her Grand Charity Fund assists
subordinate Lodges to the extent of about $6,000. It is also an interesting fact to us and worthy of your attention that every jurisdiction taken from Virginia soil to extend the domain of our great Republic are alert to the necessities of the situation and are meeting
the demands of progressive Masonry in the most commendable and
approved manner.
I have given you the information in connection with Kentucky
and West Virginia, once a part of this State, and now direct your
attention to the contiguous Middle West. Ohio, membership 180,000,
maintains a home with 147 old folks; Illinois, membership 246,000
has 179 in its refuge; Indiana, membership 117,000, maintains a
home with 155 guests; while Michigan, with membership of 134,000,
has 119 adults, and \Visconsin, with a membership of 149,000, maintains a $250,000 home with a $200,000 endowment fund and a large
continuous per capita tax for its maintenance. This, I think, will
prove the claim that we stand isolated and alone in our inactivity
and it proves also by comparison, if in no other way, that the claim
sometimes made that there is no need for an old folks home in Virginia is entirely unwarranted by the facts in the case.

ing the year by several events worth noting :-(a) A reception given
to the "United Daughters of the Confederacy" at the Home (We
have met "Job's Daughters"; this must be a new family.) (b)
Thanksgiving Day when the children had a turkey dinner and a
holiday; (c) a visit from the Grand Matron of the Order of the Eastern Star; (d) a delegation of Sir Knights and their wives; and (e)
on Fourth of July "a private picnic and fish fry on the banks of White
River with an ample supply of ice cream, cake and soda pop, with
fireworks at night." (The Home doctor could doubtless say where
the "fireworks" were.)

88

West Australia (1925):
The Report of the Trustees of the Masonic Orphan's Home
(Alabama) is as interesting as usual; 45 boys and 53 girls are cared
for under its roof. They were all brought to Grand Lodge and entertained. During the 15 years existence of the Home there has not
been a death in it. The routine life of the Home was enlivened dur-

89

INSURANCE
It seems impossible to make a law drastic enough to prevent
Insurance Companies or others from advertising and soliciting business "for Masons only." Masons patronizing them naturally expect
preferred treatment. When not given it, of course, results in dissatisfaction and criticism.
Perhaps the only logical treatment is to educate the Fraternity
generally to the idea that all business is subject to the same general
rules; and that when patronizing concerns operated "for Masons
only" they must expect only such treatment as they would receive
from any other Corporation.
From some of the things that thrive on this basis we must conclude that "Barnum was right."
Arizona ( 1925) :
The Grand Master: Last August I received a communication
from one of our lodges stating that a certain well known member
of that lodge had died, but that the Masonic insurance company in
which he held a policy of life insurance was acting queer in what
looked like an effort to avoid payment of the claim.
Having known the deceased brother very well indeed and having visited in his home, I immediately took the matter up with
the said company as Grand Master and called for a full explanation and statement of its side of the story. Sometime later I received
a letter to the effect that the company had decided to pay the
claim, which I understand was done.
The lesson for the Craft to draw from this is that the general
prejudice of Masons everywhere against the use of the word "Masonic" in any business connection is neither unreasonable nor wholly
unfounded in past experience.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Minnesota (1926):
\Ve call particufar attention to the decision of the Grand Master,
holding that a Master or Secretary of a Lodge has no authority or
right to furnish a member of such Lodge with a list of its members
for the purpose of soliciting insurance. Your committee heartily
endorse this decision of the Grand Master and hope that any similar
attempt on the part of any Mason in this jurisdiction to commercialize Freemasonry will be stifled at its inception.

Texas (1925):
To the Jurisprudence Committee was given a pamphlet of a Life
Association which held out the inducement that "membership and
management of this association are confined to Masons exclusively."
The use of the word "Masonic" for business purposes being prohibited by the law of the Grand Lodge, the offending association
was notifed of this fact.

90

Pennsylvania (1925):
The Grand Master: Recently there came to my notice certain
activities on the part of Masons holding agencies for some foreign
insurance corporations which confine their insurance privileges to
Masons only. These activities are so marked in certain sections of
our Jurisdiction that I fear very few of the newly made Masons
escape their solicitation.
While I have no desire to find fault with the character of the
insurance offered, nor question the benefits to be derived therefrom, nevertheless, I do feel that at least in some cases the methods
employed to sell policies are undignified and unworthy on the part
of any member who values the good name of the Fraternity.
It is not a difficult matter to presume on the Masonic relationship especially when dealing with the newly initiate. Indeed so
thoroughly do some of these agents prosecute their work that they
do not wait until the petitioner has been approved but enroll him
as a policy holder at once, with the assurance that. in the event his
petition for initiation and membership is not approved, his money
paid for the insuranec policy will be refunded.
It would be illuminating to know by what method any insurance
agent is given the names of prospective members of our Fraternity,
and I regret that this whole subject came to light so very recently
as to preclude the possibility of a searching investigation being
made.
However, I deem it of sufficient importance to throw out a
note of warning to all offenders by saying that any improper use
of the Masonic relationship, in my judgment constitutes a :Masonic
offense and while we do not have jurisdiction over corporations encouraging such sharp practices, we do have jurisdiction over those
who represent them, and I trust the District Deputy Grand Masters
will see to it that Lodges are duly informed as to their rights, as
well as their duty, and govern themselves accordingly.

!ll

INVESTIGATION COMMITTEES
If we. were to select the most important Committee in the
Lodge organization we would unquestionably choose the Investigation Committee. Upon the results of their labors depend the success
and prosperity of the Lodge. Too often the view is taken that if
nothing can be found against an applicant he should be admitted.
Every inquiry should be directed to ascertain whether or not the
petitioner will be of aid, strength and stability to the Institution.
Upon the Committee rests the proposition as to whether their
Lodge will contain "Members" or "Masons." This is an age in which
the door should always be open to the reception of the worthy and
well qualified, but closed against the self-seeking, curious or ambitious.
Kansas (1926) :
The increasing number of trials suggests that the neglect upon
the part of investigating committees may be working a serious injury to the institution of Masonry. So many men are knocking at
the door of Masonry that it behooves every lodge to exercise the
utmost caution in admitting new members, and this can only be accomplished through efficient service on the part of investigating
committees. Members of this most important committee should first
make careful investigation as to jurisdiction, and to do this they
must know the law. They should make it their business to know
from personal observation whether the candidate is physically qualified. They should then make diligent inquiry as to his character
and habits and should satisfy themselves as to his fitness for :Masonic honors. If the petitioner has resided but a short time within
the jurisdiction of the lodge, then the inquiry should extend to the
several places of his former residence.
Montana (1924):
Once more have we traveled over thQ Masonic quarries and
viewed the labors of the craft. What impressed us most is the fact

93

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCJ;J

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCJ;J

that most of the jurisdictions are seeking to inquire more intimately
into the character and standing of applicants by means of added
questions in the petition, and more thorough reports of Investigation
Committees; this is a step in the right direction, particularly needed
in the larger centers of population. Right here in Montana we had
a resident notorious as a keeper of questionable resorts; whose
mere suggestion of a desire to become a Mason would have elicited
derisive laughter; yet he went to a large city in another jurisdiction
and under claim of having never intended to abandon his father's
residence as his own, although he has resided and voted in Montana for many years, came back wearing a Masonic emblem and a
showing that he was made a Mason in that large city where he
spent a few months. If the petition had demanded fuller details of
residence and an inquiry at the place where he resided in Montana,
Masonry would have no cause to blush in shame at the travesty of
this man being made a Mason. Expulsion for misrepresentation will
not wholly cure the malady.

Victoria (1926):
Recommendations (New Brunswick, 1925): (a) The necessity
for the most stringent inquiries and written reports on the qualifications of candidates for initiation prior to the taking of the ballot.
(b) That the Committee of Enquiry, when investigating proposals
for membership in the Craft, take into consideration the financial
position of the Candidate with respect to life insurance or other
provision for himself or dependents.

92

New Brunswick (1925):
The Grand Master referred all inquiries as to Masonic practice
to the Grand Secretary, but he called attention to the constitutional
requirement that "no person shall be made a Mason, until his name,
age, address and profession shall have been sent to all the members
in the summons"; also that it "be borne in mind that a candidate at
the time of his initiation should be known to be in reputable circumstances."
New Hampshire (1925):
The Committee on Jurisprudence (Arizona) said that any investigating committee ought to be competent to decide upon the
eligibility of a petitioner, with recourse to the Grand Master. True
enough, but competents of this particular kind seem to be somewhat
scarce, in the time of emergency.
South Dakota (1926):
The one proposed to be submitted to the Investigation Committee is a reflection upon the honor and faithfulness of such brothers
as should be chosen for the work. · By all means we should agree
with the Grand Lodge of Minnesota that the use of the questionnaire
should not be compulsory. Good use could possibly he made of
some sort of questionnaire in the larger cities where candidates ni,ight
not be well known.

INTERESTING READING
Unfortunately some of the interesting topics presented at the
various Grand Lodges are not available to the members of the Craft.
Those who have access to the Proceedings of the various jurisdictions will find the following orations, papers and discussions instructive and entertaining.
Year
Jurisdiction
1925
"The Great Symbol of the Craft" ................ Alberta
"Early Freemasonry in Canada" .................."The Builder" Aug., 1925
"Preparation" .................................................... District of Columbia 1925
"The Purpose and End of Freemasonry" .. Georgia
1925
1925
"Landmarks and Creeds".............................. Idaho
1924
''Stephen A. Douglas" .................................... Illinois
1925
"Masonry and the Constitution" .................. Iowa
1925
"The Great Task of Abraham Lincoln" .... Iowa
1925
"Masonic Traditions".................................... Kansas
1925
''Facing East'' ..................................................... Louisiana
"Ancient and Modern Freemasonry" ........ Manitoha
1924
''Religious Agitation" ....................................... Minnesota
1925
1924
"Sterling-Reed Educational Bill" ................ Montana
"Compass and Compasses" ............................ Montana
1925
"Masonry in Montana" .................................. Montana
1924
"According to Law" ........................................ Nebraska
1925
"Rise of the Guilds and Cathedral
Builders" .................................................... New York
1924
"Can the Comacine Masters be Regarded
as Ancestors" .............................. ~............. New York
1925
"Manhood and Masonry" .............................. North Carolina
1925
"Youth and Masonry" .................................... Vermont
1925
LEGISLATION
The original idea was that governments were established to
protect the rights of the individual from invasion by others. In the
present day we have departed from that and started upon a course
of regulating the individual by law.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Some one estimated that in the last five years 62,000 laws were
passed; 65,000 decisions were made to interpret them. Over 630
volumes of law reports have been published during the same period
to set forth these decisions. Perhaps the pendulum may swing back.
It is impossible to get away from the fact that there is too much
"Thou shalt not."
Former Vice President Marshall gave a solution when he said
he would repeal all laws of conduct and re-enact the Ten Commandments, the Golden Rule, the Declaration of Independence, the
Constitution of the United States, and enforce them.

a long while that Congress was turning out too many laws and the
48 Sovereign States so called were doing the same thing. By reading some of the Grand Lodge reports throughout the 48 Grand
Jurisdictions, I note the craze for legislation. Legislation is the
panacea for all our ills. If a law is placed upon the statute books
in a State, there are some Masons who think it should be enacted
immediately into Masonic law. Now the position I take is one that
every Mason is amenable to the laws of the State and Country, and
there is no necessity for the fraternity to re-enact statute law into
the Masonic law. If we do so towards one law, it will mean the
enactment of the entire statutes of the State. I think it is sufficient
that when a man is made a Mason he assumes an obligation to .be
true and loyal to the laws of the country in which he lives. I think
that in itself is quite sufficient.

94

Montana (1925):
Past Grand Master Day writes a long letter to the Grand Lodge
(Montana), in which he says that Masonic Grand Bodies are attacked by "an excessive desire to legislate," and he adds that "Masonry does not depend upon legislation for existence." He adds:
"If Masonic bodies can not exist without the regulation of the
minutest details, not only of their own procedure, but also of the
life and conduct of the individual members and those who would
seek to unite with the fraternity, then the process of decay of the
fraternity has already commenced. We are usurping the functions
of the Master, whose duty it is to set the craft to work and give
them good and wholesome instructions for their labors."
Masonic Grand Bodies have found themselves affected by the
same malady or disease which has attacked all public organizations,
namely, an excessive desire to legislate. When an assumed evil is
called to attention, the desire seems to be almost overpowering to
deal with it by legislation, regardless of what the results of such
legislation might be.
But it is time to remind our brethren that Masonry does not
depend upon legislation for its existence. If Masonic bodies can not
exist without the regulation of the minutest details, not only of their
own procedure, but also of the life and conduct of the individual
members and those who would seek to unite with the fraternity,
then the process of decay of the fraternity has already commenced.
Rhode Island (1925):
The Grand Master: I picked up a report of a Grand Lodge in
the Grand Secretary's office of Rhode Island the other day and it
reflected considerably my sentiments. It had been printed in 1876
and it told about the mania for legislation, which I have observed
and spoken about upon a number of occasions. I have thought for

95

Virginia (1926):
Grand Master Price's address was quoted with judgment, making one natural mistake. Grand Master Price was not "bound by
the constitution," Brother Ponton, for we never had any such imitation of the system of civil government of these United States, individually and collectively. We have "The constitutions of Masonry"
only, as our fixed and binding law. We have a Digest of our Statute
Laws which we can amend, alter, or repeal at will. We hold to the
prerogative of the Grand Master to temporarily set aside any of
those laws when he thinks it best for the good of the Craft In
recess he is the Grand Lodge. This has always been our law and
ours is the senior of all the Grand Lodges as now organized, dating
from 1778.
LIBRARIES
Those jurisdictions that have provided traveling libraries have
supplied a long-felt want, and the demand for such a service continues to increase. With the advance in science, this means of
information may in time become obsolete, but there is no better
way of furnishing a Masonic education to a member located in
outlying districts than through this plan.
The Grand Lodge libraries of Iowa, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, and the Supreme Council of the Southern Jurisdiction
A. & A. S. R. are examples of what time, patience, and perseverance
may accomplish.
Canada (1925):
I should like to reiterate the opinions which I expressed last year
as to the value of libraries in constituent Lodges. No Lodge need be,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE

or should be, without a few books of Masonic value to which the members may have access. The cost of two or three standard volumes i~
not much, while the energizing and stimulating effect of their perusal,
especially by the younger Masons, can not be calculated.

LOAN FUNDS

96

Michigan (1925):
Pennsylvania and Iowa are stressing the use of circulating libraries.
Pennsylvania has employed these this year for the first time. Iowa, this
year, made a decided change in the libraries themselves. Instead of
sending out a large case of books, they sent out a small case of carefully
chosen volumes, including modern works on Masonic history, symbolism,
prin'tiples and Masonic fiction.
Missouri (1925):
The traveling libraries are still being utilized extensively in various
sections of the state and, from reports, appear to be supplying a long·
felt need.
The bureau of three hundred volunteer speakers, representing all
walks of life, has been appreciated by our Lodges. \Ve do not receive
reports from all Lodges as to the use of these speakers, but from information at hand we are led to believe that almost two thousand addresses
and short talks were given by our speakers during the past year; and
let us say at this time that the thanks of this Grand Lodge are due
these Brethren who have given their time and ability to bring their
messages to the members of our Fraternity. Money cannot measure
the value of such service.
Pennsylvania (1925):
The Grand Lodge traveling library has evidently won appreciation
of Lodges and members. Though each Grand Lodge District has been
supplied with this library, many Lodges, and individual members have
purchased it. To some Lodges the library has been presented by Past
Masters, or enthusiastic members. There is always inquiry as to whether
or not the library will be enlarged ; and concerning "The Little Masonic
Library" published by the Masonic Service Association.
Victoria (1925) :
The Board has decided to establish six traveling library sets
(for country Lodges), each set containing twelve volumes of Masonic
works, and to be available to each Lodge for a period of two months.
Applications for the loan of any particular set must be made to the
Grand Secretary, and will be dealt with in order of the date of receipt
of the application.

97

Finan.cial .assistance to deserving boys and girls to help secure
an education 1s one of the greatest services that can be performed.
W~ere ~rand Lodges function in this way it surely carried out the
saying: Cast Your Bread Upon the Waters and It Will Come Back
Buttered Toast."
. Some assume that a Grand Lodge engaging in this are duplicating the work of the Knights Templar. The field is unlimited
and there can not be too much work of this character, even if
operated by every branch of Masonry.
Delaware (1925):
The Grand ~faster visited each one of the twenty-two Lodges of
the jurisdiction. He refers to the good which Grand Lodge has done
by the establishment of scholarships for aiding qualified young people
to o~tain a college education. Five scholarships were awarded last year,
rangmg from $62.50 to $187.50. He recommends that the assessments
levied on the Lodges to supply funds be increased from 10 cents to
15 cents per member. T11e recommendation was adopted.
Georgia (1925):
This Grand Lodge maintains a Student Loan Fund of which loans
are made to enable deserving young men and women to acquire such
educational and industrial training in the institutions of higher educa~~on, as will better qualify and equip them for a life of useful citizenship.
I he sum of :f:l,260.00 was loaned from this fund during the year to
seven students who, otherwise, would have been unable to continue their
studies. This is certainly a practical application of the teachings of
Freemasonry, and it is to be hoped that in the near future all Grand
Lodges will create a Student Loan Fund to assist in the education of
the coming manhood and womanhood of the country. It is with sincere
regret ~hat we must admit that the Grand Lodge 'of Texas has no Student
Loan l•und.
New Mexico (1925):
.
A total of thirty-seven loans have hrcn made hy this Grand Lodge
m the two years of administration of this fund by the same committee
for both years.
The aggregate amount loaned, excluding several loans in process of
completion, is $6,411.40. These loans have been made to nineteen young
men and to eighteen young women. All loans arc made to students
atten~ing institutions of higher learning, as provided for i11 the By-Laws
of this Grand Lodge. Eleven of the beneficiaries of this fund are at
the University of New Mexico; five at the New Mexico State College;

98

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

99
allowed to these institutions are t k
students are beginning to pay back ~h=~r ~p, andL already some of the
to twenty-six students.
oans.
oans have been made

two at Montezuma College, East Las Vegas ; one at the New Mexico
Military Institute, Roswell; one in the New Mexico State Normal, East
Las Vegas; three at the State Teachers' College, Silver City; one at
the New Mexico School of Mines, Soccoro; one at the University of
Texas; two at Baylor University, Waco, Texas; one at the University
of Colorado; one at the University of Michigan; two at the University
of Arizona; one at Homer Institute, Kansas City, Missouri; one at the
University of Nebraska; and two at Harvard University, Cambridge,
Massachusetts.
Loans in the total sum of $480.00 have been repaid in full; part payments of loans have aggregated $465.48, and interest paid amounts to
$26.30. Very few loans are in any way overdue as to payment, and the
policy of this committee has been not to discommode any worthy beneficiary of this fund who is financially unable to repay the loan promptly
when due, but to extend further time in deserving cases. It is the opinion
of your committee that all loans made are good and will be ultimately
repaid.

Ninety orphan children have been aided cl .
h.
income of the educational fund to the
t
urmg t ts year from the
fe~ ent of $9,087.50. This work is
real constructive work The be~ ft
and cents but if
.
f e I .s o it cannot be measured in dollars
.
'
we, as a ratermty, carry it on in the r
..
and m the proper manner, its benefits will be manifested
ope~ spha1nt
acters throughout our state Th .
.
goo c rall the work that should be. done eb m~~?1e/10; is hardly sufficient to do

i:

1

~~~~d~~~ble ~ri~cipal of the educ;tioi::1 ~ ~,;c\ ~~o:l;;a~:eri::r::s~td t~~

' ' an
recommend that ways and
b d .
increase of the fund to this
Th
~cans e ev1sed for the
educational fund and $6 000 . sutmh. 1 ere is now $213,528.60 in the
'
'
111
e oan fund T 0 t·
h ·
I recommend that $15 000 · b d b
·
s art t e mcrease,
th
'
m on s e trans fer red fr
1
:~ ~:~ ;du~a~ona: fund, and that the irreducible pri~~al eo~e~~;aed~::~
a .
un . e p aced at $225,000, and the loan fund remain the same
s it dnobwl t~, and the balance of the educational fund be considered
expen a e mcome.
as

0

North Carolina (1925):
The Craft in North Carolina has reason to be proud of its Educational Loan Fund which, in the three years of its operation, has enabled
many young people to attend training schools and colleges in the pursuit
of educational preparation for their life work. The scholarships are
distributed through the school authorities out of allotments made to
twenty-two institutions, one-half being divided among the State Teachers'
Training Schools, and the other among the denominational institutions
in the state. Twenty-two of these loan funds have been established thus
far and aggregate $25,000, all raised in the past three years.

Philippine Islands (1925):
North Carolina, like New Mexico has a M
. L
F
th b f ·
'
asomc oan 'mid f r
b e ;ne it. of de~e;ving North Carolina college students. This wou~d
e a eservmg activity of any Grand Lodge as it help
d
•
s nee y young men
and
. womben to get a ~allege education and reimburse the loan fund f
th e1r su sequent earnmgs.
rom

Rhode Island (1925):
North Dakota (1925):
A resolution was adopted providing for the combining of several
Masonic Student Loan Funds established by Grand Lodge, Grand Chapter
and the Grand Commanc\ery, and that the Fund is to be known hereafter
as the Educational Fund of the Grand Lodge, A., F. & A. M., Grand
Chapter, R. A. & M., and the Grand Commandery K. T. of North
Dakota. The report by the committee indicates that twenty-seven students
received help from the fund during the year and that loans are being
repaid with reasonable promptness.
'
Oregon (1924):
Our student loan fund is now being utilized to its fullest extent. We
have not made any loans to any institution outside of the University of
Oregon and the Oregon Agricultural College. Almost the full amounts

This Grand Lodge maintains an Educational Fund from

h' h 1

;~~e made to. enable des~rving young men and wom~n to a~e:~d s~~~
. ge of higher educat10n, and the trustees of this f cl
h
during the
·
h
un report t at
year sixteen sc olarships were granted to
1
.
amounting to about $5 000 Th". .
wort 1y appltcants,
h
.
. ' ·
ts ts a commendable Masonic work and
~e 1o~e· t~eRth1me will soon come when all Grand Lodges will f~llow
. e ea o
ode Island in this line of Masonic servi
mvestment of Lodge funds could be made than in the c;d Nt? bettedr
industrial tra · ·
f h
uca ton an
mmg o t e coming manhood and womanhood of the
country.

Texas (1925):
L

T~e Mason~ of. New Mexico have accumulated a Revolving Student
oan

und, which is loaned to deserving boys and girls to enable them

..

100

IHJPORT ON CORRBSPONDJ<JNCE

to complete their course of study in some college of higher education,
and Grand Master Turner says of this Masonic undertaking:
"I am exceedingly proud to report that this undertaking is proving
very satisfactory and successful. We have in force today, or have had,
about forty loans to students in higher educational institutions. I am
informed that, without exception, these young men and women are
measuring up to the expectations of the committee, who so ably conducts
the affairs of this commendable undertaking of the Grand Lodge of New
Mexico."
This is a commendable service which the Masons of New Mexico
are rendering in the cause of education, and other Grand Lodges would
do well to emulate the example of New Mexico.

* * *
This Grand Lodge (Iowa) has no Masonic Home for the care
and support of their unfortunate brethren and their dependents, but
follows the old plan of making annual donations. There is a Masonic
Charitable Educational Fund, the purpose of which is to render assistance
to needy children of gramma·r and high school age. No better investment of Lodge funds can be made than the education and training of
the coming manhood and womanhood of the country.
LODGE OFFICERS
The following quotation from Kipling is applicable to Lodge
Officers:
"It ain't the guns nor armament,
Nor funds that they can pay,
But the close co-operation
That makes them win the day.
It ain't the individual,
Nor the army as a whole,
But the everlasting team work
Of every bloomin' soul."
It is to be regretted that the suggestion of Past Grand ·Master
Sherman to the effect that the functions ol L~dge Offic.ers m~ght
be divided one set to deal only with the business affairs of the
Lodge, and the other with the ritualistic side •. has not been d~veloped.
It would be an experiment well worth trying. . Some officers are
articularly fitted for ritualistic work only while others do not
P
h"
'ft
Gi'ving each man in line an opportunity for
.
possess t 1s g1 .
service in the field most agreeable to him should produce satisfactory
results by putting more men to work.
·

HEPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE

101

Canada (19~5):
The office of Master of a Lodge is one of the greatest importance
and requires of the incumbent vastly more than the ability to learn the
ritual and confer the degrees.
The welfare of the Lodge is in his keeping and its success or failure
is in proportion to the wisdom and discretion with which he manages its
affairs. A knowledge of Masonic Law as practiced in our jurisdiction
is essential. No one should accept the office of Master of a Masonic
Lodge unless he has a fairly good knowledge of Masonic Law and
parliamentary procedure, and is determined by study and research to be
in reality what he is in name, Master of his Lodge. The means are
within the reach of all; all that is required is energy and application.
The Wardens, who may be required in the absence of the Master to
succeed to his duties, should feel that their responsibility in this matter
is as great as the Masters. In a great measure, it is the fault of the
Lodge and its members, if the government is faulty. No one should be
elected to the East who has not shown that he possesses the necessary
qualifications for that important position.
A poor Warden or Senior Deacon will never make a good Master.
A good Warden or Senior Deacon may not have the necessary qualifications for a good Master. For this reason, the system of regular
promotion, regardless of qualifications, should be at least modified,
remembering that merit is the just title to our privileges. I know of
cases where a year's apprenticeship in the kitchen is necessary to gain
the coveted office of Junior Steward.
Manitoba (1924):
The success of the Lodge depends, in the last analysis, on the zeal
and efficiency of the Secretary, and we can always justify extended
reference to his duties. We do not propose to elaborate our views here,
but we beg to express the hope that serious attention will be given to the
the desirability of training Lodge Secretaries in their work. For our
own part, we would lay down the dictum that a Past Master is the best
type of individual to be chosen as a Secretary. He has a fairly good
conception of the work of the Lodge, and a more or less. intimate
acquaintance with its members. He is, presumably, qualified to initiate
policies and practices for the advantage and progress of the Lodge. It
may, likewise, be assumed that he is dependable, enthusiastic and mindful
of his obligation to the Craft as a whole. With a fair amount of instruction in the keeping of books, he could be expected to render satisfactory
service as long as he cared to hold the position. It would not be
advisable to enact constitutional provision, making it obligatory for a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE.c\fCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Lodge to appoint a Past Master as its Secretary, but an understanding
to this effect would go a long way towards improving the administration
of affairs in the constituent Lodges.

MISSION OF MASONRY

102

Nevada (1924):
Next year they are to act upon the proposition to make Secretaries
of Lodges, who have served for five years, permanent members of the
Grand Lodge, with a vote. We have not encountered anything that will,
in our opinion, work for the greater interest and efficiency than this.
The Secretary of a Lodge is a tremendously important factor in Masonic
life. The thing that will make his service more intense and energetic
will work for the greater good of all. This proposition ought to work
out that way.
Utah (1926):
The Grand Master: The suggestion has been made a number of
times in the past few years that it would be well to have at least one
of the Stewards a Past Master so that the neophyte at our door might
be assured such a reception as would leave with him pleasant memories
of the minutes devoted to preparation for our initiatory ceremonies. I
am in hearty accord with this suggestion and hope that some of our
Lodges will try the plan and see whether it is as good in practice as it
seems to be in theory.
In this connection may I also say that it seems to me that the
brotherly custom that prevails in many if not all of our Lodges of
advancing a brother once appointed to the line as Junior Steward, each
year during good behavior and without the scrutiny of his qualifications
as they would have were he not in line, is all wrong. The elective
officers of a Lodge, as well as the appointive ones, should be chosen for
their qualifications successfully to govern the Lodge and to perform their
respective functions in the Lodge and should not be advanced except for
merit.
I observe from the Lodge returns that in at least one case a very
young Mason has been elected Secretary of his Lodge. The Secretary
of a Lodge might be likened to the hub of a wheel. If he is the right
kind of man he is the center of Lodge activities and is usually retained
in office as long as he is willing to keep the job. The Secretary can
be and nearly always is the Master's most trusted and valued lieutenant.
There may have been particular reasons for the choice in this case but
it seems to me that Lodges ought to exercise great care in the selection
of a Secretary and that generally speaking he ought to be a seasoned
member of the Craft.

103

The "Mission of Masonry" should be SERVICE.
Aldus in Venice, 1501 A. D., pasted above the door of his work
shop his conception of service, which can be applied to Masonry:
. "Whoever you are; I earnestly entreat you to dispense your

b~smes~ as soon as possible, and then depart, unless you come
hither like another Hercules, to lend some particular assistance· for
here will be work to employ you and as many as enter in this pl~ce."
Alberta (1925):
vVe are all agreed upon the question of the kind of Institution
to which we are privileged to belong. Let us endeavor to keep it so
by not allowing it to be used for the protection of those who do
wrong or promote the welfare of one who is not entitled to it. Freemasonry is performing a great service in welding men together and
teaching them ideals of a great common Brotherhood, and if we by
our efforts can strengthen these bonds we will have fulfilled that
duty which is required of us. While we continue to do this there
is no power on earth that can undermine our Fraternity. It is only
when we are inclined to deviate from this path of righteousness that
we are in danger of weakening an Institution founded on the purest
principles of piety and virtue.
Delaware (1924):
How can the Mason serve his community? First of all he can
give his moral and financial and physical support to those institutions in the community which make for its welfare. He can lend
the church a helping hand, whether he likes the minister's sermons
or not. The minister isn't the Church any more than the Master of
t~e Lodge is Masonry. He can get behind the task of public education and work to see that the boys and girls of the present generation
have th~ best sch~oling in books and character building that money
~nd ~rams. can give them. He can encourage public playgrounds,
hbranes, mght schools, hospitals, DeMolay Chapters, and Y. M.
C. A, and Y. W. C. A. movements. To him who has the spirit to
serve, opportunities are not lacking.
Indiana (1926):
The character and efficiency of Freemasonry is determined by
the character and efficiency of the individual Master Mason. Therefore, a petition for our degrees should not be accepted from any man
unless he is a moral, upright man, and a loyal, law-abiding citizen.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The only danger we need apprehend will be fr?':1 within a!1d
f
'th t our Order The assaults of our traditional enemies
not rom. w1 ~~h monumen;al calm but we will do well to carefully
we can view w1
'
d
·
h of us
uard our own gates. Duty, honor and gratitu e re.quires ~ac
g
the good name of the Fraternity unsullied. This must be
to preserve
th
than by
our constant care. We can best serve by examp 1e ra er

you make a gentleman out of a roughneck, and I believe that the
standard cannot be too high nor the qualifications-moral, mental
and spiritual-too exacting.
During this year we have had and are now having an unusual
number of trials. These used to be the exception, but now they
seem to excite no comment. More care at entrance would mean a
less stringent evil. Quality should never be sacrificed for quantity,
and if necessary cut your expenses so that quantity will have no
part in your program.
The promiscuous giving of Masonic emblems as souvenirs is to
be deplored. It cheapens the Fraternity and makes a laughing stock
of our sacredness.
When Masonry by various means and devices must entertain
her membership in order to hold their attention and their attendance there is something radically wrong, and I should like to see our
Masters be what they should be, i. e., Masters and teachers, and labor
to instruct and enlighten the Brethren, who are hungering for Masonic knowledge. The harvest is rich, but the laborers are few.

104

precept.
.
To be a Mason is a privilege that carries a corresponding. re·s age of J'azz, fast living, banditry and bootlegging,
sponsibility. In thi
f
d
it behooves each of us as Masons to stand four-squar~ or. soun
morals and good government. We can do neither by v10latmg the
laws of the land.
it
In this great republic the law is the voice of the p<;ople, and
rests, not upon bayonets, but upon the heart and con.science of our
citizens. Law enforcement and obedienc~ to the law 1s, t~~refore: a
al duty clothed with a very real spmtual sigmora 1 as we 11 as a leg
'
·
· · 1
'fi
Indeed upon this question and the underlying prmc1p es
~~P~~nd~e.the ver; life or death of the American ideal of self-gov· k t ·
shameful fact that the gun-toting bootlegger 1s ep m
busines~s b~ the so-called upper classes in America .. His best customer
· not t h e toug h o f the underworld • but the fashionable clubman.
1s
Thus does the upperworld support and enlarge the underworld.
The gunman whether bandit or bootlegger, will be above the
law so long as ;he clubman and the bridge player ~re allowed to
his beer as long
f 't and the workingman will demand
flaunt an d d ey1,
.
as the four hundred are allowed their cocktails.
.
.
\Ve all rejoice in the knowledge that on these vital questions of
morality and patriotism there is not. now and has never been any
reason to doubt or question the attitude of Freemas~nry.
The spirit and genius of the republic, enshrined m Old Glo?.
'JI
d
long as the three and a half millions of Masons m
wi en ure s 0
'bTt
America feel and exercise a keen sense of personal respons1 i 1 y
for our laws and institutions.
History repeats itself, and Masonry is ~g~~n, ~s it has been many
.
. the past , the Reserve Army of Civ1hzat1on.
times
in

105

ernment.
It ·

Maryland (1923):
The Grand Master: Masonry was never intended fo1: child;en
fools nor anyone mentally incompetent, ~nd I should .like to imnor
' th Craft the necessity for care m the selection of mapress upon
e
'
·th can
. I y
n't make a silk purse out of a sow s ear, ne1 er
tena. ou ca

Missouri (1925):
What do we care about the antiquity of our Fraternity? \Vhat
does it matter whether our ancestors did or did not participate in
the building of King Solomon's Temple? Neither pedigree nor ancestry can make any institutioi'.i or individual great. Not what Freemasonry was yesterday, or a thousand years ago, but what it is to·
day and what it shall be tomorrow, these are the all important questions to the good Freemason and the true man everywhere.
We should elect to our Fraternity only those men who are good
and true, and then the symbolic story of the ritual in the various degrees should be given to the candidates in a sincere and earnest
manner by only those sincere and earnest Freemasons who exemplify
out of the lodge, in their daily lives, at home and in business, the
sublime lessons and truths which are intended to be taught the candidate. Unless we stand before the candidate as clean and true men,
the language of the ritual will be as sounding brass and tinkling
cymbals, falling on deaf ears because the candidate, knowing us,
will likewise know that the ceremony is mere hollow mockery. We
cannot honestly ask the candidate to wear his apron spotless unless
we keep our own aprons clean from the stain of sin in this life.
Freemasonry is not a political organization, but through the influence of its moral teachings on the mind of the individual it should
exert a powerful and wholesome influence on the politics of the land
and likewise should become a beautiful handmaiden to the church,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

106

107

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Every Freemason should be a builder and each one must build his
own building, not a building of bricks of clay, bound together by
common mortar, but a temple built within the heart of the builder
with bricks of virtue, cemented by righteous thoughts and deeds,
where the God of Love may dwell in peace.

New Zealand (1924):
Individual judgment is never perfeet. It is ever prone to look
upon the apparent and to overlook the actual-and so Freemasonry
is judged as I have remarked by individual failures which are apparent, but the great silent and unseen work of the Craft is overlooked.
Time is the only impartial judge, and it is. judging Freemasonry
kindly.
During the last two centuries many once great institutions have
been swept away by an ever-advancing wave of public opinion. They
have outgrown their usefulness, the world no longer had time for
them, and they died and are forgotten.
Oklahoma (1925):
If the Masonic Order is to take and maintain that leading and
commanding position which is its inherent right, if we are to
constitute it that living, breathing, vital and vitalizing force of
which it consisted in the early days of our republic, it is necessary for us to look to our acts; it is required that our activities
shall not consist solely and simply of conferring esoteric work
upon candidates and members, but we must reach out with the
tentacles of our acts and the fingers of our performances and touch
the lives of our brothers and all those needing the help and assistance that our fraternity can give.
The social call has been substituted for visits and for companionship. Conversation is a lost art. Entertainment and music have
been professionalized, and are furnished almost solely by hired performers. Even home music has been professionalized until the untrained members of the family are expected to remain discreetly
silent.
Nursing the sick and administering charity are being transferred to the paid nurse, the salaried official, the organized and
officered institutions. The home is asking the school to take its
job off its hands. In short, the tendency of the times which transfers every service to the community or to the paid employee has
invaded the Lodge and left the average Mason with nothing to do
in Masonry except to sit by and witness the conferring of an
occasional degree.

Utah (1926):
Too long, Brother, Masons have been taught, in effect, that
conferring degrees and attending banquets about represent the limits
of Masonry. The habits and sentiments of generations are not to be
changed over-night. Further, our Fraternity has received too many
members who are unable to see over, or around, or beyond the
lapel pin they wear-the beginning and the end of Masonry for
many are to be found in that alone.

PAST MASTERS
The conferring of the Past Master's Degree, either under the
express provision of a Grand Lodge law or as a supplemental ceremony is educational. If it does nothing else it serves to give the
Master-elect some additional historical information that he would
not otherwise receive.
If during his term of office a Master has lived up to his responsibilities, he will continue his interest. Past Masters by reason of
lack of opportunity too often must be satisfied with honor only.
In other cases, their ambition satisfied, they sink to the level of
non-serving, dues-paying members.
Alberta (1925):
The Grand :-.faster: A brother who had received the Past :-.faster's
degree in a Royal Arch Chapter and who was denied the right of heing
present while the installed Master's degree was being conferred upon
the W. M. elect, appealed to the Grand Master for his ruling thereon.
Ans. A Lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Alherta
can recognize only those degrees which have been conferred by Lodges
under this jurisdiction or as is expressly provided for hy our constitution, by Lodges under some other Grand Jurisdiction recognized hy this
Grand Jurisdiction. In no case will this Grand Jurisdiction admit to
participation in its degrees a person who has received such degrees in
a Royal Arch Chapter or in any other body conferring other than
the first three degrees of Masonry. There arc other reasons which
cannot he fully explained, inherent in the degree of Installed Master,
which would not permit of a brother being present who was not either
a Past Master or one duly elected to that office. I therefore ruled that
the brother was not entitled to sit in Lodge while the lustalled Master's
degree was being conferred.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Florida (1926):
That while the elect has the privilege of obtaining the Past Master's
degree at any Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, the want of it
is no bar to his installation or right to preside.

Master and shall have received from the Grand Lecturer or a division
lecturer a certificate certifying that he is qualified to confer all the
degrees. This law becomes effective in December, 1926. Our Grand
Lecturer informs me that the above requirement has greatly stimulated
interest in the study of the ritual and is vital to the future development
of ritualistic education in our jurisdiction.

108

New York (1925):
Tbis committee's report is interesting in that it prescribes a form
of Installation Service for conferring the Past Master's Degree on the
incoming Master of a Lodge. The service as set forth by the committee
is very beautiful, and we refer our readers to the Proceedings of New
York for 1925, where they will find it recorded in full.
North Carolina (1926):
Florida is one of the states in which the Past Master's Degree is
controlled by the Grand Lodge, wherefore we find a report that same has
been conferred on almost all installed Masters of the year. We note
that in Florida, as in North Carolina, all officers of the Grand Lodge
advance. While neither of these Grand Lodges has suffered from it
within this writer's own experience, we are nevertheless opposed to the
plan ; for it virtually means that every Grand Master appoints a successor, and the "election" of officers is reduced to the status of a farce.
Utah (1926):
From the Committee on Ceremonials (New York) came a "Ceremony of the form of investiture of the Worshipful Master Elect with
the secrets of the chair." This was ordered printed in the Proceedings,
and final action postponed until the next Annual Communication: four
pages of fine type, and much of abbreviation. Each Grand Lodge is a
law unto itself in many or in most things, and in New York the
ceremonials outlined in this proposed Lodge of Past Masters doubtless
will serve some useful purpose. Personally we should be reluctant to
add any degree, or near degree, or anything that might be construed or
understood to be such, to the three primary degrees of Symbolic
Masonry. Many jurisdictions formerly made use of such a 4th degreeUtah did in the early stages of Grand Lodge existence, but it was
abandoned long ago. In the Chapter R. A. M. the Past Master's degree
has a place.
Virginia (1926):
The Grand Lodge at its last Grand Annual Communication adopted
a recommendation of the Grand Master that no brother can be installed
'ls Master of a Lodge until he shall have received the degree of Past

109

* * *
We are sometimes puzzled to know why some other young Grand
Lodges as well as Alberta, which Grand Lodge is not alone in that
particular, hold the view of the P. M. degree. In Virginia it was, like
the Royal Arch, conferred in Lodges. In 1808 the Grand Chapter was
established with the consent of the Grand Lodge, to have exclusive jurisdiction of all of the Chapter degrees except that one over which it was
agreed that jurisdiction was to be concurrent. Tbe result was that
Chapters omit it as regards those who have had it in Lodge and Lodges
do the same as to those who have had it in Chapters. Any Chapter
Mason having had the same degree is eligible to sit in any Lodge of Past
Masters and they often confer it for Lodges in the Chapter by request.
How it ever, anywhere, became two separate degrees is hard to account
for. Every Warden must have it to qualify him for presiding and it is
held to be a prerequisite for the R. A. Why the latter is lost in the
mists of time. Tradition is that it was once given only to Past Masters
as a sort of reward for a year of service already rendered, hence the
title is now an absurdity. It should be called the Present Master's
degree and should be abolished in the Chapter because it is nothing more
than a subterfuge at best.
POLITICS
Masonry as an organization has no part in partisan politics.
This, however, does not mean that a Masonic Lodge should not
be an Open Forum for the discussion of matters of public interest.
If a Lodge, as part of its work can bring home to its members the
responsibility that rests upon them through their right of franchise
and the necessities for active participation as individuals in the affairs
of their Nation, their State and their Community, a lasting good
may be accomplished.
The tendency of the present time is to shirk this responsibility-the great open spaces, business affairs, social duties and in
some cases down-right laziness or indifference make more of an
appeal to the average voter on election day than the polling place
with a ballot box.

110

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The excerpt under Vermont gives figures that support this
statement.
President James Madison said: "A popular government without
popular information or the means of acquiring it is but a prologue
to a farce or tragedy, or perhaps both. Knowledge will, forever,
govern ignorance; and a people who mean to be their own governors must arm themselves with the power that knowledge brings."
Colorado (1925):
The Grand Lodge of Colorado is the supreme Masonic authority of
this state. It publishes no magazines and endorses none. It resents the
brazen claims of certain publications that they are Freemasonry's representatives. The Grand Lodge of Colorado speaks only through its
constituted authorities, and it has no representatives at Washington or
elsewhere, except those duly appointed to represent it at other Grand
Lodges.
Furthermore, The Book of Constitutions of the Grand Lodge of
Colorado provides : A Lodge as such shall not present a petition to the
civil authorities, or take part in municipal, state, or national affairs.
This Grand Lodge will not assume to regulate the action of any one
as a private citizen; but its laws prohibit Masons, in any Masonic capacity,
from presenting petitions to the civil authorities. All Lodges and all members of Lodges will therefore take due notice and govern themselves
accordingly.
Iowa (1926):
We do not believe that Masonry as an institution should ever be
mixed up in matters of politics and state-craft, but there are many other
organizations in which Masons, recognizing their common ideals of better
government and real happiness for humanity, can combine in united
efforts for the common good. And it is along these lines that we believe
the teachings of the craft are destined to make themselves most vitally
felt.
New Jersey (1925):
One of our Lodges, in its official publication, urged that the members participate. actively in a partisan political primary, and give their
support to certain members of the Lodge.
Upon having the matter brought to my attention, I sent for those
who were responsible for the notice and, being unable to obtain a satisfactory explanation, I caused the Lodge to be summoned in emergent
communication. As no member of the Lodge attempted to repudiate the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

111

notice, the offense thus became chargeable to the entire membership and
was a Lodge offense. However, as the brother directly responsible
apologized for his act, I felt that censure was a sufficient punishment
and I accordingly adopted that course. 'Ibis matter might well have
been omitted from any mention but for the fact that one of the Past
Masters of the Lodge asserted there is no express prohibition of political
activity in our written law. From time immemorial it has been our
proud boast that no subject of race, creed or partisan politics is or may
be permitted to enter our tiled doors ; that around our altar all good
men may gather in harmony and that brother may meet brother without
fear of partisan disputes and controversy. The discussion of religious and
partisan questions in our Lodges is unmasonic and prohibited.

Indiana (1925):
The Grand Master : I recommend that it be the will and direction
of this Grand Lodge at this present meeting, especially, that the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee of three to submit to the
Congress of the United States, the proposition, and urge the passage of
a law forbidding the publishing or distributing in any way of any book,
pamphlet or paper, purporting to expose, or in any way attempt to make
known to the public, the ritualistic or secret working of any secret
society or order within the United States, and the enactment of an
adequate penalty.
South Carolina (1925):
The Grand Master: Only one incident of general interest threatened
to disturb the tranquility of the Craft. This was the publication, bf a campaign manager, of a letter from our Grand Secretary, giving the principal
dates and affiliations in the Masonic history of a candidate for public
office. This letter was copied-head, salutation, body, and signatureto show that it was official, though no attempt was made to make a
facsimile. It was sent out as campaign material without the authority
of any Grand Lodge officer. Both the campaign manager and his
principal are Masons in good standing in our Jurisdiction. The inquiry
and the Grand Secretary's letter in reply were and are perfectly proper;
the use made of the Grand Secretary's letter was highly improper. A
number of the brethren all over the state were justly incensed-some
thinking the Grand Secretary was attempting to aid a political aspirant,
some thinking he had been duped by the campaign manager.
The
letter was mailed out one night. I heard of it the next morning, and
immediately took such steps as occurred to me to stop it. The Grand
Secretary was in Portland, Maine, at the time, attending the Triennial
of another Masonic Body. The candidate was defeated at the polls a

112

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

day or two later, and I believe this letter contributed in no small
measure to that defeat.
I bring this matter to your attention in order to impress the fact
that we, as Masons, do not capitalize our connection with the Order
for social, financial, or political ends, and whoever attempts to thus
prostitute his Masonry inevitably meets disaster. This discloses a characteristic case of an attempt at the prostitution of :Vfasonry to political
purposes, with the usual result.
Texas (1925):
The Grand Master: I have been forced to defend the purposes of
this Grand Lodge on many occasions when I would be confronted with
the question, "Do you not believe that it is time for the Masonic Fraternity to actively engage in politics?" I regret to say that, in my opinion,
there is a growing tendency on the part of some members of our Fraternity to have Masonic Lodges participate actively in politics and
unless this tendency is checked, Masonry will pay a greater price for
such activity than it has, and is paying, for permitting outside matters
to become injected into its internal affairs contrary to the declared
purposes of this Grand Lodge. The brethren who have talked to me
appear to be honest in their views but, in my judgment, are misled as
to Masonic ideals and teachings.
If Masons, as an organization, can urge the passage of the SterlingReed bill, why should they not have the right as Masons to use their
influence for the Maternity bill, or any other legislative measure pending
in Congress or the Legislature? Strange. such a difference there should
be, 'twixt tweedledum and tweedledee.
Masonry as an organization cannot afford to use its influence for
or against legislation of any kind or character. The individual Mason
is free to favor or oppose any proposed legislation in Congress or in
the legislature of his state, without dictation or restraint from the
Grand Lodge. When Masonry, as an organization, engages in partisan
politics it is on a toboggan slide to a condition of chaos, just as we
find in Mexico.

Vermont (1926):
Brother Theron (South Dakota) believes it is not only the right,
but the duty, of every Mason to exercise his right of suffrage in the
election of civil officers, and he issued the following circular letter to
be read in all the Lodges:
As an organization, we have nothing to do with party politics, yet
we are pledged to do our best for this America in which we live and
from which we receive uncounted blessings.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

113

Do you know that :
In 1920 twenty-seven million voters stayed away from the polls?
As a result twenty-six million voters-a minority-elected a
President.
In North Dakota we learn 87,054 voters failed to perform their
solemn obligation?
In South Dakota, 1920, number votes cast 182,237 and that
there were 139,646 slackers?
This year steps are being taken all over the land to get out a
vote that will represent 100 per cent of the voting public?
Business organizations, Boy Scout troops, clubs and societies
are sending forth urgent appeals to the voters to see to it that
this indifference be done away with.
Give serious thought to the following figures: In 1896, 80 per cent
of the eligible voters of the country went to the polls and voted. In
1900, 73 per cent cast their ballot. In 1908, 66 per cent. In 1912, 62 per
cent. In 1920, less than 50 per cent of those eligible to vote went to
the polls.
Therefore, your Grand Master urgently requests that the Masons of
this jurisdiction do their utmost to secure a 100 per cent vote and further
directs that this communication be read in open Lodge and that copies
be sent to all the members of your Lodge resident of this state.
Vote November 4th. Vote as you please, but vote.
We agree with him that the average citizen does not take an active
interest in the election of public officers as he should do, and the result
in many instances is inefficiency and corruption in public office. We
believe with Brother Theron, that it is the solemn duty of every Mason
to take an active interest in the selection of public officers, not as
Democrats or Republicans, but as law-abiding citizens.

Wisconsin (1925):
We think of nothing so new or novel as to require especial notice,
unless it be the growing tendency of several Grand Lodges to act upon
matters purely political in their nature, generally concerning school
affairs. They have probably done this unwittingly without considering
that they were by so doing violating the time-honored traditions of the
Craft. Usually such measures have been recommended for favorable
legislative action as the result of sentiment and on the spur of the
moment without serious discussion or consideration of the various
features in the matter. The tendency is a dangerous one and should be
avoided. We refuse to recognize foreign Grand Lodges that permit
the discussion of political questions in their Lodges ; why trespass in
this behalf ourselves?

114

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

PROHIBITION
The effects of the 18th Amendment and the Volstead Act in
the Masonic World as well as in every-day life continually receives
attention. They are the law of the land and a Mason through his
obligations and teachings is bound to obey them. The charge that
. the Master Mason should obey the moral and civil law cannot be too
strongly impressed. Generally we believe it would have a better
effect if this great basic principle was brought home to our membership. Masonry demands obedience to law and should require it
generally rather than legislation on specific matters.
Arkansas (1925):
Grand Lodge adopted the report of the Jurisprudence Committee,
making it obligatory on the Junior \Varden, when notified that a member
had been convicted in any court of competent jurisdiction of violating
the prohibition laws, either national or state, to procure a certified copy
of such conviction and present it at first meeting of the Lodge, and
thereupon it shall be the duty of the Lodge, after due trial, to expel or
indefinitely suspend such member, and the certified copy shall be conclusive evidence of the violation of the law.
I believe that we are coming into a better attitude toward the 18th
Amendment. The drinking among our young people, which a year or
two ago flourished so widely, has begun to wane-the thrill of forbidden fruit has died away with the first unpleasant taste and our
young people's admiration for clean, wholesome bodies as well as alert,
active minds has saved them. Only the lounge lizard persists in carrying
his hip flask, and maybe that is Nature's way of altowing him to work
his own destruction, with the least lost motion for the rest of us.
Kentucky (1924):
The Grand Lodge declared it to be a Masonic offense for any
Mason in the jurisdiction to purchase or possess intoxicating liquor or
narcotic drugs, except in accordance with the Federal laws, and passed
the following resolution on eligibility of applicants who are violators
of these laws :
Any man who obtains by purchase or otherwise intoxicating liquors
or narcotic drugs from an illegal vendor of the same, or in violatioµ
of the laws of the United States of America, is hereby declared to be
ineligible to be received into a Masonic Lodge under the jurisdiction of
the Grand Lodge of Kentucky; and any Kentucky Lodgt;! knowingly
electing such a person shall forfeit its charter.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

115

North Carolina (1925):
The Grand Master (Oklahoma) w·ants d
.
rasttc action on the liquor
matter. Here is his recommendation:
First. The e~pulsion of all members of the Lodge who
transport or. have m. possession prohibited narcotics or purchase
beer, choc, Jake, whisky or other intoxicants illegally.
. Second. Th~t any man who buys narcotics or intoxicating
liquors. of any kmd be declared ineligible to membership in the
Masonic Lodge.
. Third. That any constituent Lodge that elects to membership or confers degrees upon any inebriate or any person who
buys, ~ransports, sells or manufactures intoxicating liquors or
nTarcot1cs, shall be subject to forfeiture of their charter.
... k ~.~w what we want to know is, what in the blazes is "choc" and
Ja e · We thought we had seen the most of this stuff from Vodka
to common "bust-head," and from absinthe to pulque · but we have n
0
'
vocabulary at all: this is over our heads, entirely.
Nova Scotia (1925):

t' Amo~g the rest, Nova Scotia for 1924 is given lengthy and fraternal
no ice an a. number of ?ur then Grand Master ·winfield's decisions
reported. ~1th one of which our Brother, in a manner both careful and
co~rteous, d1.sagrees. . Our Grand Master decided that an officer of a
sc ooner which .was m a general trade but which, on occasions carried
ru~'. but of which vessel the captain was only a hired servant 'and had
not i~g to say as to what the vessel carried or should carry and h
d ·
•
w o
was m no way
fot
. connecte with the rum-running business, was eligible
to bi:~mbersh:P· B:~ther .Allen disagrees and thinks that not right, and
a
up his position cites the case of a bartender. Certain! the
::: ~al~es t~re l~ot analogous, for in the case of the bartender he ~~rves
.
e s e iquor to the customers which he was hired to d
·h"I
m the case of th 5 h'
·
o, w 1 e
h
:
1p captam he simply receives the freight under the
~ ahrtedr parht~ which the owner of the schooner has made, and with which
e a not mg to do Here
. N th C
.
eli 'bl b
..
. ' as m or
arolma, a bartender is not
g1 e ut, to o~r mmds, it would be stretching the point too far .to
exclude the captam of an "ocean liner" because he happened to b .
a ca;go of. "booze" from Nassau to Raleigh, but pardon me Brother r~~;
possibly, smce prohibition in "Uncle Sam's clon1a'111 " they ,d 't
'
"b
" · R I ·
•
on use any
ooze m a e1gh or elsewhere in North Carolina but all th
cann t f
h
"
•
e same one
o
orget w at The Governor of North Carolina said to the
Governor of South Carolina." Did you ever hear of it, Brother?

116

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Oklahoma (1925)~
The Grand Lodg~ ·also passed the following resolution: Hereafter
it shall be a grave Masonic offense to introduce any intoxicating liquors
into any Lodge room, or other room connected therewith, or for any
Mason to appear in a public place in an intoxicated condition, or for
· any Mason to sell, buy, transport, or be in any way connected with
or interested in, the sale, purchase or transportation of intoxicating
liquors, and if any Mason shall be guilty of so doing, it shall be the
duty of the Master of the Lodge in whose jurisdiction the offense may
occur, to order charges to be preferred against the offender, and a trial
proceed thereon as in other cases. If any Master shall refuse to perform
his duty under this section, or if any Lodge shall fail to do its duty upon
proper charges preferred, the Grand Master shall suspend the Master or
arrest the Charter of said Lodge, as his judgment may deem best, and
report his action to the next Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge.
Tennessee (1925):
It is now a well-known fact that the manufacture and sale of intoxicating liquors is a violation of both the national and state laws, and
that our Grand Lodge many years before the adoption of state-wide
prohibition in Tennessee, and before the adoption of the 18th Amendment
to the Constitution of the United States, enacted suitable edicts for the
government of the membership of our Fraternity, prohibiting our members from engaging in the sale of intoxicating liquor, and in the opinion
of your committee the Grand Lodge and the subordinate Lodges cannot
be too strict in the enforcement of all laws to prevent and prohibit
our members from engaging in the manufacture, sale and use of intoxi·
eating liquors.
Texas (1925):
If conviction in the courts of selling a pint of whisky deserves the
Masonic death penalty, what are you going to do with the man who
is convicted of the crime of drinking a pint of whisky, or of stealing
his neighbor's horse? In other words, is it a greater crime to sell a pint
ef whisky than it is to drink the whisky and get good and drunk? "0,
Consistency, thou art a jewel."
Vermont (1925):
\Ve fear violations of the Eighteenth Amendment are common to
all jurisdictions. "Patient submission to lawful authority" is prescribed
by Masonic teaching everywhere.
No Grand Lodge law should be
needed to enforce it.
Yet it is a condition, not a theory, that

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

117

confronts us. And we fear that Masonic authority will fail, even
as the civil authorities have failed, to bring about unquestioning obedience to the Volstead Act.
West Virginia (1925):
Resolved, That any man who obtains by purchase,. or otherwise,
intoxicating liquors or narcotic drugs from an illegal vendor of the
same, or possesses the same in violation of the laws of the United States
of America, is hereby declared to be ineligible to be received into a
Masonic Lodge under the Jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of West Virginia; and any Lodge knowingly electing such a person, shall forfeit
its charter.
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of West Virginia hereby declares
it to be a Masonic offense for any Mason within its jurisdiction, to purchase or possess intoxicating liquors, or narcotic drugs, except in
accordance with the laws of the United States of America. Any and all
Masons so offending, shall be proceeded against by his Lodge.
A vote was taken in the Grand Lodge resulting in the defeat of
the resolution by about two to one vote.
PUBLICITY
The attention given in the public pres's to the doings of the
Masonic Fraternity in a large number of cases produces results
that are far from satisfactory. Too often the information is incorrect
or garbled. It is only the unusual that appeals in this age of
rapidity. If the following thought could be practiced it would have
a beneficial effect:
"Lamps do not talk, they shine. A light house sounds no drum,
it beats no gong, and yet over the water its friendly light is seen
by the mariner."
England (1926):
There is only one point in the report to which attention need
be called. That is the concluding paragraph of the effective portion,
which deals with the unauthorized publication of matters affecting the
secrets and inner proceedings of the Craft. Some mischief already has
been caused-and there have received in the past few hours a letter testifying to that mischief-by the circulation of an entire misconception and
misconstruction of what the Board proposes in this paragraph. As will
be seen by any who carefully read it, what is aimed at is the publication
of anything purporting or affecting to give particulars of the secrets
and inner proceedings of the Craft; and every Freemason is fully

118

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

aware of what that sentence means, as showing that what we are
striking at is the increasing number of books, pamphlets, and other
publications which affect to reveal the hidden secrets of Freemasonry.
The Board is determined, as far as its powers allow, to prevent trouble
within the ranks of Masonry, either through renegade Masons or through
reckless Masons; and we would not permit that trouble to be committed
for the sake of either notoriety or personal gain. We, therefore, give
full warning through this Grand Lodge that, while we are not witchfinding or heresy-hunting in any sense, we will endeavor to keep a v.ery
strict watch on the increasing laxity of some of our Brethren, who, in
their anxiety to earn either popularity or some more material substance,
circulate that which is secret, and should be secret, to Members of the
Craft alone. And in that we are certain we shall have the hearty support
of every good Mason.
Iowa (1926):
We have found newspaper reporters and editors who seem to look
upon our efforts to protect our fraternal privacy as almost a capital
crime, which should be exposed by them as such, and they lay every
possible temptation in the way of the members of our Craft to induce
them to reveal to the world matters which are none of that world's
business.
Manitoba (1925):
Within the past few years there are many signs which point to an
increasing desire on the part of many Lodges to secure a cheap publicity
by having inserted in newspapers lists of officers elected or write-ups of
social happenings. Individuals break into print with matter which had
better be left unsaid. Freemasonry was never intended to be a popular
institution in the common meaning of that word, but in response to the
clamor of some brother, "What is Freemasonry doing?" we find publicity courted, not shunned, for fear our time-honored fraternity will not
receive due credit or the public forget our existence.
Constantly we hear the cry that this order and that order are doing
something we never attempted, and that we must mend our ways and
become up-to-date, or in otherwise-advertise. Can we not in some way
bring our brethren to realize that the purpose of Freemasonry is to teach
the individual to do these things, and that being accomplished Masonry
has attained its objective. Must we forsooth join in parades and publish
our doings in order to let the world know where we stand. Brethren,
the world does know where we stand, and that almost every movement
for the betterment of each community, no matter under what name
organized, is headed and fostered by Masons. That in short is all
the public need to know and all they should know.

119

Every brother upon his initiation is supposed to have read to him
that clause in our Lodge by-laws which forbids the imparting to the
profane of any information concerning what takes place in the Lodge,
but it would appear as though to many this article has become a dead
letter.
Legislation will not cure all our ills and no great harm has been
done so far, but this is a liberty which may develop into license, and we
would strongly urge that no information or matter for newspaper publication touching Freemasonry or concerning our Lodge or Grand Lodge
activities be given out by any member until the same has been approved
by our Grand Master or Grand Secretary.
North Carolina (1926):
We notice the difference between the British attitude toward Masonic
publicity and the American conception of it. But we, in America, do not
object to having many things about Masonry appear in the secular papers.
Not only is this difference found, but we, in America, are "button
Masons" and "watch charm Masons," the exceptions being in the minority.
In these countries, on the contrary, such jewelry is not worn in public.
In some of them its use in public is prohibited by Masonic law. One can
see at a glance that there is a different conception in the minds of many,
of what Masonry is. Moreover, the fellow who would join so that he
may parade his Masonry, would be eliminated in these countries. Here
the condition of Masonry is improved. Altogether the attitude of these
people, which makes public parade of Masonry impossible, is worth considering. We remember that one American Grand Master ruled that it
was improper to put Masonic emblems on the radiator of an automobile,
but he did not, of course, object to the use of the same on the front of
your coat. We told the Review-reading public that we didn't see the
difference, and the Reviewer in the jurisdiction in which came this
decision tried to explain this difference, but he made a dismal failure
of the attempt.
Rhode Island (1925):
With a view of preventing undue publicity of Masonic activities
Grand Lodge adopted a regulation to prohibit any Mason from giving
any information concerning the Grand Lodge, or any subordinate Lodge,
or any of the doings of either, without the specific authority of the
Grand Master. In our opinion such regulations would serve a good
purpose in all jurisdictions. Tbe impulse to get into the limelight, the
newspapers, etc., is too strong for some of our zealous, but thoughtless,
members of the Craft.

120

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Australia (1925):
The Grand Master: It has seemed to me that reports of Lodge
meetings and gatherings immediately connected with Lodge meetings
appear with greater frequency in the non-Masonic press than they did.
This, in my view, is wholly undesirable. There is, when reports are
supplied to what in this connection I may term the profane press, a
very grave risk that matters may be communicated which, for a Mason
to communicate, would be a Masonic offense. I trust that W. M.'s
will do what they can to discourage such reports. It is not in this
Jurisdiction alone that attention has been called to this tendency. In
1918 the Board of General Purposes of the Grand Lodge of England
expressed its grave disapprobation of it. A communication which may
with propriety be made to a Masonic journal may yet be wholly
inappropriate for the public press, cause misunderstanding, and injure
the Craft.
Victoria (1925):
The Board deprecates the growing tendency to publish in the daily
press reports of Lodge installations and other Masonic functions, and
urges Masters and Secretari~s to use every effort to suppress the publica-·
tion of Masonic news in the public press, and refer such news to the
Masonic Journal.
RELIGION
Brother Edgar A. Guest has very aptly expressed the thought
in the following entitled "Religion":
"When the talk turns on religion I have notions of my ownI have my versions of the Bible and the things I think alone,
And I've found them satisfying, found them comforting to me;
But I'll never lose my temper if you chance to disagree,
For religion, as I view it, is a pathway to a goal,
And is something to be settled between each man and his soul.
Now, I'm not a Roman Catholic, but I wouldn't go so far
As to fling away the friendship of the folks I know who are.
I have lived and neighbored with them, come to love them through
and through.
I've respect and admiration for the kindly things they do;
And I've come to the conclusion, though the bigots think it odd,
That it makes no difference to me how a good man worships God.
I know Methodists and Baptists, Lutherans, Scientists and Jews,
Whose friendship is a treasure which I shouldn't want to lose.
And l honor and respect them for I wouldn't dare condemn
The form of prayer and worship which is comforting to them.
So when bigots talk religion, I just settle back and see
The helpful, loyal friends that every church has given me."

121

Attempting to compel other persons to believe and live as we do
is a mistake. Perhaps no virtue is so needed in the world or less
common than toleration. Theoretically most of us desire to be big
and tolerant but in reality the accident of birth and early training
are a factor that works against any man in reaching the ideal.
Delaware (1924):
Attending divine services in a denominational church is not Masonic
labor, and it is therefore improper to open a Lodge for that purpose, to
wear the regalia of the Lodge or to take its paraphernalia. This, however, does not prevent individual Masons from attending such services
in a body.
Idaho (1925):
Masonry begins and ends in prayer. A Mason's Hrst act within
the Lodge-room as an Entered Apprentice, like his last act in the Sublime
Degree of Master Mason, is to kneel in prayer. And so, on through all
the degrees of Masonry, and in the closing Masonic obsequies, when our
lifeless forms are laid beneath the silent clods of the valley, prayer is
a constant, integral part of our ceremonies. In this, Masonic brethren,
The
whether Christian, Hebrew, Mohammedan, or Brahmin, join.
ancient fire-worshipping Aryan in his Himalayas; Zarathustra on the
plains of Persia; Moses at the Burning Bush; the Egyptian monarch
erecting his pyramid-tomb ; Solomon, King of Israel, dedicating his
incomparable Temple; our medieval Knight Templar brethren in
twentieth-century worshipper, whether in mosque, pagoda, synagogue, or
Christian church, have had one Holy Doctrine-one aspiration-one
prayer-and have lifted up their God-illuminated souls to their one
Beneficent and Eternal Creator-Father, who is not their magnificent
cathedrals of "frozen music in stone," and the only, the Supreme, the
All-Knowing, the All-Present, the All-Powerful, the Infinite, but who
is as welt the All-Loving, the Tender, Heavenly Father, "closer (to us)
than breathing, and nearer than hands and feet."
Iowa (1924):
The Grand Master submits an amendment to the Code which provides that Lodges may take in ministers of the gospel in actual service
gratuitously by unanimous consent of the Lodge. Why make a charity
institution out of the Masonic Lodge for ministers any more than you
would for brick-layers?' Very few ministers are working today just
for the purpose of spreading the gospel. They are doing it for the same

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

purpose as the brick-layer, to get their bread and butter, and a number
of them receive a very much higher wage than the laboring man.

Manitoba (1925):
Believing that many of our Lodges consider it is necessary to secure
a Dispensation in order to attend Divine Worship as a body, I would
emphasize the fact that no Dispensation is required. Our Constitution
prescribes that a Dispensation is necessary only when they desire to form
a public procession and wear Masonic clothing. Knowing that many of
our Lodges are cross-sections of sectarianism, all worshipping the Living
God, but preferring their own form, and believing that the desire to
wear regalia at such functions is due to an inherent desire to advertise,
which is not compatible with the teachings or practices of Freemasonry,
and holding strongly to the belief that the family group is the ideal
unit in attending any religious service, 1 would recommend that Grand
Lodge recognize only two occasions as fitting for the display of Masonic
clothing in public, namely: Masonic funerals and the laying of corner
stones, when the same are duly laid by the Grand Lodge or under its
authority.
Minnesota (1926):
Should a Lodge enter a resolution on its minutes requmng its
members to attend church as a Lodge, annually or otherwise?
Attend church, if you wish to do so, as individuals, not as
Masons. Form no procession; wear no regalia; observe due decorum;
do not seek to attract attention ; don't advertise.
Philippine Islands (1925):
Whereas, for some time past, certain elements in these Islands have
been agitating for the enactment by our Legislature of a law making
the teaching of religion obligatory in the public schools.
Whereas, this constitutes an open attack upon the liberty of worship
by which our present fundamental laws are inspired;
Whereas, it is likewise an attempt against the separation of church
and state which should, and actually does, exist in our country;
Whereas, the passage of legislation of this class would be a deathblow to all liberties and rights to obtain which so many of our departed
brethren have generously spilt their life blood;
Whereas, a law of this kind is incompatible with the basic principles
of our institution: Now, therefore, be it
·
Resolved, That it is the sense of the Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the Philippine Islands that it should, and it hereby

123

does, enter its most energetic protest against a measure of this nature
and recommend to all symbolic Lodges that they do everything in their
power to prevent the passage of such a measure by our Legislature.

Texas (1925):
We note that two Lodges secured dispensations perm1ttmg them to
go to church as Masons. In Texas we do not have to get permission
from any one to attend church services. We just put on a clean shirt,
shine our shoes, and attend the church of our choice. This custom of
attending church services in Masonic regalia is too much like making a
burlesque of religion and a plaything of Masonry, and it ought to be
stopped.
To the writer, this custom of attending church services as Masons
in Masonic regalia is very reprehensible, and should be prohibited by all
Grand Lodges. Let Masons attend the church of their choice, but attend
as Christians and not as Masons. It looks too much like advertising
Masonry.
Utah (1925):
Prayer of the Grand Chaplain printed in full. We arc still looking
for a Grand Chaplain's prayer that is not saturated with the fragrance
of the print shop, or wrapped in the ·swaddling clothes of selfconsciousness. We have found-in rare instances-printed prayers, and
once in a great while a Grand Lodge prayer, that leaves no suggestion
of a barrier between the common Father of us all, and His children,
but not often. Why shoula we be diffident in the presence of our Father?
Are we? And is it because we arc not very well acquainteci with I Jim?
or do not associate with Him often enough to feel at case in 11 is presence? Something troubles us, at all events.
Virginia (1926):
One of the decisions was that it was not a Masonic offense to
worship in a Catholic Church.
Good sense. When will all learn that we draw no lines on religion?
We once knew a case in which a man had petitioned a Lodge and there
was evidence that his wife was a Catholic and some were inclined to
think he, too, was because he had permitted his wife to have a priest
visit him when very ill, as a comfort to her. A conference was privately
held at which a Baptist clergyman was present. Asked for his opinion
he said: "I would greatly prefer to admit a good honest Catholic than
a hickory Baptist." That settled it.
We have always had a personal objection to Lodges being permitted
to attend church officially. In its last analysis it is either advertising the

124

REPOR'l' ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT' ON CORRESPONDENCE

Lodge or its officers, or done as a boost for some individual church.
Always it is unworthy of Masonry. Of course in British jurisdictions
there is an element of expression of loyalty to the established church
which is a part of the imperial government, but even considering that
factor we think it would be better to omit the expression. Masonry
should be above cheap advertising. \Ve can worship God within our
tiled doors, and do. Masonry is not a religion, though deeply religious.

we doubt whether it accomplishes very much; It is hereby made unlawful
and a Masonic offense for any .member in this Grand Jurisdiction to
give, sell, or furnish or to keep in stock in any book-store or place of
business, the management of which he may control in any manner, any
printed, engraved, type-written or written book, pamphlet or leaflet containing anything whatsoever pertaining to a key, cipher or written or
printed work of a secret character. Any member so offending shall be
charged with gross unmasonic conduct and be tried by his Lodge. Upon
conviction he shall be subject to expulsion or to suspension for a definite
period, dependent upon the gravity of or the circumstances attendant
upon the offense.

RITUAL
From indications the op1mon is gaming ground that there is
too much Ritualism in our Fraternity and it is too often made the
end of Masonic endeavor rather than a means for carrying out the
purposes of the Fraternity. Forms and conditions change but
nothing dies. The forces that developed the telegraph, the wireless;
the radio and other means of conveying information will be a factor
in changing or abridging ritualistic work.
Alberta (1925):
The Grand Master: It has been drawn to my attention on several
occasions that books designated as copies of the "Work" are offered for
sale in book stores and are being purchased by any who may desire "
them. Those who are guilty of commercializing Masonry in this way
are contemptible Masons and are not worthy of membership in the Order.
There is not a member, no matter how uninformed he may be, who can
plead ignorance of what is right in dealing with this question. It is
the duty of every brother into whose possession any such book may
come, to immediately hand the same to the W. M. of his Lodge who in
turn should forward it to the Grand Secretary.
British Columbia (1925):
The fact that we permit the use of three rituals is noted, and
Brother \Voods (Mo.) states that so far as he knows British Columbia
is the only Jurisdiction recognizing different rituals.
There are, however, others. In Alberta and Saskatchewan there
is a choice of two rituals, as there is, also, in Manitoba. Ontario has,
we believe, two Lodges doing the Irish work. We understand that
Louisiana, also, has more than one form of ritual, and in England there
are eight, if not more, rituals in use. In the case of England, however,
the Grand Lodge does not "recognize" any particular ritual.
Georgia (1923):
As an attempt to abolish the printed ritual the following regulation,
recommended by the Committee on Jurisprudence, is commendable, but

125

Indiana (1925):
Here is one of the Grand Master's recommendations; I further
recommend that it be the will and direction of this Grand Lodge at this
present meeting, especially, that the incoming Grand Master appoint a
committee of three to submit to the Congress of the United States,
the proposition, and urge the passage of a law forbidding the publishing
or distributing in any way of any book, pamphlet or. paper, purporting
to expose, or in any way attempt to make known to the public, the
ritualistic or secret working of any secret society or order within the
United States, and the enactment of an adequate penalty.
New Jersey (1925):
The Grand Master:
Several requests having been received for
permission to wear costumes in degree work, I referred the matter to
the Committee on Ritual. That committee has submitted to me the following opinion, which I approve:
"Your committee are of the opinion that the wearing of costumes
adds neither to the dignity nor impressiveness ol our ceremonies and
we feel that some costumes might even have the opposite effect. We,
therefore, are of the opinion that it is not desirable that costumes be
worn in our Lodges, but that the brethren should wear the generally
accepted style of clothing and should be properly clothed with an apron
and with head uncovered."
It is not intended to prohibit the use of costumes in lodge work,
but rather to discourage the general adoption of costumes.
North Carolina (1926) :
Again, we find him (Manitoba) referring to a resolution introduced
in Oklahoma some years ago and not adopted. The resolution and his
comment are as follows :

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

126

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Be It Resolved, That the three-cornered Colonial hat of the George
Washington period be adopted by the Grand Lodge of the State of Oklahoma as the official hat for Worshipful Master of subordinate Lodge of
Oklahoma, while in the East.
The Brother had the situation sized up correctly, and his suggestion
for remedying it should have appealed to all true citizens of the United
States, but strange to say, the resolution did not meet with favor.
Now we understand the spirit of the matter quite well and agree
with it; but we cannot agree with the corrective measure proposed. For
our part, we are compelled to believe that "the three-cornered Colonial
hat" would "detract from the dignity of the high and honored position"
of Master of our own lodge just a little more than would the plug,
fedora of any color, fur cap or even skull cap.

* * *

We, too, have often felt the note of materialism that comes to the
front in the Fellow Craft floorwork, as Preston's amplifications gave it
to us. It is, however, frankly admitted by some that Preston sought in
this to touch upon a liberal general education for the Craftsman-which
was not available in his day and in his country, save to a limited number,
from public sources.
Nova Scotia (1925):
One of the rulings strikes us as rather peculiar. It was to the effect
that when addressing the "Chair" in a Lodge, not only should the signs
be given, but the corresponding steps be taken as well. We have never
heard of such a practice in any other Jurisdiction. That the signs and
steps should be inseparable seems to be impracticable and unnecessary.
Philippine Islands (1926):
Resolved, That the Grand Master instruct the Custodians of the
Work to prepare in triplicate keys to our rituals, one in English and
one in Spanish, clearly setting forth the position and movements of the
officers and other details of the ceremonies of the three degrees. That
as soon as these keys have been prepared, the Grand Master shall order one
copy of each turned over to himself, one copy to the Grand Secretary,
and one to the Grand Lecturer, for safekeeping. After such distribution,
it shall be absolutely forbidden to any of the three custodians of said
rituals to make any correction in the same should an error be discovered,
except in the presence and with the consent of the three, and then such ·
corrections shall be made in all copies.
It has been brought to my attention that on occasions, when degrees
have been conferred in some of our lodges by special teams composed

127

of members of the Scottish Rite Bodies, programs and invitations were
printed showing that the teams were composed of Thirty-third Degree
and K.C.C.H. Masons, or Masons of other degrees and titles foreign
to those used in Symbolic Lodges.
I do not believe that this practice should be permitted in this Jurisdiction, and I recommend that this Grand Lodge take action in disapproval thereof.
Quebec (1925):
The Grand Master: The temptation in Masonry is to over-stress the
form. There are brethren who wear regalia and exhibit the ornaments
who are void of the spirit of Masonry. There are excessive ritualists
who will split hairs over a word or accent while all the while they are
wholly unmindful of the spirit enshrined in the form. Cases have been
known where "good men and true" have been barred from a lodge because of some trifling difference in a password or grip. This is surely
to caricature Masonry. Have we not all known brethren who were
moved by the highest and fullest spirit of Masonry and yet were profoundly unlettered in the use of forms? I want to urge, with what
force I may. have, the paramount importance of the spirit of Masonry
while at the same time giving to form its proper value.
West Australia:
The Grand Master: It has been reported to me that in some Lodges
a popular form of entertainment at the festive boa.rd is for a brother to
deliver some parody on certain parts of· the ritual, most frequently the
investiture of a Steward. I have seen a few of these, and, while they
may afford amusement to some brethren, I cannot too strongly condemn
the practice as being un-Masonic and calculated to bring about a lack
of reverence for our dignified and beautiful ritual and its ceremonies.
I need say no more but would ask the brethren to peruse our Ancient
Charge No. 6, Section 2, which was designed to regulate the conduct of
Freemasons at the festive board. It enjoins the brethren "to enjoy
themselves in innocent mirth
not doing or saying anything
offensive . . . not to do anything that would blast our harmony and
defeat our laudable purpose."
We have done everything in our power to discourage the wearing
of regalia where non-Masons are present, and our attitude has been
generally supported by the other Grand Lodges of Australia. We can
never understand the mentality of the Mason who desires to wear his
regalia in public.
TEMPLES
"Our ancient Brethren assembled on the highest hills and in
the lowest vales," but time has changed this. The ideal Masonic

128

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Temple we believe should be a Home not only for the Lodge proper
but also for its social and fraternal activities. Often the building
and maintenance of a Temple is the chief objective of a Lodge.
In the pursuit of the necessary material thing to carry on such
a project the real work that the Lodge should do is lost or overlooked.
Delaware (1924):
The suggestion has been urged that the different branches of Masonry should build separate Temples, independent of each other. To my
mind anything which brings Masons into closer fellowship and understanding is a distinct advantage to our Order and to its membership.
And likewise, anything which separates us or divides us into cliques, ~s
a corresponding source of regret. A building housing all of our Masomc
activities would bring us closer together, would be more imposing than
two or more smaller structures, and would be more economical in construction and maintenance. These are objects so eminently desirable that
the plan for one central comprehensive Temple should not be abandoned,
except for the most urgent reason.
England (1925):
The most notable event in England is the completion of a fund of
more than £850,000, for the erection of a great Masonic Temple in London which is to be a center for the activities of the Grand Lodge of
England and a memorial to the English Masons who fell in the Great
\Var. This great fund has been raised by voluntary contribution without
calling upon the funds of Grand Lodge for assistance, and without
interfering in any way with the very generous contributions which our
English brethren make to Masonic charities.
Georgia (1925):
The Grand Master: Many of our subordinate Lodges have by-laws
prohibiting smoking in their Lodge room. Some observe such a rule
without a law prohibiting it; but many have neither such a law or
observe such a rule. The result is that often the room is filled with
tobacco smoke and at times officers have taken part in the work of
degrees and the ceremonies puffing cigars or cigarettes.
Such practice is not in keeping with the sacred ceremonies of our
Order, is not in place in the precincts of our halls dedicated to Freemasonry, virtue and benevolence, and not in accord with the dignity and
sacredness of the exalted and sublime ceremonies of the fraternity. I
can see no more reason for a man smoking in our Lodge room than I
can in our churches. The practice seems to me to be as much out

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

129

of place in one as the other. In addition, there are many to whom the
odor of tobacco fumes it not only unpleasant, but sickening, in a close
room, and when permitted and allowed, it prevents these brethren from
attending. I have had brethren tell they could not attend Lodge meetings for this reason.
Therefore, I recommend the enactment of a law prohibiting the
smoking of tobacco in our Lodge rooms. All of our Lodges have anterooms, where it could be indulged in; but within the sacred precincts of
the Lodge itself, let it be prohibited.
Indiana (1925):
All social rooms should be dark on nights when Lodge is in session,
and it is the duty of the Worshipful Master to see that this is done, and
to do any and all other things that are for the best interest of the Order
and the Lodge over which he presides. A member who says if he cannot
play cards in the social room he does not care to attend Lodge, is surely
lacking in Masonic spirit. If card playing is higher or more important
to him than Masonry, it surely can make but little difference to Masonry
whether he is there or not. Masonry is higher than card playing, and a
Mason should attend Lodge for what he may do for Masonry, and what
it, in return, may do for him.
Iowa (1926):
Brother Hamrick (Georgia) reports that while eight lodges had
their buildings burned during the year, only two of the eight carried
any insurance. In this day and age it ought to be a Masonic offense for
a lodge to fail to carry fire insurance.
Maine (1925):
The Grand Master answered the question, "Can a Lodge allow a
Brother to use its hall for a marriage service?" by deciding that it
should not allow its hall for such service, that "Masonic halls are dedicated to Masonic purposes and the marriage ceremony could hardly be
construed as Masonic."
New Mexico (1925):
A constituent Lodge may sublet its hall to legitimate Chapters of
Royal Arch Masons, Councils of Royal and Select Masters, Commanderies of Knights Templar, and Scottish Rite Bodies acknowledging the
authority of the Supreme Council for the Southern Jurisdiction, U.S. A.,
which are considered Masonic Bodies, and also to the Order of the
Eastern Star, the Order of DeMolay, the Rainbow Girls, and to the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Daughters of Job, without dispensation; but shall not sublet its hall to
any other organization or association without dispensation from the
Grand Master, request for which shall be annually renewed.

pe?ect "ashlars," the "degree mill" would cease to function, and the
finished product would undoubtedly be more of a credit and of Ull
than at the present time. It would also mean selection rather than
numbers, quality rather than quantity.

130

South Carolina (1925):
The Grand Master: I consistently refused to approve the circula·
tion of begging letters. Quite a number of these came to me from
outside the State, and two or three from our own members. In two
cases, Lodges asked aid in rebuilding on account of fire. They carried
no insurance because the rate was too high. My position was that it
was a matter of cold-blooded business. The Lodge deliberately decided
to carry its own risk, and, therefore, when a loss occurred, it was not
fair to distribute this loss over the entire Jurisdictfon.
Pennsylvania (1924):
It was decided that the term "Masonic Temple" could only be applied
to a building absolutely restricted to Masonic purposes, and that where
the building was to be used for commercial purposes as well, there would
be no objection to calling the building a "Masonic Hall."
Pennsylvania (1925):
Another incident arose in Grand Lodge (Indiana) which evoked
general debate and a "show down'' by a standing vote. It was a proposed
amendment to the law to prohibit the use of Lodge rooms "for any purpose whatever except for legitimate Masonic purposes, under penalty of
the forfeiture of its charter!' The record does not disclose the particular reasons for this proposed new regulation and policy of Grand
Lodge, nor the opinions advanced pro and con; but apparently there was
some excitement over it. The Committee on Jurisprudence reported
against the adoption of the amendment to the law; but a majority of
the members of Grand Lodge thought otherwise and it became part of
the law. Just what organization or object it was aimed at can be only
a matter of conjecture to an outsider.
TIME LIMITS
If a fixed period of time could be set between the election of
a petitioner and his intitiation, as well as a waiting period between
other Degrees there would then be opportunity to educate him along
Masonic lines. The Educational Committee would have a broader
field to work in, and its results would certainly be more effective
than after the member is raised. Perhaps they might make more

111

Indiana (1925):
In reply to the Research Society's query whether a Grand Lodge
should regulate the time between the raising and the petition for Royal
Arch or Lodge of Perfection the Grand Master says: I answered that
the Grand Lodge of Indiana has taken no action on this subject. I cannot see how a Grand Lodge could pass a law preventing a Master Mason
from doing anything as long as he conducted himself as a man and a
Mason. I think a Grand Lodge would have as much right to say that
a newly made Master Mason could not join a church for one year after
he was rais~, as to say he could not petition for membership in the
Royal Arch or Scottish Rite Bodies. I cannot see how a Grand Lodge
can assume control of a Master Mason, except as to his general behavior.
Iowa (1926):
Under the head of Recommendations Brother McCroskey (Washington, 1925) reports that a year ago the Grand Lodge had added to
the form of the petition for the degrees the following : Do you promise
on your honor that, until you have been a Master Mason for a period of
one year and have creditably passed an examination of proficiency as a
Master Mason, you will not petition for or accept membership in any
other organization which has membership in a Masonic Lodge as a
prerequisite?
He now recommends that this action of the Grand Lodge be rescinded
giving as his first reason : Because it is too drastic. The amendmen~
was really intended for the so-called higher degrees, but as it is worded
it also includes the Eastern Star, Masonic Clubs, College Masonic Fraternities, et al.
·
We still think that this law is not too drastic and is just as it
should be.
Brother McCroskey's next reason for recommending this rescission
is put by him in the following words: I do not believe that> you can
legislate a man into being a good Mason. If it is in him to be a good
Mason, he will be one regardless of how soon he takes the so-called
higher degrees ; if it is not in him to be a good Mason, then all such
legislation cannot change him.
Again we do not agree with him, for we never did have any use for
either the doctrine of fore-ordination or of predestination, and think it

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

133

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

132

t dr behind the ears as a Blue
still just as well to let _the M~sond ge .. y "ther the "barnacles" or the
Lodge Mason before he is perm1tte to iom e1
"higher ups."
Maine (1925):
Under a new Constitutional amendment, fourteen days must ebla~se
t th t the Grand Master on emg
between conferring degrees, excep
a.
.
d hich he consatisfied of the necessity, may issue a d1~pensat10~, _an 1 wimpossible to
strued to mean, "except in cases where it was o v10us y
confer the degrees in regular order."
New Hampshire (1924):
h" session
and
According to a regulation adopted by Grand Lodge at t di·~
a period of four weeks must elapse between election of a can I ate

Mississippi (1925):
In compliance with Chapter 304, Mississippi Laws of 1924, a contract
was entered into with the State Board of Health which provided for the
erection of a building by the Grand Lodge on the grounds of the State
Tubercular Sanatorium, according to plans approved by the Superintendent of the Sanatorium, and that the building should be known as
the Masonic Unit. It further provided for the furnishings, the conditions on which patients are to be received, the management, etc., all of
which will be covered fully by the committee's report.
The building has been completed and accepted by the committee.
With the exception of our Masonic Homes no work of Mississippi Masons is comparable to this. God speed the day when the needs of all
men, outside, as well as inside our ranks, shall be ministered to commensurate with His will. We may rejoice even now over the promised
yield of fruit from our labors in this our first unit.

the conferring of the first degree.
New South Wales (1924):
.
A sta of twelve months after the third degree was put mto e_ffect
by adopti:n of the following addition to the declaration ~f ~llcand~da~~
as set out in the Book of Constitutions: I declare th~:
w1 . ~ee f at
in any way appertaining to Freemasonry, untl a per10 ~ .
d
l::s:e~~elve months shall have elapsed from the date of iny rece1vmg
the Third or Master Mason's degree.
Philippine Islands (1926):
Provided, Further, Tl1at it shall be the duty of all the m_embers o~
the Lodge to attend the stated meetings of the same as fi~ed m the ~y
Non-attendance on the part of a member for twe vc consecu ive
Lawsh h ll in the absence of a valid excuse, be treated the same as
mont s s a t, f the dues and all provisions governing the latter shall
·
f
member for
non-paymen o
. ble to the suspension, am! restoratwn,
o any
a Iso be app I1ca
.
failure to attend during the period above mcnt1onccl.
TUBERCULOSIS
The care and cure of tubercular Masons has been br~ug~t ;o th~
attention of the Fraternity by the action of the Gran
o ge o
New Mexico.
·
h ·
t
A A 0. N. M. S. have blazed the way w1.th t e1r sys em

H~:;itais

~:ildr~~ m~a~h= !:~~~n::: t~a~h:v:~t~:

of
for Crippl.ed t
united upon such a proJeC lpl~~ment of a great and necessary work.
Organization and the accom is

New Mexico (1925):
Tf the donation by the Masonic Service Association to the American
School in Japan had been applied toward the founding of beds for the
caring for afflicted members and restoring them to health, would it not
have accomplished greater good to humanity? For, by placing these
tubercular brethren in a sanatorium where the proper treatment would
be given, they would have not only returned them to their families and
thus added to the nation's wealth, but also removed them from contact
with innocent children of such families and prevented the children from
contracting the disease at the most susceptible age of from birth to about
fifteen. It is almost a certainty that a child living in a home with an
active tubercular will contract the disease; so, by placing such afflicted
Masons in sanatoria and hospitals for proper care, such a menace will
be at least in part removed. If the money appropriated for the rebuilding of a school in Japan had been used to provide beds for tubercular
Masons, thus enabling them to return to health and care for themselves
and families, besides adding to the national wealth-would it not have
been better, although not with such a grandstand effect?
This has been the third year of organized activity by this Grand
Lodge in the development of what is generally known as the Fort Bayard
undertaking of the Grand Lodge of New Mexico. In many respects it
has been the most successful year of all. . . . Accounts are carefully
audited; records of all financial transactions are properly kept; the details of relief work are watched in a thoughtful and intelligent manner;
and the ideal of making the Sojourners' Club at Fort Bayard an agency

134

REl'ORT ON CORRESPONDENCEl

for practical relief, a home for those away from horn:, a~d a ~enter for
needed social and recreational activities, has been mamtamed m a most
commendable manner.
North Carolina (1925):
New Mexico earnestly desires the Service Association to take on
the business of establishing tuberculosis sanitaria. It is disappointed in
the Southern Jurisdiction of the Scottish Rite, because that bo~y has
taken no action. It feels that the money which was given at the time of
the Japanese disaster, for the rebuilding of the America~ Sch~ol, oug~t
to have been kept in America and used for tuberculosis relief. It is
disappointed that the Service Association has apparently "side-stepped"
the problem. We sympathize with New Mexico in her problem. She
sees these thousands of tuberculars go to her salubrious climate, and
feels that nothing big should be undertaken henceforth until t~is herculean task of the tuberculosis patients be handled. The Committee goes
into the matter of the relation of tuberculosis and crippled children; we
are caused to suspect that this is an indirect suggestion that the Shriners'
Hospital program would better have been a tuberculosis progra~. It is
significant that the most of the centers t~ which tuberc~lars go m great
numbers abound with those of similar views. The residents there feel
the matter acutely, and for good reason. It does seem as if we might
do something with this task.
Texas (1925):
Tl1 at we believe it to be someone's duty (why not ours?) to take
the initiative in seeking to inaugurate a National Masonic movement to
secure adequate hospitalization for our consumptive brethren-the. need
being one national in scope and character. Hence to that end we direct:
That our Representatives and Delegates to the National. Masonic
Service Association be instructed to do all in their power to b:mg ab~ut
early and favorable action thereon by the National Masomc Service
Association.
That our Grand Secretary be instructed to have printed and sent
from his office sufficient copies of the report and recommendations of the
Tuberculosis Sanatoria Commission of the Most Worshi~ful Grand
Lodges of Texas, Arizona and New Mexico, to t_he_ various Grand
Masters, Grand Secretaries, and others who may be mterest~d th~ough­
out the United States of America, with request that co~s1derat10~ be
given thereto immediately and that, if possible, similar act10n to this. be
taken by their respective Grand Lodges at the first Grand Commumca·
tion after receipt of same.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

135

Texas (1925):
This institution is a tubercular welfare organization located at the
United States Hospital No. 93 near Kerrville, and is the property of this
Grand Lodge, conducted through this committee. The work of this club
was supported through voluntary donations during the first half of the
year. I ts responsibilities increased, and the field of service became so
great that, in the opinion of your committee, endorsed by the Grand
Master and the Junior Grand Warden, it became necessary to employ
a full time welfare worker. Freemasonry is called upon for various
kinds of service at this institution, our work starts with a new patient
when he comes to the hospital. Our Masonic brethren are given attention first and then we direct our attention to other patients regardless
of fraternal or religious affiliation. Our Charity Fund has been used
by the Mason and the non-Mason; we have supplied the comforts of life,
have assisted the patient individually and have now begun a broader
service to all members of the Masonic Fraternity living in that particular
section. There have been 79 Master Masons from our Grand Jurisdiction in Kerr County during the past year, 68 of whom are yet there;
and a large number from foreign jurisdictions are there for their health.
"FOUND IN THE QUARRIES"
The following excerpts from the various Proceedings reviewed
give the constructive work that Masonry has accomplished and is
now carrying out in their Jurisdictions. They are concrete examples
of Service to which we may "point with pride!'
British Columbia (1925):
We confess that the idea of a mechanical prayer-maker has not occurred to us, although a progressive Brother did once suggest to us that
it would be a happy idea to have the lectures of the degrees recited by a
phonograph; and there is this to say in favor of the suggestion-whether
as applied to prayers or lectures-that one can stop a phonograph.
Delaware (1925):
The Masonic Field Day, held in June, 1925, appears not to have
proved a success. Only a small number took part. The total receipts
of the day were $30.93, while the expenditures amounted to $228.11. The
deficit was taken care of by a fund provided by Grand Lodge for the
purpose.
Idaho (1925):
The attempt to acquire the famous "old Masonic oak tree" at
Brazoria, Texas, from the feminine owner was not successful. On the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

136

137

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Saturday, when the business end of the transaction appeared to be complete, the lady, assisted by a committee of Grand Lodge (Texas), went
through all the moves (moving picture and otherwise) of "presenting"
the tree. She was afterwards to receive $250 as a "gift" in return for
the deed. But she changed her mind over Sunday, and on Monday
declined to sign the deed and "indicated that she expected to realize about
$10,000 from her interest in the tree." We have referred to the printed
page again and are therefore quite sure it was an oak tree and not a
gold mine that was under discussion.

Illinois (1925):
Grateful acknowledgment was made by the Grand Master of the
generous gift by the Grand Chapter of Royal Arch Masons of $50,000
towards the building of an addition to the hospital at the Masonic Home
in Sullivan.

Indiana (1925):
Grand Master Dinwiddie made an investigation of the Sojourners'
Club at Ft. Bayard, New Mexico. He decided from his investigation
that the Club was doing good work, and he therefore sent $500 to the
Club.
* * *
One of the Lodges attempted to sell a one-half interest in its Temple
to the Order of the Eastern Star. The Lodge was properly informed
by the Grand Master that such a procedure would be contrary to Masonic
law, and not only contrary to Masonic law, but an attempt to defraud
the Grand Lodge out of what might become its rights.

* * *

A certain Masonic Temple was permitted to be used by the Grotto
for initiating its candidates, and the Grand Master informed the l:°dges
owning the Temple that such use of their Temple was un-Masomc and
must be stopped.
* * *
A candidate for Judge of the Circuit Court in his campaign advertised his :).fasonic relations to influence Masons to vote for him.. The
Grand Master advised his Lodge that his method was un-Masomc and
ordered the Lodge to direct him to discontinue such publication or have
charges preferred against him.
Kansas (1925):
Although it should be unnecessary it is again urged that the remair:ing Lodges send their charters to the Grand Secretary. for safe deposit
in our fire-proof building. The Grand Lodge furmshes a ~roperly
framed and certified copy without charge, except where restoration also
is necessary. Let all representatives note this and handle at the first
meeting of their Lodge if it has not already been done.

Kentucky (1924):
An astounding situation was reported in one of the Lodges. A
member had killed a .brother Mason; had been tried and convicted in
the Civil Court and sentenced to 10 years in prison. The Lodge continued him a member in good standing, and were being criticized for
not giving him a Masonic trial. The Grand :\faster advised (should
have ordered), a trial which was held and the accused found "not
guilty."
Louisiana (1925):
The Grand Master recommended that each constituent Lodge of
Louisiana purchase the Little Masonic Library from the Masonic Service
Association, which sells for only $5. The writer has these books in his
library and he is convinced that they are worth many times the price.
Every Lodge should have a set of these books and the brethren encouraged to read them.
Maine (1925):
Some ten years ago, Brother George A. Carpenter of Freedom
Lodge, No. 42, presented to his Lodge, Masonic memorial flags with
which to decorate the graves of its deceased members on Memorial Day.
Since then the practice has been continued. The flags are white, with the
square and compasses and letter "G" in blue in the center, and the words
"In Memoriam" across the bottom. Each year a committee is appointed
by the Lodge to see that the flags are properly placed and no brother
forgotten.
Michigan (1925):
During the past year the presiding officers of the Grand Lodge,
Grand Chapter, R. A. M., Grand Council, R. & S. M., Grand Commandery, K. T., and the Council of Deliberation, A. A S. R., of the State of
Michigan, have perfected an organization named the Masonic Grand
Council of Michigan for the purpose of promoting closer co-operation
and co-ordination of interests in all Masonic bodies.

* * *

The Grand Master commends the Craftsmen's Club at the University
of Michigan, which is doing good and commendable work in conferring
the degrees in Masonry, not only for the Lodges in Ann Arbor, but in
going about the State and making visits to other Lodges. Like his predecessor, he recommended that the sum of $500 be contributed to this
Club to assist in carrying on its work. The Committee on Finance
approved the recommendation and it was adopted by Grand Lodge.

Missouri (1925):
During the past seven years, Grand Lodge has been contributing
toward the support of war orphans in France. Last year $500 was

138

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

appropriated for this purpose, and of this a':1o~nt $200 was distributed
through the Junior Grand Warden of the National Independent Grand
Lodge of France. Grand Lodge voted an additional $300, which .the
Special Committee on Fatherless Children of France deemed sufficient
to meet the year's demands.

* * *

\Ve are glad to be told that the history of the establishment of a
Lodge in St. Louis in early days, of which Merewether Lewis was the
first Master, has been found.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

139

Lodges from transacting business, exemplifying the work of the degrees
and keeping records in any language other than English;
Whereas, The great need therefor has passed ;
Now, therefore, Be it Resolved, That the said edict be, and the
same hereby is, revoked.
New South Wales (1923):
A Past Master of a Lodge had given $500,000 to found a Masonic
college. They gave him the honorary rank of Past Senior Grand
\Varden, a well deserved recognition of his generosity.

Montana (1925):
We your Committee appointed to report on the recommendation of
the Mo~t ·worshipful Grand Master for the State of Montana relative
to Investigating Committee and Questionnaire, unanimously recommend
the adoption of the secret investigation committee and recommend the
adoption of the California Questionnaire with the ex.ception that the
Questionnaire be returned to the Secretary and the findmgs of the committee communicated to the Worshipful Master by him, thereafter the
reports destroyed.

North Carolina (1925):
The Grand Master held that a man whose grandmother is a ncgro
is ineligible to Masonic degrees ; that a man must be able to read and
write in order to petition for Masonic degrees ; that no Master Mason
has the right to wear a Masonic emblem or pin unless he is in good
standing in his Lodge. These rulings were approved by the Grand
Lodge.

Nebraska (1925):
The incoming Grand Master was authorized and directed to appoint
a Committee on Masonic Education, which shall arrange for lectures for
Lodges and the purchase of necessary supplies. The sum of $1,500 was
appropriated for the use of the committee.

North Dakota (1925):
Grand Lodge endorsed the project of erecting a Masonic Building
at the University of North Dakota. The construction is to proceed under
supervision of the Square and Compass Club at the University and under
the direction and control of the Grand Lodge.

Georgia (1925):
The Masonic Home is operating a print shop, equipped largely
through the gifts of Craftsmen and their dear ones. It is issuing a
monthly paper, The Messenger, edited and controlled by the officers of
the Grand Lodge. A noteworthy project, and it should be generously
supported.

Oklahoma (1924):
The names of the distinguished dead of other Grand Jurisdictions
were called. As this was being done, a white' flower was placed upon
the altar for each, in their memory, by the Senior Deacon. It is wholly
unlike procedure elsewhere, but as a ceremonial it has a very sweet appeal.

New Hampshire (1925):
To increase Lodge attendance three prizes were offered. The Lodge
making the high record averaged forty-six per cent of its membership
for three months. Most of us, perhaps, could not equal that, but when
you think of the Rotary Clubs it is a poor showing.
New York (1926):
Whereas During the stress of the World War and on February 22,
1919, the G;and Master issued and promulgated an edict forbidding

.....__

Oregon (1925) :
A club house, at the University of Oregon, sponsored by the Grand
Lodge, is soon to be ready for occupancy.
Pennsylvania (1924):
Pennsylvania is exhibiting renewed activity along the line of Masonic
study. Last year the Grand Lodge approved a permanent plan of Masonic education, a plan which was well organized and thoroughly considered. They now have a lecture corps composed of 68 members, have

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

uo

purchased 100 traveling libraries of eight standard volumes each, and
are going forth to wage great war against Masonic darkness and ignorance.

i41

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

* * *

Many pages are used to show the financial matters of the Grand
Lodge. The final figures on the balance sheet are $9,156,599,15. As an
exhibition this is amazing. But it is also a tribute to the love of Freemasonry that possesses the hearts of the brethren in Pennsylvania.
The maintenance of their T'emple in Philadelphia cost them $74,363.93. ·More than 9,000 visitors were shown its wonders by their
official guide during the year.
In their Homes are 376 men, women and children.

Pennsylvania (1925):
Among other resolutions adopted by Grand Lodge (Kentucky) was
one urging the United States Government to acquire the "~Iammoth Cave
region of Kentucky" for a national park. We presume this was. cumulative Kentucky propaganda in which everybody and all bodies were
expected to join the procession-for State pride. .As a r~le, M~~onry
does not concern itself with such things, as outside of its legitimate
sphere of action-but then what's the ha.rm?

* ......
Another bit of sentiment was here displayed. Evidently Grand
Lodge of Oregon was convinced that Masonry in the United States is
not properly equipped without a Poet Laureate. So, by solemn and
appropriate action, the brethren nominated the poet Edwin Mark~am ~or
that office and decided to request all other Grand Lodges to do ltkew1s.e.
Brother Markham is a native of Oregon City, a member of a Lodge 111
Coloma, California, and. a resident of the State of Ne~ York.. O.f
course, he is a distinguished poet. Oregon's special claim for him is
that he is "especially noted for his poems on the brotherhood of manMost poets are. Markham's "The Man With the
Hoe" is a
. d"
.
.
k Ill
masterpiece; but we are not sure that we entirely approve it.

Philippine Islands (1926):
The Shrine Ceremonial : Your committee regrets that it ~as to deal
with this subject. We had thought until recently that the action of th.e
dge in 1924 requesting the Imperial Potentate of the Mystic
Gran d Lo
'
.
· 1 ·
·
not
to issue any further dispensations for Shrme ceremonta s m
Sh rme
•
d . h
k
the Philippine Islands would prevent any further ~tscor m t e ran s
f
r membership as a result of such ceremomals. However,· the
;res:~t Imperial Potentate has seen fit to disregard the request made

two years ago, and, according to our information, has issued a dispensation for a Shrine ceremonial to take place in Manila in February, 1926.
The fraternal request of our Grand S·ecretary that such dispensation be
cancelled has apparently been ignored and even receipt of it has not
been acknowledged by the Imperial Potentate of the Mystic Shrine.
"Self-preservation is the first law of nature." This Grand Lodge
has no power to prohibit the members of Afifi Temple holding a ceremonial in Manila. It is not our desire to interfere with those Masons
who are already Shriners in the enjoyment of their privileges as such,
but this Grand Lodge has the right and power to protect the membership
of its Subordinate Lodges against the discordant influence of the Shrine
ceremonials as conducted by visiting Shriners by prohibiting the members of its subordinate lodges to take the work of the Mystic Shrine in
the proposed ceremonial.
We therefore recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge does hereby prohibit all members
of the Subordinate Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
the Philippine Islands from taking the Shrine degrees during the proposed Shrine ceremonial in Manila in February, 1926.
Any violation of this resolution shall be a Masonic offense.

* * *

The use of the word "Profane": \Ve find that this word is often
used by Masonic writers in referring to persons who are not Masons,
and its use is justified by well known writers, such as Albert G. :Vfackey,
yet we are of the opinion that its use should be avoided, because nonMasons rightly claim that the term sounds disrespectful, and, generally
speaking, those so classed do not like to be called profane.
Therefore, we recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That the use of the word "profane," when reference is
made to persons not Masons, be avoided whenever possible by the use
of some other word or expression in its stead, such as "uninitiated" and
"non-:Vfason."

.........

On a visitation to a Lodge on the Tsland of N egros, found that the
brethren have made their Lodge a real influence in that community. The
members of that Lodge are leaders in civic activities in which men and
women of all religions and nationalities participate. These brethren are
paying the salaries of two school teachers, supporting several orphans,
assisting in the: support of a maternity hospital, and giving up part of
their Temple for a school room. The maternity hospital is not a Masonic enterprise. The parents of the orphans were not Masons. The
enrollment in the school classes is not limited to children of Masons.

142

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

This is the kind of real unselfish service that many of our provincial
brethren are rendering which is winning the admiration of the different
communities in which Lodges are working.
Prince Edward Island (1925):
Fifteen years ago the Grand Master in his address said: "Think of
it, a Grand Lodge thirty-five years old that has never had occasion to
suspend or expel a single member." Today we can repeat this pardonable boast, but changing the words thirty-five to fifty, and also addnor a single quarrel with any Sister Grand Jurisdiction with which we
have had fraternal relations.
Queensland (1925):
The following pre-requisite has been passed by Queensland as a
necessary essential in the appplications of candidates:
I hereby declare that I will be faithful, loyal, and bear true allegiance to the Sovereign of the British Empire, and I recognize that disloyalty or any breach of this declaration is a serious Masonic offence.
On the report of the Committee on General Purposes it was decided
that a Warden could not obligate a candidate. Whew I All those candidates obligated by the Wardens, Deacons, Stewards and high privates
in the rear rank in Tennessee must be clandestine!
South Dakota (1925):
The name of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence was changed
to Committee on Fraternal Relations, on recommendation of the Grand
Master approved by the Committee on Jurisprudence .

• • •

The Grand Master ruled that there is no objection to Lodges posting notices of meetings in hotels and inviting guests who are Masons
to attend.
South Dakota (1926):
The Grand Chapter Eastern Star (Ohio) had purchased and presented to the Grand Lodge a tract of 102 acres adjoining the Home. We
wonder if they find a way to permit this Order the use of their Temples
and lodge rooms. If so, why not the DeMolays?
Utah (1925):
The By-Laws were amended to provide that no Master Mason shall
recommend a petitioner for the degrees, who has not been known to the
recommender for at least one year.

143

Utah (1925):
The decision of the United States Circuit Court of Appeals in the
case of the United States vs. Thomson and Bergera, upheld a decision
of the United States District Court in sentencing these two men, convicted of using the United States mails to defraud, to the U. S. Prison
at Fort Leavenworth, where they are both now serving their sentences.
This ends the last chapter in this remarkable Masonic fraud, which had
his headquarter~ in our jurisdiction.

Utah (1926):
The report of the Executive Commission of the Masonic Service
Association showed the following membership, comprising twenty-six
Grand Jurisdictions: Arizona, Connecticut, Delaware, District of Columbia, Florida, Iowa, Louisiana, Maryland, Massachusetts, Mississippi,
Montana, Nevada, New Hampshire, New Jersey, New Mexico, North
Dakota, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, South Carolina, South
Dakota, Tennessee, Texas, Utah and Wyoming; Minnesota, Maine and
Philippine Islands having withdrawn since the last meeting.

Victoria (1925):
In the great struggles of the world today the United States of
America is certainly bearing the brunt of the battle on many fronts, and
the greater the struggle the more clearly is seen the fundamental unity
of ideals and objectives of the English-speaking peoples. These lines
are penned during the visit of the American Fleet to Australia, which
again is significant.

West Australia (1924):
The Grand Master: I have been asked if it is essential that waitresses should retire from the Festive Board after the Toast List has been
commenced. The question in this instance more particularly refers to
the wives and relatives of members who frequently, in country Lodges,
prepare the Installation Banquet. I think the circular issued by the
Board of General Purposes in 1918 will be an answer to that question.
It is as follows: It has been reported to the Board of General Purposes
that on several recent occasions non-Masons have been present at the
Festive Boards of Lodges for the purpose of contributing to the harmony
of the evening. The Board is of the opinion, that this practice is highly
improper, and should be discontinued. Masters of Lodges are, therefore,
advised that the presence of non-Masons at the Festive Board, after the
Toast List has been commenced, is prohibited.

144

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

This procedure is universal among the Grand Lodges within the
British Empire, and who shall say that there is no wisdom in it?
West Australia (1925):
For the twenty-third year in succession the books of Grand Lodge
closed without a single Lodge being in arrear.
Wyoming (1924):
The "History of Freemasonry in \Vyoming" is now ready. The
task has required two years of effort by Brother Alfred J. 3fokler. the
Grand Historian.
Grand Lodge voted an appropriation of not exceeding $3,000 to take
care of the expense of the printing and publication of 1,000 copies. One
copy will be furnished gratuitously to each Grand Jurisdiction.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

145

APPENDIX
AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are
generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly
speaking, they should be termed the American Rite and the Scottish Rite, for the one commonly called York is peculiar in its organized proceedings only to the United States.
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.
The Symbolic degrees are conferred in a lodge and are the Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They
are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction
is by symbols.
The Capitular degrees arc conferred in a Royal Arch Chapter
and are the Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent
Master and the Royal Arch. The supplemental and honorary degrees of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of High Priests
upon those who have been regularly elected to preside over a
Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. They arc called Capitular because
they are conferred in a Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning "done
in a Chapter."
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the
Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called Cryptic because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees 'arc conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight Templar
comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take the temple
at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the 33rd,
inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States (which
includes all territory south of the Ohio River and west of the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and the degrees conferred by them are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 ° to 14 °, inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, 15° to 18°; Council of Kadosh, 19° to
30°; Consistory, 31° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.
In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes all States north
of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River); the degrees

147

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

conferred are: Lodge of perfection, 4° to 14 •, inc_lusivi;,; Counc}~
Princes of Jerusalem, 15 ° and 16 °; Chapter Rose Croix, 17 and 18 '
Consistory, 19" to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.

MEETING MONTHS OF ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS

146

MASONIC CALENDAR
Ancient Craft ~asons--Commence their era with the cr~ation
of the world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."
Scottish Rite--Same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish Chronology is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the ye~r the second ,;.emple was
commenced by Zerubbabel, Anno Inventioms. (A. Inv.), m the year
of discovery."
Royal and Select Masters-Date from the year in which the
Temple of Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.},
"in the year of the deposit."
Knights Templar-Commence their era with the organization of
their order. Anno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year of the b!e~si~
of Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Ann.o Bened.ictionis
(A. B.), "in the year of the blessing."

January-Florida, Minnesota, North Carolina, Tennessee, Utah.
Philipprne Islands, France (Grand Orient).
February-Arizona, Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi,
New Mexico, Oklahoma, South Carolina, Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Cuba.
April-New Jersey, New Brunswick, South Australia, Mexico
(York), Porto· Rico.
May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York,
Rhode Island, Alberta, New Zealand.
June-Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South
Dakota, Vermont, Washington, British Columbia, Manitoba, Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan, Queensland.
July-Canada, New South Wales.
August-Montana.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri, Wyoming.
October-California,
0&.io.

Georgia,

Delaware,

Illinois,

Kentucky,

November-Arkansas, Maryland, West Virginia, Wisconsin.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.

RULES FOR MASONIC DATES
Ancient Craft Masons-Add 4000 years to the common era.
Thus: 1923 and 4000-5923.
Scottish Rite-Add 3760 to the common era. Thus: 191!3 and
3760-5683. After September add another year.
Royal Arch-Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and
530-2453.
Royal and Seleet Masters--Add 1000 to the common time. Thus:
1923 an.d 1000~2923.
Knights Templar-From the Christian era take 1118. Thus: 1118
from 1923-805.
Order of High Priesthood-To the Christian era add 1913, the
year of blessing. Thus: 1923 and 1913-3836.

AMERICAN GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter Royal Arch Masons-John A. Blake,
General Grand High Priest, Boston, Mass.; Charles A. Conover,
General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Mich. 40th Convocation, September 28, 1927, Denver, Colo.
Grand Chapter of California-Clifton S. Hite, Grand High Priest,
Sacramento, California; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. 73rd Annual Convocation, Santa Barbara, April 19-20, 1927.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masons-Bert S. Lee.
General Grand Master, Springfield, Missouri; Henry W. Mordhurst, General Grand Recorder, Fort Wayne, Ind. 16th Triennial
Assembly, September 26, 1927, Denver, Colo.

148

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Grand Council of California-William L. Duggan, Grand Master,
Santa Ana, California; Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, Masonic
Temple, San Francisco. 77th Annual Assembly, Santa Barbara, April
18th, 1927.
Grand Encampment of Knights Templar-George W. Vallery,
Grand Master, Denver, Colo.; Adrian Hamersly, Grand Recorder,
Indianapolis, Indiana. 73rd Triennial Conclave, ])etroit, Mich., July
16-18, 1928.
Grand Commandery of California-August J. De Lamare, Grand
Commander, San Francisco, California; Thomas A. Davies, Grand
Recorder, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. 69th Annual Conclave,
Santa Barbara, April 21-22, 1927.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. (Southern Jurisdiction)-John
H. Cowles, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander; H. W. Witcover,
33°, Secretary General, House of the Temple, Washington, D. C.
Meets biennially third Monday in October, Washington, D. C.,
William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, S. G. Insp. General,
Northern District of California; Perry Winslow Weidner, 33°, Los
Angeles, S. G. lnsp. General, Southern District of California.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. (Northern Jurisdiction)-Leon
M. Abbott, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander, Charles H. Spilman,
33 °, Secretary General, 299 Broadway, New York. Meets annually
the third Tuesday in September, Boston, Mass.
Imperial Council, A. A. 0. N. M. S.-David W. Crossland, Imperial Potentate, Montgomery, Ala.; Benjamin W. Rowell, Imperial
Recorder, Masonic Temple, Boston, Mass. 53rd Annual Session,
Atlantic City, N. J., June 14-16, 1927.
General Grand Chapter, Order Eastern Star-Mrs. Clara Heinrich, General Grand Matron, Newport, Ky.; Mrs. Minnie E. Keyes,
General Grand Secretary, 13th and N. Y. Ave., Washington, D. C.,
19th Triennial Assembly, Denver, Colo., 1928.
Grand Chapter of California-Cora S. Holland, Grand Matron,
Los Angeles, California; Mrs. Kate J. Willats, Grand Secretary,
Phelan Building, San Francisco, G:alifornia. Annual Session, Coronado, October 19th, 1926.
Ancient Egyptian Order Sciots-H. D. Maynard, Alameda, Pharaoh; Karl Eber, Phelan Building, Supreme Scribe. Annual Session, Santa Cruz, California, November 4-6, 1926.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

149

Order of DeMolay-Alexander G. Cochran, St. Louis, Mo.,
Grand Councilor; Frank S. Land, Kansas City, Mo., Grand Scribe;
Jes~e M. Whited, 519 California Street, San Francisco, California,
Active Member Grand Council for Northern California and Nevada.
Frank S. Wright, 6250 Hollywood Blvd., Hollywood, Deputy of
Grand Council for Southern California. Seventh Annual Session.
Louisville, Kentucky, March 21, 1927.

MASONIC PERIODICALS
(J. Hugo Tatsch, Curator and Associate Editor Iowa
Masonic Library, Cedar Rapids, Iowa.)

American Co-Mason-Larkspur, Colo. (Clandestine).
American Mason-941 Market St., Ph:ladelphia, Pa.
American Tyler Keystone-Battle Creek, Mich.
Ancient & Accepted Scottish Rite Bulletin-Box 195, Wheeling,
W. Va.
Arcana Herald-2322 Fillmore St. N. E., Minneapolis, Minn.
Ark Temple Bulletin-322 So. 4th St., Minneapolis, Minn.
Ashlar-Detroit Legal News Bldg., Detroit, M:ch.
Badger DeMolay-Room 36, Mack Block, Milwaukee, Wis.
Bagpipe-Box 169, New Bern, N. C.
Berwyn Masonic News-53 W. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Ill.
Booster-2126 27th St., Sacramento, Cal.
Boston Masonic Club Bulletin--448 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.
Builder-1950 Railway Exchange, St. Louis, Mo.
Bulletin Los Angeles Consistory-929 S. Hope St., Los Angeles,
California.
Cataract News-Box 33, St. Anthony Falls Sta., Minneapolis,
Minn.
Cathedral Calendar-433 Third St., N. W., Washington, D. C.
Cathedral Echoes-Tampa, Florida.
Chicago Scottish Rite Magazine-919 Dearborn St., Chicago,
Illinois.
Christian Cynosure-850 VI/. Madison St., Chicago, Ill. (AntiMasonic.)
College Mason-4 Stuart Bldg., Lexington, Va.
DeMolay Bulletin-Cl:nton, Iowa.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

160

151

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

DeMolay Journal-6-8 Reade St., New York City.
Eastern Star-68 Whittier Place, Indianapolis, Ind.
Eastern Star World-179 Summer St., Boston, Mass.
El Paso A. & A. S. R. Bulletin-Masonic Cathedr<il, El Paso,,
Texas.
Euclid Lodge Bulletin-Masonic Temple, New Orleans, La.
Fellowship Forum-219 G St. N. W., Washington, D. C.
Flint Hills Craftsman-Burlington, Iowa.
Foreword-Masonic Hall, 46 Vv. 24th St., New York City.
Gauge & Gave1-710 Roscoe St., Ch:cago, Ill.
Gavel-52 Third St., Newburgh, N. Y.
Grotto News--:-409 So. 2nd St., Memphis, Tenn.
Idaho Freemason-Masonic Temple, Boise, Idaho.
Idaho Scottish Rite Beacon-P. 0. Box 1442, Boise, Idaho.
Illinois Freemason-Bloomington, Ill.
Ionic News-Masonic Temple, Duluth, Minn.
Ivanhoe Masonic News-Linwood Blvd. & Park Ave., Kansas
City, Mo.
Joppa News-310 N. 40th St., Philadelphia, Pa.
Junior Warden-2208 Jackson St., Oakland, Cal.
Kansas City Freemason-404 Ridge Bldg., Kansas City, Mo.
Kansas Masonic Digest-335 N. Market, Wichita, Kan.
Keystone Eastern Star Magazine-587 Forest Ave., Bellevue, Pa.
Kilwinning Bulletin-912 No. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.
Kraftsman-1426 You St. X. W., Washington, D. C.
La Fayette Bulletin-123 So. Jefferson St., Chicago, Ill.
Light-1farshalltown, Iowa.
Lincoln Park Chapter Bulletin-1205 ~. Dearborn St., Chicago,
Illinois.
McKinley Temple Topics-3903 Lisbon Ave., Milwaukee, Wis.
Masonic Analyst-Suite 307 Consolidated Securities Bldg., Portland, Ore.
Masonic Bulletin-Masonic Temple, Cleveland, Ohio.
Masonic Chronicler-32 W. Randolph St., Room 1301, Chicago,
Illinois.
Masonic Digest-542 Cotton Exchange Bldg., Los Angeles, Cal.
Masonic, Eastern Star and DeMolay · Bulletin-520 Sec. Bldg.,
Des Moines, Iowa.
;:he·

Masonic EventS--186 N. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.
Masonic Grand Lodge Bulletin-Fargo, N. D.
Masonic Herald-P. 0. Box 207, Atlanta, Ga.
Masonic H9me Journal-1814 S. 1st St., Louisville, Ky.
Masonic Home Messenger-Masonic Temple, Macon, Ga.
Masonic Journal-410 Prov. Bldg., Tacoma, Wash.
Masonic Light-1301 Federal Reserve Bank Bldg. Kansas Citv
Missouri.
·
'
·'
Masonic Monthly Magazine-185 Church St., New Haven, Conn.
Masonic NewS--334 Knoxville Ave., Peoria, Ill.
Masonic News-Masonic Temple, Detroit, Mich.
Masonic News-Masonic Temple, Lincoln, Nebr.
Masonic News-41 Park Row, New York C:ty.
Masonic News-\Venatchee, Wash.
Masonic Quarterly-3225 Woodland Ave., Philadelphia, Pa.
Masonic Review-8 Reade St., New York City.
Masonic Review-4202 N. Cheyenne St., Tacoma, Wash.
Masonic Star-Okmulgee, Okla. (Negro.)
Masonic Tidings-2032 E. Market St., Warsaw, Ind.
Masonic Tidings-501 Cherry St., Milwaukee, w:s.
Masonic Tribune--Lee Bldg. & Madison Sts., Memphis, Tenn.
Masonic Tribune~U niversity Station, Seattle, Wash.
Masonic World-,-Humboldt Bank Bldg., San Francisco Cal.
Master Mason-815 15th St. N. W., Washington, D. C. '
Master Mason-621 W. Ivy St., San Diego, Cal.
Meccan-107 W. 45th St., New York City. (Shrine.)
Missouri Freemason..:...1950 Railway Exchange, St. Louis, Mo.
Missouri Grand Lodge Bulletin-207 Bd. Education Bid
s
Louis, Mo.
g., t.
Montana Mason-1042 Breckenridge St., Helene, .. Mont.
National Fraternal Review-428 E. 35th St.,· ·Chicago, Ill.
(Negro.)
National Observer-516 Masonic Temple, ·Minneapolis, M~nn.
New England Craftsman-900 Masonic Temple, Boston, Mass.
New York Masonic Outlook-Masonic Hall, New York City.
Northeast Corner-Masonic Temple, Albuquerque, N. Mexico.
Ohio Mason-180 E. Long St., Columbus, Ohio.
Oklahoma Consistory-Scottish Rite Temple, Guthrie, Okla.

152

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE .

Oklahoma Mason-McAlester, Okla.
Oracle-P. 0. Box 343, Pasadena, Cal.
Oriental Consistory News-Box 124, Yankton, S. D.
Owl--435 Jersey St., Elizabeth, N. J.
Palestiner-510 Fort St., W., Detroit, Mich.
Palmer Templegram-1010 First St., Milwaukee, Wis.
Parian Paragraphs--Masonic Temple, 6107 Cottage Grove Ave.,
Chicago, 111.
Plumb Line-Natchitoches, La. (Negro.)
Quarterly Bulletin-Masonic Library, Sioux Falls, S. D.
Rob Morris Bulletin-960 Ogden St., Denver, Colo.
Rostrum-Hanselmann Masonic Lodge, Cincinnati, Ohio.
Sandusky Masonic Bulletin-Box 106, Sandusky, Ohio.
Sciots Journal--464 Phelan Bldg., San Francisco, Cal.
Scottish Rite Bulletin-1290 Sutter St., San Francisco, Cal.
Scottish Rite Bulletin-Masonic Temple, Duluth, Minn.
Scottish Rite Bulletin-Box 526, Santa Fe, N. Mexico.
Scottish Rite Bulletin-Masonic Temple, Fargo, N. D.
Scottish Rite Bulletin-Aberdeen, S. D.
Scottish Rite Camp Chronicle-Masonic Temple, Birmingham,
Alabama.
Scottish Rite Herald-Scottish Rite Cathedral, Dallas, Texas.
Scottish Rite Journal-St. Paul, Minn.
Scottish Rite News--Nashville, Tenn.
Scottish Rite News-Box 1079, San Antonio, Texas.
Scottish Rite News Bulletin-Spokane, Wash.
Scottish Rite Progress--Farmers & Mer. Bank Bldg., Independence, Mo.
Scottish Rite Sun-Minneapolis, Minn.
Shrine Magazine-1440 Broadway, New York City.
Sojourner-135 Glenbrook Road, Battery Park, Bethesda, Md.
Sojourner-Fort Bayard, N. Mexico.
Southern Masonic Journal-12Y, N. 23d St., B:rmingham, Ala.
Southwestern Freemason-1044 S. Olive St., Los Angeles, Cal.
Square & Compass-1512 Glenarm St., Denver, Col.
Square & Compass-Martin Bldg., Utica, N. Y.
Square & Compasses-938 LaFayette St., New Orleans, La.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

153

Tampa Mason-Tampa, Fla.
Temple News-Box 162, Chicago Heights, Ill.
Temple Topics-Mt. Morris, Ill.
Texas Freemason-18040 Jackson St., Dallas, Texas.
Toledo Masonic Bulletin-Toledo, Ohio.
Transportation Square Club Bulletin-2089 Amsterdam Ave.,
New York City.
Trestle Board-Masonic Temple, Van Ness Ave. & Market St.,
San Francisco, Cal.
Trestle Board-Atlanta, Georgia.
Trestle Board-So. St. Paul, Minn., Drovers Bank Bldg.
Triad of Acacia-1511 Brooklyn Ave., Ann Arbor, Mich.
Tripoli Tattler-Masonic Temple Bldg., Milwaukee, Wis.
(Shrine.)
Universal Craftsman-2281 W. 14th St., Cleveland, Ohio.
Virginia Masonic Journal-P. 0. Box 1523, Richmond, Va.
Washington Journal-92 First St., Portland, Ore.
What Cheer Trestleboard-Freemasons Hall, Providence, R. I.
Wisconsin Consistory Messenger-Scottish Rite Cathedral, Milwaukee, \Vis.

154

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

GRAND LODGE DIRECTORY
Grand Masters of the United States
(Correepondence Report, Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of Iowa.)

Grand

Grand Master

Alabama............
. ..... Oliver Day Street................................ GuntersviUe
Arizona ................................ .Nelson C. Bledsoe................................ Ilisbee
Arkansas ............................ .claude H. HilL. ................................... Arkadelphia
Califo.rnia ............................ :Albert E. Boynton ................................... San Francisco
Colorado ...............................Frank G. Mirick .................................... Pueblo
Connecticut.. .......................Arthur N. Nash .................................... Westerly, R. I.
Delaware .............................. James P. Pierce .................................... Milford
District of Columbia ........... Sidney Jaco.bs ........................................ Washington, D. C.
Florida ................................ Carey B. Fish ........................................ Sarasota
Georgia ..................................W. S. Richardson .................................. Atlanta
Idaho.........
. .........Will H. Gibson ...................................... Mountain Home
Illinois.................................. Richard C. Davenport .......................... Harrisburg
Indiana ................................. Wm. C. Geake ........................................ Ft. Wayne
Iowa ..................................... Harry M. Belt......
.. ......................De$ Moines
Kansas .................................. John \V. Neilson .................................... Concordia
Kentucky..............................Holland G. Allison ................................ Lexington
Louisiana ............................. J. Paul Haller ........................................ Ncw Orleans
Maine................................... .David L. Wilson .................................... Bath
Maryland ..............................Warren S. Seipp .................................... Baltimore
Massachmetts ......................Frank L. SimpBOn................................ Boston
Michigan.............................. .Chas. A. Donaldson ............................Grand Rapids
Minnesota ............................ Albert F. Pray........................................ Minneapolis
Missi"ippi .......................... John R. Tally .......................................... Hattiesburg
Missouri.. ............................. Wm. W. Martin..........
......... Doniphan
Montana ............................... Edward \V. Spottswood
........... Missoula
Nebraska .............................. Edwin D. Crites...............
.. ........Chaldron
Nevada .................................. Wendell H. Churchyard ......................Yerinl!'ton
New Hampshire .................. Bela Kingman ...................................... Kewmarket
New Jersey...........................Wm. B. Mackey ....................................Trenton
New Mexico .........................Herbert R. Holt........
.. ........... Las Cruces
New York........
.. ..........II. J. Richardson ....................................New York City
North Carolina .................... John H. Anderson .................................. Fayctteville
North Dakota ...................... .Frank C. Falkenstein......
.. ............. Bottineau
Ohio ...................................... Earle Stewart.....
Ironton
Oklahoma............................. Claud A. Sturgeo.n.......
........ McAlester
Oregon ..................................Edgar H. Sensenick............................ Portland
Pennsylvania ........................\Vm. M. Hamilton ............................... Pittsburgh
Philippine Islands............... Francisco A. Delgado....................... Manilla, P. I.
Rhode Island ........................Wm.. L. Sweet..............................
.. Providence
' South Carolina .................... Charlton Durand .................................... Manning
South Dakota ....................... Leonard N. Simons .............................. Belle Forche
Tennessee ............................. Andrew E. McCulloch .......................... Maryville
Texas .................................... Ed. R. Bryan .......................................... Midland
Utah ...................................... Fred M. Nye .......................................... Oi:::den
Vermont.. ............................ Frederick H. Babbitt ............................ Bellow Falls
Virginia ................................ Ben W. Beach ........................................ Danville
Washington ..........................Walter F. Meier .................................... Seattle
West Virginia ...................... A. B. C. Bray ........................................ lfonceverte
Wisconsin .............................D. H. Mooney.........
. .................. Oconto
Wyoming........~.....................Frank S. Knittle ...................................... Casper

Grand Masters of Other Jurisdictions
Grand Lodge

Grand _l\:faster

CANADA
Alberta ................................. T. F.
Dritifh Columbia ..................n. W, Suther:and ................................... Victoria, B. C.

_

?fj~~:f,;~::-~~::~gg~g:,;-_-~-j =--= :-:Ka:E:;,"

P. E. Island ........................ John M. Nicholson ................................. Summerside
Quebec .................................. Wm. J. Ewing
................. Richmond
Saskatchewan ....................... W. J. Smith
................. Sliauuavon
GREAT BRITAIN
Englaml ................................ ll11kc of Connanght ................................ T,ondon
TrelarnL ................................ The Earl of Ilonoughmore .................... J.ondon
Scotland ................................'rhe Ee.rt of Stair ....................................Edinburgh
AUSTRALIA
'Vestern Australia .............. CO. L. Riley
...... Perth
~?uth ~u!'tralia ______________ ,., .. Tho~. Slaney Poole ................................ A(lelnirle
\·ICtoria ................................. Earl of Str:Hlhrn.ke ................................. Melbo.urne
~ew Zeuland_,_, ____________________ ('has. Fcrg-u:-:son
... " ...................... \Ve1Iington
New South Wales ............... J.
Queensland .......................... R. N, F. Que11n.
, ....................... I~ ri '\ha rte
Tasrnania .............................. Henry T~. D'Emdrn
.............. lfohart
w

:MT SCELLANEOUS
Cuba ..................................... nr. Carlos M. Pineiro..............
... Havana
Pnnama .................
Victor J PStirun ........................................ Panama
Pnrto Rico ......................... n.Luis l\{, Morales ..................................... S:i.u Juan
u

..............

l5n

166

Grand Lodge

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Grand Secretaries of the United States

Grand Secretaries of Other Jurisdictions

Grand Secretary

Address

Alabama...............•......... George A. Beauchamp.... Montgomery
Arizona .......................... George J. Roskrnge ..........Tucson
/\rkansas ........................Fay Hempstead .......... ,........ Little Rock
California ...................... fohn Whicher ...................... San Francisco, Masonic Temple
Colorado .........................Wm. W. Cooper ................ Denver, Masonic Temple
Connecticut ...................Geo. A. Kies ........................ Hartford
Delaware .......................Jo.hn F. Robimon ..............Wilmington, Masonic Temple
District of Columbia .... J. Claude Keiper ............. \Vashington, D. C., Masonic T.
Florida...........................:w. P. Webster ..................Jackrnnville
Georgia ..........................Frank F. llaker .................. Macon
Idaho ............................. Curtis F. Pike ................... liaise City
Illinois ........................... .Owen Scott .......................... Decatur
Indiana ...........................\Vm. H. Swintz ..................Indianapolis
Iowa ................................C. C. Hunt.. ........................C<;dar l{apids, Masonic Library
Kansas........................... A. K. Wilson .....................:fopeka, 320 W. Eighth Ave.
Kentucky .......................Fred W. Hardwick ........... Louisville, Masonic Temple
Louisiana ...................... Jno. A. Davilla .................. New Odeans
Maine ............................ Chas. Il. Davis .................. Portland
Maryland .......................Gco. Cook ............................ Baltimore
Massachusetts ............... Frederick \V. Hamilton ....Boston, ::VIasonic Temple
Michigan ........................ Lou B. Winsor ..................Grand Rapills. 1v1asonic Temple
Minmsota ..................... John Fishel. ...................... St. Paul
::Viississippi.. ..................Edward L. Faucette ........ Meridian
Missouri ........................Frank R. Jesse ................ St. Louis
Montana........................ Luther T. Hauberg .......... Helena, Masonic Temple
Nebraska ....................... 1-ewis E. Smith .................. Omaha, 401 Masonic Temple
Nevada ..........................E. D. Vanderlieth .............. Reno
New Hamp>bire............Harry M. Cheney .............. Ccncord
New Jersey .................... Isaac Cherry ......................Trenton, 143 East State St.
New Mexico ..................A. A. Keen ........................ Albu~ueraue
New York ....................... Robert J. Kenworthy ........ New York City, Masonic Hall
North Carolina ..............W. W. Willson .................... Raleigh
Ncrth Dakota ...•........••.•\Valter L. Stoekwell.. ........ Fargo·
Ohio ............................... Jfarry S. Johnson ............ Cincinnati, 224 Central Office Illdg.
Oklahoma .......................\Vm. M. Anderson ............ Guthrie, Ma•onic Temple
Oregon .....................•..... D. R. Cheney ................._.Portland, Multnomah TT rite!
Pennsylvania.................John A. Perry .................... Philadelphia, ::lfasonic Temple
Philippine Islands ......... Newtcn C. Comfort .......... Manila, Masonic Temple
Rhode Island ................. S. Penrose Williams ........ Providencc
South Carolina ..............O. Frank Hart .................. Columbia
South Dakota ...•.............George A. Pettigrew ........ Sioux Falls
Tennessee ...................... S. ::IL Cain .........•.............. N ash ville
Texas ..............................W. B. Pearson .................. Waco
Utah ..............................•.Sam H. Goodwin .............. Salt Lake City
Vcrmont.. .......................Henry H. Ross .................. Burlington
Vir;iinia ..........................Chas. A. Neshitt ................ Richmond
Washington ................... H. \V. Tyler ...................... Tacoma
'Vest Virginia ............... Geo. S. Laidley.................. Charleston
Wisconsln ..........•....••..... \V. W. Perry .................... Mi!waukee, 470 Van Buren St.
Wyoming ....................•.•J. M. Lowndes .................. Casper, Masonic Temple

Grand Lodge

Grand Secretary

157

Address

CANADA
Alberta .................................. S. Y. Taylor.. .................... Calgary, 12 Elma Block
British Columbia ................. W. A. DeWolf-Smith ........ New Westminster
Canada ....•.............................\Vm. M. Logan ..................Hamilton, Ontario
Manitoba .......................•.....•James A. Ovas .................. Winnipeg
New Brunswick. .•............•.. J. Twining Hartt ...•.......... St. John, 120 Prince William St.
Nova Scotia ......................... James C. Jones ......••.•........Halifax, Freemasons' Hall
Prince Edward Island .....•..Ernest Kemp ......................Charlottetown
Ouebec ................•................•W. W. Wilhamson .....•...... Montreal
Saskatchewan: ...................... W. B. Tate........................ Regina
GREAT Il RIT AIN
England..
. ..... Sir P, Colville Smith ........London, Freemasons' llall
Ireland....
....................... Henry C. She!lard....
.Dublin, Freema•ons' l lall
Scutland ............................... Thos. G. Winning ......... Edinburgh, Freemasons' Hall
AUSTRALIA
Western Australia... . .. J. D. Stevenson...
..Perth
South Australia ................ Chas. R. J. Glover. ....... Adelaide
Victoria ..............................Wm. Stewart ................... Melbourne
New Zealand ................••.....•G. Barclay .......................... Auckland, P. 0. Box 1144
New South Wales ................Arthur H. Bray ................ Sydney, Masonic Hall
Queensland ...........................Chas. H. Harley ............... Jlrisbane
Tasmania.............................. W. H. Strutt.. .................... Hobart
WEST INDIES
Cuba ....................••..........•.....]ose Marti.. .......................... Havana
Porto Rico ...•....................... Jose J. Torres .................... San Juan

158

Grand Lodges

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Chairmen Correspondence Committees

Chairmen Correspondence Committees-Continued

Chairman

Address
Location

Alabama ...........- .................. Fred Wall .............................................. Athens
Alberta ..................................Frederick S. Selwood .......................... Calgary
Arizona................................. Harry A. Drachman ............................Tucson
Arkansas.............................. .A. B. Little ............................................Texarkana
British Columbia ................. W. A. De Wolf Smith..........................New "restminster
Ca!ifornia .............................Jesse M. Whited ....................................San Francisco
Canada ..................................William N. Ponton .............................. Belleville
Colorndo ................................Stanley C. Warner .............................. Denver
Colombia, S. A .................... Allan G. Casseres ..................................Baranquilla
Connectieut .......................... George A. Kies...................................... Hartford
Costa Rica ............................ George F. Bowden................................ San Jose
Cuba...................................... F. de P. Rodriquez .................................. Havana
Delaware .............................. Thomas J. Day ........................................ Wllmington
District of Columbia ........... George W. Baird ....................................Washington
England ............................... .N one ....................................................... .
Florida .................................. Ely P. Hubbel... ..................................... Bradeton
France (G. Lodge) ................................................................................ .
France (G. Orient) .............................................................................. ..
Georgia .................................Raymund DanieL .................................. Atlanta
Guatemala ............................R. Felipe Solares.................................... Guatemala
Holland .................................Grand Secretary ..........
.. ...............The Hague
Honduras................................................................................................ .
Idaho.................................... Jo.hn W. Shore ......................................Bruse
Illinois ..................................Delmar D. Darrah ................................ Bloomington
Indiana ................................. Elmer F. Gay .......................................... Indianapolis
Iowa ...................................... Louis Block............................................ Davenport
Ireland ................................. None ....................................................... .
Italy (N. G. Lodge) .............................................................................
Kansas .................................. A1bert K. Wilson ..................................Topeka
Kentucky ..............................William W. Clarke ................................Owensboro
Louisiana ..............................John A. Davilla .................................... New Orleans
Maine ................................... Ashley A. Smith .................................... Bangor
Manitoba
.................. James S. MacEwing .............................. Winnipeg
Maryland ..............................Henry Branch ........................................Leesburg, Va.
Ma<sachusetts...................... None ......................................................
Michigan .............................. Wm. H. Gallagher ................................. Allegan
Minnesota .............................Edmund A. Montgomery.. .................'Minneapolis
Mississippi.. ..........................Henry C. Yarn ......................................Lumberton
Missouri.. ............................. Arthur Mather ........................................Fervuson
Montana ............................... H. S. Hepner ..........................................Helena
Nebraska .............................. .Frank L. Haycock. ...............................Callaway
Nevada ..................................'Edward D. Vanderleith ...................... Reno
New Brunswick. ................ None ................................. ..
New Hampshire ...................Harry M. Cheney.
..................... Concord
New Jersey ......................................................... ..
.. ....... Albuquerque
New Mexico .........................John Milne
New South Wales ...............................................•
New York. ......................... u.S. Nelson Sawyer .......................... ,. .... New York City
New Zealand ........................None .......................................................
North Caro.lina .................... J. Edward Allen ................................. Warrenton

Grand Lodges
North Dakota.....

Committee Correspondence
......George H. Philos............

Address
Location

..Bowbells
......... Halifax
Ohio .................................... .0. P. Sperra........................ . ........... Ravenna
Oklahoma .............................Thomas C. Humphry ............................. Hugo
Oregon........................ .. ... David P. Mason.......
.. .... Albany
Panama ................................ None ........................................ ..
Pennsylvania ....................... Thomas F. Penman..
.. ............... Philadelphia
Philippine Islands ............... George R. Harvey
..... Manila
Porto Rico ............................ Grand Secretary....
.. ............. .San Juan
Prince Edward Island .........W. P. Doull.. .....................
........ Charlottetown
Ouebee .................................. E. T. D. Chambers
... Quebec City
.. .................. ..
Queensland (U.G.L.) ....... l'il'one .
Rhode Island ........................William H. Scott...... .. ...................... Providence
Saskatchewan .......................W. M. Thomson......
....... Fort Qu' Appelle
Scotland ............................... N one ............ .
South Australia ...................Grand Secretary ..... ..
........ Adelaide
South Carolina .................... James L. Michie...
........... Darlington
South Dakota.......................Charles L. Brockway..................
.. ....Sioux Falls
Tasmania ..............................Grand Secretary ..................... .
.. ...Hobart
Tenne•see ............................ Charles H. Smart.. ..
.. ... Nashville
Texas .....................................S. M. Bradley........
.. ..... Denton
Utah ..................................... Sam H. Goodwin
........... .Salt Lake City
Vermont.. ............................. Archie S. Harrima11 ........................... Middleburg
Victoria (U. G. L.) .............None........................................... .
Virginia.....
.. ........ Toseph W. Eggleston.....
.......... ~ichmond
Washington ..........................Edwin H. Van Patten ..........................Dayton
\Vestern Australia .............. Grand Secretary....
.. .......Perth
\Vest Virginia ......................Lewis N. Wavenner ..............................rarkersburg
Wisconsin......
.. ... Aldro Jenks............................
.. ....... Dodgeville
Wyoming ........................... Joseph M. Lowndes............ .
.. ..Casper
N'ova Scotia ......................... J a mes C Jones.................

159

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

160

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC MEMBERSHIP OF THE UNITED STATES
(Compiled by the Iowa Masonic Library from information furnished by the Grand Secretari'es of the various Grand Jurisdictions,
May 1, 1926.)

MASONIC MEMBERSHIP OF OTHER COUNTRIES
(Correspondence Report, Grand Lodge F. & A. M. o.f New York.)
DOMINION OF CANADA

Membership

One Year's
Net Gain

15
78
179

12,350
12,775
107,000
11,400
5,955
9,662
l, 169
13,703
12,969

370
684
4,000
322
165
83
14
497
173

.. ...... 1,283
. ... .16,501

186,983
3,134,501

6,308
106,082

Total for North America ............................. 17,784

3,321,484

112,390

Grand
Alabama .......................................................- .....................
* Arizona ........ ,.....•.--...................... - ... ···-·--.··--n--••uu•••••u•
Arkansas.........H ..............
H-.. H...............,..,...H.--••H••····
California ........................................................................... .
Colorado ..............................................................................
Connecticut ........................................................................
Delaware................................................................ - ......... .
District of Columbia ..........................................................
Florida.................................................................................
Geo.rgia ................................................................................
Idaho ................................................................._ ...............
lllinois ..................................................................................
Indiana .....................................................................- ........
Iowa ....................................................................................
Kansas.......... ~·······················•••H••·•····•H•• 69 ··-·•_.h..••'"••u-<ouu·•
Ken~t:cky .....................................................................--:..
Lou1s1ana .........•.................•..~·············--·u··---·--·••u...............
Maine .................................................................................. .

~Jii;;r:-~·r~i;~<l~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::::::::::

448
127
606
458
166
559
40
288
174
476
978
25
103
354
261
166
297
45
99

53,990
5,901
36,000
115,517
31,159
44,181
5,912
22,700,
27,398
69,821
9,761
280,041
126,215
86,150
80,174
72,072
34,905
43,485
32,055
122,324
146,255
59,586
35,500
111,969
19,975
40,287
2,687
15,086
86,187
6,555
320,985
41,306
15,254
193,461
69,673
28,972
204,111
18,059
29,503
19,628
49,264
132,774
4,818
18,682
47,331
46,409
32,976
54,827
7,469
6,837

Total. ...........................................................................

16,422

3,166,187

uww_ . . . . . . . . . . .

H.

~~~~~h~~~tt·~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

:Michigan ...............................................................- ...........
Minnesota .............. Hn••··o••u·•·········"'•••••••····-·H••··•u•u...~~H.....
Mississippi ..........................................................................
!\:lissourL............................... u••••H••H••h••·············•H•~H ....-H...
Montana ..............................................................................
Nebraska ..............................................................................
Nevada ................................................................................ .
New Hampshire ................................................................ ..

~~~ -!,{~~~;;::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.·.·.·.·.·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.-.~:

New York ............................................................................
North Carolina .................................................................. .
North Dakota .................................................................... ..
Ohio .................................................................................... ..
Oklahoma ........................................................................... .

~!~~~~i~·a.r;:t~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Rltode Island ......................................................................
South CaroJina .................................................................. .
South Dakota ..................................................................... .
Tennessee .............................~·u•···-··················-~n ...·-···0#··· ..
Texas ...................................................................................
Utah .....................................................................................
\r ermont ...o••un•••••••H•••••o•"""•oooo•••d•••oo•n•w••······-•H•*HOo••••H~·-·
Virginia ......................
0

H

....·········-···"·-····.... u

•

••••••••••••••••• ·--······

*;~:~frE'.~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

582
3S
560
532
139
120
22
41
249
672
78
994
558
558
446
614
268
206
121
316
489
305
388
659
133
289
23*
80
252
56

967

("Taken from last year's statistical compilation.)

161

143
102

546
98
43

79

Total for Canada .................. ..
Total for United States ......... .

LATIN AMERICAN REPUBLICS

Mexico (Yo.rk G. L.) ..........................................

~f¥::~:~:·;_/·~~!~~-~~1; -~(:

mte States of Venezuela ............................... ..
I)eru .... _.......................... u•··••n••··········-······-·•• ........ .
Colombia (Co.mbined (G. L.) ........................... ..
Haiti ...................................................................... .

Adding estimate for Grand Lodges not in·
eluded in list..................................................

Number o.f
Lodg:es
15
8
168
7

Membership

14
21
9
18
75

938
500
13,272
243
3,956
645
650
1.500
1.000
3,000
17,000

396

42,704

56
5

208

20,000

Total for Latin America ..............................~
Total for North America ............................. 17,784
Total for all Americas..................................18,388

62,704
3,321,484
3,384,188

One Y~ar's
Net Gain

765

AUSTRALASIA
Grand Lodges

Number o.f
Lodges

Membership

One Year'S
Net Gain

484
270
248
124
41
355
119

55,269
22,790
22,000
11,727
3,434
38.392
6,870

"""'676

Total for Australasia .................................... 1,641

160,482

11,053

4,631
1,470
88
3,809
379

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENQE

162

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonic Membership of Other Countries-Continued

CONSOLIDATED STATISTICS
(Prepared by ALBERT K. WILSON, Grand Secretary and Grand Recorder,
Kansas Correspondent, February, 1926)

GREAT BRITAIN AND IRELAND
Number o.f
Lodges

Membership

One Year's
Net Gain

----------------------- ------- 4,300
650
------------------------------------------------- 930

308,000*
68,000
84,000

9,547

Total for Great Britain and Ireland ___ ------ 5 880

460,000

Grand Lodges
England _____ _
lr<tland ..
Sc<itland ______ _

*Estimated.

Austria (G. L. of Vienna)_
Bulgaria ____ -··-------·--····--··-·-Czecho-Slo.vakia ___ _
Denmark ............... .
Germany:
Three Globes, Berlin ___________ _
German National, Berlin ....
Eclectic Union, Frankfort ..
Prussia, Berlin......... .
Sonne, Bayreuth ....... .
Hamburg-----··-······---·Saxony. ______ ............ _______ _
Eintracht, Dramstadt ____ _
Bruderkette, Leipzig ......... ··-·-···-····-·---.. ··--··
Holland ............................ _____________ -----------------Norway ____________________________ --------------------Sweden .... -------------·-·····-···-···-·-· ----·-·-·--·--- ......... .
Switzerland (Alpina) __

Number o.f
Lodges

Grand
Lodge
Alabama .............................. ____________ , ........ . 52,369
Arizona .................................................... .
5,688
Arkansas.................................................. . 35,952
California .......................... _______ , ............... . 115,517
Colorado ................................................... . 30,251
Connecticut .............................................. . 42,906
Delaware .................................................. .
5,860
22,113
25,871
70,267
Idaho..................
------·-···-.. ··-----.....
9,500
Illinois.................... ...
···········--·------· .. ·-· 279,596
lncliana........................ ------.................... . 124,102
Iowa ........................ ----·-··-------··········----.... . 85,707
l(an~as..........
. ........................... . 80,174
Kenlucky .... __
......................... __
72,603
Loui.<siana......
····----············--··
34,497
1\faine.............
---·--···-·--·-·············
42,981
Maryland.......
----·---.. ······-·--·· 31,297
Massachusetts ............................... .
120,119
Massachusetts and Rhode Isl... .. _____ _
Michig~n ............................ --.·-··-·-··-·--·
143,317
58,092
34,700
109,897
Montana ........... .
19,887
Nebraska .......... .
40,287
J.'ljevada ................................. .
2,687
New Hampshire ____ ·-··-··-·-··-------·--· .. ----··-·-·
New Jersey........................... ______ , ............ . 82,827
New Mexico.. .............................. .
6,421
Hew York ____ ··----······
311,270
North Carolina .... _
40,609
North Dakota_, ______ _
15,070
Oh1q ................... ___ _
187,701
Oklal1oma ......... .
66,662
Oregon ................ .
26,825
Penns]lvania ..... .
199,840
Rhode hland ...... .
17,623
South Carolina ..... .
29,440
South Dakota __ _
19,296
Tennessee ............ .
47 ,658
~rexas ............. .
128,880
Utah .............. , ______ ------------·--·-4,734
18,682
45,561
Washington .............. .
42,807
~~st Vi~ginia ......... .
32,224
\\i 1scons111 ............ .
54,827
\\Tyomit1g ...... .
7,207

~~~:~~--~;::~:~~:~~~'.~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

CONTINENTAL EUROPE

Grand Lodges

163

Membership

21
6
18
16

1,507
350
907
6,898

171
168
23
86
38
64
39
9
5
137
15
43
37

23,052
23,039
3 826
11,000
4.040
6,000
7 ,307
880
1,730
8,160
5,992
21,469
4,765

896

130,949

One Year's
Net Gain
54
55

mf~1~~r~'.::::::::-·_-_._._._..·::--: ::::·::·:::::::::::··-···

373
74

Total membership of Masonic Lodges working in the English language,

A1ip~~h~~i;:at=zr~;a;~:;~;:~iy:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::·······::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ·ng:ggg
4

Total memberohip of regular Lodges in the world, for 1925, approximately.-4,300,000

The fo.ur numerically stro!1gest. jurisdictions are New "X" ork, England,
Illinois and Pennsylvania, with an aggregate membership of.. ................ 1,108,421
Twelve jurisdictions have a membership of over 1.00,_000 each. They are _in
order of numerical strength: N,ew York, E~glan~, lll?no1s, . Pennsylvant¥t, Oh10,
Michigan, Texas, Indiana. Massachu~etts, Caltforma, Mtssoun and Ontario (Canada), with a total membership of_ 2,152,786.

~:r:;r~i~~~~~:~~~~~~-~~~-

Totals _______ , ..........'.. _________ _
Ge11eral Grand Chapter
Subordinates ........ .
General Grand Co.uncil
Subordinates .............. .
Grand Encampment Subordinates ..................... .
United States Totals ..
Foreign Totals ...... .
Grand Totals ......... .

______ 3,082,401

Grand
Chapter
15,488
1,306
8,044
23,546
8,038
16,152
2,065
6,611
7,948
19,158
2,702
86,410
33,019
23,944
21,723
20,287
9,140
17,398
9,494
40,724

Grand
Council

Grand
Comd'y

5,495
552
1,525
8,748
2,426
10,488

8,867
802
2,685
12,501
4,791
6,164

1,699
1,745
6,140

3,429
4,768
8,547
1,646
34,894
13,032
12,543
14,571
10,140
2,984
9,444
4,636

23,427
19,533
7,387
6,551
5,059
1,985
8,349
4,919
15,544

45,810
16,462
7 ,729
35,706
4,839
8,228
645
5,886
19,328
1,973
69,906
8,133
4,168
77,224
14,420
6,951
59,117
8,817
6,629
6,380
11,039
42,951
1,202
5,982
16,765
8,520
11,913
23,444
2,143

"'"i'5;754

905,507

323,999

3,169
4,217
11,800
919
3,415
134
3,726
3,930
12,701
1,829
848
43,447
5,072
2,097
14,857
5,853
4,403
1,414
2,721
37,259
1,946
2,810
8,106

26;375
15,296
7,660
4,175
16,747
2,708
4,551
302
3,526
7,121
1,344
36,490
4,981
2,336
32,684
7,200
3,804
40,456
4,124
3,722
4,903
18,160
794
3,711
7 ,219
4,437
6,785
10,199
1,491
439,745

1,502
1,046
1,611
.. 3,082,401
---- ..... 1,003,892

907 ,009
138,928

325,045
1,655

441,356
15,921

. .. 4,086,293

1,045,937

326,700

457,277

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

164

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

165

Consolidated Statistics-Continued
CALIFORNIA STATISTICS
FOREIGN GRAND BObIES

Grand
Lodge
Alberta......................................................
12,350
British Columbia.....................................
13,393
Canada...................................................... 105,339
Chile..................................................
4,000
Colombia.............................................
600
Costa Rica, C. A.......................................
27 5
12,275
Cuba...............................................
Ecuador....................................................
475
England.................................................... 320,000
England and Wales......................
....•...............
650
Guatemala......................................
Honduras.............................

Grand
Chapter
2,752
2,549
25,315

Grand
Council

Grand
Comd'y
................ i

IJ,813 I
272

········-·-·····I
70,000
727

4,108

---·····-···············

Ireland..........................................
50,000
Manitoba.........................................
11,400
Maritime Provinces ...................... ........................ .
Mexico (York Grand Lodge).......
938

15,000
1,610

New Brunswick..........................

1,573
3,414
3,627
2,690

5 ,7 39

New South Wales................................... 55,269
New Zealand....................
22,790
Nova Sco.tia.....................
9,962
Panama..................................................
400
Peru..................................
1,900
Philippine Islands..........
6,788
Prince Edward Island......
1,169
Puerto Rico........
4,800
Quebec................
................. ,........ 13,703
Queensland......................
20,000
Salvador, C. A...............
182
Saskatchewan...
12,969
Scotland........
..................
260,000
South Austr~lia
.......
11,727

656

3,35 I
481
2,637

Tasmania........................................

3,3 46

Victoria............................
Western Australia.................................

34,583
6,870

3,275
654

Totals ........................... .
United States Totals ..

..... 1,003,892
.... 3,082,401

l .18,928
907,009

1,655
325,045

4fl,356

Grand Totals ..... .

..... .4,086,293

1,045,937

326,700

457,277

15,921

(The most complete set of statistics ever compiled are to be found in the
Report of J, Edward Allen, Correspondent for North Caro.Jina.
We have space
only for those applicable lo California.)

Number

Rank

or

in

Percenta!(e

U. S.

Number of Master Masons per Million of population (1924) ..... . 31,567
Number of Master Maso.as per Lodge ........................................... .
273
Number of Master Masons per Hundred Square Miles ........ .
69
Percentage of Net Gain ........................................................................ .
7.55
Percentage Relation, Net Gain to Raisings.
.............................. . 92.70
Number of Suspensions and Exclusions per Thousand.
7.19
Number of Deaths per Thousand..........
. ....................... .
10.39
Comparison of Affiliations and Dimissions .... .................................. .
130
Percentage o.f Master Masons that are R. A. Masons
21.7
Percentage of Ma~ter Masons that are Knights Templar ............... . 12.23
Percentage of Master Masons that are 14 ° Masons .... .................. . 21.59
Percentage of Master Masons that are 32° Masons .... .................. . 18.30
Percentage of Master Masons that are Shriners ............................... . 23.6
Percentage Relation, Eastern Star to Mafonic Membership ........... . 73.73
Percentage of R. A. Masons tha,t are R. & S. M ............................ . 32.56
Percentage of R. A. Masons that are Knights Tcmplar. .. .
56.l
Percentage o.f 14 ° Masons that are 32 ° Masons ................. .
78.3
Percentage of 18 ° Masons that are 32 ° Masons ................. .
94.6
Percentage Relation, Shrine Membership to 32° and K. T.
combined ..........................: ................................................... .
75.29
Percentage Relation Knights Templar to 32° A. & A.S.R. Masons 66.69
Percentage of Masons to. R. & S. M ................................................... .
6.68
Percentage of Net Gains, Lodges, 1910 to 1924 ... .
163.7
Percentage of Net Gains, Commanderies, 1910-1924....... .
90.4
Percentage of Net Gains, Consistories, 1910-1924 ....... .
404.4

15
JG
33
I
2
35
37
7
45
36
17
18
16
17
18
18
43
36
15
39
27.

166

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS

GRAND LODGES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
COMMUNICATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED
JESSE M. \VHITED, Chairman Committee on Correspondence,
1926.

Alabama...........
.. ............................ 1
Arizona, ......... ..
Arkansas ......... .
California ......... .
Colorado ............... ..
Connecticut ........... ..
Delaware ...................... .
District of Columbia .. .
F1orida ............... .
Georgia ........ ..
Idaho ....... .
Illinois .............. .
Indiana .............. .
Iowa ............ ,., ..... ,
Kansas .. '" .......... .
Ken.t1;1cky ......... ..
I..ou1s1ana ................................ ..
Maine ............... .
Maryland ..... ..
Massachusetts
Michigan.
Minnesota ...... .
Mississippi..
Missouri.. ...... .
:tvtontana...... ..
Nebraska ..... .
Nevada .................... .
New Hampshire ............... .
New Jersey ..................... ..
New Mexico ....................................... .
New York........................................... .
Nor th Carolina .................... .
North Dakota ................ .
Ohio ................................ .
Oklahoma ................ ..
Oregon ...................... .
Pennsylvania ................ .
Rhode Island ................ .
South Carolina...... ..
South Dakota ........ ..
Tennessee ................. .
Texas ......................... .
Utah ............................ .
Vermont.. .................. .
Virginia .............. .
Washington ..... .
W~st Vi~ginia ..... .
W1sconsm ....... .
Wyoming ........ .

When
Organized

Communication

Annual

Proceedings
Reviewed

June 14, 1821
Mar. 25, 1882
Nov. 21, 1838
April 18, 1850
Aug. 2, 1800
July 8, 1789
June 6, 1800
Dec. 11, 1810
July 5, 1830
Dec. 16, 1786
Dec. 16, 1867
April 6, 1840
Jan. 12, 1818
Jan. 8, 1844
Mar. 17, 1850
Oct. 16, 1800
July 12, 1812
July 1, 1820
July 31, 1873
July 30, 1733
Sept. 14, 1844
Feb. 24, 1853
July 27, 1818
April 21, 1821
Jan. 24, 1866
Sept. 23, 1857
Jan. 16, 1865
July 18, 1789
Dec. 18, 1786
Aug. 6, 1877
Sept. 5, 1781
Jan. 14, 1771
June 12, ·1889
Jan. 7, 1808
Nov. 10, 1892
Aug. 16, 1851
Feb. 2, 1764
June 25, 1791
Mar. 24, 1787
July 21, 1875
Oct. 14, 1813
Dec. 20, 1837
Jan. 16, 1872
Oct. 14, 1794
May 6, 1777
Dec. 9, 1858
May 11, 1865
Dec. 18, 1843
Dec. 15, 1874

December
February
November
October
September
February
October
December
January
October
September
October
May
June
February
October
February
May
November
December
May
Jan11ary
February
September
August
June
June
May
April
February
May
January
June
October
February
June
December
May
February
June
January
December
January
June
February
June
November
June
September

1925
1926
1925

1925
1926
1925
1925

1926

1926
1926
1925
1926
1926
1925
1925
1926
1926
1925
1925
1925
1925
1926
1926
1926
1926
1925
1926
1925
1925
1926
1926
1925
1926
1925
1926

1925
1925

167

When
Organized

Annual
Reviewed
I' Con:munication Proceedings

Alberta ......... ,............ .
British Columbia ....... .
Canada ...................... .
Manitoba ....................... .
New Brunswick ..............
Nova Scotia ............... .
Prince Edward Island .... .
Quebec............................. .
Saskatchewan............... .

Oct. 12, 1905
Feb. 22, 18.l2
Oct. 10, 1855
May 12, 1875
Oct. 10, 1867
Jan. 21. 1866
June 24, 1875
Oct. 20, 1869
Aug. 9, 1906

May
June
July
June
April
June
June
February
June

1925-6
1925
1925
1926
1925
1925
1925
1926
1926

New South Wales .......... .
New Zealand .................... .
Queensland .......................................... .
South Australia .................................... .
Tasmania ............... .
Victoria .................. .
West Australia ..... ..

Dec. 3, 1877
April 30, 1890
April 25, 1904
April 16, 1884
June 26, 1890
April 16, 1884
1899

July
May
June
April
June & December
Quarterly
Quarterly

1925
1925
1926
1926
1925
1925

Cuba ............................ .
Mexico (York) ............ .
Philippine Islands.: ...... .
Porto Rico..................... ..

Dec.

1859
1861
Dec. 19, 1912
Oct. 8, 1885

s.

March
April
January
April

England .............. ,.. ,................................ .
Ireland .................................. .
Scotland ............................ .
Belgium .......................... ..
France (Grand Orient) .. .
France (Grand Lodge) .. .

June 24, 1717
April 6, 1731
Oct. 15, 1736
Feb. 25, 1832
Dec. 24, 1772
1803

Quarterly
December
February
June
January

Panama ......................... .

1925-6
1926

1925
1925
1925

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
Pages

Accomplishments .................................................................................................. 135
Advertising ................................................................................... -4, 30, 61, 89, 117
Annual Communications ...................................................................... 147, 166-167
Appendix --·-·-·---·--·---····-·------·-··--·-··-··-···-··----------------·---··-··-·--·--··---------·-·--·--·---145-167
Applicants ........................................................................................ ____________________ 7, 91
As others see us.·---·-·-···-···-·----··-··-········-·---·--·--···-···--··-···-·-··-------·---------------------------12
Benevolence --·--··----------·---·-·----··--···-----·-·---···--······-·······-···-·--··-·······--·--·-·----·--·---·--·--18
Bibles ··-·····-···-·······-·---·--·-··-······-·····-··-·-·-···-·-·--··-·-··----···-···-··---·-··-·---------·-----·-------·--·-10
Bodies-Grand Masonic .......................... ------------·····--··-·--···----·-·-·-·-·--------·----------147
"Bouquets and Brickbats"·-···----·--···-·····-·········-··--··--·--···--·-··--·-·-·-·---·--·-·-···--·-······12
Calendar-Masonic -····················-····-·-···-·-···-·······-···-··-··-··--·-··-·-·-·--·-·-·--···-··-·-··-146
California Statistics .... ·······-··--·---··-····-···········----··················· .............................. 165
Charity ................................................................................................................... 18
Loan funds ..................................................................................................... 97
Tuberculosis .................................................................................................. 132
Clubs-Masonic .................................................................................................. .22
Committees-Investigation .............................................................................. 7, 91
Coordinate Bodies ................................................................ 22, 25, 42, 61, 75, 145
Corner-stones ............................................
.............................................. 30
Correspondence Reports....................
.............................................. 31
Chairmen Correspondence Committee:
................................................. 158
Courtesy Degrees....................
. ................................................................. 37
Crimes ...................... ..............................
........................................................ 33
Prohibition ........................................................................................... 114
Criticism-California
........................................................................... 12
Dates-Masonic.
......................
......................... . ........................... .146
Degrees..............
................. .....................
. ..... 7, 22, 25
Courtesy ..........
..................
. ............................................ 37
Higher . .................. ................
............................................... 72
De:\folay, Order of....
.....................
................ ..................... . .... 42
DirectoryGrand Bodies ................................ .
················· ... 147
Masonic Periodicals
.. ······················ .. 149
Grand Masters .......................................................................................... 154
.. .156
Grand Secretaries ......................... .
........................ lSS
Correspondence Committees .................... .
Dues
............................................................. ·················· ........ 46
.. ..49
Education ...................................... .
Correspondence Reports.........
. ........................................................ 31
Libraries ............
................
......................................... 95
Loan Funds......
.......................................................
. ........................97
Politics .................. .................... ...................................................
....... 109
Time limits.........
.................................
. ........................ 130
Entertainment................. .................
.................
54, 61

INDEX OF SUBJECTS-Continued

INDEX OF SUBJECTS-Continued
Pages

Page

Finances ................................................................................................................. 46
Dues .................. ................ ..........................................................................46
Halls ...............................
.........................................................................61
Temples ..........
.. .......................................................................... 127
France-Recognition ........................................................................................... 55
Foreign Grand Lodges ......................................................................................... 55
Found in the Quarries ........................................................................................ 135
Funerals .................................................................................................................. 59
Gambling ................................................................................................................61
George Washington MemoriaL ................................................................. ..49, 51
Grand Historian.................................................................................
.......67
Grand Lodges ..........................................................................................................68
J\feetings of .................................................................................................... 147
Date organization........................................................................................ 166
Grand l\1asters .............................................................................................. 72, 154
Grand Secretaries ................................................................................................ 156
Halls ..........................................................................................................46, 61, 127
Higher Degrees............................................................................................ 75, 145
72, 147
Correspondence
Grand HistorianInteresting ................. ., .................... ----------·············.w ..
--------------93
Libraries ...................... .................... ................................
.......... 95
Homes ....................................................................................................................84
Tuberculosis ................................................................................................ 132
Insurance
Temples ............ .

N ewspapers ............................................................................................ 4, 5, 89, 117
l\1asonic .......................................................................................................... 149
OfficersGrand Lodge .................................................................................................... 72
Subordinate ................................................................................................. 100
Past Masters .................................................................................................. 107
Organizations .................................................................................... .22, 72, 147
Past Masters............
.................................................................... .107
Periodicals-Masonic .. .................................................................
.. ............. 149
Politics ....
.................... ....................... ..........................
.. ............. 109
Absent
Proceedings-Grand Lodge ....................................................................... 166-167
Prohibition ........................................................................................................... 114
Public Schools Week. ......................................................................................... 49
Publicity ....................................................................................................... 117, 149
Readings ........................................................ ....................
.. ...................93
Religion....................... ................ ................... .................
............... .10, 59, 120
Ritual ....................................................................................................................124
Corner-stones ...............................................................................................30
Courtesy Degrees....... ..........................................
.. .................................37
Funerals ...............................................:.......................................................... 59
Lodge Officers...
.. ................................................................................ 100
Past J'viasters .................................................................................................. 107
Time Limits .................................................................................................. 130
Service .................................................................................................................... 135
Social Affairs .......................................................................................... .22, 54, 61

u

.....

Law EnforcementGambli11g .....................,, ................. ----------------············----.. --

Grand
Insurance -.,u•1111"""''°
Legislation,
Higher
Prohibition

Mission of
Politics
Ritual
Accomplishments

....... .114

Statistic~-

:.\1embership-United States.......... . ..................................................... 160
Foreign .................................................................................................. 161-162
Other Bodies .......................................................................................... 163-164
California .................................................................................................... 165
Student Loan Funds ..............................................................................................97
Temples ................................................................................................................ 127
Time Limits ............................................................................................................ 130
Toleration .............................................................................................................. 120
Trials ...................................................................................................................... 33
Tuberculosis .......................................................................................................... 132
Voters-Absent .................................................................................................... 112

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED-Continued
Pages

Alabama ..........................

................................................................................. 4
16, 103, 107, 124
Arizona ...............................
. ............................................................89
55, 114
British Columbia................................................................ 19, 25, 56, 124, 135
19, 26, 38, 95, 101
110
61
Delaware..........................
...................... ..43, 97, 103, 121, 128, 135
District of Columbia.......
..............................................................72
117, 128
..................................... ., 30, 32, 46, 108
Georgia.......................................... ................. 12, 46, 78, 84, 97, 124, 128, 138
32, 67, 121, 135
Illinois............................................................................................26, 32, 54, 61, 136
Indiana..................................................................... 5, 103, 111, 125, 129, 131, 136
Iowa............................................................. 5, 11, 26, 43, 110, 118, 121, 129, 131
Kansas ............................................................... .17, 22, 39, 47, 54, 68, 73, 91, 136
Kentucky ..................................................................................... 39, 44, 62, 114, 137
Louisiana...............
........................................ 13, 23, 47, 62, 84, 137
26, 79, 85, 129, 132, 137
Manitoba...............
........................................................... .27, 101, 118, 122

~::~~~~~~~;~·~::::::::·.·.:·.:::::·.·.::-.::::::::::::·.:·.:::·.·.::::·:: :::·.·...:·.·.:·.··:::::::::::::::2"3:"·2;:: ~5.~3. ~~
7

1

11exko................................................................................................................ 13, 17
Michigan.................................................................................... .28, 63, 80, 96, 137
Minnesota.................................................................................... 17, 56, 73, 90, 122
Mississippi................
.............................................................. 30, 50, 64, 133
Missburi................. ............................................ 5, 13, 44, 50, 80, 96, 105, 137
Montana ................................................................ 6, 19, 37, 40, 69, 73, 91, 94, 138
Nebraska.......................................................................................................... 14, 138
Nevada ........................................................................................................ 19, 28, 102
New Brunswick...................................................................................................... 92
New Hampshire.................................................... 14, 33, 50, 59, 64, 92, 132, 138
New Jersey...........................................:....................................23, 51, 64, 110, 125
New Mexico ........................................................................ 33, 45, 70, 97, 129, 133
New South Wales .................................................................................. 34, 132, 139
New York. .......................................................................... .11, 17, 34, 57, 108, 138
New Zealand.................................................................................................. 70, 106
North Carolina.... 14, 20, 31, 34, 45, 48, 51, 65, 71, 73, 86, 98, 108,
115, 119, 125, 134, 139
North Dakota..............................................................................45, 65, 76, 98, 139
Nova Scotia ............. :............................................................8, 59, 65, 68, 115, 126

Page

Ohio .......................................................................................................................... 11
Oklahoma............................................................................ 17, 65, 71, 106, 116, 139
Oregon.................................................................................... 15, 20, 76, 80, 98, 139
Ontario .................................................................................................................... 40
Pennsylvania....................................6, 8, 9, 24, 28, 41, 86, 90, 96, 130, 139, 140
Philippine Islands ................................ 11, 28, 52, 57, 77, 99, 122, 126, 132, 140
Prince Edward Island .......................................................................................... 142
Quebec .................................................................................................................. 127

~~~~~s~~~:~<l::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::94:··:9, ~1~
Saskatchewan ........................................................................................................37
Scotland............................................................................................................. .20, 81
South Australia.................................................................................................... 120
South Carolina .................................................,...................................... 81, 111, 130
South Dakota.............................................................. 18, 21, 37, 46, 71, 92, 142
Tennessee............................................................................... .18, 52, 53, 59, 74, 116
Texas ............................ 9, 15, 38, 53, 66, 72, 86, 91, 99, 112, 116, 123, 134, 135
Utah .................... 10, 21, 24, 35, 36, 41, 54, 58, 60, 102, 107, 108, 123, 142, 143
Vermont............................................................................................29, 48, 112, 116
Victoria ..................................................................................... .24, 93, 96, 120, 143
Virginia............................................... .15, 21, 29, 49, 66, 77, 82, 87, 95, 108, 123
\Vashington ......................................................................................................... -7, 41
West Australia ............................... .10, 16, 25, 36, 72, 75, 82, 88, 127, 143, 144

~; ~ i;g:i:~i~: : : : : : :-: : : .: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : :·i : :i{" ~1: ~: ~il

INDEX-1926
PAGE

A
Accounts-Audit of ..............................................................................................260
Report of Committee on........................................................................307
Adams, Charles Albert, Public Schools W eek ............................................ 181
Address of Grand Master.................................................................................... 9
A. F. E. Irwin Lodge-Charter granted........................................................238
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 59
Alphabetical list of Lodges ................................................................................ 345
Alta Loma Lodge-Charter granted ................................................................238
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 59
Amendments to By-Laws-Approval 0£.. ........................................................ 62
Amendments to Constitutions (see Constitution)
Annual Oration...................................................................................................... 71
Appendix to Grand Master's Address ............................................................ 42
Appcintment of Trustee, Masonic Homes ...................................................... 310
Appropriations by Grand Lodge ......................................................................257
Aprons for Past Grand Masters ...................................................................... 53
Arcadia Lodge-Reference to meeting place ................................................ 53
Automatic expulsion of members convicted of crime................................209

B
Ballot Box and the Bible-Reference to ........................................................309
Ballot on Petitions-Proposal to defer ........................................................216
Base Hospital at Palo Alto-Reference to .................................................... 24
Beacon of the \Vest Lodge-Charter granted ............................................ .238
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 56
Benevolence Lodge-Charter granted ............................................................ 238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 56
Berkeley and Oakland Board of Relief-Appropriation for ..................... .257
Funerals .................................................................................................... 95
Report of .................................................................................................. 94
Berkeley and Oakland Employment Bureau-Report of.. .......................... 96
Board of Control ..................................................................................................203
Biographical sketch of Grand Master.. .................................................... Frontis
Boards of Relief-Repcrts of... .........................89, 90, 91, 92, 94, 96, 102, 103
Boynton, Albert E.-Appointment of to Board of Trustees ....................310
By-laws-Amendments to approved ................................................................ "62
Report of Committee on ........................................................................234

ii

INDEX

I:'.\IDEX

iii
P.\GE

c

,.
/

PAGE

.

Centennial Communication at Sa.i.:.raroento-Reference to ........................308
Certificates for Masters and Past Masters .................................................... 53
Charters-Report of Committee on ............................................................... .237
Committee Reports (see Reports of ·committees)
Committees, Standing-Personnel of ..............................................................312
Committee on Tuberculasis.:.c-Grartd l\faste'r's letter to .............................. 47
Report of .................................................................................................... 105
Composite Lodge-Charter granted ................................................................238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 58
Constitution-Amendments proposed
Section 6, lost ................................................................................... .212
Section 41, Subdivision 1, adopted ........................... ;........82, 208, 218
Section 70, lost .................................................................................... 82
Section 73, adopted ...................................................................... 82, 215
Section 78, adopted .................................................................... 82, 208
Section 82, lost ....................................................................................216
Section 82a, new section adopted ......................................................201
Section 96, adopted .................................................................... 107, 211
Section 101, lost ..............................................................................82. 207
Section 129, adopted .................................................................... 107, 204
Section 189, adopted ......................................................................82, 201
Section 198, lost ..............................................................................82, 208
Section 200, adopted ...................................................................... 82, 207
Section 200)/,, adopted ...................................................................... 82, 206
Section 202, adopted ............................................................................210
Consolidation of Lodges.................................................................................... 53
Co-operative Masonic Service Bureaus--Reference to .............................. 22
Cornerstone Ceremonies-Attended by Grand Master ................................ 10
Correspondence Commitee-Report of ................................................Appendix
Counsel at Trials-Appointment of..........................................................82, 208
Courtesy Degrees ................................................................................................. .214
Credentials-Report of Committee on ............................................................. .266

E
Education Committee-Appropriation to ........................................................262
Circular of Grand Master to ............................................................... 44
Reference to, by Committee ..................................................................218
Report of .................................................................................................... 192
Election of Officers .............................................................................................. 307
Elected Officers-List since organization ........................................................ 340
Emergency Relief
70
Employment Bureaus-Appropriations to ......................................................259
Reports of... ................................................................. 91, 94, 96, 101, 104
Endowment Committee..................................................................................83, 216
Expenses--Pay of Inspectors ........................................................................... .217
Expulsion, Automatically, of members convicted of crime ....................... .209
Extinct Lodges-List of .................................................................................... 334
Expulsions and suspensions ................................................................................ 63

F
Fairview Lodge-Charter granted ...................................................................238
Dispensation issued ........... ;...................................................................... 56
Fee to be paid by Petitioners-Home tax ..................................................... .218
Fees for Initiates-Home tax ............................................................................ 191
Fee for joining in formation of new Lodge............................................82, 208
Finance Committee (see Reports of Committees) ................................... .257
Financial Report of Grand Secretary .............................................................. 67
Flag Day-Grand Master's reference to ................................................. .12, 213
Flag-Proper usage concerning ................................................................ 191, 215
Florence Lodge-Charter granted ................................................................... .238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 60
Florida-Relief to ................................................................................................. 31
Forbestown Lodge Consolidation ...................................................................... 53
Foreign Grand Lodges-Recognized by this jurisdiction .......................... 344
Fresno Board of Relief-Appropriation to ................................................... .257
Report of .................................................................................................... 89
Funerals by Boards of Relief... ........................... 89, 90, 92, 93, 95, 96, 102, 103

D

G

Damascus Lodge-Charter granted ............................................................... .238
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 60
Decisions--Grand Master's Message.............................................................. · 21
Degrees by Courtesy......................................................................................60, 214
DeMolay-Reference to by Grand Master ............................ ,. .................... 34
Discipline-Grand Master's Message.............................................................. 15
Dispensations issued by Grand Master...................................................... 61, 208
Distinguished Visitor-Grand Master of Oregon........................................ 8
District Deputy Grand Masters ..................................................................35, 218
Drytown Lodge-Loan to ....................................................................................263

Gavel, Presentation of, to Grand Master. ..................................................... 310
George Washington Memorial Association-Donation to ..........................263
Grand Master's reference to .................................................................. 38
Grand Lodge-To enlarge meeting place of.. ......................................... .82, 217
Not a political body ............................................................................... .219
Opening 0£.................................................................................................. 8
Officers of.................................................................................................. 7
Seal ............................................................................................................. .218

iv

INDEX

INDEX

'v

PAGE

PAGE

Grand Lodge of Manila and Shrine--' Reference to ........................................ 18
'Grand Lodge Week Activities-Reference by Finance Committee..........264
Grand Lecturer-Report of .............................................................................. 86
Grand Master's Message.................................................................................... 9
Acknowledgroent to divers brethren.................................................... 40
Appendix to Report.. ................................................................................ 42
Base Hospital at Palo Alto .................................................................... 24
Biographical sketch of ......................................................................Frontis
Circular to Education Committee........................................................ 44
Committee on Tuberculosis, letter to .................................................... 48
Conclusion ............ .................................................................................... 41
Co-operative Masonic Service Bureaus ................................................ 22
Decisions ;.................................................................................................... 21
Discipline .................................................................................................... · 15
Emergency Relief to Florida ......................... :........................................ 31
Flag Day .................................................................................................... 12
General Condition of Masonry .............................................................. 10
George Washington Masonic Memorial... ......................................... 38
Grand Lodge of Manila and Shrine, reference to............................ 18
Grand Secretary, reference to ................................................................ 39
Hospital at Masonic Home, Covina.................................................... 26
Inspectors, reference to ............................................................................ 35
Lassen Monument, Committee appointed.................. ,......................... 29
Lotteries and Raffles ...............,.............................................................. 14
Lottery and Gambling, letter in reference to ................................. .,. 46
Masonic Clubhouse, University of California .................................... 32
Masonic Education .................................................................................. 28
Masonic History Committee, appointment 0£.. .................................... 30
Masonic History Committee, report to ................................................ 24
Masonic Homes, reference to .................................................................. 26
:Masonic Insurance .................................................................................. 12
Necrology ............................................................................................. .25, 30
Order of DeMolay .................................................................................. 34
Politics and Masonry.......................................................... c..................... 10
Public Schools Week .............................................................................. 27
Receptions ................................. ,................................................................ 32
Right of Master to refuse. petition ...................................................... _16
Special Committees appointed ................................................................ 29
Special Committee of Grand Lodge .................................................... 19
Sunday picnics ............................................................................................ 23
Suspensions for non-payment of dues ................................................ 16
Suspension upon conviction of felony involving moral turpitude .. 34
Territorial jurisdiction of Lodges ........................................................ 18
Tuberculosis .............................................................................................. 17

Visit to Hawaiian Islands ..................................... :........................... :...... 30
Western Star Lodge, Committee appointed ...........................,............ 30
White Pine Lodge No. 555 .................................................................... 27
Grand Secretary-Grand Master's reference to ............................................ 39
Grand Secretary's Report (see Report of Committees)., .......................... 52
Grand Treasurer's Report (see Report of Committees) ............................ 49
Grievances-Reports of Committee on............................................... ~ ........... .240

H
Hawaiian Islands-Visit of Grand Master to................................................ 30
Hawthorne Lodge-Charter granted ............................................................... .238
Dispem•ation issued.................................................................................. 60
Holidays-Relative to meetings on............................................................82, 208
Honolulu Board of Relief-Report 0£.. ............................................:............. 90
Hospital at Masonic Horne-Reference by Grand Master to .................... 26

I
Indian Rock Lodge-Charter granted ..............................................................238
Dispensation
58
Ingleside Lodge-Charter granted..................................................... _. ........... 238
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 56
Inspectors-Grand Master's reference to ...................................................... 35
Pay of expenses of ..................................................................................217
Installation of Officers ........................................................................................309

J
James A. Foshay Lodge-Charter granted ....................................................238
Dispensation issued................................................. ._................................ 58
Jefferson Lodge-Consolidation
Jewels-Prescribed ............................................
John Marshall Lodge-Charter granted.......................... + ............................238
Dispensation
.
57

K
Kennett Lodge-Consolidation of ...................................................................... 53

L
La Brea Lodge-Dispensation issued ............................................................. 60
La Cumbre Lodge-Charter granted ..............................................,..................238
Dispensation issued.................................................................................... 58

vi

INDEX

INDEX

vii

PAGE

PAGE

Lassen Monument Site-Committee appointed ......................................! ....... 29
Report of Committee on................................................ ,................. 213, 239
Life Membership-Allocation of .................. ,.......,.................................... .21, 204
Approvals of by Grand Master............................................................... 61
Lodges-Alphabetical list of .............................................................................. 345
Consolidation 0£ ........................................................................................ 53
Formation of, during the year .............................................................. 56
List of ........................................................................................................ 315
List of extinct ............................................................................................334
Location of, alphabetically arranged ....................................................358
Lomita Lodge-Charter granted ......................................................................238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. !59
Long Beach Board of Relief-Appropriation for ........................................257
Funerals conducted .................................................................................. 90
Report of .................................................................................................... 90
Long Beach Employment Bureau.................................................................... 91
Los Angeles Board of Relief-Appropriation for ....................................... .257
Funerals .................................................................................................... 96
Report of .................................................................................................. 96
Los Angeles Employment Bureau-Report oL ............................................ 101
Los Angeles Board of Relief Graves ............................................................... .258
Lotteries and Gambling-Grand Master's reference to .......................... 14, 46

Vacation employment.. ......................................... ;............................. 120
Visitations to .......................................................................................... 156
Decoto-Christmas donations to ....... :.................................................... 139
Deaths during the
Donations to .......................................................................................... 137
Outside relief ........................................................................................ 150
Report of Superintendent... ................................................................. 134
Roster of residents ................................................................................ 145
Visit of Grand Lodge to ...................................................................... 123
Visitations to ........................................................................................ 136
Endowment Fund ...................................................................................... 116
Finances and Building Operations ........................................................ 118
Financial Report ........................................................................................ 125
Grand Master's reference to ................................................................ 26
Growth and Cost .............................................................................. 112, 113
History of .................................................................................................. 111
Initiates and affiliates tax for ................................................................ 262
Per capita costs .......................................................................................... 130
Per capital tax ......................................................................................... .263
Report of Experts .................................................................................... 124
Report of Trustees .................................................................................... 111
Responsibility of todges ........................................................................ 113
Secretary's Report.. .................................................................................. 125
Student Loan Fund................................................................................. 115
Masonic History-Committee appointed .......................................................... 30
Grand Master's reference to .................................................................. 28
Report of Committee ................................................................................ 79
Report of Committee to Grand Master ................................................ 24
Masonic Insurance .......................................................................................... 12. 214
Masonic Law and Custom ......................................................................... .199, 215
Masonic Temple Association-Report of ........................................................ 308
Masonic Temple Stock-Purchase of .............................................................. 261
.Master's Certificates ............................................................................................ 53
Master may receive request for ·waiver of Jurisdiction .................... 107, 211
Meetings on Holidays-Relative to ............................................................ 82, 208
Metropolitan Lodge-Charter granted ............................................................238
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 59
Monument to Samuel Brannan .......................................................................... 110

M
Manual for Conduct of Trials ....................................................................82, 207
Maricopa Lodge-Request for reimbursement ..............................................261
:\fasonic Clubhouse of U. C.-Appropriation to ..........................................262
Grand Master's reference to .................................................................. 32
Report of .................................................................................................... 108
Masonic Education (see Reports of Committees) .......... 28, 44, 192, 218, 262
Masonic Hornes-Appointment on Board of Trustees................................ 310
Covina-Admissions during year .......................................................... 179
Camp Tucker.......................................................................................... 119
Christmas donations .............................................................................. 170
Donations to ............................................................................................ 159
Gifts for furnishings ............................................................................ 122
Improvements ...................................................................................... 119
Knight Templars Hospital.. ................................................................ 121
JVfusic Report.. ........................................................................................ 155
Outside relief ........................................................................................ 178
Porch furniture .............................................................:...................... 168
Report of Superintendent.................................................................... 151
Roster of children................................................................................ 174
Treat Fund ............................................................................................ 169

N
Necrology-Committee appointed .................................................................... 30
Grand Master's reference to .................................................................. 25
Report of Committee on ................................................................. .234, 236

viii

INDEX

INDEX

ix

PAGE

PAGE

New Lodges-Formed .......................................................................................... 56
Fee for joining in formation of... ................................................... 82, 208
Time of notice to apply for ............................-....................................... .215
New Temple-Proposed ..................................................................................... .261
Normal Heights Lodge-Charter granted ....................................................238
Dispensations issued ................................................................................ 56

Report of-Grand Lecturer................................................................................ 86
Grand Secretary ........................................................................................ 52
Aprons for Past Grand Masters ........................................................ 53
Arcadia Lodge...................................................................................... 53
By-laws, amendments to, approved .................................................. ·62
Certificates for Masters and Past Masters ...................................... 53
Consolidation of Lodges ........................................................................ 53
Courtesy degrees ....................................................... ,............................ 60
Dispensations issued ............................................................ ~---·············· 61
Emergency Relief Fund ...................................................................... 70
Financial Report .................................................................................... 67
Life Membership .................................................................................. 61
Masonic Homes Account ........ ~ ........................................................... 69
Membership .......................................................................................... 52
New Lodges formed ..............•............................................................. 56
Representative appointed .. c••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••••• 56
Suspensions and restorations .............................................................. 53
Trial records, presented...................................................................... 63
Unfinished business .............................................................................. 67
Reports of Boards of Relief .............................................................................. 89
Reports of Committees-On Accounts ............................................................307
By-Laws ................................................................................................... .234
Charters ................................................................................................... .237

0
Oakland and Berkeley Board of Relief-Appropriation for ......................257
Funerals conducted .................................................................................. 95
Report 0£ .................................................................................................... 94
Oakland and Berkeley Employment Bureau .................................................. 96
Objection to Candidate-Relative to .......................................................... 82, 207
Official Manual for Trials ...............................................................,. ............82, 207
Officers-Appointed and installation of .......................................................... 309
Election of .................................................................... ,............................. 307
Oration by Ezra W. Decoto ................................................................................ 71

p
Palisades Lodge-Charter granted...............................................•................. .238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 57
Past Grand Masters-Aprons for .................................................................... 53
Past Masters' Certificates.............................................................................. 53, 55
Past Master-May preside at trial by appointment ..............................82, 207
Pay of Members-Report of ............................................................................. .212
Perry, V. E.-Appointed on Committee on By-Laws................................ 8
Petition-Right of Master to refuse .............................................................. 16
Petitioners-Fee to be paid by .............................. :.......................................... .218
Poinsettia Lodge-Charter. granted .................................................................. 238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 56
Political Body-Grand Lodge not a ............................................................... .219
Politics and Masonry.......................................................................................... 10
Portrait of Grand Master-Painting of.. ........................................................ 260
Procedure at Trials-Relative to ..................................................................... .210
Proclamation-Public Schools Week. ............................................................. 42
Public Schools Week-Grand Master's reference to .................................... 27
Report of Committee on ........................................................................ 181

R
Reading Lodge-Consolidation of .................................................................... 53
Receptions to Grand Master .............................................................................. 32
Relief-Emergency Fund .................................................................................. 70
Reports of Boards .................................................,.................................. 89
Tendered to Florida ................................................................................ 31

~~;~:~':a~~e~~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~_:.:.~~~~

...
Educational, appropriation to ............................................................... .262
Circular of Grand Master to .............................................................. 44
Reference to by Committee ............................................................... .218
Report of ................................................................................................ 192
Endowment ................................................................................................ 83
Finance-Audit of Accounts ................................................................. .260
Boards of Relief, reimbursement of.. ............................................. .257
Drytown Lodge, loan to ...................................................................... 263
Educational Committee, appropriation to ....................................... .262
Employment Bureaus, appropriation to ........................................... .259
Grand Lodge Week activities ........................................................... .264
George Washington Memorial, appropriation to ......................... .263
Los Angeles Board of Relief Graves ............................................... .258
Maricopa Lodge, requesting reimbursement ................................. .261
Masonic Club of U. C. ....................................................................... .261
Masonic Homes, affiliates tax ............................................................. .262
Masonic Homes, initiates tax increased................ :...................... .262
Masonic Homes, per capita tax ........................................................262
Masonic Temple Stock, purchase of...:....................... :................... .261

x

INDEX
PAGE

Portrait of the Gran<l Master.................................................... ;......260
Proposed New Temple....................................................................... .261
Reimbursement of Subordinate Lodges....................
..............258
Salaries ······-········--·········--······································································260
Traver Lodge No. 294.-----·------·····--······-··-···--···----·---··----··--····---·-· .... .261
Western Star Lodge No. 2................... -··--·-···--···-----------·--------·· .. ·-··264
Grand Lecturer's Report .......................................................................... 265
Grand Master's Message........................................................................ 75
Grand Secretary's Report ........................................................................ 198
Grand Treasurer's Report.. ................................................................... 49
Grievances and Appeals ......................................................................... .240
Jurisprudence-Allocation of Life Membership Funds ..................204
Automatic expulsion of members ..................................................... .209
Board of ControL ................................................................................ 203
Counsel at trials, appointment of.. .................................................... 208
Dispensations issued by Grand Master ......................................... 208
Duty of Junior Warden to prefer charges ...................................... 201
Manual for conduct of trials ............................................................. 207
Meetings on holidays, relative to ..................................................... .208
New Lodge, fee for joining in formation of... ............................. 208
Objection to candidate, relative to ................................................... .207
Past Master may preside at trial by appointment ........................ 207
Procedure at trials, relative to ......................................................... .210
Proposal to amend by-laws may be reintroduced immediately
after adverse vote ..............................................................................202
Right of Master to refuse to receive petition ............................... .202
Stenographic reporters, pay oL ........................................................ 205
Territorial Jurisdiction of Lodges .................................................... 200
\Vaiver of Jurisdiction, Master may receive request for ............211
Lassen Monument Site ............................................................................ 239
Masonic History .................................................... ................................. 79
Masonic Homes ........................................................................................ 111
Masonic Temple Association ................................................................. 303
Necrology ......................................................................................... .234, 236
Pay of l\.fembers....................................................................................... .212
Policy and General Purposes-Ballot on Petitions .......................... 216
Degrees by courtesy ............................................................................. .214
District Deputy Grand Masters' ........................................................218
Educational .........................................................................................218
Endowment ........................................................................................... .216
Flag celebration ................................................................................... .213
Flag, proper usage concerning......................................................... .215
Grand Lodge, facilities for meeting ................................................ .217
Grand Lodge not a political body ..................................................... .219

INDEX

xi
PAGE

Inspectors, pay of expenses of.. ................................. :..................... .217
Lassen Monument Site..................................................................... :.:.213
~fasonic Insurance ...................................................... :...................... .214
Masonic Law and custom................... :.................................................215
New Lodge, time of notice to apply for ..........................................215
Petitioners, fee to be paid by ......................................................... 218
Seal of Grand Lodge......................................................................... .218
University Clubhouses ......................................................................... .213
Public Schools Week. ............................................................................... 181
Returns ..................................................................................................... .220
Ritual, Prescribed jewels ....................................................................... ?36
Tuberculosis ............................................................................................. 105
U. of C. Masonic Clubhouse ............................................................. .108
Western Star Lodge......................................... ............... .
..... .239
Representatives Appointed ................................................................................. 56
Returns-Report of Committee....................................................................... .220
Riverside Lodge-Charter granted................................................................. .238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 57

s
Sacramento Board of Relief-Appropriation for ....................................... .257
Funerals conducted by .............................................................................. 102
Report of .................................................................................................... 102
Salaries of Grand Officers ................................................................................. .260
San Diego Board of Relief-Appropriation to ........................................... .257
Funerals conducted by............................................................................ 93
Report of .................................................................................................... 92
San Diego Employment Bureau ...................................................................... 94
San Francisco Board of Relief-Appropriation to ..................................... .257
Funerals conducted by .............................................................................. 103
Report of .................................................................................................... 103
San Francisco Employment Bureau................................................................ 104
San Jose Board of Relief-Appropriation to ............................................... .257
Funerals conducted by.............................................................................. 92
Report 0£ .................................................................................................... 91
Seal of Grand Lodge ........................................................................................... .218
Sensenich, Edgar H., Grand Master of Oregon-Visit of........................ 8
Special Committees ....................................................................................... .29, 313
Special Committees of Grand Lodge................................................................ 19
Standing Committees ..........................................................................................312
Stenographic Reporters-Pay
206
Subordinate Lodges-List of .............................................................................. 315
Reimbursement of, by Grand Lodge .................................................... 258

xii

INDEX
PAGE

Sunday Picnics .......................................................................................... ~.......... 23
Suspensions and Expulsions................................................................................ 63
Suspensions for Non-Payment of Dues .......................................................... 16
Suspension upon Conviction of Felony involving moral turpitude .......... 34

T
Telegram Received................................................................................................ 8
Ten-Mile Limit-Reference to jurisdiction................................................... .200
Territorial Jurisdiction of Lodges.............................................................. 18, 200
Traver Lodge--Payment of loan....................................................................261
Trials-Manual for conduct oL................................................................82, 207
Relative to procedure of ..........................................................................210
Trial Records-List of presented...................................................................... 63
Report of Committee on Grievances (see Reports) ........................240
Tuberculosis .................................................................................................. 17, 105

u
U. of C. Masonic Club........................................................................................ 108
University Clubhouses ..........................................................................................213

v
Veritas Lodge-Charter granted ......................................................................238
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 58
Victorville Lodge-Charter granted................................................................238 ·
Dispensation issued.................................................................................. 57

w
Waiver of Jurisdiction-Master may receive request for .................. 107, 211
Washington Memorial..................................................................................38, 263
Western iStar Lodge No. 2................................................................................ 264
Committee Appointment... ....................................................................... 30
Report of Committee on ..........................................................................239
White Pine Lodge No. 555 ................................................................................. 27

George Louis

Grand ~ 19'?6.1!»7

·
M;1ster
to

come

he 1

consci~etiou&

µpon him

at

and • •

and

that ·

all the people
'of Madi!on

1908

· of California.
his office
evada

,

();

r

' I

that

as.s

' l

. third
I

:was

R

.,

to
M

1904· is
be.en

1904.
In I
t~

Grand

in 1·)
Past

GEORGE LOUIS JONES
Grand Master
1926-1927

office

I

holdt

fott)

made

11

N~ncy

M.

has
. Oli '

, Grand
(

Mastf!t'

aster Jones
tndeed 8 I
presence
~

bt
m 1923 was

r

a~ c<>mmuiiicatfon Ill 192'6.

a

two

(001

I

aM the.

It i4
in this too
skctth ta ttcount the
of our br-0tb<1r, but it may be
in the brief
in him
the eml:lbdiment of llll
lllan, a good
l a good husband and

now

George Louis Jones
Grand Master 1926· l 92 7

GEORGE LOUIS JONES
Crand Master
!c)26-1927

The sixtieth gentleman to occupy the exalted station of Grand
Master of ),/[asons in the jurisdiction of California, has endeared himself
to the members of our fraternity and to his legion of friends outside the
mystic tie, by his unfailing courtesy to every human being with whom
he has come in contact, by his sterling integrity, his industry, and
conscientious devotion to the manifold duties which have been imposed
upon him.
George Louis Jones comes from hardy and good \Velsh stock. He
was born at Truckee, California, May 11, 1873, of William C. and Annie
M. Jones. The father was a prominent physician and surgeon who
practiced his profession in Nevada county for nearly thirty-five years,
known and loved by all the people in that county, and indeed by nearly
all the people of the mountain counties. Father Jones was a member
of Madison Lodge, No. 23, at Grass Valley.
The retiring Grand Master received his education in the public
schools of Grass Valley and the lJniversity of California, from which
institution he was graduated in 1895. The following two years were
spent at the Hastings College of the Law, and from which he graduated as
a lawyer in 1897. Jn 1902 Brother Jones was elected District Attorney
of Nevada county, and re-elected in 1906. J\t the general election of
1908 he was elevated to the position of Judge of the Superior Court
of California for Nevada county, and was twice re-elected. He resigned
his office of Judge in January, 1926, and became the President of the
Nevada County Bank, which important and responsible office he now
holds.
George L. Jones received his Masonic degrees in Madison Lodge,
No. 23, Grass Valley, as follows: First degree January 15, second
degree February 11, third degree March 26, 1901, and retains his membership in that Lodge. He was exalted to the degree of Royal Arch
in Grass Valley Chapter No. 18, R. /\. M., in June, 1904; is a member
of Nevada Commandcry No. 6, Nevada City, having been knighted
August 19, 1904.
In Grand Lodge Brother Jones has for years been active as a
member of the Committee mi Grievances, and in 1923 was elected Junior
Grand Warden; Senior Grand Warden in 1924, Deputy Grand Master
in 1925, and Grand Master at the annual communication in 1926.
Past Grand Master Jones is blessed with a wife (nee Helen Crocker
Mott) who is indeed a hclpmcct and counscller, and the home is further
made happy by the presence of two charming daughters, Helen F. and
Nancy M.
It is impossible in this too short sketch to recount the many virtues
of our brother, but it may be encompassed in the brief statement that
in him we have the embodiment of all that goes to make up a good
man, a good citizen, a good husband and a good father.

"rnuh 11johgt of <trnltfnruin
I, ]OHN WmcHF.R, Grand Secretary of the M: .W: .Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Seventy-eighth
Annual Communication-commenced at the city of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the eleventh day of October, A. L. 5927, and terminated on
Friday, the fourteenth day of said month.

Jn IDesttmnng llll}rrrof
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the city of
San Francisco, this twenty-second day of October, in the year
of 1,ight, Ilive Thousand Nine
Hundred and Twenty-seven.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M. ·. W. ·.GRAND LODGE
OF

J' rtt anb i\rrrptrb flaanne
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

Seventy-Eighth Annual Communication
HELD AT THE

!

I

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMENCIKG ON

Tuesday, October 11th, A. D. 1927, A. L. 5927
,\NJJ TERMJNATlNG ON

Friday, October 14th, A. D. 1927, A. L. 5927

SAN FRANCISCO
Thomas C. Conmy, 509 Sansomc St.

1927

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
FOR THE YEAR COMMENCING OCTOBER, A. L. 5927

GRAND LODGE
OF

Grand Master.............................................................. Will H. Fischer (445)
Edison Building, Los Angeles
Deputy Grand Master ............................................ Gustav A Hutaff (297)
Dunsmuir
Senior Grand Warden ................................ Charles M. Wollenberg (344)
Relief Home, San Francisco
Junior Grand Warden ........................................ John Stewart Ross (384)
El Centro
Grand Treasurer .................................................... William P. Filmer (260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco
Grand Secretary..............................................................John Whicher (209)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Lecturer ..........................................................Thomas J. Baker (58)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Chaplain .............................................. Rev. George Davidson ( 458)
512 West Adams, Los Angeles
Grand Orator ....................................................Rufus B. von KleinSmid (566)
University of Southern California, Los Angeles
Assistant Grand Secretary ...................................... ~rank G. Hobbs (531)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco
Grand Marshal... ............................................. Henr! G. Mathewson (514)
State Building, San Francisco
Grand Standard Bearer ............................................}. Frank Morgan (58)
2731 P Street, Sacramento
Grand Sword Bearer .................................................. Ear! Lee Kelly (254)
Redding
Grand Bible Bearer ............................................ Michael D. Lininger (16)
Auburn
Senior
· Grand Deacon ..................•..........................:Leon 0. Whitsell (292)
State Building, San Francisco
· Grand Deacon ......................................... . Freel G. Hamilton (128)
Jumor
Edison Building, Los Angeles
Senior Grand Steward .............................................. Chas. C. Pittam (443)
P. O. Box 2693, Honolulu, T. H.
Junior Grand Steward .................................... Edward L. Hougham (224)
Bakersfield
Grand Pursuivant ...................................................... Warren D. Gill (445)
104.%! W. Seventh Street, Los Angeles
Grand Organist...................................................... R. ~!etcher Tilton (22)
135 Kearny Street, San Francisco
Grand Tiler .............................................................. Fra~k G. Watson (354)
2736 Franklin Street, San Francisco

Jrrrr anh i\rrrptrh §asnn.B
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA

Seventy-Eighth Annual Communication
The Most Vv orshipful Grand Lodge of Free and
Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California commenced its seventy-eighth Annual Communication in the
Scottish Rite Temple at Sutter street and Van Ness
avenue, at the city of San Francisco, on Tuesday, October
11, A. L. 5927, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll call disclosed the presence of the following:
Grand Officers
M.·.w.·.GEORGE L. ]oNEs ...••....................•........................•.....•.....Grand Master
R. •• W. • .\Vn.L H. FrscHER .............. ............................... Deputy Grand ;ifaster
R.'.W. ·.GusTAV A. HuTAFF .......................................... Senior Grand Warden
R.".\V.".CHARLES M. \VOLLEYJJERG ............................... .lunior Grand Warden
v.·.vv.·.JoHN WHICHER ........................................................... G'rand Secretary
V. ·.w.·.THOMAS J. BAKER ........................................................ Grand Lecturer
V.'.R. ·.HERBERT P. SHAW ....•...........•....•.................•.................. Crand Chaplain
\V.·.FLETCHER A. CuTI.EI<.. ...................................................Crand Orator
W. ·.FRANK G. Honns .............. ......................... Assistant Grand Secretary
\V.".HENRY G. MATHEWSON ................................................ Grand Marshal
W. ·.EUGENE BENJAMIN ................................••.... Grand Standard Bearer
\V.".FREDERICK L. ARBOGAST ............ ......................... Grand Sword Bearer
\V. • .M1cHAEL D. LINJNGER ... ...................................... Grand Bible Bearer
W. ·.BEN G. WRIGHT ................................................ Senior Grand Deacon
\V.".EDWARD E. CoNN ...... ....................................... .Junior Grand Deacon
\V.".CHARLES C. PJTTAM ........................................ Senior Grand Steward
\V. ·.THOMAS INGRA.\I. ....•...•..................................• Junior Grand Steward
W. ·.WARREN D. GILL.. ....................................................Grand Pursuivant
\V. ·.R. FLETCHER TILTON •...............•.......•...................•..... Grand Organist
W. ·.FRANK G. \VATSON ..............................................................Grand Tiler
077)

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

378

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

379

Past Grand Masters
M:.w:.WrLLIAM T. LucAs
M:.w:.THoMAs FLINT
M:.w:.FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI
M .: : w ... ORRIN
HENDERSON
M:.w:.DANA R. WELLER
M:.w:.BENJAMIN F. BLEDsoE
M:.w:.FRANcrs v. KEESLING
M:.w:.WrLLIAM RHoDEs HERVEY

s..

M:.w:.BRADFoRn WEBSTEI<
M:.w:.CuARLEs ALBERT ADAMs
M.·.w.·.GEoRGE F. RoDDEN
. M:.W:.SAMUEL E. BURKE
M:.w:.WrLLIAM A. SHERMAN
M:.w:.ARTHUR s. CRITEs
M:.w:.DAvrn J. REESE
M:.w:.ALBERt E. BoYNToN

And 1306 officers and representatives from 545 chartered
Lodges and 12 Lodges under dispensation.
The Grand Master filled the vacant places by the following
appointments:
Grand Treasurer ; Albert E. Boynton.
Committee on Credentials: Arthur W. Gluckman, Charles E. Shillito.
Committee on By-laws: George B. Ocheltree.

And Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form by the
Grand Master, with prayer by the Grand Chaplain and a song
by the California Lodge, No. 1, Quartette.

MESSAGE OF THE GRAND MASTER
The Grand Master then read his Annual Message, which
was by the Deputy Grand Master referred to the following
committee for segregation and distribution: Olin L. Derry,
Thomas J. Fraser, William L. Hovis.
Brethren of the Gran<i Lodye:

In accordance with the provisions of the Constitution under which
we work, it becomes my duty to render to you a report of my activities
as Grand Master, and to make such recommendations as my judgment
may dictate.
During the year just concluding, I have constantly experienced that
great joy which comes from associating with those splendid men
throughout the State, who are engaged in the work of this Fraternity;
but, in the attempted performance of my duties, I have realized, with
great regret, that limitations both of time and ability would not permit
me to do many things which the position demands of one who has been
selected to fill it. Though many miles were traveled, many hours spent
and much thought given in the effort to comply with the obligation I took
when I assumed the duties of Grand Master, yet I realize that much has
been left undone that should have been done.
It has not been, however, a mere sense of duty that has prompted
the effort to live up t0 the terms of my obligation, but there has also
existed ai keen desire on my part to be of real service to the Fraternity,
to guide it along proper lines, to keep it from taking a single backward
step, to maintain the high standards of the past, and I can only hope that
that effort has not been in vain.
Meeting Place of Grand Lodge.
The remarkable growth of Masonry in this jurisdiction in the years
just past has been reflected in the increased attendance at each succeeding
Annual Communication until we find that the Commandery room in our
Masonic Temple is inadequate to properly accommodate those Masons
who are members of Grand Lodge and who desire to attend. A realization of the discomfort caused the brethren by the crowded conditions of
several sessions impelled me to approve of and direct the convening ·of
Grand Lodge in the Scottish Rite Temple, in which I feel certain· 110
cause for complaint, as to either room or air, will be furnished.
The directors of this building are entitled to our hearty thanks for
the very generous and fraternal manner in which our requests for rooms
have been met. While many of us will greatly miss the surroundings
in which we have gathered for so many years past, yet I trust that the
thought of increased comfort to the greater number will tend to reconcile
ils to the change which has been made.
At our last Annual Communication a resolution was adopted directing
the appointment of a committee "to survey the entire situation with refer-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ence to the facilities for the meeting of Grand Lodge in its Annual Communications and to report thereon not later than the next Annual
Communication." In accordance with this resolution, a committee was
appointed, and I know that the report to be made by that committee will
be given earnest and careful consideration.

But when a Lodge confers, say over two hundred degrees in one year,
the inference is inescapable that the brethren. have but one aim in view,
and that is to enlarge the roster and put money in the treasury."
Lodges Constituted.
Immediately following the adjournment of the last Annual Communication of Grand Lodge, I proceeded to constitute the twenty-two new
Lodges which had been granted charters, and I completed this work well
within the sixty days allowed by the Constitution. In the performance of
this duty, valuable assistance was rendered to me by the Grand Lecturer,
Brother Thomas J. Baker, who accompanied me on each occasion when
this ceremony· took place.

380

General Condition.
It is a matter of unlimited satisfaction to he able to report that the
general condition of the Craft in this jurisdiction continues good. Peace
and harmony have marked the activities of the year, and from the report
of the Grand Secretary, you will note the increase in membership and in
new Lodges. The remarkable growth of Masonry of late years means
that the Fraternity is far from the point of stagnation, hut what its ultimate effect will be, it is yet too early to determine. If we could be but
convinced that we have been making Masons in heart as well as in name,
then we could rightfully boast of our augmented rolls of membership and
feel that the influx has been for the strengthening and upbuilding of our
Institution. May such prove to be the case and may each novitiate
demonstrate, by his every act, that he has become a better man, appreciative in every way, of his duties and his obligation as a Mason. I would
quote the words of that splendid man and Mason, Past Grand Master
David J. Reese, when he said: "If we can raise but one brother who is
worthy and well qualified, a credit to the Fraternity and an honor to the
Craft, we have accomplished more for humanity than rubber stamping a
hundred and making them Masons in name only."
The old admonition to seek quality, rather than quantity, should he
carefully heeded in these days of our Masonic prosperity, for the admission of unworthy material will weaken the whole structure and tend to
produce difficulties and dissensions which thought and care could have
avoided.
A consideration of the degree work done by the Lodges during the
past year has caused me to feel that the "degree-mill" has in some locali~
ties been working overtime and that a grave injustice is, perhaps, resulting
to both the Fraternity and the new member. It has been well said by our
Grand Secretary that "it is apparent that some of our Lodges have lost
sight of the genius of Masonry and the reason for their existence, which
is to unite and bring to their service a world-wide fraternity of free men,
whose mission it is to make men friends, to refine and exalt their lives,
to uphold every noble and redeeming ideal of humanity, 'teaching the
Fatherhood of God, the brotherhood of man, the moral law, the Golden
Rule, and the hope of a life everlasting.' They are bound by every impli~
cation of honor to adopt their novitiates as part of the Lodge family, to
assist them in a friendly way to enlarge their field of usefulness to their
fellows, to help them in the cultivation of friendships among the brethren.

381

Special Communications of Grand Lodge.
Grand Lodge was convened in Special Communication by the officers noted, at the times and places following:
By the Grand Master:
At San Francisco, October 16, 1926, to Constitute Ingleside Lodge
No. 630 and Veritas Lodge No. 641.
At Berkeley, October 18, 1926, to Constitute Indian Rock Lodge
No. 638.
At Los Angeles, October 20, 1926, to Constitute Beacon of the \Vest
Ko. 628, Benevolence No. 631, John Marshall No. 636, Composite No. 639,
James A. Foshay No. 641 and Metropolitan No. 646.
At San Diego, October 21, 1926, to Constitute Normal Heights
Lodge No. 632.
At Los Angeles, October 22, 1926, to Constitute Fairview No. 629,
Alta Loma No. 643, Lomita No. 644, A. F. E. Irwin No. 645, Florence
No. 649 and Hawthorne No. 647.
At San Bernardino, October 25, 1927, to Constitute Victorville No.
634, Damascus No. 648 and Riverside No. 635.
At Santa Barbara, October 26, 1926, to Constitute Poinsettia No. 633
and La Cumbre No. 642.
At Santa Monica, October 23, 1926, to Constitute Palisades Lodge
No. 6J7.
At San Leandro, December 4, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the
!§an Leandro Junior High School at that city.
At Pasadena, December II, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the
Masonic Temple at that city.
At Davis, February 19, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Davis
Joint Union High School.

I
382

PROCEEDlNGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At Galt, March 12, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the High School
at that city.
At Alameda, March 17, 1927, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at that
city.
At Richmond, March 24, 1927, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at
that city.
At Wasco, March 25, 1927, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at that
city.
At Tulare, March 26, 1927, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at that
city.
At Yreka, April 9, 1927, to dedicate the Masonic Temple at that city.
At Brawley, April 14, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Masonic
Temple at that city.
At Sawtelle, April 16, 1927, to dedicate the Masonic Temple of that
city.
At Auburn, May 20, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the new High
School at that city.
At Oakland, June 11, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Scottish
Rite Temple at that city.
At Marston Point, Balboa Park, San Diego County, June 14, 1927,
to dedicate the Flag Pole and hold Flag Day exercises.
At 'El Segundo, June 18, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the El
Segundo High School, at that city.
At Los Angeles, August 11, 1927, to dedicate the hall of America
Lodge No. 475, at that city.

At Redwood City, October 8, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the
Grammar and Intermediate School, at that city.

By Deputy Grand Master Fischer:
At La Habra, January 8, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Masonic
Hall at that city.
At Riverside, May 26, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Riverside
Cwic Auditodum.
At Long Beach, June 4, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Masonic
T ~mp le, at that city.
By Senior Grand Warden llutaff:
At Alturas, October 30, 1926, to lay the corner-stone of the Alturas
High School.
At Redding, April 30, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Shasta
Union High School, at that city.
At Mt. Shasta, August 20, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the
Siskiyou Union High School, at that city.

383

By Past Grand Master David J. Reese:
At Santa Barbara, January .25, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the
Harding Grammar School, at that city.
At Santa Barbara, April 21, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the
Junior High School, at that city.
By Past Grand Master Arthur S. Crites:
At Goleta, February 26, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Union
High School, at that place.
At Santa Barbara, August 12, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the
Court House, at that city.
By Past Grand Master Samuel E. Burke:
At Redondo Beach, August 6, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the
new Masonic Temple at that city.
By Past Grand Master John D. Murphey:
At Oakland, February 12, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Frick
Junior High School, at that city.
By Past Grand Master George F. Radden:
At Richmond, May 14, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Richmond
High School.
At Petaluma, May 27, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the Philip
Sweed School, at that city.
By Inspector Arthur P. Crim:
At Rialto, April 16, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the City Hall
at that place.
By Lacey E. Jennings:
At Ramona, December 15, 1926, to dedicate the Temple of Santa
Maria Lodge No. 580.
By Inspector L. E. Forrest:
At Honolulu, T. H., March 25, 1927, to lay the corner-stone of the
M. M. Scott Auditorium, at Honolulu.

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Flag Day
The Committee on Policy and General Purposes, following the sub.nission by Junior Past Grand :Master Boynton, of a suggestion that the
fraternity should celebrate the lSOth anniversary of the official recognition
uf the Flag of the United States, recommended at the last Grand Lodge
that "the Grand Master in his judgment make such arrangements and
give such directions as may seem to him best for the holding of such
celebration." This recommendation was adopted, and pursuant thereto,
I later directed the issuance of a proclamation in which I called on the
Lodges to observe, in fitting manner, this particular anniversary. While
a very satisfactory response to the proclamation was made throughout the
jurisdiction, yet there was one observance of the day which stands out
pre-eminent and is worthy of special notice.
In San Diego, it was suggested that the Lodges of the county raise a
fund with which to erect a substantial base and flag pole in Balboa Park
in the city of San Diego. With that enthusiasm which is ever present
among the Masons of that county, the project was carried through, and,
realizing the character and magnitude of the movement, I consented to
convene Grand Lodge at San Diego on Flag Day and perform a ceremony
of dedication of the base and pole, which ceremony was prepared by our
Grand Secretary. On June 14, in company with our Grand Lecturer,
Thomas J. Baker, Grand Orator, Fletcher A. Cutler, and Brother ·warren
Libbey, I went to San Diego, opened Grand Lodge and, in the presence
of an audience composed of several thousand people, formally dedicated
the base and pole. On the completion of the ceremony, the Flag of our
Country was hoisted by Brother J. H. Pendleton, and, as it was flung to
the breeze, I gloried in the fact that here beneath its folds were men
who as citizens and as Masons were giving expression to their love and
devotion to those glorious principles for which it stands.
In the evening at the High School Auditorium another interesting
program was presented to a large audience, and here our Grand Orator
made one of the best addresses it has ever been my privilege to hear. It
proved a fitting conclusion to a splendid day and on all sides words of
praise for his inspiring talk were uttered.

The brethren of San Diego county are certainly entitled to the congratulations of this Grand Lodge for this glorious demonstration of
their loyalty and patriotism as Masons, and the committee headed by
Brother David W. Schick should be given hearty commendation for the
very able manner in which it planned and conducted the important undertaking.

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

385

/

Masonic Homes
The affairs of the Homes at Decoto and Covina continue under the
able ·direction of those Trustees who have been accorded the highest
praise for their devotion to and interest in the great humanitarian work
which is. being performed by our Fraternity. To have served with these
brethren has been a pleasure and a delight; to have been associated with
them in the direction and management of these two havens of rest and
refuge has been a source of satisfaction which has meant much to me.
At Decoto, Brother Frank B. Hartman, the Superintendent, and his
assistant, Mrs. Minnie Richardson, are exhibiting, as they always have
done, those remarkable traits of character which have endeared them to
all with whom they come in contact in the performance of the many
exacting duties imposed upon them. With unfailing cheerfulness, great
tact and undiminished energy, they unceasingly strive to bring cheer and
happiness into the lives of all the family.
At Covina, a change in the superintendency has taken place since our
last Annual Communication. Mrs. Maude E. Miller, who for several
years has lavished love and affection upon one hundred and more boys
and girls at the Home, decided, at the urgent pleading of a brother of
this Order, to limit her attention to one individual, and, as a result, she
tendered her resignation, and became Mrs. Mervyn J. Newburg. Her
years of service at the Home had shown her to be a woman of great
ability, one of splendid qualities-both of mind and heart, and she has
left the service carrying with her the good wishes of those who have
been associated with ber in the life at the Home.
As her successor, the Board selected Brother John M. Downen, and
those of us who have had an opportunity of meeting and observing him
are of the opinion that the selection was indeed a happy one. He came
not untrained in the work of such a position, and he quickly convinced
us that he was a sympathetic student of childhood-one who possesses
both administrative ability and a knowledge of child-life which has gained
for him not only our confidence and respect, but as well the confidence
and respect of our children in the Home.
The members of the Board are giving the closest attention and consideration to the many important problems which arise in connection with
Homes, such as these, and particularly are they anxious to give to our
children not only food, clothing and shelter, but also that essential training
which will tend to fit them to become self-supporting and self-respecting
men and women.

Masonic Clubhouses
Our Clubhouse at Berkeley continues to be an important factor in
the college lifr of hundreds of students of Masonic connections. It is

386

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

meeting the need expressed in the report of a Committee headed by /
Brother \Vm. H. \Vaste, that "We must have at Berkeley a home or .1
Clubhouse-with facilities for social entertainment, quiet retirement and
relaxation from the whirl of campus activity, and above all, a place where
the homesick, lonesome and discouraged student may find the words of
consolation or advice he or she so much craves." It is the means of
bringing together Masons and the sons and daughters of Masons who
are connected with the University and who might not otherwise have
the opportunity of mingling with each other and forming friendships.
It furnishes the center of Masonic activities in the life of that great institution of learning, the University of California, and there is no Mason
who has any knowledge of what this Clubhouse means in the College
careers of the multitude of students who will ever regret the money that
has been expended in its construction or begrudge the small per capita,
now less than ten cents annually, necessary to maintain it.
On September 30, 1926, an indebtedness amounting to $15,250 was
owing by the Club, this being an indebtedness which has existed ever
since the construction of the building. The Masters and Wardens Associations of San Francisco and the East Bay have initiated a campaign to
raise funds to wipe out this obligation, and it is to be hoped that their
efforts will meet with a satisfactory response, and thus remove an incubus
that has greatly disturbed the Trustees of the Club and has necessitated
the annual payment of interest amounting to nearly one thousand dollars.
Mrs. Sallie M. Pease voluntarily tendered her resignation as Hostess
of the Clubhouse within the past few months. She is entitled to praise for
her earnest efforts to maintain a high standard in the activities of the
Clubhouse.
By her efficiency and ability she won the approval of those who had
the privilege of working with her in the care and management of the
House, and appreciation of what she accomplished there has been freely
expressed.
The remarkable growth of the University of California at Los Angeles has caused the brethren of the southland to feel that the time has
come when a similar Home should be provided there, and I have no hesitancy in expressing my belief that the time has arrived when such a
project should be undertaken. Realizing the importance of our Clubhouse
at Berkeley, and further realizing that in this institution which owes its
existence to the State there are over five thousand students, among whom
there are many of Masonic connections, I trust that some action will
be taken by this Grand Lodge contemplating the early consummation of
the desires of the brethren. I have felt that before the Fraternity should
be in any way committed to such a project, the matter should be presented
to Grand Lodge, because of the great probability that the erection of such
a house will mean the imposition of a financial burden upon it, and, learn-

I

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

387

· ing that a campaign was contemplated for the purpose of raising funds for
·.the erection and maintenance of a Clubhouse at Los Angeles, I consulted
with the leaders of the movement. It was then agreed that while the
campaign for funds would be carried on, yet no definite steps in the way
of erecting a building would be taken without the approval of Grand
Lodge being first obtained.
George Washington Memorial
During the year the necessity of determining whether I should visit
the Hawaiian Jslands arose, for it has become the custom of Grand
Masters of this Jurisdiction, if time permitted, to journey across the
Pacific and pay a fraternal visit to the Lodges of the Islands. While
there, every rnurtesy has bc''l shown the visiting officers, every kind
deed that hospitality and fraternal love could impi1e, has been performed,
and each Grand Master who has had the good io1 tune to be the guest of
those big-hearted, generous brethren, has returned to his home, unable to
fittingly express his feeling of gratitude to those who had left nothing
undone to make his sojoi:rn with them the outstanding event of his official
year. He brought back with him, not only impressions of what true hospitality really means, but <1lso a knowledge of a strong, active Masonry
existing in that far-off section of our Jurisdiction, which gladdened his
heart and prompted words of praise for our Island brethren. There naturally existed a desire on my part to likewise visit the Islands, but there
has come to my mind the advisability of a trip to Alexandria, Virginia,
for the purpose of inspecting the work that has been accomplished in the
erection of the George \Vashi11gto11 Masonic Memorial. Feeling that I
could not give the time to take both trips, I finally concluded that t!ie
journey to the Memorial should be given preference, and word of my
conclusion to the brethren across the water was reluctantly sent-reluctantly because there was being surrendered an opportunity of visiting
those delightful spots uilder conditions which would not for me exist
again.
The visit to Alexandria was made, and accompanied by Brother J.
Claude Keiper, Past Grand Master of the District of Columbia and Secretary-Treasurer of the Memorial Association, and by Brother Percy Crawford of the building company, an examination of the great structure in
course of erection was made, and, after that view of the work and an
explanation given me of the plans for the completed building, I do not
hesitate to say that the temple will be one of the wonder buildings of the
world, which will attract tbe attention, not only of Masons, but of .all
persons whose eyes shall behold its beauties and its magnificence.
My brethren, seventeen years have now elapsed since the representatives of eighteen Grand Lodges met in th Masonic Temple at Alexandria
and there took the first steps in a movement which gave life to the George

388

PROCJ<jEDlNGS OF THE

I

Washington National Memorial Association. In 1908, Brother Oscar
Lawler, a Past Grand Master of this Jurisdiction, in urging the con'struction of a proper building within which would be placed the pricele~s
relics of Washington owned by Alexandria Lodge, initiated a discussion,
from which sprang the idea of a national organization which would
undertake the erection and maintenance of a suitable memorial temple
to express the esteem of the Freemasons of the United States for Washington. At that first meeting in 1910, this resolution was adopted:
"Whereas, Alexandria, Virginia, was the home town of George
\Vashington, he being a member of its Council, a vestryman in Christ
Church, and first Master of Alexandria Lodge No. 22; Alexandria's citizens first celebrating his birthday, its soldiers, physicians, ministers and
Masons ministering to him in life and in death, the AlexandriaWashington Lodge possessing as priceless heirlooms many of the personal
effects and Masonic treasures of this man, whom Heaven left childless
that a nation might call him father; and
..-Whereas, It has been aptly said that 'until time shall be no more,
will a test of the progress which our nation has made in wisdom and
virtue be derived from the veneration paid to the immortal name of
Washington'; now, therefore, be it
"Resolved, That we approve and endorse the proposed erection of a
Masonic Temple as a memorial to George Washington, under the auspices
of Alexandria-Washington Lodge No. 22, A. F. & A. M., of Alexandria,
,
Virginia.
"Resolved, That we pledge our earnest support to this commendable
undertaking, and that all Grand Masters are earnestly requested to call
the same to the attention of the Lodges within their several Jurisdictions
and urge upon them their hearty co-operation and assistance."
On February 22, 1911, pursuant to a resolution adopted at the 1910
meeting, representatives of twenty-seven jurisdictions gathered at Alexandria, and "The George Washington Masonic National Memorial Association" was formally organized. Later the Association was incorporated
under the laws of Virginia. Today, the active members of the Association
are the forty-nine Grand Jurisdictions of the nation. The plan was early
adopted to secure the sum of One Dollar from each Master Mason in the
United States, and to the appeal which was made for funds, varying
responses have been made. Many States have exceeded their quotas,
others have completed or nearly completed theirs, while a number have
fallen far short in the amounts contributed. Thus New Hampshire has
met the demand made of it by almost doubling its quota, while other
Jurisdictions have exceeded theirs and, in addition twenty States
have contributed over one-half of their assignments. California is
given credit for $23,009.00, or about eighteen per cent, and on the list
of contributing jurisdictions, we are sixth from the bottom.
The present plans call for the expenditure of $4,000,000 for the entire cost of the temple, while a sum of $1,000,000 should be raised as an
endowment fund, and up to February 22, 1927, the sum of $2,331,593.90

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

389

had been collected. It is thus evident that if this splendid project is tu be
brought to an early completion that those Jurisdictions which have been
lagging in, the matter of contributions to the Memorial fund, should take
steps to complete their quotas. It is hoped that the temple will be finished by 1932, when will occur the 200th anniversary of the birth of
\Vashington. I have, therefore, concluded to recommend that a per capita
tax, say of twenty cents be levied for a period of four years, which,
when collected, would produce an amount at least approximating that
asked of us. I earnestly urge that action be taken by this Grand Lodge
so that we may do our share in bringing about the early completion of a
building "which will form a grand monument to the man who stands
out in American history as probably its greatest citizen, and be a symbol
to the world of the principles and tenets of the Craft as exemplified in his
splendid personality."

Public Schools Week
To act as chairman of the Public Schools Week Committee I
"drafted" Past Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, and the wisd,om
of the choice cannot be questioned. He it was who conceived the idea
of setting aside a week, during which, "in every Lodge in this Jurisdiction some phase of the questions affecting the Public Schools be brought
to the attention of the members present"-and it must be a matter of
great satisfaction to him to realize how, from year to year, the report
of meetings held in compliance with the proclamations issued by each
succeeding Grand Master show a growing interest in this important
movement. With this increased interest existing, it may be truly said
that the observance of the week by the Fraternity this year was in the
main, notably successful and attracted the attention of larger nu~bers of
citizens in the different communities than ever before. This is a work
which .calls for intelligent and enthusiastic leadership in each Lodge, and
the existence of such leadership has been generally reflected in the success of the meeting. \Vith it, large attendance and great interest have, as
a rule, resulted; without it, then sparsely attended gatherings have characterized the observance.
The movement is one which should have the hearty support of every
Mason, for here is given us the opportunity of demonstrating the sincerity of our professions of unceasing interest in the welfare of our
public schools.
Inspectors
I would add my words of praise for those splendid men who from
year to year perform unostcntatiously an<l efficiently the many duties of
Inspe?tors of the various districts. They arc conscientious, active officers,
who, impelled by their love for the Fraternity, bear the burden of responsibility without complaint and accomplish results which are for the great
good of Masonry.

PIWCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

By the provisions of Section 57 of the Constitution, each Inspector
is required to attend the Lodge of Instruction held by the Grand Lecturer
immediately before each Annual Communication of the Grand Lodge,
and he is aliowed transportation in the same manner as is allowed the
officers or representatives of the Lodges. That the Inspectors should be
made a more liberal allowance is evident to me, particularly in view of the
fact that the same brethren hold these positions, not for one year only,
but as a rule for successive years. The amounts paid those who come
from a distance will not compensate them for the expenditure required,
and they should not be required session after session to pay the difference
from their own funds. These brethren are doing a great service for
Masonry, but they should not be asked to serve at such cost to themselves.
I, therefore, trust favorable action will be taken to correct this condition.

At this conference there was organized the Masonic Blood Reliel
Board, composed of the Grand Masters and other Grand Officers of
Mississippi, Louisiana and Arkansas, and of representatives of the Masonic Service Association, which board was formed to direct all operations and receive and disburse all contributions in the work of Masonic
relief and rehabilitation in the entire flood area.
Appreciating the fact that an appalling toli of life and property had
been taken by the most destructive flood in the history of the world and
that prompt and generous aid should be extended to our stricken brethren
an appeal was made to the various Lodges in the Jurisdiction for a con~
tribution for this worthy cause, and for other possible emergency calls
equivalent to at least. ten cents a member, and the response to this cali
amounted to nearly $17,000.
The flood waters continued to spread and each day brought news of
the awful conditions resulting from the unprecedented and increasing
floods. Food, clothing and shelter for those who had been compelled
to leave their homes were imperative.
It was estimated that over 10,000 Masons were affected in the flood
area and that a fund of $500,000 would be required to provide the necessary assistance. Word to this effect reaching us, another appeal was
made to our Lodges, to which a similar generous response was made. The
total sum contributed as a result of these two appeals was $32,431.38, but
the contemplated amount of $510,000.00 having been raised by the Board
of Control of the Relief Fund p:ior to the receipt by the Grand Secretary
of a large portion of the respm ses to t>Ur second call, we held for further disposition the sum of $10,• 31.38. Our total contribution, therefore,
to the Relief Fund was $22,000, md I submit for your determination the
disposition of the moneys receiv d over and above those transmitted.

390

Emergency Relief
Florida.
In his message to Grand Lodge, M. W. Grand Master Albert E.
Boynton reported that on receipt of information of the results of the
hurricane on the West Coast of Florida, he had authorized Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Florida to draw on us for $2,500, and,
though the authorization had later been renewed to the M. W. Grand
Master, Cary B. Fish, of Florida, no draft had been received against our
funds, and it was concluded that the situation had been handled by the
brethren of Florida, without assistance. Our offer was, however, permitted to stand, and I now desire to report that the need of aid from the
brethren in general having become evident, a draft for the amount tendered was gladly honored, and we were thus given an opportunity to join
in helping those of our unfortunate brethren who had been made the
victims of this disaster.
Mississippi.
When, at the commencement of the great Mississippi flood, an appeal
for funds was made by the American Red Cross, I directed that the sum
of $500.00 be contributed to assist in the relief work which it was undertaking. The disaster daily increasing in magnitude, it became evident
that greater assistance would be required, and 011 receipt of word that a
conference of Grand Masters of the afflicted States was being held in
New Orleans, the sum of $1,000.00 was immediately forwarded. In
acknowledging the receipt of the telegram announcing this contribution,
M. W. James H. Johnson, Grand Master of Mississippi, said: "I want
to express to you, on behalf of all present in this conference, our thanks
and appreciation for your prompt and generous response to our call.
The Grand Masters of the suffering States, acting together, realize, as
you cannot realize at a distance, the tremendous scope of this disaster,
and the great neetl for every available dollar for Masonic relief and
rehabilitation." ·

391

Interpretation of Section 82a
At its last Annual Communication, Grand Lodge adopted section 82a,
of the Constitution, relative to concurrent jurisdiction of Lodges, it being
therein provided that "a petition for the degrees of Masonry may be presented by any person otherwise qualified to receive the degrees, if such
person shall reside within ten miles of the Lodge room of the Lodge to
which such petition is addressed." After adjournment, numerous inquiries were received by me concerning the effect of this new section, and
I deemed it advisable to present to the Lodges an interpretation of its
provisions. Securing the views of several brethren who had been instrumental in preparing the amendment, and cndca voring to construe it in
such manner as would avoid confusion and unnecessary labor, I held as
follows:
"That the purpose of the amendment was not to enlarge the jurisdiction of Lodges in every respect, but solely in regard to the reception

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of petitions for degrees, and its provisions should be limited to that
matter alone.
"Lodges still retain what may be termed their normal Jurisdictions,
as defined in Sections 82 and 95 of the Constitution. If a petitioner for
degrees resides within the normal Jurisdiction of a Lodge, then notice
of the petition need not l?e given except to the Lodge or Lodges entitled
to notice prior to the enactment of the amendment. If, however, a person
residing within the normal Jurisdiction of a Lodge applies to a Lodge
without that Jurisdiction and within ten miles of his residence, then
notice of the petition should be given to the Lodge within whose normal
Jurisdiction the petitioner resides. If petitioner resides within the corporate limits of a city having two or more Lodges and makes application
to a Lodge without such city, then notice should be given to each of the
Lodges in the city.
"As an instance: If a petition should be received say by a Lodge
in the city of Piedmont from one who resides in the city of Berkeley,
all the Lodges in Berkeley should be advised as required by the last
clause of Section 82."

"The Candidate must be physically able to comply with all our
ritualistic ceremonies, though it is sufficient if he can do so awkwardly
or with difficulty or by the aid of an artificially substituted hand or leg
and must be able to honestly acquire the means of sustenance notwithstanding his deformity."-Wyoming.

392

Physical Qualifications
At the Annual Communication of 1925, the Committee on Jurisprudence was "directed to submit at the next Annual Communication some
provision of law which will relieve the Grand Master of the burden of
defining to Masters of Lodges who are physically fit for the degrees of
Masonry." This direction was evidently overlooked by the committee
at our 1926 Communication, with the result that a number of queries
were sent me during the past year concerning the propriety of receiving
petitions from men who had been unfortunate enough to have lost both
legs, or one leg, or one arm. While I appreciate the fact that the matter
of determining the qualification of such applicants rests with the Master
of the Lodge to which the application is presented, yet I have advised
that I would consider them as unable to conform substantially t() what
the several degrees required. It may be that, in view of the action taken
by Grand Lodge in the past, this advice was incorrect, and, if so, the
error is easily corrected. However, I am firmly of the opinion that the
policy of Grand Lodge on this important matter should be definitely
stated, so that uniformity of action may prevail throughout the Jurisdiction. Without discussing the abstract question involved, I present for
consideration the opposite rules followed in two Jurisdictions of this
country, the adoption of one of which would tend to clarify the situation
in our own Jurisdiction:
"No man who is unable to perform every part of the work in the
three degrees of symbolic Masonry, without artificial aid, is eligible to
receive those degrees."-Rhode Island.

393

Use of Lodge Funds
It might be well at this• time to again call the attention of the
brethren to the limitation which has been placed on the right of a Lodge
to contribute to movements which may be most laudable, but which are
not Masonic. It is a well-settled rule that the funds of a Lodge cannot be
used to assist in any activity which is not recognized as a Masonic one.
Thus our Lodges are not authorized to make donations to even so worthy
an organization as the Red Cross, though that same limitation does not
apply to the Grand Lodge. It will, of course, be understood that there
is nothing to preclude the collection of funds from the members of the
Lodge for the assistance of a movement with which the Lodge has
properly allied itself, and in this way those brethren desiring to contribute
may do so from their own pockets and not out of funds collected for
other purposes.

Anniversary of Initiation of George Washington
On November 4, 1752, George Washington was made an Entered
Apprentice Mason, and it has been suggested that the 175th anniversary of
that event should be properly observed by the Craft. When we consider
the part played by this great man in the history of our Nation and in
the life of Masonry in this country, and when we view the imperishable
glory that his membership has reflected upon our Fraternity, the propriety
of the suggestion is apparent, and I submit it to you with the recommendation that due observance of the anniversary by the Lodges be
requested.

Decisions
While a number of questions were asked me, yet they concerned
matters which called merely for references to the Constitution and not
for decisions. I, however, report the following :
1. In acting upon a petition for restoration of a brother who had
been suspended for non-payment of dues and who had neglected for the
period of more than two years to pay the same, it was moved and carried
by unanimous vote that "the Secretary be instructed to cast the ballot
for the Lodge," I held that the ballot on such a petition should be secret
(Sec. 473, Decisions), and that the method followed was therefore
improper.
2. I held that a brother who had received the degree of Master
Mason in April last, was prohibited, by the "six months rule" from

394

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

making application for membership in the Eastern Star until the expiration of six months from the date of raising.
3. I held that it was not proper for a Lodge, in purchasing a
present for its retiring Master, to substitute a watch or other gift for a
Past Master's jewel, which latter article is distinctly specified by our
Constitution.
4. I held that if a brother who had been declared suspended for nonpayment of dues, paid to his Lodge within two years after such suspension an amount sufficient to cover his arrearage and accrued dues,
as required by Section 118 of the Constitution, then he is entitled to a
receipt even though he may be under suspicion of being an unworthy
person and one against whom charges might be preferred.
5. In view of the action of Grand Lodge at the last Annual Communication in repealing Regulation 410, I held that. the preferring of
charges of un-Masonic conduct against a brother by the Junior Warden
at the direction of the Master, no longer disqualifies the Lodge from
proceeding with the trial of the case, but that a Past Master should be
designated by the Grand Master to preside at such trial.
6. I held that the creation of a "Centennial fund," all of which fund
is to be used solely for a Centennial celebration twenty-five years hence,
and to which there should be annually appropriated from the "Social
Funds" of the Lodge, not less than the sum of $200.00, is objectionable.
It provides for a segregation of the funds of the Lodge not contemplated
by the Constitution and attempts to improperly bind the future membership
of the Lodge.
Grand Master Burke interpreted Section 89 as amended in 1921, in
the following manner: "As the law now stands, twenty per cent of the
total revenues of the Lodge constitutes a fund exempt from the inhibition
of Section 88 insofar as expenditures for purposes specified in Section B9
are concerned, and available for such purposes at any time, regardless of
the year within which it was received, but not prior to January 1, 1920."
In recommending the approval of this ruling, the Committee on Jurisprudence commented as follows : "Prior to the amendment of 129, only income for the preceding year was available ·for those purposes" (referring
to expenditures for the purposes of refreshments and the promotion of
fraternal intercourse), "and any unexpended portion reverted to the. general funds of the Lodge. The purpose of the amendment was to re·
move the restriction so that a permanent refreshment fund might he
established to be expended at such times as the best interests of the Lodge
required."
The question under consideration by the Grand Master and the Committee on Jurisprudence was the right of a Lodge to expend, after the
expiration of a current year, any unused portion of the twenty per cent

GRAND LODGE 01" CALIFORNIA

395

of the income for that year, and I am satisfied that there was no intention
to hold that an actual separate fund might be established to be expended
solely for the purposes of refreshment and fraternal intercourse. Conditions might arise which would make necessary the use of such funds for
charitable purposes and no restriction should be placed upon the funds of
the Lodge which might preclude it from meeting those demands.
While there may be other objections raised, I felt satisfied that those
referred to were, in themselves, sufficient to justify me in holding that
the creation of the fund as proposed should not be approved.
Politics
It having been reported to me that a meeting had been called at a
certain Masonic hall for the purpose of organizing a club of Masons to
participate in the political situation of the city, I communicated with
the Grand Secretary and requested him to notify the brother arranging
the meeting that such a movement would not be tolerated. In notifying
the brother, the Grand Secretary very pertinently said:
"It goes without saying that Masons as loyal citizens should take an
active and intelligent interest in the political and all civic affairs of the
communities in which they live. They should give careful consideration
to the fitness of candidates for public office, and as was so well stated
by Grand Master Boyton in his message to Grand Lodge last October,
'this consideration should go to the individual worth and ability of aspirants for public favor.' But as Masons, acting as a' body or as a part of
the great body of Masons, we have no concern with anything but the
cultivation of brotherly love, the relief of those in distress, the search
for truth, and to teach men to so live and act that the world will be
better and the people happier for the benign influence of our venerable
and honorable Institution.
"The Old Charges of 1722 wisely laid down. the proposition that we
'are resolved against all politics, as what never yet conduced to the
welfare of the Lodge, nor ever will,' are good law today, and the Grand
Lodge of California has repeatedly affirmed that proposition and in strong
terms decreed against any participation of Masons as Masons in the
political affairs otf the country or any subdivision thereof.
"You will please advise your brethren if so be they do meet for the
purpose of forming a political club, that such formation will be looked
upon as a plain violation of Masonic usage and custom, and if any brother
should persist in any such effort, he will be subject to stern discipline."
We were informed that the proposed meeting was not held in the
Masonic hall, and we are of the opinion that if any such activity continues, it is doing so under the cover of secrecy.
The injection of politics into the Fraternity must be condemned in
strongest terms. The brother, who in his desire to advance the interests

396

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

of some particular candidate for public office issues a letter signed by the
writer as a Mason; the Masonic publication which in its pages indorses a
candidate for election; or the brother who would induce his brethren
to join a political club composed solely of Masons, is doing that which
tends to bring the Fraternity into the political arena and which has
ever been condemned. Masonry seeks the preferment of no man in office. It does urge upon its membership the duty of exercising the privi~ges of citizenship intelligently, leaving it entirely to the individual to
determine how or for whom he shall cast his ballot. Great care must be
taken not to involve the Fraternity in political activities, lest it be said that
Masonry has fallen from its high plane to do that which tradition and
good judgment have demanded it should avoid. To elect some particular
candidate or to defeat another one, calls for no Masonic action, and he
who would have it otherwise counsels a change in our policy which
can result only in grave injury to the Fraternity.

the worth and usefulness of our brotherhood is to deepen its understanding
of its own system, to educate its members in the deeper meaning and true
purpose of its rites and its philosophy. Were this achieved, our Institution would then become in proportion to that achievement, a spiritual
force-greater than can ever be so long as it continues content with a
formal, word-perfect perpetuation of its rites. It is from a lack ol
instruction, rather than of a desire to learn the meaning of Masonry,
that the Craft suffers today."
I believe that the large majority of the Craft desire to learn more
of Masonry, and, so believing, I feel that no effort should be spared
to satisfy that desire. I, therefore, recommend that the Committee on
Masonic Education be continued and that the Lodges be urged to comply
with the suggestions of the committee and adopt the program proposed by it.
Approval of Building Projects

District Deputy Grand Masters
At our last Annual Communication, the matter of creation and appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers and District Deputy Grand
Masters was ordered referred to the Committees on Jurisprudence and
Policy and General Purposes, with the direction that they report thereon
at this Communication, and I assume that a report on this important
matter will be forthcoming. That the plan is both desirable and practicable has been shown in its presentation to Grand Lodge on several
different occasions, and I therefore trust that favorable action may be
taken thereon, not only for the benefit of the fraternity, but also for the
relief of the Grand Master.

The advisability of compelling Lodges, desiring to consb uct temples,
to first secure the approval of some authority designated by Grand
Lodge has been prestmted by other Grand Masters, but favorable consideration of the idea has not been given. The good name of the Fraternity is involved in the trying efforts of many Lodges to overcome the
difficulties of building projects which have been entered into with enthusiasm but without proper advice or reflection. Many Lodges are struggling today to lift the burdens of unwise undertakings, burdens which
could have been avoided had calm reflection been substituted for local
fervor. I earnestly recommend that legislation be enacted requiring the
submission to and approval by a committee of Grand Lodge of all building propositions desired to be undertaken by Lodges in this jurisdiction.

Masonic Education
The Committee on Masonic Education will report to you on its
activities during the year in carrying out the program previously adopted
by it. It was not contemplated when the work of this committee was
initiated that the educational program would be accepted by the Craft in
general in the course of a year or so, but it was the belief that it would
take several years to bring about the desired co-operation of the Lodges,
and it is the opinion of the committee that this co-operation is increasing
to a noticeable extent.
The importance of this movement cannot be doubted. The need of
greater knowledge on the part of Masons and particularly of the newlymade Mason, of the history, the symbols, the teachings of Masonry, of
its aims and objects, is imperative, and, in Masonic education may be
found a force to effectually combat those influences which are today
. threatening to make of Masonry a jazz-loving, Sunday-picnicking society. It has been well said that "wJ-..at seems now needed to intensify

Entertainments
I have constantly during the year urged upon the bretnren the necessity of not permitting the presentation by Lodges of programs which
would tend in the slightest degree to bring reproach upon the Institution,
and I have without hesitation condemned the character of entertainment
which is too frequently given in gatherings made up of Masons. I cannot
but feel that the high standards of Masonry are being lowered when
groups, composed of Masons and meeting at weekly luncheons, will permit
the form of entertainment which is heralded through the columns of the
newspapers or by circulars, and then presented under circumstances which
nullify any contention that such numbers are but artistic efforts. There is
grave danger that unless checked, the bad example set will be followed
by Lodges, and I therefore recommend that an expression of disapproval
of these questionable entertainments be given by this Grand Lodge, with
the warning that unless discontinued, further action will be taken against
those responsible therefor.

397

398

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Board of Control
Following the creation at our last Annual Communication of a Board
of Control to supervise and control the activities of the several Boards of
Relief and Employment Bureaus operating under the supervision and
direction of the Grand Lodge, I appointed as members of that board,
Past Grand Master David J. Reese and Brother Robert F. Callender, to
serve for the term of three years; Brothers Olin L. Berry and Louis Sutter, to serve for the term of two years, and Brother William P. Jeffries,
to serve for the term of one year.
After assuming office, it was deemed necessary by the board, in order
to comply with the provision of Section 3 of the act creating it, which
provision directs the making of a survey be made of all Boards of Relief
and Employment Bureaus then existing, to secure the services of expert
accountants, and I thereupon authorized the expenditure of the sum of
$600 for that purpose.
So broad are the powers given to this board and so many are the
duties imposed upon it, that it is apparent that no small-sized task has
been accepted by the brethren constituting the board, and I desire to
express my appreciation of the cheerful compliance on the part of each of
them with the request to serve thereon.
Western Star Lodge and Lassen Monument Site
It was recommended by the Committee on Finance last year that the
subject of restoring and preserving the Masonic Temple of Western Star
Lodge No. 2 "be referred to the incoming Grand ~faster with the request
that he investigate the proposition during the coming year and report at
the next Communication of Grand Lodge," which recommendation was
adopted. I appointed a committee consisting of Brothers Earl L. Kelly,
A. R. Wilkins and David 0. Schnittzer, to further consider the matter,
but an opportunity of consulting this committee has not yet been afforded
me. Later during the session I hope to be able to present to you our
views concerning this matter, which is one, in my judgment, calling for
favorable action by this body.
It had been my hope to have been able to visit Susanville during my
year of office and, while there, to endeavor to bring to a conclusion, if it
were possible to do so, the matter of the acquirement of the site of the
Peter Lassen grave and monument. Brother Reese and I had planned to
make this trip, but unfortunately our plans were interfered with by illness, and I was unable to carry out my wish at a later date.
Sentiment and propriety alike demand that this movement should be
continued until this historic spot, which it was confidently believed had
become the property of the Grand Lodge, has actually been transferred
to it. and I so recommend.

GRAND LODGE OJ:.' CALIFORNIA

399

Proceedings Against Masons C~nvicted of Crime
I would call to your attention those provisions of Section 192 of the
Constitution which read as follows: "In the event of a final judgment of
conviction against a l'vfason in the State or Federal Courts of a crime
involving moral turpitude, it shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of
any Lodge having jurisdiction of such Mason to prefer charges against
the Mason so convicted on account of the matters involved in said conviction; provided, that such charges have not already been preferred,
and to press to conclusion a trial on account thereof." It is accordingly
the imperative duty of the Junior Warden of the Lodge having jurisdiction of such a Mason to bring him to trial to the end that if the conviction
in the court was justified, "the criminal should find no abiding place in
Freemasonry." Grand Lodge has spoken in no uncertain terms in regard
to this matter, and there should be no hesitancy whatsoever in proceeding
in accordance with its dictates.
Visitations and Receptions
It is with deep regret that I cannot report a visit to every Masonic
district. It had been my desire to go into each district, but conditions
arose which compelled me to forego the fulfillment of that hope. In every
visit I succeeded in making, such a cordial reception was given me, such
hospitality was shown,' such evidence of Masonic devotion and enthusiasm was displayed, that I am prouder than ever of California Masonry.
It may have its faults here and there, but, in the main, it is sound and
glorious, and justifies the confidence that you and I have in it. I will
not attempt to relate to you in detail the visits I have made, but reference
to several meetings and receptions may not be amiss. The receptions
tendered me by Madison Lodge and by Nevada Lodge were affairs that
pleased me greatly; the reception to Mrs. Jones and me by the Masonic
organizations at the University of California was a most delightful occasion to us, while the never-to-be-forgotten hours spent in Los Angeles
as the guests of the Lodges of that city and vicinity impressed us with
the hospitality and strength of Masonry in that section. Nothing was
left undone to make our stay a memorable one in every way. The reception given by the Masonic Lodges of San Francisco at the Civic Auditorium stands out as a notable event of the year-one that gave great
pleasure to those who had . the good fortune to attend.
A district meeting held at Camptonville with Gravel Range Lodge
No. 59 acting as host; the meeting of Pacific Lodge No. 136, when M. W.
Grand Master Henderson of Nevada and. members of Reno Lodge No. 13
were present as the guests of Pacific Lodge, and at which meeting the
third degree of Masonry was conferred by Reno Lodge upon its own
candidate; the meeting of Fidelity Lodge No. 120, when the third degree
was conferred by members of the Pacific Fleet; the "beef-steak" dinner

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

given at Monrovia by the Lodges of the 90th District, w~th Inspector
Leslie M. Renaker presiding; the dedication of the Masomc Temple at
Tulare followed by a meeting in the evening of the Masters and Past
Maste;s Association of the South San Joaquin Valley, with the Deputy
Grand Master, Senior Grand Warden, Grand Secretary, Grand Lecturer,
Grand Marshal Past Grand Masters Crites and Reese, and several Inspectors presen; at both gatherings, and the Grand Orator taking part in
the ceremonies of dedication-were all gatherings of such note that I
deem them worthy of special mention.

Conclusion
In a very few days my work as Grand Master will De concluded
and the gavel will be handed to one who will perform the important duties
of the office in a manner that will reflect great honor both upon him and
upon the Fraternity. I cannot look back over the year's task with the
thought that I have done all things wisely and well, or that I have accomplished even but little for the welfare of the Fraternity, but there has
been an effort on my part to impress on the membership "the dignity and
high importance of Masonry," that Masonry stands committed to the
enforcement of and obedience to the law, that it stands for the tolerance,
and for charity, both of purse and mind. The temple of Masonry has
been building for centuries; it is a splendid structure which has attracted the attention of men in every walk of life, and they have eager!)
sought to enter its enclosures and participate in its mission.
That temple has withstood the savage attacks which envy, malice
and intolerance have made upon it for ages past, and we know today that
no outward power can destroy it. But what of the attacks by those
who are within the sacred precincts? The assaults of enemies may leave
no marks upon the edifice, but the mud cast upon it by thoughtless, heedless
brethren m;i.y produce stains which only time can eradicate.
This, then, has been my admonition to the brethren-to so act,
wherever you may be, that no discredit shall be brought upon the Fraternity, and, my brethren, if as the years go by your minds should revert
for even a moment to him who now addresses you, think of him as one
who valued your friendship, appreciated your favors and who admonished you to Keep Masonry clean.

400

Acknowledgments.
There have been many nice things said about our Grand Secretary,
John Whicher. His splendid co-operation, his fine personal quali.ti~s, his
broad knowledge of Masonry in general and of the laws pertammg to
this Jurisdiction in particular, are all matters concerning which I can
now speak of my own knowledge, for like many. of my ~redecessors, I
have had the benefit of his great experience and mformat10n along Masonic lines. He occupies a position "second to none" in this Grand
Lodge, and I reiterate the sentiments of those who, preceding me in
office, have given him unstinted praise.
Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker, who at this session will pre!>ent
an annual report for the twentieth time, has always been most considerate
and helpful, and I take this opportunity of congrat~lati.ng him u~~n the
completion of twenty years of service to the Fratermty m the pos1t10n of
Grand Lecturer, and I know the brethren throughout the Jurisdiction join
with me in so doing.
To our Deputy Grand Master and our Wardens; to our Assistant
Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs, to our Grand Ora~or, Fletche~ A.
Cutler who has participated with me at so many ceremomes and meetmgs,
and who has delighted thousands of his brethren by his flow of eloquence;
to our Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson, who has given freely of his
time to attend ceremonies held in different parts of the State; to our
Grand Tiler, Frank, G. Watson, who is ever faithful to. his trust; to .our
Grand Standard Bearer, Eugene Benjamin, who on different occas~ons
piloted me to meetings in his automobile, even though these me~tmgs
were at places quite distant from Sacramento; to our Grand Pursmva~t,
Warren D. Gill, who in the Southland so efficiently performed the d~tles
of Grand Marshal at many ceremonies-to these officers I especially
express my appreciation for the services they have so cheerfully rendered.
To all the brethren throughout the State who have given me such
loyal support and such kind attention and .assistance, I exte~d sincerest
thanks, and I assure them that the recollection of· the courtesies and generous hospitality ever accorded me will never fade from memory.

401

GEORGE Lours JoNEs, Grand Master.

4U2

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

URAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

APPENDIX

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA
GEORGE

403

L. ]ONES, Grand Master

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

NEVADA CITY, CALIFORNIA

]oHN WmcHER, Grand Secretary

Nevada City, April 3, 1927.
Brethren of the Jurisdiction:
On June 14, 1777, the Congress (as it then existed) of the United
States, meeting in Independence Hall in the City of Philadelphia, adopted
the following resolution:
Resolved, That the flag of the thirteen United States be
thirteen stripes, alternate red and white; that the union be thirteen stars, white in a blue field, representing a new constellation."
We as Masons are proud of the part that Masonry has played in the
creation and perpetuation of this Government, and we at all times pay
reverence to the flag of our country, the glorious symbol of the splendid
principles for which this Nation stands.
"There is something in the flag,
And the little burnished eagle
That is more than emblematic :
It is glorious, it is regal."
In accordance with the recommendation of the Grand Lodge, I do
hereby urge that in each Lodge, in the month of June, such celebration be
held as shall mark suitable observance of the one hundred and fiftieth
anniversary of the official recognition of the flag of our Nation, and that
all Masons be invited to join therein.
I particularly suggest that each Mason in the Jurisdiction, on the
14th of June next, renew his allegiance to our country in the following
pledge:
I pledge allegiance to the flag of the United States and to
the Republic for which it stands; one Nation indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.
Fraternally yours,

SAN FRANCISCO, CALIFORNIA

San Francisco, California, December 31, 1926.
Pursuant to the recommendation of Grand Lodge, October, 1926,
the Committee on Masonic Education has prepared the following statement, a copy of which is required to be given, by the Master, to each
candidate at the time he receives the first degree:
To the Initiate:
There may be some who might approach you with business
propositions, saying to you, now that you have become a member
of the Fraternity you should extend your business favors to
• members of the Craft or particularly to some organizations who
state that they confine their activities exclusively to members of
the Masonic Fraternity. Examples of such approaches are solicitors who may endeavor to sell you insurance in associations
advertised as insuring Masons only; the subscription to magazines devoted largely to Masonry; the purchase of books on
Masonic subjects which, it may be suggested, will tell you all
about the Institution.
Let us urge upon you to refrain from committing yourself
until you have taken up the matter with the Master of your
Lodge or some older Mason who will be able to advise you. Indeed, if you view such solicitations in the same light as you
would before you became a member-that is, on the merits of the
proposition presented to you-you will be doing the fair thing to
the solicitor and yourself. There may be some who might presume' on your zeal as a new member to take advantage thereof,
and while we do not advise against extending favors, we likewise
do not suggest that you make purchase or subscription merely because you have become a member of the Fraternity.
Please deliver a copy of this circular to each candidate at the time he
receives his first degree.
]OHN \VmctlER, Grand Secretary.

GEORGE L. JoNES, Grand Master.

Attest:
JonN WmcHER, Grand Secretary.

404

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFOR~IA
GEORGE L. Jmms, Grand Master

405

GRAND LODGE, F. & A. M. OF CALIFORNIA

NE\'ADA CITY, CALTJ'ORNIA
SAN FRAN CJ SCO, CALIFORNIA

PROCLAMATION
E10HTH ANNUAL OnsERVANCE PUBLIC ScHOOLS WEEK

To the Masters, Wardens and Brethren of the
Secc'eral Lodqes in this f11risdictinn:
The challenge of childhood is eternal; and the Nation is ever confronted with the demand that every child shall be assured his rightful
heritage of an education appropriate to, and commensurate with, the demands of the age in which he lives. We have sought to answer that
challenge by the creation of a purely American institution-the Public
School; and of all our American institutions this is the most useful and
the most deserving of public support.
As is true of every human institution, it is of course far from perfect; and there has never been a time when it has not been subject to
cntlc1sm. Jn so far as that criticism is intelligent and constructive it is
to be welcomed, and should be encouraged; but in so far as it is
destructive and designedly hostile it is to be deplored, and should be
vigorously combated by every friend of our public school system. To
combat that destructive criticism, to bring about desired improvement,
and to preserve that faith and conlidence in the Institution on which its
perpetuity and usefulness depend, there must be close contact between
the public and its schools, together with free and open discussion of all
questions involved. That is the aim and purpose of Public Schools
Week.
Now, therefore, J, George L. Jones, Grand Master of Masons in
California, do proclaim the week commencing Monday, April 25th, 1927,
as "Public Schools \IV eek"; and I do now request and direct that during
that week there be held in every community in California in which there
exists a Masonic Lodge at least one public meeting (and more, if practicable) for the Eighth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week
by the Masonic Lodges in this Jurisdiction.
It is likewise my request and direction that wherever practicable
the meetings be held in the auditoriums of public schools; and that all
local organizations interested in civic work be urged to co-operate with
the idea and purpose of making these meetings public in every sense of
the word.
I do furthermore request and direct that no "work" be done by any
Lodge on a night on which any meeting for the observance of Public
Schools Week is held in the town or city in which the Lodge is locate<;!.
Dated at San Francisco this 1st day of February, 1927.
GEORGE L. JoNES, Grand Master.
Attest:
]oHN WHJCHER, Grand Secret!l1'J'.

April 28, 1927.
To the Brethren of the Jurisdiction:
Advices from the Grand Masters. of the Jurisdictions affected by
the floods in the Mississippi river and tributaries, indicate that the losses
in life alld property are so great that ordinary relief measures will not
be adequate to the task of feeding and clothing the sufferers and carry
on the necessary work of rehabilitation in the stricken territory.
With grateful remembrance of the prompt and generous aid extended
to California at the time of our urgent needs in April, 1906, we now have
an opportunity not only to do our duty as Masons, but in a measure to
repay those who assisted us.
It is a trite saying but nevertheless pertinent, that "he gives twice
who gives quickly," and the Grand Master fraternally requests that each
Lodge of the Jurisdiction promptly contribute a sum equal to ten cents
a member ior this worthy cause, and for other possible emergency calls.
Checks may be sent to the Grand Secretary, and due credit will be
given to all contributors.
GEORGE

Attest:
]OHN WnrcHER,

Grand Secretary.

L. ]ONES, Grand Master.

406

PROCEEDINGS Oli' 'l'HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

GRAND WDGE, FREE AND ACCEPTED MASONS
OF CALIFORNIA
GEORGE L. JoNES, Gratid Master
Nevada City, June 8, 1927.
To all Masters, Wardens, Brethren and Lodges in the Jurisdiction:
Again a call comes from our brethren in the Mississippi flood district
for further help, and again we ask for contributions. The response to
our circular appeal of April 28th was prompt, and some Lodges contributed more than the ten cents per member requested. The total amount
received by our Grand Secretary to date is $16,902.69 and the total moneys
received by the Joint Committee at New Orleans from all sources is
$226,402.07. A half million dollars or more wilt be needed. Our quota .
should be at least $30,000.00.
·
The Grand Masters of Mississippi, Louisiana and Arkansas report
that more than 600,000 people have been made homeless by the flood, of
whom 500,000 are dependent for their daily bread upon the thoughtful
generosity of people outside of the flood area. In the Louisiana flooded
area there are 5300 distressed Masons and their families; in the devastated district of Mississippi there are 4200 Masons and their families,
without homes or food except through relief committees; and in Arkansas,
the area and loss are double that of Mississippi.
These afflicted brethren and their families must not only be supplied
with daily food, but property damage must be considered. After the
flood waters shall have dispersed the world will speedily forget the distresses of those brethren, their wives and little ones, whereas the real
work of practical relief will then have only begun, for the rehabilitation
of those whose crops are lost, homes destroyed, and for the care of the
sick.
California Lodges have contributed liberally to the Masonic relief
fund, and individual members have done their duty through contributions
to the Red Cross-but we have not done enough. It is our earnest desire that a further contribution b,e made to our Grand Lodge Emergency
Relief Fund by all Lodges and brethren, to the end that our brethren
in the flood area may know for a surety that California Masons will
never fail of their full duty. We hope to receive, including the previous
contribution, not less than 25 cents a member.
With every good wish, and in the full belief that you will promptly
respond to this appeal, I am
Sincerely and fraternally yours,
Attest:
GEORGE L. JoNES, Grand Master.
JonN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.
Please make checks payable to Relief Fund, and mail them to the
Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Francisco.

407

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:

I have the honor to present herewith my twentieth annual report of the transactions of the Grand Secretary's office, with an
account of. all moneys, received for account of Grand Lodge, for
the Masomc Homes, and for the Emergency Relief Fund and a
summary of disbursements, together with a notation of all unfinished business. By Constitutional requirement, the detailed and
itemized statement of all disbursements has been submitted to the
Committee on Finance. For your further information I also append an account of receipts since the close of the fiscal year, July
31, 1927, to and including October 4.
Membership
The membership of chartered Lodges as of July 31, 1926, was
121,656, and of Lodges under dispensation 756, the total membership then being reported as 122,412, a net gain for that year of 6,895.
For the year ended July 31, 1927, chartered Lodges reported 128,665
members, and lodges under dispensation 644 members, an apparent gross
membership now in the Jurisdiction of 129,309, a net gain for the year
of 6897.
We have now 551 chartered Lodges on our registry, and twelve
Lodges working under dispensation. Ten of these Lodges will ask
for charters at this communication, and if their requests meet with
your favor, we will have at the close of Grand Lodge 561 Lodges
working by virtue of charters. I append here some figures which
may be. of interest as showing our work in five-year periods.
1912
1917
1922
1927
Lodges under dispensation............................ 11
3
26
12
Initiations reported .......................................... 3266
4042
8348
8091
Passed ................................................................ 3156
3835
8510
8051
Raised ................................................................ 3063
3869
8771
8089
Affiliafed ............................................................ 1023
933
1586
2083
Reinstated ......................................................... .' 91
191
210
219
Withdrawn ........................................................ 723
764
1481
1380
Suspended N. P.
474
717
467
953
Suspended or expelled.................................... 25
14
25
36
Deaths
609
864
1044
1383
Number Members ............................................48,315 60,393 93,179 129,309
Increase over previous year.. ..................... 2,479
2,537
7,998
6.897

408

PROCEEDINGS OF '.l'HE

Degree Work
The following table exhibits the degree work for the year of
Lodges conferring forty or more third degrees. It is submitted without
comment for your thoughtful consideration:
Degrees Conferred
Members First Second
Third Total
Los Angeles, No. 42............
850
127
39
43
45
Live Oak, No. 61.................. 1118
131
42
44
45
Wilmington, No. 198..........
279
122
38
42
42
East Gate, No. 290................ 951
124
43
41
40
Hollenbeck, No. 319............ 1549
144
42
50
52
San Pedro, No. 332..............
554
117
32
42
43
West Gate, No.•)35..............
822
144
53
44
47
757
133
Fruitvale, No. 336................
42
45
46
Palestine, No. 351................
649
61
62
62
185
Hollywood, No. 355.............. 1294
87
90
93
270
Moneta, No. 405....................
770
39
36
42
117
Blackmer, No. 442................
490
47
44
45
136
America, No. 475..................
408
122
39
42
41
Mount Olive, No. 506..........
217
60
48
49
157
42
43
40
125
George Wash. No. 525 ---·-244
Sun Garden, No. 530............
230
131
41
43
47
Utopia, No. 537......................
282
59
53
59
171
Searchlight, No. 567............
259
46
45
50
141
Manchester, No. 585............
176
51
47
43
141
Valley Forge, No. 587........
156
40
44
45
129
Glassell Park, No. 605........
146
25
32
44
101
Menorah, No. 623..................
103
51
48
42
141
Angeles Mesa, No. 625........
211
97
94
105
296
Alta Loma, No. 643..............
70
46
49
45
140
Degrees by Courtesy
The usual and I regret to report not always reasonable requests
to have degrees conferred upon residents of California for Lodges
of other jurisdictions, have been received, and in most cases approved. Some requests, however, have not been approved, notably
when it has appeared that the candidate received the first degree
many years ago. In such cases we have replied to the requesting
jurisdiction that we believed the interests of Masonry would be
best subserved by the granting of a dimit or waiver of jurisdiction,
and permitting the candidate to lawfully petition for the remaining
degree or degrees at the place of his home, and thereby give him an
opportunity to actively participate in the affairs of the Lodge. I

GRAND LODGE OF CALII<'ORNIA

409

respectfully renew the suggestion I made last year, that we adopt
the policy of refusing to confer degrees by courtesy upon men who
actually hold legal residence within our jurisdiction, except when
proper reasons may be shown why the candidate should remain a
member of the requesting Lodge. Under our present policy we
merely add names to the rosters of outside Lodges, with no resulting addition to the moral or material strength of Masonry.
Our Lodges have conferred 337 degrees for other jurisdictions,
and have requested like favors to the number of 66 degrees.
Hand Book for Secretaries
At the annual communication of Grand Lodge in 1865 the
the following resolution was adopted;
"That the Grand Secretary be instructed to prepare and publish
a form for the proper keeping of Lodge records."
The Grand Secretary, Alexander G. Abell, thereupon prepared
and presented to Grand Lodge in October, 1866, a form bearing
the title "Record Book of Example Lodge," which was approved
with the following comment by the Committee on Jurisprudence:
"That it will not only subserve the primary object had in view when
it was proposed,-that of instructing new Lodges in the proper
method of recording their transactions-but will be an excellent
guide even to the older ones, as showing a concise and uniform yet
distinct and expressive manner of noting the manifold transactions
of a Masonic Lodge."
The work has been revised from time to time to meet the
changes in our laws, and I now request that it be revised to date
and reprinted in pamphlet form, and one copy sent gratis to the
Secretary of each Lodge in the jurisdiction.
Representatives Appointed
May 12, 1927, to Harold L. Quigley as our Representative near
the Grand Lodge of \\lashington.
June 4, 1927, to Robert B. \Vallace, as our Representative near
the Grand Lodge of New Brunswick.
June 13, 1927, to James L. Williamson, as our Representative
near the Grand Lodge of New York.
New Lodges
There arc now thirteen Lodges working by virtue of dispensation issued by order of the Grand Master, as follows:
La Brea, Los Angeles. Dispensation October 5, 1926. William
Thomas Wheeling, Master; \Villiam Horatio Parcels and Roy Lyon

PROCEEDINGS 01!" THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Haslett, Wardens; and Clyde. C. Caillett, Anthony Conrad P. Zeuner,
William Henry Barker, Philip Kalech, Edwin Jackson Meister,
William Wallace Wedding, Russell Lawrence Ray, Harold Caywood
Hall, Fred Perry Lowe, Lloyd Herbert Fruehling, Frank Hanson Schepler,
Albert Lee Wilson, John Samuel Holmes, Ben Arthur Burton, Zellner
Oakes Hart, "William Mellenthin, Ross Henry Quinby, Roy Cassell Burton,
Abraham Solomon Allen, Horace Jarvis Barton, Franklin Edmund Horne,
Jay Otis Burnett.

Claude Carlton Powers, Jay A. Powers, Harry Grieves Kelley, Raymond Alvin Stalcup, Sherman Peryle Peterson, Charles Henry
Burge, Frank Hilton Wise, Omar Ross Deam, William Horsley,
Adelb.ert Stephen D'Autremont, Paul Scandalis, Alvin Joslyn Jones,
Ben Wood, Denny Ray Cree, Hicklen Goo Farris, Fred Williams
Brown and Otto I. Babcock.

410

Menlo Park, Menlo Park, San Mateo county. Dispensation
October 16, 1926. Fred Clark Metcalf, Master; and Jesse Harold
McFall and Jay T. Cooper, Wardens; and Victor Louis Hugo,
Bertram Tuttle Harper, Albert Webb, Edward Rearden Lam, William Walker, Gustave N. Shingleberger, Alexander Walker, Peter
Doig, Frank Sebastian Becker, Joseph Veverka, Charles Franklin
Crowther, Jay T. Cooper, Raymond James Clemo, John Ross Hardy,
Halfdam Bergeton U. Aronsen, John Benjamin Glunz, James Henry
Beardsley and Samuel Warren Hull.
Crescenta Valley, Montrose, Los Angeles county. Dispensation November 4, 1926. Wallace Andrew Fitzgerald, Master; Ray
Quien MacDonald and McCreery Philip Stimson, Wardens; and
Paul M. Chas. Rodet, Jae! Ray Woodward, Emery Corwin Jones,
Royal I. Lowe, Alfred Hugh Moses Moise, Virgil McTyre Wasson,
Appleton Frank Hopkins, Shirley Herbert Wetmore, Milo Nelsen
Geise, John Louis Strauss, William Macintosh Looke, Otto Millard
Porry, Llywolaf Johns, Charles Leland Mead, Albert Emanuel
Hansen, Harmon Fred Anawalt, Albert Edward Sullivan, Bernard
Anawalt, Charles Raymond Dyer, Frank James Green and Mark S.
Collins.
Fontana, Fontana, San Bernardino county. Dispensation December 28, 1926. Francis B. \Villiams, Master; \Villiam Paul Endicott and Chester W. Pulley, Wardens; and James Carter Crossley,
Harry L. Crossley, Arthur L. Broiles, James Jack, William H. Randall, Edward M. Snyder, Owen Francis Edwards, Clifford R. Riggs,
William \V. Pickett, Frank H. Frazier, Lawrence E. Parrish, Gordon
Philip Langdon, Raymond Bruce Tipton, Harry S. Barbee, Dauff
S. Hansen, Chester Recd, John G. Craig, Davis R. Chambliss, Harry
Clayton Spring.
Jordan, Los Angeles. Dispensation January 18, 1927. Albert
Perry Henry, Master; Carl Julius Johnson and Thomas Henry
Moore, Wardens; and Martin Christensen, Leslie Elmer Smith,

411

Monte Vista, Long Beach. Dispensation January 29, 1927.
Lester Charles Williams, Master; Charles J. Nichols and Harvey
A~drew Barr, \Vardens; and Harry Sheldneck Rice, James Robert
Elhs, Floyd Benjamin Mansell, Return Frederick Moore, Donald
McLellan Gillespie, Charles Wesley Crager, Robert Majors Whitelock, Richard Higham Tanner, Edward Charles Power Charles
Mylo Morrison, Ben Howard Wheater, Robert Georg: Barker,
Edward Wilson Hecker, Earl Lynn Milligan, Lewis Mather Hogan,
Elmore Draper Blake, Eva T. Counts, Harvey Eugene Magee, Hart
G. Wagner, Frank Timmons Baldwin and J. W. Rudd, Jr.
Citro!, Brea, Orange county. Dispensation February 28, 1927.
Lester L. Lemmon, Master; George Wayne Cullen and Charles
Edward Miller, Wardens; and Charles Clement Kinsler, Peter
Joseph Fackelman, Robert Gardner Russell, Alonzo Hiram Brown,
T~o1_Ilas ~onr?e Davis, Louis Beck, Horace Nelson Thompson,
Wilham Smclair, Frederick William Marston, Perry Eugene Bales,
Otho Sylvester Close, James De. Wakeman, Charles Rolland McClure, George August Shuppert, Robert Emmett Mims, Charles
Adelbert Mafit, Alfred Henry Downes, William Alexander Hall,
Rollo Milburn Fleisher, Monte Cristo Fiscus, Ernest Blanchard
Bolander and William Judson Oldfield.
John D. Spreckels, San Diego. Dispensation April 8, 1927.
Ernest Wells Dort, Master; William Penn Taylor and Karl Frederick Bopp, Wardens; and Edgar Allan Bowman, Edward Kilbee
Cormack, Perry Morris Grant, Fred Joseph Croxall, Arthur B. Hlodgett,
Perc_:y Edgar Ball, Oscar L. Holt, Horner Glenn Bleecker, Dariiel Ellwood
Lewis, Robert White Brackett, William Henry Ellison, Harry Edward
Blumberg, Robert Stevens Robbins.
Livingston, Livingston, Merced county. Dispensation May 14
Joseph Barnett, Master; and Gordon Harvey Winton and
Elgm .Evan~, Wardens; and John William Landram, Benjamin
Franklm Wnght, Stillman Herbert Swan, Arnold Arnie Harrington,
John Eliiot Herndon, Marion Russell Nicholas, Eugene Bernie
Kemper, Edward Francis Murray, Warren Frank McConnell Percival L. Rookledge, John J. Morgan.
'

192~.

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

La Habra, La Habra, Orange county. Dispensation June 24,
1927. Walter Albany Linsdell, Master; Gordon McKnight Cameron
and Claude A. Ridgway, Wardens; and James Henry Walker, Rollie
William Koontz, Charles Edward Trent, Henry Carl Dohrmann,
Roy Masten Evans, William Campbell Stark, Roy Nickall, Ulysus
Grant Sherman, Robert Wilfred Vanderhoof, Ivan James Wagner,
Henry Eldredge Hart, Clint Richard Guthrie, William Abrams,
Burt S. Williams, Daniel Levi Chipman, Thomas Muckersie Lawson,
Benjamin Davies, Charles LeRoy Crumrine, Walter Coney Fairweather, Edward L. J ournigan, Raymond Fleetwood Frantz,
Gurnard C. Beer.
Baldwin Park Lodge, Baldwin Park, Los Angeles county.
Dispensation August 25, 1927. Benjamin Franklin Maxon, Master;
Laurence Alvin Dailey and Charles Albitz Ryan, Wardens; and
George Allen Randolph, Fred Heth, Harold Adna Boynton, Howard
Morse Hadley, Walter Lincoln, Walter L. Schroeter, John Walter
Morgan, John McClelland Jones, Harold Francis Sawyer, Charles
Albitz Ryan, S. LeRoy Putnam, Marion Mell, Harrie Horace
Clement, James Rolan N elan, Forrest Louis Crane, Frances Asbury
Johnson, Arthur Yarnell, Jam es Simpson Alexander.
Malta Lodge, Los Angeles. Dispensation August 30, 1927. Roy
Edgar Perry, Master; Charles Donald Field and James Aldis Fritz,
Wardens; Joseph Henry Harding, Edwin Harrison Le Baker,
Francis Emerson Welch, Arthur Archibald McClurkin, Edward
Darneby Massie, Fred M. Hill, Earl V. Mater, Thomas J. Bartle,
Hays Bryce Eckert, Warner Frank Mcintosh, Charles Donald Field,
Roy Clifford Teel, Carl DeWitt Craig, Robert M. Upton, Marvin
Loyal Arnold, Aaron Milton Condra, Thurlstone David Bruce,
William Carson McKelvey, Albert C. Hall, Edward Pohlman,
Robert Price Roe, Alfred Harold Hand.
Henry W. Knox Lodge, Los Angeles. Dispensation October 1,
1927. Frank Brown Wheat, Master; T. Leonard Jones and Dain Sturges,
Wardens; Herbert Orpheus Battey, Richard Omri Bullis, William Glen
Harris, Edson Marshall Hemingway, Carl Smith Kegley, James Mark
Milburn, Dee McConnell, Richard Edward Morton, George Decatur
Milligan. Jack Patterson, Lynn Mason Scofield, Howard Beasley W orne,
Jr., Joseph Ludwig Wolfe, Arthur Hays Klein, Jesse Franklin Brown,
Thomas Schuler Abbott, Robert Vivian Baker, Marshall Crutcher,
I-Tarry Jen sen.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

413

Life Memberships
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life
memberships as follows:
Western Star Lodge, No. 2, $150; Live Oak Lodge, No. 61,
$200; Sotoyome Lodge, No. 123, $150; Jewel Lodge, No. 374, $200;
Charter Rock Lodge, No. 410, $200; Woodstock Lodge, No. 491,
$200; Ascot Lodge, No. 538, $150; Security Lodge, No. 581, $300;
Hemet Lodge, No. 615, $150; Riverside Lodge, No. 635, $150.
Dispensations Issued
The Grand Master has approved requests for special dispensations for various purposes, as follows:
To re-ballot upon candidates rejected within twelve months:

La Parfaite Union Lodge No. 17 (2); Valley Lodge No. 135 (2);
West Gate Lodge No. 335; Oxnard Lodge No. 341; Lincoln Lodge No.
470 ; Golden Ruic Lodge No. 479 ; Bay City Lodge No. 526; Plymouth
Lodge No. 560; Compass Lodge No. 590; Dimond Lodge No. 603; Elmhurst Lodge, No. 610 (3); Menorah Lodge, No. 623 (2); Benevolence
Lodge, No. 631; Palisades Lodge, l\'o. 637; Florence Lodge, Ko. 649;
Eagle Rock Lodge, Ko. 422.
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by law:

Volcano Lodge, No. 56; Gravel Range Lodge, No. 59; Bear
Mountain Lodge, No. 76; Amador Lodge, No. 65; Yosemite Lodge,
No. 99; Nicolaus Lodge, No. 129; Vitruvius Lodge, No. 145; Claiborne Lodge, No. 185; Monterey Lodge, No. 217; Guadalupe Lodge,
No. 237; Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269; Alta Lodge, No. 333; Fullerton Lodge, No. 339; Pinole Lodge, No. 353; Willits Lodge, No. 365;
Veteran Lodge, No. 373; Arlington Lodge, No. 414; York Lodge,
No. 423; Carpinteria Lodge, No. 444; Wilshire Lodge, No. 445;
Riverbank Lodge, No. 459; Chowchilla Lodge, No. 485; Vallejo
Lodge, No. 487; Capital City Lodge, No. 499; Jonathan Lodge, No.
545; Military Service Lodge, No. 570; Harding Lodge, No. 584;
Seal Beach Lodge, No. 616; Indian Rock Lodge, No. 638; Metropolitan Lodge, No. 646.
To receive and act i1pon petitio11s from members of the Army and
Na11y who did not ha1•e the required residential qualifications: San Diego
Lodge, No. 35; Vallejo Lodge, No. 487 (2); S. Vv. Hackett Lodge,
No. 574; Seal Beach Lodge, No. 616.

414

415

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Amendments to By-Laws

No. 446, to $50 Park Lodge, No. 449, to $100; Montebello Lodge,
No. 451, to $75; San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452, to $100; Lihertas
Lodge, No. 466, to $100; Roekridge Lodge, No. 468, to $100;
America Lodge, No. 475, to $100; Thousand Oaks Lodge, No. 478,
to $100; Albert Pike Lodge, No. 484, to $100; Caledonia Lodge, No.
486, to $100; Harbor Lodge, No. 502, to $75; Point Lodge, No. 503,
to $75; Mount Olive Lodge, No. 506, to $125; Palms Lodge, No.
512, to $80; Seal Rock Lodge, No. 536, to $100; Utopia Lodge, No.
537, to $100; Seaport Lodge, No. 550, to $100; Lakeshore Lodge, No.
551, to $100; Military Service Lodge, No. 570, to $100; Santa Maria
Lodge, No .•580, to $50; Security Lodge, No. 581, to $100; Manchester Lodge, No. 585, to $80; Kauai Lodge, No. 589, to $75;
Service Lodge, No. 594, to $75; Carmelita Lodge, No. 599, to $100;
Hemet Lodge, No. 615, to $50; Southland Lodge, No. 618, to $100;
The Gardens Lodge, No. 621, to $75; Atwater Lodge, No. 622, to
$75; Angeles Mesa Lodge, No. 625, to $65; Palisades Lodge, No.
637, to $100; Composite Lodge, No. 639, to $100; Alta Loma Lodge,
No. 643, to $75.

Following is a list of proposed amendments to by-laws which
have had the approval of the Grand Master:
Changing time of stated meetings: Forest Lodge No. 66; Redwood
City Lodge, No. 168; Sierra Valley Lodge, No. 184; Buckeye Lodge,
No. 195; Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269; Mizpah Lodge, No. 378;
Glendora Lodge, No. 404; Charter Rock Lodge, No. 410; Eagle
Rock Lodge, No. 422; Torrance Lodge, No. 447; Woodstock Lodge,
No. 491; Ascot Lodge, No. 538; Justice Lodge, No. 549; Golden
City Lodge, No. 553; Progressive Lodge, No. 578; Alexander
Graham Bell Lodge, No. 595; Truth Lodge, No. 597; Jubilee Lodge,
No. 604; Sojourner Lodge, No. 607; Workman Lodge, No. 612;
Benevolence Lodge No. 631; Poinsettia Lodge No. 633; Palisades
Lodge, No. 637; James A. Foshay Lodge, No. 641; A. F. E. Irwin
Lodge, No. 645; Hawthorne Lodge, No. 647; Damascus Lodge, No.
648; Victorville Lodge, No. 634; Florence Lodge, No. 649.
Increasing fees for degrees: Tuolumne Lodge No. 8, to $75; La
Parfaite Union Lodge, No. 17, to $100; Mariposa Lodge, No. 24, to
$50; Sacramento, No. 40, to $100; Mount Moriah Lodge, No. 44,
to $100; Live Oak Lodge, No. 61, to $100; Henry Clay Lodge, No.
95, to $60; Hornitos Lodge, No. 98, to $55; Table Mountain Lodge,
No. 124, to $80; Antioch Lodge, No. 175, to $75; Sierra Valley
Lodge, No. 184, to $50 Claiborne Lodge, No. 185, to $50; Oakland
Lodge, No. 188, to $100; Santa Barbara Lodge, No. 192, to $100;
South San Francisco Lodge, No. 212, to $95; Oak Grove Lodge,
No. 215, to $100; Bakersfield Lodge, No. 224, to $100; Magnolia
Lodge, No. 242, to $100; Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244, to $75; Landmark
Lodge, No. 253, to $50; Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269, to $80;
Pasadena Lodge, No. 272, to $100; Maxwell Lodge, No. 288, to $55;
Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292, to $75; Orange Grove Lodge, No. 293,
to $80;' Santa Monica Lodge, No. 307, to $100; Los Banos Lodge,
No. 312, to $75; Consuelo Lodge, No. 325, to $50; Needles Lodge,
No. 326, to $75; Vallee de France Lodge, No. 329, to $100; Pacific
Grove Lodge, No. 331, to $75; San Pedro Lodge, No. 332, to $105;
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336, to $100; McKinley Lodge, No. 347, to
$75; Palestine Lodge, No. 351, to $100; San Francisco Lodge, No.
360, to $100; Charity Lodge, No. 362, to $75; Veteran Lodge, No.
373, to $75; Jewel Lodge, No. 374. to $100; Mizpah Lodge, No. 378,
to $100; Parnassus Lodge, No. 388, to $100; Burlingame Lodge, No.
400, to $100; Brawley Lodge, No. 402, to $100; Glendora Lodge,
No. 404, to $60; Kerman Lodge, No. 420, to $80; Pittsburg Lodge,
No. 429, to $75 Alpha Lodge, No. 431, to $75; La Puente Lodge,

Increasing dues: Sacramento Lodge No. 40, to $12; Live Oak
Lodge, No. 61, to $12; Abell Lodge, No. 146, to $12; Oak Grove
Lodge, No. 215, to $12; Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225, to $12; Los
Gatos Lodge, No. 292, to $12; Temescal Lodge, No. 314, to $12;
Palestine Lodge, No. 351, to $12; Berkeley Lodge, No. 363, to $12;
Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, to $12; University Lodge, No. 394, to $12;
Burlingame Lodge, No. 400, to $24; Glendora Lodge, No. 404, to
$12; Silver Trowel Lodge, No. 415, to $12; Elysian Lodge, No. 418,
to $10; Inglewood Lodge, No. 421, to $15; Midway Lodge, No. 426,
to $15; Montebello Lodge, No. 451, to $12; Henry S. Orme Lodge,
No. 458, to $12; Yorba Linda Lodge, No. 469, to $12; Albert Pike
Lodge, No. 484, to $12; Benjamin Franklin Lodge, No. 509, to $12;
Catalina Island Lodge, No. 524, to $12; Loyalt'y Lodge, No. 529,
to $12; El Cajon Lodge, No. 576, to $12; Santa Maria Lodge, No.
580, to $12; Larchmont Lodge, No. 614, to $18.
Fixing and increasing fees for affiliation: Hornitos Lodge No. 98, to
$10; Claiborne Lodge, No. 185, to $5; Santa Barbara Lodge, No. 192,
to $5; Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244, to $10; Santa Monica Lodge, No.
307, to $10; Palestine Lodge, No. 351, to $10, Jewel Lodge, No. 374,
to $30; Mizpah Lodge, No. 378, to $25; America Lodge, No. 475,
to $25; Acorn Lodge, No. 494, to $25; Mount Olive Lodge, No.
506. to $10; Sunrise Lodge, No. 522, to $10; Justice Lodge, No. 549,
to $25; Seaport Lodge, No. 550, to $25; Atwater Lodge, No, 622,
to $10; Angeles Mesa Lodge, No. 625, to $5; Florence Lodge, No.
649, to $4.50.

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Eliminating affiliation fee: Monterey Lodge No. 217; Santa Monica
Lodge, No. 307; West Adams Lodge, No. 565; Security Lodge, No.
581; Fontana Lodge, U. D.
Decreasing fees for degrees: Naval Lodge No. 87, to $75; Crockett
Lodge, No. 139, to $125; Solano Lodge, No. 229, to $75; Mt. Jackson
Lodge, No. 295, to $50; Long Beach Lodge, No. 327, to $75; Fullerton Lodge, No. 339, to $75; Sunset Lodge, No. 352, to $100; Palos
Verdes Lodge, No. 389, to $125; Wilshire Lodge, No. 445, to $125;
!fell Lodge, No. 483, to $85; Triangle Lodge,· No. 548, to $75;
Francis K. Shattuck Lodge, No. 571, to $75; Fort Crook Lodge, Xo.
575, to $50; Sunnyside Lodge, No. 577, to $100; Harding Lodge,
No. 584, to $105; Guardian Lodge, No. 596, to $95; Fairview Lodge,
No. 629, to $80.
Decreasing affiliation fee: Mt. Jackson Lodge No. 295, to $5; Sunset
Lodge, No. 352, to $10; Wilshire Lodge, No. 445, to $75; Wilshire
Lodge, No. 445, to $25.
Changing amount Charity Committee m.ay expend: Palmyra Lodge
No. 26.
.· . Decreasing dues: King David's Lodge, No. 209, to $12.00.

J

Trial Records
Transcripts of trial records have been received from Lodges
and placed with the Committee on Grievances, as follows:
No. 475-Retrial of a Fellow Craft of El Centro Lodge, No. 384.
Suspended August 1. 1927.
No. 507-Retrial of a member of Palmyra Lodge, No. 26.
Tried and expelled February 10, 1927.
No. 510-A member of Military Service Lodge, No. 570. Tried
and expelled October 1, 1926.
No. 511-A member of Magnolia Lodge, No. 242. Tried and
expelled October 5, 1926.
No. 512-A Fellow Craft of Cahuenga Lodge, No. 513. Tried
and expelled October 4, 1926.
No. 5l~~A mcml:cr of Stanislam Lodge, No. 206. Expelled July
13, 1927. Retrial.
No. 515-A member of Honolulu Lodge, No. 409. Tried and
expelled October 11, 1926.
No. 516-A member of Emmanuel Lodge, No. 318. Tried and
expelled November 8, 1926.
No. 517-A member of Fidelity Lodge, No. 120. Tried and
suspended December 6, 1926.
No. 518-A member of Fresno Lodge, No. 247. Tried and
expelled December 10, 1926.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORl'<tA

417

No. 519-A Fellow Craft of Triangle Lodge, No. 548. Tried
and expelled October 5, 1926.
No. 520-A member of Penrhyn Lodge, No. 258, and tried bv
Washington Lodge, No. 20. Expelled December 14, 1926.
No. 521-A member of Golden State Lodge, No. 358. Tried
and expelled December 2, 1926.
No. 522-Three members of Union Lodge, No. 58. Trial resulted in the suspension of two members and a reprimand to the
other, under date of January 5, 1927.
·
No. 523-A member of Corcoran Lodge, Ko. 490. Tried and
expelled November 12, 1926.
Xo. 524-A member of Fillmore Lodge, No. 379. Tried and
suspended by Santa Paula Lodge, No. 291, December 2, 1926'.
Appeal by the accused.
No. 525-A member of San Pedro Lodge, No. 332, tried by
Point Firmin Lodge, No. 558, and suspended February 2, 1927.
No. 526-A member of Alta Lodge, No. 333. Tried and expelled July 7, 1926.
No. 527-A member of Burbank Lodge, No. 406. Tried and
expelled February 3, 1927.
No. 528-A member of Robert Vi. Furnas Lodge, No. 265, of
Nebraska. Tried by El Centro Lodge, No. 384, and expelled
December 6, 1926.
No. 529-A member of Military Service Lodge, No. 570. Tried
and expelled March 5, 1927.
No. 530-A member of Golden Rule Lodge, No. 479. Tried
and expelled April 4, 1927.
No. 531-A member of Azusa Lodge, No. 305. Tried and
expelled April 14, 1927.
No. 532-Retrial of a member of Truckee Lodge, No. 200.
Tried and expelled April 21, 1927. (Original trial No. 489.)
No. 533-A member of Fellowship Lodge, No. 480. Tried and
expelled May 6, 1927.
No. 534--A member of Ocean Park Lodge, No. 369. Tried
and expelled May 3, 1927.
No. 535-An Entered Apprentice of Argonne Lodge, No. 514.
Tried and expelled May 6, 1927.
No. 536-A member of Searchlight Lodge, No. 567. Tried and
suspended May 9, 1927.

419

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CAL~FORNIA

No. 537-A member of Paul Revere Lodge, No. 462. Tried
and expelled June 3, 1927.
No. 538-A member of Standard Lodge, No. 440. Tried and
suspended May 6, 1927. Appeal by the accused.
No. 539-A member of Richmond Lodge, No. 375. Tried and
expelled June 6, 19p.
No. 540-A member of Lodi Lodge, No. 256. Tried and suspended June 9, 1927.
No. 541-A member of Mizpah Lodge, No. 378. Tried and
expelled April 6, 1927.
No. 542-A member of Argonne Lodge, No. 514. Tried and
expelled July 1, 1927. Appeal by the accused.
No. 543-A member of Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225. Tried and
expelled June 7, 1927.
No. 544-A member of Richard H. Turner Lodge, No. 116,
Georgia. Tried by Silver Gate Lodge, No. 296, and suspended
July 1, 1927.
No. 545-A member of Stanislaus Lodge, No. 206. Tried and
expelled July 7, 1927.
No. 546-A member of Kilauea Lodge, No. 330. Tried and
expelled February 12, 1927.
No. 547-A member of Van Nuys Lodge, No. 450. Tried and
expelled July 5, 1927.
No. 548-A member of Fairmount Lodge, No. 435. Tried and
expelled August 5, 1927.
No. 549-A member of Live Oak Lodge, No. 61. Tried and
expelled July 1, 1927.
No. 550-A member of Bay View Lodge, No. 401. Tried and
expelled August 4, 1927. Appeal by the accused.
No. 551-A member of Anaheim Lodge, No. 207. Tried and
expelled July 4, 1927.
No. 552-A member of Covina Lodge, No. 334. Tried and
suspended July 5, 1927.
No. 475-Retrial of a member of El Centro Lodge, No. 384.
Tried and suspended August 1, 1927.
No. 553-A member of Selma Lodge, No. 277. Tried and
expelled August 12, 1927.
No. 187-Delano Lodge, No. 309. Petition for restoration.
No. 285-Azusa Lodge, No. 305. Petition for restoration.
No. 240-Downey Lodge, No. 220. Petition for restoration.

Flood Relief
Under date of April 28th, and again under date of June 9th, by
order of the Grand Master, appeals were sent from this office to
all Lodges in the jurisdiction, requesting contributions to the
Emergency Relief Fund which was created in 1909 (Proceedings
1909, page 189), and the responses were prompt and generous.
Following is a list of all Lodges and individuals, together with the
amounts contributed to September 20, 1927:

418

No. 302-Fillmore Lodge, No. 379.

Petition for restoration.

Name
No.
California ••••••••••••••n 1
Western Star ........... 2
Tehama -····-··---------- 3
Benicia ······-------------- 5
Tuolumne -·-·-·-•H•••••• 8
Corinthian """•••n•••••• 9
San Jose
10
Yount -----·-·-·--------···· 12
Nevada ............................ 13
Temple ........................... 14
Eureka ............................ 16
La Parfaite Union 17
Mountain Shade ---- 18
San Joaquin
19
Washington •n,..,.,., ••
20
Hawaiian
21
Occidental .................... 22
Madison ...................... 23
Mariposa W•HMH••••••••• 24
Georgetown ............ H. 25
Palmyra
26
Trinity
27
Golden Gate ------------ 30
Gold Hill ••••••••••HO••• 32
Ophir
33
San Diego ................ 35
Howard --····--········-- 37
Santa Cruz ···---······ 38
Sacramento
40
Martinez •..... . -- 41
Los Angeles ····~···-- 42
Hiram ---·--·--·-··-··,.,-·--- 43
Mount Moriah ----·· 44
••••••••W•WW•WHWW

WH .. HW••>H

~._

-·-··---·-··--~·

.................. U•H

0••-••••••••HW•WWW•

............................ H

u•••••••~u

~~-~

·~···

Amt.
~191.50

25.00
110.00
41.50
55.00

Name
No.
Crescent ••••••H•M••H•••• 45
Texas •MWWHMM•M•••·······-""" 46
Forbes town
50
Illinois town -----------· 51
Suisun
55
Volcano
56
Santa Rosa -------·-··- 57
Union
58
Gravel Range ------d 59
Plumas . ............,,.. ............ 60
Live Oak . ................... 61
Natoma ......................... 64
Amador ..... HW•••••••••••• 65
Forest
66
Morning Star ........... 68
Enterprise ••H••••••U• .. 70
Bear Mountain •••UO 76
Calaveras ···············-···· 78
Humboldt --··········-- 79
Ione
80
Yolo ·----.---·-··-·····-·····- 81
Vesper --··············--·- 84
Naval WO••••H••······--·-•• 87
Roses Bar ................. 89
North Star
91
St. Helena --·····-·····- 93
Henry Clay ···-······-· 95
Hornitos ...................... 98
Yosemite ········-······· 99
Clay ........................... 101
Oroville --···········-·-·- 103
Lexington
104
Arcata
106
----·····~-·

••UWH••"•••••••••••W

-·-••WWW•WHW•W•••

131.05
61.25
40.00
50.00
58.80
100.00
10.00
157.50
126.65
500.00
220.35
55.00
20.00
15.15
50.00
28.70
208.00
50.25
12.75
180.00
85.00
94.50
145.75
53.10
213.25
10.00
146.20

OOWWWWW•H••••UHU••

•••••••••••••WWWH•WWO

·--~---·····--·-···--·····

Amt.
30.00
12.50
19.75
45.00
15.00
10.00
145.00
144.00
9.50
20.00
275.00
31.50
20.00
30.00
117.70
87.60
25.00
29.75
50.00
20.00
20.00
50.00
152.05

•••~••••ow.woo

-··~·~--······

~··•••H••••o•••••••

30.00
10.00
18.25
25.00
25.00
72.50
16.00
52.50

420

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
No.
Pajaro --·------------------- 110
Chico ------------------------ 111
Summit -------------------- 112
Eden -----------·------------ 113
Concord ------------·---·- 117
Clinton .................... 119
Fidelity -------------------- 120
Alamo ---------------------- 122
Sotoyome ---------------- 123
Table Mountain ____ 124
LaFayette -------------- 126
Herman ---------------------- 127
Visalia ·--------------------- 128
Nicolaus ------------------ 129
Woodbridge __________ 131
Sincerity ------------------ 132
Vacaville ------------------ 134
Valley ---------------------- 135
Pacific -------------------- 136
Crockett ------------------ 139
Curtis ------------------------ 140
Grafton -----------------· 141
Franklin -------·---------- 143
Oriental ------------------ 144
Vitruvius ................ 145
Abell ---------------------·-- 146
Eel River ---------------- 147
Lassen .................... 149
Molino -------------------- 150
Woodland .............. 156
Keystone ................ 161
Harmony ................ 164
Excelsior --------··------ 166
Alameda ------------------ 167
Redwood City ........ 168
Mission -----------------·-- 169
Elk Grove .............. 173
Drytown ····-----------· 174
Antioch -------------------- 175
Phoenix .................. 178
Mendocino .............. 179
Petaluma -----------·---- 180

Amt.
38.00
100.00
3.80
51.00
87.50
12.50
183.50
58.00
57.50
20.65
50.00
67.50
70.50
50.00
30.50

50.00
17.75
213.00
196.25
27.10
20.00
20.00
129.75
83.00
50.00
47.25
15.00
54.00
20.00
10.00
155.70
40.40
65.00
250.00
10.40
3.60
48.00
125.00
75.00

Name
No.
Russian River
181
Arbuckle ·-··-------------- 182
Clear Lake .............. 183
Sierra Valley .......... 184
Claiborne ---------------- 185
Evening Star .......... 186
Keith ................. .... 187
Oakland .................. 188
Northern Light .... 190
Marin ---------------------- 191
Santa Barbara ...... 192
Ferndale .................. 193
Mountain View .... 194
Buckeye ------····----·--· 195
San Simeon ----·------- 196
Wilmington ------------ 198
Hartley -------------------· 199
Truckee ------------------ 200
Silveyville -------------· 201
Pentalpha ---------------- 202
Confidence .............. 203
Salinas -------------------- 204
Olivet ------------····------ 205
Stanislaus _________ .. _____ 206
Anaheim .................. 207
Rio Vista ................ 208
King Davids ---------- 209
Friendship .............. 210
San Benito .............. 211
So. San Francisco .. 212
San Buenaventura.. 214
Oak Grove -------------· 215
Doric ........................ 216
Monterey ................ 217
Mosaic ...................... 218
Speranza Italiana...... 219
Downey .................. 220
Inyo .......................... 221
Roseville .................. 222
Bakersfield .............. 224
Brooklyn ................ 225
San :Mateo .............. 226

Amt.
30.25
10.00
3.80
28.50
25.00
10.85
50.00
250.00
32.35
111.20
92.00
35.00
50.00
25.00
21.20
69.00
45.00
45.00
11.70
78.90
15.00
100.15
35.00
50.00
75.00
50.00
62.50
146.00
36.00
75.35
25.00
148.50
100.00
39.50
31.25
100.00
20.00
10.00
69.20
115.00
167.60
66.40

Name
No.
Amt.
A thens .................... 228
38.30
Solano ................ ,_J 229
113.50
1
North Butte .......... 230
31.50
Covelo .............. ., .... 231
4.00
25.00
Janesville ................ 232
28.00
Calistoga ................ 233
Hope ........................ 234
25.00
50.00
Surprise Valley ...... 235
Hill's Ferry ............ 236
20.75
Guadalupe .............. 237
15.25
Colusa .................... 240
51.25
Santa Ana .............. 241
150.00
Magnolia ................ 242
77.25
Eucalyptus .............. 243
50.00
Alcatraz .................. 244 200.00
Laurel ...................... 245
50.00
Pomona .................. 246
100.00
Fresno .................... 247
203.75
26.50
Alturas ................... 248
Adin ........................ 250
20.00
Landmark .............. 253
20.00
Reading .................. 254
60.00
\V elcome ................ 255
12.50
Lodi ..................... .. 256
74.00
Penrhyn ...................... 258
29.70
Evergreen .............. 259
126.25
King Solomons ...... 260 217.40
Tuscan .................... 261
60.00
Lompoc .................. 262
50.00
Hesperian ............. 264 200.00
Orland .................... 265
32.50
North East .............. 266
19.00
G4lt .......................... 267
50.00
Durant .................... 268
200.50
Olive Branch ........ 269
54.75
Snow Mountain .... 271
40.00
Pasadena
272
162.50
Anchor .................... 273
50.00
Arroyo
274
25.00
Oakdale _______ ......... 275
27.50
Selma ...................... 277
61.46
Southern California 278
200.00

421

Name
No.
Amt.
Hanford .................. 279
40.50
Madera .................... 280
45.00
Mt. Shasta .............. 281
6.30
Callayomi ................ 282
22.50
South West ............ 283
50.00
San Miguel ............ 285
20.00
Paso Robles ............ 286
27.60
Winnedumah ........ 287
15.00
'Maxwell .................. 288
23.74
Elsinore .................. 289
East Gate .............. 290 300.00
Santa Paula ............ 291
75.00
Los Gatos .............. 292
100.00
Orange Grove ...... 293
55.00
Traver .................... 294
34.50
Mt. Jackson .......... 295
35.75
Silver Gate .............. 296
175.50
Dunsmuir .........., ... 297
60.00
Liberty .................... 299
57.00
Redlands ................ 300
40.00
Ontario .................... 301
50.00
Santa Lucia ............ 302
27.50
Porterville .............. 303
33.80
Reedley .................. 304
35.40
Azusa ........................ 305
40.00
Ashlar ...................... 306
50.00
Santa Monica ........ 307
ioo.oo
Monrovia ................ 308
75.00
Delano ...................... 309
46.10
Sisson ...................... 310
50.00
Los Banos .............. 312
Tehachapi ................ 313
47.80
Temescal ................ 314
Norwalk .................. 315
10.00
Sanger ...................... 316
20.00
Fallbrook ................ 317
25.00.
Emmanuel .............. 318
Hollcnhcck ............ 319 384.70
South Gate .............. 320
217.00
Alisa! ..................... 321
20.00
Alhambra ................ 322
116.00
Whittier ................ 323
115.00

422

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
No.
Corona ····-·-··*····· . ,..... 324
Consuelo
325
Needles -------------------- 326
Long Beach ............ 327
Redondo
328
Vallee De France .. 329
Kilauea .......................... 330
Pacific Grove -------- 331
San Pedro
332
Alta .................................. 333
Covina •••••••"••H•.,•••••• 334
West Gate ••••••H•••U• 335
Fruitvale ·H·---·····•;.>• 336
Carquinez .................. 337
San Jacinto ............... 338
Fullerton
339
Oxnard ...................... 341
San Fernando ·····- 343
Starr King
344
Brentwood .. HOHO•o••••0 345
Palo Alto ................... 346
McKinley
347
San Bernardino ·-·- 348
Sequoia . .................... 349
Palestine .................... 351
Suns-et ....................... 352
Pinole •••••••••••••••••••u• 353
Presidio
354
Hollywood ............... 355
Mill Valley ············ 356
Buena Park .............. 357
Golden State ---···-··- 358
Loyalton ................ 359
San Francisco
360
Fort Bragg -·-·-·····-· 361
Charity ---------·····--···· 362
Berkeley
. ·· 363
Willits ---·-·······-···------ 365
Las Palmas --··---····· 366
South Pasadena .... 367
Unity --····--·-•·••"*••••H•• 368
Ocean Park ··-··-··-··- 369
0 0 0 0 0 . . . . . . . . . ~---H

oooooooooowooHOOO

........ MHM••••

•••••••••O•HOOO

•O•OHOOOOO•OO

••••••OHWOO••••

~

••OM¥0•0H•••••·~·

·-···-·-----~--

Amt.
150.00
56.00
64.60
563.50
70.00
50.00
50.00
26.25
150.00
4.10
75.00
148.60
186.20
62.80
25.00
250.00
76.00
50.00
155.25
16.70
114.80
75.00
125.00
254.00
63.60
149.85
30.00
156.85
859.50
91.10
37.50
257.30
125.00

Name
No.
Amity
370
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .................. 371
Gardena
372
Veteran
373
Jewel
374
Richmond ................. 375
Francis Drake
376
Artesia .................... 377
Mizpah . ....................... 378
Fillmore --·-······-------· 379
Huntington Beach .. 380
Oceanside
381
Highland Park ........ 382
Orosi
383
El Centro
384
Dinuba
385
Coalinga ..................... 387
Parnassus ---······-···· 388
Palos Verdes ............ 389
Imperial -----------·--···· 390
East Belt ··-·-·--·-······ 391
West Lake
.. ""•• 392
Balder
393
University ,............... 394
Turlock ..................• 395
Apollo ·······----··········· 396
Rising Light --·-----·· 397
Fraternity ············--·· 399
Burlingame ............ 400
Bay View ····-········-·· 401
Brawley ·······-------·-·- 402
Yerba Buena ·····-···· 403
Glendora ···-··-----···-··· 404
Mon eta
405
Burbank .................... 406
La Mesa .................. 407
Sierra Madre ........... 408
Honolulu ------------·-·· 409
Charter Rock .......... 410
Perris
411
Calexico .................... 412
••••••••WM•M•M•••M•010

OOOOHWMMMoooooHO

OOOOOHOM000HHM•O•

OHW•MMOooooOOHWM•Ooo•o

Amt.
133.60

•-•••O•#HW#•-

•••••••MH••··-··••OH

••••••OO••H#WWO

•HO#O"••••W•OH••••

~·••••o~

•H•~•h•oOO••••••o••o

········---------~h-·

Name
No.
Waucoba
413
Arlington
414
Silver Trowel ......... 415
Lindsay
416
Clovis ------·-·····--·---··· 417
Elysian ....................... 418
Upland
419
Kerman ...................... 420
Inglewood ............... 421
Eagle Rock
422
York ........................ 423
Exeter ....................... 424
Holtville
425
Midway
426
Chino Valley ............ 427
San Dimas ................ 428
Pittsburg .................... 429
McCloud -··--·····•H••••• 430
Alpha
431
Hammonton .............. 433
Maricopa .................... 434
Fairmount ··~··"···--·-- 435
Claremont ............... 436
Lancaster
437
Acacia ·······-·····--·-····· 438
Tyrian ••••O•H•o••••HH•••• 439
Standard .......,............. 440
Coronado --·-····-······· 441
Blackmer
.... 442
Schofield ·······-·········· 443
Carpinteria ---···-·····-- 444
Wilshire
445
La Puente ···-····--···· 446
Torrance ··-··········----- 447
Mount Diab lo ........ 448
Park
449
Van Nuys ................ 450
Montebello ·-·-·-··--···- 451
San Pasqual ---··-······ 452
Bethlehem -······-··---- 453
Crocker ·-----···-·········· 454
Golden West .......... 455
OHM•MH0000UO•

•••OOMH•O•OOOOO

100.00
37.50
65.00
70.00
210.00

-----~··

------~-••O•oo••••H

87.00
162.75
15.00
165.00
125.00
125.00
40.00

423

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORN1A

10.30
58.00
50.00
60.00
8.20
140.95
12.00
63.25
50.00
100.00
160.75
177.40
10.00
6.00
122.90
142.45
145.90
20.00
94.50
150.00
108.55
100.00
100.00
64.25
100.00
28.45
190.00
25.00
10.00
67.25
160.80
30.00
16.00

0000 ............ HHOHM

..... n••o•OOMWMHW•M0

••H•M•M••••

•••••••MW .. HO•o•••

WW##O•H••••··········

••••Howun••••••••••

OO•••••••••w•OH

-·~·-····-··

~--···-·••ooHW"H

••••O#OoMOH•O•••••••O•O

Amt.
10.00
105.00
36.80
40.00
62.50
134.30
13.40
20.00
33.10
63.40
17.50
55.60
25.00
104.00
15.00
22.00
40.00
22.30
44.00
40.00
50.00
162.50
25.00
34.75
20.20
30.00
85.00
41.90
120.00
46.50
15.00
147.05
10.00
75.00
33.00
125.50
54.76
25.00
80.00
99.00
59.50
55.00

Name
No.
Ramona ......................... 457
Henry S. Orme ...... 458
Riverbank
459
Mount Oso .................. 460
.Argonaut ........................ 461
Paul Reve\'e ............... 462
Morgan Hill
463
Alta Vista ................... 464
Center ........................ 465
Libertas .............. ........ 466
Culver City ----····'"""" 467
Rockridge .................. 468
Yorba Linda .,. __ ,,. _____ 469
Lincoln n•t•••••••••••••••• 470
Delta ........................... 471
Maui
472
Blythe
473
Victory ......................... 474
America -···········-····· 475
Coachella
476
Temblor ·····---·····-·-·· 477
Thousand Oaks ...... 478
Golden Rule
479
Fellowship ................. 480
Mt. Davidson ......... 481
Clarence F. Smith 482
Bell
483
Albert Pike -···--······ 484
Chowchilla ····--·····--· 485
Caledonia .................... 486
Vallejo
487
Patterson ................. 488
East Bay .................. 489
Corcoran -····----·---··· 490
Woodstock
491
Garvanza ··----------···· 492
Atascadero . .............. 493
Acorn
494
Lebanon -----·--···-----·· 495
Riverdale ··--···----····· 496
Fremont
497
Stockton h••·········-·-·- 498
••u•u"~"""""

-~---·····

~

OO•oo•W#HM••••OO•••••OO

·-·~·-······--········

•~••,.••u•••••••

~-··-··-··

•••••••••••••o,.OOOH000.00

-~---·--·~·--······~.

···-~-·····~--

•••••••••••oo•••••HO•

••••o•OWO.H00•0-0

Amt.
56.25
67.80
20.00
70.00
85.85
146.55
30.00
30.40
72.00
60.00
100.00
91.75
32.50
30.00
70.25
50.00
20.00
59.50

39.30
35.85
41.10
65.00
56.70
18.90
100.00
55.00
63.00
17.50
12.00
45.00
55.25
30.00
65.00
33.50
20.00
35.35
12.50
75.00
26.40
11.75
41.90
25.00

424

Name

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Capital City ............ 499
Roosevelt .............. 500
Westwood .............. 501
Harbor .................... 502
Point ·············-····-····- 503
Seaside .................... 504
Silver Cord ............ 505
Mount Olive .......... 506
El Segundo ····-····-·· 507
Joppa --------·-·-·······--·-· 508
Benjamin Franklin 509
Cupertino ................ 510
Sunnyvale ··-·--·-········ 511
Palms ··-·······-··--·---·-- 512
Cahuenga ................ 513
Argonne .................. 514
Vermont Square .. 515
Taft ·-·-·-····-···········-··· 516
Mount Vernon ...... 517
La Jolla ·······-·---·---·· 518
Euclid ...................... 519
Ionic ........................ 520
Piedmont ................ 521
Sunrise .................... 522
Bellflower ·-·-·········· 523
Catalina Island .... 524
George Washington 525
Bay City ·············--- 526
Covenant ................ 527
Beverly Hills .......... 528
Loyalty .................... 529
Sun Garden ............ 530
Alexandria .............. 531
Smyrna ..................... 532
Azure
533
Forest Hill
534
Alexander Hamilton 535
Seal Rock
536
Utopia
537
Ascot
538
Belvedere ................ 539
Queen Beach ........ 540

Amt.
33.25
35.00
38.50
13.20
24.50
52.05
50.25
51.90
34.05
12.60
93.95
15.65
15.00
30.80
25.60
103.20
69.75
35.00
62.70
25.00
50.00
63.45
20.00
39.40
29.40
27.75
58.90
39.30
49.05
40.70
34.00
54.45
30.90
20.00
100.00
25.00
50.00
30.00
75.10
42.20
41.25
60.50

Name

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

No.

Henry Morse
Stephens .............. 541
Lankershim
542
Signal ...................... 543
Glendale .................. 544
Jonathan .................. 545
San Gabriel
546
Arcadia .................... 547
Triangle .................. 548
Justice ...................... 549
Seaport .................... 550
Lakeshore .............. 551
Semper Virens
552
Golden City .......... 553
Educator .................. 554
White Pine ............ 555
Fairfax .................... 556
Hermosa ................ 557
Point Firmin
558
Craftsmen .............. 559
Plymouth .........,.... 560
East San Diego .... 561
Pyramid .................. 562
South Park .............. 563
Foothill .................... 564
West Adams .......... 565
James A. Garfield .. 566
Searchlight .............. 567
Park Boulevard .... 568
Chateau Thierry .... 569
Military Service .... 570
Francis K. Shattuck 571
James Madison .... 572
Hillcrest .................. 573
S. W. Hackett ...... 574
Fort Crook ............ 575
El Cajon Valley .... 576
Sunnyside ................ 577
Progressive ............ 578
Warren G. Harding 579
Santa Maria ............ 580
Security .................. 581

;1.mt.

50.00
5.00
56.80
104.40
33.50
34.20
22.55
24.45
12.30
34.00
38.55
25.00
18.00
27.10
20.90
13.75
27.10
40.85
45.00
19.75
37.50
29.25
58 so
30.75
31.75
56.90
87.90
55.00
24.50
39.85
30.25
22.80
l 1.75
45.00
28.40
25.00
58.25
43.00

38.85
15.50

28.75

Amt.
Name
No.
Amt.
Name
No.
Fortitude ................ 624
15.00
16.15
Rialto ........ .............. 582
Angeles Mesa ........ 625
49.65
13.75
Wasco .................... 583
32.30
35.00 Chula Vista ····---····- 626
Harding .................. 584
17.05
33.50 Lamanda Park ...... 627
Manchester .............. 585
Beacon of the West 628
20.00
25.00
Garden Grove ........ 586
3.30
24.30 Fairview .................. 629
Valley Forge ........ 587
15.55
9.00 Ingleside .................. 630
El Sereno .............. 588
12.50
25.00 Benevolence ............ 631
Kauai ...................... 589
24.50
10.70 Normal Heights .. 632
Compass .................. 590
7.10
16.10 Poinsettia ................ 633
Escalon .................. 591
16.00
15.20 Victorville .............. 634
• Tujunga .................. 592
20.00
13.40 Riverside ................ 635
All States .............. 593
17.00
35.85 John Marshall ........ 636
Service .................... 594
Palisades ................ 637
138.00
Alexander Graham
10.50
25.75 Indian Rock ............ 638
Bell ..................... 595
Composite .............. 639
20.00
25.25
Guardian .................. 596
Veritas ................... 640
10.00
18.25
Truth ...................... 597
9.10
35.00 James A. Foshay ...... 641
Pearl Harbor .......... 598
9.30
25.60 La Cumbre .............. 642
Carmelita ................ 599
17.15
50.00 Alta Loma .............. 643
Lynwood ................ 600
14.00
18.00 Lomita .................... 644
Grizzly .................... 601
1:2.05
18.40 A. F. E. Irwin ...... 645
Melrose .................... 602
10.90
25.00 Metropolitan .......... 646
Dimond
603
13.35
17.60 Hawthorne .............. 647
Jubilee ................... 604
26.50
34.70 Damascus ................ 648
Glassell Park .......... 605
20.00
Florence .................. 649
10.00
Sojourner ................ 607
30.00
Granada .................. 608
(Under Dispensation)
13.75
Provident
609
33.30
27.50
La
Brea
................. UD
Elmhurst
610
8.85
24.50 Menlo Park .......... UD
Owensmouth
611
9.65
13.75 Monte Vista .......... UD
\Yorkman .............. 612
23.40
25.00 Crescenta Valley .. UD
Three Pillars ........ 613
8.75
26.75 Fontana .................. UD
Larchmont .............. 614
9.00
20.00 Jordan .................... UD
Hemet ...................... 615
24.72
28.00
Citro I .................. . . UD
Seal Beach .............. 616
35.00
25.00 John D. Spreckels UD
Big Bear .................. 617
25.80 Frank G. Watson,
Southland ................ 618
62.50
27.02
Presidio .................. 354
Neptune .................. 619
5.00 Brother Po 11 a rd,
Peninsula ................ 620
2.00
35.00
Elmhurst ............ 610
The Gardens .......... 621
22.45 Brother Clark, ElmAtwater .................. 622
2.00
23.10 burst ................... .
Menorah .................. 623

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

426

Name
No.
Amt.
No.
Amt.
Name
East Bay 0. E. S.
Brother
Butters,
Past Matrons'
Elmhurst
1.00
25.00
Association ........
Brother Darriman,
5.00
Elmhurst ·---·----···
1.00 The Trestle Board....
East Bay Masonic
Brother Ogden,
News ................... .
5.00
Elmhurst .. ----H•••••
1.00
T r e s t I e Board
F. H. Rose, Hart4.00
Office Force ......
ley ------------------······ 199
5.00
50.00
Hollywood Shrine.. 10
G. E. West, Illinoistown
10.00 Hollywood Chapter,
........................ 51
25.00.
0. E. S............... 209
Hal Baly, Eagle
Fremont Court, 0.
Rock ···················· 422
10.00
of A .......................
29.00
George Easly, AliChapter,
sat •h•··-----------·-··----- 321
5.00 Radiant
25.00
0. E. S................ .
Charles Haas, AliFillmore Chapter,
sa! ....................... .
5.00
0. E. S................. 361
31.00
J. M. Kerr, Alisa!..
1.00
Riverside Chapter,
A. N. Waite,
60.00
Grizzly .................. 601
2.00
0. E. s. ················ 106
El Sereno Chapter,
0. E. S ............... 430
10.00
Total ........................................................................................ $33,879.70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

427

Report of Experts
September 17, 1927.

•••••••wWH•

~·-~

Finance Committee, Grand Lodge, F. & A. M. of California:
In accordance with your authorization we have made an
examination of the financial records of the Grand Lodge, F. &.
A. M., of California, during the fiscal year ended July 31, 1927,
and present herewith the following exhibits:
1. Exhibit A-Grand Secretary's report of cash receipts and
disbursements for the fiscal year, General Fund.

2.

Exhibit B-Cash receipts-Masonic homes.

3.

Exhibit C-Emergency Relief Fund.

4. Exhibit D-Grand Treasurer's report of cash receipts and
disbursements for the fiscal year, and schedule of assets as at
July 31, 1927.
5.

Exhibit E-Endowment Fund.

We certify that, in our opinion, the finances of the Grand
Lodge have been properly accounted for during the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1927, and that the attached statements are correct.
Respectfully submitted,

Unfinished Business
RUCKSTELL

The recommendation of the Committee on Pay of Members
that Section 6 of the Constitution be amended by striking out the
words "An unlimited first-class railroad fare." This was referred
to the Committee on Jurisprudence and Finance. (1926, p. 212.)
A proposed amendment to Section 70 of the Constitution, presented by the Masters' and Wardens' Association of Los Angeles,
providing that Inspectors shall be allowed payment for necessary
expenses in attending Grand Lodge. Laid over for consideration
at this annual communication. (1926, p. 217.)
That portion of the Grand Master's Message (1926, pp. 35-38).
relating to the appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers and District
Deputy Grand Masters. Referred to Committees on Jurisprudence
and Policy and General Purposes, to report 1927. (1926, p. 218.)

& LAND,

Certified Public Accountants.

By FLOYD T. WEBB.

428

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit A

Financial Report of the Grand Secretary
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS YEAR ENDED JULY

31, 1927

GENERAL FUND

July 31, 1926, cash balance with
Grand Treasurer ---------------------Receipts
Dues from Lodges ..................... .
Charter fees ------·-····-···············--·--Dispensation to form new
lodges -----------------------------------------Dispensation
for
various
purposes ------------·-················-----Premiums collected on secretary's and treasurer's bonds ..
Note--Masonic Homes -------------Sale of 2nd Liberty Loan bonds
Refunds and reimbursements:
California Sanitorium --------···· $
San Diego Board of Relief....
Oakland Board of Relief -----Honolulu Board of RelieL....
Florida Relief (reimbursed
from Emergency Fund)
San Francisco Board of Relief
Los Angeles Board of Relief
Refund pay roll -···················---Sales:
Constitutions
Monitors ····················--·············Lodge receipts -··················--·-···
Blanks ············-···························
Small diplomas -----------------------Large diplomas ---········-············
Receipt holders ········---------------Past masters diplomas ........... .
Card cases and list of lodges
Installation services and procedings ··········-··-···········-······-Bound volumes and funeral
services -----------·-········-·········--·

$

7,847.02

$139,891.19
1,100.00
900.00
270.00
l,897.3S
10,000.00
10,S39.37
20.00
61.2S
40.00
10.00
2,S00.00
421.72
8S9.1S
73.98 $

$1,957.86

S,666.87

7,624.73

Total to account for, General Fund ......................... . $196,579.81
3,986.10

6,S76.2S
l,717.7S
l,04S.OS
787.7S
768.0S
374.30
28.lS
382.SO
38.2S
30.2S
77S.7S

Interest on bonds and bank
balances:
Bank interest ------···············------$7,000 Blue Lakes Water Co., 6% $420.00
240.00
$6,000 S. P. R. R. Co., 4%-------------$9,000 Cal. Gas & Elec. Co., S%---4SO.OO
$8,000 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., S%
400.00
$2,000 L. A. Gas & Elcc. Co., S%
100.00
300.00
$S,OOO L. A. Gas & Elec. Co., 6%
220.00
$4,000 L.A. Gas & Elec. Co., SY,%
2SO.OO
$S,OOO S. Cal. Edison Co., S%-----$4,000 S. Cal. Edison Co., SY,% ... .
220.00
$5,000 S. Cal. Gas Co., SY,% ......... .
27S.OO
$9,000 P. Gas & Elec. Co., SY,%
495.00
2S0.00
$S,OOO P. Gas & Elec. Co., S% ..... .
220.00
$4,000 Cal. Ore. Power Co., SY,%
$4,000 G. W. Power Co., SY,% ..... . 220.00
$S,OOO East Bay Water Co., SY,%
12S.OO
$5.000 Mere. Am. Realty Co., SY,%
12S.OO
$S,OOO San Joaquin Lgt. & Pwr.
Corporation, S% ................... .
12S.OO
$5,000 Central Arizona Light &
Power Corporation, SY,% ... .
137.SO
$16,300 Liberty Ln. Eds., 4;4% ... . 1,094.37

429

12,S24.0S

$181,108.06

Disbursements
Salaries .............................................. $28,837.00
Printing and binding, office use.... 4,816.67
Printing and binding, for sales.... 8,184.63
Contingent expense, Gd. lecturer 1,202.03
Rent, office -····························--·-·····-- 1,800.00
Postage ----------------······-·············----······ 1,214.26
Grand Lodge appropriations-------- 34,144.26
Telephones and telegrams ···········217.66
48.63
T)rayage and express________________________
Office expense ·························-·-······
621.63
Premiums on Secretaries' & Treasurer's bonds .................................. l,634.3S
Pay roll, representatives ................ 18,780.47
Committee, Masonic education ______ 10,422.7S
Public School week.......................... 1,034.29

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE'

Sundry expenses, Annual
communication ............................ 3,667.49
622.30
Sundry expenses, Grand Lodge ....
Berkeley entertainment, Grand
Lodge .............................................. 1,200.00
Loan unpaid ................................... .
100.00
California Sanitorium ................... .
200.00
L. A. Board of Relief, compiling
150.00
Roster ........................................... .
100.00
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286, relief
150.00
Alexandria Lodge No. 531, relief
El Centro Lodge No. 384,
55.60
account trial ............................... .

431

Exhibit C
EMERGENCY RELIEF FUND
YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927
July 31, 1926, balance cash in bank ....................$ 5,920.69
$4,000 1st Liberty Loan bonds, 3}1%.......... 4,000.00

$ 9,920.69

Receipts
First call for relief... ............................................ . 17,211.59
Second call for relief ........................................... . 15,219.79
Bank interest ........................................................
177.13
140.00
Bond interest ......................................................... .
111,204.62
Total receipts .......................................................................... $32,748.51

Advance, Florida Relief (reimbursed from ·Emergency Fund) .................................................. $2,500.00
Securities purchased:
Masonic Temple Association
Stock .............................................. 20,000.00
Public Utility Bonds .................... 19,637.50
Brokerage and accrued interest
156.11
39,793.61
Total disbursements .................................................... $153,498.23
July 31, 1927, cash balance with Grand Treasurer .............. $ 43,081.58

Exhibit B
CASH RECEIPTS-MASONIC HOMES
YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927

Total to account for ...............................................................$42,669.20
Disbursements
Mississippi Flood Relief, Masonic Committee 22,000.00
Mississippi Flood Relief, Red Cross ............... .
500.00
Florida Relief ....................................................... . 2,500.00
Exchange ............................................................... .
.30
Total disbursements ............................................................
July 31, 1927, balance cash in bank .................... 13,668.90
$4,000 1st Liberty Loan bonds, 3}1%.......... 4,000.00

$25,000.30

$17,668.90

The condition of the Emergency Relief Fund as of September
22, 1927, is as follows:
July 31, 1926, cash in savings bank ..................$ 5,920.69
First Liberty bonds............................................ 4,000.00
To July 31, 1927, bank interest............................
177.13
Bond interest ......................................................
140.00.
Sept. 22, 1927, gross receipts since April... ....... 33,879.70

Per capita tax, Maintenance Fund ............................................$ 30,394.00
Per capita tax, Building Fund ...................................................... 60,788.00
From initiations, $20.00 and $25.00 from each initiate .......... 200,160.00

Total to be accounted for ................................$44,117.52
Disbursed: As per expert's statement above .... 25,000.30

Total collected for Masonic Homes ..................................$291,342.00

Sept. 22, 1927, cash in bank. ......... $15,117.22
Bonds ............................................ 4,000.00 $19,117.22

432

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

Exhibit D

CASH RECEIVED SINCE AUGUST 1, 1927

Home Maintenance Fund...........
·-··--------·······--·········-····-··········$ 32,041.50
Home Building Fund............................
................................ 64,083.00
Initiates, $25 fee ....................................... ··--············-································· 59,385
Total receipts account Masonic Ilomes .................................... $155.509.50

General Fund Grand Lodge

Cash on hand August 1,
Per capita tax received ........................................................................ 120,333.40
Dispensations various purposes......................................................... .
180.00
Sales of supplies ..................................................................................... . 1,206.10
56.50
Bank interest.. ... ---···························'········-··························-····················
455.00
Bond interest ............................................................................................
2.00
Bond premium collected-----······································-·····-·········-···-·······
Total receipts, including cash August L. .................................$165,314.56
Total disbursements, August 1 to October 4.................................... 8,600.96
October 4, 1927, net cash with Treasurer ................................ $156,713.60
JOHN \VmCHER, Grand Secretary.

Referred to Committee on Grand Master's Message.

433

REPORT OF THE GRAND TREASURER
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927

Cash balance on hand, July 31, "'"·v............ .

7,847.02

Receipts
Grand Secretary ..................................................$181,108.06
Bank Interest ......................................................
1,957.86
Interest on Public utility bonds......................
4,572.50
Interest on Liberty loan bonds........................
1,094.37
Total receipts ........................................................................$188,732.79
Total to account for ............................................................$196,579.81

Disbursements
Grand Secretary's warrants ................................$113,704.62
Securities purchased:
~:fasonic Temple Association
stock ............................................ $20,000.00
$5,000 San Joaquin Light &
corporation bonds ---·-····--········· 4,912.50
$5,000 Central Arizona Light &
Power corporation bonds........ 4,987.50
$5,000 East Bay Water Co.
bonds .......................................... 4,825.00
$5,000 Mere. American Realty
Co. bonds .................................. 4,912.50
156.11
39,793.61
Brokerage and accrued interest....
Total disbursements ............................................................$153,498.23
Cash balance on hand July, 1927:
San Francisco Savings & Loan Society .... $ 16,542.00
Union Trust Co .............................................. . 7,769.39
3,266.19
Crocker National Bank
Humboldt Savings Bank .............................. 15,504.00

$ 43,081.58

435

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNlA

434

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit E

Exhibit D

Cash

ScHEDULE OF AssETS, JULY 31, 1927

CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS AND COMPOSITION OF

Assets

ENDOWMENT FUND, JULY 31, 1927

·--···--·--·----··----··---·-··-----·-----··-·····-·-·-···············-···-·------·-····---.P 43,081.58

Public Utility bonds at cost:
$7,000 Blue Lakes Water Co., 6%----·-···-··----$ 7,700.00
$6,000 Southern Pacific Co., 4 %--··-------··-·--· 5,580.00
$9,000 California Gas & Electric Co., 5o/o.. 8,550.00
$8,000 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co., 5%-----·----·-··-· 8,000.00
$2,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., 5% 1,860.00
$5,000 Los Angeles Gas & Electric Co., 6% 5,068.75
$5,000 Southern California Edison Co., 5% 4,712.50
$4,000 Southern Calif. Edison Co., 50%---· 4,050.00
$5,000 Southern California Gas Co., 50% 4,787.50
$9,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 50 %...... 8,946.25
$5,000 Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 5%---··-·· 4,720.00
$4,000 California Oregon Power Co., 50% 3,970.00
$4,000 Great Western Power Co., 50%...... 3,950.00
$4,000 Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Co., 50% 3,935.00
$5,000 East Bay Water Co., 5%.................... 4,825.00
$5,000 San Joaquin Lgt.&Power Corp., 5% 4,912.50
$5,000 Central Arizona Light & Power
Corporation, 50% ·-·····--·-·---·-········-········ 4,987.50

Cash on hand July 31, 1926..........................................................$ 30,195.67
Add: Miscellaneous Adjustment July 31, 1926 reversed ..... .

5.00

Receipts
Donations ·······-···········-····-·-···--·-·-···-·-··················--$
666.28
Bequests ········-························-·-······-·········---····-·-·· 25,826.98
Sundry receipts ·······---············-····--·--··----··-···-··-··
148.07
Premium on bonds-··-·-·---·-······-·-·-·······-·-·····--··--··
180.56

$ 26,821.89

Stocks and Bonds redeemed during year:
Second Liberty Loan Bonds-------····-----·····-·- 48,150.00
Olympian Dredging Co.....................................
500.00
48,650.00
Notes paid Masonic Homes of California .............................. $ 67,083.73
Total ·····-··········---·····-··-·····--·····-···-···-·---··-········--··--······------·-·---$172.751.29
Disbursements
Credited in error 1926 reporL...........................
220.00
Stocks and Bonds purchased during year...... 26,881.87
49.85
Accrued interest on bonds purchased..............

27,151.72

$ 90,555.00
Cash on hand July 31, 1927..........................................................$145,604.57

U. S. Liberty Loan Bonds at par:
1st Liberty Loan, converted 474 %--·············· 1,000.00
2nd Liberty Loan-converted 474 % .............. 15,300.00

$ 16,300.00

Masonic Temple Association stock ............................................$588,300.00
$5,000 Mercantile American Realty Co., 5%...................... 4,912.50
Total assets ....................... ·------····---------·····--·····--····--···········-·$743,149.08
Capital Account
Balance July 31, 1926.............---·····-------------------·- 688,777.02
Increase to July 31, 1927......------------------·-···-·--·-· 54,372.06
Total as above ---·--··········-····-·-··-·····--·····--------·--····-·············-··-$732,149.08

Composition of Endowment Fund
Cash in
Humboldt Savings Bank ............................$ 41,690.28
San Francisco Bank.................................... 20,000.00
Crocker First Federal Trust.................. 48,330.56
American Trust Co..................................... 20,000.00
United Bank & Trust Co........................... 15,583.73

$145,604.57

U. S. Government Obligations at par:
First Liberty Loan, 4%---------·-·-·--·····----······
500.00
First Liberty Loan, 474 %-········---········----·-·· 11,200.00
Third Liberty Loan, 4~ %-···················----··-100.00
Fourth Liberty Loan, 4%%----·····--·-········----- 182,350.00

$194,150.00

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Other Bonds at par:
City of Santa Barbara, street, 4Y:i% ..........
City of Santa Barbara, water, 4Y:i% ............
City of San Francisco, City Hall, 5% ....... .
City of San Francisco, street railway, 5%
City and County, water, 4Y:i% ....................
City of Richmond, Municipal imp., 5% ....
City of Upland, Municipal imp., 6% ..........
City of Ashland, water, 5% ..........................
Pacific Tel. & Tel. 1st mortgage, 5% ......... .
California Gas & Electric Corp., 5% ..........
Home Telephone Co. of Spokane, 5% ......
California Gas & Electric Corp., 5% ......... .
Los Angeles Ry. Co. mortgage, 5% ......... .
City & Co. of San Francisco, sewer, 5% ..
City & Co. of San F., City Hall, 5')"o ....... .
Northern California Power, 5% ................. .
Spring Valley Water, 5% ........................... .
Pacific Gas & Electric Co., 5% ....................
100 Univ. Masonic Tern. Gold Bonds, 6%
So. Counties Gas Co., 571,% ........................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11,287.50
1,000.00
1,000.00
1,000.00
40,000.00
5,000.00
3,125.00
9,000.00
17,000.00
10,000.00
500.00
9,000.00
5,000.00
10,000.00
20,000.00
1,000.00
5,000.00
5,000.00
100.00
1,000.00

$155,012.50

Other Bonds at Cost:
$ 5,000 E. Bay Municipal Utility Dist., 5% $ 5,326.55
3,000 Oroville Union High School, 5%.. 3,114.63
10,000 L. A. Co. Flood Control, 5%........ 10,720.64
1,000 Jonathan Club of L. A.....................
1,000.00
5,000 Long Beach High School, 5%........ 5,417.65

$ 25,579.47

Corporate Stocks:
500.00
10 shares Olympian Dredging ................. .
100 shares California Cotton Mills ............ 10,000.00
872 shares Masonic Temple Association .. 8,650.00
100.00
2 shares Taft Masonic Temple Assn .... .
25.00
25 shares Colma Land Association ..........
440.00
440 shares L. A. Invest. Co ........................ .
Lewis Co. of San Jose ......................... . 2,500.00
52.40
So. California Edison Co ...................... .

$ 22,267.40

Afternoon Session
Tuesday, October 11, 1927.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND MASTER'S
MESSAGE

Total Cash and Securities contained in Endowment Fund ..$542,613.94
WILLIAM

437

P. FILMER, GRAND TREASURER.

Referred to Committee on Finance.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee to which was referred the consideration and distribution of the Address of the Most Worshipful Grand Master, and
the Report of the Very \Vorshipful Grand Secretary, begs leave to
report as follows :
In touching slightly upon those portions of the report of the Grand
Master that need not be referred to committee, as it is necessary to do,
we do not wish to be misunderstood. Every portion is worthy of careful
study and each member of the fraternity who wishes to comprehend the
nature and importance of the work in which our fraternity is engaged,
should make the acquaintance of this document in mass and master it in
detail.
While we regret to learn that the Grand Master feels that the
"degree mill" has, in some ·localities, been working overtime, we are
gratified to know that the general condition of the craft in this jurisdiction
continues good.
A different report of the condition of the Masonic Homes was not
to have been expected. Those two institutions, monuments to the love
and generosity of the membership in this jurisdiction, are indeed the
pride of true Masons.
\Ve regret that the Grand Master did not have the good fortune to
be the guest of the brethren of the Hawaiian Islands, and we are confident that those brethren sustained a deep loss by being deprived of
the inspiration that his presence would have provided. But we are convinced that since he was unable to give the time to take both trips, his
decision to visit Alexandria, Virginia, there to inspect the George Washington Memorial, instead of going to Hawaii, was a wise one.
Your committee heartily approves and commends that portion of
the Grand Master's report appearing under the head of Politics. Care
must be taken to keep Masonic activities within proper Masonic bounds.

438

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

A man's political views are not the concern of Masonry so long as his
conduct is just and honorable.
Under the heading of Proceedings Against Masons Convicted of
Crimes, the Grand Master calls attention to Section 192 of our Con·
stitution. It is of the utmost importance that the rolls of our Lodges
should not be disgraced by having upon them the names of those convicted of offenses involving moral turpitude. The Grand Master's
comments upon this subject will be unanimously approved.
We recommend the following distributions:
To the Committee on Finance: That portion of the Address relating to
a per capita tax for the George ·washington Memorial ; that portion
relating to the payment of the expenses of Inspectors; that portion relating to the payment of the expenses of Inspectors; that portion relating
to the undisposed sum remaining in the emergency relief account, and
that portion relating to the expenditures on behalf of the Board of
Control.
To the Committee on Jurisprudence: That portion of the Address
relating to the interpretation of Section 82-A of the Constitution; that
portion containing the decisions of the Grand Master.
To the Committee on General Policy and Purposes: That portion
of the Address referring to the anniversary of the initiation of George
Washington; that portion dealing with the physical qualification of
candidates; that portion relating to District Deputy Grand Masters; that
portion recommending that the Committee on Education be continued;
that portion dealing with approval of building projects ; that portion
concerning entertainments; that portion pertaining to \Vestcrn Star
Lodge and Lassen monument site.
The Grand Master's address reveals that he deserves the highest
commendation of his brethren for the manner in which he has discharged
the duties of the exalted position assumed by him one year ago.

Report of the Very Worshipful Grand Secretary
Your committee has read and examined the twentieth annual report
of the Very \Vorshipful Grand Secretary. We note that this report
discloses a healthv and steady growth of the fraternity as well as a very
valuable compilation of the financial conditio1{ of the various funds in
which this Grand Lodge is interested.
Upon the twentieth anniversary of the Grand Secretary's election
to that honored position, may we not express our satisfaction and gratification upon the splendid manner in which he has conducted his office
through these two decades. His knowledge and experience are too well
known to require comment, and his uniform courtesy and consideration
have endeared him to all who have come in contact with him.

439

\Ve recommend the following distribution:

To the Committee on General Policy and Purposes: The recommendation contained in that part of the Heport dealing with "degrees by
courtesy"; and the recommendation referring to Hand Book for Secretaries.
To the Committee on Finance: The financial reports of the Grand
Secretary and (;rand Tr<'asurer, and the report on the flood relief.
Respectfully submitted,
0Lrn L. BERRY,

J. T. FRASER,
Adopted.

\VrLI.IAllf L. Hovis.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the M:.rv:.Grand Lodge of C~lifomia:
It is with much honor and pleasure that I herewith present to you
my twenti.eth annual report, giving an account of my stewardship during
'.he. y~ar. Just close:!. At the outset l will say that the Lodges of the
JUrtsdiction are all m a healthy condition and prospering. Some of them
possibly arc not doing as much degree work as they did a few years
ago, but this has given them more time for educational and social affairs
:md more devotion to the welfare of their members. This has great!;
rncrcased the attendance at the meetings, both stated and special.
Lodges should be particularly card ul in the selection of material
for officers, and choose only those who will make Masters. It should
be very. definitely understood that Lodges arc not created for the purpose
of passmg Masters through the chairs and making Past Masters. Unless
a prospective Master has shown some executive as well as ritualistic
aptitude for the work and has already given some evidence of the zeal
necessary for the performance of the duties in a manner that will be
creditable to the Craft, his Lodge and himself, there can be no justification for his preferment. There are many essential factors in the work
o.f th: ~faster of a Loc.!ge. He should be competent to do the necessary
ntuahstic work and give evidence of his competency by the frequent
performance of it. He should realize that the honor, reputation and
usefulness of the Lodge are in his hands, and be prepared to study the
problems that arise, so that he can, by exercising his talents, plan and
direct the activities in a way that will make for real progress. This
unfortunately is not always the case. It would appear that some Masters
are n?t aware of the requirements of the office, and consequently do
not give the thought necessary to a proper appreciation of its respon-

440

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

sibilities and to a performance of the duties that are essential to success.
The authority of a Worshipful Master is absolute, and he should not
hesitate to exercise it within reasonable limits. The ritual itself is but
a means to the end, but not the end. \Ve must obtain ritualistic interpretation as well as ritualistic instruction. We must learn the true
significance of the Masonic ritual in its relation to business life, to home
life, to everyday intercourse, and to social obligations. Thus only will
the ritual prove its worth, for it is first know your ritual and then to
know what it means.
I have visited all the one hundred and four districts in the State,
and held Lodges of Instruction, both day and night sessions in each,
and in some districts more than once. In many individual Lodges, as
well as individual instruction has been given to many of the brethren,
with most satisfactory results, all anxious to perfect themselves in the
ritual. I have received reports from all the Inspectors, and they report
the Lodges over which they preside to be in good condition, financially
and otherwise. Peace and harmony prevails throughout the jurisdiction.
All the Lodges seem to be carrying on the business and work in good
style.
My sincere thanks are tendered to the Inspectors for the courtesies
and help that was always gladly given. Much credit is due the Inspectors
for their untiring efforts, and I know that the Grand Lodge appreciates
the good work they are doing.
On Thursday evening, October 13th, the Inspectors will exemplify
the third degree in the Scottish Rite Lodge room. The brethren may
expect to see a most creditable degree conferred. Presidio Lodge, No.
354, will furnish the candidate and preside over the meeting on that
occasion.
There have been 12 new Lodges formed this year. Most of them are
in the southern part of the State.
I have accompanied the M:.w:.Grand Master on many of his visits,
and ceremonies where he has performed installations, corner-stones and
dedications. All these meetings were well attended and the brethren
greatly appreciated these visits, as evidenced by the enthusiastic receptions
given the Grand Master.
In one of the old reports I found a beautiful and simple Masonic
lesson that is worth quoting: "Little acts of kindness, every day, should
be our aim. It's not the big duties that we are expected to perform, but
the every-day little courtesies and kindnesses that take so little time
and require so little energy. At home, in business, in the Lodge. They
give a savor sweet and lasting to all we do, and create perfect con- ·
tentment in our own bosoms. The balmy odor of sweet flowers is not
more pleasing. Practice little acts of kindness and your symbolic wages
will soon grow larger."

GRAND LODGE OF CALII<'ORNIA

441

My thanks are due th V · W · G
for the m
.
e . . . . rand Secretary and his assistants
.
. h~ny c~urtes1es and valuable assistance extended to me at all
t1mes m is office.
And now, .my brethren, my report is before you f r

! have endeavored to discharge my duties to the ~st ~ yourb;~proval.

if II h~ve failed it is a fault of the head and not ~f ~e \:::~· a~~
cone us1on may I say;
·
1
"Oh may I be strong and brave today
And may I be kind and true ·
'
An_d greet all in a gracious w~y,
With frank good cheer in the things say,
And love in the deeds I do."
Respectfully submitted,
THOMAS JOHN BAKER,

Grand Lecturer,

Referred to the following Special Committee. Dwight W.
Stephenson, Fred G. Manary, James A. Wells. .

442

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PUBLIC SCHOOLS
WEEK ON EIGHTH ANNUAL OBSERVANCE
SAN FRANCISCO, October 11, 1927.
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodye of California:

In compliance with the request of the M.".W." .Grand Master this
report is presented in this form, and distributed to those in attendance
at this Communication, not merely to advise Grand Lodge of the result
of the Eighth Annual Observance of Public Schools Week, but as well
and more particularly for another reason :
The observance this year was a stupendous success. Never before
was there so much public interest manifested; and not even last year
did we receive anything approaching the amount of publicity that was
given us this year by both the metropolitan, and what is generally termed
the "country" press. In far more instances than ever before the auditorium in which the meeting was held proved inadequate for the attendance. Nevertheless we still have with us some who insist that in their
own particular communities there are certain local conditions that preclude a successful observance of Public Schools Week. It is
hoped that a detailed report of what was accomplished this year in
localities where it was believed similar conditions existed will convince
everyone that there is no city, town nor hamlet in the state of California
in which a successful observance cannot be held. It is also believed that
a knowledge of some of the methods that were adopted to awaken public
interest will be of material assistance to those who are willing to devote
to the movement in which we are engaged the effort its importance certainly warrants. It is therefore suggested that after being read by the
Masters who receive it, this report be by them transmitted to their successors or to the chairmen of the committees that will make the arrangements for the observance next year.
Lest it may be assumed that your committee is unduly optimistic in
its estimate of the success achieved this year and that "the wish is
father to the thought," we quote from an editorial that appeared in a
widely circulated and influential Masonic publication.
"For the eighth time Public Schools Week was observed in April
throughout California. In crowded city and lonely hamlet; from the
Sierras. to the sea, enthusiastic meetings were held. From scores of
platforms respected educators and prominent public men told of the
organization and scope of our great educational system. One fact be-

443

comes increasingly evident as the years pass-the heightening interest of
the general public in this observance. For the first few celebrations the
attendance was restricted almost wholly to members of the Fraternity
and their families. Little by little public interest grew. The people as a
whole discovered that the organizers of the week had no axes to grind,
no ulterior motives to be served. As a result they showed their approval
in the most practical way-by attending the meetings. Irrespective of
color or creed, Public Schools Week appeals irresistibly to every citizen.
The more thoroughly people understand the organization of the schools,
the methods of teaching, the whys and wherefores of curricula, the benefits of vocational education, the development of modern ideas in mental
training and the many seeming complexities that have developed during
the past generation, the more emphatically will the public schools be
endorsed."
This is what might be termed a "bird's-eye view" of the situation.
The opinion expressed by the writer of that editorial was probably
based on newspaper reports, and comment in the periodicals that came
to his desk. It is, however, more than confirmed by the reports made
to the Grand Master setting out in detail the information sought in the
questionnaire issued by him. Indeed it is only with the knowledge gained
from these reports, and by comparing them with the reports from the
same lodges in previous years, that the real success of the observance
can be gauged.
There were fewer instances this year in which only one meeting had
been held in a community sufficiently large to support three or more
lodges; and the same trend is to be noted in the fact that there were
several individual lodges that sponsored more than one meeting. A notable
instance was that of a little lodge under dispensation that held three
successful meetings during the week in the school district in which it is
located.
As was the fact last year, it has been practically impossible to determine whether the most successful observances were in the larger centers
of population or in the small communities. In each of the largest cities
of the state wonderfully successful meetings were held; but no more so,
from any point of view, than many in some of the smaller cities and
in various towns throughout the state.
In proportion to the population the attendance this year, as heretofore, was better in the smaller communities everywhere than it was
in the large cities. Indeed there were several lodges that reported attendance varying from forty per cent to eighty per cent of their entire population. It was in the smaller communities, too, with few exceptions, that
the interest was more nearly universal. This was, of course, to be
expected. In the report of the Sixth Annual Observance we pointed out

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

444

445

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that there were two reasons for this: The first and generally accepted
one, that in the smaller communities there are fewer attractions and
distractions ; and the second, that not only is the population in the small
communities, generally speaking, homogeneous with a strong civic pride,
but the people are closer to the institutions they maintain and naturally
evince a greater interest therein.
The only Masters to whom failures can be justly attributed are the
few, the very few we are glad to say, who for one reason or another
made no effort to comply with the request of the Grand Master for the
observance of Public Schools Week. This does not mean, of course,
that there were no meetings at which the attendance was disappointing;
because there were several Masters who reported that although the
attendance far exceeded that of previous years it was neverthless not
commensurate with the effort involved. This, however, was to be
expected. There probably will never come a time when the people everywhere, on all occasions, will co-operate as they should in the effort made
by public spirited citizens who are willing to devote their time, talent
and enthusiasm to the cau:se of public education. In this connection
we cannot forbear here repeating, because it cannot be too often reiterated, what we said in our report last year with respect to attendance.
"It is, of course, desired that all our meetings shall be well attended;
hut if that desire were everywhere achieved it would he extraordinary.
The fact of the matter is that we are prone to expect too much. Those
arranging the meetings work hard and earnestly and, not unnaturally,
are disappointed, and perhaps discouraged, if their efforts do not result
in attracting the attendance for which they hoped. They lose sight
of the fact that they are contending with a condition that in itself
militates against the probability of a large attendance. Indeed, paradoxi·
cal as it may seem, there would be no need for holding meetings if they
were as well attended as they should he. The lack of attendance of which
we complain is due primarily to the apathy that brought about the condi·
tions that gave birth to the idea of Public Schools Week; and it is to
overcome and dispel that apathy that these meetings are being held."
That that apathy is being gradually dispelled is evident from the fact
that in nearly every report received this year comment is made on the
increase in attendance over previous years ; and where complaint is made
of a poor attendance it appears that the lack of public interest might
be reasonably attributed to the fact that the suggestions made by our
committee, and that were based upon experience extending over several
years, were either completely ignored or only half-heartedly complied with.
For instance, one of the suggestions particularly stressed was that the
observance should be made a community affair, and not a Masonic event;
and that in making arrangements for their meetings, the Masters of our

Lodges should endeavor to secure the active co-operation of not only the
school people, but also of the Parent-Teacher Associations and the
Service Clubs. Now where complaint was made of a lack of public interest it usually appeared that this had not been done; and where the
report showed that no assistance was received from any organization it
also showed, in the majority of cases, that it had not been asked. In
other instances, the only effort apparently made was to notify the organizations referred to that a meeting would be held to which they were
invited, and of which it was hoped they would give notice to their members. This, of course, is not sufficient ; and perhaps it will be well, even
though it may seem a digression, to here devote a few moments' consideration to this particular matter.
Every individual is, of course, more interested in a movement in
which he has a part than he is in one in which he is merely an onlooker.
This is likewise true of organizations. To secure from the service clubs,
the school people and the Parent-Teacher Associations the sort of cooperation we desire, they should be given a part in the undertaking. It
must be their meeting as well as ours. Indeed, if the observance is to
be made a community affair and not a Masonic event, as is our desire, it
is not merely advisable, but eminently proper that these organizations
should be represented on the committee of arrangements. Where this
was done there was no complaint of poor attendance or lack of public
interest ; and our extraordinary success was due to the fact that this
year this seems to have been the rule rather than the exception.
The failure to arouse public interest in any community is not accounted
for merely by saying (we are now quoting literally from a report):
"It is impossible to get the people of this community interested in anything of this sort." We cannot believe that there is any community in
the State of California in which people are not interested in their school
system, and would not willingly and gladly support any movement for
its benefit if they thoroughly understood it. The Master making the
report to which we have just referred would probably not have had
occasion to make that complaint if he had done what was done by another
Master who reported a particularly successful meeting. The latter per·
sonally addressed two Parent-Teacher Associations and twenty-six
classes of school children ; and personally interviewed the principals of
the schools, and met and talked with every teacher explaining to them
the object of the meeting and inviting their co-operation. By similar
methods he aroused the interest of the members of other fraternal organizations in his community and secured their support. The attendance at
his meeting exceeded his expectations. Although the auditorium in
which the meeting was held seats six hundred, he reports that he was
counting on only about four hundred people; but that by actual count
there were more than eight hundred in attendance. Not only was every

446

PUOCFiEDlNGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

seat filled, but all the standing room was taken and there were many who
were unable to gain admission. Incidentally, by the way, and of extreme
significance, it appears from a letter accompanying his report that he
started his preliminary work in February immediately upon receipt of
the first letter sent to the Masters of the various lodges.

consent of the school authorities and by them made a part of the school
work. Announcement of the result was made on the night of the meeting
and the prizes there awarded. Such was the co-operation received from
the school people in some communities that instead of holding the regular
afternoon session, the pupils were dismissed at noon and assembled in
their classes in the evening, in order that people who could not, or would
not, make their visits during the day, might gain a personal knowledge of
the actual work being done in the schools.

In the instance to which reference has just been made, practically
all the work was apparently done by the Master. In view of the splendid
success that attended his effort, we are not disposed, of course, to
question the wisdom of his action. It is our belief, however, that, generally speaking, the arrangements should be made by a committee suffi·
ciently large to be divided into sub-committees with specific duties ; and
that the committee representing the Lodge should not be changed each
year, but should consist of members who have gained experience
through service in former years. The ideal committee would seem to be
one composed of representatives of the various organizations to which
we have referred and of the various bodies of Masonry in the com·
munity, with a general chairman possessing executive ability, and whose
position in the community is such as will convey the impression that the
observance of Public Schools ·week is a civic event demanding the support of every good citizen.
"What can be accomplished through wisely conceived and carefully
executed arrangements will be made evident by the reference we purpose
herein later making to certain specific instances. In passing, however, and
concluding this digression, it may be said that irrespective of the methods adopted in making the arrangements, wherever the observance was
a community affair, and the program was furnished by the pupils of the
schools, it was an unqualified success. This was particularly evident
where there were provided special features that would inevitably arouse
the interest of those in the community to whom the meeting alone might
not be especially attractive.
The instances this year in which special features were provided, and
the meeting itself was but an incident of the observance, were far more
numerous than ever before; and it has been extremely gratifying to your
committee to note the initiative displayed in this direction. There were
many reports showing that visits to the schools and a display of school
work had constituted a part of the observance. In more than one it
appeared that prizes had been offered to stimulate interest among the
school children and their parents; in some cases the prize was given
to the class attracting the largest number of visitors; and in others to
individual pupils in competitions of various sorts. These included essays
having subjects peculiarly appropriate to Public Schools Week, and in
some cases specifically pointing out the purpose thereof as well as explaining its origin and development. This was, of course, done with the

447

It has been the rule of your committee in making its report, to mention no Lodge by name, either in praise or criticism; because obviously
we could not name every Lodge that had held a successful observance;
and we believed no good purpose would be served by calling attention
to the few that had failed. This year, as we have already said, the only
Masters who could be justly criticized were those who made no attempt
whatever to hold an observance; and it is hoped that their failures will
be redeemed by their successors in office. To name every Lodge entitled
to great credit would be almost like calling the roll of the Lodges in this
jurisdiction.
It has been particularly pleasing to your committee to note the large
number of meetings at which the chairman evidently had been selected
without regard to his fraternal affiliations and solely because of his
prominence in the civic life of the community. There could be nothing
better calculated to characterize the gathering as an essentially public
affair. In some instances it was the Mayor of the city, or corresponding
official in smaller communities ; and in others, the President of the
Chamber of Commerce, the Chairman of the School Trustees or Board
of Education, or the County or City Superintendent of Schools; and not
infrequently, the presiding officer of the largest of the service clubs.
As in the past, the principal speakers included the most prominent
educators in the state, many with national reputations. We are obviously
precluded from naming all of them; and we ·therefore forbear making
special mention of any except Bro. William John Cooper, our State
Superintendent of Public Instruction. Indeed reference is made to him
only because of the fact that his itinerary during the observance .indicates the cheerfulness and willingness with which these men sacrifice
their personal comfort and convenience to contribute to the success of our
observance. Superintendent Cooper spoke in San Francisco on Monday
night, leaving after the meeting for Fresno where he spoke on Tuesday
night; he again made a night trip from Fresno to Riverside County to
speak there on Wednesday night; from there he went to Ontario to
address a meeting on Thursday night; and on Friday night spoke at a
meeting in San Diego.
Heretofore the support we have always received from the leading
school men in the state has been the only answer that we were able

448

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

to make to the question as to whether or not Public Schools Week was
really worth the effort entailed; because it is one of those things that
cannot be definitely evaluated, but must be "sensed." It seemed to us
however that the question was conclusively answered in the affirmative
by the fact that we were receiving the active and enthusiastic co-operation of those who because of their intimate connection with our Public
Schools were best qualified to form an opinion as to the value of our
annual observance. Obviously they would not be so willing, indeed eager,
to forward our effort if they had any doubt of its worth. This year,
however, we are able to cite a definite tangible result that is attributed
to the work we have done.
It may be perhaps remembered by some that in the report of the
observance held a few years ago we referred to a small Lodge that had
arranged a meeting at which practically the entire population was present.
This year the ~faster reports that, in spite of cold, bad weather, with the
roads wet and slippery, there were included in the audience five persons
who had traveled one hundred miles, one fifty miles and four twenty-one
miles solely to attend the meeting. It is not, however, to the attendance
at that meeting to which we desire to call particular attention; but to the
fact that the interest that of course accounted for it is attributed to the
annual observance of Public Schools Week. More than this, that interest
has produced a definite, concrete result. In this little mountain town
with a total population of less than 300 people there has been established
a branch of a union high school. There was recently sent to the chairman
of your committee a program of the commencement exercises held in
June; and in an accompanying letter the Master wrote: "It seems like a
fairy tale to say that this little town is having commencement exercises
and giving forth real diplomas ; but we are, and you may be sure that it
is a great satisfaction to us to know that we have really been a benefit
to this cause. We are sending you this program to let your committee
know what has resulted in great part from our efforts ; because the interest was really started by your committee and the beginning of Public
Schools Week."

.
We think we speak not only for our committee, but as well for every
Mason cognizant of the situation, when we say we believe that this
alone is worth all the time and effort that has been devoted to the
observance of Public Schools 'Week.
Although as we have said it was in the smaller communities that the
interest was more nearly universal, it was not only there that a widespread public interest was manifested this year. There were two citiesone with a population of approximately 40,000, and the other with a
population of nearly 150,000, in which this feature of the observance
was particularly noteworthy. It was the more remarkable because in each

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

449

of these cities the excuse for failures in the past was that the people
were not interested. Here we have another paradox. A successful observance could not be held because the people were not interested; but it was
the interest of the people that made the observance this year such a
wonderful success. Of course the truth of the matter is that the people
were interested here as they are everywhere; but that the right sort of
appeal to that interest had not been theretofore made.
The somewhat extended reference we make to these two observances
is with the purpose of showing that nowhere, in town or city, are there
any conditions that preclude success; and that it is simply a question of
determining upon the proper course of procedure. In this connection we
hope no one will fail to note that although there was a wide difference in
the methods adopted in the two instances we are now considering, both
were successful. Furthermore, although the public interest was widespread
in both places, it was manifested in different ways. This was of course
due to the difference in the nature of the appeal. In one, an extraordinarily large attendance was attracted to the place where the single meeting
was held and where the work of the schools was being exhibited; and in
the other, although there were three public meetings held, all well attended, the best work, we think was done in focusing the attention of the
whole community on the public schools throughout the entire week. As
to which was the better method we do not pretend to say. There is no
method that could be devised that would suit the varying conditions of
the different communities. Indeed it is probably not so much a question
of the method, as it is of the intelligence, industry and enthusiasm with
which it is pursued. Of what was done in each of these instances, it may
be said that no more intelligent and enthusiastic effort was ever made
anywhere since the institution of Public Schools Week.
There were two conditions common to both cities. In both the
observances in the past had been failures; and in each it was apparently
believed that the failure was due to conditions that could not be overcome.
Two years ago, in the first city to which reference is made, the brethren
had become so disheartened by their failures in the past that they were
disinclined to make any further attempt. There were, however a few
men with vision who persisted ; and although the meeting that ~as held
that year could not be said to have been a very great success, it was so
much better than those that had been held in preceding years that they
entered into the observance last year with a far different spirit. The
result of that meeting was so encouraging that they became satisfied
that notwithstanding the conditions that confronted them a really successful meeting could be held if they went about it in the right way.
This year the first thing on which they determined was that it should
be a strictly community affair and not a Masonic event; and although the

451

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GUAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

arrangements were handled by a committe appointed by the Masters and
\Vardens Association it appears from the report of the observance. that,
"In the preliminary publicity the only reference to the Fraternity was
contained in the information that there would be a community meeting
under the auspices of the Masonic Lodges." The arrangements were
made by a general committee consisting of twenty-five members that
included the Superintendent of Schools and a member of the Board of
Education. This was divided into sub-committees including a "committee
to secure a proper presentation before fraternal organizations, affiliated
Masonic bodies, service clubs, civic organizations, Parent-Teacher Associations, etc."

and Wardens Association; but it, too, was made a community affair
through the co-operation of the churches, service clubs, women's clubs,
Parent-Teachers Associations and the school authorities. The reports of
all the Masters give special credit to the Chairman of the Committee; and
it would appear to be well deserved. He is one of the most prominent
citizens of the community, possessed of great executive ability, with vision
to discern the importance of the movement, and apparently motivated by
an enthusiasm that must have been infectious.

450

As a part of the publicity arranged by the committ~e charged with
that duty quarter cards were placed in the show windows of approximately two hundred stores. Invitations were prepared and distributed
by the Boy Scouts to every home, and special "write ups" were prepared
for the newspapers. Carefully selected members of the Craft made ·
announcements of Public Schools Week at the services held in every
church on the preceding Sunday. The Superintendent of Schools prepared
and distributed to each teacher a sufficient supply of invitations for each
pupil with the request that they be taken home and given to the parents.
The invitation was over his own signature and was accompanied by a
mimeographed program.
Every effort was made to have it distinctly understood that the
observance was a purely civic event. The Mayor of the city presided as
Chairman of the meeting; and although the auditorium seats approximately 2200 people not only was every seat occupied, with standing room
at a premium, but by actual count 947 were turned away. It was estimated
that the attendance at the meeting was not less than 2500.
Moreover "in connection with the meeting there was held in the
gymnasium an exhibition of school work taking in all the classes from
the kindergarten to the senior class in the high school. This exhibit was
arranged in order by classes from the lowest to the highest grades and
included specimens of penmanship, art work, wood craft, shop work,
laboratory demonstrations, cooking classes, dressmaking and millinery.
This exhibit was open all day to the public; and one of the teachers in
attendance estimated that at least 1000 people had attended during the
day and more than twice that number, exclusive of those attending the
meeting in the auditorium, visited it during the evening. It would thus
appear that the observance had attracted a total attendance of more than
5000 people during the day and evening. The exhibit was thronged until
nearly midnight, and proved so popular that by special request it was kept
open on Monday of the following week."
In the other city (a very much larger one it will be remembered)
the arrangements for the observance were likewise made by the Masters

There were three public meetings, each in the auditorium of a high
school, and all well attended. This, however, was the least of what was
done. The work that was being accomplished in their public schools was
brought immediately to the attention of all the representative business
men and women of the community through programs that were presented
by students before practically every service club and women's organization
in the city. The reports show that in addition to the three evening meetings
there were thirteen of these "luncheon meetings" held.
The newspapers were exceedingly generous in the amount of space
that was devoted to the observance. In the preliminary publicity the
proclamation of the Grand Master was published in full; and during the
week not only did the news columns carry complete accounts of all the
meetings with reports of the addresses that were made, but there were
also editorials commenting with great favor on the work that was being
done. In addition to the newspaper publicity, the week's activities were
broadcast three times daily during the period from April 24th to April
30th.
If it be true, as was said in a proclamation issued by one of our
Grand Masters, that the real purpose of the celebration of any anniyersary is to direct the attention of all the people to the same thing at
the same time, there would seem to be no question of the success of the
observance to which we are referring; because during that entire week
the attention of all the people must have been directed to their public
schools. It was indeed just what it was termed in one of the newspaper
reports-"an unprecedented success;" and it gives splendid promise for
the future.
We feel that we cannot conclude our reference to these particular
observances without calling attention to the reports thereof that were
received by this Committee. They were both extremely comprehensive
and models as to form. Not only was there detailed information of the
work done by the Committee, but attached to the report neatly pasted on
sheets of paper of uniform size there were copies of all notices, announcements, invitations and programs and newspaper clippings all carefully
indexed. Reports in similar form were received from several other
Lodges; and in every instance the observance had been a notable success.
Mention is made of this because it is in our opinion extremely significant.

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

It indicates the probability that the attention and care with which the
report was prepared had been given to every detail of the arrangements;
and that this was responsible for the resulting success.
In both the cities last referred to it was the apparent apathy of the
people that constituted the "peculiar conditions." There was another city,
however, a very much smaller one it is true, where what was complained
of was not merely apathy, but actual opposition on the part of certain
people constituting a large proportion of the population. The Masons
there believed that they could not hold a successful public meeting and
requested permission of the Grand Master to hold a closed meeting in
their Lodge room. This request the Grand Master felt compelled to
refuse because it would not be carrying out the purpose of Public Schools
Week. It was pointed out to them that what was desired was a community meeting to which there could be no objection on the part of anyone.
A conference was arranged with a representative of our Committee, and ·
the entire situation was thoroughly discussed. Although the brethren were
somewhat dubious as to the result, they finally decided to make an effort
to hold a public meeting. A committee was appointed with the President
of the Chamber of Commerce as its chairman; and he suggested a program that gave promise of the success that was achieved.
The time set fo.r our observance happened to be also "Better Homes
Week", and the Committee very wisely, and properly, too, availed themselves of the opportunity for a joint observance. We say "properly"
because, as was pointed out by the Superintendent of Schools, "Every
thoughtful citizen will agree that our schools, churches and homes are so
closely connected in the service of the growing youth of America that it
would be almost impossible to celebrate one of these agencies of citizenship without doing honor to the efforts of the other two."
As one of the means adopted to awaken public interest, the Lodge
offered a cup as a prize to be given the school having the greatest number
of visitors in proportion to the enrollment. This cup was publicly displayed during the week and was awarded at the meeting. In announcing
the winner, the City Superintendent of Schools made the statement that
more interest in the public schools was shown during that one week
than had been thereto! ore manifested in the entire history of the city;
and that including the pupils, twenty-five per cent of the entire population
had been inside the schools within the past four and one-half days. In
concluding his report the Master of the Lodge said, "Our Public Schools
Week was a success far beyond our fondest hopes."
vVe have commented on the extraordinary amount of publicity that
was given us this year. There was one instance in which it was not
favorable; and the burden of the complaint was that the California
Masons were endeavoring to make the public schools their own peculiar

GRAND I,ODG.l<J OF CALIFORNIA

453

charge and were attempting to dictate the policies of public institutions.
The reasoning was not very logical ; because the Editor stated that the
people for whom he was presumably speaking "were quite prepared to
grant their Masonic fellow citizens every right to talk themselves blue in
the face on the subject of public school educational needs within the
privacy of their Lodge rooms." Now if we were doing that, there might
be some suspicion as to our motive. What we are really attempting to do,
however, is to make the public schools not the peculiar charge of the
Masonic Fraternity, but of all the people; and the public community
meeting is the most conclusive answer that could be made to the complaint
brought against us. We trust that notwithstanding his views, or perhaps
because of them, the writer of that editorial attended some of these
meetings. He would have been particularly interested, we think, in a
meeting held (quoting from the report) "Under the joint sponsorship of
the clubs, the fraternal orders, the clergy, both Protestant and Catholic,
the industries of the district, and a number of representative citizens,"
and where, "The platform guests included a minister, a priest, a bank
officer, the President of the Business Men's Association, a representative
from the three major industries of the district, a representative from
the Odd Fellows, the K. of P., the Woodmen and the Eastern Star."
That meeting, by the way, was held in a district in which the
observance extended over the entire week. The meetings were held on
Monday night. The addresses made outlined the object of Public Schools
Week and described what was being done by the schools in the district.
The parents and citizens generally were invited to visit the schools
during the week and attention was called to special events. These special
events consisted of a demonstration by the Sewing class on Tuesday,
open house and the serving of light refreshments by the Domestic
Science class on Wednesday, an exhibit of the work of the Manual
Training class on Thursday, and a Kindergarten exhibit on Friday,
especially arranged for parents who had children ready to start. Saturday
was boys' day and was given over to athletic events with a baseball game
between two schools.
There was one other observance to which we feel we must make
especial reference not merely to show .what can be accomplished by
persistent effort, but because it also furnishes evidence of the importance
of our Public Schools Week in the opinions of educators of national,
and international, prominence; and of their willingness to avail themselves of an opportunity that was presented to extend material aid and
assistance. In this instance a recital of the circumstances necessarily
involves the name of the Lodge.
At the first meeting of the committee appointed by Kauai Lodge
mention was made of the fact that Dr. ]. ]. Tigert, National Commissioner of Education, would be in Honolulu attending the Pan-Pacific

455

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Conference on Education ; and it was suggested that it might be possible
to secure him to make an address.

comp0sed entirely or in pa<rt of Masons. Promptly and cheerfully complying with a request that was made by your Committee to all the organ·
izations referred to, the Grand Commander of Knights Templar, the
Grand Master of the Council, the Grand High Priest of Royal Arch
Masons, the Sovereign Grand Inspector General of the Scottish Rite in
both Northern and Southern California, and the Pharaoh of the Sciots all
issued edicts, orders and instructions that no meeting, ceremonial, entertainment or function of any nature was to be held during the week set
aside for the observance of Public Schools Week; as did also the Active
Member in California of the Grand Council of the Order of De Molay.
No official visits were by them made during that week; and nothing was
done, nor permitted, that might possibly militate against the success of
the observance anywhere. The Sciots, as an organization, were especially
active and efficient in their co-operation this year; and as would be
supposed, the members of the Order of De Molay constituted a factor
of no little importance in the contribution of the young people. The
naturally expected co-operation was also received from the members of
the Order of the Eastern Star except in certain localities in which special
functions of their own had been arranged with full knowledge that they
might (and in a few instances did) imperil the success of the observance
held in compliance with the proclamation of the M:. W: .Grand Master
of Masons.

454

With that idea in mind the Committee communicated with those in
charge of the program for the Conference; but to their dismay they
were informed that it would be impossible for them to secure Dr. Tigert
because all his time would be occupied with the official program and no
provision had been therein made for a visit to the island of Kauai. This
was a "facer." The Committee, however, was evidently composed of men
who not only knew what they wanted, but who were determined to leave
no effort untried to secure it. They immediately sought the co-operation
of the Educational Committee of the Chamber of Commerce, the Americanization Committee of the American Legion and the Kauai Educational
Association. In addition to this the Deputy Instructor of Public Instruction in Honolulu who happens to be a member of Kauai Lodge was urged
to make every effort to induce Dr. Tigert to make such changes in his
program as would enable him to take part in the observance at Kauai.
'When the situation was explained to Dr. Tigert, and he was fully
advised of the purpose of Public Schools Week, he promptly accepted
the invitation extended him, although it necessitated the cancellation of
three important engagements he had made in Honolulu. The troubles of
the committee, however, were not yet over. It was found that there was
no boat leaving for Kauai. This obstacle was overcome with the co-operation received from Governor Farrington through whom there was provided a warship on which Dr. Tigert was conveyed to Kauai. With him
there went Dr. W. H. Smith, Commissioner of Education of Australia,
and Dr. George E. Raiguel, Assistant to Secretary Work and one of the
delegates to the Educational Conference, escorted by Deputy Superintendent Long.
Addresses were made by all the visitors ; and in addition there were
various exhibits of high school students, of the Domestic Science and
Manual Training classes, and of the General and Commercial course.
The music was furnished by the Kauai Community Orchestra and a
women's community chorus. The Master reports, "We could not have
had a better meeting, and it was a grand success."
This with the other observances to which special reference has been
herein made should certainly convince everyone whose mind is open to
conviction that success or failure is largely a question of the work that
is done, and of the spirit in which it is undertaken. They are but a few
of the scores that might be cited.
This report would be incomplete without mention of the wholehearted co-operation that was received from all the co-ordinate bodies of
Masonry; and also, with one exception, from every allied organization

Public Schools Week is now a firmly established activity of Grand
Lodge. If there was ever any doubt of its success, that time has p~ssed.
Each year it is becoming better understood that the observance although
instituted and fostered by Grand Lodge is not a Masonic event, bttt a
community affair; and with a growing realization of this fact there
will come a corresponding increase in the support received from the
public at large as well as from the Craft.
It has meant, and of course will continue to mean, the expenditure of
considerable effort, and the incurring of trouble and bother. There are,
however, few things in this world really worth while that do not involve
some trouble and effort. The Master who is content to merely "get by,"
and who lacks the vision a leader should have, will naturally not welcome
our annual observance with very great enthusiasm; nor will the one who
believes that his full duty is performed in raising candidates and entertaining his members with whist parties and vaudeville shows. Fortunately,
however, these constitute a very small minority. The overwhelming
majority are earnest and sincere in their desire to be of real service to
their Lodges, and to have their Lodges serve the communities in which
they are located. They recognize the fact that the annual observance of
Public Schools \Veek furnishes them the best opportunity of the year;
and they eagerly avail themselves of it.

J:'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

456

GRAND LODGE OF CA.LIFORNIA

The primary responsibility is on the Masters of our Lodges; and it
is therefore to them that we give the credit for the success. They would
be the first however, we feel certain, to attribute that success to the cooperation that was given them. They had a right to expect it, of course,
from the school people, and because the Observance was instituted by
Grand Lodge not only from the Inspectors and from the officers and
members of their Lodges, but from every Mason in the community.
It came however (and from one point of view it is an admission we
make with regret) in perhaps even greater degree from other sources.
Indeed it would appear that the Observance would not have been so
successful had they not received from the organizations to which we
have herein referred, and from the American Legion, and from prominent
citizens in their communities who are not Masons, and especially from
the newspapers throughout the entire state, that splendid cooperation
that was perhaps the distinctive feature of the Eighth Annual Observance.
It is eminently proper of course that fitting acknowledgment should
be made of the cooperation that was received; and if we do not as Masons
express gratitude therefor to those from whom it came who are not of
our number, it is only because of our de.sire to believe that it was given
in recognition of the fact that the public schools are their concern as
well as ours. The Grand Lodge of Masons in California is only the
agency through which there is each year provided an opportunity for all
the champions of free public education to join in bringing about that
close contact between the public and its schools that is so essential to a
continuation of the friendship, faith and confidence upon which they
necessarily depend.
All of which is fraternally submitted.
ROBERT A. ODELL,
VIERLING KER.SEY,
HARRY

s. LASKER,

CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS,
ARTHUR CHAMBERLAIN,
FRED M. HUNTER,

LEE T. MULLEN,

ROY CLOUD,

JoHN B. BEMAN,

ELIAS ELLISON,

MONTGOMERY PHISTER,

WESLEY

VAUGHAN MACCAUGHEY.

Report adopted.

w. KERGAN,

457

ANNUAL ORATION
\Vorshipful Fletcher A. Cutler, Grand Orator, delivered
his Annual Oration, at the conclusion of which the brethren
rose to their feet in a most flattering and well-deserved tribute
to the eloquence of the hrother. On motion of the Deputy
Grand Master, Brother Cutler was requested to furnish a
transcript of his oration to the Grand Secretary for publication
in the Proceedings, and that it also be printed for distribution
to the Lodges in the jurisdiction. The full text of the oration
is as follows:
Most Worshipful Grand Master,
Worshipful Past Grand Masters,
Very Worshipful Grand Officers and Brethren:
The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons within the
jurisdiction of California is in annual communication convened. From
every section of the State and over the seas, men have turned from
their worldly pursuits with their cares, burdens, and trials, and here,
within the walls of a Temple dedicated to the Fatherhood of God and
Brotherhood of man, they renew associations, exchange fraternal
greetings, revive memories and weld into one mighty compact Master
Masons who cling to their mother Lodge with filial piety and with
a consecration deeply rooted in their affections bestow their choicest
gifts of fidelity, trust, and love upon her altar. We are meeting on
the far-flung rim of a vast continent, as members of a Craft that had
its conception when civilization commenced to broaden, deepen, and
expand and even as it tarried on the Atlantic shore for a brief space
of time, it is here today marking time until again the onward and
resistless march will continue. It is so decreed. It is so written in
the annals of time. It was so ordered when on the plains of central
Asia the march first began and advanced westward to Egypt and
Carthage thence across the Mediterranean to Rome and Greece, over
the fields of Runnymede, until it stood on the brink of a mighty
deep peering into the lashings of an unknown and uncharted ocean.
It is here to rejoice, to worship, to illuminate; and what a history it
unfolds! What a tale of unswerving patriotism and constant loyalty
to home, country, and a common Father, and through it all we read
the story of man enrolled under the banner of Masonry ever pressing
on, striving to attain for himself and his fellows liberty and justice,
based on a rule of reason, where rank and class would be unknown,
.~1ost

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

458

459

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

where the pure heart, the listening ear, the prepared mind would
receive and imbibe lessons of a belief enduring, a faith eternal; faith
in the validity of virtue; in the dignity of mind; in the supremacy of
law; faith in the essential worth of goodness; in the honor of labor,
and the abiding ties of brotherhood; a faith that takes hold upon the
earth by the grasp of brotherly love, and the heavens by the hands
of an unconquerable hope.
The philosophy of Masonic work is to prepare, educate and
train its membership for the higher relations of life. It has faith
in mankind. It invites his confidence. It begets his trust. It
invokes his loyalty. It believes that the humblest life launched upon
the widened sea of humanity has within it the slumbering forces
of the constituent elements of a noble manhood awaiting but the touch
of a sympathetic soul to arouse and stimulate the inherent qualities
of the mind. And this is the purest glory which virtuous ambition
can propose. The power of awakening, enlightening, elevating our
fellow creatures may, with peculiar fitness be called divine; for there
is no agency so beneficent and sublime as that which exerts an
exalted sway over human souls. It is the surest test of greatness.
We admire, indeed, the energy which subdues the material creation or
develops the physical resources of a State. But it is a nobler might
which calls forth the intellectual and moral resources of a people,
communicates new impulses to society, throws into circulation new
and striving thoughts, gives the mind a new consciousness of its
faculties and arouses and fortifies the will to a resolute purpose of
well doing. Blessed, indeed, is he who speaks with a life giving
energy to other minds breathing into them the love of truth and
virtue, strengthening them to suffer in a good cause, lifting them to
high and lofty ideals.
In the consummation of such earthly triumphs, every simple
fruit gathered, every victory won, every sacrifice endured, brings joy
and inspiration in the knowledge that it has deepened the glory of the
Republic and gathered untold blessings into the universal harvest of
humanity.
Tranquility is born of it, so is gentleness, peace and mercy.
Chivalric disregard of danger and pain is as natural to it as the
lift of the waves when the moon hangs over them. Out of it has
streamed an invincible courage into the will in the time of imminent
earthly danger. From it has sprung irresistible enthusiasms that
have matched and mastered the onsets of power. It has. been the
stimulant to a heroic consecration which no resistance could daunt
or break any more than human action can scatter the sunshine.
It is not from the theoretical, but from tl1c practical teachings
and examples in every day associations that the subtlest and

strongest incentive comes to that which is august and delicate in
virtue. If one had a chance to write a poem for spirits to read in
higher realms, to mould the marble into lovely form of ecstasy and
passion for them to contemplate; to paint a picture whose beauty
should show no pallid tint or tremulous line beneath the searching
heavenly lustre, with what infinite pains would he strive at his work.
No less painstaking, serious, and considerate are the teachings of
Masonry in an endeavor to shape and mould the character of those
who come within its mystic circle, hear its hymns, prayers and
stately ritual, and go hence with their hearts illuminated by the
Great Light that rests upon its altar.
The history of Masonry is coincident with the birth of the great
ideals that inspired the inventor, the thinker, and the scientist in
producing the results of their patient toil and self-sacrifice, results
conducive to the happiness and well-being of the people of the times
in which they lived. The craftsmen, whose work was reflected in
pyramid, monument and temple, were men of genius, art, and skill.
They worked with mathematical precision and geometrical exactness.
Their labors were unceasing and culminated in the building of that
great Temple which was the triumph of operative Masonry. For
centuries it stood as a monument to the wisdom, the goodness and
the mercy of Him to whom it was dedicated, and there was reflected
in its beauty and strength an influence so sacred, a promise so
refreshing that it brought to its portals the wayfarer, the toiler and
the pilgrim. It was a beacon of light unto the pathway of struggling
mortals. To this Temple came man humbly and contritely to worship
in the presence of the very spirit of his God. Here man beheld
the finished work of the calloused, sweating millions of his fathers.
Within its broadening limits passion was curbed, cruelty expelled,
vice suppressed, and it shrouded with a halo of sacred innocence the
purity of womanhood, the nobility of manhood. In each sustaining
prop man found a covenant and a promise of strength and support;
in each stone a life; in each symbol the story of the meekness and
the humility of the sons of men; in each carved column an increasing adoration and an intensified devotion; in each grand doorway
the lingering footsteps of a cleansed life; in each ponderous pillar
the unsheathed sword of faith and in each upright line and spire
a prayer. To this Temple came the conceiving mind and the work·
ing hand had amassed in temporal form the treasure of a whole
temple, the aspirations and devotions of a great race.
With the destruction of the Temple and its removal from the
eyes of men there came another epoch in the forward movement
of the human race. There came a day when the sublimest writings
of the brightest intellect and the teachings of a profound philosopher

460

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

held sway; when art and literature stood preeminent; when civilized
thought marked the brow of earth's leading men; when mental
power and knowledge brought men to the richest field of cultural
achievement. Then it was that speculative Masonry appeared and
built unto herself an edifice as symmetrical, as imposing, as magnificent as her prototype of ancient days; an edifice resting upon
foundations of moral precepts as rules of human conduct; an edifice
contrived in the wisdom of the great and the good, supported in
the strength of a firm faith, adorned in the beauty of a noble purpose, cemented in the bonds of brotherly love, and crowned by
those exalted virtues which quicken the conscience, stimulate the
faculties, and lead men with a sacred devotion to those divine ideas
which bring a perfect understanding to all mankind.
The pages of Masonic history arc illuminated by the names
of brethren who, in the early days of its existence, with a fortitude
unparalleled, a faith sublime, a heroism superb, shaped its destiny.
Under their guidance, as against the forces of ignorance and
superstition, as against the shafts of malice, as against the vindicative crusades of vengeance and relentless persecution, as against
the bitter attacks and fierce denunciation, Masonry marched on,
carrying the torch of hope along the pathway of civilization. It
withstood the cry of the doubter and the scoffer and by the sheer
majesty of its strength, the purity of its motives and its insistent
plea for light, truth and knowledge, at last challenged the admiration, nay-commanded the respect of the world until today, aligned
in its ranks may be found the lowly and exalted, the poor and the
rich, the young and the old, standing side by side, each the equal
of the other, submerging all consideration save that of country and
home, they arc steadfast, patriotic and unified in their adherence
to Masonic principles, Masonic ideals and Masonic traditions. It
is meet and proper that we should at our annual communications
recall Masonic history, recount its progress, note its triumphs, to
the end that those who are devoting their time and talents in advancing its material interests may be compensated with the recital;
remembering, however, that this Order does not flaunt its virtues
in the eyes of the passer-by nor invade the highways to boast of
its wares, nor seek to pluck laurels of fame for fame alone. The
greatest reward, the happiest returns, the most precious results
are realized from the ties of brotherly love and the ministrations
of relief, as tenderly, gently and kindly its protecting arms are
entwined about the helpless and needy, the grief-stricken, the bereft,
the young and the aged. What Mason is he who does not walk
with an exalted spirit as he comes within the sweet, fragrant atmosJ?here of Covina, where there is mirrored in the soul the innocence,

461

the purity, the loveliness, of cuddling infancy and budding womanhood-where the musical laughter of children whose hearts expand
with love, devotion and gratitude, falls upon the listening ear and
visions of home, fireside, and the never-to-be-forgotten lullaby of
precious motherhood play upon the heart strings attuned to the
mystic chords of an angelic chorus. For them it is dawn; the day
breaks; the sun of happiness appears and never sets. There Masonic
brotherhood finds its fullest expression and it is ennobled, sanctified
and glorified in all 'its beneficence. Another scene appears. A
home set on sloping hills mellowed with the fading rays of evening's glow. The day is gone. The step falters. The frame yields.
With every rustle of the leaves, the sighing of the winds, the
shadows of night, men and women come within the sheltering fold
of a brotherhood whose vows live eternal, whose throne is the human
heart, where love dwells, charity glows, mercy reigns, and from its
sweet influence springs the purest and holiest sentiments of
humanity.
Because this order has ever been the champion of human rights,
and because it believes that man has attained his highest develop~
ment under the institutions of a free government, it has preached
that patriotism which means undiminished loyalty to the American
government. When the first Pilgrim landed on Plymouth Rock
he was the living embodiment of all that was written by those who
followed and when the Colonists sent the answering cry across the
seas, "We believe these truths to be self-evident; that all men are
created equal, that they are endowed by their Creator with certain
inalienable rights; that among these are life, liberty and the pursuit
of happiness. That to secure these rights Governments are instituted
among men, deriving their just powers from the consent of the
governed," Masonry rejoiced, for truth was enthroned, darkness
was lifted from the eyes of men, superstition, ignorance and persecution were banished and Masonic teachings were realized . and
justified. Equality of man was the rallying cry of the revolution.
It had been the dream, nay, the asserted right by philosopher, seer
and sage, and here in this newly discovered country it was to be
a recognized and realized truth. Equal rights, reads the Constitution; equal burdens; equal representation; all equally enjoyed by
the dweller in the mansion, the citizen in the cottage, the master
in the counting-room, the toiler in the ranks. No written mandate
of ruler, no statute of legislative body can take from the humblest
of these the God-given rights bequeathed to him by that document,
the repository of his civil and religious rights. Let us here then
today firmly, calmly and in a spirit of reverence and tolerance
renew our undivided allegiance to the American government, believ-

462

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ing as we do that its perpetuity depends just as much today on
the watchfulness of its citizens as it did in that day when the Minute
Men of '76 were at its service. There never was a time in the
history of our country when the citizen should be in a more receptive mood to respond to the call of his country and especially its
insistence on his exercising the right of suffrage which was given
to him under the implied obligation that he would use it in his
community, state and nation. It should be the proud boast of every
Mason within the sound of my voice that he actively participates
in the affairs of his country by registering his will at the polls at
each election, thereby adding to his own satisfaction of having performed a duty, the knowledge that his presence and act served as
a guide and an example to his fellow-citizen. The true patriot is
he who takes an active part in the civic affairs of his community.
The stability of our government is due to the fact that neither
standing armies nor hereditary orders of nobility repress and
restrain, but from the rostrum and the pulpit, the newspaper and
the magazine, on the street at public gatherings and in the home,
a free, full, calm and fair discussion controvert, expose and dissipate
dangerous principles and elements. The masses are being so educated and society as a whole so elevated that the destinies of mankind can no longer be changed or controlled by an Alexander, a
Napoleon, a Caesar or an ambitious and misguided ruler. We are
a young nation measured in years, but we have grown old in experience. It would seem that we had about completed the circle of
national perils. We have had domestic war with its horrible
bereavements. We have in response to the cry of a suffering and
mistreated humanity invaded distant lands, we have recently at a
fearful cost of blood and treasure vindicated the freedom of the
seas, and the world has learned that our motives were unselfish
and not in quest of the spoils of war, but that in every contest on
land and sea where American valor and American heroism have
been displayed the object to be served was not to debase but rather
to uplift and advance civilization; that wherever our flag is flung
to the breeze there may be gathered in full confidence the people
of all creeds and nationalities. The crowning tribute to the success
of our institutions is evidenced in the feverish desire of immigrants
from country for admission into our land. They recognize
that in this country of ours there has been reared a citizenship
unrivalled in the world for the privileges enjoyed, the opportunity
and general welfare impartially distributed. The gateway to such
a land and such a government for years was wide open to all. With
no discriminating nicety did we examine each and every one knocking at our door and we gloried in and self-applauded the successful

experiment of a government that received unstintingly those coming
to us with a hope and promise of homes beneath the protecting
folds of our national emblem. Our only concern was that they in
good faith support our institutions, aid in our development and
with a deep consciousness o.f the blessings of a free government
attach themselves and their children to our citizenship. In those
dark and threatening days when Americanism was to be tried in
the crucible of a bloody conflict, when heart sobs, tears and prayers
mingled with the strains of the Star Spangled Banner and My
Country 'Tis of Thee, we then discovered that an indifferent and
unsuspecting people were harboring in their midst those who were
recreant in loyalty.. Swift and effective came the remedy from an
outraged and awakened people. We say today to the man or
woman under whatever name you are masquerading whether it
be communist, anarchist, socialist, syndicalist, I. W. W. or Red, if
this flag and this country and the administration of the laws by our
Courts are distasteful to you then forthwith you shall be deported
to a country where you may air your doctrines, light your torch
and throw your bomb with all the freedom and license that country
may accord you. There is room for but one loyalty, one devotion, one
consecration and one flag in this country which in the end shall
glorify and elevate liberty, justice, and equality, the Continental
unity of the American Republic, the social fraternity and the continued prosperity of the American people.
No less concerned are we with the world wide problems that
the not distant future will bring to our very doors. It is universally
conceded that the theatre of the world's future events will be on the
Pacific Ocean, its waters, its shores and its islands. There, Europe,
AJmerica and Asia will meet and there the next chapter in the
history of the human race will be written. What will be the character of that history? Will it be along the old lines of imperial
domination that proved to be the undoing of Europe, checked
civilization and spread more human misery over a darkened earth
than was ever known before? Will monarch and ruler regard each
other with cynical distrust as they hold in their mailed fists the
destinies of countless thousands of people who know not where
or why their expiring groans? Will power, territory and wealth
be the great prizes for which funeral pyres of men will be offered
as a sacrifice to human greed and lust of conquest, or will Christianity, civilization and humanity be the harmonizing influences that
will bring the nations into an universal brotherhood? However
the pacifist may deplore, the pessimist grieve, the .isolationist protest, it was foreordained that this nation should have the dominating
voice in making answer. It was so decreed at Yorktown when a

463

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

464

465

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

nation as born, illustrating constitutional freedom in all its magnificence, power and grandeur. At Gettysburg when the shackl:s
that fettered human beings to an infamous bondage were rent m
On these shores when the Pacific Coast was protected
twain.
against foreign proprietorship and reserved as an abiding place for
the American people; warders of the western seas. It was so
decreed nineteen hundred years ago when, on the fields of Bethlehem
while shepherds nodded, toilers restt'd, flocks browsed, stars sho~e
and angels of mercy and kindness hovered near a babe lay m
its swaddling clothes in a manger and out of that peaceful and
unheralded scene there was wafted out on the night air a messagf!
that ever since has been the hope, the promise, the inspiration of
the peoples of the earth. This nation is the in:a,rn~tion of that
message, it vizualizes its spirit, it redeems its promise, 1t consecrates
its faith.
President Lincoln was suddenly ushered into eternity without
warning while there was yet upon his lips a prayerful plea for peace
in the South, peace in the North, peace in every section of the land
that would weld the States into a Union, one and inseparable.
President McKinley was stricken down at the Buffalo Exposition
surrounded by evidences of the skill and genius of the ·American
inventor manufacturer and farmer as revealed in the products of
the mill' the loom and the soil. The assassin's bullet reached him
at a tim~ when he' was giving utterance to a plea for peaceful indus-trial and commercial relations between the nations of the earth.
President Harding assumed the reins of government at a time when
there was a crisis in the world's affairs. The war was at an end.
The Armistice had been signed. The troops were returning to their
soil. There yet remained for the nations to fully realize the awful
cost in life and treasure. In the adjustment of their differences,
policies, governments, boundaries and peoples and in the fulfillment
of the obligations incurred there were presented problems complex
and intricate such as were never presented to man since time began.
The lament of the widow and the orphan, the heart sobs coming
from homes bereft of stalwart sons and the plea of the maimed and
wounded reached his ears and President Harding dedicated his
presidential career, aye, his very life to a peace that would tran~
quilize the world. At the opening of the session of the disar~ament
conference President Harding stood before the representatives of
the nine powers and addressed them in these words: "We, of the
United States have but recently returned from the burial of an unknown American soldier when a nation mourned while paying tribute
to him, and while the words were not spoken, a hundred millions of
our people summarized the inexcusable cause, the unspeakable

sacrifice, the unutterable sorrow, and there was ever present the
impelling question, can God forgive, or humanity justify? Human
greed exacts no such toll; ambition and avarice must be denied it.
If misunderstanding was the cause, then it must be banished."
I trust that I will not be deemed presumptuous if here in the
presence of this august body I proclaim that from the hearts of
three million Master Masons in the United States there comes a
fervent reassuring and approving response to these sentiments. "So
Mote it be," saith the Lord. "So Mote it be" saith the Mason.
Because I believe that this Order will be a he1pful, active and
forceful factor in that eventful future, I glimpse a vision of this
Great Republic standing firm, resplendent and triumphant, the very
leader of the Congress of the English speaking peoples of the
earth; under its guidance liberty and justice shedding their unspeakable glory everywhere and all the time; plenty streaming from its
overflowing treasuries of culture, thought and religion; its mountain
tops aflame with the three great lights directing man along the
pathway to his true destiny; instilling in the hearts and minds of
mankind the softening spirit of fraternity, working out its mission
as it was designed until the discordant voices of the nations stilled,
the babal straightened, the swords sheathed and under one banner,
one ideal, one consecration the nations hearkening to the American
drum beat will march amid the breaking of a golden dawn into
the paths of righteousness and with bowed heads and contrite
hearts listen to the swelling chorus of that message that was wafted
out on the night air nineteen hundred years ago when a babe lay
in its swaddling clothes in a manger on the fields of Bethlehem"Peace on earth, Good will to all mankind."

466

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES U. C. MASONIC CLUB
To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of Californw:
Your Board of Trustees of the Masonic Club of the University of
California, Inc., submits the following report:
Adopting the language of previous reports, "student activities at the
Club House at Berkeley have continued along the now well-established
lines of conduct, and in harmony with the approved regulations controlling such functions at the University."
In order to answer the query frequently propounded to your Board
of Trustees as to the uses to which the Club House is put, and the very
pertinent question as to what, if anything, the students using the Club
House contribute toward its support, we have caused a report to be
made of the various organized groups functioning there, from which
some interesting facts appear. First, let it be said that no portion of
Grand Lodge appropriation is used in these activities, such appropriation
being devoted entirely toward the maintenance and upkeep of the institution. The principal groups using the Club House are the De Molay
Club of 150 members, Ashlar Club of 75 members, the Men's Masonic
Club, 80 members; Women's Masonic Club, 300 members; the Masonic
Deisree Team, and the Masonic Council, the aggregate membership being
622. These organizations held 146, stated meetings during last year for
the dispatch of their regular business. They raised and expended for
their own purposes, almost entirely social, $2550, of which amount they
allocated $1500 to the Masonic Club Council, the representative group
which carries on the general social affairs of the Club House. It is
estimated that the total attendance at these stated meetings during the
year was 4575. In addition, there is the general use of the Club House
by students of Masonic affiliation. A conservative estimate places the
number of students using the Club House daily at 150, making the total
estimated attendance during the college year in excess of 25,000.
The Masonic Club Council, which receives $1500 from the various
groups, spends this sum entirely in club functions and activities, such
as printing the bi-monthly paper, "The Councillor," contributing toward
the expenses of the annual Grand Lodge dinner, the "Grand Master's
banquet," the music for the weekly dances, various rallies and general
functions, and the Sunday evening fireside meetings. The Masonic Club
orchestra of seven pieces furnishes music for the Wednesday afternoon
informal dances, and upon other occasions. About 300 students, including
the invited guests, usually attend the Wednesday afternoon affairs. The
,Sunday evening firesides are attended by members of all groups, and
refreshments are served and talks on programs given.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

467

The Women's Glee Club, of some 25 members, entertains at club
functions, and presents programs before nearby Masonic and Eastern
Star organizations. The Women's Club gives an annual formal tea, at
which it entertains about 600 guests. A group called the Acacia Mothers
holds an occasional bridge party in the Club House, while Henry Morse
Stephens Lodge conducts a monthly meeting and dinner there.
The Club House maintains an employment office, which is handled
by the Hostess, through which assistance is rendered many worthy
students.
At the close of the last semester, Mrs. Sallie M. Pease, who had
occupied the position of Hostess at the Club House since its doors were
opened, tendered her resignation in order that she might again take up
her educational program of preparing for the teaching profession. It
was with sincere regret that your Board of Trustees acceded to her
request, for her gracious administration of the affairs of the institution
endeared her alike to students, faculty, and the members of this Board.
In leaving the Club House, Mrs. Pease carried with her the loving
affection of the hundreds of young men and young women she had contacted during her term as Hostess. In this connection, the Board was
most fortunate in finding a worthy successor to Mrs. Pease. After a
most thorough consideration of a number of applications, Mrs. J. H.
Quinn has been appointed Hostess. She comes to our institution with a
background of ample preparation. She is a mother of teachers and
students, understands the problems of young people, and is at home in
a collegiate atmosphere. She had, for a considerable time, occupied the
position of House Mother of the Oakland Young \Vomen's Christian
Association. Your Board considers itself extremely fortunate in having
been able to induce her to accept the position of Hostess at the Club
House.
During the year a number of gifts and donations from organizations
and individual Masons have been made to the Club House, each of
which has been duly acknowledged. One very acceptable gift was a shelf
of thirty books for the library given by Lamanda Park Lodge, No. 627.
In addition, the Master Senior and Junior Wardens of the Lodge for
1926 each autographed and presented a finely bound volume. The continued support and encouragement of the East Bay Masters' and
\Vardens' Club and the Masters' and Wardens' Association of San
Francisco has been most helpful.
At the date of the last report, the amount unpaid on the note held
by the First National Bank in Berkeley, for the balance necessary to
complete the building, was $15,250. At that time it was anticipated that
a substantial reduction of the amount due could be made before this
meeting of Grand Lodge. The East Bay Masters' and Wardens' Club
and the :Masters' and Wardens' Association of San Francisco made plans

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for a quiet solicitation of funds among local Masons, for the purpose
of paying off the debt ; but, owing to the fact that campaigns for other
Masonic institutions were under way on both sides of the Bay, it was
deemed best to hold their plans in abeyance. Before that determination
had been arrived at, some $1500 in substantial subscriptions had been
received, and $600 applied in payment of the debt, leaving the amount
now due $14,650. The matter of interest on this unpaid balance is of
serious moment, and the money now used for that purpose could be
employed to great advantage in extending the work of the Club House
among the student body. While the Club House property has been kept,
and is at all times being maintained in a most excellent condition, the
time is approaching when the matter of betterment and replacements
will more forcibly press upon our attention.
On last Christmas morning, and due to some yet unexplained defect
in the oil-burner supplying the heating system of the Club House, the
oil overflowed, and fire in the furnace room resulted. Owing to the
very prompt and efficient work of the Berkeley Fire Department, the
fire damage was confined to a comparatively small area in the basement, but the smoke damage was prevalent throughout a large part of
the building. The offer of the representatives of the Hartford Fire
Insurance Company, in which company the insurance against fire loss
was carried, to assume the work of repairs, cleaning, and rehabilitation,
was accepted by the Executive Committee of the Board. All traces of
the fire were eradicated, and an almost complete cleaning and rehabilitation of the furniture, carpets, curtains and drapes of the Club House
was had. The Insurance Company paid $766.47 for the work. The
adjustment was most satisfactory.
An audit of the books and accounts of your Board of Trustees for
the fiscal year ending September 30, 1927, has been made, and has been
submitted to the Finance Committee.
At Grand Lodge session in 1925, the sum of $10,000 was appropriated
from funds of Grand Lodge to maintain the Club House at Berkeley
during the next ensuing year, and, on recommendation of the Finance
Committee, and for the purpose of paying the amount, it voted that a
per capita tax of ten cents be levied upon t:he membership of the Jurisdic- ·
tion, payable when other Grand Lodge dues were paid. One year ago,
to meet an estimated budget of $10,397.15, Grand Lodge appropriated
the sum of $10,000 for the operating expenses of the Club House for
the fiscal year just ended. The actual expenditure for such purpose
was $11,104.80. As shown by the budget just made by the Executive
Committee, and approved by the Board of Trustees, for the fiscal year
next ensuing, and submitted herewith, the sum of $10,532 will be required
for operating expenses. The statement of expenses for the last fiscal
year and of the budget for the ensuing year follows :

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

469

Budget
1926-27
1,800.00
1,500.00
600.00
600.00
825.00
150.00
120.00
20.00
115.00
125.00
500.00
80.00
2,612.15
425.00
915.00

Expenses
1926-27
$ 2,020.00
1,525.00
501.35
550.00
761.77
167.11
112.66
23.50
91.82
113.68
265.67
72.80
2,543.60
336.71
909.08
766.47
141.66
201.92

Budget
1927-28
$ 1,800.00
1,500.00
685.00
600.00
850.00
175.00
125.00
25.00
120.00
200.00
500.00
80.00
2,612.00
425.00
835.00

$10,397.15

$11,104.80

$10,532.00

Resident Hostess ......................
Superintendent of Building....................
Office, Bookkeeping and Club Service
Attendants ................................................

¥:ietph::~e ~~~~..::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Water ......................................................... .
Garbage ................................................... .
Office Supplies, Postage ......................
Janitor Supplies ......................................
Repairs and Replacements ....................
Newspapers and Periodicals .............. ..
Taxes ......................................................... .
Insurance ..................................................
Interest ..................................................... .
Repairs, Account Fire Damage........... .
Social Service ..........................................
J\.fiscellaneous ..........................................

We offer the following resolutions:
Resolved: That the report of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Club bf the University of California, Inc., be and the same is hereby
approved and adopted ; be it further
Resolved: That a per capita tax of ten cents be levied upon the
membership of this Grand jurisdiction, payable when other Grand Lodge
dues are paid, for the support and maintenance of the Masonic Club
House at the University of California.
\VILLIAM

H. \VASTE, President,

CHARLES ALBERT AllAM8, Secretary,
Ar.m:RT

E. BoYNTON,
B. HERMS,

WILLIAM
MILTON

T. FARMER,

w ALllO F. POSTEL,
W ILLIA:M

p. FILMER,

GEORGE F. RODDEN,
WILLIAM A. SHERMAN,

Trustees.

Adopted, except as to that portion relating to a proposed
appropriation, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

470

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

MASONIC CLUBHOUSE U. C. AT LOS ANGELES
Past Grand Master Weller presented the following, which
was referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Whereas, an effort is being made to secure funds with which to
erect a Masonic Club House at the University of California at Los
Angeles ; and whereas, this Grand Lodge looks with especial favor upon
every proper effort to minister to the mental and moral wellbeing and
development of our youth, and regards Masonic Club Houses at our
great seats of higher education as centers of usefulness and helpfulness
to students from Masonic families; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge hereby approves and endorses the
campaign to raise a building and endowment fund for a Masonic. Club
House at the University of California at Los Angeles, California.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

471

Annual Communications, Where Held
3. To amend Section 11 to read as follows: "Sec. 11. The Grand
Lodge shall hold its annual communications for the transaction of its
regular business at the city of San Francisco, commencing on the second
Tuesday of October at 10 o'clock a. m. Provided, however, that the
annual communication in October, A. L. 5924, shall be held in the city
of Los Angeles and each fifth year thereafter."
.
Expenses of Grand Master
4. Resolution: "That the Grand Secretary be instructed and empowered to provide a drawing account for the Grand Master, to be drawn
upon at any time to defray his traveling and other expenses incurred in
the discharge of his duties. At the annual communication the Grand
Secretary shall advise the Finance Committee as to the total amount so
used and by this Committee reported to the Grand Lodge for approval."
Summary Expulsion Without Trial

PROPOSED AMENDMENTS TO CONSTITUTION
The Masters' and Wardens' Association of Los An°geles
presented four resolutions as follows, all of which were referred
to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance:
Pay of Inspectors' Expenses
1. A proposition to amend Section 56 of the Constitution by
changing the first word of the last sentence of the section, "each," to
"Grand," and add to the section so that when amended it will read as
follows: "Sec. 56 . . . be received with Grand honors. Grand Lodge
shall pay such necessary expenses of the Inspector as may be incurred
in performing the duties of the visitation herein required, and of such
other official visits deemed necessary. Such claims for expenses to be
approved by the Pay of Members Committee and be by it reported upon
before allowance by the Grand Lodge."
2. A proposed amendment to Section 57, by adding 57a: "57a. Each
Inspector living at such a distance from the annual meeting place of
the Grand Lodge as to be compelled to live at a hotel during said communication shall, upon presenting to the Pay of Members Committee
the certificate from the Grand Lecturer that he has attended the Lodge
of instruction, receive the sum of fifty dollars as his expenses. Any
question as to distance or necessity of living at hotel shall be left to
the judgment of the Pay of Members Committee."

The Masters' and Wardens' Association of Los Angeles
also presented a resolution to amend Section 192 of the Constitution, and to add a new section, to be known as Section 192a,
as follows:
Sec. 192. When the charge is for an offense which is the subject
of proceedings in courts of the land the Masonic trial may, in the
discretion of the Master, be deferred until such proceedings are concluded. In the event any Mason who is a member of a Lodge under
the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California shall suffer a final
judgment of conviction and be imprisoned in pursuance thereof for any
of the following enumerated crimes, to-wit: Arson; abduction; assault
with intent to commit rape; bigamy; bribery; burglary; counterfeiting;
embezzlement; extortion; forgery; theft; infamous crime against nature;
kidnapping; lewd and lascivious conduct; incest; murder of first or
second degree; obtaining money or pr9perty by false pretenses; perjury;
rape; robbery; seduction; sex perversion; sodomy; subornation of
perjury; treason; using mails to defraud; violation of Harrison Narcotic
Act; or conspiracy to commit any of the above enumerated crimes; or
shall be adjudged an habitual criminal, it shall be the duty of the Secretary of the Lodge of which such Mason is a member, upon learning of
such conviction, to procure, at the expense of his Lodge, two certified
copies of such final judgment of conviction, one of which certified copies
shall be filed in the records of the Lodge. Thereupon, fifteen days'
notice of the action to be taken shall be given to such Mason by registered mail, forwarded to his last known place of address. At the next
stated meeting, after fifteen days from the mailing of such notice shall
have elapsed, the Master shall announce to the Lodge the fact that such

472

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

certified copy of a judgment of conviction has been filed and that the
required notice thereof has been given; thereupon, the Mason .so convicted shall stand expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry,
and it shall be so noted in the minutes. The Secretary shall transmit
to the Grand Secretary a copy of the record of such minutes, a certified
co~y of the final judgment of conviction, and a statement of the giving
of the required fifteen days' notice, which shall constitute the record
required by section 207. Acquittal in said courts or the refusal of a
Grand Jury to indict for an offense, is no bar to a Masonic trial.
VVhenever it shall appear by the record of conviction from another
Masonic jurisdiction, recognized by us, that a member of one of our
Lodges, resident in such jurisdiction, has been suspended or expelled
for un-Masonic conduct in such jurisdiction while a resident thereof, it
shall be the duty of the Junior Warden of the Lodge in this jurisdiction
of which he is a member to prefer charges against him for the acts and
conduct alleged in the charges preferred in the foreign jurisdiction and
of which he was there convicted, and the same proceedings shall thereupon be had as in ordinary cases ; provided that the record of conviction
t>f the foreign jurisdiction shall be received on the trial as prima facie
evidence oi the guilt of the brother of such acts and conduct.

amendments with the approval of their respective committees,
and Section 192 of the Constitution was amended and Section
192a was added to the Constitution, each by a five-sixths vote.

Expulsion of Members of Other Jurisdictions
Sec. 192a. In the event any Mason who is a member of a Lodge
under a foreign jurisdiction shall suffer a final judgment of conviction
in the State of California, and be imprisoned in pursuance thereof, of
any of the crimes enumerated in Section 192, or shall be adjudged an
habitual criminal, it shall be the duty of the Grand Secretary, upon
learning of such conviction, to procure two certified copies of such final
judgment of conviction. Thereupon, thirty days' notice of the action
to be taken shall be given to such Mason by registered mail, forwarded
to Ms last known place of address. Upon the expiration of thirty days
from the mailing of said notice, the Grand Secretary shall transmit one
certified copy of such final judgment of conviction to the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of the jurisdiction of which the Lodge to
which such convicted Mason belongs is constituent, and shall file the
other certified copy of such conviction, together with a statement of
the notice given, in the records of the Grand Lodge, whereupon such
convicted Mason shalt automatically stand expelled from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry in this jurisdiction.

Referred to the Committees on Grievances and on Jurisprudence. Subsequently Brother Haas, Chairman of the
Committee on Grievances, and Past Grand Master Weller, for
the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported back the proposed

473

\Vesley \V. Kergan presented a resolution proposing to
amend Section 101 of the Constitution. Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Grand Secretary presented proposed amendments to
Sections 122 and 161, which were referred to the Committee
on Jurisprudence. Also to amend Section 249, which was
referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.
The Peninsular Masters' and Wardens' Association presented a resolution proposing to modify Section 82a of the
Constitution (the ten-mile law), and it was referred to the
Committee on Jurisprudence.

RECEPTION OF FLAG
The following resolution was presented as a substitute for
Regulation 162:
Resolved, That the United States flag be displayed at all communications of Grand Lodge and carried on all ceremonial occasions
except funerals; and that the flag be displayed at all meetings of our
Lodges. At the annual election of officers and at such ·other meetings
as may be deemed desirable by the Master, the flag shall be formally
presented at the altar by the Marshal and received in the manner prescribed by the Grand Lecturer.

Referred to the Committee on Ritual.
Service Lodge No. 594 also presented a resolution providing a form for the retirement of the flag from the Lodge
room. Referred to the Committee on Ritual.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OJ:!' THE

474

REPORT OF ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE
To the M:.W:.Grand Lodge of California:
We, the members of your Endowment Committee of the Masonic
Homes of California, appointed by the Grand Master at the last Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge, beg to submit the following report
as to the condition of the Endowment Fund as of July 31, this year:
Total amount cash and securities on hand in Endowment Fund
July 31 1927 as certified by Ruckstell & Land, Certified
Public Accou;1tants ··········-··---·····---··---·················-················,··········$542,613.94
Total amount on hand July 31, 1926.......... ---·······-··-··-········-·············· 513,761.90

28,852.04

Increase for

No details regarding the receipts or securities are given in this report, for the reason that this is completely covered in the report of the
Certified Public Accountants.
In view of the recommendation of the Committee on Policy and
General Purposes, which was approved by the Grand Lodge, that a drive
to increase the permanent Endowment Fund was inadvisable, your Committee has not been able to accomplish anything of value this year, and
unless it seems desirable to make an active campaign to increase the
Fund, it would appear to the Committee that the continuance of said
Committee is unnecessary.
Fraternally submitted,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
GEORGE

475

LODGE SYSTEM OF ACCOUNTING
William Penn Humphreys presented the following, which
was referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes:
Resolved, That the incoming Grand Master appoint a committee
consisting of three qualified brethren, to prepare a tentative system of
books and forms necessary and appropriate for keeping, in a concise and
clear manner, the financial records of the various Lodges of this jurisdiction, to be submitted to Grand Lodge at its annual communication in
1928, together with the recommendations of said committee as to the
advisability of the adoption of such system.

At 4:15 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10
o'clock tomorrow morning.

lf u "rnub liobgr
Morning Session
Wednesday, October 12, 1927.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
Distinguished Visitor

M. PERINE,

T. LUCAS,

RormRT 0. CROWE,

:Yiost Worshipful A. A. Hankerson, Past Grand Master of
Masons in 'Washington, was introduced and accorded the honors
due to his rank.

FREDERICK BAKER,

Reduction of Grand Lodge Dues

WILLIAM

\VILLJAM P. READ,
EZRA DECOTO)

0. STOUT,
HAYLER 0. SHUSTER,

GROVER

ALEXANJJER LEVY,

Committee.

Ref erred to Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

William P. Jeffries, chairman of the Committee on
Finance, introduced a resolution to amend subdivision 2d of
Section 41 of the Constitution, reducing the per capita tax for
support of Grand Lodge from seventy-five cents to fifty cents.
Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
which committee reported back approving the proposed amendment, and it was then referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REQUESTS TO LAY CORNER-STONES

SUPERVISION OF MASONIC BUILDING PROJECTS

The resolution introduced yesterday providing a form for
invitations to the Grand Master to lay corner-stones, etc., was
reported back as a substitute for Section 249 of the Constitution,
and it was adopted by unanimous vote.

The Deputy Grand Master presented the following resolution:

476

The full text of section 249 as amended, is as follows:
Sec. 249. Hall oL ....................................... Lodge N o............. F. & A. M.
.............................................................. 19...... ..
To the M.".\V.· ...........................................................................
Grand Master of Masons in the
Jurisdiction of California.

M:. W: .Sir and Dear Brother:
The properly constituted authorities having, through this Lodge,
invited the Grand Lodge of California to lay the corner-stone of the
........................................................................ at ..............'. ........................................... ,
we respectfully and fraternally request that you call a special communication of Grand Lodge for the said purpose, to meet at the hall of
.............................................................. Lodge No ......... on .......................................... ,
the ......................day of ............................................ at.. ........o'clock. ..... m. And we
further request, if it be inconvenient for you or either of your Grand
Officers to officiate on that occasion, that you authorize ................................
(here give title and name of some Past Grand officer, Inspector, Past
Master, Master or other qualified brother) to perform the ceremony.
Witness my hand and the seal of the Lodge the date and place first
above written.

Master.
Attest:
Secretary.
(If a Lodge desires the Grand Master to dedicate its hall, modify
the language to suit the occasion.)

47'1

Resolved, That a new section be added to the Constitution to be
numbered ......... ., to read as follows :
No sanction shall be given by a Lodge to any existing corporation or
association, or to the organization of any corporation or association,
formed for the purpose of purchasing, constructing, equipping and/or
operating a Masonic hospital, clubhouse, golf, country, beach or recreational club, cemetery, real estate subdivision or retreat wherein lots are
to be sold to Masons only, or any similar enterprise or project, until all
plans and proposals connected therewith have been presented to, examined
and approved by Grand Lodge at an Annual Communication. Nor shal:I
any Mason make solicitation to or through a Lodge for financial participation or cooperation in any such project unless permission to do so
shall have first been granted by Grand Lodge; and such permission shall
in no case be given unless and until such existing or proposed corporation
or association shall have agreed to submit to such regulation and control
as Grand Lodge may impose, including, in the discretion of Grand Lodge,
the appointment of its directors, _and also to render annually such detailed
reports of its affairs as Grand Lodge may require. Nor shall Grand
Lodge mak_e any appropriation of money for the support or assistance
of any .mch corporation until control thereof has been acquired by Grand
Lodge. Provided, that the provisions hereof shall not apply to the Masonic Club of San Francisco or the Masonic Club of Los Angeles. Provided further, that the provisions hereof shall not apply to the formation
of unincorporated social clubs by Masons who are employes of particular
business, professional or educational institutions.

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Jurisprudence, and subsequently laid over as
unfinished business until 1928.

REPORT OF EDUCATIONAL COMMITTEE
To the M:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your Educational Committee for the year 1927 respectfully submits
herewith this report of its activities during this year:
The committee has carefully followed the plan of activities adopted
by this Grand Lodge in 1925.
The committee feels that substantial progress has been made during
the year and that the solution of the problems confronting an educational

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

program is being solved. We do not assume that such program is in any
sense complete; rather do we feel that such an ideal condition will never
be attained. But we do feel that the jurisdiction of California has adopted
a wise course in pursuing an educational program and that as the years
pass by the strength of this wisdom will be demonstrated. We reiterate
that an educational program is not for a year, but is a continuing effort,
and that the measure of progress towards a goal is not to be found in
the report of a single year's activities.
Nevertheless, we feel that the work as revealed in the following
statistics will indicate that the Lodges of our jurisdiction are cooperating
and deriving adequate benefit from the program.
Five hundred and five Lodges have "representatives" or chairmen of
educational committees within their membership.
Three. hundred and seven Lodges have organized study circles, and
approximately 200 of these study circles are actively and progressively
functioning.
The committee published thirteen bulletins during the year, mailed
eighteen circular letters, received 1400 letters of all kinds from Lodges
and members of the craft, and furnished information wherever such
letters called for the same.
The committee mailed 1600 letters during the year.
The permanent mailing list of the committee contains 1500 names,
and to this list goes a copy of every bulletin or other circular communication from the committee. The list comprises the Grand Officers, Masters, Representatives and such Past Masters as have requested their
names to be retained on the list. In this regard it is interesting to note
that most of the Past Masters of the last two years desire to be retained
on the mailing list.
An essay contest covering Masonic subjects was announced during
the months of June and July. The committee is gratified to report that
fifty-one essays were submitted, and Past Grand Masters Adams, Burke
and Reese are now reading these essays for the purpose of declaring the
winner.
The committee has held conferences at Fresno, San Francisco, Los
Angeles and San Diego, and met with the Masters and Wardens Associations of San Francisco, the East Bay and Fresno at Fresno.
The Executive Director attended a conference of educational committees of the country at Detroit on May 19 and 20. This conference
developed the fact that educational work is being carried on in rpany
jurisdictions, and we believe that we are making as satisfactory progress
as any of the other jurisdictions.
The Executive Director addressed ninety-one meetings during the
year, covering among others the following points: San Francisco, Los

Angeles, Sacramento, Stockton, San Diego, Ventura, Santa Barbara, El
Centro, Redlands, Anaheim, Santa Ana, Sawtelle, Santa Monica, Pasadena, South Pasadena and Fresno.
The committee, in addition to the addresses of the Executive Director, furnished eighty-four speakers.
The foregoing in the form of data illustrates the committee's type
of activity. Most of the members of the present committee have been on
this committee since its inception under the new program in 1925, and
they therefore feel that they are in a position to observe and comment
upon what has been accomplished in these three years. They do not make
these observations in any sense as bringing credit to themselves but purely
as observers. They fairly feel that the educational system as adopted and
put in operation these past three years is substantially correct and believe
that it should be fostered at all points. The cooperation of the Lodges
and their officers is increasing and as the new generation of members and
officers takes hold the educational program will become more and more
a matter of course in the activities of the Lodge.
If light is the object of the work of our Lodge, then the dissemination of information is nowhere to be overlooked.
The committee therefore recommends that the Masonic educational
program as laid down by this Grand Lodge of 1925 be continued;
That the Grand Master be authorized to appoint for the ensuing
Grand Lodge year a committee of suitable number to proceed with the
work;
That Grand Lodge appropriate the sum of $10,000 for use of the
committee under the supervision of the Grand Master.

478

479

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes and Finance.

481

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNlA

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF TRUSTEES MASONIC HOMES
To the zvt:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
\Ve respectfully present our annual report as Trustees of the Masonic
Homes of California for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1927, with a
roster of members of the family to and including August 31, 1927, attd
of funds received since the close of the fiscal year to September 30.
Immediately following the installation of the Grand Master, October,
1926, he appointed Past Grand Master Albert E. Boynton' a member oi
the board, vice C. M. \Vollenberg, term expired, and pursuant to section
35 of the Constitution, organization was effected as follows:
President, C. M. \Vollenberg, Junior Grand \Varden;
Vice-President, James B. Gist, term expires 1927;
Samuel E. Burke, term expires 1928;
Chas. Albert Adams, term expires 1929;
Albert E. Boynton, term expires 1930;
Will H. Fischer, Deputy Grand Master;
Gustav A. Hutaff, Senior Grand Warden;
William P. Filmer, ex-officio Treasurer;
John Whicher, ex-officio Secretary.
Superintendent at Covina Home
Mrs. Maude E. Miller, for many years connected with the Home as
Matron and as Superintendent, tendered her resignation to be effective
February 1, 1927. A few days later she was married to Mervyn J. Newburg, well known to the Craft and a special friend of the children. Under
the circumstances the Trustees could not refuse to accept the resignation.
A successor was found in Brother John M. Downen of Oakland, who
was immediately installed as Superintendent. Brother Downen brought
to the Home a large and practical experience as a skilled worker and
student in the field of sociology and child training, and the Fraternity is
to be congratulated that a man of the mental, moral and experienced
attainments of Brother Downen is now the executive head of our Home
for children. We bespeak for him the cordial co-operation of all the
brethren, and feel assured that we have found in him one who will successfully work out the manifold problems that pertain to the task of
moulding character and the care of our little wards.
Cost of Maintenance
The following table exhibits the cost of maintaining the two Homes
for the fiscal years 1925-6 and 1926-7:

1925-6
Covina
Decoto
Gross maintenance ........ $89,099.23 $87,701.25
Av. opr. cost per mo..... 7,424.94
7,308.44
Av. number residents....
213
165
Av. cost per day ............
247.49
243.61
Av. yearly cost per res.
418.30
531.52
Av. cost per res., mo.
34.86
44.29
Av. cost per res., day..
1.162
1.476
Av. number employes....
27
23

Deco to

1926-7
Covina

$89,132.65
7,427.72
224
247.59
397.47
33.12
1.104
28

$91,786.94
7,648.91
166
254.96
552.93
46.08
1.536
25

The produce $ales at Covina amounted to $11,667.60, and the sales at
Decato realized $6,651.48. These amounts include produce sold to and
used by the Homes. The Homes also received $8,335 in the year from
Lodges on account of donations from parents and others, who contributed
varying amounts.
Finances-Buildings Needed
We are pleased to report that the Homes, at the close of the fiscal
year, are out of debt. Our annual report for 1926 disclosed a net debit
of $152,083.73. The amendment to Section 41 of the Constitution, made
effective February 1, 1927, increasing the fee to be paid by petitioners for
the degrees and from affiliates from other Jurisdictions, for the benefit
of the Homes, from $20 to $25, increased the revenues of the Homes
materially, and next year will show a larger revenue. This increased
fee, together with the absencce of any special expense for buildings or
improvements, enabled your Trustees to conserve the funds for the purpose of liquidating the indebtedness of the previous year, and we start
the new year with the assurance that the revenues accruing from the
annual returns, plus the quarterly returns for 1927-8, will not only mai~­
tain the Homes but will justify us in commencing building needed additional dormitories at the Decoto Home.
Plans for additions to the Decoto Home may be seen at the headquarters of the Trustees.
The Farm at Covina
Under the able management of Brother George Gradler, who has
charge of all farming and dairying at the Covina Home, the children
are well supplied with an abundance of fryers, fresh milk, eggs, and
fruits, the money value of which is considerable. For instance, the milk
consumed by the children represented 16,156 gallons, which at current
wholesale rates would amount to $7,663.65; and the eggs totaled 4,607
dozen, worth $1,447.95.
Improvements at Covina
A drying tumbler was installed in the laundry. It is a success.
The poultry plant has been enlarged to accommodate 1000 laying
hens, furnishing all the eggs needed for home consumption the year
'round, with many to sell during the heavy laying season. Most of the

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

hens are White Leghorns, but we have one pen of Rhode Island Reds
for table use. The additions to the plant <;onsist of one large modern
poultry house 40 feet long by 26 feet wide, with 72-foot yard; a cockerel
shed 8 by 16 feet, with yard for fattening table fowls; a "culling" shed
and yard for the purpose of holding hens that are not profitable as layers.
A new 4-acre walnut grove has been planted in the lower part of
the farm land, and the trees are all growing well.
A spray painting outfit has been added, and it has proved to be a
success as a labor saver and money saver.

At the annual convocation of the Grand Chapter R. A. M. in April,
1927, the sum of $750.00 was appropriated for the purpose of continuing
a scholarship begun in 1926 for a deserving student at the Covina Home,
to be expended under the direction of the Committee on Educational
Assistance. The scholarship was awarded to a young woman from Santa
Ana Lodge No. 241. She is at Pomona College, and her school record
is highly satisfactory. It may be of interest to state that the recipient
of this scholarship was gainfully employed during her school vacation.
Eight girls and one boy are now participating in the benefits of
this Fund.

Improvements at Camp Tucker
The summer camp on Balboa Island is now comfortable for all
vacation purposes, thanks largely to Brother Mervyn Newburg and the
brethren of Los Angeles and vicinity. A new automatic. water heater
has been installed, and the Fraternity is indebted therefor to the following brethren who generously donated their labor:
James E. Cohee
Lowren Cornish
Arvid F. Brown
Frank Fisher
George 0. Cornish
Chas. G. McGrann
Earl Brown
Chas. T. Vaughan
James M. Ings
The heater was donated by W. B. Bastian; all necessary pipe and
fittings by Ben Goldstein, and the trucking was donated by R. Fritzvold.
The brethren of the Lodges comprising the Los Angeles Masonic
Board of Relief, always mindful of the needs of the Home, particularly as
respects the welfare of the children, donated $2,000 with which a seawall
was built along the canal front of Camp Tucker. The wall is well built
and serves to protect the property from the wash of the tides.
Student Loan Fund
The Student Loan Fund is made possible only by the thoughtful
gifts of friends of the Home, and in the year ended July 31, 1927, we
have received donations from the following sources:
Oscar Lawler ............................................................................................$ 100.00
John D. Meinhardt ..................................................................................
10.00
Estate of John Henry Morrow .............................................................. 500.00
Grand Chapter 0. E. S. (Marshall Scholarship) .............................. 840.00
Grand Chapter 0. E. S. (Pierce Scholarship) ................................. . 600.00
California Bodies Scottish Rite ............................................................ 750.00
San Francisco Bodies Scottish Rite .................................................... 750.00
Refunds ....................................................................................................... .
30.00
Total contributiQns in the year ......................................................$3,580.00
August 1, 1926, in Fund ........................................................................ 6,846.33
Total balance and gifts ..................................................................$10,426.33
Loaned to students from the Home in the year .............................. 5,129.04
Balance in Fund July 31, 1927 ........................................................ 5,297.29

483

Endowment Fund
The Endowment Fund is growing-not rapidly, because no "drive"
has been made for funds-but it is steadily increasing. A number of
friends donated directly or by bequest in the year, as follows:
A. C. Hansen, Standard No. 440 ........................................................$
5.00
T. G. Burke, Midway No. 426 ..............................................................
5.00
W. J. Goodman, Bay View No. 401 ....................................................
50.00
S. Powell, Salinas No. 204 ......................................................................
10.00
W. T. Olney, Ionic No. 520 ..................................................................
25.00
Geo. A. McRoberts, Presidio No. 354 ..................................................
25.00
Ralph E. Larson, Fresno No. 247 ........................................................
10.00
Mission Lodge members ..........................................................................
83.00
David F. Marshall, Naval No. 87 ........................................................
1.00
Estate of Emil Firth, West Gate No. 335 .......................................... 1,000.00
J. R. Jones, Live Oak No. 61 ................................................................
5.00
Frank S. Balster, Durant No. 368 ........................................................
82.50
Wm. E. Miles, Excelsior No. 166, stock ..........................................
50.00
Chas. Tromp, Golden Gate No. 30 ........................................................ 216.37
Howard E. Covey, Covenant No. 527 ..................................................
10.00
Estate of Leo Jacobs ................................................................................ 2,000.00
E. P. Kaufman, Francis Drake No. 376 ........................................
10.00
Members McCloud Lodge No. 430 ...................................................... 150.00
Joseph W. Wilson, Park No. 449 ..........................................................
5.00
Howard B. Melendy, Humboldt No. 79 ............................................
5.00
Estate of Harriet T. Noah .................................................................... 7,706.66
Estate of D. Schroeder .......................................................................... 3,662.50
Frank G. Watson (annual), Grand Tiler ........................................ 105.00
Estate of George Howard ...................................................................... 993.70
Willard F. Tyler, Palo Alto No. 346 ..................................................
2.28
Robert Harbicht, Point Firmin No. 558 ..............................................
10.00
Edward W. Poore, Naval No. 87 ........................................................
1.00
Jonas B. Heal, San Pedro No. 332 ··········-·········································20.00
Paul Thomsen, Hollenbeck No. 319 ....................................................
5.00
Nick Davis, Las Palmas No. 366 ........................................................
5.00

484

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Estate of Frank F. Alexander, Amity No. 370 ................................ 442.37
Estate of Margaret Jones, Long Beach .............................................. 3,799.09
Alexander McRae, Laurel No. 245 ......................................................
10.00
Stanley H. Jones, Richmond No. 375 ................................................
5.00
A. E. Kaufman, Francis Drake No. 376 ............................................
10.00
James Taylor, Francis Drake No. 376 ................................................
10.00
Amos L. Bangle ......................................................................................
10.00
Earl J. Dawson, Golden Gate No. 30 ..................................................
1.50
The gross amount to the credit of the Endowment Fund July 31,
1926, was $513,761.90, and at the close of the present fiscal year it
amounted to $542,613.94, an increase of $28,952.04.
Vacation Play-and Work
During the summer vacation period thirty-five of the children were
permitted to visit relatives or placed in employment. Those who sought
and obtained gainful positions are very proud of their achievements, and
returned to the Home richer in experience as well as in purse, and with
a better understanding of their responsibilities to themselves, to the
fraternity, and to society at large. One boy worked in a cannery at Sa.n
Jose; one girl attended summer school while visiting with her mother,
iii an endeavor to catch up a grade; one boy was with a fruit company on
a large vineyard near Delano, and has a chance to remain permanently
and learn the business ; four boys were on the Hoover farm in Kern
county ; one little fellow was placed for the summer as playmate for the
only son of a cultured family in a ranch home in Tulare county; two
girls had jobs as waitresses in a summer resort at Santa Cruz, concerning
whom we refer in another paragraph; one girl was employed as mother's
helper in a fine home at Covina; three girls in homes at Balboa, where
they worked last summer ; one girl in a cultured home on an orange ranch
near Covina; one girl on an orange ranch near San Juan Capistrano,
caring for a tiny baby.
No child was permitted to accept employment until after the Superintendent had first satisfied himself as to the moral enviromnent in which
the child would be placed.
Home Problems
"The proper study of mankind is man,'' and your Trustees in the
administration of their trust have devoted much thought to the study of
human-kind. The problems which arise in connection with the proper
care of the aged men and women who comprise the family at the Decoto
Home are easily solved. Our brethren there, and the wives, widows and
mothers who perforce of adverse circumstances beyond their control are
now dependent upon the generosity of their more favored brethren, need
but little. Our work at that Home is plainly marked, and is confined
almost entirely to the simple bodily needs of the family, plus social and
mental diversion appropriate to men and women of matured minds.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

485

But child-study is one which enlists the greatest and most sympathetM:
effort of heart and mind, and the problems which confront every parent
in his endeavors to do that which is right and for the mental, moral and
physical welfare of his growing progeny are duplicated and complicated
in the administration of your Home, where we are caring for nearly two
hundred children of varying ages and varying physical and mental characteristics, with no two of them being exactly alike. It is a serious
responsibility, but a
"Delightful task! to rear the tender thought,
To teach the young idea how to shoot,
To pour the fresh instruction o'er the mind,
To breathe the enlivening spirit and to fix
The generous purpose in the growing breast !"
It is commonplace but trite to say that the wards of the fraternity,
like all other children, are the men and women of tomorrow, and the
eonduct of the Home at Covina should engage the thoughtful consideration not only of the Trustees and those in immediate charge of
that institution, but as well the friendly attention of our entire membership. The item of recreational needs of the children, for instance, is
one matter which was recently referred to by Superintendent Downen
in one of his monthly reports to the Trustees, and which we cordially
indorse and commend to the careful consideration of the brethren of
the jurisdiction. He reported that:"The wise managing of recreational events is one of the difficult
problems in an institution such as ours. The average Masonic body which
desires to do something for the welfare of our children does not have a
well-considered idea of what is good for them, albeit the intent is always
good. The usual thought is to give them a "treat." Candy, ice cream,
and picture shows are the usual things they think of.
"It is difficult to entertain the entire membership of the Home with
the same recreational means. What is pleasing and suitable to small
children will not appeal to those of High school age. The older group,
particularly, has special tastes and needs as to recreation. It is not to their
discredit that they are not interested or benefited by the same forms of
"good time" that are suited to little girls.
"I think it is wise to develop the idea that proposed recreational events
should be devised, not for the entire membership of the Home, but for
particular groups within the Home.
"We have too much recreation in which the children take a passive
rather than an active part. Herein lies a valid objection to the moves, if
used too much. A group of fourteen girls, about twelve years old, was
recently taken out for an afternoon hike. A visiting Lodge brought a ball
team that played a game of baseball with the older boys. Both of these

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

events were excellent, because they were suited to particular groups, and
involved the children doing something, and not sitting and watching somebody else do something.
"I have in mind a very excellent piece of playground apparatus which
could be had for about two hundred dollars. I wish we could give up the
next two hundred dollars worth of ice cream and candy that will be
brought to us and have this instead. It would be a great thing for the
smaller boys; it would do them real and lasting good.''

that they were subjected to tasks beyond what they ought to bear, wrote
to them to let the jobs go and return to the summer camp of the Home,
and that they would not be regarded as "quitters." The answer of the
girls was a joy, an inspiration to other children, and indicated a sturdiness
of mind and character which foretells success in later life. Herewith is
a quotation from their answer:
"As for the work, there's plenty of it, and it's hard, for we are on
our feet all the hours we are on duty, and the majority of the time we are
carrying heavy trays .
We have been laboring faithfully
for hours every day. It's all in a lifetime, and I guess it's good
for us that we are getting our experience in taking care ot ourselves early in life, for we won't have to waste precious time later on.
We aren't going to quit, for several reasons: One is that like all girls we
like pretty clothes; another is that we hate to admit defeat. And the~ we
have a sort of feeling that this is a sort of preparation for all the work
ahead of us. We think that if we can work this hard and stand this small
amount of hardship at this time in our lives, we can stand just twice as
much when we are twice as old. Most likely we'll have to. Now, don't
worry about our showing the white flag or giving up the ship because we
don't intend to.''
'

486

Dignity of Labor
It is important that the children in our care should be taught to
stand on their own feet, to grow into independence of thought and action,
so that when they are dismissed from the Home and go out into the
world they will be unafraid to face the daily tasks of competition with
those who have been reared in private homes. We are trying to teach
the children the dignity and necessity of labor, and in this effort we
find in our Home family, as may be found in many families, a variety of
recreation. Some of the older children, as we have already intimated,
eagerly sought and accepted employment during the school vacation
period. To quote fr0m Brother Downen again,
"Two distinct attitudes toward work stand out rather clearly. The
first attitude, if expressed by the boy or girl, would be something like
this: 'I am glad that I have now reached the age where I can earn something. I am grateful for all the Home has done and will yet do for me.
I want to be as little dependent as possible. I would like to work and earn
what I can this summer, in order to reduce by that much the demands I
must make upon the Home and my relatives. This is the least I can do to
show my appreciation for what I am receiving. I like to have the feeling
that I can earn something for myself. I want the money-earning experience. In order to accomplish this I am willing to forego the pleasures
of the vacation season, and even to do hard and disagreeable work.'
"The other attitude, if expressed by the boy or girl, would be something like this: 'Why work? This is vacation time, and what is vacation
for if not for a good time? I want to have fun. It is the business of the
Home to take care of the children, so why should we be expected to
work?'"
The first of these attitudes, happily for our children, is held by many
of the older ones; but we regret to report that a few of them hold to the
second attitude, and we are doing all that is possible to instill into their
minds that labor is essential to happiness and independence.
Two of our girls secured work at a seaside resort as waitresses. Their
letters to the Home indicated that the work was hard, harder than anything they had ever done before. The Superintendent, somewhat fearful

487

The girls above referred to are each sixteen years old and will be in
the Junior class at High school this fall. One of them intends to take a
course in medicine and surgery after graduation.
We are, and we believe pardonably so, proud of the spirit manifested
by our children who are responding to our teaching of the doctrine of
labor as against ease, and your Trustees have faith to believe that with
~he. s~m~athetic i~dorsement of the brethren of this great and growing
JUnsd1ctton, we will accomplish at the Covina Home a work which will
redound to the credit of the fraternity and make of the boys and girls
under your care and ours, good and useful men and women who will
become real ornaments to society as the Men and \Vomen of Tomorrow.

Bouquets for the Homes
Following is an excerpt from a letter written to his Lodge by an aged
brother domiciled at the Decoto Home, and it is reported merely to indicate to you the views of one---and he is but one of many of the same
mind-who is making the best of his circumstances, who keep busy, and
who notwithstanding his age, sees the sunshine which could and ought to
radiate the life of every member of the family:
"I am writing to express my gratitude to the Lodge for permitting
me to live at this beautiful Home. I am comfortably situated, with a
sunny, steam-heated room, and the meals are all that could be desired.
, The Superintendent, Brother Hartman, and the Matron, Sister Richardson, are truly God's own people. There are two hundred and twenty-five

488

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

members here, and no doubt there may be a little discontent on the part of
some of them, although I have noted that the. discontented ones seem to
be of those who never enjoyed such fine surroundings before and who
magnify their petty troubles. There is not an hour in the day that our
Superintendent and Matron are not approached by some one with a little
whim or petty grievance, and such tales are always listened to with
patience. Christmas and New Years were celebrated in royal style, and
they reminded me very much of my younger days-turkey dinners and.
everything that go with them. Christmas morning we all found a bag of
useful articles, containing handkerchiefs, neckties, shaving material,
stationery, etc., and every member also received a crisp ten dollar bill.
New Year's eve was joyful. The Superintendent and Matron led the grand
march, in which most of us joined. Games of all kinds earlier in the
.evening. At 10 o'clock refreshments were served, with ice cream aild
bountiful supply of home-made cake. Tin horns and whistles blew, and
midnight found us all dancing. We were tired next morning, but happy,
for we had been just boys and girls again. Every Tuesday evening an
entertainment is provided by members of the family-a sort of all-stat'
cast, and we all enjoy the show, for it is strictly home-made and our own.
Thursday evenings we have moving pictures, and altogether life is made
worth while for our sunset days. I am pleased with my transformation
and am going to live here a hundred years."
A letter was received by Brother Frederick Beutel of Los Angel.es
from an eminent physician and surgical authority, who had visited the
Covina Home with Brother Beutel, is of interest. In part he wrote:
"Dear Mr. Beutel:
"As -0ur visit to California is about to come to a close, I want to say
that we have, of course, seen marvelous scenery, fine public institutions,
M!d have enjoyed the climate. But the thing that made the deepest impres,sion on me and stirred my heart is your Masonic Home for Children.
As a physician I have always been keenly interested in public institutions
and homes for the care of orphans. I have visited a great many of such
institutions, many of them well constructed, with good teaching faculty,
fine hygienic and sanitary conditions. Some have imposing buildings and
are real beauties from an architeetural standpoint. Some were called
'Homes,' but the name was not justified-it was a misnomer I
"I do not wonder that the hospital in connection with the Home had
so few occupants. Children that are well taken care of, as they are, seldom
need a hospital. I shall carry this impression with me as one of the
happiest events of my California visit. When I witnessed the real constructive work you are doing for humanity, I deeply regretted that I am
n<'lt a Mason. Sincerely,
"foNATZ MAYER."

489

Visit to Home at Decoto
Tomorrow the representatives to Grand Lodge and their ladies will
have an opportunity to visit the Decoto Home. We hope that you will all
go and inspect the property-your property-mingle with the employes
and members of the family, so that you may know from personal observation and contact something of the work of your agents. And if any of
you, after your visit, have any suggestions or constructive criticism to
offer, we will welcome them.
We respectfully request that the per capita tax for the maintenance
of the Homes for the year ending July 31, 1928, be fixed at twenty-five
cents.
C. M. WOLLENBERG, President,

]. B. GIST, Vice President,

s. E. BURKE,

CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS,
WILL H. FISHER,

G. A. HUTAFF,
ALBERT E. BOYNTON, Trustees.
Report of Experts
September 19, 1927.
Board of Trustees,
Masonic Homes of California.
Pursuant to your authorization, we have examined the financial
records of the Masonic Homes of California during the fiscal year ended
July 31, 1927, and present herewith the following statements:
Exhibit I-Secretary's Summarized Statement of Revenue and
Expenditures.
Exhibit 2-Distribution of Expenditures and Revenues in Detail.
Exhibit 3-Balance Sheet, July 31, 1927.
Exhibit 4--Cash Receipts and Disbursements.
Exhibit 5-List of Securities-Special Rule 16.
Exhibit 6-Statement of Scholarship Fund.
Exhibit 7-Statement of Entertainment Fund.
We certify that, in our opinion, the finances of the Masonic Homes
of California have been properly accounted for during the fiscal year
ended July 31, 1927, and that the attached statements are correct.
Respectfully submitted,
RUCKSTELL & LAND,
Certified Public Accountants.
By FLOYD T. WEBB.

490

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Exhibit 2

Exhibit 1

DISTRIBUTION OF OPERATING EXPENDITURES AND REVENUES IN DETAIL

Secretary's Report
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT OF REVENUE AND EXPENDITURES
YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927

Revenue
Maintenance Fund ................................................... .
$232,089.00
Farm Produce Sales-Decoto ..............................$
6,651.48
Farm Produce Sales-Covina ..............................
11,667.60
18,319.08
Farm Rent-Decato ................................................
410.95
Stores Account-Covina ........................................
327.27
Salvage---Decoto ......................................................
966.70
Merchandise Sales-Covina ................................. .
755.24
Maintenance, Subordinate Lodges-Decato ... .
2,280.00
Maintenance, Subordinate Lodges-Covina ..... .
6,055.00
8,335.00
Funeral Expense Refund ........................................
264.30
Interest Endowment Fund Securities ............... .
23,101.92
Total Revenue ..................................................
$284,569.46
Expenditures
Maintenance---Decoto ..........................$ 51,264.16
Maintenance-Covina .......................... 51,319.83 $102,583.99
Farm-Decato ..................................... . 6,133.11
Farm-Covina ...................................... 14,079.27

20,212.38

Laundry-Decato ..................................
Laundry-Covina ..................................

7,612.34

4,101.86
3,510.48

Payroll-Decato .................................... 11,926.30
Payroll-Covina .................................... 14,422.43
General Expenses-Decato ................ 15,707.22
General Expenses-Covina ................ 14,632.52
Trustee's Expense ............................... .
Secretary's Salary ............................... .
General Office Accounting................. .
Taxes ......................................................
Miscellaneous General Expense ..........
Insurance ............................................... .
Outside Relief ......................................
Interest .................................................... 2,267.29
Interest, Special Rule No. 16 ............. . 2,330.27
Headstone Expense ............................. .
Total Expenditures ..................... .
Excess of Revenue Over Expenditures for Maintenance ..................... .

491

Total
15,798.59
7,573.54
933.37
3,446.69
5,779.02
20,074.69
6,230.98
998.87
5,555.62
5,885.67
441.75
4,765.07
2,770.76
1,047.13
1,524.68
3,260.61
6,356.89
10,140.06

Total Maintenance ..................$
Farm
Tools and Equipment.................... $
Seeds ········-·······················-···············
Feed
Labor ················-·············-···············General Expense ..........................

51,264.16 $

51,319.83 $ 102,583.99

26.87 $
65.65
3,375.78
935.00
1,729.81

134.00 $
94.97
4,893.05
4,728.68
4,228.57

160.87
160.62
8,268.83
5,663.68
5,958.38

Total Farm ............................ $
Laimdry
Labor ···············································-~
Expense ·····························---··········

6,133.11 $

14,079.27 $

20,212.38

2,791.60 $
1,310.26

2,597.62 $
912.86

5,389.22
2,223.12

4,101.86 $

3,510.48 $

7,612.34

211,141.92

Total Laundry ......................$
Payroll
Wages .............................................. $
Salaries ·-········································-·

7,426.30 $
4,500.00

11,522.43 $
2,900.00

18,948.73
7,400.00

$ 73,427.54

Total Payroll ........................ $

11,926.30 $

14,422.43 $

26,348.73

26,348.73
30,339.74
880.36
1,306.66
900.00
4,338.82
743.20
854.64
10,154.00

••••••••••••••••••••••••n••••••••••••••••••••••••

4,597.56
169.50

_J -- -~.

YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927
Expenditures-Maintenance
Decato
Covina
Groceries ........................................$
5,283.12 $ 10,515.47 $
5,184.70
2,388.84
Meats --······-········-··-·························
248.90
Fish ···························-······················
684.47
Provisions (cured and smoked
2,105.84
1,340.85
meats, etc.) ..............................
2,869.43
Fruit and Vegetables ....................
2,909.59
12,602.27
Butter, Eggs and Milk. ...............
7,472.42
Baker Supplies ·····-························
4,312.68
1,918.30
425.02
573.85
Medical Supplies and Drugs ......
Hospital:
2,559.21
2,996.41
Miscellaneous Expense ············
Payroll ·······················-················
5,885.67
167.25
274.50
Dental Expense ·············-··-·····-·····
Clothing ····················---------------------·
1,659.82
3,105.25
2,452.45
Shoes ..............................................
318.31
Bedding -···············-------------------------202.42
844.71
School Supplies and Instruction
1,524.68
Kitchen and Dining Room :
Operating Expenses ................
2,283.05
977.56
Miscellaneous Expense ..........
2,272.28
4,084.61
3,311.13
Payroll -------------------·-···················
6,828.93

492

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Covina
Decoto
General Expense
5,092.17 $
7,360.68 $
Light, Heat, Power & Water.... $
1,499.88
Plant Repairs & Maintenance ... .
338.48
395.79
Freight and Expense..................•.
995.15
Traveling Expense ......................
544.56
234.04
Printing and Office Supplies....... .
805.48
540.40
Furniture and Equipment............
425.47
394.93
Telephone and Telegrams ........... .
5,281.50
253.62
Miscellaneous ................................

Total
12.452.85
1,499.88
734.27
995.15
778.60
1,345.88
820.40
5,535.12
24,162.15

T di.al General Expense ........$

15,707.22 $

8,454.93 $

Grand Total Home Exp.....$

89,132.65 $

91,786.94 $ 180,919.59

Extraordinary Plant Repairs &
Maintenance ................................

$

6,177.59 $

6,177.59

$

880.36
1,306.66
900.00
4,338.82
743.20
954.64
10,154.00
2,317.14
2,330.27
169.50

Common Expense
Trustee's Expense ....................... .
Secretary's Salary ....................... .
General Office Accounting ..........
Taxes ................................................
Miscellaneous ..................................
Insurance ........................................
Outside Relief ..............................
Interest ............................................
Interest, Special Rule No. 16......
Headstone Expense ..................... .

$

Grand Total Expenditures ..

$ 211, 191.77

Revenue
Maint., Subordinate Lodges ........$
Merchandise Sales ........................
Farm Produce Sales ......................
Farm Rent ......................................
Stores Account ..............................
Salvage ..........................................
Funeral Expense, Refund ........... .
Total Operating Revenue ....$

2,280.00 $
6,651.48
410.95

6,055.00 $
755.24
11,667.60
327.27

966.70
264.30
10,573.43 $

18,805.11 $

Summary of Operating
Expenditures and Revenue
Deco to
Covina
Total
Maintenance ....................................$ 51,264.16 $ 51,319.83 $ 102,583.99
Farm ............................................... .
6,133.Il
14,079.27
20,212.38
Laundry ........................................... .
4,101.86
7,612.34
3,510.48
Payroll ............................................
11,926.30
14,422.43
26,348;73
General Expense ..........................
15,707.22
8,454.93
24,162.15
Extraordinary Plant Repairs &
Maintenance ................................
Common Expense ........................

6,177.59

24,094.59

8,335.00
755.24
18,319.08
410.95
327.27
966.70
264.30
29,378.54

6,177.59
24,094.59

Total Operating Expend.....$
Deduct Operating Revenue ..........

89,132.65 $
10,573.43

97,964.53 $ 211,191.77
18,805.11
29,378.54

Net Total Home Expend.....$

78,559.22 $

79,159.42 $ 181,813.23

Exhibit 3

Total Common Expense ......

493

BALANCE SHEET, JULY 31, 1927

Assets
Cash:
In Banks
Petty Cash-Decoto
P~tty Cash-Covina

153,734.71
500.00
500.00 $ 154,734.71

Securities :
Permanent Endowment Fund ..
Special Rule No. 16..................
Balboa Contracts ....................

397,009.37
32,241.19
4,441.00

433,691.56

Decoto Home :
Land ..............................................
Buildings ....................................
Building Equipment ................
Improvements ........................... .
Power Plant and Laundry......
Furniture and Fixtures ............
Farm Equipment ......................
Farm Investment ......................

45,469.90
971,175.70
56,452.55
34,468.71
71,096.32
53,545.06
5,406.00
8,000.00

1,245,614.24

Covina Home :
Land ........................................... .
Buildings ................................... .

24,300.00
474,330.09

Building Equipment
Improvements ............................
Laundry Machinery ................. .
Furniture and Fixtures ........... .
Farm Equipment ......................
Hospital Construction ..............
Farm Improvements ................

7,044.49
27,209.63
5,718.30
14,517.66
135.00
53,999.09
1,099.35

Camp Tucker : Real Estate... .
Improvements ............................

6,955.23
12,072.00

Sundry Real Estate Investments
Automobiles ....................................
Stores and Supplies-Decato ..... .

Exhibit 4
CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS
YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927

19,027.23
1,279.22
3,543.78
2,408.67
$2,468,653.02

542,613.94
14,350.33
57,891.02
32,241.19
3,474.96
5,297.29

Total Liabilities ................... .

655,868.73

Net Worth ........................

$1,812,784.29

Net Worth (As Above) ..... .

51,683.40
5.00

Receipts

Liabilities

Capital Account
Capital Account, July 31, 1926,
Previous Report ....................... .
Building Fund Collections ..........
Excess of Revenue over Expenditures for Fiscal Year
Ended July 31, 1927, maintenance only ................................. .

$

Cash Balance in Banks, July 31, 1926................
Add: Adjustment-Adjusting Entry, July
31, 1926, Reversed............................................. .

608,353.61

Tot. Assets (Carried For'd)

Permanent Endowment Fund ... .
Residents' Deposits ..................... .
Special Rule No. 16......................
Special Rule No. 16, Securities ..
Entertainment Fund ................... .
Students Loan Fund..................... .

495

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

494

$1,678,568.75
60,788.00

Grand Lodge Maintenance Fund....................... .
Grand Lodge Building Fund ............................. .
$20 and $25 Home Tax ........................................
Endowment Fund ..................................................
Endowment Fund Interest ..................................
Interest ....................................................................
Special Rule No. 16 ..............................................
Maintenance, Subordinate Lodge, Decato ..... .
Maintenance, Subordinate Lodge, Covina ..... .
Merchandise Sales, Covina ................................
Farm Produce Sales, Decoto ............................
Farm Produce Sales, Covina ............................
Residents' Deposits ..............................................
Farm Rent, Decato ............................................. .
Funeral Expenses, Refund ................................
Miscellaneous Maintenance ......•.........................
Scholarship Loan Fund ......................................
Notes Receivable ................................................. .
Entertainment Fund ............................................
Real Estate--Balboa ............................................
Real Estate-Camp Tucker ................................
Endowment Fund Securities ..............................
Masonic Temple Association Stock sold to
Grand Lodge, F. & A. M .........................
Salvage ..........................................................
Total Receipts ..............................................

30,394.00
60,788.00
200,160.00
26,821.89
23,207.77
2,020.73
16,810.92
2,280.00
6,085.00
755.24
2,363.59
1,806.10
10,279.69
410.95
2,945.28
1,283.66
3,580.00
67,083.73
8,953.08
1,067.00
2,000.00
48,650.00
20,000.00
966.70

Total to account for ....................................

73,427.54
$1,812,784.29

NOTE-Securities are listed at cost in case of acquisition by purchase.

Disbursements
Maintenance ..........................................................$ 174,533.61
$20 Home Tax, over Payments Lodges ......... .
740.00
Scholarship Loan Fund ......................................
5,129.04
Outside Relief
10,154.00
Special Rule No. 16 ..............................................
11,279.21
Special Rule No. 16, Interest ............................
1,853.27
••••••H••••••H•••••"••••H•OO-##oo••••H•OH••••WWMO

$540,713.33
$592,401.73

496

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Notes Payable ......................................................
Residents' Withdrawals ......................................
Trustees' Expense ................................................
Covina Hospital Construction ............................
Covina Improvements ..........................................
Power Plant and Laundry-Decoto ··············-

152,083.73
9,438.49
880.36
13,551.90
4,273.35
3,022.94

Totals (carried forward) ............................$ 386,939.90
2,680.98
Funeral Expense ..................................................
954.64
Insurance ................................................................
220.00
Endowment Fund-Refund ................................
26,881.87
Endowment Securities ........................................
49.85
Accrued Interest on Endowment Securities ....
4,353.47
Interest-Notes Payable ....................................
4,338.82
Taxes ......................................................................
770.38
Furniture and Fixtures-Covina .........•............
2,131.50
Laundry-Covina ..................................................
660.09
Building Repairs-Covina ..................................
1,099.35
Farm Improvements-Covina ............................
6,110.01
Entertainment ........................................................
1,306.66
Secretary's Salary ................................................
169.50.
Headstone ............................................................. .
Total Disbursements ....................................
Cash Balance, July 31, 1927:
Security Trust & Savings Bank ..................... . $ 4,218.09
15,583.73
United Bank & Trust Co.................................. .
16,332.71
Anglo Calif. Trust Co., Endowment Interest..
20,000.00
American Trust Co. ............................................
48,330.56
Crocker First Federal Trust Co.......................
1,220.01
Berkeley Commercial & Savings Bank ..........
41,690.28
Humboldt Savings Bank ....................................
20,000.00
San Francisco Bank ........................................... .
1,850.33
F. B. Hartman-Trustee ...................................
Deduct (Bookkeeping) Overdraft:
Anglo California Trust Co...............................
Total Cash Balance in Banks July 31,
1927, All Funds ....................................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

497

Exhibit 5
LIST OF SECCRITIES-SPECIAL .RCLE 16

Bonds (entered at par) :
Third Liberty Loan ............................................................ 4!4
C. H. & D. R. R. Co. .......................................................... 4}1;
Pacific Gas & Electric Co. ................................................ 6

$592,401.73

Stocks:
Southern Calif. Edison Co. ........ 7 shares
State Mutual Bldg. & Loan ..•... 10 shares
Visalia Building & Loan .......... 10 shares
San Jose Building & Loan ........ 6 shares
San Jose Mutual Bldg. & Loan 2}1; shares
Kern Co. Building & Loan ..... 15 shares
Pacific Gas & Electric Co.......• 64 shares
Baker & Hamilton····-················- 3 shares

$ 1,100.00
1,100.00
1,100.00

cost
548.50
par value .......... 1,000.00
par value .......... 1,000.00
par value .......... 300.00
par value .......... 500.00
par value .......... 1,500.00
par value .......... 6,400.00
par value .......... .300.00

Notes (entered books at face value less payments made):
Wm. J. Mellis et al. ..-..........................................................................$ 2,390.00

~~:~ I~~~~e;~··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ;~:~
$438,667.02

August Kangris and Marie Kangris .................................................. 1,984.25
Geo. K. Cremer ................................................................................;..... 1,340.80
W. H. ~orrison ...................................................................................... 3,865.17
P. G. Little and wife .............................................................................. 2,400.00
Thomas R. Howard ................................................................................ 1,260.00
John E. Pershing (deed of trust) ........................................................ 1,920.00
Barbara Hill .............................................................................................. 1,500.00
Total ......................................................................................................$32,241.19
Exhibit 6

$169,225.71

SCHOLARSHIP FUND FOR THE YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927
Balance, July 31, 1926 ..........................................................................$ 6,846.33
R~eipts during year ............................................................................ 3,580.00

15,491.00
Total .................................................................................................. 10,426 33
Disbursements during year for scholarships .................................. 5,129:04

$153,734.71
Balance, July 31, 1927 ..................................................................$ 5,297.29

PROCEI<JDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Exhibit 7
ENTERTAINMJ-:NT FUND FOR THE YEAR ENDED JULY 31, 1927
Balance, July 31, 1926 ............................................................................$ 631.89
Receipts during year ................................................................................ 8,953.08

During the year all minor repairs have been attended to by the
brethren of the Home.
Our linen room is equipped with electric sewing machines, where
some of the ladies attend to all the making, mending arid marking of the
household linen, clothing, etc. The ladies also take charge of keeping in
order their rooms, hand laundries, halts, washrooms and other parts
connected with their departments, and assist, at times, with work connected with the pantry, kitchen and dining rooms and other light duties.
As heretofore, the greater part of the hill ranch has been leased on
shares or cash rental.
The farm has supplied plenty of fruit for table use, the surplus being
dried and stored for future use. The returns from the hay crop have
been fair. The garden has supplied vegetables, berries and plenty of
greens. The hog ranch has also given good returns. The chicken ranch
has furnished all eggs for table use, the surplus being sold or preserved
for winter use.
Our deep well pump has been overhauled and continues to furnish a
plentif.ul supply of water for household, garden, irrigating and building
purposes.

498

Total ··························:········································································-$9,5~4-~~
Disbursements made durmg year ........................................................ 6,1 0.
Balance, July 31, 1927 ....................................................................$3,474.96
JoHN WHICHER, Secretary.

Report of the Superintendent-Decato Home
Ta the Board of Trnstees, Masonic Homes of California:
I herewith present for your consideration the following report for
the year ending August 31, 1927.
The management of the Home has been substantially the same as in
former years.
.
. k ·
'th
We have endeavored to maintain a social atmosphere m eepmg wt
the ideals of our fraternity and bring us as large a m~su~e of contentment as possible into the daily life of all who are enJoymg the many
comforts of our Home.
This has been a busy year, and the admission of new members a~d
the personal care given each member of the Home has created a splendid
spirit throughout the several departments.
There are, at the present time 225 residents-115 men and 110
women. During the year 47 have been admitted and 40 have passe~ away.
The general health of the Home; family ha~ been good,. with the
exception of those who are infirm and feeble, owmg to adva~cmg years.
There are now 37 of our members being cared for in the hosp1ta_I ~epart­
ment, where they are receiving every care and comfort our phys1c1an and
•
.
•
nurses are able to give them.
The number requiring hospital care is gradually ~ncreasmg.. Ad?1tional room, when needed can be provided by the co:nplett~n ?f the mtenor
of the second floor of the two wings of the hospital buildmg.
.
The number of residents who render assistance in the general r?utme
work has increased and by their labors have been a great help m the
well-being of the Home. The brethren have been part.icularly useful in
the carpenter and paint shops, laundry, garage, ma_d, passenger and
messenger service, janitor work, night watchman, kitchen, vegetab~es,
pantry and dining rooms, office work, attending phones, operatmg
elevators, care of lawns, flower beds and other light duties, in a general
way.

499

The 39th Masonic District, comprising the Lodges Eden, No. 113,
Alameda, No. 167, Mosaic, No. 218, Eucalyptus, No. 243, and Alisa!, No.
321, has completely furnished the men's lounge room in the hospital
department. The room is comfortable and home-like, and the increased
pleasure it affords has added greatly to the comfort and happiness of all
those who are being cared for there.
Library and Club Rooms
Our library continues to grow, there being now 5500 donated volumes
on the shelves of the main library and its branches. The branch of the
Alameda County Free Library is well patronized and enables our family
to obtain many of the later books and an opportunity to send for special
ones. In addition to this, we are the recipients, through members of the
fraternity, of daily papers, magazines and periodicals, which are placed
on the tables of the library, men's club rooms and ladies' reading rooms.
Social Life
During the year we have enjoyed many splendid programs and stage
plays provided by friends for the entertainment of the members of the
Home: The evening gatherings often close with dancing. Every Thursday evening the members of the family enjoy a moving picture entertainment. A social is given every Tuesday evening, at which time a program
of music, vocal and instrumental, readings, recitations, community singing,
cards, dancing, stage sketches, etc., is given. These programs are made
up entirely by the residents of the Home. Choir practice every Friday

500

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

evening. The usual services are held every Sunday afternoon, after which
a few musical numbers are given by the Home orchestra.
The Magna Vox Radio presented by Westlake Lodge, No. 392 has
been placed in the reception room in the main building, and enables all
who care to avail themselves of the opportunity to listen to the various
programs given during the day and evening. Sunday morning and evening
services broadcast from San Francisco, Oakland and other places, are
greatly enjoyed.
A number of the members of the Home family have radio sets
installed in their rooms. This privilege is practically appreciated by those
who are blind and those who are confined in their rooms in the hospital
department.
All holidays have been observed with appropriate exercises. The
specials were those held on Xew Year's Eve, New Year's Day, Lincoln's
birthday, Washington's birthday, Easter, Memorial Day, Fourth of July,
Thanksgiving Day and Christmas.
Arrangements have been made whereby the members of the family,
a few at a time, may visit nearby Lodges and Eastern Star Chapters'; also,
small picnic parties may enjoy an outing to nearby places of interest.
During the year many trips are made to Oakland, San Francisco and
towns in the vicinity of the Home.
Grand Master George L. Jones, and officers of the Grand Lodge
have made a number of visits to the Home during the year, and a large
number of brethren from various Lodges have spent pleasant hours with
us. The number of visitors and donations received this year indicate an
increasing interest in the welfare of the Home family.
The year has been full of activities and progress has been made which
would have been impossible but for the loyal support of the officers and
employees of the Home and the kindly advice and support which the
members of the Board of Trustees have at all times given us.
FRANK B. HARTMAN, Superintendent.

Visitations to Decoto Home
September 18, 1926, Live Oak Lodge, No. 61.
September 19, Speranza Italiana Lodge, No. 219.
September 27, Annual visit of East Bay Matrons Association,
0. E. S., accompanied by the Worthy Grand Matron, Cora S. Holland.
and Worthy Grand Patron, Waldo F. Postel.
October 3, Lockwood School Band, concert on grounds.
October 3, Woodward's Orchestra. Musical program in Assembly Hall.
October 9, Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244, conferred third degree.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

501

October 13, Officers and representatives of Grand Lodge.
November 13, Brotherhood of St. Michael's Church. Opera, "Pirates
of Penzance."
November 16, Hayward Chapter, No. 331, 0. E. S. Miscellaneous
program.
November 17, Alameda Chapter, Order of De Molay, gave a stage
play entitled "Mummy and the Mumps."
November 27, Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215, Musical program.
December 27, Oakland Bank Dramatic Club presented a stage play
entitled "Mud."
December 28, joint installation of the officers of Alameda, No. 167,
Alisa! No. 321 and Mosaic No. 218 Lodges, Grand Master George L.
Jones, installing officer, and Grand Lecturer Thomas J. Baker, master
of ceremonies.
February 22, California Chapter, Order of De Molay, stage play
and musical program.
March 22, Illustrated lecture about the stars and work at the Lick
Observatory, by Prof. R. G. Aiken, assistant director.
March 27, Peninsula Order of De Malays and Job's Daughters. Miscellaneous program.
April 9, Golden State Theatre Company, San Francisco, vaudeville
program.·
March 23, Paul Revere Lodge, No. 462. Entertainment in Assem'
bly Hall.
March 24, Mt. Moriah Lodge, No. 44. Officers and members visit
Home.
April 30, Alameda Lodge, No. 167, and Orient Chapter, No. 177,
0. E. S. Miscellaneous program.
May 4, Stanford Masonic Club conferred third degree.
May 21, Justice Lodge, No. 549, conferred third degree. Musical
program.
June 3, Palo Alto Chapter, No. 213, 0. E. S. Stage play by Dramatic Club.
June 4, Dancing class of girls from Hayward.
June 18, Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336. Minstrel show and one-act play
by Job's Daughters.
June 23, Jewel Lodge No. 374. Band concert on lawn.
June 25, Order of the Rainbow, Richmond Assembly, exemplified
their ritualistic work.
August 13, Oakland Lodge, No. 188, entertainment in Assembly Hall.
August 20, Annual visit of the East Bay Matrons Association
0. E. S., accompanied by the Worthy Grand Matron, Hazel Marsh Piper'.
and Worthy Grand Patron, Raymond H. Griest.
August 27, Golden West Lodge, No. 455, staged two· short plays,
followed by a vaudeville program.

502

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Donations to Decoto Home
Masonic Lodges 39th District-Eden, No. 113, Alameda, No. 167, M~saic,
No. 218, Eucalyptus, No. 243, and Alisa!, No. 321-6 large wicker
arm chairs, with cushions, 1 center table, 4 chairs, I writing desk, 1
chair, 1 book-shelf stand, 2 chaise tongue with cushions, 1 large
rug, 3 small rugs, l tea-wagon.
.
Westlake Lodge, No. 393-Magna V ox radio, complete with stand.
East Bay Matrons Association-28 comforters, 12 table covers, 11 dresser
covers, 3 cases pears, 3 cases peaches, 3 cases pineapples, 664 jars
and glasses of jelly.
H. F. Sorensen, Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244-25 vols. miscellaneous books.
Manzanita Chapter, No. 342, 0. E. S.-50 jars fruit, 5 cans fruit, 1 sack
walnuts, 1 box apples.
A. H. Alderman, Corinthian Lodge N'o. 9-50 vols. books, 1 book-case.
East Bay Matrons, No. I924-I potted fern.
·
L. D. Smith-I box women's clothing.
Alcatraz Lodge, No. 244-Candy and cigars.
Hayward Chapter, No. 331, 0. E. S.-124 glasses jelly, 240 small
baskets candv.
H. K. Starkweather, Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215-1 package periodicals.
Geo. W. Young, Paul Revere Lodge, No. 462-20 packages playing cards.
Franklin Chapter, No. 20, R. A. M.-5 gals. ripe olives.
Almona Chapter, No. 214, 0. E. S.-114 ladies' handkerchiefs.
C. E. Smith, Oroville Lodge, No. 103-2 boxes oranges.
Syd Moodlyn, Starr King Lodge, No. 344-20 packs playing cards.
Fred A. Weaver, Inyo Lodge, No. 221-50 cigars, 1 box chocolates.
Fruitvale Chapter, No. 297, 0. E. S.-5 boxes apples, 16 jars jelly.
F. C. Busch-5 boxes cookies.
Oroville Lodge, No. 103-5 gals. ripe olives.
Justice Lodge, No. 549-Candy and cigars.
Carrie Brown-2 vols. fiction.
Rainbow Girls of Sacramento Assembly-45 wash cloths.
Porterville Lodge, No. 303-3 boxes oranges.
J. E. Ellis-15 vols. miscellaneous books.
Ladies' Auxiliary Berkeley Commandery, No. 42, K. T.-20 jars jelly.
Fruitvale Lodge, No. 336-Candy and cigars.
E. B. Cutter-3 packages magazines.
I. W. Marshall, Alpha Lodge, No. 43I-75 vols. miscellaneous books.
Geo. M. Perine, Past Grand Master-I package men's clothing.
East Bay Matrons,, 1925-I large framed mirror for ladies' social room.
Loma Vista Chapter, No. 4I5, 0. E. S.-2 comforters.
Charles Tromp--1 trunk, 1 camphor chest, with men's clothing.
Effie Easton Chapter, No. 392, O. E. S.-51 jars jelly.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

503

Universal Brotherhood and Theosophical Society-4 vols. literature, and
a year's subscription to a Theosophical magazine.
W. S. Lane, McKinley Lodge, No. 347-3 vols. fiction.
Peninsula Order of De Molay-12 large cakes.
Job's Daughters, Bethel No. 7-I2 jars jelly.
East Bay Matrons, I926-l large rocking chair.
E. B. Grayson-35 gramaphone records.
Paul Revere Lodge, No. 462-Candy and cigars.
Orient Chapter, No. 177, 0. E. S.-25 jars jelly, 20 cakes.
Foreman & Clark-200 straw hats.
J. A. Smith-5 boxes candy, 2 packages tobacco, 100 cigars.
W. W. Brier-10 vols. fiction.
]. C. Donnelly, Hollywood Lodge, No. 355-6 packages magazines.
East Bay Patrons, 1926-1 large armchair.
Thomas R. Tilley, Bayview Lodge, No. 401-4 pillows, 5 pairs blankets, 2
b~d spreads, 20 face towels, 10 bath towels, 4 table cloths, 1 package
silverware, 20 sheets, 1 package tools, I package household supplies.
Oak Grove Lodge, No. 215-Candy, cigars and jelly.
Bancroft Whitney Co.-1 large pkg. magazines.
Mary J. Gordon-I glass case, with collection of shells.
Foothill Cnapter, No. 433, 0. E. S.-20 glasses jelly.
S. F. Hardy-2 boxes fruit.
Thousand Oaks Lodge, No. 478-20 gramaphone records.
W. A. Mensch, Hollywood Lodge, No. 355-2 vots. fiction.
Live Oak Lodge, Ko. 61--250 boxes candy, 150 cigars.
Speranza Italiana Lodge, No. 2I9-150 boxes candy, 150 cigars.

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations, Decoto Home
Lodge
No.
Acorn ......................... .494
Alcatraz ..................... .244
Alameda ...................... 167
Alisa! ............................321
Alturas ........................248
Alamo ..........................122
Alpha ............................ 431
Amador ........................ 65
Amity ..........................370
Anaheim ....................207
Apollo .......................... 396
Argonaut ....................461
Artesia ........................377

Lodges
Amt.
Lodge
No.
$IO.OO Argonne ...................... 514
25.00 Arcata .......................... 106
10.00 Ashlar .......................... 306
10.00 Atascadero .; ................493
10.00 Azusa ......................... 305
10.00 Bay City ...................... 526
10.00 Balder ..........................393
10.00 Bay View .................... 401 .
25.00 Benicia ........................ 5
20.00
Bear Mountain ............ 76
15.00 Berkeley ......................363
10.00 Brooklyn ..................... .225
10.00 Burlingame .............. ..400

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
17.25
20.00

25.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
50.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALII!'ORNIA

504

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
California .................... 1
Caledonia ....................486
Cahuenga ....................513
Carquinez ....................337
Charity ........................ 362
Oiarter Rock ............ ..410
Chico ............................ 111
Clay .............................. 101
Clovis ..........................417
Claremont ....................436
Coronado ....................441
Corona .......................... 324
Corinthian .................. 9
Coalinga ......................387
Confidence ..................203
Covenant .................... 527
Crockett ......................139
Compass ...................... 590
Cupertino ....................510
Curtiss ..........................140
Crescent ...................... 45
Damascus ....................648
Dimond ......................603
Dinuba ..........................385
Downey ..................... .220
Dunsmuir ....................297
Durant .......................268
East Bay......................489
Eden
Eel River .................... 147
Elmhurst ....................610
El Segundo .................. 507
El Centro ....................384
Emmanuel ....................318
Enterprise .................... 70
Euclid .......................... 519
Eucalyptus ..................243
Eureka ........................ 16
Excelsior .................... 166
Fairmount ..................435
Fidelity ........................ 120
Forest .......................... 66
Fortitude ......................624
Fraternity ..................399

Lodge
No.
50.00 Fresno ......................... .247
15.00 Francis Drake ............ 376
10.00 Fremont
Friendship ..................210
10.00
6.00 Fruitvale ...................... 336
15.00 Franklin ...................... 143
10.00 Galt .............................. 267
10.00 Geo. Washington ...... 525
5.00 Glendale ...................... 544
10.00 Gold Hill .................... 32
10.00 Golden Gate.................. 30
25.00 Hartley ........................ 199
10.00 Hawaiian .................... 21
10.00 Hammonton ................433
10.00 Hanford ...................... 279
10.00 Henry S. Orme ............458
Henry M. Stephens .. 541
25.00
5.00 Herman ........................ 127
2.50 Hiram .......................... 43
10.00 Hills Ferry ..................236
5.00 Howard ........................ 37
5.00 Hollenbeck .................. 319
Hollywood ..................355
15.00
5.00 Honolulu ......................409
10.00 Humboldt .................... 79
10.00 Illinoistown ................ 51
10.00 Indian Rock. .................638
20.00 Jewel ............................ 374
5.00 Jonathan ...................... 545
20.00 Jubilee ..........................604
10.00 Justice ..........................549
10.00 King David's ............... .209
10.00 La Parfaite Union ...... 17
10.00 Las Palmas..................366
5.00 Lake Shore .................. 551
10.00 Liberty ......................... .299
25.00 Live Oak ...................... 61
2.50 1.-0mpoc ....................... .262
25.00 L-Odi ............................. .256
10.00 Los Gatos ................. .292
25.00 L-Os Angeles ................ 42
5.00 Long Beach .................. 327
5.00 Madison ...................... 23
10.00 .'.\farin ............................191

Amt.

Amt.
15.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
50.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
50.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
25.00

Lodge
No.
Maricopa ......................434
Martinez ...................... 41
Madera ........................280
Mendocino ................. .179
Melrose ........................ 602
Military Service ..........570
Mill Valley .................. 356
Midway ....................... .426
Mission ....................... .169
Mosaic ........................218
Mountain View ............ 194
Morgan Hill... ............. 463
Mount Moriah ............ 44
Monterey ................... .217
Mt. Oso ........................ 460
Mt. Diablo .................. 448
McKinley .................... 347
Natoma ........................ 64
Naval ............................ 87
Needles ........................326
Nicolaus ...'. .................. 129
Normal Heights ........ 632
Oak Grove .................. 215
Oakland ...................... 188
Occidental .................. 22
Oriental ........................144
Orland .......................... 265
Orosi ............................ 383
Oroville ....................... .103
Oxnard ........................ 341
Palo Alto .................... 346
Parnassus .................... 388
Pasqual ....................... .452 .
Paul Revere ............... .462
Pacific Grove .............. 331
Patterson .................. ..488
Paso Robles ................ 286
Park ..............................449
Pajaro .......................... 110
Pacific .......................... 136
Pasadena ......................272
Palmyra ...................... 26
Penrhyn ......................258
Petaluma ...................... 180

Amt.
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
50.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
20.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
17.00
25.00
I0.00
20.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
15.00
10.00
20.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Lodge
No.
Phoenix ....................... .178
Piedmont ...................... 521
Pittsburg ..................... .429
Point Firmin ..............558
Point ............................503
Pomona ........................246
Presidio ........................ 354
Plumas ........................ 60
Ramona ........................457
Reading ........................ 254
Redwood City ............ 168
Rising Light.. .............. 397
Richmond .................... 375
Rio Vista ................... .208
Rockridge .................... 468
Roosevelt .................... 500
Roseville ..................... .222
Russian River ........... .181
Salinas ......................... .204
San Mateo ..................226
San Dimas ................. .428
San Gabriel ................ 546
San Francisco ............ 360
San Simeon ................ 196
Santa Cruz .................. 38
San Benito ................. .211
Santa Rosa .................. 57
San Diego .................. 35
San Jacinto ................ 338
Sacramento ................ 40
Santa Paula.................. 291
San Miguel... ...............285
Santa Maria ................ 580
San Buenaventura ....214
Santa Barbara ........... .192
Security ........................ 581
Seal Rock .................. 536
Sequoia ........................349
Silver Trowel ........... .415
Silver Gate ....................296
Sierra Madre ............408
Sincerity ...................... 132
Sisson .......................... 310
Silveyville ....................201

505
Amt.
10.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
2.50
10.00
10.00
10.00
30.25
25.00
10.00
12.50
7.50
25.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
20.00
5.00
12.50
75.00
10.00
20.00
30.00
25.00
7.50
25.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
5.00
10.00
15.00
10.00

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

506

No.

Amt.

South Pasadena ........367
South San Francisco .. 312
S. W. HacketL. ........... 574
Sojourner ···--·-····-···-··--607
Speranza Italiana ..... .219
Standard ......................440
Star King ..................344
Stanislaus ....................206
Stockton .................... --498
Sunnyvale .................... 511
Suisun .......................... 55
Taft ................:............. 516
Tehachapi ---·····--·--···--313
Tehama ........................ 3
Temblor ....................--477

Lodge

10.00
20.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
20.00
20.00
10.00

Chapter
No.
70
Alameda
Antioch ······-··············· 65
Berkeley -····················· 92
Benicia
7
California ···----··········· 5
42
Chico
Coalinga ···-···-·····-········114
Corinthian .................... 51
Colusa .......................... 60
Crown •"••••·•••••••••••••••••O 72
15
Cyrus
Delta ····-----····--··-------··-- 27
Donner .......................... 39
Doric
66
Et Centro ······--············109
Exeter .......................... 122
Fruitvale ····-····--···--·-·· 111
Grass Valley ................ 18
Huntington Park....... .127
Howard ........................ 14
Keystone
56
Los Angeles.·---····-··---··· 33
Marin --···-··--··············--·.102
Martinez
31
88
Mendocino
Mission ........................ 79
Mill Valley ................108
•••••••••••OH .. •••••••

••••••-.•oH••••••HOW••

•••••••••••••·--······~·-•H

•H"•••••--••••••••w•••••••<

•••••••••••••••••••••H•••••

HO•••••••••••••••••••

WHO••••••••••••••••••

•H••w•w••H•••••W

11lo.

Amt.

Thousand Oaks ........ --478
Truckee ··---··-------------·.200
Tuolumne .................... 8
Tuscan ·----·--·---·--·--··-··.261
Union ····-··--········-····--·· 58
Vallejo ·-··-----···--······--·-487
Visalia -·····--···---····-···--128
Victory ····---··---------------474
Washington ······---··· ... 20
·western Star ········---- 2
\Voodbridge ·-·---·---··----131
Woodland ····--···---··------156
Woodstock ..................491
Yolo --·······---·················· 81

Lodge

10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
20.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
Amt.
No.
10.00 Monrovia ··--·--··-·-----····129
Modesto ...................... 49
10.00
20.00 Naval
35
10.00 Napa
30
25.00
Oakland ·---·-·····--·--··---· 36
10.00 Ontario ........................ 105
5.00 Pomona
76
5.00 Redondo ·····--····--·······--101
5.00 Sacramento ··············-- 3
10.00 San Mateo .................. 106
5.00 San Diego .................... 61
2.50 Salinas .......................... 59
Santa Rosa ---·-----··----- 45
5.00 San Francisco --·········· 1
5.00 Searchlight .................. 133
10.00 Shasta ••••••••••••••···-------H 9
5.00 Siloam ···-----·--··--·····-··· 87
5.00 Sonora -----·····----·-------- ... 2
10.00 St. Helena ·---··------------ 63
10.00 St. James ··------·--- .. ···--- 16
5.00 Taft -········-····---·········--··128
25.00 Temple
41
10.00 Tulare ---·············---------- 71
5.00 Ventura ........................ 50
10.00 Visalia ...................... 44
5.00 vVashington
13
20.00 Woodland .................... 46

Amt.
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
12.50
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
5.00

•••••<••••••OOH•••••••••O•

•••·••••••u•••••••••••••--•

HWo•••o•••••••••••••ow.

s:oo

U••••••••••••••••••••••

_~

··-····-······-~

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commanderies
No.
Alameda ...................... 58
Auburn ·················-······ 52
Bakersfield .................. 39
Berkeley ...................... 42
California ······--············ 1
Chico ............................ 12
Colusa ········--···········-···· 24
El Dorado ········--····--·· 4
F< resno .......................... 29
Golden Gate ···---······-·-· 16
Marysville ··-··············· 7
:\fodesto ........................ 57
Mt. Shasta ······-·-········· 32
Councils
No.
California .................... 2
Pasadena ·········-·········· 16
San Jose ..•......... --·-····- 20

507

Co111111anderies, K. T.
Amt.
Commanderies
No.
10.00 Napa ............................ 34
2.50 Nevada ·····--······-·········· 6
10.00 Oakland ················-····· 11
10.00 Oroville ····-·-···--·-·········· 5
25.00 Pacific -·-········-·············· 3
10.00 Pasadena .................... 31
5.00 San Francisco ·--·-······· 41
5.00 San Luis Obispo
27
-5.00 San Jose ...................... 10
25.00 Sacramento ................ 2
10.00 Vacaville ...................... 38
5.00
Visalia ........................ 26
10.00

Councils, R. [.,, S. M.
Amt.
No.
C pimcils
10.00
Siskiyou ...................... 24
10.00 Valley .......................... 27
5.00

Amt.
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
5.00
25.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
10.00

Amt.
5.00
5.00

Lodges of Perfection, A. & A. S. R.

Lodge

No.

Amt.

California .................. 10
Isaac Davis.................. 4
Oakland ········--············ 2

25.00
25.00 ·
25.00

No.

Amt.

Peninsula ······-·-···········
San Diego .................... 8
San Francisco
1

Lodge

25.00
25.00
25.00

San Luis Obispo .. ______ 29

Pyramid, A. E. 0. S.
5.00

Chapter
No.
Amapola ...................... 119
Buena Vista ..............364
Corona ........................ 107
Golden Wave .............. 103

Chapters, 0. E. S .
Amt.
Chapter
Nn.
17.00 Mill Valley................. .219
10.00
Mira Monte ................ 141
10.00 Plumas ..........................246
5.00
San Rafael ............... .215

Amt.
20.00
5.00
3.00
25.00

Individtmls and M iscellaneoits
Schroeter, R. G....................... 10.00
Taylor, Mrs. A. C.................... 2.00

Burton, Richard M ............... $ 4.50
Burrows, H. G., (Huntington
Beach No. 380) .................... 20.00
Martin, Ferd J. (Bear Mountain No. 76) ____ ··················-- 1.00
Mooser, William ...................... 10.00
Master & Warden's Club
(39th Dist.) .......................... 10.00

Two-Thirty-Three Club
(Hollywood) ················-···-·-- SO.DO
Rosenberg, Rudolph (Los .
Angeles) . ··········--················· 25.00
Henry T. Schneider, Alcatraz 244 .................................. 50.00 .

608

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Names of Residents, Decoto
Following i,s a complete list of the residents of the Decoto Home,
the date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and number
of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such Lodges, complete to August 31, 1927:

MEN, 115. Average age, 74.4 years
Lodge
No.
Town
Age
Na.me
Admitted
Alderman, Alfred H...... Oct. 6, '26 Corinthian ............ 9 Marysville ........65
Anderson, Alfred............June 1, '20 Gravel Range ........ 59 Camptonville ....76
Ansley, James G.............. Feb. 28, '26 Jonathan .............. 545 San Francisco .. 65
Armantage, Wm. L ....... Apr. 19, '22 San Bernardino.... 348 S'n Bernardino 75
Beck, Herman H ............ Aug. 28, '24 Nicolaus ................ 129· Wheatland ...... 73
Bell, Bradford ................Dec. 12, '15 Mount Jackson ....295 Guerneville ......84
Bernstein, Jacob A ...... _June 26, '24 Berkeley .............. 363 Berkeley ............ 73
Berge, Carl T ................ Sept. 30, '26 West Gate ............335 Los Angeles ...... 70
Best, Willard A ..............July 12, '21 Consuelo .............. 325 Escondido ........ 79
Briceno, Carlos ]............ Feb. 1, '25 Golden State........ 358 Los Angeles .... 57
Brown, Clement A ......... Nov. 24, '24 Pentalpha ....... ,....202 Los Angeles ....82
Browne, John L .............. Sept. 11, '24 King Solomons .... 260 San Francisco.. 73
Buchanan, Alexander .... Dec. 8, '24 Alcatraz ............. .244 Oakland .......... 79
Buckley, Peter................ May 21, '19 Hawaiian ............ 21
Honolulu ........80
Moneta .............. ..405 Los Angeles .... 50
Bull, Clinton M............. Aug. 11, '21
Burkett, Thomas R....... Aug. 22, '24 Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge .... 78
Burtchaell, George.......... June 12, '26 Oakland ................ 188 Oakland .......... 73
Byrd, Thomas ]. ............. Oct. 10, '25 Gravel Range ...... 59
Camptonville.... 93
Cambis, EmanueL. ......... Mch. 19, '23 Benicia ................ 5 Benicia ........... .81
Crossfield, Frank M ...... May 21, '27 Russian River ......181 Windsor .......... 77
Chapman, John M............ Oct. 6, '11 Concord ................ 117 Sacramento ....78
Charlesworth, B. W ....... Jan. 15, '23 Coalinga ..............387 Coalinga ..........68
Chase, Willis S .............. Mch. 19, '22 Turlock ................ 395 Turlock ..........77
Collins, Nelson W .......... Sept. 12, '19 Calistoga ..............233 Calistoga ........65
Cook, Hiram S ............... Sept. 11, '24 Maxwell .............. 288 Maxwell .......... 79
Corse, John M............... Mch. 1, '22 Tuscan ................. .261 Williams .......... 82
Daines, B. J ..................... Nov. 18, '22 Georgetown ........ 25 Georgetown ....69
Decker, Robt. B ............... July 15, '27 Oak Grove ..........215 Alameda .......... 71
Delzelle, Wm. R. ............Jan. 31, '26 Excelsior .............. 166 San Francisco ..68
DePenne, Frank L ......... Mch. 19, '26 Moneta .............. ..405 Los Angeles .... 53
Drake, Oscar B............... Dec. 18, '23 Hartley ................ 199 Lakeport .......... 74
Douglass, Lewis B ......... June 5, '27 Richmond ............375 San Francisco.. 70
Fehrensen, Louis H ....... May 14, '24 Hollenbeck .......... 319 Los Angeles ....76
Felter, Wm. R. ................]uly 26, '23 King Solomon's ... .260 San Francisco.. 75
Fink, Conrad .................. Aug. 23, '12 Herman ................ 127 San Francisco .. 88
Franck, Isad-0re ............... .Jan. 10, '16 La Parfaite
Union ................ 17 San Francisco.. 79

Na.me
Admitted
Lodge
No.
Freeman, Isaac L ............. May 17, '18 Elk Grove ............ 173
Gilliam, James A. ............]an. 25,'25 Phoenix ................ 178
Gompertz, Chas. L ......... Oct. 19, '18 Durant ..................268
Gough, Wm. G............... May 23, '25 Pacific ................. .136
Guerra, John .................... Aug. 19, '24 Francis Drake....376
Hardage, James M......... Mch. 13, '17 Sunset .................. 352
Harris, Louis..................J an. 13, '23
Los Angeles .......... 42
Harris, Ranse B............. Mch. 26, '24 Downey ............... .220
Hatch, Richard ................ Apr. 26, '27 Crockett ................ 139
Hazard, Emil John ........ Aug. 10, '25 San Jose ................ 10
Hocker, Jos. Lee............ Sept. 5, '26 Summit ................ 112
Jacobs, Francis J .............Feb. 16, '23 Marin ................... .191
Jensen, Alfred T ............. May 22, '25 Palestine ..............351
Johns, Josiah .................... Apr. 15, '12 East Belt..............391
· Jones, SamueL ................ Apr. 11, '26 Alpha .................. ..431
Journal, Philip S ........... Mch. 6, '27 Sequoia ................ 349
Kalfus, Joseph L ........... Dec. 12, '17 San Jose ····-·--·-···· 10
Keech, Alvin W ............. Aug. 10, '20 Honolulu ............ ..409
Kennedy, Duncan .......... June 19, '17 Redlands ..............300
Kesner, James P ........... Nov. 14, '23 Nicolaus .............. 129
Keyes, John ..................... Feb. 10, '26 Anaheim .............. 207
Kilpatrick, Sam W ....... Dec. 27, '23 Keith .................... 187
Klaasen, Henry ............ Nov. l, '17 Herman ................ 127
Kneeshaw, Robt. D ....... Apr. 7,'23 Glendora ............. .404
Lagomarsino, G. ............ May 12, '22 Speranza
Jtaliana ................219
Laskey, Benjamin G..... July 25, '20 Board of Relief ..
Leckenby, Chas. W ....... Apr. 18, '27 La Mesa .............. 407
Lunger, Henry E ........... May 29, '22 Starr King ......... 3t4
Macdonald, Samuel ...... Aug. 22, '24 Fullerton .............. 399
MacMurdo, Wirt R. ..... Feb. 23. '25 Bakersfield ......... .224
Marshall, Ianthus E .....July 29, '25 Alpha ...................431
Marshall, James W ..... Mar. 22, '23 Maxwell ..............288
Martin, Benj. R. ............ May 15, '24 Santa Cruz ..........38
Matthews, Edwin D ..... Aug. 7, '22 Yount .................. 12
Mattingly, John A ......... Oct. I, '24 Fresno .................. 247
McDonald, Frank .......... Nov. 21,'26 South Gate .......... 320
McEwen, John H ........... Aug. 21,'13 Pajaro ................. .110
Meinecke, Robt .............. Mar. 16, '24 Acacia .................. 438
Mensch, Wm. A ............. June 17, '27 Hollywood .......... 355
Meuser, Alfonso ............ Sept.19, '26 Palo Alto ............ 346
Mesler, Orlando A ....... Apr. 5, '27 Olive Branch ..... .269
Milliette, Chas. J ........... Dec. 2, '22 Hollenbeck .......... 319

509

Town
Age
Elk Grove ......68
S'n Bernardino 81
Berkeley .......... 92
San Francisco.. 68
So. San Fran... 74
Los Angeles ....86
Los Angeles .... 51
Downey ............ 75
San Francisco.. 75
San Jose ..........63
Knights F erry.. 82
San Rafael ......80
Los Angeles ....64
Tuolumne ........74
Richmond ........ 80
Oakland ............ 76
San Jose .......... 70
Honolulu .......... 73
Redlands .......... 80
Wheatland ......82
Anaheim ..........87
Gilroy ...........,.. 78
San Francisco.. 80
Glendora .......... 77
San Francisco.. 71
San Francisco..84
La Mesa ..........83
San F rancisco .. 64
Fullerton ........ 77
Bakersfield ...... 75
Richmond ........ 79
Maxwell ..........87
Santa Cruz ...... 62
Napa ................73
Fresno .............. 75
Los Angeles .... 73
Watsonville .... 82
Los Angeles .. ..49
Hollywood ...... 78
Palo Alto ........ 73
Tulare .............. 76
Los Angeles ....74

510

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Murch, Edward W ....... Aug. 20, '27
Nannestad, Henrick .... Mar. 8, '23
Nelson, Paul .................. Nov. 22, '26
Olson, Peter S; ............ Apr. 28, '20
Owen, Wm. L ............... Aug. 12, '22
Price, Thos. G............... Oct. 12, '25
Rea, Henry A. ·········'"····Feb. 2, '22
Righetti, Robt ............... Mar. 9, '18
Roberts, Jos. L .............. Jan. 28, '25
Robinson, Henry J ....... Nov. 8, '23
Rolfe, Ernest .................. Oct. 17, '23
·Shaw, Thos. W ............. Dec. 16, '25
'Shear, Wm. Mortimer .. Apr. 3, '27
Smith, James D ............. May 12, '19
·Smith, Roland A. ............ Jan. 29, '27
Smith, Robert G............. Apr. 4, '27
Stone, ·waiter ............... June 9, '26
Stone, Harry .................... July 2, '26
Siddles, Milan B .....•..... May 22, '27
Starkweather, H. K. .... July 28, '27
Taylor, Geo. McC ......... July 14, '25
Thurman, John .............. Oct. 26, '21
Tibbits, James H ........... Nov. 22,'26
Trenchel, Aug. F ......... Sept. 18, '25
Tilley, Thomas R. ........ July 6, '27
Umbs, Jesse ................... Mar. 15, '24
Wallace, Thomas W ... Nov. 24, '24
'Warner, William ........ .:Viar. 31, '25
·Watson, Matthew P ....... May 16, '25
Whitelaw, John F ......... Mar. 7, '25
Wildman, Wi!Jiam ........ Oct. 6, '19
Williamson, Geo. S .•..... Oct.19, '26
\Vilson, Hiram .......•...... Dec. 17, '22
'Woods, Robert .............. Nov. 16, '20
· Willard, Thomas .......... Aug. 23, '27
Young, Lars G............. Apr. 1, '23

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Silver Gate ..........296
Doric ................... .216
Callayomi ........... .282
Santa Cruz .......... 38
Mission ............... .169
Orosi .................... 383
Marin .........•....... .191
Pentalpha ........... .202
Porterville .......... 303
East Gate ........... .290
Herman ................ 127
Los Angeles ........ 42
Oak Grove ..........215
Eden .................... 113
Callayomi ............282
Mountain View ... .194
:Mendocino .......... 179
Brentwood .......... 345
Nevada ..... .,......... 13
Oak Grove ..........215
Excelsior ............ 166
San Diego ............ 35
Amador ................ 65
Live Oak .............. 61
Bay View ........... .401
Phoenix .............. 178
Pentalpha ............202
Covina .................. 334
Long Beach ........ 327
Table Mountain.. 124
Pomona ................246
Elk Grove ............ 173
Azusa ..................... 305
Mission ................ 169
Petaluma .............. 180
Oak Grove ......... .215

Town
Age
San Franciseo..81
San Diego ...... 66
Middleton ........77
Santa Cruz ......81
San Francisco.. 68
Orosi ................ 77
San Rafael ......77
Los Angeles .... 75
Porterville ...... 78
Los Angeles .... 77
San Francisco ..67
Los Angeles ....80
Alameda .......... 71
San Leandro .... 81
Middleton ........67
Mountain View 72
Mendocino ...... 74
Brentwood ......75
Nevada City....79
Alameda ..........69
San F rancisco ..65
San Diego ......83
Jackson ............72
Oakland .......... 76
Oakland ........... .71
S'n Bernardino 87
Los Angeles .... 76
Covina .............. 78
Long Beach .... 75
Cherokee .......... 76
Pomona ............ 71
Elk Grove ........ 82
Azusa ................85
San Francisco..71
Petaluma ..........66
Alameda ..........77

Voltmtary Depart11res
Meyer, Wm. D ............. Aug. 31, '12 Mountain View .... 194
Fallai, Guy ..............:.......Jan. 15, '25
Silver Gate ..........296

Mountain View 67
San Diego ......61

WOMEN, 110.

511

Average age, 73;4 years.

Name
Admitted
Amerman, Fannie ..........June 21, '22
Andrus, Mable R. ........ Feb. 7, '24
Armantage, T. A ......... Jan. 5, '19
Artz, Mary Ann ............ Oct. 27, '26
Benjamin, Aliza C. ...... Aug. 27, '25
Berge, Lilly Bobsin ...... Sept. 30, '26
Bernstein, Cornelia ......June 26, '24
Black, Mary E ............. June 7, '26
Blumenthal, Eliza B.....July 6, '27
Bowman, Mollie ..............Jan. 25, '25
Boyd, Isabelle L ............. May 25, '25
Bradley, Nannie ............ Apr. 30, '25
Brown, Mary E ........... Aug. 27, '23
Brown, Rosalind V ..... Mar. 27, '24
Bryant, Rachel
2, '23
Buchanan, Isabel S ....... Dec. 8, '24
Burtchael, Gertrude .... June 12, '26
Carlson, Laura L ........... Feb. 10, '20
Cash, Anna :..................... July 7, '22
Cash, Mary E. ................ Oct. 25, '26
Charlesworth, Mary A. .. Feb. 16, '19
Cohn, Sarah .................. Sept. 8, '22
Conger, Martha A. ......Feb. 12, '26
Cowley, Cerita ]. .......... Sept. 18, '25
Crough, Eva L ............. Aug. 9, '23
Davis, Eliza A ...............July26, '17
Davis, Grace G.............July 25, '16
Dickson, Alice W ......... June 11, '21
Donaldson, Abigail ...... Mar. 10, '14
Dougherty, Lucy H ....... Apr. 3, '26
Dunton, Ada F ............... Nov. 1, '25
Dunn, Annie C............. June 22, '25
Dryden, Sarah S ........... Feb. 26, '26
Estey, Catherine A. ......Apr.20, '27
Evans, Mary ]. .............. Dec. 28, '23
Felter, Eliza D ............. July 24, '23
Fortreide, Auguste E ..... Apr. 24, '25
Garland, Susan C. ........ Aug. 18, '25
Grant, Hattie H ............. Feb. 6, '22
Gregory, Ada M ......... Nov. 12, '26
Gordon, Mary J ............. July 13, '27
Hall, Maria A ............... Aug. 22. '19

Lodge
No.
Eden ...................... 113
Live Oak ............ 61
Needles ................ 326
Foothill ................ 564
San Pedro .......... 332
West Gate .......... 335
Berkeley .............. 363
Oakland ................ 188
San Joaquin ........ 19
Fidelity ................ 120
Mount Moriah .... 44
Oriental ................ 144
Corinthian ............ 9
Natoma ................ 64
Golden Gate ........ 30
Alcatraz ............. .244
Oakland ................ 188
Excelsior .............. 166
South Gate ........ 320
San Jose .............. 10
Oxnard ................ 341
Los Angeles ........ 42
Pasadena ............. .272
Berkeley .............. 363
Mission ................ 169
Keith ....................187
Naval .................... 87
Pacific ..................136
Vacaville ............. .134
Parnassus ............ 388
Palmyra .............. 26
0 roville ................ 103
Tyrian ................. .439
Benicia .................. 5
Whittier .............. 323
King Solomon ....260
Crockett ............. .139
Consuelo .............. 325
San Jose .............. 10
Mizpah ............... 378
Board of Relief..
Live Oak ............ 61

Town
Age
San Leandro....90
Oakland ............ 79
Needles ............ 70
Oakland ..........79
San Pedro ...... 72
Los Angeles ....73
Berkeley .......... 68
Oakland ............ 57
San Joaquin ....69
San Francisco ..67
San Francisco.. 71
San Francisco .. 59
Marysville ..... .85
Folsom City .... 72
San Francisco ..80
Oakland ............ 73
Oakland ............ 56
San Francisco .. 64
Los Angeles ....68
San Jose .......... 78
Oxnard ............75
Los Angeles ....70
Pasadena ........82
Berkeley ......... 71
San Francisco.. 73
Gilroy ..............80
Vallejo ..............73
San Francisco..67
Vacaville ..........94
San Francisco..66
Placerville ........75
Oroville ............80
Manteca ............86
Benicia ..............67
Whittier .......... 73
San Francisco.. 65
San Francisco.. 50
Escondido ........78
Sau Jose .......... 54
Los Angeles ....63
San Francisco ..78
Oakland ..........91

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted
Hammerly, Mary .......... Jan. 8, '21
Haza.rd, Marie .............. Aug.10, '25
Heith, Catherine ............ Oct. 16, '10
Humaston, Isaphene .... Sept. 11, '24
Hill, Barbara May .......... July 26, '27
Jackson, May R ........... Aug. 27, '25
Jacobs, Martha E ......... Feb. 24, '23
Jeffries, Viola H ........... Nov. 8, '23
Johnson, Amanda .......... Mar. 1, '21
Jones, Rosa .................... Apr. 27, '19
Kalfus, Sarah W .......... .Jan. 29, '19
Kimball, Camelia L ..... Sept. 19, '26
Lambert, Emma ............ Jan. 1, '25
Lane, Laura M ............... Oct. 2, '26
Langworthy, Martha ... .July 23, '26
Laufman, Anna ............ Aug. 27, '24
Lawrence, Lucy P ......... Nov. 21, '16
Leckenby, Charlotte ...... Apr.18, '27
Lewis, Margaret ............ Dec. 26, '25
Linder, Elvina B........... May 1, '18
Mast, Frances C........... Aug. 31, '12
Matthews, Louise L ..... Aug. 7, '22
McAfee, Julia F ........... Oct. 21, '23
McKinnon, Mary A ....... Dec. 31, '01
McGuire, Mary ............. _July 14, '26
Miller, Mary J .. ,, ......... Dec. 27, '24
Mitchell, Mary J ........... June 27, '25
Mouser, Elizabeth J ....... Feb. 16, '22
Moore, Ellen B............. Feb. 24, '26
Nourse, Florence A ....... Dec. 7, '26
Nyhuis, Marie H ......... Mar. 21, '25
Orman, Ella J ............... June 21, '25'
Owen, Mary L ............. Mar. 31, '24
Pawley, Maria C. .......... Apr. 28, '26
Peach, Mary A. .............. July 21, '24
Peck, Sarah E ............... Nov. 4, '25
Pohlman, Mary .............. July 15, '21
Prall, Annie R. C. ........ Feb. 5, '15
Powell, Georgia C......... July 31, '27
Rea, Martha L. .............. Mar. 25, '23
Ricardo, Celina E. ........ Feb. 20, '21
Richardson, Julia A. .... Mar. 13, '16
Risdon, Imogene B ....... Feb. 3, '27

Lodge
No.
Corinthian ............ 9
San Jose .............. 10
Fresno ................. .247
Mt. View ............ 194
Brooklyn ............. .225
Lompoc ................262
Marin .................... 191
Los Angeles ........ 42
Laurel .................. 245
San Diego ............ 35
San Jose .............. 10
San Francisco ...... 360
Woodland ............ 156
McKinley ............ 347
San Pedro ............ 332
Sincerity .............. 132
Board of Relief..
La Mesa ............. -407
Gravel Range ...... 59
South Gate ........ 320
Yosemite .............. 99
Yount .................... 12
Friendship ..........210
Morning Star .... 68
Alcatraz ............. .244
Gardena .............. 372
Argonne .............. 514
Charter lfock ... .410
Arcata .................. 106
Natoma ................ 64
Naval .................... 87
Burlingame ......... .400
Dunsmuir ............ 297
Friendship ......... .210
Mount Moriah .... 44
Madera ............... .280
Porterville .......... 303
King Solomon .... 260
Fairmount ............ 435
East Gate ............ 290
Western Star ...... 2
Live Oak ............ 61
Consuelo .............. 325

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Town
Age
Marysville ........ 73
San Jose ........ 57
Fresno ..............81
Mt. View ........ 73
Oakland ............64
Lompoc ............68
San Rafael ...... 68
Los Angeles .... 75
Willows ............ 86
San Diego ........83
San Jose .......... 64
San Francisco .. 62
Woodland ........ 75
Richmond ........ 79
San Pedro ........ 57
Greenville ........ 76
San F rancisco ..65
La Mesa .......... 77
Camptonville .... 79
Los Angeles ...7tl
Merced ............ 82
Napa .................. 72
San Jose ..........85
Stockton .......... 79
Oakland ............ 73
Gardena ............ 79
San Francisco .. 67
Berkeley .......... 76
Arcata .............. 77
Folsom City...... 72
Vallejo .............. 77
Burlingame ...... 78
Dunsmuir ........ 68
San Jose .......... 85
San Francisco.. 69
Madera ............69
Porterville ........ 68
San Francisco .. 68
San Francisco .. 76
Los Angeles .... 72
Shasta .............. 77
Oakland .......... 77
Escondido ........ 74

Name
Admitted
Rogers, Leonora J ......... Oct. 6, '25
Rohde, Anna .................. Aug. 3, '23
Rowell, Jane .................. June 10, '22
Sawyer, Ella B ............. Sept. 18, '13
Schwain, Mary .............. Jan. 22, '25
Sly, Ellen S ................... Nov. 5, '13
Stokes, Mary M ........... Feb. 17, '26
Surface, Emma .............. Aug. 19, '16
Templeton, Phoebe ...... Aug. 30, '26
Thurling, Angeline ........ Dec. 22, '26
Thurman, Abigael D ..... June 18, '24
Titcomb, Elizabeth ...... Aug. 20, '26
Tilley, Sadie G............... July 6, '27
Van Marie, Helen B..... Nov. 5, '24
Walls, Jessie .................. Nov. 4, '19
Walton, Ida May .......... Jun. 22, '25
Wehmer, Anna A ......... Aug. 31, '22
Weil, Esther .................. July 26, '17
Weisenfeld, Marianne .... June 8, '24
Wetmore, E~aline .......... Dec. 12, '20
White, Ada L ................. Mar. 15, '24
Wilder, Marion C. ........ July 14, '21
Williams, Laura A. ...... Mar. 22, '25
Withers, Phoebe .......... June 13, '27
Wooten, Mary A ........... Dec. 26, '26

Lodge
No.
King David's ..... .209
King Solomon ... .260
Golden Gate ...... 30
Natoma ................ 64
Bakersfield ......... .224
Silver Gate ........ 296
East Gate ........... .290
Ione ...................... 80
San Mateo .......... 226
Argonaut .............. 461
San Diego .......... 35
Oriental ............... .144
Bay View ........... .401
Occidental ............ 22
Pacific .................. 136
Oakland ................ 188
West Lake .......... 392
Henry Clay .......... 95
Thousand Oaks ... .478
Ray View ........... .401
Mendocino .......... 179
Hawaiian .............. 21
Chico .................... 111
East Belt ............ 391
Mill Valley .......... 356

513

Town
Age
S. Luis Obispo ..63
San Francisco .. 70
San Francisco ..82
Folsom City .... 77
Bakersfield ...... 73
San Diego ........ 81
Los Angeles .... 70
Ione .................. 74
San Mateo ...... 85
San Francisco .. 73
San Diego ...... 68
San Francisco .. 86
Oakland ............ 72
San Francisco .. 67
San Francisco .. 77
Oakland ............68
Los Angeles .... 70
Sutter Creek. ... 82
Berkeley .......... 77
Oakland ............ 71
Mendocino ........ 68
Honolulu .......... 78
Chico ................66
Tuolumne ........ 74
Mill Valley ...... 81

Outside Relief
Name
Lodge
Adams, James E .............................................Perris No. 411
Ballinger Daniel R ....................................... Needles No. 326
Bennett, Cora Lee .......................................... Sou~hern California No. 278
Buchanan, George W ...................................Lodi No. 256
Black, Nathaniel ............................................ Palos Verdes No. 389
Carl, Irving L ................................................. West Gate No. 335
Carnavan, Martha F ..................................... Azusa No. 305
Carter, Elizabeth Gilmore
(Died Dec. 2, 1926) ..................................... Antioch No. 175
Czeikowitz, Edith .......................................... San Francisco Board of Relief
Fallai, Guy ...................................................... Silver Gate No. 296
Forsythe, G. W ...............................................La Fayette No. 126
Fosdick, Thomas Henry .............................. Monrovia No. 308
Green, William ..............................................Ocean Park No. 369
1-Iigh. Rebecca E ........................................... Magnolia No. 242
Jack, Frances M ............................................. Chico No. 111

514

Name
Age
Stevens, Isadora T. ____ 65
Upham, Mary Alice ____ 70
Upham, Henry L. ______ 74
Van Metre, George ____ 79
Walker, Joshua __________ 66
Williams, Louisa ________ 86
Zemansky, Samuel ______ 88

Lodge
Name
Journal, Philip Samuel (Now at home) __ Sequoia No. 349
Norris, Rosa ------------------·---------------------------------Alameda No. 167
Sherwood, Rebecca Adams __________________________ Naval No. 87
Smith, Lewis Wade ______________________________________ Bakersfield No. 224

Smith, Walter ]. --------------------------------------------Sisson No. 310
Stephenson, Isabel E. ____________________________________ Sacramento No. 40
Varcoe, George (Died Aug. 29, 1927) ____ Pentalpha No. 202
Died During the Y ear-40
Name
Age
Ames, Minnie P. -------· 69
Baxter, Mary Eliz. ____ 89
Bonham, Maria H. ____ 73
Chatfield, Thos. F. ______ 72
Church, Palen -------------- 78
Clegg, Robt. ------------·--· 66
Cole, W. N. ·---------------·- 91
Cottrell, Minnie E. ____ 73
Crough, John A. ---··--- 69
Davis, John M. ---------- 7_7
Ellis, Josephine A. -----· 62
Grenzin, John A. -------· 73
Hand, Wm. M. ------------ 85
Harriger, Geo. W. ____ 73
Hogue, Jos. M. ·--------- 66
Hoskins, Jos. -------------- 90
Jones, Johanna ------------ 82
Layng, John Beatty ____ 66
Lane, Wm. S. -------------· 79
Maas, Adolph J. -------· 87
Metzler, Herman -------- 68
Mertens, Richard -------- 80
Mellis, Jane ---------------- 66
McFadden, Victoria ____ 85
Miller, Christian -------- 90
Nickerson, Mary D, ____ 72
Parr, Edward Wm. ____ 61
Potting, Henry F. ______ 78
Popple, Jennie F. ________ 81
Purdy, Wm. F. ---------- 66
Rohrbacher, Emma ··-- 54
Smith, Marana F. ______ 81
Stafford, Ralph L. ____ 77

Lodge
No.
Oak Grove ------ 215
Santa Rosa ------ 57
Charter Rock -- 410
Concord ---·-------- 117
McKinley -------- 347
Molino -------------- 150
Long Beach ----·- 327
East Gate ---------- 290
King Solomon's 260
Keith ------------------ 187
Berkeley -----------· 363
Long Beach ·----- 327
California -------1
Orland -------------· 265
San Pedro -------- 332
Tuolumne ---------- 8
Jefferson -----------· 97
King Solomon's 260
McKinley ---------- 347
Mizpah -------------· 378
Crockett ------------ 139
Crockett ------------ 139
Marin ---------------- 191
San Miguel -----· 285
Olive Branch ___ _269
Sotoyome ---------- 123
Winnedumah _____ _287
So. San Fran. ____ 212
Oroville ------------ 103
San Diego -------- 35
Doric ---------------· 216
Morning Star -- 68
Roseville ---------·-- 122

Date
May 21, '27
Sept. 11, '26
May 23, '27
Jan. 13, '27
Apr. 28, '27
Feb. 7, '27
May 23, '27
May 25, '27
Aug. 26, '27
June 19, '27
Apr. 7, '27
Mar. 21, '27
Feb. 28, '27
Jan. 22, '27
Apr. 22, '27
May 13, '27
July 5, '27
Jan. 2, '27
Feb. 28, '27
July 3, '27
Sept. 21, '26
Mar. 6, '27
June 15, '27
May 26, '27
Aug. 6, '27
Apr. 20, '27
Dec. 28, '26
Feb. 2, '27
July 3, '27
May 10, '27
Feb. 17, '27
Dec. 22, '26
Nov. 20, 26

515

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Buried at
Oakland
Santa Rosa
Oakland
San Rafael
Oakland
Winters
Deco to
Deco to
Grass Valley
Deco to
Oakland
Long Beach
San Mateo
Deco to
Deco to
Sonora
Decoto
San Mateo
Deco to
Deco to
Oakland
Deco to
Oakland
Paso Robles
Deco to
Healdsburg
Oakland
Deco to
Chicago, Ill.
Deco to
San Mateo
Stockton
Roseville

Lodge
No.
Oakland
183
Palo Alto -------- 316
Palo Alto -------- 316
Trinity ---------------- 27
Richmond ---------- 375
Doric ------------------ 216
Pacific -------------- 136

Date
Mar. 23, '27
Apr. 9, '27
May 17, '27
Mar. 24, '27
Aug. 31, '27
Nov. 2, '26
Oct. 24, '26

B1tried at
Oakland
San Mateo
San Mateo
Weaverville
Decoto
Decoto
San Francisco

Report of the Superintendent, Covina
To the Trustees of the Masonic Homes:
Through monthly written reports you have been kept informed of
conditions in the Home, of our problems, and what progress has been
made toward their solution. Work with children is many-sided and neverending. It calls for better than the best we can do. It entails responsibilities of the highest order. The workers in the Home at Covina are
striving faith fully to be worthy of the trust which they bear.
Number of Children at Home
The present number of children enrolled in the Home is 159. Of
this number five are under school age; 100 are enrolled in the Charter
Oak Grammar School; 54 are in attendance in high school. Two boys
and five girls from the Home were graduated from 1he Covina J-ligh
School in June. Two of these girls had leading parts in the Commencement Play. In general our children take their places in the activities 0f
the schools which they attend, and of the community in which they live,
just as do children from other homes in the community.
The two boys who graduated have both gone into jobs in Los Angeles
and are self supporting. Two of the girls will take nurse's training, one
will go to business college, one plans to go to the University of California, and one has been happily married.
Quite frequently we receive visits from former members of the
Home, whose attitude when they return to us indicate that they regard the
Home with affection and gratitude.
0

Staff .Employes
If we are to give the right kind of service to our children in looking
after their physical needs and their character development, we must have
an adequate personnel in daily and hourly contact with them. To this encl
we have recently added another housemother in the Junior Girls' Building,
where formerly one housemother had to look after forty-four little girls.
The list of our staff of employes directly serving the personal needs of
our children is now as follows : Supervisor of older boys, 1 ; housemothers,
6; seamstresses, 2; kitchen and dining room, 5; laundry, 2; nurse, 1.

GRAND L ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

516

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Music
The instruction in music to children of the Home is a valuable factor
in their training. Mrs. Belle M. Ambos devotes her entire time to this
work, and has succeeded in imparting to many of our children not only
proficiency in piano and voice, but also a better appreciation of music.
Health
There is little to be said concerning the health of the children, because
it has been so uniformly good. No serious illness, epide~ic or other,
has occurred during the year. This gratifying condition is largely due to
prompt attention to minor ills, and is greatly aided by the excellent .hospital facilities afforded by the new Knights Templar hospital. Dental care
is important, and we are endeavoring to get our dental work upon a more
systematic and efficient basis than before.

517

pool. A light ing system for the grounds is another improvement which
is needed.

The Farm
Our farmer, Brother M. G. Cradler, not only carries on the farm
work most capably, but has employed a number of our older boys in work
in his department in a way most beneficial to them. To do this requires
much patience and understanding.
Heredity
Heredity counts; one ca11 not live and work with the group of
children at Covina and fail to be struck with the fact that it means

Visitors
The Home is always open to visitors; and during the past year more
than four thousand persons have been received and shown through the
Home. There have been many visitations from Masonic Lodges, Eastern
Star Chapters, and other Masonic bodies, accompanied in many cases by
entertainment programs. These events are listed elsewhere in connection
with this report. A particularly appreciated form of visitation is that
by Eastern Star Chapters who bring their thimbles and spend the day
mending.
A Particular Need
If I were to suggest a particular need in connection with the contact
of our children with the body of Masonry, it would be the need for more
of our older boys to become personally acquainted with men of affairs in
various vocations, so that they may enlarge their ideas and have a better
basis for vocational choice.
Film Program
A film program has been furnished weekly for . the last several
months by the Los Angeles Masters' and Wardens' Association, and this
service will be continued during the coming year. In affording these
pictures to the children the Los Angeles Masters' and Wardens'· Association has done a very practical service; the certainty of seeing a good
"show" every Saturday night is greatly appreciated by the children.
Outstanding Need
The outstanding need of the Home in the way of equipment is an
auditorium. There is at present no adequate room in which the entire
Home family can be assembled for entertainments, picture shows, and the
like. Another improvement much to be desired is an outdoor swimming

Home Children at Rocky Point, Balboa
something to come of Masonic antecedents. As they grow older we
constantly impress upon them that as children of Masons they should
be conscious of an added obligation to conform their lives to the highest
ideals.
These boys and girls are worthy of the splendid provision which has
been made for them at Covina. With the eternal appeal of childhood they
beseech us and challenge us to provide for them and to make them happy.
Yet we must not lose sight of the fact that when they leave us most of
them will have their own way to make in the world ; and our solicitude

516

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Music
The instruction in music to children of the Home is a valuable factor
in their training. Mrs. Belle M. Ambos devotes her entire time to this
work, and has succeeded in imparting to many of our children not only
proficiency in piano and voice, but also a better appreciation of music.

Health
There is little to be said concerning the health of the children, because
it has been so uniformly good. No serious illness, epiderttic or other,
has occurred during the year. This gratifying condition is largely due to
prompt attention to minor ills, and is greatly aided by the excellent hospital facilities afforded by the new Knights Templar hospital. Dental care
is important, and we are endeavoring to get our dental work upon a more
systematic and efficient basis than before.

517

pool. A lighting system for the grounds is another improvement which
is needed.

The Fann
Our farmer, Brother M. G. Gradler, not only carries on the farm
work most capably, but has employed a number of our older boys in work
in his department in a way most beneficial to them. To do this requires
much patience and understanding.

Heredity
Heredity counts ; one cari not live and work with the group of
children at Covina and fail to be struck with the fact that it means

Visitors
The Home is always open to visitors ; and during the past year more
than four thousand persons have been received and shown through the
Home. There have been many visitations from Masonic Lodges, Eastern
Star Chapters, and other Masonic bodies, accompanied in many cases by
entertainment programs. These events are listed elsewhere in connection
with this report. A particularly appreciated form of visitation is that
by Eastern Star Chapters who bring their thimbles and spend the day
mending.

A Particular Need
If I were to suggest a particular need in connection with the contact
of our children with the body of Masonry, it would be the need for more
of our older boys to become personally acquainted with men of affairs in
various vocations, so that they may enlarge their ideas and have a better
basis for vocational choice.
Film Program
A film program has been furnished weekly for . the last several
months by the Los Angeles Masters' and Wardens' Association, and this
service will be continued during the coming year. In affording these
pictures to the children the Los Angeles Masters' and Wardens' •Association has done a very practical service; the certainty of seeing a goOd
"show" every Saturday night is greatly appreciated by the children.
Outstanding Need
The outstanding need of the Home in the way of equipment is an
auditorium. There ~s at present no adequate room in which the entire
Home family can be assembled for entertainments, picture shows, and the
like. Another improvement much to be desired is an outdoor swimming

Home Children at Rocky Point, Balboa
something to come of Masonic antecedents. As they grow older we
constantly impress upon them that as children of Masons they should
be conscious of an added obligation to conform their lives to the highest
ideals.
These boys and girls are worthy of the splendid provision which has
been made for them at Covina. With the eternal appeal of childhood they
beseech us and challenge us to provide for them and to make them happy.
Yet we must not lose sight of the fact that when they leave us most of
them will have their own way to make in the world; and our solicitude

518

GRAND LODGE OF UALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

for their happiness should not blind us to the necessity for arming them
with weapons both keen and strong to fight life's battles. Therefore as
they emerge from childhood into youth they must be expected to bear
increased responsibility, and should show constantly increasing ability to
apply themselves efficiently to study and industriously to work. We are
endeavoring to develop in the older children such capacities as will enable
them, when we can no longer foster and protect them, to take their places
in the world with confidence of success.

Opportunities
I believe that experience in the handling of money is of much value
in this direction. We have given the older children opportunities to earn
money and to spend it. Some of their work about the premises of the
Home has been paid for; during the summer camp at Balboa, in various
employments outside the camp they earned nearly $600.00. Money so
earned is credited to their individual accounts, and is theirs to spend,
under reasonable supervision and advice. The normal boy or girl of high
school age is eager to attain the feeling of independence that comes with
the ability to earn money.
The transplanting from the Home to the outside world is bound to
be a critical time in the lives of many of our wards. In the latter years of
their life in the Home we should do our utmost to prepare them for the
conditions they must meet; then in many cases we should actively aid in
getting them adjusted to those conditions after they leave us. We are in
the business of caring for the dependent children of Masons, and this
care should continue during the period of their dependency. Helping them
to help themselves after they leave us should be an important part of our
work; to neglect it in the case of any child is to hazard the loss of all
previous effort with that chi.Id.
Fraternally Submitted,
J. M. DOWNEN, Superintendent.

.

Visitations
September, 1926 :
26--Alexander Graham Bell Lodge, No. 595.
Octcber, 1926:
3-Bellflower Chapter, No. 397, 0. E. S. and Service Chapter, No.
414, o. E. s.
23-Compton Bethel, Jobs Daughters.
24--Searchlight Lodge, No. 567, Searchlight Chapter, No. 133, R.
A. M., Searchlight Chapter, No. 435, 0. E. S.
31-Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319.
November, 1926:
7-West Adams Chapter, No. 48, 0. E. S.

519

14--Signal Lodge, No. 543.
22-White Shrine of Long Beach, Artesia Chapter, No. 253, 0. E.
S., Daylight Chapter, No. 265,. 0. E. S., San Pedro Chapter,
of De Malay, and Battle Fleet Chapter of De Malay.
28--The Gardens Lodge, No. 621, and The Gardens Chapter, No.

464, 0. E. s.

December, 1926:
12-Mt. Olive Lodge, No. 506.
19-Azusa Lodge, No. 533, Columbia Chapter, No. 247, 0. E. S.,
Long Beach Chapter, No. 173, 0. E. S., and Highland Park
Lodge, No. 382.
26-Evergreen Lodge, No. 259, Riverside Lodge, No. 635, Riverside
Chapter, No. 67, R. A. M., and Ungava Chapter, No. 106,

0. E. s.

March, 1927:
11-Lankershim Club of the 0. E. S.
April, 1927:
9-Social Order of the Beauceant,, Pasadena Assembly, No. 44.
10-San Diego Sciots, No. 32.
12-Claremont Chapter, No. 324, 0. E. S.
24--Los Angeles Jobs f?aughters, Bethel, i\'o. 4.
May, 1927:
8-Huntington Beach Lodge, No. 3SO, and Seaside Chapter, No.
259, 0. E. S.
15-Bettina Chapter, No. 399, 0. E. S.
22-Moneta Lodge, No. 405, and James Madison Lodge, No. 572.
29-University Lodge, No. 394.
June, 1927:
12-:Guardian Lodge, No. 596, San Jacinto Lodge, No. 338, and La
Victoria Chapter, No. 241, 0. E. S.
19-Puente Lodge, No. 446, and La Puente Chapter, No. 325, 0.

E. S.
July, 1927:
24-Signal Lodge, No. 543. Visited at Camp Tucker .
August, 1927:
7-Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles. Visited at Camp
Tucker.

Entertainments
Dec. 23.-Masters' & Wardens' Association gave the children a beautiful
Christmas tree. All joined in singing "Silent Night." This was
followed by a short program and a picture show featuring Joe
Cobb in "Our Gang." The young comedian appeared in person
and rendered several good readings. Monte Blue of Utopia

520

PROCEEDINGS OF '.L'HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge, No. 537, again acted the part of the Santa Claus, much to
the delight of the children. In passing out the gifts he showed
the jolly good spirit that is characteristic of the man, thus contributing much toward making the party a very delightful
affair.
Dec. 24.-The Los Angeles Times delighted the children by sending out
Santa Claus and his reindeer, and Santa talked to them about
the Frozen North, the reindeer and the Eskimos. The opportunity to see real reindeer meant much to the little children.
Dec.26.-The Masons of Monrovia gave the children a delightful Christmas treat. Forty automobiles conducted by two traffic cops,
called for them. The first stop was the Monrovia Theater
where they saw a splendid picture. Then on to the Masonic
Temple where they were greeted by the members of the Lodge
and their families. The huge Christmas tree was beautifully
decorated with gifts for all the children, and Santa Claus was
there to entertain them. After the thrill of opening their
packages they were conducted to the dining room where the
1927 ladies served chocolate, cakes and pop corn balls.
Jan. 10.-The Goodyear Rubber Works Minstrel Club entertained the
children at the Home with their' annual minstrel show.
Jan. 30.-Perry Weidner, Chas. V. Means and "Nat Farnum" sponsored
an entertainment for the children of the Home given by forty
children from the West Coast Theaters, Inc., directed by
Mrs. Ethel Meglin of the Meglin Studio, Los Angeles.
Feb. 19.-The children of the Home were again given the pleasure of
attending the ··orange Show" at San Bernardino. The Pacific
Electric Railway furnished two cars to transport the children
to and from Covina to San Bernardino. Phoenix Lodge, No.
178, San Bernardino Lodge, No. 348 and Damascus Lodge, No.
648, conducted the trip, and the ladies of the 0. E. S. served
the lunch. San Bernardino Sciots served the children with ice
cream and cakes just before they returned home.
Apr. 10-The San Diego Sciots' forty-piece band came to the Home and
gave the children a concert. Blanch Wood and Harry L. Becker
were the soloists.
May 8.-The Glendale Commandery and the Glendale Bethel, No. 19,
Job's Daughters, visited the Home on Mother's Day" and gave
a very appropriate program. E. A. Hyer sang by request "That
Wonderful Mother of Mine."
·May 14.-Members 9f the Two Thirty Three Club and the Jinnistan Vale
Orchestra came out to the Home in the evening and entertained
the children with music, readings and dancing.

521

May 21.-Glen Chapter, No. 357, 0. E. S., entertained our children at the
Mission Theater at Glendora. The program was "While London Sleeps," starring Rin-Tin-Tin, also "Tony and His Pals"
with The Comedy Action Gang. Automobiles for transportation were furnished by Masons of Glendora. A candy treat was
given them at the close of the show.
May 22.-Moneta Lodge, No. 405, visited the Home and brought a
Hawaiian orchestra which furnished a program, and later
another program was given consisting of singing, dancing and
readings.
June 14.-Flag Day was appropriately observed. Bugle call and flag
raising. Children saluted the flag. Story of the flag by Colin
Allen. Story of "The :\fan Without a Country" by Charles
King. Closing all sang "The Star Spangled Banner."
July 30-Bethel Daughters and Guardian Council of Southern California
held a picnic at Balboa and entertained our children.
Aug. 15.-The Sciots of Long Beach entertained our children at Long
Beach. Gave them a good time on the "Pike"; supper and
d.ancing in the evening.

Donations to Covina Home
Fillmore Lodge, No. 379--46 Christmas boxes of candy, 5 lbs. candy,
1 lb. syrup, 1 pt. pickles, 1 can fruit, 1 can jam, 1 gal. olives, 8
glasses jelly, 3Y, gals. canned fruit, 3 lbs. nuts, 10 books, 54 qts.
canned fruit and jams, 97 qts. tomatoes, 1 box raisins.
Peter Johnson, Nazareth Shrine-7 gals. ice cream.
White Shrine of Long Beach-29 qts. canned fruit, 33 qts. jams and
jellies, 26 glasses jelly, 24 bottles relish and olives, 1 football, 12
army blankets.
Betty Berger-13 story books, l box beads, 1 toy knitting outfit.
Pomona Social Club, 0. E. S.--8Y, qts. canned fruit, 11 qts. jam, 4
pts. pickles, 11 glasses, jelly, 4 pkgs. coffee, 10 lbs sugar.
Pomona Lodge, No. 246-Courtesy of A. C. Gerard & Co., 13 crates
of cantaloupes.
San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452-31 boxes apples, 5 gals. honey, 335 qts.
canned fruit, 3 bunches bananas, 50 lbs. cranberries, 9 rings for
High School seniors.
Golden State Lodge, No. 358--2 turkeys.
H.K. Wolff-20 vols. Book of Knowledge.
Highland Park Lodge, No. 382-10 cases canned tomatoes, 50 lbs. dried
apricots, 50 lbs. dried pears, 100 lbs. prunes, 6 cases canned fruit,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

522

523

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

24 glasses jelly, 24 crocks fruit preserves, 30 lbs. cocoa, 132 glasses
jelly, 41 qts. canned fruit, 31 pts. jam, 24 4-lb. jars jam, 18 3-lb. jars
jam, 2 cans soup, 1 lb. peanut butter.
Central Junior High School-Fruit, cakes, etc.
The Gardens Lodge, No. 621-The Gardens Chapter, No. 464, 0. E. S.,
1 basket fruit and nuts, 12 pts. honey, 1 qt. sage honey, 6 pkgs.
animal crackers, 6 cans condensed milk, 1 lb. Bishop's cocoa, 2 lbs.
breakfast food, 4 lbs. raisins, 10 lbs. lima beans, 66 qts. canned
fruit and vegetables, 3 qts. relish, 13 pts. jellies and jams, 26 glasses
jelly.
Ben Black, M. A. Hatfield, Paul D. Farr, S. J. Rosenberg, Benevolence
Lodge, No. 631-12 doz. rolls, 1 Webster's New International Dictionary, 17 story books, and a bundle of magazines.
Belvedere Lodge, No. 539, Belvedere Chapter, No. 402, 0. E. S.-7 qts.
canned fruit, 21 qts. jams and jellies, 4 4Y,-lb. crocks jam, 6 2Y,-lb.
crocks jam, 7 buckets jelly, 8 cases jam, 40 glasses jelly.
H. J. Padgham, Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319-2 qts. canned fruit, 1 lb.
cranberries, 2 lbs. nuts, Y, lb. coffee, 17 cans fruit and vegetables,
2 qts. jam.
Glen and Betty Cavender-Christmas basket, 16 glasses jelly, 1 lb.
raisins, 2 lbs. nuts, 1 box cream candy.
Mr. and Mrs. W. H. Whisler, Mt. Olive Lodge, No. 506-5 glasses jelly.
Mt. Olive Lodge, No. 506-1 box oranges, 3 cases popcorn balls, 3 boxes
glace fruit, 7 lbs. nuts, 21 qts. canned fruit and vegetables, 1 lb.
cookies, 1 lb. marshmallows, 14 lbs. peanut butter, 1 can apple
butter, 53 glasses jelly, 59 qts. jam, 8 qts. marmalade, 2 qts. preserves,
3 lbs. cocoa. Moving picture.
A. H. Wittenberg-12 doz. hose.
Walter W. Root, South Pasadena Lodge, No. 367-Treatment cabinet
and 2 stands.
Scottish Rite, San J ose---16 corduroy trousers.
Mr. and Mrs. John F. Taylor, Pasadena-Treatment table.
East Bay Past Matrons Association-4 comforts.
Frank Bush, Paul Revere Lodge, No. 462-1 Peter rabbit, 1 doll.
Silverwoods-168 Christmas boxes mixed candy.
Seaside Lodge, No. 504--1 aviary.
Magnus Fruits Products Co.-1 pail mince meat.
Amaranth Needle Club, Bakersfield Court, No. 32-6 comforts, 4 pillow
slips.

Alva Rouch and Ruby F. Rouch, Traver Lodge, No. 294--Mr. and
Mrs. C. T. Mercer, Traver Lodge, No. 294, and Mr. and Mrs.
G. E. Andrus, Traver Lodge, No. 294--25 lbs. seedless raisins, 1
box fancy raisins, peaches and figs (80 lbs.)
Mr. and Mrs. J. D. Morrison, Mr. and Mrs. Roy Boyle, Mr. and Mrs.
Wallace Carlson-12 qts. canned fruit, 3 pts. jam:
Azure Lodge, No. 533-Radio.
Mrs. Ellen McCullock, .Long Beach Chapter, No. 173, 0. E. S.-5 doz.
Christmas cards.
F. X. Pfaffinger-57 books.
Columbus Chapter, No. 247, 0. E. S.-4 lbs. apples, 7 qts. canned fruit
and vegetables, 1 lb. nuts, 1 lb. raisins, 1 lb. figs, 1 lb. candy, 1 lb.
dates, 1 qt. pickles, 2 cans soup, 11 qts. jam, 33 glasses jelly, 2 lbs.
beans, 2 prs. sport hose.
Alhambra Lodge, No. 322, Alhambra Chapter, No. 193, 0. E. S., Granada
Chapter, No. 442, 0. E. S., Granada Lodge, No. 608, San Gabriel
Valley Chapter, No. 100, R. A. M., Alhambra Commandery, No. 48,
K. T., Alhambra Chapter Order of DeMolay, No. 766-12 sweaters,
6 skull caps, 6 fielders' gloves, 4 reg. bats, 2 indoor bats, 4 tennis
raquets; 1 bathing suit, 2 footballs, 2 volley balls, 2 volley ball nets,
1 doz. tennis balls, 2 doz. baseballs, 1 doz. playground balls, 5 kodaks,
2 doz. rolls of film.
Manchester Knitting Mills---0 doz. skull caps, 10 sweaters.
W. C. Gerfin, University Lodge, No. 394---0 lugs pears, 2 boxes apples.
J. W. Robinson Co.-1 box toys, 40 Mah Dueck.
Mrs. Mary E. Beckell-40 story books.
Tom Hatfield, Highland Park Lodge, No. 382-Hospital supplies.
Mrs. J. B. Clark-Y, gal. canned fruit.
W. P. Widrington, Seaside Lodge, No. 504--5 enameled toilet cabinets.
Neil N eedham-4 boxes apples.
Alex. Culver-54 books, 9 bundles magazines, 3 packages magazines.
Dr. Emma Anderson-20 casabas, gifts for senior girls.
Bellflower Chapter, No. 397, 0. E. S.-7 qts. canned fruit, 10 qts. jams
and jellies, 4 glasses jelly, 2 pictures for music studio, 1 floor lamp.
Service Chapter, No. 414, 0. E. S.-2 qts. canned fruit, 5 qts. jams and
jellies, 9 glasses jelly.
J\uxiliary of the 0. E. S. at Monrovia-Macie denim aprons and sheets
for the Home.

524

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

York Lodge, No. 432-2%1 lbs. blackberry jam, 5 lbs. strawberry jam,
14 qts. canned fruit, strawberry jelly, 5 pts. apple butter, 10 cans
corn.
Mr. and Mrs. B. Weston, York Lodge, No. 432-4 qts. peaches.
Moneta Lodge, No. 405, Moneta Chapter, No. 315, 0. E. S.-1 box
oranges, 1 l~rge box candy, 1 qt. canned fruit, 65 glasses jelly, 28
qts. jams and jellies, 1 qt. honey, 2 lbs. candy, 4 lbs. raisins, ice
cream for all.
Golden State Lodge, No. 358-Games and croquet set.
Mrs. J. W. Cornwall-2 glasses jelly.
Mr. and Mrs. R. D. Winans-3 qts. canned fruit, 3 glasses jelly.
Dr. Howard C. Atwell-2 qts. canned fruit, 2 pts. pickles, 1 glass apple
jelly.
Mrs. Thorp, Mrs. Cox,, Mrs. Turner, and Mrs. Giffons-5 lbs. candy.
Mrs. and Mr. H. Hansen, Chispa Chapter, No. 151, 0. E. S.-5 qts. jam,
Hermosa Chapter, No. 105, 0. E. S.-44 books.
Gardena Chapter, No. 260, 0. E. S.-54 qts. canned fruit, 35 qts. jams
and jellies, 12 glasses jelly, 6 qts. pickles, 18 centerpieces (embroidered.)
Glendora Lodge, No. 404-27 boxes oranges.
F. J. Wolfe, Oroville Lodge, No. 103-1 keg olives.
Pacific Balloon Co.-200 toy balloons.
Hal H. Philbrick-Gifts for the senior girls.
Job's Daughters, Bethel, No. 4-Radio for the senior girls' building.
Order of the Rainbow for Girls, Sacramento Assembly, No. 6-A box
of Christmas gifts.
Mill Valley Chapter, No. 219, 0. E. S.-21 glasses jelly, 9 pts. jam.
H. M. Ewing, Hollywood-Porch swing.
E. A. Pierce-Candy.
F. W. Bloemer-20 prs. corduroy pants.
Mrs. John Richards-4 yds. print for dresse$.
Mr. Young-Swing.
H. A. Brightley-1 box apples, 1 gal. honey.
Robt. Rankin-2 pts. canned fruit, 5 glasses jelly.
Mrs. Frank Kauffman-2 crocks and 1 jar marmalade.
C. H. Van Breton, University Lodge, No. 394-1 bathing suit.
Jack Gorman, University Lodge, No. 394-8 lugs apricots.
J. W. Smith, Magnolia Lodge, No. 242-1 gal. honey.

525

Mrs. ]. P. Wier, 6 qts. strawberry jam.
Cosmo Morgan Co.-2 cases Bon Ami.
Tehachapi Chapter, No. 188, 0. E. S.-7%1 qts. jelly, 80 qts. jam, 3
qts. canned fruit, 36 lbs. honey.
R. D. Coffland, Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319-16 Geographic magazines,
8 glasses jelly.
Mr. and Mrs. Herman Smith, Wilshire Lodge, No. 445-11 qts. jam.
Mrs. Katherine Keith-Cards, beads, etc.
George A. Prichard-6 qts. jams and preserves.
H. P. Lingo--8 story books, 2 boxes cloth samples, calendars.
Franklin Chapter, No. 20, R. A. M.-1 keg olives.
Shrine Club of Paso Robles-1 sack almonds.
H. W. Baker Linen Co.-4 pillows, pads and sheets for doll beds.
Charles Guenther-45 lbs. Manco mixed candy, 45 lbs. candy for Fourth
of July.
C. F. Plato-120 lbs. mixed candy.
Fred A. Weaver-35 lbs. candy.
Masters' and Wardens' Association-7 Christmas trees, gift for each
child, 16 mattresses.
Lanker shim· Club. 0. E. S.-Came to home to do sewing for children.
Mr. and Mrs. Fath, Moneta Chapter, No. 315, O. E. S.-1 can pineapple,
1 pt. jam.
South Gate Lodge, No. 320--Medicine cabinet.
Southern California Music Co.-23 toy instruments.
Mr. and Mrs. L. S. Porter--30 lbs. Bishop's mixed candy.
Mrs. Emma Kramer, Moneta Chapter, No. 315, 0. E. S.-Dolls and
toys for little ones, small clothes.
Claremont Chapter, No. 324, 0. E. S.-Came to the Home to do sewing
and mending for children.
Pentalpha Chapter, No. 339, 0. E. S.-120 qts. canned fruit, 2 glasses
jelly, 17% lbs. nuts.
Los Angeles Soap Co.-1 box .White King soap, 3 doz. cakes Mission
Bell soap.
Ramona Lodge, No. 457-Candy cane for each child.
Compton Bethel of Job's Daughters-Bedding for dolls' beds.
Foothill Lodge, No. 564-6 boxes of dolls' dishes.
Two Thirty-Three Club-1 Christmas tree, 1 sack potatoes, 43 Teddy
soldiers, 2 boxes apples, 1 box oranges and cranberries, 24 Movie
Land puzzles, 6 glasses jelly, 6 pts. canned fruit, toys.
Los Angeles Chapter, No. 168, 0. E. S.-17 qts. jam, 87 glasses jelly,
4 qts. canned fruit, 7 lbs. candy, 1 Kewpie.
M. L. Harris-27 books.
West Gate Lodge, No. 335-10 lbs. nuts, 6 dolls, toys, 3 bunches bananas,
4 boxes apples, 25 lbs. candy.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lexington Lodge, No. 104-45 lbs. mixed candy.
J. W. Henon-24 gals. canned fruit.
The Broadway Department Store-30 lbs. mixed candy.
Atwater Lodge, No. 622-4 qts. canned fruit, 4 glasses jelly.
Mr. and Mrs. Richardson, Euclid Lodge, No. 519-1 pr. slippers, 2 dolls.
Merribee Club, Auxiliary 0. E. S.-21 books for boys and girls.
Corn Products Co.-19 doz. popcorn balls.
1925 Martha's Cluh--Song books.
Porterville Lodge, No. 303-26 lbs. mixed candy, 10 lbs. mixed nuts.
Santa Barbara Job's Daughters-25 Christmas gifts.
Alexander Graham Bell Lodge, No. 595-1 aceptic stand, 2 waste
receivers.
Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319-Hollenbeck Chapter, No. 248, 0. E. S.,
Hollenbeck Chapter, No. 132, R. A. M.. Hollenbeck Court, No. 57,
0. of A.-6 bed spreads, 4580 pts. and 32 glasses jam, 820 pts.
and 161 glasses jelly, 65 pts. preserves, 180Y, qts. honey, 326 qts.
peaches, 192 qts. apricots, 168 qts. pears, 156 qts. pineapple, 17 qts.
berries, 46 qts. assorted fruits, 15 lbs. dried fruit, 200 lbs. sugar,
8 boxes apples, 2 sacks potatoes, 2 qts. relish, 2 lbs. candy, 24 sandwiches, 2 loaves bread.
George 0. Beubler, University Lodge, No. 394-90 lbs. Brazil nuts.
H. V. Zimmerman-1 sack almonds.
Searchlight Chapter, No. 435, 0. E. S., and Searchlight Lodge, No.
567-2Y, qts. canned fruit, 9 qts. jellies and jams, 11 glasses jelly.
Frederick A. Maurer, Hollywood Lodge, No. 355-500 lbs. sweet potatoes.
Mr. and Mrs. George Gregory, Mizpah Lodge, No. 378-4 qts. canned
fruit, 2 qts. jam, 9 glasses jelly, 2 crocks jam, 12 qts. orange
marmalade, 10 vols. "The New America," 78 vols. "World's Famous
Events Portrayed in \Vord and Picture."
R. B. Harper, Anchor Lodge, No. 273-96 milk toddle bars, 72 Baby
Ruth candy bars, 48 Hershey's almond bars, 24 Mazie candy bars, 98
walnut nuggets, 48 Golden Nugget fudge, 24 love nests, 72 pkgs.
jelly roll, 48 milk nut loaf, 24 bar~ Malteser, 672 chocolate bars,
180 large cream Easter eggs, 24 Movie Star bars, 24 Kandy Kake,
24 Car Load bars, 24 maple Big Sap bars, 24 Strong Heart bars.
Mr. and Mrs. R. B. Harper, Pearl Chapter No. 147-Christmas gift
for each child.
Social Order of the Beauceant, Pasadena Assembly, No. 44-1 Hollenbeck triplex sterilizer and stand.
Mr. and Mrs. Resenfelt-1 qt. canned fruit, 2 pts. jelly.
J. W. Brown and wife-1 pt. jam.
Mrs. H. Fones-1 embroidered centerpiece.

Artesia Lodge, No. 377, and Artesia Chapter, No. 2S3, 0. E. S.-20
bricks of ice cream, 10 cakes, 75 souvenirs, 11 qts. jam, 8 qts. canned
fruit, 1 qt. tomatoes.
Daylight Chapter, No. 265, 0. E. S., and friends-3 qts. canned fruit,
28 qts. jam, 125 glasses jelly, 1 lb. jelly beans, 2 doz. boxes mixed
snaps.
Daylight Star Points-17 lbs. home-made candy.
J. M. Clyman-2 qts. honey, 2 qts. canned fruit, 1 pt. jam.
C. A. Mattson, San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452-10 lbs. prunes.
West Adams Chapter, No. 411, 0. E. S.-8 qts. honey, 10 qts. jam, 4
crocks jam. 63 glasses jellies and jams.
William T. W. Curl-1 box apples.
Mrs. J. W. Lamb, Mrs. Galligher, and James Richey-Candy.
Mrs. Lillian Fox-1 jar jam.
Mrs. E. B. Davis-3 doz. limes.
Mrs. Caroline M. Davis-12 dolls.
Mr. and Mrs. D. L. Rowe, Signal Lodge, No. 543-3 qts. canned fruit.
Mrs. Isabel Lyman-2 jars jam.
Signal Lodge, No. 543-1 mirror, 3 pictures.
Chester Conklin, University Lodge, No. 394-200 sticks gum.
Colton Chapter, No. 211, 0. E. S.-40 qts. canned fruit, 9 qts. jams
and jellies.
King Fruit Co.-Oranges and tangerines.
Pasadena Assembly, S. 0. 0. B., No. 44-2 gals. fruit juice, 2 qts.
pickles, 94 glasses jelly, 10 qts. jam, 30 pts. canned goods.
The Slemons Tribe-6 gals. Wigwam orange juice.
Owensmouth Lodge, No. 611-110 lbs. beans.
Claremont Chapter, No. 324, 0. E. S.-3 glasses jelly, 3 pts. jam.
Fitzgerald Music Co.-295 phonograph records.
C. W. Howard-Magazines.
Social Club of 0. E. S., and Ungava Chapter, No. 106, 0. E. S.-15
embroidered linen covers for tables and dressers.
Mrs. M. W. Thompson-Package of magazines.
Mr. and Mrs. Bauchot, Huntington Beach Lodge, No. 380--10 lbs. candy
beans, 120 suckers.
Mrs. J. Bean-Bundle used linen, 5 lunch cloths, 4 towels, 6 sheets,
10 pillow slips, 1 pr. blankets, 3 table cloths, 5 tea towels, 1 bolster
cover, 1 dresser cover.
Glendale Commandery, No. 53, K. T.-2 qts. canned fruit, 19 glasses
jelly, 20 doz. carnations, 20 gals. ice cream.
Glendale Assembly, S. 0. 0. B.-17 qts. canned fruit, 3 qts. jam, 8 pts.
jelly, 36 glasses jelly, 1 jar candy, 1 lb. candy.
Mrs. Curtis-1 qt. fruit.

526

527

GRAXJ) LODGE OF CALIFORXIA

528

529

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mrs. A. L. Carrol-Worn shoes and socks.
John P. Campbell, San Dimas Lodge, No. 428-Boys' clothing.
J. L. M. Bryde-3 playground balls.
Bettina Chapter, No. 399, 0. E. S.-·13 qts. canned fruit, 14 qts. jams
and jellies, 31 pts. jams and jellies, 25 glasses jelly.
Mrs. Fred W. Wessel, Hollywood Assembly, No. 38, S. 0. 0. B.1 linen table runner, 1 piano cover, 18 qts. canned fruit.
Mrs. Joe Smith-6 qts. jelly, 5 qts. jam.
James Madison Lodge, No. 572-6 lbs. candy, 1 glass jelly, 5 playground balls.
University Lodge, No. 394-·1 doz. tennis balls, 1 football, y;; gal. grape
juice, 12 crocks jam, 37 glasses jams and jellies, 4 qts. honey, 10
qts. jam, 2 qts. canned fruit, 13 boxes candy, 250 lbs. cherries, 23
Victrola records.
Leslie Banks, University Lodge, No. 394-10 gals. ice cream.
Mr. and Mrs. McFaddan, University Lodge, No. 394-21 books, 2 qts.
jam, 2 magazine subscriptions.
Allan Cutler, Hollywood Lodge, No. 355-C. W. Coffen, McMillan
Lodge, No. 141-51 books.
Daniel Clark, University Lodge, No. 394-15 lbs. peanuts.
Walter W. Lackey-Magazines.
Mrs. Daniel Buckley-A number of floral pieces.
San Jacinto Lodge, No. 338, and La Victoria Chapter, No. 241, 0. E. S.4 boxes cherries.
Spartan Groceries-1 case Kellogg's Pep, 3 cases Kellogg's Corn Flakes,
1 case All Bran.
Fletcher A. Cutler, Grand Orator-I haseball mitt, 2 bats, 1 baseball,
1 tennis ball, 60 marbles, candy and toys, 6 Victrola records.
William A. Rogers-2 khaki pants, 7 long white pants, 4 light waists,
1 little boys' suits, 4 white waists, 7 white knickers, 3 straw hats,
2 felt hats.
Westlake Chapter, No. 268, 0. E. S.-1 double wool blankets, 2 bed
spreads, 5 small rugs.
Miss Butterfield-Story book.
Mr. and Mrs. Frank Gileault, Santa Ana Lodge, No. 241-5 qts. canned
fruit, 4 qts. jam, 1 glass jelly.
Paul Buckley, Murray Food Products Co.-12 pkgs. Dainty Maid fruit
pectin jelly.
San Francisco Chapter, No. 1, R. A. M.-1 desk pad, 1 ink stand, 1
floor lamp and shade, 1 table lamp and shade.
Long Beach Assembly, No. 39, S. 0. 0. B.-6 qts. jellies and jams,
12 pts. jellies and jams, 14 glasses jelly.

E. J. Gillette, Long Beach Shrine Club--$10.00 prize for honor student.
Long Beach Chapter, No. 173, 0. E. S.-One dollar for each child.
University Lodge, No. 394-0ne dollar for each child.
Jacob S. Fogel, Silver Trowel Lodge, No. 415-String of pearls to an
honor student.
M. A. Fedie-Started 29 new bank accounts.
Ralph Clapp, San Pasqual Lodge, No. 452-Magazines.
University Lodge, No. 394-6 lugs peaches, 3 bunches bananas.
Los Angeles Lodge, No. 42--12 bathing suits.
Balboa Theater-Picture show.
Westlake Chapter, No. 268, 0. E. S.-2 pr. curtains, 2 linen dresser
covers, 2 doilies for the room they furnished.
C. H. Wedgwood, Covina Lodge, No. 334-80 lbs. fresh peaches.
E. M. Holm, Sunnyside Lodge, No. 577-7 crates cantaloupes.
Scottish Rite of Los Angeles-1 qt. jam, 8 qts. jellies and jams, 46
glasses jelly.
Kingsbaker Brothers--4 lugs Santa Rosa plums.
Masonic Board of Relief-16 dozen bottles pop, 6 gals. brick ice cream.
Dorothy Millard, Job's Daughters-3 jars jam.
Mrs. Hansen, East Gate Chapter, No. 225-6 qts. jam.
Mt. Olive Ltidge, No. 506-Furnished moving pictures.
Henry S. Orme Lodge, No. 458-Furnished moving pictures.
George S. Strait, Euclid Lodge, No. 519-Furnished moving pictures.
Chester Conklin, University Lodge, No. 394-Furnished moving pictures.
Masters' and Wardens' Association-Furnished moving pictures.

Contributions to Home Entertainment Fund
George L. Jones, Grand Master ............................................................ $10.00
Richard M. Burton .................................................................................... 4.50
Mr. and Mrs. Bert Whitmore, Bellflower Lodge, No. 523............ 5.00
F. B. Comfort, University Lodge, No. 394 ...................................... 5.00
Mr. and Mrs. 0. Stewart ...................................................................... 5.00
Searchlight Lodge, No. 567 (for hospital equipment) ................ 25.00
Searchlight Chapter, No. 435, 0. E. S. ............................................ 25.00
Emera Club of Beverly Hills, 0. E. S. (for hospital) .................. 25.00
Service Chapter, No. 414, 0. E. S. (for hospital) ........................ 25.00
Frances Z. Foster ........................................................................................ 5.00
Bessie Lamb ................................................................................................ 1.00
J. L. Abbott .................................................................................................. 10.00
Beacon of the West Lodge, No. 628 .................................................... 20.00
Moneta Lodge, No. 405 ............................................................................ 11.18
S. Longfellow, Truckee Lodge, No. 200 .......................................... 1.00

530

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Roy E. Perry, American Lodge, No. 475 .............................................. 5.00
L. Nichols, Paso Robles Lodge, No. 286 .............................................. LOO
Tehachapi Chapter, No. 188, 0. E. S ................................................. · 2.68
W. L. McLeod ............................................................................................ 6.00
W. S. Noblitt ................................................................................................ 12.00
J. S. Jacobs .................................................................................................. 1.00
M. E. Roark ................................................................................................ 1.00
W. H. Barker, LaBrea Lodge, No. 378 ................................................ 1.00.
A. Friend ...................................................................................................... 2.00
F. L. Thomas .............................................................................................. 25.00
U. S. G. Roberds, Hollenbeck Lodge, No. 319 .................................. 10.00
Laura E. Welker ........................................................................................ 5.00
P. W. Newhall ............................................................................................ 5.00
E. H. Colins ................................................................................................ 5.00
University Lodge, No. 394 ...................................................................... 5.00
l\fizpah Lodge, No. 378 ............................................................................ 38.00
La Paloma Chapter, No. 202, O. E. S. ................................................ 25.00
La Puente Chapter, No. 325, 0. E. S. ................................................ 10.00
Miscellaneous donations ............................................................................ 32.70
Southern California Edison Company Masons furnished the diet
kitchen in the hospital.
Riverside Lodge, No. 635, Evergreen Lodge, No. 259, Riverside
Chapter, No. 67, R. A. M:., Riverside Commandery, No. 28, K. T., and
Ungava Chapter, No. 106, 0. E. S., furnished the nursery.
Others furnishing rooms in dormitories-La Parfaite Union, No.
17; Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225; Eureka Lodge, No. 16; Goldhill Lodge,
No. 32; Roseville Lodge, No. 222, and Valle de France, No. 329.

Christmas and Entertainment Cash Donations to Covina for 1926
Lodges
Lodges
No. Amt.
Plumas .......................... 60 $ 2.50
Oxnard .......................... 341 25.00
5.00
Norwalk ........................ 315
Dunsmuir ...................... 297 10.00
Point .............................. 503
5.00
Unity ............................ 368 10.00
The Gardens ................ 621 25.00
Oriental ........................ 144 25.00
San Pasqual ................ 452 10.00

Lodges
No.
Ocean Park .................. 369
Corinthian .................... 9
South Pasadena ...........'367
St. Johns ...................... 37
Cupertino ...................... 510
Concord ........................ 117
Argonaut ...................... 461
Charter Rock .............. 410
Artesia .......................... 377

Amt.
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
2.50
20.00
10.00
15.00
10.00

Lodges
No.
Charity .......................... 362
Suisun ............................ 55
San Gabriel .................. 546
Neptune ........................ 619
Damascus ...................... 648
Clay ................................ 101
Fraternity .................... 399
Marin ............................ 191
Mountain View .......... 194
Naval ............................ 87
Elmhurst ...................... 610
Clovis ............................ 417
Standard ...................... 440
Coalinga .........:..... :........ 387
Confidence .................... 203
Truckee ........................ 200
Paso Robles ................ 286
Lodi ................................ 256
Eden .......... ~ .................. 113
San Simeon .................. 196
Excelsior ...................... 166
Forest ............................ 66
Atascadero .................... 493
Point Firmin .............. 558
Benicia .......................... 5
Glendale .:...................... 544
Visalia .......................... 128
Argonne ........................ 514
Azusa ............................ 305
Washington .................. 20
Bakersfield .................... 224
Santa Ana .................... 241
Fremont ....................... 497
Union ............................ 58
Moneta .......................... 405
Ontario .......................... 301
Trinity .......................... 27
Crockett ......................... 139
Temescal ...................... 314
Hiram ............................ 43
Liberty .......................... 299
Glendora ........................ 404

531

Amt.
Lodges
No. Amt.
6.00 East Gate .................... 290 25.00
5.00 Big Bear ...................... 617 17.30
5.00 Ashlar ............................ 306 10.00
10.00 Seal Rock .................... 536
5.00
5.00 Silver Gate .................. 296 25.00
10.00 San Jacinto .................. 338 10.00
10.00 Tujunga ........................ 592 15.35
5.00 Blackmer ...................... 442 25.00
5.00 Pinole ............................ 353 10.00
5.00 Martinez ........................ 41 10.00
10.00 Hammonton ................ 433 20.00
5.00 Pomona .......................... 246 25.00
10.00 Pasadena ...................... 272 25.00
10.00 Highland Park ............ 382 10.00
10.00 Corona .......................... 324 25.00
5.00 Sierra Madre ................ 408
5.00
5.00 Fairmount .................... 435 10.00
10.00 Yosemite ...................... 99 25.00
5.00 Pajaro .......................... 110 10.00
10.00 Santa Rosa .................. 57 12.50
10.00 Rising Light ................ 397 30.55
7.00 Bell ................................ 483 25.00
5.00 Jubilee .......................... 604
5.00
10.00 Santa Paula .................. 291 30.00
10.00 King David's .............. 209
5.00
10.00 Rockridge .................... 468 12.50
10.00 Crescent ........................ 45
5.00
10.00 Acorn ............................ 494 10.00
17.25 Phoenix ........................ 178 10.00
25.00 Henry Morse Stephens 541
5.00
25.00 Oak Grove .................... 215 20.00
25.00 Kauai ............................ 589 10.00
5.00 Mountain Shade :......... 18
5.00
20.00 Compass ........................ 590
5.00
10.00 Caledonia ...................... 486 15.00
10.00 Hartley ........................ 199
5.00
5.00 Owensmouth ................ 611
5.00
25.00 Torrance ...................... 447 25.00
5.00 Redwood City .............. 168 25.00
5.00 Monterey ...................... 217
5.00
10.00 Monrovia ...................... 308 20.00
10.00 Indian Rock .............. 638
2.50

532

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodges
No.
Live Oak ...................... 61
Russian River .............. 181
Culver City .................. 467
Claremont .................... 436
Roosevelt ...................... 500
Lakeshore .................... 551
Palmyra ........................ 26
Stockton ........................ 498
Adin .............................. 250
Mt. Oso ........................ 460
Needles .......................... 326
Silver Trowel .............. 415
El Segundo .................. 507
Woodland .................... 156
Tuscan .......................... 261
Herman ........................ 127
Sunnyvale .................... 511
San Dimas .................... 428
Capital City ................ 499
Loyalty ........................ 529
Nicolaus ........................ 129
Southern California.... 278
Orosi ............................ 383
Temblor ........................ 477
Diamond ...................... 603
Piedmont ...................... 521
Eel River ...................... 147
Arcata .......................... 106
Pacific Grove .............. 331
El Centro .................... 384
Gold Hill .................... 32

Amt.
S0.00
5.00
30.35
10.00
7.50
5.00
5.00
10.00
5.00
20.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
25.00
10.00
12.60
10.00
25.00
10.00
15.00
15.00
25.00
20.00
10.00
5.00
10.00
5.00

Lodges
No.
Texas ............................ 46
Penrhyn ........................ 258
Taft ................................ 516
Friendship .................... 210
San Buenaventura ...... 214
Vermont Square ........ 515
Santa Barbara ............ 192
Sojourner ................... 607
Mt. Diablo .................... 448
Palos Verdes ................ 389
Midway ........................ 426
Occidental .................... 22
Alamo ............................ 122
Center .......................~ .... 465
Colusa ............................ 240
Alpha ............................ 431
Dinuba .......................... 385
Victory ........................ 474
Reedley ........................ 304
Honolulu ...................... 409
Long Beach .................. 327
Corcoran ...................... 490
Fruitvale ...................... 336
Poinsettia ...................... 633
Patterson .................... 488
Vallejo .......................... 487
Santa Maria ................ UD
Woodstock .................. 491
Palestine ...................... 351
Franklin Lodge ............ 143
Rialto ............................ 582

Chapters, 0. E. S.
Chapter
No.
Chapter
No. Amt.
Plumas .......................... 246 $ 3.00 Corcoran ...................... 370
Bethlehem .................... 95 10.00 Golden Wave .............. 103
Santa Clara .................. 195 10.00 Josephine ...................... 104
Onisbo .......................... 164 40.00 Grafton ........................ 379
Chispa .......................... 151
Wheatland .................... 48 20.00
Buena Vista ................ 364 15.00 Fillmore ........................ 361
Lucerne ........................ 127 50.00 Corona .......................... 107
San Rafael .................. 215 25.00 Palos Verdes ................ 310
Marysville .................... 55 40.00 Roseland ........................ 465
Ventura ........................ 50
Mira Monte .................. 141
5.00

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

Amt.
5.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
25.00
63.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
15.00
5.00
25.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
5.00
5.00
10.00
10.00
25.00
25.00
12.75
5.00
10.00
10.00
10.00
7.50
5.00
20.00
5.00
20.00

Amt.
17.70
5.00
25.00
3.50
10.00
1.00
10.00
75.00
25.00
5.00

533

Commanderies, K. T.
Commandery
No. Amt.
Commandery
No. Amt.
Southern California.... 37 $21.13
Golden West .............. 43 · 25.00
Marysville .................... 7 10.00 El Dorado .................... 4
5.00
Napa .............................. 34
5.00
Visalia .......................... 26 10.00
Oroville ............................ 5 25.00 Mt. Olivet .................... 20
5.00
St. Bernard .................. 23 10.00
Glendale ........................ 53
5.00
Santa Monica .............. UD 10.00
Pasadena ...................... 31 25.00
Mt. Shasta .................... 32 10.00
Calvary ........................ 62 31.50
St. Omer ...................... 30 10.00
Los Angeles .................. 9 25.00
Councils, R. & S. M.
Council
No. Amt.
Council
No.
Pasadena ...................... 16 $10.00 Valley ............................ 84
Los Angeles ................ 759 10.00 Alhambra ...................... 25
Siskiyou ........................ 24
5.00

Amt.
5.00
5.00

Chapters, R. A. M.
Chapter
No. Amt.
Chapter
No. Amt.
Corinthian-.................... 51 $ 5.00 Sacramento .................. 3
5.00
Fruitvale ...................... 111
5.00 Redondo ........................ 101
10.00
San Francisco .............. 1 12.50 Huntington Park ........ 127 10.50
La Purissima ................ 104 10.00 Los Angeles ................ 33 25.00
El Centro .................... 109
5.00 Marin ............................ 102
10.00
Petaluma ...................... 22
5.00 Temple .......................... 41
10.00
Coalinga ........................ 114
5.00
Washington ................ 13 10.00
San Luis Obispo .......... 62 10.00 Inglewood .................... 131 10.00
Humboldt ...................... 52 10.00 Ontario .......................... 105
5.00
Montebello .................. UD 10.00 Nevada .......................... 6
5.00
Doric ............................ 66
5.00
Cyrus ............................ 15
5.00
Keystone ...................... 56
5.00 Martinez ........................ 31
5.00
Visalia .......................... 44 10.00 Monrovia ...................... 129 10.00
Napa .............................. 30
5.00
Benicia .......................... 7 10.00
East Gate .................... 103 10.00 St. Helena .................... 63
5.00
Crown .......................... 72 10.00 Palo Alto .................... 93 10.00
Signet ............................ 57 10.00 Taft .............................. 128
5.00
Pomona ........................ 76 10.00 Donner .......................... 39
5.00
Searchlight .................. 133
5.00
Tulare .......................... 71
5.00
Dixon ............................ 48 10.00 St. James .................... 16
5.00
Mission ........................ 79
5.00
Woodland .................... 46
5.00
Miscellaneous
San Luis Obispo, A. E. 0. S., No. 29 ................................................ $ 5.00
Fellows Court, Order of the Amaranth, No. 45 ..............................
5.00
Jinniston Grotto, M. 0. V. P. E. R., No. 76 ...................................... 100.00

534

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Long Beach Shrine Club ...................................................................... 100.00
Scottish ·Rite Bodies, Pasadena ............................................................ 25.00
Scottish Rite Bodies, San Diego .....................................................;... . 25.00
Normal Masonic Club, and Normal Masonic Lodge, No. 632....... . . 10.00
5.00
Hollywood Bethel, No. 25, Job's Daughters ....................................
East Bay Past Matrons Association .................................................... 25.00
Sewing Club of Tejou Court, Order of the Amaranth ····-············ 10.00
Rudolph Rosenberg .................................................................................. 25.00
5.00
G. R. Meisner ..............................................................................................
5.00
Frank S. Curtis ........................................................................................
2.50
Noble Benson ..............................................................................................
3.00
Laura E. Welker ......................................................................................
3.00
David R. Johnson ............... :................................:.................................... .
Frank G. Watson ...................................................................................... 10.00
2.00
Mrs. A. C. Saylor ......................................................................................
5.00
M. B. Patterson ....................................................................................... .
5.00
Harry Siebel ............................................................................................. .
5.00
George J. Groves ......................................................................................
5.oo
Mr. and Mrs. A. R. Waters ............................................................... .
Clifford T. Weismeyer .......................................................................... 10.00
5.00
:Mrs. J. W. Blacklock .... ,.........................................................................
5.00
Henry A. Timmer ....................................................................................
Lewis Chamberlain .................................................................................. 100.00
Thomas Awburn ........................................................................................ 10.00
5.00
Fred C. Hardesty ..................................................................................... .
2.00
Henry Hilzinger ....................................................................................... .
6.00
George Biescar ............... ;......................................................................... .

Children at the Covina Home September 1, 1927
BOYS, 79
Lodye
N 0Locatio1i
Age
Name
Admitted
Aby, Robert S ............... Aug. 23, '21 San Jose
' 0 San Jose ....... .10
. Allen, Orin ......................July 7, '21 Molino ............ .150 Tehama .......... 11
Allen, Colin F ................. Feb. 20, '26 Fairmount ........ ~35 San Francisco 13
Arrington, James W .....July 19, '27 Needles ............ 3?6 Needles .......... 11
Anderson, Alvin A. ...... Sept. 10, '25 Apollo ..............396 Alameda ........ 12
Anderson, Walter D ..... Sept. 10, '25 Apollo .............. 396 Alameda ......... .10
Baker, Paul Geo ...............July 7, '20 Union ................ 58 Sacramento ... .13
Bailey, James K. ............ Sept. 10, '25 Le Progres de
J'Oceanie ...... 371 Honolulu ........ 12
Boast, Irvin F ................. Nov. 17, '24 Roseville ..........222 Roseville ....... .14
Boast, Alvin B ............... Nov. 17, '24 Roseville ..........222 Roseville ........ 11

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

535

Name
Admitted Lodge
No. Location Age
Boast, Alfred G............. Nov.17, '24 Roseville ..........222 Roseville ........ 9
Chapin, Philip R. ............ Oct. 30, '25 Redwood City.. 168 Redwood City 10
Chapin, John E. ............ June 22, '22 Redwood City .. 168 Redwood City 14
Chapin, Wm. McCann .. June 22,'22 Redwood City.. 168 Redwood City 12
Chapin, Robt. Dodd ......June 22, '22 Redwood City.. 168 Redwood City 11
Clapp, C. Donald .......... Sept. 12, '25 San PasquaL ...452 Pasadena ....... .12
Cox, Clark Wm ...............Jan. 13, '25 Center ..............465 Fresno ............ 16
Chetham, Alfred H ....... Aug. 31, '24 Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland .......... 9
Cates, Edward C. .......... Sept. 27, '24 Pentalpha ....... .202 Los Angeles .... 15
Darling,. H ..Buell... ....... Mar. 22, '24 Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles .... IO
Day, John A. ................ April 10, '24 Lompoc ............262 Lompoc .......... 10
Dent, George ................ April 14, '27 San Jose .......... 10 San Jose ........12
Davies, Parker N ......... Apr. 27, '24 Martinez .......... 41 Martinez ....... .13
Ede, Clarence ................ Aug. 24, '26 Hope ................234 Beckwith ........12
Edwards, Arthur F ....... Sept. 27, '25 Richmond ........ 375 San Francisco 1I
Elliott, Frederick F ...... Aug. 22, '27 Silver Gate ..... .296 San Diego ..... .12
Elliott, William P ......... Aug. 22, '27 Silver Gate ......2% San Diego ...... 10
Fischer, Douglas E .........Oct. 14, '16 Mas. Bd. Relief
San Francisco 14
Fischer, Eug~ne A .........Oct. 14, '16 Mas. Bd. Relief
San Francisco 15
Germond, Maurice E. .... N ov. 12, '24 Pasadena ......... .272 Pasadena ........ 11
Green, Wm. R. ................ Oct. 3, '26 Temple ............ 14 Sonoma .......... 14
Green, John D ................. Oct. 3, '26 Temple ............ 14 Sonoma ......... .12
Greenberg, Roy J........... May 20, '24 Lebanon ........... .495 San Francisco 11
Harris, John F ...............June 24, '23 Oakland ............ 188 Oakland ......... .13
Harris, Charles W .........June24, '23 Oakland ............ 188 Oakland .......... 12
Hayward, Stewart L ..... Apr. 12, '26 Burlingame ..... .400 Burlingame .... 8
Hayward, Kirkland S... Apr. 12, '26 Burlingame ..... .400 Burlingame
4
Hocks, Russell .............. June 23, '27 Grand Lodge.. ..
9
Holbrook, Raymond S ... Apr. 4, '23 King David's.... 209 S. L. Obispo.. 15
Jackson, Ernest ............ Dec. 13, '23 Le Progres de
l'Oceanie ......371 Honolulu ........ 12
Kennedy, Ralph E ......... May 11, '26 Mount Oso ..... .460 Tracy .............. 14
Kuykendall, Charles ...... Nov. 2,'21 Excelsior ......... .166 San Francisco 14
Lemmon, Robert A ......... Feb. 6, '26 Santa Paula .... 291 Santa Paula .... 10
McKinley, Philip F ....... Aug. 31, '21 Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville ........ 11
McKinley, Douglas S ... Aug. 31, '21 Vacaville ......... .134 Vacaville ........ 9
McKinnon, John Jr ....... Dec. 15, '24 Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland .......... 6
Mann, Clifford .............. Sept. 11, '21 Buena Park...... 357 Buena Park. ...15
Merrill, Grayson .......... Sept. 4, '21 Highland Pk. .... 382 Los Angeles ....14
Mole, Wesley Edwin .... Mar.13, '21 West Gate........335 Los Angeles .... 12
Morrison, Delbert ........ Nov. 5, '21 York .............. ..423 Watts .............. 15
Narinian, Stephen M..... Mar. 9, '22 Fairmount ...... ..435 San Francisco 12

536

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Odell, Wesley J ........... Mar. 12, '22 Mizpah ..............378
Pascoe, Richard H ....... Sept. 6, '17 Amador ............ 65
Pettersen, Herbert O ... Mar. 17, '26 Balder ..............393
Prewett, Harland R. .... :Vfar. 3, '19 Sisson ................310
Pressey, Floyd .............. Sept. 16, '26 Sincerity ......... .132
Pressey, Samuel .......... Sept. 16, '26 Sincerity ......... .132
Pryor, Arthur R. .......... Aug. 8, '27 Bell ................... .483
Pryor, Walter D ......... Aug. 8, '27 Bell .................... 483
Ray, Myron J. .............. Mar. 5, '22 Mt. View ......... .194
Reynolds, Walter ........ Nov. 5, '24 Live Oak ........ 61
Reynolds, Earl .............. Nov. 5, '24 Live Oak ........ 61
Rouch, Herbie A ........... May 4, '26 Traver .............. 294
Rouch, Melvin R. .......... May 4, '26 Traver ..............294
Runkle, Thomas E....... Nov. 13, '22 Lompoc ............262
Runkle, Robert ............. _June 14, '25 Lompoc ............262
Schwartz, Sidney ......... _June 29, '17 Westgate ..........335
Schulte, Carl .................. Apr. 2, '25 Hermann .......... 127
Schierenbeck, A. E. Jr ... July 7, '26 Oak Grove ..... .215
Simon, Norman ............ Sept. 22, '26 Ocean Park ...... 369
Simon, Sterling ............ Sept. 22, '26 Ocean Park ....369
Simon, Teddy .............. Sept. 22, '26 Ocean Park ....369
Stevens, Frank F. J r ..... June 26, '26 E. San Diego .... 561
Taylor, Vaughn C. ...... Aug. 29, '21 Woodstock ......491
Taylor, Lauryn H ....... Aug. 29, '21 Woodstock ......491
Taylor Floyd S ............. Oct. 19, '22 Woodstock .... ..491
Williams, Robert R. ...... May 27, '25 Artesia ..............377
Withers, Stanley L ....... Dec. 29, '23 Parnassus ........388
White, Lawrence A ....... Apr. 27, '24 Park ..................449

Location Age
Los Angeles .... 16
Jackson .......... 16
San Francisco 8
Sisson .............. 14
Greenville ...... 11
Greenville ......13
Bell .................. 7
Bell .................. S
Mt. View
9
Oakland ......... .15
Oakland .......... 13
Kingsbury ...... 9
Kingsbury ...... 6
Lompoc .......... 10
Lompoc .......... 7
Los Angeles ... 15
San Francisco 11
Alameda ........ 11
Ocean Park. ...12
Ocean Park. .. .14
Ocean Park... .10
E. San Diego 9
Alameda ........ 12
Alameda ........ 10
Alameda ........ 8
Artesia ............ 8
San Francisco 8
San Francisco 14

GIRLS-80

Name
Admitted Lodge
No.
Allen, Loretta B. ..........July 7, '23 :\folino .............. 150
Bailey, Muriel A. .......... Sept. 10,'25 Le Progres de
!'Oceanic .......... 371
Brown, Wilda ................ July 14, '24 Dunsmuir ........ 397
Brown, Alberta ............. .July 14, '24 Dunsmuir ........ 397
Boynton, Helen J. .. ...... May 2, '25 Liberty ............ 299
Boynton, Vesta M ......... May 2, '25 Liberty ............299
Clapp, Ruth B. .............. Sept. 12, '25 San PasquaL.452
Clapp, Elizabeth 0 ....... Sept. 12, '25 San PasquaL.452
Clare, Margaret \V.......Jan. 9, '27 Belvedere .......... 539
Clark, Josephine N ......... Apr. 23, '27 Antioch ............ 175

Location Age
Tehama .......... 13
Honolulu ....... .10
Dunsmuir ........ 13
Dunsmuir
6
Santa Clara ..... .15
Santa Clara..... .13
Pasadena ....... .15
Pasadena ........ 13
Los Angeles... .! 2
Antioch ........... JO

Name
Admitted
Coburn, Harriet C. ........ May 9, '23
Cox,
P ................. May 16, '26
Cox, Mary G................. Jan. 13, '25
Clark, Frances N ......... June 15, '26
Clark, Phyletha B ......... June 15,'26
Clark, Dorothea 0 ......... June 15, '25
Chetham, Demaris H ..... Aug. 31, '24
Ede, Thelma Ruth ........ Aug. 26, '26
Fischer, Doris C. .......... Oct. 14, '16
Fowler, Alice :\1 ............. June 28, '27
Germond, Ramona A ..... Nov. 12, '24
· Germond, Dolly Jean .. Nov. 12, '24
·Cliddon, Donna E ....... Sept. 9, '26
Greenburg, Emma ........ May 20, '24
Hartman, Betty Jane .... Mar. 6, '26
Harris, Anna Belle ...... June 24, '23
Hanson, Alice M ........... Feb. 5, '25
Holbrook, Gwendolyn .... Apr. 4, '23
l lolbrook, Ethe1 B ......... Apr. 4, '23
Holbrook, Frances D ..... Apr. 4, '23
Isbell, Edith May ........ Mar. 29, '25
Jackson, Martha ............ Jul. 2, '25
Jordan, Dorothy H ....... May 28, '27
Jordan, Mildred E....... May 28, '27
Kaford, Lois E ............. Mar. 10, '26
Keith, Viola D ............. Mar. 24, '22
King, Mildred M ......... Nov. 21, '19
Knudsen, Alida .............. July 2, '21
Mann, Evelyn ................ Sept. 11, '21
.Yferrill, Eunice .............. Sept. 4, '21
McM.illan, Ruth ............ Apr. 14, '24
Nutting, Edna ................ Dec. 21, '24
Nutting, Olive ................ Dec. 21, '24
Odell, Betty A. .............. Mar. 12, '22
O'Connell, Florence ...... Nov. 18, '23
O'Connell, Pauline ...... Nov. 18, '23
O'Connell, Alice L ....... Nov. 18, '23
Parsons, Alberta M .......June 29, '25
Plat, Madeline ................ Oct. 24, '22
Raftery, Martha ............ Dec. 3, '17
Raftery, Mary ................ Dec. 3, 17
Ray, Bessie Eva ............ Mar. 5, '22

Lodge
No.
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Center ................. .465
Center ..................465
So. California ....278
So. California ... .278
So. California ... .278
Sequoia ................349
Hope ................... .234
Mas. Bd Relief....
Traver ................. .294
Pasadena ............. .272
Pasadena ............. .272
San Mateo ......... .226
Lebanon ............ ..459
Union .................... 58
Oakland .............. 188
Golden State ......358
King David's ..... .209
King David's ..... .209
King David's ..... .209
East Gate ........... .290
Le
de
l'Oceanie .......... 371
Justice .................. 549
Justice .................. 549
Silver Gate ..........296
University ..........394
South Gate ..........320
Pacilic ................. 136
Buena Park ........ 357
Highland Park .... 382
Crockett ............. 139
Sunset ..................352
Sunset .................. 352
Mizpath ................ 378
Silver Trowel ... .415
Silver Trowel ... .415
Silver Trowel .. ..415
South Gate ..........320
San Jose .............. 10
Mizpah ................378
Mizpah ...............378
Mountain View.... 194

537

Location

Age

Honolulu .......... 9
Fresno .............. 4
Fresno .............. 12
Los Angeles
5
Los Angeles .... 4
Los Angeles
3
Oakland .......... 12
Beckwith .......... 10
San Francisco..17
Kingsburg ........ 11
Pasadena ..........10
Pasadena .......... 7
San Mateo ..... JS
San Francisco..14
Sacramento .... 10
Oakland ............ 11
Los Angeles .... 12
S. Luis Obispo.. 14
S. Luis Obispo ..12
S. Luis Obispo ..10
Los Angeles .... 5
Honolulu .......... 14
San Francisco .. 4
San Francisco .. 8
San Diego ........ 14
Los Angeles .... 14
Los Angeles .... 14
San Francisco .. 13
Buena Park ...... IO
Los Angeles ... .11
San Francisco .. 7
Los Angeles .... 15
Los Angeles .... 13
Los Angeles .... 9
Los Angeles ... .12
Los Angeles ... .11
Los Angeles .... 6
Los Angeles ... .13
San Jose .......... 12
Los Angeles ....14
Los Angeles ... .14
Mt. View ......... .14

538

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Admitted
Name
Ray, Eliece J ................. }.far. 5, '22
Reutepohler, D. H ......... Feb. 27, '27
Runkle, Demba .............. Nov. 13, '22
Runkle, Jean .................. Nov. 13, '22
Schellpeper, Mildred .... Feb. 22, '19
Schofield; Vera L ......... Feb. 27, '21
Schierenbeck, Ruth !..... July 7, '26
Schulte, Elsa .................. Apr. 2, '25
Schulte, Margaret .......... Apr. 2, '25
Schulte, Helen ................ Apr. 2,'25
Sheppard, Ca.therine .... Mar. 24, '21
Sheppard, Mary Bella .. Mar. 24, '21
Shaw, Isabelle ................Jan. 13, '23
Shaw, Beryle .................. Jan. 13, '23
Shaw, Lorraine .............. Jan. 13, '23
Shipley, Hazel Fern .... Aug. 17, '18
Tappendorf£, Ida .......... Mar. 18, '22
Tappendorf£, Ada .......... Mar. 18,'22
Theissen, Florence ...... Mar. 20, '23
Tyler, Dorothy A. ........ Jan. 9, '26
Tyler, Barbara Jane ........Jan. 9, '26
Virgo, Winifred ............ Dec. 5, '13
Walker, Dorothy C. .... Mar.12, '22
Ward, Marguerite ........ Oct. 30, '24
Warren Ruth E. .......... Sept.28, '26
White, Yvo.nne .............. Apr. 27, '24
Williams, Beulah P ....... Aug. 28, '27
Williams, Irene H ......... Aug. 28, '27
Wittenberg, Carol E ..... June 17, '25

Lodge
No.
Mountain View ....194
Palestine .............. 351
Lompoc ................262
Lompoc ................ 262
Parnassus ............ 388
Jefferson .............. 97
Oak Grove ..........215
Hermann .............. 127
Hermann ............. .127
Hermann .............. 127
Adin ......................250
Adin ...................... 250
King David's ......209
King David's ..... .209
King David's ......209
Santa Ana ..........241
East Belt .............. 391
East Belt ..............391
Golden West ..... .455
Palo Alto ............ 346
Palo Alto ............ 346
Mizpah ................ 378
Highland Park.. ..382
Dinuba ..................385
Alhambra ............322
Park ......................449
Downey ................220
Downey ............... .220
West Gate .......... 335

Location Agt
Mt. View ........ 13
Los Angeles ....11
Lompoc ............13
Lompoc ............ 11
San Francisco..15
La Porte .......... 13
Alameda .......... 9
San Francisco.. 14
San Francisco.. 13
San Francisco.. 8
Adin .................. 17
Adin ................. 15
S. Luis Obispo..14 '
S. Luis Obispo.. 13
S. Luis Obispo.. 9
Santa Ana ........ 14
Tuolumne ........ 13
Tuolumne ........13
San Francisco..16
Palo Alto ........ 8
Palo Alto ........ 4
Los Angeles ... .16
Los Angeles .... 13
Dinuba .............. 10
Alhambra ........ 9
San Francisco..11
Downey ............ 7
Downey ............ 10
Los Angeles ....13

Outside Care
&~

Name
Lodge
Martin, L. Jean ..................................... Mount Jackson Lodge No. 295
Mayhugh, Doris E.
Beach Lodge No. 327
Mayhugh, Florence
Beach Lodge No. 327
Mayhugh, Gertrude G................................. Long Beach Lodge No. 327
Mayhugh, Marian A. .................................. Long Beach Lodge No. 327
Mayhugh, Spencer R. .................................. Long Beach Lodge No. 327
Owen, Clyde Lawrence.................................... Vacaville Lodge No. 134
Owen, Martha Luella .................................. :... Vacaville Lodge No. 134
Sherrar, Raymond ............................................ Veteran Lodge No. 373
Swartz, Lowell Frederick. ...........................Mount Oso Lodge No. 260
Swartz, Virginia Elaine.............................. Mount Oso Lodge No. 260
Vincent, Pearl Odette.............................. Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403
Admitted during the year : Boys, 14

Name

Admitted
Lodge
No. Location
Age
Arrington, James W ..... July ...., '27 Needles ................ 326 Needles .......... 11
Dent, George .................. Apr. 14, '27 San Jose .............. 10 San Jose .......... 12
Elliott, Frederick ........ Aug. 22, '27 Silver Gate ......... .296 San Diego ........ 12
Elliott, William P ......... Aug. 22, '27 Silver Gate ......... .296 San Diego ...... 10
Green, Wm. R. .............. Oct. 3, '26 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ............ 14
Green, John D ............... Oct. 3,'26 Temple ................ 14 Sonoma ............ 12
Hocks, Russell ..............June 23, '27 Grand Lodge ..... .
9
Pressey, Floyd .............. Sept. 16, '26 Sincerity .............. 132
Greenville ........ 11
Pressey, Samuel ............ Sept. 16, '26 Sincerity ..............132
Greenville ........ 13
Pryur, Arthur R. .......... Aug. 8, '27 Bell ...................... 483
Bell .................... 7
Pryor, Walter D ........... Aug. 8, '27 Bell ......................483
Bell .................... 5
Simon, Norman
22, '26 Ocean Park ........ 369
Ocean Park .... 12
Simon, Sterling ............ Sept. 22, '26 Ocean Park ........ 369
Ocean Park .... 14
Simon, Teddy ................ Sept. 22, '26 Ocean Park ........369
Ocean Park ... .10

L~~

Carlisle Francis Lacy ...................................... Schofield Lodge No. 443
· ' Thomas McLaughlin
· .................... Scho fi eId L odge •No . 443
Carhsle,
Chandler, John Smith .......................................... Alpha Lodge No. 431
Chandler, William Marshall ................................ Alpha Lodge No. 431
Daugherty, Helen .................................................. Selma Lodge No. 277
Dent Vivian S ..................................................... San Jose Lodge No. 10
Haviland Fred Eugene ........ Le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371
Haviland: Lura Frankie ...... Le Progres de l'Oceanie Lodge No. 371
Lord, Edmond Joseph .............................. Golden West Lodge No. 455
Lord, Raymond Philip .............................. Golden West Lodge No. 455
Martin, Kent Melvin .......................... Mount Jackson Lodge No. 295

539

Girls, 10

Name
Admitted
Clare, Margaret W .......Jan. 9, '27
Clark, Josephine N ....... Apr. 23,'27
Fowler, Alice M.........June 28, '27
Glidden, Donna E ......... Sept. 9,'26
Jordan, Dorothy H. ...... May 28, '27
Jordan, Mildred E. .. .... May 28,'27
Reutepohler, Dorothea .. Feb. 27, '27
Warren, Ruth E ........... Sept. 28, '26
Williams, Beulah P ....... Aug. 28,'27
Williams, Irene H.
28, '27

Lodge·
No.
Belvedere ............ 539
Antioch ................ 175
Traver ..................294
San Mateo .......... 226
Justice ................ 549
Justice .................. 549
Palestine .............. 351
Alhambra ............ 322
Downey ................220
Downey ................ 220

Location
Age
Los Angeles .... 12
Antioch ............ 10
Kingsburg ........ 11
San Mateo ......15
San Francisco.. 4
San Francisco.. 8
Los Angeles .... 11
Alhambra ........ 9
Downey ............ 7
Downey ............ 10

540

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

541

Departures during the year: Boys, 20 ·
Name
Admitted
Cranstoun, Andrew W ... June 27, '25
Cranstoun, George F ..... June 27, '25
Darling, Charles W ....... May 21, '21
DeNike, Edward E ....... Nov. 14,'23
Fisher, Harrison .......... Mar. 8, '14
Isbell, Guy F ................... Feb. 5, '22
Kuykendall, Melvin ...... Nov. 2, '21
King, Charles H ............. Dec. 21,'19
McAteer, Eugene .......... June 6, '25
Mole, Henry Gordon .... Mar. 13,'21
Parrent, Ervin Mahin.... July 9, '19
Plat, Edward ---·-······----···Oct. 24, '22
Rogers, Dee S ............... Dec. 27, '25
Rogers, Ralph H ........... Dec. 27,'25
Rogers, Buford F ......... Dec. 27, '25
Rogers, Grant ]. ............ Dec. 27, '25
Schwartz, Emil .............. June 29, '17
Sharrer, Raymond .......... Jan. 2, '22
Taylor, Edward E ......... Apr.12, '25
Treverton, E. Roy ........ Dec. 2, '23

Departed
Returned to father ________ Nov. 24, '26
Returned to father ........ Jan. 29, '27
Returned to Lodge ........ Dec. 29, '26
Returned to mother ...... Sept. 13, '26
Returned to father ........ Dec. 4, '26
Returned to mother ...... Nov. 3, '26
Returned to father ........ Dec. 4, '26
Returned to father ........ July 14, '27
Returned to mother ...... Sept. 13, '26
Returned to father ........ July 18, '27
Returned to mother ...... July 4, '27
Returned to father ........ June 16, '27
Returned to mother ...... May 14, '27
Returned to mother ...... May 14, '27
Returned to mother ...... Dec. 29, '26
Returned to mother ...... May 14, '27
Returned to Lodge ........ Dec. 4, '26
Returned to mother ...... Sept. 13, '26
Returned to mother ...... Dec. 29, '26
Returned to mother ...... June 25, '26

Girls, 16
Name
Admitted
Barjas, Katherine .......... Apr. 20, '24
Cranstoun, Christobel....June 27, '25
Darling, Fern .................. May 21, 21
DeNike, Jeanne .............. Nov.14, '23
Fisher, Muriel -···--····-·--··Mar. 18, '14
Isbell, Lucile .................... Feb. 5, '22
Keeley, Marguerite ...... Apr. 26, '20
Knudsen, Gertrude ........ July 2, '21
McMillan, Ruth ............ Apr. 14, '24
Poole, Dorothy .............. Mar. 3, '18
Poole, Ruth .................... Mar. 3, '18
Rogers, Opal .................. Dec. 27, '25
Shipley, Eva .................. Aug. 17, '18
Shipley, Frances ............ Aug. 17, '18
Treverton, Evelyn A ..... Dec. 2, '23
Tappendorf£, Doris ...... Mar. 18, '22

Departed
Returned to father ........ June 22, 27
Returned to father ........ Jan. 29, '27
Living with aunt .......... Nov. 10, '26
Returned to mother ...... Sept. 13, '26
With sister ........................ July 5, '27
Returned to mother ...... Oct. 31, '26
Returned to mother ...... June 16, '27
Training at HospitaL.Dcc. 30, '26
Returned to father ........ July 18, '27
Returned to mother ...... Oct. 20, '26
Returned to mother ........ Oct. 20, '26
Returned to mother ...... May 14, '27
At college ······--··-··-··--·--·Sept. 13, '26
Returned to mother ...... June 16, '27
Returned to mother ...... May 5, '26
Returned to father ........ July 7, '27

Adopted as read except the request for a per capita tax,
which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
To the M:.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Returns has to report that all Lodges of the
jurisdiction have made their annual returns, and all have paid their dues
except those whose funds are tied up in banks that have suspended payment.
The net gain for the year is 6,897, only two more than the net gain
for last year. While fifty-eight fewer candidates were raised this year
than last, there have been considerably less withdrawals, and a slight
reduction in the number suspended for nonpayment of dues. The wastage
has been less, and there has been a gratifying increase in the number of
affiliates. But the Grim Reaper takes an increasing toll. Over His action
the membership have no control.
It is a tribute to the fraternity that with financial conditions as they
are, more than eight thousand candidates sought admission at our portals.
We feel this shows a healthy condition. Long may it continue.
The amounts for dues for which the Lodges of the jurisdiction were
indebted for.the year ending July 31, 1927, together with the Lodges under
dispensation for the term ending September 30, 1927, all of which have
been paid.
Lodge

Numher

California
1
Western Star ........
2
Tehama ················-·--···· 3
Benicia ··-··-····-···········------ 5
Tuolumne ··-···---------·····-· 8
Corinthian
..... ·- 9
San Jose ............. .
10
Yount ................... .
12
l\' cvada ··-····-··--····-·
13
Temple ·-········-········-----·--- 14
Eureka ...................
16
La Parfaite Union ........ 17
Mountain Shade ....... _____ 18
San Joaquin .....
19
Washington ........
20
Hawaiian
_____________ 21
Occidental
22
Madison ------·····-········ _____ 23
Mariposa ........................ 24
Georgetown .................... 25

Cc·neral

110111('

Fund

Main tcnance

Home
Building

$619.00
67.50
384.00
128.75
235.25
273.50
448.00
222.25
138.00
103.75
146.25
162.00
31.50
519.00
452.00
326.50
750.00
128.75
114.25
53.25

$190.00
22.50
110.00
39.25
54.75
83.50
130.00
60.75
38.00
32.25
47.75
50.00
750.00
157.00
126.00
99.50
218.00
39.25
26.75
15.75

$380.00
45.00
220.00
78.50
109.50
167.00
260.00
121.50
76.00
64.50
95.50
100.00
15.00
314.00
252.00
199.00
436.00
78.50
53.50
31.50

Home Tax

Total

$315.00

$1,504.00
135.00
1,089.00
386.50
974.50
6S4.00
1,308.00
734.50
397.00
270.50
309.50
487.00
124.00
1,450.00
1,370.00
785.00
2,134.00
311.50
444.50
145.50

375.00
140.00
575.00
160.00
470.00
330.00
145.00
70.00
20.00
175.00
70.00
460.00
540.00
160.00
730.00
65.00
250.00
45.00

542

PROCEEDlNGS OF' 'l'HE

Lodge

Nuinbcr

Palmyra .......................... 26
Trinity ····------------------------ 27
Golden Gate
30
Gold Hill ........................ 32
Ophir .............................. 33
San Diego ...................... 35
Howard .......................... 37
Santa Cruz .................... 38
Sacramento .................... 40
Martinez ........................ 41
Los Angeles .................. 42
Hiram .............................. 43
Mount Moriah .............. 44
Crescent .......................... 45
Texas .............................. 46
Forbestown .................... 50
51
Illinoistown .......
Suisun ····••••••••••••**•>H•-•••• 55
Volcano ··-••-••••H•••<••H•o•••o 56
Santa Rosa .................... 57
L"nion .............................. 58
Gravel Range ................ 59
Plumas ............................ 60
61
Live Oak
Natoma .......................... 64
Amador .......................... 65
Forest .............................. 66
Morning Star ................ 68
·Enterprise
70
Bear Mountain .............. 76
Calaveras ........................ 78
Humboldt ...................... 79
Ione .................................. 80
Yolo
81
Vesper ............................ 84
Naval .............................. 87
Rose's Bar ...................... 89
North Star .................... 91
St. Helena ...................... 93
Henry Clay
95
Hornitos
98
Yosemite ........................ 99
Clay ................................ 101
···~······~····-·-

~-·········--

••••H••••H•••o••••••••

••••••••••••TT>H•••••

•••••••••o••••••••H . . Oo••••••••

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Go;neral
l•'und

Home
l\Iaintenance

Home
Building

170.25
68.25
684.00
78.75
44.00
595.25
216.00
312.75
480.75
153.25
759.25
34.00
485.50
l 12.75
42.25
48.25
61.50
129.75
21.75
349.75
504.25
30.00
76.50
962.00
106.00
64.50
36.00
401.75
229.00
75.25
110.00
399.25
51.00
66.50
157.50
491.75
34.00
37.50
98.25
44.00
69.25
162.75
57.75

49.75
20.75
205.00
25.25
12.00
174.75
61.00
92.25
143.25
43.75
210.75
9.00
144.50
30.25
11.75
14.75
18.50
38.25
7.25
101.25
143.75
9.00
19.50
277.00
32.00
18.50
12.00
114.25
62.00
21.75
31.00
122.75
17.00
18.50
47.50
150.25
11.00
12.50
29.75
1.100
17.75
48.25
16.25

99.50
41.50
410.00

so.so

24.00
349.50
122.00
184.50
286.50
87.50
421.50
18.00
289.00
60.50
23.50
29.50
37.00
76.50
14.50
202.50
287.50
18.00
39.00
554.00
64.00
37.00
24.00
228.50
124.00
43.50
62.00
245.50
34.00
37.00
95.00
300.50
22.00
25.00
59.50
26.00
35.50
96.50
32.50

Home Tax

Total

115.00
95.00
530.00
20.00
65.00
535.00
285.00
295.00
375.00
215.00
900.00
95.00
425.00
190.00
65.00
50.00
65.00
115.00

434.50
225.50
1,829.00
174.50
145.00
1,654.50
684.00
884.50
1,285.50
499.50
2,291.50
156.00
1,344.00
393.50
142.50
142.50
182.00
359.50
43.50
1,008.50
1,535.50
77.00
320.00
2,863.00
252.00
185.00
72.00
1,189.50
710.00
205.50
318.00
1,037.50
102.00
142.00
425.00
1,287.50
87.00
75.00
277.50
133.00
257.50
437.50
171.50

355.00
600.00
20.00
185.00
1,070.00
50.00
65.00
445.00
295.00
65.00
115.00
270.00
20.00
125.00
345.00
20.00
90.00
50.00
135.00
130.00
65.00

Lodge

Number

General
Fund

Oroville .......................... 103
241.75
Lexington ...................... 104
146.00
Arcata ............................ 106
175.25
Pajaro ........................... .110
230.50
Chico ................................ 111
315.00
Summit .......................... 112
27.75
Eden ................................ 113
175.25
Concord ......................... .117
223.25
Clinton ........................... .119
39.75
Fidelity ........................... 120
593.75
Alamo .............................. 122
106.00
Sotoyome ....................... .123
169.75
Table Mountain ............ 124
80.25
La Fayette ..................... .126
180.25
Hermann ........................ 127
235.25
Visalia ............................ 128
235.25
Nicolaus .......................... 129
83.25
Woodbridge .................. 131
99.75
Sincerity ........................ 132
127.75
Vacaville ......t ................. 134
128.25
Valley ............................. 135
55.25
Pacific ............................ 136
703.25
Crockett ........ c................. 139
641.00
Curtis .............................. 140
62.25
Grafton .......................... 141
66.25
Franklin .......................... 143
87.25
Oriental .......................... 144
421.50
Vitruvius ........................ 145
82.00
Abell ................................ 146
135.50
Eel River ....................... .147
160.75
Lassen ............................ 149
179.00
Molino ............................ 150
114.75
Woodland ..................... .156
201.25
Keystone ........................ 161
37.25
Harmony ........................ 164
11.00
Excelsior ........................ 166
511.75
Alameda ......................... .167
122.75
Redwood City ................ 16S
258.00
Mission .......................... 169
728.00
Elk Grove ................... 173
91.75
Drytown ........................ 174
25.50
Antioch .......................... 175
155.00
Phoenix .......................... 178
426.50

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

70.25
140.50
42.00
84.00
50.75
101.50
62.50
125.00
89.00
178.00
9.25
18.50
50.75
101.50
62.75
125.50
12.25
24.50
181.25
362.50
32.00
64.00
55.25
110.50
20.75
41.50
50.75
101.50
66.75
133.50
67.75
135.50
21.75
43.50
30.25
60.50
31.25
62.50
41.75
83.50
17.75
35.50
208.75
417.50
196.00
392.00
17.75
35.50
16.75
33.50
24.75
49.50
128.50
257.00
21.00
42.00
41.50
83.00
46.25
92.50
48.00
96.00
31.25
62.50
57.75
115.50
8.75
17.50
3.00
6.00
155.25
310.50
38.25
76.50
67.00
134.00
231.00
462.00
25.25
50.50
8.50
17.00
45.00
90.00
115.50
231.00

543
Home Tax

280.00
235.00
270.00
425.00
335.00

Total

732.50
507.00
597.50
843.00
917.00
55;50
180.00
507.50
280.00
691.50
20.00
96.50
355.00
1,492.50
65.00
267.00
45.00
380.50
135.00
277.50
350.00
682.50
230.00
665.50
240.00
678.50
150.00
298.50
125.00
315.50
260.00
481.50
20.00
273.50
108.50
550.00
1,879.50
310.00
1,539.00
70.00
185.50
120.00
236.50
65.00
226.50
255.00
1,062.00
160.00
305.00
75.00
335.00
175.00
474.50
235.00
558.00
155.00
363.50
200.00
574.50
65.00
128.50
20.00
40.00
270.00
1,247.50
120.00
357.50
450.00
909.00
280.00
1,701.00
165.00
332.50
51.00
190.00
480.00
530.00
1,303.00

~4.4

PROCEEDINGS OF TIU!)

Lodge

Number

Mendocino ..................... .179
P.ytaluma ........................ 180
Russian River .............. 181
........... 182
Arbuckle ....
Clear Lake ................... .183
Sierra Valley ................ 184
Claiborne ...................... 185
Evening Star ................ 186
Keith ................................ 187
Oakland .......................... 188
Northern Light ............ 190
Marin .............................. 191
Santa Barbara ..............192
Ferndale .......................... 193
),fountain View ............ 194
Buckeye .......................... 195
San Simeon ................... .196
Wilmington .................... 198
Hartley .......................... 199
Truckee ......................... .200
Silvey ville ...................... 201
Pentalpha ..................... .202
Confidence ..................... .203
Salinas ........................... .204
Olivet ..............................205
Stanislaus ..................... .206
Anaheim ....................... .207
Rio Vista ....................... .208
King David's ................ 209
Friendship ..................... .210
San Benito ....................211
So. San Francisco ......... .212
San Buenaventura ....... .214
Oak Grove ................... .215
........................216
Doric
Monterey ..................... .217
),,fosaic .... ...................... .218
Speranza I taliana ........219
Downey ..........................220
........................... .221
Inyo
Roseville ........................222
Bakersfield ....................224
Brooklyn ....................... .225
-~---

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

127.00
282.50
97.00
73.00
29.50
29.50
58.00
41.25
150.25
814.75
70.00
399.00
327.50
122.25
165.75
86.25
S0.00
330.50
149.75
105.25
103.75
652.50
22.50
210.50
113.00
339.00
301.75
67.50
219.00
436.00
110.25
247.25
273.50
549.75
495.50
130.25
110.25
355.00
172.25
92.75
223.00
413.75
542.25

40.00
77.50
30.00
21.00
9.50
8.50
16.00
10.75
44.75
240.25
23.00
112.00
94.SO
34.75
47.25
23.75
15.00
69.50
45.25
31.75
29.25
189.50
7.50
59.50
33.00
85.00
77.25
19.50
59.00
121.00
34.75
74.75
74.50
164.25
148.50
36.75
31.75
96.00
46.75
21.25
68.00
115.25
166.75

80.00
155.00
60.00
42.00
19.00
17.00
32.00
21.50
89.50
480.50
46.00
224.00
189.00
69.50
94.50
47.50
30.00
139.00
90.SO
63.50
58.50
379.00
15.00
119.00
66.00
170.00
154.50
39.00
118.00
242.00
69.50
149.50
149.00
328.50
297.00
73.50
63.50
192.00
93.50
42.50
136.00
230.50
333.50

545

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home Tax

Total

50.00
335.00
45.00
50.00
25.00
25.00
120.00
70.00
155.00
780.00
2S.OO
490.00
27S.OO
145.00
24S.OO
95.00
25.00
865.00
125.00
95.00
175.00
665.00

297.00
850.00
232.00
186.00
83.00
80.00
226.00
143.50
439.SO
2,315.SO
164.00
1,22S.OO
886.00
371.50
552.50
252.50
120.00
1,404.00
410.50
295.50
366.50
1,886.00
45.00
554.00
332.00
1,234.00
1,263.50
251.00
721.00
1,454.00
259.50
621.50
862.00
1,637.50
1,28 1 no
475.50
320.50
1,163.00
552.50
386.50
522.00
1,339.50
1,327.50

165.00
120.00
640.00
730.00
125.00
325.00
655.00
45.00
150.00
-:365.00
595.00
340.00
235.00
115.00
520.00
240.00
230.00
95.00
580.00
285.00

Lodge

Number

San Mateo ..................... .226
Athens ............................ 228
Solano ............................229
North Butte ..................230
Cove lo ........................... .231
Janesville ........................232
Calistoga ........................233
Hope· ............................... .234
Surprise Valley ............ 235
Hills Ferry ...........:........236
Guadalupe ......................237
Colusa ............................ 240
Santa Ana ................... .241
Magnolia .... :...................242
Eucalyptus ................... .243
Alcatraz ..........................244
Laurel ............................. .245
Pomona ..........................246
Fresno ........................... .247
Alturas ............................248
A din ................................ 250
Landmark ..................... .253
Reading ......................... .254
Welcome ....................... .255
Lodi ................................ 256
Penrhyn ..........................258
Evergreen ...................... 259
King Solomon's ........... .260
Tuscan ............................261
Lompoc ..........................262
Hesperian ......................264
Orland ............................265
North East ..........::: .......266
Galt ..................................267
Durant ............................268
Olive Branch ................269
Snow Mountain ............271
Pasadena ....................... .272
Anchor ....... :....................273
Arroyo ........................... .274
Oakdale .......................... 275
Selma ............................. .277
Southern California ... .278

General
Fund

Home
:Maintenance

Home
Building

262.50
109.25
358.50
103.25
36.00
52.00
88.75
69.50
S9.00
65.25
48.7S
147.25

68.50
31.75
113.50
31.75
10.00
15.00
27.25
21.50
18.00
20.75
lS.25
37.75
140.50
73.00
50.75
156.00
47.2S
96.75
142.25
27.25
18.00
22.00
54.25
31.75
72.2S
30.75
125.25
213.50
19.75
39.SO
56.SO
33.00
13.25
16.50
199.75
50.00
14.00
159.00
52.25
19.50
27.25
53.25
172.50

137.00
63.50
227.00
63.50
20.00
30.00
54.50
43.00
36.00
41.50
30.50
7S.SO
281.00
146.00
101.50
312.00
94.50
193.50
284.50
54.50
36.00
44.00
108.50
63.50
144.50
61.50
250.50
427.00
39.50
79.00
113.00
66.00
26.50
33.00
399.50
100.00
28.00
318.00
104.50
39.00
54.50
106.50
345.00

sos.so

273.00
162.25
528.00
lS0.75
332.25
465.75
96.75
57.00
72.00
179.75
114.25
242.75
104.25
460.75
689.50
71.25
144.50
202.50
106.00
43.75
52.50
656.25
169.00
42.00
557.00
250.75
77.50
101.75
188.75
561.50

Home Tax

Total

415.00
155.00
85.00
50.00
25.00
60.00
70.00
50.00
25.00
20.00
25.00
270.00
680.00
440.00
60.00
505.00
75.00
340.00
345.00
170.00
40.00
50.00
115.00
140.00
190.00
110.00
985.00
270.00
90.00
155.00
225.00
70.00
25.00
20.00
445.00
190.00

883.00
359.50
784.00
248.50
91.00
157.00
240.50
184.00
138.00
147.50
119.SO
S30.50
1,607.00
932.00
374.50
1,501.00
367.50
962.50
1,237.50
348.50
151.00
188.00
457.50
349.50
649.50
306.50
1,821.50
1,600.00
220.50
418.00
597.00
275.00
108.50
122.00
1,700.50
509.00
84.00
1,834.00
1,352.50
296.00
343.50
563.50
1,449.00

800.00
945.00
160.00
160.00
215.00
370.00

546

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Number

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Home Tax

Total

Hanford ....................... .279
Madera ............................280
Mt. Shasta ................... .281
Callayomi ...................... 282
South West ................... .283
San Miguel ....................285
Paso Robles .................. 286
Winnedumah .................. 287
Maxwell ........................288
Elsinore ... :..................... .289
East Gate ........................ 290
Santa Paula ..................291
Los Gatos ·..................... .292
Orange Grove ............... .293
Traver ........................... .294
Mt. Jackson ................... .295
Silver Gate ....................296
Dunsmuir ......................297
Liberty ........ ,. ................. .299
Redlands ........................300
Ontario ............................ 301
Santa Lucia ................ ,. .. 302
Porterville .................... 303
Reedley ............................ 304
Azusa .............................. 305
Ashlar ............................ 306
Santa Monica ................ 307
Monrovia ... :.................... 308
Delano ............................ 309
·Sisi.on ..............................310
·Los Banos ......................312
Tehachapi ...... :...............313
Temescal ........................ 314
Norwalk ........................315
'Sanger ............................316
Fallbrook ........................ 317
'Emanuel ........................ 318
Hollenbeck .................... 319
'South Gate .................... 320
Alisa! .............................. 321
Alhambra ........... ,. ......... 322
·Whittier .......................... 323
Corona ............................ 324

144.50
178.50
52.75
51.00
134.25
67.50
97.50
125.75
72.75
86.75
826.00
245.00
198.50
190.75
109.00
108.75
580.50
221.00
224.25
353.50
192.25
92.50
288.75
138.50
136.00
174.00
366.75
263.00
156.00
62.00
119.25
155.00
150.00
104.50
163.50
82.50
58.00
1,298.25
725.00
92.75
395.75
421.25
566.75

39.50
. 45.50
15.25
13.00
36.75
21.50
27.50
35.25
21.25
24.25
234.00
71.00
52.50
55.25
33.00
34.25
169.50
57.00
59.75
98.50
52.75
27.50
78.25
35.50
40.00
51.00
99.25
72.00
44.00
18.00
27.75
44.00
36.00
25.50
34.50
17.50
19.00
384.75
213.00
25.25
115.25
109.75
151.25

79.00
91.00
30.50
26.00
73.50
43.00
55.00
70.50
42.50
48.50
468.00
142.00
105.00
110.50
66.00
68.50
339.00
114.00
119.50
197.00
105.50
55.00
156.50
71.00
80.00
102.00
198.50
144.00
88.00
36.00
55.50
88.00
72.00
51.00
69.00
35.00
38.00
769.50
426.00
50.50
230.50
219.50
302.50

220.00
340.00
65.00
120.00
290.00
25.00
110.00
160.00
90.00
140.00
1,030.00
255.00
370.00
320.00
100.00
45.00
480.00
295.00
355.00
555.00
315.00
50.00
495.00
175.00
200.00
195.00
530.00
450.00
195.00
40.00
240.00
210.00
415.00
270.00
600.00
195.00
45.00
1,055.00
675.00
190.00
505.00
715.00
1,140.00

483.00
655.00
163.50
210.00
534.50
157.00
290.00
391.50
226.50
299.50
2,558.00
713.00
726.00
676.50
308.00
256.50
1,569.00
687.00
758.50
1,204,00
665.50
225.00
1,018.50
420.00
456.00
522.00
1,194.50
929.00
483.00
156.00
442.50
497.00
673.00
451.00
867.00
330,00
160.00
3,507.50
2,039.00
358.50
1,246.50
1,465.50
2,160.50

Lodge

Lodge

Number

General
Fund

Consuelo ...................... 325
141.25
Needles .......................... 326
189.50
Long Beach ....................327
665.50
Redondo .......................... 328
254.75
Vallee de France ............ 329
126.25
Kilauea .......................... 330
197.25
Paci tic Grove ................ 331
111.00
San Pedro ...................... 332
525.75
Alta ................................ 333
37.00
Covina ............................334
193.25
West Gate ...................... 335
759.00
Fruitvale ........................ 336
698.50
Carquinez ......................337
124.25
.San Jacinto ....................338
118.75
Fullerton ........................339
397.75
Oxnard .......................... 341
218.50
San Fernando ................ 343
221.00
Starr King ...................... 344
518.75
Brentwood ...................... 345
93.75
Palo Alto ...... >. •••••••••••••• 346
404.50
:\kKinley ........................ 347
283.75
San Bernardino ............348
443.25
Sequoia ............................ 349
824.75
Palestine ........................ 351
668.00
Sunset ............................ 352
507.00
Pinole .............................. 353
119.50
Presidio .......................... 354
531.25
Hollywood .................... 355 1,234.50
Mill Valley .................... 356
303.00
Buena Park .................. 357
149.00
Golden State .................. 358
846.50
Loyalton .......................... 359
64.75
San Francisco .............. 360
392.75
Fort Bragg .................... 361
90.75
Charity .......................... 362
105.25
Berkeley .......................... 363
514.50
Willits ............................ 365
126.25
Las· Palmas .................... 366
530.00
South Pasadena ............ 367
411.00
Unity .............................. 368
440.25
Ocean Park .................... 369
375.25
-Amity ..............................370
445.50

547

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Home Tax

Total

38.75
53.50
184.50
69.25
38.75
54.75
27.00
136.25
9.00
56.75
205.00
188.50
38.75
35.25
111.25
62.50
54.00
153.25
28.25
113.50
84.25
114.75
250.25
161.00
149.00
37.50
156.75
321.50
91.00
38.00
244.75
14.25
115.25
25.25
30.75
157.50
37.75
153.00
107.00
127.75
92.75
132.50

77.50
107.00
369.00
133.50
77.50
109.50
54.00
272.50
18.00
113.50
410.00
377.00
77.50
70.50
222.50
125.00
108.00
306.50
56.50
227.00
168.50
229.50
500.50
322.00
298.00
75.00
313.50
643.00
182.00
76.00
489.50
28.50
230.50
50.50
61.50
315.00
75.50
306.00
214.00
255.50
185.50
265.00

260.00
260.00
1,105.00
500.00
90.00
175.00
215.00
810.00
95.00
260.00
1,320.00
1,120.00
125.00
160.00
465.00
205.00
465.00
430.00
65.00
655.00
190.00
955.00
555.00
1,430.00
525.00
60.00
385.00
2,295.00
255.00
290.00
930.00
250.00
300.00
100.00
110.00
370.00
120.00
665.00
765.00
655.00
875.00
370.00

517.50
610.00
2,325.00
962.50
332.50
536.50
407.00
1,744.50
159.00
623.50
2,694.00
2,384.00
365.50
384.50
1,196.50
611.00
848.00
1,408.50
243.50
1,400.00
726.50
1,742.50
2,130.50
2,581.00
1,479.00
292.00
1,386.50
4,494.00
831.00
553.00
2,510.50
357.50
1,038.50
266.50
307.50
1,357.00
359.50
1,654.00
1,497.00
1,478.50
1,528.50
1,213.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

548
Lodge

Number

General
Fund

Le Progres de
351.25
l'Oceanie .................... 371
Gardena .......................... 372
131.50
326.75
Veteran ..........................373
154.75
Jewel .............................. 374
592.00
Richmond ...................... 375
152.25
Francis Drake ..............376
90.75
Artesia ··---····-·-·---------------377
481.00
Mizpah ............................378
162.50
Fillmore ..........................379
298.50
Huntington .................... 380
87.75
Oceanside ...................... 381
518.00
Highland Park ............382
101.25
Orosi ................................383
219.50
El Centro ......................384
164.00
Dinuba ............................ 385
253.50
Coalinga ........................ 387
570.50
Parnassus ...................... 388
636.00
Palos Verdes ................ 389
91.00
Imperial .......................... 390
55.00
East Belt .......................-391
West Lake .................... 392 1,004.25
475.75
Balder ..............................393
562.50
university ......................394
160.75
Turlock --···-····-·--------------395
338.50
Apollo ............................396
409.00
Rising Light .................. 397
419.25
Fraternity ...................... 399
428.75
Burlingame ....................400
333.25
Bay View ......................401
143.00
Brawley .......................... 402
375.00
Yerba Buena .................. 403
118.25
Glendora ........................404
690.75
Moneta ............................ 405
220.25
Burbank ..........................406
100.00
La Mesa ......................... .407
98.00
Sierra Madre ............... .408
220.00
Honolulu ........................ 409
440.50
Charter Rock .............. ..410
82.75
Perris ............................. .411
167.50
Calexico .......................... 412
40.50
Waucoba ........................413 .
300.75
Arli11gton ...................... ..414

Home

~Iaintenance

98.75
36.50
69.25
46.25
171.00
40.75
26.25
146.00
47.50
61.50
23.25
142.00

27.75
61.50
49.00
71.50
163.50
175.00
26.00
15.00
308.75
141.25
150.50
48.25
94.50
115.00
109.75
120.25
101.75
39.00
102.00

27.75
191.25
56.75
25.00
29.00
66.00
134.50
23.25
40.50
12.50
87.25

Home
Building

197.50
73.00
138.50
92.50
342.00
81.50
52.50
292.00
95.00
123.00
46.50
284.00
55.50
123.00
98.00
143.00
327.00
350.00
52.00
30.00
617.50
282.50
301.00
96.50
189.00
230.00
219.50
240.50
203.50
78.00
204.00
55.50
382;50
113.50
50.00
58.00
132.00
269.00
46.50
81.00
25.00
174.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home Tax

405.00
135.00
1,155.00
130.00
680.00
300.00
150.00
350.00
210.00
970.00
200.00
600.00
130.00
315.00
165.00
345.00
685.00
1,015.00
65.00
45.00
665.00
365.00
900.00
120.00
485.00
630.00
695.00
555.00
250.00
280.00
495.00
280.00
995.00
445.00
265.00
85.00
200.00
245.00
85.00
365.00
320.00

Total

1,052.50
376.00
1,689.50
423.50
1,785:00
574.50
319.50
1,269.00
515.00
1,453.00
357.50
1,544.00
314.50
719.00
476.00
813.00
1.746.00
2,176.00
234.00
145.00
2,595.50
1,264.50
1,914.00
425.50
1,107.00
1,384.00
1,443.50
1,344.50
888.50
.540.00
l,176.00
481.50
2,259.50
835.50
440.00
270.00
618.00
1,089.00
237.50
654.00
78.00
882.50

Lodge

Number

Silver Trowel ............. .415
Lindsay ..........................416
Clovis ..............................417
Elysian ............................ 418
Upland ............................419
Kerman ..........................420
Inglewood ......................421
Eagle Rock ................... .422
York ................................ 423
Exeter ............................ 424
Holtville ........................425
Midway .................. ,.......426
Chino Valley ................. .427
San Dimas .................... ..428
Pittsburg ........................429
McCloud ........................430
Alpha ..............................431
Hammonton ·--·-····--·------433
Maricopa ........................434
Fairmount ....... ~ .............435
Claremont ......................436
Lancaster ...................... .-437
Acacia ............................438
Tyrian ............................439
Standard ........................440
Coronado --·----------·---------·441
Blackmer ---------·"·-----------442
Schofield ........................443
Carpinteria ....................444
Wilshire .......................... 445
La Puente ......................446
Torrance ........................447
Mt. Diablo .................... 448
Park ................................449
Van Nuys ......................450
Montebello ....................451
San Pasqual ..................452
Bethlehem --------------- .... 453
Crocker .......................... 454
Golden West .............. ..455
Ramona .......................... 457
Henry S. Orme .............. 458
Riverbank ......................459

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

321.75
133.75
226.50
507.50
143.00

91.25
39.25
55.50
134.50
35.00
17.25
83.50
65.50
42.75
39.75
29.75
92.75
17.25
21.75
30.25
21.75
108.00
17.00
47.75
162.50
24.75
36.00
25.25
28.75
82.75
41.00
121.50
45.75
15.00
146.00
21.25
51.50
34.00
126.25
56.75
57.25
81.00
97.75
59.00
136.00
56.50
173.75
16.75

64.75
354.50
308.50
178.25
155.25
108.25
345.25
70.75
70.25
105.75
79.25
372.00
54.00
176.25
546.50
86.25
156.00
92.75
101.25
290.25
140.00
500.50
154.25
54.00
512.00
81.75
236.50
116.00
434.75
222.25
231.75
359.00
329.25
225.00
447.00
206.50
626.25
61.25

Honte
Building

182.50
78.50
111.00
269.00
70.00
34.50
167.00
131.00
85.50
79.50
59.50
185.50
34.50
43.50
60.50
43.50
216.00
34.00
95.50
325.00
49.50
72.00
50.50
57.50
165.50
82.00
243.00
91.50
30.00
292.00
42.50
103.00
68.00
252.50
113.50
114.50
162.00
195.50
118.00
272.00
113.00
347.50
33.50

549
Home Tax

Total

445.00
135.00
445.00
825.00
425.00
105.00
925.00
965.00
380.00
290.00
115.00
640.00
185.00
25.00
145.00
115.00
305.00
20.00
305.00
340.00
180.00
335.00
140.00
110.00
370.00
185.00
1,135.00
165.00
65.00
790.00
135.00
580.00
125.00
320.00
505.00
435.00
815.00
395.00
430.00
275.00
290.00
905.00
65.00

1,040.50
386.50
838.00
1,736.00
673.00
221.50
1,530.00
1,470.00
686.50
564.50
312.50
1,263.50
307.50
160.50
341.50
259.50
1,001.00
125.00
624.50
1,374.00
340.50
599.00
308.50
297.50
908.50
448.00
2,000.00
456.50
164.00
1,740.00
280.50
971.00
343.00
1,133.50
897.50
838.50
1,417.00
1,017.50
832.00
1,130.00
666.00
2,052.50
176.50

550

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Number

General
Fund

~laintenance

Home
Building

Home Tax

Total

Mount Oso ....................460
Argonaut ........................ 461
Paul Revere ..................462
Morgan Hill ................ ..463
Alta Vista ......................464
Center ..............................465
Libertas .......................... 466
Culver City ................... .467
Rockridge ......................468
Yorba Linda .................. 469
Lincoln ............................470
Delta ..............................471
Maui ................................472
Blythe ..............................473
Victory ............................474
America .......................... 475
Coachella ........................ 476
Temblor ..........................477
Thousand Oaks ........... .478
Golden Rule .................. 479
Fellowship ...................... 480
Mt. Davidson ................481
Clarence F. Smith ........482
Bell ..................................483
Albert Pike ................... .484
Chowchilla .................... 485
Caledonia ........................486
Vallejo ............................ 487
Patterson ........................488
East Bay ........................489
Corcoran ........................ 490
Woodstock ......................491
Carvanza ........................492
Atascadero · .................. .:493
Acorn .............................. 494
Lebanon .... :..................... 495
Riverdale ........................ 496
Fremont .......................... 497
Stockton ......................... .498
Capital City ....................499
Roosevelt .. ,..................... 500
Westwood ...................... 501
Harbor ............................ 502

156.25
313.25
504.50
74.75
262.50
273.25
247.25
241.50
351.25
133.75
267.50
241.00
95.25
58.00
201.75
427.25
64.25
138.50
336.2S
242.50
181.75
272.25
208.75
155.50
180.75
43.75
159.00
228.75
72.50
252.75
79.00
128.2S
138.25
39.2S
235.50
249.50
51.5Q
192.00
93.75
138.75
110.50
158.75
138.25

42.75
84.75
147.50
20.25
75.50
74.75
59.75
55.50
92.75
32.25
73.50
70.00
29.75
17.00
59.25
101.7S
18.75
39.50
82.75
57.50
47.25
72.75
55.25
37.50
44.25
12.25
38.00
55.25
19.50
66.25
22.00
34.75
35.75
12.75
60.50
65.50
12.50
44.00
26.25
32.25
27.50
33.25
33.75

85.50
169.50
295.00
40.50
151.00
149.50
119.50
111.00
185.50
64.50
147.00
140.00
59.50
34.00
118.50
203.SO
37.SO
79.00
16S.50
115.00
94.50
145.50
110.50
75.00
88.50
24.50
76.00
110.50
39.00
132.50
44.00
69.50
71.50
25.50
121.00
131.00
25.00
88.00
52.50
64.50
55.00
66.50
67.50

180.00
430.00
445.00
210.00
265.00
425.00
510.00
715.00
645.00
295.00
340.00
255.00
60.00
45.00
190.00
925.00
25.00
140.00
660.00
590.00
245.00
S35.00
410.00
390.00
370.00
85.00
385.00
35S.OO
140.00
380.00
150.00
190.00
310.00
25.00
460.00
460.00
90.00
550.00
110.00
295.00
285.00
350.00
305.00

464.50
997.50
1,392.00
345.50
754.00
922.50
936.50
1,123.00
1,274.50
525.50
828.00
706.00
244.50
154.00
569.50
1,657.SO
14S.50
397.00
1,244.50
1,005.00
S68.50
l,025.SO
784.50
658.00
683.50
165.50
658.00
749.50
271.00
831.50
295.00
422.50
SSS.SO
102.50
877.00
906.00
179.00
874.00
282.50
530.50
478.00
608.50
544.50

Lodge

Home

.

Lodge

Number

Point ................................ 503
Seaside .......................... 504
Silver Cord .................... 505
Mount Olive .................. 506
El Segundo .................... 507
Joppa ................................ 508
Benjamin Franklin ...... 509
Cupertino ........................ 510
Sunnyvale ...................... 511
Palms .............................. 512
Cahuenga ........................ 513
Argonne .......................... 514
Vermont Square ............ 515
. Taft ................................ 516
Mount Vernon .............. 517
La Jolla .......................... 518
Euclid .............................. 519
Ionic ................................ S20
Piedmont ........................ 521
Sunrise ...•••••• .?................. 522
Bellflower ...................... 523
Catalina Island ............ 524
George Washington ...... 525
Bay City ........................ 526
Covenant ........................ 527
Beverly Hills ................ 528
Loyalty .......................... 529
Sun Garden .................. 530
Alexandria .................... 531
Smyrna .......................... 532
Azure .............................. 533
Forest Hill .................... 534
Alexander Hamilton .... 535
Seal Rock ...................... 536
Utopia ............................ 537
Ascot .............................. 538
Belvedere ...................... 539
Queen Beach .................. 540
Henry Morse Stephens .. 541
Lankershim .................... 542
Signal .............................. 543
Glendale ........................ 544
Jonathan ........................ 545

551

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Home Tax

Total

89.25
257.00
209.25
319.75
156.75
43.00
195.00
63.75
100.00
191.00
297.25
278.25
298.25
219.00
185.00
91.00
229.00
238.25
159.25
171.00
159.75
97.75
308.00
153.00
210.00
183.00
138.00
303.50
130.50
55.25
154.00
88.50
117.00
119.75
382.50
185.00
168.50
124.25
230.25
176.25
255.00
317.75
169.00

23.75
53.00
50.75
54.25
34.25
12.00
48.00
15.25
22.00
35.00
65.75
69.75
71.75
38.00
44.00
25.00
56.00
45.75
49.75
40.00
30.25
27.25
61.00
39.00
50.00
41.00
33.00
57.50
31.50
15.75
35.00
23.50
21.00
25.25
70.50
43.00
42.50
27.75
57.75
43.75
57.00
75.25
35.00

47.50
106.00
101.50
108.SO
68.5_0
24.00
96.00
30.50
44.00
70.00
131.50
139.50
143.50
76.00
88.00
50.00
112.00
91.50
99.50
80.00
60.50
S4.50
122.00
78.00
100.00
82.00
66.00
115.00
63.00
31.50
70.00
47.00
42.00
50.50
141.00
' 86.00
85.00
55.50
115.50
87.50
114.00
146.50
70:00

185.00
995.00
590.00
1,540.00
505.00
20.00
465.00
135.00
305.00
655.00
850.00
480.00
670.00
905.00
355.00
190.00
625.00
855.00
135.00
400.00
6SS.OO
155.00
995.00
305.00
520.00
680.00
355.00
935.00
290.00
90.00
500.00
155.00
500.00
345.00
1,550.00
395.00
395.00
275.00
540.00
495.00
690.00
840.00
425.00

345.50
1,411.00
951.50
2,022.50
764.50
99.00
804.00
244.50
471.00
951.00
1,344.50
967.50
1,183.50
1,238.00
672.00
356.00
1,022.00
1,230.50
443.50
691.00
90S.50
334.50
1,486.00
575.00
880.00
986.00
592.00
1,411.00
515.00
192.50
759.00
314.00
680.00
540.50
2,144.00
709.00
691.00
482.50
943.50
802.50
1,116.00
1,377.50
699.00

552

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

Number

San Gabriel .................... 546
Arcadia ............................547
Triangle .......................... 548
Justice .............................."549
Seaport ............................ 550
Lakeshore ...................... 551
Semper Virens .............. 552
Golden City ....................553
Educator ........................ 554
White Pine .................... 555
Fairfax .......................... 556
Hermosa ........................ 557
Point Firmin ................ 558
Craftsmen ...................... 559
Plymouth ........................ 560
East San Diego ............ 561
Pyramid .......................... 562
South Park .................... 563
Foothill .......................... 564
West Adams ................ 565
James A. Garfield ........ 566
Searchlight .................... 567
Park Boulevard ............ 568
Chateau Thierry .......... 569
Military Service .......... 570
Francis K. Shattuck. ... 571
James Madison ............ 572
Hillcrest .......................... 573
S. W. Hackett .............. 574
Fort Crook .................... 575
El Cajon Valley............ 576
Sunnyside ...................... 577
Progressive .................... 578
Warren G. Harding...... 579
Santa Maria ................. 580
Security .......................... 581
Rialto .............................. 582
Wasco ............................ 583
Harding ....................... 584
Manchester ................... 585
Garden Grove ................ 586
Valley Forge ................ 587
El Sereno ........................ 588

553

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

General
Fund

Home
Maintenance

Building

Home Tax

Total

118.75
85.25
109.25
149.75
146.00
181.75
121.75
77.75
152.50
86.50
62.00
142.75
222.50
197.25
171.75
169.00
133.75
255.25
143.75
146.75
108.00
335.25
168.00
115.75
166.25
136.25
119.00
39.75
179.25
65.75
69.00
240.00
225.25
93.50
48.25
171.25
68.25
69.00
134.00
273.00
89.50
246.00
104.00

29.25
21.75
25.75
31.25
34.00
39.25
23.25
18.25
27.50
21.50
14.00
27.25
42.50
46.75
30.25
37.00
30.75
59.75
32.25
31.25
21.00
64.75
34.00
25.25
40.75
30.75
24.00
11.25
39.75
16.25
19.00
59.00
43.75
21.50
10.75
31.75
14.75
14.00
26.00
44.00
16.50
39.00
23.00

58.80
43.50
49.50
62.50
68.00
78.50
46.50
36.50
55.00
43.00
28.00
54.50
85.00
93.50
60.50
74.00
60.50
119.50
64.50
62.50
42.00
129.50
68.00
50.50
81.50
61.50
48.00
22.50
79.50
32.50
38.00
118.00
87.50
43.00
21.50
63.50
29.50
28.00
52.00
88.00
33.00
78.00
46.00

310.00
140.00
265.00
450.00
330.00
530.00
500.00
200.00
490.00
160.00
185.00
515.00
855.00
545.00
605.00
415.00
295.00
565.00
455.00
430.00
415·.oo
1,240.00
560.00
295.00
335.00
290.00
380.00
40.00
470.00
115.00
85.00
635.00
765.00
240.00
110.00
630.00
230.00
240.00
570.00
1,230.00
405.00
925.00
280.00

516.50
290.50
448.50
693.50
578.00
829.50
691.50
332.50
725.00
311.00
289.00
739.50
1,205.00
882.50
867.50
695.00
519.50
999.50
695.50
670.50
586.00
1,769.50
830.00
486.50
623.50
518.50
571.00
113.50
763.50
22950
211.00
1,052.00
I, 121.50
398.00
190.50
946.50
342.50
351.00
782.00
1,635.00
544.00
1,288.00
453.00

Home

General
Lodge

Number

Kauai ---------------··· .......... 589
Compass .......................... 590
Escalon .......................... 591
Tujunga .......................... 592
All States ...................... 593
Service ............................ 594
Alex. Graham BclL ..... 595
Guardian ........................ 596
Truth .............................. 597
Pearl Harbor ................ 598
Carmelita ...................... 599
Lynwood ........................600
Grizzly ............................601
Melrose ..........................602
Dimond .......................... 603
Jubilee ............................604
Glassell Park ................605
Sojourner ...................... 607
Granada ..........................608
Provident ......'.................. 609
Elmhurst ........................ 610
Owensmouth ..................611
Workman ---·········--·· .....612
Three Pillars ................ 613
Larchmont ......................614
Hemet ............................615
Seal Beach ......................616
Big Bear ........................ 617
Southland ......................618
Neptune .................. .......619
Peninsula ........................620
The Gardens .................. 621
Atwater .......................... 622
Menorah ........................ 623
Fortitude ........................624
Angeles :Yiesa ................ 625
Chula Vista ....................626
Lamanda Park ..............627
Beacon of the W est......628
Fairview ........................ 629
Ingleside ........................ 630
Benevolence ..................631
Normal Heights ............632

Fund

Home
Maintenance

Home
Building

Home Tax

Total

93.25
124.00
52.25
65.75
215.25
246.75
130.00
156.75
83.50
149.75
119.50
8~.50
79.00
106.00
145.00
121.25
210.50
85.50
189.50
66.25
118.50
144.00
73.50
80.75
161.75
66.75
50.25
24.25
125.75
91.25
42.75
144.75
148.50
228.25
99.00
454.25
85.50
125.50
76.50
63.75
86.00
52.50
125.25

17.75
25.00
11.75
15.25
35.75
38.25
27.00
27.25
19.50
23.25
26.50
17.50
18.00
19.00
26.00
17.75
36.50
21.50
27.50
13.75
23.50
25.00
13.50
17.25
26.25
16.25
8.75
5.75
23.25
14.75
9.25
22.25
21.50
25.75
15.00
52.75
18.50
16.50
16.50
9.25
16.00
9.50
18.75

35.50
50.00
23.50
30.50
71.50
76.50
54.00
54.50
39.00
46.50
53.00
35.00
36.00
38.00
52.00
35.50
73.00
43.00
55.00
27.50
47.00
50.00
27.00
34.50
52.50
32.50
17.50
11.50
46.50
29.50
18.50
44.50
43.00
51.50
30.00
105.50
37.00
33.00
33.00
18.50
32.00
19.00
37.50

355.00
615.00
200.00
180.00
840.00
1,135.00
365.00
705.00
190.00
630.00
320.00
475.00
145.00
445.00
530.00
630.00
645.00
220.00
1,015.00
215.00
375.00
620.00
405.00
310.00
615.00
170.00
270.00
40.00
545.00
400.00
185.00
660.00
615.00
1,230.00
490.00
2.300.00
290.00
575.00
465.00
285.00
315.00
235.00
560.00

501.50
814.00
287.50
291.50
1,162.50
1,496.50
576.00
943.50
332.00
849.50
519.00
615.00
278.00
608.00
753.00
804.50
965.00
370.00
1,287.00
322.50
564.00
839.00
519.00
442.50
855.50
285.50
346.50
81.50
740.50
535.50
255.50
871.50
828.00
1,535.50
634.00
2,912.50
431.00
750.00
591.00
376.50
449.00
316.00
741.50

554

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge

General
Fund

Number

...............633
Poinsettia
Victorville ......................634
Riverside ........................635
John Marshall ..............636
Palisades ........................637
Indian Rock ..................638
Composite ...................... 639
Veritas ............................640
James A. Foshay ..........641
La Cumbre .................... 642
Alta Loma ......................643
Lomita ............................644
A. F. E. Irwin ................ 645
Metropolitan ..................646
Hawthorne ....................647
Damascus ........................648
Florence ..........................649

105.50
74.50
76.2S
82.2S
133.25
41.7S
132.50
36.2S
61.75
43.25
192.50
80.50
80.50
82.50
64.00
94.50
163.75

18.50
16.50
13.7S
17.7S
27.7S
10.2S
14.SO
8.75
10.25
9.75
17.59
14.50
9.50
10.50
10.00
15.20
18.25

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Home
Building

Home Tax

Total

37.00
33.00
27.50
3S.SO
SS.SO
20.SO
29.00
17.50
20.50
19.50
35.00
29.00
19.00
21.00
20.00
31.00
36.50

670.00
16S.OO
325.00
415.00
1,080.00
115.00
675.00
115.00
275.00
150.00
1,060.00
225.00
365.00
515.00
260.00
420.00
825.00

831.00
289.00
442.SO

sso.so

1,296.SO
187.SO
8Sl.OO
177.50
367.50
222.50
1,305.00
349.00
474.00
629.00
354.00
561.00
1,043.50

Total Chartered Lodges .. $119,322.75 $31,928.25 $63,856.50 $197,140.00 $412,247.50

Under D~spensation
La Brea .......................... UD
Menlo Park .................. UD
Crescenta Valley ........ UD
Fontana .......................... UD
Jordan ............................ UD
Monte Vista .................. UD
Citro! ............................ UD
John D. Spreckels ........ UD
Livingston .................... UD
La Habra ...................... UD
Baldwin Park .............. UD
Malta .............................. UD

158.50
88.50
90.00
67.50
113.25
86.50
240.25
150.75
43.50
104.25
14.25
18.75

18.50
10.50
12.00
11.50
12.75
9.50
31.75
23.25
5.50
14.75
4.75
6.25

37.00
21.00
24.00
23.00
25.50
19.00
63.50
46.50
11.00
29.50
9.50
12.50

Total Lodges U D ........

$1,176.00

$161.00

$322.00

General

Home

Home

Fund

Maintenance

Building

1,140.00
450.00
520.00
760.00
700.00
890.00
2,000.00
1,650.00
300.00
950.00
75.00
50.00

1,354.00
570.00
646.00
862.00
851.50
1,005.00
2,335.50
1,870.50
360.00
1,098.50
103.50
87.50

$9,485.00 $11,144.00
Brune Tax

,

Total

Chartered Lodges........ ..
Lodges U D ....................

$119,322.75 $31,928.25 $63,856.50 $197,140.00 $412,247.50
1,176.00
161.00
322.00
9,485.00 11,144.00

Total ......................... .

$120,498.75 $32,089.25 $64,178.50 $206,625.00 $423,391.50

555

MEETING PLACE FOR GRAND LODGE
To the M:.W:.Grand Lodge of California:
Your committee appointed for the purpose of surveying the situation
with reference to the facilities for the meeting of Grand Lodge in its
· annual communications, reports as follows :
Your committee has conferred and met with the Board of Directors
of the Masonic Temple Association of San Francisco, and has with all
the means in its power surveyed the general situation and condition of
our imposing Temple, has carefully studied the building plans thereof,
and procured the advice of competent architects and engineers with
reference thereto.
It is obvious to all that under present arrangements there is not any
place in the Masonic Temple adequate to comfortably or properly
accommodate the members of Grand Lodge. This present meeting place,
chosen under direction of the Grand Master, emphasizes that fact and
gives impetus to the necessity for some action to be taken for future
housing. The demands for a suitable meeting place will no doubt increase
with each succeeding communication, and any plans which are adopted
should look. well into the future.
Your committee finds that considerable expense must be incurred
to make such changes in the present Temple as will prepare it to meet
the demands of the Grand Lodge communications. Extensive structural
changes are necessary, and the details of these can be determined only
upon a more thorough survey by architects and engineers employed for
the purpose. Careful planning must be had, and we feel that a committee
should be appointed at this communication further to survey the entire
situation and to make definite report at the next session of Grand Lodge.
We therefore offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the committee be continued, with two additional
members (making five), to be appointed by the Grand Master, to report
at the next annual communication plans for providing in the Masonic
Temple at San Francisco a suitable and adequate meeting place for
Grand Lodge; and be it further
Resolzoed, That the committee be and if is hereby authorized to
expend such money as may be necessary for this purpose, under the
direction and with the approval of the M:.W:.Grand Master.
0RRJN S. HENDERSON,
ARTHUR JOEL,

M. J. NEWBURG,

Report was adopted.

W. D. RICHARDS,
R. E. ALLAN.

DAVID WOLF.

The report was adopted, except that part relating to the
probable expenditure of funds, which was referred to the
Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance.

556

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON REPORT OF
GRAND LECTURER
To the Jf:.W:.Grand Lodge of Califoniia:
Your committee to whom has been referred for consideration the
report of the Very \Vorshipful Grand Lecturer respectfully submits the
following:
\Ve congratulate the Grand Lecturer on his twentieth annual report.
Jt clearly indicates that time has not lessened his efforts in caring for
the ritualistic welfare of the Craft, yet it is significant to note that on
this his twentieth anniversary as our Grand Lecturer, he has sounded a
warning that we may well heed, to-wit:
"The ritual itself is but a means to the end, but not the end. \Ve
must obtain ritualistic interpretation as well as ritualistic instruction."
His report of the decline in the amount of degree work is, we believe,
something to rejoice over rather than to view with alarm, for it ap~ears
that it is resulting in greatly increased attendance at Lodge meetmgs,
and it is hoped that the opportunity thus afforded the members to become
better acquainted will result in impressing upon them that Masonry is
not a workshop, but an Institution for the practical application of our
avowed virtues of brotherly love, belief and truth.
His suggestions in relation to the selection of officers is most timely
and important, and we commend to all Masters and prospective Masters
a careful study thereof, with the firm belief that a compliance therewi~
will be greatly beneficial to Masonry in general and the Lodges m
particular.
Finally, your committee expresses its appreciation to the Grand
Lecturer for the service he has rendered, and we are sure the era ft of
this Grand jurisdiction will long cherish his unfailing kindness and
courtesy and his devotion to duty and service.
DWIGHT

vV. STEPHENSON,

A. L. WELLS,
FRED G. MANARY.

JAMES

Report was adopted as read.

557

GEORGE WASHINGTON NATIONAL MEMORIAL
Past Grand Master Boynton presented the following:
Resolved, That a per capita tax of 20 cents per year for a period
of four years be and is hereby levied upon the membership of this Grand
jurisdiction as a contribution to the George Washington National
Memorial Association, the same to be payable with other Grand Lodge
dues.

Referred to the Committees on Policy and General Purposes and Finance.

REORGANIZATION OF MASONIC TEMPLE
ASSOCATION
Olin L. Berry presented the following:
To the JV!.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, the Grand Lodge owns a large portion of the capital stock
of the Mast;inic Temple Association; and
Whereas, it may be found that a reorganization of the said Masonic
Temple Association may be convenient and even necessary; be it
Resol·vcd, That the Grand Master be, and is hereby empowered to
appoint a committ~e of not more than five members to act with the
directors of said association, with full power to act in such reorganization,
if it is found that a reorganization is advisable.

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

MASONIC TEMPLE STOCK
Past Grand Master Boynton introduced the following :
Resoh·ed, That this Grand Lodge purchase from the Masonic Homes
Endowment Fund 250 shares of stock in the Masonic Temple Association
of California for the sum of two thousand two hundred fifty dollars.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

MEDICAL EXAMINATION FOR PETITIONERS
Hanford Lodge, No. 279, presented a resolution to provide
for a medical examination for petitioners for the degrees of
Masonry. Referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.
·

558

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

559

ORDER OF DE MOLA Y

tion; that Lodges may not lawfully contribute to or sponsor Chapters
of De Molay, but that individual Masons may and should encourage this
worthy organization for boys.

The Deputy Grand Master assumed the chair and the
Grand Master presented the following:

Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes .

.\t the Annual Communication in 1922 Grand Lodge adopted a
resolution approving the ideals, aims and purposes of the Order of
De Molay, and requesting the members of the fraternity to lend their
moral and personal support to the Order.
In 1924 a resolution was presented in which reference was made
to the resolution adopted in 1922, and setting forth that under said
resolution twenty-four Lodges had sponsored Chapters of the Order,
the resolution concluding as follows: "Now, therefore, be it resolved
that the sponsoring of said Chapters already established or that may
hereafter be requested shall be deemed to be within the terms as said
resolution of 1922 and the legislative powers of the Lodge as set forth
in Section 77 of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge of California."
This resolution was referred to the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes.

The Committee reported that Grand Lodge should do no more than
had been done two years before; that "to legislate to the extent of directly
permitting the subordinate Lodges throughout the jurisdiction to sponsor
Chapters by Lodges such action would have the effect of committing
the Grand Lodge to a policy that it has never departed from. . . . .
That it is a matter which must rest with the individual members of the
craft." The Committee recommended that the resolution be not adopted
and Grand Lodge accepted this recommendation.
The Annual Message of Grand Master Crites referred to the matter
of sponsoring Chapters, stating that he had ruled that a Lodge did not
have authority to so sponsor, and when his attention had been called to
a case where a Chapter was being sponsored by a Lodge he had requested
the Inspector of the District to arrange for the Lodge to withdraw its
sponsorship. The Committee on Jurisprudence reported that "Upon the
question of subordinate Lodges sponsoring Chapters of the Order of the
De Malay it is unnecessary to add to the expressions of the Grand Master
in his Message."
I respectfully request that the Committee on Policy and General
Purposes present a report at this communication reaffirming and clarifying our policy with relation to the Order of De Molay, so that all may
know that the Order of De Molay is not a part of the Masonic Institu-

The Grand Master resumed the chair, and at 11 :45 o'clock
?rand Lodg~ was called off until 9 :30 o'clock Thursday morning, to permit the representatives and their families to visit the
Masonic Home at Decoto.

1Jn ~ran~ mn~gr
Morning Session
Thursday, October 13, 1927.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.
A resolution was presented to provide that the Grand
Secretary publish a list of imposters. Referred to the Committee on Policy and General Purposes.

DU AL MEMBERSHIP
Arthur Joel presented a resolution relating to dual membership, which was referred to the Committees on Policy and
General Purposes and Jurisprudence, and later in the session,
by requ.est of the Committee on Policy and General Purposes,
the entire matter of dual membership was continued as unfinished business for consideration next year.

560

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
Omnibus Report
To the M.".W.".Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the following
trial records, to-wit:
Record No. 475 from El Centro Lodge, No. 384;
Record No. 510 from Military Service Lodge, No. 570;
Record No. 511 from Magnolia Lodge, No. 242;
Record No. 512 from Cahuenga Lodge, No. 409;
Record No. 515 from Honolulu Lodge, No. 409;
Record No. 516 from Emmanuel Lodge, No. 318;
Record No. 518 from Fresno Lodge, No. 247;
Record No. 520 from Penrhyn Lodge, No. 258;
Record No. 521 from Golden State Lodge, No. 358;
Record No. 522 from Union Lodge, No. 58;
Record No. 523 from Corcoran Lodge, No. 490;
Record No. 527 from Burbank Lodge, No. 406;
Record No. 528 from Robert W. Furnas Lodge, No. 265.
Record No. 530 from Golden Rule Lodge, No. 479;
Record No. 531 from Azusa Lodge, No. 305;
Record No. 532 from Truckee Lodge, No. 200;
Record No. 533 from Fellowship Lodge, No. 480;
Record No. 535 from Argonne Lodge, No. 514;
Record No. 536 from Searchlight Lodge, No. 567;
Record No. 537 from Paul Revere Lodge, No. 462;
Record No. 541 from Mizpah Lodge, No. 378.
Record No. 543 from Brooklyn Lodge, No. 225 ;
1
Record No. 544 from Richard H. Turner Lodge, No. 116;
Record No. 545 from Stanislaus Lodge, No. 206;
Record No. 549 from Live Oak Lodge, No. 61;
Record No. 551 from Anaheim Lodge, No. 207;
Record No. 552 from Covina Lodge, No. 334;
Record No. 553 from Selma Lodge, No. 277;
Record No. 539 from Richmond Lodge, No. 375;
Record No. 547 from Van N uys Lodge, No. 450;
Record No. 526 from Alta Lodge, No. 333;
Record No. 540 from Lodi Lodge, No. 256,
respectfully reports that after careful examination it finds that in each
of these cases, so referred to the Committee, there was at least a substantial compliance with the Constitution and Regulations; that in those

5-61

cases where the same were not strictly complied with, the error in no
way prejudiced either the accused or accuser. In none of these cases
was an appeal taken and in each instance the substantial rights of the
parties was safeguarded.
Your committee therefore offers the following resolution and moves
its adoption:
Resofoed, That the action of the trial commissioners in each of
the cases herein above referred to, be, and the same is hereby approved,
sustained and affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 538 from Standard Lodge, No. 440, begs leave to report as follows:
Resolved, That the judgment of the trial commission finding the
accused guilty, be, and the same is hereby sustained and affirmed, but
that the penalty of suspension be modified by fixing the same at
expulsion.

Adopted.
Your C~mmittee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 542, from Argonne Lodge, No. 514, on appeal by the accused,
recommend the adoption of the following resolution:
Resolved, That the action of the trial commission in this case be,
and the same is hereby sustained and affirmed.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred the petition
for restoration of 0. 0. R. (Trial Record No. 189), offer the following
resolution:
Resolved, That the petition for restoration of 0. 0. R., formerly
a member of Delano Lodge, No. 309, be and the same is hereby denied
without prejudice.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 525, from Point Firmin Lodge, No. 558, offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the action of the trial commission in convicting the
accused be hereby sustained and affirmed, but that the penalty be herebv
fixed at expulsion.

Adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

tJRAND LODGE OF CALIFO:R.NIA

Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial re:ord
No. 517, from Fidelity Lodge, No. 120, offer the following resolution:
Reso/1,ed, That the judgment of the trial commission, fin.ding the
accused guilty, be hereby affirmed, but that the penalty be, and 1s hereby

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 514 from Stanislaus Lodge, No. 206, recommend that the judgment
of the trial commission be reversed and the case remanded for a new trial.

562

fixed at expulsion.

Adopted.
your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 550, from Bay View Lodge, No. 401, on appeal by t?e accu:ed, be~s
leave to report that it would appear unlikely that a fair .and impartial
hearing could be had from the commission elected by th1s Lodge, and
it is hoped that the Grand Master will tr~nsfer the .case to some other
Lodge for retrial. We offer the following resolution:
Resolved, That the judgment in the case covered by trial record
No. 550 be, and the same is hereby reversed and the case remanded for
a new trial.

Adopted.
your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the petition
for restoration of S. B. G., heretofore expelled by Fillmore L~~ge, N ?·
379 beg leave to report that no showing was made by the pet~t1one~ m
his' behalf; and the attitude of the petitioner as disclosed by his de~t~nt
and intemperate petition affords convincing reasons why the..petttlon
should be denied. We, therefore, recommend that the petition for
restoration of S. B. G. be denied.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 507, retried in Palmyra Lodge, No. 26, beg leave to report as follow::
The accused did not appear and was not represented at the trial m
Palmyra Lodge· and although the Grand Secretary had, prior to the
re-trial inform~d the Master of that Lodge that evidence should be
introdu~ed to prove the identity of the accused with the person wh? had
committed the civil offense forming the basis of the charge, there 1s not
one word of evidence in the record to prove such identity. We .ha.ve ~o
right in a criminal matter to presume identity of a person from s1mdanty
of name.
In addition no vote was had on the charge of un-Masonic conduct.
\Ve, theref~re, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the judgment of the Trial Commission in this c~se
be, and the same is hereby reversed and the case remanded for a new tnal.

Adopted.

563

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 529 from Military Service Lodge, No. 570, beg leave to report that
inasmuch as summons was never served on the accused and the evidence
introduced at the trial being entirely hearsay, we recommend that the
judgment in this case be reversed and the case remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 546 from Kilauea Lodge, No. 330, find that no evidence was produced at the trial to sustain the charges, and we recommend that the
judgment of the trial commission be reversed and the case remanded for
a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred trial record
No. 548 from Maricopa Lodge, No. 434, beg leave to report as follows:
In this case the charge was preferred by the Junior \Varden of the
Lodge, by direction of the Master, and the trial was presided over by
the same Master who had ordered the charges to be preferred. Decision
No. 5 of M.".vV.".Grand Master Jones, interpreting Sec. 189 of the
Constitution as amended in 1926, holds that while charges when preferred by the Junior Warden by direction of the Master may be tried in
the same Lodge in which they are preferred, yet the Master who directed
the charges to be preferred cannot preside at such trial. The record shows
in this case that the Master presiding at the trial was the same Master
who ordered the Junior Warden to prefer the charges.
\Ve, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resofoed, That the judgment of the Trial Commission herein be, and
the same is hereby reversed, and the case remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred trial record
No. 519 from Triangle Lodge, No. 548, begs leave to report that so
many substantial defects appear in the record that in the judgment of
your Committee the judgment of .the trial Lodge should be reversed
and the case remanded for a new trial.

Adopted.

566

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

herein and that this expenditure be made under the im~ediat.e dire.ction
and supervision of 'Western Star Lodge, No. 2, in coniunctton with a
mittee of three appointed by the Grand Master.
com
· d
RespectfuJly subm1tte ,
EARL LEE KELLY,

D. 0. SCHNITTZER,
Committee.

Referred to Finance Committee.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
ti

'1 . '·V . Grand Lodge of California:
·
h
1e
t er
e twe
v
Your Comm1'ttee on By-laws has had under consideration
b ·
form
Lodges under dispensation and finds the'.11 all to f e m :rt0 ihe Lodg~
The By-laws of Malta Lodge U. D. were m proper orm, u
has not asked for a charter.
h
Th Y have also carefully considered the 167 amendments to. t e
by-lawse of Lodges, and with the exception of a few mi;or
h' h have been made by the committee, they were oun
o
I
w
tc f or m , and we therefore recommend that they all be approve<.
proper
T

o · ie " • · v • · '

~o:rec~:o~~

SIDNEY

B. FORCE,

c. 0. HAMILTON,

G. D. OCHELTREE,
Committee.

T

The Faithful Departed of the Grand Lodge of California
Western Star, No. 2
Richard Bruce Ross, died June 30, 1927

Past Master

Report was adopted.

Tehama, No. 3
William Elias John Baughman, died October 27, 1926

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON NECROLOGY

Washington, Ko. 20
Charles Heisen, Jr., died January 3, 1927
William Alfred Potter, died May 15, 1927

h

Iv! . W. Gra11d Lodge of California:

1

o t c
d
· 1925 the Com• •
• •
At the annual communication o~, the~~:n~ ~~tt~:gmand appropriate
mittee on Necr?lo~y ~as created ~~n s of those who have laid down
record for .pubhcatton m ~hel ;;~c::ose g who have served their Lodges
'd d for obtaining the informalife's working tools, particu a ~
as officers." No method was t ~n ~~~v~p e ropriate record. In 1926 this
~oc\ es
furnish full information to
tion from Lodge: necessa~y ~o
body, by re:olut1011, re~1re t te t th:t resolution the Grand Secretary
the Grand Secretary.
ursuan °
t to him the deaths of
requested the Secretaries of all Lodges to reJor . t A gust 1 1927
aU officers occurring after July :;~ii~~~~, t:n th~;10:om:itt~e. 1n' som~
These reports ha~e been mad:,bers whether officers or not, has been
•ho have died prior to July
instances the pass mg of all me f 'h .
reported. In others the names o t ose v.

:a

!

567

31st, 1926, have also been included. Your committee has interpreted the
resolutions referred to as requiring the recording of the death of those
officers of Lodges who were serving or had served as Masters and who
were therefore permanent members of the Grand Lodge. The list·which
follows has been so limited, for the reason that the inclusion of all
officers of Lodges would seem to unduly enlarge the report of the
committee. 'Ne recommend that the reports required to be furnished
hereafter by Secretaries of Lodges be limited to Masters and Past
Masters who have died during the year ending the first of August
immediately prior to the ensuing Grand Lodge annual communication. In
the accompanying list we have recorded the deaths of 79 of such officers.
We are pleased to report that no Grand Lodge officer is included in. the
list. We do, however, find therein the name of Brother William Harvey
Edwards, former Grand Lecturer, who passed away on January 4th of
the present year. He was Past Master of Pacific Lodge, No. 136, and
as Grand Lecturer served from 1900 to 1906 inclusive. He was an
educator of note in San Francisco and. upon his retirement as Grand
Lecturer was appointee\ superintendent of the Masonic Home at Decoto.

San Joaquin, No. 19
Sylvanus Gilbert Sargent Dunbar, died Jufy 23, 1927
Fred Lewellyn Kincaid, died May 2, 1927
Trinity, No. 27
George Frederick Gehm, died December 28, 1926

Past Master
Past Master
Past Master
Past Master
Past Master
Past Master

San Diego, No. 35
Grover Carlton Stout, died April 23, 1927
Past Master
Mountain Shade, No. 18
William Irvin Redding, died January 18, 1927

Worshipful Master

Hawaiian, No. 21
Frederick Whitney, died August 13, 1926
Past Master

568

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Forbestown, No. SO
William John Schultz, died October 18, 1926
Worshipful Master
"He was elected Worshipful Master on November 30, 1895.
This high office he filled completely and honorably for a period
of over twenty-nine years, a record which is not surpassed in
California, and probably not in the United States."

Past Master
Past Master

Past Master
Past Master

Keith, No. 187
Bert Woodman Martin, died January 25, 1927

Past Master

Past Master

Oakland, No. 188
Barber Daniels, died August 3, 1926
Dame! Webster Pratt, died February 7, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Past Master
Past Master

Pentalpha, No. 202
Charl<;s Wes~ey Blake, died November 2, 1926
Francis Marion Parker, died February 20, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Past Master
Past Master

Speranza Italiana, No. 219
Carlo Belzarini, died May 23, 1927
Fortunato Bianchini, died February 19, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Past Master

Roseville, No. 222
Ralph Lewis Staford, died November 18, 1926

Past Master

San Mateo, No. 226
Kenneth Milton Green, died August 19, 1926

Past Master

Solano, No. 229
Robert Lavery Robertson, died November 19 1926
James Roney, died October 6 1926
'
John Wilton Winton, died February 7, 1927

Past Master
Past Master
Past Master

Magnolia, No. 242
George Washington McComber, died April 25, 1927

Past Master

Alcatraz, No. 244
William James Chesney, died December 1 1926
John Crossman, died September 24, 1926 '

Past Master
Past Master

Reading, No. 254
Charles Colfax Corbiere, died May 10 1927
Wilson Churchill Ponder, September i1, 1926

Past Master
Past Master

North East, No. 266
Charles Haven Fee, died February 28, 1927

Past Master

North Star, No. 91
Craig Thomas Harbaugh, died January 27, 1927
Yosemite, No. 99
Charles Marion Cross, died December 31, 1926
Albert Dethlefsen, died June 30, 1927

t Master by Affiliation

p::t Master by Affiliation

Claiborne, No. 185
Edward William Chalmers, died March 1, 1927
Samuel W. Kirkland, died February 25, 1927

Vesper, No. 84
James Lester Hamilton, died April 10, 1927
William Felix O'Connor, died December 7, 1926

Petaluma, No. 180
Frank W. Anderson, died March 14 1927
p
John David Hinshaw, died Nov. 30,'1926

569

Gilb~rt

Chico, No. 111
James Madison Dugger, died February 20, 1927
Louis Glass Faulkner, died March 14, 1927
Summit, No. 112
William Edward Campbell, died October 2, 1926
Concord, No. 117
Albert Elgin Robinson, died October 9, 1926
Fidelity, No. 120
John Philo Albro, died March 24, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Pacific, No. 136
William Harvey Edwards, died January 4, 1927

Past Grand Lecturer

Oriental, No. 144
Robert Hodge, died March 3, 1927
Victor Edward Mathews, died February 5, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Woodland, No. 156
Daniel Monroe Burns, died May 30, 1927
Charles Edward Dingle, died December 24, 1926

Past Master
Past Master

Redwood City, No. 168
William Henry Kelso, died April 17, 1927
Frank Kendall Towne, February 9, 1927

Worshipful Master
Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

570

571

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Berkeley, No. 363
Durant, No. 268

Robert Edgar, died December 28, 1926

Harry Dayton Kelsey, died June 28, 1927
Past Master

Pasadena, No. 272
Adoniram Monroe Bettes, died December 13, 1926
Luther Grinnell Brown, died March 17, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Oakdale, No. 275
David Rickart, died April 21, 1927
Silver Gate, No. 296
Lawrence Augustus Creelman, died December 9, 1926

Emanuel, No. 318
Orwin Cullen Hawkins, died March 27, 1927
First Master of the Lodge.

Redondo, No. 328
James Guy Start, died March 10, 1927
Vallee de France, No. 329
Emile Christopher, died January 2, 1927

Past Master

Horace Eugene Saunders, died March 29, 1927

Past Master

Past Master

Bay View, No. 401
Carroll Henry Whitten, died March 24, 1927
Past Master of Abell Lodge, No. 146.

Past Master

Oceanside, No. 381

Past Master

Palo Alto, No. 346
Josiah Wickerd Roller, died December 2, 1926
First Master of the Lodge.

Past Master

Past Master

.
Clovis, No. 417
Herbert Guary Johnson. died February 11, 1927

Past Master

Past Master

.Eagle Rock, No. 422
Mark Thurlow Lee, died November 27, 1926

Past Master

Past Master

Pittsburg, No. 429
Leslie C. Keithley, died November 20, l'.126

Past Master

Past Master

Thomas Thayer, died March 24, 1927

Past Master

Peter Pensotti, died December 25, 1926

Past Master

Granada, No. 608
Joseph Donald Smith, died September 29, 1926

Past Master

Claremont, No. 436
Arthur LeBreton McDonald, died August 22, 1926

Junior \Varden

Libertas, No. 466
James Joshua Taylor, died November 15, 1926

Senior Warden

Alpha, No. 431
Past Master

Fairmount, No. 435

McKinley, No. 347
Palen Church, died March 28, 1927

Arlington, No. 414
Albert Henry Lewis, died February l, 1927

Fruitvale, No. 336
John Henry Helmstein, died January 21, 1927

Past Master

University, No. 394

Covina, N0. 334
Albert Reuben Bryan, died May 12, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Loren Lee Brown, died October 7, 1926

San Pedro, No. 332
Edmund Percival Ingmire, died April 6, 1927

Mizpah, No. 378

Past Master

Whittier, No. 323
Lee Clinton Sawin, died July 15, 1927

Past Master
Past Master

Past Master

Monrovia, No. 308
William Laghrin Hanna, died March 10, 1927

South Pasadena, No. 367
Hartley Crawford Packer, died March 14, 1927
James Chaplin Pridham, died March 10, 1927
Adolph Jules Maas, died July 3, 1927
John Edwards Perrins, died October 2, 1926

Liberty, Ko. 299
Wiley Hudelston Trogden, died October 19, 1926

Past Master

Past Masvr

Past Master
Worshipful Master

572

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

When we contemplate the long list of those who have served their
Lodges as Masters and who have passed away during the last year, we
are reminded of the outstanding activities of men in their several communities who have rendered a distinct contribution to the uplifting of
humanity irt good citizenship, friendly devotion and helpfulness to those
in need or distress. They leave behind them the fragrant memory of
the many virtues that adorned their lives. We feel compassion for their
loved ones and we regret the breaking of the golden link in the chain
of their fellowship. But may we not forget that this breaking is but
temporary and that in some future time that golden chain will be
reforged in a glorious common bond for all eternity.
"'What is it which alleviates and sanctifies toil, which renders men
strong, wise, patient, just, at once humble and aspiring, but the perpetual
vision of a better world, whose light shines through the darkness of
the present life?"
We, too, will join the departed brethren in "the glory of going on
and yet to be," and will experience that supreme consolation of the soul
vouchsafed unto us by the Great Architect of the Universe. In the
meantime, as the tide of human life sweeps onward, let us strive with
renewed ambition to accomplish the purpose of our brotherhood-service
to our fellowmen.
JOHN

D. SHENK,

A. PLUMB,
\V ALTER L. BERGER,
Committee.
MAX

Grand Lodge was called up for a moment of silent prayer,
and the report was adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

573

PROPOSED STATUE TO GEORGE WASHINGTON
To the M:.w:.Graiid Lodge of California:
Whereas, Pursuant to a proclamation of the President of the United
States, the Governors of the forty-eight States of our Union have adopted
legislation authorizing the appointment of committees for the purpose
of commemorating the bi-centenary of the birth of our illustrious
brother, General George \Vashington, the Father of his Country; and
Whereas, Worshipful Brother George \Vashington has always been
regarded as our most illustrious American Mason, and the mention of
his name causes feelings of pride in the minds of all true Masons; and
Whereas, It is a regrettable fact that the great State of California
is the one State in the Union which has not commemorated the memory
of the illustrious Father of Our Country in the form of a statue, monument, or memorial in any public place in our State, and believing that it
is fitting and proper that some suitable memorial be erected in his
memory, be it
Resolved.• That the Grand Master be authorized and requested to
appoint a suitable committee to consider the best method of perpetuating
the memo~y of our illustrious brother and that said committee carefully
canvass the situation and report at the next Annual Communication of
this Grand Lodge.
HARRY L. Tooo.

Adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
To the M: .W: .Grand Lodge of Californi<i:
Your Committee on Accounts, whose duty it is to approve all Grand
Lodge expenses for the year, pursuant to Constitutional requirements, beg
leave to report that we called at the office of the Grand Secretary on
the last Saturday of each month and audited all bills, claims and demands
against the Grand Lodge, as were received by the Grand Secretary.
F. c. RUPPEL,
ANDREW BURKE,

0. HANSON,
A. DE VRIES,
c. i.,v. GooDwrn,
Committee.

JOHN

PIETER

Report adopted.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

574

REPORT OF THE MASONIC TEMPLE
ASSOCIATION
Receipts and disbursements from October 1, 1926, to October 1, 1927:
Receipts
October 1, 1926, balance on hand................................
$18,395.31
From rentals, 12 months .............................................. $42,998.00
From discounts ................................................................
12.03
Bank interest on balance, 12 months..........................
249.95
43,259.98

Total receipts

$61,655.29

Dis bur semen ts
Taxes ................................................................................ $ 9,561.60
Current expenses (light, fuel, water)........................
4,864.71
Superintendent and janitors' service..........................
9,716.10
Repairs and improvements ............................................
4,252.53
Insurance ..........................................................................
499.20
Secretary ..........................................................................
900.00 $29,794.14

Cash on hand October 1, 1927..............................
There is no indebtedness.
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM

$31,861.15

H. CROCKER, President,

EDWARD PEABODY,

575

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Secretary.

Report adopted.

Jin "ranh 1Jlohgr
Afternoon Session
Thursday, October 13, 1927.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
To the M.'.W.'.Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee charged with the duty of ascertammg the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the officers or
representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers, .Past Grand Masters, Chairmen and members of standing
committees and Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure to and from
the Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged that duty
and submit the following statement:
Representatives ...................................................................... $15,345.67
Grand Lodge Officers ..........................................................
466.78
Past Grand Masters ............................................................
274.78
Standing Committees ........... ..............................................
507.56
Inspectors ·········-········--··············---·------·-·······-··············---·--······ 2,310.30

SEAL OF GRAND LODGE
Total ···········--···----·····················-······················--·············· $18,905.09

The Special Committee appointed last year to make a study
of the Seal of the Grand Lodge of California, which has been
criticized for lack of heraldic accuracy, presented a report and
requested that the committee be continued until next year,
which request was granted.

Respectfully submitted,
PERCY L. KING,
]OHN McGEHEE,
WILLIAM TAYLOR,
W.W. McKEE,

Committee.

Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

Report was adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

576

577

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON POLICY AND
GENERAL PURPOSES
To the l\'1:.w:.Grand Lodge of California:
With respect to the several matters referred to it, your Committee
on Policy and General Purposes respectfully reports as follows :

District Deputy Grand Masters and Deputy Grand Lecturers
I. At the Annual Communication of 1926 your Committee on
Policy and General Purposes recommended that consideration of the
matter of appointment of Deputy Grand Lecturers and District Deputy
Grand Masters be postponed until this Annual Communication of Grand
Lodge, which recommendation was adopted. The subject matter has
now been under consideration for another year, and your committee
has not altered its opinion and adheres to the recommendation made by
it to Grand Lodge at the Annual Communication of 1925. At that time
we reported to you that, in the opinion of your committee, the Inspectors
provided by our laws are performing, under the supervision of the Grand
Lecturer and subject to the orders of the Grand Master, an important
work in a splendid manner, and that it appeared to the committee that
no persuasive reason existed for curtailing the duties of the Inspectors
or for establishing a new group of Grand Lodge offices.
At the Annual Communication of 1922 your committee recommended
that the policy creating District Deputy Grand Masters and Deputy
Grand Lecturers be not adopted, and Grand Lodge rescinded its action,
taken in 1920, to adopt the policy of creating District Deputy Grand
Masters and Deputy Grand Lecturers.
\Ve are of the opinion that the most plausible argument in favor of
creating the new officers is to relieve the Grand Master of some of his
burdens. Because of the territorial extent of this Grand jurisdiction,
the large number of subordinate Lodges and the manifold activities of
the craft, the duties of the Grand Master are most onerous. He should
be in a position to delegate many visitorial, ceremonial and social duties
to others. By reason of the zeal and activities of our Grand Master, a
practice has grown up through the years of demanding of the Grand
Master that he personally perform many functions that overtax his time
and strength. This practice has operated to relegate the Deputy Grand
Master, and the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens to positions of comparative inactivity. This is wrong. These officers are distinguished
members of the craft, are held in high favor by their brethren, will each
in his turn become Grand Master, and should have an active participation
in the official work of Grand Lodge, not only at the Annual Communication but throughout the year. By availing himself of the services

of his fellow Grand officers, the Grand Master will find the relief that
some expected would be afforded by District Deputy Grand Masters. We
are also of opinion that the necessary expenses of these Grand officers,
incurred in the performance of duties assigned to them by the Grand
Master, should be provided for and paid by Grand Lodge.
Your Committee therefore recommends
(a) That the offices of District Grand Masters and Deputy Grand
Lecturers be not created.
(b) That Section 70 of the Constitution be so amended as to
provide for the payment by Grand Lodge of expenses of the Grand
Master, Deputy Grand Master, Senior Grand \Varden and Junior Grand
Warden incurred in the performance of their respective duties.

Adopted.
Dual Membership
2. An amendment to the Constitution has been proposed providing
for dual membership. Your committee respectfully suggests that at its
Annual Communication in 1924 this Grand Lodge adopted the policy of
dual membership and that it has not rescinded its action relative thereto.
At the same session the Committee on Jurisprudence reported appropriate legh;lation to make such policy effective, but Grand Lodge by its
vote rejected the recommendation and thereby left its adopted policy
nugatory and ineffective. It appears to your committee that the subject
matter should be referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence for a
recommendation of appropriate legislation and it so recommends.

Adopted and subsequently, as heretofore reported, the
entire matter was postponed until next year.
George Washington Memorial
3. The Grand Master, in his able and scholarly Message, directs the
attention of Grand Lodge to the aims and purposes of the George \Vashington National .Memorial Association, advises us of the facts learned
by him from a personal visit to Alexandria, and recommends a suitable
practical participation by this Grand Lodge in order to assist in the
completion of the splendid project. Your committee heartily agrees with
the Grand Master that this project is worthy of generous support and
that our participation should be commensurate with the dignity and importance of this Grand jurisdiction in the family of American Grand
Lodges. Adopting the suggestion of the Grand Master, your committee recommends that a substantial contribution be made to the
Memorial Fund and that the Committee on Finance be requested to
report to Grand Lodge a suitable per capita tax for such purpose.

Adopted.

579

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Anniversary of Initiation of George Washington

w.e therefore recommend that no degree be con fer red by courtesy
upon men whose actual legal residence is within our jurisdiction, except
when good cause be shown why the candidate should remain a member
of the requesting lodge.

578

4. The Grand Master recommends to Grand Lodge the propriety
of the observance by the craft on November 5, 1927, of the 175th anniversary of the initiation of George Washington as an Entered Apprentice
Mason, and your committee recommends that due observance of the
anniversary by the Lodges be. requested.

Adopted.
Entertainments
5. Your committee applauds the observation of the Grand Master
on the subject of Entertainments, and welcomes the timely warning given
to gatherings of Masons which transgress the bounds of propriety by
countenancing questionable entertainments. Verb. sap.

Adopted.
Lassen Monument Site
6. Your committee agrees with the Grand Master that the movement to secure a conveyance of the land on which the grave and monument to Peter Lassen are located should continue until that object is
accomplished, and therefore it is recommended that the Committee on
Lassen Monument Site be continued.

Adopted.
Degrees by Courtesy
7. The Grand Secretary presents the oft-recurring and troublesome
subject of degrees by courtesy. Your committee for several years has
been inclined to temporize with the problem, hoping for an improvement
in the situation and desiring to continue every possible courtesy to the
Lodges of other jurisdictions. Our hopes for improvement have not
been realized, and we fear that our efforts to be kind have not served
the best interests of Masonry.. It is a fact that in many instances requests
to have degrees conferred upon residents of California for Lodges of
other jurisdictions have been unreasonable.
At the last annual communication your committee asked that this
subject be postponed until the present communication in order to permit
a further study. Your committee feels that there is a definite inconsistency in expecting the Lodges of this jurisdiction to devote so much
time and effort in the conferring of degrees on men who thus become
members of a Lodge in a State in which they no longer reside. The
Grand Secretary rightly contends that those who make their homes here
and earnestly desire to become Master Masons should secure <limits or
waivers of jurisdiction from the old home Lodges and in due time regularly petition a Lodge near their new home for the remaining degrees.
That is the reasonable and practical thing to do, and it would be no
breach of courtesy for us to insist upon such a course.

Adopted.
"Record Book"
8. Your committee approves the suggestion of the Grand Secretary
that "Record Book of Example Lodge" be revised and reprinted and a
copy thereof sent to the Secretary of each Lodge in the jurisdiction,
and so recommends.

Adopted.
Lodge System of Accounting
<;. Your committee recommends the adoption of the resolution
presented by William Pt'nn Humphreys for the appointment by the
Grand Master of three qualified brethren to prepare and submit to
this Grand Lodge, at its annual communication in 1928, a tentative
system of books and forms necessary and appropriate for keeping the
financial records of each of the Lodges of the jurisdiction.

Approved.
Education Committee
Your committee recommends that the Masonic Education program, adopted in 1925, be continued, that the Grand Master appoint a
committee to proceed with the educational work during the ensuing year,
and that such sum as shall be designated by the Finance Committee be
appropriated for the use of the committee.

10.

Building Projects
11. Your committee is in entire accord with the Grand Master on
the subject of approval by or for Grand Lodge of all projects to erect
Masonic temples. He wisely states that the good name of the fraternity
is involved in the trying efforts of many Lodges to overcome the
difficulties of building projects which have been entered into with more
enthusiasm than good judgment, with more local fervor than calm
reflection. An ill advised temple project weakens a Lodge, diminishes
its usefulness, discourages its members, invites laxity in order to raise
money and reflects adversely against Masonry. It certainly is a better
plan to approach Grand Lodge regarding temple finances prior to the
assumption of a burden of debt rather than 'afterward.
This is a
delicate as well as a difficult subject, because Grand Lodge should not
unduly interfere with the !audible and zealous efforts of the memb10rs
of a Lodge to secure for themselves an adequate and suitable home.
Nor should Grand Lodge concern itself in the matter except to advise,

580

PROCEEDINGS OF THF
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

assist and protect the Lodge. It is the belief of your committee that
Lodges in this jurisdiction contemplating the erection of temples would
gladly welcome the advice and assistance of an experienced and impartial
committee representing this Grand Lodge. If the funds of the subordinate
Lodge are to be invested or hazarded, as the case may be, in a temple
project, certainly this Grand Lodge is an interested party and should
be consulted before the investment is made.
Your committee respectfully recommends
(a) That a committee consisting of the Grand Treasurer, the
Chairman of the Finance Committee, and a brother designated by the
Grand Master, be appointed a committee on Masonic building projects;
(b) That before a Lodge shall invest any of its funds in a Masonic
building project, there shall be submitted to said committee a full and
complete statement of the proposed plan of financing, the character and
cost of the proposed building, the extent of the participation of the Lodge
therein, and such other pertinent facts as shall be required by said committee, and there shall be secured from said committee, or a majority
of the members thereof, a written approval of such building project;
(c) That the Committee on Jurisprudence prepare and submit to
Grand Lodge appropriate legislation to carry these recommendations into
effect.

The report was adopted.
Payment of Expenses of Inspectors
12. The Masters' and Wardens' Association of Los Angeles
proposes that Section 56 of the Constitution be amended to provide for
the payment by Grand Lodge of the expenses of an Inspector incurred
in performing the duties of visitation, etc., instead of requiring such
payment of the Lodge. It has been called to our attention that the
proposal is made because of an unusual situation in the cases of two
out of one hundred and five Inspectors.
In each of these cases the Inspector has a Lodge situated at a great
distance from his home, entailing a considerable expense for visitations,
which neither the Lodge nor the Inspector can reasonably be expected
to bear. Upon a suggestion being made to the Grand Master of the
circumstances of these cases, he undoubtedly will cause the Lodges in
question to be reimbursed by Grand Lodge for the unusual outlay. We
see no good reason for the proposed change in the law, and recommend
that the proposal be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Pay af Inspectors
13. Your committee joins with the Grand Master in his encomiums
upon the Inspectors and the well-merited tribute he pays to their

581

efficiency, faithfulness and love of the fraternity, but it is unable to
agree with him and with the Masters and Wardens' Association of
Los Angeles that the Constitution should be amended to provide payment to the Inspectors of a different and larger amount for expenses
incurred in attending Grand Lodge than is paid to representatives of
Lodges. It is possible that after opportunity is had for a more careful
and detailed study of the subject and the collation of the pertinent facts,
it will appear that inequalities exist or that a more equitable basis of
payment should be adopted. At present your committee is of the opinion
that no changes should be made in the law relative to pay of officers,
representatives or Inspectors, and therefore recommend that the proposal
be not adopted.

Report adopted.
Annual Meeting Place of Grand Lodge
14. Your committee is of the opinion that Grand Lodge at this
Annual Communication should not attempt to fix the place of the
meeting of Grand Lodge in 1934, 1939, or at any other remote date.
Many circumstances may arise in the future to make our determination
of the matter unreasonable, unwise or impossible.
But now is an
appropriate time to fix the place of meeting in 1929, if it is desired
that the meeting shall be held at Los Angeles. Your committee has
before it the resolution of the Masters' and Wardens' Association of Los
Angeles for an amendment to Section 11 of the Constitution providing
for the holding of the annual communication of Grand Lodge in Los
Angeles in A. L. 5924, and every five years thereafter. Your committef'!
respectfully recommends that said Section 11 be amended by striking
out the figures "5924" and inserting in lieu thereof the figures "5929."

The report was adopted and Section 11 of the Constitution
was amended by a five-sixths vote to read as follows:
Sec. 11. The Grand Lodge shall hold its Annual Communications
for the transaction of its regular business, at the city of San Francisco,
commencing on the second Tuesday of October, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Provided, however, that the Annual Communication in October, A. L.
5929, shall be held in the city of Los Angeles.

Masonic Clubhouse U. of C,, Los Angeles
15. A group of representative Masons interested in raising funds
for a Masonic clubhouse at the l:niversity of California, Los Angeles,
have presented a resolution, in which the only thing sought is the consent
and approval of their efforts in behalf of an important and worthy
Masonic activity. We understand this resolution to be permissive in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

582

;10t

character and that Grand Lodge will
be committed financially ot
otherwise by its adoption, and therefore we recommend the adoption of
the resolution.

The report and resolution were adopted.
Meeting Hall for Grand Lodge
It is recommended that the committee appointed for the purpose
of surveving the situation with reference to the facilities for a meeting
place fo~ Grand Lodge in the Masonic Temple at San Francisco be
continued and that two additional members be appointed by the Grand
Master and added to said committee, and that said committee report
its findings and recommendations at the next Annual Communication
of Grand Lodge.
16.

Adopted.
Medical Certificates
It is recommended that the resolution offered by Hanford
Lodge, No. 279, proposing to amend the Constitution to provide for a
brief medical certificate to accompany each petition for the degrees of
Masonry, be not adopted.
17.

Adopted.
Order of De Molay
There has been referred to your Committee on Policy and
General Purposes a communication from the Grand Master relative to
the sponsorship of De Molay Chapters by subordinate Lodges in this
Grand jurisdiction. No authority has been given by this Grand Lodge
·for the sponsoring by Lodges under its jurisdiction of Chapters of the
Order of De Molay, and your committee knows of no reason why it
should change the recommendation made by it in 1924 and adopted by
Grand Lodge, refusing to Lodges the right to sponsor Chapters of the
Order of De Molay.
18.

Adopted.
Grand Lodge of Vienna
19. The petition of the Grand Lodge of Vienna asking for recognition was received in 1926 and consideration was postponed for purposes
of investigation until this Annual Communication.
VVe find the Grand Lodge of Vienna to be a regular Masonic
power, representing a substantial unity of Freemasonry in Austria, and
to be sovereign and independent in its authority and jurisdiction. The
Constitution and ritual are fundamentally based on the Ancient Charges
and Landmarks of Freemasonry. A belief in the Supreme Architect of
the Universe is required, the Bible is present on the altar, the three lesser
lights shine in the Lodges, the columns and ashlars are in evidence, the

583

division of Masonry into three degrees is observed, and the temple legend
is the basis of the ritual. Candidates for the degrees must be men above
the age of twenty-four years; the second degree is not conferred until
at least one year after initiation and the third degree not until two
years after initiation. Secrecy is required, and discussions of religion
and politics are excluded from the work.
Freemasonry in Austria has experienced many difficulties. The
first Lodge was organized in 1742, but the stern repressive measures
of Maria Theresa extinguished the Institution in her realm. Her son,
Francis Joseph II, was sympathetic and interested, and under his rule
Freemasonry had a brief period of security, which was soon destroyed
by political and military opposition. The Grand Lodge of Austria founded
in 1784 was dissolved by the government during the reign of Francis I,
and the Institution was interdicted until the close of the \N'orld War.
Since 1871 Austrian Lodges have existed in secret, but held their
meetings on the soil of Hungary near the Austrian frontier. These
Lodges enjoyed the protection of the Grand Lodge of Hungary. In
1914 there were fourteen such Lodges in existence. While initiations
and other Masonic work was done in Hungary, each Lodge had in
Austria a fraternal society of profane name for social, charitable and
cultural purposes. The first Austrian orphanage was founded by one
of these Lodges, and special benevolences were undertaken and carried
on by several of them.
In 1918 the fourteen Lodges above referred to, finding the age old
conditions in Austria to be ameliorated and altered by the breaking up
of the Empire, assembled to found the Grand Lodge of Vienna, to which
the Grand Lodge of Hungary issued a charter in January, 1919. The
new Grand Lodge has solidified Masonry in Austria and has attracted
to its membership many persons prominent in the social, political and
intellectual life of the country.
Grand Lodge now has jurisdiction over twenty-three Lodges, with
a membership of about sixteen hundred Masons. Brother Wollenberg,
Junior Grand vVarden, visited the offices of the Vienna Grand Lodge
during the spring of the present year and was received with charming
fraternal courtesy and hospitality.
This Grand Lodge enjoys fraternal relations with many of the
American Grand Lodges, and your committee is satisfied that it conforms
to all the requirements of our law on the subject of recognition, and
therefore recommend fraternal recog-nition of the "Grossloge von vVien"
of which Dr. Richard Schlesinger is Grand Master and Dr. vVladimir
Misar is Grand Secretary.

Adopted.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

584

The National Grand Lodge of Egypt
20. Your committee has carefully considered the petition of the
National Grand Lodge of Egypt for recognition, and respectfully reports
as follows:
The National Grand Lodge of Egypt was organized about 1866 and
now has seventy Lodges and approximately seven thousand members.
Forty-five Lodges work in the Arabic language, fourteen in Greek and
four in English. The charities are represented by a General Fund of
Benevolence; a fund for aged invalid Masons; a widows' and orphans'
fund, and a special fund for the education of children of Freemasons.
Two orphanages are maintained in Cairo.
The work is divided into three degrees, a belief in God is required,
the Holy Bible is on the altar, with the other Great Lights, the Lodge
rooms are furnished with columns, ashlars and other equipment according
to the ideals of American Freemasonry, and the ritualism and practice
is based upon the fundamentals of the Ancient Landmarks and Charges.
Candidates must be men twenty-one years old or upwards. At least six
months must elapse between the conferring of degrees upon a candidate.
Your committee is satisfied that this Grand Lodge conforms to our
requirements for recognition, is recognized by England, Ireland, Scotland,
and forty-two other Grand jurisdictions, and therefore recommends
fraternal recognition of the National Grand Lodge of Egypt, of which
Prince Mohamed Ali is Grand Master and Abdel Meguid Younis is
Grand Secretary.
WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY,
GEORGE F. RODDEN,
WILLIAM

A. S HER:V1AN,

DAVID ]. REESE,

WILLIAM H. WASTE,

585

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
To the 11,f.' .T+'.' .Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has considered the decisions
reported by the Grand Master in his annual message, and report as
follows:
Decisions of GTand Master
In Decision 1, (p. 15 of his Message) he correctly ruled that in
acting upon a petition for restoration of a brother who had been
suspended for non-payme11t of dues and who had neglected for a period
of more than two years to pay the same, a secret ballot on the part of
the members present is essential. and that it is improper to have the
Secretary on motion cast the ballot for the Lodge. (Sec. 119, Constitution, and Sec. 473, Decisions.) We recommend that the decision
be approved.

Adopted.
In Decision 2 he correctly decided that a Master Mason cannot
make application for membership in the Eastern Star within six months
after receiving the degree of Master Mason, without violating the
promise made by him in his application for the degree of Masonry to
the effect that he would not within such time petition for or receive any
degree or be initiated in any body, order, or organization, the prerequisite
of membership wherein is that a person be a Master Mason. (Sec. 245,
Constitution.)
We recommend that the decision be approved.

Adopted.

EUGENE ELKUS,
FRANK

w. MIXTER,
Committee.

Adopted.

In Decision No. 3, the Grand Master correctly held that a Lodge
could not, in view of our written law, use its funds in the purchase of
any present for the retiring Master other than a Past Master's jewel.
The Constitution (Sections 88 and 89) is explicit as to the purposes
for which Lodge funds may and may not be used, and expressly limits
the power of the Lodge in the matter of a present to its retiring Master
in the way stated by the Grand Master.
We recommend that the decision be approved.

Adopted.
In Decision 4, the Grand Master correctly holds that a Mason
suspended simply for non-payment of dues may, within two years from
the date of his suspension, restore himself to full membership by complying with the provisions of Section 118 of the Constitution, entirely

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

586

regardless of considerations of his fitness to be a member. If guilty
of any Masonic offense he can be proceeded against only in the usual
way, namely, by charges preferred therefor.
Vv e recommend that the decision be approved.

Adopted.
In Decision 5, the Grand ~faster correctly held that the effect of
the repeal at the last Annual Communication of Regulation 410 was to
remove the disqualification of a Lodge to proceed with a trial of a
brother charged with un-Masonic conduct when charges were preferred
by the Junior \Varden under direction of the Master. The Master,
however, by reason of giving such direction, is disqualified from presiding at the trial, and any Past Master of this jurisdiction may be
designated by the Grand Master to act in the place of the Master.
(Section 200, Constitution.)
\Ve recommend that the decision be approved.

Adopted.
Decision 6: The Grand Master correctly held that it was improper
for a Lodge to provide for an annual appropriation from its social
fund of not less than two hundred dollars for twenty-five years, for
the purpose of creating a fund to be known as the Centennial Fund, to
be used for a centennial celebration twenty-five years hence, because
providing for a segregation of the funds of the Lodge not contemplated
by the Constitution and attempting to improperly bind the future membership of the Lodge. As was held in the previous ruling of this body,
quoted in the decision, the purpose of the 1921 amendment of Section
89 was to provide for a permanent refreshment fund "to be expended
at such times as the best interests of the Lodge required," and a Lodge
has no right to so tie up any portion of this fund that it may not be
expended by it at any time for such purpose (consistent with our laws)
as it may in its wisdom deem proper. It has been held that a Lodge
may not by resolution allocate a fixed portion of its revenue to a
particular purpose. (See 180a, Decisions and Regulations.) While we
think it is the established law that the amendment of 1921 of Section 89
did contemplate a separate permanent refreshment fund, we are likewise
satisfied that it was never intended that such fund should not be available at any time for expenditures for any purpose (consistent with our
law) that the Lodge deemed proper. This we think is the full effect
of the decision of the Grand Master.
We recommend that the decision be approved.

Adopted.

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

587

Physical Qualifications
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, referring to the portion of the
Grand Master's address relative to physical qualifications of applicants
for the degrees, feel that it is impracticable to attempt to define by our
law with any greater particularity than is already contained in Section
94 of our Constitution, what physical defects make an applicant in·
eligible, and believe that, subject to such general provisions, the matter
should be left to the subordinate Lodge to which the application is made.
The law, as now written. is simple and concise. The applicant must
have no defect that renders him "incapable of learning the art" and
he must be "physically able to conform substantially to what the several
degrees require of him." These are the only prohibitions prescribed by
our law, and these prohibitions are addressed to the Lodge. A Lodge
necessarily shall have a wide discretion in determining whether a candidate, all things considered, substantially measures up to this standard,
and to attempt to define with any greater particularity what defects
must exclude would result in technical rules that would embarrass rather
than assist, and flood the Grand Master with requests for rulings on
the question of eligibility of applicants. We frankly confess our inability
to prepare a provision "which will relieve the Grand Master of the burden
of defining to Masters of Lodges who are physically fit for the degrees
of ~fasonry."

The report was adopted.
Affiliation and Transfer of Membership
Your Committee on Jurisprudence report back the proposal to amend
Sections 122 and 161 and to repeal Section 248 of the Constitution and
to repeal Regulation 87, and offer the following resolutions and recommend their adoption:
Resolved, That Section 122 of the Constitution be amended to read
as follows:
Affiliation.
·Sec. 122. No Lodge shall receive an application for affiliation
unless it be accompanied by :
1. A <limit, or if the applicant be a member of a Lodge in this
jurisdiction, a receipt for dues and demand for a <limit as provided
by Section 161 ; or
2. If the applicant be a member of a Lodge in another jurisdiction,
a certificate from his Lodge that a dimit will be issued on notice of his
election to membership in a Lodge of this jurisdiction; or
3. A proper dimit from the Lodge of which he was last a member,
or a satisfactory explanation in writing of his inability to furnish such
<limit ; together with

588

4. The affiliation fee, if any, required by the by-laws of the Lodge,
and the sum, if any, required by Section 165, a11d the sum of twentyfive dollars as required by Subdivision 1 of Section 41; nor unless the
applicant shall have proved to the satisfaction of the Master of the
Lodge that he is a Master Mason. The applicant may apply to any
Lodge in the jurisdiction, and if rejected may apply again as often as
he chooses to do so.

Resolved, That the first paragraph of Section 161 be amended to
read as follows :
Transfer of Affiliation With Contim~ous Membership.
Sec. 161. A member in good standing in this jurisdiction, and
against whom no charges are pending, who desires to affiliate with
another Lodge, may file his application for membership accompanied by
a receipt from the Lodge of which he is a member, showing that his
dues are paid for at least three months in advance, together with a
written request to his Lodge for a <limit. If elected to membership in
the Lodge to which such application is made, the Secretary thereof shall
immediately forward such application for <limit to the Lodge from
which the brother desires to withdraw, and at the stated meeting at which
the <limit is presented, the Secretary shall enter the applicant's name as
a member of the Lodge. Dues will accrue as to such affiliate from
the first day of the month succeeding the presentation of the <limit.
If the applicant be rejected, the receipt for dues and the request for
dimit shall be returned to the applicant.
Resolved, That Section 248 of the Constitution be repealed.
Resolved, That Regulation 87 be repealed.

The report was adopted and sections 122 and 161 were
amended as above reported by unanimous vote, and Section
248 and Regulation 87 were repealed by unanimous vote.
Ten-Mile Jurisdictional Limit
It is proposed to amend Section 82a so that the provisions of that
section may be disregarded by Lodges by agreement among themselves.
The adoption of such a provision, we fear, would result in uncertainty
with respect to the operation of the law involved, that relating to the
ten-mile jurisdictional privilege. We therefore believe it would be
unwise to adopt any changes at this time.

Adopted.
Objection Before Ballot
We recommend that Section 101 be amended by adding after the
words "Grand Secretary," fifth line from the bottom, the following:

589

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"A committee need not be appointed, or if appointed need- not act,
after an objection is received, unless the objection be withdrawn. If
an objection be made, the Master shall report the fact at the next
Stated Meeting of the Lodge and the sixty day period shall commence
to run from the date of such meeting."

Adopted, and section 101 amended as above by unanimous
vote.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence recommend that Subdivision 2d of
Section 41 of the Constitution be amended to read as follows:
"For each Master Mason borne upon its rolls at the date of its
annual report, the sum of fifty cents; such per capita as the Grand
Lodge shall levy at each Communication for the support of the Masonic
Homes of California; and the further sum of fifty cents per capita to
constitute a building fund for said Homes."

Adopted and subdivision 2d of Section 41 of the Constitution was amended, by five-sixths vote.
Construction of Section 82a
Your Committee on Jurisprudence is unanimously of the opmton
that the Grand Master's construction of Section 82a of our Constitution is eminently correct and we therefore recommend that the same be
approved.

Adopted.
Dispensations by Grand Master
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has examined the records of the
issuance of dispensations for various purposes and approval of resolutions of life memberships by the Grand Master, and find the same to
be in accordance with law.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master in
that respect be approved.

Adopted.
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,

R. WELLER,
F. BLEDSOE,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,

DANA

BENJAMIN

JOHN D. MURPHEY,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
THOMAS FLINT,

Committee.

590

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
To the M: .W: .Grand Lodye of California:
Your Committee on Charters has had under consideration the
petitions for charters of certain Lodges hereinafter named, for the
formation and opening of which dispensations were issued within the
past Masonic year.
In the report of this committee at the last Annual Communciation
there was enumerated the respective yearly gains in the number of
applicant Lodges during several preceding years. It was then found
that we had had an average of 27 new Lodges yearly, for five years,
on all of which the Committee on Charters had given approval and made
recommendatory reports to the Grand Lodge.
Some of our leading brethren have frankly stated that they think
we are starting too many Lodges. They called attention to the greatly
increased inflow of candidates and of Lodges that followed for several
years after the close of the great \Vorld \Var. They were alarmed
that from the adventitious prosperity then generally created, men of
lesser standards of worth had been enabled to pay the fees for the
degrees, resulting in a reversal, as they thought, of our fundamental aim
that quality was to be preferred over quantity.
It was inevitable that within ten years after the close of that great
struggle, and the violent economic upheaval that was incident to it,
there should be a sane settling and adjustment of financial standards;
and the present "return to normalcy" pleases Masons who had the view
that there were too many Lodges and perhaps too many members who
were not Masons at heart.
It is true that the Institution is not helped if in a rush of prosperity
many men who otherwise would not regard themselves as eligible, under
the urge of a greater temporary earning power, should in great numbers
stampede the doors of our Masonic Lodges. A reasonable prosperity
in any institution is always admirable, but Masonry is not organized
to be popularized as an institution.
Masonry never advertises for members; it even discourages the
acts of any of its own unthinking brethren when their over-laudatory
sentiments cause them to err in actions inducing outsiders to become
Masons. Any solicitation is altogether unmasonic. No man is ever
invited to become a Mason. He must himself ask to share in our great
privileges, and he must do this asking of his own free will and accord.
Other leading brethren argue for many new Lodges. They call
attentio11 to the great quantity of ritualistic work as disclosed by some
Lodges being obliged to confer more than one hundred and fifty different
degrees in one Masonic year. There are some Lodges that have facilities

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

591

for, and without departure from our ideals, may welcome that amount of
degree work. But if there were a greater number of Lodges, they say
that this burden would be reduced with corresponding benefit to all
the Lodges.
Observation discloses that in many instances the larger part of the
dispensation petitioners who start a new Lodge, are '.'.fasons from some
other grand jurisdiction. The starting of the new Lodges stimulates the
interest of such brethren; they are given some activity they did not
formerly enjoy; their former apathy is killed; and both they and
California Masonry are aided by the rekindling of their enthusiasm.
A Masonic Lodge is always a strong factor in encouraging moral
growth and civic development. Accordingly, it is your committee's
conviction that in every new community in our rapidly-growing State,
when once well established and circumstances permit, the local brethren
should see the necessity, and be enthusiastic with the need of starting
a movement for an application for a dispensation, so that nearly as
early in time as those other great moral agencies, the public school and
the church, there may be established also therein, a Masonic Lodge. In
the larger cities the need seems at present to be fairly well supplied.
The labors of the committee have been less this year than before,
so far as tl'te number of new Lodges is concerned. Only thirteen are
working under dispensation, .but there is no cause for alarm. There
is actually no less progress than before, for the net gain in members
(two more than last year) is 6897.
Two of the thirteen lodges do not now petition for a charter.
They will continue to work under dispensation and their cases will be
considered at the next Annual Communication of this Grand Lodge.
This was voluntary on their part, but the committee commends such a
course in all cases where the dispensation is issued only a limited time
before Grand Lodge convenes.
A dispensation
a right that otherwise would not exist. It is
of course not final, and the new lodge is under probation. The law
requires the Committee on Charters, when a petition for a charter is filed,
to make an examination of the "work and proceedings" of the new Lodge
(Sec. 75, Constitution). If it has been organized too recently to make
a favorable showing that it is actually a going concern (disregarding
here any question of proficiency of its Master and Wardens and the
care and accuracy of its Secretary, these being very important, of
course), or too recently to show that it is doing good Masonic work
in the reasonable quantity and with the harmony expected at its origin,
then .such Lodge should patiently remain under dispensation for another
Masonic year, even though our law does not define any definite period
of such probation.

592

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In the other eleven cases, the committee is convinced of the high
standing of the representatives of the new Lodges and was pleased with
the prompt avouchment of the respective Inspectors that these lodges
were indeed worthy; had no debts; and had been conducted in due
Masonic manner. The dispensations, by-laws and books of record were
found to meet the requirements of the Constitution. Where minor
errors occurred showing a failure to comply with some of the provisions, on our request the corrections were legally and properly made
with cheerful compliance before the report of this committee was
formulated.
We are glad to welcome these eleven new lodges, having charter
members from California 67, and from outside jurisdictions 194; with
the 212 Master Masons they raised and the 173 affiliates; a total of
644 added to our rolls by their permanent accession to our great Masonic
family; and we recommend that charters be issued with the following
numbers:
La Brea Lodge, No. 650, at Los Angeles;
Menlo Park Lodge, No. 651, at Menlo Park;
Crescenta Valley Lodge, No. 652, at Montrose;
Fontana Lodge, No. 653, at Fontana;
Jordan Lodge, No. 654, at Los Angeles;
Monte Vista Lodge, No. 655, at Long Beach;
Citro! Lodge, No. 656, at Brea;
John D. Spreckels Lodge, No. 657, at San Diego;
Livingston Lodge, No. 658, at Livingston;
La Habra Lodge, No. 659, at La Habra;
Baldwin Park Lodge, No. 660, at Baldwin Park.
We recommend that the Dispensation of Malta Lodge be continued
to and including September 30, 1928.
RALPH A. CHASE,
FRANK A. BARNES,
D. w. MOTT,

E. B. POWER,
Committee.

The Report was adopted.

RECEPTION AND RETIREMENT OF FLAG
Past Grand Master Weller, for the Committee on Ritual,
reported with relation to the reception and retirement of the
Flag of our Country, that a ceremony would be formulated
and presented to the Lodges by the Grand Lecturer, in accordance with the suggestions made by the several resolutions which
had been presented.

593

FUNDS FOR LIBRARY
Denman S. Wagstaff, Chairman of the Committee .on
Library, pesented the following:
,
Resolved, That Grand Lodge appropriate fifteen hundred dollars
for the use of the Library Committee of Grand Lodge for the purchase
of books and traveling cases therefor.

Referred to the Committee on Finance, which Committee
reported adversely, and the resolution failed of adoption.

REPORTS OF THE COMMITTEE ON FINANCE
Reimbursements of Boards of Relief
Your Committee on Finance has examined the reports of, and
requests for, reimbursements of the various Boards of Relief which are
operating on the authority of this Grand Lodge. Nine Boards of Relief
located in Bakersfield, Fresno, Honolulu, Los Angeles, and Oakland and
Berkeley, S~n Francisco, San Diego, San Jose and Sacramento reported
to this Grand Lodge. These reports were examined and passed upon by
the Board of Control, and upon the recommendation of the Board of
Control we offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $9,050.05 be, and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to reimburse the Board of R'elief;
moneys advanced to be divided as follows:
Bakersfield .............................................................................. $ 15.00
Fresno ........................................................................................
52.00
Honolulu ..................................................................................
200.00
Los Angeles ............................................................................. . 3,784.40
Oakland and Berkeley .......................................................... ..
667.95
San Francisco ......................................................................... . 3,837.30
San Diego ................................................................................ ..
118.60
San Jose ....................................................................................
132.80
Sacramento ................................................................................
242.00
Total .................................................................................. $9,050.05
Reimbursement of Subordinate Lodges
The Board of Control also reports that they examined correspondence
in various cases and recommend reimbursement to lodges as follows :
El Centro Lodge, No. 384, El Centro-For reimbursement of the
sum of $187.25 on account of moneys expenrled for the relief of Brother
]. W. Morris of Bright Star Lodge, No. 113, of Stonewall, Oklahoma.

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Athens Lodge, No. 228, Davis-For reimbursement of the sum of
$252.35, account of moneys expended for relief of Brother J. A. Newsome
of Clayburn Lodge, No. 115, Clayburn, Texas.
· Tujunga Lodge, No. 592, Tujunga-For reimbursement of the sum
of $21.04 account of moneys expended for the relief of Miss Elizabeth
Smith, a resident of Tujunga and daughter of Isaac Smith, deceased,
member of Hoboken Lodge, No. 35, Hoboken, New Jersey.
Marin Lodge, No. 191, San Rafael-For the reimbursement of the
sum of $299.44, account of moneys expended for the relief of Brother
Roger H. Meredith, member of Sincerity Lodge, No. 292, Liverpool,
England.
Visalia Lodge, No. 128, Visalia-For reimbursement of the sum of
$492.50, account of moneys expended for the relief of Brother Alfred
Gardner, a member of Grand Ronde Valley Lodge, No. 56, of Union,
Oregon.
Olive Branch Lodge, No. 269, Tulare-For reimbursement of the
sum of $64.30, account of moneys expended for the relief of Brother
N. N. Porter, a member of Atlanta Lodge, No. 463, Atlanta, Texas.
\Ve offer the following resolution, and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of one thousand three hundred sixteen
($1,316.88) and 88/100 be and is hereby appropriated from the funds of
this Grand Lodge to reimburse the foregoing subordinate lodges, in the
amoupts set out.
Employment Bureaus
Your committee, on the recommendation of the Board of Control,
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $5,700.00 be, and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge, to be divided into the following
donations:
To the Employment Bureau of Long Beach .................................. $ 600.00
To the Employment Bureau of Los Angeles ................................ 1,800.00
To the Employment Bureau of Oakland and Berkeley..............
900.00
To the Employment Bureau of San Diego ....................................
600.00
To the Employment Bureau of San Francisco ............................ 1,800.00
Total ................................................................................................... $5,700.00
Portrait of the Grand Master
Your committee recommends that the Grand Master, Brother George
L. Jones, have his portrait painted, present a bill to the Grand Secretary,
who is hereby authorized to pay the same, and that when the portrait has
been painted, it be suitably framed and hung upon the walls of the
Grand Lodge, as part of the gallery of Past Grand Masters.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

595,

Salaries
Your committee recommends the annual salaries and traveling ex-.
penses of the Grand Lodge officers to be as follows:

g;:~~ ~:~~~~::Y

_ : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : $~:::~.

Assistant Grand Secretary .................................................... 3,000.00
Grand Tiler ..............................................................................
200.00
Grand Organist ........................................................................
100.00
Committee on Correspondence ............................................
500.00
~ontingent expense of Grand Master.................................. 2,500.00
We also recommend that the traveling expenses incurred within
the State of California by ·the Grand Lecturer, Grand Officers or
members of the Grand Lodge who may be traveling by authority of the
Grand Master, be paid as heretofore, after having been audited by the
Committee on Accounts.
Audit of Accounts
Your committee employed Ruckstell & Land, certified public
accountants, to examine the books and records of the Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer, as well as those of the Masonic Homes of California and Endowment Fund. These accountants have certified that all
books and accounts are correct. This audit discloses that the net worth
of the Grand Lodge on July 31, 1927, was $743,149.08, an increase of
$54,372.06 for the period in 1926. Of this amount, $588,300.00 is
represented by stock of Masonic Temple Association of California.
Purchase of Masonic Temple Stock
Your committee has had before it the request of Miramar Chapter,
~o. 205, 0. E. S., located at Richmond, that this Grand Lodge purchase
five (5) shares of stock in the Masonic Temple Association of California: owned ~y said Chapter, at a par value of $10.00 per share. Your
committee declmes to recommend the purchase.
Reimbursement of Lodges
Your committee has had before it the request of Caledonian Lodge
No. 486, located at Bakersfield, for the return of $15.00 paid into th~
Home Fund on account of three initiates, on which they had failed to
collect from pe~itioners. Also, the request of Golden State Lodge,' No.
358, for the reimbursement of $37.49, paid on members who had died
or. who had been suspended, through error on the part of Secretary of
said Lodge. Your committee recommends that the same be not allowed.
Western Star Lodge, No. 2
"!our co?1mittee ~as had under consideration the report of the
special committee appomted to investigate the restoration and preserva-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

tion 6f the building, valuable relics, antiques and documents of \Vestern
Star Lodge, No. 2, located at Shasta.
.
\Ve feel that this committee has given a great deal of time to the
bject. has had preliminary plans prepared and estimates taken. These
~ans ~rovide for a fireproof vault, wherein the original records shall
b kept and we are of the opinion that the committee's report warrants
d:.e exp~nditure herein recommended. You: commit.tee,. therefore, offers
the following resolution and recommends its adopt10n.
Resolved, That the sum of $3,000.00 be appropriat.ed from the !u~ds
of this Grand Lodge for the restoration and preservation of the buildmg
of Western Star Lodge, No. 2, located at Shasta.

landmarks and tradition and principles of Freemasonry. It would appear
to your committee that it is through the Educational Committee that
much of this information must be disseminated. The Finance Committee
finds itself in a position where it is unable to determine how effective
the Educational program has been throughout the State.
It therefore has concluded that the Lodge representatives determine
whether they wish to continue the educational program for another year.
In order to meet the appropriation asked for by the committee, it will
be necessary to vote an increase in the per capita tax of each member
borne on the roll. It therefore re-refers the report of the Educational
Committee, together with the increase for an appropriation, back to
the Grand Lodge without recommendation. (Grand Lodge voted to
appropriate $10,000 for the Committee on Masonic Education for the
current year.)
George Washington Memorial
Your committee has had under consideration that part of the Grand
Master's Address, having reference to his visit to Washington and his
investigation of the George Washington National Memorial now being
constructed by the Masons of the nation, together with his recommendations that tlie craft in California assume their share of the financing
of the enterprise.
The recommendations of the Gr<1nd Master are in accord with the
conclusions of the three previous Grand Masters; and also are in accord
with the previous recommendations of this Finance Committee.
It seems to your present committee that some plan should be adopted
by this Grand Lodge that will ultimately result in the payment by this
jurisdiction of its full share of this enterprise and also that whatever
plan of financing be adopted, that it should fall equally on all members
of the craft.
It also appears to your committee to be undesirable to attempt to
raise the funds by a drive among the membership, but that rather the
per capita assessment of the Lodges be raised by a proper resolution to
cover the amount required.
It also appears that California has so far paid approximately 20
per cent of its assessment, and as the entire amount should be paid not
later than January 1, 1932, it would mean there still remains about four
years to raise the remaining 80 per cent.
Your committee therefore recommends that the per capita tax on the
Lodges be increased 20 cents per member yearly for the coming four
years, ::Ind that when the amounts are paid in to the Grand Secretary,
that he be authorized to remit yearly the amount collected to the proper
authorities of the Memorial Association.

596

Ma.sonic Club House of the University of California, Inc.
With reference to the report of trustees of the Masonic d~b. ho~se,
of the University of California, your committee reports that this institution is being properly operated, in the interests ?f sons and daughters.
of Masons, and should receive the support of this Grand .Lodge. 1:he
budget submitted by the Trustees of the club for expend1~ures ~ur~ng
the coming year amounts to $10,500.00, and after careful mvest1gat~on
we have been unable to suggest a .reduction. We offer the followmg
resolution and recommend its adopt10n :
Resolved, That the Board of Trustees of the M~sonic Club House
of the University of California, Inc., be, and the same 1s hereby approved
.
and adopted; be it further
Resolved, That the sum of $10,500.00 he and is ?ereby app:opriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the operatmg expenditures of
the Masonic Club House of the University of California, Inc., for the
fiscal year ending July 31, 1928.
Remission of Grand Lodge Dues
Early in August of this year, banks located in Bisho~ and Big Pin~,
with branches throughout the Owens River Valley Di~tr1ct, closed their
doors. Two lodges located in this territory, namely, Wmendumah Lodge,
No. 287, located at Bishop, and Waucoba Lodge,. N~. 4.13, located at
Big Pine, had their funds tied up in these defunct mstttutions, and have
therefore been unable to pay their Grand Lodge dues.
Your committee therefore recommends that Winedumah Lodge, No.
287, of Bishop, owing dues in the amount of. $331.50, as well as .dues
of Waucoba Lodge, No. 413, Big Pine, amounting to $78.00, be remitted.
Educational Committee
Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration the report
before it.
It seems to your committee that one of the p~o.blem.s confron~ing
the craft today is the proper instruction of the novitiate m the ancient

597

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masonic Homes of California
Your committee has examined the annual report of the Trustees
of the Masonic Homes, together with the financial stateme?t accompanying. Both reflect great care in administering the affairs of ~e
Homes and economy in the expenditure of funds entrusted to their
handling. The report also indicates the necessity of the craft continuing
their full support of the Homes both in a financial and moral way. Your
committee also feels it necessary and desirable that a 25-cent per capita
tax heretofore levied for the maintenance of the homes, should be continued. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved That the sum of 25 cents per capita be levied upon the
membership for the maintenance of Homes at Decoto and Covina.

Resoiiied, That the sum of 63 cents per capita be levied upon the
membership for the year ending July 31, 1928, and that when said funds
have been collected by the Grand Secretary, they be allocated and paid to
the following Grand Lodge agencies: Masonic Homes of California,
25 cents; George Washington Masonic Memorial Association, 20 cents;
Masonic Club House at the University of California, Berkeley, 10 cents;
Committee on Masonic Education, 8 cents. These amounts to be in
addition to the sums provided by Section 41 of the Constitution, to-wit,
Grand Lodge General Fund, 50 cents, and the Masonic Homes Building
Fund, 50 cents.

598

Chowchilla Lodge, No. 485
your committee has had u1;1der consideration the resolution presented
by the Master of the above Lodge, having refe_:ence to the indebtedness
of. the Lodge, and which resolution has been referred by the Grand
Master to this committee.
Your committee finds that the Lodge is small, that the members
are scattered, and that if some assistance be not granted this Lodge,
its present indebtedness will largely fall upon not over four members;
and it also appears to your committee that the Lodge has made reasonably
satisfactory progress in the liquidation of indebtedness incurred at the
time of inception of the Lodge, and that by this Grand body granting
it a loan sufficient to cover the present indebtedness, it will help the
Lodge out of its difficulties. The amount of the loan should be returned
to this body within a reasonable time. It therefore recommends that a
suitable appropriation be made and be loaned to the Lodge, and offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of seven hundred fifty ($750.00\ dollars
be appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge and be loaned to
Chowchilla Lodge, No. 485, and that the Grand Secretary be instructed
to take the note of the Lodge for that amount; the note to bear interest
at the rate of four per cent per annum.
Special Tax Levy for Support of Individual Activities
The Constitution as now amended provides annual dues of 50 cents
per member for support of Grand Lodge. It also provides 50 cents
annual dues for the Building Fund of the Masonic Homes. To provide
the additional revenue necessary for the maintenance and support of the
various activities of Grand Lodge for the year commencing August 1,
1928, your Committee on Finance recommends special levies and offers
the following resolution, and recommends its adoption:

599

Alexandria Lodge, No. 531
Your committee has had under consideration the request of
Alexandria Lodge, No. 531, for $50.00 per month to assist it in caring
for a brother suffering from tuberculosis and who is being cared for
at an expense of $150.00 per month. The Lodge has shown by its financial statement that it can and will assist with $25.00 per month; a brother
of the afflicted promises $75.00 per month; and the Lodge requests this
Grand Lodge to pay the other $50.00. We commend Alexandria Lodge
for trying to give this brother the best medical care possible, but we
doubt theii; good judgment in taking him out of the San Francisco
hospital, which is free, and removing him to a sanatorium at an expense
of $150.00 per month, not having the requisite finances to do this. It
would be a dangerous precedent if this Grand Lodge would assume
matters of this kind, and there is no limit of cases which could not
be referred to it. We therefore recommend that this application be denied.
Purchase of Masonic Temple Stock From the Endowment Fund
There has been accumulat~d in the Endowment Fund two hundred
and fifty shares in the Masonic Temple Association of California which
is carried in their account at $2250.00. It is desirable that this stock
should be owned by the Grand Lodge rather than the Endowment Fund;
we therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That the sum of $2250.00 be, and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the purpose of
purchasing these 250 shares of stock from the Endowment Fu,nd,
Mississippi Relief Fund
Your Finance Committee has had under consideration that portion
of the Grand Master's Message relating to the unexpended portion of
the funds collected for account of the sufferers by flood in the Mississippi
valley, and we recommend that the surplus be retained in the Emergency
Relief Fund.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

600

6-01

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

Pay of Members
The committee on pay of members reports that it will require the
sum of $18,905.09 to pay traveling expenses of the officers and members
of Grand Lodge. We therefore offer the following resolution and
recommend its adoption :
Resofoed, That the sum of $18,905.09 be, and is hereby appropriated
from the funds of this Grand Lodge for the payment of the traveling
expenses of the officers and members of this Grand Lodge.
WrLIAM
ARTHUR

P. JEFFRIES,

s. CRITES,

LEO BRUCK,

M. ARGABRITE,
Lours SUTTER,
Committee.

J.

All which reports were adopted.
At 4 :55 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 10
o'clock Friday morning.

Morning Session
Friday, Octoher 14, 1927.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand Master
presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
By unanimous consent the annual election of officers was
deferred until 11 o'clock.

REPORT OF BOARD OF CONTROL
On motion, yesterday's reference of the Report of the
Board of Control to the incoming Grand Master was rescinded
and the Report adopted with the exception of recommendation
No. 8, requiring Lodges having concurrent jurisdiction to
become members of Iloards of Relief. The full Report is as
follows:
To the l>f: .W: .Grand Lodge of California:
Pursuant to the provisions of the legislation enacted by Grand Lodge
at the annual communication of 1926, and in accordance therewith, the
M:.W:.Grand Master appointed a Board of Control whose duties, as
prescribed in said legislation, included the control and supervision of
the activities of Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus now existing
or hereafter to be created under the authority of the Grand Lodge.
The members of the Board of Control received their commissions
in April, and as soon as possible thereafter held preliminary meetings
in San Francisco and in Los Angeles to organize and to outline the work
for the year.
Following the directions of Section 3 of the Act, the Board of
Control proceeded to have made a survey of all Boards of Relief and
Employment Bureaus, and to that end secured the services, at agreed
compensations, of Thomas & Moore, certified public accountants of
Los Angeles, and of Benjamin F. Garrett, certified public accountant
of San Francisco. To Thomas & Moore was assigned the audit and
survey of the Boards of Relief and Employment Bureaus at Los Angeles,
San Diego, Long Beach, Pasadena and Bakersfield. To Benjamin F.
Garrett was assigned the audit and survey of the Boards of Relief and
Employment Bureaus of San Francisco, Oakland, San Jose, Sacramento,
Richmond and Fresno.
The reports of the public accountants covering in detail the financial
accounts, the operations and procedure of the respective Boards of
Relief and Employment Bureaus, were received in July. In addition
to the services of these certified public accountants, the Board of Control
secured, through the generous cooperation of the Hon. Walter G.
Mathewson, Commissioner of Labor of California, the services of Dr.
Louis Bloch, statistician and employment expert, who made a careful
and detailed survey of the Employment Bureau at Los Angeles. The
valuable services of Dr. Bloch were furnished without expense to this
Board of Control or of Grand Lodge.

602

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The report of Thomas & Moore, of Benjamin F. Garrett, and of
Dr. Louis Bloch are attached hereto and are made a part of this report.
It is recommended that financial reports of the accountants be not printed
in the Proceedings.
In addition to these reports and in accordance with the prov1s10ns
of the Act, the Board of Control has received the annual reports of
all Boards of Relief in this jurisdiction except Richmond and Pasadrna,
and also the requests from said Boards of Relief and from Lodges for
reimbursement for relief extended during the year for which said Boards
and Lodges have not been recompensed.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

603

Fidelity bonds are carried as follows:
On Secretary On Treasurer
By the Board .................................................. $1,000.00
$1,000.00
By Grand Lodge .............................................. 2,000.00
2,000.00

$3,000.00

$3,000.00

Checks are signed by the Treasurer and the Secretary.
Cash balances on hand at April 30, 1927, were:.

Your Board of Control is now prepared to make its report of its
activities for the year, of its findings in connection with the Boards of
Relief and Employment Bureaus, and of its recommendations based upon
the surveys of said Boards and Employment Bureaus.

Commercial Account .............................................................. $2,061.89
Savings Account ...................................................................... 8,411.45

Boards of Relief

The Board owns the following bonds which are kept in safe deposit
under the control of three Trustees independent of the Secretary and
Treasurer.

The comments and reviews of the respective Boards of Relief which
here follow are based upon the reports which have been presented to the
Board of Control by the certified public accountants who surveyed and
audited the financial accounts and operation of said Boards of Relief.

San Francisco
All San Francisco Lodges contribute to the support of the Board,
having paid a per capita assessment of 25 cents for the year 1927 and
35 cents for the year 1926.
Two representatives from each lodge comprise the Board, which
holds meetings twice each month.
The paid employes are the Secretary, who received $300.00 salary
and $50.00 automobile allowance monthly, and the bookkeeper, who
received $150.00 ·monthly. Both devote their entire time to the business
of the Board. The Treasurer receives no compensation.

$10,473.34

Par Value

$ 5,000.00 California Gas and Electric
4,000.00 Spring Valley Water Co.
1,000.00 Union Oil Co. of California
2,000.00 Los Angeles Pacific Railway

5%
5%
5%
4%

$12,000.00
Expended for relief ............................................................ $25,411.66
Total expenses for salaries, rent, etc., less $995.29 ..._.
5,808.85
Percentage of relief expenditures ....................................
Percentage of expenditures for overhead ..................... .

81.3%
18.7%

The amount of relief work handled by this Board is the largest,
with one exception, of any of the Boards now in existence, and its
records and methods are superior to all others. A good record of the
cases handled is maintained.

It is noted that with the single exception of Honolulu the Board
of Relief of San Francisco operates at a lower cost for overl;ead expense
and, on the other hand, disburses a larger percentage of its funds than
any other Board of Relief.

Arrangements have been made with undertakers whereby funerals
are provided at an expense of not more than $100.00 each, including the
cost of the grave. Also the services of physicians are secured gratis
for applicants who are unable to pay. Reduced rates are obtained at
several hospitals.
.

Oakland
This Board is supported by most of the Lodges of Oakland and
Berkeley. Alameda and Piedmont Lodges do not contribute. Three
Berkeley Lodges do not contribute, and several of the newer Lodges in
Oakland have not yet commenced contributing.

No automobile is provided by the Board.
Contributing lodges pay a per capita of four cents per month.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

604

605

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masters and VV'ardens of the contributing Lodges constitute the
Board, which meets once a month.
The paid employes of the Board are the Secretary-Treasurer, who
receives $150.00 per month, and the Assistant Secretary, who is paid
$80.00 per month. Both are on a full-time basis. The Board provides
an automobile for the Secretary-Treasurer and defrays the expense of
operating it. We have the distinct impression that he does not find a
great deal of need for an automobile in transacting the business of
the Board. It appears that the Secretary himself does not drive the
car, but has a member of his family drive for him, and we therefore
recommend the elimination of this expense item.
Funerals are costing the Board $120.00 each at the present time,
exclusive of grave plots, which are being donated by Mountain View
cemetery.
In 1921-1922, funerals were obtained for $100.00 each; they later
rose to $140.00 each, and are now costing $120.00 each. The Assistant
Secretary is of the opinion that they could now be obtained for $100.00
if the matter were taken up properly with Oakland undertakers. The
experience of the San Francisco Board of Relief makes this appear
probable. The donation of grave plots by the cemetery is likely to be
withdrawn soon, as the space provided at no cost is nearly filled.
No definite arrangements have been made with physicians or hospitals
for free or part-free service. There are, however, two or three
physicians, members of the fraternity, who will serve when asked.

Sacramento
All Lodges contribute a per capita of three cents per month. Masters
and \Vardens of all the Lodges constitute the Board, which meets once
a month.
The Secretary serves for $30.00 per month and keeps the records
of the Board in his downtown business office. There is no automobile
expense for the Secretary.
An Employment Bureau is not operated, the Board of Relief doing
what it can in employment matters.
Funerals cost $100.00, plus $50.00 for burial plot and grave.
Grand Lodge carries fidelity insurance of $500.00 each on the
Secretary and Treasurer.
Cash balances at April 30, 1927, were:
Savings account .......................................... $1,430.55
Commercial account .................................... 2,065.68
$3,496.23
The b'.,llance of $2,085.68 shown by the records for the commercial
account was $20.00 in excess of the available cash on hand.
Disbursed for relief ............................................................ $1,917.48
381.55
Disbursed for expenses, salaries, etc. ............................
Percentage of disbursements for relief ..........................
Percentage of disbursements for overhead ................... .

83.4%
16.6%

On Sec't-T reasurer On Asst. Secretary
By the Board .......................................... $5,000.00
$2,500.00
By Grand Lodge .................................... 4,000.00

Fresno
All Lodges contribute by paying per capita assessments levied by
the Board as need arises. During a period of two years, there have
been five assessments of 25 cents, making a total of $1.25 per capita
in two years. Other Masonic bodies and the Sciots are contributing a
total of $75.00 per month.

Cash balances at April 30, 1927, were:

Masters, Past Masters, and Wardens of the Lodges constitute the
Board, which meets once a month.

Fidelity bonds are carried as follows:

Savings account ............................................ $5,820.82
Commercial account ....................................
530.66

An Employment Bureau is not operated in connection with the
Board, but the Sciots are supporting an independent Bureau.

$6,351.48
Disbursements for relief .................................................... $10,936.40
Disbursed for expenses (salaries,
4,218.34
Percentage of overhead expense ........................................
Percentage of relief expenditures ................................... .

27.1%
72.9%

The Secretary receives a salary of $150.00 per month, and devotes
his entire time to the work. He maintains no office, but the Treasurer,
at his business off ice, assists in relief work and applicants are directed
to either one. There is no automobile expense.
Funerals cost from $100.00 to $125.00 each.
There is no fidelity insurance.

606

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The cash on hand April 30, 1927, was $194.72.
Disbursed for relief .. ......................................................... $ 497.50
Disbursed for general expenses, salary, rent, etc........
1,812.75
Percentage of relief expenditures ..................................
Percentage for general expenses ....................................

21.1 %
68.9%

Your Board of Control believes that an expenditure of 21.1 per
cent of the total disbursement for relief, with an overhead of 68.9
per cent, does not justify the existence and operation of a Board of
Relief. Your Board, however, is not willing to recommend that this
Board be abolished, at least not for the present, and not until due time
has been allowed for the Fresno Board to correct this unequal and
impossible situation.

San Jose
. The Lodges all pay a per capita of two cents per month; the York
Rite bodies contribute a per capita of 10 cents a month.
An Employment Bureau was operated formerly, but was discontinued
in 1925 for apparent lack of need.
The Masters and Wardens of the Lodges constitute the Board.
Meetings are held quarterly ..
The Secretary receives $50.00 per month on a part-time basis. The
Board office is in the Scottish Rite Cathedral and the Secretary is there
from 2 o'clock each day.
Funerals cost $100.00 each.
The Board receives the service of the Masonic Relief Association
of the United States and Canada, which service is designed to prevent
imposters and unworthy persons from obtaining relief. The Secretary
stated that the Bulletins of the association have been of service on
several occasions.
The Secretary handles for the Lodges, through his Board of Relief
accounts, certain joint expenses of the Lodges in connection with the
Lodge hall, joint installations, public schools, week meetings, etc. These
expenses are collected from the Lodges interested. They do not appear
in the Board's annual reports of receipts and expenditures to Grand
Lodge.
Grand Lodge carries fidelity insurance of $500.00 each on the
Secretary and Treasurer.
Cash balances on April 30, 1927, were:
Commercial account .................................. $ 283.15
Savings account (2) ...............................
930.56
$1,213.71

Disbursed for relief ............................................................ $ 1,852.98
560.52
Disbursed for general expenses ......................................
Percentage expended for relief ...................................... ..
Percentage expended for general expenditures........... .

77.0%
23.0%

Richmond
The operations of this Board are very small, the cash receipts having
aggregated $514.69 only since its inception in August, 1924. Assessments
to date against the four Lodges in the city have aggregated 24 cents. per
capita. Nothing has ever been received from Grand Lodge.
The Secretary serves without compensation and maintains his office
in his home.
Richmond has failed to file a report for the year ending July 31,
or any report.
The Board of Control recommends that all Boards of Relief be
required and compelled to file a statistical and financial report with the
Board of Control each year, regardless of whether requests for reimbursement are filed.

Los Angeles
The Secretary of the Board keeps his record of receipts and di~­
bursements for relief in a separate fund from his expense account. Each
of these cash bqpks contains a single column and we are satisfied th.at
the use of a columnar cash book would prove a benefit.

!!er Capita Assessnient: This is based upon the rate of 10 cents
per member of each Lodge monthly, but is not called for when the
expense fund balance appears to be ample to meet all expenses. During
the period covered by this report, the monthly assessment has been passed
on two occasions. The Secretary of the Board informed us that some
years ago a legacy was bequeathed to the Board of Relief, which is
known as the Bush Estate. This estate is in the hands of three trustees,
namely, Dana R. Weller, John W. Kemp, and Motley H. Flint. No
income from this estate had been received by the Board of Relief 'prior
to June 30th, 1927, but we were informed that it is expected to apply
any income from the estate to reduce the per capita assessment.
Automobiles: A Nash car is owned by the Board of Relief. None
of the other Boards of Southern California covered by this report own
an automobile.
Funerals: Originally funerals of Master Masons belonging to
Lodges outside of Los Angeles were conducted by the various Lodges in
·rotation, This duty gradually became a heavy burden on the Lodges,

608

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

I

funeral~/

as is evident from the fact that during the year 1925-26, 206
were conducted, and during the eleven months under review the numbet
was 199. Consequently it was determined by the members of the Board
of Relief as representatives of the local Lodges, that all funerals should
be conducted by the Board of Relief and that the Board should provide
Masons to attend such funerals. Previously, members of Lodges summoned to attend funerals had been privileged to furnish substitutes, or to
subscribe $1.00 for this purpose. By placing the conduct of funerals in
charge of the Board of Relief, all expense in connection therewith was
spread over the entire Masonic membership through the per capita
assessment. The Board furnishes fifteen members for each funeral
and allows them each the nominal fee of $1.00 for attendance. We
consider this a reasonable arrangement.
Disbursed for relief ............................................................ $35,541.71
Disbursed for general expenses ........................................ 14,951.94
Percentage of receipts expended for relief ..................
Percentage of receipts expended for overhead expense

71.0%
29.0%

The report of the Masonic Board of Relief of Los Angeles shows
certain items set forth as relief expenses not appearing in other reports.
The report, as submitted, gives a total of $35,541.71 as expenditure for
relief, and $14,951.94 as expenditures for operation or overhead, making a
total of $50,493.65. Calculating upon this basis, it appears that about
71 per cent was expended for relief and 29 per cent for overhead. But
included as reli'ef disbursements, there appear $1,500 loaned to the
Employment Bureau, $1,000.00 contributed to the Employment Bureau,
and $2,000.00 expended for a sea wall for the Masonic Home at Balboa.
These three items are of a different class of relief expenditures than
those of other Boards, and if they are eliminated and the calculation of
percentages made upon the same basis as a!l other Boards of Relief, it
will appear that about 66% per cent was expended for relief and 33¥.i
per cent for overhead.
The expenditure of the three sums referred to are not being criticised,
but it is just and fair to show percentages of overhead upon the same
basis 0£ calculation as is shown by the reports of other similar agencies.
\Ve also deem it proper to call attention to the method of conducting
funerals in Los Angeles, as it differs from the method adopted in other
places. The number of Board of Relief funerals in that city would seem
to Justify the custom, as they average about four such funerals each week,
or about 200 in a year. One set of officers officiates at all funerals,
and those who attend are paid a nominal sum for so doing. In this way,
it is claimed, a fair attendance is assured and proficient officers bring
favorable comment upon our services. Thus, the sum of $3,112.00 shown
by the report to have been paid for conducting funerals, is accounted

/

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

609

110 r

and those who attend them receive some small assistance, of which
~e are told, they are in need.
Los Angeles Board of Relief Graves:

To your Board of Control

ha~. been referred the action of Grand Lodge regarding the matter of

Board of Relief graves at Los Angeles.
259.)

(Proceedings, 1926, pages 258,

"In the 1918 Proceedings, page 207, the Los Angeles Board
of Relief reported as fo!lows :
"'The Masonic fraternity of Los Angeles has had no satisfactory place for the burial of its dead until this year, when
arrangements were made with the Fo~es~ L_awn Memo.rial P~rk
to set aside a beautiful tract of land w1th111 its boundaries, wh1cp
will receive perpetual care and be for~ver kept_ greei;. This
tract of land is known as the Masomc Plot, m which only
Masons or members of their families will be interred. The ~ost
of these interments is considerably lower than can be obtamed
for a like situation in other cemeteries.'
"At the time these arrangements were made with the Forest
Lawn Memorial Park, a contract was entered into by the Masonic
Boo.rd of Relief of Los Angeles, to purchase 1000 graves, at
$19.00· each, paying therefor an installment of $1,900.00 annually.
Annual appropriations have been made by this Grand Lodge, 1918
to 1925, inclusive (eight years), or a total of $15,200.00.
"The Los Angeles Board of Relief has now come forward
and offered to pay the remaining two installments out of its
trust funds, thereby relieving the Grand Lodge from any further
appropriations on this account.
"In the 1922 Proceedings, page 276, your committee made
the following recommendation, which was adopted :
"'That the Board of Relief of Los Angeles keep a separate
account of all moneys received on account of the sale of said
graves· that all moneys so received be repaid to this Grand
Lodge by said Board; and that the Grand Secretary be annually
apprised of these facts and figures, so that proper record may
be kept.'
"We recommend that these instructions be strictly
adhered to."
Your Board of Control .reiterates this recommendation and here
indicates its purpose, if this recommendation be given approval, to have
a survey and audit made during the coming year to ascertain the exact
status of this matter.
Busch Estate: Some years ago the Masonic Board of Relief of
Los Angeles was bequeathed real property, since known as the "Bush
Estate." A corporation was formed to legally administer its affairs,

I

~iid a very substantial estate has been built up. Some income from thief
estate has been appropriated from time to time to the use of the Lob
~ngeles Board ?f R~lief. l\fo~.e recently .we fi~d that a definite amoupt
of its income 1s bemg used m connection with the expenses of ~1
Employment Bureau.
I
Inasmuch as it has not been possible to make a survey of the affairs
of the Bush Estate by the Board of Control, your Board has no recommendations to make at this time, but will refer this matter to the
succeeding Board.

San.Piego
The Secretary of the Board of. Relief in San Diego is paid a salary
of $200.00 per month, out of which sum he employs a bookkeeper, so
that the .Board while employing one person, obtains the services of
two ·men.

Funerals: While there is no uniform rate for funerals in San Diego,
we w.ere advised .that the sums charged are reasonable.
Disbursed for relief ............................................................. $11,826.15
Disbursed· for general expenses.......................................... 2,337.94
Percentage of receipts expended for relief.. ................. .
,Percentage of receipts expended for general expenses

611

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOkNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

610

83.5%
16.5%

Bakersfield
The activities of the Board of Relief in Bakersfield are comparatively light. The Secretary attends to all cases either at bis office
or his residence, and makes no charge for rental. He is paid a nominal
salary of $10.00 .per month. Applications for relief amounting to more
than $5.00 are referred to the Board for action. Amounts of less than
$5.00, the Secretary has authority to extend relief.

Disbursed for relief ..............................................................
Disbursed for general expenses ......................................

$347.55
149.93

Percentage for relief ..........................................................
Percentage for overhead ....................................................

69.7%
30.3%

Pas.adena
The Masonic Board of Relief in Pasadena shows a receipt from the
Grand Lodge of $660.00, which it is claimed by the Secretary should
not be classified as a contribution to their relief funds, as it is a monthly
payment to a· widow classified under the disbursements to "California
jurisdiction." The Secretary's office is in the Scottish Rite Cathedral,
.for the use of which no rental charge is made.

Disbursed for relief ............................ ... .......................... $2,378 75
Disbursed for general expenses ........................................
781.72
\Percentage expended for relief ....................................... .
Percentage expended for overhead .................................

75.2%
24.8%

Long Beach
The Board of Relief and Employment Bureau are operated by the
same persons, whose remuneration is paid by the Board of Relief, while
the Employment Bureau makes a contribution towards the expenses of
the Board. Three of the eleven Lodges in Long Beach are considered
too small to participate in membership on the Board of Relief.
Disbursed for relief ........................................................... $ 2,385.05
Disbursed for general expense .......................................... 2,157.17
Percentage of receipts expended .for relief.. .................. ..
Percentage of receipts expended for general expense ..

52.5%
47.5%

Your Board of Control believes that there should be a reorganization
and readjustment of the business affairs of this Board of Relief, and
recommends that steps be taken at once to reduce the overhead expense
of said BoarCI.

It must be said, however, in this connection, that the L<:lng Beach
Board of Relief in the past six years has come to Grand Lodge tequesting
reimbursement of only $17.00; that this Board of Relief finances its
Employment Bureau and handle& its .relief through the Employment
Bureau largely by securing and giving employment to needy Masons.
I,ong Beach has had to finance its Relief Board ·almost entirely within
itself, originating and developing a revolving fund, for its own maintenance expenses.

Honolulu
For reasons that are apparent., it has not been possible to have had
made a survey and audit of the Board of Relief of Honolulu. From
the financial report of this Board of Relief we gained the following
information:
Disbursed for relief ............................................................ $ 1,576.55
Disbursed for general expense ........................................
5.90
Percentage expended for relief ....................................... .
Percentage expended for general expense ..................... .

99.6o/o
.4%

Your Board of Control desires particularly to recommend the
Honolulu Board of Relief for its excellent showing, for the thoroughness
and completeness of its report, and for its general efficiency as shown
by its results.

71.0
83.5
69.7
75.2
52.5
99.6

35,541.71
11,826.15
347.55
2,378.75
2,385.05
1,576.55

3,277.02

Other
States

Bakersfield ......
Pasadena ..........
Long Beach ......
Honolulu ..........

-281.30

1,110.00

--

234.90
1,471.49

100.00
40.00
2,404.16

69.00
660.00
200.00

----

-108.50
---

1,285.25

-2,929.98

987.80
14.90

160.00

2,313.40
2,868.32
936.72
100.00
879.75
200.00

-5.00
--

---

3,029.36
1,917.48
135.00
1,216.48

339.00
636.50

--

500.00
7,709.99

Other
States

281.30

247.55
1,324.00
2,185.05

23,319.22
4,436.22

- - $ 8,228.61 $
1,334.64
40.00
900.00
30.00

546.84
19.66

Cal.
Foreign Individuals Members

Receipts and Disbursements for Relief

San Francisco .. $ 3,725.29 $ 8,069.84 $11,691.25 $
Oakland
453.75
2,902.23
5,602.00
Sacramento ......
1,264.38
915.00
-62.50
Fresno ··-----·····-·
155.00
313.50
San Jose ..........
27.50
1,134.86
585.98
RichmondNo report.
Los Angeles ......
3,728.58
2,458.40 20,524.26
San Diego ........
339.24
1,693.45
3,670.65

Board

From
Fram
Grana Lodge Cal. Lodges

Dimitted
Cases

-100.00

1,027.00
55.00

197.05
20.00
20.00

0

I>-

;:ti

t"'

~pj

>-<

>
t"'

0

ltj

t>.l
0

1:1
0

0

""'

....
"'

-- z
-- >

--

--

z
-1:1
3.50

l".l

ti:

>-3

0

ltj

r.n

z>-<
0

t;:I

t>.l
t>.l

~0

"Ii

- - $ 1,468.39

Foreign

1,694.57
none
.4

--

8,620.72
1,692.37
140.44
855.62
908.96
9,200.00
2,225.00
130.00
750.00
2,426.50

2,873.22
7,305.49
562.96
1,920.16
1,414.05
312.37
1,130.50

$ 4,933.12

29.0
16.5
30.3
24.8
47.5

*This amount contributed by Employment Bureau.
**In this amount is $995.29 chargeable to rent and salaries in Employment Bureau.

Honolulu ....................................

-

--

--

1,812.75
560.52

21.l
77.0

497.40
1,852.98

Fresno ........................................ 2,622.62
San Jose .................................... 3,544.00
-Richmond .:................................
Los Angeles .............................. 59,266.34
San Diego .................................. 15,856.45
583.90
Bakersfield ................................
3,435.91
Pasadena •H--·~---A··-·-···-··--••••••••
Long Beach .............................. 4,837.31

-

1,800.00
550.00

68.9
23.0

72.9
83.4

10,936.40
1,917.48

Oakland ....................................•. 22,460.23
Sac"ramento ................................ 4,219.19

14,951.94
2,337.94
149.93
781.72
*623.45
2,157.17
5.90

3,060.00
330.00

27.1
16.6

4,218.34
381.55

$ 5,400.00

Salaries Bal. on Hand

**$ 6,804.14

18.7

Per cent

81.3

Grass Overhead

$25,411.66

Total Receipts Total Relief Per Cent

San Francisco .......................... $40,022.14

Board

Summary

W>

.,.......

'614

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

How
Boards of Relief .Are Financed
'
.
In addition' to! the'. reimbursements: gra~te~ by Grand Lodge to
Boards of Relief where refunds are not made by the Lodges whose
members are granted relief, and to the refunds by these Lodges for
relief granted t,heif meipbers, the resp<:;ctive BoariJs of Relief receive
funds from th~ :tvi:asonic Lodges comprising said Boards, and from
other Masonic bodies by assessments, contributions' and otherwise.

6Hi

-

San Francisco-All Lodges contribute 25 cents per member per year.
Oakland-All member Lodges contribute 4·cents per capita per month.
Sacramento-All member Lodges contribute 3 cents per capita per
month.
Fresno-All member Lodges contribute per capita assessments as
need arises. In two years five assessments of 25 cents per capita each
have been levied. In addition, other Masonic bodies, namely, Lodge of
Perfection, K. T., R. A. M., Sciots, contribute a total of $900.00 per year.
San Jose-All member Lodges are assessed and pay 2 cents per
capita per month. "Tl}e )'ork Rite bodies contribute a per capita of 1~
cents per month.
·
Richmond-All member Lodges are assessed a per capita as need
arises. In three, yejlrS a .total assessment. of 24 cents per capita has been
assessed and cotlected.
Los Angeles-A pet capita of 10 cents per month is levied, but is
not collected if the expense fund balance seems adequate. In the eleven
months covered by auditor's report two assessments have been passed.
The average is ten •assessments or $1.00 per year.

Honolulu-All Lodges contribute a per capita to the Relief Fund,
but the amount of the per capita is not reported to the Board of Control.
Th.e Board of Control recommends that the method of financing the
res~ective Boards of Relief be shown in detail in the statistical report
which shall hereafter be submitted to the Board of Control.
'

Requests for Reimbursements
It has been the established procedure for many years for the Boards
of Relief to s~bmit to the Finance Committee of Grand Lodge their
re~uests for ren~bursements for financial relief distributed from their
relief funds durmg the year. Section 5 of the Board of Control Act
made a change in this procedure. Said section provides:
"Sec. 5. All applications from Boards of Relief or Employment
Bureaus or Lodges for funds for reimbursement shall be made to the
Boa~d of Control at least thirty days prior to each annual communication
of ?rand Lodge. '!'he Board shall make thorough investigation of the
ments of :uch applications and report its findings and recommendations
to the C~a1rman of the Finance Committee of Grand Lodge on or before
the openmg day of each annual communication.''

In c~mp~iance wi~h this provision of the Act, the Grand Secretary
has forwarded to this Board the requests for reimbursement of the
s~veral. Boards .of Relief and the same have been given careful cons1deratwn and mvestigation, and the findings and recommendations of
the Board of Control have been reported to the Finance Committee.
. The requests for reimbursement from the respective Boards of
Relief and for the Lodges named reach the following totals :

San Diego-All member Lodges pay per' capita assessment. The
maximum assessment is $1.00 per year, but this amount has ·never been
collected because the need has at no time arisen for this amount of
assessment.

San Francisco-California Lorlges ............................... $ 269.70
2.685.60
Other jurisdictions in U. S...........................
Foreign jurisdictions ........................................ .950.40
Dimitted cases ............ ...................................
251.80 $ 4,157.50

Bakersfield-All member Lodges pay per capita assessment when
called upon. Your Board of Control is not able to ascertain the amount
of the per capita assessment because no statement is made in the annual
report.

Oakland-California Lodges .......................................... $ 00.00
Other jurisdictions in U. S ............................ .
622.56
Foreign jurisdictions ........................................
65.39 $

687.95

Pasadena-Per capita assessments are levied as funds are needed, but
no record is made of the amount of this assessment collected during the
year, nor is your Board of Control able to ascertain this amount from
the report of the Board of Relief .

. Sacramento-California Lodges ................ ~ .................. $ 00.00
Other jurisdictions in U. S........................... ..
217.00
Foreign jurisdictions ........................................
25.00 $

242.00

Fresno-California Lodges ........................................... $
Other jurisdictions in U S
Foreign jurisdictions ... :.....:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

52.00

.

. Long Beach-Eight of the eleven Lodges of Long Beach contribute
a per capita levy to the Board of Retie£. The amount is not stated and
the Board of Control is not able to make any report thereon.

00.00
29.50
22.50

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

616

GR.A.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Jose-California Lodges ...................................... $
Other jurisdictions in U. S .............................. .
Foreign jurisdictions ........................................

00.00
132.78
00.00 $

Recommendations
132.78

Richmond-No requests.
Los Angeles-California J...Qdges .................................. $ 45.00
Other jurisdictions in U. S. .......................... 3,664.41
Foreign jurisdictions ........................................
120.00
Grand Lodge Roster ........................................
151.97 $ 3,981 38
San Diego-California Lodges ...................................... $
5.00
118.61
Other jurisdictions in U. S ............................
Foreign jurisdictions ....................................... .
35.00 $

173.61

Pasadena-No requests.
Long Beach-No requests.
Bakersfield-Other jurisdictions in U. S ..................... $

15.00 $

15.00

Honolulu-California Lodges ··········--··-····--···············---- $ 135.25
Other jurisdictions in U. S...............................
20.00
Foreign ................................................................
180.00 $

335.25

Athens Lodge, No. 228, Davis-Relief extended
member of a Texas Lodge.............................. $ 257.35

$

257.35

El Centro Lodge, No. 384-Relief extended Bro.
J. W. Morris, Bright Star Lodge, No. 113,
Stonewall, Oklahoma ...................................... $ 187.25 $

187.25

Tujunga Lodge, No. 592-Relief extended a member
of Hoboken Lodge, No. 35, Hoboken, New
Jersey ····-·····------·-·····-······-····················· .. ···········- $

21.04 $

21.04

Marin Lodge, No. 191-Relief for Bro. Roger
Meredith of Sincerity Lodge, No. 292,
Liverpool, England .......................................... $ 299.44 $

299.44

Visalia Lodge, No. 128--Relief extended in 1915 to
Bro. Alfred Gardiner, Ronde Valley,
Oregon ........................................................... $ 492.50 $

492.50

Total claims for reimbursement............................

617

From the survey of the Boards of Relief, a study of the official
reports of said Boards and the reports of the certified public accountants,
your Board of Control makes the following recommendations:
(I) Under the present procedure there is no uniformity in the
period covered by the reports of Boards of Relief. It is therefore
recommended that all Boards of Relief be required to report for the
same period and that this period coincide with the period in which
Lodges report to Grand Lodge, namely, for the year ending July 31st.
It is further recommended that reports of Boards of Relief must be
filed with the Board of Control on or before August 25th of each year.

It is further recommended that Boards of Relief be required to
submit at the close of each year ending July 31st and before August 25th,
uniform financial and statistical reports, and also requests for reimbursement on uniform blanks, which must be secured from the Grand Secretary. (Forms for said blanks are submitted herewith and are made a
part of this report.)
(2) Inasmuch as there is no uniformity in the forms of records
used by the .respective Boards of Relief, it is recommended that uniform
records for cash transactions be adopted showing segregations as follows :

Receipts
Relief Fund
Grand Lodge of California
Other Lodges in California
Other Lodges in United States
Lodges in Foreign jurisdictions
Funerals
Individuals (if needed)
Other Receipts
Per Capita Contributions (from supporting lodges)
Interest
Miscellaneous
Total Receipts

$11,035.05

Expenditures
For Relief
Members of California Lodges
Members Lodges in Other States
Members Foreign Lodges
Funerals
Individuals
Miscellaneous

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

618

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

For Expenses
Salaries
Rent
Telephone and Telegraph
Printing and Office Supplies
Postage
Miscellaneous
Total Expenditures
(3) It is recommended that each Board of Relief keep a ledger
record of each case of relief, with a card record for indexing and cross
reference. This record to contain a complete financial account with
the case and with the Lodge.
(4) It is recommended .that at the close of each year the Board
of Control be authorized to cause an audit and survey to be made of
each Board of Relief, and that the officer, who has charge of the boo~s
of said Board, be required to have his books in readiness for such audit
between July 31st and August 25th of each year.
It is further recommended that the expense of such audit be charged
to the respective Boards of Relief.
(5) It is recommended that a uniform code of By-Laws for Boards
of Relief be drafted and that the Board of Control be authorized to
draft such uniform code for such Boards, subject to the approval of the
Grand Master and Grand Lodge.
( 6) It is recommended that all Boards of Relief be required to
carry fidelity insurance and that said insurance be arranged for and
carried through Grand Lodge.
(7) It is recommended that all Boards of Relief be required to
carry Employers' Compensation Insurance in accordance with law.
(8) It is recommended that when Boards of Relief shall be
organized, or where Boards of Relief are already organized, all Lodges
holding concurrent jurisdiction be required to hold membership in such
Boards of Relief and contribute their per capita share of expense of
said Boards of Relief; provided that Lodges adjacent to said concurrent
jurisdictions may upon application unite with said Boards of Relief.
(Not adopted.)
(9) It is recommended that all Boards of Relief be placed upon
a business basis, and that the salaries of the officers of such Boards be
regulated according to the services performed.
"It is recommended that the Board of Control be empowered to
formulate a plan similar to that now in operation by the Masonic Relief
Association of the United States which will provide a central clearing
house of all relief cases and which will furnish to all Boards of Relief

619

of this jurisdiction a record of all applications for relief and relieI
applications granted, particularly of applicants ,who have imposed upon
or attempted to impose upon the Boards of Relief.

Comments
From the reports made by the accountants who surveyed and audited
the affairs and the accounts of the respective Boards' of Relief, we believe
that their financial records are being handled in good faith.
The
records of cash receipts and expenditures are reviewed by members of
the Boards from time to time. The Boards of Relief of San Francisco
and Los Angeles cause their financial accounts to be examined by a
public accountant annually.
Your Board of Control is satisfied that the Boards of Relief
through their Secretaries are giving their best efforts to the relief of
worthy needy Masons and relatives of Masons who are entitled to such
relief. California Masonic Lodges are peculiarly subject to calls for
relief and assistance, inasmuch as very many peopie, Masons and others,
eome to this State. Among these there are many Masons, hundreds
perhaps, who as time goes on find themselves in want and must appeal
to our Masonic Lodges for relief. And prompted by the true spirit
of brotherhood, characteristic of this State, where men are men and
Masons are Masons, relief is promptly extended. And while the Lodge
to which the needy brother belongs is directly responsible, our relief
is extended first and reimbursement is asked afterward. Many sister
jurisdictions of the United States seem to make no provision for the
relief of their needy and unfortunate brethren. With Lodge dues at
a ridiculously low figure, they can provide no funds for relief nor to
reimburse the Lodges of California which have granted such relief.
In our review of the requests for reimbursements from other jurisdictions
we find scores of cases where the Lodges in the sister jurisdiction have
rejected and denied the request for one flimsy excuse or another, and
in most cases have absolutely ignored and failed to reply to the request.
A case in point is that of our Athens Lodge, No. 228, at Davis, California,
which rendered aid and assistance to a needy brother in good standing
of Clebourne Lodge, .No. 115, of Texas, during his illness, and after
his death conducted his funeral and buried him at the expense of Athens
Lodge. The actual expense incurred amounted to $257.35. Upon being
notified of this expense, Clebourne Lodge refused to pay the claim,
but very magnanimously allowed the sum of $5.00 for flowers at the
funeral.
Another instance is that of our Oakland Board of Relief, which
incurred expense in caring for a stricken brother and his wife and
afterwards buried the brother. The Relief Association of Colorado
absolutely refused to reimburse the Oakland Board of Relief.

620

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Imposters and unqualified persons frequently attempt to impose
upon Lodges and Boards of Relief in California, and occasionally do
obtain funds from the Boards, but vigilant Secretaries are doing their
best to guard against these fraudulent efforts.
Your Board of Control believes that the lack of uniformity in the
procedure of Boards of Relief is due entirely to lack of regulatory
measures by Grand Lodge. It believes that the Boards of Relief and
the respective Secretaries are acting earnestly, consistently and conscientiously to administer relief to the sick and needy and unfortunate.
While procedure and methods may be standardized and regulated, charity
and relief cannot be. The cost of relief work in this jurisdiction is
very large indeed, but there is no criticism that the expenditures for
relief are not justified and worthy. \Ve desire to compliment the Boards
of Relief in general, but particularly do we commend the Boards of
Relief of San Francisco and Honolulu for the thoroughness of their
administration, as well as the economy of their service.
Your Board of Control is not fully satisfied as to the efficiency,
usefulness and necessity of the Boards of Relief at Fresno, Richmond,
Bakersfield and Pasadena. Fresno and Long Beach Boards of Relief
are without question out of line so far as the amount of relief extended
compares with the expense of overhead. It is within the province of
the Board of Control to recommend to the Grand Master that when
Boards of Relief are not functioning to the satisfaction of Grand Lodge,
that said Boards be abolished; but before making any such recommendations it is the desire of this Board of Control that every
opportunity be given to these respective Boards to adjust and reorganize
their business affairs, and every assistance and cooperation will be given
by the Board of Control to said Boards of Relief to accomplish this
purpose.

Employment Bureaus
There is an ever-increasing need for more cooperation on the part
of the Masters of industry who are members of the craft, and there
must, in many cases, be a charitable attitude on th~ part of the employer
for those brethren who are not physically able to measure up to their
ideas of the standard to be attained. Masons who are in charge of
employment and who are not willing to give preference to their Masonic
Brethren ought to be willing to give them an equal opportunity to apply
for positions, and should make use of the Masonic Employment Bureaus
and advise the Secretaries to send applicants for an interview.
In aid of the foregoing, we believe that there should be in each
Lodge one or more of the Brethren who would be willing to give a little
time for the benefit of our less fortunate brothers in becoming acquainted

621
with every member f h · L d
h
k' d
o
is o ge w o has opportunity to place help of
~ny !~ ' and with the assistance of whomsoever he believes c Id b
;nfluent1~l, apprise said brother of the importance of assistin
ou h e
m secunng emplo c
t
d
·
g one anot er
t
Y men ' an a 1so to keep in close touch with the Secreary ?f the Employment Bureau and advise him of the
'bT .
f
securmg employmi:nt, and also furnish a list of such empfo;:~ ~:;~st~
natudered of the busmess and the character of employe most likely to b:
nee
.

Reli!~~lo~men; bur~aus are conducted in connection with the Boards of
an ra11c1sco, Oakland, Los Angeles, San Diego and Lon
!;a:ch. The reports of the survey made by the auditors show the follow:

San Francisco
I The policy ?f this Bureau is directed by tlite Board of Relief
h' h
e ects seven of ~ts members to represent it on the governing bod ' ~ ~~e
:ur~au. The higher Masonic bodies contributing to the suppori of the
·
b mp oym:nt Bureau also send representatives to sit on its
ody, which holds one meeting each month. The B r
.
overm~g
th: same suite in the Masonic Temple with the Boarduo~a;:~efo~e~ m
wo
usmg a common entrance and reception room Th B
paid empl e th s
· e ureau has' bute one
oy e, e ecretary, who receives a salary of $250 00
h
plus an allowance of $25 00 per month f
. per mont '
not provided for him.
·
or expenses. An automobil.e is

f

R r ~Y the buse of joint office facilities. the employes of the Board of
e ie are a le to attend to Employment Bureau
.
of the Secretary of the latter who spends
t' mattfers m the absence
· t
'
a por ion o each day attendmg 0 emp 1oyment matters outside his office.
The Lodges are not assessed directly for the support of th E 1
ment Bureau. It obtains its support by appropriations from Gr e mp oythe Board of Relief and the contributing higher Masonic b d. and FLod~e,
year e~ded August 24, 1926, the Employment Bureau ai/ t~e:h or t e
of Relief $880.00 towards the bookkeeper's salary anl$200 000 et Boardd
telephone expenses.
·
owar s

Oakland
.
This Bureau is wholly independent of the Board f
.
.
its su~po~t ~irectly from the Lodges of Oakland and ;e~:~;,r· :,:~:~;~
severa o t ese Lodges do not contribute. Alameda Lod es 'n
.
mont Lodge do not con:ribute. The higher Masonic bodiesgdo ~o~tr~~:~
m~nthly. The per capita assessment against the supporting Lod es is
:w~ cents per month. Assessments were waived during four mont~ this
spring on account of a cash surplus having accumulated.
The governing body of the Bureau is mad
.
from each contributing Lodge. Monthly meeti:g~Pa;ef ~~~.representative

622

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The paid personnel consists of Secretary, $200.00 per month; stenographer, $100.00 per month. The Bureau provides an automobile for the
Secretary and defrays the expenses of operating it.
The cash balance on hand at April 30, 1927 was:
Savings account ...................................................................................... $ 900.00
Commercial account ................................................................................
187.12

ij.

$1,087.12
Los Angeles
. • ~:I
The Employment Bureau is conducted independently of the Board of
Relief, under the supervision of a manager, assisted by one man and one
woman. It is supported by contributions from the Grand Lodge, the
Board Jf Relief and other "l\fasonic bodies as follows: Scottish Rite,
Knights Templar, Council·and Chapters, and the Shrine.
During the eleven months of this report the following applications
have been handled:
Applicants received-Men and boys, 3,407; women and girls, 1,075;
total, 4,482. Positions secured-Men and boys, 2,440; women and girls,
397; temporary, 136; total, 2,975. We do not include among temporary
positions obtained the assignments to attend funerals.

Long Beach
The Employment Bureau is supported by contributions from Grand
Lodge, Knights Templar, the Chapter, the Shrine and the Sciots.
Applications received duriT)g the period were-'-Male, 575; female,
245 ; total, 820.
Positions filled-Male, 735; female, 185; total, 920.

San Diego
The Employment Bureau receives its support from contributions from
the Grand Lodge, four Masonic Lodges in San Diego, Commandery,
Chapter, Scottish Rite and Shrine. It is in the hands of a separate
manager, whose salary amounts to $175.00 a month.

623

Oakland
Receipts from all sources .................................................... $3,712.33
Balance September I, 1926.................................................. 1,444.71

$!:!~~:~:

Expenses for all purposes ..................................................

Balance September 1, 1927.............................................. $ 232.85

San Diego
Receipts from all sources ..................... ~ .....................:........ $3,549.12
Expenses for_ all purposes.................................................. 2,173.40
Balance August

$1,375.72
Long Beach, Nine Months

Receipts from all sources ......... :........................ :................. $1.379.08
Expenses for all purposes.................................................. 1:123.95 .
Balance ]ttne

$ 255.13
Los Angeles

Balance ·August 1, 1927...................................................... $ 202 97
Received from Busch estate.............................................. 3,200:00
Receipts from other sources.............................................. 5,623.66
. Total receipts ..................................................................
Total disbursements

$9,026.63
7,259.45

Balance July 31, 1927..............................................

$1,767.18

•••••••••o•OH••""••••'"-••••••••••••••••••••H~¥•••000H

Salaries of Employment Bureaus

Financial Operation

San Francisco has one paid employe, the Secretary, who receives per
year $3,000.00.

The reports of the auditors show the following in connection with
the financial operation of these Employment Bureaus :

Oakland has two paid employes, Secretary at $200.00 and stenographer
at $100.00, a total of $3,600.00.
·

San Francisco

Los Angeles has four paid employes-a manager at $200.00 . per
month, an office manager at $175.00 per month, an office woman at $.125.00
per month, and a phone operator at $50.00 per month; total, $6,600.00.

Receipts from all sources .................................................... $3,628.99
Expenses for all purposes.................................................. 3,284.44
Balance August 1, 1927.................................................... $ 344.55

San Diego employs a clerk bookkeeper at $2,100.00.
Long Beach employs a clerk at $35:00, a total of $420.00.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

624

62Ei

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'HE

Service of Bureaus
Statistical information regarding the service of the Employment
Bureaus has been obtained by the auditors. We report as much as has
been secured.
San Francisco-Positions secured, male, 997; female, 436; boys, 707;
total 2,140; temporary positions, 633; average cost, $1.56.
Oakland-Positions filled September 1, 1926, to September 1, 1927,
1,143.
Los Angeles-Positions, men and boys, 2,554; women and girls, 428;
total, 2,982 ; temporary positions, 3,068.
San Diego-Positions secured, male, 340; female, 75; total, 415;
average cost, $5.23.
Long Beach-No report.

In the limited time at his command Dr. Bloch was able to make a
survey of the Los Angeles Employment Bureau only. Surveys witl be
made later of the Employment Bureaus in San Diego, Oakland, San
Francisco and Long Beach.
The recommendations of Dr. Bloch, his survey of the Los Angeles
Bureau and his comments regarding said Bureau have been approved by
the Board of Control and have been presented to the Executive Committee of the Board of Relief under which the Employment Bureau
operates, with the recommendation that they be adopted at once. On~
outstanding recommendation of the report which is applicable to all
Employment Bureaus is the change of the name to "Masonic Employment
Service," which your Board of Control now recommends for atl Employment Bureaus under its jurisdiction.
The complete report of Dr. Bloch and of his survey of the Los
Angeles Employment Bureau has been made a part of this report. His
summary is the summary of this Board, and his recommendations are its
recommendations. We therefore submit the following:

How Boards Are Financed
San Francisco receives from Grand Lodge, $1,500.00; from Board
of Relief, $500.00; from other Masonic bodies, $1,457.50; total, $3,457.50.
Oakland-No report.
Los Angeles receives from Grand Lodge, $1,500.00; from Board of
Relief, $500.00; from other Masonic bodies, $1,613.50; Busch estate,
$3,200.00; interest and loan, $10.16; total, $6,823.66.
San Diego receives from Grand Lodge, $500.00; from other Masonic
bodies, $1,290.00; interest, $50.57; total, $1,840.57.
Long Beach receives from Grand Lodge, $500.00; from other Masonic
bodies, $842.60; interest, $36.48; total, $1,379.08.
Appropriations Recommended
Your Board of Control has recommended to the Finance Committee
the appropriation of the following sums to the respective Employment
Bureaus: Los Angeles, $1,800.00; San Francisco, $1,800.00; Oakland,
$900.00; Long Beach, $600.00; San Diego, $600.00; total, $5,700.00.
Survey of Los Angeles Employment Bureau
In addition to the audit of the Employment Bureaus, it was deemed
advisable to make a physical survey of said Employment Bureaus to
determine the methods, effectiveness and the results of the operation of
the respective Employment Bureaus, and to that end the Board of Control
secured the services of Dr. Louis Bloch, employment expei:t and statistician of the State Department of Labor. His valuable services were
given to the Board of Control without expense to Grand Lodge.

I.

Joint Quarters
The Masonic Free Employment Bureau of Los Angeles is operated
in the same rooms as the Masonic Board of Relief. The entrance to the
Employment Bureau and to the Board of Relief is the same. In the
entrance corridor there is a switchboard attended by an "Information"
girl, who directs applicants either to the Employment Bureau or to the
Board of Relief, depending upon where the applicant desires to go.
We are of the opinion that the information girl and the switchboard
are of no value whatever to the Employment Bureau, and while the
switchboard may be useful in the operation of the Employment Bureau
and the Board of Relief in the same quarters, we feel certain that the
switchboard would be entirely unnecessary if the Board of Relief and
the Employment Bureau were operated in separate offices.
In allocating the cost of operating the Employment Bureau half of
the salary of the information girl operating the switchboard is' charged
to the Employment Bureau and the other half to the Board of Relief
i. e., the Employment Bureau is charged with $600.00 a year for the serv~
ices of the information girl at the switchboard.
We feel that it is detrimental to the interests of the proper
operation of the Employment Bureau to be located in the same offices
with th~ Board of Relief. While we realize that the two agencies can be
of service to each other, we nevertheless feel that the connection between
them should not be so close as it is at present. ·fhe Employment Bureau
should be operated on a businesslike basis, without any tinge of charity
attached to it. As it is, one cannot avoid the impression that the applicants for employment at the Bureau are men and women on the border
line of poverty, ready to apply for relief in the event of failure to secure
employment. We do not know to what extent unsuccessful applicants for
employment apply for relief, neither do we know how many persons
applying for relief are referred to the Employment Bureau; but we feel
certain that the operation of the two agencies in the same offices is an
influence detrimental to both of these agencies.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

626

If the Employment Bureau were to be separa.te~ from ~he Board of
Relief and moved to other quarters in the same bmldmg'.or. 111 some other
location the rent would probably not be greater than It IS ~~'?' rph•
dally· the Empolyment Bureau would not have to bear a o t e
cost of operating a switchboard.

if

II. The P,ersonnel
The members of the staff of the Eml'.loyment Bureau. are. M,essrd
Miss Furry. Their titles an.
F · T · Purdy ' s · Henry KingeryF and
nd field
monthly salaries are as follows: . · T · p urdY, manager a$
OO. repre·
M'
sentative, $200.00; S. Henry Kmgery, office manag.er, 175 · '
iss
Furry (no title), $125.00; informatior~ .and phone girl, $50.00 ($50.00
more per month paid by Board of Relief.)
. .
.
f h
Mr Purdy spends about ninety per cent of his time outside of \ e
office s~liciting jobs. He leaves to Mr.
the manage;ii.ent o t .e
office'· which includes the keeping of the
and the !Jllmg of hos!·
tions: We do not see the need of havin~ .t':"o managers ~n. ~o sma an
office. In our opinion, this makes for d1v~s!o.n. of authont; , and, .what
is worse it makes for division of respons1b1ht~es. Mr. :i:'urdy leaves to
Mr Kidgery the full responsibility for handling th~ fih~g system ~!1d
the· record svstem of the office, in which he takes httle mtere~t.
.iss
Furry assists Mr. Purdy in filing and keeping .records as whell tds mk filltfi
sitions vVe think that the manager of this Bureau s OU ta e u
~d coro'plete responsibility for the affairs of th~ Bureau and shou'.d
himself take an active interest in the pr~per handling o~ t~e rec~;ds m
that office. If the titles "Manager and Field Representative and Offibe
Manager" are merely for ornamental purposes, there. can, p~haps, hie
little objection to them. We find that Mr. Purdy 1s not t o_roug Y
-familiar with the methods of keeping records in that office, leavmg that
important task entirely to Mr. Kingery.

III. Change of Name

When the Board of Relief considers· it desirable that the Emplo~me~t
Bureau be moved to separate offices, apart f~om the Board of Relief, it
should also consider the desirability of changing the present£ nime ; f the
Bureati. Perhaps the word "Free" in the present" name ? t e ureau
should be eliminated. A better title would be the Masonic EmJ?loyment
Service.'' The more you can separate the idea of relief an~ chanty from
the employment service the better and more effective 1s the Buread
likely to become. We ~ould make it clear to both the employer an.
applicant that no fees are charged bl~ t.he Emthploymdn~,fr~~~af;o;:\h!
seems to us that it would .be best to e i~mat~ ,,e wor
present name and emphasize the word Service.

IV. Records
vVe regret to state that the Employment Bu:eau does not k.eJ. ade:
uate and intelligent records of its wor~. Certam rec?rds are m tspen
iable in the proper operation of any busmess, whether 1t ~e s?pbortei·bh
0

~~n~~~~~~~n~h~refflcle~~~ 1:r ~~Y ';'~pfon;i:e~~\;u~efa~~~~~~~r~:ite~i;'a~~:

First, the adequacy of the service which the Bureau renders to th~

emplS~~~~d the adequacy of the service rendered to the applicant.

. '
The be~t way to achieve success is to ple~se the employer .by rnt~
1

7~~ i~~ ~~~f;a~~.lp 1~~eth:r:jf~;i~~m~e~~;~ ~f t~~~ :a~~~ic isii~s:i~uf~n

0

627

should be expected to patronize its Employment Bureau only if and when
the Employment Bureau can render efficient service. The Bureau should
have an adequate record showing how the employers patronizing the
Bureau are served. At present there is no such record whatever. We will
take up the matter of record keeping under the following heads:
(1) Applicants.
(2) Positions secured.
(3) Orders for help.
(1) Applfrants. Applications for work are received from males and
females. 'vVe are told that about forty per cent of the applicants are
females, but we have not checked this point. According to the report of
the Masonic Board of Relief and Employment Bureau for the period
from September 1, 1926, to August 31, 1927, the Employment Bureau
received 4,906 applications for jobs during the twelve months ended
August 31, 1927. There are approximately 308 working days a year,
which means that about sixteen applications a day are received in the
Employment Bureau. This should enable the present personnel of the
Bureau to handle the volume of business efficiently and to give good
service to both the employer and the applicant.
We are informed that of the 4,906 applications, about 90 per cent are
new applications, whereas 10 per cent represent renewals. No record has
been kept of renewals; so that no one can tell with certainty whether the
4,906 applications are from different persons.
The present system of filing applications does not enable one to tell
whether a certain individual has applied for a job once or more. For
instance, if you desire to ascertain whether John Doe has ever before
applied for a job at the Masonic Bureau, it would be impossible to tell,
as the records are kept at the present time, unless he applied for the job
recently. The applications are filed according to position applied for, and
are taken out of the files every three to four months. After they are taken
out of the files they are put away alphabtically and kept for two years,
and are then destroyed. When an applicant is sent to a job, his name is
entered in the Day Book showing where he was sent; for instance,
"Thomas Jones sent to the M. & F. Manufacturing Company," etc.
Entries are made in the Day Book every day showing the applicants sent
to positions. If, therefore, one wishes to know whether a certain applicant was sent to a position, jt is necessary to look through the Day Books
to find the man's or woman's name and the jobs to which they were sent.
There is no index to the books, and if the applicant was sent out sometime ago it is necessary to look through many books to find out where
and when he was placed.
The applicant's application card is simply marked "vVrkg," meaning
working; but the application card does not show whether he is working
through the efforts of the Employment Bureau or whether he got the job
himself:
The records of the Bureau should be able to show at a glance when
and where the applicant was sent to work and how many times he was
placed by the Employment Bureau. It is important for an efficient Employment Bureau to know whether a man can hold his job and how often
a man applies to the Bureau for a job. An adequate record of the number
of times the man has been placed by the Bureau is essential to the proper
handling of applicants.
(2) Positions Secured. The report of the Employment Bureau for
the year ended August 31, 1927, referred to above, shows that the Bureau
secured 2,982 positions in addition to 3,068 temporary positions lasting

628

.from one day to one week, making a total of 6,050 positions. (These
positions do not include temporary jobs given to persons attending
funerals.) \Ve do not hesitate to state that this number of positions is
.an overstatement of fact. \Vhen an applicant is referred to a job, the
Employment Bureau takes it for granted that the employer hired the
applicant unless the B11reau knows definitely that the applicant was not
hired. Even if an applicant is referred to a position which he refuses to
accept, it is considered a "position secured" on the theory that the Bureau
offered a job to the applicant. It is. of course, fallacious to assume that
'a position was filled because the applicant did not return, or the employer
did not call again. The Bureau can afford to take the time to ascertain
whether the applicant received the position to which he was referred and
to be able to tell definitely how m:J.ny persons were actually hired by the
employers. This inform:1tion is important not only from the standpoint
of accurate record keeping, but is also significant because it gives the
manager the necessary knowledge to gauge the effectiveness of his office.
( 3) Orders for H clp. Adequate records are not kept of orders for
help received from employers patronizing the Masonic Free Employment
Bureau. It is impossible to tell to what extent orders are received from
the same employers. In other words, the Employment Bureau does not
keep a record of its patrons. Mr. Purdy knows, "in his head," who are
the employers frequently applying for help, but there is no systematic
record kept of the patrons of the Bureau. \Ve think that this is a serious
mistake. It is impossible to conduct the business of the office efficiently
and intelligently without being able to tell whether the Bureau can
sustain the continued interest of employers in its service. The manager
of the Employment Bureau should be able to tell the "mortality rate" of
firms patronizing his Bureau. If a firm has been patronizing his Bureau,
let us say, for the period of a year, and then ceased to patronize it, that
fact is worth knowing.
The manager spends most of his time out in the field trying to get
jobs for applicants, but he does not keep an adequate record showing the
success of his interviews with employers. This failure to keep a systematic
tab on patrons of the Bureau is a grievous mistake and does not speak
well for the manner in which the Employment Bureau is operated.
If the Employment Bureau is able to fill an order by sending some
one to the job, the nature of the order as well as the name of the applicant is entered in a Day Book, but if the job is not filled, then the order
of the employer, which is first entered upon a loose slip of paper, is
thrown into the waste basket and no record at all is kept of that order.
This, of course, makes it impossible to judge the efficiency of the Bureau
from the standpoint of service to the employer. It is impossible to tell
how many men and women employers call for, and how many of these
jobs were filled.
When an employer calls up the Employment Bureau for a· worker
which the Bureau is unable to supply within the time required by the
employer, the order is not taken at all and the employer is told that the
Bureau cannot fill the order. In our opinion, this is a poor practice. If
an employer is told that his order cannot be filled, he will go to some
other employment agency where he will get his order filled; if he is told
that again, he is likely never to come back to the Bureau for help. It
would be far better for the Bureau to take the order and endeavor to fill
it through some other agency, such as the State Free Employment Bureau.
For example, let us assume that the employer wants a plumber to be sent
to him within an hour or two. If the Bureau is at present unable to fill

629

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

that order, it tells the employer that 1't
;eferring the employer to some other
c~nnft fill t~e o_rder, thereoy
if the Employment Bureau were to c:ITe~~\h n~ead,
might be better
Bureau, or some other free em 1
e tate 'ree Employment
11
and ask them to send a
plumber to the Masonic Free t~~~~ 11t a1eBcy,
~1 ureau, whence the plumber
could be sent to the employer So
out in preference to the pres~nt ;:c~k~ 0frrtang~ment should be worked
If the Masonic Free Empie ment Bure
• urnmg away the. employer.
could not afford to turn a~av patron:u thereb run foh. profit, 1t certainly
elsewhere for help. The fact that the 'r _ere 0Yf tehac mg them to apply
the applicant and to th
I
. se vices
t e Bureau are free to
of handling its business~ emp oyer ts no excuse for this slipshod manner

t

1

V.

Costs

The report of the Masonic Board f R I' f
,
from September 1, 1926, to August 3}
~7e hnd Employment.
Bure~u
bursements for the Employment B
'.
• s ows the followmg disS I .
ureau.
$4,500.00
350.00
............
..................
126.14
~~i~i~~k~~d ............. .............. .. ..................... .
167.31
111.00
Compensation
................... ,,. .. .,...
105.00

19

~::~::~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.::.:

:::::.:::·

:::::::::::::::::::

UT
d •
,
$5,359.45
vv e es1re to submit the follow in
1
.
items. ~t appears to us that such a statg ex~ ait~?1bs of the ~re?eding
quate; 1t doesn't give an idea of the emen
is. ursements 1s madeBureau. It would be better if in th cfs~ of op:ratmg the Employment
Bureau were mor6 adequately presen~ed u Oe, t e cost olf operating the
ceding items whether they are for th .
ca}1not
tel from the pre0
a year or less. The
assumption would be that since the e peno.
?isbursements referred to' are also fo report is fA11 the wl.1ole. year, the
items, however, would immediate!. r a year.
ex~mmatlon of the
not fpr the whole year. For instinc~ug~e~t t_hat the disbursements. are
salaries charged to the Employment B' a md1cated above, the combmed
For a whole year the total should be $~e68o oig;egatd$550.00 per month;
rent is shown as $350 00 The actual r • t · n~tea
$4,500.00. The
$175.00 over two mo~ths. For a vearcnth~ow arge< to the Bureau is
The telephone service charge to the Bureauwi uld$1~ggregate. $1,050.00.
represents half of the total cost of th t 1 h s
.l~. This amount
Board of Relief and the Employment
re ep 0ne herv1ce for both the
May, June and Jul
I
F
u cau
; t e months of· April
a
be about
$378.42. Again, td
represents the ~ctual cost to operate the Willis K $. h. . f?1s amount
:\fr. Purdy durmg the months of '\ ril M
J mg t machme used b)
the year the cost of the auto upkc~pp th .
unc and July, 1927. For
that is, if the purchase price of the a~to e~~-r~·
15 would be about $501.93;
1
of several years, as it should be.
m
e
not spread over a period
We are pointing these things ut t
h
h
the Bureau, as published in the rep~rt r~f~r~crl a~~h~ ~~Pll~~turesh of
story and may be misleading. There should b . '
o .e
. e w ale
ner of allocating the costs of operating the Boea:d ~r~ ~?s;nesdhE~e manment Bureau, with a view to havin
e ie an
mployand Bcomplete
as to the actual cost of operating th~ aEcmcurlate
P oyment
ureau. information

°

!1d

i

f

B

i°1

a~~:·upk~~p i;~h~~~e~~ ~~IS r67~to?ld.

,ty,

io

630

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

VI.

At the present time, it seems, the Masonic Employment Bureau has
no supervision other than that of the managers of the Bureau. In other
words, the managers supervise themselves. They have been associated
with it for nearly two decades. It would be most desirable if the Board
of Relief or some other agency were actively to supervise the operation
of the Bureau. It would be better still if some one person were charged
with the responsibility of taking an active interest in the Bureau and
watching its activities. The manager of the Bureau should be held responsible for the manner in which the service is operated and for its
growing usefulness to the community. He should make comparative
reports of progress. The reports should be made in a prescribed way
calculated to yield essential facts necessary to give an executive an adequate idea of the work and accomplishments of the Bureau.
VII.

631

Supervision

spent is secondary in importance to the full value
dlarlls
o ar expended.
received for each

.. 7. The Employment Bureau should b
d
v1s1on of the Board of Relief
e un er the regular super
supervision of some person d~s~in~~:Je~abfh' ~der the reg~lar and active
ager of the Bureau should make re I Y e oard of Relief. The manof the Bureau to the Board of R e l"gfu
1e . ar and full reports on the operation
DAVID J. REESE
WILLIAM

P. JE~FRJES

ROBERT F. CALLENDER'

Louis SUTTER
L. BERR~.

'

OLIN

Summary of Recommendations

In the preceding paragraphs we have outlined certain recommendations for the improvement of the service of the Masonic Free Employment Bureau. These recommendations are:
1. That the Employment Bureau be moved to separate quarters,
apart from the offices of the Board of Relief, either in the same building,
or in another building.
2. That the name of the Bureau be changed to the Masonic Employment Service, thereby laying emphasis on Service rather than on Free.
3. That the services of the switchboard operator and information
girl be dispensed with, as not needed by the Employment Bureau.
4. That the manager of the Bureau take full and complete responsibility for the operation of the Bureau. There is no need for two managers in this office.
5. That an adequate and intelligent record-keeping system be instituted. Among other essential information, the records of the Employment Bureau should readily yield the following facts:
(a) How many times the same applicant applies for a position.
(b) When and where the applicant was placed.
(c) The difference between the number of persons referred to positions and the number actually placed.
(d) Positions lasting seven days or less, one month or less, and one
month and over.
(e) Number of persons wanted by employers and number of persons sent to employers, and number actually placed.
( £) Kinds of jobs offered by employers and kinds of jobs filled.
(g) The number, location and names of firms patronizing the Bureau,
and the turnover of such firms.
6. The Employment Bureau should be operated as though it were
run for profit, and the manager of the Bureau should be fully informed
of the costs of operating the Bureau. While it ought to be the object of
the Bureau to keep down the cost per placement and the total cost of
operating the Bureau, stress should be laid upon increased service both
to the employer and the applicant for employment. The number of do!-

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Brother Robert B. Gaylord Ch .
f
.
C
.
'
airman o the Comrrutt

~~es ~efd~~~a~~a;;:r~::eta~:ees~ o~~l:~:~eso~!~:sl ;1~ ~epresen;:~
chspensatJon and Past Masters by s .
. h"
o. ges un er
·
ervice wit In the Jurisdiction
as I)emg present, namely:
Mileage Allowed
Representatives
!.. .. Joseph E. Potter, Master
Thornhill Carmany, Sr. Warden
Robert H. Borland, Past Master
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master
Max Mertins, Past Master
Francis V. Keesling, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Western Star.................... No.
2
...
.John
Benjamin McCall, Sr. Warden .. $24.42
Tehama............................. No. 3
.... Joseph T. Stacy, Master.................... 6.48
Clarence M. Dorman, Sr. Warden
Wm. Edw. Templeman, Jr. Warden
Theodore ]. Milliken, Past Master
B ..
Chas. Schwartz, Past Master
en1c1a ............................... No. 5
.... ]. E. Wagner, Past Master and
Representative
2.40
Tuolumne .......................... No. 8.... M. F. Sims Ma;~~~--- ................ .
13.92
B. C. Bullo~k, Sr. W~~d~~--E. M. Graham, Jr. Warden
California ......................... No.

632

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Jacobson,
........... . 9.00
Corinthian........................ N 0 · 9-... Melvm
Glenn E.H.Thomas,
Sr. Master
Warden

Madison ............................ No. 23 .... Harry L. Body, Master .................... 20.28

Clifford B. Hill, Jr. Warden
Lewis B. Wilcoxon, Past Master
and Inspector ·································· 9.00
Arthur W. Gluckman, Past Master.. 9.00
No. 10 .... Roy Shatto Field, Master.................. 3.48
SanJose............................
Joseph S. Greenley, Sr. Warden

Wm. J. Merrifield, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 20.64
Tom Ingram, Past Master and
Junior Grand Steward .................. 20.28
Geo. L. Jones, Past Master and
Grand Master .................................... 20.28
Mariposa........................... No. 24... J. P. McElligott, Past Master and

633

George Wadey, Past Master
John H. McGehee, Past Master...... 6.48
C. H. Wheeler, Past Master
Alex H. Hess, Past Master
Ira Fellner, Past Master
No. 12 .... Adolph S. Frost, Master.................. 3.48
Yount.................................
Earl E. Retzer, Senior Warden
OO
P ercy S . King ' Past Master............ 203·64
N 0 13 Claude Ferguson, Master.................. .
Nevada.............................. • ····R b t C Bancroft Sr. Warden.. 3.60
T
'.
'
9.12
1 - .......................... No. 14.... o er
No. l6.... ]. H. Robmson, Master ......................
emp e. ··
Eureka...............................
J. H. Jeffreys, Past Master
M. D. Lininger, Past Master and
Grand Bible Bearer........................ 9.1 2
Edward
L.
Master
.
.
N
0 17
G Charpentier,
L't
Sr Warden
La Parfa1te Umon......... • ····
Maurice . 1 ou,
·
M. E. Diebold, Past Master
J H P lants Past Master
. .
.
N 18 Marcellus
P.' Fischer, Master.......... 3100
.
Mountam ~hade ............. N~· 19::::william W. Mathes, Master............ 6.12
San Joaqum.................... . 20 F' k N Killam Master.................. 6.48
.
No. .... Harold
ran
· Hill, Sr.
• Warden
Washmgton......................
D.
Norman C. Gregory, Jr. Warden
William A. Sitton, Paster Master
and Inspector.................................... 6.48
Harold I. Schofield, Past Master
Walter L. Dorch, Past Master
Eugene Benjamin, Past Master and
Grand Standard Bearer.................. 6.48
Robert E. Asher, Past Master
Joseph W. Bates, Past Master
..
No. 21...John A. Madden, Sr. Warden ........250.00
Ha~auan.......................... No. 22 .... Harrison A. Jones, Master
Occidental.........................
James B. Oliver, Sr. Warden
Wm. Penn Humphreys, Past Master
R. Fletcher Tilton, Past Master
and Grand Organist

Representative ······-----------------------·-·-- 28.28
F. H. Catherwood, Past Master
Georgetown...................... No. 25 .... Chas. E. Jerrett, Past Master and
Representative ---------------------------------- 15.76
Palmyra ............................ N o. 26.... Carleton M. Hickman, Sr. Warden 11.76
George C. Rolleri, Past Master
R. F. Roddan, Past Master and
Inspector -------------------------------------------- 11.66
Trinity............................... No. 27 .... Benjamin Hale Mace, Master.......... 35.42
Golden Gate ..................... No. 30.... Fred J. Schultz, Master

A. F. Heuer, Past Master
Edwin L. Meyer, Past Master
Gold Hi!L_ __ ,____________________ N o. 32 .... Edward M. Vorous, Master .............. 8.52
Hans P. Jans en, Past Master and
Inspector
-------------------------------------------·
8.52
Ophir _________________________________ N o. 33 .... Allen
C. Grant,
Master ........................ 18.46
San Diego ........................ No. 35 .... Louis H. Voeltzel, Master ................ 54.64
Jesse W. Bailey, Jr. Warden
Rainsford W. Belding, Past Master
James B. McLees, Past Master and
Inspector ---------------------....................... 55.64
Herbert A. Croghan, Past Master
Howard............................. No. 37.... Albert E. Brown, Sr. Warden ........ 34.70
Santa Cruz ....................... N o. 38. ... Alfred I. Gross, Master.................... 8.52
Jules Chouree, Sr. Warden
James Chapman, Jr. Warden
C. D. Hinkle, Past Master
Sacramento ...... ________________ No. 40 .... Dougal Henry McAlpine, Master.... 6.48
Frank DeWitt Talbot, Jr. Warden
James Buchanan Giffen, Past Master
Martinez ........................... No. 41.. .. Herbert Brackman, Master................ 2.52
Frank E. Kennedy, Sr. Warden
Howard D. Lyford, Jr. Warden

635

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

N 42 Edward F. Whittemore, Master ...... 43.08
Los Ange1es..................... o. .. .. Clifford E. Titus, Sr. \Varden
Sidney K. Lehman, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
·
No 43 Clarence L. Scheiber, Master............ 11.16
Hiram ................................ 1 • . ... Harry Woodbury Gay, Past Master

Gravel Range .................. No. 59 .... Acton M. Cleveland, Master............ 19.00
F. J. Joubert, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 19.00
Plumas .............................. No. 60.... Glenn W. Clinch, Master.................. 27.34
James 0. Moncur, Past Master and
Inspector ........................................·.... 27.34
\Vm. E. Styan, Past Master
Live Oak. .......................... No. 61....William B. Joseph, Sr. Warden
Carlton D. Dethlefsen, Jr. Warden
Ezra Decoto, Past Master
C. E. Haven, Past Master
Lee S. Griswold, Past Master
Bradford Webster, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Natoma...........................-.No. 64.... Benjamin E. Moesziner, Master...... 8.16
Amador ............................. No. 65 .... Myron S. Matson, Master................ 11.62
Robert I. Kerr, Past Master
M. S. Watson, Past Master
ForesL............................. No. 66.... Irvine E. Green, Master.. .................. 25.90
Morning Star .................. No. 68.... Harwell W. Coale, Master................ 6.12
Ernest G. Swinney, Jr. \Varden
Orrin S. Henderson, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Harry Bessac, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 6.12
Enterprise ......................... No. 70.... Frank N. McCollu, Master.............. 8.76
James R. Robinson, Jr. \Varden
Bear Mountain ................ No. 76 .... Albert F. Wilson, Master................ 15.96
Calaveras.......................... No. 78 .... F. E. Winkler, Master... ..................... 11.12
Humboldt... ....................... No. 79.... George H. Still, Master .................... 29.40
Edward Madsen, Sr. Warden
James Thomas Fraser, Past Master
and Inspector ...................................... 29.40
Louis Hodin Valentine, Past Master
Trustom Dinsmore, Past Master
Ione.................................... No. 80.... Joseph H. Saunders, Master............ 9.12
H. A. Harper, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 9.12
Yolo................................... No. 81....0rvile Frank Carsley, Master.......... 6.60
Vesper ............................... No. 84.... Guy Frank Davis, Master .................. 20.78
Naval... .............................. No. 87.... Elmer L. Cave, Master........................ 2.40
Dave R. Doherty, Sr. Warden
.
James Bitcon, Jr. \Varden
C. L. Rhodes, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 2.46

634

Mount Moriah... --............ No. 44 ....0scar E. Mittelstaedt, MWastedr
Charles G. Whalen, Sr.
ar en
Alfred E. Ralston, Junior Warden
T. C. Conmy, Past Master
W. E. Anderson, Past Master
Roy A. Pratt, Past Master
D. Q. Richards, Past Master
Theo. Frolich, Past Master
SO
Crescent ............................ No. 45 ... Albert T. Manuel, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 48·
Orrin Dudley, Past Master
Fletcher A. Cutler, Grand Orator.... 2.40
No 46 .. Ernest A. Staples, Master................ 7.36
Texas................................ . .. Thomas Flint, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 6.60
Forbestown....................... No. 50.... G. A. Vaugh~n, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 10.80
· ·
No 51 William J. Eddy, Master .................. 10.92
llhnoistown ...................... 1 • .. .. Carl J. Rolph, Jr., Jr. \Varden
·
.No. 55 .... Harry Nelson, Master........................ 3.60
Smsun...............................
Arthur Garben, Senior Warden
J. H. Murray, Past Master
.
Volcano ............................. No. 56.... 0liver M. Kimball, Representative .. 15.12
Santa Rosa ...................... No. 57 .... Chas. Jacobs, Master.......................... 3.96
Harry T. Kyle, Sr. Warden
James T. Mailer, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 3.96
C. D. Barnett, Past Master
·
No 58 Mark J. Becker, Master.................... 6.48
Un10n................................. . .... John Robinson, Jr. Warden
J. F. Morgan, Past Master
Rufus B. Carlton, Past Master and
Inspector ............................ ,............... 6.48
Thomas J. Baker, Past Master and
Grand Lecturer

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

636

637

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Rose's Bar ........................ No. 89.... Robert D. \Vheaton, Mastet ............ 12.00
North Star .................... ~.No. 91....William D. Mathews, Sr. Warden .. 37.70
St. Helena ....................... No. 93 ....Fulton I. Mather, Master.................. 4.80
Henry Clay ...................... No. 95.... Morris Brinn, Past Master
Hornitos............................ No. 98.... George Ludwig Klug, Jr. Warden .. 20.18
Yosemite ........................... No. 99 ....Ralph De Witt, Master .................... 10.08
Castle D. Robinson, Jr. Warden
Roy E. Lantz, Past Master
T. W. Fowler, Past Master
Clay..................................No. lOL.Chas. G. Johnson, Master ................ 12.00
Oroville ...........................No. 103 .... James C. Nisbet, Master .................... 10.80
Harry F. Cauthard, Sr. Warden
Charles 0. Hamilton, Past Master
and Inspector ...................................... 10.80
Albert E. Boynton, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Lexington ....................... No.104 ....Chas. H. Satou, Master ...................... 44.16
Arcata.............................No. 106.... William E. McLellan, Sr. Warden 30.00
Pajaro ............................. No. 110.... Miller Chandler, Sr. Warden............ 7.08
Chico....... ;...................... -No. 111... Harry H. Hume, Sr. Warden........ 12.24
Summit... ........................,No. 112 .... Frank A. Morgan, Master ................ 10.52
Eden.................................No. 113.... Charles F. Cooper, Master................ 1.08
Sidney B. Force, Past Master
Joseph B. Mills, Past Master and
Inspector
Concord...........................No. 117.... Joseph Rohrer, Master...................... 6.48
Anton L. Johnson, Sr. Warden
Herbert C. Schluckebier, Jr. Warden
Robert L. Herz, Past Master
Clinton.............................No. 119.... William L. Kingsbury, Master ........ 26.42
Fidelity............................No. 120....George A. Manheim, Master
Leo J. Simon, Sr. Warden
Phillip Jacobovier, Past Master
Julius Gabriel, Past Master
Alamo ..............................No. 122.... Jesse B. Near, Master........................ 3.84
Clifford L. Thompson, Sr. Warden
Henry S. Crow, Past Master
Sotoyome........................ No. 123.... Henry Sonnikson, Master.................. 4.92
George T. Hansen, Past Master
Harold F. Phillips, Past Master
Bear Mountain..............No. 124....Joe H. Davis, Representative .......... 16.80

Lafayette ........................ No. 126.... Perry Tice Allison, Master.............. 4.44
E. A. Feahs, Past Master
C. F. Chase, Past Master
Herman ...........................No. 127.... Willie F. Baat, Master
Otto F. W. Koch, Sr. Warden
Paul R. Schubert, Jr. Warden
Louis Muller, Past Master and
Inspector
. . .
E. A. N eumarkel, Past Master
V1saha............................. No. 128.... Earl W. Westcott, Master.................. 23.28
Billie A. Landis, Sr. Warden
.
Harold V. Lambert, Jr. Warden
~ood~ridge ................... No. 131....Earl M. Journeay, Master................ 6.72
mcenty
Vaca
ill ......................... No.
. 132.... C.r· E.• Blackman '. Master .................... 2788
•
v e.........................No. 134.... "' 11l1am F. Deakm, Master................ 4.80
Homer C. Bolter, Sr. Warden
Brutus C. Eastin, Jr. \Varden
F. H. Clark, Past Master
~al'.~·····--···--·----· ............ No. 135....James A. Hastie, Master.................. 7.12
ac1 c...................... :....... No. 136.... Eugene E. Rebstock, Master
Isadore M. Sommer, Sr. \Varden
Ernest \V. Liebert, Jr. Warden
Paul Nathan, Past Master
Thomas Anderson, Past Master and
Inspector
Edward S. Isaacs, Past Master
Ernest L. \Vest, Past Master
Frederick L. Hansen, Past Master
Harry K. Wolff, Past Master
Eugene S. Elkus, Past Master
Crockett ......................... No. 139.... Daniel A. Stivers, Master
Chester Lyle Wehe, Sr. Warden
Beverly M. Robinson, Jr. Warden
H. J. Gaevert, Past Master
W. E. Sammis, Past Master
J. W. Davies, Past Master
.
Curtts
G
ft ...............................No. 140.... Chas. C. Hobbs ' Master.................... 6.24
ra on.......................... .Xo. 141....Elmer G. Byers, Master.................... 6.96
F
.
_
Lewis F. Perry, Jr. Warden
.ranklm .......................... No. 143.... John K. Mull, Sr. Warden................ 6.40
J. Harlow Webber, Jr. Warden
H. D. Kercheval, Past Master
T

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

OrientaL. ........................No. 144.... Chas. Thomas Clark, Master
Eugene Hamilton Hurst, Sr. Warden
William S. Wells, Jr. Warden
Frederick R. Bowes, Past Master
Walter Leonard, Past Master and
Inspector
Clarence W. Dobie, Past Master
Richard Quedens, Past Master
Wm. E. Conner, Past Master
Olin L. Berry, Past Master
Owen L. Gibson, Past Master
Richard C. Jewell, Past Master
James L. Hawks, Past Master
Frank C. Martin, Past Master
Herbert M. Jeffreys, Past Master
Chas. Bane, Past Master
Amos V. Mollart, Past Master
Vitruvius .........................No. 145 .... Russell L. Smith, Master.................. 4.82
Abell... ............................. N o. 146 .... Ernest Gunnar Spjuth, Master........ 8.28
Fred H. Waugh, Sr: Warden
Eel River ....................... No. 147 .... John Jasper Owens, Sr. Warden .. 30.00
Lassen ..............................No. 149 .... Forest L. Holmes, Sr. Warden .... 32.12
J. B. Spaulding, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 32.12
Molino ............................. No. 150.... Robert Wallace Muller, Master ...... 20.78
Woodland ........................No. 156.... Henry C. Gray, Master .................... 6.24
William E. Underwood, Sr. Warden
Byron F. Hillhouse, Past Master
Keystone ......................... No. 161....William H. Watts, Master .............. 8.28
Harmony ......................... No. 164.... Ernest M. Innes, Master .................... 36.38
Excelsior .........................No. 166.... Edmond C. McMillan, Master
Walker Peddicord, Sr. Warden
Roderick G. Guyett, Past Master
and Inspector
J. W. Crosby, Past Master
Chas. A. Adams, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Alameda ..........................No. 167.... Michael J. Overacker, Master........ 2.40
Frank B. Hartman, Past Master
Albert Norris, Past Master
Redwood City............... No. 168 .... Percy E. Long, Master.................... 1.92
David R. Stott, Sr. Warden
Chas. G. Lambert, Past Master

Mission ............................No. 169 .... Carl R. Thomson, Master
George H. Becker, Sr. Warden
R. E. Allen, Past Master
George A. Hansen, Past Master
Edwin W. Gucker, Past Master
Elk Grove ...................... N o. 173 .... Thomas L. Conrad, Representative 7.80
Drytown .......................... No. 174....John J. Myers, Representative ........ 13.12
Antioch .......................... ,No.175 .... L. B. Brewster, Representative ........ 3.96
Phoenix .......................... .No. 178 .... Arthur Neumann, Master .................. 47.28
Walter A. Howes, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 47.28
M. J. Newburg, Past Master
Mendocino ...................... No. 179... Andrew Hansen, Sr. Warden ............ 26.38
Edwin Starr Foster, Past Master
Petaluma .........................No. 180 .... Edgar J. C. Thurston, Master.......... 2.88
Hiram Hopkins, Sr. Warden
John Keller, Jr. Warden
H. N. Riblet, Past Master
Russian River ................ No. 181....John Wm. D. Chisholm, Master...... 4.56
Arbuckle......................... No. 182 .... Albert R. Brandenburg, Jr. Warden 8.28
T. A. Griffin, Past Master
Clear Lake .....................No. 183 .... John Francis, Master.......................... 13.90
Sierra Valley ................. No. 184 .... Michael Ostini, Master ...................... 34.98
Claiborne ........................ No. 185 .... Hugh Hubert Horton, Master .......... 26.08
Ralph Olaf Bayley, Sr. Warden
J. W. Kingren, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 8.28
Clarence W. Nicks, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 26.08
Evening Star ................. No. 186.... John H. Adams, Jr. Warden .............. 38.36
Keith ................................ No. 187.... Delmon Brown Hall, Master............ 5.64
Henry Lauer Wills, Sr. Warden
Paul Robert Colson, Jr. Warden
E. J. Chesboro, Past Master
Oakland ...........................No. 188 .... Harold H. Meredith, Master.
William M. Huffman, Sr. Warden
Wilfred Roy Hill, Jr. Warden
Robert M. Ford, Past Master
Robert B. Gaylord, Past Master
Northern Light ............. No. 190 .... George Wm. Graves, Master .............. 22.92
Marin............................... No. 191....George E. Kendall, Master................ 1.05
Jos. Block, Past~Master
W. L. Chamberlain, Past Master
George F. Rodden, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Frank M. Angellotti, Past Master
and Past Grand Master

638

639

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNL'l

Santa Barbara .............. .No. 192....John McRae, Master............................ 34.02
Walter Lacy Willits, Sr. Warden
Ferndale .......................... No. 193 ....Walter L. Hillgardner, Master...... 31.20
Fred Dahlquist, Sr. Warden
Mountain View............. No. 194.... George L. Morgan, Sr. Warden.... 2.64
Buckeye........................... No. 195 .... Frank Wolfskill, Jr. Warden.......... 6.00
San Simeon....................No. 196.... Edmund Barlogio, Master................ 29.00
Wilmington .................... No. 198... .Kirkwood S. Wallace, Master........ 44.52
David J. Woods, Sr. Warden
Hartley..........................No. 199.... John D. Monroe, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 12.32
G. 0. Ghetaldi, Past Master
Truckee...........................No. 200.... Chas. A. Ocker, Master...................... 23.16
Silveyville ....................... No. 201....})iward C. Watson, Master.............. 4.92
Pentalpha ........................ No. 202....Thor Elmer Hamrin, Master ............ 43.08
Rex Wm. Barnett, Jr. Warden
Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Past Master
and Past Grand Master................ 43.08
Confidence ...................... No. 203 ... Hans Nelson Johnson, Master........ 7.80
Rasmus H. Rasmussen, Jr. vVarden
vV. C. Buttle, Past Master
Salinas ............................ No. 204....Joseph David Burkey, Master........ 8.28
Walter M. Anderson, Past Master
Olivet ............................. No. 205 ....Chas. E. Hazen, Master.................... 12.96
Stanislaus ........................ No. 206.... Travis Bailey Townsend, Master.. 7.44
Anaheim ..........................No. 207 .... William Phillip Webb, Master.. ...... 45.00
Rio Vista........................ No. 208. ... A. McDonald, Jr. Warden................ 3.40
King David's................ No. 209 .... Ruben Rowe Long, Master.. ............ 24.00
Walter D. Adriance, Past Master
and Inspector.................................... 24.00
W. G. Overpack, Past Master
John Whicher, Past Master and
Grand Secretary
Friendship ..................... No. 210 ... Albert T. Hollingsworth, Master.. 3.48 ·
Darrell J. Sedgwick, Sr. Warden
T. M. Wright, Past Master and
Inspector ............... ,............................ 3.48
......No. 211....Albert Wm. Hinz, Master................ 6.60
San Benito
Edwin Preston Tiffany, Jr. Warden
So. San Francisco ......... No. 212 .... Raymond Kaufman, Master
George A. Lastein, Jr. vVarden
Otto Joseph Spindley, Past Master
Wm. G. Green, Past Master
Wm. J. B. Warner, Past Master

San Buenaventura........ No. 214.... Clarence E. Thompson, Master.. ...... 37.56
John Edwin Barker, Sr. Warden
Jos. Argabrite, Past Master .............. 37.56
David J. Reese, Past Master and
Past Grand Master........................ 37.56
Oak Grove .................... No. 215 .... Will Crocket, Master
M. C. Godfrey, Jr. Warden
F. G. Thornton, Past ~faster
Charles A. Allerdyce, Past Master
Walter H. Oehlmann, Past Master
Doric................................No. 216.... Carl Neuer, Master
Philip F. Ringole, Sr. Warden
Clarence Lippitt Badt, Jr. Warden
Simon Myerson, Past Master
Arthur C. Bush, Past Master
F. H. Stapff, Past Master
Monterey ........................No. 217.... W. E. Parker, Representative.......... 8.88
Mosaic ............................. No. 218. .. John Henry Colldeweih, Master.... 3.48
William B. White, Jr. Warden
Speranza Italiana.......... No. 219 .... Frank Caroli, Master
Frank Pagone, Sr. \Varden
Peter Balestracci, Jr. \Varden
J. M. Icardo, Past Master and Inspector
A. Cogliandro, Past Master
E. V. Lovigo, Past Master
Downey...........................No. 220.... Roy Lee Tompkins, Master .............. 43.92
Inyo................................-No. 22L.Frank B. Krater, Master .................. 55.86
Theodore Vita, Sr. \Varden
J. E. Shepard, Past Master
A. C. Krater, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 55.86
Roseville ......................... No. 222... William Charles Fergusen, Sr.
Warden.............................................. 7.80
Bakersfield......................No. 224.... Walter Mortensen, Master.............. 29.34
Albert E. Burton, Sr. Warden
M. \V. Gist, Past Master
Henry Rissler, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 29.34
Arthur S. Crites, Past Master and
P~st Grand Master.. ........................ 29.34

640

•

641

642

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brooklyn .........................No. 225 .... Kenneth H. Keefer, Master
Charles Grandjean, Sr. Warden
Homer W. Campbell, Jr. Warden
H. F. Goff, Past Master
Louis Sutter, Past Master
Irving Magnes, Past Master
San Mateo ......................No. 226 .... Earl A. Davis, Master........................ 1.32
0. J. L. Byers, Past Master
Athens ............................. No. 228 .... Frank Woodley Palmer, M~r.... 5.52
Chas. Greene, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 6.24
Solano ............................. .N o. 229 .... Howard Gee, Master.......................... 2.46
Rolla R. McMillin, Sr. Warden
Osgood H. Hilton, Past Master
F. A. Hensley, Past Master
H. A. Frahm, Past Master
A. B. Cushing, Past Master
Dempsey F. Dufour, Past Master
North Butte ....................N o. 230.... Chas. S. Cliff man, Sr. Warden ........ 10.32
Covelo .............................. No. 231.. .. Luke R. Yates, Master ...................... 21.86
Janesvi11e .............. ,.......... No. 232 .... William H. Sifford, Representative ...................................................... 34.12
Calistoga .........................N o. 233 .... Harry E. Decker, Master:................... 5.40
Hope................................ No. 234 .... Charles Garrison, Past Master
J. F. Hoke, Past Master .................. 31.20
Surprise Valley ............. No. 235 ....Jesse W. Stiner, Master .................... 50:24
Hi11s Ferry .....................No. 236 .... Gilbert E. Morton, Sr. Warden........ 7.92
Guadalupe .......................No. 237 .... William Macdonald, Master .............. 25.68
William T. Lucas, Past Master and
Past Grand Master .......................... 26.68
Colusa ..............................N o. 240.... Herbert L. Jacobson, Jr. Warden.. 9.72
E. L. Hicok, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 9.72
Santa Ana ......................N o. 241.. .. Roscoe G. Hewitt, Master ................ 45.48
Albert F. Hill, Sr. Warden
Eli B. Trago, Past Master and Inspector .............................................. 45.48
Charles V. Doty, Past Master
Magnolia .........................No. 242 .... Edward L. Abbott, Master ................ 34.02
Chas. N. Allen, Sr. Warden
Harry R. Graham, Jr. Warden
Martin C. Martinsen, Past Master
Fred L. Johnston, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 34.02
John T. Johnston, Past Master

\

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

643

\Eucalyptus ......................No. 243 .... Joseph Bradshaw Prowse, Master.... 1.56
\
Joseph E. Hollingshead, Sr. Warden
,
Harry A. Scoville, Jr. Warden
Akatraz ...........................No. 244 .... Frank Chas. Cochrane, Master
'.
Ferdinand S. Smith, Sr. Warden
Arthur R. Atteberry, Jr. Warden
E. A. Clothica, Past Master
Laurel... ...........................No. 245 ... Bailey Terrill, Master ........................ 10.92
Joseph J. Lawrence, Sr. Warden
Pomona ...........................No. 246 .... Edgar Page Hubble, Master ............ 45.60
George Chas. Smithen, Sr. Warden
Wayne D. Matthews, Past Master
and Inspector .................................... 45.60
Fresno ............................. No. 247 .... Philip M. Kearns, Jr. Warden ........ 20.04
· Alturas ............................ No. 248 .... Leon T. Smith, Master ...................... 44.24
C. S. Baldwin, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 44.24
Adin ................................. N o. 250 .... Claude R. Brown, Representative .. 61.36
Landmark. ..........,........... No. 253 .... Victor Frank Vieira, Master............ 7.32
Reading ...........................No. 254.... Russell Sidney Thompson, Master .. 22.92
·
G. C. De Forest, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 28.98
Earl L. Kelly, Past Master
McCoy Fitzgerald, Past Master
Casebolt Dakin, Past Master
Welcome ......................... No. 255 .... Leonard R. Ward, Senior Warden .. 23.16
Lodi ......................... ~ ....... No. 256.... J. M. Blodgett, Representative.......... 6.48
Penrhyn .......................... No. 258 .... V. J. De Campos, Master .................. 8.52
Evergreen ....................... No. 259 .... Hiram P. Whitehead, Master .......... 47.28
Richard D. Whitehead, Sr. Warden
A. Heber Winder, Past Master
James Mac Dougall, Past Master
J. F. Davidson, Past Master
King Solomon's ............. No. 260 .... Albert H. Ross, Master
Frank Jos. Hayman, Sr. Warden
Lyman D. Heacock, Jr. Warden
R. V. Whiting, Past Master
Ed. E. Conn, Past Master and
Junior Grand Deacon
Wm. K. Cullen, Past Master
Tuscan ............................. No. 261.. .. John Homer Forsythe, Master........ 9.12
Ralph F. Fouch, Past Master
Lompoc ............................ No. 262.... Chas. S. Laubly, Sr. Warden .......... 30.06
W. A. Stewart, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 30.06

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND' LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Hesperian....................... No. 264....Chester B. Cox, Sr. Warden ............ 26.68 /
Orland............................. No. 265 ....Wade Hampton Hightower, Master 12.0<j
Carl F. Franke, Sr. Warden
/
R. C. E. Weber, Past Master and
i
Inspector .......................................... 12,(00
North East... ................. No. 266.... Leon Walter Kickerson, Master ........ 53.20
Galt.................................. No. 267....Reginald D. Ward, Jr. Warden...... 6.48
Durant.............................No. 268 .... Edward A. Van \Vynen, Master
Grove E. Herrmann, Jr. Warden
W. W. Bradley, Past Master and
Inspector
E. D. Thomas, Past Master
Robert Greig, Past Master
E. W. Bridgman, Past Master
H. E. O'Donnell, Past Master
Wm. H. Waste, Past Master
Olive Branch .................No. 269 .... Samuel T. Rogan, Representative.. 23.28
Snow Mountain............ No. 271....William W. McGahan, Sr. Warden 15.72
Pasadena ........................ No. 272.... Lewis W. Rowley, Master ................ 44.04
Miner B. Phillips, Sr. Warden
Anchor............................ N o. 273 ....J ames R. Cleland, Representative.. 43.92
Arroyo............................No. 274.... A. H. Gammons, Master.................... 24.90
Selma ...............................No. 277....Benton Belew, Sr. Warden ................ 21.24
Southern California......No. 278 .... George N. Seymour, Master ............ 43.08
William F. Barshfield, Sr. Warden
W. P. Jeffries, Past Master ............ 43.08
Edw. B. Spencer, Past _Master
Dana R. Weller, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08
Hanford.......................... No. 279.... George A Weishar, Sr. Warden .... 22.56
Madera ............................ No. 280.... 0chiltree S. Hubbard, Master
Harvey Wm. Shuman, Sr. Warden 18.60
Mt. Shasta..................... No. 281....E. L. Story, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 22.08
Callayomi........................No. 282....Roy L. Smith, Master........................ 9.90
Southwest...................... No. 283 ....James Wm. Hallock, Master .......... 56.06
San Miguel... ................. No. 285....George Parker, Representative and
Past Master...................................... 14.64
Paso Robles ...................No. 286.... Herman L. Anderson, Master.......... 15.36
Winnedumah..................No. 287.... Angus R. McMurtrie, Master.......... 57.58
Ernest L. Bulpitt, Sr. Warden
MaxwelL .......................No. 288....John M. Coshow, Master.................. 9.72
Edw. Flanagan, Past Master
Elsinore ...........................No. 289.... Leslie D. Stewart................................ 48.08

East Gate...................... ..No. 290.... William D. Taylor, Master............ 43.08
Harry H. Sherrard, Sr. Warden
F. 0. Hoffman, Past Master
Santa Paula ... c ................No. 291....James N. Proctor, Master................ 38.76
Donald S. Teague, Sr. Warden
D. W. Mott, Past Master .................. 38.76
Los Gatos .......................No. 292.... Herbert W. McAuley, Master........ 3.72
Orange Grove............... No. 293 .... Prentiss F. Curl, Master ................ 45.48
Clarence D. Bay, Sr. Warden
Leon 0. Whitsell, Past Master
Traver ............................. No. 294...Edward Wm. Berg, Master.............. 21.60
Mt. Jackson .................... No. 295 .... Walter G. Fonda, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 5.40
Silver Gate .................... No. 296.... B. Ewing Grain, Master .................... 55.64
Francis Mitchell, Jr. Warden
Benj. H. Bryant, Past Master
Dunsmuir ........................ No. 297...Jerome W. Day, Sr. Warden........ 28.98
B. R. Fauber, Past Master and Inspector .............................................. 28.98
Alexander Levy, Past Master
Gustav A. Hutaff, Past Master and
Senior Grand Warden.................... 28.98
Liberty .............................N o. 299.... Harry W. Mcintyre, Master............ 3.24
Walter M. Elmer, Junior Warden
C. A. Mcintyre, Past Master
C. A. English, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 3.48
Redlands .........................No. 300.... Ray Church, Sr. Warden.................... 48.00
George T. Musson, Jr. \Varden
A. P. Crim, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 48.00
Ontario............................ No. 301....Donald F. Craig, Master.................... 45.90
Santa Lucia................... No. 302... .]ames Alvin Walker, Master............ 11.52
Porterville...................... No. 303.... Frank Oliver Sheldon, Representative .................................................. 25.08
Reedley............................ N o. 304.... B. T. Hord, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 24.10
Azusa............................... No. 305.... Lester A. Price, Master...................... 44.88
Ashlar............................. No. 306.... Francis E. Miller, Master.................. 47.28
Santa Monica ................ No. 307.... Alfie D. Marrs, Master.................... 44.64
Joseph Fleming, Sr. Warden
George S. Bechtel, Past Master
F. M. Wise, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 44.64
Victor Roy McLucas, Past Master

644

645

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Monrovia........................ No. 308 .... Harry L. Alexander, Master ............ 44.40
Ralph A. Densmore, Sr. \Varden
L. M. Renaker, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 44AO
Delano.................... c••••••••No. 309.... Paul Zimmerman, Master.................. 27.06
Sisson.............................. No. 210.... C. E. Glidden, Sr., Representative
and Past Master................................ 30.06
Tehachapi ....................... No. 313 .... Robert G. Nelson, Master.................. 32.82
Temescal.........................No. 314.... Frederick W. Juster, Master............ 48.36
Frank B. Ware, Sr. Warden
Norwalk......................... No. 315 .... Irving D. Davison, Master................ 44.28
Sanger .............................No. 316.... R. L. Bosserman, Master.................. 21.12
R. E. Bosserman, Senior Warden
Fallbrook. .......................No. 317.... Charles C. Wheeler, Representative 53.30
EmanueL ....................... No. 318 ....Frederick A. Ditzler, Master.......... 10.56
Hollenbeck.....................No. 319.... Clarence Edw. Hargan, Sr. Warden 43.08
Alfred Whitehead, Jr. Warden
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master
South Gate ................... So. 320 ....Forest W. Monroe, Master .............. 43.08
Delos C. Castle, Sr. Warden
M. L. Griffith, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 43.08
AlisaL ........................... No. 321....Andrew M. Kamp, Master.................. 3.00
Thomas Orloff, Jr. Warden
Alhambra ....................... No. 322.... George A. Houser, Master .............. 43.68
William D. Irwin, Sr. Warden
Whittier .......................... No. 323 ... .]ohn Louis ),falcho, Sr. Warden .... 44.52
Corona .............................No. 324.... Herman E. Tabor, Master ................ 44.04
Consuelo......................... N o. 325.... Thomas W. Wickford, Master .......... 53.58
Arthur Paul, Past Master
Needles............................ No. 326.... Courtney Boom, Master ...................... 57.80
.Long Beach...................No.327 .... Uriah Whitehead, ).faster .................. 44.64
Charles Klatt, Sr. \Varden
C. H. Shaw, Past Master and Inspector ................................................ 44.64
George W. House, Past Master
Redondo.......................... No. 328.... Edward J. Reeder, Sr. Warden........ 44.64
Vallee de France ..........No. 329 ....Eugene Barely, ),faster ........................ 43.08
Kilauea ............................No. 330.... H. W. Ludoff, Past Master and
Representative ..................................283.00
Pacific Grove ................ No. 331....Edwin A. Cope, Master.................... 9.00
Chas. K. Tuttle, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 9.00
D. J. Leary, Past Master
W. S. Simpson, Past Master
R. L. James, Past Master

San Pedro. ..................... No. 332....Jessie A. Jackson, Master.................. 44.64
Harry A. Cole, Sr. Warden
L. S. Anderson, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.64
Alta ..................................N o. 333 .... Alberto Axt, Master .......................... 46.42
John D. Murphey, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Covina..............................No. 334 .... Sidney H. Ashton, Sr. Warden........ 44.90
Wm. J. Evans, Jr. Warden
West Gate...................... No. 335.... William L. Reynolds, Sr. Warden .. 43.08
F. R. Mason, Past Master
Fruitvale......................... No. 336.... Lawson Howatt, Master
Robert S. Grant, Sr. Warden
Russell C. Horstmann, Jr. Warden
Carquinez.......................No. 337 .... Benjamin F. Scribner, Master........ 2.16
Earle LeRoy Preston, Jr. \Varden
]. E. Hughes, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 2.16
James King, Past Master
San Jacinto..................... No. 338.... F. L. Midgley, Master ........................ 50.94
.
G. Matthews, Past Master
Fullerton.........................No. 339.... Arthur M. Thompson, Master.......... 44.88
Harold E. Hale, Sr. Warden
H. C. McMaster, Pa,;t Master and
Inspector ........................................... 44.88
Oxnard ............................ No. 341....Henry C. \V. Otte, Master................ 38.28
Ellwood Cooper, Sr. Warden
San Fernando.................No. 343 .... Harry E. Waite, Master.................. 41.64
Walter Irving Dill, Sr. Warden
Starr King ......................N o. 344....Merrill N. Howe, Master
Herbert D. Bendheim, Sr. Warden
Clyde C. Hinshaw, Jr. Warden
John W. Gale, Past Master
S. Lippman, Past Master
C. O. Munson, Past Master and
Inspector
Charles Baer, Past Master
Rudolph Rosenberg, Past Master
Bernard J. Joseph, Past Master
Chas. M. Wollenberg, Past Master
and Past Grand Master
Brentwood ...................... No. 345 .... George K. Anderson, Master.......... 4.56

646

647

PR00EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Palo Alto........................ N o. 346 .... James W. Mansfield, Master............ 2.28
James Byron Blois, Sr. Warden
John C. Freedman, Jr. Warden
N. W. Glaser, Past Master
McKinley........................N o. 347.... Arthur C. Rogers, Master................ 1.20
Archibald C. Moorhead, Sr. Warden
Harry W. Seaton, Jr. \Varden
Bart E. Scroble, Past Master
San Bernardino ............. Xo. 348....Ralph H. Logsdon, Master................ 47.28
Cecil G. White, Sr. Warden
Benj. F. Bledsoe, Past Master and
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08
Sequoia............................No. 349 .... A. F. Peterson, Master
Charles L. Herriman, Jr. Warden
Charles Hushand, Past Master
· Wesley W. Kergan, Past Master
and Inspector
Palestine..........................K o. 351.. .. Albert C. Winter, Master ................. 43.08
W. F. Haas, Past Master.. ................ 43.08
· Sunset.. ............................N o. 352 ....William K. Schofield, Master ......... 43.08
Lloyd C. Campbell, Sr. Warden
Rollie W. Miller, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
Ralph A. Chase, Past Master.......... 43.08
Samuel E. Burke, Past Master ard
Past Grand Master.......................... 43.08
Pinole ...............................N o. 353.... Stephen Johnston, Representative.... 1.68
Presidio .......................... No. 354 ....Coford Johnson, Master
Frederick A. Gawthorne, Sr.
Warden
Charles A. Luck, Jr. \Varden
Herman Locks, Past Master
Frank G. Watson, Past Master and
Grand Tiler
E. R. Johnson, Past Master and
Inspector
Wm. A. Sherman, Past Master and
Past Grand Master
Hollywood ...................... N o. 355-...George T. Foell, Master.................... 43.68
Oscar L. Moore, Sr. \Varden
Kent H. Redwine, Jr. Warden
W. B. Ogden, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08

Mill Valley ..................... N o. 356....Keith McLellan, Master.................. .96
Thomas F. Bagshaw, Sr. Warden
John J. Monzingo, Jr. Warden
Kent ]. C. Seymour, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. .96
F. H. Watters, Past Master
John ]. Graves, Past Master
Alonzo Coffin, Past Master
L. P. Van Atta, Past Master
Buena Park. ...... c............ No. 357.... Herbert F. Hunt, Master.................. 44.64
Golden State .................. N o. 358 .... Lester E. Bennett, Master ................ 43.08
John F. Bourne, Sr. Warden
Ben G. Wright, Past Master and
Senior Grand Deacon .................... 43.08
Loyalton.......................... No. 359 ....J. S. Conklin, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 31.98
San Francisco................ No. 360....John Emile Rebard, Master
Henry D. Oliphant, Sr. Warden
Harold L. Bush, Jr. ·Warden
J. C. Perry, Past Master
V. E. Perry, Past Master
Fort Bragg ..................... N o. 361....Archibald Copeland, Jr. Warden.... 24.08
Charity ............................ No. 362.... Robert Scholz, Jr. Warden.............. 3.72
Berkeley .......................... No. 363 .... Howard M. Smitten, Master
James E. Warren, Sr. Warden
John Young Burns, Jr. Warden
R. P. Harnold, Past Master
C. A. McLeavy, Past Master
C. J. Stone, Past Master
F. C. Stone, Past Master
Willits ............................. No. 365.... G. A. Smart, Master.......................... 10.08
Lewis F. Berger, Jr. Warden
Las Palmas .... ;................No. 366.... 0rval G. Roberts, Master.................. 20.04
Rhine G. Meyering, Sr. Warden
A. W. Horn, Past Master
South Pasadena............. No. 367 .... William C. Snyder, Master ................ 43.80
Eugene J. Gruettner, Sr. Warden
J. W. Shenk, Past Master
Unity ............................... No. 368 .... George Henry Blyth, Master.. .......... 43.68
Norman G. Davidson, Sr. Warden
Edwin J. Sadler, Jr. Warden
D. W. Stephenson, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08

648

649

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Ocean Park. ....................No. 369 .... W. Blair Gibbens, Master.................. 44.64
John L. Herwick, Sr. Warden
Charles E. Hyatt, Jr. Warden
Amity...............................No. 370...Marcus Wm. Dunbar, Master
James E. Cowden, Sr. Warden
Harry E. Bultmann, Jr. Warden
Le Progress de
l'Oceanie..................... No. 371....Glen A. McTaggart, Master ..............250.00
Gardena...........................No. 372 .... Charles W. Jessup, Sr. \Varden .... 44.04
Veteran........................... No. 373 ....William E. Ware, Master.................. 44.28
JeweL .............................No. 374....William D. Williams, Master
Hubert Ritter, Sr. Warden
Robert G. \Vakeman, Jr. Warden
Leo Bruck, Past Master
C. E. Anderson, Past Master
0. G. Freyermuth, Past Master
J. A. Snell, Past Master
J. H. Adams, Past Master
Clarence J. Shipaugh, Past Master
Richmond ....................... No. 375 .... Rudolph T. Haas, Master
Emil R. Hoerchner, Sr. Warden
William Adam Smith, Jr. Warden
F. C. Ruppel, Past Master
H. C. Gaylord, Past Master
E. L. Fisher, Past Master
Francis Drake................No. 376.... Peter Bolliger, Master
Martin L. Spangler, Sr. Warden
Joel H. Holbrook, Jr. Warden
C. W. King, Past Master
Artesia.............................No. 377 ....George Gaines, Sr. Warden.............. 44.40
F. D. Coldwell, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 44.40
Mizpah............................ No. 378.... Clyde N. Driskell, Master .................. 43.08
Howard I. Nicholson, Sr. Warden
Fillmore.......................... No. 379.... Harry Ben. Schumacher, Master.... 39.48
Orie E. Pearson, Sr. Warden
F. M. Pearce, Past Master
Huntington Beach,........ No. 380.... Edwin J. Mossinger, Master .............. 46.08
Fred Theron Grable, Sr. Warden
Oceanside........................No. 381....F. D. Merrill, Master ...................... 51.46
Highland Park...............No. 382.... William Robert Binnie, Master........ 43.08
Elmore R. Jeffery, Sr. Warden
E. L. Greene, Past Master
William Taylor, Past Master ............ 43.08

Orosi ................................No. 383.... Lawrence J. Williams, Master ........ 26.40
A. P. Beckner, Past Master
El Centro........................ No. 384.... Charles H. Knights, Master............ 68.16
Dorsey G. Whitelaw, Sr. Warden
C. E. Sones, Past Master
John S. Ross, Past Master................ 68.16
Dinuba ............................. No. 385 .... Fred F. Robinson, Sr. Warden ...... 22.20
C. A. Tillotson, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 22.20
Coalinga.......................... No. 387.... Barney A. Pollard, Master .............. 26.16
F. A. Wells, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 26.16
L. A. Tune, Past Master
Parnassus ....................... No. 388.... William H. King, Master
Bruce Wale, Sr. Warden
Charles P. ]. Schmitt, Jr. Warden
]. C. Doest, Past Master
Palos Verdes ..................No. 389....James D. Dougan, Master................ 44.64
·
Roy McClure, Sr. Warden
H. J. Stuart, Past Master
ImperiaL ...:............... --.. No. 390....J C. Neale, Past Master and
Representative .................................. 67.80
East Belt.. ...................... No. 391....Ernest H. Hodge, Master.................. 16.80
West Lake..................... No. 392.... Lisle L. Smith, Master...................... 43.08
Chas. E. Listenwalter, Sr. Warden
Lee T. Mullen, Past Master and
Inspector ................................ :........... 43.08
W. L. Berger, Past Master
Balder ..............................No. 393....Fred J. Boehm, Master
Thure S. Mellin, Sr. Warden
A. V. Johnson, Jr. Warden
F. 0. Sjogren, Past Master
Charles G. Johnson, Past Master
John 0. Hanson, Past Master
University......................No. 394....Gilman Bean, Master.......................... 43.08
Samuel D. Burger, Sr. Warden
S. E. Rodda, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
Turlock. .......................... No. 395 .... Henry S. Bowers, Master................ 8.40
H. 0. Carlson, Past Master
Apollo..............................No. 396 .... Karl L. Mallard, Master
Wallace D. Miracle, Sr. Warden
Earl A. McAllister, Jr. Warden
C. B. Greeley, Past Master and
Inspector

650

651

652

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Rising Light ................... No. 397 .... William A. Anderson, Master.......... 43.38
Frank Matthews, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.38
Fraternity....................... No. 399 .... William E. Drew, Master................ 3.48
Alvin T. Drew, Sr. Warden
Burlingame............ ,........No. 400.... Charles J. Orman, Master................ 1.20
Lewis E. Adams, Sr. Warden
Humphrey L. Jones; Jr. Warden
S. L. Hawken, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 1.20
William Wilkin, Past Master
Bay View ........................No. 401.. .. Frank Edward Davis, Master
Walter Scott Brown, Sr. Warden
John T. Walker, Jr. Warden
W. L. Garver, Past Master
Brawley...........................No. 402 .... William G. Darnell, Master .............. 66.84
Yerba Buena................... No. 403 .... Preston E. Snook, Master
Andrew William Anderson, Sr.
Warden
A. B. Cosad, Past Master
Robert G. Arlett, Past Master
Glendora..........................No. 404.... Edwin B. Chambers, Master ............ 45.12
Moneta ............................. No. 405 .... Nathaniel B. Johnson, Master .......... 43.08
William Roane, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................ 43. 08
Burbank. ..........................No. 406.... Jack A. Lockwood, Master................ 42.36
W. E. Laurence, Past Master
La Mesa.......................... No. 407 .... Donald Frank Park, Master.............. 55.64
Sierra Madre..................No. 408 ....James R. Hawks, Master .................. 44.04
Honolulu ......................... N o. 409 .... Charles C. Pittam, Representative
Charter Rock. ................. No. 410 .... Thomas R. Beatty, Sr. Warden
Luther A. Dunlap, Jr. Warden
L. R. Chilcote, Past Master
Max A. Plumb, Past Master
H. R. Braden, Past Master
Perris ............................... No. 411.. .. Van Walker Dodson, Master .......... 48.82
Calexico .......................... No. 412.... 0rla A. Pratt, Master........................ 67.22
Charles P. Delp, Sr. Warden
Waucoba ......................... No. 413 .... Charles A. Anderson, Representative
Arlington........................ N o. 414 .... Drum J. Newell, Master.................... 43.08
Herbert Lester Stuart, Sr. Warden
Charles P. Lyndall, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 43.08

653

Silver TroweL. ............. No. 415 .... Clinton H. Williams, Master ............ 43.08
Joseph J. Strauss, Sr. Warden
Lindsay...........................,No. 416 .... E. B. Gould, Master ............................ 24.36
Clovis ............................... No. 417 .... H. G. Clark, Representative and
Past Master ...................................... 21.00
Elysian .............................No. 418 .... Dudley S. Valentine, Master............ 43.08
Rolland H. Holbrook, Sr. Warden
Julian F. Grover, Jr. Warden
R. F. Callender, Past Master
Upland ............................ .No. 419 .... Willmore Lemaster, Sr. Warden ..... .46.08
W. R. Farmer, Past Master
Kerman ............................No. 420.... Stanley Joseph Huggins, Master ...... 19.20
L. G. Sandell, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 19.20
Inglewood ....................... No. 421.. .. Thomas L. Bennett, Master ............ 45.16
William Hall, Sr. Warden
Fred R. Pardee, Past Master and
Inspector
Eagle Rock. .................... No. 422.... Frank W. Patterson, Master ............ 43.98
Arthur L. Clark, Sr. Warden
York. ................................N o. 423 .... Harry C. Markley, Master ................ 43.08
Exeter ..............................No. 424.... Francis F. Badoux, Master................ 23.88
Henry C. Jones, Jr. Warden
F. M. Mixter, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 23.88
Holtville .......................... No. 425 .... William E. Harlzog, Sr. Warden .. 67.12
Midway ........................... No. 426 .... Earl W. Smith, Master...................... 33.78
Angus Johnston, Sr. Warden
Chino Valley.................. No. 427 .... James C. Reher, Master .................... 45.96
San Dimas ...................... No. 428 .... Charles J. Goetz, Sr. Warden ............ 45.24
A. E. Tangeman, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 45.24
Pittsburg......................... N o. 429 .... August Seibak, Master...................... 3.60
McCloud ......................... No. 430.... Ray William Hathaway, Master ...... 32.46
Alpha ............................... No. 431....William P. Self, Master.................... 1.20
John William Smiley, Sr. Warden
John MacGrath, Jr. Warden
E. C. Clark, Past Master
Hutt Brown, Past Master
H. E. Hammond, Past Master
Hammonton .................... No. 433.... Edward I. Quick, Master.................. 10.50
J. H. McGill, Past Master
Maricopa .........................No. 434.... Lionel E. Burnett, Sr. Warden .......... 33.42
Kenneth Le Gar, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 33.68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Fairmount .......................No.435 .... Gerald E. Morrison, Master
Fred Brunner Hofheinz, Sr.
\Varden
Rudolph Illing, Jr. Warden
R. D. McFarland, Past Master
Roy G. Jones, Past Master
H. F. Harwood, Past Master
George Pollitt, Past Master
Pieter A. de Vries, Past Master
Denman S. Wagstaff, Past Master
George W. Gerhard, Past Master
Edward F. Leonard, Past Master
Claremont .......................No. 436.... Ernest W. Browning, Master .......... 45.72
Lancaster ........................ No. 437.... Joseph A. ~fartin, Sr. Warden ........ 37.44
Acacia.............................. No. 438.... Max Tonnemann, Master.................. 43.08
Otto K. Werner, Past Master
Karl L. Ratzer, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
Tyrian ..............................No. 439.... Leland F. Brown, Master.................. 6.24
Ralph W. Breitenbucker, Sr.
Warden
Standard......................... No. 440.... Clarence H. Brown, Master
Alfred J. Hopper, Sr. Warden
Coronado ........................ No. 44L.Leslie E. Cridge, Sr. Warden.......... 55.76
Harry M. Omar, Past Master
Blackmer ........................ No. 442 .... Arno W. Tyler, Master...................... 55.64
Daniel McRae, Sr. Warden
William H. Frailey, Jr. Warden
Warren E. Libbey, Past Master...... 43.08
Lacey D. Jennings, Past Master...... 55.64
Schofield ......................... No. 443.... Albert Lyle Smith, Sr. Warden ....250.00
Charles C. Pittam, Past Master and
Inspector ............................................250.00
Robert L. Dancy, Past Master
Carpinteria...................... No. 444.... Gordon J. Miller, Master ................ 36.36
Wilshire ..........................No. 445 .... Ernest L. Webster, Master .............. 43.08
Frank B. Belcher, Sr. Warden
Thomas A. Dille, Past Master
Warren D. Gill, Past Master and
Grand Pursuivant ............................ 43.08
Sydney B. Brown, Past Master
Will H. Fischer, Past Master and
Deputy Grand Master .................. 43.08

La Puente ....................... No. 446.... Peter L. Feddersohn, Master .......... 44.52
Torrance......................... No. 447 ....John Edward McMaster, Sr.
Warden .................................................. 44.28
Mount Diablo................ No. 448.... Sam Bell, Master ··'··························· 3.24
Pearl A. Leslie, Sr. Warden
Park.................................No. 449.... Glenn W. Maynard, Master
Ernest E. $mith, Sr. Warden
Herbert Maxwell, Jr. Warden
Foster G. Dyer, Past Master and
Inspector
John Tassell, Past Master
E. B. Power, Past Master
Van Nuys....................... No. 450.... Herbert W. Walker, Master............ 43.08
Carl B. Barkla, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 41.88
Montebello...................... No. 451....Raymond G. Hilsinger, Master........ 43.08
San Pasqual................... No. 452.... Charles F. Dennison, Master............ 44.04
Charles L. Carmody, Sr. Warden
Bethlehem....................... N o. 453.... Eli Murray Blanford, Master
Leighton T. Stewart, Sr. Warden
Wilhelm F. Block, Jr. Warden
H. P. Speakman, Past Master
Crocker. .......................... No. 454.... James Syme, Master
William Kahrau, Sr. Warden
A. C. Anderson, Past Master
George Watson, Past Master
A. McN. McKeo\vn, Past Master
G. E. Archer, Past Master
Golden WesL................No. 455 .... Wright P. Hall, Master
Paul F. Doring, Sr. Warden
Rene C. Fontaine, Jr. Warden
Robert Lee Husted, Past Master
Frank M. McNulty, Past Master
Adolph B. Muller, Past Master
George R. Brockman, Past Master
Ramona ...........................No. 457.... Norman W. Giesy, Sr. Warden...... 43.68
Wilbert J. Stewart, Past Master
and Inspector ...................................... 43.68
Henry S. Orme.............. No. 458 .... Edgar S. Smith, Master.................... 43.08
J. Earl Mair, Sr. Warden
Frederick C. Warner, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 43.08
Riverbank. ......................No. 459 .... Michael B. O'Connell, Sr. Wa~den.. 7.92
Mount Oso ..................... No. 460.... Bert B. Banta, Master...................... 5.00

654

655

656

PROCEEDINGS OF THffi

ArgonauL ..................... No. 461....Joseph A. Steinmetz, Master
Homer P. Thyle, Sr. Warden
\Valter Hammond Downing, Jr.
\Varden
W. R. Bowden, Past Master
Harry P. Rathermel, Past Master
J. P. A. Blackford, Past Master
Sigfried Pels, Past Master
Paul Revere....................No. 462 ... .Joseph F. Jensen, Master
William A. Fogalsang, Sr. Warden
Edwin Lee Kickhofel, Jr. Warden
William A. Gerder, Past Master
Louis D. Smith, Past Master
Morgan Hi!L ................No. 463....John H. Walker, Sr. Warden .......... 4.92
Robert S. Robinson, Jr. Warden
Alta Vista....................... No. 464.... Rea C. Newman, Master
Harry L. Wintersgill, Jr. Warden
Center..............................No. 465 .... Ernest :Marks Bills, Master .............. 20.04
Garrett L. Van Buren, Sr. Warden
Libertas...........................No. 466.... Ernest J. Nielsen, Master.................. 29.34
John Robert Robinson, Jr. Warden
Culver City.....................No. 467 .... Adin A. Randall, Master.................... 43.08
George L. Rueber, Sr. Warden
Charles E. Shillito, Past Master ...... 43.08
Rockridge....................... No. 468.... Harry M. Frostholm, Master
Roy R. Biggs, past Master
Yorba Linda...................N o. 469.... Elmer E. Haas .................................... 45.00
Lincoln............................ No. 470.... Alexander Z. High, Jr., Master
Samuel M. Strauss, Sr. Warden
David E. De Velbiss, Jr. Warden
James C. Wilder, Past Master
Arthur M. Joel, Past Master and
Inspector
Delta ................................No. 471....Robert M. Warren, Master.............. 6.12
Clyde S. Danner, Sr. Warden
Lays Tyler Newton, Jr. Warden
Maui.................................No. 472 .... Fred George Manary, Master.......... 266.70
Blythe..............................No. 473.... Lawrence H. Rains, Master.............. 68.26
Victory............................No. 474.... Max M. Alexander, Master
William H. Dufton, Sr. Warden
Claude P. Farris, Jr. Warden
G. L. Halek, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

657

Arnerica........................... No. 475 .... Paul Save, Master ............................ 43.08
Harry Leonard Lohr, Sr. Warden
Aaron D. Flickinger, Jr. Warden
William A. Schreider, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 43.08
Charles E. Wright, Past Master
La Verne M. Watson, Past Master
Coachella........................ No. 476.... James G. Nusbaum, Sr. Warden...... 59.88
Temblor.......................... No. 477....James A. Burnette, Master .............. 34.38
Thousand Oaks ...........:..No. 478.... Herbert James Watt, Master
N. Norris Bakken, Sr. Warden
Everett E. Esterly, Jr. Warden
Le Roy V. Hitchcock, Past Master
and Inspector
Golden Rule ................... No. 479 .... 0wen Perry Holaday, Master.......... 3.48
Fellowship...................... No. 480....John P. A. Greenwood, Master
John B. Warner, Sr. Warden
Willard A. Brorsen, Jr. Warden
Emil P. Ziegler, Past Master
Mt. Davidson ................ -No. 481....James M. Kemp, Sr. Warden
Harry -C. Wilber, Past Master
Clarence F. Smith ........ No. 482.... Guy D. Donald, :Master.................... 43.08
Harry Dean, Sr. Warden
Frank G. Falloon, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.08
Be!L. ................................ No. 483 ... Burleigh Frank Manley, Master...... 43.46
Leo S. Finch, Sr. Warden
Albert Pike .................... No. 484 .... Joseph M. Jacobson, Master............ 43.08
\V. H. Rose, Sr. Warden
Chowchilla......................N o. 485 .... Carl C. Clausen, Master .................... 11.40
Earl Southward, Sr. Warden
Caledonia ........................ No. 486 .... Leland J. Runyan, Master................ 29.34
A. J. Fraser, Past Master
N. D. Cleghorne, Past Master
Vallejo............................ No. 487 .... Mervin F. Wilson, Master................ 2.40
Jesse F. Roberson, Sr. Warden
Fred Ballantyne Hall, Jr. Warden
Thomas B. Pollard, Past Master
Harry C. Siebert, Past 'Master
Patterson........................ No. 488.... Walter R. Anderson, Jr. Warden.... 7.08
East Bay........................ N o. 489.... Frank A. Sewell, Master
George S. Bennett, Sr. Warden
Edgar L. McVean, Jr. Warden
Roy H. Parkinson, Past Master
Boyd L. Wilson, Past Master

659

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Corcoran ....----··--···---·-··--·No. 490.... Edwin A. Arnold, Master.................. 23.46
Woodstock.....................No. 491....Richard Wm. Parkinson, Master
Clark Kier Gill, Sr. Warden
Theodore S. Hersey, Jr. Warden
Ralph W. Merrick, Past Master
Garvanza........................ .No. 492 .... Clarence W. E. Smith, Master ...... 43.08
Elmer A. Butler, Sr. Warden
Atascadero...................... No. 493 .... David L. Balderson, Master ............ 16.20
Fred C. Hess, Sr. Warden
Acorn ...............................No. 494 .... Asa Guy Kazebeer, Master
Clarence Melvin Lake, Sr. Warden
Robert H. Wright, Past Master
Lebanon...........................No. 495.... Clarence W. Morris, Master
Samuel E. Weinberg, Sr. Warden
Aaron Wiener, Jr. Warden
George T. Black, Past Master
Milton Meyer, Past Master
Benj. Roberts, Past Master
Riverdale........................ No. 496.... Daniel B. Sanstrum, Master.. .......... 21.60
Fremont .......................... No. 497.... Harry Miller, Master
Ii:a E. Prosser, Sr. Warden
Lawrence L. Thoreson, Jr. \Varden
C. C. Morris, Past Master and
Inspector
A. C. Meadows, Past Master
Stockton .........................N o. 498....Ira Ben Langdon, Master .................. 6.12
Capital City...................No. 499....William D. Richards, Past Master
and Representative ........................ 6.48
Roosevelt... .....................No. 500.... Louis Ferrari, Sr. \Varden
Joseph J. Cuneo, Jr. Warden
Westwood .......................No. SOL.Herman H. Tegrunde, Master ........ 32.12
Claus J. Anderson, Sr. Warden
Harbor............................ No. 502.... Ingvald E. Johnson, Master............ 1.20
Point. ...............................No. 503.... James 0. Redman, Master................ l.20
Seaside ............................ No. 504 .... William J. Courtiour, Master .......... 44.64
George D. Magruder, Sr. Warden
Silver Cord .....................No. 505 ....0wen A. Murray, Master .................. 45.48
Frederick G. Merker, Sr. Warden
Mount Olive................... No. 506.... George A. Carey, Master.................. 43.08
Harland West, Sr. \Varden
El Segundo.................... No. 507.... Jesse S. Foster, Master.................... 44.28
Joppa ............................... No. 508 ....Edward C. Johnson,. Master.............. 19.32

Benjamin Franklin....... No. 509.... Walter B. Rorick, Master.c.............. 43.08
Walter E. Edmunds, Sr. Warden
James Keddie, Junior Warden
George W. Marshall, Past Master
and Inspector .................................. 43.08
Palms ............................... No. 512.... John S. Guthrie, Master.................. 44.28
E. N. Olmstead, Sr. Warden
Cahuenga........................ No. 513 .... Everett R James, Master.................. 43.08
Harold G. Appleton, Sr. Warden
Argonne .......................... No. 514.... Russell B. Tripp, Master
Guy Austin Barker, Sr. \Varden
John Hartley Turner, Jr. Warden
Prentice 0. Courtemanche, Past
Master
Henry G. Mathewson, Past Master
and Grand Marshal
Vermont Square............ No. 515 ....]ames E. Boaz, Master........................ 43.08
Daniel B. Pickett, Sr. Warden
Taft..................................No. 516.... Henry E. Osburn, Master.................. 33.78
John P. Crowley, Sr. Warden
Mount VerJ1on............... No. 517.... Albert John Seller, Master
Stephen J. Rossi, Sr. Warden
James 0. Dugan, Jr. Warden
R. A. Whitley, Past Master
F. W. McCarthy, Past Master
La Jolla........................... No. 518 ....Warren R. Parker, Master.............. 55.64
Euclid .............................. No. 519....]ames T. Montano, Master.. .......... 43.08
Roy G. Mead, Past Master
Ionic.................................No. 520.... Albert Wager, Master........................ 43.08
Irving Elson, Sr. Warden
Piedmont......................... No. 521.. .. Charles H. Wilson, Master
Bradley Carr, Sr. Warden
Hans P. Ahrnke, Jr. Warden
Sunrise............................ No. 522 .... Herbert H. Mossick, Sr. Warden.... 43.08
Bellflower...................... No. 523 .... Homer M. Goodro, Master .............. 44.40
Catalina Island .............. No. 524.... Raymond S. Alexander, Sr. Warden 47.58
George Washington ...... No. 525 .... Lynel H. Sill, Master
Clyde E. Bowen, Sr. \Varden
Bay City ......................... No. 526 .... Edgar U. Meyer, Master
Harold S. Hersch, Sr. Warden
Jesse J. Brilliant, Jr. Warden
Milton Davis, Past Master

658

660

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Co:venanL ......... c............ No. 527 .... Peter L. Kiefer, Master.................. 43.08
Beverly Hills................• No. 528.... Steve A. Glassel!, Past Master ........ 43.08
Albert Hitchen, Past Master
Loyalty............................ No. 529.... Edgar V. Stewart, Jr., Jr. Warden 43.08
Sun Garden ..................... No. 530 .... Lloyd W. Nelson, Representative.... 20.04
Alexandria......................No. 531.. .. Frank F. Goodman, Sr. Warden
Aaron A. Arbogast, Jr. Warden
Frank G. Hobbs, Past Master and
Assistant Grand Secretary
Smyrna............................ No. 532 .... George A. Muirhead, Master.......... 7.80
T. E. Wilson, Past Master
George E. Atkinson, Past Master
Azure ...............................No. 533.... R. J. Starbuck, Master ...................... 44.88
L. L. Tanner, Sr. Warden
Forest Hi!L. .................. No. 534.... 0liver A. Haberdier, Master
Harris E. Ridenour, Sr. Warden
Hazen Glenn Burnett, Jr. Warden
Alexander Hamilton .... No. 535 .... Herbert R. McClellan, Master .......... 43.08
Seal Rock ....................... No. 536 .... Ernest William Jakobs, Master
Milo Bohall, Jr. Warden
Utopia .............................. No. 537.... Harold J. King, Sr. Warden............ 43.08
Ascot. .............................. No. 538.... Alderson, A. Austin, Master ............ 43.08
Belvedere ........................ No. 539 .... Evan Harold Davies, Master ............ 43.08
George A. French, Sr. Warden
Queen Beach.................. No. 540.... Daniel S. Dickinson, Jr., Master...... 44.64
Henry Morse Stephens.No.541.. .. Carlisle John Nielsen, Sr. Warden
Mark A. Savine, Past Master
Joseph L. Banville, Past Master
Val Arntzen, Past Master
Merle Randall, Past Master
Lankershim .................... No. 542.... Harvey W. Oatman, Master ............ 42.24
George J. Nollenberger, Sr. Warden
Signal.............................. No. 543 .... L. Otwell Stevenson, Master ............ 44.64
Harry D. Connor, Sr. Warden
Glendale. ......................... No. 544.... Richard C. Montanye, Master........ 43.68
Leon J. Crooker, Jr. Warden
Jonathan ..........................No. 545 .... Herbert E. Stone, Master
'
Arthur H. Brimberry, Jr. Warden
San GabrieL ..................No. 546 .... Stanley B. Smith, Master................ 43.80
Arcadia ............................No. 547.... Perliss E. Coffin, Master................ 44.40
Triangle.......................... No. 548.... G. B. Stearns, Representative .......... 44.64

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

661

Justice .............................. No. 549.... Milton D. Conklin, Master
Leland Peoples, Sr. Warden
Arthur S. Bergen, Jr. Warden
Andrew Burke, Past Master
F. R. Jackson, Past Master
H. C. Christianson, Past Master
Seaport ............................ No. 550.... Adolph C. C. von Kansky, Master
Louis C. Muller, Sr. Warden
Walter Hans E. von Konsky, Jr.
Warden
Otto A. Holtzen, Past Master
John Alpers, Past Master
Lakeshore.......................No. SSL.John Roger Wood, Master
Thomas M. Lewis, Sr. Warden
Walter Dale Ford, Jr. Warden
Golden City........ .:.......... No. 553.... Simeon E. Sheffey, Master
Arthur Victor Annette, Sr. Warden
Rainsford H. Halle, Jr. Warden
E ducator ......................... No. 554.... W. C. Leavitt, Master
R. L. Smirle, Sr. Warden
F. E. Lewis, Jr. Warden
W. S. Overton, Past Master
Wh"ite p·me.....................No. 555.... Harold H. Goins, Master .................. 30.90
Ralph Albee, Sr. Warden
F . f
air ax ............................No. 556.... Floyd Spence, Master........................ 1.32
William H. Stine, Sr. Warden
Fred E. Dickey, Jr. Warden
Hermosa.........................No. 557.... Laurence L. Lindsay, Master.......... 44.64
.
. .
Wilfred G. McWhinnie, Jr. Warden
P omt Ftrmm.................. No. 558.... Frank M. Hock, Sr. Warden........ 44.64
Craftsmen.......................No. 559.... Arthur H. Inman, Master................ 43.08
Leo Altman, Sr. Warden
Plymouth........................ No. 560.... William H. Thumann, Master
Frederick C. Hasemann, Sr. Warden
Charles L. Rakestraw, Past Master
.
Charles K. Baxley, Past Master
East San D1ego..............No. 561.. .. Eugene B. Smith, Master.................. 55.64
William J. McDermott, Sr. Warden
William Konrad, Jr. Warden
Pyramid.......................... No. 562.... Howard H. Jannssen, Master
George Forfar, Sr. Warden
Fred A. McNulty, Jr. Warden
South Park. ....................No. 563 .... Chalmers E. Lones, Master.............. 43.08
Raburn M. Eberts, Sr. Warden
Edward B. Roe, Past Master

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

662

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Foothi!L. ........................ No. 564.... Ben J. Small, Master
Robert L. Taylor, Sr. Warden
Bert J. Hoffman, Jr. Warden
West Adams ...................No. 565....Rowland E. Hugh Cooke, Master .. 43.08
Leopold Joseph St. Jean, Sr.
Warden
James A. Garfield......... No. 566.... Clyde C. Shoemaker, Master. ......... 43.08
Timon E. Owens, Sr. \Varden
Edward F. Nippert, Jr. Warden
Rufus B. Von KleinSmid, Past
Master
Searchlight. .................... No. 567 .... Walter M. Brown, Master................ 44.64
Guy 0. Davison, Sr. Warden
Clarence ]. Hill, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 44.64
Park Boulevard ............. No. 568....James E. Hammond, Ma~ter
Walter G. Thomas, Sr. \Varden
Julius A. Gilfillan, Jr. Warden
Paul R. Roller, Past Master
John McEwing, Past Master
C. H. Adams, Past Master
Chateau Thierry............ No. 569 ....David L. Babcock, Master
Harold D. Weber, Jr. Warden
Military Service............N o. 570.... Charles Sutherland, Master
Joseph Ritter, Sr. Warden
Cornelius ]. Manning, Jr. Warden
William S. Edgar, Past Master
August Siedler, Past Master
Lovett N. Nichols, Past Master
Francis K. Shattuck. .....No. 571.. .. Donald H. Atherton, Master
Bruce Bartholomew, Sr. Warden
Leonard H. Castlio, Jr. Warden
G. B. Ocheltree, Past Master
James Madison .............. No. 572 .... Walter H. Paugc, Master ................ 43.08
Hillcrest ......................... .No. 573 .... W. R. Boone, Master
W. F. M. Edwards, Sr. Warden
H. D. Bowen, Jr. Warden
S. W. Hackett... .............No. 574.... Paul B. Gurrad, Master .................. 55.10
Joseph H. Wagner, Sr. Warden
Burr H. Prentice, Past Master
Fort Crook. .....................No. 575 .... Grover C. Green, Master .................... 34.12
Alex C. Berg, Sr. Warden
Otho Stewart, Past Master
Willis E. King, Past Master

663

El Cajon ..........................No. 576.... Clement 0. Smith, Master~............... 56.70
Sunnyside........................No. 577.... Eric M. Holm, Master ...................... 43.08
Progressive..................... No. 578.... William W. Crane, Master.............. 43.08
Ulysses L. Mcintosh, Sr. Warden
Louis Lane Crutis, Jr. Warden
~arren G._Harding ...... No. 579.... Loren E. Crowder, Sr. Warden.... 6.84
anta Mar1a....................No. 580.... Ralph Jasper, Master.......................... 58.38
Gleason Ambler, Sr. Warden
Security...........................N o. SSL.Clyde S. Maledy, Master.................. 29.34
Frederick E. Kathan, Sr. Warden
.
Noble D. Stutzman, Jr. Warden
R1alto ............................... N o. 582.... Bartley H. Logue, Master................ 47.16
W. 0. Hathaway, Sr. Warden
Wasco .............................. No. 583 .... Silas L. Wright, Master.................... 27.70
Harry H. Fowler, Sr. Warden
Harding...........................No. 584 .... Benj. F. Ferris, Sr. Warden............ 43.08
Arthur L. Jepson, Jr. Warden
Frank A. Barnes, Past Master .......... 43.08
Manchester ..................... No. 585 .... Edward Mills, Master........................ 43.08
Garden Grove.................No. 586 ....John C. Mitchell, Master .................. 44.76
Valley Forge.. ................. No. 587 .... Ferdinand A. Hamilton, Master...... 43.08
Arthur S. Black, Sr. Warden
El Sereno........................ No. 588 ....John Albert Davis, Jr. Warden...... 43.08
MarshaII C. Culver, Past Master
John McGregor, Past Master
KauaL ............................ No. 589 .... Wilbur A. Anderson, Jr. Warden..272.00
Compass..........................No. 590.... A. Harold Lawrence, Master............ 45.60
Edward W. Thias, Jr. Warden
Escalon ............................No. 591....H. A. Bierschwal, Master.................. 7.56
.
A. W. Hollis, Sr. Warden
Tujunga.......................... No. 592.... Arthur L. Sisson, Master.................. 42.60
All States ........................ No. 593 ....John Russell Mitchell, Master.......... 44.64
Wilson H. Fawcett, Sr. Warden
Service ............................. No. 594....James A. Cynch Master
44 64
Alexander Graham
'
···················· ·
Bell:·--·················--····--·.No. 595 ....George W. G. Litherland, Master .. 43.08
Guard1an......................... No. 596.... Horace R: Middlemiss, Master...... 43.08
Gere H. Hurd, Sr. Warden
Truth ............................... No. 597 ....Frederick Wm. Heathcote, Master 43.08
Clyde L. Bankson, Sr. Warden
Pearl Harbor ................. No. 598 .... Alexander P. Jones, Sr. Warden....250.00
.
Ernest H. Muller, Jr. Warden
Carmehta ........................ No. 599.... James B. Williams, Master.............. 44.04
Arthur Wm. Anderson, Jr. Warden

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lynwood.........:............... No. 600.... Alfred E. Skelton, Master ................ 43.68
Grizzly .............................No. 601....Alfred N. Waite, Master .................. 29.46
Melrose..........................,No. 602 .... Walter V. Goodfellow, Master........ 43.08
J. E. C. Adamson, Past Master
James L. Goode, Past Master
Dimond ............................ No. 603 .... Arthur B. Currier, Master
James E. Wilson, Sr. Warden
James F. Buscelle, Jr. Warden
Frederick Smith, Past Master
Jubilee ............................. No. 604.... Lloyd E. Roach, Sr. Warden............ 45.48
Glassell Park.................. No. 605.... George W. Hopp, Master................ 43.08
Sojourner.. .....................No. 607.... Stillman C. Moore, Sr. Warden.... 44.40
Granada...........................No. 608.... Edwin G. Dessieux, Master.............. 43.68
D. H. Hooker, Sr. Warden
B. A. Tucker, Past Master and
Inspector .......................................... 43.68
Provident........................ No. 609... .]ames A. L. Wells, Master............ 6.48
August F. Brinkman, Sr. \Varden
Orson A. Rosecrans, Jr. Warden
Odia E. Howe, Past Master
Frank S. Curtis, Past Master
Elmhurst......................... No. 610.... John Nicholas McCarthy, Master
Roy Henry \Vinning, Sr. Warden
Walter F. Sullivan, Jr. Warden
Carl E. Boorman, Past Master
Owensmouth.................,No. 611.... Merrick 0. Gschwind, Master.......... 41.28
Workman ........................ No.612....Ben J. Wilson, Master .................... 43.08
Three Pillars..................No. 613.... Miles J. McClelland, Master............ 6.48
Robert A. Gilmore, Sr. Warden
Larchmont ...................... No. 614.... Edward F. Jost, Master.................... 43.08
Herbert K. Gresswell, Sr. Warden
Hemet ..............................No. 615 .... Sidney C. Moon, Master.................. 50.56
Seal Beach ...................... No. 616.... Andrew G. Johnson, Master.............. 44.40
Big Bear..........................No. 617 .... Philip C. Carter, Master .................... 59.78
William E. Knickerbocker, Sr.
Warden
Southland........................N o. 618 .... Frank Heron, Master ...................... 43.08
William L. Hovis, Sr. Warden
William F. Ga11in, Past Master
Neptune ........................... No. 619.... George N. Haddock, Master ............ 44.64
Peninsula........................ No. 620....Franklin A. Plank, Past Master
and Representative ........................ 55.64
The Gardens...................No. 621....Edward P. Woods, Master................ 43.08
Edward F. Skinner, Sr. Warden

Atwater.. .........................No. 622....Clayton S. Decker, Master................ 43.08
Menorah ..........................No. 623....I. B. Benjamin, Master ...................... 43.08
L. D. Church, Sr. Warden
Jacob Ross, Jr. Warden
Fortitude......................... N o. 624.... Frederick L. Shaw, Master
Clifford M. Gates, Sr. Warden
Andries H. Van Eck, Jr. Warden
Angeles Mesa................No. 625 .... Hector W. Marston, Master............ 43.08
Chula Vista.................... No. 626.... Harvey Lester Jones, Sr. Warden 56.24
Lamanda Park. .............. N o. 627.... Henry B. Rickard, Master.............. 43.08
Everett Rice Nevins, Sr. Warden
Beacon of the West...... .No. 628.... Henry William Westmann, Master 43.08
Fairview ..........................No. 629.... Charles L. E. Rebert, Master............ 45.16
Ingleside ..........................No. 630.... Frank Enos, Master
Charles C. Bradley, Sr. Warden
L. E. Wilson, Jr. Warden
Roy W. Blosser, Past Master
Benevolence.................... No. 631....0tto G. Stowe11, Master.................... 43.08
Benj. Mathewson Black, Sr.
\Varden
Normal Heights ............ No. 632.... Percival C. Wilson, Master............ 55.64
Poinsettia....:...................No. 633 .... Louis C. Drapeau, Master................ 37.56
Conley L. La Force, Sr. Warden
Arthur Thomas Mead, Jr. Warden
Louis C. Drapeau, Past Master and
Inspector
Victorville...................... No. 634.... M. M. Black, Sr. Warden................ 47.28
Riverside ......................... No. 635 .... Henry W. Coil, Master.................... 47.28
John MarshalL ............. No. 636....Joseph R. Perry, Master.................... 43.08
George L. Schmutz, Sr. Warden
Harris 0. Hatlestad, Jr. Warden
Palisades ......................,No. 637 .... Claude C. Crawford, Sr. Warden. ... 44.64
John Andrew Jackson, Jr. Warden
Indian Rock. .................. N o. 638.... Arthur N. Hall, Master
William Watts, Jr. Warden
Composite....................... No. 639.... James W. Milaw, Master................ 43.08
Louis M. Bloch, Sr. Warden
Veritas .............................No. 640.... Percival A. Millar, Master
Leonard S. Leavy, Past Master and
Inspector
Louis T. Cranz, Past Master
James A. Foshay........... No. 641....Ernest L. Riley, Master.................... 43.08
Vernon C. Wear, Sr. Warden

664

665

666

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

La Cumbre...................... No. 642.... William W. McKee, Master and
Past Master .................................... 38.28
Alta Loma....................... No. 643 .... Arthur Wm. Pease, Master.............. 43.08
Alfred F. Peet, Sr. Warden
Lomita.......................,..... N o. 644....J ohn Glen Wilson,. Sr. Warden ........ 43.08
John G. Wilson, Past Master
A. F. E. Irwin ............... No. 645 .... Fred William Smith, Master............ 44.64
Samuel McN. Law, Sr. Warden
Metropolitan .....~ .............N o. 646....George Eisen, Master.......................... 43.08
Hawthorne...................... No. 647.... Lee Freeman Miller, Master ............ 43.08
Damascus ........................ No. 648.... Thomas R. Hartle, Sr. Warden...... 47.28
Florence .......................... No. 649.... Adam Henry Mand, Representative 43.56
La Brea............................. U. D ....... William T. Wheeling, Master ........ 43.08
William H. Parcels, Sr. Warden
Menlo Park. ..................... U. D ....... Fred C. Metcalf, Master.................. 2.20
Jesse H. McFall, Sr. Warden
Jay T. Cooper, Jr. Warden
Monte Vista...................... U. D ....... Lester C. Williams, Master............ 43.08
Crescenta Valley..........•.. U. D ....... Wallace A. Fitzgerald, Master...... 43.08
Ray Q. MacDonald, Sr. Warden
Fontana............................. U. D ....... Francis B. Williams, Master .......... 46.92
Jordan ................................ U. D ....... Albert P. Henry, Master.................. 43.08
CitroL................ ~ ............. U. D ....... Lester L. Lemmon, Master.. ............ 44.64
John D. Spreckels ........... U. D ....... Ernest Wells Dort, Master ............ 55.64
William P. Taylor, Sr. Warden
La Habra .......................... U. D ....... Walter Albany Linsdell, Master.... 43.08
Malta ................................. U. D .......Roy Edgar Perry, Master ................ 43.08
Charles Arnold Field, Sr. Warden
James A. Fritz, Jr. Warden
Baldwin Park. .................. U. D ....... Laurence A Daily, Sr. Warden...... 43.08
Livingston ......................... U. D ...... .]oseph Barnett, Master .................... 9.12

667

ANNUAL ELECTION
The annual election of officers was then h d
as follows :
a ' resulting
The R:.w:.wm H. Fischer of Wilshire Lodge, No. 445,
elected Grand Master.
was
The R:.w:.Gustav A. Hutaff of Dunsmuir Lodge, No. 297,
elected Deputy Grand Master.
was
The R.".W.'.Charles M. Wollenberg of Starr King Lodge No 344
was elected Senior Grand Warden.
'
·
'
The W.".John Stewart Ross of EI Centro Lodge, No. 384,
elected Junior Grand Warden.
was
The V.'.W.".William P. Filmer f K'
S
260, was re-elected Grand Treasurer. o
mg olomon's Lodge, No.
The V·.'.W.'.John Whicher of King David's Lodge, No. 209, was
re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.'.W.'.Thomas J. Baker of Union Lodge, No. 58 was ~e-elected
Grand Lecturer.
'

At 12 :20 o'clock Grand Lodge was called off until 1 :30
this afternoon.

668

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

1Jn Oiranh ifinhgr

Brother Warren D. Gill, in behalf of the Past Masters of
Wilshire Lodge No. 445, presented to M. ·. W. ·.Will H. Fischer
in a most felicitous and intimate speech, a gold-mounted gavel:

Afternoon Session
Friday, October 14, 1927.

,669

':f'he Grand Master announced the appointment of James

B. Gist as a member of the Board of Trustees of the Masonic
Home, vice himself term expired.

Grand Lodge was called on at 1 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master-elect caused to be read the list of
appointive officers as follows:
Grand Chaplain, Rev. George Davidson of Henry S. Orme Lodge,
No. 458.
Grand Orator, Rufus B. Von KleinSmid of James A. Garfield
Lodge, No. 566.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Frank G. Hobbs of Alexandria Lodge,
No. 531.
Grand Marshal, Henry G. Mathewson of Argonne Lodge, No. 514.
Grand Standard Bearer, J. Frank Morgan of Union Lodge, No. 58.
Grand Sword Bearer, Earl Lee Kelly of Reading Lodge, No. 254.
Grand Bible Bearer, Michael D. Lininger of Eureka Lodge, No. 16.
Senior Grand Deacon, Leon 0. Whitsell of Los Gatos Lodge, No. 292.
Junior Grand Deacon, Fred G. Hamilton of Visalia Lodge, No. 128.
Senior Grand Steward, Charles C. Pittam, of Schofield Lodge,
No. 443.
Junior Grand Steward, Edward L. Hougham of Bakersfield Lodge,
No. 224.
Grand Pursuivant, Warren D. Gill of Wilshire Lodge, No. 445.
Grand Organist, R. Fletcher Tilton of Occidental Lodge, No. 22.
Grand Tiler, Frank G. Watson o.f Presidio Lodge, No. 354.

Past Grand Master Burke was appointed Master of Ceremonies and all the officers-elect and appointed, with the
exception of the Grand Treasurer and Grand Organist, were
installed in due and ancient form by the retiring Grand Master.

The retiring Grand Chaplain, the V. Rev. Herbert P.
Shaw, in a feeling speech presented to the Junior Past Grand
Master, in behalf of Grand Lodge, two oriental rugs.
Past Grand Master Jones presented to the Grand Master
the. Charles Albert Adams Grand Master's button, following
which the transfer of lapel buttons from Senior to Junior chair
officers was had.
A rising vote of thanks was extended to the directors of

t~e Scott!sh Rite Temple Association, to Foster G. Dyer,
"V_ enerable :'.\:faster of Lodge of Perfection, No. 1, to Robert
E. Allan, Secretary of the Bodies, and to the employees of the
Temple who had so courteously and cheerfully worked for
our comfort during the week, and at 4 o'clock, all business
being now complete, the Seventy-eighth Annual Communication
was closed in Ample Form.
"WILL H. FISCHER, Grand Master.
Attest:
JonN \Vnrcl-IER, Grand Secretary.

670

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Standing Committees

Correspondmce-Jesse M. Whited, 519 California Street, San Francisco; Philip Kramm, 18 North Sutter Street, Stockton; Victor McLucas,
Santa Monica; Byron F. Hillhouse, Woodland; Trustum Din8more,
Eureka.

Jurisprudence-Frank M. Angellotti, Mills Building, San Francisco;
Dana R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles; Benj. F.
Bledsoe, California Bank Building, Los Angeles; Francis V. Keesling,
deYoung Building, San Francisco; John D. Murphy, Courthouse, Oakland; Bradford Webster, 304 Ray Building, Oakland; C:ieorge L. Jones,
Nevada City.
Policy and General Purposes-William Rhodes Hervey, Pacific
Southwest Bank, Los Angeles; George F. Rodden, San Rafael; William
A. Sherman, Lombard and Battery Streets, San Francisco; Robert E.
Gaylord, Claus Spreckels Building, San Francisco; William H. Waste,
State Building, San Francisco; Frank W. Mixter, Exeter; Eugene Elkus,
. 729 Mission Street. San Francisco.
.

Grievances-Walter F. Haas, Citizens National Bank Building, Los
Angeles; William Penn Humphreys, Balboa Building, San Francisco;
Randolph V. Whiting, Monadnock Building, San Francisco; Lacey D.
Jennings, 1053 Front Street, San Diego; Hugh McKevitt, 315 Montgomery Street, San Francisco.
Finance-William P. Jeffries, 115 Winston Street, Los Angeles;
Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; Frank C. Ruppel, 58 Second Street, San
Francisco; Joseph M. Argabrite, Ventura; Louis Sutter, Anglo-California
Trust Company, San Francisco.
Credentials-Chas. G. Johnson, State Capitol, Sacramento; Walter
L. Berger, -040 South Spring Street, Los Angeles; Arthur W. Brouillet,
Humboldt Bank Building, San Francisco; Warren E. Libby, 1015 Spring
Arcade Building, Los Angeles; William C. Hassler, 1085 Mission Street,
San Francisco.
Accounts-Paul Nathan, 311 California Street, San Francisco; Chas.
W. Goodwin, 325 Mission Street, San Francisco; Robert L. Husted, 2565
Mission Street, San Francisco; Rudolph Mohr, Jr., 30 Jordan Avenue,
San Francisco; Otto G. Freyermuth, 209 Post Street, San Francisco.
Ret1irns-Robert E. Allen, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco;
Mervyn J. Newburg, San Bernardino; Frazee Burke, 101 Pacific Mutual
Building, Los Angeles; Clarence W. Morris, de Young Building, San
Francisco; Paul Save, 4317 Moonstone Drive, Los Angeles.
Ritual-Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San Francisco; Dana
R. Weller, Financial Center Building, Los Angeles; William P. Filmer,
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.

671

Pay of Members- John H. McGehee, State Capitol. Sacramento;
William W. McKee, 326 Chapala Street, Santa Barbara; William Taylor,
Box 922, Los Angeles; Martin L. Griffith, 265 East 43d Street, Los
Angeles; Ben G. Wright, 740 South Olive Street, Los Angeles.
Library-Denman S. Wagstaff, 1703 Broderick Street, San Francisco; John E. Houston, 951 Howard Street, San Francisco; H. G.
Burrowes, San Francisco; Edward E. Conn, 27 Clay Street, San Francisco; Francis H. E. O'Donnell, Masonic Temple, Oakland.
Charters-Ralph A. Chase, 3339 San :\farino Street, Los Angeles;
Thomas A. Dille, Los Angeles; Henry Eissler, Bakersfield; Thomas
Ingram, Grass Vatley; Eugene Benjamin, 3517 T Street, Sacramento.
By-Laws-Sidney B. Force, 101 Post Street, San Franci&co; Irving
]. Mitchell, Masonic Club, Los Angeles; Frank A. Barnes, c/o Barker
Brothers, Los Angeles ; C. 0. Hamilton, Oroville; George G. Bechtel,
Santa Monica.
Grand Lodge Weck Activities-Leo Bruck, Masonic Temple, San
Francisco; Harry K. Wolff, Balfour Building, San Francisco; Max M.
Alexander, 156 Duboce Avenue, San Francisco; William Crocket, 77
Market Street, San Francisco; Fred Metcalf, Box 695, Menlo Park.
Endowment-Motley I-T. Flint, Pacific Southwest Bank, Los Angeles;
Thomas Flint, Hollister; William T. Lucas, Santa Maria; Orrin S.
Henderson, Phelan Building, San Francisco; George !.1. Perine, 739
University Avenue, Palo Alto; William P, Read, Flood Building, San
Francisco; Ezra Decoto, State Building, San Francisco; Alexander
Levy, Dunsmuir; James Procter, Santa Paula; L. E. Stephens, Fellows.

Masonic Education-Irving Magnes, Chairman, 514 Easton Building, Oakland; Charles L. Snyder, San Jose; Bertin A. Wey!, Los
Angeles; Charles H. Adams, 160 Perry Street, Oakland; James B.
Giffen, Sacramento; Ira F. Thompson, Courthouse. Los Angeles; George
B. Morgridge, Sierra Madre; Cyrus Field Willard, 621 West Ivy Street,
San Diego; A. Heber Winder, Riverside; A. M. Cuthhertson, Redwood
City.
Public Schools Week-Chas. Albert Adams, Chairman, Humboldt
Bank Building, San Francisco. (Committee to be named later.)
Board of Control-David J. Reese, Ventura; Robert F. Callender,
1128 West Kensington Road, Los Angeles; Olin L. Berry, United Bank

;:l

(;""

0

n
ui
0 i:::

;;I

'"1

'"1

::l

l""t"

~

•

~

0

;, ;;J ~

..

::.:

Ul ...

g. t-< ~~ ~9 ;i~
;:l 0
~-% ...
"""" ~ "'
~

.0 VJ
;:;-

Q..

;:l

!!'< ;:l b:I

-·

"'

"' "'"'>

Iii" '1

"':,,- "°;:;-

0 ci

•

;;l'TJ

Cl ;:l"

~~cn~g;~ ...§.I~
C"i=~b--~~

-·

;:l

;:!

>
<
"'g ~

~

~.

::i:::

f

~·

;:l"

(1)

"'

<: """
rl> "'
r_'"1

':'

......

::i

Vi

i:::

0

l""t"

-

-

t.n .,... 0

'"'1

,.,
ooi:::

&5 en
.._,
~
,..

3

i:::

""'

s:: .

~~~ti

;:l

Q.. ;::::

~ t.n'""""-::;.·

'"'1

,.,_

~

VJ

~

s:: .._,.~

oO~~~
;;l ;:l 3 "' :;:;
::s ~r.t.i ~w
0...,......,.
..............
\0
\0 y

t::

;:l"

::i

~

i:r

'I

;;;

'-'

...

;;-

Iii"

~

"'
E
z

1"

.0

Town.

. ...

Places of Location.
County.
1

..
........

~

........

•

• • • • • • <I

California
1 San Francisco ••• , •• San Francisco ••.••.
2 Western Star ••••• 2 Shasta ••.•.•..•••.. Shasta ....••..•....
3 Tehama ............ 3 Saeramento ......... Saeramento
4 Benicia. ......... "
5 Benieia •..•..•..... Solano ........•••.•
8 Sonora ..•....•..... Tuolumne ......•.•.
5 Tuolumne
6 Corinthian • • • . . • 9 Marysville ••.•..... Yuba ......•...••••
1 San Jose .•..••.. 10 San Jose ........•.. Santa Clara ........
8 Yount ....••••.•• 12 Napa .............. Napa ..............
II Nevada ......... 13 Nevada City •..••.•• Nevada ....•.......
H> Temple ....••••.. 14 Sonoma ............ Sonoma ............
11 Eureka ....••..•. 16 Auburn .•......... Plaeer ........•....
12 Parfaite Union •• 17 San Francisco ...... San Franciseo ......
... Sierra ..................
13 Mountain Shade. • 18 Downieville .
H San. Joaquin ...•.. 19 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ....•...
Sacramento ...•.•..
15 Washington •• .• .• 20 Sacramento ..
16 Hawaiian •••••.. 21 Honolulu, H. T .•.•.. Hawaiian Ter .......
17 Occidental • . . . . • . 22 San Francisco ..•.... San Francisco ......
18 Madison ..••..... 23 Grass Valley ....... Nevada ............
19 Mariposa •.•.•.•• 24 Mariposa ......•.... Mariposa ...•..•...•
20 Georgetown •...• 25 Georgetown .......• El Dorado ...•.•..•.
21 Palmyra . . . . . . • • . 26 Plaeerville •.......• El Dorado ...•.....•
132 . Trinity •....••••• 21 Weaverville •......• Trinity ...•.•..••..
23 Golden Gate •.••• 30 San Francisco •.•... San. Francisco •••. , .
24 Gold Hill .. . . .. . • 32 Lincoln ••..•..•..•. Placer ..•••.•...•.•
25 Ophir • • • • • • • • • • • 33 Murphy '11 .............. Calaveras •........•

Names of Lodges.

...

.;

"

"
"

"
''

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Nov.
May

"

"

"

"
"
"
"
"

.. "

"
"
"

"6,

"

"

"
"
"
1852.

1851,

"

"
"
"
"
"

1850.

"
"
"
"
5,. 1853.

"
"
"
"
20,

5,

"
27,
"
"6,
"
"1,

"
"

"

"
"
Nov.
"
"
May

19,

April

Date when Charter
was Issued.

9

('!>

::;<

I<
"' ..,'"1"'

~§

·"' "'

-· i:::
::i -·

~o

;;; r

0

:;:In

•

tx::t

.50
.50

.5
.5
10
1
4

BO ·······
JOO

,..;

sc:
ooO

9

9
12
9

9

201
H4
823
101
48

fi.)

lOi

"630
506
399
880
161

30

.,,...,""

\;::

7:

"'.!
0
l=d

t

('}

~
~

221

337

tJ

tJ

z>
t'
0

H

12
12
10
9
9

c;i

::ti

16:~

767
91
440

12
9
12
9
12

I

~>!

~

1-'l

~
'" en·

...

00
0

524
244
155
131
191
203

!I

12
9
9
12
9
9

~

-<

::::::1 129

40
2
50 ......
100 5
30
80
75 1080 10
10(1 2.;
53 ······
50
5

50 ......

50
.50

~

.,;

A

8
0

~

t"l
t"l
~· >zj

l'>

;:l

~
('}

0

...,
""
""

. . "'
'--< ;:;

~

"'

'.:;1 Ul

;:l ~

t;d
i:::

§:

Ul
-·
l'> ::i

';<:

;:l

'O
l'>

ii ..g "'"'
100 20
50
6
75 10
50 ......
75
2
50 ......
50 ......
60 ......

~A

.... .,
$~

...0<1>.;

3

3 ~

0

n-ol'>

i:::

...

.....,

"';:l

;;· E.
::? ('0 )

~
::1

...,

'Tl
... n
l'>

::l
0

g~~

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 31, A. L. 6927 •

g

"'

:l!

r

::: ..

0

t;d ;::;

g > 3.

•

-<a >;r~· 5r"

.g t;d ;:; \r1 0

"'

t:I \r1 ~ !P.. p:1

.._

0... ::s

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

i:::

~

::l

;:l""'
"' ;:l

,.,"'... "'
t:I

i:::

.!"

~ ~
;;;· :l!
8 ~

"'

... 0

~>

b:l

a"'
s·

::l1
,.,

;:!

(1)

0 ;;l
:l! ••

• •

<
p:: c:

JJ

i::i.

'TJ Ul

"'
;:l

~
;;;-

p;1

!' "'O
Ul !:l.

~-

Ul
n

9" ?

...

?>

(1)

(1)

::l '<

(1)

..., ~

;:;· p::

;:::: 8.
~;:l ~

;:::: ;:l

;a 6 i
"' ;:l" I

g-i .": Vi

= ~ ~~ "'r;:
> 0 ~· p:1 ~ I""'
::s
.
.....,
::s ~ I ?~ ~;;; T
t:I ::s 2· g ~ > ~
Ul
0
~~
"'
8
v;·
o-&
~
~ :;:: :=:
3 !:! 3.. 8 ~ ~ ~
i;;· :;;:; ::::-:
-· " n"'"' ..,I ,f):::"' "'
. g.
-·"'3 "... r'- "'... .0._.
....
!"r:)>::;---'-<
t"" 1S
"'
o.O:!:; ui3
....
" ;;;:!
~ ~ ~"' ;;;:!
~srra~ w £ a·
}'.g

~

~ r::; ~

i:::

...VJ

0

C)
~

3
i:::
;:;·

w~ ttlu"'
i::: "'
§· ~ ~~ g &
.. ~ i.f... "'~ r-. .,,«t:t11::.~"'l
3 r
!:;
"'
i::: t;d < ;;!
;t
"'t:I
< ;::. .:7 ~ ~
o..
=-= c s· ~
."'O "' "';;!
~
f:t§:~g;
r > t-< -· " '-<
~

~

JI
Town

............

County

54
55
56
57
58
59
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86

.............

..............

.............

Yolo ....•••..... 81 Yolo ............... Yolo .............. .
Vesper . . . . • . . . . . 84 Red Bluff •..•••.••• Tehama •.•.•••••.•.
Naval ........... 87 Vallejo ............ Solano ............ .
Rose's Bar ...... 89 Smartsville ......... Yuba ............. .
North Star ...... 91 Fort Jones ......... Siskiyou • : • ........
St. Helena ....... 93 St. Helena •........ Napa ......•.....•.
Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek ........ Amador .......... ..
Hornitos ......... 98 Hornitos •.•••.••••. Mariposa ..•....•...
Yosemite ........ 99 Merced ..•...•..... Merced ........•...
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer ........... ..
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville •••...••.... Butte ............•.
Lexir.gton ....... 104 El Monte ...•.•.... Los Angeles ...•.•.•
Arcata •••••••••. 106 Arcata ..•....••.... Humboldt .....•.•••
Pajaro ........... llO W~tsonville •....••. Santa Cruz ....•.•..
Chico ........... 111 Chico •...••.••..... Butte ....•..•••.•••
Summit .......... 112 Knight's Ferry .•... Stanislaus •......•••
Eden ............ 113 San Leandro ....... Alameda .......... .
Concord ......... 117 Sacramento .•...... Sacramento •.••.•..
Clinton .......... lHi Igo ................ Shasta ............ .
.......•. 120 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco ..... .
Alamo ........... 122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ...••..
Sotoyome ........ 123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma .......... ..
'l'ablo Mountain .. 124 Cherokee ........... Butte ............. .
La l!'~ryette ....... 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma ........... .
Hermann ........ 127 San Francisco • . • . . . San Francisco ..... .
Vis:1Jia .......••. 128 Visalia ........••... Tulare ......•.....•
Nicohus ......... 129 Wheatland ••••.••.. Yuba ...........••.
Woo'.lbridge ...... 131 Woodbridge •..•.... San Joaquin ....... .
Sincerity ........ 132 GreenYille ......... Plumas ........••••
Vacaville .....•.. 134 Vacaville ••••...... Solano ............ .
Vallev ........... 135 inden ............. San .Joaquin ..•.•..
Pacific ....•••••• 136 San Francisco •••••. San Francisco •..•••
Crockett •........ 139 3an Francisco ..••..• San Francisco •.•••.

............

.

26 San Diego • . . . . . . 35 i::lan Diego ••.•..... San Diego .......•.
27 Howard .........• 37 Yreka .............• Siskiyou ...........
28 Santa Cruz ...... 38 Santa Cruz .....••.. Santa Cruz ... ; ....•
Sacramento ............
29 Sacramento •••.. 40 Sacramento
30. Martinez ........ 41 Martinez •...••....• Contra Costa .....••
31 Los Angeles . . . . . 42 Los Angeles •••..•.. Los Angeles •..•....
32 Hiram .......... 43 El Dorado ..•••...•• El Dorado •........•
33 Mount Moriah .••• 44 San Francisco •.•••. San Francisco ...•..
34 Crescent .••.•••• 45 Crescent City •.••.•• Del Norte ..........
35 Texas ........••• 46 San Juan ••••••••.. San Benito ....•....
36 Forbestown • . . . . . 50 FOTbestown .. .. .. .. .. .. .. Butte ........•.•..•
37 Illinois town ..•.. 51 Colfax ••••••••••••• Placer .............
38 Suisun
........ 55 Suisun .....••...... Solano ....••.......
39 Volcano ..•...••. 56 Volcano •••...•...... Amador •..•.•. , ..•.
40 Santa Ro.sa ...•.• 57 Santa Rosa ......•.. Sonoma .' .........•.
41 Union .........•• 58 Sacramento .......... Sacramento .. ..........
42 Gravel Range .... 59 Camptonville •••.... Yuba ..............
43 Plumas .......•. 60 Quincy .••...•..... Plumas .•..•.....•.
44 Live Oak ........ 61 Oakland ...••.••...• Alameda ...•.......
45 Natoma ......... 64 Folsom •..•..•.....• Sacramento
Amador ....•..•....
46 Amador ......... 65 Jackson
47 Forest .......... 66 Alleghany ...•.••..• Sierra ................
48 Morning .Star . . . . 68 Stockton ...•••..••• San Joaquin ........
49 Enterprise • • • . . . . 70 Yuba City ......... Sutter .....•....•••
50 Bear Mountain ... 76 Angel's Camp •..••• Calaveras ...•..•..•
51 Calaveras . .• •••• 78 San Andreas ••••••• Calaveras ..•••••••.
Humboldt ••••••••••
52 Humboldt ....... 79 Eureka
53 Ione • • • • • • • • • • • • 80 Ione ••••••••••••••• Amador

Names of Lodges

Places of Location

"
"
"
"
"II

-

'·'

"

"
"
"

"2, 1855.
"

3,

"
"4.,

3,

"
"
"
"
·"
"
"
"

"

1853.
1854.

"

"
"
"
"
"

...

lS.56

8,

"
"
"
"
"

1, 1855.
8, 1856.

4;

2,

"

.May

..

"

....
..

..
.

••

1860.

.

"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15,
"
"
May
14, 1857.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"15, "
"
"
"
May
13, 1858.
"
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
May 14, 1859.
13,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
ll{ay
1860.

"

May

July
May

II

"
"
.
"
" " ""
"•• ..
·.,"
.
"
"
"
"

II

"
,,"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
5,

7,
3,

May
May

was Issued

D..te When Charter

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

...

~.

301. .....
50 ······
75 IO
50
5
35
5
30
1
60 ......
55 IO
50 ..... .
60 ..... .
50
5
5.-,
1
55
:i
50 18
55 10
50
5
5
10
30
5
100 50
80
5
75
5
80
1
50 ......
100 20
50
8
50
5
30
s
50
5
75 .... ..
30 .... ..
100 20
125 25

......

......

~

1
1
80
100 10
50 ......
100 10
75 20
100 IO
50
6
30
1
30 ......
50
50 ......
30
5
75
5
75 10
50
50
5
100 21>
5
50
50
50 ......
80 ......
5
50
3
50
5
50
50 .......
50 ......

I 50

:;~ ......
IX<A
"'"' iij<
9

~£

69
9

204

~

851
787

71

91
124
128
lti8

274

!'5
207
2110

22~

-'I
""
<:"

~
.....
ti>

ltj

0

129

t

("}

ms

25-l
49

8t::l

!:'<
0

ti

z

6i
288
168
:06
252

ms

0

~

l"J

~

ltj

.,

0

m

0

z

l"J
ti
.....

~

0

"li
!:"

"'"

74

610
44
50
119
54

191

74

Z49
91
124
4113

29
410
577
38
78
1118
128
78
48
469

153

247
369
576
180
850
36
587
121
47

;:I!~

!l
12
9
9
12

9
9
9
12
9
9
9
9
9
12
9
9
9

!l

9
12
12
9
9
]2

<

::i

=
=

ii

"' ... .,
......
...·!':
o
=
o"' O'.!'J A
11i::

,.

""

-'I

z

s

.0

Town.

\

County.

"
"
"
"

" "
" "
,,vi,
"

was Tusued.

Date when Charter

.............

.............

................

..................

.

"

"
"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"

115 Keith ........... 187 1Gilroy ............. Santa Clara ........ Oct.
116 Oakland ......... 188;0akland ........... Alameda • ... •• . ..
"
ll7 Northern Light ••. 190 1Millville •..•••••••. Shasta •.....•••.•.. Oct.
118 Marin ........... 191,San Rafael ......... Marin ............
"
119 Santa Barbara .•.• 192 Santa Barbara •••.. Santa Barbara ...•.
"
120 Ferndale ........ 193 Ferndale ........... Humboldt .....••••. Oet.
121 Mountain View ... 194 Mountain View ..... Santa Clara ...•••..
122 Buckeye ......... 195 Winters .....•..•.. Yolo .........•.....
123 San Simeon ....... 196 Cambria •••••..•••. San Luis Obispo ....
124 Wilmington ...... 198 Wilmington ..•...•. Los Angeles ....••.. Oct.
125 Hartley ......... 199 Lakeport ••••...•.. Lake .....•....•..•
"
126 Truckee ......... 201) Truckee •.•.....• , .. Nevada .••....••..•
127 Silveyville .•..... 201 Dixon
Solano ........•...•
128 Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles •..•••.. Los Angeles ..•...••
129 Confidence ....... 203 Castroville ...•.•••• Monterey ••.....•••
"
130 Salinas .......... 204 Salinas ............ Monterey ..........
"
Oct.
131 Olivet ........... 205 Corning •.••••.••••• Tehama .........••..
Modesto
...••.•....
Stanislaus
...•••••..
132 Stanislaus ....... 206
"
Orange .............
133 Anaheim .. . . . . . . 207 Anaheim
"
134 Rio Vista ........ 208 Rio Vista ........... Solano .............
135 King David's .... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo ....•
136 Friendship ....•.. 210 San Jose .........•. Santa Clara ........ Oct.
137 San Benito ....... 211 Hollister ........... San Benito .......•.
138 So. S:in Francisco.212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco •..•..
139 San Buenaventura.214 Ventura •.•.....•.. Ventura ............
"
140 Oak Grove ..•.... 215 Alameda .......... Alameda •..•.•.•.••
141 Doric ....•••••••• 216 San Francisco ••.... San Francisco ••••••
142 Monterey ••.•.... 217 Monterey
Monterey •.....••••
"
143 Mosaic ........•. 218 Livermore •.......•• Alameda .•....•••.• Oet.
144 Speranza Italiana.219 San Francisco •....• San Francisco ••••••
"
145 Downey .......•. 220 Downey ...••.....•. Los Angeles •••.••.•
146 Inyo .•.•........ 221 Independence •..••.. Inyo .......•••.•.••
"
147 Roseville .•...... 222 nocklin ..•...•..... Placer .....•...•••• Oet.
Oct.
148 Baker~field ...... 224 Bakersfield ......... Kern
149 Brooklyn ..••.•.. 225 East Oakland ••••••• Alameda ...•••.•••.
"
150 San Mateo •..••.. 226 San Mateo •••••••.. San Mateo •••••.••.
"
151 Athens .......... 228 Davis •....••...... Yolo •..•...••.••...

"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"

1868.

1873.

"
"
"

"
"
"

..

18,

..

.....

Bi::
"'~

~

50 ......

...
······
......

30
······1
50
50 2711:
100 ..
80
50

35

50 ......

105

1
50
1
80
50 ......
1
30
95 ......
50 ......
100
5
100 10
75 ······

50 ......
50 ......
50 ......

~

40 ......
50 . ....

......

lI\

lOfi

35
180
462
168
315
120
84
38
34

9
12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
12
9

9
12
12
9
20
9
12
12
18
9

12

9

277
130

669

300
302
662
607
148
127
389
189
85
272
466

141

12
12
12
12

9
12

9
9

241
133
;-;44
312
79
240
486

:n
9
12

9

279
182
131
117
778

95
60

183
964
93
448
381
14l
I!lO

43

65

940
9

2n

154

laj

t'l

..,

Ul

0

z

~

t'l

Q

0

0

~

>lJ

12
621

&7

_,

~

~

100
516
84
161\
188
193
126
233
35

71

;!'l)ll

l2

12
18

12

9

9
12
9
12

\I

12

12
9

9
18

9

!l

~ ....

~

.;

A

1.
50
9
100 30 12
3
35
9
80 ...... 12
100
5 15
50 ......
9
50
9
50
5 ......
30 ......
9
5 12
80
30
9
60
9
5
60
9
105 20 12

301
30
80 10
50
5
80
1
100
5
fiO 10
50
5
50
5
55
3
50
5
80
5
50
1
50
1
55 10
50 ......
50
5
30 ..... .

75 ...... .
50
5
75
1
100 25
30
1
50
8
50 ······
60 12
50
1
50 ......

"'"'
"-A

~~
';~

" "
15, 1868.
" "
"14, 1869.
"
" "
" "
"
"14, 1869.
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
"
"
"
14, 1870.
" "
" "
"
"
"
14, 1871.
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
" "
"
"
11, 1872.
" "
"
"
"
"
12, 1912.

15,

.... "..

"
"

"

,,

"
"

"

"

"

May
10, 1860.
87 Curtis ........... 140 Cloverdale •..••••.. Sonoma ..•.•..••.••
''
" ,,
88 Grafton ....•.... 141 Grafton ••.••••••.•• Yolo ......•..•••..• May
16, 1861.
89 Franklin .....•.. 144 Courtland .......... Sacramento ....... .
''
,, ,,
90 Oriental ......... 144 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco ••.••.
91 Vitruvius ........ 145 Bloomfield .......... Sonoma ........... .
"
92 Abell ........... 146 Ukiah .............. Mendocino ....... ..
17
"
93 Eel River ........ 147 Fortuna ........... Humboldt ••.••••..• May
1862.
,,
94 Lassen .......... 149 Susanville ...••...•. Lassen ..••••••...••
95 Molino ..•....... 150 Teb1Jma ...••.•.•... Tehama .....•.••••• May
14, 1863.
96 Woodland ........ 156 Woodland •...••.... Yolo .............. .
,,
97 Keystone ..•..... 161 Milton ............. Calaveras .•••.•••.• Oct.
13, 1864.
98 Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City •.••••••• Sierra ...••...•••••
"
99 Exeelsior ..•..... 166 San Francisco •••••• San Francisco •..•••
" "
100 Alameda ..••.••.. 167 Centerville ••••...• Alameda .......... .
" "
101 Redwood City .••• 168 Redwood City •••••. San Mateo .••••••••
"
102 Mission ......... 169 San Fra11cisco ••••.• San Francisco •.••..
13, 1865.
Oct.
103 Elk Grove ....•... 173 Elk Grove •••.•••••• Sacramento ....... .
"
104 Drytown ........ 174 Plymouth .......... Amador ........... . Oct.
12, 1865.
105 Antioeh ......... 175 Antioch ............ Contra Costa ..... ..
11, "
106 Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino •..•. San Bernardino ... ..
"
107 Mendocino ....... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino •.....•.•
"
108 Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma •..•••..•• Sonoma ..•......•••
"10, 1867.
"
109 Russian River .... 181 Windsor ........... Sonoma .......... .. Oet.
110 Arbuckle •......• 182 Arbuckle .••...••.. \Colusa ...•.•....•.•
"
111 Clear J,ake ....... 183 Lower Lake •••••••. Lake ............ ..
112 Sierr:i Valley •...• 184 Sierraville ......... Sierra ............ .
"
"
113 Claiborne ..••.... 185 Point Arena •••••••• Mendocino •••••••••
"
114 Evening Star ..... 186 Etna Mills ......... Siskiyou .......... .

Names of Lodges

t.,

Pl1J.ces of Location.

List of the Snoordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

Q

_,_,

~

>

z
.....

~

t"
.....
'>J
0

>

'>J
Q

t'l
0

Q

0

t"
0

0

>
z

:1J

County.
1

..........
........

.............

..........

.............

.......... "

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

Oct.

"

"

"
Oct.
...... .... "
"

"
"

"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
.
Oct.
"
"
"
"•
. ............. Oct
"

. .............
........
...........

Oct.
Oct.

\

179 Lompoc .......... 262 Lompoc •••••••••••• Santa Barbara •••••
180 Hesperian . . . . . . . 264 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara •••.•
Glenn
181 Orland .......... 265 Orland
182 North East ....... 266 Fort Bidwell •••...• Modoc ••.•.•••••..•
183 Galt ............. 267 Galt ...•..•••••...• Sacramento
184 Durant ........•. 268 Berkeley ..•.......• Alameda
185 Olive Branch ..... 269 Tulare ............. Tulare ··-··········
186 Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford ........ Colusa ...••.•.••.•.
Los Angeles •••••.•.
187 Pasadena ........ 272 Pasadena
188 Anchor .......... 273 Compton .....•..... Los Angeles ..••••..
189 Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande ..... San Luis Obispo ..•..
190 Oakd2le ......... 275 Oakdale ....•......• Stanislaus ..........
Fresno ............
191 Selma ........... 277 Selma
192 Southl'rn Calif.... 278 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ..•...•.
193 Hanford ......... 279 Hanford ........... Kings ...•.........•
194 Madera .....••... 280 Madera. ............ Madera ...•........
Shasta ..•.....•....
195 Mount Shasta ..•. 281 Anderson
Lake
196 Calla yo mi ....... 282 Middletown
197 South West ....... 283 National City ...... San Diego ..........
198 San Miguel ....... 285 Sa.n Miguel ........ San Luis Obispo .....
199 Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles ........ San Luis Obispo .....
200 Winn~dumah ..... 287 Bishop ...•••....... Inyo .............•.
201 Maxwell ......... 288 Maxwell •.......... Colusa .............
202 Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore ...........• Riverside
203 East Gate ........ 290 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
204 Santa Paula ....•. 291 Santa Paula ........ Ventura ...........
205 Los Gatos ........ 292 Los Gatos •......... Santa Clara ........
206 Orange Grove ..... 293 )range ..••••••••••• Orange ..........•.
207 Traver ...•.•••••. 294 Kingsburg ....•.... Fresno ...........•.
208 Mt. Jackson ...... 295 Guerneville ......... Sonoma •..... ·..•...
209 Silver Gate ...... 296 San Diego ........•• San Diego •.••••....
210 Dunsmuir ........ 297 Dunsmuir .......... Siskiyou ....•......
211 Liberty .......... 299 Santa Clara .....•.. Santa Clara ...•.•..
212 Redlands ........ 300 Redlands ••.•••...•• San Bernardino •....
213 Ontario ......... 301 Ontario ..••..•••••• San Bernardino ...•.
214 Sant2. Lucia ..•••• 302 Kings' City •••••••• Monterey

Town.

Oct.
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
"
''
Oct.
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

II

"
"
1883.
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"16, 1885.
" "
"
"
" "
" "
14, 1886.
" "
" "
"
"
"
"11, 1888.
"
"
" "
" "
"10, 1889.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "

1884.

"

16,

1884.
16,

"

"

11,

"

1881.
1882.
15,
12,

18, 1873.
"
"
16, 1874.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
''
''
14, 1875.
12, 1876.
"
"
"
"
11, 1877.
"
"
"
"
10, 1878.
"
"
"
"
16 1879
" '
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1880.
"
"
"
"
"
"

Date when Charter
was Issued.

152 Solano .....•..•. 22!} Vallejo ..•....•.•... •Solano • . • . . • • . . . . • •
153 North Butte ...... 230 Gridley ......•....• Butte . . . . . • • . • . . . .•
154 Covelo .......... 231 Covelo ............• Mendocino . . . . . . . • .
155 Janesville ..••... 232 Lassen ............. Lassen • . . • . • . . . . . .•
156 Calistoga •....... 233 Calistoga •......... Napa • • . • • . • • . . . . • .
157 Hope ............ 234 Beckwith ••••...•.. Plumas . . . . . . . . . • . •
158 Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville •.......•. Modoc . . . . • • . • . . • .•
159 Hill's Ferry ...... 236 Newman ........... Stanislaus . . . . . . . . .•
160 Guadalupe ....•.. 237 Guadalupe ••.. ·..... Santa Barbara • . . . .
161 Colusn ........•.. 240 Colusa ............. Colusa . . . • . . . . . . . . .
162 Santa Ana ........ 241 Santa Ana ......•.• Orange . . . . . . . . . . . .•
163 Magnolia .•.....• 242 Santa Barbara .....• Santa Barbara . . . . ..
164 Eucalyptus ...... 243 Haywards .........• Alameda • . . . . . . . . . •
165 Alcatraz ......•.. 244 West Oakland ..•••• Alameda • • . • . . . . . . .
166 Laurel .•........ 245 Willows .•..•..•••.• Glenn . . . . . . . . . . . . ••
167 Pomona ......... 246 Pomona •..•.... ; •.• Los Angeles • . • . . . . .
168 Fresno .•....••.. 247 Fresno ••..........• Fresno • • . • • • • . • . . . .
169 Alturas ......••.. 248 Alturas .•..•......• Modoc . . . . . . . . . . . . .
170 Adin ............ 250 Adin .•••••......•• Modoc • . . • . . . . . . . . .
171 Landmark ....... 253 Esp&rto •.........• Yolo · · · · · · · • · • · · · ·
172 Reading ......... 254 Redding ..•........ Shasta . . . • . . . . . . . . .
173 Welcome ........ 255 Lemoore ••.....•••• Kings . . . . • . • . • . • • •
174 Lodi ............ 256 Lodi ...••••••••••• San Joaquin . . • • . . . •
175 Penrhyn ...••.••. 258 Penryn •..•.•••..•• Placer :. • . • . . . • • • • .
176 Evergreen ..•.... 259 Riverside ...••••••• Riverside . . • • • • • • • •
177 King Solomon's ... 260 San Francisco • . • • . San Francisco • • • • • .
178 Tuscan ••••.•• : .• 26llWilliams ............ Colusa.............

Names of LodKeS.

...

.;

Places of Location.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

-<

Q).~

50
1
50
1
50
2
30
5
30 ······
80 10
80 ......
1
30
100 ......
80 ......
6
30
1
50
80 12
130 15
80 ......
3
50
301......
30 .....
1
50
30 10
50
3
501 ......
55 ......
30 ......
80 25
50 ......
75 ......
1
80
50 ......
50
5
80 ......
I 50
......
50
50 ......
501 ......
401" .....

75 10
50 .... ..
40 .... ..
50
1
55
5
50 I 0
30
1
80 .... ..
50 10
50 ..... .
50
1
100
3
70
5
75 10
5C
5
50
3
80
3
40
1
70 .... ..
50
1
50
8
50 .... ..
50 ..... .
30
3
50 ..... .
80 15
50 ....•.

0 a;

'"0

,,..;,
_so::

12
9
9
9
12
9
20
9
9
9
12
12
9
15
12
12
12
9
9
9
9

:l2

12
12
9
9
9
10
9
12
9
12
9
9
9

9

12
12

II

9

9
II

9
9
12
9
15
12
9
12
12
9
9
15
9
12

9

9
9
9

9
24
9

154
S6
110
141
86
97
951
286
211
222
132
138
698
228
240
395
211
111

54

706
160
185
62

2~2

158
232
132
53
66
802
202
56
643
211
78
110

82

868

73
88
220
127
21J3
123
512

l (,9

454
127
40
tiO
111
86
72
83
61
153
575
296
203
627
189
3!l4
574

~~

1 "''"
-<

:::>

.;,

..... ,,..i A"
~~
-~
""'
i'<A
"" ~i§

>
t"

~

...,
"'

>

z

0
:ti

:;;

0

'J:j

0
tcJ
0

tJ

t"

0

ztJ

>

0
:ti

tcJ

:i::

...,

0
"!

rn

0

z

tJ

tcJ
tcJ

0

"1:1

:ti
0

00

...,a>

..........

........
.............

..

....
···········
........
....
..........

Kilauea .....•••. 330 Hilo ............... Hawaiian Ter.•..... ,
Pacific Grove ..... 331 Pacific Grove •.•.... Monterey ...•..•••.
San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro .........• Los Angeles ..•••.•.
Alta ............ 333 Bridgeport ••.••.••. Mono .............•
CoYina .......... 334 Covina ........••.•• Los Angeles .....•..
West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles .•.•.••. Los Angeles ..•.••.•
Fruitvale •....... 336 Oakland . . . . . . . . . . . Alameda .......... .
Carquinez •.•.••• 337 Crockett ....•••...• Contra Costa· •.••...
San Jacinto ...... 338 San Jacinto •....... Riverside ......... .
Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton .......... Orange ........... .
Oxnard ..•...... ;341 Oxnard ............ Ventura .......... .
San Fernando .... 343 Fernando .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Starr King ....... 344 San Francisco ..••.. San Francisco ..... .
Brentwood •....•. 345 Brentwood ......... Contra Costa ...... .
Palo Alto ........ 346 Palo Alto •..•...... Santa Clara ...•....
McKinley ....•.. 347 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ......•
San Bernardino ... 348 San· Bernardino .•.. San Bernardino .....
Sequoia ......... 349 Oakland ........... Alameda ..........•
Palestine ........ 351 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles . • • • • . .
Sunset .......... 352 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ..••....
Pinole ........... 353 Pinole .........•.•. Contra Costa ...... .
Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
Hollvwood ....... 355 Hollywood ......... Los Angeles .......•
Mili'Yalley ....••. 356 Mill Valley ......... Marin ........•.. _..
Buen::?, Park .••.•. 357 Buena Park ........ Orange ...........•
Golden Gate ....•. 358 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles ...•....
Loyalton ...•.... 359 Loyalton ........... Sierra .............•
San Francisco .•.. 360 San Francisco •..... San Francisco •..•.•
Fort Bragg ....... 361 Fort Bragg .....•.•. Mendocino •..••••••
Charity .......... 362 Campbell .•.•..•.... Santa Clara .••....•
Berkeley ........ 363 Berkeley ........... Alameda ....•••..••
W·illits ....•..... 365 Willits ......•••... 'Mendocino ..•••••••
Las Palm as ....... 366 Fresno ............. Fresno ...•....•••.•
South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena ••.. Los Angeles .....••.
Unity .........•. 368 Glendale •..•....... Los Angeles ...•••..
Ocean Park ...... 36lJ Oeean Park ........ Los Angeles .•••••.•
Amity ........... 370 11San Francisco ••••.. San Francisco ••••..

I

County.

241
242
243
244
245
246
24 7
248
249
250
251
252
253
254
255
256
257
258
259
260
261
262
263
264
265
266
267
268
269
270
271
272
273
274
275
276
277

.........

Town.

Tulare .............
Porterville •...... 303 Porterville
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley ........... Fresno .............
........... Los Angeles ........
Azusa ........... 305 Azusa
Ashlar . . . . . . . . . . 306 Colton ............. San Bernardino •....
Santa Monica ..... 307 San ta Monica ...... Los Angeles ........
Los Angeles ........
Monrovia ........ 308 Monrovia ..
Kern
....... ...
Delano .......... 309 Delano
Sisson ........... 310 Mount Shasta ...... Siskiyou
Los Banos ........ 312 Los Banos ......... Merced
Kern ..............•
Tehachapi ••..••. 313 Tehachapi
Temescal ........ 314 Corona ............• Riverside
Norwalk ......... 315 Norwalk •.......... Los Angeles ........
Sanger .......... 316 Sanger ............ Fresno .............
Fallbrook ........ 317 Fallbrook .......... San Diego ..........
Emmanuel .•..... 318 Biggs .............. Butte ..............
Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
South Gate ....... 320 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Aliaal ........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ...........
Alhambra ........ 322 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ........
Whittier ......... 323 Whittier .......... Los Angeles ........
Corona ...•...... 324 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ........
Consuelo ....••.. 325:Escondido .......... San Diego ..........
Needles ......... 326 1N eedles ............ San Bernardino .....
Long Beach ...... 327iLong Beach ........ Los Angeles ........
Redondo .••...•. 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ........
Vallee de France .. 329,Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........

s
z"'

Places of Location.

215
216
217
218
219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
228
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
236
237
238
239
240

Names of Lodges.

.a"

..."'

"
",,
1900.
1901.
1902.
,,

,,

"
"
,,
11,
10,
15,
,,

''

"
Oct.
Oct.
Oct.

"
13,

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"

"
"

"

"
,,"
,,"

12,

"
"

"

''

''
''

((

,,
,,

1905.

''
''

"

"
"
,,"

''

1904.

,,
''

"16, 1903
"
,," ,,''
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"

"
"

"
"
,,

1899 ..

14,
Oct.

"
"
,,

,,
"
1898.
"
14,

,,

1897

"
Oct.

"
"

''
''

15,

" "
"11, 1894.
"
" "
"
"
"11, 1895.
"
"
"
"
"
13, 1896.
" "
15, 1897.
"
"

Oct.

"

Oct.

"

Oct.

"

"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"
"

"

"
"

11,

Oct.

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"

12,

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
1892.
"
"
"
1893.

1890.
1891.

16,
14,

Oct.
Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

51
10
10
10

75 ..... .
80
5
50
1
80
3
80 15
80 10
80 ..... .
100 25

1~g1·····5

80 ..... .
50 ..... .

1~gl1::::::

100

~g1···i5

551
80
100
lOOj

50 ..... .
75 ······
105 ..... .
53 ..... .
80 ..... .
80 20
100 ······
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
75 ······
50
1
50 ..... .
100 10
55 ..... .
55 4~
75 ..... .

50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
50 ......
100 ......
80 ......
50 ......
2
50
75 ......
1
75
2
50
30 ......
50 ......
5
30
5
50
100 10
100 15
50 ......
80 ......
55
3
80
8
50 ......
1
75
15 ......
80 ......
100 12

12

9

12
9
12
9
9
9
12
12
9
12
12
9
12
12
9
9
g
12
12
12
12
12
9
15
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
10
9

9
9
9
9
9
9
12
9
g
9
12
12

9
9

12
9
9
12
9
12
9

9

9
9
12
9

.;

....
... .: "
o"' .8-3
A
"'
-:ii
,,!;, ~:§ ...
!'""
<>=:< f;t.;!S
"'"'
<
-<"'
"'"
'"oo

,...;

431
515
374
533

646
153
617

101
124

461

152
981
58

364

649
5!18
152
629
129+

115
468
337
466
1008

223
108
545
36
229
822
757
156
141
446
250
216
621

317
143
160
209
403
282
176
75
113
181
147
102
142
70
76
1549
861
102
4fil
448
615
lfi!l
215
749
278
155

);1);1

'"'"

..... 0

00
"'

0

C>
00
I-'

>

z

p:

~

~t"

'7J

0
tJ
0
l'.I
0

t"

tJ

z>

;c

~
l'.I

0
"1

00

G)

z

tJ

0
0
l'.I
l'.I

'1f
;c

0

z"

E

.a

I

Town.

I

Places of Location.

.............

County.

"
"
"

··········

···········
··········

··········
·············

..

"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"

"

304 Fraternity .•.•... 399 San Jose ..•••••..•• Santa Clara ..•.••• ·' Oct.
305 Burlingame ..... .400 Burlingame ••..••.• San Mateo .•..•....
"
306 Bay View .••.... .401 Oakland .••..•••••• Alameda .•.......•. Oct.
1
307 Brawley •....... .402 Brawley •.••••..••. Imperial •....••••.•
"
308 Yerba Buena .... .403 Oakland...•..•.•.•. Alameda .......••.•
"
309 Glendora ......... 404 Glendora ....•..•..• Los Aage1es •.....•
"
310 Moneta .........• 405 Los Angeles .....•.. Los .i..ageles ••..•..
"
311 Burbank ........ .406;Burbank •..••..••.. Los Attgeles ••....• Oct.
312 La Mesa ..••.••.. 4071La Mesa ........•.•. San Die«o ......... . Oct.
313 Sierra Madre .... .408 1Sierra Madre ........ Los An1t91eR ......•.
"
314 Honolulu .....•.. 4091Honolulu .......... Hawai~ ............ .
"
315 Charter Rock ..... 410 Berkelev ..•........ Alameda .....•...•.
"
316 Perris ........... 411 Perris .•.........•. Riverside •..•....•.
"
317 Calexico ....••.. .412 Calexico ..•........ Imperial •.•..•...•.
"
318 Waucoba .....•. .413Big Pine ........... Inyo ..•.....•..•...
"
319 Arlington ...... .414Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
320 Silver Trowel. .... 415 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ..•..•..
"
321 Lindsay .......•. 416jLindsay ........•.. Tulare ..•..•..•...
"
322 Clov~s ........... 417 Clovis ............. Fresno ..........•.
"
323 Elysian .......••• 418l'Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
324 Upland .......... 419 Upland •....•...... San Bernardino .... . Oct.
325 Kerman ....••... 420 Kerman •.•...••..•• Fresno ........•.....
"
326 Inglewood ...... .421 Inglewood ....•...... Los Angeles ••••....
"
327 Eagle Rock ••..•• 422jEagle Rock •••...... Los Angeles ••.......
328 York ....•....•.. 423JWatts .............. Los Angeles .•.••.•• Oct.
329 Exeter ........•• 424 Exeter ...•.•...... Tulare ........•••••
"
330 Holtville ....... .425!Holtville ............ Imperial •.......•••
"
331 Midway ...•.... .4261Taft ...••...•.•.... Kern ............. .
"
332 Chino Valley ..... 427 Chino .........•.... San Bernardino .•...
333 San Dimas ..••.... 428 San Dimas •.•...... Los Angeles ..•••..•
"
334 Pittsburg ..••... .429 Pittsburg .....•••.. Contra Costa .•..•••
"
335 McCloud ......•.. 43'0 McCloud ............ Siskiyou .....•....•
"
336 Alpha .....•••..• 431 1Richmond ••..••••.. Contra Costa ..•••••

···········
··········

············
···········

"
"
"
"
"
"

''
''
"
1909.
1910.

''
"
''
"14,
13,

"
",, ''"
'' "
'' "
'' "
"
''
"
"
"
,,
''"'
"11, 1911.
''
" "
" "
'' "
12, 1912.
"
"
"
"
"
"
'' "
'' "
'''' ,.,"
'' ''

,,

"
1909.

"
14,

"

1908

15,

"
"

"
"
"
"

15,

..

1908

"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
1907.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
10,

1905.
l!W6.

12,
10,

Date when Charter
was Issued.

Le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ...... 371 Honolulu ..••••••••• Hawaiian Ter. . ....• Oct.
Los Angeles ..••...• Oct.
279 Gardena ......••. 372 Gardena ••.•.••.... Los Angeles ••••..••
280 Veteran ......... 373 Sawtelle ...•..•..•. San Francisco •.••••
281 Jewel . . • . . . . . . . . 374 San Francisco •....• San Francisco •.•..•
282 Richmond ..•..... 375 San Francisco ...... San Mateo •••••..••
"
283 Francis Drake .... 376 South San Francisco. Los Angeles •••••..•
"
28-1 Artesia .......... 377 Artesia
Los
Angeles
.••••..•
"
285 Mizpah .......... 378 Los Angeles ••.•.... Ventura ...••.•••.••
"
286 Fillmore ......... 379 Fillmore
Orange
"
287 Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach •• San Diego ..••••••••
"
288 Oceanside ........ 381 Oceanside .•........ Los Angeles .......•. Oct.
289 Highland Park .... 382 Los Angeles ....••..• 'Pulare ............
"
290 Orosi ............ 383 Orosi •..........•..
Imperial .
"
291 El Centro ......... 384 El Centro .....•..•..
Tulare
"
292 Dinuba .......... 385 Dinuba ......•••••.. Fresno ..•..••.•••••
"
293 Coalinga ......... 387 Coalinga •.•..•.•.•. San Francisco •..••••
29-1 Parn'.lssus ...... : . 388 San Francisco ..•...• Los Angeles •.•..•.•.
295 Palos Verdes ...•. 389 Long Beach ...••....
Oct.
Imperial
296 Imperial ......... 390 Imperial
Tuolumne
"
297 East Belt ..•.•... 391 Tuolumne
Los Angeles .•..••.•
"
298 West Lake ....... 392 Los Angeles .....•.. San
Francisco •••..•.
299. Balder . . . . . . . . . . 393 San Francisco ..•..•. Los Angeles .••......
300 University ....... 394 Los Angeles ••..••.•.
301 Turlock . . . . .. . . . 395 Turlock •••....••..• Stanislaus
302 Apollo ........... 396 Alameda .•.....••.• Alameda .......•.•.
Los Angeles .•••.....
303 Rising Light ..... 397 Huntington Park •...

278

Names of Lodiies.

,,;

.,...

List of the Subordinate Lodges .. etc.-Continued.

"'""
""

-<

8
10 12
80
5 12
30
3 10
50
5 12
30 ........... .
105 ......
9
105 25 12
50 ......
9
50 ......
9
80
5 10
3
9
50
80 ......
9
80
3 15
80 ...... 12
80 ......
9
50 ...... 10
50 ......
9
100 ... ... II)
50 ......
'9
55 ...... 12
75
1 12
50 ......
9
75 ......
9

~81····3
1~
80 ..... 12

9
24
12
9
12
12
9

50j......

12
15
12
9
12
12
9
12
9
9
12
12
18
12
12

!l

12
9
9
12
12
9
9
12
15
9

~
~

-<

{

336
262
175
159
119
316
69
k7
123
87
436

70

229
107
117
266
541
93
162
50
352
365
159
222
541
140

770

113

408

439
482
407
160

60

380

1 5
7
l 5
l 5
1 1
J 0
'' 6
3
i 3
4
' 8
8
7
5
'
00
4
0
1 4
65
606
93

3 8
1 7
~ 9

~

"" .s,..;
.,.,o...
" )1~

A

-;;

100 ......
105
1
100
5
80 25
60 ......
105 ......

80 10
5
100
3
75
100 30
100 10
5
75
30 ......
100 25
1
50
50 ......
50 ......
100 20
50 ......
80 10
50 ......
100 ......
100 10
125 ......
50 10
5
1)0
180 50
100 20
100 30
80 ......
1
100
110 ......

i'<A

"'~
~e

,.i:i

,,.,,;
_,,
0 " .s~
...

,,;

"'
""

~

l".l

~

"1
8

0

rn

:;'l

0

::0

..,"'

>

z

0
::0

:;:j

I:"

~

l:z:j

ti
I:"
0
ti
0
l".l
0

z

>

00

z

l".l
ti

t.zj

(")

0

~

00

z

s::s

.,
Town.

I

Places of Location.
County.

!

362
363
364
365
366
367
368
369
3/0
371
372
373
374
375
376
377
378
379
380
381
382
383
384
385
386
387
388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397

·····

Riverbank ....... 459 Ri\·erbank .....•... Stanislaus ......•...
Mount Oso ...•... 460 Tracy . ············ San Joaquin ...•....
Argonaut ........ 461 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .......
Paul Revere ...... 462 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......•
Morgan Hill ...... 463 Morgan Hill ........ Santa Clara ........
Alta Vista ....... 464 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .......
Center .......•.. 465 Fresno .............. :Fresno .•......•..•
Libertas ........ .466 Bakersfield ......... /Kern ...............
Culver City ...... .467 Culver City ......... Los Angeles .....•..
Rockridge •...... 468 Oakland ........... Alameda ..•.•••..••
Yorba Linda ...... 469 Yorba Linda ........ Orange ........•...
Lincoln ......... 470 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
Delta ............ 471 Stockton . .. ........ San Joaquin .......
Maui ............ 472 Kahului .......
Hawaiian Ter. . •...
Blythe ........... 473 Blythe ............. San Bernardino .....
Victory ......... 474 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
America ......... 475 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •.......
Coachella ....... .476 Coachella .......... Riverside ..........
Temblor ......... 477 Fellows ............ Kern ...............
Thousand Oaks .. .478 Berkeley ........... Alameda ...........
Golden Rule ..... .479 San Jose ........... Santa Clara ........
Fellowship ..... .480 Oakland ............ Alameda ...........
Mt. Davidson ..... 481 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ......
Clarence F. Smith .482 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Bell ............. 483 Bell .............•.. Los Angeles ........
Albert Pike ..... .484 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Chowchilla ....... 485 Chowchilla ......... Madera ............
Caledonia ...... .486 Bakersfield ......... Kern ..............
Vallejo ......••. .487 Vallejo ............• Solano .............
Patterson ....... .488 Patterson ........•. Stanislaus ..........
East Bay ....... .489 South Berkeley ..... Alameda ........•••
Corcoran ......... 490 Corcoran .......•••. Kings ..•.........•.
Woodstock ...... 491 Alameda .......••.• Alameda ...........
Garvanza .......• 492 Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles ........
Atascadero ...... 493 Atascadero .......... San Luis Obispo .....
Acorn ........•. .494 Oakland .......•... Alameda ...........

f'

.. ········

...
······

.........

··············
.......
·······

..

1913.

"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"16, 1919.
"
"
14, 1920.

"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

10, 1918.

"

1917.

"

"
"
11,
"

"
"

"

..
"
"
"

l !I J.i

1916

22,
12,

"
Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"

"

Oct.
Oct.

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15, 1914.
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
"
"14, Hll5.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

16,

Date when Charter
was Issued .

Oct.
337 Hammonton •.... .433 Hammonton ........ Yuba
"
338 Maricopa ........ 434 Maricopa .•........ Kern ......•.•.....
"
339 Fairmount ....... 435 San Francisco ...... 8an Francisco ......
340 Claremont ...•.. .436 Claremont . ... ..... Los Angeles
"
341 LancaEter ....... 437 Lancaster ......... Los Angeles
"
342 Acacia . . . . . . . . . .438 Los Angeles ....... \Los Angeles ...•...
...........
San
Joaquin
.......
Manteca
"
343 Tyrian .......... 439
Oct
.
344 Standard ........ 440 Oakland . . . . . . . . . . . Alameda ...........
345 Co~onado ....... .441 Coronado .. .. ······ San Diego
"
346 Blackmer ........ 442 San Diego ......... San Diego .........
"
347 Schofield ........ .443 Schofield Barracks ... Hawaiian Ter .......
"
348 Carpinteria ...... 444 Carpinteria ........ Santa Barbara ·····
"
349 Wilshire ........ .445 Los Angeles ....... Los Angeles ........
"
Los Angeles ........
350 La Puente ....... .446 Puente .... ·····
"
Los
Angeles
........
Torrance
......••
447
Torrance
351
.....
"
Contra
Costa
..•..•.
Concord
352 Mt. Diablo ...... .448
.... ·······
"
San
Francisco
......
"
353 Park . . . . . . . . . . . .449 San Francisco ......
Los
Angeles
........
354 Van Nuys ........ 450 Van Nuys .........
"
Los
Angeles
..••.....
355 Montebello . . . . . . 451 Montebello .........
"
Los Angeles ......•.
356 San Pasqual ...... 452 Pasadena
"
357 Bethlehem ...... .453 San Francisco .....•.. San Francisco ....... Oct.
San
Mateo
..........
Daly
City
...........
"
358 Crocker .......... 454
F'""''"· ...... "
359 Golden West ...... 455 S•" >T•oei"<o ....••
Monterey
Pari'
......
Los
Angeles
........
360 Ramona ........ .457
"
361 Henry S. Orme .. .458 Los Angeles .......•• Los Angeles .......
"

Names of Lodges.

...,...

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

"'

70
2
80 ......
75 10
80
1
80 10
100 25
80 25

i~gl···io

1
50
105 ......
80 ......
100 ......
100 ......
100 10
50 ......
100 10
80 .....
5
50
5
75
RO JO
100 25
50 ......
100 ......
5
100
i5 ......
l
80
105 ......
80 ......
85 ......
100 15
50
I

IO

80 ......

1001

i.."'

°'"'
"'"'

12

1~1

12
121
12

!-I

121
12
9

JI

ul

d

15
121
9'

~1

121
12
12
121
12
9
121

22~

9

371
129
297
280
119
ti8
238
408
75
158
331
230
191
:!91
223
151
177
49
152
221
78
266
88
139
144
51
242

5\JO

81
304
300
239

67
171
339

3 3
2 9
5 4
2 7
7 ,4

3 7

51 5
2: 7
2' 9

12
12
9
12
9
12

9

lj

t"<

""

Cl>
IX>

>

z

::0

0

"'.!

t"<
.....

>

CJ

"'.!

0

0
t'J

lj

0

lj

0
::0

>
z

t'J

:I:

>-l

0
"1

Ul

0

z

l".I
l".I

11 5
3E
lE 4
4~ 0
u3
t0
51 8
!6
2( •8
i: 6

IC

0
CJ

'"Ii

::0
l~ 4

g

65

n
12
9
12
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
9
12
15
12
12
9
12
12
12
12
12
12
12

9

rn

::;i;:;;

"'"'

~o

9

~g1· ....5 12

50 ······
100 ......
100 ......
50 ······
5
55
100 10
80 ······
80 10
50 ......
80 ······
80
5
50 ......
125 25
l
50
80 ······
5
80
100 IO
3
80
3
75
100 10
100 15
80 10
105 JO
100 ......
130 25

(1).~

-~

O·~

.. 0

"' ";;i::i""'
~;
~~ ~ij§
"
-< -<"'
"'

""'

0"'

-Ql

....

Cl>
IX>

z

i
San

Town

\

County

..

"
"
"

''
"
"
"
"

"
"
Oct.

.1.

''

"

H

"
",4
"
.. '
''
''
"
''

"

"
"

.
..
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

,,

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

11,

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
""
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
1923

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

1922
12,

" "
''
"
12, 1922
,,
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

,,

U

U

,,"
" ,,
" ''
'''' ""
" "
'' "
" "
" "
'' "
'' "
'' ''
'' ,,

""
"'"

Ia, HJ21

Uet.

was Issued

Date when Charier

426 Bellflower ..••••• 523 Bellnower .•••••.... Los Angeles ...••.•. October
.
427 Catalina Island .•. 524[Avalon ....••.•••..• Los Angeles ....... .
428 Geo. Washington .525 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
429 Bay City ••••••... 526 San Francisco ...•.. San Francisco ....•.
430 Covenant •••••••• 5271Los Angeles .....•.. Los Angeles ....... .
431 Beverly Hills .•••. 528jBeverly Hills ......• Los Angeles •.......
432 Loyalty ....••••• 529 1Los Angeles .....••. Los Angeles ..••..•.
433 Sun Garden ..•••• 530iFresno ............. Fresno ............ .
434 Alexandria ..•... 531 San Francisco ...... San Franci'sco ..... .
"
435 Smyrna ......... 532 Ceres .............. Eo'tanislaus ........ .
436 Azure ........... 533 Fullerton .......... Orange ........... .
"
437 Forest IIill ....... 534 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
438 Alex. Hamilton ... 535 1Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
439 Seal Rock ..••..•. 5361San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..... .
440 Utopia ......•••• 5371Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
441 Asc.ot ......•..•. 5381Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
"
442 Belvedere ......•• 539]Belvedere ......... Los Angeles ...... .
443 Queen Beach ••••.. 540JLong Beach ..•...... Los Angeles ....•.... October
444 Henry Morse
1
Stephe~s ...... 541jBerkeley ·: ..•...••.• Alameda ...•....•...
"
445 Lankersh1m ...... 542:Lankersh1m ......•.. Los Angeles ........ .
"
446 Signal ...•..•... 543;Long Beach ......•.. Los Angeles ......•..
"
447 Glendale .••••... 544Glendale ..•......... Los Angeles ..•......
"
448 .Jonathan ....••.. 545.San Francisco ....... Ban Francisco ...... .
"
449 San Gabriel .....• 546:San Gabriel. .....•.• Los Angeles ...•.....
"
450 Arcadia ......... 547J Arcadia ............. Los Angeles ........ .
451 Triangle ••....... 548iVenice .............. Los Angeles ........ .
452 Justice ...••.•••. 549 San Francisco ....... Ban Francisco ...... .
453 Seaport .••••.•••. 550San Francisco ...•.•. Ban Francisco ...... .
454 Lakesbore ••••••• 551 Oakland ............. Alameda ........... .
455 Semper Virens •••. 552 Eureka .............. Ilumboldt .......... .
456 Golden City •••••• 553 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
457 Educator ......•. 554iSan Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
458 White Pine ....... 555:weed ............... Siskiyou ........... .
459 Fairfax .......... 556Fa.irfax ............. Marin .............. .
460 Hermosa ..••....• 5571Hermosa Beach ..... Los Angeles ....••...

Francisco .....•. ::>an Prancisco ...... .
399 Riverdale ......• .496jRiverdalc ..•....... Fresno ............ .
400 Fremont ........ .497 Oakland ............ Alameda .......... .
401 Stockton .......• 498 Stockton ..•....•... San Joaquin ........ .
402 Capital City .....• 499 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ...•.....
403 Roosevelt ........ 500 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
404 Westwood ....... 501 Westwood ......... Lassen ............ .
405 Harbor ....••.... 501:\ Richmond ..•....... Contr<J. Costa .....•..
406 Point ....•....•.. 503 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ....... .
407 Seaside ....•..... 504 Long Beach ...•..... Los Angeles •........
408 Silver Cord ....••• 5051Santa Ana .......... OranE.e ............ .
409 Mount Olive ...... 506\Los Angeles .....•... f,o~ Angeles ........ .
410 El Segundo ....... 5071El Segundo ......... Los Angeles ........ .
411 .Joppa ........... 508:San Joaquin ........ Fresno ............ .
412 Benj. Franklin .... 509 Los Angeles ......... f,os Angeles ....•..•.
413 Cupertino ........ 510 Cupertino .......... Santa Clara ........ .
414 Sunnyvale ....... 511 1Sunnyvale .......... Santa Clara ........ .
415 Palms •...•••••.. 512 •Palms .............. Los Angeles ........•
416 Cahuenga ........ 513 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
1
417 Argonne ...••••.. 514·San
Francisco ..... San Francisco ..... .
418 Vernon Square .•.. 515 Los Angeles ...... Los Angeles ....... .
419 Taft ............ 516 Taft .. . . . . .. . . .. . Kern ............. .
420 Mount Vernon .••. 517 San Francisco ...... San Franciseo ..... .
421 La .Jolla ......... 518 San Diego .......... San Diego ........ .
422 Euclid ........... 519.Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
423 Ionic .....••..•.. 520 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
424 Piedmont •....... 521IPiedmont ....•..... Alameda .......... .
425 Sunrise ..••.••••• 522 Los Angeles ........ 1Los Angeles .......•

3~Lebanon •..•.••. .495 1

Names of Lodges

Places of Location

List of the Subordinate Lodgee, etc.-Continued.

iv-

12
9
9
9

100 ......
50·.. ...
50 ......
80 4X
100 10
100 5
80 10

10

80
5
100
5
80 ......
80
5
80
5
80 20
55 .....
75
5
80 25
100 2.5
100 20
70 ..... .
80
5
80 ..... .
55
2
55 ......
80 10

80 .... ..

80 ..... .

50 ......
125
5
80 20
50 ......
80
5
70 ..... .
100 ..... .
55 10
80 10
100 10
100 10
80 30

100

55 .... ..
110 ..... .
100 10

100 ......
80 ......
10010
80 5
100 10

100 ......
8010

.,,::

trJ

z
[fl

0

203

217

9

9
9
9

12
21!

12
9

12

12
12

12

12

12
12

9

12

9
9
9
9

9

175

109

57

81.i

93
73
111

126
136
157

99

140
117
87

29H

232

232

111

282
172
170

12
12
12

140
94
84
101

63

126

230

9
12
9
12

164

132

12

200

121
109
244
156
12
12

12

9
12

160

9

220

100
183
199

116

287
154

265
282

140

61
88

00

""
...,

~

;a

~

r

f;

':rJ

0
ti!
0

tJ

0

r

ti

>
z

0

;a

l:'J

~

':i:1

0

214
137
50
rn2

tJ
.....

135
95

t'1

a

~
13:~

'il

105
130
111

262
50
176

" oS
:i:l::;:

~~

12
9
9
9
12

20

12
9

9

9
:~5

......

2x i2

~ I

§

~ .....
Qi

55
121
80 1
12
80 ...... 12
9
75 lO
8015
12
5510
9
75 ......
9
75 .....
9
80 ........... .
50 10
9
12510
9
50 ......
9

lOO to

~~ ~§
-<

Cl)~

.... §;I
.8... ...~~ \ ~"ti

<»
00
<»

Security ......... 581 Bakersfield .......... Kern ...............
Rialto ........... 582 Rialto .............. San Bernardino .....
Wasco .....••.... 583 Wasco ............•. Kern ...............
Harding .......•. 584Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
Manchester ...•.. 585 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ....•....
Garden Grove ••... 586 Garden Grove ....... Orange ..............
Valley Forge ..... 587 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
El Sereno ....... ,1)88 Los Angeles ......... Los Angelt)s .........
Kauai .........•. 589Lihue ............... Kauai, T. H ..........
Compass ••••..... 590 Pomona ............. Los Angeles .........
Escalon .•........ 591 Escalon ............. San .Joaquin .........
Tujunga ..•...... 592 Tujunga ............ Los Angeles .........
All States .....•.. 593Long Beach ......... Los Angeles .........
Service .......... 594 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles .........
Alexander Graham
I
Bell ........... 595 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
Guardian .......• 596South Gate .......... Los Angeles .........
Truth ........... 597Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
Pearl Harbor ..... 598Honolulu ............ Oahu, T. H ..........
Carmelita ••...... 599Pasa<lena ........... Los Angeles .........
Lynwood ........ 600Lynwood ............ Los Angeles .........
Grizzly .••.•..... 601 Portola ............. Plumas .............
Melrose ......••. 602 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
Dimond .......... 603 Oakland
Jubilee •......... 604 Santa An~·· .. ······ Alameda ...........
Orange .............
Gl~ssell Park ..... 605 Los Angeles· : : : : : : : : Los Angeles ........
SoJourner •••..... 607 Monrovia .......... Los Angeles ........
Granada ......... 608 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ........
Provident ..••••. 609 Sacramento ........ Sacramento ........
Elmhurst ........ 610 Oakland ............ Alameda
Owensmouth ..•.. 611 Owensmouth ....... Los Angel~~ · : : : : : : : :
Workman ..••..•. 612 'Ilemple ............ Los Angeles ..••.••.
Three Pillars ••... 613 Sacramento ......... Sacramento .......•
Larchmont ....... 614 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ..••.•..

484
485
486
487
488
489
490
491
492
493
494
495
496
497
498
499
500
501
502
503
504
505
506
507
508
509
510
511
512
513
514
515
516

483

I

County

475
476
477
478
479
480
481
482

I

,,I

Town

Point Firmin ..... 558 San Pedro .......... Los Angeles ........ .
Craftsman ....... 559 1Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ......•..
1
Plymouth ........ 560\0akland ...........•. Alameda •.......•...
East Ran Diego ... 561 East San Diego ...... San Diego ......•....
Pyramid ......... 562 San Francisco ....... San Franciseo ...... .
South Park .•.•••• 563 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
Foot hill ...•..... 564,0akland ............. Alameda ........... .
West Adams ...... 565 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
Jame.s ~· Garfield.56611,os Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
Searchhght ...... 567 Long Beach .......•. Los Angeles ........ .
Park Boulevard ... 568 Oakland ............. Alameda ........... .
Chate:m Thierry .• 56Q;Oakland ............. Alameda ......•.....
Military Service .. 570jSan Franciljeo ....... San Francisco ...... .
Francis K.
·
Shattuck ...... 57P1Berkeley ............ Alameda ........... .
James Madison ... 572;Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
Hillcrest .....•.• 57aBerkeley ............ Alameda .•.•........
S. W. Hacli:ett ..•• 574'!San Diego .......... San Diego ........ ..
Fort Crook .•••.•. 571J1Fall River Mills .... Shasta ............. .
El Cajon Valley .. 576'IE1 Cajon. . . . . . . . . . . San Diego .....•....
Sunnyside ....... 577Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
Progressive ...... 578,Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
Warren G.
Harding ....... 579,North Sacramento ... Sacramento ......... .
Santa Maria ••..•. 580,Ramona ..•••••.....• San Diego •.•..•.•..

~
z"

Places of Location

461
462
463
464
465
466
467
468
469
470
471
472
473
474

Names of Lodges

~

''

"

.""

.""

"
"
"
."
u

Oet.

"
"

"

H

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

1!124

"
"

"
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
15, 1925.
"
"
" "
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
" ""
"
" "
" "
" "
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
"
"

",,
"

16, 1924

''

16

"

Oct.

''

''

''

"
,,

''
''
"

"

,,''
,,''
''

''
"
''
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
''
''''
''''
"
"
"
"
"
""

1923

''
''

11

''

cc

''
'',,

"''
''
''
''
''

''
''
''
"
""'

''
''
"

Oct.

Date when Charter
Was Issued

List of Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

<::

2~1·

12
9
12
9

<

9
9

121
12·

1~!

9
9

9
9
12
12
12
9
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
9
12
9
12
9
18

80 5
95
······
130 50
80 15
100 15
80 ······
50 10
100 3
60 1
50 1
80 ......
80
80
75 10
80 1
5(1 1
50
75 10
100125

......

50 1
80 12yz
80
75 10
70 2
50
50 3
80 ......
75 ······

1~1
12
9
9
9
9
12
12
9
9
9
9

rn 20

55 ······
······
80 ......
105 25
100

501 ...... 1 12

75 5
8010
80 .... .
80 ..... .
50 1
50 ..
lCO 47f
80 15

"'~

... ;!;

~

55
69
105

ICO

~)4

76
104
71
146
86
Jl')
55

72

108
109
78
93
106
70

56
1C4
176
66
156
<;2
71
100
47
62
143
153

60

127

43

86

123
96
45
159
65
76
236
175

CJ()

""

<::>

>

0
t:i
:t.
....

::;]

iir'

(')

l::j

~

O·

r'
0
tJ
0

tj

z

ii-

4l
::TJ

l:tJ

~
101
103

r:n

Cl

ztJ

l:tJ

l;tJ

(')

'il
t:i
0

]3()

170
187
121
14!J
121
z..q9
129
125
84
259

~o

~ ....
w.,
::S;:;i
~
A

di

12
.. ... , 9
10030
9!
80 ......
9'
80 5
12
80 1
10010
12

~~ ~

80 .... ..
105 ..... .
8010
60 ......
80 10
80 .... ..

&A

.o<>
. :; I

-; ~

00

00

""

l
Town

I

Places of Location

County

~

... ........

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

''

''

"
''
''
"

15,

"
"
"
"
''
''
"

''
"
"
''

1925

''
''
''

''
''
''

"

"

"

"
"

"
"

"

"
"
"13, 1927
"
'' "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

14, 1926

''
''

''

"

''

''

"
''

''
"
''

''
"

1926

14,

''

''
''

''

. ''''
.. '' ''

"
"
"
"
""
"
"

"

·l Oct.

Date when Charter
Was Issued

5

9

v<::

..., 0

24
12
12
12
9
9
9
9
12

9
9

12
9
9
12

12

9
9
9
9
9

12

9

9

a
<

~

Total Membership ....•.....•....•..•...•...... 129,309

ti:>

...."'

>

~

g

5

~
22
59
19
25

~

13

0

ti

t"
0

0

93

l:<J

;r:

..,

"1

0

[/).

0

....tJ
z.

[:tJ

"ti

::0
0
0
l'.1

"'
0

ti:>

s
127

38

42
48
46
51

73
74

62

40

58
38
42

70

39

41

58
<15

Ill
41

65
38
75
74
66
55
71

37

66

9'.l
59
37
89
86
1011
60
211
74
66

23

:~6

6.')

;;i;:i;

~~

8 ,...,

g

9
12
12
15
9

50 4Y2
!J
65 5
9
5510
9
75 ......
9
50 .....
9
50 1
12
80 ...... 12
50 ...... 15
50 ......
9
50 ...... 12

1
23
105 ......
130 30
HO .... ..
100 .... ..
55 10
50 ......
80
5
100 ......
80
5

so

10C

80 .... ..
60 ..... .
75 .... .
75
0
105 10
80
1
65
5
50
1
SC 15

100

50 .... ..
65 .... ..
80 30

"-A

..
"""

o"'
....
-z:
.,, I

.,

Total Membership, July 31,
Chartered Lodges .•.. 128,665
Lodges under Dispensation, September 30, 1927.... . . •
644

541 Oo~posite ••..••• 639 Los Angel~s .•.......
542 V eritas ...•...••. 640 1San Francisco ....•.. Los Angeles .........
543 .Tames A. Foshay •. 641 Los Angeles •...•••.. San Francisco ........
544 La Cumbre ..••••. 642 Santa Barbara .••.•.. Los Angeles .........
545 Alta Loma ..•.••. 643 Signal Hill ....••.•.. Santa Barbara .......
546 Lomita •.•...•... 644 I.1omita ............. Los Angeles ..... , ...
547 A. F. E. Irwin .... 645 San Pedro ........... Los Angeles .........
548 Metropolitan ..... 646 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
549 Hawthorne ....... 647 Hawthorne .......... Los Angeles .........
550 Damsscus ..••..•. 648 San Bernardino ...... Los Angeles .........
San Bernardino ......
551 Florence •....•••. 649
............ 'Los Angeles .........
552 La Brea ....••.... 650 Florence
Los Angeles .•••..... Los Angeles .........
553 Menlo Park .••... 651 Menlo Park ••.......
San Mateo •......•..
554 Crescenta Valley .. 652
555 Fontana ...••.... 653 Montrose ...••..•.... Los Angeles •........
Fontana
............
. San Bernardino .•....
556 .Jordan ....•....• 654
Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .•.......
557 Monte Vista ...... 655
Beach
......••.
Los Angeles ...•.....
558 Citro] ........... 656 La
Orange ..............
559 John D. Spreckcls.657
San
Diego
..........
San Diego ...........
560 Livingston ....... 658
561 La Habra ......... 659 Livingston .......••. Merced •.....•.•••.•
La
Habra
...........
Orange .............
562 Baldwin Park ..... 660
563 Malta .......... U.D. Baldwin Park ....... Los Angeles .........
Los
Angeles
•........
Los Angeles .........
564
Henry W. Knox .. U.D. Los Angeles .•....... Los Angeles .........

517
518
519
520
521
522
523
524
525
· 526
527
528
.529
530

Hemet ....•..•... 6lf' Hemet ............. Riverside .........
Seal Beach •...... 616 Seal Beach ..... , , .. Orange.............
Big Bear ......••. 617 Pine Knot ......... San Bernardino ... .
Southland ••••••. 618 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Neptune ......... 619 Long Beaeh ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Peninsula ...••... 620 San Diego ......... San Diego ......... .
The Gardens ..•••. 621 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Atwater ....... , .622 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Menorah .•.....•. 623 Leos Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
E'ortitude ..... , .. 624 Oakland ........... Alameda ......... ..
Angelus Mesa ..... 625 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Chula Vista ....•. 626 Chula Vista ........ San Diego ......... .
Lamanda Park .... 627 Pasadena ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Beacon of the
West ............ 628 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ...... ..
531 Fairview .•..••.. 629 Inglewood .......... Los Angeles ....... .
532 Ingleside ....•... 630 San Francisco ...... San E'raneisco ..... .
533 Benevolence ••.•. 631 Los Angeles .•.•..•.. Los Angeles .•.•••...
534 Normal Heights •.. 6321San Diego ........... San Diego .......... .
53ii Poinsettia •.••••• 63S San Buenaventura .•.. Ventura ............ .
536 Victorville ......• 634,Yfotorville ....•..... San Bernardino ••....
537 Riversi11e .......• 635 mverside ........... Riverside .......... .
538 J obn Marshall. , .. 636iLos Ane:eles ......... Los Angeles ........ .
539 Palisades ...•.... 637,Santa Monica ....... Los Angeles ........ .
540 Indian Rock •••••• 638 Berkeley .•.... '. ..••. Alameda .....•...•..

Names of Lodges

List of Subordinate Lodges, etc;-Continued.

Santa Clara ....... Santa Clara ...... Santa Clara ...... May
Butte ............ Bidwell ......... Butte ........... May
Yuba •.......... Marysville ••• , •• Yuba .........•. May
Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ... Placer .......... May
Grass Valley ...... Grass Valley ..... Nevada ......... May
Lebanon ........ San Francisco .... Sau Francisco ... ·/May
Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ......... May
Franklin ......... Sacramento ..... Sacramento ...... May
Saint James ...... Jamestown ...... Tuolumne ....... /May
Geo. W~shington. Chinese. Camp .... Tuolumne ......• May
Iowa Hill ........ 1Iowa Hill ........ Placer .......... May

29
31
34
36
39
47
48
49
52
53
54
62
63

§

/M•y

I

~

"'
"'°

14, 1859/Surrendered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
69 Corinthian ..•.••• Marysville ...... Yuba .......••.. May
69.
2 1 1~55 /Dec.,
1874
Consolidated
with Marysville No.
71 Nebraska ..•••••• Michigan Bar .... Sacramento ...... May
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
72 E. K. Kane .••...• Nevada ......... Nevada ......... May
2, 1855 Oct.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
73 Tyro ......•••..• Drytown ........ Amador ......... May
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
Franklin ........• Meadow Valley ... Plumas ......... May
2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
74 Wisconsin Hill .... Wisconsin Hill ... Placer .......... May 15, 1857* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charter never issued.
0
!:i:I
75 Mountain Forest .. Eureka North .... Sierra ........... May
3, 1855 Aug.
29, 1857 Surrendered.
77 Petaluma ........ Petaluma ........ Sonoma ......... May
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No. t"
82 Mountain .....•.. Don Pedro's Bar. Tuolumne ...... ·1May
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
§
8, 1856 !May
83 Risi.ng S~ar: ....•• For~st Hi_ll. : ....• Placer ........•. May
18, 1861 Surrendered.
o
8, 1865,Sept.
85 Indian Diggmgs ... [ndian Diggings .. El Dorado ....... May
3, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16. lol
8, 1856 /Oct.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
86 Saint Louis ......• Howland 's Flat ... Sierra .......... IMay
0
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
":l
8, 1856 /Nov.,
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
~
88 Unity ........... /Orleans Flat ..... Nevada ......... May
No. 158.
t"
8, 1856 May
88 Quitman ......... North Bloomfield. Nevada ......... May
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
i;:J
8, 1856 ;oct.
90 Polar Star ........ Poorman 's Creek. Plumas ......... May
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13. o
8, 1856 May
92 Acacia .......... /Coloma .••.••••• J<'.l Dorado .....•. May
~
8, 1856 Ma~ch 8, 1858 Surrendered.
29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No. :;
il3 Caymus .......... Yountville ...... Napa ........... May
I
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
8, 1856 /Oct.
94
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
96 Mount Hermon ..../Elizabethtown ... Plumas .......... May
St. Helena.
8, 1856 i'Dec.
3t. John's ........ Yreka ........... Siskiyou ......... May
24, 1859 Surrendered.
3, 1854 /Dec.
8, 1924 Consolidated with Howard No. 96,
'1 Jefooon .......... Lo Po,te •... : .... Pinm,. ..........
as Howard No. 37.
8, 1856JJuly
19, 1926 Consolidated with Forbestown
No. 50.

Minnesota ..•..•. Minnesota .....•. Sierra ........... May
Ind. Royal Arch .• 1Marysville ...... Yuba .......•... May

2, 1855 May
2, 1855 !May

1
Diamond ......... Diamond Springs. El Dorado ....... 1May
Mokelumne ...... Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras ....... May

28

67
69

Nashville ........ Nashville ....... El Dorado ....... iDec.
Pacific .......... Valparaiso ...... Chili ............ May
Columbia ........ Columbia ....... Tuolumne ....... May

1

Remarks.

.............. _N_a_m_e_c_h_a_n_g_e_d_t_o_J_e_n_n_i_n_g_s_-6, 1856 Charter surrendered.
May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Aug. 18, 18r\:l Name changed to San Francisco.
May
13, 1859 Revoked.
Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
9, 1851 Nov.,·
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
24, 1851 * .............. Charter never issued.
5, 1853* . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Chartn never issued.
5, 1853 Oct.
15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No .
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
5, 1853 Oct.
18, 1873 Smrendered.
5, 1853 Oct.
13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
5, 1853 Oct.
15, 1887 Revoked.
3, 1854 Sept.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
3, 1854 .June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
3, 1854 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
3, 1854 Nov.
1864 Surrendered.
3, 1854 May
10, 1856 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Feb.
20 1857 Surrendered.
8, 1856 Sept. 15; 1919 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8.
3, 1855 Oct.
29, 1857 ·Surrendered.

·Became Extinct

I.............. May

I Chartered.

La Fayette ....... La Fayette, Ore ................... May

County.

15

Location.

Berryman ..•..•.• !Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... 1April 19, 1850
Jennings .....•..• Sacramento ...... Sacramento ......
Sutter ..•........ Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... May 7, 1850
Dnvy Croc~ett .... San Franc~sco .... San Franc~sco .... iN ov. 27, 1850
San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco ... ·iNov. 27, 1850
Wiilamette ....•.. Portland ........ Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850

NaIIle.

LODGES.

4
4
6
7
7
11

No.

EXTINCT

~

lol

0
":l
8

w

0

z

lol
lol
....ti

!:i:I
0
0

"j

<:<>

""
"°

Name.

Location.

1-

j
county.

I Chartered.
Extinct

Kemarks.

~~-~

=
g

<I:>
"'
...

182 Meridian •••••••• Arbuckle ••..••• Colusa • . • • .... ·!Oct.
185 .Arenas ...•..••... : >unta Arenas .... Mendocino ...... :Oct.
189 Latro~e .......... Latrobe ..•...... El Dorado ....... jOct.
197 Paradise ......... Haywards ..•.... Alameda •...•... oet.
1
Rocklin .•..•..... '?ocklin .....•.•. Pla<'er .•..•...... .July
1
213 Bodega .......... Bodega ..•...... Sonoma ..•...•. · jOct.
218 Pleasant<>n ..••... Livermore ....... 1Alameda ....•..• ,Oct.

180

175
176
177

165
170
171
172

163

157
158
159
160
162

Arcturas .•......• IPetaluma ••..••• !Sonoma .....•.... I Oct.

Josephus ....•..•• Brush Creek .•..•. Butte ........... May
Rising Sun ....••• Brandy City ..•.. Sierra .......•.. May
Carson ..•..•••••• Carson City .•.... Nevada Ter .....• May
Mount Carmel. .••• Red Dog ..••..... Nevada ..•....•. Mav
Washoe ..•..••.•• Washoe City ••... Nevada Ter ...... May
Gibsonville •..••. Gibsonville ...... Sierra ........•.. IMay
Gilroy ...•.••••.. Gilroy ...•.....• Santa Clara ..•..• !May
Pilot Hill ......... Pilot liill ........ El.. Dorado ..•.... May
Virginia City ..•.. Virginia City...•• Nevada Te,. ...... May
Silver City .•••.•• Silver City ....... Nevada Ter ...... ,May
Silver Star ••.••.. Gold Hill .....•.. Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
Esmeralda .•••••. Aurora .........• Nevada Ter .•.... 0ct.
Escurial •.••••••• Virg~nia City ...• Nevada Ter ...... Oct.
1
Lander ..••.•••.• Austm .•....•.... Nevada Ter ...... !Oct.
Alpme ••......•.. M.auleenlle ..•. Alpine .........• May
Claiborne ••.•..•. Antioch ..•...... Contra Costa ..... jOct.
Merced ....•..... Snelling . . . . • . . . Merced ......... 1oct.
.Aztlan .....•.••.. Pre11cott ......•.. .Arizona Ter ...... !Oct.
152
153
154
L55

San Luis Obispo ... ,San Luis Obispo .. ,San Luis Obispo. ·1May
Palmyra ......... 1Placerville ..•.•• El Dorado .••.... May

148
151

L42

1~evada

98 Quartzburg ..•.••. Quartzburg ...••. ":Mariposa ..•..••. May
99 La Grange ...•..• Merced ••.••..•• 1Merced .••.••.•• May
100 Campo Seco .....•. Campo Seco ...•• · 11.Jalavera.s .....•. May

16, 1861 'Dec.
16, 1862 Oct.

I

I

""

~

8

=

2, 1865 \Surrendered.
10, 1911 IConsolidated with El Dorado No.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
15, 1862 Oct.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
16, 18641 Surrendered.
15, 1862 .July
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872, Surrendered.
0
14, 1863 .Tan.
16, 1865 j'l'ransferred to jurisdiction of Nevsd~.
14, 1863 Oct.
15, 190s,L:o11soli<late1! with Jefferson :"<o. 91. ~
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 !Surrendered.
1:1
14, 1863 !Der.,
1898konsolidated v.ith Georgetown No. 25.
t"
14, 1863 .Tan.
16, 186~1'Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. 0
15, 1863 .Jan.
16, J86;J. Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 186~1Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. t:ij
13, 1864 .Tan.
16, 186o[Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. o
13, 1864 .Jan.
16, 1865 1 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada. ':rJ
14, 1864 .fan.
16, 1865/Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.. Cl
25, 1864•·0ct.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
>
t"
....
12, 18651 ....•......... Name changed to Antioch.
':rJ
12, 1865 Oct.
16, 1879 Surrendered.
0
lTJ
11, 1866 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
l l, 1866 IDec.,
1898 Consolidated ~ ith Petaluma No
77 as No. 180.
10, 1867 Oct.
16, 1919 Name changed to .Arbuckle.
10, 1867 ............. · /Name changed to Claiborne.
15, 1868 Del'.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
20, 1872jSurrendered.
14, 1869 July
30, 1870• .....•........ Charter never issued.
14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889,1Revoked.
~
11, 1872 Oct.
18, 1881 1 Name changed to Mosaic.

8, 1856 •.•••.•...•••. Name changed to Hornitas.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
9, 1856 Oet.
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
8, 1856 Oct.,
No. 78.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13
102 Manzanita ••••••• North Ban Jvim .. Nevada •.••..... May
8, 1856 Oet.
ll, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
h:I
105 Siskiyou •••.••••• Henley .....•... \Siskiyou ........ May 15, 1856 Oct.
N~3~
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol- t;i
107 Mount Jefferson... arrotte ..•...... rfuolumne ...... · 1l/Cay 14, 1857 Oct.
umne No. 8.
t;i
15, 1908.\Consolidated with North Star
~
108 Owen • • . • • • . • • • • • cott 's Bar ..•.... Siskiyou ...•....• \May 14, 1857 IOet.
No. 91.
0
oo
14, 1857 Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 26. o
109 Dibble.••••••••••• on:ega .....••..
•.•.••.•• May 14, 1857 Oct.
114 Mt. Zion .••••••• Grizzly Flat . . . . ~l Dorado ••.•••. May 14, 1857 June 26, 1894 Revoked.
t:;J
115 Saint Mark's ••••• Fiddletown . . . . Amador ••..••..• May 14, 1857 :May 18, 1861 Surrendered.
8
116 Windsor ......... Windsor . • . . . • . Sierra ........... May 14, 1857* Jan.
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
~
Folsom •••••••••• Folsom . . • . . • . . . Sacramento ..•... Feb. 13, 1858 Jan.
5, 1859 Surrendered.
ll8 Valleeito •••••••• Valleeitn . . . . . . . Calaveras ..•..•• May 13, 1858 Oct.
8, 1905 :::>urrendered.
121 Ionic ••.•••.••••• Iowa Hill......
Placer .......... May
14, 1870 Revoked.
1858 Oct.
125 Progress •...••.•• San Francisco. . ISan Francisco .•••
13, 1863 Revoked.
13, 1859 May
130 Unity •..•.•••••• San Bernardino. San Bernardino .. May 13, 1859 Oct.
16, 1913 Consol!da.ted with La' Grange No. 99,
133 Yosemiti> •••••••• Coulterville • . • . . Mariposa •.••.••• May
now known ag Yosemite No. 99.
1862 Surrendered.
10, 1860 I.June,
16, 1879 Surrendered.
137 Oro Fino ..•..•.•• \Oro Fino ........ \Siskiyou ..•...•• \May 10, 1860 Oct.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
Violet .••..•...•• Spanish Flat ..... El Dorado ..•••.. May
138 Colusa ••••.•••••• C-Olusa .••..••... Colusa •.•.••..•• May 10, 1860 April
240 as Colusa No. 241J.

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

Corregidor. . . . . . . . Manila ......•.. Philippine Islands Oct.
Fowler .......... Fowler •..•...... Fresno ...•.••.. ·10ct.
Granite No. 222 ... Rocklin ...•••.•• Placer ........•. Oct.
Germania ••.•.... Los Angeles •••.. Los Angeles . • . . Oct.
Kennett. . . . • • . . • • Kennett ..•....... Siskiyou. . . . . . . . . Oct.

386
398
432

438
456

Newville No. "'""" ·10'\lrning

364

*Date of dispensation.

....••. ·roct.

Cavite ........... Cavite •..•.••••• Philippine Islands Oct.

350

.....•.• /Tehama

Fall River .....•• Burgettville ..... Shasta .....•.... Oct.
Westport ....•..• Westport ........ Mendocino ....... Oct.
Tyrian .•...•••••• Dunnigan •....... Yolo ............ Oct.
Mokelumne Hill ... Mokelumne Hill .. CalaveraR •..•... Oct.
Hueneme .•...•.. Hueneme ........ Ventura .......•• Oct.
Santa Maria ...... anta Maria ...... Santa Barbara .... Oct.
Manila........... \fanila •.••..•..• Philippine Islands Oct.

270
276
284
298
311
340
342

......... !Arizona Ter ...... IOet.

Tueson .....•..•• /Tucson

263

4, 1881" Mch.

Solomon ......... !Tombstone ....... !Arizona Ter ..•... !June

~
z

Gi
l"1

t"
0
t1

t:J

l;1

l::!l

i:I1

1-3

'::I

~

C;J

Z

Sl

~
l::!l

~

o

""""""

z

~

~
>

...Q

0
'7l

....,,...,

13, 1904 •.•...••...•.. Consolidated with Newville No.
205, a.s Olivet No. 205.
10, 1907 Dec.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
15, 1908 Oct.
14, 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 217.
11, 1872 May 29, 1919 Consolidated with Roseville No.
432, as Roseville No. 222.
16, 1913 )Oct.
10, 1918/Name changed to Acacia.
14, 19151 Dec, 18 1925 Consolidated with Reading
'
]'\o. 254.
'

I

15, 1903 Dec.

11, 1883 Oct.
16, 1884 May
14, 1886 Oct.
16, 1890 iX:.c.
12, 1892 Oct.
11, 1900 Oct.
10, 1901 Dec.

15, 1881 M'ch.

16, 1879 Mch.

......•. !Arizona Ter ...... !Oct.

Arizona ..•..•..•• IPhoenix

Remarks

17, 1877 Surrendered.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
16, 1884 Surrendered
26, 1890 Surrendered.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142
as Colusa No. 240.
16, 1896 Consolidated with Sincerity No. 132
W, 1888 Surrendered.
20, 1918 Consolidated with ''finnedumah
No. 287.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
10, 1895 Revoked.
26, 1888 Surrendered.
11, 1911 Conl'olidated with Woodland No. J 56
25, 1919 Consolidated with Calaveras No. 78.
16, 1902 Consolidated with Oxnard No.1141.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Hesp<lrlan :Ko. 264.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.

Became Extinctj

18, 18711 Nov.
18, 18711 Oet.
14, 1875 Oct.
14, 1875 Sept.
14, 1875 April

Chartered

257

County

10, 1878 Oct.
10, 1878 April
10, 1878 Dec.

.

Greenville ...... ··1Green ville ....... !Plumas ..........)Oct.
Brotherhood ..... Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma ......... Ut>t.
Bodie ••.•.•••••• Bodie ........••• Mono ........... (kl..

Location

249
251
252

~

Maui • . • . . • . . . . • . ailuku ..•...... Hawaii ..•..•... <'ct.
Contra Costa .••... :lomersville •....• Contra Costa ..... vet.
Tyre .•...•..••.. :fold Run ......•. Placer .......... Oct.
Peseadero .....•.. Peseadero .•..... San Mateo .•..•.• Oet.
Equality •.....••.. Colusa.. • ......• Colusa .•........ !Oet.

Name

223
227
238
239
240

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M... W. ". GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

l8TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.

698

Vear
Elected.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Maeter.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Caleb Fenner.
•Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt ....... . •E. F. W. Ellls.
•.John A. Tutt ••.•.•.••.... •Benjamin D. Hyam •• *Adolphus Hollub.
•Benjamin D. Hyam ..... . •Charles M. Radclltf .• •John R. Crandall.
•Charles M. Radcl!ft ..... . •Townsend A. Thomas •Rector E. Cole.
•Wllllam H. Howard .... . •Nathaniel G. Curtis .. •John A. Raymond.
•Townsend A. Thomas
1866 •William H. Howard .... . •John A Raymond ..... •Lemuel Lyon.
1866 •wnuam :H. Howard .... .
•Charles Marsh •...... •Aaron D. Park.
1857 •Nathaniel G. Curtis ...•.• •Phlllp w. Shepheard. •William McCormick.
1868 •Nathaniel G. Curtis ...•..
•Ph!l!p W. Shepheard. •Ebenezer Lane.
1869 •Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
*Phlllp
W. Shepheard. •William c. Belcher.
1860 •Nathaniel G. Curtis •.....
•William
C. Belcher .. •John W. Harvllle.
1861 •James L. English ....... .
•G!lbert
B.
Claiborn,e.. •John W. Harville.
1862 •William C. Belcher ..... .
•Gilbert
B.
Claiborne.. •Louis Cohn.
1863 •William C. Belcher •..•..
•Gilbert
B.
Claiborne .. •\Vi!llam A. Davies.
1864 •William C. Belcher ••••..
•William
A.
Davies .. . •Isa.ac S. Titus.
1865 •Gilbert B. Claiborne ....• •Henry H. Hartley ... . *\Vm. H. Peterson.
1866 •Gilbert B. Claiborne ....•
•Henry H. Hartley .. .. •Thomas Beck.
1867 •Wiiiiam A. Davies ...... .
•Leonidas E. Pratt ... . *Theodore G. Cockrlll.
1868 •Charles Marsh .....•...•.
•Isaac S. Titus ...... .. •John S. Ward.
1869 •Leonidas E. Pratt •....... •Isaac S. Titus ....... . •Charles L. Wiggin.
1870 •Leonidas E. Pratt •....... •Charles L. Wiggin .. . •Benj. H. Freeman.
1871 •Leonidas E. Pratt. ..... .. *Benj. H. Freeman .. . •George C. Perkins.
187i •Leonidas E. Pratt ••....•.
•John M. Browne.
•George C. Perkins.
1873 •Isaac S. Titus ....•...•.. •John M. Browne ..... •William B. Parker.
1874 •George C. Perkins ....... . •Charles L. Wiggin ... •Wiley J. Tinnin.
1876 •John M. Browne ........ . •Charles L. Wiggin •.. •W!lllam S. Wells.
1876 •John M. Browne ....•....
•Charles L. Wiggin ... •William W. Traylor.
1877 •John M. Browne ....... .. •William W. Traylor .• ··wnuam H. Crane.
1878 •John M. Browne ........ . •Samuel C. Denson ... . •Clay W. Taylor.
1879 •William W. Traylor ..... .
*Clay w. Taylor ..... . •John Q. Adams.
1880 •Samuel C. Denson ...... .
•John Q. Adams ..•... •Jonathan D. Hines.
•Clay
W.
Taylor
........
..
1881
*Jonathan D. Hines .. . •Eomund c. Atkinson. •
•Clay
W.
Taylor
.....••...
1882
•Wiley J. Tinnin ..... . •Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan
D.
Hines
.•....
1883
•Wiley J. Tinnin ..... . •Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan
D.
Hines
...•..
18114
*Edmund C. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
•Wiley
J.
Tinnin
.........
.
1885
•Hiram N. Rucker .... •Morris M. Estee.
*Edmund
C.
Atkinson
....•
1886
•Morris M. Estee •...• • Alvah R. Conklln.
•Hiram
N.
Rucker
.......
.
1887
•Alvah R. Conklin., .• •Wllllam Johnston
•Morris
M.
Estee
......•..
1888
•wnuam .Johnston ... . •Charles R. Gritman.
•Morris
M.
Estee
•.•......
1889
•William Johnston ... . •Charles R. Gritman.
1890 •Alvah R. Conklin ..•......
•Charles Ray Gritman. •Henry S. Orme.
•wmiam
Johnston
.......
.
1891
•Henry S. Orme ...... . •James B. Stevens.
*Charles
R.
Gritman
.•...
1892
•James B. Stevens ... . •Edward M. Preston.
1893 •Henry S. Orme .•.........
•Edward M. Preston .• William T. Luca1.
•James
B.
Stevens
.......
.
1894
Thomas Flint.
•Edward M. Preston .....• Wl!llam T. Lucas .•..

1860
1851
1862
Ul53
1864

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer

Grand
Secretary.

•sashel Woods ........ •Levi Stowell........
•John H. Glhon .......
•Benj. S. Olds •..•....• •Townsend A. Thomas •Levi Stowell ......•.••
•John R. McConnell ..• *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
"Richard F. Knott .... *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ........ ..
•Robert N. Wood •.••• *Addison Martin •.•..• •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Samuel A. Merritt. . . •Addison Martin •..•.. •Levi Stowell ......... .
:Peter W. Randle ..... *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
/ohn B. Bope ........ *Addison Martin ...... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
/ame11 W. Bicknell ... *Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Tho~a11 P. Hawley .. *Addison Martin ...... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
0Alvlnza
Hayward.••• *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
0
Caleb E. Wilcoxon ... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
0
•.John B. Hewson ..... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
Wllllam A. Davies ... •James Laldley ....... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
0
Isaac S. Titus ........ •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
0
•Henry
H. Hartley .•.. •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Thomas Beck ....... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell .....•..
0
•Leonidas
E. Pratt .. :. •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Frederlck F. Bares ... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
0
•Richard
Dale .•.....• •.James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ......••
Benj. H. Freeman ... •.James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•neo. C. Perkins ...... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John M. Browne ..... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ...... .
'Chas. E. Mitchell ...• •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ......•.
;wney J. Tinnin ...•. •.James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell .•......
/acob H. Nef'l' ........ •James Laldley ........ *Alex. G. Abell ........
•Solon W. Craigue ...• •James Laldley ........ *Alex. G. Abell .....••.
Wm. H. Crane ........ •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G . Abell . ...... .
*R
• ohbert C. Broder .... *Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
/ o n Q. Adams ...... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ....... .
• 0 rrln W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Thomas J. Bowers ... •Moses Heller ......... *Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
George Hinds ........ •Moses Heller ... ·...... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
0
Hiram N. Rucker .••• •Moses Heller .....•... *Alex. G. Abell •..•....
*Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller .....•.•• •Alex. G. Abell .•••.•..
•Henry H. Knapp ..... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell .....•..
*Alvah R. Conklin •... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell .....•..
•Wm. Johnston ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
•Marcus D. Boruck ••. •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell .•......
•Henry S. Orme ..•... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Henry S. Orme .....• •Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
•James B. Stevens ..•• •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson ..... .
*Edward M. Preston .. •Nathan W. Spaulding. *George Johnson ..... .
Wm. T. Lucas ....•.• "Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
Thomae Flint •......• •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
Frank M. Angellotti .• "Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .

1!195

*Deceased.

699

'

Grand
Lecturer.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

700

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OJ:l' THE

701

M... W ... GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

Year.

Grand Maater.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.
Frank M. Angellotti.

William T. Lucas ....... . Thomas Flint. ...... .
J.896
Thomas Flint............. . Frank M. Angellotti .. •Charles L. Patton
1897
Frank M. Angellotti •..... •Charles L. Patton .•. , •.James A. Foshay.
1898
•William S. Wells.
1899 *Charles L. Patton ....... . •James A. Foshay ... .
Orrin S. Henderson.
1900 •James A. Foshay ......••. •William S. Wells .... .
Orrin S. Henderson .. •Charles W. Nutting.
1901 •wmlam S. Wells ........ .
Orrin S. Henderson .••••• •Charles W. Nutting .. •George W. Hunter.
h02
Motley H. Flint.
1903 •Charles W. Nutting ..... . •George W. Hunter.••
*Edward H. Hart.
1904 •George W. Hunter ..••.•• ldotley H. Flint. •....
Motley H. Flint ........ .. *Edward H. Hart. ... . George M. Perine.
1906
1906 •Edward H. Hart. ....... . Geo. M. Perine ...... . •Reuben H. Lloyd.
George M. Perine ....•... •Reuben H. Lloyd ....• Oscar Lawler.
1907
Oscar Lawler ........... . *W. Frank Pierce .... . Dana R. Weller.
1908
1909 •W. Frank Pierce .•....•.. Dana R. Weller ...... . •Alonzo J. Monroe
Wm. P. Filmer.
Dana R. Weller., •..•.... *Alonzo J. Monroe ... .
1910
1911 *Alonzo J'. Monroe ...•.... Wm. P. Filmer ..... . John D. Murphey.
Wm. P. Filmer ...•....•• John D. Murphey, .. . Benj. F. Bledsoe.
1912
John D. Murphey ...••... Benj. F. Bledsoe .... . •Albert G. Burnett
1918
Benj. F. Bledsoe ........ . *Albert G. Burnett. .. . Francis V. Keesling.
19U
Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
1915 •Albert G. Burnett ....... . J;'rancis V. Keesling ..
Francis V. Keesling .....• Wm. Rhodes Hervey. Bradford Webster.
1916
Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... . Bradford Webster .. . Charles A. Adams.
1917
1918 Bradford Webster ....... . Charles A. Adams ... . George F. Rodden.
Charles Albert Adams .. . George F. Rodden ... . Samuel E. Burke.
1919
William A. Sherman.
Samuel E. Burke ... .
George F. Rodden ....... .
1920
Arthur S. Crites.
William A. Sherman.
Samuel E. Burke ........ .
1921
Arthur S. Crites .... . David J. Reese.
William A. Sherman ....•
1922
Albert E. Boynton
David J. Reese ...... .
Arthur S. Crites ....... ..
1923
George L. Jones.
David J. Reese ......... . Albert E. Boynton .. .
1924
Wlll H. Fischer.
Albert E. Boynton ...... . George L. Jones .... .
1925
Gustav A. Hutaff
Will H. E'ischer ..... .
George L. Jones ......... .
1926
Gustav A. Hutaff .. .. Chas. M. Wollenberg.
Will H. Fischer .• , ...... .
1927

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treaeurer.

Grand
Lecturer.

*Charles L. Patton ... . *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ... , ••
*James A. Foshay ... . *Edward Coleman ..... *George Johnson ..... .
•William S. Wells ... . *Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... ,
Orrin S. HendeJ>son .. •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
*Charles W. Nutting .. •Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... . Wm. H. Edwards.
*George W. Hunter ... . "Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson •..... Wm. H. Edwards.
Motley H. Flint .... . *Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... .. Wm. H. Edwards.
*Edward H. Hart. ... . *1lldward Coleman ..... *George Johnson .... .. Wm. H. Edwards.
George M. Perine ... . *Edward Coleman ....• *George Johnson ..... . Wm. H. Edwards.
•R~uben H. Lloyd ... . •Ed ward Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
Wm. H. Edwards.
Oscar Lawler ...... . *Edward Coleman ....• *George Johnson .• , •.. Wm. H. Edwards.
•w. Frr.nk Pierce ... . "Edward Coleman ..•. *George Johnson
Thomas J. Baker.
•Alonzo J. Monroe ... . *Edward Coleman. . . . . John Whlcher · · · · · · Thomas J. Baker.
*Edward
Coleman
.....
John
Whlcher
.......
.
William P. Filmer .. .
Thomas J. Baker.
.John D. Murphey ... . *Edward Coleman ..... John Whlcher. · · '· · ·' Thomas J. Baker.
Benj. F. Bledsoe ... . *Edwara Coleman .... , John Whicher:::::::: Thomas :f. Baker.
Albert G. Burnett .. . *Edward Coleman..... John Whlcher
Thomas J. Baker.
1irancls v. Keesling .. Wm. P. Filmer ....... John Whlcher ........ Thomas J. Baker.
VV. Rhodes Hervey .. Wm. P. Filmer .... · .. John Whlcher .. • .. · · · Thomas J. Baker.
Bradford Webster ..• Wm. P. Filmer .. ····· John Whicher··· · ···· Thomas J. Baker.
Chas. Albert Adams. Wm. P. Filmer.······ John Whlcher. ·' · · '·' Thomas J. Baker.
George F. Rodden .. . Wm. P. J<'llmer...... John Whicher" .. " .. Thomas J. Baker.
Samuel E. Bu.rke ... . Wm. P. Fllmer .....• John Whl h ··· ·· ··• Thomas J. Baker.
Wm p F'll
c er ....... .
William A. Sherman. Wm· · . mer.····· John Whlcher ....... . Thomas J. Baker.
Arthur S. Crites ....•
· P. Filmer······· John Whicher
Thomas J. Baker.
David J. Reese ......• "".m. P. Filmer .... · .. John Whlche ...... .. Thomas J. Baker.
Albert E. Boynton .. . Wm · P · Fil mer.······ John Whlcherr ... ·· ... Thomas J. Baker
George L. Jones ..... . >Vm. P. I<'ilmer .. ·· ··· John Whlcher' ·•····· Thomas J. Baker.
Will H. Fischer .... . Wm. P. Filmer ....... John Whlcher ::::::: Thomas J. Baker.
Gustav A. Hutaff ... . Wm. P. ~'.!mer .. · .... John Whlcher ..... .. Thomas J. Baker.
Chas. ::vr. Wollenberg. Wm. P. FI•ilmer. · · · ··. John Whkher ... '. .. .
1'homas J. Baker.
John Stewart Ross ... Wm. P. llmer ....... John Whlcher ...... . Thomas J. Baker.

•Deceased.
•Deceued.

Grand
Secretary

702

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

FOREIGN GRAND LODGES
RECOGNIZED AND IN FRATERNAL RELATIONS WITH THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alberta ................ S. Y. Taylor ...............Calgary
Brazil. ................ J. W. Soares Rinto ....... Rio de J aniero
British Columbia ....... W. A. De Wolf-Smith ...... .New Westminster
Canada (Ontario) .......Wm. M. Logan ............Hamilton
Chili. ....•.............Carlos Schurmann Riller ... Cassila No. 2687
Costa Rica ..........•.. G. F. Bowden ............. San Jose
Cuba.················· Aurelio Miranda Alvarez ... Habana
Ecuador··············· Louis W. Garcia Moreno ... Guayaquil
England ........•..•..• P. Colville Smith ..........London
E'r;mce (Grand Lodge of) Maurice Monier ........... 8, rue Puteaux,
Pa1·is
Independent National Norfolk Dane ............. 1, rue Belgrade,
Grand Lodge of France
Paris
Guatemala ..•.•....••.. Francisco Meindl .......... Guatemala
-Hamburg .......•...... Herman Beyer ............ Weicker Str. 3o
Hamburg
Honduras .............. S. Hernandez y Hernandez ..Tegucigalpa
Ireland ................ Henry C. Shellard ..........Dublin
Holland (Netherlands) ..H. P. Van Nieuwenberg .... The Hague
Manitoba ..•........... J. A. Ovas ................Winnipeg
New Brunswick ........ J. Twining Hartt ........ : .Saint Joh.ri
New South Wales ...... Arthur H. Bray ........... Sydney
New Zealand ..........•George Barclay ............Christchurch
Nova Scotia .....•..... James C. Jones ........... Halifax
Panama ............... ~'\ ntonio J. Bustamente .....Panama
Peru ................... Jose Angel :F.lscalante ...... ,Lima
Philippine Islands ...... Newton C. Comfort ........ Manila
Porto Rico ........•....Jose G. Torres ............ San Juan
Prince Edward Island .. E. T. Carbone! ............ Charlottetown
Quebec ............... W.W. Williamson ......... Montreal
Queensland .............Chas. H. Harley ........... Brisbane
Saskatchewan .......... W. B. Tate ............... Regina
Scotland......... . .... 'rhomas G. Winning ........ Edinburgh
South Australia ........ Chas. R. J. Glover ......... Adelaide
Tasmania .............. W. H. Strutt ............. .Hobart
Victoria ................W. Stewart ............... Melbourne
Western Australia ...... J. D. Stevenson ........... Perth
York (Mexico) ......... A. Percival Hughes ........ Aparta. 1986,
City of Mexico

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

703

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Post Office.
County.
Lodge.
No.
A. E. F. Irwin ...... 645 San Pedro .............. Los Angeles.
Abell .............. 146 Ukiah .....•............ Mendocino.
Acacia ............. 438 Los Angeles .....•.•.•.• Los Angeles.
Acorn ....•........ 494 Oakland ................ Alameda.
Adin .............. 250 Adin ..............•.... Modoc.
Alamo ............. 122 Walnut Creek .......... Contra Costa.
Alameda ........... 167 Centerville ......•.••.•• Alameda.
Albert Pike ........ 484 Los Angeles ..........-.. Los Angeles.
Alcatraz ........... 244 Oakland ...•...... , , ..• Alameda.
Alexandria ......... 531 San Francisco ... , ••..•• San Francisco.
Alexander Graham
Bell .............. 595 Los Angeles ........... , Los Angeles.
Alexander Hamilton.535 Los Angeles ........ , ... Los Angeles.
Alhambra .......... 322 Alhambra ............... Los Angeles.
Alisa! .............. 321 Pleasanton .............. Alameda.
All States .......... 593 Long Beach ............. Los Angeles.
Alpha . : .......... .431 Rfrhmond ............... Contra Costa.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport .............. Mono.
Alta Vista ........ .464 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Alta Loma .......... 644 Signal Hill ..............Los Angeles.
Alturas ............ 248 Alturas ................. Modoc.
Amity ............. 370 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Amador ...•........ 65 .Jackson ................ Amador.
America .......... .4 75 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ................ Orange.
Anchor ............ 273 Compton ................ Los Angeles.
Angeles Mesa . , ..... 625 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ................. Contra Costa.
Apollo ............. 396 Alameda ................ Alameda,
Arcadia ........... 547 Arcadia ................ ·Los Angeles.
Arbuckle .......... 182 Arbuckle ................ Colusa.
Arcata ............ 106 Arcata .................. Humboldt.
Argonaut ......... .461 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Argonne ........... 514 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande .......... San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ......... .414 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Artesia ............ 377 Artesia ................. Los Angeles.
Aseot .............. 538 I.1os Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Ashlar ............. 306 Colton ............... , .. San Bernardino.
Atascadero ........ 493 Atascadero .............. San Luis Obispo.
Athens ..•......... 228 Davis ................... Yolo.

704
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

PIWCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Post Office.

County.

Atwater ............ 622 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Azure ....••........ 533 Fullerton ............... Orange.
Azusa ............. 305 Azusa .........•..••••... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ......... 224 Balcersfield ............. Kern.
Balder .......•..... 393 San Francisco .......... San J<'raneisco.
Baldwin Park .....•. 660 Baldwin Park .......•... Los Angeles.
Bay City ....•....• 526 San Francisco ..•....... San J<'randsco.
Bay View ....•...•. .401 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Beacon of the West. 628 Los Angeles ...•....•••. Los Angeles.
Bear }\fountain ...... 76 Angels Camp ............ Calaveras.
Bell ..........•... .483 Bell ................... Lo.s Angeles.
Bellflower ...•..... 523 Bellflower ........•..•. Iios Angeles.
Belvedere .......... 539 Los Angeles ..••.....•.• Los Angeles.
Benevolence ....•••. 631 Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
Benicia . . • . . . . . . . . . 5 Benicia ................ Solano.
Benj. l!'ranklin ...... 509 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley •.............. Alameda.
Bethlehem ........ .453 San Frandsco ........... San Frandsco.
Beverly Hills ..•... 528 Beverly Hills .....•.... Los Angeles.
Big Bear .........•. 617 Pine Knot .........•••• San Bernardino.
Blackmer ......... .442 San Diego ............... San Diego.
Blythe ..•.........• 473 Blythe ................. San Bernardino.
Brawley •......... .402 Brawley ............... Imperial.
Brentwood ......... 345 Brentwood ............. Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .......... 225 East Oakland ........... Alameda.
Buckeye ...•....... 195 Winters ................ Yolo.
Buena Park ......... 357 Buena Park ............ Orange.
Burbank ........... 406 Burbank ............... Los Angeles.
Burlingame ....... .400 Bnrlingame ............ San Mateo.
Cahuenga .......•.. 513 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Caledonia ......... .486 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Calexfro . . . . ..... .412 Calexico ............... Imperial.
California ..•.....•• l San Fr11nri8co .......... San Francis<:o.
Calaveras .......... 78 San Andreas ............ Calaveras.
Callayorni .......... 282 Middletown ............ Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga .............. Napa.
Capital City........ .499 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Carmelita .........• 599 Pasadena ............... Los AngeleR.
Carpinteria ....... .444 Carpinteria ............. Santa Barbara.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............... Contra Costa.
Catalina Island ..... 524 Avalon ...........•.... Los Angeles.
Center ............. 465 Fresno ................ Fresno.
Charity ............ 362 Campbell ..•........... Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ..•.... 410 Berkeley ............... ,Alameda.

Lodge.

No.

Chateau Thierry .... 569
Chico .............. 111
Chino Valley ...... .427
Chula Vista .•.•.... 626
Citro! ....•.•....... 656
Claiborne .......... 185
Claremont ........ ,436
Clay ............... 101
Clear Lake .......... 183
Glinton ...•........ 119
Clovis .........•.. .417
Coachella ......... .4 76
Coalinga ........... 387
Compass ........... 590
Concord ............ 117
Confidence ......... 203
Consuelo ........•.. 325
Corcoran .......... .490
Colusa ............. 240
Composite , ...••••.. 639
Corinthian . . . . • . . . . 9
Corona ............ 324
Coronado ......... .441
Covelo ............. 231
Covenant ........•. 527
Covina ............. 334
Clarence F. Smith .. .482
Craftsmen ..•...... 559
Crescenta Valley ...• 652
IJrescent ......•.... 45
Crocker ...•....•... 454
Crockett ........... 139
Culver City ........ .467
Cupertino ...••..... 510
Curtis .....•....... 140
Chowchilla ........ .485
Damascus ...•.•.... 648
Delano ............. 309
Delta ............. .471
Dimond ............ 608
Dinuba ............ 385
Doric ......•....... 216
Downey .......•.... 220

705

Post Offiee.
Coui;ty,
Oakland ................ Alameda.
Chico .................. Butte.
Chino .....•............ San Bernardino.
Chula Vista ..........• San Diego.
Brea ......•............. Orange.
Point Arena ............ Mendocino.
Claremont ............. Los Angeleo.
Dutch Flat ............. Placer.
Lower Lake ............. Lake.
Igo ...•................ Shasta.
Clovis ................. Fresno.
Coachella .•............ Riverside.
Coalinga ..•........... .'rularc.
Pomona ................ Los Angclrs.
Sacramento ....•......• Saeramento.
Castroville ............. Monterey.
Escondido ............. San Diego.
Corcoran ............... Kings.
Colusa ................. ( '11l11sa.
Los Angeles .............Los Angeles.
Marysville ............. Yuba.
Pasadena .............. Los Ang(') es.
Coronado ............... San Diego.
Covelo ................. Mendoeiuo.
Los Angeles ........... Los Angeles.
Covina ................. Los Angeles.
Los Angeles ............ I,os Angeles.
Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Montrose ..•........... Los Angeles.
Crescent City ........... Del ~forte.
Daly City ............... San Mateo.
San l!'raucisco ........... San J!'randsco.
Culver City ............. Los Angeles,
Cupertino .............. Santa Clara.
Cloverdale ............. Sonoma.
Chowchilla ............. Riverside.
San Bernardino .•....... San Bernardino.
Delano ..............•.. Kern.
Stoekton ............... San J·oaquin.
Oakland .......••.....• Alameda.
Dinuba ................ Tulare.
San Francisco ........... San Francisco
Downey ................ Los Angeles.

706
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

County.

Drytown .....•..... 17 4 Plymouth .............. Amador.
Dunsmuir .......... 297 Dunsmuir ..........•... Siskiyou.
Durant .......•..•. 268 Berkeley ............... Alameda.
Eagle Rock ......... 422 Eagle Rocle ............ Los Angeles.
East Bay ........•.. 489 Berkeley ............... AlamRda.
East Belt .......... 391 Tuolumne ...............Tuolumne.
East Gate .......... 290 Los Angeles ..•.......... Los Angeles.
East San Diego ..... 561 East San Diego ......... San Diego.
Eden .......•...•.. 113 San Leandro ........... Alamerla.
Educator ..•....•.. 554 San Francisco .......... ,San Francisco.
Eel River .....•..•.. 147 Fortuna ............... Humboldt.
El Cajon Valley .•... 576 EI Cajon ............... San Diego.
El Centro ........... 384 El Centro ............... Imperial.
Elk Grove .......... 173 Elk Grove .............. Sacramento.
Elmhurst ........... 610 Oaklan.d ..•........... Alameda.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore ............... Riverside.
El Segundo ......... 507 El Segundo ............. Los Angeles.
El Sereno .......... 588 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Elysian ......•..... 418 Los Angeles ..•..••.... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs .................. Butte.
Enterprise . . . . • . . . . 70 Yuba City .............. Sutter.
Escalon ............ 591 Escal6n ................ .San Joaquin.
Eucalyptus ......... 243 IIaywards ............•• Alameda.
Euclid ............• 519 Los Angeles ........•.• Los Angeles.
Eureka ............ 16 Auburn ................ Placer.
Evening Star ....... 186 Etna Mills ............. Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside .............. Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Exeter ............. 424 Exeter ................. Tulare.
Fairfax ............ 556 Fairfax .................Marin.
Fairview ....•..... 629 Inglewood .............. Los Angeles.
Fairmount ......... 435 San Francisco ........... San Francisco.
Fallbrook ...•...... 317 Fallbrook .............. San Diego.
Fellowship ........ .480 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Ferndale ........... 193 Ferndale ................ Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........... San Francisco'.
Fillmore •.......... 379 Fillmore ................Ventura.
Florence ........... 649 Florence ................Los Angeles.
Fontana ........... 653 Fontana .....•.•..••... San Bernardino.
"B'oothill ........... 564 Oakland. . . . . . . . . . ..... Alameda.
Forbcstown ........ 50 Forbestown .........•.• Butte.
Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66 Alleghany ..........•.. Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ............. Mendocino.
Fort Crook ......... 575 Fall River Mills ........ Shasta.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

707
County.

Fortitude ........... 624 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Franklin ........... H:.l Courtland .............. Sacramento.
r?aneis Drnlte ...... 3i6 South San Francisco ..... San Mateo.
Francis K. Shattuck.571 Berkeley ............... .Alameda.
l:!'raternity ......... 399 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.
Fremont ........... 497 Oakland ................ Alameda.
Fresno ............. 247 }'resno ................. J<'resno.
Friendship ....•.... 210 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.
Fruitvale .....•.... 336 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Fullerton ..•....... 339 Fullerton ...... , ....... Orange.
Galt .....•..•...... 267 Galt ....................Sal'ramento.
Garden Grove •..... 586 Garden Grove ...........Orange.
Gardena ..•........ 372 Gardena ............... I,os Angeles.
The Gardens ........ 621 Belvedere Gardens ...•. Los Angeles.
Garvanza .......... 492 Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Georgetown ....••.. 25 Georgetown ............ El Dorado.
George Washington .. 525 San F:ancisco .......... San Francisco.
Glassell Park ....... 605 Los Angeles .........•. Los Angeles.
Glendale .•..•..•... 544 Glendale ...............•Los Angeles.
Glendora ........... .404 Glendora ............... Los Angeles.
Goldeu City ..••••••• 553 San Francisco ........•. San Franeiseo;
Golden Gate ........ 30 San Francisco ........... San Franeisro.
Golden Rule ........ 479 San Jose ............... Santa Clam.
Golden West .....•. 455 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Golden State ........ 358 Los Angeles ............ I,os Angeles.
Gold Hill. .......... 32 Lincoln ................ Placer.
Grafton ..•......... 141 Grafton ............... Yolo.
Granada. ............ 608 Alhambra ............. Los Angeles.
Gravel Range ..•...• o9 Camptonville .......... Yuba.
Grizzly ..••......... 601 Portola .............••. Plumas.
Guadalupe ....•.... 237 Guadalupe ............• Santa Barbara.
Guardian , ...••.... 596 South Gate ............. Los Angeles.
Hammonton .•..... .433 Hammonton ........... Yuba.
HanfoFd ........... 279 Hanford ............... Kings.
Harbor ..•..•...•.. 502 Riehmond .............. Contra Costa.
Harding ... , ....... 584 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City ............. Sierra.
Hartley ...•....•... 199 Lakeport .............. Lake.
Hawaiian •.....••... 21 Honolulu ............. Hawaiian Ter.
Hawthorne .•..•.... 647 Hawthorne ............. Los Angeles.
Hemet ............. 615 Hemet ................ Riverside.
Henry Clay .. , •....• 95 Sutter Creek ........... Amador.
Henry Morse
Stephens •.•••••• •G41 Berkeley .............. Alameda.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Post Office.
County.
Los
Angeles
........•..•
Los
Angeles.
Henry W. Knox ..•. U.D.
Hermann ........... 127 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Hermosa ........... 557 Hermosa Beach •..•... Los Angeles.
Hesperian .......... 264 Santa Maria ............ Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..••.. 382 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Hillcrest ..•..•.••.. 573 Berkeley ................Alameda.
Hill's Ferry......... 236 Newman ...•........... Stanislaus.
Hiram ............. 43 El Dorado .............. El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme ..... 458 I,os Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck . , ...... 319 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Hollywood ......... 355 Hollywood ............. Los Angeles.
Holtville •........ .425 Holtville .............. Imperial.
Honolulu •. • ........ 409 Honolulu .............. Hawaiian Ter.
Hope ........•..•.. 234 Beckwith .............. Plumas.
Hornitos ........... 98 Hornitos ............... Mariposa.
Howard ............ 37 Yreka ..............•.. Siskiyou.
HumboldL .......... 79 Eureka ................ Humboldt.
Huntington Beach ... 380 Huntington Beach ...... Orange.
Illinoistown . . . . . . . . 51 Colfax ...•........... '•.Placer.
Imperial ........... 390 Imperial ............... Imperial.
Ingleside .......•.•• 630 San Francisco .•.....•. San Francisco.
Inglewood .....•... 421 Inglewood ............. Los Angeles.
Fairview .......... 629 Inglewood .........•.• Los Angeles.
Indian Rock ........ 638 Berkeley ..•............ Alameda.
Inyo ............... 221 Independence .......... Inyo.
Ione ............... 80 Ione .•................ Amador.
Jam es A. Foshay •.•. 640 Los Angeles ....•........ Los Angeles.
Ionic .............. 520 Los Angeles ..•.•...•.• Los Angeles.
James A. Garfield ... 566 Los Angeles ...... ~ ..... I,os Angeles.
James Madison ...... 572 Los Angeles ..........•• Los Angeles.
Jefferson .......... 97 Laporte ............ , •• ,Plumas.
Janesville ...•..... 232 Lassen ................. Lassen.
Jewel ............. 374 San Francisco ......•.•• San Francisco.
John Marshall ...•.. 636 Los Angeles ...••....•... Los Angeles.
Jonathan •..•...... 545 San Francisco ...•...•.• San Frandsco.
Joppa ... ' ......... 508 San Joaquin ........... Fresno.
Joi:dan ..••....•.... 654 Los Angeles ........•... Los Angeles.
Jubilee ............. 604 Santa Ana .........•...• Orange.
Justice ....•.••.... 549 San Francisco ......••.. San Francisco.
Kauai ............. 589 J,ihue .................• Kauai, T. H.
Keith ............. 187 Gilroy ............•.... Santa Clara.
Kerman .........• .420 Kerman ........•..•.••. Fresno.
Keystone .•...••••.. 161 Milton ..........•..•.•• Calaveras.

Post Office.
County.
Lodge.
No.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ..............••.•• Hawaiian Ter.
King David's .•.... 209 San Luis Obispo ....•.... San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco .....•.••. San Francisco.
Knox, Henry W ..... U.D. Los Angeles .......•..•..Los Angeles.
La Brea ......•.••.. 650 Los Angeles .........•... Los Angeles.
La Cumbre ..•....•. 642 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
La Fayette .....•.. 126 Sebastopol .............• Sonoma.
La Habra .......... 659 La Habra ...............Orange.
La Jolla ........... 518 San Diego ...........•• San Diego.
Lakeshore ......••. 551 Oakland .......... : .•.. Alameda.
Lamanda Park ..... 621 Pasadena ............... Los Angeles.
La Mesa ........... 407 La Mesa ...............• San Diego.
Lancaster ......... 437 Lancaster ............•. Los Angeles.
Lankershim ........ 542 Lankershim ............ Los Angeles.
Landmark ......... 253 Esparto ................ Yolo.
La Puente ......... 446 Puente ...............•. Los Angeles.
Larchmont .......•.. 614 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Las Palmas .•...... 366 Fresno ..............•.• Fresno.
Lassen ............ 149 Susanville .............. Lassen.
Laurel ... : ......... 245 Willows ................ Glenn.
Lebanon ........... 495 San Francisco .....•.•• ,San Francisco.
le Progres de
l 'Oceanie ........ 3 71 Honolulu .....•..•....•• Hawaiian Ter.
Lexington ......... 104 El Monte ..............• Los Angeles.
Libertas ........... 466 Bakersfield ..........•• Kern.
Liberty ........... ,299 Santa Clara ............ Santa Clara.
Lincoln ........... .470 San Francisco .......... San FranciSco.
Lindsay ........... 416 Lindsay ................ Tulare.
Live Oak .•.•...... 61 Oakland ..............• Alameda.
Livingston ••....... 658 Livingston ....•........ Merced.
Lodi ...........•.. 256 Lodi ................... San Joaquin.
Lomita ............ 644 I,omita ................. Los Angeles.
Lompoc ............ 262 Lompoc ..........•..... Santa Barbara.
Long Beach ........ 327 Long Be11.ch ............ Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . . . . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
I,os Banos ......... 312 Los Banos .....•..•..... Merced.
Los Gatos .......... 292 Los Gatos ..........•... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loynlton ............... Sierra.
Loyalty ........... 529 Los Angel.es ............ Los Angeles.
Lynwood ........... 600 J,ynwood ....... ._......• Los Angeles.
Madera ............ 280 Madera ................ Madera.
Madison ........... 23 Grass Valley ........•.. Nevada.
Magnolia .......... 242 Santa Barbara ......•... Santa Barbara.
Malta .......•..... U.D. Los Angeles ••.......•.. Los Angeles.

708
Lodge.

No.

709

710
Lodge,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Manchester ••..... . 585
Maricopa ..•.•..... 434
Marin ............. 191
Mariposa . . . . . . . . . . 24
Martinez . . . . . . . . . . 41
Maui .......••..... 47ll
Maxwell .....•..... 288
McCloud ........... 430
McKinley .......... 347
Melrose ...•...... :.602
Menlo Park ........ 651
Menorah ....•...... 623
Mendocino ......... 179
Metropolitan ....... 646
Midway .......... .426
Military Service .... 570
Mill Valley ......... 356
Mission ............ 169
Mizpah ....•....•.. 378
Molino ............ 150
Moneta ............ 405
Montebello ......... 451
Monrovia ..•....... 308
Monterey .......... 217
Monte Vista ...••... 655
Morgan Hill. ...... .463
Morning Star ....... 68
Mosaic ............ 218
Mount Davidson .... 481
Mount Diab lo ....... 448
Mount Jackson ..... 295
Mount Moriah ...... 44
Mount Olive ........ 506
Mount Oso ......... 460
Mount Vernon ...... 517
Mountain Shade. . . . . 18
Mount Shasta ....... 281
Mountain View ...... 194
Natoma ............ 64
Naval ............. 87
Needles ............ 326
Neptune ........••. 619
Nevada ............ 13

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
County.

Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Maricopa ........•..... Kern.
San Rafael ............. Marin.
Mariposa .............. Mariposa.
Martinez .............. Contra Costa.
Maui, Kahului. ......... Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell •.............. Colusa.
McCloud ....•.......... Siskiyou.
Richmond .............. Contra Costa.
Los Angeles .....•..... Los Angeles.
Menlo Park .•....••..... San Mateo.
Los Angeles ....•.....• Los Angeles.
Mendocino ............. Mendocino.
Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Taft .................. Kern.
San Francisco ...........San Francisco.
Mill Valley .......•..... Marin.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Los Angeles ............. Los Angeles.
Tehama ............... Tehama.
Los Angeles •........... Los Angeles.
Montebello ............. Los Angeles.
Monrovia .............. Los Angeles.
Monterey .............. Monterey.
Long Beach .•..•.•...... Los Angeles.
Morgan Hill ............ Santa Clara.
Stockton ....•.......... San Joaquin.
Livermore •............ Alameda.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Concord ............... Contra Costa.
Guerneville ............ Sonoma.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Tracy ................• San Joaquin.
San Francisco ..•.....•. San Francisco.
Downie ville ............ Sierra.
Anderson .............. Shasta.
Mountain View ......... Santa Clara.
Folsom ................ Sacramento.
Vallejo .......•........ Solano.
Needles ............... San Bernardino.
Long Beach ........... Los Angeles.
Nevada City ........... Nevada.

Lodge.

No.

Newville ........... 205
Nicolaus .....•..... 129
Normal Heights ..... 632
North Butte ........ 230
North East ......... 266
Northern Light ...... 190
North Star .......... 91
Norwalk .....•..... 315
Oakdale ............. 275
Oak Grove .......... 215
Oakland ..•........ 188
Occidental ......... 22
Ocean Park ......... 369
Oceanside .......... 381
Olive Branch ....... 269
Olivet ............. 21.)5
Ontario ............ 301
Ophir .............. 33
Orange Grove ....... 293
Oriental .. : ........ 144
Orland ............ 265
Orosi .............. 383
Oroville ............ 103
Owensmouth •...... 611
Oxnard .........•.. 341
Pacific ............. 136
Pacific Grove ....... 331
Pajaro ............. 110
Palestine ........... 351
Pa)isades .......... 637
Palms ............. 512
Palmyra ........... 26
Palo Alto ........... 346
Palos Verdes ........ 389
Parfaite Union ...... 17
Park ............. .449
Park Boulevard ..... 568
Parnassus .......... 388
Pasadena .......... 272
Paso Robles ........ 286
Patterson ......... .488
Paul Revere ........ 462
Pearl Harbor ...... 598
Peninsula ......... ,620

Post Office.

711
County.

Paskenta .............. Tehama.
Wheatland ............. Yuba.
San Diego ..........••.. San Diego.
Gridley ...............• Butte.
Fort Bidwell ............ Modoc.
Millville ............... Shasta.
Fort Jones .............. Siskiyou.
Norwalk ............... Los Angeles.
Oakdale ............... Stanislaus.
Alameda ............... Alameda.
Oakland ............... Alameda.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Oceanpark ............. Los Angeles.
Oceanside .............. San Diego.
Tulare ................. Tulare.
Corning ...... ,'. ........ Tehama.
Ontario ................ San Bernarqino.
Murphy's .............. Calaveras.
Orange ................ Orange.
San Francisco, ......... San Francisco.
Orland ................ Glenn.
Orosi .................. Tulare.
Oroville ............... Butte.
Owensmouth ........... Los Angeles.
Oxnard ................ Ventura.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ........... Monterey.
Watsonville ............ Santa Cruz.
Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Santa Monica ........... Los Angeles.
Palms ................. LON Angeles.
Placerville ............. El Dorado.
Palo Alto ......•........ Sar.ta Clara.
Long Beach ............ Los Angeles.
San Francisco ..•....... San Francisco.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Oakland .......••....... Alameda.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Pasadena .............. Los Angeles.
Paso Robles ............. San Luis Obispo.
Patterson .............. Stanislaus.
San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Honolulu ............... Hawaiian Tcr.
San Diego ..•....••.••• San Diego.

712
Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
No.

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
County.

Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn .•........•..... Placer.
Pentalpha •......... 202 Los Angeles ........•... Los Angeles.
Perris ..•......... .411 Perris ................. Riverside.
Petaluma .......•.. 180 Petaluma .............. Sonoma.
Phoenix ...•....... 178 San Bernardino ......... San Bernardino.
Piedmont .........• 521 Piedmont ..•........... Alameda.
Pinole ......••..... 353 Pinole ................. Contra Costa.
Pittsburg .......... 429 Pittsburg .............. Contra Costa.
Plumas ............. 60 Quincy ................. Plumas.
Plymouth .........• 560 Oakland ................ Alameda.
Poinsettia ••••..... 633 Ventura ........ : ... · ... Ventura.
Point .............. 503 Richmond ............... Contra Costa.
Point Firmin ....... 558 San Pedro .............. Los Angeles.
Pomona •........... 246 Pomona ................. Los Angeles.
Porterville ........ ,303 Porterville .............. Tulare.
Presidio ........ ~ .. 354 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Progressive ....... ,578 Los Angeles ...,.... ~ .... Los Angeles.
Provident .•........ 609 Sacramento ............. Sacramento.
Pyramid ..........• 562 San :E;rancisco .......... San Francisco.
Queen Beach ....... 540 .r,ong Beach ............. Los Angeles.
Ramolla ............ 457 Monterey Park ......... Los Angeles.
Reading . ,. ......... 254 Redding ............ , ... Shasta.
Redlands .......... ,300 Redlands ............... San Bernardino.
Redondo ............ 328 Redondo ................ Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...... 168 Redwood City ........... San Mateo.
Reedley ........... ,304 Reedley ............... ,Fresno.
Rialto .............. 582 Rialto .................. San Bernardino.
Richmond .......... 375 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Rio Vista ........... 208 Hio Vista ............... Solano.
Rising Light ....... 397 Huntington Park ....... Los Angeles.
Riverbank ......... 459 Riverbank .............• Stanislaus.
Riverdale .......... 496 Riverdale ............... Fresno.
Riverside •......... 635 Riverside ............... Hiverside.
Rock ridge .......... 468 Oaklai1d .............. , .Alameda.
Hoosevelt ........... 500 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Rose's Bar .......... 89 Smartsville ............. Yuba.
Roseville ........... 222 Roseville ............... Placer.
Russian River ...... 181 Windsor .............. ,,Sonoma.
Sacramento ........ 40 Sacramento ............. Sacramellto.
Saint H!)lenai ....... 93 St. Helena .............. Napa.
Salinas ............. 204 Salinas ...............•. Monterey.
San Benito ......... 211 H~llister ................ San Benito.
San Buenaventura .. 214 Ventura ................ Ventura.

Lodge

No.

Post Office.

713
County.

San Diego . . . . . . . . . . 35 San Diego .............. San Diego.
San Dimas ......... 428 San Dimas .............. Los Angeles.
San Gabriel ........ 546 San Gabriel ............ Los Angeles.
Sanger ............. 316 Sanger ................. Fresno.
San Bernardino .... 348 San Bernardino ........• San Bernardino.
San Fernando ...•..• 343 Fernando .............. ,Los Angeles.
San Francisco, ...... 360 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
San Jacinto ........ 338 Sa~ Jacinto . , .......... Riverside.
San Joaquin . . . . . . . . 19 Stockton ............... San Joaquin.
San Jose .....•..... 10 San Jose ............... Santa Clara.
San Mateo ......... 226 San Mateo .............. San Mateo.
San Miguel ......... 285 San Miguel ............. San Luis Obispo
San Pasqual ....... .452 Pasadena ......•....... Los Angeles.
San Pedro .......... 332 San Pedro ...•.......... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana .......... 241 Santa Ana .............. Orange.
Santa Barbara ...... 192 Santa Barbara .......... Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz ....•.... 38 Santa Cruz ...........•. Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia ........ 302 Kings City ............. Monterey.
Santa Maria ........ 580 Ramona ................. San Diego.
Santa Monica ....... 307 Santa ],fonica ........... Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ......... 291 Sallta Paula ............ Ventura.
Santa Rosa .•....... 57 Sall ta Rosa ............. Solloma.
':lan Simeon ......... 196 Cambria ............... San Luis Obispo
:3chofield .......... .443 Schofield Barracks ...... Hawaiian TH.
Seal Beach .......•. 616 Seal Beach ...........• Orange.
Seal Rock ......••.. 536 San Jfrancisco .....•.... San Francisco.
Searchlight ..•..... 567 Long Beach .............Los Angeles.
Seaport ..•.. , .....• 550 San Francisco ...........San Franeisco.
Seaside ............ 504 Long Beach ............ Los Angeles.
Security ..........• 581 Bakersfield ............. Kern.
Selma ............. 277 Selma ................. Fresno.
Semper Virens ...... 552 Eureka ................. Humboldt.
Sequoia ............ 349 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Service , .....••.•. •594 Long Beach:· ........... Los Angeles.
Sierra Madre ....•.. 408 Sierra Madre ........... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ....... 184 Sierraville . : •.......... Sierra.
Signal ...•..•.•.... 543 Long Beach ...........•. Los Angeles.
Silveyville •........ 201 Dixon ...... , .......... Solallo.
Silver Cord ......... 505 Santa Ana .............• Orange.
Silver Gate ..•...... 296 San Diego ............. Sall Diego.
Silver Trowel. ..... .415 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Sincerity .......... 132 Greenville ....•..•.•... Plumas.
Sisson ..•..•...•... 310 Mount Shasta ......••.•. Siskiyou.
Smyrna ............ 532 Ceres ..•..••...••.••.• Stanislaus

714
Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No.

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
County.

Snow Mountain ..... 271 Stony Ford ............. Colusa.
Sojourner .......... 507 Monrovia .......•...... Los Angeles.
Solano ............. 229 Vallejo ...•..•..........Solano.
Sotoyome .......... 123 Healdsburg •.•..•.....• Sonoma.
Southern California .. 278 Los Angeles ........... ·Los Angeles.
South Gate........•. 320 Los Angeles ........... ·Los Angeles.
Southland .......... 618 Los Angeles ....•...... Los- Angeles.
South Park ......... 563 Los Angeles ..•......... Los Angeles.
South Pasadena ..•.. 367 South Pasadena ........ ·Los Angeles.
South San Francisco. 212 San l''rancisco .........• San Francisco.
South West ......... 283 National City ... : ...... ·Ban Diego.
Speranza Italiana ... 219 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
John D. Spreckels .•. 657 San Diego •............. San Diego.
Standard ........... 440 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Stanislaus .......... 206 Modesto ..............• Stanislaus.
Starr King.......... 344 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Stockton ........... 498 Stockton .............. San Joaquin.
Suisun ............. 55 Suisun ................. Solano.
Summit ............ 112 Knights Ferry .......... Stanislaus.
Sun Garden .......• 530 Fresno ........•..•.••. Fresno
Sunnyside ....•.•... 577 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Sunnyvale ......... 511 Sunnyvale ............. Santa Clara.
Sunr~e ............ 522 Los Angeles ..•..••••.. Los Angeles.
Sunset .....•....... 352 Los Angeles ............. Los Angolcs.
Surprise Valley ..... 235 Cedarville ...........•. Modoc.
S. W. Hackett ...... 574 San Diego .............. San Diego.
Table Mountain ..... 124 Cherokee ..........•.... Butte.
Taft ........••..••. 516 Taft ...•.•...•..•..... Kern.
Tehachapi .......... 313 Tehachapi ............. Kern.
Tehama . . . . . . . . . . . . 3 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Temeseal ........... 314 Corona ..............•. Riverside.
Temblor ........... 477 Fellows .............•.• Kern.
Temple ............ 14 Sonoma ................ Sonoma.
Texas .............. 46 San Juan ............... San Benito.
Thousand Oaks ..... 478 Berkeley ............•• Alameda.
Three Pillars ....... 613 Sacramento ........... Sacramento.
Torrance ........•. .447 Torrance ............... Los ~\ngeles.
Traver ...•.•....... 294 Kingsburg ............. Fresno.
Triangle ........... 548 Venice ................. Los Angeles.
Trinity ............ 27 Weaverville ............ Trinity.
Truckee ..•...••.... 200 Truckee ............... Nevada.
Truth ............. 597 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Tujunga ..........• 592 Tujunga ..............•. Los Angeles.
Tuolu.mne . . . . . . . . . . 8 Sonora ................ Tuoinmne.
Turlock ............ 395 'l'urlock ................ Stanislaus.
Tuscan •........... 261 Williams .............. Colusa.
Tyrian ............. 439 Manteca ........•...... San Joaquin.

Lodge

No.

Post Office

715
County

Union •.......•.... 58 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale .....•.....•... Los Angeles.
University ......... 394 Los Angeles ....•....... Los Angeles.
Upland ............ 419 Upland ................ San Bernardino.
Utopia .•....•....•. 537 Los Angeles ..•..•..••. Los Angeles.
Vacaville .......... 134 Vacaville .............. Solano.
Vallee de France .... 329 Los Angeles .......•.••• Los Angeles.
Vallejo ........... .487 Vallejo ...........•.... Solano.
Valley ............. 135 Linden ................ San Joaquin.
Valley Forge ...••• 587 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Van Nuys .......... 450 Van Nuys .......... , ... Los Angeles.
Veritas ............ 640 San Francisco ......••... San l!'rancisco.
Vermont Square .... 515 Los Angeles ..••....••. Los Angeles.
Vesper ............. 84 Red Bluff ........•...... Tehama.
Veteran ..•......... 373 Sawtelle ............... Los Angeles.
Victorville •.....•.. 634 Victorville .•.........•.. San Bernardino.
Victory .....••..... 474 San Francisco .......... San Francisco.
Visalia ............. 128 Visalia .....•.......... Tulare.
Vitruvius .......... 145 Bloomfield .......•..... Sonoma.
Volcano ...• : ....... 56 Volcano ................ Amador.
Warren G. Harding.579 North Saeramento ..••...Sacramento.
Wasco ..........•.. 583 Wasco .................. Kern.
Washington ........ 20 Sacramento ............ Sacramento.
Waucoba ..•....... 413 Big Pine ............... Inyo.
Welcome ........... 255 Lemoore ............•.. Kings.
West Adams ........ 565 Los Angeles ...........• Los Angeles.
Western Star . . . . . . . 2 Shasta ................ Shasta.
West Gate .......... 335 Los Angeles •..........• Los Angeles.
West Lake ......... 392 Los Angeles ............ Los Angeles.
Westwood ..•....... 501 Westwood ............• Lassen.
White Pine ..•...... 555 Weed ...........•..•....Siskiyou.
Whittier ........... 323 Whittier ..............• Los Angeles.
Willits ............. 365 Willits ................ Mendocino.
Wilmington ........ 198 Wilmington ....•....... Los Angeles.
Wilshire ........... 443 Los Angeles ........... -Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ....... 287 B~hop ................ Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ............ San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ............. Yolo.
Woodstock ..•...... 491 Alameda ............... Alameda.
Workman ......... ,612 Temple ................ Los Angeles.
Yerba Buena ....... .403 Oakland ............... Alameda.
Yolo ............... 81 Yolo .................. Yolo.
Yorba Linda ....... 469 Yorba Linda ....••....• Orange.
York ............. .423 Watts •........... : ..•. Lo~ Ange:~s.
Yosemite ........... 99 Merced ........•....... Merced.
Yount ............. 12 Napa ..........•.....•. Napa.

716

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES
Alphabetically Arranged

Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Adin ........................... Adin ........................... 250
Alhambra ...................... Alhambra ...................... 322
Alhambra ...................•.. Granada .....................•. 608
Alameda ........................ Oak Grove ..................... 215
''
....................... . Apollo ................. ~ ....... . 396
''
..................... ~ .. \Voodstock ..................... 491
Alleghany ..................... ,Forest . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
Alturas ......................... Alturas ......................... 248
Anaheim ....................... Anaheim ....................... 207
Anderson ................. , ..... Mount Shasta ................... 281
Angels Camp .................. ,Bear Mountain ................ , 16
Antioch , ....................... Antioch ........................ 175
Arroyo Grande ................. ,Arroyo ......................... 274
Auburn ......................... Eureka . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 16
Arbuckle ....................... Ar buckle ..................•.... 182
Arcadia .....................•.. Arcadia .......•....•.......... 547
Arcata ...................•...... Arcata ......................... 106
Artesia ......................... Artesia ............ , ............ 377
Atascadero ..................... Atascadero ..................... 493
A val on ......................... Catalina Island ................ 524
Azusa .........................• Azusa ......................... 305
Bakersfield . . . . . . . . . .. .... ·..... Bakersfield ..................... 224
''
... ~ ................. . Liberta.s ....................... . 466
''
........ ,. ............. Caledonia ........ ~ ............. 486
''
....................... Security ................. , ...... 581
Baldwin Park ..........•....... Baldwin Park ....... , •......... 660
Beckwith ......................• Hope ........................... 234
Bell ...........................• Bell ............................ 483
Bellflower .....................• Bellflower ...................... 523
Belvedere Gardens .............. The Gardens ................... 621
Benicia ........................ ,Benicia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5
Berkeley ...................... ,Durant ......................... 268
''
....................... . Berkeley ...................... . 363
''
....................... Thousand Oaks ................ . 478
''
....................... . Charter Rock .................. . 410
''
..................... ... East Bay ...................... . 489
''
........................ .. Henry Morse Stephens ...... ~ .... 541
''
.. ~ .................. ,. .. Francis K. Shattuck . ............ 571

717

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Berkeley ......••..••........... Hillcrest ............••..•..•... 573
''
....................... Indian Rock ................... 638
Beverly Hills ................... Beverly Hills ................... 528
Big Pine ....................... \Vauco ba ....................... 413
Biggs .......................... Emmanuel ...................... 318
Bishop ......................... vVinnedumah .......•.......•.• , 287
Bloomfield ..................... Vitruvius ...................... 145
Blythe .......•..................Blythe .......•.................. 473
Brawley ........................ Brawley ........................ 402
Brea .........•..••............ Citrol .......•.........•....... 656
Brentwood ...•................. Brentwo'od ..................... 345
Bridgeport ..................... Alta ............................ 333
Buena Park .................... Buena Park ................... ,357
Burbank ........................ Burbank ....................... 406
Burlingame .................... ,Burlingame .................... 400
Calexico ........................ Calexico ........................ 412
Calistoga ...................... Calistoga ........ , , ............. 233
Cambria ....................... ,San Simeon ..................... 196
Camp bell .•.................. , .. Charity ................. , . , .... 362
Campton ville . . . ............... Gravel Range ................... 59
Ca;rpinteria .................... Carpinteria ..................... 444
Castroville ................ , .... Confidence ..................... 203
Cedarville ...................... Surprise Valley ................ 235
Centerville ...................•. <\.lameda ........................ 167
Ceres ........................•.. Smyrna ........................ 532
Cherokee ....................... Table Mountain ................ 124
Chico ........•............•...• 9hico ........................... 111
Chino .......•••...............• Chino Valley ................... 427
Chowchilla .........•.•......... Chowchilla ..................... 485
Chula Vista ..................... Chula Vista ................... ,626
Claremont .......... , ..........• Claremont ..................... .436
Cloverdale ................ , ..• ,Curtis ........................ , , 140
Clovis .............•............ Clo vis ........... , .............. 417
Coachella .•..................... Coachella .............•......... 416
Coalingai ...................•.... Coalinga ....................... 387
Colfax .....•••.••........•••••.• Illinoistown .................... 51
Corcoran ...•.•................. Corcoran ....................... 490
Corona ......................... Te.mescal ....................... 314
Courtland ...................... Franklin ..................... ,,143
Covelo ...•................•.... Covelo ......................... 231
Colusa .......................•. Colusa ...........•.............. 240
Colton .......................... Ashlar ......................... 306
•Covina ...•........•.....•.•••.• Covina ......................... 334

718
Poet Office.

PHOCEEDINGS OF THE
Lodge.

Nu

Compton ..... , ... , ....•..•.. , , , Anchor ........................ 273
Concord ...•.•..... , • , . , . , ...•• ,:!\ft. Diablo ..................... 448
Corning , ...... , .•.•.. , ...•••... Olivet ........... , .............. 205
Coronado .....•..... , •.••...•.•. Coronado ....................... 441
Crescent City .................. Crescent . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 45
Crockett ....................... Carquinez ...................... 337
Culver City .................... Culver City .................... 467
Cupertino ...................•. , Cupertino ...................... 510
Daly City , ....• , •..... , ...•.... Crocker ........................ 454
Davis ...............•.......... Athens ......................... 228
Delano ............••...•••••• Delano ...............••...... 309
Dinuba .....•.........•...•..• Dinuba .............••... , ..... 385
Dixon ...•.....•..........•.•• Silveyville .................... 201
Downey .....••...••.......... Downey ....... , ......•........ 220
Downieville ...•.........•....• Mountain Shade . . . . . . . . • . • . . . 18
Dutch Flat .......•............ Clay .......................... 101
Dunsmuir .....•..•..•..•.••••• Dunsmuir .................•... 297
Eagle Rock .............•..... Eagle Rock .....•............. 422
El Cajon .......•............... El Cajon Valley ................ 576
East San Diego ................. East San Diego ................ 561
Elk Grove ..........•.......•. Elk Grove ....•......•......... 173
El Centro •...•............•..• El Centro ..................•.. 384
El Dorado ......•............. Hiram . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 43
El Monte ....•.....••••....•.• Lexington .................••.. 104
El Segundo .................... El SegunJJ .................... 507
Escondido .......... , . . • • .. , • Consuelo .........•............ 325
Elsinore ..............•.•.....• Elsinore ................••.... 289
Escalon ...................•.... Escalon ....................... 591
Esparto ..•.•..•.......•..•••• Landmark ........•........... 253
Etna Mills ....•.•..•..........• Evening Star .................. 186
Eureka .......................• Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • • 'Ht
''
.............................. . Semper Virens .................. 552
Exeter ........................ Exeter ....................... 424
Fairfax ................ , ......• Fairfax ....................••. 556
Fallbrook ..................... Fallbrook .........••.......... 317
Fall River Mills •.....•..........Port Crook .........•........•. 575
Fellows •..............•...•.•. Temblor ......•........•...... .477
Fexndale .•..................• Ferndale .......•.........••... 193
Fillmore ..............•...•... Fillmore .......•.... , .•.....•• 379
Florence ••.••...•.....••..••.... Florence .........••.... , ....•• 649
Forbestown ....•.....•.•..•.•• Forbestown . . . . • . . . • . . . • • . • . . . 50
Folsom ................. , .....• Natoma ............ , , .....• , .. 64
Fontana ....................... Pontana ....................... 653
Fort Bidwell ......... : ........ North East ............ .,...... 266

Post Office.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

719

Lodge.

No.

Fort Bragg ..........•..•..•••• Fort Bragg •.•... , .•..•....... 361
Fort Jones .•.........•......•• North Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • . . . 91
Fortuna ....................... Eel River ...................... 147
Fresno .•...................... Fresno .....•..•....•...••••.. 247
''
·················+••····Las Palmas ..................... 366
''
........................... Center ............................... . 465
''
............................ . Sun Garden ............... ,, ........ . 530
Fullerton .•••••••..••••.•....• Fullerton ..•.•......•.....•.... 339
''
.................... . Azure ......................... . 533
Galt .•.....•..••••.•...•••••.• Galt ....•..•....•....•........ 267
Garden Grove .................. Garden- Grove ................. 586
Gardena .•••....•••••••••••••• Gardena ......•..••............ 379
Georgetown ..••••..•....•..•.• Georgetown . • • • . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 25
Gilroy .......•.....••......... Keith ..................•..... 187
Glendale • , .................•.. Unity .....•........•.....•... 368
''
............................... . Glendale ...................... . 544
Glendora .....•................ Glendora ......•........•...... 404
Grafton ••.....•....•....•••• , • Grafton ..... ; ..•.....•........ 141
Grass Valley .................. Madison ...................... 23
Greenville . : •.....••......••.. Sincerity ......••.....•.......• 13ll
Gridley ••..•.•.••........••..• North Butte ..........•.•.•••. 230
Guadalupe ....•••....••.....••. Guadalupe .. ·............•.•.... 237
Guerneville ........•..........• Mount Jackson ••..•..••.••.... 295
Hammonton •..............••.. Hammonton ............•...••. 433
Hanford ....•..•.....•.....••. Hanford ..•.......•....••..... 279
Hawthorne ..•....•............. Hawthorne .......•.•...•..•.. . 6;1.1
Haywards ..................... Eucalyptus .................... 243
Healdsburg •••••...•.••......• Sotoyome ......•.•....••••..... 123
Hemet .......................•• Hemet ......................... 616
Hermosa Beach ................. Hermosa ....................... 657
Hilo, T. H ...••••...•••.......•• Kilauea ........•.....•.....•.. 330
Hornitos •••..•.•....•.....•.•. Hornitos • . . • . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • • • 98
Hollister ...•••..••..•..•..•.. , San Benito ..•....•..... , ..•••. 211
Hollywood .................... Hollywood .....•......••.•..•. 365
Holtville •....•.•.••........... Holtville .....•...... , •.....•.• 425
Honolulu, T. H ................. .:Hawaiian .•......•............• 21
''
................. le Pr ogres de 1'0eeanie . .......... 371
''
•.........•.•••• Honolulu .............••.....•. 409
"
................. Pearl Harbor .... * ••••••••• ~ • • 598
Huntington Beach •............ Huntington Beach ..•...•...... 380
Huntington Park ••......... , .. Rising Light ..............•... 397
Igo .. , •..•••..•..•..•.•..••..• Clinton ....................... 119
Imperial ..••....•.......••••.. Imperial .............•.... · · .. 390

PROCEEDINGS Olr THE

720
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Independence ....•......•..•••. Inyo ...................•...... 221
Inglewood ..............••...• Inglewood .............••...•. 421
''
..................... Fairview ...................... 629
Ione .......................••. Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . • • 80
Jackson ..........•........•... Amadol' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
Kahului, T. H .••............... Maui ................•....... .472
Kerman ............••...•.... Kerman ..............•....•... 420.
Kingsburg ...........•....•..• Traver ........................ 294
King City ......................Santa Lucia ................... 302
Knights Ferry .................. Summit ....................... 112
La Habra ...••........•.....•. La Habra .•.................•• 659
Lakeport ...................•... Hartley ...........•.....•••.. 199
La Jolla ........................ La Jolla ...................... ,:il8
La Mesa •.......•••........••• La Mesa ..•...........••...•.. 407
Lancaster ..•....•....•.•••..•• Lancaster ..•............•..•.. 437
Lankershim ..........•..••...... Lankershim ................... 542
Lassen ........•.....••.••...•. Janesville ...................•. 232
Lemoore ....•.•...•..•...•.••. Welcome ..............•...•••. 255
Lihue .......................... Kauai ........................ 589
Lincoln .........•..•....•...•. Gold Hill . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . • • • • • • 32
Linden •.•........•••....•.•... Valley ...........•....•....••• 135
Lindsay •.•....••..••..•....• , Lindsay ..................... .416
Livermore .....•.....••.•••..•• Mosaic .......•....... ·•...••... 218·
Livingston ....••.....•....•.... Livingston .........•....•..••.. 658
Lodi ..•..•.......•......•.•... Lodi .•..•...............•.•... 256
Lomita .........................Lomita ................ .' ....... 644
Lompoc .•.....•....•.......... Lompoc ......••...•......•.••. 262
Long Beach ................... Long Beach ................... 327
"'
....................... Palos Verdes .................... . 389
••.......•.•......• Seaside .•.....•............... 504
"
••...••.........•..Queen Beach ....•...•..••.•..•• 540
"

"
"
"
"
"

............. , .....Signal ........................ 543
...•.....•••••.••..Searchlight ..............•••••. 567
..............•.... All States ..................... 593
................... 3ervice ........................ 594
.................... Neptune ........................ 619
..•...•...•••••••• ,Monte Vista ..........•........ 655
"
Los Angeles .....•..•.•.......• Los Angeles • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 42
...••.............. \Vilmington .........•......... 198
"
•.•.••.•..••......• iPentalpha ...•.......••....... 202
•.................. Southern California ....•.•.• ; .278
"
••...•••..••..••..• East Gate .......•......••.••.. 290
"
.....•••••....•.... Hollenbeck ........•.•....••••. 319

"

Post Office.

GRAND J,ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

721

Lodge.

No.

Los Angeles ....••.....•..•...• South Gate ..........•......•.. 320
''
........................ Vallee de Franee ............... .. 329
''
.......................... West Gate ................................. . 335
''
..............· ................. Palestine .......................... 351
''
.......................... Sunset .......................... 352
''
...................... Golden State .................... . 353
''
...................... Mizpah ............................ . 378
''
.................. Highland Park ............ ~ .... . 382
''
.................... West Lake ..................... 392
''
~ ..... ~ ............ tJniversity .. , ................ . 394
''
..................... Moneta ....................._.. 405
''
..................... Arlingtotli ..................... 414
''
............. -· ...... Silver Trowel ................_.. 415
.••••••.......••... Elysian .........••••..•.....•. 418
"
................... Eagle Roek .................... 422
"
......••......••... Acacia ..••.........•.....••• .438
"
..•...••..•........ 'i.Vilshire ...........•..•.....•• 445
"
· •• , •..•.•••........ Van Nuys ......•.....•....... .450
"
•..............•..• Henry S. Orme ••......•....... 458
"
" •. , . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . America ...................... 475
•...•........•..... Clarence F. Smith .........••... 482
......•....•...•... Albert Pike •......••..•.•..•. .484
"
...•.•••.....•..•.. Garvanza ..•..........•....... 492
"
••......•........•• Mt. Olive .................••.. 506
"
......•..•..•..•..• Benj. Franklin .......•...••... 509
•.....••..••....... Cahuenga ...............•..... 513
"
..•................ Vermont Square .......•....•... 515
"
..•..........•..... Euclid ......................... 519
"
...............•... Ionic ........................•. 520
"
............•...•.. Sunrise ........................ 522
"
................... Covenant ......•........•...... 527
"
................... Loyalty •...........•....•..... 529
"
................... Alexander Hamilton ............ 535
"
.•.......•......... Utopia ........................• 537
"
................... Ascot ......................... 538
"
. • • . . . • . . . . . . • . . . . . Belvedere ......... ·............ ,539
.••••..............Craftsmen ..................... 559
"
....•..........•...South Park .................••• 563
"
....•......••....•. West Adams .................. 565
"
...•••.•.......•••• James A. Garfield ..•........... 566
"
•.•..••..•..••••.••
James Madison ............•.... 572
"
•.•••.......•••..•• Sunnyside ..•.................. 577
"

..

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

723

Lodge.

No.

PROCEEDINGS OF' THE

722

Post Office.
Post Office.

Lodge.

No

Progressive ..•........•... , .••. 578
I ;OS A ngel es ................. · · ·
................... Harding ................. · .. · · .584
"
••
Manchester .......•....•....... 585
"
................. : :valley Forge : ................. 587
"
. . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . El Sereno ..................... 588
"
.................. :Alexander Graham Bell .•....... 595
"
••
"
"
''
"
"
,,
,,
''
,,

::::::::::::::::::.Truth .......•..•......•.•....• 597
....•..•......... , .. Melrose .................•.•.•.. 602
..•••••.•..•.•.•••.Glassell Park .................. 605
.......••.•........ l.archmont ..................... 614
........•.......... Southland .........•............ 618
•.................. Atwater ........................ 622
.........•......... Menorah ................•...... 623
..........•.......• Angeles Mesa ...........•••.... 625
Benevolence .•..••.........•... 631
....•.............. John Marshall ...•............. 636
. · · ... · ............ Composite ..•...............•.• 639

"
:::::::::::::::::::.James A. Foshay ............... 641
''
..........•........ Metropolitan ......•.........•• 646
"
I,a Brea ....................... 650
"
· · .. · · .. • .... ·· .... Beacon of the West .•••........ 628
•'
... : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Jordan ........................ 654
''
..•............. Malta ......••............•... U.D.
"
. , ..........•..• Henry \V. Knox ............... U.D.
r,os Banos ..........•..•..•... Los Banos ....••...........•.•• 312
Los Gatos ......•.......•...... Los Gatos ................ · · · .. 292
Lower Lake ...•••••••••••• , ••.• Clear Lake •..•....•.••...••... 183
Loyalton ..•....•••.•..••.•.••. Loyalton .............•........ 859
Lynwood ....................... Lynwood ....................... 600
Manteca ..•.•..•......••.••••. Tyrian .•.....•............••.. 439
Maricopa ..•......•.... , •..• , .• Maricopa ..•......••.••.•..... 434
Marysville ...••..••...•....... Corinthian •...•..•....•• · • ... · 9
Maxwell ....•.••.•............ Maxwell .....•...............• 288
Madera •.....••••............• Madera ...•...............••.• 280
Mariposa ......•...••..••...•• Mariposa .....•.......... · . . . • 24
Martinez •....•.....•....•••... Martinez • • . . . . . . . . • . . . • . . . • . • • 41
Me Cloud ••........•......•.•.. Me Cloud ..••...........•...... 430
Merced .......•..•..••....•. '..Yosemite •...•.... · ...•••.• · · · · 99
Menlo Park ....•....•......... Menlo Park ..... ··•···•······· .651
Mendocino .•..•..•.••......••. Mendocino ....•........ · · · · • · .179
Middletown ...••..•....•.••••• Callayomi ... ·. •. · • • · · · · · · • · • • .282
Milton ........................ Keystone ..................... 161
Mill Valley ................... Mill Valley ............. ._ .. ·. · .351!

'.Millville ...................... Northern Light ................ 190
Modesto ...........••......•.. Stanislaus ....•................ 206 •
Monrovia •..... .,............... Monrovia ..................... 308
''
...•........•.......•. Sojourner .......... , ........... 607
Montebello •.•...•.. ~ •.......•. Montebello ........•...••...... 451
J',fonterey ..•..............•••. Monterey ..................•.. 217
Mont~rey Park.................. Ramona ...................... .457
Montrose .....•....•........... Crescenta Valley ............••• 652
M<?rgan .Hill ...•..............• Morgan Hill ..••.. , , ....••••••• 463
Mol,lnt Shasta .................. Sisson ••......•.•• , •.•.......• 310
Mountain. View .••.•.....•..•.. Mountain View ...•.••.••.•...• 194
1.furphy's ..•••........•.....•. Ophir ........................• 33
National City ................. South West .................... 283
Napa ....••.•..............•.. Yount ••..................••.. 12
.Newman ...................... Hill's Ferry ................•.. 236
Needles ......•................ Needles ..•........•...•....... 326
Nevad\J,. City ...•....•.......... Nevada ........•...•.......... 13
North. Sacramento ...............Warren G. Harding ............. 579
Norwalk ...................... Norwalk ••...........•.....••• 315
Oakland .. : ................... Live Oak , .......•............ 61
''
......................... Oakland '• ............... ~ .... .,. 188
''
.... ,• ......... ~ ....... Brooklyn '"'* •••••••• ~ . . . . . . . . . . . • 225
''
····~·6···············Sequoia ·~·····················349
''
............ ~ ...... ~ .... Alcatraz ..................... . 244
''
.......... ~ ................ Fruitvale ...................... 336
"
. .. .•.•.. . . .. .. .. .. .. .
View ........•...........• 401
............•......... Yerba Buena ...............••• 403
"
..........•........... Standard ..................... 440
"
...................... Rockridge .........•.......... 468
"
....•.............••.• Fellowship ................... .480
"
.•..••............•••• Acorn .....•.................• 494
"
.....•••..•......••••• Fremont ••..•.•••.......•...•. 497
•.••. , ••••..••••••••• , ,Lakeshore •••••.•....••...••••. 551
"
.•.....••..•...........Plymouth .......••.....•.•...• 560
•.........••...•......•Foothill ........•......•..•.... 564
...........•..•.......• Park Boulevard ...•.....•...... 568
"
.......................
Chateau Thierry •.............. 569
"
....................... Dimond ........................ 603
"
•••••• •
• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • Elmhurst
...................... 610
4
"
....................... Fortitude ...................... 624
"
Oakdale ...................... Oakdale ................•..... 275
Oceanpark ..................... Ocean Park ........•.•........ 369
Oceanside ..................... Oceanside ..................... 3Si
Ontario .•••................... Ontario . . . . . . . . . . . . . .....•... 301

"
"

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

724
Post Office.

Lodge.

Orange ..•.......•.....•..••.• Orange Grove . , ........•...••• 293
Orland .................. , ..... Orland ..• --· .•.......••....•..• 265
Orosi •...........•.•.........• Orosi ••..................•..•. 383
Oroville ....................... Oroville ...•.....•.•.....•..•• 103
Owensmouth .................... Owensmouth ................... 611
Oxnard ................•. , ...• Oxnard •.............. , ...••.. 341
Pacific Grove ..........•...... Pacific Grove ..............•..• 331
Palms .......•.............••• Palms ;, ..........•....••••... 512
Palo Alto ..................... Palo Alto .....•...........•.. . 346
Pasadena ..................... Pasadena ..................... 272
''
''

........ -. ................ Corona ........................ . 324
...... -. ................ San Pasqua] .................. 452
Carmelita .................... . 599
''
...................... Lamanda Park ~~ ........... -.... 627
Paso Robles .................•. Paso Robles •.......•.....•..•• 286
Patterson .•................... Patterson •...........•...•.•. .488
Penryn ......................• Penrhyn •...••................. 258
Perris .....•................•• Perris ....•...•......•.•..••• .411
Petaluma .•......•..•.....•.... Petaluma .....•.•............. 180
Piedmont ..............•....... Piedmont ............•......... 521
Pine Knot ........... , ......... , Big Bear ..................• , . , . 617
Pinole ............•.......•.•. Pinole .............•.•...•.•.• 353
Pittsburg ..................... Pittsburg ..........•.......•.• 429
Placerville ...•.....•.....•.... Palmyra • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • . • • 26
Pleasanton ..................•. Alisa) •..................•...•. 321
Plymouth ••..................• Drytown •.•........•..•..•..•• 17 4
Point Arena ....•............. Claiborne •.....•............•. 185
Pomona .....•.......•......... Pomona •........•.........•..• 246
''
....................... Compass ............... ~ ..... . 590
Porterville .................••. Porterville ..•.....•.....•...•. 303
Portola .•....•...........•.... Grizzly ......................... 601
Puente •. ·......... ·•·. ·•. ·.•....••• La Puente ..................... 446
Quincy . ·• ·. ·, ·.. ·..........•.....• Plumas . ; .• ' . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 60
Ramona ..••........•.........•• Santa Maria ........... ; ....... 580
Redondo ....... ·.•............. Redondo ...........•...•...... 328
Redding ••...•.....•.........• Reading •...........•..•...... 254
Redlands ..•.........•.......• Redlands ........•..••.•....... 300
Reedley ...•.•..............•.• Reedley .................•••... 304
Redwood City ................. Redwood City .. ·• ............. 168
Red Bluff ...•..•.........•..•• ·vesper . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . 84
Rialto ..........................Rialto ........................ 582
Richmond ......•...•.•.•...•.• Alpha ...........•••....•.•••. 431
''

••••••

#

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

725

Lodge.

No.

No.
Post Office.

Richmond ..........•..•.••..•. McKinley .............•....... 347
••••......•......•..• Harb.or •................•..•.. 502
"
''
.......... . - ............ Point ......................... . 503
Rio Vista .............. , ....•• Rio Vista •....•........•...... 208
Riverbank .............•...... Riverbank ....................• 459
Riverdale .......•..•....•....•. Riverdale .............•......• 496
Riverside .....•..•......•..... Evergreen .........•.....•..••. 259
Riverside •........•..........•.. Riverside .•................•.. 635
Roseville ....•..•.•....••...•. Roseville ...............••....• 222
Sacramento ....•.............. Tehama .................... , , • 3

••••••••••••

''

......... ~ ....•.... \Vashington . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .. . 20

''
''

..............•.... Sacramento . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . 40
.................... Union ........................... 58

''
''

.................. . Concord ...................... ,.117
................... Capital City , .................. 499
................... Provident .. ~ ................... 609

''
. ''
. · . · • . · · · ... • ...... Three Pillars ................... 613
Saint Helena .......•...•....•. Saint Helena .................. 93
Salinas .....................•... Salinas . . . . .
204
San Andrea·a .................. Calaveras ... : : : : : : : : : : ·.::::::: 78
San Bernardino .....•.........• Phoenix ••..............•....• 178
: '.
................ San Bernardino ............... 348
................ Damascus ....................• 648
San Diego •................•.•. San Diego . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 35
''
•••.................• Silver Gate ...............•.... 296
"
· · · · · · · · · · ........... Blackrne:r ..... ·................ 442
"
· · · · · · · · · · · · · ... · ....• S. W, Hackett .................. 574
,,
· ............... : .... Peninsula . . . . . . .
620
· ... · · ............. Normal Heights . .' .. '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'::: .. 632
John D. SpreckeJs ... ~ .........· .°657
San Dimas ..................... San Dimas
428
San Fernando .....•..........•..San Fernand~.:::::::::::::::: :343
San Franeisco ................• California . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 1
"
................. Parfaite Union ................ 17
''
...•.........•..• Occidental . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • 22
''
.................. Golden Gate . . . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . .. .. . 30
''
................. Mount Moriah .................. 44
''
.................. ll'idelity ......................... . 120
''
................. Hermann ......... ~ .............. ,127
"'
................. Pacific ......................... . 136
''
.................. , Croek~tt ...................... . 139

"

' '

w ••••••••••••••

''
''

•••

•

.................... Oriental ......................... . 144 .
................... Excelsior .. ~ ..... ~ .. ~ .... -..... . 166;

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

726
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

San Francisco . .......•..••.••• Mission ......•.............••• 169
...............•• South San Francisco .........•• 212
"
...............•. Doric ....••.............. ·..... 216
"
..............•.• Speranza Italiana ...........•. 219
"
................. King Solomon's ............... 260
"
.......•......... Starr King . ,. .................. 344
"
..........• : ..... Presidio ....•...............•• 354
"
................. San Francisco ................• 360
"
................. Amity ........................ 370
"
...............•. Jewel •.....................•. 374
"
................. Richmond ..................... 375
"
................. Parnassus ...................•. 388
"
................. Balder ..........•...........•• 393
"
................. Fairmont ..................... 435
"
................. Park .......•................. 449
"
•................ Bethlehem ..................•. 453
"
................. Golden West .................. 455
"
................. Argonaut ..................... 461
"
................. Paul Revere ...•.............. .462
"
................. Alta Vista ..................•. 464
"
................. Lincoln ....................... 470
"
.......•..•...• , . Victory ..•.............•.....• 474
"
................. Mt. Davidson ................ .481
"
................. Lebanon ....................•. 495
"
................. Roosevelt ...................•. 500
"
.....•........... Argonne ........................ 514
"
................. Mount Vernon ................. 517
"
................. George Washington ........••.. 525
"
................. Bay City ....................... 526
"
................. Alexa.ndria ..................... 531
"
.................Forest Hill ..................•.. 534
. ................ Seal Rock ..•.................. 536
"
................. Jonathan ...................... 545
"''
................. Justice ........................ 549
''
................. Seaport ....................... 550
"
................. Golden City ................... 553
''
................• Educator ...................... 554
''
................• Pyramid ..............•.....•. 562
''
................• Military Service ............... 570
''
.................. Ingleside ...•................... 630
................• Verita.s ....................... 640
"
San Gabriel. .................•. San Ga.briel ................... 546
Sanger ........................• Sanger ........................ 316

..

Post Office.

Lodge.

727
No;·

Sa.n Ja.cinto ..............••... Sari.Jacinto ................ , .. 338:
San Jose ....................... San Jose •..•.••..•...••....... 10
'' ....................... Friendship ............... ~ .... 210
'' ....................... Fraternity ..................... . 399
'' ....................... Golden Rule ................... ·. 479
San Joaquin .................... Joppa .............•.....•..•. 508
San Juan ..•..•..............• Texas ....•............•...•.• 46
San Leandro ....•..........•.. Eden •.......••.............•• 113,
San Luis Obispo ............... King Da.vid's .................. 209
San Mateo •.................•• San Mateo .................•.. 226.
San Miguel ••................•• San Miguel •............ " ..•.. 285
San Pedro ..•................... San Pedro ...................... 332
''
...... · ............... Point Firmin ................. . 558
''
.................... A. E. F. Irwin .................. 645
San Rafael ......•...........• Marin ....•.•...•....... , ....• 191
Santa Ana •...........•....••. Santa Ana. ...................• 241'
''
.................... Silver Cord ................ • .. 505
''
.................. .. Jubilee ........................ . 604
Santa Barbara .............•.. Santa Ba.rbara .....•........•• 192
''
................ Magnolia ..................... 242
''
................ La Curobre .............. ,., ... 642
Santa Clara ....•...........•.. Liberty , , •.. , .. , , , •..•.....• , .299
Santa Cruz ..................•• Santa Cruz ...................• 38
Santa Ma.ria ..............••.• Hesperian ................•.... 264
Santa Monica ................• Santa Monica ........ , ......•. 307
''
.................... .Palisades ...................... 637
Santa Paula ................•• Santa Pa.ula .........•......•• 291
Santa Rosa ................••• Santa. Rosa. ..................•. 57
Sawtelle ...................... Veteran .....................• 373
Seal Beach ..................... Seal Beach ..................... 616
Schofield Barracks .......••.••• Schofield .....................• 443
Sebastopol .................••• La Fayette ..............•• , ••• 126
Selma ................. ; .....• Selma. .......................•• 277
Shasta. .......................• Wes tern Star . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • • • 2
Signal Hill. ...................• Alta Loma ...............••..•. 643
Sierra City ...................• Harmony ...••................ 164
Sierra Madre ...............•.• Sierra Madre ................. .408
Sierra ville .................••. Sierra. V a.lley ............•..•• 184
Smartsville ..•..............•• Rose's Bar ..................• , .89
South Ga.te ..................... Guardia.n ...................... 596
South Pasadena ............... South Pa.sadena. ............... 367
South San Francisco .........• Francis Dra.ke .............•... 376

72.8

PROCEEDINGS OF- TH1ll

~11$0ffice
Lodge
No.
Sonomai •••••..•••••••.•.•••••• Temple • . . . • • . . • • . . • • • • • . . • • • • li

Sonora •...••..••••......•.•.•. Tuolumne • • . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . • . . 8
Stockton .•.••••••••••••..••••• San Joaquin • . . . . . . . . . . . • . • . . • 19
''
... ,. ....................... Morning Star . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . . 68
"
•.••••.•..••...•••.•.. Delta ....•..•.....•....•...••• 471
••
...-.................. ., ..... Stockton ................. ., ... 498
Stony Fo:i:d .................... Snow Mountain ..••...•....•••• 271
Su:nJJ.yvale •..•••••.••••••••..• Sunnyvale .•.•.•.•.....•...••. 511
Susanville •.•.•...•••••.••.. , .• Lassen ••.....••.•....••...... 149
Sutter Creek .•••.••••....••••• Henry Clay ................... 95
Suisun , ••••..•••••....•.•••.•• Suisun • • • • • • • • . . • . . • • . . . . . • • • • 55
Taft •••••••.••••.••••.••..•••• Midway ..•..•.••....•..•..••. 426
''

....... ,. ......................... .. Ta.ft ............................. .. 516

Tehama. ••....••..•.•.•.•.••..• Molino ....•••.....•......•.••• 150
Tehachapi ••••.•••••••••••.•.•• Tehachapi ................... , •313
Temple ...........••............ Workman .....................•. 612
Torrance ..•..•••...••.•.•••••• 'l'orrance .......•....••....••. 447
Tra.ey •••.....••....•.••••..••• Mt. Oso ...........•.....• ; ...• 460
Truckee ...•...•.....•..•....•• Truckee ..............•.....•• 2QO
Tujunga .....•..•... , • , ....•..• Tujunga ...................... , 592
Tulare •.... , .•.•.•.••. , ••.•••• ,Olive Braneh .................. 269
Tuolumne .......•......•...... East Belt ..................••• 391
T11rloek .......•.........••...• Turloek ..........•.•......•••• 395
Ukiah .......•......•.......•• Abell .•••.............•.•..... 146
Upland ........••...........• ,,Upland ...•..............••••. 419
Vallejo , ........•.....••....• ,Naval .... ·.•................•• 87
''

....................... Solano· .......................... 229

''
......................... Vallejo ....................... 487
Vaeaville ................•..•• Vacaville ....................• 134
Van Nuys ..................... Van Nuys .................... 450
Venice ........................ ,. Triangle ...................... 548
Ventnra ............•.....•.• ,San Buenaventura ..........•.. 214
''
....................... Poinsettia ..................... ~ . 633
Victorville ..................... :Victorville .................... 634
Visalia •.......•.....•....•••. Visalia ........................ 128
Volcano ..............••...•.•• Volcano . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . 56
Walnut Creek ........•.••.•.•• Alamo ........................ 122
Wasco ..........•..•..•••.•••. '.Vasco ........................ 583
Watsonville ..........•.. , , •• , .Pajaro ........................ 110
Watts ....................•••• York •........................ 423
WeaveTville ....•......•.• , •.•• Trinity ..................•.... 27
Weed •......••......••....••.• White Pine ................... 555

GRAND LODGE 01!' CALIFORNIA

729

Lodge

No.

Post Office

:~stwtlood ......•.....•. • •• • .• •Westwood .............•.....• 501
ea and • · • . . . • . • . • . . . • • • • . • Nicolaus . ................ ···•· 129
Wh'tt'
1
ier · · · · · . · .•.•..•..•...•• Whittier . . . .
323
w·
t ers ...•.. •. • •.. • •• ••• .•. •.Buckeye
·················· 19in
W'llit
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . ;:i
1
s · · · · · · · · . · · •• • •..•.•.••• Willits
365
Willows ............•..... ••.•.Laurel '.:::.: ...... • ..••....... 245
Windsor
·
· · ·· · · · · · · · · · · ·' '· ·'
· · · • · · · · • · · · •• • ...•••• Russian River
181
Williams
.
· · · · · · · · · · ·· · · · · ·
261
· · · · · · • · •. · ..••••.••• Tusean
W'l
·
·······•·•····••••··••• 198
i m1ngton
....••......•.•.••• Wihnington
w oodb r1'dge · ..•. · ...•••..•... , Woodbridge ········•········· .131
w 00 di d
................. ..
y 1 an · · · · · · · · · · · · • · ..•..•• Woodland .................... . 156
o o ............•.......••••• Yolo .
81
' 469
Y or b a L'mda ................... Yorba· ····················•··
Linda
·
y k
................. .
y:~aai
.Howard..................... • .. 37
Y • • ••••••.•..•••••••• Enterprise ...•........•....••• 70

cit.............. " ... •••

Grand Lodge F. & A. M. of California

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON
CORRESPONDENCE.
October, 1927
By JESSE M. WHITED

To the Most Worshipful Grand Master, Officers, Members of the
Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
I herewith submit my Seventh Report as Chairman of the Com·
mittee on Correspondence. The views expressed under the various
subjects, as heretofore, are the individual ideas of the Chairman.
The topics embodied in the Report are those that present questions which have generally brought forth expressions of o.pinion or
action in the various Jurisdictions. There are others which might well
and properly be included, but lack of space prevents. Some of the
most important may be briefly outlined in the following paragraphs:
BIBLES: The practice of presenting Bibles to candidates haa
met with approval in a number of Jurisdictions, in some cases being
required by regulation. Whether it will have any particular eft'ect is a
question upon which there may be a dift'erence of opinion. If some
plan could be formulated that would induce a study of the Volume
of the Sacred Law the purpose might be obtained.
HIGHER DEGREES: We have always inclined to the belief
that the Masonic organization bears a close resemblance to our Public School system, and the "Higher Degrees" should bear the same
relations to the Blue Lodge that the University bears to the Common
School. The wish to join such organizations too often is from motives
other than a sincere desire for knowledge, both Masonic and otherwise.
HOMES: Whether Relief through the Home system, which
considered in its final analysis, is not making the Fraternity more
and more of a beneficiary society in the minds of the general public
and its members is a debatable question. We have never heard of a
Grand Lodge erecting a Masonic Home and afterwards abandoning
it, or failing to maintain it. Those who have not yet adopted s11Ch a
plan believe there is a closer touch and responsibility in disbursing

REPOR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE

3

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

2

funds through the individual Lodge. A~mini:tr~~?tt; th;~~~~i~::
plan has the merit of eliminating the erection o a i iona
b
'
and the cost of maintenance and fixed. overhead that m~~~ti;np:~~
vided regardless of the number of resident~ !n ~n ~~~ned to pass
atmosphere of the home is lost. Too often a o ge is
its responsibility on to the Grand Lodge.
LIBRARIES: Traveling libraries where est~blished are becomTh d
d for them is the result of the
in!i::;v~:l~d~:~~!:~· Cic:ro ::::~~ "The library is the soul ofk~he
ca
" d as the educational program extends so must the wor mg
house, an
"d d The follow'.ng Grand Lodge libraries stand as
tools be prov1 e ·
· · · d' f
·
monuments in this particular line to their respective 1uris ic ions.
.............. 35,000 volumes
~:~~h~~~~-~·-::::::::::::::::::::::::::
35,000 volumes
New York................................................ 18,000 volumes
1
North Dakota .......................................... 22,000 volumes
· .......................................... 20'
19 000
umes
Pennsylvania
000 vo
volumes
South Dakota.......................................... '

........

MASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIATION: In the opinion of a
mber of the larger jurisdictions the Association has dep~rted from
;tu . . l ur se and become more a commercial enterprise for t~e
it~ oro~i;;a:Oni~books periodicals and other activities which require
:n eexpenditure of larg~ sums in the cost of operation. At the ~r.es~~t
time little more than fifty per cent of the Grand Lodges that ongm . y
became members continue and the numerical strength of the remaining ones is less than one-third of the United States.

ti:e

PUBLICATIONS: There is no question bu~ that
greater
ortion of the membership are uninform_ed on the ideals, history and
Pur oses of the Fraternity. The Masonic press :eaches a very small
~u~ber. We believe a Grand Lodge could. publtsh, own and :~;:r~!
a "House Organ" that would appeal to its members, prov1 d h
them The success of the "Masonic Outlook'' an t e
cou ld rea ch
·
d
f N
York and the
"Cable Tow," publications of the Grand Lo ge o . ew
Philippine Islands, respectively, demonstrates this fact.
STUDENT LOAN FUNDS: This method of helping deservi?g
bo s and girls is one that has become popular in a numb~r of Juns.c~ions Those Grand Lodges which have already establlf1shheld ,;hemd
.
. . r·
thdf"se-epan
find no cause to regret their action. t ts a me o o
.
not charity. The requirements that a loan must be repaid, shou.l~
conditions permit, tends to the building of ch~rac~er. _The .b~y or gir
who practices self-denial to meet such an obhgation ts building upon
a safe and firm foundation.

dl

THE NATIONAL MASONIC TUBERCULOSIS SANATORIUM: Some twenty-six Grand Lodges and the General Grand
Chapter of the Eastern Star have appcinted members on the Board
of Governors. The matter is still in formative condition. The report
of the Secretary of the Association shows receipts of $12,956.62;
expenditures $10,029.12, balance on hand $2,927.50. Most of the funds
were spent for publicity purposes. The refusal of a number of Jurisdictions to become associated with the proposition is based upon the
following objections: (a) The large amount of money necessary to
perfect the plans, the bulk of which must come from Jurisdictions
now taking care of their own cases; (b) The Association being a
separate corporation might impose legal and financial obligations
upon a Member of the Association, which would prove dangerous;
(c) The advice of recognized hospitals and associations dealing with
tubercular cases is that generally it is better to treat patients in the
locality wherein they reside rather than concentrate them in any
particular section of the United States.
The Grand Master of Alabama expresses in the following words
an opinion that is worthy of serious consideration:
"It seel)ls to be the habit of Grand Masters to place their fingers
on the public pulse and then inform the Craft of the worst symptom
they think they can find. If I had to venture an opinion as to the
most discouraging one I find, it would not be the increase in murders, highway robberies, bootlegging, or crime in general. It would
be the disposition so prevalent and conspicuous everywhere to do
the least and poorest work for the most pay. The prevailing watchword is 'Get by.' Interest in an employer's business or pride in the
quality of one's own work is with a very large and increasing percentage of the people wholly lacking. The idea is to do just enough to
keep from getting fired. There is constantly increasing clamor for
shorter hours and fewer days work, not in order to give more time for
self-improvement but more time for idleness and joy-riding, and other
frivolities, not to say in many instances for dissipation and vice. The
experiences of mankind have crystallized into two aphorisms which
condemn utterly this indolent and shirking spirit. They are 'Idleness
is the devil's workshop' and 'There is no excellence without great
labor.' The man or nation that falls into idleness is going to fall
behind in the race of progress.
This slovenly, lazy, frivolous, or indifferent spirit just described
gets no encouragement from Masonry. Most of its symbols are implements of labor; its very name is a synonym of labor. It says
much for the beauty and dignity as well as utility of labor, but
nowhere has a word of approval for idleness or for a disposition to
slight one's work."

REPORT ON CORHESPONDENCE

4

.
the words we quoted last year from the Grand Ma~·
We 'beheYe
h
a Mason individually can best serve his
ter of Delaware as to ow .
~ontmunity, are worth repeating.
.
"First of all he can give his moral and. finanh~ichalm
an;k:~~:~:
· t•tuf ns in the community w 1
support to those ms 1 io
h 1.
h nd whether he likes
lend the church a e ping a •
H
wel far~. . .e can
t The minister isn't the Church any

::r:=e~e s~~:: 0°[ an~~dge is Masonry. He can get ~eh!:i~

the task of public education and work to see ~hat ·th~ b°:s :
c~ar­
of the present generation have the ~est school.mg ;~er:° ~= can enb ·1di
that money and brains can give
.
acter . w ~ laygrounds, libraries, night schools, hospitals, ~e
courage pu
P
M C A
d Y. w. c. A. movements. To bun
Molay Chapters and Y • · • · an
ki
who has the spirit to serve, opportunities are not 1ac ng.
again desire to acknowledge the obligation we owe t~ ~e
e.
eral Grand .Bodies and Grand Lodges o t e
Secretaries of the se~
f M
. ublications and other writers.
United States, the Editors o
ason1c P
W

yours sincerely and fraternally,
JESSE 1\4. WHITED, Chairman.

COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE
Jesse M. Whited, Chairman
William B. Ogden
Victor McLucas
Olin L. Berry
Harry K. WoHe.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

5

ADVERTISING
We believe it was Barnum who said that "there was one bom
every minute." The average member of the Fraternity has faith in
our Institution; tell him that a thing is Masonic and in a large number of instances the statement is accepted as absolute truth. Rules,
regulations and edicts seem powerless to prevent designing persom
from "grafting" upon the Fraternity. Experience is an expensive
teacher and more so when a person purchases it at the cost of an
ideal. Pe!;haps experience plus education may in time assist in curbing this evil.
In a large number of cases it is due to the man who joined the
Fraternity to· see how much he could gain from a personal and com·
mercial standpoint. An endeavor to secure political, commercial or
social preference by reason of membership in. a Fraternity should
place the persons employing such a method outside the pale of Masonic respectability, if not subject him to regulation.
Alabama (1926):
(Gratid Master) : Brethren sometimes (no doubt unthoughtedly)
embarrass 'officials of Grand Lodge or of other Masonic bodies by
using the Masonic title of such officials in political or business advertising. This should never be done; no use of the fact that one is a
Mason or that he holds office in any Masonic body should ever be
made or referred to in any way that might generate a suspicion that
one's Masonic character or his official prominence as a Mason was
being used for either political or business purposes.
England (1926):
The Board of General Purposes deprecates "the exhibition in
public of Masonic certificates often shown on business premises for
what can be considered only trade purposes; and it urges brethren
generally to take every means to stop the use in connection with the
Craft with advertisement or appeal in any form which is for private
advertisement * * * ."
Ireland (1926):
(Grand Master) : Members of the Craft are strictly forbidden
to use the fact of their membership as a means of promoting business or of securing private advantage. They are forbidden to use
any of the emblems of Freemasonry on a sign or in any other way
on business premises, business correspondence paper, or in comaection with any business advertisement. ~ Masonic Certificate must
not be displayed or allowed to be displayed on business premises.
Any breach of this ruling will be considered as un-masonic conduct.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

7

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

6

This ruling is not intended to apply to th: sale of. Masonic
articles in Masonic circles or to advertising them m Masonic papers.
Massachusetts (1926):
d
( G d Master) : I have directed the District Dep~ty Gran
Maste;:a~o request you to discourage publicity of the private functions of our Lodges, and to aid me in making a survey of the ex:ent to
which publicity of our Lodge meetings is now current. Th1fs h~s
.
h
t d
be made of the matter o pu been done m order t at a s u Y may
.
.
bli~
licity of Masonic affairs, not only in the public press, but m pu d
cations issued by groups of Masons, as the basis of rec.om~en
tions which it may be necessary for me to make for action Y
e

t:-

Grand Lodge.
Mississippi (1925):
•
.
(Q1.ery to Grand Master): Is it proper for a Mason who ts operabtlng
.
f II ws. "The Blue Lodge mem ers
h .
d th
a traveling bureau to a dvert1se as o o .
have no opportunity for tours like the members of the. S ri~e an
e
. hts Templar and are left to make their own vacat10n trips. To be
K mg
•
dh
anged a tour
d h .
helpful in this direction, we come to the rescue, an ave arr
for Blue Lodge members-the party will be limited to Masons an t etr
families, or invited friends"?
Ans. Such advertising is undoubtedly an at~en:pt :o u~e th~
·
for busi'ness purposes, and 1s m violation o
Masonic connect10n
this Section.
Montana (1926):
.
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The secrecy of Masom~
activities has always appealed to us as one of its greatest eleme: ~s -~
strength. nowadays we find entirely too much newspa~er pu ict !
iven to' Masonic doings and functions; in our humble Judgment, it
~akes Masonry from its high plane to lower levels, and causes
improper comparisons by the profane, and even of our own. membership, with activities of other organizations, w?ose very existence
depend on being constantly kept before the pubhc eye.

1

New Hampshire (1926 ):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Some thoughtless breth)
ren (we are almost tempted to say some demented brethren
started a Masonic Bowling League. They encountered Gr:,nd Ma~te;,
Penn, who ordered them to quit this abuse of the word Masomc.
They did.

*

*

*

Not believing in Masonic advertising the Grand Master (Manitoba) asks that it be enacted that there are only two occasions when
Masonic regalia may be publicly worn, at a funeral and at the laying
of a corner-stone. That is rather rigid, in our opinion, but we could
easily live under such a provision of the constitution. We have just
got to admit, all of us, that there is quite too much of publicity as
to our Masonic life and Masonic affairs.
Virginia:
(Grand Master): I regret having to repeat the warning uttered
before regarding Insurance Companies for Masons Only, and
wish to call the attention of the Craft to the fact that such
organizations are in no way identified with, nor have the endorsement of this Grand Lodge. The insurance may he as sound as
any, I cannot say that it is not, but do not get the idea that it
has any connection whatever with Masonry.
The Grand Lodge of Virginia does not endorse business
ventures of any character, nor does it lend its name or influence
to any commercial business of any kind. Section 139 of the
Methodical .Digest forbids this, and it is a violation of this section,
in my opinion, for a company of Masons to use the name Masonic
in connection with any business enterprise conducted solely for
pecuniary gain.
I fear some of the representatives of these companies in their
enthusiasm promote their own interests at the expense of Masonry,
and I feel that action should be taken to prevent or check as
far as possible, these tendencies to modernize or commercialize
Masonry.

Wisconsin (1925):
(Grand Jlfaster) : The name "Masonic" in this connection is
unwarranted and certainly creates a false impression. As a matter
of fact, this is not a Masonic cemetery you are advertising, but
merely has several sections available to Masons. The Revised
Statutes of \Visconsin prohibits the unpermitted use of the name
of certain fraternal organizations, including Freemasons.
ATTENDANCE
The great desire of the present day is amusement and until a
Lodge furnishes something more attractive to the average member
than the movie, the radio and automobile and other forms of enjoyment, the lack of attendance at meeting will continue. We cannot

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

help but think that too much importance is now being given to the
matter of ritual and the Lodge has ceased to be a place where a
brother can find recreation, companionship and enlightenment
To~ often meetings are not called on time, the evening is devoted
only to routine and ritual, with vacant seats resulting. An organization, to continue, must live in the present and not in the past. Those
that walk with their heads in the clouds also stub their toes. The
abridgment of the Ritual, less degree work and a smaller membership
in Lodges so the members could become acquainted, would assist in
solving this question.
Florida (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is not difficult to
find an ailment; but the prescribing of the remedy is altogether
But it
different. The writer is not attempting such a task.
appears to him, from reading the proceedings of the various York
Rite Grand Bodies, that there is a growing feeling among the
rank and file of the Craft that they are not getting what they
expected, although it would no doubt be difficult for many of
them to make that want intelligible. Perfection in ritualistic work,
study classes and other educational work, banquets, socials, are all
desirable, but possibly some one is carried to excess at the overlooking of the others.
The writer at one time lived in a section where much was
made of diversified farming, and with apparent success. This
prompts the writer to suggest that a formula of diversified
Masonry, in proper proportions to meet local needs, would produce
gratifying results. A definite formula works out in the plant and
commercial world, and why would it not in the Masonic world?
Idaho (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The striking feature of
all such gatherings was the educational matters introduced and the
readiness with which they were grasped. It is not true that nothing
rouses interest but vaudeville and sensational matter. At least it
is not true among the Masonic Lodges in this State. The Grand
Master and the District Deputies, I think, will agree when I say
that the average member is thirsting for information and instruction of the right sort, and is anxious to read and inform himself
when proper guidance is given. What is needed is a program of
instruction, and leadership to carry it out.
Very often Lodges lag, lose In attendance and interest, fall into
factionalism and ill feeling, or else die of "i:lry rot" because they

9

have no. de~nlte aim, no purpose, no program. Active and forward
leaders?ip is another prime necessity. No organization will die
when it ha.s a ~u~pose. for existence and wise leadership. It is
only after its m1ss1on 1s filled that it dies.
·
Men will not eat sour bread when they have better food. No
:Mason worth mentioning will dwell on the meaner phases of Hfe
1
~ surrou.nded by wholesome lodge activity and the higher questions of intellectual and moral improvement. Let us try to supply
the proper lodge activity; let us furnish the program. Let us
e~courage the right kind of leadership. Then possibly attendance
will be bett~r. If the Lodge is made worth while it may be the
members will care less for the picture show, the sensational and
the scandalous. Possibly they may be less inclined to neglect the
Lodge for the other degrees and the Shrine. It is even possible
that more study of the principles of Masonic living might reduce
the amount of "bootlegging" among Masons, and possibly the
number of broken homes.
We would recommend more Lodge activity. More social life·
more instr~ction in the fundamental principles of Masonic living:
We would suggest to the District Deputies of the larger Districts
~hat they m_ight well provide for two District meetings a year-one
m the fall m one locality, the other in the spring in another.
Montana (1926):
(Member of. Grand Lodge): These people have undoubtedly
found out someth1~g .that fa~es all of us in the smaller lodges in the
~tate. Probably 1t 1s outside of education, a matter probably to
increase the attendance of our lodges. Of course we don't anticipate that the brethren are coming to our lodges to be educated.
We .find that they are interested more in what became of Aimee,
for mstance, or what happened to Andy Gump, than what has
happened to the Constitution.

New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman

Correspondence

Committee):

The

Grand

Master

~Oregon, 1926) believes that the success or failure of a Lodge
is to be measured by the attendance of its members. Most of us
:would pr~bably think some other qualifying matters should enter
mto the Judgment.
New Zealand (1926):
(Grand Master): It appears that considerable difficulty is
found in keeping up the interest and activity of some of our

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

younger brethren, and this, when viewed in conjunction with what
I have just said, gives cause for serious thought. Many young
Masons, I am told, drop away, finding, as they say, monotony, and
even boredom. You may, perhaps, think that I overstate the case;
yet I am assured that many earnest and promising young Masons
find themselves disappointed in their aspirations and become slack
in their attendance.
I have no hesitation in saying that the fault must lie in our
system. We must somehow have failed to impress on our brethren
the fundamental object of Freemasonry, which I take to be the
moulding of characters, which will, by the force of their example
and their influence, spread a light in the world and draw mankind
closer together. We may have become too stereotyped in our
Lodge working, have devoted too much time to ceremonial, have
paid too much attention to the outside of the cup and platter, and
forgotten that it is to the heart that we must make our appeal. It
may be that in our lectures, papers, and addresses we have become
too abstruse and idealistic, and have neglected to point out the
practical application of our ideals. We have, perhaps, not spent
enough effort in teaching our brethren that while it is to the Lodge
that we come for inspiration, yet the real interest and use of our
Craft lies outside the Lodge, in our everyday life, in the happiness
that it brings us, and in the happiness that we can impart to
others; in the personal influence which we are enabled to wield
over our fellow men.
We who are older men, we on whom is laid the responsibility
of guiding and teaching our younger brethren, must be careful lest
in becoming absorbed ourselves in the beauty of our ritual, in the
fascination of the working of degrees and of research work, in
the interest which our position in the Craft gives us, we forget
the yearning of younger miflds to be something more than spectators and listeners. We must ever remember to lead them on to
the underlying meaning of what they see and hear, and to show
them that all is designed to teach how all day and every day in
their workaday lives we can be active Freemasons by ennobling
ourselves and helping and elevating others.
North Carolina ( 1927) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): But when the third
degree is being conferred on the second floor of the Masonic
Temple, and the Shrine on the third, which will draw the bigger
crowd? When a good drama is found in one theater, and a senseless leg-and-skin show in the other, where will the Standing

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

11

Room Only sign be up? Where is the Washington city crowd
on a Sunday evening; in church, or at Keith's? Is it not true
that the movie house has claimed successfully many who once
attended lodge meetings?
Don't brag too much about
men's
tastes; you might be disappointed.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : These are days of
activity, and when men find nothing beyond attendance on Lodge
meetings, and sitting on the side lines and twirling their thumbs,
they soon lose interest, and seek other channels through which
their energies may find expression.
The Mormon church shows wisdom in this respect. Practically
every member holds some sort of office and is assigned a definite
work to do.

CLUBS
Any Club whether using the word "Masonic" or emblems designating it as such acting contrary to Masonic ideals is a menace. When
conducted along proper lines they should have encouragement and
support, for they are of great advantage, not only to the member
of a Jurisdiction, but also to unaffiliated brethren. We cannot subscribe to the idea that membership in a Masonic Club produces nonattendance at Lodge meetings or support of its work and activities.
In numerous cases the result has been exactly opposite and beneficial
to Masonry in general. When a Lodge provides a method for social
intercourse and hospitality the Club perhaps will go out of existence.
Where a Club or any other organization of a like character with
Masonry as a prerequisite follows practises not in keeping with the
ideals of the Fraternity there should be discipline of individuals
through their Blue Lodges, rather than by legislation to penalize all
for the acts of the unwise or unthinking.
Colorado (1926):
(Grand Master) : I feel that I would be false to my duty as Grand
Master, did I not call the attention of the Craft to the alarming·
growth of Masonic Clubs in our midst. It seems to be all the
rage, especially in the large populated centers, to organize clubs,
some of them with grotesque names, limiting their membership
to Masons only. These clubs are being organized, no doubt, with
good intent, but in most cases are making violent departures from
Masonic standards and usages for their amusement and pleasure,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

such as g1vmg puMic dances and selling tickets therefor, holding
picnics on Sunday, requesting permission to exemplify degrees in
their club rooms for practice. The action of these clubs on the
public mind is associated with Free Masonry, and blurs the vision
of our ideals.

The committee to whom referred weri, either Scots, a remnant of the "Ten lost tribes," or real humorists, as they recommended that "the Grand Secretary be instructed to offer copies of
the Proceedings of our Grand Lodge as they may choose to
wut." As a liberal estimate is that not more than two per cem
of any Jurisdiction read their own Proceedings, and only the
Fraternal CoHespondent those of Sister Jurisdictions, the gift will
likely only be worn out by the duster.

12

Louisiana (1926):
(Grand Master): During the year the Masonic Drug Club of New
Orleans was organized. This matter was called to my attention
by one who thought that it was commercializing Freemasonry.
Upon investigation, I found that it was holding under the National
League of Masonic Clubs, that it was organized for social purposes
only and that there was no commercial element in it. I therefore
consider it in the same class with a Square and Compass Club,
the Salesman's Square and the Masonic Club of New Orleans, all
of which have received our approval.
Manitoba (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Some "bright" minds
seem to devote a lot of their time to devising means of
getting something for nothing. This outbreak is caused by the
following letter:
"Dear Brother:
"The Grand Lodge of Oregon last year appropriated funds to
build a clubhouse near the University of Oregon campus for the
use of Masonic students and faculty. \Ve have a splendid lounging
and library room combined, together with other facilities to pro~
mote Masonic fellowship.
"At the present time we are endeavoring to fill our vacant
shelves with suitable books on Masonry. It occurred to us to
have a part of this shelf space set aside for gifts from the various
Grand Jurisdictions of the forty-eight states. Due to the facilities
which the officers of each Grand Lodge have at their disposal and
to their superior knowledge of Masonic symbolism, literature and
art, we are writing you in anticipation of receiving suggestions as
to· how your Grand Lodge would like to be represented in this
prospective collection.
"\Ve believe such a library would be unique. At the same time
its practicability would uot be lessened, for the young Mason would
have access to the best literature of the Fraternity available, if the
above plan can be suceessfully carried out.
"Fraternally yours,
"JOHN M. McGREGOR."

13

Nebraska (1926):
(Chairman Corresponde11ce Committee) : Masonic clubs, in some
jurisdictions frowned upon, find here a hearty welcome and the
strong approval of this Grand Master. When the occasional objection
to them is analyzed, it will be found that the contention is that the
name "Masonic" should be confined to Masonry. It would be a
charitable concession to those jealous of the name to have the Masonic
club and forego the use of the term.
New York (1927):
(Grand Master) : The situation on . clubs remains practically unchanged and the warning issued by my predecessor was timely and
good. The social features of Freemasonry are an essential part of
the Masonic life and have long been recognized as such. Good
Masons }oined together in a club will not encroach upon the principles
of the Craft, since they know that the name Masonic belongs to the
Craft and to it alone. Moreover, their devotion to Masonry for its
own sake will move them to protect it at all times and prevent perversion, misunderstanding or misinterpretation of its laws, to which
we are all sworn to give obedience. Those of our membership who
would join other organizations called Masonic in order to gain the
right to do things un-Masonic are blind to the great Light and deaf
to the immutable principles so oft repeated. I admonish such that
Grand Lodge imposes the conditions of Lodge membership, and has
the inalienable right to enforce them.

I wish I could lay down a formula for clubs, or rather define
those which are good and those which are bad. 'Tis trite but trne,
that those whose activities help the Fraternity itself, its principles and
its work for mankind are good and should proceed with their work;
those that hinder, obstruct and even play false to the Fraternity
should be wiped out forever.

Utah (1927):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Utah in common with
other Grand Jurisdictions holds to the principle that all Masonry and

14

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masons within this Jurisdiction are under the laws of the Grand
Lodge of Utah. Clubs bearing the title "Masonic" are using that
concerning which the Grand Lodge of Utah claims the right 'to legislate. These ~fasonic Clubs made up of ~fasons, and by the profane
not distinguished from other organizations bearing that title, have
been known to discuss politics, and by vote express preference for a
candidate, or introduce other features which might bring discre~it
upon Masonry. The Grand Lodge of Utah speaks the final word
concerning Masonry and :Masonic activities in this Jurisdiction.
Sojourners and members-elect are under its penal Jurisdiction. A
Masonic Club, as a Club, could flout, or ignore, this reasonable provision, but the Club is made up of Masons, and our laws speak to and
for Masons, for the Grand Lodge is sole guardian of the good name
and of the interests of Masonry in this State. Masons as individuals
will think twice before they risk their Masonic Standing, to say nothing of belying their obligations to abide by the laws, rules and
regulations of Grand Lodge.
Western Australia (1926):
(Chairman CorrespondenCf Committee): Bro. Foulds (New Jersey,
1925) notes that Masonic Clubs for social purposes are "quite general throughout this Jurisdiction" to the great advantage of brethren.
He gratefully records the cordial hospitality he received from the
San Francisco Masonic Club in 1923, and this writer can testify to
the unfailing courtesy of that institution from his own personal experience of honorary membership during a fortnight's stay in the
"Golden Gate City" a few years ago.
CO-ORDINATE BODIES
The co-ordinate Bodies appear generally to be functioning in
accordance with recognized Masonic standards and that they, perhaps, are not now "viewed with alarm" as in the past. They supply
a post-graduate course in Masonry to those who desire to take
advantage of it, and in many cases broaden the scope and meaning
of the Blue Ritual. We do not believe that, taken as a whole, they
have attempted to make Craft Masonry merely a recruiting ground,
and consider their own work as superior or greater thi\l.n that of the
Symbolic Lodge. There are, of course, exceptions.
The work of the Scottish Rite in Education, the Knights Templar
with their Educational Loan Fund, the Shrine with its Hospitals
for Crippled Children, the Eastern Star with their activities in the
various Homes now caring for convalescent and undernourished chil-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

15

dren, and last but not least the Sciots Foundation are 1_>roducing
results .that are truly Masonic. The Mason who has the proper
viewpoint and realizes that his allegiance first, last and always in
things :Masonic is to the Grand Lodge of the Jurisdiction in which ~e
belongs. \There are always exceptions but these fortunately are m
the minority.
Kansas (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Committee on Jurisprudence (Colorado), in dealing with this subject, offered the following, which was adopted:
"This Grand Lodge cautions Masons in this jurisdiction against
any organization which tends to disrupt the harmony of the Craft."
If this recommendation means anything we fear the Grand
Master of Colorado will "have his hands full" in forbidding brethren
from becoming members of some of the numerous organizations
now predicating their membership on Ancient Craft Masonry.

*

*

*

A resolution was presented and referred to their Committee on
Jurisprudence (Idaho, 1926), which contemplated extending fraternal
recognition to the Mystic Shrine and the Grotto. Strange as it may
seem, the Committee on Jurisprudence not only accepted the resolution but likewise amended their law formally recognizing the above
organizations and granting to all members the privilege of joining
the Grotto and the Shrine. The writer has a list of more than thirtyfive other organizations predicating their membership on Freema·
sonry and will be willing to furnish a copy to any of. our sister Grand
Lodges who care to extend fraternal recognition to any or all of them.
Massachusetts (1926):
(Grand Master) : The activities of external groupings of Masons, in
organizations which make membership in our Institution the basis of their
membership, have in recent years required, and have, in increasing
instances from year to year, been the subject of definitive action and
edicts by the Grand Masters and Grand Lodges of the several Grand
Jurisdictions of this country. On several occasions they have been
the subject of action in our own Jurisdiction.
This matter .is brought to attention at this time particularly
because of a further tendency which seems to he attaining some
vitality and which I believe to be due in no small measure to the
failure to understand and to appreciate the significance of the rules
of Masonic jurisprudence just quoted. I rdcr to an attitude which,

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

while it may not be precisely described as defiance of authority,
savors of that Un-Masonic attitude of mind. I have no purpose to
accuse or to condemn any Brother unheard. What I advert to is a
more or less subconscious tendency of the mind to react to ,its immediate environment, and to the growth of a habit of thought ·influenced
by immediate objectives. In this lies a danger in the external groupings under discussion; and to it is due some of the misconceptions
which find expression on the part of those who become absorbed in
these activities to the exclusion of the fundamentals as taught in
our Lodges.
"When obedience to the laws and regulations fails among the
Craft, and when the Grand Lodge irresolutely fails to enforce its
authcrity, the Institution will become a rope of sand, and the decay
of Freemasonry is at hand." (1883 Mass. 46.)

replies to any such questions: First, we need to deal with the
interests and welfare of our own membership; second, we, more than
any others, have a stake in the name "Masonry." If that name is
misused or brought into disrepute by any persons or organizations
whatsoever, it is not only our rig\lt but our duty to take action
concerning it.

16

14ichigan (1926):
(Grand Lodge, Adopted): No Mason within the jurisdiction of
this Grand Lodge shall promote or organize any order or society, nor
become a member of any order or society hereafter promoted, organized, or established in this Grand Jurisdiction, whose qualification for
membership shall be Masonic affiliation, unless such order or society
shall have received the formal approval of this Grand Lodge.
Nevada (1926):
(Chaff-man Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Colorado fell in line with his predecessors and took a firm stand
against organizations building upon Freemasonry. The Grotto and
the Order of De Molay are particularly named. Neither of these
orders are deemed objectionable in themselves, but he believes that
interest in them sap Masonry's strength by directing the interest of
its members into collateral channels. If these collateral channels
are to the detriment of Masonry, well and good, but if they prove
serviceable to our fellow creatures, where's the harm? We do not
believe in curtailing a member's freedom by prohibiting measures
except for good and sufficient reasons. Service for our fellow creatures
in its broadest sense is what Masonry stands for and it's up to
Masonry to keep such service headed in the right direction. It has
the power and can do it.
New York (1927):
(Grand Alaster): There are those who may question the propriety
of Grand Lodge taking any action at all so far as organizations other
than those of Symbolic Masonry are concerned. I would make two

North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): One matter only we
should be disposed to point out as a cause for difference between himself (c;hairman Correspondence Committee of Tennessee) and this scribe:
We perceive that his language is not intolerant nor is it extreme,
except upon the one subject of the Ku Klux Klan. Now we are not
of the membership of the Klan, but we are unwilling to say, as does
Brother Smort, that "a Mason cannot be a Mason and a member of
the Ku Klux Klan." This is a statement which no man may prove,
and as such ought never to be made. His explanation is, that
"Fraternity and Toleration" forbid that a man be a Mason, and at the
same time a "member of the Klan." Perhaps there are different
shades of opinion as to the meaning of Fraternity and Toleration, as
applied to the case of one who is a member of both bodies. Does
one necessarily surrender his right of free thought and action, solely
because he has become a member of either of these organizations?
And are there not instances bordering upon the lack of toleration,
upon certain printed Masonic records which some of us see occasionally, bearing not the slightest taint of the Klan?
As stated above, we don't belong to the Klan, don't have the
slightest desire to attempt to pin wings, or even bouquets, upon it;
but believe that Liberty, Equality, Fraternity, Toleration, Temperance, Consistency, should not be divorced.
Pennsylvania (1926):
(Grand Master) : Complaints have come to the office of the Grand
Master, in such number, during the past year, regarding the grossly
un-Masonic conduct of certain organizations, whose membership is
composed entirely of Masons, that it is evident, if the present conditions continue, that action by Grand Lodge, for their suppression,
will become a matter of necessity, in the not distant future.
Cases, some of them of a degrading nature, are now under investigation, which, being of wide notoriety, inevitably tend to bring the
Fraternity into disrepute, in many minds, while others, based on
differences existing within the offending organizations themselves,

19

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

are considered and are widely quoted as "quarrels among ~h.e Masons,"
which will also tend to the establishment of erroneous opm10ns regard-

when tolerated will lead to more, till our ancient institution will be
utterly emasculated. Pennsylvania has the correct idea. Boys, girls
and women should content themselves with something else.

18

ing the Craft.
The suggestions of Grand Master Goodyear,. th~t the ti;ne .had
come when the yrivilege of accepting membership m orgamzatmns
of this character which may hereafter be estab~ishe~, should ~e
denied to the brethren, is being given careful consideration, and will
probably come before Grand Lodge.
Tennessee (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Mas~~r of
South Dakota seems to be partial to the DeMolays and kmd~ed
organizations notably the Job's Sisters, Joan de Arcs and Sunshtne
Sisters. Ho~ about the Sons and Daughters of I Will Arise?
As to the K. K. K., he thinks it best to let it alone and death will
claim it as its own. Here in Nashville, the latest we have heard about
the organization is that the Sheriff gathered in the fiery cross and
the wigwam on an execution. put 'em out of house and home, and
we don't believe the misguided members have the whereon to lay
their heads.
Texas (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It seems to me we are
getting too many side organizations or foster children a_ttached to
our Masonry; too many side lines to attract the attention of our
members from the real objects and purposes of Masonry; I therefore
recommend the adoption of the following resolution by this Grand
Lodge:
"Resolved, that no Master Mason under the jurisdiction of this
Grand Lodge shall promote, organize or ~ecome. a rr:err:be: ~f ~ny
order or fraternal society, hereafter established 111 this 1unsd1ction,
whose qualification for membership is based upon being a. Master
Mason unless such order or fraternal society shall have received the
sancti;n or indorsement of this Grand Lodge."
Virginia (1927):
(Chairman CorresPonde11ce Committee): The Grand Master was
glad to find that their law requiring one year to :lapse b:fo~e a
Master Mason could apply for degrees in other Masomc orgamzations
was pleasing to all. \Ve are sorry to see that he favors th: De M~lay
and the Rainbow. Masonry is and should ever be a man .s orga~1za­
tion, and it should tolerate no training school. These mnovations

Wisconsin (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Colorado recommended that no recognition or countenance be
extended to the Mystic Order of the Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted
Rea,Jm (the Grotto), or to the Order of De Molay for Boys; not
because either of them are objectionable in themselves but because
the Grand Lodge should adhere to the principle that "No countenance
should be given to new organizations which seek to build on Freemasonry." In the end Freemasonry everywhere will have to assume
this attitude because the number of such organizations is constantly
increasing until they are positively bewildering. These extraneous
organizations are very much like the decorations on a lady's bonnet,
so numerous and obtrustive as to hide the original foundation from
view entirely. It is time to call a halt.
CORRESPONDENCE COMMITTEE REPORTS
Perhaps the greatest work that any Committee on Education
could perform would be to evolve some plan whereby the Reports
of the Correspondents of the various Grand Lodges could be broadcasted to the members of their respective Jurisdictions. Touching
every phase of Masonry they reflect the opinions of men who have
given years of sacrifice and devoted service to the ideals and practical work of the Fraternity. While some Correspondents express
dogmatic ideas and are prone to judge others by standards applying
only to their own Jurisdictions, still these are exceptions. The
Reports of such men as Kies, Baird, Daniel, Block, Wilson, Ashley
A. Smith, McEwing, Gallagher, Cheney, Long, Allen, Humphrey,
Michie, Brockway, Harriman, Eggleston and Jenks, and a host of
others, deserve a better fate than to accumulate dust in a Grand
Lodge library.
Florida (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Commitee): This report, as the writer
understands it, is mainly to acquaint the membership of the Craft in
Florida with the happenings in the Masonic world, and with the hope
that profit may come from the good examples presented and warnings
taken of the possible errors, confining this review largely to the
historical and to the jurisprudence, rather than to the literary gems
which so profusely abound.

21

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New Hampshire (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A few general matters are
topically discussed in the foreword of the Mississippi Conespondence.
With his discussion we are in agreement, especially where he remarks
that there has always been a difference of opinion as to what the
Landmarks of Masonry are. That seems to be the one thing upon
which there is the most complete disagreement.
There is much in the document that is presented in the way of
excerpts. There is also much of the writer therein. We own up that
we love to encounter individuality. We are glad to locate a generous
portion in Mississippi.

Philippine Islands (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The reviewers of some
Grand Lodges deprecate the fact that the correspondence reports
are not made available to the Craft in general. The distribution is
so limited that very few get the benefit of such reports. A few Grand
Masters favor the idea that a method should be devised whereby the
correspondence reports may be made more generally available without personal expense tG the individual Mason. 0£ wurse, this would
mean a heavy expense to the Grand Lodge, and in some cases the
only way that it could be met would be by an increase in the Grand
Lodge per capita tax on the subordinate lodges.

New Zealand (1926):
(Board of General Pi,rposes): At the last Annual Communication
of Grand Lodge the following resolution was adopted: "That the
Board of General Purposes consider the question of including in the
Proceedings of Grand Lodge a review of the Proceedings of sister
Grand Lodges."
The Board has given very careful consideration to this questi?n,
a11d has come to the conclusion that the additional expenditure which
would be incurred would not be warranted at the present time. When
the discontinuance of the Summary of Foreign Correspondence was
decided upon in 1916, the Board reported that the saving would
amount to about £250, and at the present juncture, when the Lodges
are being earnestly appealed to to raise additional money on behalf of
our Annuity Fund, it does not appear an appropriate time to incur
additional expenditure upon what cannot be regarded as of great
utility. The Board therefore recommends that no action be taken
at present.
Mew York (1927):
(Grand Master) : One of the most useful services done for Grand
Lodge year by year is the Annual Fraternal Correspondence Report
prepared by the Committee on Foreign Correspondence and printed
in the Proceedings of Grand Lodge. The Report consists of a review
of the Proceedings of the Grand Lodges with which we are in fraternal relation, each Graa.d Lodge being treated separately. The work
of our own Committee is especially noted for the amount of information conc~rning Grand Lodges abroad which it incorporates in its
Report. I recommend to every Brother that he find oppoctunity to
read the Report this year, alike for the interest he will find in it and
because it will furnish him with a bird's-eye view of the adivities of
the whole Fraternity during the past one or two years.

Utah (1925):
( Chairnum Correspondence Committee) : Strip Correspondence
Reports of comment, explanation, criticism and brief arguments, and
they are almost as interesting as a Rears-Sobuck catalogue.

West Australia (1926):
(Chairmun Correspondence Committee): On behalf of the Committee, I have pleasure in presenting to Grand Lodge the Annual
Report on Foreign Correspondence, comprising the reviews of the
Proceedings of 60 Grand Lodges of the English-speaking world. The
reviews are of increasing interest every year, and as they contain a
resume of all that is taking place in the world of Masonry, the volume
is strongly recommended to those brethren who take an intelligent
interest in the affairs of the Craft. In my capacity of Grand Secretary
I am often approached by Masters of Lodges with the request for
the services of a lecturer, or some suggestion whereby the brethren
may be enabled to make a daily advancement in Masonic knowledge
as enjoined in our Ritual. For this purpose and as a means of education I would strongly recommend the review work of the Committee. A simple plan would be for the Master to select certain
members, who would read such extracts from the reviews as appeared to them as being of interest, such as portions of Grand
Masta-s' Addresses, important Masonic decisions, interesting o.ccurrences and so on, followed by a general discussion. By this means
the brethren would get a mass of useful information which they could
not acquire from any other source.

Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We like the writer that
has opinions of his own and is not afraid to say what he thinks. Bro.
Goodwin (Utah) is in that class. Some writers are incapable of inde

23

REr'ORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

pendent thought and would be afraid to express any conclusions they
might hold. Such reviewers do well to refrain from comment or
criticism and should publish topical reports. It is the only thing for
them to do.

hesitate to purge the Order of those who have brought dishonor, not
only upon themselves, but upon the Craft, and allow them to continue in the free exercise of our rights and privileges wherever they
may go.

22

CRIMES
It is a matter of regret that part of the Proceedings of any Jurisdiction must deal with offenses against the laws of God and Man.
It is necessary however, that any organization must eliminate the
unworthy. To~ often there is a tendency to protect the individual
at the expense of the Fraternity. This may be due either to a spirit
of indifference or the "sob sister" attitude of the present time.
Unfortunately, the general public remember only the "horrible examples," forgetting the safe, sane and conservative citizens who make
up the body of Masonry.

Canada (1925):
(Grand Master): There is perhaps no more disturbing characteristic of the times in which we are passing than the evidences which
we constantly see of the prevalence of dishonesty in high places and
among those who are in positions of authority and trust, and I have
be.en greatly disappointed to find on the part of a number of our
Lodges a reluctance amounting almost to an unwillingness to deal
with those who have been accused and convicted of offences of a
serious and criminal nature. In one instance the unwillingness was
so pronounced that I finally took the case into my own hands and
suspended the offending Brother. The matter is too serious to b<'
passed over in silence. It is a very plausible argument for the Lodge
to say that the offending Brother is not a criminal at heart, that he
has simply made a mistake which will not be repeated, and that it is
not the part of Masonic charity to strike a man who is already down.
One can understand and appreciate the desire to assist one who has
fallen to rehabilitate himself; it is no more than our duty. But surely
the Lodge owes a duty to the Craft at large as well as to the offending
Brother. Masonry is not a thing of today only, or of this locality
alone. It is a great system and a world-wide organization. It is built
upon a foundation of mutual confidence and respect. Its usefulness,
its very existence depends upon the maintenance of a standard in
its membership, and upon the ability of a foreign Jurisdiction to receive
with confidence and safety those whom we permit to carry our credentials. And Canadian Masonry would soon forfeit the position it
now holds if, through a mistaken idea of our duties as Masons we

District of Columbia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Complaints of bootlegging and moonshining had been lodged against the officers in a
lodge by reputable members. (Query: \Vould those complaining
brethren be apt to make an equal exertion to bring an offending
relative to court for being drunk, or would they conceal that offender?)
Masonry borrows trouble whenever it steps outside its landmarks, as
it did in prohibition.
England (1926):
(Board of General Purposes): When the Licensing Act of 1902
was being passed through Parliament, an undertaking was given to
the then Home Secretary by the Grand Registrar (the late V.-.\V."
Brother John Strachan, K. C.) that the Masonic authorities would
condemn the practice of consuming any intoxicating liquor in Lodge,
or. on premises directly associated with a Lodge, in connection with
the ceremony of Installation. This undertaking was carried out in
instructions issued from Freemasons' Hall, with a direction for them
to be read at the next meeting of each Lodge; and the course thus
taken was approved by Grand Lodge on 3rd December, 1902. A
highly undesirable practice was thus for a time ended; but the Board
has had its attention drawn of late to a certain, though happily small,
amount of revival. It, therefore, re-affirms the course taken in 1902;
once more condemns the practice alluded to; and enjoins that neither
directly nor by any colourable evasion shall it be indulged in at any
period <luring the meeting of a Lodge when engaged in the Ceremony
of Installation. The Board expresses the wisj;t that the Master of.
every Lodge, in accordance with the hope endorsed by Grand Lodge
on 4th March, 1925. will cause this announcement-as the others now
made, all of them binding on each member of the Craft-to be by
him communicated at the next regular meeting.
Georgia (1926):
(Grand Master) : There is no Masonic law by which a Master
Mason can be tried for an offence committed prior to his receiving
the Masonic degrees. Where such an unfortunate situation occurs. it.
is evident that the lodge permitted undesirable members to join and
that there was a laxity on the part of the investigating committee.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

24

25

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

North Carolina (1926):
(Jurisprudence Committee): While the circumstances of the c~se
in which the Grand Master ruled that for the crime of adultery with
a woman not related to Masonry, the penalty must be expulsion, may
have warranted such ruling, yet, your· Committee is firmly of the
opinion that the fixing of the degree of punishment for an offense
should be left to the subordinate Lodge, except in those cases where
such punishment is prescribed by the Coctc of 1924, the action of the
subordinate Lodge being always subject to review by the Grand
Lodge.
Ohio (1925):
(Grand Master) : It is not given to all men to bear arms in the
Nation's defense, but every man may cherish his country's flag with
a devoted love, and in all his endeavors be obedient to his country's
laws-the laws of his State and the laws of his City. Obedience to
law is particularly enjoined upon all Masons-and the breaking. of
laws National State and Municipal, is a Masonic offense which
shouid have th~ earnest attention of every subordinate Lodge in this
Grand Jurisdiction. Worshipful Masters and Wardens [)residing
are hereby enjoined that in the event that any member of his Lo~ge
shall break the law, whether by lottery, raffle, games of chance, v10lation of the prohibition laws or otherwise, that for any and all
violations of law, each and every Lodge in this Grand Jurisdiction
shall cause charges to be preferred, a just and fair trial given, and
upon conviction, full and adequate punishment, in good faith, shall
be inflicted.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Under British Columbia
the Reviewer remarks on the withholding of the name of one who
had been expelled and asked, "Why?" A number of reasons might
be assigned, am.ong others because the Proceedings of Grand L~dges
are not restricted entirely to the hands of Masons, and there 1s no
good reason for displaying our dirty linen for the delectation of those
who stand ready to take a fling at the Craft.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master stated
that there are members of Montana Lodges serving sentences in
jails and the penitentiary, and that "Lodge officers claim to me that
it would be embarrassing to give them Lodge trials or that it would
necessarily embarrass families." Perhaps we ought not to say it, but
that "stumps" us! A Lodge has, or should have, more than the

feelings of its officers to consider. Each Lodge in very deed is a
guardian of the good name of Masonry at large. To profess to stand
for high ideals of citizenship and life, and to be seekers after Light,
and yet by our actions-whose voices are so much louder than mere
words-we retain felons and other criminals in our membership,
because the officers charged with the duty of protecting the good
name of the Fraternity are too cowardly to do what they have obligated themselves to do: such a situation seems absolutely incredible!

*

*

*

We hear much, and see much, these days of the delays of justice
and of the activities of pardoning boards-and the effect thereof.
Sometimes we wonder why we have laws and courts of justice, so
easily are statutes nullified, and the tax-payer made to bend under
his load to which much is added because "the sob-sisters" are abroad
in the land, and crime increasing and criminals have little to feai;
unless it be in the second city of the land they may well fear each
others' weapons. How come?
Utah (1925):
( Chair111{Jn Correspondence Committee) : All that the world knows
of Masonry it learns from the conduct of Masons. When a Lodge
of Masons ignores violation of fundamental law and sustains its
members in law-breaking, there is at least one too many Lodges
on the Roster of that Grand Jurisdiction. We proclaim that Masonry
stands for a law-abiding citizenship-is that true or is it just talk?
DEMOLAY
The Order of DeMolay continues to receive the attention of
the Masonic world. Statistics for its year ending September 30,
1927, are not yet available, still the advance sheets show that there
has been a material gain, not only in the number of Chapters, but
in the membership itself.
The tendency to consider the Order of DeMolay as a Junior
Masonic organization or a Masonic Kindergarten or Preparatory
School is gradually dying out. Much has been written regarding
the DeMolay from the standpoint of the Mason.
That the reader may have the view of a DeMolay we quote
an article written by a member of the Order of DeMolay of Sunnyside Chapter of Portland, Oregon. While the article refers to the
Order of DeMolay, we believe that in the first paragraph he has
unconsciously set forth the "Spirit or Soul of Masonry."
"It's fine to meet a fellow Mason, isn't it? It's fine to go up
to a Mason knowing you're approaching a friend. It's splendid to

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

know here is one you can trust, and to think of the thousands of
men with whom you have something in common, with whom you
can meet on common ground. It's fine to think of the many Lodges
where you can find such fellowship-a fellowship nourished by the
teachings of a Master.
"It isn't difficult to imagine that a DeMolay, too, might appreciate such advantages, that he would appreciate meeting as a friend
one who would be a stranger if both hadn't seen that Ceremonial
of Honor, Clean Living, Reverence and Patriotism-The DeMolay
Initiation. Have you seen it? Maybe, too, he feels pride in his
organization of more than 150,000. Maybe he, too, is glad for
gathering places where he can meet the right sort of fellows, in
the right way, and under proper conditions. Maybe he, too, can be
influenced by this fellowship based on ideals of Virtue, Chivalry and
Manliness. But must you take my word that these are the ideals
of DeMolay, or are you close enough to know that such ideals
dominate the Order?
"Here we find a DeMolay illness with a possible Masonic cure.
Is Masonry close enough to The Order of DeMolay? Has Masonry
done enough in formulating plans for the Order, sponsoring its
rituals, and then saying, 'There you are. Go to it!' No, that isn't
enough. And why? Well, all boys aren't DeMolays, but all DeMolays
are boys. DeMolay boys must be taught by their elders those things
necessary to a useful life and to furtherance of Masonic teachings
if Society is to progress-just as the savage youth had to be taught
what to eat and wear in order to live. We aren't born with knowledge of life. We have to be taught that. Young fellows are
gathered here in DeMolay. What sort of knowledge are you going
to communicate to us, and who is going to teach it? True, the
purposes of The Order are pretty well defined by ritual and we
put on our own work. But, after all, human nature hasn't changed
much. Just as the savage youth needed someone with prestige to
point out just how he was being helped, showing him the finer
points of life, and helping him with the advice of experience, so
DeMolays need men to help them over the doubtful points, showing
by example the results of these ideals, showing by personal interest
that the work really is worth while. Masons are the men who have
this prestige among DeMolays. Nowhere, Masons, will you find
stronger support or more ardent champions.
"But what is the attitude of many Masons toward DeMolay?
Let me give an example. On the train returning from school, I met
a Mason, and soon he was telling me of the good teachings of
Masonry. In the course of the conversation I mentioned that I
was a DeMolay. He said, 'Yeh?' sort of dazed-like. 'Is your father

a Mason?' Never a word of encouragement for, or interest in The
Order-only visible indifference. I had just completed a history
course at school which included the reason for the origin of a
certain Order, high in Masonry. As I looked at this Mason's
emblem, I couldn't help thinking here was a Knight of The Temple
who wasn't seeking to guide pilgrims. This was not an exceptional
occurrence. It has happened many times, and with members of
different degrees of Masonry. Can a DeMolay be blamed for
wondering if the work of his Order is worth while when those
who have delved deeper into life present such indifference toward it?
"As I have said, Masons have the prestige to quiet such wondering. You have the prestige to firmly establish our belief in our
work. You are a potential energy which can guide the natural
instincts and the knowledge of an army of American youths along
lines conducive to the program and betterment of society. And
isn't work for the betterment of society a Masonic ideal-and duty?
Surely, from being Masons, you best of all can understand what
DeMolay may accomplish among its members. I can promise you,
and a talk with a DeMolay will convince you, that you have the
power to make DeMolay accomplish its objectives. And it need
not require .unreasonable effort or time; just attendance at meetings,
support of activities, not only in money but in person, a bit of
advice, and a lot of interest."

26

27

Alabama (1926):
(Grand Master): By special invitation I attended the annual convention of De Molays held in Montgomery and was both delighted and surprised with the manner in which these boys transacted their business. It
was done with dignity and dispatch. I also witnessed the beautiful and
impressive manner in which they conferred the degrees. The ceremonies
were beautiful, dignified and impressive, and are well calculated to make a
lasting and favorable impression on the plastic minds of our boys.

Delaware (1926):
(Grand Master) : The progress in the Order of De Molay has been
steady and its influence now extends throughout our State. Encouraging
and assisting in this work are many names prominent in our order.
De Molay with its Bible, school books and our flag is an elevating stabilizing force in the life of the boy when he needs it most.
I would caution the leaders in this great movement, as well as the
craft at large, against regarding this as a kindergarten or training school
for Masonry, or that its members being solicited, or, even by inference,
given to understand that they may later become members of our craft, for

HEPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

~n doing this they are working both the boys and themselves an injustice.
The desire to be a Mason must come to each one of them, as it comes t<1
you and me; and only if elected, may they enjoy this privilege.
De Molay is not building of brick and mortar for the world to see;
it is building Character, the most enduring of all accomplishments.
In order that the program for expansion and development outlined
by the Grand Council may continue, I should like to see this Grand
Lodge, and each constitutent Lodge, go on record to help, both by time
and financial assistance, this great work. Brethren, the returns will be
adequate.

<'l'rgani.zation, composed of boys between the ages of 16 and 21 years,
which is doing so much to interest and inspire its members to higher and
nobler ideals.
On January 8th, 1927, Fidelity Chapter, Order of De Molay of the
Oranges and Maplewood, presented us with a check amounting to $400.00
to be used for furnishing one of the rooms in the boys' New Dormitory at
our Masonic Home.
What a splendid spirit and how proud we may justly feel that they
should thus express in a practical manner their desire to be of service to
others. I do not believe it would have been possible for them to bestow
this help in any direction where it would be more beneficial, and more
appreciated, than with the boys whom we are providing for at our Home
in Burlington.

28

Illinois (1925):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : There are divergent, even
diametrically opposite views expressed by Grand Masters regarding the
Order of De Molay. Very likely the extremists on both sides of the
question are both not quite right. How far Lodges of Masons should take
part in organizing and sponsoring these chapters is the main point of
controversy. All agree that the chapters are valuable aids to the boys
interested. It would seem that with proper limitations Masons and
Masonic Lodges might properly and safely lend substantial as well as
moral support to these chapters. The question is, what are the proper
limitations? Time will surely clarify this problem.
Montana (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Chairman of the
Correspondence Committee of Manitoba disagrees with the writer, who
suggested that the "Order of De Molay has passed inspection and is permitted to be sponsored by Masonry," by saying that "as far as Craft
Masonry is concerned no permission to sponsor has been given"; perhaps
not in Manitoba, but certainly in a large portion of the United States
Jurisdictions; there is "no such thing" as Craft Masonry granting anything; we must judge action of each separate Jurisdiction, and if we are
to expect any "sponsoring" by all of the Craft, there. is hardly anything
about which we could agree on; such subjects as "Ancient Landmarks"
is an example; there is no set alike recognized by all Jurisdictions; what
we meant was that the De Molay movement is under the wing of the
Masonic bodies in the United States and is accorded a certain status.
New Jersey (1927):
(Grand Master): During the past five yea.rs many Chapters of the
Order of De Molay have been organized throughout the State.
Most Worshipful Brother Reed, State Counselor for New Jersey,
has given freely of his time and ability in developing this wonderful

29

There were various other donations from De Molay Chapters,
amounting to $160.00, which were applied for the same purpose.
North Dakota (19Z6):

(Committee on Masonic Service and Education): The Order of De
Molay is also being fostered. This is well. Some with materialistic vision
see in it only a stepping stone to the Blue Lodge degrees. But the real
meaning of De Molay is the development of manly character along the
lines of Filial love, Fidelity, Courtesy, Cleanness, Comradeship, Patriotism and Reverence. Truly our Brethren are doing much, both for the
present and the future.
South Dakota (1927):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Brother Archie H. Harriman, P. G. M., (Vermont) presents his third annual review of Proceedings, covering 64 Grand Jurisdictions in a thorough manner, South
Dakota receiving kindly attention. We find the report very interesting
and informative, though we cannot agree with him in his view and
estimate of the boys' and girls' organizations, alluding to one of the girls'
organizations as "another barnacle fastened upon Masonry." Having
been in close contact with youth all our life, in schools, Sunday Schools,
Y. M. C. A. and in the practice of our profession, we have been impressed with the need of more and more safeguards to shield our growing
youth from the temptations and pitfalls that beset their paths on every
side. We fully believe that Masonry can well afford to lower its dignity,
if you feel it is that, to do anything and everything possible to shield our
boys and girls. It is my predi<;:tion that many of the great Masons of
the future will come from the boys who began their Lodge training in the
De Molay Chapters under the sheltering wing of Masonic Lodges.

30

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

31

Florida
Disaster.
State.
Del:;i.ware ................................................................
263.20
District of Columbia .......................................... 1,579.50
Florida .................................................................... 14,903.46
Georgia ..............................................................
932.00
Idaho ......................................................................
400.00
Illinois .................................................................... 4,025.00
Indiana .................................................................... 1,000.00
Iowa ........................................................................
600.00
Kansas ...... .............................................................. 1,600.00
Kentucky ................................................................
200.00
Louisiana ................................................................ 1,050.00
Maine .................................... ...... ...........................
450.00
Maryland ...................... ......................................... 1,000.00
Massachusetts ........................................................ 6,499.76
Michigan ................................................................
700.00

1\1 ississippi

fl.EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

With statistics that about one-half of the commitments to our penitentiaries are between twenty and thirty years of age and a showing
that in some states the number of venereal diseases reported outnumber
all other contagious and infectious diseases combined and that about half
the cases of vice diseases reported are in boys and girls of twenty-one
years of age and under, is it not high time that more is done to save
them?
Membership, Etc., of the Order of De Molay-For Year Ending
September 30, 1926.
Rank
Calif.
United
States
1
117
1,296
Active Chapters ....................................... .
2
3,314
37,589
Members Initiated ....................................
2
310
3,477
Affiliated and Restored ........................... .
2
10,068
119,943
Membership .............................................. ..
11
137
2,570
Increase ......................................................
2
2,016
21,620
Reached 21 Years ....................................
2
194
1,750
Demitted ....................................................
I
1,249
14,699
Suspended N. P. D .................................
3
122
7
Suspended U. D. C. ..................................
3
4
38
Expelled ................................................... .
3
17
267
Deaths ........................................................
DISASTERS
The response of the various States to the appeals for aid in the
two recent disasters in Florida and the Mississippi Valley are testimony to Masonry's willingness to answer the call of distress.
The figures given in connection with Florida are from the Grand
Lodge Proceedings. Those covering the Mississippi Flood are taken
from "The Master Mason" published by the Masonic Service Association.
The contributions received from States were as follows:
Florida
Disaster.
State.
.........................'!> 2,901.13
Alabama
Arkansas ..................................................................
590.00
Arizona ................................................................. .
California ................................................................ 2,500.00
Colorado ................................................................ 3,082.27
Connecticut ............................................................ 2,788.55

Mississippi
Flood.
$11,651.03
4,265.12
4,533.19
33,411.77
1,200.00
4,665.50

~ii~7::i~~i

i:~~~:~~

::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::
1:Iissouri .....,_............................................................ 2,525.00
Montana ................................................................
600.00
Nebraska ...... .......................................................... 3,016.50
Nevada ....................................................................
250.00
New Hampshire ....................................................
500.00
New Jersey ............................................................ 8,855.00
New Mexico ............................................................
655.50
New York ............................................................ 6,525.00
North Carolina .................................................... 2,196.95
North Dakota ........................................................
500.00
Ohio .......................................................................... 5,200.00
Oklahoma ................................................................
475.00
Oregon ....................................................................
500.00
Pennsylvania .............................................,.......... 5,500.00
Rhode Island ........................................................ 1,986.27
South Carolina .................. .............................. ....... 2,072.86
South Dakota ......................................................
661.50
Tennessee ..............................................................
500.00
Texas ...................................................................... 6,197.50
Utah ........................................................................
130.00
Vermont ................................................................
275.00
Virginia .................................................................. 1,225.00
Wa~hington ............................................................ 1,050.90
West Virginia .......................................................
363.10

Flood.
3,126.65
4,413.60
15,425.08
8,299.15
1,855.50
50.00
5,373.37
23,115.25
2,025.00
3,448.55
12,992.82
2,931.00
6,272.70
45,562.66
6,182.41
4,155.00
17,607.59
22,400.00
2,039.50
7,948.85
330.00
2,067.55
29,545.00
2,511.96
50,258.00
1,772.50
3,026.65
11,277.50
1,554.50
5.465.64
52,587.00
4,076.05
3,900.00
3,071.30
125.00
37,461.51
3,676.69
1,732.20
9,706.25
1,662.65
7,015.00

32

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Florida
Disaster.
State.
Wisconsin .............................................................. 4,525.00
Wyoming ......................................... ,......................
300.06
Canal Zone ............................................................................
................
Hawaii

Mississippi
Flood.
10.174.00
1,385.0()
100:00
300.00

Totals ............................................................$106,402.73
Various personal and miscellaneous contributions from Chapters, Commanderies,
Shrine, Clubs, etc ............................................... $ 5,250.00

$499,733.24

........................ u

............ u

.......... .

·-·--·····~·····

$ 19,695.89

DUAL MEMBERSHIP
We believe that the advantages of dual membership more than
counterbalance the objections. The argument that such a system
is in violation of one of the Landmarks has no historical basis.
The Mother Grand Lodge (England) has found it to work satisfa~­
torily, and in Massachusetts, the home of the first Grand Lodge m
the United States, it has been successful. The fact that New York
and some of the other older states have swung into line may aid
in having it favorably considered in other Jurisdictions.
California contains a large number of unaffiliated Masons, many
of whom hesitate to take their dimits from their "Mother Lod~e:•
more from sentiment than otherwise. If they could have the pr1v1lege of being other than mere visiting brothers to Lodges in our
Jurisdiction it should work for the benefit of the locality and the
Lodge wherein they reside.
Alabama (1926):
(Grand Master) : A brother holding membership in two .lodg~s in
Virginia obtained a dimit from one of them and present~d 1t ~1th a
petition for affiliation to an Alabama Lodge and was admitted st1U retaining his membership in the other Virginia lodge. Held,
1. Dual membersl;ip being permissible under the Masonic law of
many Grand Jurisdictions, including Virginia, there is nothing inherently wrong or un-Masonic in it.
Our edict No. 262 says that "a person can be a member of only one
Masonic Lodge." I construe this to mean only one Masonic Lodge in
Alabama. It is my opinion that this edict was adopted by our Grand
Lodge for administrative reasons only in order to avoid the difficulty, if
not impossibility, of maintaining accurate records of the number of
Masons in a Grand Jurisdiction where dual membership is allowed.

33

There is no way to terminate the brother's membership in his Alabama Lodge e.xcept to prefer charges against him and expel him. Surely
it cannot be a Masonic offense in Alabama for a brother to do in Virginia
a thing that is Masonically lawful there and which is not violative of
fundamental Masonic principles anywhere. Besides, an expulsion here,
if legal, would result in depriving him of the rights and privileges of
Masonry everywhere. The absurd consequence would be to deprive
him of Masonic standing in Virginia, as well as Alabama, for a thing
perfectly legal in Virginia. Such a doctrine would be violative of that
comity which should prevail among sister jurisdictions.
My decision is that the membership of the brother in both his
Alabama .and Virginia lodges is legal.
New York (1927):
(Grand M ~ter) : It is my purpose to call your attention only to
one or two outstanding features which the question presents.
First, single or exclusive membership is largely an American custom
and is not therefore a Landmark of the Craft. Some American Jurisdictions have used a plural system for many years, apparently with
good results: To adopt plural membership, therefore, would not be an
innovation in the body of Masonry.
Second, brethren coming from other Jurisdictions who may desire
membership in one of our Lodges must first make sure that their possible
affiliation with us will not be in violation of the laws of their home
Jurisdiction.
Third, he who would join Lodges other than his Mother Lodge, must
present his petition, which shall be the official form used by the Grand
Lodge of the State of New York, pass the ballot, and qualify in every
respect under the by-laws of the Lodge he would join and the Constitution of the Grand Lodge of the State of New York.
Fourth, after being duly elected, he would have the same rights and
privileges as any other member of the Lodge with which he becomes
connected.
The question may be argued both affirmatively and negatively, but
after all is said and done, the positive arguments seem to preponderate,
whereas the negative arguments are more or less technical and easily
overcome.
New York (1927):
(Special Committee on Dual Membership): We have considered
carefuly the situation refered to in the said address, the history of
Lodge membership, single and plural, the material available contributed

35

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENC&

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

by Masonic students and thoughtful Masons, both in recent publications
and in the general history of the Fraternity, and have to some extent
canvassed the opinion of members of the Fraternity both in this and

~~~i:~e:t !~::i:son out o~ touch is dying or dead. The army of un

34

other jurisdictions.
Historically, the ban on plural membership is comparatively modern,
and orgi'nally members of the Fraternity were free to ally themselves
with any group of Masons at will. From time to time since membership has been limited by law to one Lodge, certain jurisdictions have
experimented with plural meml'crship and abandoned it. In 1876 South
Carolina abandoned it: in 1869 Texas abandoned it, because of the
alleged difficulty resulting from the collection of dues, and in 1888
Maryland investigated the subject and decided against it chiefly on the
basis of the objection to a member being the Master of more than one
Lodge at the same time, and the great power or influence that he might
exercise thereby due to his "greater wealth," which would enable him
to pay dues in more than one Lodge and the inability of his Brethren
to do likewise.
For many years plural membership has prevailed in England. According to M.' .w: .Melvin M. Johnson, Past Grand Master of Massachusetts, no prohibition against plural membership exists outside of
the United States, save by the Grand Lodges of Prince Edward Island
and New Brunswick; and it is permitted by Delaware, Massachusetts,
Rhode Island, Tennessee, Virginia and Wyoming.
The advantages of plural membership in our opinion exceed the disadvantages.
Many are the cases of Masons who, moving from their old home and
the neighborhood of their Lodge to a location, distant frequently, in
another State and Masonic jurisdiction, and desirous naturally of Masonic intercourse, discover a group in the neighborhood in which they
have established themselves with which they delight to foregather, but
find, as is natural and manly, embarrassment by reason of the fact that
they have no status, are merely guests and hesitate to wear out their welcome. \Vhether Masonic hospitality is all-extensive as distinguished from
normal human relations may be debatable, but we doubt it. We see no
reason why the Masonic relation should so transform the human creature
as to make him an unending and great welcomer of the visitor who pays
nothing, who bears no burdens, who takes no part in activities, who
has no status. And it seems self-evident that the lack of opportunity tc
bear burdens, assume responsibilities, to render service, and to take
active part in Masonic life inevitably sooner or later saps and kills
Masonic vitality. Indeed, we consider it axiomatic that upon activity,
responsibility, right and duty to perform service depend Masonic life,

ss grows m some measure from this cause.
A :.:e:uen_tly heard objection to participation in the formation of a

~::m one~: .;;.o::r f~d;:. and unwillingness to be weaned and severed

prom~t~~ t;;1~1~:~~h~re~~cu·

.
.
Groupings of Masons in Lodge form accordin
P:.tionsd interests, pursuits or diversions is
s ip an rendered impossible.by single membership.
er"
Of late years, in certain portions of this Jurisd·cf
h
berships have been increasingly conferred The it wn o~orary mew.
such distinction is sometimes a puzzle
the
at
for
. member is nil, and the distinction soo~ innocuous. Pl:r~l :m onor~r~

b~t

~:t~re

re~son

:r1·!£.:~F;;r::~. ~; ':~-:.·b~, ::~':r .:ml;~:

name and what else g~e~o~~~nitgo~~t ~ whi~ does ?ot only take a
it may safely be said that h
'
e an not give. We think
it is for past favors rathe~ ;~: a~ honforary membership is conferred
. d
n or avors to come and th t
acquire the·service frequently is ended.
'
a once
Massachusetts has planted F
.
dist_ant from its section,
worl?

notabl;e~~as~:~~tz~::er~hr::;t:nof ~h:

~~~:d:~;o~. partial cause for the adoption of plur~I membership :;~~~~

Rhode Island adopted dual
b h" .
lishment as a regular Lod mefm' ers ip m connection with the estabge o its War Lodge
h. h
d
.' w I~ operate at
Coblenz, but made the privilege of dua
within that Jurisdiction limitin th I ':1~~bersh1p available generally
the Jurisdiction.
'
g
e pnvt ege to two Lodges within

man~e:ni~~ri:~sa:l:~~e:n~e~ee:!~i~f Free~asonry in Finland, Rou-

of affording the opportunity of lura~Y which su.ggests the propriety
~
membership on that account;
but we take the view that th
objection to membership i'n t oere is no"WLo'ndo, or should be no, serious
.
w or more
ges of d'ff
Ob .
with appropriate regulation governing d. . r
ld e~en~ . ed1ences,
iscip me an hm1tat1011 as to
Mastership.
We therefore recommend that lural
.
;embersh1p both within and
without the Jurisdiction be permittd
amendments to the Book of C t"te '. an we propose the following
ons t utions to effect this reform.
We have not, in our discussion of this sub"ec b
.
J t a ove, a~verted to
the matter of revenue to be derived b Gr
as we call it, but to some, at least ythatand Lodge. fron: the mnovation,
vantage At th·
·
'
opportumty will seem an ad.
.
ts session, proposals are to be made for i·n creasmg
the

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

revenue of Grand Lodge which is seriously necessary. The ordinary
affiliation fee as now fixed is to be taxed. Not only is the plural member
to pay dues, whatever they may be in each of his Masonic relations, but
to pay to Grand Lodge for the privilege of each, a tax of Ten Dollars.
Its common sense, fairness, reasonableness, seem obvious.
And it is to be hoped, and it is believed that the tax, moderate
enough, will result not in the neglecting of the opportunity, but in
availing of it, to the end that the quality of the privilege be more
appreciated; for, after all, the thing that costs nothing is rated in proportion to its cost, and it is a thing to be desired that the income of
Grand Lodge shall be amplified from such a source.
Rhode Island (1926):
(Jurisprudence Committee) : (Report adopted.) The proposed
amendment to Article VII, Section 16, is in no sense a change in the
meaning or intent of the section as at present worded. It has always
been understood by the Committee, and the language of the section
clearly justified the interpretation, that the privilege of dual membership under this section is one enjoyed only by Rhode Island Masons
in Rhode Island Lodges.
This Committee has for some time felt that the section should be redrawn, and to this end has given careful study to the entire question of
dual membership.
It has seemed to the Committee that. Grand Lodge is unduly restrictive
and perhaps selfish in confining the right of dual membership to its own
members and to its own l,odges. There are many estimable brethren,
members of Lodges in this Jurisdiction who, having removed from the
Jurisdiction, are desirous of becoming affiliated with Lodges located near
their homes. And there are many estimable brethren, members of Lodges
in other Jurisdictions, who have taken up their abode in our midst and
who are desirous of affiliating with our Lodges. It is most natural that
these brethren should be unwilling to sever their connections with the
Lodge in which they received the degree. It is equally natural that these
brethren should be diffident about seeking or accepting the hospitality of
Lodges to which they are denied the opportunity to contribute through
the usual channels.
It is, in our opinion, the part of wisdom and good judgment to permit
our members to continue and to increase their Masonic activity and
interest by 'affiliation with other Masonic Lodges, and it is altogether
unreasonable to require them to <limit before so doing from Lodges to
which they are bound by very strong sentimental ties.
Comparatively few men will avail themselves of the privilege of dual
membership under our present regulation. At least two, and possibly

REPORT GN C0RREi3PONDENCE

37

three new Lodges have, however, been made possible because of the
privilege so granted, And it is fair to presume that still greater benefits
will result from an extension of the privilege.
The Committee believes that it has further justification for its attitude
in the fact that there appears to be a growing tendency in America1;
jurisdictions to permit affiliation without insisting upon a dimit as a
prerequisite thereto.
We therefore present the following amendment and recommend its
adoption:
SECTION 16. No subordinate Lodge shall admit to membership
a brother made in any other Lodge, or confer the first degree
upon any person, except upon a clear ballot therefor at a regular
Communication. No subordinate Lodge shall permit a brother
admitted to membership to qualify himself as such until he shall
have presented a dimit from the Lodge of which he was a member or a certificate showing his good standing in the Lodge of
which he is a member, nor permit such a brother, if a member
of more than one Lodge, to qualify himself as such until he shall
have pr.esented either a demit or a certificate showing his good
standing in each Lodge of which he was or is a member. Involuntary loss of membership in any Lodge shall constitute loss of
membership in all Lodges.
Massachusetts (1926):

(Jurisprudence Committee) : If a brother who is a member of two
or more Lodges desires to withdraw from membership in one or some
b~t not i~ ~II of them, ~e is, of course, entitled so to withdraw provided he is 111 good standmg at the time of his withdrawal· and a certificate of his withdrawal from membership should be gi~en him. A
<limit is not an appropriate certificate in such cases. A certificate of
clearance is being prepared and when completed will be furnished to
all the Lodges to be issued to a brother who withdraws from membership in a Lodge when he is at the time in good standing in one or
more other Lodges.
. When a brother who is a member of another Grand Jurisdiction
which does not permit dual membership, applies to a Lodge in this
Jurisdiction for affiliation, our procedure heretofore has been such that
the applicant is informed of the law of the Grand Lodge to which
~e owes allegi~ce, with the result that, generally speaking, the applicatt~n has been withdrawn; and, if not, so far as I can discover, it has been
re1ected. I fear, however that our practice has been misunderstood and
that some feeling or opinion has existed that we ought not to entertain jurisdiction over a petition for affiliation from a brother from

38

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

another Grand Jurisdiction which does not permit dual membership. I
regret that any misunderstanding has existed, and am of opinion that
our practice ought to be such as to avoid any ground to feel that we
are unwilling to accord full recognition to the laws of Grand Lodges
with which we are on terms of fraternal intercourse.
The question is not one of the advisability or inadvisability of permitting dual or plural membership. Massachusetts has its law and its
practice which permit such membership, and feels that it has worked well
and is an advisable practice. But we freely recognize the undoubted
right of each Grand Jurisdiction to decide this question for itself and
we also recognize that full faith and credit .ought to be given in each
Grand Jurisdiction to the laws and decisions of other Grand Lodges,
acting within their territorial jurisdictions; indeed we require our
brethren to obey the law of any recognized Grand Lodge within which
they may reside and accord full credit to proceedings for discipline had
in other Jurisdictions against members of Massachusetts Lodges offending against the Constitutions or laws of such Grand Lodges.
If application for affiliation is made by a member of another Grand
Jurisdiction, communication should be had with the Grand Secretary.
If it is discovered upon inquiry, which will in all cases be made, that the
Jurisdiction of the applicant's membership does not permit dual membership, the petition for affiliation should be dismissed, and order will
issue to that effect.
Oregon (1g2s):
(Grand Master): The Grand Lodge o·f England permits its members
while sojourning in foreign countries, to become members temporarily
of Lodges chartered by the mother country. "Joining members,, are not
require<!! to take a demit from their Lodge. They are permitted to unite
with other Masons similarly situated and to give their support to a lawfully Chartered Lodge while sojourning at the situs of that Lodge.
(The Jurisprudence Committee thought differently, however, and its
view was sustained by Grand Lodge.)
Vermont ( 1927) :
(Jurisprudence Committee): The following amendment to the bylaws was proposed at the last session, to-wit:
"Re Dual or Plural Membership.
"Resolved, That Article 24 of the by-laws be amended by changing
the last sentence so as to read : 'Every Mason should belong to a
regular Lodge ; but a brother cannot be a member of more than one
Lodge in this Jurisdiction at the same time'."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

39

This amendment in ef feet provides that a Mason may be a member
of a Lodge in this Jurisdiction and without a dimit or other transfer,
may also become a member of a Lodge in another Jurisdiction, while
retaining his membership in this. In effect this provides for daal
membership. The question of dual membership is an old one, permitted in some Jurisdictions and has been much discussed in this. Our
Grand Lodge has thus far refused to re1:ognize such dual membership,
and your Committee finds no sufficient grounds for changing that rule
or practice at this time. In our opinion dual membership would cause
more confusion and trouble than its advantage would warrant. We do
not think that a Mason should be permitted to double or increase his
right to charity or other Masonic privileges by joining different Lodges.
We see no more reason why a Mason should be permitted to be a
member of a Lodge in different Jurisdictions any more than he should
be permitted to be a member of different Lodges in this Jurisdiction. The
co_nfusion which would arise in case of Masonic offense, whereby he
nught be expelled in one Jurisdiction and stilt retain his membership
as a Mason in another, and all the confusion which would follow from
dual membership, we think, render it inadvisable that we should adopt
such pract!ce. We, therefore, recommend that the amendment be not
adopted.
DUES
Dues in many Lodges, perhaps not only this Jurisdiction but in
other States are too low, taking into consideration the increased cost
of ~ng. Membership in the Masonic Fraternity may properly be
comndered a luxury. Those who desire to avail themselves of it
shou~d. ~e .Perfectly willing to pay for it. Some one has suggested
that 1nitiat1on fees should be set aside as a reserve fund for benevolent purposes and the dues used for the maintenance and operation
of the Lodge itself. This plan might work to advantage.
Membership reports for the last year show a large number of
suspensions for non-payment of dues. The cause for this may be
on account of financial reasons, but perhaps it is more properly due
to the acceptance in the first instance of petitioners whose curiosity
has been satisfied, indifference, or failure to find that which they
sought. Perhaps a large number in the first class were not financially able to pay for it and the condition has continued.
North Carolina (1927):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Another characteristic
of our time is the Masonic effort to be of tangible use. Masonic institutions of relief l:i.ave multiplied, and become the pride of the Fra-

REPORT ON CORRESPOND.11'NCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCl!l

ternity; charity, student aid, salvage of the defectives, care of the
underprivileged, all have claimed our attention. This has been a
wonderful work. But it is about to leave in its wake certain mutterings
of discontent in the land, now that the novelty is gone and the inflation
of the currency is abated. It is discovered that the payment of
increased dues is of no importance in certain types of Lodges, but is a
source of difficulty in others. Suspensions for non-payment of dues
have greatly increased, due to a combination of several causes referred
to in the above paragraphs. Many hold that the maximum has been
touched in revenues per capita in this and certain other states.

EASTERN ST AR

40

*

*

*

In Maryland, there is no living Past Grand Master. Brother
Shyrock served as Grand :\1 aster for something like a quarter of a
century, and his successor, Warren S. Seipp, is likely to do the same.
This Brother Seipp is a most useful and valuable Mason. He gives us
most valuable thoughts sometimes. For instance, here is his epigram
as to uncollected dues:
There is no reason in my mind why a man should be over
two years in arrears. One year is a bill, two years is a burden,
and over two years, practically impossible. If he can pay and
won't pay, the law is dear. If he is unable to pay, charity is
recommended.
This is not far from correct. We believe that one of the greatest
problems before us in the Lodges at present, is the salvage of membership material which is almost if not entirely lost, and about to be
dropped by the non-payment of dues route. This is partly due to conditions after the big growth, and partly to the increases in dues which
are almost universal; and further, to the increasing demands on a
Mason's time for other matters, which serve to take his attention and
interest away from his Lodge.

Philippine Islands (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): There is an increasing
loss of membership in many Grand Jurisdictions through suspensions
for N. P. D. This is partly the result of the great influx of members
a few years ago when many unsuitable men were taken into the Fraternity. In some cases Masonry is regarded as a luxury, and, when
"hard times" come, the money for the payment of dues is lacking.
Those who have a real interest in the Fraternity will not remain suspended, but will eventually pay up and seek reinstatement. The unfit
should be kept out, if possible.

41

The assistance given by the women of the Order of Eastern
Star to Masonic Homes in various Jurisdictions has been a contributing factor to the success of those Institutions.
The action of the Grand Lodge of Scotland in trying to persuade
the Grand Chapter of this organization to eliminate the Master
Mason from membership, has been followed in other places. Such
a change in the plan of this organization would undoubtedly remove
some criticism and objections to the Order as it now exists.
Canada (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We are not booming the
ladies of the Eastern Star, but it is only fair to point out their close cooperative position in regard to Alabama and other southern Jurisdictions and also to present the point of view of the F.astern Star itself.
\Vhy cannot they be induced to drop the masculine Master Mason
adjuncts and run their own show, thus winning the respect of all.
avoiding interference with a "good standing" with which they have
nothing to -do and to which secretaries should not be permitted to certify, and do infinitely better wqrk as an independent organization.
Ability and philanthropy they have in abundance. Jn any event the
Grand Lodge of Alabama was called from labor to refreshment to
receive the Grand Matron of their "Grand Chapter" and the Grand
Matron addres.sed the Grand Lodge.

Connecticut (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A Committee from the
Grand Lodge of Scotland studied the 0. E. S. question. Their report
reads somewhat fairly, but proposes to give them time to "alter their
constitution in such a way that no reference be made to their having
any connection with Freemasonry and that there be no necessity for
the presence of a Master Mason at their ceremonies." Otherwise drastic
action may follow. We are not a member of the 0. E. S., but we
cannot understand why these terrifying ladies inspire such fear in
certain quarters, or why the presence of Masons at their meetings
should be objectionable.
:Kansas (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Nevada likewise recommended that some provision be made in their
regulations so that a brother can petition for the degrees in the Eastern
Star immediately after receiving the third degree. This act contemplated
making an exception in their law which does not permit a newly made

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Master Mason to join some other society predicating its membership
on Masonry for one year after the date they are raised. The Grand
Lodge disapproved of his recommendation and the ladies, therefore, will
be obliged to wait on these brethren until the expiration of the time
limit, the same as the almost innumerable organizations claiming to be
a part and parcel of the Masonic fraternity.
!.'lontana (1926):
(Chairman Correspo11dence Committee): Evidently the women do
not get anywhere among the Bushmen of Australia. The Order of
Eastern Star has been a great help to Masonry in the United States,
and yet the writer of these reviews is old-fashioned enough in his ideas
to wish that we had kept up a strictly man's order without skirt
appendages, and that the Eastern Star was a distinctly woman's order
and kept away from too close a Masonic affiliation.
We don't like this "hand-maiden" of Freemasonry talk that is
indulged in. They can do a whole lot of good by themselves and
leave Masonry to the men as an old-fashioned Masonic Institution.
North Carolina (1927):
( Chafrma1i Correspondence Com1nittee) : It recorded that the
Order of the Eastern Star ascertained that the Ohio Masonic Home
needed certain adjacent lands ; that the tract was bought for $50,000
and presented to the Home as a gift, being some 150 acres. When
such an act as this is discovered, one smiles about the quibbles in some
Jurisdictions about "women knowing whether Masons are in good
standing," and "Order of the Eastern Star not being suitable topic for
Lodge notices to set for discussion," etc. "The letter killeth, but the
spirit maketh alive."
South Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : What about the Eastern
Star? Surely it might be termed a "side degree," yet the Grand Lodge
of Ohio welcomed a donation of fifty thousand dollars from
that Body for the purchase of land entirely surrounded by lands of the
Masonic Home. Are your subordinate Lodges allowed to sponsor or
countenance chapters of the Eastern Star, Brother Sperra? Of this gift,
Grand Master Ruhl says that 'it was "entirely voluntary and was most
graciously given and is greatly appreciated by the Masonic Fraternity."
Texas (1925):
(Chairman C orrespondeflce Committee) : Grand Lodge of Alabama
(1925) proceedings were halted and called to refreshment for the pur-

43

pose of welcoming the Grand Matron and other Grand Officers of the
o: E. S. The Grand Matron addressed the Grand Lodge in terms of
sentiment and philosophy, comparable only to the elegance and refinement of diction employed. If one should be tempted to wonder, if, as
a Masonic procedure, we are not going somewhat afield, let the answer
be ; If such irmovations can be justified, certainly none should be so
readily accepted as our mothers, wives, daughters and sisters. By
nature and practice, infinitely our superiors, but is it not drifting from
the unique genius of Masonry? This only a question.
Victoria (1925):
(Board of General Purposes): The attention of the Board has
been directed to the existence of certain irregular bodies styling themselves Masonic, such as the "Order of the Eastern Star," to whicll
women are admitted as members, and which, by adopting phraseology
and fomrula used by the Craft, have led some to believe that they
are duly constituted Masonic bodies. The Board feels that it is its
duty to make it clearly understood that such bodies are in every respect
irregular. They have no connection whatever with, and have been
formed without authority from this Grand Lodge. The Board has
recommended the M. W. Grand Master to issue a pronouncement on
this matter.

Western Australia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Our Grand Master's
warning against associating the Craft with politics is noted with
unqualified approval, but Bro. Jenks (Chairman Correspondence Committee of Wisconsin) does not approve of R. W. Bro. ]. S. Battye's
assumption that there is inconsistency in approving of the Eastern Star
and disapproving of the Order of De Molay. Bro. Jenks points out that
the 0. E. S. asks nothing of Freemasonry, but an opportunity to assist
it in Charity, whereas the other Order in some places asks that Lodges
shall sponsor its activities and finance its Chapters. Of course, the
real point is-Does Freemasonry, or ought it, need to go outside its own
circle and accept assistance to do those things which it should do itself.
The writer, who, from personal experience, is acquainted with the
Eastern Star in a number of American cities, has nothing but praise
for the good intentions of its Chapters. But Masonry is a man's job,
and part of that job is the practice of charity personally, rather than
vicariously. However, we can agree to differ, and continue just as
Masonically warm-hearted.

.f

45

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Order of the Eastern
Star has been butting into things Masonic in Connecticut to the extent
of voluntarily taking upon themselves the task and expense of equipping
that part of their new Masonic Home set apart for hospital purposes.
This includes one hundred beds for patients and twenty rooms for
nurses; all these have been fitted and furnished by the ladies of the
Eastern Star, and from time to time abundance of bedding, linen,
clothing, furniture and supplies are sent to the hospital by the Chapters,
the storage shelves being kept at all times filled with choice homemade jellies, preserves and other dainties that would appeal to the
appetite of a sick person. The Eastern Star does not claim to be
Masonic and only asks the Masonic brethren to permit them to help
in the care of the needy and unfortunate. There is no standard by
which this kind of unselfish support and assistance can be measured.
And yet some Grand Lodges look with suspicion and distrust upon the
Eastern Star! We wonder if there is really any reason except that of
ignorance of its purposes and aims?

current chesty oration on Masonic education that improves on the
esoteric and monitorial lectures of the three symbolic degrees, and we
believe the farther we get away from the golden rule in those old
lectures the worse off we are.

44

EDUCATION-MASONIC
The question of Masonic Education is present in all Jurisdictions. There is no doubt but there is a need for active and constructive work along this line. In some instances the Committees have
been disheartened by the lack of interest taken in their program.
There are two factors that cause this; first, has it been found what
is education along Masonic lines? and, second, will the average
Mason be interested in any program that has so far been given
them or that may hereafter be determined upon? It must be broad
· enough to include things particularly Masonic, but also in its relation to the ever-present questions of religion, political government,
economics, philanthropy, etc. This necessarily requires the expenditure of a large amount of money, voluntary service and leaders with
a vision. Too often after the first excitement the interest of the
Fraternity in general ceases. Time and growth gives strength to
all things and this may be the solution. The section of the report
of the Committee on Masonic Education of Wisconsin quoted under
this section expresses, we believe, the condition that generally prevails.
District of Columbia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The report on educational
service to the Grand Lodge of Arizona is an admirable essay, full of
wisdom and fact, but it assumes, like the others on the subject, that
the brethren want to be educated. Seriously, we find very little in the

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We beg leave to invite
attention to the prevailing subjects in the reviews. In almost every
report we find some action on Education. Nearly all, or probably all
of the writers of the correspondence reports know that it is difficult
to induce Masons to read and keep up with education. The esoteric
and monitorial lectures of the three symbolic degrees are so full and
complete that there is little left to be learned, and if we essay to
improve or amplify them we will find it as futile as an effort to improve
on the great paintings of the old masters. The members of the Lodges
know this and balk at so much oratory. Let us not dissemble, nor
cloak this, but try to find where we may educate.
It is within our grasp. We can find apt, eager pupils in the Sunday
Schools and in the graded public schools. The Jesuits find their pupils
in the parochial schools. Why not take their cue?
Ask a parochial school boy who was Benedict Arnold and he will
tell you lie was a traitor, a Freemason, a Protestant. He will tell you
the same of Aaron Burr; and of Captain Kidd, the pirate, and of
John Brown, of Ossawatamie, who precipitated the Civil War. But ask
a Sunday School boy who was Torquemado, or what of the Spanish
Inquisition, or the Massacre of Saint Bartholomew, or who were the
Albigenses, the Waldenses, the Lollards, or John Wycliffe, John Huss,
Savonarola, Martin Luther, Hugh Latimer, Giordano Bruno, or Lorenzo
Dow, and you will find he knows but little about these. The child's
mind is plastic. He retains what he learns. The writer believes we
could do more good by sending lecturers into the Sunday Schools and
graded public schools than into the Lodges.
New York (1925):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : In reference to Masonic
education, if it is considered that a Masonic education is an essential
to the practice of the principles of Masonry, rather than an accomplish·
ment, it might be well to make a requirement that "before an applica•
tion will be received from a candidate he be required to read certain
books of a Masonic character, list of which is to be determined upon
and all of which are available to the public."
North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : What future is before
our programs of Masonic Education and of Masonic Service in the

/
46

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON' CORRESPONDENC'E

several Grand Lodges? The rank and file of mature adults do not
want any large doses of Masonic education. "Welfare Work," "Im·
provement Programs," and the like, never have been popular as such
and per se. People don't grow radiantly enthusiastic about such things,
and when they cost good money, people are going to resent the expen·
diture of that good money for that work in far too many cases.
Masons as such, when measured in terms of the aggregate, have
neither sprouted any wings recently nor yet donned academic caps
and gowns, nor still yet ceased to be very human.
A certain small boy was told that he should eat prunes, for they
were good for him. His reply was, "I don't like things that are good
for me." The most of us have much of the small boy still left inside
our shirts.

*

*

*

The corollary consideration was the ~fasonic instruction, education,
development of these mere members to the end that we should have a
membership realizing what Masonry really is. The phrase "Masonic
Education" has come to stay. The wonder is, that it did not come
sooner. But this matter is one which involves many varying considerations. \Vhence shall Masonic Education come; of what shall it consist; what shall be the mode of its application; what shall be its mediate
and its immediate objectives? Each Grand Jurisdiction has solved these
problems in the light of the facts as it has found them, and many have
achieved noteworthy results.
Only one note of warning do we desire in this place to sound. The
average citizen can generate no enthusiasm for "uplift work"; and
unless there be appropriate environmental, and personal, factors in
"Masonic Education," he will ere long rebel.
North Dakota (1926):
(Committee on Masonic Service and Education): We again direct
the attention of lodge officers to the unquestioned importance of efficiency in Lodge organization and administration. Efficiency may be an
overworked word, just as service sometimes appears to be, but no other
word will do. We must have efficiency everywhere in this 20th century.
It is just as important in a "'.\fasonic Lodge as in a bank, a factory, or a
Rotary Club. \Vhy? Because we cannot command the unflagging
interest and the enthusiastic support of our membership unless that
membership feels that we have an objective in our Lodge and are making some progress toward it.
What must be the objectives of the successful Lodge?
(1) It must provide good, accurate and effective ritualistic work.
The impressive conferring of our degrees is essential.

47

(2) It must provide for the proper financing of all Lodge
activities, the planning and preparation of a balanced budget for a Lodge
is now imperative.
(3) It will take heed to the needs of Masonic Relief for the distressed worthy brother. The efficient Lodge will have a Relief Fund.
( 4) It must include a more definite and far-reaching program of
Masonic Education.
(5) It will take cognizance of the need of an adequate plan for
the social life of the Lodge.
(6) It will include a definite contribution to the life of the community through Masonic Service.
There may be other things which might be included but these we
feel are important. If we admit the value and importance of the above
then the whole question resolves itself into the attainment of the same.
How? By proper organization and effective administration. This means
that Lodge officers must take their election and appointment more
seriously. The mere holding of an office no longer can be tolerated;
too much is at stake. It should be incumbent upon every Master just
as soon as he is installed, to call his officers together, select the various
committees· and survey with care the Lodge situation, then formulate a
comprehensive plan including the several objectives of a Lodge and then
keep everlastingly working the plan. The Master must be efficient and
then demand efficiency all down the line. The time has gone by when
careless and haphazard methods will do. We earnestly solicit the consideration of these suggestions to the end that the same efficiency may
exist in a Masonic lodge as exists in any other worth while organization.

Prince Edward Island (1927):
(Grand Master) : As I have gone among the brethren in the·
several Lodges, I have been impressed with the need of some action
along educational lines. No effort seems to have been made to get in
touch with the sources from which come the excellent Masonic literature which is available to those who seek. Many know little of
Masonry beyond the Ritual; to the interpretation and understanding of
this no thought seems to be given. Few know anything of Masonic
history. The new brother who seeks information knows not where to
turn. The whole concern is to put on degrees and to make Lodge
members, some of whom ultimately become Past Masters in name, but
not in knowledge. I feel that this matter is one of prime importance
and that some steps should be taken to remedy the present condition,
either by the appointment of a Committee on Masonic Education or
independent action on the part of the Lodges themselves. In this con-

I

I

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

nection, I think, too, that it would be well occasionally to include in
our annual Proceedings a Review of the Proceedings of Foreign Grand
Lodges. This would be of considerable interest and helpful to
many of us.

lately reported that it costs less to keep a child in school twelve
years than it does to support a criminal in a Penal institution for a
five-year term.

48

Virginia (1925):
(Grand Master) : Masonic education consists of at least four distinct branches, ritualistic, philosophic, symbolic and historic. All these
are of deep interest and l may say in a sense essential for an intelligent understanding of the principles of our Fraternity, but a thorough
knowledge of the ritual is a primal factor and of the first order of
importance. No Lodge can attain or hope to attain an air of dignity
without proficiency in the work of the ritual. This is, indeed, as
essential as a code of members of the legal profession or as tools of
the builders' trade to the practical mechanic. It is, therefore, an
imperative necessity that every officer of the Lodge should be thoroughly
equipped from this particular standpoint to perform the duties which
may without a moment's notice, devolve upon or be assigned to him.
Wisconsin (1926):
(Committee on Masonic Education): Modern Masonry is so occupied with initiating, passing, and raising of candidates-with mere
ritualism-that it has overlooked the more important and higher duty
of making real Masons. The novitiate is hurried through the degrees,
and turned out into the world, as a nominal Mason, with but a hazy
understanding of what it is all about, with no adequate knowledge of
Masonry, with little appreciation of his responsibility to the Fraternity
or to society at large. Barely does a candidate acquire any real understanding of Masonic truth while receiving the degrees. To continue
making Masons without giving them an intelligent knowledge of what
Masonry is, or what their responsibilities are, is little short of stupid.

EDUCATION-PUBLIC
It is a trite saying that "The Youth of Today is the Trustee of
Posterity." The interest of the Fraternity, both individually and
collectively, in the Public Schools is increasing and consistent and
steady work in this field of activity is one that cannot help but remedy
existing conditions. Some one has said that "when you open a school
you close a jail" and another "that the finest penal institution is but
a monument to misguided youth." Translating these into dollars
and cents, will perhaps appeal more to the average citizen than
slogans. The Superintendent of Public Instruction of California

49

District of Columbia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Under the caption of
"Education," the Grand Master of Alabama says : "Our public schools
are becoming more and more efficient in equipping our boys and girls
for the issues of life." He has discovered where education is most
needed. Tt is passing strange how well posted parochial school children
are against the rights of all other creeds, and how little our public
school children know of the vagaries of Rome.
Under the caption of "Education" (Grand Master of Indiana, 1926),
this appears: "The motto on the cornerstone of our public school is
as follows: 'Education is Masonry's greatest legacy to her children.'
In child welfare work especially it is obvious to all that health and
education of the child is most important." These prophetic words should
be emblazoned in letters of gold. A child's mind is receptive, but we
fear the average Mason doesn't want to be educated any more. A
parochial school boy can tell you Benedict Arnold, Captain Kidd, Aaron
Burr and many other traitors were Masons, but the average Mason
and the average Sunday School boy or public school boy have never
heard of John Huss, or Torquemada or Ravaillac, or Martin Luther.
The chesty orators who make Fourth of July speeches and blue lodge
orations would do more good teaching children.
Nevada (1926):
(Grand Master): During my official visits I have greatly stressed
the need of Masons taking a greater interest in all matters pertaining to
education. We pride ourselves on striving for light, more light and
further light. Ignorance and superstition are the two greatest menaces
to our present day liberty.
It is only by a process of education that these two persistent enemies can be overcome.
Our public school system, teaching American i9-eals, is the only
institution that can forever protect the liberties we enjoy under our
form of Constitutional Government.
New Zealand (1926):
A matter of interest in this Province during this year was the
opening of the Kirkpatrick Masonic Home at Nelson. Bro. S. Kirkpatrick, a P.M. under the English Constitution, bequeathed almost the

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

50

61

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

whole of his estate to found a Home at Nelson for deserving female
children of deceased Masons. The estimated value of this bequest is
in the vicinity of £45,000.
Rhode Island (1927):
(Chairman Correspondmce Committee) : A growing interest in the
work of the public schools is also noticeable. The "Public School
Week" is now a permanent feature of the Grand I,odge of California,
and this feature has been favorably co_mmended.

New Mexico (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Bro. Jenks (Wisconsin)
does not think Grand Lodges should help with school legislation. We
do. He says by so doing they are "violating the time honored traditions
of the Craft." We honor the traditions, but the Masonry of today must
meet the problems of today just as it met the problems at the "building
of the temple." .California is the outstanding example of a jurisdiction
that has taken the public schools under its wing and as a result the
schools stand well toward the top of the list and no harm has come to
the Grand Lodge of Masonry.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Corresponde1ice Committee) : The Grand Master of
Nevada reported that in his official visitations he had stressed the need
of supporting our public schools. To his utter dismay he found-upon
inquiry in the several Lodges-that 90 per cent of the membership
present had not taken sufficient interest in this vital matter to visit the
schools or take any interest in their affairs. The brethren of Nevada
and of Utah and of every other Jurisdiction should read a certain pamphlet under the title of "Dubuque Public Schools" to have brought home
to them one appalling danger that threatens our public school system.
While we sleep, or prate about "toleration" and "fanaticism," a vigilant,
powerful, sleepless foe is ceaselessly at work undermining the foundations of our government through its persistent attacks upon our public
schools. Once the power is gained by this foe, what can he not do?
Although he represents only one-sixth of our population, read "Dubuque
Public Schools" for an answer.
EMBLEMS
The wearing of emblems, like anything else, can be and is, in
a nwnber of cases, carried to extremes. The member displaying the
lar'gest amount of Masonic jewelry is too often a Mason in name
only. Perhaps the English custom against advertising one's con-

nection with the Craft has advantages that are self-evident to one
who gives this matter serious consideration. They are commonly used
for making "a touch."
In the olden days the wearing of Ma.sonic regalia when appearing in public as a body was common. It still prevails in some Jurisdictions, both in and outside of the United States. Even where it
does, however, the tendency is to limit it as much as possible.
Manitoba (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): I note sixteen Dispensations
"to wear Regalia at Social Functions." Each Jurisdiction is supreme
within its own borders, so it is really none of our business, and then
there are always a certain number-more the pity-who might never be
known to the world at large as Masons if they did not get an opportunity to wear their regalia occasionally in public.

"

*

*

We concur hi the recommendation that Grand Lodge on resolution
declare that the wearing of Masonic clothing in public should be strictly
confined to the funeral of a brother Mason or the laying of a cornerstone with the authority of the Grand Master.
Nevada (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Masonic opinion is against
public processions, except at funerals and corner-stone layings, and we
approve. Masonry is a power for good that needs no display. And
a dispensation to attend church in procession is verging on the ridiculous,
an yet we read of its being done frequently.
\Ve of the Craft are veering one way on the resignation question,
and on the procession question we are veering the other, for did not
Brother Burns in 1790 gallantly sing:
"Friday first's the day appointed
By the Right Worshipful appointed,
To hold our grand procession;
To get a blade o' Johnnie's morals,
And taste a swatch d Manson's barrels
I' the way of our profession."
To veer or not to veer, ay, that's the question!

*

*

*

We note, too, that he (Grand Master of Florida) is against alt
participation in public parades. We are with him here, and yet anciently
the Craft frequently paraded in public, and frequently much the worse
for wear.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): On page 137 of the pro'
ceedings of the Grand Lodge of England, we find the following as a
part of some amendments to law:
No Masonic jewel, medal, device, or emblem shall be worn
in the Grand Lodge or any subordinate lodge unless it appertains to or is consistent with those degrees which are recognised
and acknowledged by the Grand Lodge as part of pure and Antient Masonry, and has been approved by the Grand Master.
The language of this is not very specific. vVe do not know offhand. what "device" would be described as "consistent with" degrees
which are "recognized and acknowledged by" the Grand Lodge as "part
of pure and Antient Masonry." On its face, this looks like a prohibition of the use of such as we know as Shrine and Grotto jewelry in
all Lodge rooms. vVe know that English Masons do not use Masonic
jewelry outside of Lodge rooms at all. Therefore, this means that if
you belong to the Shrine, and are in England, you co~ld with propriety
use the Shrine Emblem, but none other, on the street ; but if you attended a Lodge, you would have to take it off and put on the emblem of
Symbolic Masonry.
Seriously, we cannot pick quarrels with either our own way of doing
these things, or that of our English brethren. Their taste tells them
not to wear any such jewelry, and they don't; not in England, or in
Australia, or in other parts of the Empire, though the custom is not so
rigid in parts of Canada. In America, it is customary, in so far as one's
sense of good taste suggests, to use lapel and watch chain jewelry.
Some of this is in exceedingly poor taste; some is big enough to flag
a freight-train; some Masons wear as much as the available spaces will
permit ; it is told on some that they are so proud of their honors that
they wear the jeweled emblems on their nightshirts (we have actually
seen this done by college frat men); but for the life of us, we cannot
see anything out of good taste in wearing attractive and tasteful jewelry
on street clothes. This is not worn with any attempt to commercialize
Masonry, not one time in a thousand where we have observed it; but
because, as the membership is an ornament to the man's life, so is the
jewelry to his habit. We know that the public wearing of emblematic
jewelry is fraught with some dangers to the fraternity, such as its use
by impostors, and its use by lawful members in compromising situations.
We have seen Masonic jewelry on the lapels and watch chains of men
in beastly intoxication; and the sight did not inspire us with added
respect for the Order.
Altogether, we are glad that less of such jewelry is being used.

Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Is not the advertising feature somewhat foreign to the teachings and traditions of the Craft? In
most Grand Jurisdictions the Lodges are forbidden to appear in Masonic
clothing because it is felt that it would be an indirect advertisement of
Freemasonry. In some they may not even appear so clothed at a
Masonic funeral, except by special dispensation. In some their members
are forbidden to wear a Masonic. pin or other Masonic insignia for
similar reasons.

52

63

FUNERALS
We hold to the idea that the Masonic funeral should be a
private rather than a public function. We do not go so far
as to say that the average Masonic funeral service produces a poor
impression upon the public, but in a large number of cases it does.
The ritual is given in a slipshod manner, there is lack of uniformity
in dress, a small attendance and generally the entire standard is
low.
If Lodge Officers could be brought to realize their shortcomings
and be persuaded to delegate the services to Past Masters or members who are particularly fitted to give a sympathetic and dignified
rendition of the Ritual, it would be a great improvement.
As long as it is a duty which we must perform, it should be
conducted in such a manner as will produce a deep and lasting im·
pression.
Kansas (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A member of their (Arizona) Grand Lodge known as w: .Brother Rev. J. Rockwood Jenkins, sub~
mitted a resolution to the effect that the present funeral service had
become "increasingly unsatisfactory"; that it was too long and contained many expressions not consistent with the .deeper principles of
Masonry and the truth of immortality and that it does not fulfill its
purpose in bringing consolation to the bereaved; also, that lodges are
even compelled to cut portions of the service and make changes in the
wording, the better to meet the needs of the occasion. Then this good
brother goes further and suggests that there was no necessity of regularly
opening and closing a Lodge of Master Masons to perform this service and after all this, he recommends that a committee be appointed to
revise the funeral service and report at the next Annual Communication.
To our absolute astonishment we find that the recommendation was
adopted and he was made chairman of such committee.

/

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

With no respect for this distinguished minister who submitted the
p;oposition we cannot refrain from saying that in the opinion of the
writer his action is in full accord and an index with the so-called pro·
gressive spirit in many of our Grand Lodges, and illustrates beyond a
question of doubt that a few good brethren of this kind will soon undermine the whole structure of Ancient Craft Masonry. To the notion of
the writer there is nothing more beautiful in our ceremonies than the
funeral service, and of course it would be absolutely ridiculous to perform this ceremony unless the Lodge was opened and closed in the
usual manner. Of course we anticipate that when our good brother
makes his report his ceremony will be of such a character that it will
not require the services of the officers of a Lodge, but no doubt will be
put in the hands of some preacher, and according to local custom it will
be at a cost of so much per.
Manitoba (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee); It would appear to me that
if the Masonic order is to have charge of the funeral it should have
fuU charge. This would include the pall bearers. If the friends of the
deceased brother wish to name others who are not Master Masons let
them be named as "honorary pall bearers", but without duties or a place
in our ranks.
Utah (1926):
(Grand Master): My observation is that our Fraternity often makes
a very poor impression upon the public upon practically the only occasions
when it appears in public, namely, at funera'ts, because of thoughtlessness
on the part of the brethren and lack of familiarity on the part of the
officers and brethren with the funeral ritual. I am of the opinion that
Grand Lodge should recommend to the constituent Lodges that their
officers and members at cenvenient times rehearse the funeral ceremonies
contained in the ritual both for use at the public funeral ceremonies and
at the grave, until both officers and members are thoroughly familiar
with the service and the various signs and movements which are a part
of it. I would not go so far as to suggest that each Lodge designate
some Past Master regularly to officiate on all such occasions, but such
a suggestion might not be amiss. The brethren also ought to be
cautioned by their officers to refrain from smoking on such occasions
and from loud conversation or laughter while the members are in view
of the public.
Virginia (1927):
(Chaimtan Correspondence Committee): Times change and in no
respect have they changed of late years more than in the theological

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

56

sense. All men of intelligence have ceased to look upon the change
from this transitory scene to whatever awaits us beyond the vail as a
"Doom." All nature teaches that all things are progressive and as far
as we can see each step is a change for the better. Few now think
that a kind Heavenly Father will .doom his creatures to fire and brimstone. Certainly Masons should so live that their change will not be a
doom.
GENERAL GRAND LODGE
The possibility that there will be a General Grand Lodge is too
remote to receive serious consideration. The doctrine of "State
Rights" would prevent it. Such a thing might have been poasible
after the Revolution, but there the effort to form one came to nothing.
Even the suggestion that George Washington be made the first
General Gt-and Master was not sufficient to crystallize the idea.
Illinois ( 1926) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): During the year the l\1asonic Grand Council of Michigan was organized, composed of representativ:es from .the Grand Lodge, Grand Chapter, Grand Council, Grand
Comtnandery, and Consistory. The plan is as yet purely experimental and
the Grand Master has great hopes that much good may come from such a
council. We have grave doubts that the council will ultimately prove
advantageous and we. shall await with much interest further reports
from Michigan showing how the Grand Council really functions and in
what way it contributes to the we! fare of Masonry in the state. We
shall be glad to be convinced.
Iowa (1926):
(Grand Master) : My brethren, let me say that I am convinced that
no greater calamity could befall our Fraternity in the United States
than would result from the establishment of a General Grand Lodge.
The several Grand Lodges of the United States are now bound to·
gether by our ancient laws, customs, and landmarks. The most pleasant
relations exist among them. It is realized by the leaders of Masonry
that a general organization endowed with any power at all would inevitably lead to discord and strife and contention and dissatisfaction
and confusion. In fowa there are 86,000 Masons, 550 Lodges. Do we
need some super-organization to lead our footsteps aright, to dictate to us
the wording of our ritual, to force upon us laws and customs unfitted to
our experiences ?

57

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In our opinion much of
energy was wasted in arguing against a General Grand Lodge. To us
the suggestion of such a thing is merely something to laugh at.

To the M:.w:. Grand Lodge of Ancient, Free-Masons of
South Carolfoa.
The Committee, to whom was referred the Communication of the
proceedings of "a number of members of the Society of Free-Masons
from various parts of the United States, composed of Members of
Congress and strangers assembled at the Capitol in the city of Washington, 9th of March, 1822, recommending the establishment of a
General Grand Lodge of the United States."

56

Pennsylvania (1926):
(Grand Master) : Among the medals in Philadelphia Masonic
Museum is a George Washington General Grand Master Medal, presented by Mr. Zephaniah Wetzel through R. W. Past Grand Master,
Brother Samuel M. Goodyear. 1t was found among the debris of an
old house that was undergoing demolition. It is a good specimen of a
rare Masonic medal.
"This medal was struck at a time when there was a movement on
foot to establish a General Grand Lodge of Masons for the United
States, with Brother George Washington as the first General Grand
Master. It is not known when and where the medal was struck, but
in all probability it was done at the first United States Mint, established in Philadelphia in 1792. The metal is brass, and the obverse
shows the same pattern of bust as that of the Washington Cent of
1791. Not many were struck, and a specimen in fine condition is a
great rarity."
The Grand Lodge of Pennsylvania first suggested the General Grand
Lodge with Washington as General Grand Master, and although favorably considered by a number of other Jurisdictions, Washington declined
the honor which it was proposed to bestow upon him, so that while the
medal in commemoration of the event was struck, no General Grand
Lodge was instituted and Washington never was a General Grand
Master.
South Carolina (1926):
(Grand Master): We are indebted to our friend, J. Claude Keiper,
Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia, for
the original notice and resolution, copies of which are shown on the
inserts.
These documents are more than a hundred years old and prove that
. the idea of a General Grand Lodge is not a new one.
Experience has proven that our brethren legislated wisely at that
time.. I agree with the opinion then expressed that there is no necessity for a General Grand Lodge, although I am heartily in favor of a
common meeting place for the interchange of views as afforded the
Grand Lodges through the Masonic Service Association.
I am fully satisfied that our brethren may rest content that a
General Grand Lodge will not be established.

REPORT:
That they have seriously reflected on the important subject committed to their investigation ; that they have also derived much satisfactory information from the luminous and minute details of the various arguments which naturaHy suggest themselves from a careful
examination of the proposed establishment, contained in the reports of
many of the Committees of the Grand Lodges of other States : That
your Committee are sensibly impressed with the conviction that the
establishment of a Grand Lodge in each State, under whose jurisdiction, superintending care, and vigilance, the several subordinate Lodges
are placed and fostered, is amply sufficient for all the valuable and
interesting purposes of the Masonic Order. That as it does not appear
to your Committee any necessity exists for the establishment proposed,
in order to promote or advance the interests of the Craft; so, also,
would they deprecate even the possibility, if not the probability, of its
producing in any degree, however remote, the least injury to Masonry
generally, by its diversion of the parental vigilance of the State Grand
Lodges, towards the focus of the General Grand Lodge; by the impeding multiplication of its duties and concerns; by its alienation by distance, from the local concerns and character of the several si,bordinate
Lodges as well as the Grand Lodges themselves of the respective
States ; by its breaking in upon the funds of the several State Grand
Lodges, which could be applied so much more cheerfully to the endearing claims of charity; or in any other view, creating difficulty or disadvantage, to the present felicitous situation of the Masonic Order.
Your Committee, therefore, beg leave to recommend the following
resolutions:
Resolved, That the establishment of a General Grand Lodge of the
United States, and the calling of a Masonic Convention for the purpose of instituting and organizing the same, as proposed, is, in the
opinion of this Grand Lodge, unnecessary and unadvisable.
Resolved, That the Corresponding Grand Secretary be requested
to transmit copies of the foregoing Report and Resolution, to the
respective Grand Lodges throughout the United States, and a copy of

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

the same to William W. Seaton, Esq., at the City of Washington,
agreeably to the request contained in the communication referred to
your Committee.
Respectfufly submitted by
HENRY H. BACOT, S. G. W.
WILLIAM WALLER, J. G. W.
RICHARD W. COGDELL, C. G. S.
Committee.

GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL

58

Charleston, So. Ca., 23d December, 5822.
CHARLESTON, May 1, A. D. 1823, A. L. 5823.
DEAR SIR:
Agreeably to a resolution of the M.W. Grand Lodge of Ancient
Free-Masons of South-Carolina, passed at an adjourned communication,
held on the 23d December, 5822, I have the honour herewith to transmit
a copy of a report made by the Committee to whom was referred the
Communication of the proceedings of "A number of members of the
Society of Free-Masons from various parts of the United States,"
&c. recommending the establishment of a General Grand Lodge of the
United States.
With se:t"timents of respect, I remain,
Yours,
J. A. JOHNSON, M. D.,
Corresponding Grand Secretary.
Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The documents produced
by the Grand Master of South Carolina are more than one hundred
years old and prove that the idea of a General Grand Lodge is not a
new one. The incident mentioned is but one of no less than twelV'e
attempts that have been made from time to time to institute a General
Grand Lodge for the United States. Periodically some well meaning
brother (with more zeal than knowledge) is seized with a burning
desire to have such a central governing body. But when we consider
the different desires and ideals of the inhabitants of the different
states, the impracticability of having the supervision of the Lodges so
far removed from the governing body, and endeavor to figure out just
what sovereign powers the different Grand Lodges will surrender to
such a Genefal Grand Lodge, it is found that no agreement can be
had. For over seventy-five years no attempt in that line has been made
and no one acquainted with the situation seriously proposes such action
at the present time.

59

Those interested in this project still have faith that the lllatter
will be cacried to a successful conclusion. Raising the approximate
balance of two million dollars to finally complete it, and then a
million and a half endowment fund for its upkeep, is a task that will
require some work.
How much better would it have been if the money ahiea.dy sub·
scribed and to be raised could have been used to establish a National
University, along the lines outlined by Washington himself. The
problem might have been easier and it would have been a practical
Memorial.
We do object, however, to branding California and other Jw:itt·
dictions, who never formally agreed to the plan as "slacken.'' because
they have not contributed the dollar per member, as agreed UpOn lty
those who launched the project.
New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): As to the Washington
Memorial the- Grand Master of Missouri is an enthusiast, ju!lt as we are,
But he is a large bit more of an optimist than we are as to the time of
its dedication. He seems to expect that event will come along in two
years. If it arrives in ten years it will be perfectly satisfactory to ourself. It is a stupendous undertaking. The money is coming slowly,
but it is coming.
New Jersey (1926):
Brother Louis A. Watres, Past Grand Master of Pennsylvania and
President of the Washington Memorial Association, was introduced to
the Grand Lodge of New Jersey and said in part :
Now, let me point out to you a factor and feature of this movement which is worthwhile. When this movement was first begun it
was thought they would build a hundred thousand dollar monument to
the memory of Washington the Mason-a hundred thousand dollars, the
main purpose of which was to build a fire-proof building to house the
relics of Washington. When they got down to "brass tacks" and began
to see the importance of it, they said. "Why, that won't do," there are
a mi:llion five hundred thousand Masons in the United States to build
a monument to Washington, the Mason, for a hundred thousand do1·
lars t "It won't do." Forthwith they resolved to make it not less
than five hundred thousand, with an endowment fund of two hundred
and fifty thousand dollars, and as they progressed and as its significa11ee
presented· itself, they said that wouldn't do. "We will have to ha~

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

plans bigger than that." And they made plans for seven hundred and
fifty thousand dollars, because there were a million and a half Masons and
fifty cents a Mason would pay for it. It went along and in 1921 one
of our brothers from North Dakota moved that we have plans for a
building costing a million dollars. You see how it climbed and pretty
soon, as its far reach appeared they said, "No, we want a better building than a million dollars will produce," and they then made it a million
four hundred thousand, and after a while, a million eight hundred
thousand, and then, two million two hundred thousand. Why? Why,
because they had developed the great significance and the far reach of
this mighty movement, and as they saw that we were building a building
there which was to last for all time and that should carry the message
of human brotherhood to generations yet to come and unto those who
may look upon us as an ancient race, they said, "Why, two million· two
hundred thousand won't do." They had a sandstone tower, but they said,
"We are going to make it all granite. Raise it five hundred thousand."
Just like that. (With a wave of the hand.) And a little later they
made it from two million seven hundred thousand to three million four
hundred thousand, just like that 1 All this time they were talking about
the same dollar per capita, and the Masons grew from a million and a
half in 1911 to three million one hundred and forty-three thousand in
February, 1926, last.
Statement showing the Masonic population of each State, the amount
contributed by each, and the percentage of $1.00 per capita paid to February 22d, 1927:
PercentMasonic
Amount age of
Population Contributed Quota
$28,123.03
184.1
New Hampshire .......................................... 15,275
141
New Jersey .................................................. 86,230
121,540.53
130.5
266,457.00
Pennsylvania ................................................ 204,111
125.3
59,326.25
Virginia ........................................................ 47,331
18,056.00
118.4
North Dakota .............................................. 15,254
38,400.03
Maryland ...................................................... 32,632
118
7,675.50
New Mexico ...... '.......................................... 6,555
117.1
117
143,137.54
Massachusetts .............................................. 122,324
6,627.50
113
Arizona .......................................................... 5,901
6,595.04
110.7
Delaware ...................................................... 5,955
106.9
24,591.00
District of Columbia .................................. 22,993
31,250.16
106
South Carolina ......................... .................. 29,503
18,494.00
102.4
Rhode Island ................................................ 18,059
18,816.00
99.3
Vermont ........................................................ 18,942
144,649.30
98.9
Michigan ...................................................... 146,255

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonic
Population
Louisiana ··------------······.................................. 34,905
New York .................................................... 320,985
Missouri ........................................................ 113,212
Georgia .......................................................... 69,821
Idaho ··················-----·---------------------···········--···· 10,008
Wyoming ...................................................... 7,723
North Carolina .......................................... 41,334
Florida .......................................................... 27,398
Utah .............................................................. 4,818
Oregon .......................................................... 28,969
Connecticut ······---------------------·----···-------------·· 45,109
Mississippi .................................................... 36,402
West Virginia .............................................. 33,506
Montana ············'········---······ .. ···· .. ------.. ---·····-- 21,013
Maine ............................................................ 43,485
Nevada .......................................................... 2,721
Colorado ················-----------------------················· 32,126
Illinois ............................................................ 285,965
Washington .................................................. 46,409
Oklahoma .................................................... 69,673
Iowa .............................,................................ 86,140
Tennessee ...................................................... 50,022
Texas ............................................................ 135,800
Minnesota .................................................... 60,742
Indiana .......................................................... 126,215
Alabama ........................................................ 54,538
Kentucky ...................................................... 72,072
Nebraska ...... ................................................ 40,937
California ...................................................... 122,412
Wisconsin .................................................... 56,987
Arkansas ...................................................... 36,000
South Dakota .............................................. 19,632
Ohio .............................................................. 198,265
Kansas ...... .................................................... 80,174
Alaska ---··· ..................................................................
Canal Zone ..........................................................
Philippine Islands ................................................... .
Porto Rico ..................................................
General Grand Chapter, R. A. M ...... .
General Grand Council, R. S. M. .. ................... .

61

PercentAmount age of
Contributed Quota
33,932.87
97.2
305,008.00
95
106,251.01
93.8
64,006.20
91.7.
8,299.16
82.9
6,276.52
81.3
33,713.87
81.l
22,081.25
80.5
3,719.50
77.2
25,000.00
76
33,982.00
75.3
26,864.25
73.8
$24,511.52
73.2
14,093.00
67
28,500.00
65.5
1,733.00
63.6
19,320.89
60.1
153,790.67
53.8
22,500.00
48.5
33,560.11
48.2
40.584.23
47.1
21,633.91
43.2
56,652.33
41.7
21,017.25
34.6
41,453.00
32.8
16,021.50
29.4
18,360.50
25.5
8,231.00
20.1
23,009.00
18.8
7,629.25
13.4
4,305:00
12
2,039.20
10.3
20,228.00
10.2
902.00
1.1
100.00
200.00
700.05
100.00
5.099.98
5,100.00

62

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Masonic
Population
Grand Encampment, K. T ................................... ..
A. A. S. R., Northern Jurisdiction ...... _____________ _
A. A. S. R., Southern Jurisdiction ...... ________ .... ..
Imperial Council, A. A. 0. N. M. S ... ________ .... ..
Supreme Council, M. 0. V. P. E. R ............... ..
Prov. Grand Lodge, R. 0. of Scotland ............ ..
Miscellaneous .......................................................... ..
3,191,303

Percentage of
Amount
Contributed Quota
15,000.00
40,000.00
10,100.00
68,000.00
4,100.00
100.00
36.00
$2,331,593.90

New York (1927):
(Grand Master): What is to be the ultimate cost of the Memorial?
I know that many of you have been asking that question. In order
to make sure what our Jurisdiction's pro rata financial obligation will
be I addressed a letter to President Louis A. W atres. In a reply
dated April 4th he said :
"The estimate of the architect for the completed building was
$3,200,000. These figures have been submitted and have been approved
The furnishing and equipment is put down at $800,000, which will
make a total of $4,000,000 (for building and grounds). As to the
equipment I am not prepared to express an opinion other than to say
that we must confine it to that figure. This of course would include
elevators, steam heat, electric lighting, power plants, etc. As to the
Endowment Fund, it is about like this : The estimate furnished by
experts as to the upkeep and maintenance amount to $40,000 a year.
We have felt and now feel that there should be an Endowment Fund of $1,500,000."
Adding the figures furnished by President Watres, we reach a
grand total of $5,500,000. It is indeed a "grand total," one worthy of
the Craft in this nation with its more than 16,000 Lodges and its
3,500,000 members. To carry our own just share, my brethren, we
must take up the working tools with increased vigor and prosecute
our task with untiring loyalty. Let us hereby dedicate ourselves to
that task now in order to make this the est year so far!
Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): They started with a plot
of ground as a site for the Memorial Building consisting of two and
one-half acres; this has been increased to thirty-six acres, which must

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

63

for all time be· kept by the Masons of the United States in a parklike condition, and which will afford a very convenient park for the
citizens of Alexandria, without expense. They changed the proposed
material of the structure from Virginia limestone to New Hampshire
granite at an added expense of one-half million dollars. It will, no
doubt, be the most splendid and costly memorial ever erected to the
memory of any human being, but it will not furnish food for a single
hungry Mason, clothe a needy one or administer to the relief of a
sick and unfortunate member of the Craft.

*

*

*

*

*

* •

It seems that one hundred thousand dollars 1s being expended to
house these relics and that the balance of five million, four hunded
thousand dollars is being expended to represent the soul of Freemasonry and for a "Mecca." We will not say that the soul of Freemasonry is not worth the sum being expended, for we think otherwise,
but we do maintain that it could have been "expressed" for a much
smaller sum, and we could very well have got along without a
"Mecca." We want no Mecca and Freemasonry has had its soul
very well represented for a long time without any such expensive
memorial.
The entire cost originally was only to be one hundred thousand
dollars, while now it is thought that four million dollars will be
inadequate for its completion and that an additional endowment fund
of one and one-half million dollars must be provided for its upkeep.
_"Great oaks from little acorns grow." Who would have thought that
this little germ would have attained such gigantic proportions within
ten years?

GRAND LODGE
This is a day of big business and as a Grand Master of Oregon
once stated, the meeting of the Grand Lodge was an annual stockholders meeting and the members were but proxies for the stockholders of the corporation. The English custom of conducting routine
business through the Board of General Purposes and making its
Grand Lodge Communications a ratification of its actions with the
social and fraternal idea predominating has its advantages.
Connecticut (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We agree with the Chairman of the Correspondence of Canada in objecting to incorporation of
Lodges, but for different reasons. He thinks that thereby the Craft
is "commercialized," that "Masonry is an association of closely united

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE~'"CE

men-an organism not an organization." Our objectiorl lies in the fact
that incorporation makes a Lodge a legal entity, can sue and be sued,
etc., and an unfriendly court can mandamus all its records, books, and
secret documents. The possible results of untold evil can easily be
imagined.
Georgia (1926):
(Grand };faster) : The charter of our Grand Lodge merely incorporates this body under the name and style of "The Grand Lodge of
Georgia." \Vhile the body of the petition for the charter states that
it is for incorporation as Freemasons, I would recommend that our
charter be so amended as to add the words "Free and Accepted
Masons" so that this Grand Lodge would be incorporated under the
name and style of "The Grand Lodge of Georgia, Free and Accepted
Masons." There are two negro Grand Lodges in Georgia already, and
clandestine bodies are endeavoring to incorporate in several of our
sister states. Should any of these apply for and receive a charter with
"F. & A. M." or "Free and Accepted Masons" included therein, it
would, so I am advised, prevent our use of the suffix. (Not adopted.)
Kansas (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : An official welcome was
extended by the Grand Lodge to a rather mixed company of dis·
tinguish brethren, all of whom, we take for granted, are officially
recognized by the Grand Lodge of the District of Columbia. \Ve refer
to the Grand Commander of the Grand Commandery, Grand Patron
of the Eastern Star, Grand Commander of the Scottish Rite and
several Past Grand Masters of other jurisdictions. We notice the
absence of the representatives of a number of organizations or societies
started during the past few years and who predicate their membership
on Freemasonry. \Ve presume no formal invitations were sent out
or they would have had a better representation along these lines.
New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee); Here is a new one. The
Committee on Jurisprudence (Nebraska) recommended the setting
aside of one evening of the annual communication for a round table
talk. VVhen there is time to do this it can be made a great event. The
Grand Lodge approved. Just imagine the members of a Grand Lodge,
sitting down together, in an informal way. Then somebody starts a
discussion, concerning things that are a vital part of the Masonic life.
Oh, there is no end of uplift, clearing away of misunderstanding, that
may be done in this way.

*

*

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

65

By a large and rising vote it was decreed that in the future a free
banquet should not be served at the semi-annual communication of the
Grand Lodge.

*

*

*

Several North Carolina Lodges were cited to appear because of
non-payment of dues. New Hampshire has found a way to cure this
evil. One dose of the medicine does the business. A dollar a day fine
for the delay cures any Lodge, the first time.
North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is interesting to note
the differences which prevail among the several Grand JurisdiCtions
about matters of various kinds. We know of one Grand Lodge in the
United States, whose official home was to be built, and the cornerstone thereof was laid with accompaniment of brass bands, Templar
escort, orator, etc., on a Sunday afternoon. That would not be permitted in the most of the other states. Another Grand Lodge does
not sanction the custom of Lodges of going to some church in town,
to hear there a sermon to the Masons, while the greater number of
them. approve it in some form or another. One Grand Lodge will not
permit a dollar of Lodge funds to be used for any purpose which is
not strictly Masonic; while we know of some good Lodges which provided funds to aid in the matter of the Confederate Memorial on
Stone Mountain. One will not permit Lodges to have any relation
whatever with the DeMolay Order, while others lend tacit approval, or
more; Some by edict prohibit their membership from being attached to
certam. other organizations which are in no wise related to Masonry,
as for mstance the Klan while others forego this opportunity. of giving
su~h free advertising to these organizations, and are none the worse for
this treatment of the "problem."
These remarks are occasioned by an act of the Grand Master of
the Grand Lodge of ·Saskatchewan, wherein he, on seeing that a certain
Lodge was about to debate in regular communication "the advisability
of opening an Eastern Star Lodge," had the Lodge instructed "that such
a question was not Masonic business and should not be brought before
the Lodge as such." And it is this same Grand Master who when the
mo?1ent for the closing of his annual address to Grand Lodge has
arrived, deems to be Masonic business appropriate for discussion in his
only. strictly formal Masonic message to the Craft, the subject of the
relatwn of employer and employee.
Tennessee (1927):
(Grand Master!. The office of Grand Master is one of high
honor but acco~panted by ~eavy responsibilities and sometimes questions
come before him that reqmre a welt trained legal mind. Your present

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON COHRESPONDENCE

Grand Master has keenly felt at times the need of a competent adviser.

a "Grand Secretary's Certificate." In explanation the writer will say
th~t a_ Grand Secretary's Certificate is in effect the same as a dimit,
?emg issued by the Grand Secretary to all members of defunct Lodges;
m other wor~s, when the charter of a Lodge is surrendered or revoked
all members m good standing and who are clear on the books or who
subsequently pay the amount due to the Grand Secretary are issued a
~rand Secretary's. C~rtificate and with this they are permitted to petition for me.m?ership m the same manner as if the document issued were
a regular d1m1t.

66

In some Grand Lodges they have an officer known as the Judge Advo-

cate, whose duty it is to pass on questions which come to the Grand
Master and assist him in his decision. The Grand Master is 11ot bound
to accept his advice, but in most cases it would be a relief to divide
the responsibility. According to our present laws he does have a committee on Jurisprudence appointed by him, many of .whom are competent to advise but who are scattered all over tbe State and no one of
them feels it his duty to act in this capacity.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Cnrrcsf'ondc11cc Committee) : The Grand Master of
Maine ( 1926) is of the conservative school and gives no countenance
to those who \vould reform Masonry. He quotes with approval:
"Masonry is an institution, and its usages, customs, laws and ancient
regulations are fixed and unalterable." Probably it is just as well to
make someone else responsible for that statement by quotation. As we
see this matter that statement, or part of it, is not supported by the
history of the Craft, and it appears to this writer, at least as more
than likely to mislead those who have not investigated the subject, and
who are inclined to accept without question the statements of highlyplaced brethren. \Ve do agree with the Grand Master that no person
"has· any right to commit the lnstitutitin as such" to any cause.

67

Tennessee (1927):

(Chairman Corerspondence Committee): Under Texas the Chairman of the Correspondence Committee of Manitoba takes a shot at the
Grand Chaplain when he says:
The brevity of the prayer suggested by the "Great Teacher" did not
appeal to the Grand Chaplain, so he filled a page when assisting to open
Grand Lodge.
.

Now you let the Dominie alone. He has to earn the mileage and per

di~m the Grand Lodge pays him. Besides, one long prayer once a year
will not hurt those Texans any, and it might do them good.
Utah (1927):

.(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Orator of

GRAND LODGE OFFICERS
Often some Grand Lodge Officers do not realize the importance
of the duties assigned them. This applies to Grand Orators who
make statements not based upon facts, or advance theories and
ideas not in keeping with the dignity or purpose of our Institution.
The system of appointing Grand Representa.tives might well be
abolished for the Representatives generally cease to function after
their appointment.
When this Grand Lodge met in Los Angeles in 1924 the Grand
Lodge was opened by the Deputy Grand Master, the same as is
customary in Maryland. It produced the results anticipated by the
Chairman of the Wisconsin Correspondence Committee. It also
gives the Deputy Grand Master an opportunity to demonstrate his
proficiency.
Kansas ( 1927) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): He ventures to ask the
writer, as Grand Secretary, to enlighten him on what is termed by us as

F!on~ stated that he proposed to address Grand Lodge on one of the

most important_ tenets of Freemasonry: "The Most Important Landmark"

of the !'raternity. As a background he takes our origin back to Dionys:an bmlders who wrought for the people of Tyre long before Solomon's
hme, and comes down to 926 and to the City of York where the first
Grand Lodge was organized. We recall the fact that some such weird
~tatements. were made last year, and we expressed our opinion of them
m our review of Manitoba.
Utah (1926):

. (Chai~nwn C~rrespondence Committee): Grand Orators comprise
.an mterestmg
.
. species-or shall we say genus? They somet"1mes say such
1nterestmg thmgs ! The Lone Star disciple of Demosthenes d ta edft
k" . h"
d
ec r
a er s irmis mg a~oun for a bit-"In every excavation * * * signs and
symbols clearly legible to those who would read, establish the fact that
Masonry has been practiced in every age · and I for one sincerely be!"
"t · f D" ·
· .
'
1eve
l JS. o
1vme ongm and has existed since the creation of man." In one
particular ~t least this good brother practically agrees with the Prophet
Joseph Smith. He traced our Fraternity back to the garden of Eden; but

REPORT l'.'1'\! CORRESPONDENCE

68

moniwsly ·'receives' the Grand Master : 'Somehow this seems to add to
the dignity of the Grand Mastei-s, etc.' While this matter is solely
Maryland's business, we frankly do not like such imitation of England,
where they elect some sprig of royalty or nobility, who of course cannot
be expected to soil his fingers by doing anything, but appoints a Deputy
who does all the work. We hope such procedure will not become general
in the United States."
We hardly know whether we favor such a ceremony or are opposed
to it-we have never seen it tried. There seems to be a certain dignity
connected with it that might be impressive and get the delegates and
representatives into a proper frame of mind for the events of the communication.

S · h 1 · ed that Satan was rethey differ widely in another respect;. m1t cda1mC . th first "Master
·
f
Institution he havmg ma e am e
~:::~~,; asorS~~~ expressed \t, in his translation of the Scriptures.
.
. (1925)•
W uicons111
·

.

69

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

.
.
th Grand Representa( Chairman Correspondence Committee). 0: ~
. d .
d
sa s his office is one which carries with it certain u~1es an

~~~:::~ ;;;~":~:'.·:."~~:"!'~:~ ~::,~:E;i~7~;r;~
co
be

the selection, but to the Grand Lo ge w. ic 1.
hi h is to
redoes not state what those duties and obhga.tions are, w cRe resentative
of Grand
Pd.
.
gret ted · We have come to regard .the. funct10ns
that 0 f the appen ix verm1.
G d Lodge as somewhat s1m11ar to
~~::nis r~: the human body. We know we have it: but what use it is
intended to perform no one has ever been able to discover.

GRAND MASTER

South Carolina (1927):
·ii·
·
) . \Vh'le we are not w1 mg
(Chairman Correspondence Committee .
t
1 G d
o so far as Brother Wilson (Kansas) in terming the who. e ran
" h
J·oke" we fail to see what practical good
to g
.
Representative system a uge
•
M
h
Cal'1fornia
Iowa
Kentucky, Massachusetts, New " ex.
•
'
t hey accomp1ts ·
.
Pennsylvania and \Vyoming have abolished the system.
!CO,

M~yland (1926):

M I d'
·
I n rev1ewmg
· ·
ary an s
(Chairman Correspondence Comtmttee):
.
f
.
d by the Chairman of the Correspondence
Proceedmgs re erence is ma e
• d Lod
b . the
: ~ b'Y· his
Committee of Connecticut to the opening of our Gr~n
'Y
D t Grand Master and then the Grand Master is rece1v
epuGy d Lodge in due form This provokes criticism. "We frankly
own ran
·
1
·
f
do not like such imitation of England, where they e ect some spr·11g ~·
Ro alt or Nobility, who of course cannot be expected to sm
fin~er: by doing anything but appoints a Deputy who does all the workh
. M 1 d the R 'vV Deputy Grand Master, who opens t e
Here m
ary an
·
·
h' S
· ·
f
dL d
and "soils his fingers" as he greets is upenor is ~n o. G ran
o ge,
. .
b t
1 f r the hour supenor m
ficer not superior m gifts or graces, u on Y o
rank' What does the Brother mean, "soil his fingers," the Deputy op~ning ~he Grand Lodge with soiled hands? or soiling his hands by openmg

i,:

his Lodge!
Wisconsin (1927):
.
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We quote Bro. Kies (Connecticut) under Maryland:"He (the F. C. writer of Maryland) upholds the Maryland custom
" aster opens Grand Lodge and then cerewhere the Deputy Grand M

It may be unfortunate that in practically all of the Jurisdictions
the Grand Master serves for but a year. About the time that he has
gained the experience that makes him valuable he must relinquish
the reins of power.
Where the Grand Master serves two terms, his second year is
usually productive of greater good for the Fraternity by reason of
his first year's experience. Grand Masters generally regret that
through lack of time they have not been able to carry to a successful termination some of their ideals. Undoubtedly the petty duties
of the office and the details of administration. taken in connection
with the private affairs of the Grand Master himself, must cause him
to breathe a sigh of relief when his term is ended.
Kansas (1927):
(Chairman Correspon'dence Committee) : Rather peculiar it seems
to the writer that the Grand Master of Quebec should formally report
attendance at the dedication of a Shriner's hospital. May we venture to
ask by what right and under what authority a Shrine can usurp any of
the ceremonies prescribed by Ancient Craft Masonry, most of which
have been practiced for several hundred years. One might· ask whether
the participants are really Masons first or Shriners first. A proper respect for Ancient Craft Masonry would have prompted the p()wers that
be in the Shrine to have invited the Grand Lodge of Quebec to have
performed this ceremony.
Manitoba (1926) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
South Dakota (1925) considered it his duty to send out a circular letter
requesting the Masons of that jurisdiction to register a 100 per cent vote

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

70

at the last general election. As the Grand Master or ~ra?d. Lodge had .no
"axe to grind" presume it was alright. However, 1f 1t is good pohcy
for "a shoemaker to stick to his last", am convinced that if a Grand
Master rules and governs his Jurisdiction in matters Masonic, it is as
far as he should go in public business, either as a Grand Master or a
Mason.

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Delaware .must have .quite
a floating population, as I note five Dispensations to rail.road c~nd1?ate~.
through reason "about to leave the Jurisdiction for an mdefimte time.
Even lumber requires more than three months to properly seaso~. Of
course the "dry kiln" process shortens the time, but I would not hke to
compare any Masonic Lodge to a dry kiln.
New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : According to the report of
the Committee on Jurisprudence (Tennessee) the Grand Maste; made ~n
unusual number of erroneous decisions. -:Chat makes us feel qmte certam
that the committee was not consulted before their delivery. To do that
is often just like buying insurance-you get protection.
North Carolina (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The average Mason looks
on the Grand Master as a figurehead who puts on a six-quart hat to lay
a corner-stone once in a while, or makes a nice speech at a Lod~e b~nquet
when he feels like going, or at the end of his year dolls up m his best
clothes reads a paper opens Grand Lodge, tells a few of them they are
out of' order or are r~cognized, invites them all to say "aye" or "n~" in
proper season, and calls it a year of glory. The. G:and Master ~1th ~
year's experience in office knows better. He verily 1s no lounge hzard ·
Oregon (1927):
(Grand Master) : I am informed that in a number of J urisdict'.ons
they have adopted a policy that provides that whenever there comes mto
their Jurisdiction and affiliates with one of their Lodges a Past Grand
Master of another Jurisdiction he is elected an Honorary Past Gr~nd
Master of his newly adopted Jurisdiction. The adoption of such a poltcy
in this Grand Jurisdiction would offer an opportunity to sho~ a. ma:k of
respect and appreciation and do an act of courtesy to those ~1s:m~mshed
brethren who have graced the Grand East of another Junsd1ctton but
who have later adopted our own state as their home and aligned themselves with ~ur own constituent bodies.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDM'1CE

71

England (1926):
The Duke of Connaught was elected Grand Master and proclaimed
as follows:
Be it known, that the Most High, Most Mighty, and Most Illustrious
Prince, Arthur William Patrick Albert, Duke of Connaught and Strathearn, Earl of Sussex, Knight of the Most Noble Order of the Garter,
Knight of the Most Ancient and Most Noble Order of the Thistle,
Knight of the Most Illustrious Order of St. Patrick, Great Master and
First and Principal Knight Grand Cross of the Most Honourable Order
of the Bath, Knight Grand Commander of the Most Exalted Order of
the Star of India, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Distinguished Order
of St. Michael and St. George, Knight Grand Commander of the Most
Eminent Order of the Indian Empire, Knight Grand Cross of the Royal
Victorian Order, Knight Grand Cross of the Most Excellent Order of
the British Empire, one of His Majesty's Most Honorable Privy Council,
Field Marshal in the Army, etc., etc., etc., etc., has been elected Most
Worshipful Grand Master of the United Fraternity of Ancient, Free and
Accepted Masons of England for the ensuing year, whom may the
Great Architect of the Universe long preserve.
Iowa (1926):
(Grand Master) : Here is something worthy of consideration. Often
Grand Masters complain because they are asked for opinions or advice
or decisions when the matters could have been handled by the Masters
making use of the Code. Says Grand Master Wellington: "I am of the
opinion that Worshipful Masters should be encouraged to consult the
Grand Master about all important matters both of law and policy.
It is much easier * * * to direct them aright in the first place than to
extricate their affairs after errors have been made."
Texas (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Without the thought of
criticism of any specific item here, we feel impelled to give expression
to our own conviction that no surer means for the cheapening, if not the
absolute destruction, of a man's respect for the value of our Institution
could be employed than to thus reverse the order and have him feel that
he rather than Masonry is the bestower of honor. Of course, there are
cases of extreme emergency, but let all.men know of a truth that while
Masonry has existed without him or them during the years of majority,
they have lived under her very shadow, he or they in turn must not come
at a late hour expecting her to meet him bowing and scraping as though
to meet a dignitary long longed for. The higher the rank and standing,
the greater his disgust and our humiliation.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We regret it always when
a Grand Master enters the "confessional," as it were, with reference to
his own short comings, and in general terms proclaims to the world his
failure to measure up to the responsibilities of the station he occupies.
'Whatever the motive, such a course seems to reflect not only upon the
Grand Master, but also upon the Craft of the Jurisdiction who elected
him to the high station he occupies. No good end is served, and if all
be true that is said, under such circumstances-what, of it? It does not
concern the world at large, the brethren will cover all with a mantle of
charity because of their affection for their 'leader. In his first brief paragraph the Grand Master refers to "my weakness," and "my feeble way"
and "my limited ability."

Western Australia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : We have frequently questioned the wisdom of Grand Lodges changing the Grand Master yearly,
and of electing at the close of their Annual Communication a Grand
Master who does not meet Grand Lodge until he is going out of office.
It appears to us that in such cases, the Grand Master cannot exert the
same personal influence on the Craft as coould be done by a brother holding that office for a term of years, who would meet Grand Lodge on a
number of occasions and have a personal acquaintance with all his officers and a great many of the brethren. Something of this kind must
have been running through the mind of M. W. Bro. Strain (Kansas)
when he made use of the following remark :"Our Grand Master is installed in the closing hours, with no opportunity to speak to his field men of his plans to carry on, and goes out to
a leadership, the demands of which, if conscientiously construed,, are
almost beyond the possibility of any business man's life."
Wisconsin ( 1926) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee); In Wisconsin it is customary for each Grand Master upon retiring from office to present his
portrait to the Grand Lodge. Most, but not all, of our Past Grand Masters have done so.

*

*

*

Instead of reporting decisions made by him, the Grand Master
(Georgia) simply announced that he had submitted to the chairman on
Jurisprudence "all matters that should be brought to their attention."
What is a reviewer to do if the rulings of the head of the Craft are reported in this fashion? It cuts out one of the most fertile fields for
criticism and comment.

*

*

*

73

The Alabama Grand Master's account of his official visitations is
one of the best we have ever found in Grand Masters' addresses· it
reads:'

"It has been my pleasure to visit a great many of our subordinate
Lodges, both by invitation and voluntarily, and at all times and in every
instance was received in the most cordial manner."
This tells all that is necessary to know, with commendable brevity.
Why extend it and particularize as to the Lodge and the date of the visit,
the work that was put on, with compliments as to its rendition and the
banquet served, etc., etc. Yet we have found Grand Masters in their
addresses giving page after page of such stuff, to the delight of the
printer.
GRAND MASTERS' CONFERENCE
The report of the Representative of the Grand Lodge of Arizona
at the last Grand Masters' Conference, held in Chicago in 1926, outlines some of the practical good that can be done through such meetings. If these Conferences could be extended to include not only
the Grand M_asters, but also Deputy Grand Masters, Grand Secretaries, Grand Treasurers, Educational Dir~ctors and perhaps the
Chairmen of Correspondence Committees, it .. would help produce
uniformity in matters that are often a source of annoyance and
cause differences between various Jurisdictions.
Arizona (1927):
An annual conference of this nature is of value, and this can no
better be indicated than to compare the attendance at Chicago on
November 16, 1926, with the conference of the previous year in the
same ..city.:
1926

20
31
10
2
3

17
2
10

95
30

Grand Masters
Past Grand Masters
Deputy Grand Masters
Senior Grand Wardens
Junior Grand Wardens
Grand Secretaries
Grand Treasurers
Educational Directors
Others
Total
Grand Jurisdictions Represented

1925
14
26
8
1
3

11
2
8

73
26

74

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCl!l

The Deputy Grand Master of \Vest Australia was present as a
guest, being in the United States on his way to visit England. A
pleasing gentlemen, who said they have similar problems on the other
side of the globe.
The conference was presided over by Most Worshipful Brother
David D. King, Grand Master of Illinois, who extended the invitation
on behalf of his state, as did his predecessor in 1925. Brother C. C.
Hunt, the able and affable Grand Secretary of Iowa, was Secretary.
The meeting was held in the Hotel LaSalle and an excellent program of Grand Lodge problems was followed during the day, being
interrupted only by luncheon served in an adjoining room.
It is well that Grand Lodge officials meet for discussion. It is
just as necessary as that Masons should get together. This is especially
applicable to the junior officers.
The General Grand Lodge ghost could hardly be distinguished in
the <listance, though Grand Lodge officials must admit that among the
rank and file of the fraternity there is the eternal question of why
not a General Grand Lodge. It should never be and never will, but
the average brother can hardly understand why other organizations
function so · well nationally-including some Masonic bodies. The
Masonic Service Association is the happy medium between the two
positions.
Transfer of membership opened the program. Some recognized the
certificate plan as we do in Arizona between our own Lodges, but most
Grand Jurisdictions insist on an absolute <limit. This discussion resulted
in the only report of a committee and recommendation of the Grand
Masters, the purport of which was to suggest to the Jurisdictions that
insist on a <limit to give serious consideration to recognizing a certificate
from other Grand Jurisdictions so the Mason transferring membership
will not lose his standing in the event of rejection.
Dual membership has strong advocates in Massachusetts, Rhode
Island and Virginia, who follow England, where one Mason was a Past
Master of 23 Lodges. Others mostly frown upon the idea, assigning
reliable statistics being not available and penal jurisdiction as the
major objections. The most interesting side-light was that Manitoba
seemed to be turning from dual membership to single, as prevails in
most of the states.
Uniform receipt for dues, which is really very close to Arizona's.
is used in most Jurisdictions, but some good brothers wanted a different colored card each year like various national bodies use. Thought
seemed to be those who do not use uniform receipt for dues should get
in line with a majority of the Jurisdictions that do.

REPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

75

Collateral Groups of Masons and Their Activities. A great subject in this day of over organizations, but it was not discussed at any
great length. A few Lodges in the East had been raising funds by
gambling. County clubs as offshoots of Lodges, etc., were mentioned.
Many Jurisdictions prohibit the use of the word Masonic as in \:Visconsin and Arizona. In Michigan and Utah Organizations must submit
propositions of this nature to the Grand ~faster for approval. In
Nebraska the petitioner pledges himself not to join any organization
basing its membership on Masons, unless first recognized by that
Grand Lodge. Michigan has an edict preventing organizations using
as emblems the square and compass and letter G.
The next conference of Grand Masters will take place in Washington, D. C.. with some sessions within the George \Vashington
National Memorial itself in Virginia, in February, 1927, just prior or
subsequent to the meeting of the George 'Washington National Masonic
Memorial Association. Washington, D. C., was advocated as the
proper place to meet annually, but the thought seemed to crystallize on
other cities as well, especially more central locations to serve the
Mississippi Valley and Western States. From the inspiration the writer
feels he received from the only meeting of this nature he ever attended
and the consequent furtherance of his usefulness to this Grand Lodge,
even in any minor capacity, in the future, he most strongly urges the
representation of Arizona at the two sessions in Washington in
February.
Legal tangles galore of Masonic Jurisprudence arose in disrnssing:
"Conditions Relative to Applications from Persons Rejected, Suspended,
Expelled, etc." and "Uniformity of Legislation Relative to Applications
from Expelled Members." For instance, what is the Masonic standing
of a Mason expelled in one Grand Jurisdiction who years later petitions
a Lodge in another Grand Jurisdiction, stating the circumstances of
expulsion, is accepted and received the three deg·rees all over again?
That is, what is his particular status in Jurisdiction No. 1, which is in
fraternal relations with Jurisdiction No. 2. Echo seems to answer.
Such a case did occur, and quite similar ones have. As a collateral
discussion the matter of jurisdiction over rejected and expelled material
brought out the fact that but few Jurisdictions follow similar ideas. A
committee is to go into the subject with a view of first obtaining all
available information and making some recommendations as to uniformity for the Grand Lodges to consider.
The last subject was "Attitude Toward Institutional Activities.
Should Grand Lodges paricipate in Institutional Activities not controlled by Grand Lodge or support relief programs except those controlled and directed by Grand Lodges?" I suspect this was partially

7G

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

aimed at the National Masonic Tuberculosis Sanitoria Association organiz:ed by the Grand Lodge of New Mexico. Some eastern Grand
Masters believe their Jurisdictions can not legally contribute to any
cause however worthy unless it is under the immediate control of its
own or a sister Grand Jurisdiction. Further, some think there are
too many various and sundry organizations seeking Masonic aid. The
thought seems to prevail that the appeals should come from Grand
Lodges only.
Thus the session ended with the best of fraternal feeling of good
will among the leaders of the Craft.
Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master
(Utah, 1926) received an invitation to attend a conference of· Grand
Masters at Chicago, which he was unable to accept. He states, "I
feel that great good may be accomplished by such conferences and
sincerely hope that they may become an annual event, as they seem
to promise much good for the Craft." Well, the conference has been
held, but we have failed to learn of any good that was accomplished.
Why anyone should desire to make such useless gatherings an annual
affair we are at a loss to understand. No doubt a good time is enjoyed by all who attend, but that is all that can be said. They are
dangerous to the Craft, in that they carry with them the desire to
set up and establish a National Grand Lodge, which would mean that
each Grand Lodge would be compelled to surrender a portion of its
sovereign powers and prerogatives. Many such conferences have been
held in the past, but the results have always been unnoticeable.

HISTORY
Masonry is rich in historical events, not only in connection
with the Institution itself, but also in the formation of the United
States. Those Jurisdictions who have in their organization Grand
Historian or Historical Committee that function are performing a
real and valuable service. While Masonry is often given credit for
results that are not properly due to its labors as an organization,
still it is "interesting, even if not true."
Someone has said· that the hieroglyphical emblem "The Book
of Constitutions guarded by the Tyler's Sword," was conceived in
the thought of in "The Constitution of the United States, guarded by
the sword of Masonry."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

77

District of Columbia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The report of the Grand
Historian (Georgia) is a gem of education for the lay brethren. The
Church of Rome keeps its priesthood as well as the lay member on
feather edge all the time on church history, and in time they are saturated with it, while we have not given proper attention to this until
recently. Any parochial school boy can tell the names of bad Masons,
as Aaron Burr, Benedict Arnold, Robert Kidd et al., but our own
school boys know not of Guy Faux, Ravaillac, Torquemada, nor do
they know that the Pope blessed the poniards used in the massacre of
40,000 Protestants on the anniversary of St. Bartholomew. The history
of Freemasonl'y is almost without a blemish; the history of the Church
of Rome is a record of crime. At one time the Papacy was so low
that it was sold at auction; at another time three Popes claimed the
tiara, and one Pope was deposed for incest with his mother. Then
where is the Apostolic succession to link?

England (1927):
The original Grand Lodge of England was formed in 1717 by four
Lodges, of which three remain to the present time, viz., the Lodge of
Antiquity, No. 2, the Royal Somerset House and Inverness Lodge, No.
4, and the Fortitude and Old Cumberland Lodge, No. 12. The Committee has gratefully accepted the offer of these three old Lodges
to present the foundation stone for the new Central Home, thereby
forming a unique link beween the original Grand Lodge and the great
undertaking of the present.
Pennsylvania (1926):
Columbia Lodge No. 91, Philadelphia, held an extra meeting,
September 7, 1926, in Independence Hall, Philadelphia, in commemoration of the 125th anniversary of its Constitution, it being established
that the Lodge was constituted in that historic building.
On June 2, 1926 the Sojourners Club an organization whose
membership is composed of commissioned officers of the United States
Army, Navy and Marine Service who are Master Masons, erected a
tablet on the building now occupying the site of the Old Tun Tavern
in Water Street. This ancient hostelry was famous not only as the
meeting place of the first Grand Lodge in America, but also as the
place where the first Company of United States Marines was organ·
ized in 1786 by Captain Robert Mullin. The tablet is of bronze and
measures thirty-two inches by twenty-two inches and in addition to a
representation of the Old Tavern as it has come down to us by tradition and other appropriate Symbols it contains the following inscription:

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

78

79

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"On this Site stood the Tun Tavern, where on St. John's
Day, June 24, 1732, A Grand Lodge of the Ancient and
Honorable Society of Free and Accepted Masons was held.
"In commemoration, this Tablet is erected by the Philadelphia Chapter No. 16, Sojourners Club, June 2, 1926."

* *

*

On May ·31st, 1926, the opening day of the Sesqui-Centennial, the
Masonic Temple was thrown open to visitors. During the morning
and afternoon there were 6010 persons who visited the Library and
Museum. In the evening from 7 to 10 o'clock the number who passed
through was 6049. Long before the doors were thrown open the lines
formed outside and extended from the entrance throughout the building
without any mishap.
The total attendance during the week was 22,876.
Tennessee (1927):
The Historical Committee is collecting much valuable information.
Journeys were made to neighboring Jurisdictions. Tn the minutes of an
old Lodge reference was found to a Lodge of unknown origin known· as
North Fork Lodge No. 20. The committee believes that this old Lodge
may have been acting on a Revolutionary military warrant, or permit.
"Nay, more, it is logically conjectural that Brother Andrew Jackson, then but little past twenty-one, may have received the degrees in
this veteran Lodge, during the summer of 1788, while sojourning at
Jonesboro; where he was thrown into close contact with Brother John
Sevier, so recently governor of the Lost State of Franklin, and then
serving as clerk of the \Vashington county court; also with Brother
John Anderson and other craftsmen of those early days."

• • •

A very able and interesting address was delivered before Grand
Lodge of Tennessee by Brother Rev. Joseph Fort Newton. From his
address, we quote this interesting incident in this distinguished Mason's
life:
"Perhaps you will let me give you a brief sketch of a personal
background, which will explain why I am here, why I belong to any
Masonic Lodge, and why I have been trying to do something for
Masonry. During the war between the States a young Texas soldier
went into the army of the South. He was just a lad and he was
afraid that the war would be over before he got there, and after
he got there he was afraid it never would be over. He was made a
Mason, and was later made a prisoner, and escorted up the Mississippi
River to Rock Island. The Northern climate was very severe 011
Southern prisoners. This young man fell dangerously ill. He made
himself known as a :\fason to an officer of the prisoner, and that

officer was a real Master Mason. He took that young man to his
home and nursed him back to life. He loaned him money when the
war was over, and gave him a little pearl handle pistol to protect
himself ill the unsafe condition of his country.
That young man came back home and was made the Master of
his Lodge, and that young Southern soldier was my father. I. heard
that history as far back as I can remember, and you can readily see
that that made a very deep impression upon my heart."
Texas (1926):
A number of Masons applied to J. H. Holland, Grand Master
of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana, for a Dispensation, and Holland
Lodge U. D. was instituted and opened at Brazoria, on December 27th,
1835, but its existence was short, for in March, 1836, Brazoria was
abandoned, and the records, books and jewels, and everything belonging
to the Lodge were utterly destroyed by a detachment of the Mexican
army, under General Urrea. In the meantime, a charter had been
granted to them by the Grand Lodge of Louisiana, which was brought
to Texas by Brother John M. Allen, who delivered it and the ,other
papers to -Anson Jones, Worshipful Master of said Lodge, and our
first Most \Vorshipful Grand :Master. on the prairie near the battle
ground of San Jacinto, who carried it in his saddle-bags through the
battle of San Jacinto. This Lodge was not reopened at Brazoria, but
was opened at Houston in October, 1837, and is now known as Holland
Lodge No. 1, in this Grand Jurisdiction. It is interesting to know
that many of our pioneer brothers, and the charter under which they
were to work, participated in the battle that freed our land from
Mexican rule, and that General Sam Houston, who commanded the
Texas army, was afterward elected president of the convention that
organized the Grand Lodge of Texas.

Utah (1926):
(Chairman C orrespondencc Committee) : Brethren who assume the
role of teachers, in addresses and orations, continue to give currency to
utterly absurd, fantastic and unsupported theories concerning the beginnings of Craft history. And this is done, usually, without so much as
a suggestion of any qualification. This is inexcusable. We profess to
be seekers after Truth. Yet we propagate, or permit and applaud the
propagation of absolutely false and wholly misleading accounts of our
origin.
Why should any man, if in his right mind, assert that Masonry had
a beginning "coeval with the dawn of creation"? that it existed "before
the morning stars sang together and all the sons of God shouted for joy"?
Or why declare that it has teen fou1:d that Masonry was practiced in

go

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

the Garden of Eden, or foolishly if not blasphemously affirm that members of the Trinity were the three officers of the first Lodge ! In thr
opinion of the present writer a man who can stand u~b~ushi~gly,. in the
presence of his peers, and give voice to such absurd1t1es, 1s sick-hr
should have the sympathetic attention of a skilled "nut"-doctor I
Personally, we prefer the Mormon prophet's story of the origin of
our society as it appears in his "Holy Scriptures, Translated and ~or­
rected by the Spirit of Revelation." He tells us that Satan made Cam a
"Master Mahan" so that he might slay his brother Abel and escape thr
consequences of his crime. (Gen. 5 :15-16, 35-37.)
But why disseminate such unmitigated nonsense ? There is ~o much
in our history, and symbolism, and philosophy, and rituals, that 1s beautiful, and sane, and elevating, that could be presented, why should we
have our intelligence insulted and our eyes filled with dust from the
stirring of such worthless rubbish!
If these irresponsible excursions into the "land of nowhere" concerned, or affected, only those who undertake them, the situation would
be different. But such is not the case. Often the atrocious caricatures
of Craft history referred to above, come from men who have been honored by the Fraternity, and who, presumably, are men of sound se~se
and wisdom, and who have given time to study, and research, and meditation, and hence their words carry weight with the inexperienced and
uninformed Mason. That is the pathetic, deplorable feature of the
situation.
Brethren of the Round Table, have we no responsibility in this
matter? \Vhy should we speak only "smooth things," and "prophesy
deceits" by our silence, when we meet with such burlesques of our
honorable Fraternity? Why not try the pillory, and make it so high
that Haman's "tree" would seem like a trellis for garden peas beside it?

peared, how and where no man knows with certainty. There is· strong
evidence that he was frightened away and spent the rest of his life in
Syria, and the East. It was chargecj that the Masons had assassinated
him, and a wave of hate raged for many years. It got into politics
and Vermont was actually carried for the anti-Masonic candidate for
President. All biographies of our great men, even of Washington, which
made any allusion to their Masonry seem to have disappeared, and for
half a century it was in the eyes of many considered a disgrace to be
known to be a Mason. Henry Clay was refused a nomination for the
Presidency unless he would renounce all connection with the institution.
Nobly he said, "I would rather be right than to be President," and even
the Masonic basis for the remark was suppressed. Human nature is a
funny thing. Raise any sort of general excitement, no matter how absurd, and hosts will fall into line. \Vhat could have been more absurd
than to blame all Masons for the supposed crime, purely imaginary at
that, of those in one small community?

Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand. Historian . of
Idaho presented an historical paper dealing with the period antedating
the organization of Grand Lodge, which was ordered filed ! Why file
such a document ? Why not print such articles-put them in permanent
form in the Proceedings-so that they may be available for present and
future use? Such a plan might inspire others to do a little research
work on their own hook or bring to the surface valuable historical data,
or inspire others to write on local historical subjects.
Virginia (1927) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Ju~t a century ago Mo;gan
published his expose of what he knew of om ritual and shortly d1sap-

81

Western Australia (1926):
Early Freemasonry in Ireland is shrouded in mystery, and how
long it existed before the Grand Lodge era no one knows, but ample
evidence is forthcoming to prove its great antiquity. An old brass
Square was discovered many years ago in. an ancient bridge in Limerick,
on which was inscribed a Masonic phrase, "I will strive to live with
love and care upon the level by the square," together with the date 1507.
There is a tablet on the walls of the Carrickfergus Church annm1nci11g
that the work was begun in 1614 by Thomas Paps, Freemason. There
are tombstones in Antrim erected to the memory of Freemasons and
dated as far back as 1626. Trinity College, Dublin, possesses two manuscripts, one dated 16i8, making it clear that the Fraternity was then
known to the College Students; the other, dated 1711, purports to be
a Masonic ritual and is said to be the earliest known of its kind.
West Virginia (1926):
From the report of a Special Communication of the Grand Lodge
held at Barboursville for the purpose of laying the corner-stone of the
new Masonic Temple, we quote the following interesting copy from the
Lodge records :
On December 15, 1855, a charter was issued by the Grand Lodge of
Virginia to Minerva Lodge No. 56.
Many changes have been made since the date of the first meeting of
Masons in this county. At that time, railroads in this section were in
the remote possibility. Steamboats plied up and down the Ohio River,
but Cabell County did not have a population to exceed six thousand per-

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

sons. The men who organized this Lodge have passed away, and we
know little about them other than what is disclosed in the record of
your Lodge, but they builded a substantial foundation for a Lodge, for
from the day of its organization up until the sixteenth day of November,
1861, this Lodge never missed a meeting, because we find recorded on
that date minutes as fo1lows :
"In consequence of the alarming condition of the country, the Lodge,
for the first time since its organization, failed to have any members
present. Signed: Thomas Thornburg, Secretary."
And at a meeting on the fourteenth day of December, 1861, this
brief note was made:
"In consequence of the military forces of the United States being
in possession of the town and numbers of the brethren being unable to
attend, no Lodge was opened.
Signed: Thomas Thornburg, Secretary."
But the Lodge weathered the fierce11ess of the storm of Civil War,
and while some of its members participated on both sides, yet in its
minutes not a line of bitterness or a sentiment of uncharity towards any
brother on account of his action in this respect.

Nevada (1926):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): No more important duty
can fall to a brothe; than service on a Committee on Investigation. The
honor of the Craft is at stake and the work assigned should be done w'th
~onest principles and thoroughness of method. Every possible preca~­
tion should be used, as the art and secrets of the Craft are such as
should be given only to men of good character.
New Hampshire (1926):

(C~airma1i Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of New
Brunswick touches an unusual thing when he remarks that candidates
for the degrees should not only be respectable in their character but that
"they sh~uld be known to be in respectable circumstances." We have
been saymg for some years that many good men have been admitted
to ~asonic me?1bership who could 11ot afford to pay its cost after they
a~e m. ¥._'e believe that we should be satisfied in this respect just as we
must. be m all other respects-else the performance of our mission is
handicapped.

*
INVESTIGATION
The duty of Investigation Committee is second to none in the
results upon the Lodge. Too often they proceed upon the theory
that a petitioner should be accepted because there is nothing against
him. If they would endeavor to find something in an applicant
which would add to the strength of the Lodge or the Institution the
outcome would be different. The loss in membership during the
past year, through dimits, suspensions and expulsions, we think
can be properly charged to laxity upon the part of the Investigating
Committee.
British Columbia (1925):

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We cannot understand this
extreme solicitude for one who petitio11s for initiation, nor can we at
the moment recollect any duty or obligation we assumed to protect him.
Rather, we were taught, is it our duty to protect the Lodge and our
obligation was toward it and its members.
We do not admit, either, that a rejection is necessarily a reproach
against a mai1's character. A petitioner whose character will not bear
investigation should, of course, be rejected, hut on the other hand no
man is entitled to admission to the Craft simply because his character
is good.

83

*

Somebody out there (Utah), having had a mere introduction to a
would-be petitioner for the degrees, immediately signed the petition as
one of the recommenders. This got up to the Grand Master, who proceeded to say something, all of which pleased us. It was ruled that a
nature procured in that way was no good in Utah. Tt is more than strange
how careless some folks are in writing their own names. But it is an
~buse of a Masonic privilege, to recommend a man about whom nothing
is known, save hearsay stuff. The brethren on the benches should be
protecte?. They ~ave the right, lacking personal knowledge, to pin
their faith to the signature of any one of their fellow members.
Oregon (1927):

.CG:and ~fas.fer): A number of our Lodges have what they term a
special mvi;stt~atlon committee before whom every candidate must appear
befor~ he IS. given the benefit of the ballot. His appearance before such
c.omm1ttee gwes them an opportunity not only for direct personal observation an~ oral examination of the candidate but also to acquaint him more
fully with the real. purpose and principles of our fraternity. In Lodges
whe~e such committees are in operation it is believed that undesirable
candidates are more likely to be stopped before it is too late. I commend
the appointment of ·such committee in all Lodges.
Pennsylvania (1925):

. (Gran~ Master) : The recommenders are both to know the petitioner. This knowledge should be close, personal, intimate. They should

84

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

both know, beyond a question of doubt, that he is a man above reproach:
that he is one with whom they are themselves glad to associate, and to
recommend to the association of their brethren, and whom they can and do
introduce, without hesitation or doubt, into their own homes. Nor should
the second recommender depend on the statements of the first. His responsibility is as great, and his knowledge should be as complete and his
acquaintance at least as long as that required of the first. The Ahiman
Rezon provides that one of the recommenders shall have known the
petitioner for at least a year, which would seem to point to the inference
that the personal knowledge of the other is of minor importance. At my
suggestion, there will be submitted for your consideration and amendment, omitting the concluding paragraph of this section.
The investigation of the Committee of Inquiry should be thorough,
searching, all-embracing. It is not enough that they know of nothing
that would seem to render the petitioner unworthy. Their knowledge
should be positive, not negative. They should satisfy themselves, beyond
the possibility of a doubt, that the statements contained in the petition are
true, and should vouch for what, if their duty has been wel1 and truly
per formed, they have definitely ascertained to be a fact, that the petitioner is worthy of having the prayer of his petition granted.
Virginia (1927):
(Grand Master) : Dissensions have been numerous in our ranks
the past year, which has been the cause of much worry and trouble on the
part of your Grand Master. This, in my opinion, is due to lack of care
in selecting material for Masonic work. We cannot erect a perfect
Masonic structure with inferior material. Let's try our hand at moulding
and shaping the material we have in hand rather than seek more.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

85

Canada (1926):
(Grand Master) : To adapt an old saying, "Of the making of laws
there is no end." After a year's experience. I am quite prepared to state
that to the temptations to make Masonic rulings there is no limit. Here.
too,. I have received the usual number of requests on the usual variety of
subjects. In many cases I was able to refer to rulings of my predecessors; in many to a provision in· the Constitution as to the meanino0£ which there could be no reasonable doubt. In three or four instance~
the circumstances were of such an unusual character as not to be likely
to recur.
To have enforced the letter of the law or to have exacted a severe
penalty would have worked a great hardship. I dealt with them as best
I could. Whether my decisions were wise or not, they have answered
their purpose and now belong to the past.

Connecticut (1926):
(~rand Secretary) : A growing sentiment among the Fraternity is
a feehng that our Grand Lodges have indulged in over legislation and, as
a result, tqat some of their regulations have become dead letters. We
could point to a few Connecticut regulations which, we strongly suspect.
are thus ignored by many Lodges. Some Lodges themselves have numerous superfluities in their by-laws, "handed down from time immemorial," whereas the latter should contain only the special provisions required
for local needs.
·

So far as concerns Grand Lodges, the obvious remedy lies in drastic
revision and simplification.

Manitoba (1926):
LEGISLATION
In Masonry, as in governmental affairs, the practise of enacting
a law to remedy conditions rather than appealing to common sense,
still continues. It is said that a Prime Minister of England when
urged to introduce a law under such circumstances made the very
sane reply: "Why pass a law? Let it try and work out its own
remedy."
Masons are enjoined to obey the moral and civil law and
any infraction of them is necessarily a Masonic offense. Duplication
by the Grand Lodge of existing laws is, we believe, a waste of
time. As has been aptly stated, "Within the confines of the Lodge
rooms we are Masons, outside we should be citizens only. If in
the outside sphere we live up to our Masonic teachings it will not
be necessary to do any broadcasting."

(Grand Master) : I trust you will exercise sparingly the function of
legislation. The present generation has a witless urge to make laws as
though a volume of printed matter, however bulky, could alter either
human nature or economic law. That the Craft is not free from this
mania to legislate is sufficiently apparent in the constant alteration in
the by-laws of Lodges submitted for approval.

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Grand Lodges havr lateh
·been pestered by brethren with a perverted idea of the functions of such
· bodies. If the State has enacted laws forbidding certain things, and
these matters or infractions of the same are very much in the nuhlic'~
eye, then some zealous brother rushes in a resolution. A pet phra~e is,
"\Ve v:ant to let the outside world know where we stand:"
All Masons are taught to he law abiding, also to observe and obey
the laws enacted by constituted authority. Our rules and regulation~.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

also usage and customs, are such that any infraction of criminal law is a
Masonic offense. Therefore to my mind the duplication by Grand Lodge
of law enactments or resolutions making infractions of any specific law a
Masonic offense might be taken to imply that otherwise we are not
bound by such law or laws.

Western Australia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A motion declaring the
opposition of Grand Lodge of Missouri to Sunday games, picnics and
.other amusements being fostered or promoted by Missouri Blue Lodges,
was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which reported "no
action thereon." 'While it may not be desirable to countenance such practices, it is equally open to question whether it is advisable to attempt
over-regulation of matters which may very wisely be left to good sense
and taste.

86

• • •

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : One very noticeable feature of all Grand Lodge Communications is the gradual encroachment
upon the liberties of the. Constituent Lodge. While it is true that cliques
in individual Lodges will sometimes forget Masonic obligation, yet I
do not believe it is the part of wisdom on the part of Grand Masters
or Grand Lodges to make our Lodges the equivalent of a "rubber stamp."

l'dinnesota (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The question is still before us: Can we find any subject on which this world-wide institution
can unite for the betterment of mankind? We are not offering ilny thoroughly worked out plan, we are not offering even a suggestion, but may
we attempt to tell something of a vision which has come to us? Today,
the great thought which is in the minds of all men is the lack of respect
for and obedience to law. Strong as may be outside forces seeking to
overturn our form of government, a greater danger exists in this mental
attitude of our people toward the laws which our representatives· have
made for our government. We are not a lawless people, but a people
afflicted with too many laws. A recent magazine article says that,
counting the Federal, State and municipal laws now on the statute books,
there are ten million legal enactments now in force-no man can know
them all and no man can obey them all because of their multiplicity, com·
plexity and diverse character.
New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We join the Chairman
of Correspondence Report of Connecticut in regretting the passing of
too many laws. They pile up and pile up, many of them never to be
observed. Pass a law and cure the evil is no more successful in Masonic
life than it is in civil life.
Here is something that we immensely like: It was voted that the
matter of dues is, and of right should be, left to the subordinate Lodges.
There is a tendency towards Masonic centralization of government, just
as it has so stoutly evidenced itself in civil government. The finest type.
of democracy'has been a Masonic Lodge, in the first two centuries of otir
organization. It has injured our feelings to watch the beginnings of a
slow, but sure, process of curtailment.

87

South Carolina (1926):
(Grand Master) : An effort is still being made to use Masonry to
support political ends, such as the creation of a new cabinet position
and the formation of a Federal Department of Education; but I am glad
to say it seems to be without effect in this jurisdiction. It is unfortunate
for any man to appeal to :Masons as such to endeavor to influence legislation, and it is sheer impertinence for anyone to urge legislation as
the representative of .'.\fasons, for no officer and even no Grand Lodge
can speak politically for any individual Mason. This is a fundamental
of Masonry and should not be ignored or forgotten.

LODGE OFFICERS
The worth of a Lodge, of course, depends upon the efficiency
not only of the Worshipful l'daster but every officer, both elective
and appointive. Whether it works for the good of a Lodge to continue brethren in an unbroken line from Steward to Worshipful
l'daster is a question. It often results in .a mere ritualist becoming
the l'daster. If the appointing power could be brought to realize
that in selecting the lower officers they are in reality choosing
future Worshipful Masters, they might be more mindful of their
responsibility.
Kentucky (1926):
(Grand Secretary) : Pursuant to your instructions, I arranged with
the National Surety Company for a blanket bond covering the fiscal
officers of each lodge, in such an amount as was thought necessary, the
Lodge to pay the premium. Many Lodges would not permit me to bond
their officers in this company, many preferring to take a personal bond,
which would never be collected if there was a shortage. The business
to the company has not been profitable. They have paid out $388.76
more than they received in premium~. I therefore recommend that the
Grand Lodge contract for a bond with an average of $500.00 on each

88

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Lodge and the premium to be paid out of Grand Lodge funds; the cost
will be from $1,000.00 to $1,200.00. In this way the officers of each Lodge
will be bonded in such a way as to guarantee the security of their funds •.
This is the customary way of carrying these bonds, but in order to get
the matter before the Lodges, this company made the concession of collecting the premiums itself, which has not been satisfactory.

Nevada (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The doctrine in Masonry
is. against resignations during the term of office. An office may be
vacated by death or removal from the jurisdiction, but not by resignation. Brother Mackey firmly asserted that he could not see how resignations could be permitted if the ceremony of installation is properly
performed. Like everything else Masonic, however, in these days it is
growing to be another matter open to regulation in each jurisdiction. It
may be a prevailing custom that resignations of installed officers is unMasonic, but we have run across no ancient regulation or usage of general application to that effect. It seems that if there is no rule against it,
and the general requirements of the Craft have been complied with, that
no un-Masonic thing has been .done. If so, why a dispensation? Dispensations are useful only to set aside laws or to do things you have no right
to do otherwise.
South Dakota (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Two hundred and eighteen
Nebraska Lodges are bonded under a blanket bond. We hope they will
not fare as did South Dakota Grand Lodge when it tried out the same
plan. The hooding company cancelled the bonds because of so many
failed banks.
Virginia (1927) :
(Chairman Correspoiidence Committee) : Georgia had the matter of
bonding Lodge and Grand Lodge officers. This is a serious matter.
First arises the question of the trustworthiness of met1 because they are
Masons. We all know that there are some Masons not worthy to be
Masons, but seldom will Lodges choose them for office. Would it not
be better to risk loss than to say to the profane world that we lack
confidence in each other? No honest µian will ever object to being bonded,
but that does not matter. The two questions are the risk of loss, always
remote in the extreme, and the good name of Masonry of the utmost
importance. Personally we would advocate careful selection and absolute
trust. Georgia was contemplating, or rather the Grand Master was suggesting a blanket bond. To our mind this would be most objectionable
of all plans for the reasons above stated.

Utah (1926):
(Grand ltfaster) : The suggestion has been made a number of times
in the past few years that it would be well to have at least one of the
Stewards a Past Master so that the neophyte at our door might be
assured such a reception as would leave with him pleasant memories of
the minutes devoted to preparation for our initiatory ceremonies. I am
in hearty accord with this suggestion and hope that some of our Lodges
will try the plan ·and see whether it is as good in practice as it seems
to be in theory.
In this connection may I say that it seems to me that the brotherly
custom that prevails in many if not all of our Lodges of advancing a
brother once appointed to the line as Junior Steward, each year during
good behavior and without the scrutiny of his qualifications as they would
have were he not in line, is all wrong. The elective officers of a Lodge,
as well as the appointive ones, should be chosen for their qualifications
successfully to govern the Lodge and to perform their respective functions in the Lodge.

MEMBERSHIP
The acquisition of members, whether due to the war or other
reasons, seems to have reached the peak. The gains during the
past year show a decline. As Grand Secretary Wilson of Nebraska
states, "This is the first time during the past 26 years that any
Jurisdiction in the United States has shown a net loss in membership. Three Jurisdictions have that distinction." Various causes
may have produced this result. In Masonry, as in a number of
other Fraternal organizations, other interests and other activities
have undoubtedly attracted the attention of those who otherwise
might have become members.
Canada (1926):
(Grand Master): During the past few years we have admitted
many members not perfect in body, who under the old dispensation would
have been debarred from Masonry. It is only to be expected that some
of them if permitted will become rulers in the Craft. It is one thing to
admit to membership an applicant who is unable literally tp comply with
our rites and ceremonies, it is quite another to place him in a· position
where he is called upon to employ and instruct his brethren in Masonry.
It seems to me that the time has arrived where we should give an expression of our opinion on this important matter, and I am disposed to
recommend that Grand Lodge declare that no member who is suffering
under a disability which prevents him from literally complying with our

90

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ritual and ceremonies should be allowed to hold an office in a lodge
without a special dispensation from the Grand Master.
District of Columbia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee); It may be written as an
axiom that what comes very easy is seldom appreciated. \Ve have never
met a "get-degree-quick" Mason who was more than a skin-deep ~fason.
The Grand Secretary reported that Ashlar Lodge had received a bequest
of $30,000 and Orient Lodge a bequest of $15,000. The report of the
proceedings of the charity fund, while local in import, is of interest to us
as a marvel of care, accuracy and labor. Such efforts are splendid
examples.
England (1927):
That Grand Lodge, having in March 1916, decided by resolution
to require brethren of enemy country birth to abstain from attendance
at meetings of Grand Lodge, or of a Private Lodge, or any other
Masonic meeting until after the Treaty of Peace has been signed and
until Grand Lodge shall otherwise determine, now resolves that any
Private Lodge may, by unanimous vote of its brethren, present and
voting, at a regular meeting, after notice on the summons to every
subscribing member, to allow a brother, or brethren, of enemy country
birth, to resume his, or their, full membership.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

91

Masons but whose interest has not been aroused, are often susceptible
of development, and should not by indifference be suffered to drop out
from lack of interest. A Mason reclaimed is as valuable as a member
raised.
Vermont (1927):
( Chairma11 C orrespo11de11ce Committee) ; What with Emergency
Funds, Educational Loan Funds, Hospital Funds, etc.. the time seems
almost here when no poor man can become a Mason. No longer will it
be true that "Masonry regards no man for his worldly wealth or honor."
The questionnaires prepared for candidates of the future will have to
include the question, "Is he financially able to meet all dues and assessments which may be levied hereafter on Masons only for the upbuilding
of the schools and homes and hospitals of the community, the state, and
the nation. that all men everywhere may know that Masonry has at last
undertaken the sturdy task of providing funds for developing the earth
into the heaven it was designed to be?" Will it indeed be so? Will it not
be so, if dreaming visionaries are allowed to guide the policies of Grand
Lodges? Men quote that thought which has glorified the past of
Masonry, "Masonry is a progressive science," and put all the emphasis
on the word "progressive." The result seems all too often something
which may be better termed "Progressive Folly" than "Progressive
Science."

Manitoba (1926):
(Chairmmi Corrcsf011de11ce Committee): We can sympathize with
the idea of citizenship from a national standpoint, but feel that it has
no place in Masonry as an essential for membership. If a lodge is
qualified to judge as to a candidate's character should it not also be
the best judge as to the place he fills in the life of the community,
irrespective of where his citizenship is held.

Virginia (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The craving for numbers is
a curse to Masonry. We require that one and all shall come to us unsolicited. This should go further. We should make the impression that
we confer a favor by accepting any man far more emphatic than we do.
No Master or Grand Master should pride himself on the increase in
members during his administration, or regret that they were not greater.
We are not sufficiently in earnest about wanting quality rather than
quantity.

North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The unprecedentedly great
increase in membership which marked the period following the signing of
the Armistice introduced significant conditions into the body of Masonry.
For one thing, there was a vast amount unassimilated Masonic material. ~1~ch was unassimilable, and eventually has been lost to us. Some
of it was potentially useful, but was never properly used, or caused to
understand what Masonry really is. This is true perennially. The result
is a constantly great loss by dropping. non-payment of dues or dimit.
One of the great problems before Masonry today is, therefore, the
problem of salvage of our material. Those who can become useful

Western Australia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The list of petitions for
new Lodges in Illinois (Ill. 1925) makes interesting reading to West
Australian Freemasons. Frequently over one hundred Brethren signed
the petition for a new Lodge, and in one instance the number reaches
193. In our State when a Lodge reaches one hundred we begin to think
about forming another I.,odge in order not to increase the membership,
and we have only eighteen Lodges with a membership of one hundred
and over, and would regard it as ridiculous to start a Lodge with 150 to

93

REPORT ON CORRESPONDl!lNCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

193 petitioners. A new Lodge beginning with nearly two hundred members, how many would know each other? How much fraternal intercourse
could take place? Probably the greatest value in the Craft lies in the
friendships made, and in a small Lodge it is possible for all to become
acquainted and to become friendly, but this could not obtain in Lodges
where the membership runs into hundreds and sometimes thousands.

shows, circuses, box suppers and ·barn dances, and advertising them in
the public press. Such entertainments cheapen the dignity of the Fraternity, and, in my opinion, should be discouraged. In one case an entertainment was cancelled upon my order.
"It is my firm conviction that a fraternity of the antiquity and
worth of ours will best serve communities, the state, the world, by
refraining from the association with any enterprises, however excellent
these may be, other than such as may properly be related to it and which,
by association, will further commend Masonry to people everywhere."
Perhaps the tendency to indulge in such entertainments in the
Lodge as the Grand Master condemns is due to the fact that the Lodges
have been too prone to take into Lodge membership too many young
people who have no proper appreciation of the dignity and traditions of
Freemasonry. A little thoughtlessness in this respect can cheapen. and
belittle Freemasonry in the eyes of the people who do not know the real
worth of the Institution.

92

Wisconsin (1926):
(Grand Master) : We are not ambitious for an increasing number
of candidates for degrees. We are not zealous for the increasing size of
the fraternity, but we are extremely zealous for the increasing power;
influence and service of the fraternity.
You could walk into my delightful little city of Waukesha this afternoon and ask the first twenty citizens you meet to name for you twenty
outstanding citizens of our town. An overwhelming majority of the nien
named .would be members of the Masonic fraternity and probably active
members in one or more of the Masonic bodies. You can ask the same
twenty men or any other twenty men you meet to name the most important
community and service agencies in the city and I doubt seriously whether
one man out of the twenty will name the Masonic Lodge as being among
the agencies working for community uplift and community good. This
ought not to be. There are increasing numbers of the men who are
members ·of our Masonic fraternity throughout the state that are
constantly seeking membership in other clubs and organizations in order
that they may find a worthy channel through which to express their
community interests and their community service. It is a growing and
increasing conviction of mine that Masonry can better justify itself as
an organization for community inspiration, community uplift and community welfare than it can as a mere mill for the grinding of candidates
through the several degrees. Frankly, very frankly, you are familiar as
I am with Lodges of this Craft who initiate candidates through the
several degrees and wait longingly for months and even years, to greet
them again within the Lodge room. Why is this? There is a reason, and
that reason is to be found in no larger nor lesser fact than the failure to
provide for these men some friendly fellowship and some service
opportunity.
Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Under the heading of
Lodge Entertainments the Grand Master of Kansas has the following to
offer:"There seems to be a tendency upon the part of some of our Lodges
to engage in the theatrical business, and to turn their Lodges into ordinary
clubs or social gatherings by giving or sponsoring minstrel or burlesque

PAST MASTERS
It is to be regretted that Past Masters too often lose interest
in their Lodges after retiring from office. No doubt some have a
hesitancy in counseling or advising their successor, believing that
he should work out his own salvation. Others have been content
with the mere honor of having served.
England (1926):
(Pro-Grand Master): I seize this opportunity of repeating a suggestion which I have often made-namely, that there should be some brief
discourse on Masonic history, Masonic principles, or on the administration and activity of the Craft at every Lodge meeting. Let the Past
Masters take it in turn to speak for five minutes and tell the junior
members of the Lodges something about these matters, or advise them
what to read. Let the younger brethren be examined in their knowledge
of these subjects after they have had a chance of reading.
England (1926):
(Board of General Purposes): Controversy continues at intervals to
be raised concerning the use of a certain ceremony, occasionally practised
in some Lodges, purporting to be the opening in extenso of a Board of
Installed Masters, with signs and word,s peculiar thereto. When advice
on the matter has been sought of the authorities of Grand Lodge, the
Grand Secretary, with the assent of the Board, bas forwarded a circular
in the precise terms adopted by his two immediate predecessors in office,

94

REPOHT ON CORHESPUNDENCE

V.'.W.'.Brother Col. Shadwell Clerke and R.'.\V.'.Brother Sir Edward
Letchworth, P.G.W., stating that this so-called ceremony is entirely
irregular, and was never recognized by Grand Lodge. It was adde~, in
this official document, that the ceremony formed no part of the ritual
authorized by the United Grand Lodge of England at the time of the
Union in 1813, or fourteen years later when the ceremony of installing
a Master was examined and considered by a Lodge or Board of Installed
Masters, warranted by the then M:.w:.Grand Master, H.R.H. the Duke
of Sussex, K. G., to examine and consider the ceremony in order to bring
about uniformity. The result of this examination and consideration
having been communicated to the Grand Master, the nature of the ceremony was approved by him, and afterwards imparted to Installed Masters
at meetings of that Lodge or Board until its warrant expired by effluxion
of time. Ever since that date, it has been made plain by successive Grand
Secretaries to all enquirers that no such Degree is known to, or recognized by, the United Grand Lodge of England as the Past Grand
Master's Degree, a Board of Installed Masters being defined as consisting
of three or more brethren who are either Masters or Past Masters of
Lodges.
As the question of the regularity of the prohibition of this ceremony,
which has never up to now been seriously challenged, has been again
brought forward, the Board desires to state that it is entirely in accord
with the policy in this regard pursued consistently for over a century,
and declares the practice of the ceremony in question to be irregular.
North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): If we may suggest it, we
think he might well afford to use less time is alluding to the assistance
of the Past Masters. They are going to afford their aid and counsel
on all occasions, whether invited or not. Being a Past Master himself.
this scribe knows. It is useless for the (;rand Master to counsel that he
"bow to the well considered opinion" of these gentlemen. \Ve have seen
it stated that a large percentage of the requests for rulings by )fasters and
Secretaries, are chiefly sought for the purpose of silencing, or overriding, Past Masters; the Master himself knows the law, hut the Past
Masters don't know that he knows it, until he goes to the Grand Master.
We sometimes think the F.P.0.F. have not made that deep and
everlasting impression on the Masons of today, that they need to have
made.
North Dakota (1926):
(Grand Master): I recognize the value of these officers in
Masonry and know the labors they have performed in ever keeping its
light before the minds of the brethren in their Lodge, in the time they

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

have devoted to keep their Lodges moving forward fo this ever changing
civilization. I realize that we can never do enough for the Past Masters
and I realize that the Past Masters have the best interests of this Grand
Lodge at heart. Some years ago the By-Laws were amended allowing
mileage and per diem for Past Masters of constituent Lodges, when
such Past .Masters are present in person, at sessions of the Grand
Lodge. Your Grand .Master is pleased to have so many Past Masters
present, however, he regrets that the payment of mileage and per diem
depletes our funds so much that if this condition continues we shall be
compelled to forego the pleasure and profit of these annual communications, for we shall not only spend our income but our small resen ~
as well.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We learn from the report
of the Grand Custodian of Nebraska that the Past )faster's Degree is
given in Nebraska. Just why this should be, there or elsewhere is beyond
us-that is, within the precincts of .a symbolic Lodge. Just why there
should be a secret organization within a Blue Lodge, or why a fourth
degree should be conferred in such a Lodge-these ·things are too much
for us. \Ve wish someone would rise up in his place and explain and
justify this anomaly.

Vermont (1926):
(Grand lvlaster) : 1 recommend that hereafter no .Master elect be
allowed to preside over his Lodge until the law above quoted has been
complied with and duplicate reports have been mailed by the Secretary
of the Past Masters' Lodge conferring the degree upon him to the
Grand Master and Grand Secretary, which reports shall give the names
of the Master elect, the officers conferring the degree and the number
of the Past Masters present when the degree is conferred.
Western Australia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) ; Occasionally we read of
the degree of Past Master being conferred upon a M.M., and the question naturally arises "What is the status or right (if any) of such a
brother in relation to a Board of Installed M.asters ?" Grand Master
Reid (of Alberta) had to give a ruling in a case of this nature. Here is
the question submitted and the ruling given :"A brother who had received the Past Master's degree in a Royal
Arch Chapter and who was denied the right of being present while the
installed Master's degree was being conferred upon the W.)1. elect,
appealed to the Grand Master for his ruling thereon.

96

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"Answer: A Lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
Alberta can recognize only those degrees which have been conferred by
Lodges under this jurisdiction or as is expressly provided for by our
constitution, by Lodges under some other Grand Jurisdiction recognized
by this Grand Jurisdiction. In no case will this Grand Jurisdiction admit
to participation in its degrees a person who has received such degrees in
a Royal Arch Chapter or in any other body conferring other than the
first three degrees of Masonry. There are other reasons which cannot
be fully explained, inherent in the degree of Installed Master, which
would not permit of a brother being present who was not either a Past
Master or one duly elected to that office. I, therefore, ruled that the
brother was not entitled to sit in Lodge while the Installed Master's
degree was being conferred."
This ruling was declared by the Committee on Grand Master's
Address as "sound and in accordance with our Constitution."
Wisconsin (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : There is little in the reports
of the Grand Lecturer (Maryland) that is of interest outside of the
Grand Jurisdiction, but we find two short, pithy sentences that are
worthy of more than passing consideration; here they are: "The Lodge
that is proficient in the work, is invariably a live Lodge." And again:
"A long, loyal line of Past Masters is one of the greatest assets a Lodge
can have." Just think those two statements over, brethren, and see if they
do not set forth the situation with great clearness. Not a word too
much, not a word too little.
PROCEEDINGS-GRAND LODGE
While there is a certain sameness about the proceedings of the
various Grand Lodges, still each one is a cross-section of the Masonic
life and activity of the Jurisdiction. We agree with the Chairman
of the Correspendence Committee of Wisconsin, "That it is none of
our business as to what a Grand Lodge wishes to publish," so
consequently we refrain from an expression of opinion.
Connecticut (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The fact is that in nearly
all Grand Lodge proceedings all reports are unduly padded. A drastic
dose of blue-pencilling would make for clarify as well as conciseness.
And yet, when they awake to the necessity of economy in printing, they
instinctively call upon the reviewer to abridge. They might better abolish
the reviews altogether.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

97

Florida (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): A particularly commendable feature of the Utah printed proceedings is the marginal index ot
the Grand Master's address showing where to find the different c~m­
mittee reports to which it was referred. Such a preparation by all
Grand Secretaries would have the enthusiastic approval of every member
of the Round Table. Try it and see.
Kansas (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The question of securing
a competent stenographer who of necessity must be a male more than
twenty-one years of age and a Mason, is a serious proposition and particularly in view of the fact that a majority of the chairmen of committees do nothing with their reports until the eleventh hour and then call
for the services of a gilt-edge stenographer to take their dictation, run
off the report and have it in the hands of this particular brother in time
to be presented to Grand Lodge.
Manitoba (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Mississippi is certainly
contesting vigorously with Texas for first place as to which will issue
the larger proceedings. Both require either a stand or a table as a support when being read. As both Jurisdictions are daily increasing in
numbers and include a list of their entire membership, the only hope
for a limit in the future would appear to be a shortage of paper.
New Hampshire (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Correspondent (Idaho)
begs all his readers to get hold of the proceedings of Grand Lodges and
read them, asserting that they are infallible means of education. That
is true, but to our mind the beginning of the job is to get Masons to read
the proceedings of their own Grand Lodge. The number who do this is
regrettably small. That is why so many have to say, "I do not know,"
about matters with which they should be fairly well acquainted. If we
can ever get them started at home there will be a foreign expedition on
every available opportunity.
North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): It is indeed queer that one
particular topic will run with evidence of continuity, through a large
number of volumes of Proceedings within one year's collection, when
that topic has no particular relation to one year, or decade, or time, more

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

than to another. Such is the case this year. We find at least half a
dozen valuable allusions to Masonic symbols in the books before us,
while we do not recollect that there was a single one last year.

he mainly made use of by those desiring such a list to whom thev can
semi advertising matter or political propaganda? If the Secretary- of a
Lodge . furnished such a list of his Lodge he .would be severely reprimanded; why should the Grand Lodge do such a thing on a larger scale?

Tennessee ( 1927) :
(Chairman' Co1•resf>o11dencc Committee): The Grand Lodge of
Kentucky authorized its officers to borrow the money to complete
the new Home. If the Grand Lodge would cut out its 440 pages of the
proceedings which contains the names of the members of Subordinate
Lodges, the amount saved would feed, clothe and educate at least three
orphans a year. We shall wait to see what we shall see.

Utah (1927):
( Chainmrn Corrcspoudence Committee) : In the arrangement of
contents of our Proceedings the annual communication is given first
place. The writer of these lines is responsible for the arrangements
of the contents, and he follows the plan ref erred to for two reasons. In
the first place, the annual communication is the important event in our
Masonic doings, and as such we feel should have first place; and secondly, the writer being a lover of books, very much dislikes to see the
opening pages of our Proceedings littered up with rosters of offi~ers
who attended some occasional communication of Grand Lodge, and ltttle
else. It may b~ fan.cif,ul,; but volumes with brief records of emergent
communications occupying the opeping pages of a volume of Proceedings
alwavs remind us of some unsightly front yard, in which may be found
brok~n-down wagons, parts of old harnesses, cast-off tools, chicken
coops, a grindstone, and rubbish piled up in corners, with possibly a
clothesline stretched across the path that leads to the house, and wheelbarrows and worn-out cooking utensils close at hand.
Wisconsin {1927):
(Chairman Corresp01idence Committce) : The cost of printing its
Proceedings (Texas, 1926) is $6,500.00 per year. Two-thirds of the
bulky volume is taken up with printing a useless roster of membership.
The Grand Lqdge could save four thousand dollars annually by omitting
its publication, but that is their affair.

*

*

*

The Proceedings (Virginia, 1926) makes a formidable looking
volume of over nine hundred pages. On examination it is found that
nearlv five hundr~d ·or' its pages are occupied with a useless roster of
the ~embership of their subordinate Lodges: If this were omitted the
volume would not exceed that of the average volume of Proceedings.
Why spend good money to publish a list of substantial citizens that will

99

Wisconsin (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We do not wish to appear
to obtrude with our opinions, but we would suggest that if the Grand
Lo~ge of Mississippi desires to save printer's bills it omit to publish
their useless roster of the Lodges, and discharge their official stenographer, thereby cutting down their Proceedings over one-half and saving
over two thousand dollars in printing bills annually. An official stenograph:r to report the Proceedings is not only useless but a nuisance as well.
His work tends to prolixity of the record and makes it more difficult
to understand.

An attempt was made to eliminate these unnecessary p~rtions of
the records, but an amendment was adopted leaving it to the dfacretion
of the Grand Secretary as to eliminating unnecessary and superfluous
parts, and he exercised that discretion by leaving it all in.

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Chairman of the
Correspondence Committee of Nor th Dakota notes the absence of a
portrait of the Grand Master and rightly attributes its absence to a
regulation that prohibits the publication of portraits of living Masons
an.d said, "We have wondered just what induced them to pass the law.';
We can only answer this query from tradition, The rumor runs that
many years ago, in the early history of the Grand Lodge, it had a Grand
Master that married a lady of the Catholic faith, who induced him to.
renounce Freemasonry and embrace her faith. Thereupon his portrait
:vas removed from the office of the Grand Secretary and the provision
1~ question was embo?ied in our Constitutien in order to make it impossible that the portrait of one who might prove unworthy should be
published, and there the regulation has stood ever since. We are not
defendihg the regulation, but simply accounting for it.

READING-INTERESTING
We commend to the attention of those that have access to the
Proceedings of the various Grand Lodges the following orations
papers and reports. They are illustrative and entertaining and weli
worth examination.

100

Jurisdiction.
Annual Oration ............................................ Arizona
Annual Oration ............................................ Arkansas
"Preparation" ................................................ District of Columbia
"The Five Great Affirmations" ................ Florida
"The Citizenship of Freemasonry" .......... Georgia
Annual Oration ............................................ Illinois
"Symbolism" .................................................. Kansas
"The Lambskin Apron" .............................. Louisiana
Foreword of Correspondence ReporL ..... Maine
"National Grand Lodge of France" ........ Massachusetts
"Grand Lodge of Vienna" .......................... Massachusetts
"Masonry in France" .................................. Mexico
"The Present Emergency in Our
Educational System" .............................. Montana
Annual Oration .............................................. Nebraska
''The Mind, a Working Tool" .................. Nevada
Grand Historian's Report .......................... New York
"The Keystone" ............................................ North Carolina
"American Union Lodge No. 1" .............. Ohio
Annual Oration .............................................. Oklahoma
"Training for Masonic Service" .............. Oklahoma
"The British Expedition to Manila
and Freemasonry" .................................... Philippine Islands
"Faith in the Future" .................................. South Dakota
Annual Oration .............................................. 'Wisconsin

101

HEPORT ON CORHESPONDENCE

REPffRT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Year.

District of Columbia (1926):

1927
1926
1925
1927
1926
1926
1927
1927
1927
1926
1926
1925

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): In his address the Grand
Master says: "Freemasonry, with the exception of the Church of God,
stands out as the leading benefactor of mankind." But, unfortunately, we
have not been able to determine which one of the "176 religions" in the
United States is the correct one, but we know some of them are dabbling in politics, and opposing the teaching of a well established science
in the schools, to the neglect of the example of Jesus of Nazareth, while
Freemasonry, bound by its landmarks, still teaches ideal morality. Its
only defect is not being able to moralize its bad members.

1925
1926
1927
1927
1927
1927
1927
1926
1927
1927
1926

RELIGION
Masonry is not a Religion or a substitute therefor. Any attempt
to join the two will only be productive of trouble. We should have
no quarrel with the followers of any one of the 176 religions mentioned by Brother Baird of the District of Columbia. Man is by nature
intolerant or prejudiced when it comes to Creed. Masonry can perform no greater service than teaching its members to practice that
Virtue which is second to none, to-wit, TOLERATION.
Connecticut (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We have no desire to
fight the Romanist nor any other sect. If any sect elects to forbid its
votaries to join certain organizations, they have the right to do so. So
Jong as it does not affect us personally, we have no quarrel with them.

*

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : The Grand Master of
Louisiana (1925) made this remarkable utterance: "But in the name of
religion our public schools have been almost stripped of religious instruction. This is due to the principle of religious freedom which insures
the separation of Church and State. The principle in operation has, in
many cases, meant not only separation of Church and State but actual
refusal to permit the fundamentals of religion to be mentioned in our
schools . . . ." A French Mason counted in the United States "one
hundred and seventy-six religions and only on~ soup." \Ve wonder
which of the 176 the Grand Master would select? And what the
other 175 would say? Religion is what is believed, but can not be proven,
nor can the sects agree on. That is why the Fathers of the Republic
omitted religion in the public schools, and why Sunday Schools were
established by Christians and Cathechisms by the Romans. Religion in
the public schools can only create quarrels.
Then followed this recommendation : "Be it resolved by the Grand
Lodge of the State of Louisiana that it is the sense of this Grand Lodge
denominations
that religious instruction, at least to the extent that
and creeds are agreed upon, should be taught in our public schools · and
that each individual Mason should use his efforts to bring about 'such
instruction in our public schools."

all

But the Committee on Law and Jurisprudence reported adversely, viz.;
"No. 5. Religious Instruction in the Public Schools-Your Committee
has carefully read the reasons of the Grand Master and his proposed
resolution. \Ve can not agree that it is for the best interest of Masonry
to adopt the same in its present wording. \Vhat religion will you teach is
the vital question. Masonry does not profess to be a religion. Our Fraternity is strong in its championship of the public schools and we would
not want to do aught to bring about discord in our various religious
beliefs."

102

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Maine (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): How bitter and decisive
bigotry can be in the hearts of otherwise good and noble men is seen
in the fact that a century and a half ago a little book appeared in England bearing the title. "An Old Fox Tarred and Feathered." It is interesting to read that the old fox was noble old John Wesley, and the man
who wrote the book was Toplady, the man who wrote:
"Rock of Ages, cleft for me,
Let me hide myself in thee."
Both men were followers and ministers of the gentle Galilean and
His Gospel, yet both carried their extreme sectarianism to the point of
bitterness and rancor against each other. It is safe to say that had both
men been touched by the genius of Freemasonry they could not have
carried such feelings and animosities against each other in their hearts.

*

*

There are, to be exact, 202 different denominational names; 202
different, often contradictory, versions of religion; we have been contentious, often it may be as bitter and bigoted as in the days of Wesley
and Toplady, about our special brand and trade-mark of it, while all the
time back of these 202 varieties and creedal labels there was only one
reli~ion, which sounds very much like what we as good and true Masons
are striving for, and which may be found in the Great Light of our
Fraternity in St. James 1 :27, "Pure religion undefiled before God
the Father is this-to visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction,
and to keep himself unspotted from the world." That is the best definition of religion in the Bible, or out of, that we can find, and it rings true
to the teaching of every Masonic degree. A distinguished English playwright, George Bernard Shaw, who is also a prophet of our time, said
recently. "After all there is only one religion, though I know there are
more than a hundred versions of it." A good Craftsman, Lessing, said
more than a century ago, "Official, creedal and eccleciastical Christianity
has been on trial eighteen hundred years, the religion of Jesus has yet
to be tried."
Manitoba (1926):
(Grand Master): This is a quality of age. \Ve are apt to be narrow and intolerant in our younger years. Every institution is born in a
narrow bed-it is usually the expression of a single idea and that can
hardly avoid being bigoted. As time moves on we become mellowedour asperities are rubbed off-charity grows. Almost all societies are
exclusive in some one direction. Masonry stands as the very synonym
of tolerance. She has learned in her long passage down the years that

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

103

charity is the noblest virtue. If I were asked to name the most splendid
of the Masonic virtues I would unhesitatingly say tolerance. She knows
no racial barriers, she closes no doors against any human being on account
of his color, she raises no barrier of creed or class-kings and peasants,
rich and poor, Christian and Jew are found within her borders. There
is not a single criticism in all her ritual against any order, society, creed
or race. Her comer-stone is charity. She builds without walls or
boun,daries. Down the years she has travelled, passing through all
nations, and claiming the allegiance of all tongues and tribes. She seems
to me to offer a hope to the world today in its divided and antagonistic
state. Business is divisive, politics are separating, religion is sectarianMasonry alone offers a common ground for all the sons of men.
RITUAL
The Ritual is a fundamental part of Masonry, but too often the
tendency at the present time is to be content with its exact rendition.
The dotting of "i's" and the crossing of "t's" and being letter perfect
m floor werk have become the sum and substance of the work of the
~verage .Lodge. Undoubtedly more would attend Lodge meetings
1£ less t~-e was devoted to ritualistic exploitation and something
else provided except a seat on the side lines.

Instruc~on through lectures and by symbols served a purpose
before the time of the present form of newspapers, magazines and
Qther means of ed,ucation now in existence. We may be guilty of
~asonic ~eresy, but we think that the Ritual could be abridged
with profit to the general work of the Lodge and with beneficial
results.
Alberta (1925):
(Grand Secretary): The ritual itself, after all, is but the shadow

?f the cohesive mass of fundamental truths embraced in Masonic teach-

~ng, and to say that a Lodge is proficient merely because it has mastered
its language, is to substitute the shadow for the substance and the
fo~ms and ceremo~ies for ,the truths. We must obtain ritual interpretation as well as ritual instruction. We must learn the true significance
of the M~sonic ritual in its relations to business life, to home life, to
ever!day mtercourse and to social obligations. Masonic instruction does
not.1m~~y only a delving into Masonic symbolism or research into Masonic
~nttqmttes. It means an effort to induce Masons to view in their true
light the e:ot~ric p'.inciples of our Order and to indicate the application
of these pn~c1ples m our daily intercourse with the world at large. The
~ea! Mason is ~e who p;actices out of the Lodge those virtues inculcated in
it. T~e practical application, then, is the ultimate end and aim of all
~fasomc study,

104

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Georgia (1925):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Consequently there developed within the Fraternity a factor known as the "ritualist." He is not
to be confused with the advocate of efficient rendition of the degrees for
inspiring the candidate for the desire of knowledge.
A "ritualist" differs entirely from such a teacher. The "ritualist"
makes of the symbols a god : around rituali5m he has woven a religion
and science. In the Holy of Holies he has builded an altar of theatrical
drama and in his desire for ritualistic proficiency has overlooked the
ideal for which the symbol stands.
A skilled ritualist learns the secret work of Freemasonry until he
can say it backward, but he knows nothing of its application, even if he
be aware there is an application. Upon the other hand, the Intelligent
Craftsman can apply to life the lessons he learns from the symbols.
The danger that confronts our beloved Fraternity is an intensified
desire for outward pomp and pageantry and an increase in numbers. Too
much we are overlooking the need for inward progress in tone and
quality. We are µtore in danger from within than from without. The
alarm is being made upon the inner door.
Manitoba (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : In our British Grand
Lodges we always speak of "The Volume of the Sacred Law." This to
each brother refers to the Book of his Faith and not necessarily the
Bible. The apparent desire of so many American Grand Lodges to
Christianize Masonry seems peculiar in view of the number of our
Jewish brethren they admit to membership.
New York (1927):
(Grand Master) : It may be permissible for a Lodge, as a social
entertainment and quite apart from the exemplification of the Degrees,
to use a drama based on the Ritual, if it is dignified and seemly; and it
may be permissible to dramatize the Lectures under all due safeguards;
but under no circumstances can such dramatizations be used as a substitute for the Standard vVork or any portion of it. A burlesque of the
Standard Work and Lectures, or any part of the same, is never permissible, either to a Lodge or any organization connected with a Lodge.

105

Later on there appeared characters such as chamberlains iron workers, orators, soldiers, slaves, etc., until, to cap the climax 'a character
impersonating a woman has been introduced.
'
It has further come to our attention that some of our more gifted
brethr.en have written dramas based on the second and third degree
Ritual, but changed to such an extent as to be hardly recognized and to
further the publicity campaigns to play before crowded houses ~ome' of
these sce~a:i~s have been sold to Lodges or individuals in Lodge~, thereby
commerc1ahzmg the groundwork of our Institution.
Nova Scotia (1925):
• (Grand Master) : In my opinion the steps are in effect a part of the
s~gns, and should always be associated therewith. Under certain conditions, however, such in opening and closing a Lodge, with possibly
several rows of seats occupied, it would be impossible or inconvenient
for the brethren to take the steps when giving the signs. In such cases
they can be omitted, but in all cases where it is convenient and feasible
to do so, the steps should be taken when giving the signs, and in no case
sho~~d a sign be given without the feet being placed in the proper
position.
·

Philippine Islands (1927):
That .the official .dress of members of Grand Lodge and of Lodges
shall consist of a white suit, the coat of which shall be of the three- or
four-button type. With this suit shall be worn a black bow tie and for
the Master a white or grey, straw or felt hat with black band, except
at funerals, when the Master should always. be uncovered.
That the. officers of Lodges may, upon any special or gala occasion,
use full evenmg dress of black or mess type; provided, that each officer
can so apparel himself. In this case the headgear of the Master shall
be a silk-tile hat.
That while performing the duties of their respective offices within
the Lodge, . including inst~lla:ions, officers of the Army and Navy, or
of o:her umformed organizations, shall dress in conformity with military
reqmrements or usages. This paragraph shall not work to prevent such
officers from dressing in civilian garb, as indicated in paragraphs one and
two above, as taste or their regulations permit.

New York (1926):

South Carolina (1927):

(Custodian of Work) : The changes probably started with the
acquisition of costumes by some Lodges, and in the opinion of your Custodians most of these costumes detract from rather than add to the
dignity of the degrees.

Committee): As to "short f
" ·
sout h(Chairman
caroma
r weCorrespo11de11ce
orm, Ill
have a short form of "calling off" from one Degree to

another when degrees are to be conferred, or a brother is to be examined
and "calling on" again when the Degree has been conferred or th~
brother examined.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Carolina (1926):
On motion, it was decided "to establish Masonic prayer services in
our Lodges at such times and places as appear most appropriate and
does not conflict with any religious service in the community, and that
the words "prayer service" be printed or written on the notices sent out
by the secretaries to attend Lodge."

which tells him that his duty to God is such that he should "never
mention His name, but with that reverential awe due by a creature to his
Creator." How can a Mason, after receiving the beautiful lessons
taught in the Entered Apprentice degree so far forget hi~self as
to take the name of God in vain?

106

107

Virginia (1926):
Tennessee (1927):
(Grand Master) : Our present law requires that candidates be examined in open Lodge as to their proficiency in the lecture of the preceding degree before they can be advanced to the next degree. In large
Lodges where the work is heavy a great part of the time needed for the
stated meeting is taken up by these examinations and I have no doubt
but that it keeps many brethren away from the Lodge because of the
monotony of that part of the program. While it would be breaking an
old custom, yet I see no reason why a candidate could not be examined, on the same meeting date, by a committee of well informed
brethren, appointed for this purpose, with the provision that any brother
who desired might be present when the Committee made this examination.
(Chairman Correspo11dence Committee): The Ritual Committei;:
of Montana reported adversely on the request to change the word
"compass" to "compasses" wherever it occurred in the Ritual, and the
Grand Lodge approved. In closing their report, the committee say:
Much of the most sacred symbolism of our institution has been
lost forever through the honest but unskilled tinkering of amateur
ritualists. Let this Grand Lodge not add to the confusion in the
Temple."
Now, isn't that a caustic arraignment of the Masonic ritualists of
a hundred years ago? The committee go away back beyond the time
when people "didn't know nothing" to prove that the word "compasses"
was not used in Masonry-that it was "compass." Now, one of the
best, if not the best dictionaries in use today gives the following
definitions: Compass-A mariner's instrument. Compasses-A carpenter's instrument. It is true that Masonry has a little connection with a
seafaring man, but not with his compass, while the carpenter's compasses
was one of the instruments selected to "imprint upon the mind wise and
serious truths." Montana's Ritual Committee should try and get then
hands on some Grand Lodge's educational fund and use it upon themselves-they sure do need it.

\Ve heard a wise !I.Jason say the other day that the secrets of Masonry
about which the profane world was so curious were not the Ritual.
Copies o.f that are on public sale, but what goes on inside tiled doors.
A woman called us up the other day and wanted to know if we were a
member of a certain· lodg-e. When asked why, she said she wanted to
know what was said about a certain member in that Lodge at the last
meeting. \Vhen the in formation was denied her she wanted to know
who could tell her. She was asked if she were a Mason. To this she
indignantly replied, "I am the daughter of a Mason and entitled to
know." When it was explained to her that no Mason had a right to tell
any outsider, she wanted the name of both Master and Secretary. This
shows how utterly most, if not all, of us have become. She probably
knew that she could find out from someone anything she chose. This
should be a striking lesson to one and all of us. Which of us has not
thoughtlessly mentioned things said and done in Lodge? And yet we all
know that we should always be voluntarily deaf, dumb and blind as to
Lodge matters before any outsider, no matter whom.

Texas (1926):
(Grand lv!aster) : It seems to me there is a growing tendency among
the brethren to forget that part of the Entered Apprentice lecture

West Virginia (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Grand Master Vailes of
Colorado ( 1925) called attention to difference in manner of giving sign

(Chairman Correspondence. Committee) : We long ago learned that
the Ritual is the life blood of Masonry and that knowing it is essential
to being a useful Mason and certainly to being an officer of value.
To begin with, the reason we have no short forms in Virginia and
that we require certain parts of the Ritual repeated so often in opening
and closing is that it thus grinds it into our members and becomes a sort
of- Masonic language recognizable even in fragments. Another thing,
we seldom have known a real Mason who went through the chairs and
in any degree impressed himself on Masonry who was not an expert
ritualist. Other things are more important, hut they are rare indeed
when not coupled with ritualistic excellence. It does no harm even to those
who are mere parrots and no one who becomes an expert, be his intellectual capacity what it may, ever regrets the labor necessary to its
acquirement. This is the experience of a long life (fifty years a Mason),
in a jurisdiction where much stress is laid on perfection in this regard.

* * *

108

HEPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of third degree from that used in America and made suggestion that
initiates on being raised be also iFistructed as to that English manner,
thus assisting them in traveling through English Jurisdiction. Good
suggestion, it strikes us. Might come in handy.
Wisconsin (1927) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): This term, "profane," is
not used as a noun in the standard dictionaries, but is a term well understood by Freemasons. Mackey, in his Encyclopedia, says of it that it
"is compounded of the two Latin words, pro and fanum, and literally
means before or outside of the temple; hence a profane among the
ancients was one who was not allowed to enter the temple and behold the
mysteries." It seems to have quite respectable ancient authority to
authorize its use, as Mackey tells us in the celebrated hymn of Orpheus,
which it is said was sung at the Mysteries of Eleusis, this phrase is to be
met with: "I speak to those to whom it is lawful, but close the doors
against the profane." In the dialect of Freemasonry it has been adopted
as a technical term to signify merely that the person whom it is applied
to is not a Mason. We see no reason for avoiding its use.
SECRET ARIES
A large number of the Chairmen of Correspondence Committees also occupy the office of Grand Secretary. They speak
from experience when they say that the efficiency of a Lodge
depends upon the zeal and ability of this particular officer. A
Secretary not only performs his function in the Lodge but sometimes (?) "superintends it during the hours of refreshment."
Alabama (1926):
(Grand 1vfaster) : Much of the correspondence received by me during the year indicates that the only qualifications required by many lodges
to be possessed by those chosen as secretary of the Lodge are carelessness
and incompetency. The ignorance and unfitness of many of these socalled secretaries is truly astonishing. They can· neither write, spell,
punctuate, nor compose, and have not the slightest idea of form. llow
they can keep an intelligible minute or a correct record of collections
made and the dispostions of the funds or conduct the most meagre correspondence of the Lodge is a mystery to me. They may be and no doubt
are excellent men and Masons, but this, one of the most important offices
in a lodge, should not be committed into the hands of an incompetent
brother. I have no doubt the death of many a Lodge is traceable to an
incompetent and unsuitable secretary. Let me impress on the Lodges, if

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

109

possible, that next to the Master and Tiler, the Secretary is the most
vital factor in the prosperity of the Lodge.
Kansas (1927):
(Grand Secretary) : Your Grand Secretary noted with care the
various forms used by Lodges in paying their annual per capita tax and
out of the total payments 181 plainly indicated that the funds were neither
being kept nor dispensed according to law.
Each year the number of cases of misappropriation of Lodge funds
is increasing, which indicates that the law concerning the keeping and
dispensing of the moneys of Lodges is being violated.
While it is not expedient to list any number of the many forms
used in payment of Grand Lodge dues, yet as an illustration attention is
called to the following :
One remittance was issued by a Building and Loan Association;
another was in the form of a check signed by the Senior Warden ; a
number were checks issued by business firms; a large number of individual checks signed only by the brother having the account in the bank
in his own name ; other remittances were made over the signature of
the Secretary, indicating that he was in charge of the funds of the Lodge;
others were signed with the name of the Treasurer, by the Sceretary,
indicating that the Secretary could check out Lodge funds. This practice
is not confined to the small Lodges alone, but enters into the financial
affairs of the larger Lodges as well.
Manitoba (1926):
(Grand Master) : It has come to my notice that some Secretaries
have supplied lists of members and addresses to persons not entitled to
such information. The fact of a brother's membership in a Masonic
Lodge is a sacred trust to be communicated by the Secretary only on
explicit instructions from the Worshipful Master, and for sufficient
cause. It is desirable that each Master should so instruct his Secretary.
Nevada (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): We have always stoutly
maintained that the efficiency of a Lodge is largely due to the efficiency
of a good Secretary, one versed in Masonry and who keeps in touch with
the Grand Lodge doings and shows a real interest in the doings of the
Masonic world. In England evidently Lodge Secretaries are required
to attend Grand Lodge sessions. Some American Jurisdictions are
awakening to this fact and are providing ways and means for· their attendance. Last year Nevada turned down a proposition to make Secretaries
of Lodges, who have served five years continuously, permanent members

J.,1;1

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of the' Grand Lodge, with a vote. A mistake, we believe, for as GraHd
Secretary Cheney, of New Hampshire, said, it would make a Secretary's
service more intense and energetic and work for the greater good of all.

where such timber is to be found. The present writer believes that some
of this dead timber is to be found at the Secretary's desk, and that this
fact is partly responsible for a large number of suspensions.

1110

New Hampshire (1926):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Maryland, in his address, has an early talk about the collection of Lodge
dues, a troublesome thing with some Lodges. He reports one Lodge,
with 820 members, where every member is annually clear on the books.
We do not care how much they pay its Secretary-he is worth it. It is
that officer alone, in any Lodge, who is to be credited with success or
tailure in the collection of dues. A good Secretary is a jewel that ought
to be classified with the immovable variety.
South Dakota (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Among the Grand Master
(Nebraska, 1926) recommendations we find one to provide for attendance at Grand Lodge of Secretaries of local Lodges with an allowance
of mileage and per diem. That we believe is a move in the right direction. Having served as Secretary of our own Lodge for nearly a quarter
of a century we can appreciate the good that might come out of such an
organization. The Jurisprudence Committee did not approve the recommendation, but the Grand Lodge did not adopt their report·entire, thinking best to further consider it. We shall look to see the adoption of the
plan by the Grand Lodge of Nebraska and other Grand Lodges.
Utah (1926):
(Grand Master): I observe from the Lodge returns that in at least
one case a very young Mason has been elected Secretary of his Lodge.
The Secretary of a Lodge might be likened to the hub of a wheel. If
he is the right kind of man he is the center of Lodge activities and is
usually retained in office as long as he is willing to keep the job. The
Secretary can be and nearly always is the Master's most trusted and
valued lieutenant. There may have been particular reasons for the
choice in this case, but it seems to me that Lodges ought to exercise great
care in the selection of a Secretary and that generally speaking he ought
to be a seasoned member of the Craft.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Sometimes we hear officers
speak of the desirability of "getting rid of dead timber." One might agree
with these brethren with reference to "dead timber," and disagree as to

TEMPLES
Building Masonic Temples must be governed by the same rules
that apply to any other business proposition. Too often the building
of a Temple and the financial operation thereafter ends in disaster.
Questionable methods are sometimes adopted for the purpose of
raising funds. After the enthusiasm and interest in the beginning
of the project .have evaporated the burden rests heavy upon a few.
It would be a wise provision, and in many cases would save endless
trouble, if before a Lodge erected a building the entire project
should be passed upon by disinterested parties, created and authorized
to deal with such a question. This might be either the Grand Master
himself or a Grand Lodge Committee created for that purpose.
Georgia (1926):
(Grand. Master) : A Masonic hall may be rented to the Knights of
the Ku Klux Klan for their regular meetings, the closing paragraph of
Section 275 of the Masonic Manual and Code reading as follows: "A
Lodge shall not ·rent its Masonic hall for other than Masonic purposes
except for benevolent, charitable or other secret organizations, nor shall
it be used for dancing." The Klan being both a secret and a charitable
organization, therefore comes under the exceptions specified as being
eligible to meet in the Masonic hall.
Indiana (1926):
(Grand Master) : While it is important that the members of a
Lodge in session should by all means attend the meetings of the Lodge
rather than engage in social entertainments, I do not know of any good
reason why the social quarters of the building should be kept dark in
order to induce or force the members of the Lodge in session to attend
their Lodge. I assume that you have some sort of Masonic work in
your building most of the time, and to compel the social room to be
kept dark when any one of the Lodges is in session would, in practice,
mean that your social rooms would be dark most of the time, if not all
· :.. · ··
the time.
It has been my idea that a Masonic Temple, especially such as
yours, should be made popular and attractive; not only for Lodge pur~
poses but for social purposes : that it should be· a real Masonic home,
where a Mason can be assured of an "open house" any week day night.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Kansas (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : During the year eight of
their Lodges (Georgia) were burned and of this number but three had
any insurance. The question might consistently be raised whether Grand
Lodges should not compel all Lodges to carry sufficient insurance to
protect them in case of loss by fire or water.
(Grand Master): There comes a time in the life of every ambitious
man when he outgrows his habitation and reaches out for better and
larger accommodations; so it has been with many of our Lodges over the
State; magnificent temples, beautifully furnished and splendidly equipped,
have gratified this laudable ambition, but in too many instances the
"pay as you go" plan has been relegated to the background and Lodges
have become so involved in debt that it is proving not only burdensome
to the members but detrimental to the Lodge as well.
We point with pride to our beautiful edifices, but this erection of
costly temples should not be undertaken until a substantial sum has been
accumulated for their building and equipment.
Perhaps the most serious trouble, arising in our Lodges the past
year or two, is the result of improper and inadequate plans for financing
their undertakings and in addition to the architect's plans being passed
upon, I believe the manner of financing new temples should be under the
observation and with the approval of the Grand Master.
Unsatisfactory results have followed the issuance of life memberships in return for funds advanced to finance building projects.
At least the certificate plan should be adopted rather than the blanket
mortgage plan, for by the former plan all feel a personal interest in the
undertaking and consider their stock as an investment for their own
personal good and for the good of the Fraternity in their locality.

New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): He (Chairman Correspondence Committee, 1926) invokes the Spirit of Masonry to keep out
of Masonic halls anything and everything that is not Masonic. Bless you.
that old spirit has deceased. A new spirit has taken its place. There is
to be no resurrection of the old. The new has come to stay, until it, in
the interpretation of our life and efforts, shall in turn pass on it. We
cannot avoid progress, we cannot stifle our visions, if we are to have
any excuse for our organic life. We have not changed-we are merely
giving better expression to our desires and to our hopes. We are whiteheaded, getting down the hill, but these things do not disturb us. Rather
do they tend to make us feel that this thing we call Freemasonry shall
never die.

112

Maryland (1926):
(Grand Master): The Masonic Fraternity is rich in property and
we spend a great deal of money for many things, but because our present
personal condition does not demand a home or help from our brethren,
we apparently would far rather build marble halls and monuments of
stone than to carry out the first precept of Masonry and build our
Temple in the hearts of men.
New Hampshire (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): When a Lodge in Alabama
wants to sell or to mortgage its property the Grand Master has to give
his consent before it may be done. There were seventeen of these cases
reported in the address.

\!

113

North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Grand Master Davenport
alluded to certain irregularities and unfortunate matters, along with others
more in happy vein. Among the former is a discussion of the experiences
which have been observed in various places with the financing and erection of Masonic Temples. In this connection it is well to remember the
wise observation of our distinguished friend and brother, Benjamin
Franklin, who was once Grand Master of Pennsylvania, that "it is as hard
for an impecunious person to be honest as for an empty sack to stand
upright." Which being interpreted is to say that one pressed with lack
of funds, and by debt withal, is· more likely than his neighbor to do
things which he ought to be ashamed of.
It is a laudable ambition for a Lodge to look forward to owning its
home; but if that home is "covered" by mortgages and debts, it were
better that it were not thus to become a burden in this manner to its
owners. It is an honor to own a handsome Temple; but that honor is
changed to disgrace, if it has to be paid for through the income from
questionable tenants, and questionable uses.
Tennessee (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of the
District of Columbia (1925) says in his address that the immediate task
before him "was to pay for those wonderful nine acres of land which
we call Temple Heights, purchased three years ago at the very reasonable
price of $900,000.00." Well, we would say so-$900,000.00 for a Masonic
Temple site! That would mean a building that would cost in the neighborhood of $4,000,000.00. After a thorough canvass the Association of
Worshipful Masters secured $210,810.00 in cash. No wonder Roe said
that he submitted his report with "a sigh of relief." The Grand Lodge

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of the District of Columbia has a white elephant on hand-yea, a white
elephant that has been enameled a double-distilled white.

is not a phrase synonymous with all that is highest in what we know
as Masonic Education. Marked emphasis on rote learning as a requirement is not compatible with the evolution of a true concept of real Masonic education. North Dakota had the requirement that one must
learn the lecture of the Third within a certain time, or be denied certain rights and privileges of Masonic affiliation. It did not work. An
unbelievable high percentage of those raised were suffered to ignore the
requirement. The law was virtually repealed, by the simple process of
extracting its teeth, and "fixing the responsibility for its enforcement"
on the Master; he can examine privately if it is not done publicly, etc. A
wise action.

114

Wisconsin (1927):
(Grand Master) : During the past year appeals have been made to
the Grand Lodge for assistance to individual Lodges in caring for unfortunate members. The Lodges stated in their requests that on account of
the building of a new Temple or purchasing the building now occupied,
their treasuries were more or less depleted.
This is not as it should be. Lodges should so concerve their funds
and resources that when an emergency arises they shall be prepared to
meet it and not be compelled to. make a hasty call on the Grand Lodge
for assistance.

*

*

(Chairman Correspondence Committee): The Grand Master of
Manitoba ( 1926) earnestly recommends that greater attention be paid
to the problem of ventilation of the Lodge room, saying that fresh air
is essential to clearheadedness. "Drowsiness in church it is now known
is caused by foul air and not always by bad preaching." Perhaps hi,;
efforts to arouse interest in better ventilation is not to be entirely com··
mended, if it is to result in arousing those in attendance at church or
Lodge from their slumbers. Sancho Pansy said, "God bless the man
whom first invented sleep!" and John G. Saxe added, "And bless him,
also, that he didn't keep his great discovery to himself, nor try to make
it-as the lucky fellow might-a close monopoly by patent right."

THIRD DEGREE LECTURE
Some of the Jurisdictions requiring an examination in the
lecture of the Master Mason's Degree a prerequisite to membership
have found that the theory does not always produce the desired
results. As we understand it, the true province of instruction along
this line is to enable a brother to satisfactorily establish the fact
that he is a Master Mason on visiting another Lodge. If this be
so, the questions and answers should be in such a form that learning
them would not involve a hardship, could be easily remembered, and
therefore would be of practical use. Too often Members refrain
from visiting other Lodges or Jurisdictions because of a fear that
they cannot satisfactorily answer a set of routine questions.
North Carolina (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : Speaking further of
Masonic Education, we note that North Dakota has beome awakened to
the fact that learning by rote the lecture of the Master Mason's degree

115

* * *

If the great aim of Masonry were rote-memory work, we should
look well upon that requirement to learn the catechism of the third degree
in six months. But if we were going to judge between rote-memory work
and some good Masonic reading, as to which was more important to the
newly-raised Mason, we should without hesitation take the latter. Therefore, we promise the Masonic woorld that if we should be Grand Master
we should recommend that every Master Mason be required to read ten
good Masonic books out of a multiple list which we should offer, within
the space of a year or two, and certify that he had read them carefully.

Oregon (1927):
(Grand Master) : Probably no sections of the Code are causing more
confusion in this Jurisdiction than Sections 203 and 218. Under an interpretation of these sections no brother is entitled to a certificate of membership, nor is he entitled to sign the by-laws of his Lodge until after he
has passed satisfactorily an examination iii the lecture of the Third
Degree. These sections which raise the question, "When is a man a
Mason?" are not popular with the Craft, and in the opinion of many
are in direct conflict with the fourteenth landmark. The provisions of
these sections may be beautiful in theory but in practice they are a
nuisance and should be amended in conformity with the true spirit of
Masonry.
Utah (1927):
(Chairman Correspondence Committee) : North Dakota, it appears,
has had a law requiring an examination in the catechism of the Master
Mason Degree. The penalties attached were the same as those attached
to this requirement in Utah. Our Grand Lodge fixed a time limit, however, of sixty days, in which this work must be done. The Grand Master
recommended a repeal on this law which the Committee on Jurisprudence
approved, apparently because the Masters of many Lodges failed in their

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

duty. The Jurisprudence Committee recommended that responsibility for
seeing that this work be done be placed "directly upon the Worshipful
Master.'' We wonder where the responsibility rested before, also, if a
different story would not have been told if, in place of repealing the
law, the responsibility for seeing the laws of Grand Lodge executed, and
this law in particular, had been fixed on the ·worshipful Masters. We
also wonder what the results will be following the repeal of this law and
the removal of alt penalties. If the situation was not satisfactory when
pressure could be brought to bear, what will happen now? In Utah the
Worshipful Masters, when installed, obligate themselves to see that the
Grand Lodge laws are obeyed in their respective Lodges. Our law works
satisfactorily, and we have heard no suggestion that it be repealed. When
a petitioner is raised here, he then and there is directed to report at once
to the same coach as before. Of course there cannot always, and in
very case, be a 100 per cent report in this matter, for sometimes a man
is almost immediately transferred to another place. Time is required to
make arrangements for his coaching and examination.

Masons through visitation can do a large part to remedy this
condition.
We particularly commend to Worshipful Masters, both present
and prospective, the excerpt from Rhode Island, with particular
emphasis upon the first paragraph.

116

Wisconsin (1927) :
(Chairman C01·respondeiice Committee) : The Grand Master of
North Dakota ( 1926) recommended the repeal of the regulation requiring
all Master Masons to pass a satisfactory examination upon the lecture
of the Master Mason's Degree. The regulation not only barred them
from voting, holding office in the Lodge or demitting therefrom, but they
were not entitled to a receipt for current year's dues paid until such
examination had been pa5sed. After investigating the working of this
legislation he said :
"The law apparently is incapable of enforcement, and with nearly a
thousand brethren raised in this Jurisdiction who are not yet entitled
to be considered as Master Masons, I would respectfully recommend that
the legislation be repealed. It is my humble opinion that Masonic education will do more toward making these brethren real Masons than drastic
legislation of this character will ever accomplish."
It is the old story of leading a horse to water but being unable to
make him drink when there. His recommendation was adopted.
VISITATION
The fundamental idea of Masonry is Brotherhood, and unless
this is put into practical operation, one of the beauties of Masonry
is lost. It has been truly said that "you can't hate a man that you
know," and "one of the tragedies of human existence is that men
are strangers."

117

Nevada (1926) :
(Chairman Correspondence Committee): Visitations are a power for
good. Contact with different brethren adds a new force to Masonry,
blessing both visitor and the visited. The mind unbends agreeably when
among friends tried and true. New thoughts are engendered and enthusiasm is rekindled for what is good and great, all for the good of the
Craft. Visitations are like the little fountains that run down from the
hills. They refresh and stimulate a better growth for the good of all.
Rhode Island (1926):
(Grand Maste1·): Procedure for Examination and Introduction of
Visitors. The keynote of the procedure of examination is that it is a
conference of brethren, in which two groups, one of one member and
one of two, each satisfy each other of their mutual brotherhood. The
instant the examining committee is satisfied that the visitor is a regular
Mason, in good standing, courtesy, brotherly regard, and good manners
require that they should say so, and introduce him to the Master.
Charity of thought, toleration, kindness and courtesy are all Masonic
virtues, and there is no better place where they can be practised, than at
the door of your Masonic home, for the benefit of the stranger who would
refresh himself at your Altar.
The visitor having applied for examination, the Junior Warden
will appoint a committee of not less than two brethren, who will provide
themselves with the Holy Bible, Square, Compasses, and Apron and
proceed to the examining room with the visitor. They will request him
to sign his name, together with the name of his Lodge, on a card provided for that purpose, and then ask for his credentials for comparison,
first satisfying themselves that such credentials as he may present are
from a Lodge within a Grand Jurisdiction that is recognized by this Grand
Jurisdiction.
The committee, together with the visitor, shall then place their right
hand on the open Bible and repeat together the Tyler's Oath as follows:
I, ......................................................, do hereby and hereon, solemnly and
sincerely swear, that I have been duly initiated, passed and raised, to the
sublime degree of Master Mason, in a just and lawfully constituted Lodge
of such; that I do not now stand suspended or expelled, and know of
no reason why I should not hold Masonic communication with my brethren. So help me God.

I

118

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Afaer this the committee shall ask the visitor such question& as they
may deem necessary to thoroughly satisfy themselves, by eusto~y
exam.inati<Jn, that the visitor is a Master Mason and when so satisfied,
will c:onduct the visitor to the door and give an alarm. When the alarm
is answered, the committee will announce a visitor in waiting, whereupon,
the Master will order that he be admitted. The chairman of the. committee will conduct the visitor to the Altar and salute the Master and
will introduce him as follows :
Worshipful Master, I have the pleasure of introducing to you and
to the members of ------------------------------------------ Lodge, No. ------:----------- Brother
---------·-----------·-···----·-----------------. a member of --------------------------·----------------- Lodge
-------·-------··-·-·-----------··--·-······-- of ··--·--··--·--·--·············--··---------·--·····-----·-,-····
The Master will reply as follows :
Brother -·······-····---··------·------·-·--·-····----·-. it gives me great pleasure to welcome you to ·-·-··-----·------·---·-·-·-····--------------·--· Lodge, and I trust that you will
visit with us as often you find opportunity. I will ask Brother
··--··----··--·---·········-···---------------··-- to conduct you to a seat and charge him to
see that you are made comfortable during your visit with us this evening.
The chairman of the committee will deliver the card to the Secretary
for recording in the minutes.
Washington (1926):
(Grand Master) : Fraternal visits between Lodges are productive
of much good and to be commended. Possibly, degree teams are of
assistance in conferring degrees. But the multitudinous, so-called, degree
teams, mostly of spectacular makeup, traveling around as advance agents
for the advertising departments of various side degrees of Masonry,
should be discouraged. If they are permitted to continue the "Barkers of
the Side Show" will soon have control of the "Main Tent." Light, with
dignity, will travel farther than sound with "jazz."

/

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ll.19

"BOUQUETS AND BRICKBATS"
The excerpts from the Repofts of the Committees on Correspondence of the respective Jurisdictions reviewed furnishes a mirror in
which we may see ourselves.
As in the past, the writer receives "the brickbats."
In this report we have given the author of the portions selected
from the various proceedings. This will fix the responsibility, and
we hope remove some criticism to the "topical form."
Our form of Report, of course, will always be criticised, but this
is a day of organization and condensation. The success of the
tabloid newspaper, magazine and "Cycs" demonstrates, we believe,
that the .average person wants facts, figures and opinions in the
most compact form possible. As a matter of fact the Correspondence
Report reaches only those who receive the advance copies at- the
session of the Grand Lodge, and the Correspondence Committees of
other Jurisdictions. If we had the. experience and the ability of
those who write reviews by Jurisdictions, we perh,aps would be
tempted to use that method.
·
Realizing our limitations in that respect we _have endeavored to
furnish what we believe is desired by the members of this Jurisdiction. There is also the hope that from a reference standpoint oui:
Reports might be worthy of preservation for future use.
The 76th Annual Communication, San Francisco, Oct. 15-16, 1925.
David J. Reese, Grand Master.
Canada:
The Grand Master then gave them a homelike atmosphere and a preliminary hearty welcome which must have given a tone to the whole
meeting, and from it we extract these friendly sentences as a model of
optimistic happiness, radiating from the Grand East. The address of
the Grand Master bears all the touches of the experienced writer.
The annual oration of Grand Orator Gaylord is well described as
full of meat and is printed in full.
Coloradoi
The Grand Master in his Address made an eloquent appeal to have
definite action taken by the Grand Lodge ori the question of extraneous
organizations. He reported a very successful observance of Public
Schools Week.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

120

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

121

The Grand Master is moved to quote Brother \Vhited of California
as expressing his thought on matters particularly requiring the attention
of the Craft in the United States.

Brother Whicher also includes a very interesting narrative of the
Bi-Centenary celebration of the Grand Lodge of Ireland, which he attended as a representative of the Grand Master.
A very interesting and able report on Masonic correspondence is
presented by Brother James L. Matthews.

Georgia:

Manitoba:

Even away back in the eastern section of America is felt the inspiration of our California brethren.
The report of the Committee on Education shows the continued
splendid service that is being rendered.
Those who know California Freemasonry, and particularly those
who know Grand Secretary John Whicher, will agree thoroughly with
the statement of the Grand Master.
How well we remember our visit to England in 1919, when we met
and knew Brother Whicher. Only recently we have seen evidences of
his friendship in a matter concerning Georgia. The California Proceedings include an admirable report by Brother Whicher, of his visit to the
Bi-Centenary of the Grand Lodge of Ireland, where he represented the
Grand Lodge of California.
A masterful address by Grand Orator Robert B. Gaylord on the
needs of the day presents striking paragraphs.
Worshipful James Lewis Matthews, who succeeded Brother Jesse M.
Whited last year, writes the reviews and steps aside for Brother Whited
to resume the work. The report of Brother Matthews is brief, and it
does not seem to occur to him that his California brethren may be interested in what the various reviewers think of California.

The address of Grand Master Reese proves conclusively that he
devoted much time and thought to the affairs of that Grand Lodge. It
is also one of the most comprehensive addresses it has been my good
fortune so far to review. \Vhile some of the matters discussed may be
common to many Jurisdictions, yet many of them are presented from
new angles and in such a spirit of moderation and fair play that the
report makes good reading. The entire address is of such uniform
excellence that it is hard to decide what to quote and what to discard.
The Grand Secretary made two suggestions which are well worthy
of consideration by our Grand Lodge.
Pleasing reference was made to the celebration of the Bi-Centenary
of the Grand Lodge of Ireland, which Grand Secretary Whicher attended as the official representative of California. A very complete report covering ten pages, and which gives a splendid resume of the proceedings, was incorporated by the Grand Master in his address.
Brother Jesse M. Whited, who wrote such outstanding reviews for
California (even if they were topical), apparently dropped out for a
year, as I note what is to me a new writer at the desk. The reports.
while condensed, are presented in a very readable form, evince a kindly
spirit, but carry no expressed opinion of the writer.

Connecticut:

Illinois:
The Masonic Homes in California are regarded by the Grand Master
as the greatest achievement of the Fraternity.
An interesting description is given by the Grand Master of his official visit to the Masonic Lodges in Hawaii.
A deserved tribute was paid by the Grand Master to the Grand Secretary for his uniform courtesy and his efficiency.
A very beautiful and delightful oration was delivered by Brother
Robert B. Gaylord, Grand Orator.
Louisiana:
The Grand Master's address covers some seventy-nine pages of
closely printed matter handled in such a way that the interest of the
reader is closely held.

Missouri:
The Correspondence Committee Report is the work of a committee
of which Brother James L. Matthews is the chairman. The report
follows the old style, and is well written and full of interesting items.

Nebraska:
The Grand Master's message consumes eighty pages and is replete
with evidence of conscientious effort and duty well performed. It is a
hearf to heart talk with his brethren on the many phases with which the
Masonic brotherhood is confronted, and he is to be congratulated in
lending in great measure mature and wise admonition to the benefit of
the Grand Lodge personnel less informed.
Brother James Lewis Matthews is the author of the review of other
Grand Lodges; his first report. He purposely refrains from obtrudi~g
personal opinion, almost entirely refrains from "visiting" with his fellow
members of the Round Table.

122

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nevada:
The address of Grand Master Reese is voluminous. It is written
with clarity and is the record of an excellent stewardship.
The Grand Master proved himself a good traveler, a genial visitor
and a forcible speaker. He did not mince words on the question of the
extraneous organizations or the so-called higher degrees, and though the
Grand Lodge passed them up, they contain a warning to be read by all
Masons.
The Grand Orator, Brother Robert B. Gaylord, spoke with force
and effect for more courage and against moral indolence.
The Committee 011 Public Schools Week is one of accomplishment,
and the workers did loyal and royal Masonic service. The Committee on
Education did equally good work.
The report is by Brother James Lewis Matthews. It shows careful
reading and the good things freely quoted.

123

North Carolina:
One who reads the documents in this book is. at times thrilled with
their epigrammatic aptness.

North Dakota:
This address of 80 printed pages seems to cover in detail a mighty
strenuous year. In fact, it took two pages of the address to say that a
year had passed since his election. We get the 'impression that the job
is too big and that the Grand Master should have :help.
The report of the Committee on Correspondence, filling 116 pages
and covering the Proceedings of 54 Grand Jurisdictions, is the work of
a committee of five, of which Brother James Lewis Matthews is the chairman., and we presume did the actual reporting. Unfortunately we do
not find North Dakota among the Grand Lodges reviewed.
\Ve have read the report with much interest and find that they
accomplished their purpose admirably. We hope that next year they may
"obtrude some personal opinions." We like to know what the other
fellow really thinks at times.

New Hampshire:
The Grand Master says that his office is the greatest honor that
comes to a citizen of California. We are in complete agreeme11t with
the statement, and have been saying so for years. A Governorship is a
small honor compared with it.
This address is crowded with weighty th~ngs, some of which required much of courage to utter. It is an outstanding document which
has stirred our own thinking machinery, as we have read it. It was
the voice of real leadership.
The correspondence is the first paper by the new chairman. In the
foreword it is expressly stated that personal opinions are purposely
omitted. That means the elimination of the discussion of matters of
all kinds. It is that kind of personal opinion that we find ourselves
seeking as we read these documents. It is discussion that leads us from
darkness to day!ig.ht. It is discussion that brings decision. This attitude,
assumed for this first production, makes the p.;per an assembly of
Masonic news.

Nova Scotiu
The greater part of our Review will consist of extracts from the
address of the Grand Master, which contains a great deal of real good
food for thought.
The Report of .the Committee on Masonic Correspondence is presented by M. W. Brother J. L. Matthews, chairman, and is most
interesting.

Ohio:
The message or address of the Grand Master was an extended one.
but evidenced the characteristics of an able Mason, and one with his
heart in his work.
A very interesting account is given by R. W. Brother John Whicher,
the Grand Secretary, of his reception and experience in his visit made
to the Bi-Centenary of the Grand Lodge of Ireland.
Grand Master Reese pleasingly reports his reception and entertainment as a visitor to the Annual Communication of the Grand Lodire
of Nevada.
An extended and valuable statistical report was made by the Grand
Secretary, John Whicher.
The Report of the Committee on Masonic Correspondence is furnished by Right Worshipful Brother James Lewis Matthews, chairman

New Mexico:
The proceedings of California always bristle with interesting things
accomplished by the Grand Lodge. The 1925 communication was no
exception to the rule.
Grand Master David J. Reese covered a vast amount of territory
in his annual address.

I

124

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of the committee. After an entertaining "Foreword," he reviews all
of the Proceedings of several Grand Lodges whose printed summaries
have reached his desk.
Oregon:
The Grand Master, M. W. D·avid J. Reese, in an original way welcomed the members of Grand Lodge informally before the roll call.
The work of the Committee on Masonic Education was the most
outstanding of the Grand Lodge year.
The Masonic homes at Covina and Decoto are worthy of the Grand
Lodge of California.
James Lewis Matthews, chairman of the Committee on Masonic
Correspondence, submitted an able report, his first. Both in his introduction and in the body of the report we recognize the pen of a gifted
reviewer.
South Carolina:
The Grand Lodge then listened with rapt attention to the Annual
Oration of the Grand Orator, W. Robert B. Gaylord.
The various boards of relief continue to do good work among their
less fortunate brethren.
After an exhaustive report, a Special Committee recommended recognition of the Grand Lodge Valle de Mexico.
James Lewis Matthews writes the Report on Masonic Correspondence. He says he has refrained from obtruding his personal opinions,
confining his review to the general subjects of Masonic importance discussed in the reports of the various Grand Masters.
He has nothing to say of his Brother Correspondents.
Western Australia:
Grand Master's Address occupies 80 pages of the volume before us,
and is a piece of literature.
The Masonic Home at Decoto for men and women, and the
Home at Covina for children continue to receive the generous support
of all California Masons.
The Review of Foreign Correspondence is the first production of the
kind by Brother James L. Matthews, who, in his foreword, admits a
cautious procedure by refraining from obtruding personal opinions. He
need not fear to express them in his next issue. He will find his Brother
Knights of the Round Table are good sports and not over critical of
personal opinions. His first effort is commendable.
Welcome, Brother Matthews, to our Table.

.~

'

.•

.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

125

West Virginia:
The Grand Master's Address is very fine, in fact, touching as well
as full of information and good c.ounsel for the Craft. In short, his
address bespeaks the good old style Fundamentalist, and the writer
hereof enjoys reading after him.
Brother James Lewis Matthews, chairman of committee, reviews
Proceedings, as he remarks, which have reached his desk. Sorry that
West Virginia miscarried, as it is not reviewed. However, he gives us
much to enjoy reading.
Wisconsin:
The Report on Correspondence is the work of a new hand, Brother
James L. Matthews, who very modestly refrains from obtruding his
own personal opinions concerning the Proceedings reviewed. He culls
with discrimination and when he finds himself, so as to venture to comment and criticize, will be found to be a valuable scribe.
Wyoming:
The Grand Master's Address is very lengthy and contains a complete
account of his official acts.
The Report on Correspondence is by a committee, Brother James L.
Matthews chairman. This is the first report submitted by the committee and they have refrained from obtruding their personal opinions,
confining their review to the general subjects of Masonic importance
discussed in the reports of the various Grand Masters, and matters
culled from the printed Proceedings which are of general interest to
the Craft.

*

• •

The 77th Annual Communication, San Francisco, October 12-15,
1926. Albert E. Boynton, Grand Master.
Connecticut:
Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer, who called on your reporter a
while ago, and with whom we had a most interesting conversation, made
general report of his work.
Reports of the dozen or so Boards of Relief and Employment
Bureaus scattered through the State show much work done.
Report of Educational Committee shows plenty of work done in
putting out bulletins, etc., but we learn little as to the effectiveness of
their efforts.

126

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Florida:
Only three chartered Lodges were not represented when the SeventySeventh Annual Communication was, formally opened in San Francisco,
October 12, 1926, for its four-day session. This is a remarkable record
for a Grand Lodge of this size.
The civil, the moral and the humanitarian aspects of Freemasonry
are stressed in the comprehensive address of Grand Master Boynton, in
which are demonstrated ability, judgment and sympathy. And it may
well serve as a model for coming Grand Masters.
The matter of Life Membership appears to be a perennial source of
annoyance wherever in force, and the Grand Lodge of California is not
exempt.
Particularly inspiring must have been the annual oration by \V.
Brother Ezra W. Decato, for copies were ordered printed for distribution to the chartered Lodges, the theme being, "Seek the Real Things
of Life."
The observance of a Public School \Veek is steadily growing in
favor, and its observance was reported to have been "more of a community affair" the present year than ever.
It will be difficult to find a report of a Committee on Correspondence
in topical form excelling that presented by W. Brother Jesse M. Whited.
A multitude of topics are considered, but somehow ye scribe is not able
generally to determine whether the paragraphs are the utterances of
Brother V\Thited or quotations from the various proceedings. We are
just old fashioned enough to prefer the more common style. However,
there are several references to Florida, but whether or not approved is
uncertain.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

127

Some may question the good judgment of the Grand Master in
throwing down the gauntlet, but I admire his stand on the allegiance due
Craft Freemasonry. Too many members, including officers, permit the
scale of attendance to be over-balanced by carelessness, pleasure, sport and
public or private business, frequently over-rated in its importance.
Masonic education was stressed, also the necessity of securing all
the data possible with reference to Lodge and Grand Lodg'e history
ere it was too late.
A voluminous topical report, to which is added a mass of information concerning matters Masonic, is presented by Brother Jesse M.
Whited. A splendid piece of work and outstanding of its type.
Referring to one of those sentimental whims (presenting Bibles) .
which is at present sweeping through many, of the Jurisdictions to the
south of us, he has the courage of his convictions and echoes my
own thought.

Minnesota:
Grand Master Boynton gave a fine address, setting forth all his
official acts and the general conditions of Masonry in California's Jurisdiction, and ·giving many wise and helpful observations for the reflection
of the brethren.
His observations on "Politics and Masonry" were timely and good.
The plan commenced by Past Master Adams several years ago for
an annual observance of Public Schools Week by the Fraternity seems
now to have become an established policy of the Grand Lodge.
The Gratid Orator, Brother Ezra W. Decoto, delivered the annual
oration, a beautiful discourse on the value of friendships.

Indiana:
Brother Jesse M. \Vhited submits his usual interesting Report on
Correspondence, which is written in topical form.

Kansas:
We consider the few words of the Grand Master from the subject
of "Suspension for Non-Payment of Dues" worthy of repetition and we
submit it as a matter of good advice to our own Lodges.

Manitoba:
While California may not appreciate it, still that Jurisdiction can
usually be depended upon to furnish material for a fairly interesting
review.

Nebraska:
The Grand Master's message is an able review of official acts, exhibiting the general condition of Masonry within the Jurisdiction as required
by their Constitution.
The Committee on Masonic Education give evidence of their worth.
The oration is by W. Brother Ezra W. Decato, Grand Orator. He
disclaims ability to discourse upon the history, aims or symbolism of
Masonry, in which, we think, he shows a rare wisdom, and takes
"Friendship" for his theme.
Brother Jesse M. Whited again assumes responsibility for a topical
review. \Vhether we like it or not need not concern him-it is full of
valuable information for his brethren.

128

ItEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Nevada:
The Grand Master's address was lengthy and good and recited
valuable information for the Craft.
Brother Jesse M. \Vhited, Grand Commissioner of Review of the
Grand Lodge of California (at the session of the Grand Lodge of
Nevada) made an interesting and scholarly address on the great work
Masonry· is doing in encouraging the movement and progress of the
Order of DeMolay. He stressed the fact that Masonry was thereby
constructing of indestructible materials a living monument to the glory
and good of Masonry and of mankind.
Brother Jesse Whited, chairman of the Committee on Fraternal
Correspondence for the Grand Lodge of California, and Brother E. C.
Bonner, Past Deputy Grand Lecturer of California, were presented at
the Altar (of the Grand Lodge of Kevada) by the Senior Grand
Deacon, and escorted to seats in the East, where they were warmlv
welcomed by the Grand Master.

True to form, Brother Jesse M. Whited presents a valuable topical
survey of the state of Masonry and various outstanding evidences of
progress. An enormous amount of labor has been spent on this work.
It is a report well worth keeping and having at hand for reference.
One much appreciated feature is a list of orations and papers on
Masonic topics which are to be found in Grand Lodge Proceedings of
recent issues and are worthy of the general interest of the Craft. The
"Appendix" also is full of good things.

New Hampshire:
The Grand Master gets away from Father Time and delivers an
address, because it is so required by the Constitution.
Lotteries and rallies out there are hit hard by Grand Masters. Every
good citizen will approve that.
Thirty special communications of the Grand Lodge were held. \Ve
should say that with them business is good.
We envy the privilege and the duty of a Grand Master in California,
when we read about their official visits to the Hawaiian Islands. \Ve
believe that an unpleasant job over there would make us want to
get at it.
The work of their several Boards of Relief ever attracts us. An
in ense number of brethren were given employment through the efforts
of these boards.
Th(' Committee on Grievances was burdened with an immense amount
of work"-all of which is of the distasteful Masonic variety.
The correspondence is wholly topical-the style we shall never attempt to produce. We do not like it. There are those who do like it.
\Ve could never warm up to do the work in that way. But we want it
clearly understood that we think our California brother has given us a
stupendous document. A vast amount of time must have been used to
produce it.
New York:
A high tribute is paid to Grand Secretary John Whicher.

*

*

*

129

North Carolina:
The Grand );faster presiding, himself the chairman of the State
Central Committee of one of the great political parties, found it neces•
sary to administer a stinging rebuke because Masonry and politics became commingled by the activities of certain Masons, in behalf of
candidates. It could be scarcely expressed better.
The distinguished Brother Jesse M. Whited again presents a most
amazingly complete topical Correspondence Report, which does North
Carolina the honor of frequent quotation.
Oklahoma:
If it were not for fear other Grand Masters would get jealous, the
Oklahoma Scribe would say that Albert Eugene Boynton, Grand Master,
according to his portrait on the fly-leaf, is the best looking Grand
Master he has seen in a month of Sundays.
At the conclusion of the oration, the Grand Orator was tendered
thanks by rising votes. The oration was published in the Journal of
Proceedings and was short enough to read.
The Report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence was made
by Jesse M. \Vhited, chairman. The review covered 144 pages, but comments and quotation from different Grand Lodges were scattered, and it
was very difficult for the Reviewer to see what was said about any
particular Jurisdiction. The Oklahoma Scribe turned the leaves of the
Review Report to find what was said about Oklahoma, but after reading
excerpts, decided about the report like a sister at church did about her
preacher. She said when she had confidence in a preacher she slept during
the sermon, knowing he would say the right thing; so the Oklahoma
Scribe has confidence in the ability of the California Review Writer.
Oregon:
The biography of Albert Eugene Boynton, Grand Master of the
Grand Lodge, A. F. & A. M., of California, 1925-1926, is an account of
a life of service and attainment. \Ve agree with the biographer when

130

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

131

The reports of the several Boards of Relief are interesting as showing the vast amount of work they do and the large sums of money
expended. Usually more for strangers within their gates than for home
Masons.
The various employment bureaus are proving of great help to brothers needing employment.
Brother Jesse M. Whited submits his sixth report on Correspondence. Topical in a greater degree than any other we have observed.
We have enjoyed reading it, but fear his method would grow monotonous
if used by all of us. There is much in it we would like to quote did
space permit.

he says few men have occupied so large a space in the political'. busin:ss,
and fraternal life of California. He might have added profess10.nal hfe,
as W. M. Brother Boynton is a distinguished lawyer. The attitude of
the Grand Master toward lotteries and raffles is expressed clearly.
One of the outstanding events of the year was the formal p.resentation by the Grand Commandery of Knights Templar of a hospital
at the Covina Home.
In the Report on Correspondence, the chairman, Brother Jesse M.
Whited, treats Masonic activities in the various Jurisdictions under
topical headings. Under "Courtesy Degrees," for instance, he quotes
the opinions of officers of the Grand Lodges of Montana, Saskatchewan,
South Dakota and Texas. His introduction is exceptionally fine.
In it he mentions the outstanding question in a large number of
Jurisdictions to be "What should our Institution do in the affairs of
the world, either through the individual or collectively?"

Tennessee:
A circular was issued just prior to the state primary election in
August, giving the names of Masons to be voted for, and what the Grand
Master said in regard thereto was enough to make any ward heeler sit up
and take notice.
The activities of certain "Masonic" life insurance companies, and
their alleged practices, also came to the front, and the Grand Master
was as emphatic as to them as he was to the politicians. From his picture which graces the proceedings, one would set him down as a bad
man to fool with.
The endowment of the Homes amounts to $513,761.90--an increase
of $49,470.28. Of this the committee say: "Not large by any means,
but reasonably satisfactory." What would be satisfactory in their view
of the full meaning of the word?
The Correspondence Report consists of 167 pages, is the work of
Brother Jesse M. Whited, and is that abomination of desolation-the
topical form. The form is bad enough at its best, but in the present
confused set of quotations is enough to drive one to drink.
The third one, on page 53, is the same as No. 2, but who knows
that but the members of the Grand Lodge of Tennessee?
The fourth, on page 59, consists of a review of Alberta for 1925,
by this scribe, and a paragraph from the address of Grand Master
Jackson in 1925, but who would tumble to the fact?
Then, again, under North Carolina, page 31, who write the following:
The contents of a "corner-stone would sometimes make a
jackass laugh."

Philippine Islands:
The Grand Master's Address is a very interesting document. It is
well written and well arranged as to topics.
Brother Jesse M. Whited is again the Fraternal Correspondent.
His review is general and topical, and is very interesting. We should
like to quote from it at some length. He begins with "Advertising" and
ends with "Tuberculosis" and "Found in the Quarries," and gives quotations from the Proceedings of many Jurisdictions, and many of them
are from our 1925 and 1926 volumes. Many of the quotations do not
show whence they are taken, whether from the Grand Master's Address,
a committee report, or from reviews. Brother Whited's topical report
is a great source of information upon particular subjects, an~ w~ commend his care in the arrangement of subjects and the class1ficat10n of
his materials.
South Australia:
The Report of the Committee on Correspondence is very extensive.
South Dakota:
The face of the Grand Master, shown on the first page, demonstrates
a man fit for the position.
As would be expected in so large a Jurisdiction, there were numerous
cases requiring discipline.
This is the seventh year of celebrating Public Schools Week. It is
like California to be up to such work. We note in a recent daily paper
their per capita expenditure for education leads all other states.
Grand Orator Brother Edgar W. Decoto delivered a short but
interesting oration.

We suspect J. Edward Allen, but do not wish to accuse him of it
until we have the facts, and life is too short to look over his voluminous
report for 1926 to find out.
Why quote any more?

'

I

132

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Utah:
The Report of the Grand Secretary is interesting and informative.
A most interesting report was made by the Chairman of the Committees on Masonic History.
Exhaustive reports were presented which covered every detail of
the activities of the Masonic Homes. From the Committee on Public
Schools also came an iltuminating report. The Educational Committee
had much to report, its activities reaching out along various lines and
covering the state--a suggestive and valuable document.
The report on Correspondence is again the work of Brother Jesse M.
·whited, who continues the use of the topical form. Like the good workman that he is, he finds "the duty of the chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence is a pleasant one." To one who does not find this work
"pleasant," it would certainly be drudgery, and the result would hardly
be worth the printer's ink used in printing it.
Under numerous headings which appeal to him as being of interes1
and which are arranged in alphabetical order, Brother ·whited present!!
opinions drawn from the Proceedings of the various Jurisdictions. These
headings are immediately followed by a brief statement by the Reviewer.
At the close of the report, proper, Brother Whited ·presents numerous
and valuable tables, covering various phases of Masonry.

Wisconsin:
The address of the Grand Master is brief and well expressed. The
Grand Lodge wasted no time in useless preliminaries, but plunged at once
into the business of the session.
With this volume of the Proceedings, M. W. Brother Jesse M.
Whited returns to the editorial table and presents the Report 011 Correspondence, his sixth. It consists of a number of short articles 011 various
subjects taken from the volumes of Proceedings coming to his desk.
For one who likes a topical report it is a good one, but we can never
become reconciled to such form -0£ review. He quotes \Villiam Penn as
saying: "Men who fight about religion have 110 religion to fight about,"
and quotes Edgar Guest's poem, entitled "Religion."
This poem admirably expresses our own sentiments on the subject,
and so we depart from our usual rule of not quoting poetry and give it
for what it may be considered worth, and with it .we must close.

133

"FOUND IN THE QUARRIES"
One of the objections to a topical form of Correspondence
Report is the fact that the reader is unable to learn what has been
or is being done in other Jurisdictions. The selections given under
the various topics, we believe, represent the opinions of those
designated by their Grand Lodges to speak for their respective
Jurisdictions. -iJnder the above caption we have summarized the
activities of the various Grand Lodges. In compiling this data
we have made liberal use of the Report of Committee on Correspondence of the Grand Lodge of New York, particularly the work
of those Jurisdictions whose proceedings are in a foreign language.
We have also found therein information regarding other Jurisdictions
whose Reports were not received by us.
Alabama (1926):
The Grand Orient of France having taken under life protection "a
clandestine organization in Pennsylvania, claiming to be Masonic," th~
Grand Master recommended that "all fraternal relations between the
Grand Lodge of Alabama and the Grand Orient of France" be severed.
The recommendation was adopted.
The Grand Master ruled that "it is un-Masonic to mention in ad~
vertisements of political meetings that the speaker is a Mason or an official of Grand Lodge.
Edict No. 293 requires that a Mason in Alabama shall "believe in
God, the Creator and Governor of the Universe," and our Ritual says
that "no atheist can be made a Mason." Therefore, in Alabama, it is a
Masonic offense for a Mason to declare that he does not believe in Deity."
Two hundred and fifty dollars were appropriated for the International Ma$onic Asylum of Cuba toward the repair of the damage done
by a severe storm.
Co~ticut (1926) :

Grand Lodge voted to require the Lodges to pay $2.50 for each "taxable" member, $2.15 of this per capita to go to the Masonic Charity
Foundation and thirty-five cents to be appropriated for defraying the general expenses of Grand Lodge.
The Grand Master recommended also that the National Masonic
Tuberculosis Sanatoria Association, established by the Grand Lodge of
New Mexico, be indorsed and given support. Grand Lodge responded
by voting $500 toward the Emergency Relief Fund of that Association.

Ii
t.

i

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

134

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Delaware (1926):
The Grand Lodges were advised to present a copy of the Bible,
suitably inscribed, to each candidate raised to the degree of Master
Mason.
The Committee on Education reports that scholarships of $62.50
each were granted during the year to nine young people taking college
courses.
A contribution of $100 was voted to the Washington Masonic
Memorial Association.
The Masonic Home of Delaware is taking care of twenty-six guests.
The capital investment is $181,469.82.
District of Columbia (1925-1926):
There was appointed also a special Committee on Education. Past
Grand Master C. C. Coombs became the chairman, and his paper on
"Preparation," embodying helpful instruction for candidates who desire to
become Freemasons in fact as well as in name, was printed for distribution in order to start initiates right.
Among the corner-stone layings of the year was that of a new Children's Building of the Masonic and Eastern Star Home.
Fraternal relations were established with the Grand Lodge of Vienna.
The new Children's Building at the Masonic Eastern Star Home is
rapidly nearing completion. It will cost approximately $125,000.00, with
an additional cost of $10,000.00 for furniture. Fifty-two children are
taken care of in the Home.
The Grand Chaplain reports a continuance of the open-air afternoon
services from June 20th to October 17th on the spacious grounds of
Temple Heights, the new site for the projected Masonic Temple.
A resolution was adopted that no new Lodge shall be named "after
a living Mason nor for one who has not rendered conspicuous service to
a Grand Lodge or to one of its constituent Lodges."
Florida (1926):
The Annual Communication was held at the Masonic Home of
Florida.
Two hundred and fifty dollars were by the order of the Grand
Master contributed for Christmas cheer for the brethren who are patients of the U. S. Veterans' Hospital at Lake City.
Grand Lodge voted $500.00 to the National Masonic Tuberculosis
Association.
Recognition was extended to the York Grand Lodge of Mexico and
the Grand Lodge of Panama.

135

Five hundred dollars were appropriated for the erection of a suitable
monument over the grave of Past Grand Master Silas B. Wright as a
testimonial to his outstanding service to the Craft.
An amendment to the Constitution provides that three months' residence in Florida shall be required of an applicant for affiliation before
he can present his petition to a Lodge in the Jurisdiction.

Georgia (1925):
Eight of the Lodges in the State lost their Temples by fire, and
as the majority did not carry any insurance the loss was a very heavy
one. The Grand Master suggests that Grand Lodge consider the advisability of insisting that all Lodges should carry insurance.
There are in the Georgia Masonic Home, at the present time, two
women, eighty-five boys, and eighty-four girls.
The Grand Lodge of Georgia has an educational loan fund. Thirteen
boys and girls were kept in college by aid from this fund.
Georgia (1926):
The suggestion is offered that penny-boxes be placed in the anterooms of ·all Lodges, offering an opportunity to the members to contribute loose change, the collection to be applied to purposes of relief by
Grand Lodge. About one thousand dollars were obtained by this device
last year.
Georgia had undertaken to establish and maintain a Cottage for
Tubercular Children. A recommendation was adopted that the building be
constructed and equipped by the Georgia Brethren and then presented to
the State.
Idaho (1926):
Washington's Birthday was quite generally observed by the Lodges.
A resolution was adopted extending recognition to the Shrine and
to the Veiled Prophets as non-Masonic bodies to which members oi
Lodges in Idaho may lawfully belong.
In order to meet the pledges made to the Washington Memorial
Fund, a resolution was adopted assessing $1.00 per capita upon the membership, full credit to be given Lodges for amounts already paid.
Illinois (1926):
The Lodges are warned by the Grand Master not to let their enthusiasm lead them into building enterprises which are likely to embarrass them financially for many years.

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Permission was given to the Grand Lodge of New York to use from
the "Appropriate Odes for Masonic \Vork," published by the Grand
Lodge of 111inois, such copyrighted material as might be desired.
The Superintendent of the Home reported that three of the 179
old people are over ninety years of age, 40 are between eighty and ninety,
78 between seventy and eighty, leaving 57 under the age of seventy.

to the amount of $650,000.00. Together with moneys from other sources,
the fund stands at $687,652.54.
A special Committee on Clandestine and Irregular Masonry, headed
by Past Grand Master John H. Cowles, recommended recognition of the
Grand Lodge of France, the Grand Lodge of Egypt, the Grand Orient
of Greece, the Grand Lodge of Rumania, the Grand Lodge of Turkey,
the Grand Lodge of Vienna, the Grand Lodge of Czecho-Slovakia and
the Grand Lodge of Italy. The recommendation with reference to the
Grand Lodge of France was adopted. The other recommendations were
referred to the committees of other Grand Lodges, which endorsed the
propositions and added the York Grand Lodge of Mexico to the fellowship
of the Grand Lodge of Kentucky. All the recommendations were
adopted.

136

Indiana (1926):
One Lodge had a Third Degree night, when the Second Section
was presented by Past Grand !>:!asters and present Grand Officers of
Indiana. Sixteen Past Grand Masters took part in the work.
The average. membership per Lodge in Indiana is reported by the
Grand Secretary to be 226. Fifteen Lodges have over one thousand
members each. An Indianapolis Lodge leads with 2,453. The smallest
Lodge !n the State has thirty-two members.
The residents at the Home consist of ninety-nine men, sixty women,
ninety-seven boys and eighty-five girls-341 in all. The average age
of the adults is eighty years.
t:nder the direction of the Ritual Committee a Lodge Music Book
has been prepared by a trained musician.
Iowa (1926):
The excellent monthly Grand Lodge Bulletin, edited by the Grand
Secretary, is sent to every Mason in Iowa on request renewed each year.
The calls for Traveling Libraries have been increased. Detailed study
along special lines of Masonic reading is given every encouragement. The
Study Clubs formed in several cities have made marked progress, and
all have been supplied with general and reference literature from the
Library. The preservation of the worth-while clippings from Masonic
periodicals has become an important part of the Library's work.
Kansas (1926):
On the recommendations of the Librarian, Grand Lodge voted
$2,000.00 for the accquisition of a complete set of the forty-nine volumes
of the National Geographic Magazine. The set is believed to be the
only complete one now' in existence.
The Masonic Home has 190 residents, of whom 65 are men, 36
women, 45 boys and 53 girls.

Kentucky (1926):
The Million Dollar Committee reports that it has on file 28,944 subscriptions, aggregating $918,468.69, on which payments have been made

137

Maine (1926):
The Grand Master commended the work of the National Masonic
Tubercular Sanatoria Association. Grand Lodge responded by votinl!:'
$400.00 towards it.
The Grand Secretary reported two unusual bequests ; one amounting
to $30,000 and left by a departed brother to his Lodge for a trust fund,
the income to be used for the relief of needy members ; the other represented the residue of about $15,000 of an estate bequeathed to Orient
Lodge No. 15, by the widow of a former member of that Lodge, to be
used for the building and furnishing of a new home for that Lodge.
The average Lodge membership has increased during the year from
200.89 to 211.91.
A resolution was adopted levying fifty cents per year on each member of the Craft in Maine, the money to be paid to and administered by
the Board of Trustees of the Charity Fund of Grand Lodge.
Maryland (1926):
Two hundred dollars were donated to St. Columbia Lodge No. 150,
to be used for relief of the storm sufferers at La Plata, Maryland.
Relations with the Grand Orient of Belgium were severed.
Massachusetts (1926):
The Masonic Home has eighty guests, of whom forty-nine are men
and thirty-one women. The average age is seventy-four.
Recognition was extended to the National Grand Lodge of France,
the official title of which is Grande Loge National lndependante at Reguliere pour la France et !es Colonies Francaises.

138

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The National Grand Lodge of France was formed, in 1913, by Lodge~
desirous of practicing Freemasonry in accordance with the ancient principles of the Craft. It was recognized by England, Scotland, Missouri,
New South Wales, Ireland and other Jurisdictions.
Michigan (1926):
The Grand Master tells of a bequest amounting to $135,000.00, to
which will be added $15,000.00 more when the final settlement is made.
The total will be placed in the Masonic Home Endowment Fund and
known as the Raymond Bear<lsley Bequest.
Thirty-six thousand four hundred and fourteen dollars were expended for outside relief. The total membership in the Home was 103.
Minnesota (1926):
Fraternal relations with the Grand Orient of France were term.inated
for "violation of the principle of exclusive territorial jurisdiction."
Mississippi (1926):
The Grand Master's recommendation that a copy of the Bible be
presented to newly made Master Masons was adopted by many Lodges.
The Masonic Home at Meridian had seven youpg women in college,
two of them being graduated during the year. Twelve other girls have
entered college.
Thirty-four boys of the Columbus Home were in a Y. M. C. A.
Camp during the summer. The superintendent took two educational
trips with the Junior High and High School boys, visiting Muscle Shoais
and Birmingham. They were studying engineering plants and the manufacture of pipe and rails.
The Grand Master referred in his address to a "Scottish Rite Blue
Lodge Team" which helped in the conferring of the Third Degree. He
thought the Lodge should use its own team and that visiting teatn
should not be permitted to promote the interest of any "Rite" or outside
organization. Grand Lodge concurred.
Missouri (1926):
The Grand Master spoke of the magnificent Temple erected by the
Freemasons of St. Louis at a cost of over four m:illion dollars. It was
dedicated by Grand Lodge the first day of its annual communication. The
attendance was estimated to have been not less than twenty-five thousand.
The dedication ceremonies were preceded by a parade more than a mile
and a half long.
Grand Lodge voted to withdraw from the Masonic Service Association,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The Committee on "Fatherless Children of France" reported that
$200.00 was sent during the year to the National Independent Grand
Lodge of France for distribution.
The Masonic Employment Bureaus maintained at St. Louis secured
employment for 1,580 applicants at an average per capita cost of $4.15,
or a total expenditure of $6,559.42.
Montana (1926)
The Trustees of the Masonic Home reported a bequest by the late
Grand Master William Andrew Clark to the Grand Lodge of $25,000.00
to be used in the maintenance of the Home for Aged, Indigent and
Disabled Masons. Among other legacies was one of $2,462.59 and
one of $2,934.50.
N"ebraska (1926):
The Grand Secretary reports endowments, bequests and
aggregating $17,598.03 for the year.

donation~

N"ew Mexico (1926):
Twenty-eight young people received aid from the Revolving Student
Loan Fund to further their education.
N"orth Carolina (1926):
The Masonic Loan Fund amounts to $35,000. It is provided jointly
by the Grand Lodge, the Grand Chapter, the Grand Commandery, and
the Scottish Rite, of North Carolina. It is growing at the annual rate
of $10,000.
N"orth Dakota (1926):
The good wife of the Grand Secretary turned over to the Grand
Lodge Library a $100.00 bond and a four-volume set of "Washington's
Diaries" to be known as the Walter L. Stockwell Fund. Mrs. Stockwell
intends to add each year $100 until $500 has been paid in. The interest
is to be used for the purchase of books.
The Grand Master reported that the Students' Loan Fund of the
Grand Chapter, the Knights Templar Educational Fund and the Grand
Lodge Education Fund have been consolidated. The maximum loan to
be made from this fund to any student in any one year was fixed at
$250.00.
Much progress has been made with the loan library plan. During the
year 405 borrowers called for 2,957 books. It is interesting to know

140

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

tha:t of the total number of books drawn, only 378 related to Masonry,
while the other 2,579 had to do with general history, science, art, litera·
ture and philosophy.
The report on the Educational Fund shows that there are 141 loans
in force, running from $100.00 to $250.00 each. The total being $15,625.00.
Oklahoma (1926):
The resident membership of the Home is made up of sixty boys,
twenty-three girls, twenty-seven aged and infirm men and nine aged and
infirm women. Twenty-six men, twenty-eight women, twenty-one boys
and fifteen girls-ninety in all-receive allowanees outside of the Home.
Twenty Lodges in the State have a membership of over 500 each,
two have more than 2,000 members, and two more thart 1,000.
Pennsylvania (1925):
One Fund is known as the Samuel Davis Bequest. It is referred
to in the Grand Master's address as "One of the most useful bequests
ever made to Grand Lodge." Seventy-five per cent of the income shall
be expended yearly by direction of Grand Lodge for the relief of minor
children of deceased Masons. During the year 47 girls and 40 boys,
reptesenting 28 homes, were receiving the benefits of this fund.
Fifty thousand dollars was received a few years ago from an
anonymous donor to assist sons and daughters of Pennsylvania Masons
in securing advanced education, preference being given to graduates from
the Home at Elizabethtown. Nine persons were assisted from this fund
during the year, three of whom graduated from the University of
Pennsylvania.
Philippine Islands (1926):
The efforts made to have one of the labor organizations abandon the
use of Masonic emblems and ritualistic features have been successful.
The practice of having several teams for degree work, composed of
members of the Scottish Rite bodies and designated accordingly, was
disapproved.

Rhode Island (1926):
The Trustees of the Educational Fund report progress made in the
distribution of scholarships. Thirty-two scholarships aggregating $8,510
were awarded during the year.
The Employment Bureau placed fifty-five during the year.
Rhode Island broke relations with the Grand Orient of France.
The Grand Masters of sister Jurisdictions were invited to the Annual
Communication. This will be a regular thing.

141

The Grand Master believes that Rhode Island should have a monthly
magazine or bulletin giving information which will keep the Lodges in
touch with what is going on.
South Dakota (1926):
A bequest of $2,000.00 was left to the Grand Charity Fund of South
Dakota by the widow of a former Brother.
Grand Lodge provides for the presentation of a medal to every
brother who has completed fifty years of membership. Fifty-six of
such medals have been awarded so far. Nine more brethren are to receive
the distinction.

Tennessee (1927):
Grand Lodge voted to resign from the Masonic Service Association.

Texas (1926):
Texas assists in rendering service to tuberculars. The Gavel Club
at Kerrville interested itself in the welfare of the tubercular soldiers
located in the United States Hospital at that place. The club has occasionally made loans to enable the indigent to keep their life insurance
policies in, force, and to have their nearest relatives to come and visit
them. Recreation has been supplied to keep the minds of the .sufferers
off themselves and to encourage them to take an interest in life.
Vermont (1926):
The work of the National Masonic Tuberculosis Sanatoria Association is commended and a contribution of $200 was voted. Vermont has
gone over the top for the Washington Memorial and intends to add to
her quota.
The Grand Secretary reported a bequest of $5,000 to Grand Lodge,
which was placed in the Charity Fund.
West Virginia (1926):
Six hundred dollars were received from the R. ]. A. Boreman Library
Fund for the purchase of books and periodicals for the residents of the
Masonic Home.
Two loans of $150.00 each were granted from the Educational Fund
to two orphan daughters of former members to help them secure an
education.
Canada (i926):
Twenty-four Lodges made a start in the development of Masonic
libraries. At Calgary and Edmonton plans are under way for the erection
of local Masonic Temples.

142

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

I

I

The Committee on Benevolence expended during the year $7,857.82
for outside relief.

Canada (1926):
Relations with the Grand Orient of Belgium were terminated.
Recognition was extended to the National Grand Lodge of France.
Recognition of the Grand Lodges of Vienna, Netherlands, Finland,
Rumania and others was continued to enable the Board of Fraternal
Correspondence to obtain fuller information. The findings are to be submitted to the Grand Master, who is authorized to take such action as he
may see fit.
Manitoba (1926):
The Committee on Benevolence disbursed during the year $10,493.79
for relief.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the Grand Lodge of Vienna
and the Grand Lodge of Panama.

Saskatchewan (1926):
District Deputy Grand Masters are elected and installed at the Annual District Meeting.
Fraternal recognition was extended to the United Grand Lodge of
Queensland and the York Grand Lodge of Mexico.
Four hundred dollars was loaned during the year from the Scholarship Fund.

143

Mexico (1926):
An official periodical is issued monthly, under the title York Rite
Trestle Board, of which copies are sent to all regular Masonic Grand
Lodges of the world.
The Scottish Rite Supreme Council of the United States of Mexico,
in 1925, issued a circular announcing that thenceforth Masons of Lodges
under the York Grand Lodge may be admitted to membership. Thereby
the edict of non-intercourse, which had been in force for six years,
was rescinded.
The York Grand Lodge is in fraternal relationship with thirty-eight
regular Grand Lodges, twenty-seven of them in the United States, three
in Canada, two in Central America, three in Australia, and England,
Ireland, and Scotland.

British Columbia (1926):
The contributions to the Benevolent Fund were $32,000, over $11,000
in excess of the preceding year.
Relief moneys paid by the Lodges to the needy amounted to
$19,337.97.

Nova Scotia (1926):
The Grand Secretary reports that the number suspended for N. P. D.
(213) is the largest in the history of Grand Lodge, due to the general
"weeding out" of those who take no interest in the affairs of the Craft.
The Committee on Charity disbursed during the year $1,382.85, the
largest amount for such a period since the establishment of the Fund of
Benevolence.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

..

Cuba (1926) :
Two thousand and fifty dollars were paid out in annuities to widows
and orphans.
The National Masonic Home is called LaMisericordia. Various
associations have supplied shows and clothing to poor school children.
One association styles itself the Masonic Christmas Box; it is well organized and brings cheer into the homes on Christmas Eve, besides making contributions to asylums and hospitals.
The Lodges contributed generously toward the erection of a statue
to the Marquis of Pombal, in Portugal, and the Lusitania brethren were
touched by this Masonic co-operation and good will toward the realiza·
tion of their object.
The Grand Lodge of Cuba publishes an official organ which is edited
by the Grand Secretary'. It was founded in 1881 and is an exceptionally
good Masonic periodical and important for noteworthy historical articles.
Every year, on December 5th, is held a Masonic Day. The chief
feature is a public meeting held in one of the theatres of the capital city
under the direction of the Grand Master. In the various Masonic districts similar public meetings are held at least four times a year, to let
the public judge the character of the men and to get reliable information
concerning the objects of the Craft.
Cuba (1927):
Brothe; Jose F. Castellanos was elected as Grand Secretary.
The President of the Republic is a Past Grand Master of the Craft.
Guatemala (1926):
More than $600.000 was contributed to the Red Cross, about $200.00
to a Babies' Home, and various amounts for other charitable purposes.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

'ij;EPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Communication with the Masonic International Association was
withdrawn.
Relations with the Grand Orient of Belgium were suspended.

One hundred and twelve boys and 102 girls attend the William
Thompson Masonic Schools.
A Masonic Memorial Service was held on Anzac Day, April 25th.
The collection was divided equally between the Sydney and the Royal
Prince Alfred Hospitals.
On July 30, 1925, 224 brethren of all ranks from the American
Fleet, then in Sydney Harbor, were entertained lavishly. During the
fortnight the American brethren were in port every possible courtesy
and hospitality was extended to them. There were about seven hundred
Masonic brethren with the Fleet.

144

Panama (1926):
The fraternal relationships of Grand Lodge are growing encouragingly. Appreciated particularly is the recent recognition by the United
Grand Lodge of England.
Panama will co-operate with Colombia toward the holding of a
Latin-American Masonic Congress. The Congress will probably be held
in the City of Panama during the month of June, 1927. The time is considered favorable, as at that time the National Government will celebrate
with appropriate festivities the Centenary of the Bolivar Congress.
Chile (1926):
The Club of the Republic, home of the Craft, has endeavored to
give to the brethren all the comforts compatible with the locality in
order to function as a veritable center of reunion for them and thereby
promote fraternal intercourse friendship.
A legacy has been bequeathed to Grand Lodge by the last will and
testament of a departed brother.
The Grand Lodge of Chile had three Lodges in Bolivia which have
been suppressed, but are now at work again.
Colombia (1926):
The Deputy Grand Master is President of the Grand Lodge and
controls the legislative functions.
Ecuador (1926):
The Masonic Lodges in Ecuador until 1921 worked under the juris·
diction of the Grand Lodge of Peru. There were then three Lodges.
Their petition to form an independent Grand Lodge was granted, and
on June 19th, 1921, the Grand Lodge of Ectlador was constituted.
The Grand Master's attention was devoted chiefly to the advance·
ment of the construction of the Masonic Hall, which is now completed.
He reported that .Masonic enthusiasm is spreading and that the charitabte
work of the Craft has been well supported.

New South Wales (1924):
The Masonic schools maintained by the Grand Lodge have 140 children in residence; additional accommodations had to be supplied to take
care of the increase.
New South Wales (1926):
A Masonic Convalescent Cottage, in connection with a hospital, is
one of the many charitable foundations of N. S. W.

145

New Zealand (1925):
Fraternal relations were established with the Grand Lodge of
Colom,bia-Barranquilla, Ecuador, Norway and Denmark.
That organization styling itself "Co-Masonry" has gained a foothold
in New Zealand.
The visit of the American Battle Fleet brought many battleships
to the Dominion, and the hospitality of the Craft was enjoyed by the
Masonic brethren among the crews.
Que~

(1926):
The distances between Lodges in this Jurisdiction are great. The
Grand Master tells of one Lodge whose members are widely scattered.
One brother, who is a regular attendant, must travel 140 miles to each
meeting, and yet he has never miss.eel a meeting. Ten brothers in the
same Lodge, who attended on the night of the Grand Master's visitation,
had to travel 50 miles for the purpose.
Victoria (1925) :
At the Quarterly Communication in March, M. W. the Earl of
Stradbroke was installed as Grand Master for the fourth time, in the
presence of 6,000 brethren, probably the largest number of Masons ever
congregated for an event of this nature by any Grand Lodge anywhere.
R11ference was made to the villit, in July, of the American Fleet and
the "international importance" of the event. Grand Lodge entertained
the many brethren among the crews at a "Smoke Social," in Freemasons'
Hall, which was attended by both ollieers and men. An outing was also
given to the American brethren to let these get some glimpses of Victorian
bush landscape scenery.

Wost.em Australia (1926):
Nine hundred and nine pounds were expended during the years for
relief by the Board of Benevolence.
One hundred and thirty-one children, 11 aged Freemasons and 13
widows received support from the Widows, Orphans and Aged Freemasons' Fund, during the year, to the amount of £2,680.

146

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

APPENDIX

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

147

In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes all States North
of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River); the degrees
conferred are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 ° to 14 °, inclusive; Council
Princes of Jerusalem, 15° and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and 18°;
Consistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.

AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States are
generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite. Properly
speaking, they should be termed the American Rite and the Scottish Rite, for the one commonly called York is peculiar in its organized proceedings only to the United States.
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.
The Symbolic degrees are conferred in a lodge and are the Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason. They
are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instruction is
by symbols.
The Capitular degrees are conferred in a Royal Arch Chapter
and are the Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent
Master and the Royal Arch. The supplemental and honorary degrees of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of High Priests
upon those who have been regularly elected to preside over a
Chapter of Royal Arch Masons. They are called Capitular because
they are conferred in a Chapter, the word "Capitular" meaning
"done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the
Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called Cryptic because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight
Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take
the temple at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the 33rd,
inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States (which
includes all territory south of the Ohio River and west of the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and the degrees
conferred by them are: Lodge of Perfection, 4 ° to 14 °, inclusive;
Chapter Rose Croix, 15° to 18°; Council of Kadosh, 19° to 30°;
Consistory, 31° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.

AMERICAN GRAND BODIES
General Grand Chapter Royal Arch Masons-Chapters 4,199.
Membership 922,706. Henry DeWitt Hamilton, General Grand
High Priest, New York. Chas. A. Conover, General Grand Secretary, Coldwater, Michigan. 4lst Convocation, Tacoma, Wash, 1930.
Grand Chapter of California-Chapters 128. Membership 25,499.
James B. McLees, Grand High Priest, San Diego; Thon;ias A.
Davies, Grand Secretary, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. Seventythird Annual Convocation, San Diego, April 17, 18, 1928.
General Grand Council, Royal and Select Masons-Councils
1,562. Membership 327,053. 0. Frank Hart, General Grand Master,
Columbia, S. C. Henry W. Mordhurst, General Grand Recorder,
Fort Wayne; !i)diana. 17th Triennial Assembly, Tacoma, Wash., 1930.
G.rand Council of California-Councils 33. Membership 9,662.
Charles H. King, Grand Master, Sebastopol; Thomas A. Davie?,
Grand Recorder, Masonic Temple, San Francisco. Seventy-eighth
Annual Assembly, San Diego, April 16, 1928.
Grand Encampment of Knight Templar-Commanderies 1,675.
Membership 451,457. George W. Vallery, Grand Master, Denver,
Colo.; Adrian Hamersly, Grand Recorder, Indianapolis, Indiana.
73rd Triennial Conclave, Detroit, Mich., July 16-18, 1928.
Grand Commandery of California-Commanderies 64. Membership 14,429. George Burnham, Grand Commander, San Diego;
Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder, Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Seventieth Annual Conclave, San Diego, April 19-20, 1928.
Supreme Council, A. & A. S. R. - Lodges, 270. Membership,
561,800. Consistories, 176. Membership, 506,534.
(Southern Jurisdiction)-John H. Cowles, 33 °, Sovereign Grand
Commander; H. W. Witcover, 33°, Secretary General, House of the
Temple, Washington, D. C. Meets biennially third Monday in
October, Washington, D. C., William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, S. G. Insp. General, Northern District of California; Perry
Winslow Weidner, 33°, Los Angeles, S. G. Insp. General, Southern
District of California.

148

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

(Northern Jurisdiction)-Leon M. Abbott, 33°, Sovereign Grand
Commander, Charles H. Spilman, 33°, Secretary General, 299 Broad·
way, New York. Meets annually the third Tuesday in September,
Boston, Mass.
Imperial Council A. A. 0. N. M. S.-Temples 157. Membership 587,133. Clarence M. Dunbar, Providence, R. I., Imperial Potentate; James H. Price, Richmond, Virginia, Imperial Recorder.
54th Annual Session, Miami, Florida, May, 1928.
General Grand Chapter Order Eastern Star-Chapters 11,199.
Membership 1,751,120. Mrs. Emma P. Chadwick, Acting General
Grand Matron, Seattle, Wash.; Mrs. Minnie E. Keyes, General
Grand Secretary, 13th and N. Y. Ave., Washington, D. C. 19th
Triennial Assembly, Denver, Colo., 1928.
Grand Chapter of California-Membership 443. Chapters 97,249.
Hazel M. Piper, Grand Matron, Santa Cruz; Mrs. Kate J. Wil!its,
Grand Secretary, Phelan Building, San Francisco. Annual Session,
Santa Cruz, October 18, 1927.
Supreme Pyramid, Ancient Egyptian Order Sciots-Pyramids
48. Membership 22,000. James A. Lynch, Pharaoh, Long Beach;
Karl Eber, Supreme Scribe, Phelan Building, San Francisco.
Seventeenth Annual Session, Fresno, November 3-5, 1927.
Grand Council Order of De Molay-Chapters 1,350. Membership
130,000. Alexander G. Cochran, St. Louis, Mo., Grand Councilor;
Frank S. Land, Kansas City, Mo., Grand Scribe; Jesse M. Whited, 519
California Street, San Francisco, California, Active Member Grand
Council for Northern California and Nevada. Charles E. Wright,
Sun Investment Building, Los Angeles, Calif., Deputy of Grand
Council for Southern California. Eighth Annual Session, Kansas
City, Mo., March 19th, 1928.
MEETING MONTHS OF ANNUAL COMMUNICATIONS
January-Florida, Minnesota, North Carolina, Tennessee, Utah,
Philippine Islands, France (Grand Orient).
February-Arizona, Connecticut, Kansas, Louisiana, Mississippi,
New Mexico, Oklahoma, South "Carolina, Virginia, Quebec, Scotland.
March-Cuba.
April-New Jersey, New Brunswick, South Australia, Mexico
(York), Porto Rico.
May-Indiana, Maine, Michigan, New Hampshire, New York,
Rhode Island, Alberta, New Zealand.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

149

June-Iowa, Nebraska, Nevada, North Dakota, Oregon, South
Dakota, Vermont, Washington, British Columbia, Manitoba, Nova
Scotia, Prince Edward Island, Saskatchewan, Queensland.
July-Canada, New South Wales.
AugUst-Montana.
September-Colorado, Idaho, Missouri, Wyoming.
October-California, Georgia, Delaware, Illinois, Kentucky,
Ohio.
November-Arkansas, Maryland, West Virginia, Wisconsin.
December-Alabama, District of Columbia, Massachusetts, Pennsylvania, Texas, Tasmania, Ireland.
MASONIC CALENDAR
Ancient Craft Masons--Commence their era with the creation of
the world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."
Scottish Rite-Same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology is used. Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
Royal Arch Masons-Date from the year the second temple was
commenl'.ed. by Zerubbabel, Anno Inventionis. (A. Inv.), "in the
year of discovery."
Royal and Select Master&--Date from the year in which the
Temple of Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.),
"in the year of the deposit."
Knight& Templar-Commence their era with the organization of
their order. Anno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
Order of High Priesthood-Dates from the year of the blessing
of Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benedictionis
(A. B.), "in the year of the blessing."
RULES FOR MASONIC DATES
Ancient Craft Masons-Add 4000 years to the common era. Thus:
1923 and 4000-5923.
Scottish Rite-Add 3760 to the common era. Thus: 1923 and
3760-5683. After September add another year.
Royal Arch-Add 530 years to the vulgar era. Thus: 1923 and
530-2453.
Royal and Select Masters-Add 1000 to the common time. Thus:
1923 and 1000-2923.
Knights Templar-From the Christian era take 1118. Thus:
1118 from 1923-805.
Order of High Priesthood-To the Christian era add 1913, the
year of blessing. Thus: 1923 and 1913-3836.

160

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

151

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

GRAND LODGES, DATE OF ORGANIZATION, ANNUAL
CALIFORNIA STATISTICS

COMMUNICATIONS AND PROCEEDINGS REVIEWED.

(As usual the most complete set of statistics compiled are to be found in the
Report of J. Edward Allen, Correspo.ndent for Nortb Carolina. We have space
only for those applicable to California,)
Rank
Number
in
or
Percentage u. s.
Number of Master Masons per Million of population ................ .

28,359

1927.

23

Number of Master Masons per Lodge ................................................... .

231

13

Number of Master Masons per Hundred Square Miles ........... .

69

33

Percentage Net Gain ....................................................................... ..

5.96

2

Percentage Net Gains to Raisings ................................................. .

84.63

3

Number of Suspensions and Exclusions per Thousand ......................

8.02

35

10.24
Number o.f Deaths per Thousand ........... .
Percentage of Affiliations to Dimissions ................................................ 108.8

37
JO

Percentage of Master Ma,ons that are R. A. Masons........................

20.21

48

Percentage of Master Masons that are R. A. Masons......................

7.67

22

Percentage of Master Masons that are Knights Templar....................
Percentage of Master Masons that are 14° Masons........................

11.38
22.45

39
15

Percentage of Ma,ter Masons that are 32° Mason•-···········-····-······

17 .82

19

Percentage o.f Master Masons that are Shriner•-··-·········-··················

22.88

16

Percentage of R. A. Masons that are R. & S. M .............. ·-·············
Percentage of R. A. Masons that are Knights Templar....................

37.97

13

56.31

17

Percentage of 14° Masons that are 32° Masons..............·---·-····-·--·· 78.3
Percentage of 18° Masons that are 32° Masons ......._............................ 94.6

43

Percentage Knights Templar to 32° ······-············ ..··················-·-·····-·.......
Percentage Eastern Star to Masonic Memberships.·-·-·-·-········--·········

63.85

40

65.15

23

Percentage DeMolay to Maso.ns .......... --···-· ..····························-··············
7.69
Percentage of Net Gains, Lodges, 1910 to 1924...·-········-·····-······'"······ 163.7
Percentage of Net Gains, Commanderies, 1910 to 1924 .......... _......... 90.4

3

Percentage of Net Gains, Consistories, 1910 to 1924..... ·-····-.. --........ 404.4

JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman Committee on Correspondence.

36

Alabama ................... _................
Arizona ...................................... ,

Arkansa•-···················· .. ·····-···· .. -··········-·
California............................................ _
Colorado..... -..............................
Connecticut .......... ,_ .................
Delaware.......................
District of Columbia ........
Florida ................................
Georgia................................
Idaho,, __ ................. -............
Illinois ........... -.. -........
Indiana ...............
Iowa......... -...........
Kansas-..................

~~;~?~~r..-:-_··:.-::::·:: '..........

Maine .............. , ....... , .. ,.....
Maryland .........................
Massachusetts ... ----··········
Michigan .... _............... Minnesota-.....................

~i:~~!f~i:::::::::::::::::: ::: ....

Montana .......................
Nebraska-.....................
Nevada, __ ,,, .................. -········-··
New Hampshire.-........................
New Jersey .......................... ·-······
New Mexico....................
New York ........................
North Carolina .. -..............
North Dakota ....................
Ohio ....... -··-·--·······················
Oklahoma ................ _.
Oregon .............. -......... ,,,.,, .......... , ..
Pennsylvania ................
Rhode Island .............
South Carolina .........
South Dakota .........
Tennessee ......
Texas ..............
Utah ................
Vermont ........
······
Virginia .... ,..........
Washington .........
................ ,..
West Virginia
Wisconsin ............. .. ,..,.,._. ........
Wyoming .............. _
.....................

When
Organized

Annual
Communication

Proceedings
ReViewed

June 14, 1821
Mar. 25, 1882
Nov. 21, 1838
April 18, 1850
Aug. 2, 1800
July s. 1789
June 6, 1800
Dec. 11. 1810
July 5, 1830
Dec. 16, 1786
Dec. 16, 1867
April 6, 1840
Jan. 12, 1818
Jan. 8, 1844
Mar. 17, 1850
Oct. 16. 1800
July 12, 1812
July 1. 1820
July 31, 1873
July 30, 1733
Sept. 14, 1844
Feb. 24, 1853
Jilly 27, 1818
April 21, 1821
Jan. 24, 1866
Sept. 23, 1857
Jan. 16, 1865
July 18, 1789
Dec. 18, 1786
Aug. 6, 1877
Sept. 5, 1781
Jan. 14, 1771
June 12, 1889
7, 1808
Jan.
Nov. 10. 1892
Aug. 16, 1851
Feb. 2, 1764
June 25, 1791
Mar. 24, 1787
Jnly 21, 1875
Oct. 14, 1813
Dec. 20, 1837
Jan. 16, 1872
Oct. 14, 1794
May 6, 1777
Dec. 9, 1858
May 11, 1865
Dee. 18, 1843
Dec. H. 1874

December
February
November
October
Septen1ber
February
October
December
January
October
September
October
May
June
February
October
February
May
November
December
May
January
February
September
August·

1926
1927
1926

june
une

May
April
February
May
January
June
October
February
June
December
May
February
June
January
December
January
June
February
June
November
June
September

1926
1927
1926
1926
1927
1926
1926
1926
1927

1927
1926
1927
1927
1926
1926
1926
1927

1926

1926
1926
1926·27
1926-27
1927
1926
1927
1927
1926
1926
1926
1926
1926-27
1927

1927

1926
1927
1927
1927
1926
1927
1926-27
1926

163

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT 01'{ CORRESPONDENCE

CONSOLIDATED STATISTICAL APPENDIX.
FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
When
Organized

Prepared by Albert K. Wilson, Grand Secretary and Grand Recorder,
Kansas Correspondent. February, 1927.

Annual
Communication

Proceedings
Reviewed

Feb. 22, 1832
Oct. 10, 1855
May 12, 1875
Oct. 10, 1867
Jan. 21, 1866
June 24, 1875
Oct. 20, 18:69
Aug. 9, 1906

May
June
July
June
April
June
June
February
June

1926
1926
1926
1926
1926-27

New South Wales.
New Zealand ....................................... .
Queensland ........................................... .
South Australia .................................. ..

Dec. 3, 1817
April 30, 1890
April 25, 1904
April 16, 1884
June 26, 1890
April 16, 1884

West Australia .................................... .

1899

July
May
June
April
June & December
Quarterly
Quarterly

Cuba ..................................................... .
Mexico (York) ............................... .
Philippine Islands .............................. ..
Porto Rico............................................ ..
Panama................................................. .

Dec. 19, 1912
Oct. 8, 1885

March
April
January
April

England ............................................... .
I eland ................................................... .
Srcotland ................................................. .
Belgium................................................. .
France (Grand Orient) ................... .
France (Grand Lodge) .................... ..

June 24, 1717
April 6, 1731
Oct. 15, 1736
Feb. 25, 1832
Dec. 24, 1172

Quarterly
December
February
June
January

Alberta................................................. ..
British Columbia ..
Canada.
Manitoba ................. .
Nt>w Bmnswick .... ..
Nova Scotia............................. .
Prince Edward Island ............ .
Quebec......
Saskatchewan......... .

~~it~ri~~~:·.~·:::::::::::: ..........,........... ,,, ... '

Oct.

Dec.

12, 1905

5, 1859
1861

1803

Grand
Lodge

Alabama....................................................
Arizona......................................................
Arkarreas....................................................
California..................................................
ColOl'.'ado..................................
Connecticut..........................

Delaware...............................

1926

1926
1926

1927
1926
1926

Grand
Chapter

53,990
5,901
35,550
122,412
31.159
44,181
5,912
22,700
27,398
69,821
10,008
285,965
126,215
89,928
82,165
72,072
34,905
43,485
32,055
122,324

. 15,384
1,305
8,047
24,744
8,064
16,531
2,068
6,558
8,448
18,516
2,697
88,997
33,361
23,860
21,755
20,546
9,350
17,731
9,716
41,518

itm

~ui~

Grand

Council
5,049

552

1,548
9,396
2,454
10,758

Grand
Comd'y
8,638
802
2,777
13,231
4,771
6,341

" 1:699.. .... . 3:44!5"
District of Columbia..............................
Florida.......................................................
1,827
5,021
Georgia.................................
6,198
8,521
Idaho.........................................
1,673
·24:2s<r· 35,560
Illinoi11...........................................
Indiana...................................
19,924
13,275
Iowa..................................
7 ,314
12,562
Kansas...... ,.............................
14,590
6,688
Kentucky..............................
4,969
10,142
Louisiana................................
3,211
1.964
Maine..............................................
8,617
9,516
Maryland...............................................
4,965
4,692
Massachusetts..........................................
15,649
"2i'i;:529"
Ma!!Sll.chusetto end Rhode Island .................................................... .
"i's:7sii..
Michigan..................................
.. .......... !
146,255
· 46,799
15,619
Minnesota...................................
59,586
16,839
3,117
7.774
Missieeippt... ..... :........................
35,500
7,683
4,152
4,247
MiBSoun.....................................
111,969
35,776
12,483
16,938
Montana....................................
19,975
4,857
2,671
919
Nebraska......................... .........
40,937
8,322
3,383
4,643
Nevada.........................................
2,721
655
136
302
New Hampshire.............. ........
5,895
3,729
3,501
New Jersey.............................
86,230
19,931
4,075
7,364
New Mexico..........................
6,555
2,074
1,396
New York ....................... :.........
320,985
71.576
12,872
37,184
North Carolina...............
41,334
8,279
5,116
1,943
North Dakota................
15,254
4,124
2,343
861
Ohio..............................................
193,461
78,825
44,501
33,451
Oklahoma.........................
69,673
14,108
7,426
4,990
Oregon.............................
..................
28,038
7,209
2,098
3,938
Pennsylvania...........................
204,111
59,778
41,573
15,055
Rhode Island...........................
18.0S9
8,817
5,853 ....... 4:210"
South Carolina................................
29,503
6,459
4,366
South Dakota............................
19,632
6,370
1,414
3,749
Tennessee.......................................
49,264
11,237
2,786
5,074
Texas.......................................................
132,774
43,289
38,231
18.569
Utah.......................................................
4,818
1.241 ,,..,, ............. .
813
Vermont....................................................
18,942
5,987
1,891
3,719
Virginia......................................................
47,331
17,439
7,324

~E:~~;~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::

Wyoming.................................................

7,723

.... "3;018"
"ii;647.

2,143

4,735
6,924
10,608
1,541

1~~~~-1·~~~~-1-~~~-1·~~~~

Totals ............................................... . 3,163,519
General Grand Chapter Subordinates ................................................. .
General Grand Council Subordinates............... .. ...
Grand Encampment Subordinates ............................. .
United States Totals .......... ..
Foreign Totals ..................... ..

3,163,519
1,030,576

920,800

330,129

448,059

1,502
1,046

1.611
922,302
139,823

331,175
1,710

449,670
16,214

154

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

INDEX OF SUBJECTS
FOREIGN GRAND BODIES.
r.rand
Lodge
Alberta......................................................
12,672
British Columbia......................................
13,965
Canada......................................................
107 ,676
Chile..........................................................
4,898
Columbia....................................................
816
Costa Rica, C. A.....................................
285
Cuba.............. ................... ........................
13,272
Ecuador......................................................
385
330,000
England......................................................
England and Wales .................................................... ..
Guatemala................................................
650
Honduras..................................................
178
Ireland........................................................
50,000

~:ri~\~:·:P~;;~;·,;-~~~:.··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ......... l.~:~~~--

Mexico (York Grand Lodge)..................
New Brunswick........................................
New South Wales....................................
New Zealand............................................
Nova Scotia..............................................
Panama......................................................
Peru............................................................
Philippine Islands....................................
Prince Edward Island.............................
Puerto Rico.........................
Quebec..................................................
Queensland..........................................
Salvador, C. A.........................................
Saskatchewan................ ...........................
Scotland.............................................
South Australia...............................
Tasmania.................................
Victoria.................................
Western Australia................................

907
5,963
59,071
23,887
9,744
400
1,900
6,837
1,177
4,800
14,152
20,000
548
13,091
260,000
12,458
3,529
38,392
7,270

(;rand
Chapter

Pases
r.rand
Council

Grand
Comd'y

727

4,108

2,840
2,630
25,650

70,000

15,000
1,632
656
1,596
3,414
3,389
2,651

"3:4i:7' ::::::::::::::·
602 ............. .

···2;557·· :::::::::::::::::::: :···················
.................... ....................
•
3,775
670

Totals ......................... .
United States Totals.

1,030,576
3,163,519

139,823
922,302

1,710
331,175

16,214
449,670

Grand Totals ................ .

4,194,095

1,062,125

332,885

465,884

*No record of membership kept.

Advertising -----·-------------------------------------------------·-·············-···--·--·················5· 11
Attendance ...................................................................................................... 7
BenevolenceDisasters .................................................................................................. 30
Loan Funds ................................................................................ ,............ .2
Tuberculosis ............................................................................................ 3
Bibles ................................................................................................................ 1
"Bouquets and Brickbats" ........................................................................ 119
Calendar-Masonic .................................................................................... 149
Clubs ................................................................................................................ 11
Communications-Aimual ........................................................ 148, 151, 152
Coordinate Bodies .......................................................... 1, 14, 147, 153, 154
Correspondence-Committee Reports .............................. 19, 96, 119, 133
Crimes .............................................................................................................. 22
Dates-Masonic .................................................................................. 146, 149
DeMolay ......................................................................................................... .25
Disasters .......................................................................................................... 30
Dual Membership .......................................................................................... 32
Dues ............. :.............................................................................. 39, 82, 89, 111
.Eastern Star .................................................................................................. 41
Education-Masonic ................................................................. .2, 44, 76, 99
Education-Public ............................................................... .2, 48, 59, 76, 99
Emblems .............................................................................................. 5; 11, 30
Florida Disaster ............................................................................................ 30
"Found in the Quarries" ............................................... ~ ........................... 133
Funerals .................................................................................................. 53, 103
General Grand Lodge ............................................................................ 55, 73
George Washington Memorial .................................................................. 59
Grand Bodies ................................................................................................ 147
Grand Lodge .......................................................................................... 63, 84
Grand Lodge Officers ................................................................................... 66
Grand Master ................................................................................ 69, 119, 133
Grand Masters Conferences ·······-------·-····------------------------············------... 55, 73
Higher Degrees ------------·------·--------·--·------------· ................. l, 14, 147, 153, 154
History .............................................................................................................. 76
Homes ................................................................................................................ 1
Investigation ............................................................................................ 82, 89
Libraries ............................................................................................. .2, 44, 48
Legislation ...................................................................................................... 84
Lodge Officers .......................................................................... 66, 87, 93, 108
Masonic Service Association ............................................... ~ ................ .2, 30

INDEX OF SUBJECTS-Continued

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUQTEl>
Pages

Pages

Membership ........................................................•......,............82, 89, 114, 116
Membership Tables ............................................................................. 151-153
Mississippi Valley Disaster ........................................................................ 30
National Masonic Tuberculosis Sanitarium ............................................3
Officers ...................................................................................... 66, 87, 93, 108
Past Masters ..................................................................................................93
Proceeding-Grand Lodge ................................................ 19, 96, 114, 133
Publications ..................................................................................................2, 5
Reading-Interesting ..................................................................................99
Religion .......................................................................................................... 100
Ritual .............................................................................................. 53, 103, 114
Schools ............................................................................................................48
Secretaries ................................................................... ,...............................•108
StatisticsMembership-U nited States ................................................... .147, 151
Foreign .................................................................................................. 154
Others Bodies ...................................................................................... 147
California ............................................................................•................. 150
Student Loan Funds ........................................................... .2, 48, 59, 76, 99
Temples ........................................................................................................ 111
Third Degree Lecture .............................................................................. 114
T olera ti on .................................................................................................... 100
Tuberculosis ..................................................................................................... 3
Visitation ...................................................................................................... 116

Alabama .......................................................................... 2, 5, 27, 32, 108, 133
Alberta ............................•............................................................................. 103
Arizona ........................•....................... ,...........................................................73
British Columbia ................................ ,., ...........................................•...82, 142
Canad.a ............................................................... .22, 41, 85, 89, 119, 141, 142
Chile ,............................................................................................................... 144
Colorado .................................................................................................. 11, 119
Colombia ........................................................................................................ 144
Connecti(:ut ............................................... .41, 63, 85, 96, 100, 120, 125, 133
Cuba ········-·······································································································143
Delaware ............................................................................................4, 27, 134
District of Columbia ........................................ 23, 44, 49, 77, 90, 101, 134
Ecuador .......................................................................................................... 144
England ............................................................................ 5, 23, 71, 77, 90, 93
Florida ..........................,................................................8, 19, 30, 97, 126, 134
Georgia .................................................................... 23, 64, 104, 111, 120, 135
Guatemala ............................................................................... ,...................... 143
Idaho ......•.................................................................................................. 8, 135
Illinois ...................................................................................... 28, 55, 120, 135
Indiana ........................................................................................... 111, 126, 136
Iowa .................................................................................................. 55, 71, 136
Ireland .............................................................................................................. 5
Kansas ...................................... 15, 41, 53, 64, 66, 69, 97, 109, 112, 126, 136
Kentucky ............................................................................................... .87, 136
Louisiana ................................................................................................ 12, 120
Maine ...........................................,........................................................ 1-02, 137
Manitoba ................ 12, 51, 54, 69, 85, 90, 97, 102, 104, 109, 121, 126, 142
Maryland ..............., ........................................................................68, 112, 137
Massachusetts ...........................................................•..................6, 15, 37, 137
Mexico ............................................................................................................ 143
Michigan ................. .,. ............................................................................... 16, 138
Minnesota ...................................................................................... 86, 127, 138
Mississippi ............................................................................................. ,.. 6, 138
Missouri ................................................................................................ 121, 138
Montana ..................•............................................................... 6, 9, 28, 42, 139
Nebraska ................................................................................ 13, 121, 127, 139
Nevada .................................................. 16, 49, 51, 83, 88, 109, 117, 122, 128
New Hampshire ...... 6, 9, 20, 56, 64, 70, 83, 86, 97, 110, 112, 113, 122, 128
New Jersey ........... :................................................................................. .28, 59
New Mexico .................................................................................. 50, 122, 139
New South Wales ...................................................................................... 144
New York ...................................................... 13, 16, 20, 33, 45, 62, 104, 128
New Zealand ................................................................................9, 20, 49, 145

'

·. 1

'

''il··'..•.··

: '\

'.tl

INDEX OF JURISDICTIONS QUOTED-Continued
Pages

North Carolina ______ 10, 17, 24, 39, 42, 45, 52, 65, 70, 90, 94, 97, 113, 114,
123, 129, 139
North Dakota ----··-----------------------------------···----·-----------------29, 46, 94, 123, 139
Nova Scotia ------------·-----·······---------------------------------------------------------105, 123, 142
Ohio ---------------------·----------······-------------------------------------------------------------------.24, 123
Oklahoma ·---······---------------------·-----------------------·------·-----------------------------129, 140
Oregon ······--·········-------------------------·--·--------··--------------38, 70, 83, 115, 124, 129
Panama -------------------------------------------·--·········"·---·-------------------------'-----------------·144
Pennsylvania ----········-·······---·-·-····----------------····----------------'--17, 56, 77, 83, 140
Philippine Islands ---------------------------------··········--------------.21, 40, 105, 130, 141
Prince Edward Island ----------··'-··--.. -----·······--------'·-----------------------------------------47
Queensland -------·------------------------·--·-----------·---------------------------------------------------·145
Rhode Island
50, 117, 140
Saskatchewan ------------------------------------------------------------------'-·-··'·--------------------142
South Australia ----------------------------------------'------------------------------.. ------------..-----130
South Carolina -----------------------------------------'----------42, 56, 68, 87, 105, 106, 124
South Dakota ------------------------------··-----------·---·----------------29, 88, 110, 130, 140
Tennessee --------------------------------------------18, 65, 67, 78, 98, 106, 113, 131, 141
Texas
71, 79, 106, 141
Utah --------------11, 13, 21, 24, 25, 50, 54, 66, 67, 72, 79, 80, 89, 95, 98, 110,
115, 132
Vermont
91, 95, 141
Victoria -----------------------------------------------------------------·--·-···'······------------43, 54, 145
Virginia
18, 48, 80, 84, 88, 91, 107
Washington --------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------118
West Australia --------------------------------14, 21, 43, 72, 81, 87, 91, 95, 124, 145
West Virginia -·--·------·-·------·----------------------·----------··-·-·---·-····-81, 107, 125, 141
Wisconsin ··-····-·-------····7, 19, 21, 44, 48, 53, 58, 62, 68, 72, 76, 92, 96, 98,
99, 108, 114, 116, 125, 132
Wyoming ---·--·---·-···----------------------------····--·--·-·············-·······--·--···········-··········125

INDEX-1927
A

Page
Accounts-Report of Committee on ........................................................ 573
Accounting-Proposed system of for Lodges ............................. .475, 579
Address of Grand Master -----···---------------··-····--------··-------·-···----·-········-·-····-379
Affiliation and transfer of membership ..........................................473, 587
Allan, Ro be rt E. -Thanks to ... ·---·--·---····--------··-----·-····-·-······------····------·-·-669
Alexandria Lodge-Request for relief denied ...................................... 599
Alphabetical list of Lodges.·-·---·-------------·····----------------·--------·--··----------------703
Annual Election of Officers .........................................................................667
Annual Oration, by Fletcher A. Cutler ..................................................457
Appropriations by Grand Lodge·--------·-··--------------------·------··---····------------593
Athens Lodge-Reimbursement to .... ·---------------------------------------------------.. 594

B
Baldwin Park Lodge-Charter granted·-------------------------------------------------590
Dispensation issued ------------------·--------------------·-················---····· ········-- .412
Ballot for restoration-Manner oL .. -----···---------···-----------------------------------393
Objection before ·-------------------------------------------------------------------------473, 588
Berry, Olin L.-Committee on Grand Master's Message .................. 379
Board of Control, Report of... ___________________________________________________________ 565, 601
Grand Master's reference to.·--------····------------------------------------------------398
Boards· of Relief-Reimbursements to .. ---···-····------···----·-------------------------593
Bookkeeping for Lodges ------------------'·--------------------------------------···-----·---·-·---475
Boynton, Albert E.-Grand Treasurer pro tem·-----------·--------------···------378
Building projects-Proposed supervision oL................................ 397, 477
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes .............. 579
By-laws, Amendments to, approved--------------------------------------------------------414
Report of Committee on ..... -----------------------------------------------------------------566

c
Caledonia Lodge-Reimbursement denied---·---·---··--·-----·-----------·----------595
Certificate of Membership and Section 248 repealed .......................... 588
Charges preferred by direction of Master-Procedure ______________________ 394
Charters-Report of Committee on ... ·----------------------------------------·-···-···---590
Chowchilla Lodge-Loan to .. ·--------------------·------------------------------------------- 598

ii

INDEX

INDEX

Page
Citro! Lodge-Charter gra!lted ....... ~·-::·:···················---······-·····················-590
Dispensation issued ....... ::.............~::.: ................................... --··········---A 11
Committees of Grand Lodge .................................................................... 670
Constitution, Amendments proposed-Expenses of Grand Master..471
Section 11 (adopted) ······------------------·····-··-···-----------···---······-····..471, 581
Section 41 (adopted) ... c............................................................ .475, 589
Section 56 (lost) ..........................................................................470, 580
Section 57 (lost) .........................................................................470, 580
Section 70 (lost) .................................................................................... 577
Section 82a (lost) ...................................................................... .473, 588
Section 101 (adopted) ............................................................... .473, 588
Section 122 (adopted) ................................................................ ..473, 587
Section 161 (adopted) .............................................................. .473, 588
Section 192 (adopted) ........................................................................ 471
Section 192a (adopted) ........................................................................ 472
Section 248 (repealed) ____ ,_____ ............................................................. 588
Section 249 (adopted) ................................................. :............... .473, 476
Section 82a-Interpretation oL .............................................. 391, 588
Regulation 87-Repealed .................................................................... 588
Corner Stones-Form of request to lay ...................................... ..473, 476
Courtesy Degrees ................. ---------------------------------------------------------------408, 578
Credentials, Report of Committee on ...................................................... 631
Crescenta Valley Lodge-Charter granted ............................................ 590
Dispensation issued ................. --------------------------------------------------------- ... 410
Crime-Proceedings against Masons convicted oL .................... 399, 471
Cutler, Fletcher A.-Annual Oration .................................................. .457

D
Decisions of Grand Master .................................................... 393, 585, 589
Degrees by courtesy ............................................................................ 408, 578
Degrees-Medical examination proposed ...................................... 557, 582
Physical qualification .................................................................. 392, 587
De Molay, Order of-Policy of Grand Lodge ............................ 558, 582
Dimit, request for required .............................................................. ..473, 588
Dispensations issued ............................................................................ 413, 589
District Deputy Grand Masters ...................................................... 396, 576
Dual Membership-Reference to: ___________________________________________________________ 559
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ............ 577
Dyer, Foster G.-Thanks . to ........... -----------------------------------------:----------------669

iii

E
Page
Eastern Star-Six months' inhibition applies to ........................ 393, 585
Eclu ca ti on Co111n1i ttee-a ppropriation for .............................................. 596
Report of ................................................................................................. 477
El Centro J,oclge-Reimbursement to .................................................. 593
Emergency Relief Fund .................................................. 390, 419, 431, 599
Employment Bureaus-Appropriations for .......................................... 594
Endowment Committee, Report of ...................................................... ..474
Endowment Fun1l-Condition oL .......................................................... 435
Donation~ in the year ........................................................................ 483
Purchase of Temple stock from ...................................................... 599
Entertainmt•nts-C;rand Master's comments 011.. .................................397
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ............ 578
Expulsion~ ...................................... ------------------ ............................................ 560
Expulsion without triaL ............................................................................ .471
Extinct I ,odgl'~-1.is t oL .......................................................................... 692
F
Fischer, Will 11.-Prcsentation to .......................................................... 669
Supervi~ion of building projects ........ ---------------------........................... .477
Flag-Rccl'}ltion and retirement oL ............................................. .473, 592
Flag Day-Bulk·tin .................................................................................... ..403
Celebration of ........................................................................................ 384
Flood Relit•f .................................................................................................. 390
Bulletin of Cran<! Master.. ....................................................... .405, 406
Concliti<>n of Fund ............................................................................... 431
Detail of donations to ........................................................................ 419
Dis1>0Hition of surplus funds ............................................................ 599
Floridu, Relief to ........................................................................................ 390
Fontana Lodge-Charter granted ............................................................ 590
Dispensation issued ..............................................................................410
Forcil{n Cir11ncl Lodges-List of, recognized ...................... 582, 584, 702
Fr1111cr, ThomaM ].-Committee on Grand Master's Message .......... 379
FundM of Grand Lodge-Condition oL ......................................... .428, 432
Fund11 of Lodgc~-Creation of centennial fund forbidden ........394, 586
l JMC of ...................................................................................................... 393
Watch cannot be purchased in lieu of jeweL ..................... 394, 585

INDEX

G

.v.1

Page

:George vVashington-Anniversarv of initiation of. ............... 393, 578
Statue
•
National MemoriaL. ................................................................... 387, 577
Per capita tax
597
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ...... 577
Gluckman, Arthur W.-Committee on Credentials ............................ 378
Golden State Lodge-Reimbursement denied ..................................... 595
Grand Master's
Acknowledgments ................................................................................ 400
Anniversary of initiation of George vVashington ............... 393, 578
Board of Control, Reference to ....................................................... 398
Building
579
Bulletins
406
Decisions-Charges preferred by direction of Master. ....... 394. 586
Creation of centennial fund not lawful... ....................... 394, 585
Eastern Star membcrship .................................................. 393, 58.5
Member of bad reputation, restoration oL .................... 394, 585
Past Master's jewel, what constitutes ............................ 394, 585
Restoration, manner of ballot for .................................... 393, 585
De Molay, Order
.
582
Dispensations issued ................................................................... 413, 589
District Deputy Grand Masters ............................................. 396; 576
Entertainments ............................................................................ 397, 578
Flag Day celebration .......................................................................... 384
Funds, use of.. ....................................................................................... 393
General comlilions ................................................................................ 380
George ·washington
577
Inspectors ............................................................................................ 389
Interpretation of Section 82a .................................................... 39l. 558
Lassen Monument site ................................................................ 398, 578
Lodges constituted .............................................................................. 381
· Masonic Club Houses ........................................................................ 385
Masonic Education .................. ~---····························-···········'··-············396
Masonic Homes, reference to ......................................................... 385
Meeting place of Grand
Order of De Molay ..................................................................... 558, 582
Physical qualifications ......, ................................................................. 392
Politics
·Portrait
Presentation
Proceedings against 1fasb'ns convicted of crime ........................ 399

Page
Public Schools W eek ....................'. .................................................... 389
Relief, emergency ....................... :......................................................... 390
Report of Committee on Message ................................................... .437
Special communications ...................................................................... 381.
Visitations and receptions .................... ~............................................. 399
Western Star Lodge relics .............................................................. 398
Grand Secretary-Annual report ........................................................... .407
By-laws approved ............................. .'................................................... .414
Courtesy degrees .......................................................................... 408, 578
Degree work by Lodges ..................................................................... .408
Degrees by courtesy .................................................................... 408, 578
Dispensations issued ................................................................... .413, 589
Financial report oi ............................................................................. .428 ·
Flood relief, detail of ..................................................................... ..419
Funds of Grand Lodge ................................................................ ..432
Hand Book for Secretaries .................................................... .-409, 579
Life memberships created ............................................................... .413 ·
Nfasonic
Membership reported .................. __ ................................................. .407
New.
590
Report of Committee on ..................................................................438
Rcpr e sen ta tivcs a P!' oin ted .................................................................. 409
Trial records submitted ···········--·····--·-······---···········--························..416
Grand Lecturer--Annual Report of .................................................... ., ..439
Report of Committee on ...................................................................... 556
Grand Lodge-Annual Dues for ............................................................ 598
Annual meeting
Annual election ........................................•.............................................667
Hall for .......................................................................................... 379, 582
Installation of officers ..................... :.................................................. 668
Meeting place for ................................................................................ 555
Per capita
Special communications held ............................................................ 381
Standing Committees .......................................................................... 670
Grand Treasurer-Report of. ..................................................................... 433
Gri.evances-See Reports of Committees ............................................. 560

H
Hand Book for
Henry vV. Knox Lodge-Dispensation issued ....................................412
Hovis, VV'illiam L.-Committee on Grand Master's Message ........ 379

vi

INDEX

INDEX

I

J

Page

Imposters-Resolution to publish list oL ........................................... 559
Inspectors-Amendments to Sections 56, 57, proposed ........... .470, 580
Grand Master's reference to ............................................................ 389
Pay of-Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ................................................................................................ 580

J
J ewe! of Past Master-Character of defined ..............................394, 585
John D. Spreckels Lodge-Charter granted .......................................... 590
Dispensation issued .................................................................................. 411
Jordan Lodge-Charter granted .............................................................. 590
Dispensation issued ........................................................................... 410
Jurisprudence (See Reports of Committees) ........................................ 585

L
La Brea Lodge-Charter granted .......................................................... 590
Dispensation for .................................................................................... 409
La Habra Lodge-Charter granted ....................................................... 590
Dispensation issued ............................................................................ .412
Lassen Monument site ........................................................................ 398, 578
Library, funds for ...................................................................................... 593
Life Memberships created .......................................................................... 413
Livingston Lodge-Charter granted ...................................................... 590
Dispensation issued .............................................................................. 411
Los Angeles-Place of meeting in 1929................................................. .471
U. C. Club House ............................................................ 386, 470, 581
Lodges, Alphabetical list of..................................................................... .703
Constituted .............................................................................................. 381
Formed in the year ..................................................................... .409, 590
List of ...................................................................................................... 673
Location
System of accounting proposed ......................................................... 475

M
Malta Lodge-Dispensation issued ........................................................ 412
Marin Lodge-Reimbursement to .......................................................... 594
Masonic Club Houses-Grand Master's reference to ............ 385, 386
At Los Angeles .................................................................. 386, 470, 581
At Berkeley .................................................................................. 385, 596

vii

Page·
Masonic Education-Appropriation for .................................................. 596
Bulletin relating to business propositions ................................. .402
Grand Master's reference to ............................................................ 396
Report of Committee on ...................................................................... 477
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes ............ 579
Masonic Homes-Annual Report of Trustees .................................. ..480
Bouquets for .......................................................................................... 487
Camp Tucker ........................................................................................ 482
Cost of maintenance ............................................................................ 480
Endowment fund .................................................................................. 483
Grand Master's reference to ............................................................ 385
Farm management .............................................................................. 481
Finances ....................................................................................... 481, 490
Home .problems .................................................................................... 484
Improvements at ................................................................................. 481
Labor, dignity of. ................................................................................. 486
Na mes of children, Covina ............................................................. 534
Names of residents, Decoto ............................................................... 508
Per capita tax for .................................................................................. 598
Report ·of Superintendent, Covina .................................................. 515
Report of Superintendent, Decoto .................................................... 498
Secretary's report. ................................................................................. 490
Student loan fund .................................................................................. 482
Superintendent, appointment of.. ....................................................480
Vacation play and work. ..................................................................... 484
Visit to Decoto ......................................................................................489
Masonic Temple Association, report of ................................................ 574
Request to purchase stock denied .................................................... 595
Proposal to
Purchase of stock ................................................................................ 557
Medical examination of petitioners ................................................ 557, 582
Meeting place of Grand Lodge-Report of Committee on .............. 379
Membership-Transfer of without demit .................................... ..473, 587
Membership of jurisdiction ........................................................................407
Menlo Park Lodge-Charter granted ...................................................... 590
Dispensation issued .............................................................................. 410
Mississippi-Relief to ..............................................'. .................................. 390
Monte Vista Lodge-Charter granted .................................................. 590
Dispensation issued ..............................................................................411-

viii

INDEX

i:x

INDEX

Page

N

Page
Necrology-Report of Committee on_, _____________ ------------------·-- ______________ 566
N cw Lodges ________ ----------------------·····---------···------ -----··-·-----'-·-----------------.409, 590

0
Objection before ballot___ _________________________________________________________________ .473, 588
Ocheltree, George B.-Committee on By-laws ____________________________________ 378
Olive Branch Lodge, Reimbursement to _________ --····---------·--·-------- ________ 594
Oration, Annual-Fletcher A. Cutler__ ________________ ----·--··--·----·-·---·---- _____ .457
Order of De Malay, Policy of Grand Lodge ·--------·-··------------ .558, 582

p
Past Master's J ewel-\Vhat present contemplated __________________ 394, 5S5
Pay of Members-Report of Committee 01L
______________________ 575
Report of Finance Coi11mittce ____________________________________________________________ 600
Petitions for degrees-physical qualifications ______ ----·--··-- __________ 392, 587
Ten mile limit___ __ ----·---------------------------------·-··-------------------------- __ 391, 588
Physical q uali Ii cations _______________________________________________________________________ 392, 587
Policy and General Purposes-See Reports of Committees_
____ 576
Politics-Grand Master's reference to _________________________________________________ 395
Portrait of Grand Master ........ -------·---·------···-····-··-··-··-····--········---------·------ _594
Public Schools Week _______________________ -------------------------------------------------389, 404
Report of Committee on---·---·------···············-··-·-·-·····-···---------------·------ .442

Reports of Committees-Accounts ........................ ---·--·--····------_____ 573
Board of Con troL _______ ................................................ _......................... 601
By-laws .................................................. .
. .. 566
Educational Committee ........... ,........................
____ .477
Endowrncnt Committee......................................
.474
5CJ()
Charters ----------··---·--------------------------·· .................. ..
-- ---· _631
Crcden t ia 1s -------------------·----·--·--------------·--·--·--···--··-- ...... .
.S<N
Finance-J\lrxandria Lodge, request <knic<l .... .
_,<;<JS
J\ ndit of accounts _______________ ................................... ..
S11.1
Boards of Relief, reimbursement.. ............ .
Chowchilla Lodge, loan to .......................... - E<lncational Committee ................................... .
Employment Bureaus.·-----·---------·-·····---·-- .. .
Floo<I relief funds ________________ .................... ..
George \Afashington Memorial.. ......... .
Grand Lodge dues fixed ________________________ _
Masonic Homes, tax for. ................. .
P;1y of members_---------·-·-------------------Portrait of Grand Master.. ............. .
Purchase of Temple stock ..................... .
Reimbursements to Lodges ................... .
Requests of Caledonia Lodge dcnit•rl
Reqnest of Golden State Lodge <knie<l
Salaries ---·-----·-------·-------------------·-----·--·---···-···
U. C. Club at Berkeley ______ ----------------·· .. .
Western Star Lodge relics ....................... .
Grand Lecturer's Report .. ---·-·----···----------···············
Grand Master's Message ... ------------------------··--------·-·-·-Grand Secretary's Report__ _______________________ ................ .

R

Grievances and Appeals .. -----------------·-··'···------·--·--·---·
Jurisprudence-Affiliation and transfer of ml•mhi·r~lllp
Dispensations by Grand Master.. ....................... .
Decisions of Grand Master.. _____________ ..................... .
Objection before ballot ________________________ .................. .
Per capita tax ______________________________________ ,.-......................... ·

Reception and retirement of Flag .... ------------------------··-·----····-------.473, 592
Receipt for Dues-Repeal of Regulation 87 ........... -------------············-··-588
Recognition of Grand Lodge of Egypt .................. ---···--··-···-···--------------584
Of Vienna ...... ---········-··-----------···········--······-···-·····--··-··-····-···---···-·····------··583
Red Cross-Use of Lodge funds for not lawful.. .............................. 393

Ph vsical qualifications.-----------------------··---·'""""""'"''"" ..
Te~-mile jurisdictional limit ...................................... .
Transfer of affiliation with continuous membC'r~hlp
Meeting Place of Grand Lodge ...................................... ..
Necrology -····---·-------····-··········-····--···-----~--------·-··--··--·L ........... ···
Pay of Members ............... -----··--·····----·-·'··'·-······.-.. :.: .............. .

Q
Quigley. Harold L.-Appointed Representative ________________________________ 409

Relief-Emergency ··--··········-----···-----·--···························-390, 419, 431, 599
Report of Board of Control... ......................................................... 601
: :; ~

'

_s11x

s11:,

-''J.1
)C)I)

_<;117
,<;llH
~!JS

(11111
:,111
_<;11.s, s1111
,<;11,;
'.i<JS
s11s
_<;q_<;
,<; 111>

1;11s

ssr1
.17'l, ·1.17

-1.IX
·11<>, S<>ll

47.1, SHi
SH'l
51-1,<;, 5Hri

47.1. ;,x~
5H<J
;l<J2, SH7

.1•it, SHH
·Ii.I, SHH

.m

Sri6
575

x

INDEX

Page
Policy and General Purposes-Accounting, system of for
Lodges .................................................................................... 579
Annual meeting place of Grand Lodge .................................. 581
Building projects .......................................................................... 579
District Deputy Grand Masters .............................................. 576
Dual membership ........................................................................ 577
Degrees by courtesy ............................................................ 408, 578
Education Committee .................................................................. 579
Egypt, Grand Lodge of ............................................................ 584
Entertainments ·-----------·····································-··-···-···················578
Expenses of Inspectors ..................................................... .470, 580
George Washington MemoriaL ............................................. 577
Initiation of George Washington .............................................. 578
Lassen Monument site ................................................................ 578
Masonic Club House, U. C. of Los Angeles ....... 386, 470, 581
Medical certificates ...................................................................... 582
Meeting hall for Grand Lodge .................................................. 582
Order of De Molay ............................................................ 558, 582
Pay of Inspectors .............................................................. ..470, 580
Record Book for Secretaries ......................................... .409, 579
Vienna, Grand Lodge oL .......................................................... 582
Public Schools Week. ............. --------------·····----·····-····························-·---442
Returns ................................................................................................. 541
Ritual-Reception and retirement of flag ............................. .473, 592
Seal of Grand Lodge ............................................................................. 574
Western Star Lodge .................................................................. 565, 595
Report of Trustees, Masonic Homes ..................................................... .480
Report of Trustees, U. C. Masonic Club .............................................. ..466
Report of Grand Lecturer .......................................................................... 439
Report of Grand Treasurer ........................................................................ 433
Representatives appointed ..... :....................................................................409
Request to lay corner stone-Form oL ...................................... ..473, 476
Restoration-Manner of ballot for ............................................................ 393
Member may be even though of bad reputation ........................ 394
Retirement of Flag .............................................................................. 473, 592
Returns-Report of Committee on ......................................................... 541

s
Seal of Grand Lodge-Report of Committee on ................................ 574
Secretaries, Hand Book for.. ......................................................... .409, 579
Shillito, Charles F.-Committee on Credentials .................................. 378
Student Loan Fund ...................................................................................... 482
Summary expulsion without triaL ............................................... ..471, 472
Supervision of building projects ..................... ,....................................... .477
Suspensions for cause-List oL ..................................................... .416, 560

INDEX

xi

T
Page
Ten-mile jurisdictional limiL ................................................... 391, 588, 589
Thanks tendered to Scottish Rite bodies .............................................. 669
Trial records presented ...................................................................... 416, 560
Trustees U. C. Masonic Club-Report oL .......................................... .466
Tujunga Lodge-Reimbursement to ........................................................ 594

u
U. C. Club at Berkeley-Appropriation for ........................................ 596
Grand Master's reference to ........................................................... 385
Report of Trustees ............................................................................ 456
U. C. Club House at Los Angelcs .................................................. 386, 470
Report of Committee on Policy and General Purposes .......... 581

v
Vienna, Grand Lodge of ............................................................................. 582
Visalia Lodge-Reimbursement to .......................................................... 594
Visitations of Grand Master ..................................................................... 399

w
Wallace, Robert B.-Appointed Representative ................................. 409
Waucoba Lodge-Remission of dues .................................................... 596
Wes tern Star Lodge relics .................................................................. 398, 595
Preservation of relics ....................................................................... S65
Williamson, James L.-Appointed Representative ......................... ..409
Winnedumah Lodge-Remission of dues ............................................ 596

