WILLIAM RHODES HERVEY
Grand Master

1918

~ranh 1£nhge of Qtalifnrnta
r, }OHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary of the M.".W.".Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, do
lit•reby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Sixty-ninth
Annual Communication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tm•sday, the eightli day of October, A. L. 5918, and terminated on
Friday the eleventh day of 'said month.

Jn Westimony D14rnnf
I have hereunto appended my
official signature and have affixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Grand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this nineteenth
day of October, in the year of
Light, Five Thousand Nine
Hundred and Eighteen.

S l !ER\

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M.·. w.·. GRANo,·LoDGE
OF

Jrrtt aub 1\rreptrb ila.aou.a
OF TH.Ii

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

SIXTY-NINTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
HliLD AT TH.Ii

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMMJiNCING ON

Tuesday, October 8th, A. D. 1918, A. L. 5918
AND TliRMINATING ON

Friday, October I Ith, A. D. 1918, A. L. 5918

SAN FRANCISCO:
Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., 509 Sansome St.
1918

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

GRAND LODGE

Grand Lodge of California

OF

li'OR

The Year Commencing October, A· L. S9 18
Grand Master .......

( )
.Bradford Webster 61
Adams (166)

M~~~-~i~--T~-~~-j~:·5;~--F~~~'.s~ibert

Deputy Grand Mabs~~~~-i;~k--B~-ii<li-~~:-·san Francisco.
Hum
George F. Rodden (191)
Senior Grand Wa;~~np;~-~--5-~;~~~-.--5·;~--F~-;ncisco. E ·B k (
)

Gran~~:;::~·5;~;-~~~--B-~ii.<li~-~,---L~il~~!el;~- Filmer (
Samuel

Junior
Grand Treasurer..................................................

..

·

ur e 352
)

111rr.e auh i\rr.ept.eh .tlasnn11
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
SIXTY-NINTH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION

260

330 Jackson Street, ~~~--~~-~:~'.-~C:hn Whicher (209)
Grand Secretary ...
Francis.co. . J B ker ( S)
Thomas . a
5
Grand Lectnrer.... i{;~~~i~--.f"~-~~-j~:·5;~--F~-;~~iscoE. d
F Gee ( 1)
.
........... Very Rev.
gar ·
6
Grand Chaplam .........
has. H. Victor (61)
..................... C
Grand Orator ....... 132".s~~~~~--S·~;~~~-.-- San Francisco.

M-~-~;~;~--T~~-~i~:--s~n

SSS9··T;f~--A~enue, Oaklan~.

S. Johnson (360)
· t t Grand Secretary ............... _·· ................ Harry
.
ss1s an
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
.
......................James F. Fenwick (409)
Grand
Fulton ( 402)
Grand Standard Bearer... ........ i~-;~i~;-.-·-·····

The Most \Vorshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its sixty-ninth Annual Communication in the Masonic
Temple, in the City of San Francisco, on Tuesday, October
8th, 1918, at 10 o'clock a. m.
Roll Call of officers disclosed the presence of the following:

A

Marsh~~-~·492:··ji;~~-j~i~, Territor~-~fe~~~a~--

............ George E. Weaver (260)
Grand Sword Bear~":jj··--B~i-i<li~~:-·s~n Francisco.
I s
.........John P. Jaqnan (10)
Grand Bible Bea~~r 5;~-~h··5·~-~~-bd··5~;~~~:-·san Jose.
(
)

Chas. G. Johnson 393
Senior Grand Deacon ........ --------_-···:·············-----~~nto
Forum Buildmg, Sacra
.. mes Il. Gist (202)
Junior Grand Deacon ....... :··········-_-----_----····L······;..······!1:s.
314 Merntt Bu1ldmg, os n~
Sh
(255)
ore
Senior Grand Steward ............. L~~;~-;~:··········· Richard E.
Junior Grand Steward.............p·~-j~--Ai-~6:················:··· Alfred Seale (346)
......... Theodore J. Milliken (3)
Grand Pursuivant ....... c6~-;-~h~-~~~:··5;~~arnento.
(l)
, Samuel D. Mayer
Grand OrganisL .. 1z7z.ci·;;··5~-;~~~:··5~~--F;;~~isco.
Ad
(l)
............ George P.
Grand Tiler ........4·1·5··M;~6~-l~-T~-~~j-~-,--S-~n Francisco.

ams

·

GRAND OFFICERS :
M.·.w. ·-WILLIAM RHODES HARVEY ............................................ Grand Master
R.·. w.·.BRADFORD WEBSTl(R .......................................... Depu,ty Grand Master
R.·. w.-.CHAS. ALBERT ADAMS .................................... Senior

Grand Warden
F. RODDl(N •........................................ .Junior Grand Warden
V. ·. w. ·-WILLIAM P. FILMER ................................ ............. :.Grand Treasurer
v.·. w.-.JOHN WHICHl(R.......................................................... Gran.d Secretary
V. ·. W. ·.THOMAS J. BAKER. ................ ·--························----------Grand Lecturer
v. ·. R. ·. WILLIAM MAcCoRMACK-- ................................ ,......... Grand Chaplain
W. ·-CHAS. H. V1cToR ............................................................ Grand Orator
W.".HARRY S. JOHNSON ............................... ....... Asst. Grand' Secretary
w.-.JAMl(S F. FENWICK< ...................................................... Grand Marshal
W. ·-HERBERT L. FuLTON ...................................... Grand Standard Bearer
w.·.wM. T. OsTl(RHOLT .......................................... Grand Sword Bearer
w.-.JOHN P. J ARMAN ...................................................Grand Bible Bearer
w.-.CHARLl(S G. JOHNSON ..................................... .Junior Grand Deacon
W. ·-PORTER MUNSEY.. ............................................Senior Grand Steward
W. ·-ALFRED SEAL!( .. ·················-···········-···-· ........... .Junior Grand Steward
W.".THl(o. J. MILLIKEN........
. ............................ Grand Pursuivant
W.".SAMUE'L D. MAYER............
. .................. Grand Organ.ist
W. ·-GEORGE P. ADAMS .............................................................. Grand Tiler
R. ·. w.-.GEoRGI(

(5)

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

7

J'HOCEEDlNGS OF THffi

G

PAST GRAND MASTERS:
M.".W.'.WILLIAM P. FILMER
M.".W.°.JAMES B. STEVENS
M.".W.".ALBERT G. BURNETT
M.".W.'.FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI
M.".W.".MoTLEY H. FLINT
M.' .w: .WILLIAM T. LUCAS
M:.
.ALONZO J. MONROE
M.".W.'.CHARLES L. PATTON
M.".W.".JoHN D. MURPHEY
M.".W.'.ORRIN
HENDERSON
M ... w ... FRANCIS v. KEESLING
M.".W.°.DANA R. WELLER

w:

s.

.
f 327 chartered Lodges and
And the Representatives o
.
.
Delegates from three Lodges under dispensation.
d in ample form, with a
The Grand Lodge was opene d
er by the Grand
solo by Brother L. A. Larsen, an pray
Chaplain.
.
. .dent prior to the formal
A pleasing and mspirmg ~nc.1 troduction of the beautiopening of Grand Lodge wast be m Sergeant of the United
ful flag of our country borne . y ~
f the "Star Spangled
. C
and the smgmg o
.
States Manne . orps,
osed of the followmg
" Th olor guard was comp
Banner.
~ c
.
vice . Otto Offermann, yeoman
brethren, all t~ active s: of Redwood City Lodge No. ~68
first class, Semor Warde · 11·
Escher Scrgcan t Manne
.f
. . Albert Wt tams
'
1
l
of Ca t orma ,
686 f Chicago Illinois; Char es
Corps, Garfiel~ Lodge No.l
'~72d Engi~eers, University
Beersman, private first c ~ss,
Lodge No. 610, Philadelphia, Pa.
nnounced the appointment of the
The Grand Master .a
.following committees:

.
w·11·
p Jeffries,
(To fill vacancies)
1 iam
·
Finance Committee :
I
Cha irman, and John Clute.
Chas. T. Lynda!·
of Members: (To fill vacancy )
'
.
Pay
.
F West (35), Herman WaLenstem
Committee on By-laws. J.Ed~ard E. Moss (214), Edward Wm.
(120), Chas. Frank Fury (180),
Fox (335) ·
Frank Tade ( 40)' D. J. Brown~te~
Committee on Charters : (169), Henry R. Braden (410), . .
(335), William Henry Worden
Tredway (68).

Brother Rudolph G. Kiesling, Master of Germania
I .odge No. 438 of Los Angeles, presented a telegram from
l'ast Master Ferdinand H. Sickel, of that Lodge, dated Los
Angeles, October 7th, as follows : "The motion changing
c111r work from German to English and to change our name
tci Acacia Lodge was presented at the stated meeting held
this evening and carried unanimously."
ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER
The Grand Master then delivered his Annual Address
as follows:
/ll'1"//1rcn of the Grand Lodge:
Today we assemble for the Sixty-ninth Annual Communication of
th<' Grand Lodge o\ California to pass in review the work of a busy and
nnxious year, to deliberate upon subjects of importance to the welfare
nncl happiness of the Craft, to enact necessary legislation, and to enjoy a
clt•li!{htful season of friendly and fraternal intercourse. It is with great
pl<•asure that I greet and welcome you all. Amid the clash of arms and
t hl' sore affliction of a distressed and war-torn world, our Institution
rontinues a very Republic of the Humanities upon which the Giver of
all Cood has showered His manifold blessings. Our powers have been
·'' rl'llgthened and vitalized, within our peaceful walls harmony and
hrothcrly love reign undisturbed, and before us lies the open way to a
prart ical exemplification of our principles and professions. A Mason's
lirst clnty is to his God, next to his country and then to suffering humanit.Y. Our country is in danger and calls all its sons to sacrifice and service·. Humanity everywhere is suffering calamities and woes, unrests
1111<1 upheavals, physical and mental agonies and the oppression of gross
111al<'rialism. Let us pray our Father to protect and bless our country,
to solace the suffering and to hasten the day when right and freedom
~hall triumph.and peace and happiness be restored to all lands and peop'.t•s; and let us. at this session devote our hearts and minds to the
111T11111plishment of the great mission of Masonry.·
T am before you at this hour to present for your approval an
111·1·01111t of my official acts during the year, to exhibit the general condit i1111 of Masonry within the Jurisdiction, and to re~ommend such legislat i1111 as I deem expedient for the welfare of the Craft. One year ago
wlll'11 you installed me in this honorable station, I expressed to you the
111is1.:ivi11gs and fears which beset my heart and voiced my sense of
l1111dl'q11acy and frailty as I faced the responsibilities and duties you
li111h· me assume. It is appropriate for me now to say to you that no
11111• rl'grets more than myself the shortcomings and failures and mis-

8

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

takes with which I can be justly charged, yet I have redeemed in full
my promise to you by enlisting in your service every faculty I poss:ss.
and bv diligent and painstaking effort striving to meet every require·
ment ;ml demand with loyalty, zeal and a singleness of purpose to pe~­
form my duty. The nature and extent of the functions and opportumties of the Grand Master are so vast that no person without abundant
leisure and superior spiritual and intellectual endowments can hope to
measure up to the full standard set by the honor, digni~y and ir;iporta'.1ce
of the office. I have done my utmost, and my confess10n of d1sappo.mtment is joined to a fervent hope that you, in your generosity and. kindness, will applaud my sincere endeavors and forget that I have failed to
accomplish all you expected.

Necrology
We enter upon our deliberations today saddened and chastened by
the appalling sacrifice and wastage of human life on the battle fields of
Europe, but we find some consolation in the knowledge that t~ose w~o
fight and fall for Right do not die in vain. The noble sacrifices laid
upon the altar of country insure a safe and peaceful worl.d a;id the ha?piness of unborn millions of men. Brethren of our mystic tie have laid
down their working tools in the full strength of young manhood and
gone to rest in the earth of sunny France. vVe can not call them back,
but we who mourn them with so much pride can devote the remammg
span of our lives to build upon their deeds a nation of imperishable
worth and renown.
"God grant we may rest as sweetly
vVhen our work, like theirs, is done."
Vve thank the Supreme Grand Master that the official family of
this Grand Lodge has been unharmed and untouched by the shaft~ of
Death, and that for a full year all have been spared for further patient
and useful labor in the cause to which they have consecrated themselves.
The King of Terrors has invaded many of our sis.ter jurisdictio~s and
has slain some of our noblest and best. It was with a deep feeling of
personal loss and bereavement that I learned of the death of two of my
dearly loved friends-General Thomas J. Shryock, who had been Gran.d
Master of Maryland for thirty-three years, and Judge Charles Francis
Buck, who was for six years Grand Master of Louisiana. Mighty towers of strength have fallen and all Masonry mourns. As I contemplate
the saddening toll of the inexorable years and the departure of our
brothers for a higher Lodge, I am reminded of the words of George D.
Prentice:
"It cannot be that earth is man's only abiding place. It cannot be
that our life is a mere bubble cast up by eternity .to. float a mo men! on
the waves and sink into nothingness. Else why 1s 1t that the glorious
aspirations which leap like angels from the temple of our hearts are fo:ever wandering unsatisfied? Why is it that the stars that hold t~e1r
festival around the midnight throne are set above the grasp of our ltm-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

9

ited faculties, forever mocking us with their unapproachable glory?
And finally, why is ~ that bright forms of human beauty presented to
our view are taken from us, leaving the thousand streams of our affections to flow back in Alpine torrents upon our hearts? There is a realm
where the rainbow never fades; where the stars will spread out before
us like the islands that slumber in the ocean; and where the beautiful
beings which pass before us like shadows will stay in our presence
forever."

Special Communications
During the year I have convened the Grand Lodge in special session
on several occasions to perform ceremonies in accordance with our
established forms. \Vithin the constitutional time after the close of the
last annual communication of the Grand Lodge I constituted Lodges as
follows: Rockridge No. 468, at Oakland, on October 13th; Libertas
No. 466, at Bakersfield, on October 30th; and Culver City, at Los
Angeles, on November 6th, and I installed the officers of these several
Lodges.
On June 12th I convened the Grand 'Lodge at Healdsburg a'nd laid
the corner-stone of the magnificent new High School building in that
city. The occasion was notable. Many organizations were in the line
of march and the attendance was large and representative of the best of
the city and community.
On September 7th I convened the Grand Lodge at Sacramento and
laid the corner-stone of th~ splendid new Masonic Temple now being
erected by the Masons of the capital city. Many of the officers of the ·
Grand Lodge participated in the ceremonies, an eloquent oration was
delivered by Past Grand Master Burnett, a patriotic address was delivlivered by Wm. D. Stephens, Governor of California, and the ceremonies were ornamented by brilliant music and enjoyed by a large concourse of people. Sacramento was the birthplace of the Grand Lodge
of California and has ever been foremost in all matters Masonic, and
the brethren of this generation are emulating the spirit of those who
have gone before by erecting an edifice worthy of our Institution and
that great city, as our brethren fifty-three years ago laid the cornerstone of a Masonic Temple in Sacramento which is still in use and
which was then a great ornament as well as a credit to the city and to
the Craft.
On Septemher 28th I convened the Grand Lodge and laid the
corner-stone of the new High School building at Barstow. There h
no Lodge at Barstow, but the Masonic spirit of our many members in
this community is superb and there was a gratifying attendance of
Masons from San Bernardino and vicinity.
During the year I have also convened the Grand Lodge and have
taken great pleasure in participating in the ceremonies of dedicating the
Masonic Temple at Merced, the Masonic Hall at Holtyille and the
Masonic Temple at Vallejo. I desire at this time and in this place to

10

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

pay a tribute of admiration to our brethren in these three cities for
their accomplishments in a material way for the Craft, and for their
zeal, enthusiasm and fine Masonic spirit. These dedications in every
instance were festivals of brotherly love.
On June 22d I convened the Grand Lodge an,d dedicated the
Lodge room of Golden State Lodge No. 358, at Los Angeles. This
Lodge has recently· acquired the valuable property in which is situated
the hall where .the Lodge has met for many years. The Lodge is to be
congratulated on securing this fine property and on enjoying the privilege of meeting in its own home.
On June 8th I convened the Grand Lodge and dedicated the Hall
of Fullerton Lodge No. 339. This Lodge has also acquired the property in which is situated its place of meeting, and they have remodeled,
re-fitted and furnished a beautiful temple for their enjoyment. Good
fortune has been the portion of Fullerton Lodge, and we rejoice in the
prosperity which has attended their vigilant efforts and their zealous
devotion to the true interests of Freemasonry.

Recess Appointments
Because of the lamented death of Bro. Ralph Lowe, I appointed
Bro. John H. McGehee a member of the Finance Committee to succeed
our departed brother; because of the resignation of Bro. Geo. L. Jones
as Grand Orator, which I most reluctantly accepted, I found great
pleasure in appointing Bro. Charles H. Victor to be your Grand Orator;
and when Bro. Neuberg joined the service and left the State, I appointed Bro. W. T. Osterholt Grand Sword Bearer.
Dispensations
During the year I have issued dispensations for the formation of
Yorba Linda Lodge, at Yorba Linda, Orange County; Lincoln Lodge
at San Francisco, and Delta Lodge at Stockton. A petition for a new
Lodge at Hermosa Beach was, after long deliberation and much hesitation, d.enied. Several other new Lodges are in process of formation,
but the desires of the brethren interested have been held in check because of the unpropitious nature of the times. No new Lodge should
now be organized unless a clear and undoubted necessity exists therefor.
This is no time for unnecessary expense or Masonic experiments.
I have been called upon to issue many special dispensations to per·mit balloting upon petitions without reference to investigating committees, and also to permit Lodges to receive petitions from members
of the army and navy who did not possess the required qualification of
residence. I have exercised my discretion in these matters in the most
generous manner. These requests all grow out of our present state of

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11

war and I have felt disposed to gratify as far as possible the laudable
ambitions of our fighting men as well as the natural desire of the
Lodges to receive them into the bonds of our fellowship. I have
learned that the :Masonic tie is the strongest bond of union between the
men and officers in the army, and I have aided in bringing something of
the spirit and purpose of our Institution into the hearts and lives of
men who are going far from home in a noble cause.
Vacancies in the official corps of Lodges ·have been numerous because so many of our officers have joined the colors, and I have in all
cases upon proper request issued dispensations for elections to. fill
vacancies. No dispensations have been issued to re-ballot upon candidates except upon a clear showing of mistake. I entirely agree with the
observations which have been made by my predecessors on the subject
of granting permission to re-ballot, and I feel that the interests of the
Craft are best served by a policy of non-interference with the judgment of the members of the Lodge expressed through the ballot box,
unless it can be shown that an unjust result was occasioned by inadvertence or innocent mistake. The Grand Secretary will make a detailed report of all dispensations issued during the year.

Condition of the Craft
The year now closing has been one of great activity and considerable prosperity to the Craft in this Jurisdiction. Everywhere we have
been blessed with peace and harmony, our gains in membership have
been the largest in our history, and our influence has been felt and
appreciated in a fuller measure than ever before. The gains of the year
amount to 3,591, and we now number 63,984 Masons on our rolls. In
not a single instance have disciplinary measures been required of the
Grand Master, but the Lodges and officers have been as responsive as
could be expected to the criticisms and suggestions made for the improvement and benefit of ·l\fasonry.
At the request of different departments of the Government and in
furtherance of what I conceived to be my duty, communications have
been addressed from time to time to the Masters and Lodges dealing
with various governmental and Masonic subjects of present interest
and importance, a detailed report of which at this time would accomplish no useful purpose. Letters addressed by the Grand Master to
Masters and Secretaries are entitled to acknowledgment, and too often
there has been a breach of courtesy in this respect, and I am sorry to
report that through inadvertence or carelessness many of my communications have remained unanswered and unacknowledged. The simple
proprieties of human and fraternal intercourse should never be neglected, for when observed they add to the sum of happiness and foster
and encourage pleasant relations.

12

13

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Our Institution has not escaped the blighting effects of war. More
than 5350 of our members have put aside their professions and vocations, have renounced the peace and joy of their homes and domestic
cireles, and have gone forth from their Lodges to respond as patriotic
and loyal citizens to the call 'of duty and the defense of civilization.
The severance of business relations, home ties and fraternal bonds has
brought tragedy into thousands of lives. The absence of our brethren is
felt in all the spheres of their activity and influence, and in none more
than in their Lodges. The official corps of many of our Lodges in this
way have been sadly depleted. Few, if any, of our Lodges fail to exhibit
·service flags upon which are many stars. The ranks of the Inspectors
have a!so been broken, and some of our most efficient and noble work··
men have laid down their inspectorial duties to follow a higher and
nobler duty. The strong Lodges have withstood these inroads upon
the working forces without disaster, but many of the smaller Lodges
have been sadly weakened in their powers. The call of duty to our older
members has now become clear and insistent. They must return to
their former activities in Lodge work and again assume functions and
responsibilities which they had passed on to their younger brothers.
While our young men are out battling for the right, those who are
left at home owe to them the obligation of maintaining and supporting
in full power and efficiency the organization and work of Masonry, that
when the boys come home victorious, they will not be disheartened by
the wreckage of the Lodges they love.
For several years a problem has been presented by some of the
weake~ Lodges of the Jurisdiction· and consolidations have been more
or less urgently recommended. These particular Lodges have long led
a precarious existence and are now in worse condition than ever before,
and unless a number of consolidations are effected within a short time
the drastic remedy of arresting charters must be applied by the Grand
Master. The Grand Lecturer and the Inspectors should be charged with
the duty of prosecuting a diligent examination and advising the Grand
Master relative to needful consolidations.
The condition of the Craft that most impressed me during the year
was the need for a greater educational and social function on the part
of the Lodges. Everywhere Masons are eager to receive Masonic instruction. They desire to pr<'gress beyond the essentials of ritualism, to
know more of the history an<l philosophy of our Institution, to learn the
hidden meaning of its symbols and ceremonies, to be informed respecting its achievements and purposes, to study its landmarks and its laws
and to be led through the treasure chambers of its wisdom and divinity.
The complaint is heard in many quarters that no opportunities are
afforded at Lodge meetings for educational privileges or even for
soc;al intercourse. The complaint is well justified. The Lodges
throughout the Jurisdictior are devoting an immense amount of time

to .the work of initiating, passing and raising Masons, but find little time
We should not be too
n·a<ly to censure a member for his indifference or non-attendance when
the only opportunity offered him by his Lodge is the privilege of hearing the repetition of the rituals of three degrees, and the only service
ht.' is permitted to render is that of listening to the officers recite ritualistic work. A Mason receiving the third degree should be entering upon
a lifetime of study, self-improvement and service to his fellows, and his
l,odge is intended to be and should be the source of light and instruct ion and a field for serious and devoted work for the principles which
our Institution inculcates and upon which it is founded. The conception that the prosperity and greatness .of a Lodge is measured by its
large membership and its wealth is erroneous. That Lodge is prosperous and great which commands the affections of its members and displays spiritual rather than material wealth. The conferring of degrees
is essential and desirable, but a Lodge abrogates some of its responsihilities and neglects its fairest opportunities when it devotes its entire
time to the conferring of degrees and fails to unite its membership into
an homogeneous spiritual and working whole. This homogeneity can be
accomplished only by as assiduous attention to the needs and desires of
those who are already Masons as it does to the prayers of those seek·
ing to become Masons. By failing to respond to the intellectual and
spiritual demands of their members some of our Lodges are losing the
interest and active support of many of the best Masons of California,
and are in danger of becoming the patrons of the mediocre. The Committee on Masonic Education was organized for the purpose of assist
ing the Lodges in their intellectual and educational work, but this Com
mittee has failed to accomplish any conspicuous success because very
little interest is taken in the reading of lectures or themes, no matter
how excellent the subject matter or how attractive the method of its
presentation. To be of value there must be a personal touch, and many
will throng to hear a speaker or teacher who is a master of his subject
and imbued with the Masonic .spirit, but they .will not attend Lodge to
listen to the. reading of £fie printed page. The desire of the members for
instruction ·~o keen, the subjects for study are so many and varied,
and the sources of information are so easily obtainable, that I marvel at
the difficulty which is being experienced in instituting and carrying on a
wonderful revival of Masonic learning,
to instruct or help or minister to their members.

is

Visitations
Because of the example set by my predecessors, the manifest desire
of the Lodges, the promptings of my duty to the Craft, and my own
inclination, I endeavored to visit as many of the Lodges of the jurisdiction as possible. It will ever be a matter of regret to me that the
demands of my private business and my duties in the service of my

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

country conspired to prevent my acceptance of many urgent and cordial
invitations to visit Lodges and Masonic districts. Such visitations are
of great value and benefit to the Grand Master, for in no other manner
can he learn the actual conditions of the Lodges under his charge and
establish an· intimate and desirable personal touch with those active in
Masonic work. They should be helpful to the Lodges, and from personal experience I am persuaded that they quicken the fraternal spirit
and stimulate the Masonic impulses of the brethren. The very thorough
manner in which Grand Master Keesling covered the State last year,
his powerful influence for good, his sympathetic and intelligent attention to the needs of the Lodges and the Craft, not only endeared him
to the brethren and laid them all under a debt of gratitude, but at the
same time he relieved his successor of the necessity of making so many
visitations and lightened all the burdens of my high office. The more
widely I extend my knowledge of the true conditions of the Craft in
California and observe the effects of his devotion to his duty, the more
I am amazed at the wonderful achievements accomplished in one short
year by Brother Keesling and the greater my admiration for his zeal,
intelligence, firmness, good sense, breadth of vision and love of
Masonry.

•unal good will, each equally worthy of mention and all profoundly
1111preciated and lovingly cherished by me. On no occasion has the
uniform cordiality and hospitality of the brethren been lacking, and
wherever I have gone the dignity of my high office and the importance
of my tasks have received the honor and deference and recognition
which are their due. The brethren by their faith and approbation have
made joyous the labors of the year, many of which would otherwise
have been irksome.
·

14

Our great State is an empire in the length and breadth of its vast
territory. Every community of importance is blessed with a Masonic
Lodge. It is physically impossible to visit even a majority of the
Lodges in a single year. By holding district meetings I was enabled to
come into personal contact with the members of many Lodges who
otherwise could not have been visited. During the year I have had the
privilege of visiting more than one hundred Lodges, either individually
or in joint meeting, have had the honor of installing the officers of
thirty Lodges, have made· many visits to the Masonic Homes, and have
attended meetings of Temple Associations, Past Masters' Associations,
Trustees of Masonic Home, Schools of Instruction and other Masonic
gatherings. The Grand Lectuter \viii make a report of some of my visitations. On many of my visits I ettjoyed the pleasure and inspiration of
the cc•mpany of the Granrt Lectur~r, who is always most thoughtful and
kindly in his attentions and servi'i:es. His knowledge of men and places
and conditions is wide and discriminating, and his assistance has been
invaluable, and I embrace this opportunity to express in public the feeling of gratitude and affection for him which I have already conveyed
in private. I find him loved and appredated everywhere throughout
tile jurisdiction.
It would be tedious here to recount the numerous acts of kindness
and goodness of which I have been the recipient at the hands of Lodges
and brethren, and I shall not single out any particular instances where
there have been so many manifestations of fraternal courtesy and per-

15

Should I refer to any particular visits, my choice could fall only on
the altogether delightful trip I made with my wife to the Hawaiian
I Hlunds in April and May. This outpost of American civilization has
~rlt!om been visited by a Grand Master, and the nature and extent of
the hospitality of the Masons of the Islands are boundlesg. Never again
do I expect to receive the same overflowing measure of generosity and
l'Ollsideration, nor to so quickly and completely surrender my affections and friendship, as I did in Hawaii. The strangers of yesterday
hccame the hosts of today and the friends of all the after years of my
I! £c. The land is one of rare beauty and infinite attractions, its history
iH a fascinating epic, its economic and social problems are important
uml difficult of solution, its industrial prosperity is marvelous, its people are of the salt of the earth and its Masonry is influential and honor~<l and worthy. The great pride we have of the Lodges and Masons
uf the Islands is justified and pardonable. I was received and honored
hy our Lodges at Honolulu, Schofield Barracks and Hilo, was the guest
of Scotland's Lodge at Kahalui, dined at the Country Club with the
l'ust Masters and officers of the Lodges on the Island of Oahu, was
privileged to speak to public gatherings and schools, and was entertained
nml feted far beyond my expectations or deserts. I hope Fortune will
rt•st·rve for me the opportunity to give to my Hawaiian brethren and
tlu·ir loved ones some substantial and personal evidence of my gratitude to them and my appreciation of their goodness to me and mine. ·
On the occasions of my visitations no degrees have been conferred,

hut instead the officers and brethren have generously accorded me the
privilege of addressing them at length on subjects of paramount interest
to our country and our Craft. Our Institution is a great patriotic sodality. Its membership everywhere is imbued with and inspired by a noble
um! whole-hearted love of country and a rich devotion to civic duty,
nnd therefore it was not my mission to stir up the patriotic ardor of
111y brethren, for that was wholly unnecessary; but rather to accept in
~rnne measure the leadership in our common service, to point the way
to a fuller performance of duty and be the bearer of messages to the
{'r11ftsmen from various departments of our Government. To the extrnl of my ability I exhibited the wonderful story of Freemasonry.
•ought out and indicated the treasure houses of Masonic wisdom, traced

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

17

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

16

the development of the admirable system of Masonic jurisprudence,
recalled the achievements and admonitions of the illustrious leaders of
the Craft, plead the cause of the weak and distressed and sorrowing,
emphasized the importance of the individual Mason and urged the performance of all Masonic duties; commended where I could, admonished
when necessary, encouraged those who struggled nobly or sacrificed loyally in the great causes to which Masonry is devoted, and ~ppealed for
a new sense of public and private duty in this new era in the world's
history and a fuller consecration to the eternal and godlike ideals of
Brotherly Love, Relief and Truth. With reverence I spoke of the soul
of Freemasonry, and desired that my hearers should experience an intimate personal knowledge of that pure spirit which has brought blessings into so many lives and which has cast a benediction upon the head
of every Mason who has knelt at our altars and consecrated and dedicated himself to the service of God, his country, his Lodge, his fellows
and humanity. This is the abiding, immutable, divine essence of Freemasonry, and the Mason who does not partake thereof has not found the
Word and wanders in a circle, his eyes blind to the Light that shines in
the East.

he had yielded up his splendid youn life C
.
.
serve a bereaved family a d
.. g
·
onsumed with a desire to
. .
• n rea 11zmg that m
th
he s1m1larly concerned in th
f
any o er parents would
e near uture I m d d'''
effect the removal of Brother Collins's bod
a e i.1ge.nt efforts to
y and· to
a way to
help those who might hereaft er t urn to us for
t provide
0
brethren in Scotland are givi
I .
ass1s ance. . ur Masonic
and generously pro.ffercd eveng a.dovmg.bcare to the graves of our dead
· t · h
.
ry a1 poss1 le to
mcnt of our d ·
.
ass1s 111 t e accomphshes1res. 0 ur brethren 111 E I d 1
fraternal offers to assist us M
ff
ng an a so made prompt and
because our G
.
y e orts in this cause came to naught
overnment was unable to
T do not question the w1'sdo1 . d
gdr~nt t11e necessary permission.
n an expe 1ency f th d · ·
War Department communicat d t
.
o
. e ec1s1011 of the
"
e o me m the followmg words:
~pon the recommendation of Gener I
.
.
Am.encan Expeditionary Forces in Euro a Pershmg, command111g the
decided that no remains of officers o pe., the ~ecretary of War has
shall be returned to the United S
r sold.1crs killed or dying abroad
t!es. There are many reasons for t~f:e<lc~/~~il after the close of hostilit1ve <?n~s of lack of transportation an
wn, among .them the imperapertammg to the fighting bra h Th d !:he concentrat10n of everything
present disinterring and reb~';fai of b~di~t:.;,r would apply as well to the

Relief to Halifax Sufferers

Earthquake and Fire

On December 4, 1917, the City of Halifax was partially destroyed
,by an explosion of munitions on a ship lying in her harbor. The
· destruction of life and property was appalling and the suffering intense and wide-spread. Immediately upon receiving a report of this
calamity I directed the Grand Secretary to telegraph the Grand Master
of Nova Scotia the sum of $1,000, and to authorize him to draw against
us for more money if the same was needed. On Janull.ry 6, 1918, the
'Grand Secretary of Nova Scotia asknowledged the receipt of the con-

On October 18, 1917, the Masonic T
destroyed by fire, and I immediat I
. .
emple at El Centro was
spection of the ·
e y ~isited El Centro and made an inrums anc1 consulted with and ad · d
b
vise our rethren there
in an endeavor to ass1'st the . I h ,
our of th ·
· f
111 111 t 1e
e1r ;111hs ort~1~e: I am
glad to report that the faithful and devoted M
bravely met and mastered wl at t fi
.
asons o t at v1c1111ty have
.
.
1.
a irst sight appeared t b
d
s1tuat10n. This Tern I
.
o e a esperate
and to the City of Et~ wtas c0Smmod10us .and creditable to the Craft
en ro.
oon after its cot I t'
·
totally destroyed by an earth uak b
np e ion 1t was almost ·
out hope, and this Grand oq
~· . ut our brc~hren were not left withto the afflicted brethren a~d d;e 111 its genero.s1ty. rendered valuable aid
time of great need ou; b ti y rclason of this a.id being extended at a
•
re 1ren iave been able b th ·
and without asking assistance
.
• Y ctr own efforts
demo!ished Temple.
'
' to rcbt11ld and completely restore their

tribution and said :
"We are gradually getting down to normal conditions. With the
funds received from our brethren of sister Jurisdictions we have been
able to give at least 'first aid' to those belonging to 'the Craft who have
been unfortunate. We estimate the killed belonging to us, with their
families, number about sixty, but our returns are very incomplete so far.
The injured, homeless and partially destitute number hundreds, and we
are doing something for all of them. We thank you again for your
assistance."

Burial of Oiir Soldier Dead
Probably the first California Mason in the military servic;e to lose
his life overseas was Brother Stanley L. Coilins, Senior Warden of Summit Lodge No. 112, at Knight's F,erry. Our brother died on the rocks
after the destruction of the Tuscania by an enemy submarine, and was
buried in Scotland. His father appealed to our Institution to q.sslst in
securing the removal of our brother's body to his home for interment in
the earth of his native land, which he loved and served and for which

On Sunday, April 21, 1918, the Hall of San
.
J acmto Lodge No. 338
was destroyed by an earthquake. The dam
part of the debris of the build'
I I
age was so great that every
Hall was owned by San Jac:~;o l~~;oe be removed from the lot. This
years of struggle had almost I
d g hand our brethren there, after
I made a visit to 'san Jacinto a~de:~er:d e same fro~n all indebtedness.
to our brethren who were a b't d'
all the assistance I could give
'
1 iscouragcd Tl L d h
or less of a struggle since it
.
. .
·
~e o ge as had more
the dream of years was abou~ ~~ ;amzat;?n,d and '.n the very hour when
e rea ize ' a tnck of nature snatched

18

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

away the object of their concern and toil. However, the Masonic spirit
of the members of this Lodge is superb, and I have every reason to believe that this misfortune will not hamper the usefulness of the Lodge,
nor will it be allowed to inconvenience our brethren for any considerable time. They are moving forward to restore their property and again
to own and occupy their own home.

Tax on Fees and Dues
On January 19, 1918, the Commissioner of Internal Revenue made a
ruling with reference to Section 701 of the War Tax Law, that the dues
and d'ees of fraternal orders were taxable thereunder, and that the
Masonic Lodges did not come within the exemption provided in said
section. The Collectors of Internal Revenue notified the Lodges of said
ruling and demanded the payment of a tax on fees and· dues. Believing
that our Lodges were exempted by the terms of the statute from the
payment of taxes, and that the ruling made by the Department was
erroneous, I immediately protested the ruling on behalf of the Grand
Lodge of California and its subordinate Lodges, and in support of such
protest sent several letters and telegrams to the Commissioner of Internal Revenue and to other persons, and wrote and filed an exhaustive
brief covering the points of law involved. On March 24th the Commissioner of Internal Revenue reversed his ruling and decided that our
Lodges were not subject to the tax.
I took the position that the Congress did not intend to tax our
Lodges, and that the construction made by the Department broadened
the scope of the law far beyond the intent of the statute, and there.by
worked an injustice against our Institution. The effect of the .ruling
was to lay a tax on Masonic Lodges and to exempt therefrom most
other secret societies. I represented to the Department that this Grand
Lodge and its subordinates would not protest or in any manner seek
to evade the payment of any tax provided for in the law, but, on the
other hand, that we would gladly and promptly pay any levy that might
be fixed by the Congress. However, we did earnestly object to paying
a tax not intended by the law to be levied upon our fees and dues,
and particularly a tax of such a highly discriminatory and unjust nature.
Transfer of Place of Trial
On February 9, 1918, charges of unmasonic conduct were preferred
by a Master Mas.on in good standing against two members of Hawaiian
Lodge No. 21, and a summons was issued requiring the accused to ap·
pear on May 21, 1918, and answer the charges. On March 8, 1918, the
accused petitioned the Grand Master for a transfer of the trial of the
charges to some Lodge in California, on the ground that the accused are
residents of the city of San Francisco, and that they believe the majority

GRAN:Q LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

19

or the members of Hawaiian Lodge are of British birth or relation, and
1111c of the accused being a naturalized American citizen of German birth

nnd the other being a German citizen, that they could not'obtain a fair
One of the accused alleged that
hy reason of the fact that he was not an American citizen, he would be
1111ahlc to obtain passage on a steamer for Honolulu without a govern11w11t permit, which would be difficult, if not impossible, to secure.
1111<! impartial trial in Hawaiian Lodge.

An inspection of the charges showed that the specifications of unma~onk ronduct were insufficient, and while I was in Honolulu I discussed
1111• l'liarges with relation to the defects therein with the Master of
I lawaiian Lodge, with the accuser and others, with the result that the
1'11arges were amended and the time of trial postponed to August 8,
1
1>11-t The amendment seemed to cure the defects which afflicted the
ori1d11al charges. I also advised the Master and the accuser and other
lm•thren of Hawaiian Lodge of the application which had been made
rnr a change of venue, and told them that I would receive from them
H they desired to submit the same, a counter showing on the questio~
of hi<1s, but no such counter showing was made. From a personal
lnn·stigation of the matter, it was my opinion that a change of venue
~honld be granted unless the character of the charges and the conVt·nicnce of witnesses required a trial in the Hawaiian Islands. It appmrs from the amended charges and the verbal statements made to me,
tl1:1t the only testimony proposed or intended to be introduced by the
nn:nscr was the certified copy of the record of the convictio~ of the
111·cuscd of a felony in the United States District Court at San Francisco.
In consideration of the fact that the only evidence proposed to be used
was the certified copy of the court record, that the accused resided two
thousand miles from the place of trial, and would experience difficulty
in reaching the place of trial, if permitted to go there at all that the
1H-r11sed claimed that they could not have a fair trial in Hawaii~n Lodge,
1111<1 that no counter showing was made by the Lodge, and knowing from
IH'rsonal observation that a deep feeling existed against the accused in
flit' minds and hearts of some at least of the members of Hawaiian
l,rnlge, I believed the ends of Masonic justice would be best served by
ft Iransfer of the place of trial, and I, therefore, ordered the trial of the
muse to be transferred to Mission Lodge No. 169. When the Commis~inn elected by Hawaiian Lodge to try the cause met on August 6th. mv
order for a transfer was laid before the Commission; whereupon a~
adjournment was taken for nine days for a consideration thereof and
lo. allow time for the drawing of a formal protest and an appeal for the
withdrawal of the order, should it be deemed right and expedient to
present the same. On August 20th an appeal was taken and certified to
lllC'.
The Constitution does not in terms provide for a transfer by the
nrand Master of a cause under such circumstances as those above set

20

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

forth, but I acted in this matter on the assumption that the executive
powers vested in the Grand Master were sufficiently broad to justify the
order made. I refer the entire matter, together with the appeal from my
order, to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Decisions
Many questions of Masonic law have been propounded during the
year, most of which could be answered by reference to the Constitution
and Decisions, and by the application to the facts submitted of the clear
provisions of our law. The comprehensive character of our Constitution and regulations, the clarity of their expression and the familiarity
of the Inspectors and Masters with their provisions, combined to render
my duties in this field light and pleasant. The following decisions are
the only ones rendered during the year that are of sufficient importance
to justify reporting:

1. Army and Navy men-distinction between members of Regular
Army and National Army: The exception in favor of persons in the
Army and Navy of the United States provided in Section 96 of the Constitution does not apply to officers and men of the Army and Navy, who
are residents of other States, and have volunteered for service during
the period of the present o/ar, or who are members of what was known
as the Federalized National Guard, or who have enlisted under the
Selective Draft. The exception was made for the benefit of professional
soldiers and sailors whose place of abode is always temporary and is
selected by the order of the Government and not by the desire of the
individual, who by reason of his service could not acquire a permanent
residence. The exception was not made for the benefit of nor intended
to apply to patriotic citizens who join the armed forces of the nation
in time of war, with the expectation of serving during the period of
hostilities and returning as soon as the enemy is conquered to their
homes and to the vocations which were temporarily suspended. It was
decided in 1917 that the exception in Section 96 applied only to members
of the Regular Army and Navy, and by Regular Army and Navy was
meant the permanent military establishments of the Government, composed of officers and men who serve both in war and in peace and follow no other vocation. The men and officers who enlist for service
during the present war have not abandoned their places of residenc~ and
are only temporarily absent therefrom, and the Lodges of their domiciles, wherever they may be, still retain jurisdiction over them, and petitions for the degrees should be made to the Lodge of the home of such
soldier or sailor.

2. Dedication of halls-improper unless property of Lodge: It is
not a proper function of the Grand Lodge to dedicate a Lodgeroom

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21

whid1 is not owned or controll~l 1
l\ii
•
.
~'
>y a
asomc Lodge but ·
I.
II r11111111crc1al premises hired to a Mas
. L d
'
ts mere Y
0
•1wirli«s.
omc
ge and several fraternal
,!. f'cr capita tax--remissi 01~ f d
b L
Tiii' Crand Secretary requested : co:e: y f odg~s-";;h~t ta.i- payable:

l '1111'1 itution, relative to the per ca pit : me ionbi° Section 128 of the
f11r llll'lllhcrs in the service whose du: alx payba e to ~he Grand Lodge
1111• I;1 w <Ioes not contemplate or provides fJave een remitted · I held th a t
'1111 I ht• same are payab!e annuall on th o~ a .~ro rata paym.e~t of dues,
11111 at the time of the annual r/port Ief asMts of the cond1t:ons exist..
·
a
aster Mason is engag d
II
II • It" nu 1ltary or naval service of the United S
~
'i\llws, on the 31st day of July a d h" d
h
tates, or one of Its
'
n
ts
ues
ave
been
remitted
b
h
·
I •"' IN<' for a period of time which
b
J 1
Y ts
Uni n·quired to pay to the Grande~or;c;s antl· y 31st, tl'.en the Lodge is
llll"flllll·r. The Constitutio
.d
. g
Y per capita tax on such
l1t•d to remit the dues of na prov1 ebs m. terms that a Lodge is author·
T
ny rnem er I 11 th
cl11ri11!{ this war and that
.
e 1:11 itary or naval service
'
no
per
capita
tax
is
payable to h G
d
I '"' Igc for such member durin the
.
.
. t e ran
f'1•111il!cd. The words "during t~
. pde;,1od for which his dues are
e peno
mean that if the date h
I 1I<' per capita taxes fall due (July 31st) is e b
d ,· h.
w. en
f11r which the dues of a
b
m race wit m the time
111 lhc Grand Lodge "t~em er are remitted, no tax shall become due
,
WI
respect to such member Se t"
f
( lll!SI itution provides for the
er . .
·
c ion 41 o the
c :l'a111I Lodge, and Section
s ~~~1ta t~x v.ayable by Lodges to the
'11:.-!1 tax Th·
. ·
. P c es t e time for the payment of
. . 11> tax ts a defimte snm levied against a I od
f
,\f ;',sl er Ma son borne upon its rol!s on the 31st d
f
~ ge or each
111111 the only exemptions therefro111 are in th
:~ o J~ly of each year,
II t11e111her have been remitted at th
d e c:"._es. w ere Jhe dues of
.
·
,
e state m(etmg 111 Jul)· f ti
t•1•d111g. twelve month"' period
d . h
, or JC pre.
·
• an m t e eases w 11en: a
b · ·
I he m thtary or naval service and th l
f
, .
mcm er is in
as provided in Section 128.
e < ues o such member are remitted

gcf

4. Entered Apprentices and Fellow Cr f
. .
.
i11risdiction--(lpp/ication for remainin()' d a ts-:mztt as waiver of
i\11 Entered Apprentice of Fellow C "ft cg_rces- _eg:ees by request:
jnrisdiction must possess th
l'fira . usmg a dtm1t as a waiver of
. .
·
e qua t cat10n of residen
·b d b
i°'1Tt1on 95 of the Constit t'
b f
.
ce prescn e
Y
~ n·p or degrees U d
u loin e ore applymg for the remaining de.
n er our aw only one ballot i t k
f
h
cki.rrees (Sec 108) b
·
. . . .
s a en or t e three
·
' ut 111 many J unsd1ct1011s candid t
I
fnr each degree separately
F
th.
.
a es are e ected.
1'1").[lllatin h
. . or
is reason, if for no other, the law
ti
g. t e status of Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts is
t
w same In all Grand Jurisdictions I C· J'f
·
no
1
draw from their Lodge
h' · n a orma they can not with1,odge without a waiv:r n~; ~an. ~·ey, app(ly for advancement in another
Juris 1ct1on Sec. 162). Membership in a

Lodge can be terminated by a voluntary withdrawal therefrom (Sec.
158), and a <limit is a certificate of the fact of such withdrawal (Sec.
159). An Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft of a California Lodge
can not be granted a <limit, and in the event he desires to receive the
remaining degrees and is unable to do so in his Lodge, he may receive
the same in another Lodge upon the request of his Lodge, or his Lodge
may waive jurisdiction over him and permit him to petition another
Lodge for the remaining degrees (Sec. 155). It has been held (Proc.
1913, p. 77) that a <limit issued to an Entered Apprentice or Fellow
Craft by a legitimate Lodge may be accepted as a waiver by the Lodge
issuing it of jurisdiction over him. Such a <limit wou'.d be issued only
by a Lodge under a Grand Jurisdiction whose law is different from
that of California, and the effect of such <limit would be to terminate
the membership of the Entered Apprentice or Fellow Craft in the Lodge
in which he had received degrees, and would be a general waiver of all
except penal jurisdiction over him, and his petition for the remaining
degree or degrees, accompanied by such <limit, could be accepted by a
California Lodge without any further waiver on the part of the Lodge
issuing the <limit. Section 95 of the Constitution applies not only to those
persons who have not received any of the degrees of Masonry, but applies also to any Entered Apprentice or ,Fellow Craft who applies for
the remaining degrees. The only exception to the rule is stated in
Section 96, providing that in the case of one who has the qualification
of residence, the Lodge within whose jurisdiction 'he resides may, upon
his request in writing and for good cause shown, authorize another
Lodge to receive and act upon his application. This exception applies
only to Lodges under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California.
Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts of Lodges under jurisdictions
other than that of the Grand Lodge of California can not apply for the
remaining degrees in a California Lodge unless (1) they have the residential qualification provided in Section 95, and (2) unless they present
a <limit or a waiver of jurisdiction from the Lodge in which they received the degree or degrees already conferred upon them. Entered
Apprentices or Fellow Crafts of California Lodges· before applying for
the remaining degree or degrees in another Lodge, must secure a
waiver of jurisdiction as provided in Section 155, and in addition thereto
must possess the residential qualification provided in Section 95, either
in the territorial jurisdiction of the Lodge to which application for degrees 1s made, or in that of the Lodge granting the waiver of jurisdiction.

Masonic Homes
In the long list of honorable achievements of the Grand Lodge of
California, no accomplishment stands out so splendidly as the founda·.
tion and maintenance of its Masonic Homes. These institutions furnish
a concrete evidence of the benevolent intentions and honorable senti-

2:::

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.PROCBEDINGS OF THE

22

ments of the Masons of this Jurisdiction, and they alone if 110 othe
success
· d ' would amply justify our faith 'and toil anclr
··fi had b een a tt ame
sac11. cc. These Hom es are a v1sD
· ·11 e manifestation
·
of our practical
charity, monuments to the zeal and devotion of California M
hostages to a future of good deeds. In common with
throughout the State I.take great pride in the two Hornes and d .
ubnng
my year as executive head of our beloved Institution th: h
.
'
Y ave een
the object f
.
~ o my constant solicitude and most thoughtful and pra erful
I have made as many visits to the Homes as rn: time
wo11. . perrn~t, and on each occasion I have been imbued with a new
enthusiasm 111 behalf of this great work and a more d t
. I
lution to rn I th
f
'
e errnmec reso.
a (e e corn ort and happiness of the old peo le and the
educat10n
of th e ch'ld
P '
part
of myand
life development
work.
I
ren, a constant and
important

rn;s~~=~h~·~~

cons,1~erat10?.

The conditions at the Hornes are admirable I find ti t
d
at Deco!
·
h
.
·
1a our war s
o receive t e consideration to which they are entitled that the.
properly housed and amply provided for, and that
effort
b.emg made to sweeten and brighten their dedining years It is irn o.
s1bl.e for the
notwithstanding their loving care .and
t~dm~ure the umform happiness. and contentment of a large number of
e er y people o~ ma~~ and vaned peculiarities and differences of ternp~rarnen~ .a~d d1spo.s1t10.n. Outbreaks of discontent and expressions of
s arp cnt1c1s~ are mev1table, but the same are due rather to unreasonab~e e~p~tat10ns than to ~ny lack of kindness or thoughtfulness on the
p~ t o t ose entrusted with the management of the Hornes
W t
will
. soon. become old ' an d 1'f we arP cIependent, contentment· ande, haoo,..
pmess wf1ll. be for us a goal difficult of realization. The Home is a
.
h aven
d o rest
. and refuge to th ose b·.t tt et.ed bY the bitter
storms of !if
an hall their creature comforts are anticipated ancl supplied ·md so fae;
as
agency can answer
th e nee- d , t 11e1r
· nwntal ancl spiritual
' '
b . urnan
.
.
wellemg is the sympathetic and earnest concern of our officer- nd.
ployees.
s a
ern-

ar~

ever~

Tr~stees,

i~
atten~o~­

ve~y

·
·.
.
a gr oup 0 f JOyons,
· A t Covina
. we. have
.
stmlmg
htt'e
folks whose

rad1~nt lha~pmess is m keeping with their beautiful surroundinR"s He~e
we

ea. with youth in all its bouyancy and hope. Our child1:en are
made for their care, education and develjh~ent.
~ are preparing them fer a life of honor and usefulness
so ( rec;gmze o~r tas~ and are en?aging the hest powers of their littl~
u s .an expandmg rnmds to insure our success. One of my happiest
~xp;nen::es as Grand Master was to be presented by the boys of the
.
o e with a gavel turned and fashioned by them out of a hlocl( o. f
wood from Mt . M ona
· h . A s a company of larls marched' clown a I acacia
od 'C
;oorn to address
and tender the gift, they bore at the heacl of
irave and manly little column two flags-bv the sicle of tl
t
~lor the I
fl
d
.
,
· ·
1e s arrv
y
y ove oate a service flag bearing sixteen stars, fifteen ~f
respons1ve~o every ende~vor

rn~

th~i;

25

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

blue and one of gold. Tears dimmed many eyes as we looked upon the
proud banner which commemorated one of our boys whose life was
claimed by a criminal pirate of the underseas, and the fifteen others
whom we reared and fostered and who volunteered to serve our country in the ranks of the brave.
The members of the Grand Lodge should be profoundly grateful
to the Trustees of the Masonic Homes for their unselfish and valuable
services, and should accord them a generous and whole-hearted support.
Their duties are onerous and exacting and their responsibility is tremendous. They administer our most important trust. Upon their zeal
and wisdom depend in no small measure the happiness and wellbeing
of more than two hundred human lives; into their keeping is entrusted
the fair fame and age-old reputation of our Institution for benevolence;
and upon their business judgment and administrative skill rests the
management of half a million dollars in property and the expenditure
of $90,000 of annual revenue. It is a matter of congratulation that the
Board is so well fitted for the holy and arduous work we have set them
to do, but we should never fail to spur them on to a realization of their
obligations and greater endeavor to measure up to our expectations.

fields crippled for life. Some of them will knock for admission to the
Home: Dead soldie~s will leave little orphan children requiring our
fostermg care at Covma. \Ve should begin now to look forward to the
day of our duty.

24

The Trustees will make to you a detailed report, which will disclose matters requiring your serious consideration. During recent
years the .expense of maintaining the Homes has constantly increased.
Tbe cost of labor, food, clothing and other commodities mounts higher
and higher. The per capita tax of one dollar per member has remained
unchanged for many years. The revenues for maintaining the Homes
have not increased materially, while the buying power of the dollar has
decreased alarmingly.
Moreover, 5300 of our members have joined
the Colors, and on most of these no per capita tax is payable. Owing
to these conditions we have accumu!ated in three years a deficit of
$13,000. A deficit is the vacuum abhorred by good business. Because
of the crowded condifion at Decoto, a distressing water famine and the
removal of the children to Covina, as reported to you by my predecessors, the Masonic Home building program was accelerated far beyond the financial provisions made therefor by Grand Lodge. This
necessary construction work has been completed and the revenues from
the special building tax have been anticipated to the extent of about
$102,000. It is, therefore, necessary that the said tax be levied annually
for at least three years more in order to cover the deficiency, and I
believe that an affirmative commitment on this subject by this Grand
Lodge would be proper at tbis time.
It may be that we will soon be called upon to forther enlarge our
housing facilities at both the Homes. The time is drawing nearer when
large numbers of our brave brethren will return from European battle

_I was deeply impressed with the mental and physical survev of the
Covma Home made last year by Prof. Arthur John Ritter and Dr Har
old K. ~aber, and felt it my duty as well as my privilege to ~mplo;
Prof. Ritter to make another survey of the Home. I am hopeful that
t~e work of our brother will be completed in ample time to give you
his report for your guidance.

Endowment Fund
No especial effort was made this year to increase the Endowment
Fund, because of the belief of the Grand Master that the Masonic War
Fund . was of so much importance that it should have the undivided
attention of the Craft. The good faith of this Grand Lodge is pledged
to the successful completion of the Endowment Fund and Endowment
Day ."shot~ld be retained as a permanent institution": and I pray that
n~thmg will. hereafter distract our attention from this fund. I am inclmed to think that I made a mistake by not appointing an Endowment Day and pressing upon my brethren the claims of this fund.
Masonic War Fund
.

No sooner had the Secretary of War rescinded the order forbid~mg the erection of buildings at Cantonments by fraternity organizatmns. than urge~t requests were made of the Grand Master for the
crec~1on ai;d mamtenance of Masonic headquarters at Camp Kearny.
An immediate and thorough investigation was made, and I found that
~here were about two thousand Masons among the soldiers and sailors
m and .around San Diego, and that other contingents of magnitude
were at S~n Pedro, Palo Alto, San Francisco and Vallejo. These
Masons
hailed . from
every State in the u 111• 011 . A cruc1a
· 1 s1't ua t"ion
.
.
existed at San Diego, where the three Lodges were unable to perform
a~!. t_he Masonic service that seemed necessary to be rendered to our
visiting brethren. A personal study of the conditions there satisfied me
t.?a.t. t~e war had brought to our Institution new problems and respons1b1ht1es, and that a large field of service and duty awaited our husbandry. These soldier 11~1d sailor Masons were all far from home and
craved our fn:tcrnal assistance. I soon reached the conclusion that it
~ould be a mi.stake to erect o_r maintain a Masonic building at Camp
hcarny, but w,1~ eq:mlly certain that Masonic headquarters shou'd be
opened and
mamtamed in the citv. , '·111(1 tliat
, tlic S an D"1ego L Ol1ges
.
we:e entitled to the help of the Masons of this Jurisdiction without
wluch they could not adeqmttely and hospitahly minister to our hrcth-

26

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

rc11 in the service. I accordingly arranged to undertake the performance of a manifest duty and authorized expenditures for furniture, supplies, equipment and rent, employed Brother John B. Osborn to take
charge of the service rooms in the Masonic Temple Building, appointed
the Inspector of the District and the Masters of the three Lodges an
Executive Committee, and pledged financial support to the Lodges in
maintaining and extending the splendid work then being done by them
for visiting soldiers and sailors. The Grand Lodge had made no pro·
vision for ministering to our brethren in arms, and there were no funds
avai!able for this purpose. However, I was firmly convinced that I
rightly interpreted the spirit of the Masons of California and that the
mere presentation of the conditions and needs would be met by them
with a prompt and generous supply of funds. I knew their desire to
provide Masonic hospitality and service for those in Khaki and Blue
and to prepare for the relief of the distressed which would follow in
the wake of the war. I, therefore, addressed the following letter .to
the Masons of California:
Office of
Grand Master of Masons in California
F. & A. M.
December 24th, 1917.
To the ·Worshipful Jfasters, Wardens and Brethren of the several
Constituent Lodges of Californ.ia-Greeting:
. It is needless for me to remind you of the great duties and obligat10~s imposed upon you as men and citizens in this time of our country's
penl. The loyalty to country of our beloved Institution has never been
questioned, and it is a matter of pride that our brethren of today are
fully upholding the lofty standards set by the splendid Masons of former times. Our country has the right to expect from each of us the
fullest performance of our public duty and the most generous response
to every call upon our time and our fortunes for the relief of suffering
humanity and the welfare of. our gallant soldiers and sailors-and no
free country has ever called to Freemasons in vain. My brethren, let
i~s now, as in every past em~rgency, be first in loyalty and service to our
(,oyernment and generous m onr response to the appeals for help of a
stricken and outraged world. Let us as freemen and loyal Americans
renew our p!edges of loyalty to our flag, of obedience to our laws, of
support of our Government, of faith in the principles of democracv and
of our undying devotion to the just and noble cause for which we· fight.
.1,'he war has ii;nposed .u.pon Masonry great responsibilities, and in
· ad~ttlon to our duties as citizens we have these other obligations up to
which we must measure. Masonry is a strong, vibrant, living Institution worthy of the confidence and respect of its members and the world
and it must not fail in the face of its new problems and increasing bur~
dens. As the Lodges perform or neglect to perform their obligations to
the brethren who offer their lives for the security of civilization, so will
Masonry be esteemed or condemned. Much of the work to be done to
gladden the hearts and minister to the needs of Masons must be per-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

27

f111m•·1l hy the Lodges and the individual Masons, for with them lie~

th1• 11pport1111ity for intimate personal touch and contact and the satisfy-

11111 111a11ift-stations of Masonic love. Each Lodge will have its special
111·11lth·111s and I urge upon you that you zealously seek their proper solu111111 a11d maintain in the hearts of your members a love for and pride in
11111' 1o1r1•;1t Institution which is a genuine Republic of the Humanities.
Many of our brethren have bravely responded to the call of duty
111111 11ow Sl'rve the Nation in its army or navy, and many others will
1111111 join the colors. These manly defenders of our flag are our brothl'l'M, 1111d hundreds of them are now and others soon will be encamped
1111 tlw soil of California or serving on ships which ride at anchor in
l '1111 f11rnia waters. While the scope of Masonic service is not yet well
1h•li11t«I. we begin to see more clearly, day by day, immediate needs for
M11•111d1· ministrations and help to those Craftsmen of our own and
11th1•r jmis<lictions, who probably are with us only temporarily. They
111•1·11 llll' heart's-ease and amenities of social life; they crave Masonic
l111rn·onr:;c with their brethren; they seek congenial and proper surl'l!l1tllli1111.s when off duty; they wish to avoid the fatal fascination of disafi111l Ion in hours of leisure which is the curse of camp life, and they are
11111hlnl to many creature comforts and fraternal attentions which we
w11111 I hl'lll to have. I am sure our Lodges would delight in performing
tlt1·~1· Sl'rvices, but the breadth and scope of the work is too great for
lh1· I ,11d11.1·s nearest the camps and ports unless they are materially
11ul~tl'd hy the fraternity at large. The facilities and resources of the
l111•nl I ,odges are inadequate to render services which are due from the
1•tlfiri· jurisdiction and which can be furnished only by the financial supp11rl "f all the :Via sons of California. As the days go by and our breth11·11 11 n• wounded and shattered by their conflict, and their dependent
0111·~ raise supplicating hands to us, our problems will increase and our
11111 ii·s lll1tltiply. It is now time for us to begin generous and honorable
pn·parations for the holy and noble performance of the obligations we
pr11frss.
No lcgis!ation has been enacted by our Grand Lodge to meet the
1• -i·ling situation, nor has it any money available for the immediate
111111 f11t11re needs of this war work. I am persuaded that the great
111111 h<'rhood of Freemasonry in California desires that no duty devolvhtM 11po11 it be neglected, and that the breth.ren are ready and eager to
111·11vid" all necessary fonds to fully and faithfully discharge our ev~ry
1h1t y and obligation to Masons of this Grand Jurisdiction and to those
11( ,isll•r jurisdictions who are sojourning with us and who wear the
11111for111 of our country.
For the foregoing reasons I have determined, after consultation
with hrl'thren in many parts of the State, to establish at once a Masonic
W 11 r Fund, and I hereby appeal to every Mason in California to contrib1111' promptly and generously to the same. This fund must be of such
1u11\1h- proportions that a second appeal to the generosity of the Craft
wll lie unnecessary. The Masonic War Fund will be made up not by
1•1111! rihutions from the Lodges, but bi' contributions of Master Masons,
111111 the same shall be disbursed and expended by or under the direction
111 tlll' Crand Master, and in his discretion, for the purpose of properlv
1t1t·rt i11g the demands on our Institution created by or growing out of
th« prt>scnt state of war and in assisting Lodges situated near canton1111·11ts, camps and ports in performing the Masonic duty they owe to our
ht'«lhrl'n in the army and navy.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

I direct each Master to appoint a committee or committees to proceed forthwith to solicit cash donations from the members of his Lodge
and from Masons sojourning in his jurisdiction. I urge that so far as
possible solicitation be made in person instead of by letter or circular,
and that every Mason be urged as a Masonic duty to make a donation.
I do not wish an unreasonable demand made on any person nor do I
want any Mason to avoid his plain duty. All moneys shall be paid to
the Secretary of the Lodge, who shall keep a just and faithful list of the
names of the donors and the amount paid by each. On the first day of
February, 1918, and on the first day of each month thereafter, the Secretary shall forward all the moneys then collected and in his hands to the
Grand Secretary for the account of the Masonic War Fund, and shall
report the amount of each remittance at the next stated meeting of the
I,odge thereafter, and shall cause a note thereof to be entered in the
minutes of the Lodge. The Grand Secretary will pay over all moneys
received by him for said fund to the Grand Treasurer, who will open
and carry an account of the same under the name of Masonic \Var Fund,
and all moneys in such account shall be subject to the draft of the Grand
Master, countersigned by the Grand Secretary. In the event of the termination of war leaving an unexpended balance in said fund, the same
shall be donated pro rata to the Lodges collecting the same or shall be
paid into the Masonic Home Fund, in the discretion of the Grand
Master.
I urge the Masters to interest themselves diligently and wholeheartedly in this important matter and to try to complete their collections during January and February. The Inspectors of the several Districts and the officers of the Grand Lodge will cooperate in this work.
It is my order that this letter be read by the Master in open Lodge
at the first stated meeting after its receipt, and at such other meetings
as the Master may elect, and that an entry be made in the minutes of
such reading.
Given under my hand and the seal of the Grand Lodge, this 24th day
of December, A. D. 1917, A. L. 5917.
W::\1. RHODES HERVEY,
Attest:
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER, Grand Secretary.

1h·d institutions. In some quarters there was a fear of duplication of
liencvolent efforts, and in others a strange apathy and indifference. On
1lw whole, however, the Masters were alive to their opportunity and the
hrethren made a gratifying response, and in many instances their generosity far exceeded my expectations. Very few Lodges failed to make
~ome contribution. Many exceeded the average of one dollar per memlwr, and a few deserve special commendation. The total collections to
date exceed $66,000 and there is submitted with this address a list of
l,o<lges and the contributions made by the members of each, together
with a full report of disbursements. Several Lodges have promieed to
make further collections and remittances.
The work done during the year has been creditable to the Institution and to California Masonry. Every effort has been made to perform our full duty to our brethren of our own and other Jurisdictions
srrving with the colors and stationed in California. At San Diego we
maintain service rooms, provide social opportunities, and in the person
and character of Brother Osborn offer to our hundreds of uniformed
visitors, a friend, philosopher and guide. At San Pedro we have furnished and maintained two commodious rooms in the Masonic Temple
that are usually thronged with soldiers and sailors. At Vallejo we are
assisting the Masonic Service Club in its efforts on behalf of our brethren. At San Francisco we opened up a fine club room 011 the ground
lloor of the Masonic Temple, which was furnished largely through the
l{t'lH:rosity of San Francisco brethren and the efforts of Brother Leo
llruck, but it became apparent that the conditions in San Francisco did
not justify the operation of the club room and the same was discon1inned. The :Via sonic Club of San Francisco has been most kind to
visiting brethren and has placed the facilities of the Club at their disposal. This courtesy has been much appreciated by the visitors, large
11mnbers of whom avail themselves of the Club's hospitality, and we are
l{iving the Club deserved assistance. Material and needed assistance has
also been given to Lodges situated at or near the camps and the posts
where there are a large number of Masons in the service, and investiga1ions are being made with a view of extending our war work to Sacrauwnto, Palo Alto, Riverside and Monrovia, because of the numerou~
Ma sons stationed near these cities.
The executive management of this work as already developed, the
investigation of future needs and extensions of the service, require of
the Grand Master an amount of time and effort that he is unab!e to give
without neglecting important constitutional and other duties of his
ollice. Very soon the demands 011 this fund for the relief of the widowed, orphaned, crippled and distressed victims of the War will require
11 vast amount of time and labor for their proper investigation and satisfadion. Mature and laborious consideration must soon be given to the

28

An immediate response was made by some of the Lodges to this
appeal, and soon sufficient money had been collected to carry on and
extend our war work. From time to time I addressed other letters to
the Masters of the Lodges in an endeavor to secure the financial participation of all Masons in the work and to insure raising a fund which
would be ample for all requirements during the period of the war. The
task exacted of the Masters was not an easy one, because many other
worthy and essentially vital organizations and activities made heavy
demands upon the time and m~ans of our members. Many of the
brethren did not fully understand the needs of the hour or the methods
proposed to be pursued, and failed to vizualize the new era of suffering
and sacrifice and service into which \Var had thrust Masonry and kin-

29

30

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

demand for service overseas. The work already inaugurated must be
carried forward during the entire period of the war, and the Grand
Master should be relieved of its burdensome details. These considerations impel me to submit the following recommendations:

Recommendations
That the fund raised at the request of the Grand Master by voluntary subscriptions and now in the hands of the Grand Treasurer, be
known as the "Masonic War Fund", and that the rules and regulations
governing its administration be as follows :

Uses of the Fund: (a) For the support and maintenance at or
near military and naval establishments of Masonic headquarters, social
rooms and other instrumentalities of Masonic hospitality and brotherly
attention to members of the Craft in the Army and Navy of the United
States and its Allies. A portion of the fund may b~ used overseas, if
deemed desirable.
(b) For the assistance of Lodges located at or near military or
naval establishments in their work of entertaining visiting soldiers and
sailors and in conferring degrees by request of and as a courtesy to other
Lodges.
(c) For the relief of California Masons who, by reason of their
service in the allied armies during the great War, are in need as a consequence of such service, and whose Lodges are unable to provide the
necessary assistance.
(d) For the relief of widows !ind orphans of California Masons
who have died in the service of the United States or its Allies during
the great \Var, in those cases where the Lodges of which the deceased
Masons were members are unable to provide the necessary assistance.
War Fund Committee: The Grand Master shall appoint a Committee of three members to be known as the "\Var Fund Committee."
This Committee shall administer the War Fund under the direction of
the Grand Master, shall approve of payments of money therefrom, and
shall render to the Grand Lodge at its annual communication a complete statement of its transactions during the preceding year.
Rules of Administration: (a) Moneys belonging to the l\fasonic
War Fund shall be paid to the Gran_d Secretary and by him deposited
with the Grand Treasurer. The Grand Treasurer, with the consent ·and
approval of the Grand Master, may invest the surplus moneys of said
fund in bonds of the United States, of any State or County or municipality or school district. or in interest-bearing certificates of deposit of
any national bank or savings bank, but not less than five thousand dollars

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA

-ludl al all times be in cash or in bank subject to the sight draft of the
lrn111l Treasurer. The Grand Treasurer shall have the right at any
I li11r to sell or convert into money any securities belonging to said fund.
( h) Interest accruing from time to time shall be paid to the Grand
l'lc•rr\'lary and by him deposited with the Grand Treasurer as an accret 1"11 to the principal of said fund.
C

No part of said fund shall be loaned to an individual.
The Grand Treasurer, or the depositary selected by him, shall
1111.v moneys out of said fund upon the draft of the Grand Master, or of
1111.v I wo members of said Masonic War Fund Committee, and the Grand
l'lrnt•tary.
( c)

(ti)

( 1')

The War Fund Committee shall investigate and determine the

11writ of all applications for assistance from said fund, whether such
11pplieations be from Lodges, Clubs, Masons or the dependents of
M11~011s, and shall have the power to establish and maintain all necessary
ur proper agencies for the care and comfort of Masons in the Army and
N11vy. The Grand Master shall have the right to reverse or modify any
1lr1t•r111inations made by the Committee. but all determinations of the
( 'ommittee shall be valid and effective u~til so reversed or modified.
( f) The Masonic War Fund Committee shall have the right to
1q1poi11t special committees of one or more persons to make investiga1l1111s or reports on any subject matter pertaining to the proper administrntio11 of said fund.

Washington Conferences
Early in December I received a telegram from the Honorable Sec1·1•t ary of the Treasury, requesting me to attend a conference at \Vashl1t)!lon on December 13, 1917, which he proposed to hold with the repre•1·11talives of the fraternal societies of the nation. The purpose of the
rn11f1•rence was to enlist the aid and co-operation of fraternal societies in
lwhalf of our Government, and particularly to plan for a co-ordination
or our efforts with those of the government officials. At •the conference
1'«1·n1ary McAdoo and Assistant Secretary Franklin laid much emphasis
upon the extent and value of the service we could render in supporting
thi- Treasury Department in its efforts to sell Liberty Bonds, War Savin11s Stamps and Thrift Stamps. The Secretary stated that in addresslnic these representatives he was giving his message to ten millions of
t hr American people. Because of the nature of the gathering no affirmatlv(' or conclusive action could be or was taken, and it seems that the
1111ly result accomplished was the placing before the fraternal organizatlo11s of the country the needs and expectations of the government and
thr pledging by the representatives of these organizations of their
MllJ>port.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Because of the distance and the pressure of my private business arnl
my Masonic duties, I felt that I could not attend the conference, but
being in thorough accord with the spirit and purpose of the proposed
meeting, I authorized Brother John H. Cowles, Past Grand Master of
Kentucky, to attend the conference as my proxy, and to pledge to the
Secretary of the .Treasury the whole-hearted and loyal support and
co-operation of all the Lodges and Masons in California to every measure
adopted by the government for the winning of the war. Brother Cowles
very kindly and ably represented me at the meeti~g and made ~ full
report of the proceedings, and by his valuable services he has laid m.e
under a deep debt of gratitude, and he is entitled to the thanks of this

great regret that conditions are such as to preclude some of our American Grand Lodges from holding full Masonic intercourse with their
Grand B?d!es, ~nd we fully ~mpower and urge him to use all proper
means w1thm his power to brmg about such changes as will permit the
closest affiliation and co-operation between the Masons of France and
the Masons of the United States."

32

Grand Lodge.
Following the conference with Mr. McAdoo and his repres,enta·
tives an informal meeting of Grand Masters was called by the Grand
Mas~er of the District of Columbia, which was atten?ed by t~e Grand
Masters of fifteC'll Grand Lodges and the representatives of nme other
Grand Lodges. At this meeting a general discussion w~s had ~f the
opportunities then facing us, and the duties the~ confrontmg us, m the
matter of aiding and looking after our brethren 111 the Army and Na;y,
both in cantonments and in Europe. There were almost as many op.111ions expressed ·as there were Grand Masters prese~t, and t~e meeting
was fruitless of any positive action, because at that time we did not well
understand the existing conditions and could not clearly see the path of
our duty with respect to our soldier and sailo.r member~. Ano.ther reason was that the Grand Masters had no right to bmd their Grand
Lodges to any particular course of action. It was the consensus _of
· ·on however that for the present at least our best work for relief
op1m '
'
.
M C A
and service could be done in assisting and suppor.ttng t~e Y.
· · .,
and the Red Cross, which institutions had established 1~ England and
France and were maintaining dub rooms and recreation houses fo.r
American soldiers on leave from the military camps, and that a _mu~u­
plication of relief organizations was not desirable and that a duphcat10n
of effort should be avoided.
At this meeting there was also a discussion of the relatio~s presently existing with the Craft .in France,. and those. present unanimously
agreed upon a resolution, which met with my entire approval and was

I! I

~\

as follows:
"That we, the Grand Masters of Masoi:s. of Califo.rnia, ~tah, }f or~h.
Texas Oklahoma Iowa, Louisiana. vV1scons111, Ilhno1~,
D a k o t a,
'
' ·
I nc1·iana, ,..,.
Kentucky Tennessee,
Georgia,
m1ch"1gan, Oh'10. Connect!
.
cut and 'the District of Columbia, in confere:ice .assembled, 111 the
Cit of Washington, on Decembe~ 13, 1917, votmi; 111 our own proper
y
and through our accredited representatives, send the Most
W~:~ilpful Brother Lurtin R. Ginn, Past. Grand Master of Masons of
the District of Columbia, and through him to the Masons of France,
and commission him as our ambassador to express to them our very

88

New York Conference
A conference of Grand Masters was held at New York City on
May 9, 1918, on invitation of M.'.W.'.Thomas Penney, of New York.
The purpose of this conference was to consider the means which could
properly be taken by our Institution for the aid, care and comfort of
our members in the Army and Navy. The invitation came after I had
sailed for Hawaii and the conference was held prior to my return therefrom, otherwise I should have attended the same. Although I was not
present and this Grand Lodge was not represented thereat, yet you can
not fail to be interested in knowing that such a conference was held and
that fourteen Grand Lodges were represented, because it illustrated the
spirit of service to our enlisted men which has swept over the Masonry
of the entire country and the earnest efforts being made to definitely
ascertain the duty of Masonry in this great emergency and then to generously and fully perform our every obligation. It had been ascertained
by the Grand Master of New York that the Government would permit
and welcome the activity of our Institution in serving our brethren who
had been sent overseas. The meeting soon divided into two groups, one
holding to the op.inion that there was a work of great importance to be
done b:y us in France and that the same should be undertaken at once
by theiiQ.,and Ledges of the United States in co-operation. The other
group held to the opinion that the present was not the time to engage in
such work and that our efforts should be expended in this country until
future events or a more complete understanding of the subject would
lead to a contrary opinion. As in the case of the Washington meeting,
the conference adjourned without taking definite action except to pass
a resolution, which was not unanimously supported, to the effect that
there is a present need for Masonic service overseas, that such service
lies in the cities and recreation centers, where there should be established general Masonic headquarters for the welcome, comfort and encouragement of Masons, that there should be no duplication of such
headquarters, but they be manned from time to time by workers from
any and all of the American jurisdictions, that the expenses be paid out
of a general fund dedicated to Masonic Fraternal Service, that the management of the fund be in a Committee representing the several contributing jurisdictions, that the contributions to the fund be on some annual
basis, that the service be rendered without regard to territorial divisions,

34

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'H;E

GRAND LODGE. OF CALIFORNIA

35

that the Grand Lodges create War Boards ready to engage in this work
as demand may appear, and that the plan be presented to the several
jurisdictions.
At this meeting many gratifying statements were made respecting
work already done or in contemplation on behalf of our brethren in the
service. The Grand Master of Oklahoma reported that the Grand
Lodge of Oklahoma had converted a large school-house in the town
near Fort Sill into a place for the reception and entertainment of soldiers, that they paid the Secretary $200.00 per month and his expenses,
·and that Grand Lodge had made an appropriation of $20,000 for the
entertainment of the men. Past Grand Master Bell of Illinois stated
that his Grand Lodge had already raised a fund of $150,000 and was
then engaged in raising another fond of $250,000, which would soon be .
completed, so that they had actually or potentially about $400,000 in
Illinois that is at the service of. the Fraternity whenever they know just
how to use it, and that Illinois had sent men abroad to represent and
work for the Grand Lodge. Grand Master Rice of Rhode Island said
that he had created a War Board, and the Grand Lodge had ratified his
action and had created a War Fund which was collected by assessment
upon the Lodges in the form of a per capita tax, and that they had collected $20,000 from a membership of 10,000 Masons. Rhode Island has
gone deeply into this work and has become the adviser and next friend
of all its Masons in the service, and seems to have established a personal contact with most of them. The smallness of the territorial jurisdiction and of the membership in Rhode Island makes this practicable.
Deputy Grand Master Moyle reported that Connecticut was attempting
to raise $5,()0 per member, to tear down the Masonic Home <1~d rebuild
it so as properly to care for the men coming back from the war. Grand
Secretary Robinson of Oregon reported that his Jurisdiction is maintaining the Acacia ·Club near Vancouver Barracks, and that they were
raising $50,000 for a Home to care for Oregon Masons who return
incapacitated from the war. Deputy Grand Master McPherson of
Michigan stated that his Grand Lodge was maintaining a Service Station at Camp Custer, Battle Creek, and has asked the Lodges of the
State to pay in $5.00 per member to raise a fund to provide needed entertainment for the Masons in camp, and that a War Council would be
established to administer all funds collected for war relief purposes.
Past Grand Master Scudder of New York, Chairman of the meeting,
reported that his Grand Jurisdiction was going to send a Commission
to France to open headquarters, not in the name of nor for New York,
but just in the name of and for Masonry, and he invited all other Grand
Jurisdictions to join with New York and to participate in the work of
the "Masonic Mission to Freemasons Overseas in the Forces of the
United States." He also reported that his Grand Lodge had voted to

raise. money without stint for Masonic war
Branigan of Indiana said that h
ld
purposes. Grand Master
. that a War Council be formed e ~o~h recommend to his Grand Lodge
poses, .and Grand Master Clark a;M. at a. fund be raised for war purmend forming a War Coun ·1 . oM' isso~ri stated that he would recomci m ISSOUrt a d . .
f
poses. Grand Secretary Ha 'It
n ra1s111g unds for its purburde~ of relief work whic:~~~ ~~l ~a~sac!iusets spoke of the great
ment msurance will not ad
I
p n Masonry because governMassachusetts was raising =q~ate Y fco~er the needs, and stated that
about $100,000 to meet .
ahrge un ' which already amounted to
b
•
JUSt sue an emergen
G d M
c.y.
ran
aster Hagelarger of Ohio reported that he had a
Camp Sherman and ma1· t . d
special Secretary at work at
•
n a1ne a "M
·
,, .
.
sleeping rooms and other appoi t
t aso111c House with thirty-six
n :nen s, and that Ohio was doing a great.
deal for the brethren t'n th
e service.
After a diligent study of the s b.
tu Ject of work overseas, I am of the
opinion that California sho Id
·
· · .
u no undertake
h
k
sue wor except in conJunction with the other Grand B d'
cussions at the New York
f o ies of t~e United States. The dising laid the foundation forc~:r;~enceffwere illuminating, and that meeto~ the part of the American Gra~rd eL o~ts to. obtain a concerted action
mined that our Masonic service a fo't~cs, m the event it was deterEngland and Italy. I believe that wee;~~~~~ should ~xte~d to France,
dently and cautiously but sh Id
.
proceed m this matter pru·
. .
'
ou not withhold
our part1c1pation in the event it . h
f
our assistance nor deny
lies over there. For the prese~ts 'terea ter shown that our field of duty
' k an d eff orts here in California
i seems
·
whi h better th a t we con~imte
our
\\Or
m~ch good. This subject, however' i c have been productive of so
atmn of tliis Grand Lodge.
' s one for the thoughtful consider-

George Washington Masonic Memorial Association
The annual meeting of this Asso . t.
22d, and proved to be one of th b cia ion was held on ·February 21sttory. I had arranged to atten/ th ~st an~ most enthusiastic in its hisconsummation of my desire
d ils session, but illness prevented the
·
s an Pans It se
d
.
.1ppropriate that the Grand Master sh jd
eme to me particularly
work which was inaugurated b p ou G earnestly interest himself in a
Y
ast rand Master Lawler of Cali
fornia.
A fund of approximately $120 000 h b
.
of the Association and work o
1'
as een raised for the purposes
~ra.nd Lodge should be a~ ac~v~ =~~er scale is to be undertaken. This
ciation, and when the war has been
generous supporter of the Asso.
won, we should turn to this duty.

II

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Tenders of Masonic Service
The Grand Lodge Alpina of Switzerland has organized an<l maintains the "Swiss Masonic Office for the Search of the Missing." The
chief aim of this office is the search of missing soldiers and civilians
during the period of the war. It makes an effort to have sick war prisoners brought to Switzerland. It sends visitors and help to prisoners
of war, and does whatever lies in its power to help the victims of war
who are reported to the office. The office expresses a desire to be of
help to American Masonry and places itself at our disposal. The services are gratuitous and are covered by contributions of Lodges and
Freemasons who are interested in this particular work. The address
of the office is Alf. Moraz (Past Grand Secretary of Lodge Alpina),
Ave. Ruchonnet 26, Lausanne.
While we are not in fraternal relations with the Grand Lodge
Alpina, we deeply appreciate this offer to render a truly Masonic service, and commend the fraternal spirit and the benevolent activity uf the
Swiss Masons. In view of our action taken in 1917 relative to Masonic
intercourse in France, Belgium and Italy, it does not seem unwise that
we should extend the same privileges to Switzerland, and it certainly is
not inappropriate to express our deep sense of gratitude to the Masons
of Switzerland for their proffer of service to California Masons and
their families. This is not the first time that the Swiss Masons have
exhibited their fraternal spirit, and we are all familiar with the labor
on behalf of a universal Masonry and of the brotherhood of man which
has long been carried on by the International Bureau of Masonic Affairs
organized and maintained in Switzerland. The matter of the recognition by us of the Gran<'! Lodge Alpina is worthy of investigation.
The Grand Orient of France, at its headquarters in the City of
Paris, is maintaining a service of hospitality and fraternal aid to all
California Masons who can avail themselves of its courtesy. The report
on French Masonry which will be presented to you sets out in full a
courteous and kindly letter on this :subject.
Many of the Grand Lodges of the United States, in whose jurisdictions are situated cantonments and other military posts, have established Masonic service stations and have invited the Masons of California to partake of their hospitality. Communications from time to
time have been received by me from Grand Masters breathing in every
lin.e a superb spirit of fraternal regard and tendering through me to
our members in the service a warm Masonic welcome to their Lodges
and participation in their social activities. I hwe responded in every
case by offering the hospitality of our Lodges and service stations to all
our brethren whithersoever hailing.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

37
I luring the year, at t 1le request of th L d
1111111y Grand Masters the favor of h . e o ges, I have solicited from
"''Y to us by their subordinate Loda:~1g deg;ees conf~rred as a cour1111<·sts have been cordiall
. d g ' and m every instance mv reti
111 .Y Plcasure to receive mY receive and prom
.
P Y granted. It has been
any
correspondmg
r
f
•
•
1' Is, and the Lodges of Californi
equests rom Grand Mas11111111111t of Masonic work f
ti
a have- cheerfully performed a vast
fratt•rnal exchanges of
-korh le benefit of other Jurisdictions These
woi
ave all b
·
l'1111rtesy pure and simple
'th
e~n accepted and rendered as a
· ·
' Wt out seekmg
n·ward or returns In th'
.
or rece1vmg any financial
.
·
ts connection I b t
Wtl h all the Grand Jurisd1'ct1'
.h
e~ o report that our relations
·
ons wit which
n·.,~>ondence have been uniform!
I
we are m fraternal cor«'lll trl' year. In no ca
h
y peasant and brotherly throughout the
·
se as any matter of
't' ·
lll'lst•n, but on the othe 1 d I
en tc1sm or disagreement
-1
r Jan t Jere have b
.
WI I anc~ harmony and an unmistak
een many evidences of good
t1•r11al ties which should
able tendency to draw closer the fraactuate th
· ·
1,ndgt•s: ~he struggles ofever
the Grand e ~Plrlt and practice of Grand
I he· ohltgattons and duties .
d
Bodies to meet fully and wisely
as a result 0 f th W
111 " 1I l argely to a desire f impose
1
.
e
ar have contribor a c oser un10n and mutual he! f I
P u ness.
Lodge Maui
• T,odge Maui No. 984, A. F. & A M
. . .
(•rand Lodge of Scotland I
d . ., under the Junsd1ction of the
11
..
' ocate at Kahului M ·
awau, has petitioned tht' s G ran d L odge t b ' . am, . Territory· of
i·un· and under its i'urisd1'ct'
d
o e received mto its obedi10n, un er the
f L
I 1ll'l'c he granted unto the M t
p
name o
odge Maui, and that
as er, ast Masters W d
r
I
" ,oclge Maui a charter
d h
.
• ar ens and members
·
' an t at satd Lod b
",11rn1 the registry of this Grand Lod e a
ge e constituted and appear
I ast Masters of said Lodge M . ;
s a regular Lodge, and that the
Masters of the jurisdiction of tah~1 Ge redceived and recognized as Past
.. I
..
is ran Lodge It .
~.ill petition that Lodge M
· ·
·
ts represented in
am is composed f 109
1
w IOlll are American citizens and th I
o
members, most of
'I' 1 ·
e arger part 0 f h
.
·rritory of Hawaii· that
'd L d
w om reside in the
I
l
'
sa1
o ge has work d
d
w1• vc years and occupies a weli-ada te
. e un er a charter for
.~c·cond floor of a comm 0 d.
M
p. d and smtable Lodgeroom on the
•
10us ason1c Tern J • ti
.
111 the English language
d
. Pe' lat said Lodge works
ntual
f
th
I
an
uses
the
Masonry approved by th G
d L
o
e t lree degrees of
Master and Wardens of se 'd ~nd
odge of California, and that the
Ihc·y are each competent tao1
of ge ahre well versed in said ritual and
.
.
con er t e thre d
' I,. Iivcr entire the lectures th
e egrees of Masonry to
·
ereunto appert · ·
•
Ihose portions of the Co t't
t'
a1mng, and are proficient in
ns 1 u 10n and ge1
1
I ·
l,odll,'c which relate to the
lera regu at10ns of the Grand
government of a L 0 d . h
" r Masons is located on th I ·1 d
' .
g.e' t at no other Lodge
·1u ()()(
e s an of Mam wh J1 h
,n, l persons; that Lodge M · h
. '. ic
as a population of
am as maintained the work of M
asonry

38

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

on the Island of Maui for many years; that ten of its members are Past
Masters; that the Lodge has accumulated money and property of the
value of $20,000, and that the Grand Lodge of Scotland has intimated its
willingness to permit Lodge Maui to transfer its obedience to the Grand
Lodge of California.

1l1·d is creditable and sat· f
39
f .
j
IS actory it is r
" lls c 1arter be accepted and the' L d ecommended that the surrender
II llHtst be observed that this L 0 d ~-ge be declared honorably extinct"
Wit~ born.
ge ied many years before Lod M ·.
ge am
. 111 its petition the members
.
f11r a charter rather th
_of Lodge Mam say, by way of pleading
lliutan to disband and petition f
or a dispensation
"As a result of the
r
'
1111!} I he struggles f . pecu iar work in Masonr d
flll 1"1 it has taken i~ t~s ~arli;:r years and the im:ort~~~ byd tiis Lodge
111"1' now American
e. eve opment of Masonr in th an
onorable
111i11rs affections
t~;ntory, there cluster. arou~d
"de Lslands, which
•lr1ty1·d. Its me:n~=~s 'Fents and traditions which ~~ !dodge and its
l11rv, hold in defere
ove Lodge Maui, are proud of .ou
not be de1111c! sincerely desirence the _hon.ors which it has bestowlts honorable his1•111·1· of said Lod e tod mamta1n the organization anded, a~d earne~tly
•i111·1·r<'ly desire
anb ~et at the same time the
llontmued ex1st\ '11li fnrnia and too su t~lt to the jurisdiction of ~§uaGy e~rnestly and
Ml"llllfl'd by said Gra~d Lmude the woi:k of said Lodg: radn Lodge of
0 ge of .California."
un er a charter

I had the pleasure of visiting Lodge Maui in April of this year and
was received with the honors due to a Grand Master, and by invitation
accepted and wielded the gavel over said Lodge. I met the officers,
most of the Past Masters and many of the members of said Lodge, and
was gratified to find that the best men on the Island belonged to the
Lodge, and that it exercises a far-reaching and beneficial influence. This
Lodge is doing a truly Masonic work, it enjoys the respect of the entire
community, a splendid spirit of harmony and good feeling exists among
its officers and members, and it is prosperous. Three of the five Lodges
in Hawaii have by resolution requested this Grand Lodge to grant the
prayer of Lodge Maui.
At the time this Lodge was formed an attempt was made to organize under the California jurisdiction, but the assistance which should
have been freely given was denied, and as a result a Scottish charter
was obtained. It is the only regular Lodge not of its obedience working
in the territory of the Grand Lodge of California. I believe that the
interests of Masonry within our jurisdiction, and particularly in the
Hawaiian Islands, would be served by granting the petition of Lodge
Maui, and I, therefore, recommend that the petition of Lodge Maui for
a charter be granted, that the Past Masters of said Lodge Maui shall
have the same standing and rights as though Past Masters of a regularly
chartered Lodge under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of California,
and that such charter be issued by the Grand Master when the Grand
Lodge of Scotland signifies its consent to the transfer of allegiance by
Lodge Maui.

f'

Foreign Relations
At the last communication f
liflp11i11te<i to report on r I t"
o the Grand Lodge a Committe
a ions with the M
e was
1·1·p11rt w1.11 be laid before eyou
at th"
asonry of France and that
Ii
Tl · ·
is commu · ·
'
"II. us is perhaps the most im
n:cat10n for your considera'". .v1111r attention during this com~or~an~ subiect which will be brou ht
w'" l1t111 take thereon will b f
umc~tion, and the action you in g
1I
.
e ar-reaching · "t
your
1;11 you give the subi" ect
m I s consequences I
.. ·
•
your most matur
"d
.
·
pray
~1111~1· at a conclusion which will
e. cons1 eration and that ou
l"."·'1lil<', you move a step for
dbe beneficial to the Craft, and tha( if
1 I ·111 11111versal
·
war toward the rea 1·1zat10n
·
'
Masonry.
of the dream
0

'

It is interesting to know that on July 10th, 1872, a dispensation was
issued by Grand Master Leonidas Pratt for the formation of Maui
Lodge on the Island of Maui, and that a charter was granted on October
18, 1873, the Lodge being numbered 223 upon our registry. This Lodge
had eighteen members in 1873, twenty-one members in 1874 and 1876,
and twenty-two members in 1875. The Lodge lost its Master and Secretary and many members by removal from its jurisdiction, and in
November, 1877, the Lodge voted to surrender its charter. The Grand
Secretary reported to this Grand Lodge-"Its affairs were creditably
wound up; its books, seals, charter and all else of consequence have been
transferred to this office; and all balances of its dues have been fully
paid and a considerable sum" ($417.10) "being moneys in its treasury
and amounts received from the sale of its effects, has been transferred
to the Grand Lodge. As the manner in which its affairs have been set-

With respect to the Grand 0 .
.
priol1ahly by reason of the presentnent of Italy, I beg to advise you that
111 I '11• lllatter of the recognit"
war no further steps have been tak
1·111·1· held by the Grand M ion of that Grand Body since the
fen
aster
and
oth
.h
con erN111 I1;111 in 1914. You h
I
ers wit Past Grand M
ave a ready e I d
·
aster
1 .
lri1·11( of Italy when it ceases it .
r. so ve to recognize the Grand
11( /\111<'rican Grand Lod
As mvas1on of the territorial jurisd' t'
N .
ges.
n applicatio f
I
lc ion
11(11111al Italian Grand Lod
I
n or t1e recognition of th
\ '.,rn•spondence
ge 1as been referred to the Comm"tt
e
•
1 ee on
I have referred to the C
11111 lo you for your con "d o~respondence Committee which ·11
b
,
Si era ti On tJ
!" .
'
WI SU ' 1e a~p ication for recognition of th
( •1"1111 Logia de Chile. It a
lllMI hy the Grand Lodge~poe:~ ~hat this Grand Body has been recog e
I >11k11ta, Kansas, Louisiana Oh. r a~~as,_ Canada, North Dakota Sout~
'
io, istnct of Columbia
d y'·
.
an
1ctona,

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

41

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

40

.
"th many spurious Grand
. · · fraternal re1at10ns w1
and also that. it is m
od e of Guatemala, Liberia, Nicaragua,
Bodies, includmg the Grand L Hg
Belgium Brazil, Greece and
. R ania Egypt
ungary,
'
'b
f Grand Lodges in Germany.
Italy, Serv1a, um
Spain, as well as a num er o

Felicitations from Italy
On July 4, 1918, I received the following telegram:
"Rome, July 3, 1918.
Grande Loggia Cal_ifornia,
San Francisco.
world's enfranchised b 0 d t ,ther anew for the
In br~;~f ~~~oday' ~nAm~~ka' s Independence.
,,
ment, we
(Signed) Ernesto Na than, Grand Master.

0

.
I
r d to Most Worshipful Ernesto
Upon receipt of this message rep ie
N h
· the following words :
at an m
htful and cheering message sent
"I am deeply grateful for !he t~oug this anniversary of the Ind~­
by you to the Mason_s of Cahforma ~~e ver proud to have thi~ test.1pendence of these Umted States. d We d yJur brethren of Cahforma
mony of your feeling and reg:ir n~~~a:nd our hearts, as well as ~ur
and we reciprocate your sentimet d 'to. the same great cause to which
strength and power, are consecra e.
. devoted In union with great
IS
·
the gallant and va 1oro us Italian. nat10nwill
bring this
great war t o a tri Italy and our· ot~er noble ~N'~ssi's~ in promoting the brotherhood of
umphant conclus10n <1;nd w1
1
ld"
man and the enfranchisement of ~e w;rM. ster Nathan held a meeting
It will be remembered that d ran!
Ga d Officers of this Grand
t
Bledsoe an ot 1er ran
with Grand M as. er
d th t at such meeting assurances were
Lodge in the sprmg of 1914, an f a th Grand Lodge of California to
.
ld be a pleasure or e
.
d
given t h at 1t wou
. .
he Grand Orient of Italy when 1t cease
extend fraternal recog111t10n to .t . d" (
of our sister Grand Lodges.
its invasion of the territorial i,uns ic ~o~ g barrier between the Grand
f 1 h t th on y remamm
I am very hope u t a
e
. d
f California will soon be removed,
Orient of Italy and the Grand ;~ g;l o spirit which now exist5 between
and I will rejoice when the r~~~ h y t of intimate fraternal relations.
us will be confirmed by the esta is men

Commendations
. ·1 e to work with the Very Worshipful
It has been a great pnv1 egW 1 . f 1 Grand Lecturer during the
d the Very
ors up u
f
Grand Secretary an
r
fitted to properly per orm
Tl
t 0 brethren are pecu 1ar1Y
h
past year.
1ese w.
I . \ tl ey have respectively been c osen,
the duties of the offices for w 11~ ~ 1. their labors Brother Whicher
and I find that they are both untirmg nd1 kindly in aiding me in the permost generous an
.
b
has at all tnnes een
h
r d me of the burden o f wany
forrnance of my duties, and he as re ieve

of the details of my work. His office is conducted in an efficient and
wholly creditable manner. I commend to your attention the admirable
Compendium of Parliamentary Law wiiich he has prepared and circulated for the guidance of Masters and others concerned.
Brother Henry M. Owens has been successful in stamping out clandestine and irregular Masonry in this Jurisdiction. He has devoted
much time to prosecuting cases in the courts and curbing the activities
of the vendors of fake Masonry. His professional skill and arduous
industry in this cause entitle him to the thanks and gratitude of all
members of the Craft. Brother Owens has also put his heart into the
work of the Masonic Library, and, together with Brother Sidney B.
Force, is largely responsible for the development of the Library during
the year. He will report to you in detail the character and extent of the
work of the Library Committee, and you will repay their efforts by your
appreciation and approval.
The loyalty, industry and zeal of the Inspectors of the several
Masonic Districts are entit'.ed to our recognition and a generous meed
of praise. The work of the present year has been unusually hard, and
in some Districts difficult and trying, yet with few exceptions the
Inspectors have done all that could be done for the promotion of the
harmony, integrity and wellbeing of the Lodges over which they have
visitorial and inspectorial powers. The annual reports recently returned
to me exhibit a creditable and devoted year of service and usefulness.
There is found among the Masters a feeling of confidence in and a genuine respect for the opinion and advice of the Inspectors, and I believe
their efforts in the field of their duty are appreciated and cordially welcomed'. I am grateful to the Inspectors for numerous courtesies and
acts of helpfulness, and shall ever cherish the privilege of having been a
co-worker with them in the Masonic vineyard.

Recommendations
1. Mistakes are bound to be made in the selection by the Lodges
of material for the Masonic structure, notwithstanding all the precautions which are provided to be taken in such matters. The high prerogative accorded each Lodge to choose from out of the men in its
jurisdiction those who by reason of their character, reputation, intelligence and love of humanity are fitted to engage in the service of Freemasonry, reposes in it a confidence and trust which should never be disregarded. The Lodge is thus empowered to select and introduce to the
great brotherhood of Masonry a new member, and it vouches to the
entire Masonic world that suc·h brother is a true and worthy and dependab'.e man and Mason. The duties of the investigating committee should
be so carefully and cautiously performed that the Lodge can rely with
implicit faith upon its conclusions. Personal observation and the reports

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

of my brethren compel the conviction in my mind that in_ far too ~any
instances investigating committees either do not appreciate or fail to
perform their plain duty. The Master and the Lodge can not ~now the
character and extent of the investigation made by a committeeman.
The facts respecting a petitioner, as well as the conclusions of the Committee, should be presented to the Lodge, and the members present at
the time of voting upon the petition should determine whether such
facts constitute a favorable or unfavorable report. I, therefore, recommend that Section 100 of the Constitution be amended to read as
fol1ows:
"See. 100. Which report shall set forth in detail the facts ascertained respecting the applicant and the fayorable or unfavorable conclusion of the committee, and shall be read m the Lodge; ~JUt the name~
of the brothers making the reports shall not be announced m the Lodge.
2. It is in consonance with the better business practice that persons
handling the fnnds of others should be reqnired to give security for the
faithful performance of their trust. This rule is applied to individ~als
of the highest standing and reputation for probity and honesty, and is a
precaution that few employers are willing to forego, even though books
and accounts are audited at frequent intervals. No reflection is thereby
intended to be or is cast upon one who handles the money of another.
The Treasurers and Secretaries of our Lodges in the performance of
their duty are constantly handling the moneys of the Lodge, and their
accounts are audited at infrequent intervals, and in many cases the
audit is more a form than a businesslike checking of accounts and
reports. I believe that every Treasurer and Secretary, no matter how
faithful and irreproachable he may be, should give bond to his Lodge.
The Grand Treasurer and Grand Secretary of this Grand Lodge are
required to execute and file an official bond, and the reason for. such
requirement applies equally well to the Treasurers and Secretaries of
subordinate Lodges. ·while derelictions of duty are extremely rare, yet
never a year passes that some Lodge would not have been benefited by
the application of this salutary rule. I, therefore, recommend that Section 149 of the Constitution be amended by adding thereto the following clause :
.
"6th. To execute and file with the !\faster within fift~en days after
his installation an official bond in such penal .s!.lm and with su~h s~re­
ties as shall be approved by the Master, cond1u_oned that he will. fa1~h­
fu!ly discharge the duties of his office as prescribed by the ~onst1tutio:i
of the Grand Lodge and the By-Laws of his Lodge; provided, that if
the Lodge selects a bank as depositary of its funds ~n~ deposits are
made with such bank by the Secretary and the funds m its charge are
subject to the check of the Master,, or a Warden, and the Secretary,
then such bond shall not be required. '
I also recommend that Section 150 of the Constitution be amended
by adding thereto the following clause:

43

"9th. To execute and file with the Master within fifteen days after
his installation an official bond in such penal sum and with such sureties as shall be approved by the Master, conditioned that he will faithfully perform the duties of his office as prescribed by the Constitution
of the Grand Lodge and the By-Laws of his Lodge."
3. One of the disturbing elements in the present condition of the
Craft in California is the serious financial predicament of many of the
Lodges growing out of their investments in temples and the stock of
kmple associations. Unfortunately the investment of the funds of
I ,odges in halls, temples or stock of temple associations is not always
wise or prudent. Our brethren, actuated by local pride or over-enthu~lasm or optimism, too often involve their Lodges in ambitious projects
which in the end prove to be a great burden and a handicap to the usefulness and progress of the Lodge. The Masonic generation which
incurs such a debt is seldom the one which pays it. The investment of
Lodge fonds should be conservatively undertaken, and no land or stock
should be bought or buildings erected without application of all prudent
business tests in the examination, planning and execution of the project.
The judgment of those who, uninfluenced by local conditions or the
enthusiasm of the lodge members, are competent to advise, should be
sought and followed. Such a course would tend to prevent the repetition of unfortunate ventures against the error of which some of our
Lodges are now struggling. I, therefore, recommend that the following
provision be added to Section 87 of the Constitution :
"No Lodge shall invest any part of its funds in the stock of any
corporation, nor purchase lands, nor erect any building without the
approval in writing of a majority of the members of the Finance Committee of this Grand Lodge.".
4. The revenues of a Lodge should be amply sufficient to pay its
operating expenses, its per capita tax to Grand Lodge, and to discharge
honorably and generously all the just claims of charity. Too much
dependence should not be placed upon funds derived from fees. Some
portion of every fee should be saved and treasnred against the days of
need or misfortune, and no Lodge should rest under the necessity of procuring petitions and electing many candidates in order to pay its ex·
pcnses. The annual dues should not only be commensurate with the
financial ob'.igations of the Lodge, but should allow a co-efficiency of
safety to meet unexpected or unusual demands. Dues of many Lodges
amount to six dollars per year, and an analysis o.f Lodge statements
discloses that few of the Lodges can be maintained in solvency and use·
fulness on such slender revenues. Moreover, the dues of soldiers and
sailors are being generally remitted, resulting in a loss of income. It is
apparent that if the war continues for any considerable time, the relief
work of our Lodges will be materially increased and further exactions
must be made of the subordinate Lodges by this Grand Lodge. Prep-

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

aration should be made to meet the eventualities, whatever they may be.
All reports of Inspectors and Lodges are not yet in hand, but a study of
those already received shows that the annual dues of 131 Lodges are six
dollars, four Lodges eight dollars, fifty-nine Lodges nine dollars, four
Lodges ten dollars, fifty-four Lodges twelve dollars, two Lodges eighteen
dollars and one Lodge twenty-four dollars. Of the Lodges whose dues
amount to six dollars per year, sixty have an available cash balance,
including Liberty Bonds and War Savings Stamps, of less than $500.00,
thirty Lodges have less than $200.00 on hand, and three Lodges show a
large deficit. Generalizations are not always fair, but I believe that I
am well within the truth in stating that the Lodges charging dues of
nine dollars or more per year are, as a rule, in far better condition than
those charging six dol!ars, and that it would be highly beneficial to most
of the Lodges now charging six dollars to increase their dues to nine
dollars. A few Lodges are in splendid condition, notwithstanding dues
of only six dollars per annum, but most of them lack desirable financial
strength. The Lodges which charge twelve dollars or more for dues are
nearly all prosperous and financially independent.

applicant electea to receive the degrees the fees paid by hirn, provided he
became a member of the Army or Navy subsequent to the filing of his
petition and applies for such refund.

I received recommendations from many Masters of Lodges now
charging six dollars dues that the Grand Lodge increase the minimum
dues permitted to be charged by its subordinates. One Master stated
his recommendation as follows:
"Our dues are too low and our members will not raise them, and
our active members all favor the Grand Lodge raising the minimum dues
to $9.00. It seems that a Lodge which has exi~ted for more than 25
years, as this one has, and has not had more charity work to do than we
have had, shou!d have a stronger financia) reserve. 9ur finances are the
best in the history of the Lodge. Our bank balance is $95.00, the Secretary' is paid to July !st, 1918, and all bills are p~id. We have ma~e the
first investment in the history of the Lodge, havmg bought and paid for
20 War Savings Certificates."
For the foregoing reasons I earnestly recommend that Section 128
of the Constitution he amended by striking out the first sentence thereof
and inserting in lieu thereof the following:
"From and after the stated meeting of December, 1918, no Lo~ge
shall charge or collect as its annual dues from members less than nmc
dollars."
5. I recommend that such change as may be necessary be made in
ou.r law (Uniform Code of By-Laws) to permit an applicant elected to
receive the degrees to come forward for initiation at any time within
three months after his discharge from the Army or Navy, provided he
entered the military or naval service of the United States, or its Allies,
prior to or within three months after his e'.ection to receive the degrees.
Also, that the Lodges he authorized, if they so desire, to refund to an

45

6: At the annual communication of this Grand Lodge in 1917, permission was given to our members to hold fraternal intercourse and
visit in France, Italy and Belgium, notwithstanding the fact that we do
not recognize the Masonic Powers of those countries. Notwithstanding
the fact that we do not recognize the Masonic Powers of Holland and
Switzerland, I think the same privilege should be extended to our brethren serving or visiting in those countries, and I, therefore, recommend
that the members of Lodges of the obedience of this Grand Lodge be
allowed and permitted to hold Masonic intercourse with the Masons in
Holland and Switzerland, and to visit in all their Lodges.

Conclusion
One year ago, my brethren, you exalted me to the high and honorable stition of chief Craftsman of the Grand Lodge and my stewardship is now ending. I have spread before you, for your approval or
rejection, the record of my acts and now we stand on the threshold of
the hour when my powers will be translated and my duties shifted to
other and worthy hands. It is my prayer that my gratitude and appreciation of the honor done me and the great kindness displayed to me
may find some substantial reflection in my official acts and may shine out
clearly and unmistakably in the sincerity of my devotion to your interests and to the progress and wellbeing of the Masonic Craft of this
great State.
In conclusion, may I revert a moment to the subject which has
recurred again and again in this address and which has been uppermost
in your minds and hearts during all the anxious weeks and months of
the momentous Masonic year now closing? When we entered upon this
year our country was making herculean efforts to engage worthily and
forcefully in the combat for civilization, and all over our land thoughtful citizens were oppressed with a feeling of deep responsibility and
disquieted by fears of a long and sanguinary conflict. Twelve months
have sped away and now every breast is surcharged with emotions of
inexpressible joy and hope. The honorable purpose of our nation will
soon be accomplished, the goal of our desires lies not far before, the
gallant boys in khaki and blue have brought imperishable honor and
renown to our arms, our chosen leaders have given utterance to the
noble sentiments and declared the humanitarian purposes of the American people in words of candor and truth, our Commander in Chief has
pronounced the glorious Declaration of Independence of the world, the
treasured riches and brightest hopes 6f every hamlet and family have

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

47

pROCEEDINGS OF THE

46

.
.
he altar of national sacrifice, and we await in confibeen piled h1~h on \ull realization in God's own good time of the en?urdence. and fa 1th the . .
f
hich humanity yearns. .We are purified
.
d happiness or w
.
f 1
mg peace an
h
·rded our strength the whip o c ean
f fire, we ave g1
.'
.
.
d the stir of high resolves m our souls.
by the fl ame .0 .
blood is in our vems an
hanges have been wrought on the face of the. -eart.h
Tremendous c
A t and beauty have been destroyed, fan
· th hearts of men.
r
·
1 d
an d m e
t ted commerce paralyzed populations ens ave ,
lands ruthless!~ deva:n~ c:ippled ·and slaughtered, women and children
strong men ma1medsuffer and perish, and millions hurried prematurely
made to ~eep and eace of the unknown. But the hearts and souls of
into the silence ~nd Pu they have ·beheld the ecstatic visions of a comme.n have be~n hfted p, nd justice and mercy and peace and brothering day of nghteousnef~u~d in latent ideals a power and a joy and a
ho~d, and theyk:~~ee A fleeting glimpse of the wondrous designs u~on
maJesty unspea
f ~he Supreme Grand Master reveals today as a. high
the trestle board 0 • d of time--an epoch in the history of mankmdflow in the eternal ~~ est the ending of one age and the beginning of a
and places our wor Gad' blessed Providence you and I are privileged
new era. Through do smitted to be sentient witnesses of His glorious
f
'd
. . th·s day an per
to Iive m ~
.
the supernal and resplendent plans or w1 enhandiwork m e~ecut:rg human hope and multiplying the possibilities of
ing the foundat10ns The true unity of the human family has suddenly
eventual e:x:cellern~e.
d . ble strength and from out the infidelities
made itself fel~ w1thdan ~Ind ~ng~tings and brutal cruelties of the ages is
•
•
an d ·msurge nc1es an WI
ew world of peace and opportumty,
m
w h.1ch
.
new E.urope, a n
d
d
emerging a
d from servile attachment to place an master an
man immortal, free
.
d marauding Might can follow the call of
k.
enemies an
'
d
the fear of 1ur mg
. t God's great sunshine of life and growth an
his liberated soul out m o
service.

.
·
f
h d
ll the centuries has run the wistful yearmng or t e ay
Through a
the world over-shall be as brothers. There can be
w h en man to man.
h ppiness no unrestrained g Ia d ness, w1·thou t pe ace

no real or lash~g T~ese ar~ the things man needs most and cra~es
and brotherhoo ·
d dreads the onset of race against race, nation
mo~t-he l?athes o:i:~r against brother, the rivers of innocent blood. and
against nat10n, b~
f endless butchery and hate. The dawn of a new
h
hosts of the wandering peop Ie o f t h e pas t may
t h e bl ac k desolation
day appears anddt e ~as builded a new house and the long quest will
· ·
for
· t.
reJoice,
. Free omt lory of that brighter light no dark ness can res1s
. . .
soon end m the grea g
the first of existing human institutions to prowas
· · I
·
F ree masonry
. . I f r which panoplied and irres1st1b e armies are now
.
th
pn!'lctp
es
o
I
I
c aim .e
fields of a war-swept world. No onger d oes t't
contending on the

°

·

struggle and fight unaided and alone for religious and political freedom
and the recognition in laws and institutions and governments of the
Fatherhood of God and the brotherhood of man, but today the most
powerful peoples have seized her lighted torch, and with the rallying
cry of Liberty, Equality and Fraternity, have marched on a new crusade
to redeem the world as a holy land and to establish the kingdom of the
brotherhood of man and of nations. Their swords avenge the wrongs
of the helpless; their cannons speak for those who are voiceless, and
their flags float above the land and sea as an assurance alike to tyrants
and their victims that the creed of human liberty is not an unmeaning
formula, nor the brotherhood of man an empty dream. Freemasonry
was first to deny the claim that a king's crown gave to any man a divine
right to rule ruthlessly over all other men and to mold their destinies
without their consent; the first human organization to recognize and to
proclaim that all worthy men should everywhere meet on a common
level and stand equal before the law. The battle of democracy against
autocracy is essentially Freemasonry's battle; and our institution through
the years has seen throne after throne either crumbling or surrendering
its powers to the people, and now the last great combat overspreads the
earth to free mankind from despotism born of ambition and lust for
power and to make possible a universal brotherhood of man.
I am proud beyond expression of the loyalty, devotion and sacrifice
of California Masons. They have put love of country above all save their
love of God, and in their hearts and lives sing the song of service. Civilization has not failed, religion has not been inept, Freemasonry has not
been discredited-for out of the welter of war emerges their vindication. Freemasonry has outlived many wars and revolutions and states
and will continue to bless mankind long after the ravages of this great
strife have been forgotten and its many wounds all bound up. Its ministry will not end so long as men need to be made more diligent, prudeqt, temperate and discreet and their lives blessed with harmony, duty
and equilibrium.
The world will never be again as it was before. This is a time of
hope and of perils-in the world there is a deep, unsatisfied longing and
hunger. The most stupendous problems that ever confronted a people
will meet us when we lay down our victorious arms. Social, civic and
economic issues wiJJ assume new faces and require the attention of the
profoundest wisdom and patience and courage of patriotic Americans.
Masonry must be again a guide to statesman and citizen and its principles must be the solvent for the difficulties and dangers of the pregnant
hours of stress and readjustment. The tasks of the immediate future are
a challenge to every lover of his country and his kind, and a call to
every Mason for reconsecration and rededication to his duty. For class
bitterness, social unrest, governmental vagaries, national divisions, religi-

48

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ous bickerings-other hope there is none save in the spirit of friendship
and fairness, of democracy and the fe~lowship of man with man, of the
altar across which men can talk but not fight, discuss but not dispute.
If Masonry does not light the uncharted and obscure way of the world,
there be those ready and eager to seize her lamp and lead mankind along
other and devious paths. God grant that our hearts be attuned to His
will, that our minds realize the obligations and responsibilities of our
day, and that when we meet again the peace of the world may bi'
restored and the healing of the nations begun.
"We build our future, thought by thought,
Or good or bad, and know it noty et so the universe is wrought.
Thought is another name for fate,
Choose, then, thy destiny, and waitFor love brings love, and hate brings hate."

49

THE WAR FUND

The receipts and disbursements of our War Fund, to and includin
g
October 4, 1918, were as follows:
RECEIPTS.
LODGE

NO.

Ca!H0rnia ............................................................ 1
Western Star ...................................................... 2
Tehama ································································ 3
Benicia .................................................................. 5
Tuolumne.................................................
8
Corinthian .......................................................... 9
San Jose .............................................................. 10
Yount .................................................................... 12
Nevada .................................................................. 13
Temple .................................................................. 11
Eureka
16
La Parf~i·~~--u~i~·~--:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 17
~ountain ~hade ................................................ 18

MEMBERS

581
89
241
108
119
212
334
181
147
88
122
176
29
348
180
330
643
125
46
49
200
61
560
51
49
418
120
219
227
96
533

27
361
80
28
29

Illinoistown ........................................................ 51

76

AMOUNT

$

655.00
34.00
395.50
180.00
116.50
161.10
284.50
84.50
106.00
185.00
79.00
332.00
40.50
455.75
282.50
326.50
724.00
50.00
10.00
41.00
129.50
101.50
453.00'
111.50
41.50
513.75
93.75
65.00
500.00
268.00

10.00
367.00
88.00
25.00

10.00
71.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

50

NO.

LODGE

l~ ~ ~ :j:i-!~- ~ ~)~j;~:;~j: i ~

George Washington ······------··---·······-··---------·-·· 62

MEMBERS

97
24
246

277
30
55
748
35
87

74

Humboldt ............................................................ 0
8

t~~r-:~ ):~:.:~-[:[=-~:= (~-~ -: _- : ~
North Star -···················-----············"""""""""··········- 93

·-H~--·--·

. --.. .

Lexington -·Pajaro

111

~~~~i~·-·:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 1;;
Eden
Concord
Clinton -···························-·····································~~~
Fidelity ................................................................ 122

~::~nj~~~-:~i:-------::::::::::::::::::·::·:·:·:·::::::·::::·::·:·:::·::::::·:i~!

51

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

49
273
139
85
75
323
51
45
39
159
440
51
49
93
58
85
36
32
131
60
192
88
124
137
215
32
134
129
48
568
71
193
60

A~[OUN'I'

36.00
33.50
188.00
502.50
19.00
1,000.00
2.00
208.75
80.00
152.90
338.14
159.00
95.50
72.00
272.30
19.00
26.50
30.00
527.64

50.00
49.00
20.00
34.50
104.50
10.00
100.00
110.00
120.00
141.00
207.00
80.50
188.50
102.50·
18.00
860.00
43.50
219.00

LODGE

NO.

La Fayette .......................................................... 126
Hermann ............................................................127
Visalia .......................;.......................................... 128
Nicolaus .............................................................. 129
Vvoodbridge ........................................................ 131
. Sincerity ..............................................................132
Vacaville .............................................................. 134
Valley .................................................................. 135
Pacific .............................................................:.... 136
Crockett .............................................................. 139
Curtis .................................................................... 140
Grafton ................................................................ 141
Franklin .............................................................. 143
Oriental ................................................................ 144
Vitruvius ........................................................... .145
Abell ...................................................................... 146
Eel River ............................................................147
Lassen .................................................................. 149
Molino ..................................................................150
Woodland ............................................................ 156
Keystone ............................................................ 161
Harmony .............................................................. 164
Excelsior ............................................................ 166
Alameda .............................................................. 167
Redwood City .................................................... 168
Mission ................................................................ 169
Elk Grove ............................................................ 173
Drytown ..............................................................174
Antioch ................................................................ 175
Phoenix ................................................................ 178
Mendocino ..........................................................179
Petaluma .............................................................. 180
Russian River .................................................... 181
l\.feridian .............................................................. 182
Cfear Lake ..........................................................183
Sierra Valley ...................................................... 184
Claiborne ............................................................185
Evening Star ...................................................... 186
Keith ................................................................... .187
Oakland .............................................................. 188
Northern Light ................................................. .190
Marin .................................................................... 191
Santa Barbara .................................................... 192

MEMBERS

124
201
147

AMOUNT

60.00
280.50
233.00

77
91
45
125

133
123
114
81
171
28
13
426
111
152
896
74
24
110

157.00
83.25
112.50
117.50
1,301.00
388.00
38.00
63.00
120.00
527.00
54.00
86.25
179.00
435.00
90.00
255.50
73.00
30.00
440.28
175.50
123.00
1,707.25
94.00
35.50
120.00

273

143~00

142
220
82
49
29
34
52
36
114
594
77
238
167

68.76
591.00
30.00
50.00
50.00
·16.50
81.35
36.00
20.50
381.50

43
670
473
52
33
72
375

57

410.50
236.25

52
LODG~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NO.

Ferndale ..............................................................193
Mountain View ................................................. .194
Buckeye ................................................................ 195
San Simeon ........................................................ 196
Wilmington ........................................................ 198
Hartley ................................................................ 199
Truckee ................................................................200
Silveyville ........................................................... .201
Pentalpha ........................................................... .202
Confidence ..........................................................203
Salinas ..................................................................204
Olivet ....................................................................205
Stanislaus ............................................................ 206
Anaheim ............................................................. .207
Rio Vista ............................................................. .208
King David's ....................................................209
Friendship .......................................................... 210
San Benito ..........................................................211
South San Francisco ........................................ 212
San Buenaventura ............................................214
0<1.k Grove ..........................................................215
Doric ....................................................................216
Monterey ............................................................217
Mosiac ..................................................................218
Speranza Italiana ..............................................219
Downey ................................................................ 220
Inyo ......................................................................221
Granite .................................................................. 222
Bakersfield ..........................................................224
Brooklyn ............................................................. .225
San Mateo .......................................................... 226
Athens .................................................................. 228
Solano ..................................................................229
North Butte ....................................................... .230
Covelo .................................................................... 231
Janesville ..............................................................232
Calistoga ............................................................. .233
Hope ................................................................... .234
Surprise Valley .......................... :....................... 235
Hill's Ferry ........................................................ 236
Guadalupe ............................................................ 237
Colusa ................................................................. .240
Santa Ana ............................................................ 241
Magnolia ..............................................................242

GRAND LODGE OF CALJFORNIA
MEMBJ!RS

88
113
82
41
62
106
114

79
506
25
151
61
130
122
65
208
256
96
201
134
449

504
113
88
218
106
57
58
309
413
147
76
285
91
43
52
87
53
48

76
64
92
333
107

AMOUNT

69.50
148.00
182.00
207.00
23.00
86.50
58.00
179.00
927.50
15.00
341.92
50.00
25.00
166.00
720.00
274.00
109.00
226.00
205.50
114.50
221.50
293.50
119.50
285.50
83.00
85.00
50.00
588.50
245.75
179.50
39.50
426.64
100.00
45.00
58.50
141.50
57.00
100.00
100.00
22.00
119.00
270.50
66.00

53

r.orK;E

NO.

Eurnlyptus

MEMBERS

102
392
112
264

377

<-'come

········

;_;:;';;~;;: : ::::::=::::.:: ~l

I\ ing. Solomo~·;·--·····················-·-···········-·-···········259

:';;;~~~:~ :: ': :~: :~; ::::: : -:: ·::~~

I lrland

· ···············-···-····-····264

~:~~~:;~~; : ;::::::::: ::

t >Jive Branch

:=::::::

........................................268

Stmth .Mountal~----·····-·········-·······························269

ii~(~-~:: :;;_Ii;? :~~;; =; ~; ;;·::iEif~
So. California

..............................................277

§l~ i1;~"=: ;·;:;·?:=.: t·;;= '.·: :::;;!:~
R~'.~ ~;,~': ;; t:· n;;: ;=~
l'aso Robles

......................................285

I .os Gat

.............................. .291
Oran e Grov
······························292
g
e ···········.-··························-·············293
OS ·•···•·•••••··••·••··•••••••••

67
45
26
53
143
90
202
88
308
568
57
110
193
82
43
48
435
149
34
418
72
53

74
158
668
180
115·
53
39
119
76
61
103
39
62
725
140
131
127

AMOUNT

111.00
154.50
228.50
112.50
190.00
64.00
55.00
94.50
67.00
58.00
283.50
102.55
1,065.00
45.50
211.00
274.50
380.00
59.00
25.00
348.95
160.50
57.00
306.90
53.00
47.00
72.50
300.00
1,362.07
94.50
45.25
41.00
46.00
80.00
39.50
93.00
100.00
31.00
454.15
409.50
184.50
202.25

54
LODGE

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NO,

Traver ..................................................................294
Mount Jackson ................................................. .295
Silver Gate ..........................................................296
Dunsmuir ............................................................. .297
Mokelumne Hill ................................................298
Liberty .................................................................. 299
Redlands ......................•.......................................300
Ontario ................................................................ 301
Santa Lucia .......................................................... 302
Porterville ............................................................303
Reedley ........................................ ,.......................304
Azusa ....................................................................305
. Ashlar ....................................................................306
Santa Monica ......................................................307
Monrovia .............................................................. 308
Delano ..................................................................309
Sisson ....................................................................310
Los Banos ............................................................ 312
Tehachapi ............................................................ 313
Ternescal .............................................................. 314
Norwalk .............................................................. 315

~:~1~::ok····::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::ii~
Emmanuel ............................................................318
Hollenbeck ..........................................................319
South Gate ..........................................................320
Alis al ......................................................................321
Alhambra ..............................................................322
Whittier ................................................................323
Corona .................................................................. 324
Consuelo ..............................................................325
Needles ... :............................................................ 326

i~~!n~;~~~. .:-.·.::-.:-.::::::::·.::-.:-.:-.::::::::·.::::::::::-.:-.::::::::·.:~;~

Vallee de France ................................................329
Kilauea .................................................................. 330
Pacific Grove ......................................................331
San Pedro ............................................................ 332
Alta ........................................................................ 333
Covina .................................................................. 334
West Gate ............................................................ 335
Fr.uitvale .............................................................. 336

~:~q~!~~:to··:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::;::::::::::::::::;;~

MEMBERS

72
86
443
107
45
186
252
136
70
175
67
90
130
153
128
109
86
60
129
92
72
86
45
49
882
742
76
272
171
373
73
141
368
158
101
174
66
211
29
156
429
339
104
107

AMOUNT

LODGE

39.00
61.00
380.00
202.65
105.00
130.00
60.00
35.00
105.25
69.50
174.50
53.00
150.50
237.50
48.00
120.00
78.00
370.00
178.50
77.00
149.00
27.00
1,017.00
699.00
25.00
281.50
44.50
340.50
75.00
208.05
225.50
91.50
175.40
49.50
144.50
30.00.
174.00
807.53
344.00
78.00
53.00

'

No.

MEMBlllRS

l•'ullerton ·····--·--·--··-··············--···--·---······--·--··-··-····339
214
Oxnard ··-·-···-···-····--·······------······--·····---···-·-·····----·--341
177
San Fernando ...................................................... 343
90
Starr King .......................................................... 344
310
Brentwood ...........................................................345
89
Palo Alto ............................................................ 346
216
McKinley ··--···--·-··---·--·--····-·----·--···-····-·-·-···--·-·-··---347
194
Bernardino
·····-·····---···-··---··········--·····-·-·······348
276
sSan
.
equoia .................................................................. 349
581
Pales tine ··-·····--·--·---··----·-----·-·-···-·····-····-·-··--··-· ....351
333
Sunset .................................................................... 352
445
Pinole ··---·-·-···········-··---·---·······-··-·····-···············-·--··353
97
Presidio ..............................;................................. 354
326
I follywood ·-·······-··-·---···--···········--·········-··--···--····355
400
Mill Valley -·······-··········-····----.............................. 356
202
Buena Park ···-······-··-········-··--··-······-····---··-··--·······357
82
Golden State -·······--·····-·--···--··----·-·-·-··--······-·-·····358
515
I .oyal ton ···-······-·---·-----··-·--···,-·-·····--··--····-·-·····--·-.359
38
San Francisco --·--···-----·--·--········-··············-··-------360
269
l•'ort Bragg ·--·-··----··---..........................................361
77
Charity ·---····----··-············-·--··-----·······-·-·-·---·---........362
85
llerkeley .............................................................. 363
368
Willits ······-··--·······-·-·---··--··-: ................................. 365
97
I .as Palm as ..........................................................366
354
South Pasadena .................................................. 367
169
Unity ---··--·····-······-···--·--··········---·---·--··-·--······--·-----368
214
( >cean Park ........................................................369
198
;\mity ······--·-····-·····-·-··-----····--··················--···--·------370
334
l.e Progres de L'Oceanie ................................371
174
( ;ardena ···---···---··---····-···-··-······---·····-·-··-·--···----··---372
89
Veteran ······················-··-·-----·····--···--···········--····--·373
165
J ewe! ......................................................................374
98
Richmond ............................................................375
336
l•'rancis Drake .................................................... 376
76
Artesia .................................................................. 377
88
Mizpah .................................................................. 378
427
l'illmore ................................................................ 379
94
11 untington Park .............................................. 380
64
( >ceanside ............................................................ 381
48
11 ighland Park ....................................................382
322
( lrosi ......................................................................383
67
I•:! Centro ............................................................384
128
J)inuba ..................................................................385
119
Coalinga ................................................................387
150

55
AMOUNT

144.85
356.SO
99.0L
239.00
67.SO
113.00
212.45
240.50
1,262.00
325.00
478.25
1so.so
385.0C
360.50
386.00
171.00
247.00
300.00
121.00
60.50
238.SO
99.00
423.50
142.00
111.50
216.35
306.SO
215.00
6S.OO
66.00
175.SO
340.00
40.SO
86.29
142.50
207.00
77.00·
23.00
404.SO
36.00
224.00
127.25
265.50

56
LODGE

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
NO.

Parnassus ............................................................ 388
Palos Verdes ............................................................ 389
Imperial ................................................................ 390
East Belt ·········-···············-····-··-··--·--·--··················391
West Lake ..........................................................392
Balder ·········-···----·-···-····················-···············--·-----·393
University ............................................................ 394
Turlock ................................................................ 395
Apollo .................................................................... 396
Rising Light ........................................................397
Fraternity ............................................................399
Burlingame ..........................................................400
Bay View ························-····-··············-····--·--······401
Brawley -·····-·-····--········-·······-··--·····-·····-················402
Yerba Buena ..................................................... .403
Glendora .............................................................. 404
Mon eta ..................................................................405
Burbank .............................................................. ,.406
La Mesa ................................................................407
Sierra Madre ..................................................... .408
Honolulu .............................................................. 409
Charter Rock ...................................................... 410
Perris .................................................................... 411
Calexico ................................................................412
Waucoba ..............................................................413
Arlington .............................................................. 414
Silver Trowel ..................................................... .415
Lindsay ............................................................... .416
Clovis .................................................................... 417
Elysian .................................................................. 418 ,
Upland ..................................................................419
Kerman ............................................................... .420
Inglewood ·····························~·····························421
Eagle Rock ..........................................................422
York ......................................................................423
Exeter ..................................................................424
Holtville ............................................................... .425
Midway ................................................................426
Chino Valley ........................................................427
San Dimas ..............., ............................................ 428
Pittsburg ............................................................. .429
Mc Cloud ..............................................................430
Alpha .................................................................... 431
Roseville ..............................................................432

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
MllJllBllRS

317
179
71
50
616
217
253
86
156
135
186
174
238

79
219
56
296
78

57
65
196
376
54
91
31
141
160
60
49
231
70
46
87
45
63

57
61
128
44
62
58
42
204
95

AMOUNT

103.00
110.00
431.00
58.00
950.00
173.00
184.78
116.00
117.00
100.00
6.00
269.95
86.00
180.25
124.00
115.00
254.50
33.50
85.00
102.50
265.50
373.00
53.00
128.05
17.00
138.50
29.25
64.50
107.85
175.50
145.00
36.00
35.00.
55.00
32.75
50.50
191.00.
744.00
58.00
83.50
70.00
31.00
110.00
66.00

LOGDB

NO,

Hammonton ........................................................433
Maricopa ..............................................................434
Fairmount ............................................................435
Claremont .......... ~................................................. 436
Lancaster ..............................................................437
Germania .............................................................. 438
Tyrian ....................................................................439
Standard .............................................................. 440
Coronado ............................................................ 441
Blackmer .............................................................. 442
Schofield ..............................................................443
Carpinteria ..........................................................444
Wilshire ................................................................445
La Puente ............................................................ 446
Torrance ..............................................................447
Mount Diablo .................................................... 448
Park ......................................................................449
Van N uys ............................................................450
Montebello ..........................................................451
San Pasqual ........................................................452
Bethlehem ............................................................453
Crocker ................................................................454
Golden West ..................................................... .455
Kennett ................................................................ 456
Ramona ................................................................457
Henry S. Orme .................................................. ..458
Riverbank ........................................................... .459
Mount Oso ......................................................... .460
Argonaut ..............................................................461
Paul Revere ........................................................462
Morgan Hill ........................................................463
Alta Vista ............................................................464
Center .................................................................... 465
Libertas ................................................................466
Culver City ..........................................................467
Rockridge ............................................................ 468
Yorba Linda ........................................................ U. D.
Lincoln ................................................................ U. D.

5i

MEMBERS

AMOUNT

52
54
393
58
48
76
42
122
84
112
106
36
259
40
38
46
202
59
40
85
95
49
153
48
62
123
42

102.00
281.50
368.50
46.00
129.50
80.50
43.00
123.50
91.90
125.00
15.00
34.00
334.50
25.00
48.75
45.00
261.00
79.00
60.75
110.50
168.00
62.00
171.00
78.00
115.00
152.50
59.40
42.50
100.00
311.00
17.50
41.50
56.00
255.00
14.00
56.00

47
66
133
23
35

47
28
16
15

St. Bernard Comman<lery K. T. No. 23 ................................... .
Tonopah Lodge No. 28, Nevada ................................................. .
T. Rossini. Home, Italy..................................................................
Salvage. sale of furniture ............................................................... .
Interest on deposits ........................................................................

51.00
10.00
20.00
133.20
165.19

Total ............................................................................................$67,650.29

58

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
DISBURSEMENTS

Voucher
No.
1 E. Curtis, furniture ..........................................................................$ 99.00
2 Silver Gate Lodge No. 296, refreshments January.•................
40.00
3 Chas. F. O'Neall, Remington typewriter, San Diego ..............
50.00
4 Leo Bruck, furniture, San Francisco........................................... .
85.33
5 Roberts Mfg. Co., 8 elec. hangers, San Francisco.................... 100.00
6 John B. Osborn, February bills, San Diego .............. "............ ..
28.54
7 H. Maundrell, painting, San Francisco ..................................... . 165.00
8 R. Dewar & Son, partitions, San Francisco ............................. . 140.00
9 Geary Floor Co., sanding floor, San Francisco....................... .
60.00
10 M. A. DeLew, elec. work, San Francisco ................................. . 205.54
·11 Yawman & Erbe Co., tray and guides, San Francisco.......... ..
3.32
12 D. N. & E. Walter, furniture and curtains ............................... . 310.60
13 Garnie Auction Co., furniture, San Francisco ......................... . 176.50
14 John B. Osborn, balance voucher No. 6......................................
10.05 .
15 • John B. Osborn, San Diego, furnishings and salary ............. . 969.36
16 Esther Teahon, multigraphing 400 letters ..................................
2.75
17 Times-Mirror Ptg. Co., letter heads and envelopes ............... .
10.75
18 Henry A. Cline, account furnishings ......................................... . 107.75
19 Henry A. Cline, services lY, months .......................................... 125.00
20 John B. Osborn, services and expense, San Diego ................. . 182.65
21 Times-Mirror Ptg. Co., letter heads and envelopes ............ ..
10.75
22 E. J. Lermond, postage stamps .............................................. .
21.25
23 E. & M. Teahon, multigraphing................................................... .
15.20
24 John B. Osborn, services and expense, San Diego................. . 310.62
25 H. A Cline and E. L. Meyer, services and petty expense ..... . 107.02
26 John B. Osborn, services and expense, San Diego ................. . 531.06
27 John B. Osborn, ditto ...................................................................... 185.25
28 Walter N. Brunt, 500 receipts War Fund ................................. .
6.50
29 H. A. Cline and E. L. Meyer, services and expense ............. . 133.68
30 San Pedro Lodge No. 332, furniture ............................................ 500.00
31 John B. Osborn, services and expense, San Diego................. . 614.84
32 H. A. Cline and E. L. Meyer, services and expense ............... . 111.92
33 Col. John H. Gardner, honor tablet... ........................................ .
10.00
34 Esther Teahan, multigraphing...................................................... ..
6.IO
35 H. A. Cline and E. L. Meyer, services and expense............... . 119.27
36 John B. Osborn, services and expense, San Diego ............... . 517.07
37 Pac. Gas and Elec. Co., San Francisco ........................................ . 2.30
38 San Pedro Lodge No. 332, refreshments ................................. .
24.80
39 E. ]. Lermond, postage stamps ..................................................... .
13.50
40 John B. Osborn, services and expense, San Diego ................. . 489.12

•11
42
·I.I
-M
·15

Masonic Club, San Francisco ........................................................
Walter N. Brunt, post cards and large cards ............................
Palo Alto Lodge No. 346, refreshments ..................................... .
Temple Club, Vallejo........................................................................
Masonic Club, San Francisco...................................................... ..
·lh ltd. Crolic, San Diego Service Association.............................. ..

59

50.00
33.75
102.17
40.50
50.00
583.19

Total disbursements ..............................................................$7,462.00
October 4-Balance in Treasury..........................................................$60,188.29

The Deputy Grand Master appointed the followinit
\Vill H. Fisch1'1', John Clute, Francis \V. Mixter.

! 'ommittee on the Grand Master's Address:

Past Grand Master Monroe moved that copies of the
(;rand Master's Address he printed and distributed by the
<;rand Secretary to the Lodges in the jurisdiction. Carried.
The Report of the Special Committee on French Masonry was made special order for Vv ednesday morning at
10 o'clock.

60

61

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PHOCEEDINGS OF THE

Assets.

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER
The Grand Treasurer presented his annual report as
follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I herewith present my annual report as Grand Treasurer of the
Grand Lodge and Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of California as
follows:
GRAND LODGE GENERA'L FUND.

llalance on Hand July 31st, 1918......................................................$ 24,849.74
7-6% Blue Lakes Water Co. Bonds.......................................... 7,700.00
(1-4% S. P. Railroad Bonds.......................................................... 5,580.00
•>-5% Cal. Gas & Electric Bonds................................................ 8,550.00
H-5% Pacific Tel. & Tel. Bonds.................................................. 8,000.00
2-5% Los Angeles Gas & Elec. Bonds...................................... 1,860.00
11-4% U. S. Government Liberty Loan Bonds (2d).............. 11,000.00
;17,!0J Shares Masonic Temple Ass'n Stock. ............................... 37-0,000.00
Total ................................................................................................$437,539.74

Receipts.

Balance on hand August 1st, 1917................................$26,082.45
From Grand Secretary...................................................... 73,220.93
From EI Centro Notes ........................................ $175.00
Less Collection Charges....................................
.85
174.15
From Interest on Bank Deposits ................................. .
952.50
From Interest on Bonds ................................................ .. 1,610.00
Interest on U. S. Liberty Loan Bonds ..................... .
220.00
---$102,260.03

WM. P. FILMER,
Grand Treasurer.
ENDOWMENT FUND.

77.690.29

Receipts.
llalance on Hand August 1, 1917 ..................................................$ 4,712.06
l<eceived from Donations ................................................$ 15,874.61
l{l'ceived from Bonds Redeemed..................................
1,000.00
lfrceived Interest from Banks and Bonds.................. 2,582.37
lfrceived Interest on Loan Trustees Masonic
Homes to August I, 1918........................................ 2,172.00
lfrceived from Masonic Homes (Repayment Loan
Account) .................................................................... 5,000.00
- - - - 26,628.98

Balance on Hand July 31st, 1918............................................$ 24,569.74

$ 31.341.04

Disbursements.

Checks 1 to 224 ....................................................................$77,740.29
Less Cancelled Checks............................................
:io.oo

DisbursetnC'nts.
Ban/{ Deposits.
I

Crocker National Bank ........................................................................$ 15,772.~5
San Francisco Savings & Loan Society.......................................... 8,626.60
450.59
Union Trust Company........................................................................

Transferred to Home Maintenance ..............................$
152.50
Loaned Trustees Masonic Homes .............................. .. 15,000.00
1•11r Liberty Bonds .......................................................... .. 14,000.00
29,152.50
Balance August I, 1918..............................................................$ 2,188.54

$ 24,849.74
Liberty Bond Interest Transferred to Emlownment Fund......
280.00
$ 24,569.74

Humboldt Savings Bank ............................$
Masonic Homes Interest .......................... ..

16.54
2,172.00
$ 2,188.54

62

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

63

S ecuritics.

Securities.

21-40% City of Santa Barbara Bonds;······--· ..........$ 11,287.50
5-40% City of Santa Barbara Bonds.................... 5,000.00
16-5 % Pac. Tel. & Tel. Co. Bonds........................ 16,000.00
12-40% San Francisco Retch Hetchy Bonds........ 12,000.00
2-5 % City & County of San Francisco Bonds 2,000.00
5-6 % City of Upland Bonds.................................. 3,125.00
9-5 % City of Ashland Bonds................................ 9,000.00
5-5 % City of Richmond Bonds............................ 5,000.00
10-5 % Cal. Gas and Electric Bonds .................... 10,000.00
11-30% U. S. Gov't Liberty Loan Bonds ........... . 11,000.00
14-4~ % U. S. Gov't Liberty Loan Bonds .......... .. 14,000.00.
10U. S. Gov't Liberty Loan Bonds ............
500.00
2;......
U. S. Gov't Liberty I,oan Bonds ........... .
200,00
- - - - $ 99,112.50
Loan to Trustees Masonic Homes................................................ 45.800.00

I 'ac. Gas & Elec. Co .......................................................$ 5,000.00
9,000.00
l 'al. Gas & Elec. Co .........................................................
5,000.00
l,ns Angeles Railway Co .............................................
l,iberty Bonds .............................................................. ..
1,000.00
- - - - . 20,000.00

$ 20,572.13

WM. P. Fu.MER,

Grand Treasurer.

MASONJC WAR ~'UND,

Received from Various Sources ..................................$ 61,436.02
Interest ................................................................................
58.33

Total Endowment Fund, August 1. 1918 ............................ $147,101.04

WM. P.

----..;i,

Disbursements
Liberty Bonds

FILMER,

61,494.35

5,446.75
5,000.00
10,446.75

Grand Treasurer.

Balance on Hand July 31, 1918................................................$ 51,047.<50
MASONJC

Hoi.rns

OF

CALTFORNJA-"SPECIAL

HOM!\

FUND"

Crocker National llank ........................................................................$ 35,989.27
Savings Union Bank & Trust Co..................................................... 15,058.33

Special Home F1md

August 1, 1917, to July 31, 1918.
Balance on Hand August
Received Interest Bank....................................................$
Received Interest Bonds .......... :.................................... .

$ 51,047.<50

600.35
21.78
950.00

Liberty Bonds ........................................................................................$ 5,000.00
971.78.

$ 1,572.13
Liberty Bonds Purchased.................................................................... 1,000.00
Balance Humboldt Savings Bank. ...........................................$

572.13

WM. P.

F1LM£R,

Grand Treasurer.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

64

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
The Grand Secretary then read his Annual Report as
follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I report herewith the transactions of the Grand Secretary's
office for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1918, together with a detailed account of all moneys received within the year, and a detailed and itemized statement of the disbursements of the Grand
Lodge. In addition thereto I have appended an account of receipts since the close of business July 31, to and including October 2, 1918; and all unfinished business of Grand Lodge.
The year has been a particularly busy one for the Grand
Secretary, the many war activities in which members of our fraternity have taken a leading and splendid part being largely responsible for the added work. But it has been a labor of love.
All that those of us whose age or bodily infirmities preclude active military service can do for the men-and women-who are
engaged overseas, should be done, and I am happy in knowing
that our members, old and young, are in no degree slackers;
on the contrary, Masons everywhere by personal service. by pen,
by tongue, by money unstinted, are standing loyally and wholeheartedly squarely behind the Government in all and every activity
to win the war and establish forever the doctrine of decent democracy.
Some notion of the extra correspondence may be noted from
the letters and answers written with reference to having degrees
conferred by courtesy by our Lodges for other jurisdictions, and
by other jurisdictions for California Lodges. \Ve have requested
930 degrees to be conferred outside of California as courtesy to
our Lodges, and likewise we have conferred 806 degrees as favor
to Lodges in other jurisdictions. In every instance these requests
have been cheerfully granted and without fee. Needless to say,
all this work was conferred upon men in the military and naval
service. In many instances several letters were necessarily written because of the uncertain location of candidates, and I am
happy to report that in most cases we were able to locate the
soldier candidates and have the degrees conferred before they
sailed for "over there."

GRAND I.ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

66

As required by an amendment to section 50 of the Constitution, I prepared standardized forms of all blanks required to be
used by Lodges, and placed them on sale at cost. Price lists have
heen sent to each Secretary, and many of them have taken advantage of this wise provision of the law.
Grand Lodge last year required the Grand Secretary to furnish at cost to the Lodges such numbers of the Constitution and
Ceremonies as might be required, for the purpose of carrying out
the provisions of the resolution "that hereafter it shall be obligatory on the part of each and every Lodge, on completing the confcrring of the degrees upon a candidate, formally to present to
him a volume of the Constitution and Ceremonies, properly inscribed by the Master and Secretary." For this purpose six
thousand copies of the book were printed, and on the 15th of
August, 1918, the entire lot was sold. Another edition will be
printed as soon as may be after this Communication.
Pursuant to a resolution of Grand Lodge, I caused to be
typed and sent to the Board of Relief of Los Angeles, a card index of the entire membership. Five hundred dollars was appropriated for this purpose, and the work cost for labor and postage $346.65 and for cards $82.70. The names added to the memhcrship this year will be carded and sent to that body.
As ordered by Grand Lodge, I prepared and caused to be
printed a form of diploma in English, French and Latin for the
use and benefit of members in the military or naval service of the
tr nited States and its allies. Three thousand eight hundred and
fifty of these diplomas had been issued to July 31st, but inasmuch
ns there are considerably more than five thousand members in the
M<-rvice, it is apparent that many have not availed themselves of
this privilege.
At the close of the last annual communication we had 379
Lodges under our obedience with a membership of 60,393. Chari 1·rs were ordered issued at that communication to three Lodges:
Lihertas No. 466, located at Bakersfield, constituted October 30,
f<IJ7; Culver City No. 467, located at Culver City, constituted Novt·mber 6th, 1917, and Rockridge No. 468, located in the Claremont district of Oakland, constituted October 13, 1917, all by
(;rand Master Hervey.
Three Lodges have been formed during the year: Yorba
1.inda, located at Yorba Linda, Orange County; Lincoln, located

66

PROCEEDINOS OF THE

ar San Francisco, and Delta, located at Stockton. Following is a
list of the signers to the petitions for the formation of these
Lodges:
Yorba Linda: Dispensation issued February 13, 1918: James
William Newell, Master; Carl Horace Seamans, Senior \Varden;
William Charles Fricke, Jr., Junior Warden, and Victor Roiger
Robertson, Daniel Alva Speer, James Albert Logsdon, Henry E ..
Carnes, Edmund Ewell Knight, George Laroy Calkins, Frank
Irving Shepherd, Edwin Lee Gilman, Scane Eben Spencer, ~alter
Raymond Milhous, William Otto Howey, Alvin Russell Lipton,
Charles William Blattner and John Duffield Boughner.
Lincoln: Dispensation issued June 25th, 1918: James Cha~e
Wilder, Master; Arthur Max Joel, Senior Warden; Robert Austin
Peabody, Junior Warden, and Sidney Igstadter, Albert Baer, Burr
Gould St. John, Simon Wolff, Max Isidor Koshland, Harry Abraham Miller, Howard David Baird, Leonard T. Pockman, Alexander McBirney, Henry Steinbach, James H. Garden, Edgar _Malcolm Cameron, Charles Halloway, Jr., Albert Henry Oppenhetme.r,
Karl Walbach, Robert Napier Silver, Will Ernie! Wehser, Solomon Uri, George Washington Uri, Moses Uri, Adolph Koshland,
Paul Hartman.
Delta: Dispensation issued August 17, 1918: Frederick William Moore, Master; Parke Edwin Grady, Senior \Varden; Samuel Gossler Gearhart, Jr., . Junior Warden, and Gerald Beatty
Wallace, Ralph Denny Robertson, Frank Veach May9, Hamid
Eidenm.ueller Owens, Herbert William Post, Ellwood Mien Test,
George 'Fay Pease, Wilbert Elmer Pierce, Herbert Hen:y. Grow,
Frederick Dean Burleigh, Alfred Edmond Pryor, W1lham B.
Davenport, Albert Volney Faight, Reynolds Mi:chell Rose~stell,
William Henry Briggs, George Rollin Goold, Richard McKinley,
Harry M. Hudson.
·The gross gains for the year were large. Lodges re~~rted
that they had raised an aggregate of 4551; restored 245; aff1ltated
W2; total gross gain 5789. The losses reported were: Withdrawn
725; suspended for non-payment of dues 609; suspended and
e:l{pelled for cause .12; died 8J.O. Total gros_s loss 2156. Our
total net membership is now 63,986, a net gam for the year of
3593. There is a discrepancy of forty members unaccounted for.
The dues of 4128 members were remitted.
Brethren. living at and near Hermosa Beach again petitioned
for the formation of a Lodge at that place. The Grand Master
refused to approve the petition.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

87

The Lodges of the jurisdiction now having five hundred or
more members are as follows:
1915
No. 319.................... 727
Mission No. 169............................ 908
Live Oak No. 61............................ 719
East Gate No. 290........................ 656
<)akland No. 188............................ 558
South Gate No. 320...................... 729
l'acific No. 136.............................. 669
So. California No. 278.................. 682
West Lake No. 392...................... 557
<)ccidental No. 22.......................... 548
Sequoia No. 349... ,........................ 499
California No. 1............................ 573
King Solomon's No. 260 ............ 511
l'idelity No. 120............................ 546
<iolden Gate No. 30.................... 538
Colden State No. 358.................. 445
Los Angeles No. 42.................... 490
Pentalpha No. 202........................ 506
Crockett No. 139.......................... 432
J}oric No. 216................................ 476

680
579
581
543
583
513
561
548
480
517
499
442
503

504

595
572
563
562
547
510
507
506

11,769

12, 174

12,550

13,039

1lollenbeck

1916
810

902
738

706
572
742

675

1917
882
896
748
725
594
719
670
668
616
643
581
581
568
568

560
515
533
506

473

1918
967
900
789
764
641
714
700
676
667
638
620
601

Transcripts of trial records have been received and placed
with the Committee on Appeals and Grievances, as follows:
No. 122-Expelled by Naval No. 87 in 1912. Petition for
restoration.
No. 148-Expelled by Ontario No. 301, December 5, 1913.
tition for restoration.

Pe-

No. 164-Fellow Craft of Oakdale ·No. 265, expelled by San
Joaquin No. 19, September, 1914. Petition for restoration.
No. 199-Expelled by South Gate No, 320 in 1916. Petition
for restoration.
· No. 230--Expelled by Brooklyn No. 225, November 6;,1917.
No. 231-Expelled by Blackmer No. 442, Decembe'r' 3, 1917.
No. 232-Suspended by West Lake No. 392, February 27, 1918.
No. 233-Expelled by San Mateo No. 226, June 6th, 1918.
No. 234-Expelled by Ocean Park No. 369, June 4, 1918.
No. 235-Expelled by Azusa No. 305, June 7, 1918.

68

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

No. 236-Expelled by Burbank No. 406, May 6, 1918.
No. 237-Expelled by Bay View No. 401, January 6, 1918. ·
No. 238-Suspended by Marin No. 191, August 14, 1918.
No. 239-A member of Stanislaus No. 206, expelled by Y cisemite No. 99, August 6, 1918.
No. 240-Suspended by Downey No. 104, March 23, 1918.
No. 242-Expelled by Pasadena No. 272, August 5, 1918.
No. 243-Unaffiliated, expelled by Palos Verdes No. 389, Sep:
tember 4, 1918.
No. 244-Expelled by Starr King No. 344, May 1, 1918. ·
No. 245-Expelled by Speranza Ttaliana No. 219, Octobe~ 3, 1918.
No. 246-Reprimanded by Arcata No. 106, November, 1917.

The following proposed amendments to the by-laws have
been received and approved by the Grand Master:
Decreasing dues: Enterprise No. 70 (to $12.00 a year).
Reducing fees for the degrees: Mount Moriah No. 44 to
$50.00; Durant No. 268, to $50.00; San Pasqual No. 452, to
$50.00; Bethlehem No. 453, to $50.00.
Increasing fees for the degrees: Benicia No. 5, to $50.00; LaFayette No. 126, to $50.00; Grafton No. 141, to $50.00; Covelo No.
231, to $40.00; Hesperian No. 264 . to $50.00; Oakdale No. 275. to
$50.00; Mount Jackson No. 295, to $30.00; Las Palmas No. 366,
to $75.00.
Increasing dues: Henry Clay No. 95. to $9,00; Chico No. 111,
to $12.00; LaFayette No. 126. to $9.00; Pentalpha No. 202, to $9.00;
Cove lo No. 231, to $6.00 (merely correcting phraseology); Durant
No. 268, to $9.00; South Gate No. 320. to $9.00; Sunset No. 352, to
$9.00; Ocean Park No. 369, to $9.00: Brawley No. 402, to $9.00;
Calexico No. 412, to $12.00; Roseville No. 432, to $7.50.
Relating to affiliation fees: Mizpah N' o. 378, fixing fee at
$15.00; Eagle Rock No. 422, abolishing fee; Marico~a ·No. 434,
abolishing fee; Alta Vista No. 464. abolishing fee.
Changing time of stated meetings: Enterprise· No:. 70, Grafton No. 141, Eel River No. 147, Molino No. 150, Elk Grove No.
173, Drytown No. 174, Buckeye No. 195, North Butte No'. 230.
Lompoc No. 262, Madera No. 280, Maxwell No. 288, Santa Paula
No. 291. Mount Jackson No. 295, Monrovia No. 308, Oceanside
No. 381, Apollo No. 396, Standard No. 440,. Bethlehem No. 453,
Rock ridge No. 468.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

G9

Special dispensations for various purposes have been isstred
by order of the Grand Master, as follows:
. To et:ct o~ficers to fill vacancies caused by death or resignation: California No. 1, San Diego No. 35, Plumas No. 60, Pajaro
No .. 1:0, Summit No. 112, Herman No. 127, Keystone No. 161.
Mend1an No. 182, Keith No. 187, Salinas No. 204, Stanislaus No.
206, Concord No. 117, Doric No. 216, Mosaic No. 218, Rocklin No.
222, Magnolia No. 242. Lodi No. 256, Pasadena No. 272, Selma No.
277, Paso Robles No. 286, Winnedumah No. 287 Ashlar No. 306
Sisson No. 310, Fallbrook No. 317, Turlock Ko'. 395, Clovis No'.
417, York No. 423, McCloud No. 430, Hammonton No. 433, Coronado No. 441, Schofield Xo. 443.
To re ballot upon candidates rejected within twelve months:
La Parfaite Union No. 17, Sotoyome No. 123, Crockett No. 139
(2). Oriental No. 144, Petaluma No. 180, Elsinore No. 289, West
Gate No. 335, San Bernardino No. 348, Las Palmas No. 366, Richm~nd No. 375, Upland No. 419, Alpha No. 431, Fairmount No.
43:>, Lancaster No. 437, Park No. 449, Argonaut No. 461. One
from Henry S. Orme No. 458, denied. One from Oak Grove No.
215, denied. Petaluma No. 180.
To receive petitions from members of the army who did
not possess the required qualifications of residence: Benicia ·No.
5 (3), San Diego No. 35 (2), Pacific No. 136 (2), Monterey No.
217, Lompoc No~ 262, Durant No. 268 (2), East Gate No. 290,
Silver Gate No. 296 (2), llollenbeck No. 319, Palo Alto No. 346
(19), Presidio No. 354 (2), Blackmer No. 442 (10), Bethlehem No.
453.
,
To receive and act upon petitions without reference to committee: \Vashington No. 20 (4), Golden Gate No. 30, Ophir No.
.13, Sacramento No. 40, Los Angeles No. 42, Mount Moriah No.
44, Suisun No. 55, Santa Rosa No. 57, Live Oak No. 61, Amador
No. 65, Morning Star No. 68, Oroville No. 103, Lexington No. 104
(2), Chico No. 111, Pacific No. 136 (2), Crockett No. 139, Lassen
No. 149, Redwood City Xo. 168, Phoenix No. 178, Marin No. 191,
Santa Barbara No. 192, Olivet No. 205, Oak Grove No. 215,
Brooklyn No. 225 (2), Orland No. 265, Galt No. 267 (2), Durant
:--:o. 268 (6), Olive Branch No. 269 (5). Arroyo No. 274, Selma
No. 277, Southern California No. 278 (2), Madera No. 280, Porterville No. 303 (2), Delano No. 309 (2), Hollenbeck No. 319 (2),
Alhambra No. 322, Fruitvale Xo. 336 (3), San Bernardino No. 348,
Sequoia No. 349 (3), Herkeley No. 363. Las Palmas No. 366 (2),
South Pasadena No. 367, Fillmore No. 379 (3), Highland Park No.
382, Parnassus No. 388, West Lake No. 392 (5), University No.

,70

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

394, Fraternity No, 399 (2), Bay View No, 401 (2), Glendora No,
404 (2), Lindsay No. 416, Exeter No. 424 (2), Lancaster No. 437,
Wilshire No. 445 (6), Park No. 449, Henry S. Orme No. 458,
Golden \Vest No. 455, Argonaut No. 461, Paul Revere No. 462 (2),
Rockridge No. 468.
A resolution by Rockddge Lodge No. 468, to create a life
membership fund, was approved. Likewise Durant No. 268, San
Pedro No. 332, and Alta Vista No. 464.

By reason of destruction by fire, duplicate charters were ordered and issued to the following Lodges: Adin No. 250, Maxwell No. 288, and East Belt No. 391.
Under date of August 14, 1918, John H. McGehee was by the
Grand Master appointed a member of the Finance Committee,
vice Ralph Lowe, who died April 22d, 1918.
Under date of August 30, 1918, Charles H. Victor was appointed Grand Orator, vice George L. Jones, resigned.
And under date of September 19, 1918, William T. Osterholt
was appointed Grand Sword Bearer, vice M. J. N euherg, in the
army.

71

Past Grand Masters and Elective Grand Officers Dying 1917-1918.
Arkansas-C. A. Bridewell, Past Grand Master November 18
1917.
'
•
Colorado-George D. Kennedy, Past Grand Master, January
26, 1918.
Colorado-James Hamilton Peabody, Past Grand Master N 0 •
vember 23, 1917.
•
Indiana-Edward O'Rourke, Past Grand Master, July 5, 1918.
Kansas-Charles Henry Chandler, Past Grand Master D _
cember 18, 1917.
•
e
Kentucky-Charles Anton Gipe, Grand Tyler, May 30, 1918.
Louisiana.:_Charles Francis Buck, Past Grand Master, January 19, 1918.
Maine-Augustus Bowman Farnham Past Grand Maste J·
ary 14, 1918.
'
r, ani.:Manitoba-J ohn
1918.

McKechnie

'

Past Grand Ma t
s er, May 30,

1917.Nebraska-William E. Hill, Past Grand Master, December 29,

The Library
Last year Grand Lodge appropriated five hundred dollars to
the Library Committee for the purpose of providing .book cases,
for cataloging and for purchasing books. Of this appropriation
only $81.75 was expended, being
Labor listing and placing about 600 volumes Davis books ...... $15.00
Fourteen volumes Sacred Hooks of the Far East.. ...................... 64.25
What is Masonry? (De Clifford) ...................................................... 2.50
$81.75

Nebraska-Manoah JI . I'"eese, p ast Grand Master, September
28, 1917.
Nebraska-Frank llcnry Orcutt Young, Past Grand Master,
December 24, 1917.
Nevada-Enoch Strother, Past Grand Master, July 17, 1918.
New York-George Freifeld, Past Grand Master Novcn I
16, 1917.
' '
1 ier
Nova Scotia-Luther B. Archibald, Past Grand Master February 10, 1918.
·
'
Oregon-Julius C. Moreland, Past Gra1i<I M
1918.
, aster, February 2,

To the Chairman of the Committee your Librarian and the
Grand Lodge are indebted for the gift of a fine oak library table,
as well as for numerous hooks. Through his good offices much
shelving was placed without cost. This matter I assume will be
referred to in the report of the Library Committee.

Orego11-Septin11ts Stovcn S1>cl!c"r, Past G
I
15, 1918.
'
xra1H Master, July
Oregon-1 lenry H. Thielsen. Past Grand Master, April 7, 1918.
Oregon-William Thomas Wright Past Grand Ma t
D
cember 11, 1917.
'
s er,
eOrcgon-Thomas Gray, Past Grand Master, August 24, 1918.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

72

W'll H Whyte Grand Secretary.
Quebec- 1
·
'
p t Grand Master,
South Dakota-Samuel Augustine Brown, as
February 5, 1918.
A ·1 3 1918
Bell Past Grand Master, pn '
·
Texas-J o h n P · ·
'
2 1918
.
. Cohn Past Grand Master, July ,
Utah- L oms
'
M
De. . ·a John
M Hamilton, Past Grand
aster,
West v irgm1 ·
cember 27, 1916.
d M t
March
okes, Past Gran
as er,
West Virginia-Wynd h am St
12, 1917.

73

War Fund
The total receipts for the War Fund to October 4th amounted to $67,610.29, and the expenditures therefrom were $7,462.00, a
detailed account of all subscriptions and disbursements being
appended to the address of the Grand Master.

Unfinished Business
A proposed revision of the Funeral Service, presented by Denman S. Wagstaff. (Proceedings 1917, page 419.)

Emergency Relief Fund
.
he Emergency Relief Fund. ImmeThere was one call upon t
f the great shipping disaster at
diately upon receipt of the nedws od th t one thousand dollars be
.
h G
d Master or ere
a
.
d
Halifax t e
ran
f N a Scotia at Halifax, an on
sent to the Grand Seclret~ry d othato:mount, for which I hold reh f December
wire
f II
.
t-h e 8t o
..
f h' . f d is now as o ows.
. t The cond1t10n o t is un
ceip ·
$4 920.61
Balance on hand per report of 1917 ........................ 000.00
Liberty Bonds, 30%...................................................... '
$8,920.61

4

1 000.00
December 8, 1917, relief to Halifax .............................................. _,_ __
$7,920.61
70.00
15 1917 interest on bonds............................................
89.10
70.00
Decembber 31' 1917 interest, bank deposit..................................
Decem er
,
'
d
....................... ..
15 1918 interest on bon s.............................
81.58
June 30, 1918, interest bank deposit .............................................. _ _ __
June
,
'
'
Total in fund, counting bonds at par .................................... $8,231.29
.
h
L dges subscribed for Liberty
d
d thirty-t ree o
I 31
One hun d re an
m of 131,800 for the year ended Ju~
,
bonds in the aggregate s~
J ~ 31 1918 217 Lodges subscribed
1917. For the year ending u y
,
,
$280,990.00.
r of Grand Lodge, the portraits of four
Pursuant to the orde ainted during the year and hung on t~e
Past Grand Masters were p
I English Grand Master m
walls on the Tempi~, nam~lis5~~~e:onldas E. P~att, 1869-70-71-72;
1861. Gilbert B. Claiborne,
,
187 5-76-77-78.
,
.
John Mills Browne,
. V K
l1'ng Past Grand Master, as
.
. t f Francis . ees
'
The 011 portrai 0
.
l
·
· the Temple.
ainted and is now iangmg m
ordere d , wa.s P

A petition for restoration by a former member of Golden Gate
Lodge No. 30. (Proceedings 1917, page 522.)
A resolution "That a special committee of five members of this
Grand Lodge be appointed by the Grand Master to report at the
next Annual Communication some plan whereby, if possible, the
breach between French and Anglo-Saxon Masonry may be healed
without the sacrifice on either side of any essential principle or matter of conscience." (Proceedings 1917, page 566.)
A resolution "That a special committee be appointed by the
Grand Master to formulate ~nd present amendments to the existing law that will provide some method by which each member of
the fraternity shall be required to contribute one dollar a year to
the Masonic Homes Endowment Fund." (Proceedings 1917, page
523.)
The recommendation of Grand Master Keesling with reference
to permitting portions of the initiatory ceremonies to be conferred
on more than one candidate at a time. (Proceedings 1917, pages
274, 507.)
The suggestion of Grand Master Keesling that the functions of
the Finance Committee be enlarged to include consideration of
many problems that properly come under the classification of Ways
and Means, and to change the designation of the Finance Committee to Ways and Means Committee. (Proceedings 1917 . pages
275, 572.)
During the year ending July 31, 1918, I have drawn warrants
against the Grand Treasurer as follows:

75

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

74

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

.11.

Warrant
No.
1. John Whicher, salary, August, 1917................................$ 300.00
250.00
2. T. J. Baker, salary, August, 1917 ....................................... .
175.00
3. H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1917 ................................. .
150.00
4. Masonic Temple Association, rent, September, 1917 ..
25.00
5. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
25.00
6. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master.. ......................... .
129.65
7. T. J. Baker, expenses, July 24 to August 22, 1917 ....... .
35.00
8. Rabjohn & Marcum, frame portrait Burnett.. ............... .
8.90
9. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent July, 1917 ............................... .
10. N ea! Publishing Co., 150 letter circulars, $4.25; 600
11.50
letter circulars, $7.25 ....................................................... .
11. Walter N. Brunt, 500 invitations and envelopes and
200 enclosures (Dedication Masonic Horne,
16.00
Covina) ............................................................................. .
12. F. W. Wentworth & Co., 5000 cards, ruled and num20.00
bered (Card system) ....................................................... .
175.00
13. Schmidt Lithograph Co., 1000 pocket diplomas ........... .
30.25
14. Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 1500 programs Grand Lodge ..
15. John Whicher, postage stamps, $10.00; 500 reports of
Lodges and 80 Inspector's reports, $6.00; express19.48
age, $1.48; telegrams, $1.50; office, 50 cents ............. .
16. E. C. Hughes Co., 150 legal blank forms, $18.50; 1000
31.00
letter heads, $12.50 ........................................................... .
17. E. H. Hart, Chairman Committee on Correspond200.00
ence ····················································································
100.00
18. York Lodge No. 423, relief of Louis V. Boehning ..... .
19. Arthur Ritter, personal expenses re survey Children's
100.00
health, Covina ................................................................... .
20. Harold K. Taylor, personal expenses re survey Chil50.00
dren's health, Covina ....................................................... .
300.00
21. John Whicher, salary, September, 1917 ......................... .
250.00
22. Thomas J. Baker, salary, September, 1917 ..................... .
175,00
23. Harry S. Johnson, salary, September, 1917 ................... .
150.00
24. Masonic Temple Association, rent, October, 1917....... .
25.00
25. Jack Heitman, order of Grand Master ........................... .
25.00
26. Mrs. C. W. Taylor, appropriation by Grand Lodge ... .
62.25
27. H. S. Crocker Co., filing case and guides ..................... .
28. N ea! Publishing Co., 1000 Membership cards, $4.50;
11.00
1000 cards, $6.50 (Credential Committee) ............... .
8.10
29. Pacific T. & T. Co.: rent, August, 1917 ........................... .
30. J ohri Whicher, postage stamps, $14.71; repairing self
inker stamp, 50 cents; expressage, $2.10; tele24.86
grams, $7.55 ....................................................................... .

32.

33.
34.
.l5.
.16.
.l7.

JH.
J<J.

411.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
4(i.

47.
4H.

4'1.
50.
51.
.S2.
S.l.
54.
S5.
5r..
57.
5H.

Star Towel Supply Co., June 1 to September 1,
2.25
1917 ······················································································
E. & M. Teahan, Multigraphing 800 letters, envelopes
24.15
and stamps, Endowment Committee.
T. J. Baker, expenses, August 23 to S~~-~~~b~;··26:
148.55
. 1917 ····························--------------------------································
George R. Armstrong, 12,500 receipts for dues ........... .
50.00
E. S. Valentine, auditing books of Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer ..................................................... .
50.00
John H. McGehee, mileage pay of members ................. . 7,771.30
Board of Relief, San Francisco, appropriation by
Grand Lodge .............................................................. __ 5, 101.39
Board of Relief, Los Angeles, appropriation
Grand Lodge ..................................................................... . 2,500.00
Board of Relief, San Jose, appropriation by Grand
Lodge ................................................................................. .
758.39
Board of Relief, San Diego, appropriation by Grand
Lodge ................................................................................. .
502.87
S. D. Mayer, salary as Grand Organist... ...................... .
60.00
George P. Adams, salary as Grand Tyler ....c.....••••..•..•
125.00
W. Rhodes Hervey, contingent expenses Grand
Master ............................................................................... . 1,200.00
Charter Rock Lodge No. 410, reimbursement a/c
back dues ........................................................................... .
24.10
Masonic Temple Assn., 2500 shares Masonic Temple
stock ................................................................................... . 25,000.00
Masonic Temple Assn., rent hall annual communication ..................................................................................... .
150.00
Board of Relief, Oakland, appropriation by Grand
Lodge ................................................................................. .
864.03
Board of Relief, Sacramento, appropriation by
Grand Lodge ......................................................... .
340.00
Rio Vista Lodge No. 208, remission of Grand J~~-~j~~
dues ................................................................................... .
170.50
Humboldt Savings Bank, part payment on $11,000
Liberty Bonds ................................................................... .
500.00
J. W. Linscott, traveling expenses (order of Grand
15.00
Master)
M. Van Bu~k·i-~k·.···~-~~;;;~;~~h·~~---~~--~-~-;~~~~i~~~~~::::::::::::
36.00
300.00
John Whicher, salary, October, 1917 ............................. .
250.00
T. J. Baker, salary, October, 1917 ................................... .
175.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, October 1917'.
M. Van Buskirk, account card ~yste1~:··I~~-~--A~-~~j~~::
21.65
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, November, 1917 ..
Cancelled.

·b;

GRAND LODGE OF CAUFORNIA

76
59.
60.
61.

77

PROCEEDINGS OF THE.

Cancelled.
3.00
A. L. Auradou, engrossing three charters ................... .
Neal Publishing Co., 3000 letter heads (Inspectors),
14.75
$11.25; 600 mileage tags, $3.50 ..................................... .
2.00
62. E. & M. Teahan, multigraphing 150 letters ................. .
3.25
63. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, grip files ................................. .
64. Isaac Upham Co., ink, twine, paste, rubber bands,
10.55
etc. ························································································
15.00
65. Podesta & Baldocchi, floral piece, E. H. Hart... ........ .
66. Shannon-Conmy Co., 500 large 2c envelopes, $13.00;
500 lists of rejections, $20.00; 500 small 2c envelopes, $12.75; 500 small 2c envelopes, $12.75;
61.50
6000 blank ballots, $3.00 ................................................. .
24.25
67. W. S. Mancke Co., 8 dozen aprons ................................. .
4.00
68. Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine
25.00
69. S. D. Mayer, choir at funeral E. H. Hart ..................... .
70. Johnson & wood, gold and ivory handle cane
38.00
(Mayer) ........................................................................... .
I.SO
71. The Bulletin, advertising ................................................... .
5.00
72. Byron Mauzy, rent Grand piano ..................................... .
8.95
73. Clark H. Shaw. expenses account Lewis case ............. .
74. Royal Indemnity Co., premium on bonds of Grand
62.50
Secretary and Grand Treasurer ................................. .
1.80
75. S. F. Examiner, advertising ............................................... .
.90
76. S. F. Chronicle, advertising............................................. .
8.00
77. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent September, 1917 ................... .
15.00
78. H. F. Wright, assistant to Grand Tiler ......................... .
79. T. J. Baker, expenses September 27 to October 25,
50.60
1917 ······················································································
6.48
80. Zellerbach Paper Co., 500 clasp envelopes ................... .
81. John Whicher, postage stamps, $19.12; telegram.
24.96
$3.35; expenses, $2.19; 3 pads, 30c ............................... .
82. John Whicher, cash advance for music at Grand
20.00
Lodge ··················································································
304.00
83. Shreve & Co., silver service for F. V. Keesling ........... .
84. Humboldt Savings Bank, balance on $11,000 Liberty
10,500.00
Bonds ··················································································
300.00
85. John Whicher, salary, November, 1917 ............. ---:·········
250.00
86. T. J. Baker, salary, November, 1917 ............................. .
17 5.00
87. H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1917 ......................... .
88. M. Van Buskirk, account of card system Los An65.00
geles -------·-····----~------------····-··········------···········---------·······-····150.00
89. Masonic Temple Association, rent December, 1917 ....
90. John Whicher. postage stamps,· $10.00; telegram,
15.77
$1.62; typewriter ribbons, $2.25; sundries, $1.90 ....

91.
92.
<J,l

CJ4.
95.
96.

97.
98.

99.

100.

101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.

109.
110.

111.

112.

Alhambra Water Co., 40 gallons of water .................. ..
Pacific T. & T. Co. rent October 1917
-Edward H. Kemp, ;perating movi~g pic;~;~~-~~~h-i~~
The Chronicle, advertising................................................ .
Times Mirror Printing Co., engraving steel di~,
$6.00; 500 letter heads a_nd envelopes, $10.75 .......... ..
Shannon-Conmy Co., 500 small 2c envelopes. $12.75;
~mend on Grand Master's address, $2.25; 1400 copies summary proceedings, $106.25; 1000 monitors
$150.00 ............................................................................... '.
Zellerbach Paper Co., 61,000 Rotary Cut Cards ....... .
Wilson Bros. Co., moving goods from one room to
another ............................................................................. .
M. Tower, washing 583 aprons and 42 pairs of
gloves ................................................................................. .
Neal Publishing Co., 1000 slips amendment to Constitution, $7.50; 500 circulars reception to flag,
~3.50; 75 _cop'.es section references. $4.50; 500 copies exammat10n of Masters $10.00 ............................. .
T. J. Baker, expenses, October 26 to November 21
1917 ..................................................................................... :
John Whicher, salary, December 1917 ... .
T. J. Baker, salary, December 1'917
....................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary, December 1917··························
M. Van Buskirk, account of card sys;~·~:-·":L:;~---A~~
gel es .................................................................................. ..
Masonic Temple Association, rent January, 1918... .
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 45,000 blank forms, $143.25;
15,000 blank forms, $65.25 ............................................. .
N ea! Publishing Co., 1000 certificates election of officers and 500 certificates election and installation ..................................................................................... .
Walter N. Brunt, 700 book labels
Phillips & Van Orden, 3 lots pa1~~-~hl~-~~--~~~-dld·~-~~~
lectures, $37.75; 500 note circulars, $4.75; 1000
clasp envelopes, $15.00 ................................................... .
George R. Armstrong, 15,500 receipts for dues,
$63.25; 100 mailing tubes, $4.50; 300 life membership receipts, $4.50 ........................................................... .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 500 copies history Masonic
Home, $12.50; 500 endowment committee report,
$14.00; 500 large 2c envelopes, $13~00; 500 small
2c envelopes, $12.75; 400 copies 11ejections, etc.,
$16.00; .500 large 3c-envelopes, $18.50; 1300 copies
Proceedings, $1,077.00 .............................................. ,.... .

6.00
12.35
15.00
1.40
16.75

271.25
82.70
6.75
31.25

25.50
102.50
300.00
250.00
175.00
65.00
150.00
208.50

12.00
2.50

57.50

72.25

1,163.75

78

113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
120.
121.
1?2.
123.
124.
125.
126.

127.
128.
129.
130.
131.
132.
133.
134.
135:
136.
137.
138.
139.
140.
141.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

T. J. Baker, expehses November 22 to December 23,
1917 ......................................................................................
102.86
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, November, 1917 ..................
8.00
Star Towel Supply Co., rent September 1 to December 1, 1917..........................................................................
2.25
74.75
Yawman & Erbe Co., case for standard blank forms
John Whicher, postage stamps, $164.50; telegrams,
$3.27; expressage, $1.10................................................. .
168.87
15.00
George Kennett, account of library committee ......... .
John Whicher, salary, January. 1918..............................
300.00
T. ]. Baker, salary, January, 1918................................... .
250.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, January, 1918..............................
175.00
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent February, 1918....
65.00
M. Van Buskirk, account card system Los Angeles ..
22.80
Yawman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ............... .
Walter N. Brunt, 600 circular letters, $16.00; 600 war
35.50
receipts, $7.00; 500 2c envelopes, $12.50......................
Neal Publishing Co., 4000 Constitutions, $1,225.00;
600 price lists, $6.00; binding 75 copies Proceedings, $124.00........................................................................ 1,355.00
110.00 .
Isaac Upham Co., 500 receipt holders ............................. .
Irving & Jachens, Plate for S. D. Mayer's portrait .. ..
5.00
Payot, Stratford & Kerr, 1 record book, $3.75; 1
ledger, $8.00....................................................................... .
11.75
George R. Armstrong, 10,000 receipts for dues .........._..
42.00
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., printing signatures on diplomas ............................................................................... .
1.25
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, December, 1917....................
10.20
John Whicher, postage stamps, $8.56; expressage,
$18.28 ................................................................................... .
26.84
T. J. Baker, expenses December 28 to January 24,
1918 ..................................................................................... .
64.81
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, account of Bro.
Smith ................................................................................. .
431.00
John Whicher, salary, February, 1918.......................... ..
300.00
T. J. Baker, salary, February, 1918............................... .,.
250.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, February, 1918........................... .
175.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, March, 1918....... .
150.00
M. Van Buskirk, account of card system Los An65.00
geles .................................................................................... ,
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 large 3c envelopes, $37.00;
50 copies Funeral Service, $75.00; 1000 small 2c
envelopes, $26.00; 425 bi-monthly circulars, $17.00;
binding 2 copies Proceedings, $3.50; 500 clasp en164.175
velopes, $6.25 ......................................................................

79

141. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, January, 1918........................
8.70
14.1. Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 10,000 index cards, $25.75;
printing signature on diplomas, $1.75 .......................
27.50
144. A. Meese, 1000 letter heads ............................................... .
12.50
145. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait G. B. Claiborne.............. ..
100.00
14!1, \Valter N. Brunt, 2000 Post cards .............................. ;.... .
7.50
147. • H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph changes ................. .
1.53
1-11(, John Whicher, postage stamps, $29.17; expressage,
$18.26; telegrams, $3.55; drayage, $1.00................... .
51.98
WI. T. ]. Baker, expenses January 24 to February 21,
1918 ......................................................................................
126.10
I ~O. Yawman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ................
21.80
I~ I. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, 6 records books .................. ..
39.15
l~.l. John Whicher, salary, March, 1918................................ .. 300.00
I ~.1. T. ]. Baker, salary, March, 1918 ....................................... .
250.00
IM. H. S. Johnson, salary, March, 1918..................................
175.00
I~!\. M. Van Buskirk, salary, March, 1918............................. .
65.00
l~t1. Masonic Temple Association, rent April, 1918.......... ..
150.00
157. Neal Publishing Co., 600 letter circulars, $14.75; 1000
letter circulars, $8.50 ...................................................... ..
23.25
151(, Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 5000 applications for affiliation blanks, $13.75; printing signature on diplomas, $1.25 ......................................................................... .
15.00
1
I ~ 1. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, record book, $9.30; twine,
blotters, .tablets, etc., $3.35 ......................................... .
12.65
lhO. Star Towel Supply Co., December 1 to March 1,
1918 ..................................................................................... .
2.25
1111. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, February, 1918........................ .
9.40
lh.!. H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph changes ................... .
3.93
lt1,l. D. G. B!akiston, oil portrait James L. English ....·...... ..
100.00
.1114. John Whicher, postage stamps, $62.75; cxpressage,
$10.19; buzzer batteries, 80c; telegrams, $4.72 ........ ..
78.46
lh5. \Valter N. Brunt, 24,000 receipts for dues, $103.00;
binder and receipts, $6.50 ............................................. .
109.50
ltll1. Yawman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ............. .
14.70
1117. T. ]. Baker, expenses February to March 28, 1918.. ..
78.53
ltiK. Clark H. Shaw, for Jack Heitman ................................ ..
25.00
1
111 1. John \Vhicher, salary, April, 1918................................... .
.100.00
170. T. J. Baker, salary, April, 1918...................................... ..
250.00
171. H. S. Johnson, salary, April, 1918 ................................... .
175.00
17.l. Masonic Temple Association, rent, May, 1918.......... ..
150.00
17.l. M. Van Buskirk, salary, April, 1918.............................. ..
65.00
174. Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit to April,
1919 ..................................................................................... .
6.00
175. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait Leonidas Pratt... ...........
100.00

80
176.

177.
178.
179.

180.
181.
182.
183.

184.
185.
186.

187.
188.
189.
190.
191.

192.
193.
194.

195.
• 196.
197.
198.
199.
200.
201.
202.
203.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

T. J. Baker, expenses, March 30 to April 26, 1918......
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, March, 1918........................... .
Wheeler Publishing Co., 1 set Sacred Books of the
Far East ............................................................................
Yawman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ..................
Walter N. Brunt, 5500 receipts for dues ........................
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., printing signature on diplomas ..................................................................................... .
Payot, Stratford & Kerr, 1 record book ....................... .
John Whicher, postage stamps, $13.76; telegrams,
$5.90; expressage, $6.91; 2 typewriter ribbons, $2.00
Clark H. Shaw, for Jack Heitman ................................. .
John Whicher, salary, May, 1918................................. .
T. J. Baker, salary, May, 1918........................................... .
H. S. Johnson, salary, May, 1918......................................
M. Van Buskirk, salary, May, 1918................................ ..
Masonic Temple Association, rent, June, 1918........... .
Clark H. Shaw, for Jack Heitman ................................. .
Gabriel Meyerfeld Co., 10,000 petitions for degrees,
$40.50; 5000 certificates of membership, $16.75;
2000 soldier diplomas, $3.75; 10,000 cards, $25.75 ..
T. J. Baker, expenses April 27 to May 23, 1918........... .
Walter N. Brunt, 2000 receipts for dues, $8.75; 2000
second sheets, $3.50........................................................
Shannon-Conmy Co., 700 copies roster, $247.00; 2000
address labels, $4.00; 500 bill heads, $4.75; 1500
large 3c envelopes, $55.50; 1 ream wrapping paper,
$9.50; 1000 small 2c envelopes, $26.00; 475 copies
bi-monthly circulars, $19.50; 250 clasp envelopes,
$5.00 ......................................................................................
Arthur Gann, floral piece Ralph Lowe ......................... .
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine ................................................................................... .
Pantagraph Printing Co., 400 lists of Lodges and
shipping ............................................................................. .
D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait, J. M. Browne ............... .
Yawman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ............... .
Rabjohn & Morcum, 3 frames for oil portraits, Grand
Masters ................................................................................
Payot, Stratford & Kerr, 3 record books, $19.80;
blotters, twine, carbon paper, etc., $6.60................. .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, April, 1918............................. .
N ea! Publishing Co., 1997 Constitutions, $635.llO; 600
letter circulars, $8.25 ....................................................... .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNlA

40.12
8.00

64.25
8.40
27.75
1.25
3.75
28.57
25.00
300.00
250.00
175.00
65.00
150.00
25.00

113.75
89.01
12.25

371.25
10.00
4.00
148.95
100.00
2.20
105.00
26.40
11.88
643.25

204.

81

John Whicher, postage stamps, $6.32; expressage,
$6.31; telegrams, $4.11 ................................................... .
16.74
205. H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph changes and ink ..
1.48
206. John Whicher, salary, June, 1918................................... .
300.00
207. T. J. Baker, salary, June, 1918..........................................
.250.00
208. H. S. Johnson, salary, June, 1918................................... .
175.00
209. M. Van Buskirk, salary. June, 1918 ................................. .
70.00
210. Clark H. Shaw, for Jack Heitman ..................................
25.00
211. A. T. Biddle, for Mrs. Finn (order of Grand Master)
20.00
212. Masonic Temple Association, rent July. 1918............. .
150.00
213. Walter N. Brunt, 600 price lists, $5.75; 6500 receipts
for dues, $28.00................................................................. .
33.75
214. Yawman & Erbe Co., card case and guides. $1.30;
l section case for card system, $121.70................... .
123.00
215. Pacific T. & T. Co .. rent, May, 1918............................ .
8.53
216. Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 large 3c envelopes, $37.00;
1000 small 2c envelopes, $16.00; 420 copies bimonthly circulars, $20.00; 800 envelopes for annual
returns, $8.75; 800 annual return blanks, $112.00....
203.75
217. Underwood Typewriter Co., repairing 3 Underwoods
.90
218. Star Towel Supply Co., rent to July 1, 1918................. .
3.00
219. H. S. Crocker Co., addressograph changes ................. .
.33
220. Geo. P. Adams, expenses to Healdsburg (corner
stone laying) ......................................................................
6.00
221. Phillips & Van Orden Co., 3 Rosters for card system
96.00
222. Rabjoh~··&··M~~~~~~~: ..f~~;;~-~--"f~~--~;·j·~~~~~-;~i-~::::::::::::::::::
35.00
223. Neal Publishing Co., 1000 "The Sacred Roll" ........... .
8.00
224. John \Vhichcr, postage stamps, $44.72; cxprcssage,
$6.17; telegrams, $6.61 ....................................................
57.50
225. T. ]. Baker, expenses, May 25 to June 26, 1918..........
118.68
226. John Whicher, balance pay roll... ................................. ..
48.60
227. John Whkher, salary. July, 1918......................................
300.00
228. T. J. Baker, salary, July, 1918......................,................. ..
250.00
229. H. S. Johnson, salary, July, 1918................................... .
175.00
230. \Vm. 1'. Filmer, salary as Grand Treasurer ............... .
200.00
231. Clark 11. Shaw, for Jack Heitman ................................... .
25.00
232. A. T. Biddle, for Mrs. Finn ............................................. .
25.00
2.U Masonic Temple Association, rent August, 1918..... .
150.00
234. Yawman & Erhe Co., card cases and guides ............... .
2.80
235. Rabjohn & Morcom, 1 frame, $2.25; boxing portrait,
$3.00 ......................................................................................
5.25
2.16. Walter N. Brunt, .1500 receipts for dues ....................... .
IZ.25
237. D. G. Blakiston, oil portrait F. V. Keesling ................. .
125.00

82

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

238. Isaac Upham Co., 1000 sheets type paper......................
239. A. Meese, 2000 Jetter heads (Grand Secretary)..........
240. John Whicher, postage stamps, $13.22; ex pres sage,
$1.66; telegrams, $6.70; 1 book "What Is Masonry?", $2.50......................................................................
241. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent June, 1918................................
242. Times Mirror Printing H.ouse, letter heads and envelopes (Grand Master)................................................
243. T. ]. Baker, expenses July 5 to July 25, 1918..............
244. H. S. Crocker Co., San Francisco directory................

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

5.20
22.50

24.08
8.85
10.75
18.88
7.50

Total ........................................................................ $77,690.29
The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of
California for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1918.
Dues from Subordinate Lodges ................................................ $ 65,628.45
Fees for Charters (3)....................................................................
150.0<l
Dispensations to form new Lodges (4) ................................. .
300.00
Special dispensations for various purposes ............................ 1,690.00
Sales for the yearConstitutions and Ceremonies ........................................... .
Monitors ................................................................................. .
Receipts for dues ................................................................... .
Receipt Holders ................................................................... .
]'roceedings ........................................................................... .
Record Books, card cases and guides ............................. .
Lists of Regular Lodges ................................................... .
Bou11d volumes ......................................................................
]<'uneral Services ..................................................................... .
Blanks and Cards ................................................................... .
Diplomas (large) 117 ........................................................... .
J)iplomas (small) 709 .......................................................... ..
Service Diplomas (3850) ..................................................... .

2,926.50
328.75
354.75
112.75
l.00
146.00

3.75
7.50
32.00
165.73
234.00
177.25
962.50

Total Receipts General Fund .................................................... $ 73,220.93
Total Receipts 11 ome Maintenance Fund.............................. 59,987.00
Total Receipts I I ome Building Fund...................................... 29,993.50
Amoirnting in the aggregate to ................................ $163,201.43

83

All which has been paid to the Grand Treasurer, as per ren·ipts on file in this office, and as should be shown by his report.
Interest on bonds and deposits has been collected by the
(;rand Treasurer as follows:
I 11terest on deposits with banks ................................ $952.50
l 'ollection on El Centro Notes .................................. 174.15
Seven Blue Lake Water Co. 6% bonds .................... 420.00
Six Southern Pacific 4'1o refunding bonds ...........~ .. 240.00
N inc California Gas & Electric 5% bonds .............. 450.00
Eight Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5% bonds .......................... 400.00
Two Los Angeles Gas & Electric 5% bonds .......... 100.00
Ekven U. S. Gov't Liberty Loan Ilonds (2d) ...... 220.00

- - - $ 2,956.65
Total receipts from all sources for the year ending
July 31, 1918...................................................................... $166,158.08
RJ1CAPJTULAT10N-GJ1Nl\RAL FUND

llalance with Grand Treasurer, July 31, 1917........................ $ 26,082.45
73,220.93
2,956.65

l~cceipts by Grand Secretary......................................................
I nlcrest on bonds and deposits..................................................

Total ....................................,.....................................................$102,260.03
1.ess Warrants Nos. 1 to 224...................................................... 77,690.29
Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1918. ........... $ 24,569.74
For the period August 1, 1918, to October 2, 1918, inclusive, I
have collected and paid to the Grand Treasurer the sum of
$158,754.05 segregated as follows:
Home Maintenance Fund ............................$ 60,216.00
Home Building Fund.................................... 30, 108.00
General Fund ................................................ 59,555.30
Representative Fund .................................... 8,874.75

A total of... ............................................. $158,754.05
Returns from Lodges U. D. are not included in the above.
JOHN WH1CHER,
Grand Secretary.

Referred to the same Committee to which has been
referred the Grand Master's Address.

84

85

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER

h111 has made the duties of my office a pleasure, and the attendant

The Grand Lecturer presented his Annual Report as
follows:
To the M.'.W.". Grand Lodge of California:
I herewith present a detailed report of 111y official activities as
Grand Lecturer, concerning the condition of the Lodges a~d .the
District comprising the same, since our last Annual Commu111cat10n.
Never before in the history of the Grand Lodge have the Lodges
of this jurisdiction heen called upon to confer so many degrees,. or
had so many petitions, due in most instances to the draft and enlistments of the young men in this great War, many Lodges holding seve.ral
meetings a week in order to try if possihle to keep the work gomg
and confer the degrees upon the applicants before being called to the
colors. This is true of most of the Lodges throughout the jurisdiction,
except in the mining districts, which are pract!cally at a. stan~still,
many of the mines having closed and the depletion .of the mhab1tants
of the community, have made it difficult to hold meetmgs. Some Lodges
in the old mining towns have Jost almost their entire corps of officers.
Most of them, however, are getting along as best they can under the
circumstances.
There have been three dispensations issued for new Lodges,
making a total now of 382, with a net gain of 3593, the largest ~n. the
historv of the Grand Lodge. I sincerely trust that all the novitiates
fully ;ealize the importance of the lessons an:t oblig~tions they receiv~d,,
not to consider these obligations as mere hp service, but to establish
the foundation for a better life, so that all may be· worthy of the
privilege of being a Mason and endeavor to . demonstrate . to those
around them, both in their home lives and busmess connections, that
it is not in vain that they have seen the light, but that the effect of
the revelation has been to purify their lives, to ennoble their characters,
and to make all better husbands, fathers and citizens.

I have visited all the Districts in the State, wi~h the exception of
the 45th, comprising Mono and Inyo counties, and have held schools
of instruction in most of the Lodges therein, both day and night
sessions which were always well attended by officers and members
eager t~ perfect themselves in the ritual. I have also given instruction
to Inspectors, officers and brethren in my office.
To each and every Inspector I wish to express my sincere appreciation for the uniform support I hiLVc received from them at all times,
and for the splendid work they are doing in their several districts,
which has not only been of vast benefit to the Lodges under their care,

t'l••tths more easily accomplished. From nearly all the Inspectors I
h111"' ren:ived complete and detailed reports of the Lodges in their
11••twt'live districts, many of them giving a concise statement of the
w111l1 performed, together with much other valuable information conn•111i11J{ the general condition of each Lodge over which they have
•Hp1·rvision, showing that they have been most diligent and conscien111111• in the duties entrusted to them. I cannot commend them too
hlwhly for the services they have rendered. It certainly is a great
11l1·11~me to work with so able and efficient a corps of Inspectors as coml•ll•t' this jurisdiction.
Four Inspectors have answered the call of duty, and are now
in the service of our country. Dr. Leonard L. Martin, ln•1wrlor of the 27th District, enlisted in the Dental Department of the
Nnvy, commissioned First Lieutenant. William A. Sherman, Inspector
ur tla· 33rd District, enlisted in the Quartermaster's Commissary Dep11rt 11wnt, commissioned Captain. John V. Eliot, Inspector of the 6lst
lli•t rict, enlisted in the Naval Reserve, private. Clark H. Shaw,
l11•111·«tor of the 63rd District, enlisted in the Engineers Corps, comt11l•sioncd First Lieutenant.
l'llli~tt•cl

Our best wishes go with these hrcthren in their several lines of
il11iy, and when this war has finally ended, with a peace established
111111 will be everlasting, we trust that they will return unharmed to
I hi'! r loved ones.
'I'he work accomplished by the Most Worshipful Grand Master in

ht• visitations to the Lodges of the State, the laying of cornerstones,
11,.dirations, constitutions and installations, including a visit to the
I-lands of our jurisdiction, the words of encouragement, and the instruct II'<' lessons conveyed to the hrethren at these meetings, and the pleasing
111111 interesting addresses ddivered, has hecn of great benefit and pleas1111· lo those privileged to hear him, and will give the brethren a deeper
1111<1 hetter conception of what Masonry is and stands for as a result of
tli1·"· visits, It has been my pleasure to accompany the Grand Master
1111 niany of his official visits.
Following is a detailed account of the visitations of the Crand
~f.t,l<'r to the Lodges of the jurisdiction:

~ ...

October 13, 1917:
46R

Constituted and installed Rockridge Lodge

October 19, 1917:
1lri·,s.

El Centro Lodge No. 384.

Reception and ad-

October 22, 1917:
1ln·ss.

Pasaclena Loclge No. 272.

Reception and ad-

86

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

October 30, 1917: Constituted Libertas Lodge No. 466, and installed officers.
October 31, J9J7: Attended Southern California Past Masters'
Association.
November 3, J9J7: Meeting of Trustees of Masonic Homes.
November 6, 19J 7: Constituted Culver City Lodge No. 467 and
installed officers.
N ovembcr 13, J9J7: Pentalph.a Lodge No. 202. Reception and
address.
November J4, J9J7: Vallee de France Lodge No. 329. Reception
and address.
November 19, J9J7: Westlake Lodge No. 392. Installed William
MacCormack, Grand Chaplain.
N ovembcr 22, 19J7: San Diego Lodge No. 35. District meeting.
December 10, J9J7: Los Angeles Lodge No. 42. Installed officers.
December J8, 1917: Pentalpha Lodge No. 202. Installed officers.
December 20, J9J7: Sunset Lodge No. 352. Installed officers.
December 26, 19J7: San Jose Lodges Nos. 10, 210, 399. Installed
officers.
December 27, 19J7: J ewe! Lodge No. 374. Installed officers.
December 27, 19J7: Sacramento Lodges (five). Installed officers.
December 28, 19J7: Woodland Lodge No. 156. Installed officers
of three Lodges.
December 29, 19J7: Stockton Lodges. Installed officers.
January 8, 1918: Vacaville Lodge No. 134. Installed officers of
four Lodges.
January 9, 1918: Marysville Lodge No. 9. Installed officers of
two Lodges.
January 10, 1918: Santa Rosa Lodge No. 57. Installed officers.
January 11, 19J8: Pajaro Lodge No. J 10 and Santa Cruz Lodge
No. 38. Installed officers.
January 12, 1918: Attended Past Masters' Association, Los Angeles.
January 19, 1918: Dedicated Masonic Temple at Merced.
January 20, 1918: School of Instruction at Bakersfield.
January 2J, 1918: District meeting (five Lodges), San Diego.
January 24, 1918: Installation at San Bernardino (Phoenix, San
Bernardino, Colton and Redlands Lodges).
February 9, 1918: Liberty Lodge No. 299, at Santa Clara. Reception and address.

87

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

February JO, 1918:

Meeting of Trustees of Masonic Homes.

February 22, 1918: Dedication of Lodge room,, Holtville Lodge
N"· 425, and district meeting at Imperial (evening).
February 27, 1918:
nclcl ress.
February 28, 1918:
March 9, 1918:

Southern California No. 278.

Reception and

District meeting, six Lodges, at Anaheim.

District meeting, three Lodges, at Taft.

March J6, J918:
dr1·ss.

Bakersfield Lodge No. 224.

March 17, J918:

Covina Lodge No. 334.

Reception and ad-

Reception and address.

March 23, J918:

Attended Past Masters' Association, San ·Diego.

March 28, 1918:

District meeting, five Lodges, at Petaluma.

March 29, J918:

Live Oak Lodge No. 61. Reception and address.

March 30, 1918:

District meeting, fonr Lodges, at San Mateo.

April I, 19J8:
April 3, J918:
drl'ss.
April 7, J918:
April 8, 19J8:
dn•ss.
April 9, J918:

Corona Lodge No. 324.

Tfrcl'ption and address.

Silver Trowel Loclgl' l\o. 415.

Reception and ad-

Trustees' meeting-, :\1 asonic 11 ome, Covina.

J lighlaml Park L()(lgl' No. 382.

Reception and ad-

Hollenbeck Lod:.•;e No. 319. Reception and adclrcss.

April 10, 1918:
d l"l'SS.

South Cate Lodgl' No. 320.

April JS, 1918:
1·qition and address.

San Francisco T.()(lgvs at Masonic Tl·mplc.

April 15 to May 15, 1918:

I lawaiian trip:

1'rogrcs, Schofield, Volcano and Maui L()(lg<•s.

Reception and aciRc-

I lonolnlu. I lawaiian, Le
Reception hy l'ast Mas-

t..rs at Clnb House, etc.
May 20, 1918:

Teml•scal Lodge No. 314.

Reception an cl address.

May 25, J918:

Dedication Masonic Tempk, Valkjo.

Jnnc 2, 1918:

Pentalpha Luclge No. 202.

lfrc<·ption ancl achlrcss.

June 6, 1918:

San Pedro Lodge No. 332.

[{eception and address.

June 8, J918:

Dedication of T1·mpk, Fullerton.

June 12, 1918: Corncrstonl', I ligh School, at I lealdshurg-.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PnOCEEDINGS OF THE

88
June 13, 1918:

Stockton Lodges. Reception and address.

June 14, 1918: Tulare (Tulare, Exeter, Porterville, Visalia)· Reception and address.
June 19, 1918: Inspectors' Degree at Temple, Los Angeles. Reception and address.
June 22, 1918: St. John's Day. Los Angeles, 26 Lodges. Reception to Grand Master.
June 25, 1918: P omona L o d ge N
• 'o. 246· Reception and address.
June 26, 1918:

Veteran Lodge No. 373.

June 30, 1918:

Flag raising hy Veteran Lodge No. 373 at Covina

Reception and address.

'Home.
July 2, 1918: Santa Barhara. District meeting.
J nly 3, 1918: San Luis Obispo.

District meeting.

Ramona Lodge No. 457.

July 20, 1918:

Past Masters' Association meeting in Orange
Westlake Lodge Ko. 392.
c
J fcnry ,.,.

Reception and address.

1

July 27, 1918:
address.
July 30, 1918: Ventura Lodge No. 214.
August 10, 1918:

Reception and address.

o rmc L ouge
·
N'o . 458 ·

Reception and

District meeting.

El Monte. District meeting.

September 5, 1918:

Monterey.

District 11wcting.

Reception aml

address.
· t 11e
1 (t1'11g
and
Scptcmher 6, 19 l 8: /\ u1mrn. ].).1st r1c
·
. Rcc"[>tio11
•
address.
Scptcmher 7, 1918: CornerstotH.', Sacramento Ma sonic Temple.
Septemhcr 7, 1918:
address.
Septemhcr 14, 1918:

Rio Vista.

September 26, 1918:
1\1111t'les.

Past Masters' Association meeting in Los

September 28, 1918:

Laying cornerstone of High School at Bars-

September 29, 1918:

Visit to Masonic Home at Covina.

low.

Octoher 7, 1918:

Dinner given by Grand Master to Inspectors

111111 I :rand Lodge officers, at Masonic Club, San Francisco.

Some of the Lodges at their last annual meeting elected Wardens
\\'Ii• 1 were in line, who had enlisted or were about to do so, and who
r1111lt! not be present at the installation.
I would suggest that instead of electing such officers who had enli•h'<l and who could not serve the Lodge, that an understanding be had

July 16, 1918:
County.
July 24, 1918:

89

District meeting.

Reception and

Santa Paula Lodge So. 291.

Reception am!

address.
> 11 am Is L OlIgc "'
·' o. ,300. Rec , 11t1'on am!
September 16, 19 18 : 1'''<
address.
"
AJJ
I
I ,m1gc •'o
ancl
Septcmher ~20, 19 In:
1\ 1am irn
" · •''22. Recn11tion
'
address.
September 23. 1918: Azusa Lmlgc No. 305. District mc<'ting.

wlwrdly they would resume their places in line, at the next election
l11ll11wing their return. This would give the officer enlisted the same
h111111r, ancl not interfere with the working of the Lodge. All officers
1•!1·1·1ed should accept office 11nder this agreement.
From time to time I have found that some of the officers and
l1rrlhrc11 throughout the jurisdiction have in their possession and are
11,i11g cipher rituals issued hy a publishing firm in New York City, pur1111r1i11g to be California work. TI1is firm has at various times circul11rize1l the Lodges of the State. The Grand Master and Grand Sccretur.v have on many occasions called the attention of the brethren hy
d1rnfar letter to the fact that it was unlawful for any hrothcr to nsc or
ha I'<' in his possession these rit11als. I trust some action will be taken
h1 n·gard to this.
The ceremony for presenting and displaying the flag of our counthe war, many
of our Lodges arc now using voluntarily, not that we are any more
11111 riotic at this time, hut I believe now is the time whc-11 we should as
Ma sons make a practical display of our reverence for the flag of our
1·1111ttlry, in our I.odgcs by form;tlly receiving it. I would therefore
11•rn111mencl that •he ceremony of receiving the flag as now exemplified
ht many Lodges he made a part of the opening ceremony at stated
111t·t·tings, and at other meetings when desired, and that Lodges be
1r1111ired to practice the same.
11',Y in our Lodges, particularly since our participation in

0

My thanks are due? the V.'. W.'. Grand Secretary, and his assistant,
l11r much valuahlr infornwtion and courtesies C'Xtended to me during
tlw year.
Lodges of instrnetion have hecn held at the following places and
I tllt<'S:

90

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1917.
San Francisco........... ~October 13-14 Corning ........................ November 22
Covelo .............................. October 23 Willows ........................ November 23
Fort Bragg ......................October 24 Gridley .......................... November 24
Sacramento .................. November 25
Ukiah ................................ October 2!i
Headsburg ...................... October 26 Roseville ...................... November 26
Sebastopol ........................ October 27 Red Bluff .................... November 27
Guerneville ....................... October 2l:l Colfax .......................... November 30
Pinole ................................October 30 Grafton ........................ December 1
Lassen ............................ November 1 Davis ............................ December 2
Susanville .................... November 2 Tracy ............................ December 3
Alturas ........................ November 3 Los Banos .................... December 4
Adin .............................. November 4 Lincoln .......................... December 8
·Cedarville· .................... November 5 Williams ...................... December 9
Oakland ........................ November 7 Yuba City .................... December 10
Rio Vista ...................... December 11
Berkeley ...................... November 9
Pittsburg ...................... Deccmher 16
Redwood City .............. November 11
Vacaville ...................... November 15 Stockton ........................ December 17
Dixon ............................ November 16 Calistoga ...................... December 20
Sonora .......................... November 17 Napa .............................. December 21
Oakdale ........................ November 18 Tlolsom ······················'···December 22
Sutter Creek ................ November 19 Sacramento .................. December 23
Woodbridge ................ November 20 ·
1918.
Hl'nicia ............................ January 2
S11isu11 ................................January 3
I )ix on ............................... .]an nary 4
Merced ..............................January 19
Bakersfield ...................... January 20
Tulare ................ ,............. January 21
Coalinga .......................... January 22
l Ian ford ............................ January 23
Exe_trr ............................. .]an nary 24
Porterville ....................... .] amrnry 25
Selma ................................ Jammry 26
Orosi .................................Ja1111ary 27
Sanger .....
................. Jan nary 28
Fresno ............................. January 29
K.crman ............................ Jan nary 30
Los Angeles ................ .Itchruary 3
HI Centro .................... Fc-brnary 4
Brawley .......................... February 5
La M csa ........................ Tlchruary 6

San Diego ...................... Fchruary 7
I<'allbrnok ...................... February 8
Fullerton ........................ February 10
Alhamhra ...................... Fchruary 11
Van Nuys ...................... February 12.
Los Angeles .................. February 13
Long Beach .................... February 14
Torrance ........................ Fehnrnry 15
Snn Pedro .................... February 16
San Fernando .. ~ ........ '. .. February 17
Covina ........................... .February 18
Pomona ···········-----···· Fchruary 19-20
RC'lllancls .... :................. .Fl'iiruary 21
Needles .......................... February 22
1\znsa .............................. Fehruary 2..1
San Ilernardino .............. Fchruary 24
Pasadena ........................ February 25 ·
Santa Ana .............. ,....... F<·lm1ary 26
Inglewood ...................... February 27

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOH:NIA

I lnll.vwood ...................... February 28
lfo·nside ............................ March 1
t-'1111 Jacinto ........................ March 2
S11wt.-llc .............................. March 3
l\l1111td>ello .......................... March 4
N11rwalk ··--·-··----··················March 5
l•'.11J.lk Rock ........................ March 6
'"'' ;\ngeles ........................ March 7
I ,nm·aster ............................ March 8
Tuft ...................................... March 9
ll1ilinslield .......................... March 10
141111 Francisco .................... March 13
,-\la111eda ..............................March 20
Sunta Clara ........................ March 23
lfrdwood City .................... March 24
I kl'idl'ntal No. 22, S. F ..... April 1
:\1Uit)ch H•·············-~·····H·--······April

5

Wal1111t Creek ...................... April 6
l'«talnma .............................. April 7
S1111 Jose ............................... April 8
I.<" ( ;atos .............................. April 9
111uit vale ................................ April 10
S1111 Mateo ............................ April 11
V11lkjo .................................... April 13
l\lnrtinez .............................. April 14
f l;il_v City .............................. April 16
S1111t:t Rosa ............................ April 18
:411i;;nn .................................... April 19
l.••w<'r Lake .......................... April24
I ,akl'port .............................. April 25
l '<·11terville ............................ April 26
S1111ta Cruz ............................ April 28
l!ivl·rhank ................................ May 1
Sl•1l'kton .................................. May 2
1;a1t .......................................... May 3
f111H' .......•.••••••.••..••..••.....•.•••...... May 4
,l11ckson .................................. May 5
:-11111 Andreas .......................... May 6
:\111.wls Camp .......................... May 7
'1'11olumne ................................ May 8
I lakdale .................................. May 9
A rlmckle .................................. May 10
l't1lnsa ...................................... May 11
Stony Ford ............................ May 12
Auhurn .................................... May 13

91

Sacramento ............................ May 14
Woodland .............................. May 15
f;olsom .................................... May 16
Courtland ................................ May 18
Elk Grove .............................. May 19
Hollister ..................................May 20
Gilroy ...................................... May 21
Walnut Creek ........................ May23
Modesto ..................................June 3
Merced .................................... June 4
Red Bluff ....:........................... June 5
Redding .................................. June 6
Kennett ..................................June 7
Etna Mills .............................. June 8
Y rcka ........................................ June 9
Dunsmuir ............................... .] une 10
Paso Robles ......................... .] une 12
San L11is Obispo ....................June 13
Cuadalupc ..............................June 14
Lompoc .................................... June 15
Ventura ..................................June 16
Santa Paula ............................ June 17
Santa Barbara ......................June 18
T,os Angeles .......................... June 19
Monrovia ............................... .] une 20
Escondido .............................. June 24
National City ........................J unc 25
I,ineoln U. D., S. F............... July 2
South San Francisco ............ July 5
Manteca .................................. July 6
Brentwood ............................. .] uly 7
Newman .................................. July 8
Lincon U. D., S. F.................. July 9
Excelsior No. 166, S. F ........ July 10
Oriental No. 144, S. F ......... .]uly 16
Pleasanton ..................-............ July 19
Richmond ......................... .July 23-25
Campbell .................................. July 29
Mountain View .................... July 30
Hloomlicld ........................ August 3
Arcata ................................ August 5
Eureka .............................. August 6-8
Fortuna ............................ ~.August 7
Willits ................................ August 9
Mendocino ........................ August 10

92

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Healdsburg ........................ August 11
Alcatraz No. 244........... .,.August 15
Mill Valley ........................ August 18
Grass Valley .................... August 20
Nevada City .................... August 21
Camptonvi!le .................... August 22
Marysville .......................... August 23
Sacramento ...................... August 24
Greenvi:le .......................... August 25
Quincy ................................ August 26
Loyalton ............................ August 27
Oroville .............................. August 29
Oakland .............................. August 30
.San Francisco ............ September 1
Salinas .......................... September 4

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Pacific Grove .............. September 5
Auburn ........................ September 6
Rio Vista ...................... Seµtember I
Excelsior No. 166, S. F ............. .
...................................... September 11
San Francisco.............. September 13
Lincoln U. D., S. F .... September 17
Sacramento ................ September 18
Sutter Creek ................ September 19
Volcano ....................... .September 20
Galt ................................ September 21
Placerville .................... September 22
Tracy ............................ September 23
Watsonville ................ September 29
San Francisco ................ October 6-7

With kindly appreciation to the Gramt Lodge aml thl' hrethrcn for
the confidence and trust which you have ~hown to me as your Grand
Lecturer for my frchle efforts, which T have at all times endeavored to
merit.
Rcs1wctfully suhmitted,
THOMAS

J. BAKl\R,
Grand Lecturer.

Referred to the following Committee: Chas. •F. Fury
(180), Edwin A. Palmer (448), and Elon A. Ormsby (1(17).

REPORT OF TITE MASONTC TEMPLE
ASS<K'TATION

Drother \:Villiam P. Filmer presented the report of the
Masonic Tern pie Association as follows :
To the Most Worshipful Grand l.odKl' of Califomia:
The Board of Directors of the Masonic Temple Association of
California hen•with presents its linancial stah'mcnt for the year ending
August 31, 1918.

93

Receipts
llala11ce on hand September I, 1917............................ .
$ 5,697.91
From Grand Lodge for stock. .........................................$25,000.00
Fn 1111 rentals ...................................................................... 28,355.58
!•mm rebates and discounts............................................
163.12 53,518.70
Total receipts

$59,216.61

Disbursements
l'ai<l on account of mortgage ........................................$25,000.00

6,549.30
I 1111·rcst ................................................................................ 10,793.80
( '11rrcnt expenses .............................................................. 4,473.62
Jn11itors ................................................................................ 5,159.50
l1111>rovcrnents .................................................................... 2,272.90
l~1·1>airs ................................................................................
350.54
l11 . . 11rance ..............................................................................
240.07
·1·11xes ...................................•................•••.........•...................

Balance cash on hand August I. 1918............... .

54,8.W.73
$ 4,376.88

It is with some considerable satisfaction that your Board of Din·ctors are enabled to show by this statement the constantly decreasing
1111mrnl loss. This year it is b11t $1,321.03, or a triJk over $110 per
1111111!h.
If it were possih'.c to eliminate the interl'st chnrgc there could he
divided among the stockhohlers $9,472.77. We report collections from
n·ntals for the past fiscal year $28,355.58, as against $22,44U.70 in 1914;
$24,172.71 i11 1915, and $26,249.01 in 1916, showing constantly increasing
rt"lurns.
All the ground floor of the building is now occupied l'xcept the
.-orncr store, and while the n·ntals of this portion of the building arc
1101 high, they must naturally increase as husincss increases in this part
nf the city. We may therefore expect increasing revenue from the
hnilding. Onr mortgage indl'htcdncss, however, amounting to $215,000,
j, still very heavy and should he reduced as rapidly as possible.
A further reduction of $25,000 on the mortgage will place the
Association even under prcsl'llt conditions on a self-sustaining basis,
am! we therefore fraternally request the Grand Lodge to snhscrihc for
sl uck in the Temple Assol·iation lo the ammmt of $25,000.
Rl'spt•ctiully snbmitk<l,
WM. I I. CROCKllR,

Pr<·sident.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

94

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND MASTER'S
ADDRESS
Brother Will H. Fischer, for the Committee on Address
of Grand Master and Report of Grand Secretary, presented
the following report :
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee to which was referred the Annual Address of the
Most Worshipful Grand Master and the Annual Report of the Very
Worshipful Grand Secretary, has had the same under consideration,
and hereby submits its report as follows:
As clearly reflected by the Address, the craft throughout the
jurisdiction is enjoying the b:essings of fraternal harmony and pros- '
perity. While the demands upon the activities, interests and financial
resources, not only of the Lodges but of the individual brethren, have
been heavy and unceasing, the Spirit of Masonry has risen to meet
them gloriously, and under the wise guidance and moving inspiration
of our Most Worshipful Grand Master, Masonry in California has
moved steadily forward to higher attainments and greater goals. J\t
the call of our country and at the beck of civilization it has poured
forth its material treasure in support of the great Cause of Man; and,
at the so1111d of the trumpet it has given near to 5400 of its bravest
sons and truest exemplars to serve tmder arms in a strnggle which tht•
conscience of Christendom recognizes as a holy war. Arni Masonry in
California stands ready to continue its efforts, not only in this present,
but in the months and years to come.
Circumstanced as we arc, among clonhts and fears, sorrows and
hopes, this is yet an era in which, alike, the remembered and the forgotten dead well might wish to live again. For we move and have our
being in the highest times of human history-times when the tide of
great opportunity washes all the shores of the world and reaches to
the feet of the humblest as well as the most exalted men.
It rejoicc-s your committrc to observe and to testify that our Most
Worshipful Grand Master, acting through and for Masonry in the
grand jurisdiction of California, has takrn the tide at its flood. With
his strong hand at the helm, controlled by a great intellect and guided
hy a gentle, compassionate and brave heart, the bark of Masonry has
been borne on toward the shining shores of its ordained destit1y. Unceasingly has our Crand Master labored, unceasingly has he loved ancl
taught, am! in consequence we have just ha<l cxhihitet! to us fruits of
reward which must inclct·d bring· us pridt• of our tilling, together with a
sense of ckqi ancl lasting gratitmk to him who has directed us in our .

95

l:iluirs and inspired us in the hours of our refreshment. Masterfully
lias our Most Worshipful Grand Master acquitted himself of a master
l.1sk.
Especially. does your committee commend the noble efforts put
flll'th by our Grand Master, with such fair success, to meet the exige1:i~
l'il'S and emergencies arising from the circumstance of ~ar, and Sp~~
l'i fically does it commend the creation and administration of the Ma·" mic War Fund and the activities of relief and assistance the fund has
111ade possible. A vast amount of the Grand Master's tim~, and. all of
his heart, have gone into war work; and while, in all the matters whh
which he has thus dealt he has acted well within the bounds of his
ancient and unchallengeable prerogative, your committee nevertheless
n·commends, as a· mark of gratitude and appreciation on the part of the
l 'raft, that by the adoption of this report our Grand Lodge thankfully
approves of all that he has done to employ the great potentialities of
California Masonry in support of the war and in aid of our Masonic
hrcthren now in the armed service of God and humanity.
The solicitude which our Grand Master has manifested for onr
living Masonic soldiers has been matched hy his devotion to the mem11ry of our dead. It seems indeed fitting that this Grand Lodge shoulcl
al this. time prepare to erect, in clue course, a permanent memorial to
those of our brethren who have fallen, or who may fall, on the field of
hattle, and your committee is inspired by the Grand Master's words, to
11ffcr the following resolution as a part of the body of this report:
Resolved, That it is the intention of this Crand Lodge, acting on
hchalf of the whole Craft of Masonry in the Cram! Jnriscliction of
l 'alifornia, to erect, in this our Temple, as soon as may he after the
rinse of the war in which our nation is now engaged, a tahkt in bronze
11s a lasting testimonial of love and memory to those Masons who have
gone forth from the l,oclgcs of this jurisdiction to light for justice
among men and nations and to exalt the sacred cause of democracy.

Your committee approves heartily of the Grand Master's ohservaclays of stress new Lodges shoulcl not he organized
1111\ess "a clear and unclouhted necessity exists therefor."
1ion that in these

Your committee sees a dcrp signilicancc in the fact that <luring
the year now closing so many young llll'n, about to he called to arms,
have hastened to knock at our <loors. Truly, whrn the highest impulses
of men arc awakened, Masonry makes its strongest appeal.
The action of our Cram! Master in the matter of relief for the
I !alifax sufferers was timely ancl in keeping with the generous wishes

of the Craft, and is entitled to acknowledgment and commendation.

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Likewise your committee calls attention to the prompt, vigorous
and successful measures taken by our Grand Master in the matter of the
federal tax on fees and dues.
Your committee feels that it would be remiss in its duty were it
not to mention with special approval the recommendation of our Grand
Master that the Constitution be so amended as to provide for minimum
dues, in subordinate Lodges, of $9 per annum. Our fraternity cannot
measure fuJ:y up to its wonderful opportunities unless its revenues be
sufficient. The sentiment of active Masons throughout the jurisdiction
strongly favors the step suggested, with which, as indicated, your committee is in complete accord. Our Committee on Jurisprudence, of
course, will later render its formal report upon this recommendation.
Your committee has listened, cnrapt, to the impiring message with
which our Grand Master concludes his address. It is, indeed, a mes-·
sage too broad i11 its appeal, too deep in its meaning, too pure in its
expression, to be relegated to the mere tome of official ·record. It is
our privilege, and we believe our duty, to transmit it to the Craft
throughout the jurisdiction. It will strengthen the faint-hearted, it wilt
raise the brave to more exalted deeds. Your committee therefore offers
as a part of the body of this report the following resolution:

Resolved, That the Grand Secretary he directed to cause the concluding section of the Annual Address of our Grand Master, the Most
·worshipful William Rhodes Hervey, to he printed, in pamphlet form,
for distribution through the subordinate Lodges to every Mason of the
jurisdiction of California; and that the Gran<! Secretary he direch•d
to take such n~casures :is he may deem expedient to the end that a copy
he forwarded to every Mason of California now enlisted in the service ·
of the United States of America.
\\Tith rderence to those portions of the subject matter of the
Grand Master's Address which may properly he the snhiccts of consideration or action by committees, wc n·commcml the following distribution :

To the Com111ittrr on Chartrrs: That portion of the Address
(page 4) setting forth tlispe11sati011s issued for the formation of new
Lodges.
To the Committee mi Afosonic Liducatio11: That portion of the
Address (pages 6-7) in which is discnss('(I the need for a great<'r educational and social function on the part of Lodges.
To the Committee on Jurisprndcncc: That portion of th~ Address
setting forth the facts relative to transfer of place of trial in the case of
two members of llawaiian Lodge No. 21 (page 12, ct seq.).

91

Also, decisions Nos, 1, 2, 3 and 4 (page 14, et seq..
)
That .portion of the Address in which is contained a discussion of
tl w. ~1a)somc War Fund and recommendations relative theret~ (page 19

I' 1 St(j.

•

,

,
Those ~ortions of the Address in which arc discussed the Wash111..:ton and New York conferences (page 25, et
That portion of the Address 1·n 1 · h · d'
w lie is iscussed the matter of
I ,odge Maui (page 31).
The legislative recommendations Nos. 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6 (page 35,

l'f Sl'Q.).

. T.o t~e Conimittee on Fina11ce: That portion of the Address in
\~ht"!1 ts hd1scussed the necessity of. maintaining special building tax for
11

e.ist t tee years, more (page 18).

• IT(hat por9t)ion of the Address in which is discussed the Endowment
I'mH page 1 .
.
•
.. ::-hat portion .of the Address in which is discussed the George
W.1shmgton Masornc Memorial Association (page 29).

~o the Committee on Corrrspondcnee: That
.
r
portion of the Ad.:
c 1 arc < iscussed the service activities of the Gr- d L d
:\lplma ~f Switzer.land, the Grand Orient of France and··~f c~ g~
l ,ot ges m the Umted Stat
'd
·
'
' an
f
' cs, sai services relating to the relief a I
1'111.11 or~ of .Mas~ns now in the armed service in Europe or in canto~~
111 rnts m the United States (page 30).
tlr1-ss 111 whi l

Those portions of the A 11
·
I· I
.
lion with tl C
d. 0 .
f c <ress m w He l arc d1scusscd our rela.U).
ie .ran
nent o Italy and the Crnn Logia de Chile (page
RF.PORT OI<' GRANn Sl\CRl!TARV,

W

Y.our committee has read with satisfaction the rrport of the Ver
orsh1pful Grand Secretary and has noted with le·1sure th f
Y
forth .therein cxh~hiting the growth in numhrrs
~; r frat~rn~~ts . ~;~
rdernng to the mcrrascd activities of our LmlgeH in many
cf
r1aternal endeavor.
Jes o

:r 1

Ii/ ,1

The report is replete with information of vrtll'" to II M
w·
1·
• "
a
asons and
t comp unent our honon·d amt well lwlove<I Cra I "
' '
it
t'
I
• • 11< ,,ccn•tary upon
s prepara rnn arn prcs<·ntation. ForttmatC" inclecd i. ti "
l T
,,f Califo · t I
·
·
'
' s ic '•ranc .,odgc
nua o · Jave 111 so important a post
as tl1·1t
of ('•r .inc
. I S ecreta ry
· ·
'
n man so effi c1ent and vigilant as our Very W
1·.
f 1 R '
11
Whi h
f I·
ors P u
rothe"r
c er, one so master u m detail and one so courteous ·ind re
.
to the needs and requirements of the Craft.
. '
sponstvc

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

99

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

We recommend the reference to the Committee on Finance of those
.portions of the report relative to the Emergency Relief F~nd, the
receipts and disbursements of the Grand Lodge and the financial statement.
Fraternally submitted,
WrLL H. F1scHl\R,
FRANCIS W. MrxTl\R,
JOHN CLUTI\,

Committee.

I{ EPORT OF TRUSTEES OF MASONIC HOMES

Brother E. B. Spencer then read the Annual Report
11f the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of Califc 1rnia, which was adopted as presented, excepting the rec11111111endation for an appropriation of $13,030.72; which was
rrfrrred to the Committee on Finance.
The full text of the Report is as follows :
'"' Ilic Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

The Report was adopted as presented.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock
Wednesday morning.

Morning Session.
Wednesday, October 9th, 1918.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's session were read and approved.
The matter of the request of Germania Lodge to . work
in English and to change its name to Acacia, was referred
to the Committee on Charters.
The .consideration of the report of the Committee o.n
French Masonry, made special order for ten o'clock this
morning, was postponed until two o'clock this afternoon.

The Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California herewii h submits for your consideration and approval its annual reports of
It~ transactions for the year ending September 1st, 1918.
The recommendations of the Board of Trustees offered last year
prnvicling for a reorganization of the Board having been adopted by
.1·1111r Grand Body, the members of the new Board assembled immedi11t1·ly following the adjournment of Grand Lodge for organization.
There were present R. W. Bradford Webster, Deputy Grand Master;
It W. Charles Albert Adams, Senior Grand Warden, and R. W. George
fl. Rodden, Junior Grand Warden, who by virtue of their offices are
111c·111bers of the Board. The Most Worshipful William Rhodes Hervey,
( :ra11d Master, appointed as remaining members of the Board, M. W.
William S. Wells for the four year term, W. Edward B. Spencer for the
tlll'l'l' year term, M. W. Oscar Lawlor for the two year term, and W.
l 'has. M. Wollenberg for the one year term. In the selection of offi.. ·rs, Trustee Wm. S. Wells was unanimously elected President of the
ll11ar<l and Trustee Edward B. Spencer, Vice-President.· Brother John.
Whicher as Grand Secretary, and Brother William P. Filmer as Grand
'l'n·asurer, were by the Grand Lodge, made Secretary ancl Treasurer re•P<'l'tively of the Board.
Since the meeting of organization, the Board has held seven meetl11Ms at San Francisco and Decoto, and -three meetings at Los Angeles
1111cl Covina.
Your Board of Trustees are. fully conscious of the importance of
this Trust, not only in the care of our dependents, which is the first
d11Cy of our fraternity, but also the care to be exercised in the expenditures of the various funds, which as your representatives, we must
11111ke as useful as possible, consistent with efficiency and economy, and
•111'11 sacrifices as in our judgment we could make to meet the patriotic
clrmand of our country. We have weighed with care all matters bef11rl' us, and have counseled with the best men of our Fraternity. We
have attempted to be most conservative. To those who may think we

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

were over careful we will say our Homes have in no way been deprived
of actual necessities. To those who may think we have been e;x:travagant, we will state that we have had the assistance of the best dealers
in the Fraternity in selecting our supplies at minimum cost, and we
value their co-operation and feel they have served us well.

111 I ii<" children is satisfactory. A merit system which gives them a
d11·l'i; on their own conduct is proving a splendid factor in maintaining
11 il""cl standard. A reward of unusual privileges is an incentive to
ll""d behavior, but the best feature displayed is a desire among the
diildren to show by what they can accomplish, that they are worthy of
till' a(lvantages given them by the Fraternity.

100

101

RJlSIDENTS AND CHILDREN

The existence of the Homes is not an idle monument, nor should
any one consider them a burden. It should be the same pleasure and
delight of the Fraternity to provide comfort and cheer in our Masonic
Home, for those too old and too young to produce, as it is for members
as individuals to comfort the venerable father or sweet old mother or
the bright-eyed, light hearted, child of their own homes. We are proud
to note that the kindliest spirit seems to pervade our membershi·p, and
every year brings added interest in those of our Fraternity who are sep-.
arated from their loved ones, and are sheltered in the Homes.
At Decato we arc pleased to report the Residents are now enjoying the comforts of the new buildings and equipment with a better
spirit than when disturbed with many inconveniences. Not all are happy.
It is not human to meet misfortunes and be happy. We can always attempt, however, by selected diet, by providing diversions, and by keeping live interest among the members of our big family, to keep a physical and mental standard that will best serve the greatest number.
They are well clothed, their quarters are kept comfortable, and the hospital accommodations are in the best condition we have ever had them.
An effort has been made to make their diversions useful ones, to help
produce for the Home. In some cases this has met with a cheerful response, but in many they have resented being asked "to work." The
spirit of "doing their bit" is, we believe, spreading and we trust our
Residents will co-operate to a better degree in the future.
At Covina the children are advancing in their development with the
advantages afforded by the new bui:dings. No member of the Fraternity should ever regret the portion he has contributed to the building
up of these sterling young boys and girls. The Board desires to endorse in the strongest manner the beneficial results obtained by following up the recommendations of members of the faculty of Stanford University, who made the survey of our children last year. A new survey
is being made at the time this report is being written to determine any
advancement made, and we trust our Grand Master will receive the
report of the examiners in time to include it in his address. Those ·in
charge at the Covina Home have worked most faithfully with the children, and they feel they have been materially assisted by the suggestions
accompanying the report of the survey last year. The children have
been given credit for raising the standard of the school they attend, and
their industry at home in their duties is commendable. The discipline

ADMISSIONS

We are facing unusual conditions, and the Board has been as genl'l'llllS to our lodges as the condition of Jhe applicant would permit, as
tl11· lodges have had many other unusual calls. We have had continuous
ll''lll<"sts to admit Masons from other Grand Jurisdictions, many of them
lwi11g- personally deserving, but the problem of providing buildings to
h• •llS(' the number of applicants would alone be an impossible one. Many
11f tl1l'se applicants seek to demit into our lodges, and we strongly urge
11111" subordinate lodges to use every care in receiving affiliates, as this
J11ris(liction in common with others, requires five years' membership
fr11111 affiliates to be entitled to admission to the Homes.
All applications this year have received prompt attention. Our
:41•(·rl'tary has referred the application to the Trustee living nearest the
11pplicant at once, and reports have been made at the following meet'111.is. There has been but one disputed point in eligibility. A ruling
was made by a Grand Master that a female orphan of a Mason was
11lways an orphan, regardless of age, and regardless of how many
I i111('S they may have married outside the fraternity, and were entitled
In relief.
Our regulations provide for admission of orphans under
•ixl1"<'n years of age, and we have not recommended any change. We
'"('l'i ved two applications this year for orphans seventy years of age,
wl111 by the ruling of the Grand Lodge were entitled to Masonic relief.
hut by our regulations not entitled to admission to the Homes. Unless
111 l1l'rwise instructed, the Board will continue under our present rcgu1111 i11ns.
Requests to admit boarders at different rates at both Homes come
fn·q11('ntly from Masons who are able to pay for their care, and some are
q11i11· insistent. Experience at our own and other institutions in this
111altl'r has been most unsatisfactory. It creates a caste, or isolated
d:iss, among the old people and disrupts discipline among the children.
Tiu· number of applications for boarding children would go into the
li1111dreds, and the task of pleasing exacting parents wou~d be a burden
wr should not assume.
PROPJlRT!ES AND IMPROVEMENTS

As to improvements, this year has been a quiet one. The new
huit.lings, water plant, heating, refrigeration, etc., at Decato, have been
111 almost perfect operation, and few repairs have been necessary.

103

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

At Covina, as reported last year, the buildings were complete<l,
dedicated and occupied. It remained only to complete the grounds and
walks, and to build our barns, dairy, sheds, chicken houses, fences, etc.
All these were built from the material taken from the old temporary
buildings, and the expense consisted only of labor, cement work, wire
for fencing, and necessary hardware.
At San Gabriel we naturally would make no improvement.s, but
we were called upon to pay for some street improvement. This property is now protected from damage by a concrete bri~ge over the wa.sh
going through it. We were again unfortunate in bemg unable to (\I~­
pose of this property. In one instanc~ the State refused. to grant a license to the Sanitarium purchasing it, because no patients are now
permitted to occupy a three-story frame building. !he di~ficulty of
new enterprises financing themselves during these times, discourages
the sale of a property this size, but it is well cared for and should
attract a person desiring this class of property.
The scattering properties coming into possession of the Home
through bequests, Rule 16, or other sources, have all been occupied if
rentable or cared for as economically as possible if not. We can not of
course ~ake desirable sales with present market conditions. These outside properties with one exception, are of small value an<l much care.
We will dispose of them at earliest opportunities.

11111 he out of place in presenting these figures, and may aid in a better
1111<1"rstanding of the report. On a subsequent page is given a state1111·111 of fund balances. We will refer to these funds in the· order
llallH'll in this statement.

102

ACCOUNTING AND I'INANCes

On another page of this report is printed a reproduction of an annual sheet showing the expenses of maintenance <listributed in items,
which readily determines the relative costs of the various <lepartments.
These segregations are desirahle and helpful in comparing the monthly
costs and assist in the economical handling of supplies. Our system
of st~res which enables us to purchase in larger quantities, then issuing
by requisition the needs of each month separately, makes these accounts
fairly accurate in food supplies and clothing, but is not dependable in
farm purchases that do not go through stores. This system was not
easily established, and represents much effort on the part of our accountant Bro. John R. Ruckstell, but it is now operating nicely. A
similar distribution is now being compiled to show all disbursements
made from the building fund, so that a separate account may be carried
for each building, farms, heating plants, laundries, water plants, grou~d
improvement, etc., which will show a monthly record of the cost o.f n:a11.1tenance, repair, renewal, or other expense of each. When this 1s 111
operation our full system of accounting will be ideal.
A record of our Finances is kept in Funds .. each representing a
distinct department of our work. We believe a brief explanation of
these funds for the benefit of new members of the Grand Lodge would

Our "General or Maintenance Fund" opened with a deficit of
$:i,175.18 carried from last year. The receipts cover the per capita
lotx of $1.00 received from subordinate lodges, contributions from
111\'mbcrs, donations to maintenance, and from produce sold and con•llmcd from the farms. The disbursements were for food, clothing and
il1·1ns as shown 011 the distribution sheet previously mentioned. The
th-licit of $13,030.72 shown, actually represents the deficit of three
)Tars although the greatest increase in cost of living expenses and supplies has been experienced this year. This deficit is much smaller
I l1an we feared it would be, but the co-operation of those at the Homes
a111l the aid of our friends among the dealers has aided much.
"Special Rule 16 Fund" is moneys coming to the Home through
applicants who are possessed of small holdings of Real Estate, X otes,
llonds, Insurance or other Securities which by our terms of admis,jon are turned over to the Homes. These properties are converted
into cash when practical or possible, and the amounts held in "Rule 16
Fund" until the death of the Resident. The Resident "receives the in·
nime from this fund while living, and at death of the Resident, the
principal passes to the Endowment Fund.
"Permanent Endowment Fund" has not shown the advance the
past year, largely because in the judgment of the Grand Master, and we
:1s Trustees were in accord, no call was made for an "Endowment
I lay." There being so many other calls on our hrethren, patriotic and
otherwise, this call was temporarily withdrawn. This met with object ion from many of the brethren who are enthusiastic for this fund,
and many remitted without the request. These funds are invested in dcpt>ndablc bonds except for the amot1nt loaned to the building fond for
the completion of the new buildings at Decoto and Covina. The
Building Fnnd pays the Endowment fund five per cent interest 011 the
amounts borrowed, that the income may in no way he disturbed. While
our regulations provide that the Income from the Endowment F1111d
may be used for the maintenance of the Homes, your Board of Trustees have never drawn on it, and have carried the income back into
the fund as a part of the new principal.
"Residents' Deposit F1111d." This is the aggregate of small sums
sent to residents hy lodges for the personal expenses or comforts of
individual rcsidt>nls, or from other sources such as pcnsions. donations,
etc. When a rcshknt receives the income from Ruic 16 Fund, it is

105

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

placed to his account in this fund subject to his call. It is not desirable
that residents should carry even small sums of money about them, and
this fund is their personal depositary.

<'rty, which is a proper credit to the building fund. The amount ~f dishnrsements shown in this statement was largely the final payments on
the Covina Buildings made subsequent to our last report, and for ground
improvements,· reservoirs, orchards, barn, dairy, etc.

104

"Entertainment Fund" is the residue of the Christmas Donations
so generously given by Masonic Bodies and members, and is used all
through the year for the entertainment, instruction and amusei;nent ~f
the old people, and for taking the children on a month's camping trip
during their summer vacation. This balance is naturally much larger
immediately following Christmas time. Residents and children share a
great sense of gratitude for this fund, knowing it comes as a volur:tary
contribution to be used exclusively for their pleasure and diversions.
We can not express to the thoughtful donors of this fund, the great
amount of real enjoyment these moneys provide, and the Trustees join
b~th our big families in most sincere thanks for this fund.
"Building Fund." This fund is supplied by the collection of the
fifty cents per capita collected each year as a building fun.d, and. ~as
been augmented by donations from members of the Fraternity desmng
to add to the comforts of those left to our care, particularly one good
brother, who does not permit the use of his name, who contributed
$21,000.00 toward the Covina Building, and $19,000.00 for new cons~ruc­
tion at Decoto. This fund has provided not only the new Dormitory
Building at Decoto and made the cottages much more suitable to our
needs, but it provided the new water system which was so ur?ently
needed and which gave the fraternity the gravest concern before it was
establi~hed. It also provided the new heating system which meant
much comfort to our old people in winter time, and the new laundry
which saves us much in the care and treatment of clothing. The
changes in the Annex Building, the refrigeration plant, the proper housing of employees, grading of grounds, roads, etc., has made our ho:ne
complete as it should be, with many convenienc.es, the absence of ~vh1ch
subjected us to just criticism before these .things were .accomph~h.ed.
The erection of the new buildings for the Children at Covina, prov1dmg
them with proper care and training, is the pride of all who have seen
them, and makes it possible to do that real Masonic building, the bui~d­
ing of strong men and women, morally, physically and mentally, with
the children for whose future we have assumed responsibility. These
sums have been spent in goodly amounts, but the Fraternity has never
spent its dollars for a more deserving purpose, and we can i ustly feel
that in providing these things we reflect credit upon efforts to meet
the responsibilities we assumed at the altar, in the care of those who
could look no place else but a public charity for their sustenance.
The accounts shown overdrawn in this fund represent the moneys
borrowed from the Endowment Fund. This will be replaced by the
receipts from the building fund, and the sale of the San Gabriel prop-

At the last convocation of the Grand Chapter, R. A. M., a fund of
$5000.00 for the erection of a machine shop or vocational work shop
for the boys at the Covina Home. was .unanimously voted. This sum
was invested in Liberty Bonds, to be held until the Board of Trustees
thought the building could be constructed without interference in any
way with the proper conservation of material and labor. While the
hoys feel the need of this building and equipment, a majority of the
lluard do not think the time yet propitious to construct the building.
"Special Home Fund." This is a fund of $19,000.00 previously
nwntioned, which was donated by a good brother for some new construction at Decoto not yet determined. The amount was invested in
•h-pendable bonds, and the interest added to the principal gives a
present value of $20,572.13.
The other funds shown in the balance sheet are self explanatory,
:111<1 a part of the formal operation of the Homes.
GENERAL CONDITIONS

Never in the history of the Homes have all departments been
working so efficiently, and so satisfactorily, but never before have we
possessed the working buildings and plants. All these thing make the
lwtter results possible. Our health records have been good, our produci11!-( facilities increased, and the conditions giving us most severe coni'<'rn have been removed. No person not familiar with the detail we
li:ivc met, can fully appreciate what the Fraternity has accomplished in
t liis branch of our work. We can not anticipate what the needs of the
war may bring to us, but our Grand Lodge has prepared us to meet the
1ww conditions in a splendid manner. Returning soldiers will need as~istance.
Old people whose support has been taken from them may
In• eompelled to seek the shelter of the Home. Soldiers killed in action
111ay leave dependent children. Thanks to a thoughtful Grand Lodge,
W<' have thoroughly caught ttp in our work, and are .ready to meet new
ll'•ponsibilities if they come to us. There are few vac~nt rooms at
I >.-coto, but the greatest call may be on our hospital, which is now filled
'" rapacity. The Home at Covina will care for more than twice the
1111111her of children by going to capacity in the new buildings. 'vV e are
111aking no recommendations on this matter, as the call has not come to
""· hut are stating the situation, that members of the Fraternity may
kuuw the actual conditions, should unexpected demands arise.

106

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

RECOMMENDATIONS

INCOME AND EXPENSE,
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
July 31st, 1918.

Although our demands have been great, the Homes have not requested an increase in the per capita tax. Our deficit for the past three
years is $13,030.72, and we recommend that an appropriation be made
by this Grand Lodge to cover this amount, and that the per capita again
remain unchanged. The deficit'the past year is less than anticipated.

J\1 ai11tenance:
EXPENSE.
Decoto .............................................. $24,622.90
Covina .............................................. 10,222.12

We recommend the continuation of the fifty cents per capita now
being collected as a building fund until the amount is fully replaced in
the Endowment Fund.

Fanns:
Decoto
Covina

We beg to thank the Grand Lodge, the Grand Officers, our many
generous brethren, and our faithful employees for their co-operation
during the past year, which aided much in mastering many of our
difficult problems.

f,aundry:
Decoto ---------·-------·--·- ----------------------·
Covina ·····-···········-··········· ------··········

Fraternally submitted,
WM. s. WELLS,
E. B. SPENCER,
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
CHARLES A. ADAMS,
GEORGE F. RODDEN,
OSCAR LAWLER,
CHAS. M. WOLLENBERG,
Trustees.

SECRETARY'S REPORT.
To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:

I herewith submit the report of the book accounts of the Homes,
as kept and prepared by Brother John R Ruckstell, certified public
accountant.
Fraternally yours,
JOHN WHTCHER,
Secretary.

107

$34,845.02
6,680.31
3,162.15

Wages and Salaries-General:
Decoto ..................................... ..
Covina ............................................. .

9,842.46
1,652.68
853.50
2,506.18
11,896.36
3,754.82

Ceneral Expense-Homes:
Decoto ............................................. . 12,537.67
Covina ............................................. . 4,795.69

17,333.36

Miscellaneous:
Trustees-Traveling Expenses ..
Accounting and Bookkeeping.. ·
Interest ........................................... .
Pensions ......................................... .
Taxes ............................................... .
General Expense-Common .... ..
Extraordinary Expense
Income and Revenue:
Maintenance Fund ...................... ..
Farm Produce Sales: Decoto..
Farm Produce Sales : Covina:.
Maintenance:
Maintenance:

15,651.18

959.64
400.00
1,650.45
275.00
144.87

8.20
850.00
$84,466.36
59,987.00
11,177.70
1,478.05
12,655.75

Decoto
Covina

Salvage ---·----···· .. --.. ··----.. --.. ·------·--·---·-----..
Interest and Discount ......................... .

3,183.84·
1,814.10 .
4,997.94
111.50
157.08
77,909.27

Deficit .............................................................................................. $ 6,557.09

108

Maintenance:
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
STATEMENT OF EXPENDITURES.
Total.
Covina.
Decato.
Maintenance:
4,071.25 $ 2,251.71 $ 6,322.96
Groceries
5,640.91
1,276.65
1\tleats ............................................... . 4,364.26
365.60
33.37
332.23
Fish ..................................................
729.76
120.61
609.15
Provisions ....................................... .
3,205.37
384.40
2,820.97
Fruits and Vegetables .............. .
9,013.97
1,459.61
Butter, Milk and Eggs ............... 7,554.36
2,261.90
919.30
Bakers' Supplies ........................... . 1,342.60
806.10
152.01
654.09
Medical Supplies and Drugs....... .
853.20
71.50
781.70
Hospital Expense ......................... .
1,520.84
*l,255.84
265.00
Clothing ........................................... .
845.18
552.17
293.01
Shoes .............................................. .
268.24
174.12
94.12
Bedding· ........................................... .
85.85
85.85
School Supplies ............................
2,524.69
1,448.96
1,075.73
Kitchen and Dining Room Exp.
400.45
36.02
364.43
Sundries ..........................................
$10,222.12

Decato.

Total.

Covina.

I :1·111·ral Expense:

August 1, 1917, to July 31, 1918.

Total Maintenance ................ $24,622.90

169

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

$34,845.02

l,ight, Heat, Water and Power..$ 6,503.21 $ 1,487.40 $ 7,990.61
Plant, Repairs and Maintenance 1,816.98
2,210.13
393.15
f<'reight and Express ................... .
376.11
528.74
152.63
,. _______________
Traveling Expense ....................... .
33.11
33.11
Printing and Office Supplies ..... .
635.54
80.60
716.14
rnsu-ra:nce and Taxes ....................
72.00
825.93
753.93
Furniture and Fixtures ............. .
144.47
144.47
223.33
358.93
Telephone and Telegraph ........... .
135.60
Sundry .............................................. 1,549.98
2,329.84
3,879.82
121.88
121.88
Depreciation and Repairs ............
523.60
Taxes-Decato ............................. .
523.60
•OH•O••••••••••

•••0H•OHOOH00

Total General Expense ........ $12,537.67

$4,795.69

$17,J33.36

l 'ommon Expense:
959.64
Trustees' Expense
Accounting ......................................................................................... . 400.00
Taxes-General ................................................................................. . 144.87
Interest ................................................................................................ 1,650.45
Pensions ............................................................................................. . 275.00
Extraordinary Expense ......................... :......................................... . 850.00
8.20
Sundries
00 .. 0 H • o o o o o O O H M M • • • o o • • • o o o o o • ' ' ' ' " O + o • h o • H h w . . o•••ooOOoo<oOOoo••••o+o-.ooo . . ooo••o••OOO ..

Farm:
Tools and Equipment ..................
Seeds and Trees .......................... .. $ 133.87
4.199.90
Feed ................................................ ..
Labor ............................................... . 1,683.92
662.62
General Expense ......................... .

$ 463.95
t344.13
1,018.63
1,087.19
248.25

$ 463.95
487.00
5,218.53
2,771.11
910.8/

$6,680.31

$3,162.15

$9,842.46

Laundry:
Labor .............................................. .. $ 890.00
762.68
Expense .......................................... ..

$ 285.98
567.52

$1,175.98
1,330.20

Total Laundry ....................... . $1,652.68

$853.50

$2,506.18

Pay Roll:
Wages ............................................ .. $9,016.36
Salaries ........................................... . 2,880.00

$2,854.82
900.00

$11.871.18
3,780.00

Total Pay Roll ........................ $11,896.36

$2,754.82

$15,651.18

Total Farm ....... :......... ..

*Including Clothing in Stores ($234.00).
tN ursery Stock for Covina Home ($300.00).

Total Common Expense ............................................................$4,288.16
·
Decato.
Covina.
Total.
Collections for Care, Mainten .....$ 3,183.84
$1,814.10 $ 4,997.94
Farm Sales ........................................ 11,177.70
1,478.05
12,655.75
Interest and Discount-Misc......... ................
................
157.08
Salvage .............................................. ..... . .......
111.50
111.50

l~c·vcnue:

Total Revenue ......................................................................... .$17,922.27
SUMMARY Ol!' EXPENDITURES.

Decato.
Maintenance ............................................ $24,622.90
Farm ........................................................ 6,680.31
l,aundry ................................................... 1,652.68
Pay Roll........Ceneral ................................ 11,896.36
C :._.neral ......................................................
12,537.67
t 'ommon Expense ................................. .

Covina.
$10,222.12
3,162.15
853.50
3,754.82
4,795.69

Total.
$34,845.02
9,842.46
2,506.18
15,651.18
17.333.36
4,288.16

Grand Total .................................... $57,389.92

$22,788.28

$84,466.36

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

110

PROFORMA.
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND 6ISBURSEMENTS
From August 1, 1917, to July 31, 1918.

10,676.52

Cash on Hand Aug. l,
Rl!Cl!lP'l'S.

Grand Lodge-Building ........................$29,993.50
Grand Lodge-Maintenance ................ 59,987.00

$89,980.50
Subordinate Lodges for Maintenance :
Decoto ................... ............................ 2,997.84
Covina ................................................ 1,814.10

111

DISBURSEMEN'I'S.

l'lni111s Payable ............................................................. .
( 'uv i11a Building and Equipment ..............................
('11vi11a Farm Equipment ............................................. .
J11l1'!'l'St ............................................................................
M1••i1knts' Deposit Fund ........................................... .
1ln11k of Italy Loans Repaid, etc .............................. .
l111t·n·st on Loan acct., Bldg. Fund to Sept. 1, 1917
•1·11~1·s .............................................................................. ..
ll11111ls Purchased ...................... ,.................................. ..
ltu11ds Donated (as above) ....................................... .
1'11111 <:abriel Property Expense ................................. .
Ml~cdlaneous Expense .................................. :.......... .
11!11~11t·nse ........................................................................ ..

96,915.78
38,894.56
135.00
2,324.10
1,244.68
55,000.00
674.45
668.47
15,100.00
600.00
1,019.42
243.95
*71.98
212,748.43

4,811.94
Balance on Hand

Farm Produce Sales-Decoto.............. 2,255.76
. Farm Produce Sales-Covina..............
513.24

3,579.45
BANK COMPOSI'I'ION,

2,769.00
Bank of Italy-Loans and Renewals ........................ 77,324.33
Donations and Interest Permanent End. Fund .. .. 17,885.98
600.00
Donations acct. Bonds Permanent End. Fund ....... .
City of Santa Barbara Bonds Redeemed .............. .. 1,000.00
Special Rule No. 16...................................................... .. 2,310.81
10.55
Special Rule No. 16 Interest... .................................... .
971.78
Special Home Fµnd Interest. ...................................... .
831.53
Interest Earned on Sundry Securities ..................... .
Collection acct. July, 1917 (Included previous
report) ...................................................................... 1,181.26
996.50
Funeral Expense ........................................................... .
260.00
Headstone Fund ................. :........................................ ..
Residents' Deposit Fund .......................................... .. 1,142.22
620.78
Real Estate ................. ,.................................................. ..
62.88
Salvage acct. Building ............................................... .
719.30
.. Sundries ........................................................................... .
Interest acct. Endowment Fund ............................... . 2,172.00

I I 11111holdt Savings Bank-Special... .......................... .
572.13
I l11111holdt Savings Bank-Endowment................. . *2,919.46
ll1111k of Italy ................................................................ ..
1,083.74
l.11~ Angeles Trust and Savings Bank ................... .
2,427.56
I It·«• 1!0-Petty Cash ..................................................... .
119.10
I '•1vina-Petty Cash .................................................... ..
50.00
,1111.v Collections:
t 'ovina for Deposit-August............$ 167.53
l>ccoto for Deposit-August... ......... 1,032.61
1,200.14
II. B. Hartman, Trus. Residents' Deposit Fund.. ..
1,046.24
Balance (as above) ..............................................- - - -

*Red ink.

205,651.36
Total Cash Available ...................................................................$216,327.88

3,579.45

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

113

BA LAN CE SHEET
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.
July 31, 1918,
ASSETS.

I '11•11

3,579.45

ll11111lh ················································································ 120,112.50

::;;;·,'.,::;~t~1t~. :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ~~::::~
lh1ildi11g, Equipment and Furniture.......................... 39,236.16
ll11r111 Equipment ............................................................ 5,141.00
l1111mivements ................................................................ 35,422.22
Mtori•s and Supplies ......................................................
2,116.41
llttll<'f'HI Fund ..................................................................
586.88
1'11111 Cabriel Property
1,629.26
S111·rial Rule No. 16 Interest Account......................
109.75
l'lll•prnse Account (Undistributed)............................ 2.847.51
'l'utal Assets ...........................................,................

$804,638.43

LIABILlTJJ!S.

N1>l<'s Payable ................................................................$ 57,324.33
t 'lai111s Payable-Current Bills....................................
6.112.30

I
:

i

I

l'n111anent Endowment Fund .................................. i48,255.64
S1wcial Home Fund ...................................................... 20,572.13
lh1il1ling Fund ................................................................ 29,319.05
lf«sidcnts' Personal Deposits ....................................
1,046.24
H1l!'dal Rule No.
7,520.91
I lc·11dstone Account ......................................................
1,960.00
l\111 .. rtainment Fund .............................................. .....
66.69
Total Liabilities........................................................- - $272,177.29
llalance ..............................................................................................$532,461. 14
CAPITAL ACCOUNT.

I

t \1pital Account Balance Aug. l, 1917.....................$539,018.23
I !«licit Year Ending July 1, 1918................................ 6,557.09

f-<

( 'upital Balance~ (Present Worth) .: ............................$523,461.14

"'

c;;
0

114

TH!\ COVINA HOM!\

The children were installed in their new buildings last year but
a few days before the meeting of the Grand Lodge. They were most
happy in - th~ culmination of a long anticipated event in which they
had each personally participated in some useful way to make complete.
The past year may be said to be the one of greatest development in the
history of the Home. ~ ot development alone in physical improvement
of the property, but a wonderful mental development of the child, that
can only be experienced or obtained in habilitating in a sensible and
suitable manner the buildings they had watched in construction in every
detail from cornerstone to dedication.
In the furnishing, decorating and draping, the children were taught
to ·study the harmony of color, the character of design, the symmetry
of hangings, and the placing of the several units of the furnishings. In
the care of the home, the value of saving, the economy of wear, and the
maximum of usefulness of all things provided for them, is emphasized
by their instructions.
With the increased facilities for industrial. musical, and social development, they have displayed a corresponding increased interest and improvement in these branches. Our boys have dug ditches for pipe lines,
the holes for trees in the new orchards, assisted in grading, weeding and
caring for the lawn, and in many small ways were helpful in our general
improvements. Our girls laundered and hung the curtains, made covers
and tops for tables, scarfs for dressers and chiffoniers, many choice hangings and room ornaments for their dormitories, and above all made and
sold enough aprons to furnish their own parlors at a cost of nearly
three hundred dollars. While doing all these things, and sharing a
delight in doing them, they have advanced in their school work, music,
and drills as well.
Our children enjoy and value the visits of our Grand Officers, .;ind
those of Lodges and Chapters. Some of these visits mark some very
happy events. 'vVe desire the Lodges and Chapters to know they are'
always welcome, and if our Matron may be informed in advance, the
children will be pleased to entertain them in some way. We desire to
mention some of the visits that delighted the children the past year.
September 14th, Most Illustrious Harvey Le Fevre Marvin, Grand
Master of Grand Council, R. & S. M., visited the Home and addressed
the children in a most appropriat1 and cordial manner.
September 19th, Jasmine Chapter No. 145 of Azusa called with a
generous supply of fruits and jells. A warm welcome and program was
given by the children.
October 28th, Brother James F. Fenwick of Honolu!J'Lodge No. 4al
gave the children a most pleasant and cordial visit.

'115

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

October
28th, Hollenbeck
Chapter No. 248, 0·. E . S ., ca11 ed m
. goo di Y
I
'th
.
w1
a mce
.
•tr II ,>ers
.
h program and presented in a very pIeasmg
an d
' i·c ive manner a andsome hall clock. The children responded with a
du«·rfnl acceptance and good program.
October 28th, Mizpah Lodge No. 378 in good attendance with a
1111111h~r of good. entertainers gave the children a nice visit. They left
two f1cezers of ice cream for dinner that evening.
November 3rd, the children gave a reception to their n
G d
Hrot?er Wm. Rhodes Hervey. This was also the
1111• l1rst_mcetmg. of the new Board o f T rns t ees at t h e Home This
. was
n, :"ry lmc evenmg. The wives of the Trustees and Grand
·t
I 1npated.
as er par11111

~laslt'r,

o~:sio~a~f

M

N~vcmber 25th, Wilshire Chapter No. 329 visited the Home and left

supply of canned fruits. This generous Chapter ha m
lwrs who are very thoughtful of our children at all times. s any mem

11 Rno<

ln·for'.~ccem.ber 16th'. Long Beach Shriner's Club never misses a call just

I

Clmstmas with a bucket of sweets and a dollar bill for each child'
rank account. The children .are always strong for this visit.
s

' December 23rd, La Paloma Chapter No. 202 0 E S
h
( lnptc
t C ·
' · · ., our ome
'k ~ a_
?vma, always thoughtful, made a Christmas call with
1"'" ·s, rmts, iams, etc., and a real good program.
December 23rd, Long Beach Chapter No 173 0
rldldren a wonderful Christmas Th h d. . d ' . E. S.,. gave the
w 'th Ch ·
·
ey a an a vance committee come
1.
a
ristmas tree, and on this date brought Santa Cl u
smtable present for each child. They also remembered o:/
a
;omel
employees. They gave the usual dollar bill to
t ~~ ank account.s, also a small cake each for Christmas dinner.
11~
~pter never misses a Christmas, and an extra visit some time
' 1urmg t e year to the Home, and they are more generous each year.

·17·

o~ o:r

~~~ mos~
:a~~ncl~Gd

, . December 2.9th. Children visited a picture show at Covina b courMrs. Dietz, proprietor, and La Paloma Chapter No.

2,0{

1< sy of

• February 14th, 1918. Visit of Most Eminent Samuel A Cl k
;:r'.mdd
Knights Templar, and Gen. Robert
.r.m
aptam General.
'

CCom~andery

\Va.nko::-sk~'

.. February 24th, Lexington Lodge No. 104 of El M t d
v1;;1t and lots of fruits and nuts
Our I11'Id
• on e a goo
i.:ram.
··
c
ren gave them a good proA~ril 14th, "University day," is looked forward to bv th L d
we believe, as much as the children They are all h'ld • f e odge,
·1·1 ·
·
·
'
c 1 ren or a ay
Lodge
always entertains th e ch'ld
· some novel way ·
s. 115 active
f
·
1 ren m
..ome. o their members are active on the screen, among them Cheste;
t onkhn. They are always bringing the big laughs to the Home Th
Lodge also brought candies, fruits and phone records.
·
e

116

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

May 8th. A musicale given by the children under the direction of
Mrs. Lela Buckham. She brought some artists with her from Los Angeles, who took part, much to the. delight of the children.
May 18th. A reception to Dr. Samuel E. Burke, Grand Master oi
Grand Council. Our boys drill team did well. On this occasion gavels
made by the boys of the Home were presented to Brother Burke,
Brother Wm. Rhodes Hervey, Grand Master, and Brother E. B. Spencer, Grand High Priest.
May 22nd, County ~fatrons and Patrons Association, 0. E. S., of
Los Angeles were entertained by the children at Covina.
June 22nd. Children participated in reception to Grand Master
\Vm. Rhodes Hervey at Shrine Auditorium. Our girls gave some
c1a.ssic dancing, Our boys gave a drill and the Girls' Mandolin Club
played.
June 30th. Visit of Veteran Lodge No. 373 of Sawtelle. The
Lodge presented a splendid 68 foot steel flag pole and a beautiful 12x20
flag. Golden West Commandery Band accompanied them, also Columbia Chapter, 0. E. S.
July 7th. Claremont Lodge No. 436 and Claremont Chapter No. 324
visited the Home. Children gave a program. The visitors were pleased
with the home and the children.
July 19th. Euclid Chapter No. 179 of Ontario called in good numbers and had a picnic lunch on the grounds. This Chapter was generous with comforts, pillow cases, towels, etc., and a nice number of
fruits and jells. Every member who did not act like a kid was fined,
and $7.63 was collected arid left as treat money for the children.
July 24th to August 28th, marks the camp at Balboa. Here 9ur
Orange County brethren make their visits, and many of our friends
coming to this Beach from Los Angeles and other places called at Camp.
Our Grand Master was a frequent caller, and Past Grand Masters
Weller and Keesling visited the camp and were most heartily received
bv the children. On some Sundays we received as many as fifty visitors.
Mrs. Adams and Mrs. Wollenberg accompanied their husbands at a
Hoard meeting in camp. They enjoyed the children and the beach, but
they made no swimming records.
DONATIONS TO COVINA HOMit

Probablv stimulated by the spirit of the times to generous g1vmg,
but we know in most cases influenced by actual visits to the Home, and
·witnessin15 the happiness of thc: children in the surroundings provided
for them, the Masonic Bodies have generously aided the children in
furnishing and supplying comforts in many ways for their new Build-.
ings. Last year our list was too incomplete, but this year we are
pleased to give to the Fraternity a list of the bodies so kindly contributing some of these furnishings.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNI,A
DONOR.

· ll11tt1 lwrn California

117

ARTICLll:.

Past Masters'
i\~-.1riation ............................................ Furnishing Main Hallway.
1lr11ttlsh Rite Bodies of Los Angeles .. Tiling plunge, shower rooms, dressing
rooms and run-ways in Gymnasium
Room.
Francisco Lodges ..............................Grand Piano and one hundred player
records.
Ml'111lwrs of San Francisco Board of
lfrlid ...................................................... Handsome mahogany hall clock-Girls'
Building.
Mt•. !\lice Ascroft for her son, Bro.
I lurry Ascroft... ..................................... His beautiful hall clock, "Big Ben," for
the Boys' Building.
I lulh·nhcck Chapter No. 218, 0. E. S... Beautiful mahogany hall clock for Main
Building.
Vrtl'l'an Lodge No. 373 ......................... Sixty-five foot steel pole and handsome
12x20 bunting flag.
141111~<'1 Lodge No. 352.............................. Furnishing Reception Room.
1111-ty lhird Masonic District... ............. Little Girls' Dormitory Room.
1'11111 Bernardino Masonic Bodies .......... Room Girls' Dormitory Building.
lloll<'nbcck Lodge No. 319.................... Room Girls' Dormitory Building.
1'111111hern California Lodge No. 278... Room Boys' Dormitory Building.
Ml1pah Lodge No. 378............................ Room Girls' Dormitory Building.
I l11lv«rsity Lodge No. 394.................... Room Girls' Dormitory Building.
f lnr Own Girk ......................................... Parlors of Girls' Building.
1111111<1 Lodge Officers and Inspectors .. Victrola, nineteen records and fifty dolh1rs to purchase new records.
l111111ona Chapter No. 110, 0. E. S..... Porch furniture.
llno. Thos. J. Baker.. .............................. Silk flag.
111·11. and Mn. Ralph A. Chase of
S1111set Lodge No. 352........................ Portraits .of Washington and Lincoln
with crossed silk flags.
llrn. J F. Cornell, Sttnsct Lodge No.
.l!iZ ............................................................ Large panel mirror.
t 'urnation Chapter No. 171, 0. E. S.,
Hc'<londo ................................................ Bronze umbrella stand.
l11ul<·wood Ch;ipter No. 319, 0. E. $ ... Furnishing Diet Kitchen.
I• 1111wna Lodge No. 457.......................... Wachtel painting.
llunkna Chapter No. 260, 0. E. S ....... Hospital bedside table.
1
l'hos. A. Davies ........................................ Clock for Roys' Stttdy Room.
l' J. Deuter and F. J. Howard ............$25.00 furnishings.
!"mltish Rite Bodies of Pasadcna ...... $27.60 play room furniture.
i\1111nyrnous, Long Beach ........................~l.00 for Girls' Dormitory.

••Ill

118

PROCEEDING!S OF THE

Other Donations were made, the value of which cannot be measured in dollars, and the increasing benefit of the services performed
will compound more than usury rates in exchange. The Mental and
Physical Survey made by the Department of Pediatrics of Stanford
University Medical School was given to us by that institution without
cost to us. Prof. Arthur J. Ritter and Dr. Harold K. Faber conducting the work, have rendered the Fraternity a splendid service, and our
gratitude to them is extended in fullest measure of expression. They
were generous, not only in their labors, but i11 their recommendations
and suggestions for our guidance in building up intellectual and physical standards.

GRAND LODGE OF CALII<'ORNIA

119

(or I heir own children, woul<l set aside just one can for ottr children,
1111d leave it at the Cathedral, she would see that it would be taken to
tll!' I lome. Responses came at once. Scottish Rite jam came in, then
l•:astcrn Star jam came, then lodges came in bunches and fairly
l11111111ed our doors. Some came by express from outside places, and ·
'"tit<' from as far north as San Francisco. .'\o one will ever know in
11t .. same way our children know, how this splendid idea spread, and
ltow much jam it spread.

Other donations and treats given our children during the year arc
lhi«d as follows, giving names of Donors and the articles. Any
-.111:1 II sums received are put in a "Treat fund" and <'Xpenclcd by
tl1t• Matron on hikes, parties, camp trip, or on snch occasions that all
tll<' children may participate (•q11ally in th<' pnrchascs.

We are indebted locally to Physicians· of the Fraternity for their
special care in operations and treatment for adenoids, tonsils, circumcisions, fractures, and other illnesses which came to us the past year.
Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor, who has always been our counsellor and friend,
has been as faithful as ever, and our children love him as a memhcr
of our big family. His capable and generous wife, Dr. Nannie C.
Dunsmoor, has assisted him frequently, particularly in operations. Dr.
Robt. M. Dunsmoor and Dr. Frank D. Bullard, experts in administering
anesthetics, have always been at our command. Dr. 0. R. Stafford an<l
Dr. Walter R. Crane, specialists, assisted us in nose and throat work.
Dr. G. K. Abbott of Covina is the children's real friend in case of accident, and he· was very faithful in doing everything for little Dorothy
Petersen before her removal to the hospital. Dr. Henry Dietrick,
though unknown to us at the time, cared for Dorothy at the Hospital
up to the time of her death, without expense to the Home. All of these
physicians are Masons, and none of them would accept compensation for
their services.

•liirt' Lodge and Chapl<'r ................... Fruits arnl mdons.
11111. l'hil Marx, T('hachapi, Cal... ........ Hox peaches.

The health of the children is not remembered only by our M. D.
brethren. Our ladies have displayed much interest, providing some of
the choice eatables that these times of conservation make a little scarce.
'rhis interest is manifested hv the suhstantial and material assi>;tance,
particularly this year in hrin~ing jams am! je'.lics to the chiMren. A
happy thought on the part of our Grand i\fas!C'r or of his ('Sl\'cmcd wife
(each gives the other the crC'dit) brought hundreds of glasses of i('lly
and jams to the Home. All persons who have chiltln·n, or who have
ever been children themsclws, kno\v how much real joy there is in a ·
glass of jam, not the store kind that has a tempting- color hut with the
taste left otit, hnt the kind a real mot her makes with r<'al fruit ancl real
sugar in it. .Mrs. Hervey's littk note in the Srn1ti:d1 Rik Hulk·ti11, to
use the expressive v<'rnacular "startt•d something." Slw rl'qncsted that
wives of members of the Rite, who so desirecl, should join with her
in getting some real home made jams and jellil's out to the childn·n of
the- Hom~. Her idea was, that if each family, when putting np thl' fruit

)11•111i11(' Chapter, 145 0. R ,S,, Aznsa .. T,arge qu:rntitit•s fruits and jl'lls.
111. J. M. Dt111smoor, !-'ecy. L.A. Bd.
••I l~l'lief ................................................ St•veral volt111ws of hooks and many
favors.
W111. J. Jacknrnn a1Hf otlH·rs ............... Old magazines.
llt11 I\. F. Tallman, Mizpah 378 ......... Clothing.
Ml1pah Lodge No.•17/L......
...... Collection of $8.00 for lrt>ats.
'I 111 ra11ce La<lge No. 447 ....................... Ccnerons quantity of candy.
llr". J. \V. l lnrst, Covina .................... 4 lugs peacht•s.
M111g:1rct Stcvrns, T.ong Beach Chapin, 0. E.
dresses.
J. :\, Kelly & C. 0. Pulliam, Mizpah
l,1ulge No. 378.......................................80 sticks candy,
Mr. Arthur Strashurg<'r, Broaclwav
I lq1t. Store .................,..,.......................:. Portrait of Lincoln with C<:ttyshurg
speech engrossed.

DONOR,

ARTICLE.

l'nl'ili« Electric Railway Company ...... Stwcial car to and from the hcach.
M••. 11. E. Alexander, Past Matron
111

the Hom(' ............................................ Many new hooks.

llrn. F. R. Comfort, University Lodge
r-,,· ... .W4......

........................................ Candy, fruits and melons throughout the
year.

11111 I. J. Hirsh, Mim1eapolis Lodgr ..'rhree fine scrap hooks.
11111 I~. IL Raker, flaker Linen Co ..... M:my us('fol articles all year,
I 11111..-y LeF. Marvin, Grant! Mast<'r
111' Crand Council... ............................... Tc11 dollars for treats.

lh 11, :111<1 Mrs. F. J. Elsonsolm, \.Yil-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

120
DONOR,

ARTICL!i.

Mr. Arthur Staley.................................... "Women of Belgium."
Mrs. John Richards and Miss Mab!e
Childs ...................................................... Home made candy.
Wm. Kh1smann, University No. 394.... Fruits, etc., all year.
S. J. Comfort, University No. 394........ Guitar and 2 instruction books.
Dr. C. H. Von Brelon, University
No. 394..................................................... J\ifandolin.
B. C. Booth, University No. 394.......... Mandolin.
Wilshire Chapter No. 329, 0. E. S.,
Social Club............................................. .12 vases.
Carnation Chapter No. 171, 0. E. S.,
Redondo ..................................................50 quarts fruit.
Mrs. J. ]. Thomas, Columbus, Ohio ....$2.00 treats.
Inglewood Chapter No. 319 0. E. S ...50 glasses jelly.
Robt. Hewitt Dewitt... .............................John Martin's magazine.
Mr. John Frohliger and the author,
Margaret Blake Alveson ......................Sixty Years of California Song.
Wilshire Chapter No. 329 0. E. ·s .....30 quarts fruit, preserves, etc.
Bro. E. V. Stewart.. ..................................Boy's overcoat.
Hollywood 0. E. S. No. 209 Constellation ................................................6 comforts, 31 outing flannel night
gowns.
Bro. James H. Duncan, Mission 169.. Dozen good books.
Bro. M. H. Landers, Richmond 375 ...."Penrod."
Bro. 0. L. Sues, Mission 169................32 volumes "Makers of History."
Mrs. F. E. Norton ................................... Clothing.
Jesse L. Laskey Feature Play Co ......... Good quantities fruits and vegetables.
Pomona Chapter No. 110 0. E. S.,
Social Club ..............................................27 tea towels and clothing.
Mr. Arthur Staley, Fullcrton ................20 pounds walnuts.
Bro. Fred W. Gray, \Vhittier 323........ Pruned lemon orchard.
Bro. Douglas Crane, Richmond Lodge
No. 375 .. _............ _........... -..........................$100 for books.
Mrs. Steinberger, Sierra Ma<lre ............ Dictionary.
Bro. E. Rhoades, Chino Valley Lodge
No. 427 .......................................... -...........$2.00 for treats.
Bro. John R. Prince, l,;niversity 394.. Mandolin.
Mr. and Mrs. Bernal H. Dyas..............107 hooks.
Bro. Chas. Albert Adams, Sr. Grand
Warden ....................................................95 books.
Bro. L. D. Wallenstein, Pomona 246...$1.00 treats.
Bro. James F. Fenwick, Honoluln
~ .. :......................................................... Many choice Hawaiian souvenirs.

DONOR.

121

AR'l'ICLE.

l1n l11Mton Lodge 104..............................61 pounds apples, 57 pounds walnuts.
· ft111. ancl Mrs. F. E. Dudderar, Covhrn .......................................................... Much fruit and vegetables.
""lllona Lodge No. 457..........................500 sticks candy.
1i11111hland Chapter No. 307 0. E. S.
1'111d11l Club ............................................$10 treats.
L)'rn Chapter No. 144 0. E. S. Whitllc·r ............................................................Two comforts, 12 yards long cloth.
h1·11 1111<1 Mrs. John R. Ruckstell, Mis•11111 169....................................................Choice candies, books, treats, etc.
fh11. J. T. Schain ......................................6 pounds candy.
llulv..ro;ity Lodge No. 394...................... 5 phonograph records.
llrnwl Chapter R. A :VL........................$86.25 for thrift stamps.
l 'hc••l c·r Conklin, University 394.......... Many treats, nuts and candies.
W111. Lanten, Golden Gate 30; W. E.
jl'wdl, Buffalo, N. Y.; Carry M.
!:ail, Buffalo, N. Y ...............................$15 baseball outfit.
l'n•I Matrons Mary Dauer, La Put1111t·; lda Akard Jasmine and Olive
ti,. ( ~riffith, I,a Paloma Chapter ......$2.00 treats.
MI•. Lulu A. Dictz ...........................:...... Many courtesies at picture shows.
M1• ~Jae J. Linckcr, Oak Leaf Chapin No. 8, 0. E. S .................................$2.00 treats.
MI• I,. G. Tollstain .................................. $1.00 treats.
Mt•. Ihle W. Nicol<'n, Southland
t 'li;1pter No. 307, 0. E. S ................... Jellics, fruits, pickles, etc.
11111 Bruce Moore, Fullerton 339........$1.00 treat.
I I. I\!. Sutherland, Covina Com111an1l1·r.1· -.........................................................60 po1mds rlmharb.
W, W. .'-J ash, Covina boclics .................. 3 gallons ice cream.
lililn·r Wave Chapter No. 75, 0. E. S... Fruits and jdlics.
llro and 2\frs. \V. B. Howes, Key•lnm• Chapter 56, H. A. M ........ _....... .14 quarts apricots.
lh11. and Mrs. John Whiehcr ............... .12 song books.
14nlplt L. Garni<'r and F. B. Comfort,
I lniversity Lodge 394.......................... 30 pounds apricots.
ll11iv1•rsity Lodf.{c 394 .............................. Balls, hats, masks, gloves, etc.
thn J. Hugo Vallcy ................................T<·n dollars thrift stamps.
hn1. J.C. Horton, Sunset 352 .. -.............9 fJ!Htrts fruit.
flr.-i1• Love ................................................ Candi<·s and treats many times.
Mr,. Perry \V. Wcidn<'r ........................ ffamlsomc pillow top.
flro. ;rnd Mrs. J. M. McAvoy, I l<'nry
S. <lrrne 458 ............................................ Finc banjo and guitar.
tlrn. J. W. Wehstcr, WC'st LakC' 392... .Thrc<• fancy pillows.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

122
DONOR.

ARTICLE.

Bro. and Mrs. S. E. Rodda, university No. 394..................................... .100 all day suckers.
Bro. and .Mrs. E. L. Dreher, Claremont 436.................................................. Sack oranges.
Euclid Chapter No. 179, 0. E. S., Ontario ..........................................................22 pillow cases, 11 towels, 8 comforts,
25 pints fruits and jells, $7.63 treat
money.
Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415 ............... Admissions to Pantages Theatre.
Covina Lodge 334 and La Paloma
Chapter 202............................................ 10 comforts.
Bro. and Mrs. Fred ]. Elsensohn,
Wilshire Lodge and Chapter........... .26 watermelons.
Henry Clairville, graduate ...................... Several piano rolls and records.

CHRISTMAS DONATIONS-COVINA HOMll

Al Malaikah Shrine Ladies' Auxiliary ......................................................... .15 handsome dolls.
T. C. Tucker, Calif. Almond Growers' Association ....................................80 pound sack almonds.
Bro. P. R. Feddersohn, La Puente
446 ............................................................35 pound sack walnuts.
Long Beach Shrine Club ........................ Dollar bill for each child and 30 pounds
candy.
Bro. F. B. Silverwood, Southern
California 278. ........................................80 hoxes of candy.
Cunningham Curtiss & \Velch Co ...... .2 dozen boxes stationery.
Lucerne Chapter 127, 0. E. S., Hanford ......................................................... Christmas box, present for each chihl.
Marguerite Hilton
stories.
Hauser's Stock Farm .............................. 18 Leghorn pullets.
Mrs. Leo Bruck ....................................... 32 knit wash cloths.
Bro. Fred Young, Golden State 358..4 dozen boxes stationery, I dozen 1wncil
hoxcs, 22 games.
Jasmine Chapter 145, 0. E. S., Azusa .. Generons quantities home made candy.
La Paloma Chapter 202, Covina ...... -..... 18 good books and 40 quarts of fruits,
jams and j cllies.
Long Beach Chapter No. 173, 0. E. S. Christmas tree, $1.00 for each child,
presents, cakes and bags of candy for
each child.
Mrs. ]. V. Elliot, Covina ..................... _.. Toys.
University 394...... -................... -..... -.......... .85 select books.
Bro. and Mrs. Jno. R. Ruckstell... ....... Candy.

DONOR.

123
ARTICLE.

MI• W:irren Rude .................................... Phonograph record.
· 0111vill,· 103 ................................................ 3 gallons ripe olives.
MI• .I. ]. Thomas Columbus, Ohio.. $5.00 treats.
l.il1'<'1' Wave Chapter No. 75, 0. E. S.,
!'11111 llernardino ................................ -...$5.00 treats.
&', ~I. Wollenberg ...................................... 6 piano records.
J, N. lkaubier, Champion Lodge No.
Ml, /\lherta ........................ - ....................$2.00 treats.

CAMP DONATJONS

A't DALlJOA

lh•"' J. P. Greely and F. W .. Beckwit Ir, Santa Ana Lodge 241.. ............ Roat "Balboa" for transportation am]
pleasure of children.
MI. and l\f rs. F. Bader, Fresno ............ Boxes of fruit.
M1·111lwrs Santa Ana Lodge No. 241..2 sacks oranges, lug peaches and lug
tomatoes.
M111•.hall Keeler, Santa Ana 241.. ........20 pounds candy.
lh11. l 'has. A. Adams .............................. Evinrude motor.
lh·.,,i,· r,ove ................................................ Candy.
,1111111" Slauson .......................................... Bunch bananas.
11111 and Mrs. Millard, Universitv
N "· 394 .................................................. :.100 all day suckers.
11111 11• B. Comfort, Univcrsitv 394.... 13 watermelons.
C'l1"'fl'r Conklin, University 394.......... 25 pounds peanuts.

Cll ILTll!l\N AT COVINA HOME

Fol!owing is a compktc list of the chilclren living at the Covina
I lome, the datl's of aclmission, their n·spective ages, the names and
1111111hers of the Lodges nominating them, and the location of such
l.11d1-:es:
GJR'LS, 30
NAME

ADMI'lvl'F.D

LOJJ(;J\

NO. I.OCATJON

AGF.

lh1•w11ach, Clarice M ....... May 23, '16 I,a Parfaitc Union 17 San Francisco.. 9
11111 Liml, Jessie C ............. May 21, '15 Richmond .............. 375 San Francisco .. 9
~'0111.-y, Louise ................ Nov.16, '16 lfollcnbe~k ............319 I,os Angeles ...... 6
ll1•1l111a11, Helen Bertha.. July 14, '18 Fresno ................... .247 Fresno .............. 9
ll1'rl{11son, Blanche B ..... June 16, '16 H nmbolclt .............. 79 Eureka .............. 15
ll1'11{1tson, Esther M ....... June 16, '16 If umboldt .............. 79 Eureka .....-....... .13
lll•l'ill'r, Doris C............... Oct. 14; '16 Masonic Bd. Relief.... San Francisco ..10

124
NAME

ADMITTED

LODGE

NO. LOCATION

ADMITTED

AGE

Fisher, Alice E ................. Mar. 8, '14 Presidio ..................354 San Francisco.. 16
Fisher, Muriel .................. Mar. 8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 San Francisco.. 7
Fisher, Ruth H ................. ~1ar. 8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 San Frapcisco .. 14
Herrington, G. R. ............Aug. 11, '17 San Francisco ...... 360 San Francisco .. 12
Herrington", Lolita E ..... Aug. 11, '17 San Francisco ...... 360 San Francisco .. 10
Neustadt, Henrietta ....... .]une 20, '14 Sunset ......................352 Los Angeles...... 15
Pascoe, Aline A ............... Sept. 6, '17 Amador .................. 65 Jackson ............ 13
Pascoe, Edna .................... Sept. 6, '17 Amador .................. 65 Jackson ............ 10
Poole, Dorothy C............. Mar. 3, '18 Pasadena ............... .272 Pasadena .......... 4
Poole, Ruth Mary ............ Mar. 3, '18 Pasadena ............... .272 Pasadena .......... 5
Raftery, Bernice................ May 11, '13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ...... 10
Raftery, Martha ................ Dec. 3, '17 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles ...... 6 ,
Raftery, Mary.................... Dec. 3, '17 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles...... 6
Rice, Edith W ................... Nov. 10, '16 Golden Gate ---·····-· 30 San Francisco .. 6 •
Riley, Rebecca .................. Apr. 11, '11 Martinez ................ 41 Martinez .......... U
Shipley, Eva V ................. Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana .............. 241 Santa Ana ........ 10
Shipley, Frances W ......... Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana ............. .241 Santa Ana ........ 8
Shipley, Hazel .Fern ........ Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana ..............241 Santa Ana ........ 6
~tevens, Irene .................... Feb. 25, '10 Agreement Bd. Tru&t ............................ 16
Villalobos, E. F. R. .......... Oct. 4, '16 Mizpah ....................378 Los Angeles ...... 7 ,.
Virgo, Alice M ................. Dec. 5, '13 Mizpah ····--·-·······-----378 Los Angeles ...... 11
Virgo, Winifred................ Dec. 5, '13 Mizpah ....................378 Los Ang:eles ...... 8
Virgo, Sadie V ................. Dec. 5, '13 Mizpah -----·---·------·--·378 Los Angeles ..... .10
BOYS,

125

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

30

Basenach, Harry L......... May 23, '16 La Parfaite Union 17 San Francisco..13
Borland, John C............... May 21, '13 Richmond ..............375 San Francisco.. 13
Borland, Robert M......... May 21, '13 Richmond ..............375 San Francisco .. 14
Brown, Edmund E ...........June 15,'15 Pentalpha ................202 Los Angeles ...... 14
Brown, Herbert E ........... June 15, '15 Pentalpha ............... .202 Los Angeles ...... 11
Chester, Tom Hunter .... Sept. 22, '17 Palestine ................ 351 Los Angeles ..... .11
Dellman, Wilhelm A. ...... Mar. 4, '18 Fresno ..................... .247 Fresno .............. 6
Fischer, Douglas E .........Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. Relief... .. . San Francisco .. 6
Fischer, Eugene A. .......... Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. Relief ...... San Francisco.. · 7
Fisher, William D ........... Apr. 10, '15 Presidio ..................354 San F rancisco .. 12
Fisher, Harrison .............. Mar. 8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 San Francisco .. 9
Howard, Homer E ......... Feb. 17, '13 Oriental .................. 144 San Francisco .. 10
Jordan, William Lewis.. Feb. 27, '18 King Davids ............209 S. Luis Obispo.. 10
Marks, Earl William ......June 2, '18 Culver City............ ..469 Culver City...... 6
Marks, Richard P .......... .]une 2, '18 Culver City..............469 Culver City ...... 8
McDowell, John C........... Sept. 27, '16 Mt. Jackson ..........295 Guerneville ...... 15
Mooneyham, Wm. 0 .......Jan. 29, '16 Upland .: ................ ..419 Upland ............. .11
Neustadt, Lawrence ....... .]une 20, '14 Sunset ......................352 Los Angeles ...... 13

LODGE

NO. LOCATION

AGE

E ............. Feb. 28, '16 Sequoia .................... 349 Oakland ........... .10
) 1Plc'l'S<'ll, C. H ................. Sept. 28, '17 Live Oak ................ 61 Oakland ............ 5
t'llM'"'" Richard H........... Sept. 6, '17 Amador .................... 65 Jackson ............ 8
Uulnlon, Albert... ................Dec. 18, '09 Mission ................... .169 San Francisco..13
lc11h1·ry, Earl A. ................ Apr. 11, '13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ..... .12
l411111s1lcn, Thomas............ Nov. 16, '16 Mission ................... .169 San Francisco..14
tck1·, James Peter ............July 2, '15 Golden Gate ............ 30 San Francisco.JO
Mlh'_v, Jahiel T ................... Apr. 11, '11 Martinez .................. 41 Martinez ..........17
M111lth, Robert .................... Nov. 7, '15 University ..............394 Los Angeles ...... 5
M1·hwartz, Emil P .............June 29, '17 West Gate ................ 335 Los Angeles ...... 9
Ml'l1wartz, Sidney ..............June 29, '17 West Gate ................ 335 Los Angeles ...... 7
Wc·he, Victor .................. Aug. 28, '13 Amity ......................370 San Francisco..12

DEPARTURES DURING THE Yl';AR
NA.ME

Margherita Buletti.................................. ..
Ruth E. Pritchard .................................. ..
Myrtle M. Mooneyham ......................... .
Elmer John Fisher ................................... .
Albert Lucas Robert... ............................ .
I >orothy Lucille Palmer.... c................... ..
Dorothy Mae Petersen (Died) ........... .
Mercedes Elizabeth Herrington ........... .
Isabelle Yaeger ......................................... .
Effie A. M. Riley ..................................... .
( ieorge Henry Cadwell .......................... ..
Lewis George Hyner ............................... .
1v1argaret Brown ...................................... ..

1918

ADMITTED

DEPARTED

Nov. 10, '07
June 14, '15
Jan. 29, '16
Mar. 8, '14
Aug. 11, '13
Oct. 23, '17
Sept. 28. '17
Aug. 11, '17
Aug. 30, '16
Apr. 11, '11
Oct. 20, '13
June 14, '12
Jan. 30, '10

Oct. 16, '17
Feb. 10, '17
Mar. 6, '18
June 17, '18
June 18, '18
June 19, '18
June 23, '18
June 25, '18
July 1, '18
July 4, '18
July 6, '18
July 20, '18
Aug. 29, '18

THE DECOTO HOME
During the past year the work of service at the Dccoto Home has
lit•en carried on along the same lines as reported on heretofore.
Suitable entertainments, school instruction, out-of-doors recreations,
picnic parties, excursions to nearby places of interest, etc., have enriched
the social and family life of the Homes, affording diversion for those
rnfeebled by advancing years, and giving wholesome and beneficial exerdse to those who find their strength increasing as the years unfold.
Since our last report twenty-six persons have been admitted to the
I Tome. Eighteen men and eight women. Twenty-four have passed
away. There are now present ninety-four men an<l fifty-three women.

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The general health of the Home has been good, with the exception
of those who by reason of age have become infirm and helpless.
Though the past season has been an unusually dry one, and the
water levels in the wells in the vicinity of the Home have lowered, our
well continues to give its usual supply of water.
The greater portion of the hill ranch has been leased ejther \)n
shares or cash rental. The orchards, hay fields, the chicken and hog
ranch, vegetable and berry gardens have given good returns. The sur"
p!us being sold in the local and San Francisco markets.
Owing to the high price of feed and other expense in maintaining
our dairy, it was found advisable to sell the dairy herd and for· the present to purchase milk for table use.
·A large quantity of fruit has been dried and stored for future use.
A number of the brethren have contributed to the welfare of the
Home by their labors in the carpenter, tailor, shoe and barher shops,·
picking fruit, watering lawns, garage, kitchen work and light chores,
also work in the drug, dental and optical departments. All mending
and the making of household linen has been done by the ladies of .tho;
Home.
The ladies of the Home have taken entire charge of the care of
not only their own rooms, but also the halls, stairways, wash ronms,
reading, linen, and reception rooms; also the Assembly hall in the
buildings occupied by them.
The library is well patronized, and the reading am! club rooms
are supplied with magazines and daily ~apers.
A complete dental outfit has been donated to the II ome by nrothcr
Jed C. Stanton, consisting of one dental chair, one instrument and
supply case, one bracket case, forceps and dental supplies, etc. A dental department has been opened up in one of the rooms in Cottage No.
1, where all who need dental work done can be attended to by him.
A large Packard Reed Organ has been donakd to the Home by
Brother Edwin D. Matthews. It has been placed in our Temple Lodge
room.
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32 donated seven cane and umbrella stands ..
These stands have been in and around the several buildings of the
Home.
The Lodges of the 28th District donated six settees, each six feet
long. They have been placed on the porches of the cottages and new
buildings.
Each Thursday afternoon a moving picture entertainment has been
given at the Temple. The Thursday evening socials and card parties,

127

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
I he Friday evening chorus practice, the

daily practice by the orchestra,
The usual
"'rvices on Sunday, fot:owed by a concert given by our orchestra, have
:ilso been held.

and the reading class for the blind have been regularly held.

Many entertainments have been given for the pleasure and benefit
nf the family by Lodges, members of Lodges and their ladies.

All

holidays have been observed in the usual way. The following is a list
of those who have contributed to our enjoyment:
November 30, 1917-Thanksgiving exercises in Assembly Hall.
December 25, 1917-Christmas services in Assembly Hall, attended
liy residents and emp~oyecs. Large Christmas tree, rooms, halls and
corridors decorated with green and red festooning, bells and wreaths,
visit of Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus.
December 31, 1917-Reccption, musical program, games and danci11J.{. Watch party at midnight attended by residents al1d employees.
February 12, 1918-Lincoln's Birthday.
sembly Hall.

Patriotic exercises in As-

April 8, 1918-Easter services in Assembly Hall.
May 6, 1918-Tiayward Amateur Minstrel Show.
at the Temple.

Program given

May 20, 1918-Chautauqua at Centerville, California. Thirty-six
members of the ] lomc had the privilege of attending the Chautauqua at
l'enterville, for the week rnding May 25, 1918.
May 30. 1918-Memorial Day exercises in Assembly Ilall. Dccora1ion at Deco to.

June 15, 1918-Live Oak Lodge No. 61.
am! Smoker.
July 4, 1918-lndcpcmlcnce Day.

Third Degree at Temple

P;Ltriotic Program in Assembly

I la!!.

July 5, 1918-0aklaml Municipal Barn!.
grounds of the Home.

Ham! Concert on the

July 15, 1918-Scnior \Vardens, San Francisco I,odgcs. Third Degree and Smoker at T cmplc.
August 31, 1918-Ahmrs Temple Shrine Band.
grounds of the Home.

Concert on the

September I, 1918-Chartcr Rock Lodge No. 410. Afternoon program in Assembly llall. Formal presentation of 800 jars and glasses of
j clly, jam, etc.
September 14, 1918-Rockridge Lodge No. 468. Third Degree and
Smoker at Temple.

128

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS 01!' THE

September 16, 1918-East Bay Matrons' Asso~iation. Eastern Star
Degrees for the benefit of the Eastern Star members of the Home. Musical program and candy.
September 21, 1918-Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Third Degree, musical program, Smoker and candy.
September 28, 1918-Balder Lodge No. 393.
Smoker.

Third Degree and

All these gatherings, together with the comforts afforded by our
splendidly equipped club, music, library and reading rooms croquet
grounds, etc., are factors in creating an atmosphere of peace 'and contentment throughout the Home.

DONOR.

129

ARTICU!,

E(lwin D. Matthews .................................. l large Packard organ, 1 large framed
oil painting, 1 large vase, 1 stand for
vase.
11. W. Emerson.......................................... 1 package of clothing.
Estate of Henry Disque .......................... 1 large assortment of clothing, etc.
Sally Daingerfield ...................................... 1 package yarn.
). H. MacLafferty...................................... 1 package magazines and periodicals.
11: F. Buhrmeister.................................... 1 package clothing.
J,. :V. Hughes.............................................. l package periodicals.
W. E. Fuller.............................................J package silk and velvet pieces.
California Nursery Co............................. 1 large Christmas tree.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336........................ 150 cigars, 60 boxes candy.

DONATIONS TO DI!COTO HOM.I(
DONOR.

ARTICLE.

Gold Hill Lodge No. 32.......................... 7 cane and umbrella stands.
Porterville Lodge No. 303.................... ..4 boxes oranges.
Livi; Oak Lodge No. 61............................ 150 cigars, 60 lbs. candy, 1 pool ball.
Senior Wardens, S. F. Lodges .............. 150 cigars ancl candy.
Charter Rock No. 410.............................. 200 jars and glasses of jelly, jam and
marmalade, cash $2.50.
Rockridge Lodge No. 468........................ 100 cigars, 80 jars and glasses jelly, jam
and fruit.
Oroville Lodge No. 103..........................3 gallons olives.
Presidio Lodge No. 354.......................... l Bible.
Balder Lodge No. 393 .............................. Cigars and candy.
Jed C. Stanton .......................................... I dental chair, 1 instrument and supply
case, 1 bracket case, forceps and dental
supplies, 1 electric lamp.
Margaret B. Alverson .......................... 1 volume "Sixty Years of California
Songs."
Mrs. J. T. Morrison ................................2 packages reading matter.
B. E. J ones ..................................................6 volumes "History of Masonry."
Mary M. Reaves ........................................ 1 small clock.
Mrs. Venice F. Cushing......................... .1 large leather arm chair.
Needle Work Guild of America ......... .1 box underwear, etc.
H. L. Hikes ................................................31 face and bath towels.
W. H. MitchelL....................................... 1 box seedless raisins.
East Bay Matrons' Association ............ Bananas and assorted candies.
Lodges, 28th District................................6 settees, each 6 feet long.
Islam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S ...........6 dozen playing cards; $100.00 for Islam
Temple Film Fund.
William S. W ells...................................... 4 packages magazines and periodicals.

CHRISTMAS CASH DONATIONS-1917

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Abell ............................ 146........ 5.00
. Adin .............................. 250........ 10.00
Alameda ...................... 167........ 5.00
Alamo ......................... .122 ........ ·5.00
Alcatraz .......................244........ 10.00
Alpha ............................ 431... ..... ID.OD
Alhambra ....................322........ 20.00
'Alisa! ............................321........ 5.00
Amador ...................'. ..... 65 ........ 10.00
. Amity ........ :................... 370........ 20.00
. Antioch ....................... .175 ........ 10.00
. Apollo ..........................396........ 10.00
Arcata .......................... 106........ 20.00
'Arlington ....................414... ..... 17.00
'.Arroyo ..........................274........ 5.00
. Artesia ..........................377........ 10.00
Ashier ..........................306........ 5.00
Bakersfield ..................224........ 25.00
Balder .......................... 393........ 20.00
Bay View ................... .401... ..... 10.00
Bear Mountain .......... 76........ 5.00
Benicia ........................ 5........ 10.00
, Berkeley ......................363........ 10.00
. Rlackmer ................... .442........ 5.00
, Brooklyn ..................... .225-.. ..... 10.00
Buckeye ........................ 195........ 10.00
I
Burlingame ................400........ 10. 00

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Calaveras .................... 78........ 10.00
California .................... 1........ 27.45
Carquinez .................... 337........ 5.00
Charity ........................362........ 8.40
Charter Rock ..............410........ 10.00
Chico ............................ 111... ..... 10.00
Clay ............................. .101........ 5.00
Clear Lake .................. 183........ 5.00
Coalinga ......................387........ 5.00
Colusa ......................... .240........ 5.00
Concord ........................ 117........ 10.00
Confidence .................. 203........ 5.00
Corinthian .................. 9........ 10.00
Corona ..........................324 ........ 20.00
Coronado .................... 331........ 5.00
Covina ......................... .441........ 5.00
Crescent ...................... 45........ 5.00
Crockett ...................... 139........ 25.00
Curtis .......................... 140........ 6.00
Dinuba ..........................385........ 5.00
Downey ........................ 220........ 5.00
Doric ............................216........ 25.00
Dunsmuir ....................297........ 10.00
Durant ........................ 268........ 10.00
East Relt ...................... 391........ 5.00
East Gate...................... 290....... 1000
Eden ............................ 113........ 5.00

130

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
N.o.
Amt.
El Centro ....................384 ........ 10.00
Elysian ........................ ..418........ 16.43
Enterprise ................... 70........ 5.00
Eucalyptus ..................243... ..... 25.00
Eureka ........................ 16........ 2.50
Excelsior .................... 166........ 25.00
Exeter ......................... .424........ 10.00
Evening Star ............. .186........ 5.00
Evergreen ................. .259........ 10.00
Fairmount ................. .435 ........ 10.00
Fidelity ...................... 120........ 25.00
Fillmore ......................379 ........ 25.00
Forest .......................... 66........ 5.00
Francis Drake .............. 376........ 10.00
Franklin ...................... 143........ 5.00
Friendship ..................210........ 10.00
Fruitvale ......................336........ 5.W
Galt ..............................267........ 5.00
Golden West ............. .455........ 10.00
Gold Hill. ..................... 32........ 10.00
Golden Gate................ 30........ 25.00
Hanford ..................... .279........ 10.00
Hawaiian ................:..... 21... ..... 50.00
Henry Clay ................ 95........ 5.00
Henry S. Ormc ......... .458. ....... 10.00
Hermann ...................... 127 ........ 15.00
llcspcrian ................... .264........ 5.00
J lighland Park. ..........382........ 10.00
l-lills Ferry ................. .236........ 21.70
Hiram .......................... 43........ 5.00
Hollcnheck ..................319........ 10.00
Holtonville ............... .425 ........ 14.00
Honolulu ................... .409........ 20.00
Hollywood .................. 355 ........ 10.00
Humboldt .................... 79........ 15.00
11linoistown ................ 51... ..... 10.00

i:~~ ::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~~:::::::: ~:~
Jewel ............................ 374........ 5.00
Kennet ..........................456 ........ 10.00
Kilauea ........................330........ 128.55
King David's ............... .209........ 10.00
King Solomon's ......... .260........ 25.00

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Le Progres De
L'Oceanic ................ 371... ..... 18.50
Liberty ..........................299........ 10.00
Libertas ........................ 466........ 25.00
Live Oak ...................... 61... ..... 25.00
Lodi ............................. .256........ 10.00
Lompoc ........................262........ 10.00
Long Beach ................327........ 20.00
Los Angeles ................ 42........ 20.00
Los Gatos ....................292........ 10.00
Las Pal111as ................366........ 5.00
Madison ....................... 23........ 5.00
J\(agnolia ...................... 242........ 10.00
Marin ........................... .191 ........ 15.00
Martinez ...................... 41... ..... 10.00
McCloml ..................... .430........ 5.00
McKinley ....................347 ........ 10.00
M cndocino ................. .179........ 5.00
Mill Vallcy .................... 356........ 25.00
Mission ........................ 169........ 25.00
Mizpah ..........................378. ....... moo
Moline .......................... 150........ 5.00
Monrovia ......................308........ 10.00
Monterey ..................... .217........ 5.00
Morgan Ilill... .............. .463........ 5.00
Morning Star .............. {.!R ........ 10.00
Mosaic ......................... .218. ....... 10.00
M.ount Moriah .............. 44........ 25.00
Mount Oso ..................460........ 10.00
Mt. Diahlo .................... 448 ....... 10.00
Mt. J ackson ................. .295........ 5.00
Natoma ........................ 64........ 5.00
Naval ............................ 87........ 5.00
Nevada ........................ 13........ 5.00
Nicolaus ...................... 129........ 5.00
North Star.................... 91........ 5.00
Norwalk ......................315........ 5.00
Oak Grovc ................... .215........ 5.00
Oakland ..................... .188........ 10.00
Ocean Park ..................369........ 5.00
'Ocean Side .................. 381........ 5.00
Occidental .................. 22........ 10.00
Olive Branch ................269........ 10.00

'

131

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Orange Grove ............. .293........ 16.00
Santa Barbara .......... 192........ 10.00
Oriental ........................ 144 ........ 25.00
Santa Monica ............ 307........ 5.00
Orland ........................ 265........ 5.00
Santa Rosa ................ 57........ 25.00
Oxnard ........................ 341........ 25.00
Selma .......... ,...............277........ 8.50
Pacific .......................... 136........ 25.00
Sequoia ...................... 349........ 10.00
Pacific Grove .............. 331........ 5.00
Sierra Madre .............. 408........ 5.00
Pajaro ......................... .110........ 10.00
Sierra Valley ............ 184........ 5.00
Palestine ......................351........ 5.00
Silveyville .................. 201... ..... 10.00
Palo Alto ...................... 346........ 10.00
Silver Gate .................. 296........ 10.00
Palos Verdes ................389........ 20.00
Sisson .......................... 310........ 7.50
Park ............................ ..449........ 15.00
Snow Mountain ......... 271........ 5.00
Parnassus .................... 388.'....... 10.00
Southern California ..278........ 25.00
Pasadena ................... .272........ 10.00
South Gate..................320........ 10.00
Paso Robles ................286........ 10.00
South Gate .................. 320....... 10.00
Phoenix ...................... 178........ 15.00
So. San Francisco ..... .212........ 10:00
Pinole ..........................353........ 10.00
Speranza Italiana...... 219........ 10.00
Pittsburg ..................... .429........ 20.00
'Stanislaus ..................206........ 5.00
Plumas ........................ 60........ 5.00
Starr King.................. 344........ 10.CX}
Presidio ...................... 354........ 25.00
St. John's ...................... 37........ 5.00
Reading ....................... .254........ 10.00
Suisun ......................... 55.. .... 2.50
Redondo ......................328........ 10.00
Sunset .......................... 352........ 10.00
Redwood City........... .168........ 5.00
Tehachapi ....................313 ........ · 10.00
Redwood City............ 168........ 15.00
Tehama ........................ 3........ 25.00
Reidlcy ........................ 304........ 5.00
Temescal ....................314........ 5.00
Richmond .................... 375........ 10.00
Texas ............................ 46........ 5.00
Rising Light. ..............397........ 10.00
Trinity .......................... 27........ 5.00
Roses Bar....'.~ ................ 89........ 5.00
Truckee ..................... .200........ 5.00
Roseville ..................... .432........ 5.00
Tuolumne ........ ........... 8........ 5.00
Sacramento ................ 40........ 5.00
Tuscan ..........................261........ 5.00
Salinas ........................ 204........ 5.00
Upland ...................... 41... ..... 10.00
San Benito ................... .211........ 5.()()
Union .......................... 58. ....... 20.00
San Bernardino ........ 348........ 15.00
Unity ............................ 368........ 5.00
San Diego .................. 35 ........ 10.00
Vacaville .................. .134........ ~-00
San Fernando ............ 384........ 5.00
Valley ........................ 135 ........ · 5.00
San Francisco ............ 360........ 10.00 Veteran ........................ 373 ........ 32.00
San Jacinto ................ 338........ 5.00 Washington ............... 20........ 20.00
fon Jose ............... ...... 10........ 10.00 Welcome ...................... 255...... 10.00
San Mateo ................. .226........ 5.00 Western Star.............. 2........ 5.00
San Miguel ............... 285........ 10.00 West Gate ...................l'l5........ 10.00
San Pasqual ............. .452........ 10.00 Whittier ...................... 323........ 5.00
San Pedro ................. 332........ 10.00 Wilmington ............... .198........ 5.00
San Simeon ................ 196........ 10.00 Wilshire ...................... 445........ 6.00
Santa Ana ................. .241... ..... JO.()() Woodbridge ............... 131....... 5.00
Santa Cruz ................ 38........ 10.00 Woodland .................... 156........ 5.00
Y oscmite ...................... 99........ 10.00

132

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHAP'fl\R, R. A. M,

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Alameda ...................... 70........ 5.00
Alturas ........................ 107........ 2.50
Antioch ....................... 65 ........ 10.00
Benicia .......................... 7........ 10.00
Berkeley ...................... 92........ 10.00
California .................... 5........ 25.00
Charles Frederick
Crocker ................... 106........ 5.00
Coalinga ...................... 114........ 2.50
Corinthian .................. 5L..... 5.00
Cyrus ........................ .. 15........ 10.00
Dixon ............................ 48........ 10.00
Donner ........................ 39........ 5.00
Doric ............................ 66........ 5.00
East Gate.................... 103........ 5.00
Fresno .......................... 69........ 5.00
Grass Valley................ 18........ 5.00
Hollister ...................... 68........ 5.00
Howard ........................ 14........ 10.00
Humboldt .................... 52... ..... 10.00
Kern Valley .................. 75 ........ 20.00
La Purissuna .............. 104........ 10.00
Long Beach.................. 4........ 5.00
Los Angeles ................ 33........ 10.00
Mendocino .................. 88........ 5.00
Mill Valley ................. .108....... 10.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Modesto ...................... 49........ 2.50
Napa .......................... 30........ 5.00
Naval ............................ 35 ........ 10.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Oakland ...................... 36........ 10.00
Palo Alto .................... 93........ 5.00
Petaluma .................... 22........ 5.0::>
Redondo ..................... .101... ..... 20.00
Sacramento ................ 3........ 10.00
Salinas .......................... 59........ 5.00
San Jacinto ................ 87........ 5.00
San Luis ...................... 62........ 5.00
San Pedro .................. 174........ 6.50
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 5.00
Santa Rosa .................. 45........ 10.00
Sebastopol .................. 117........ 5.00
Shasta .......................... 9........ 10.00
Signet .......................... 57........ 10.00
Siloam .......................... 37........ 10.00
Sonora .......................... 2........ 5.00
Sutter .......................... 1L...... 5.00
Temple ........................ 41... ..... 10.00
Tulare .......................... 71........ 10.00
Unity ............................ 116........ 5.0()
Visalia .......................... 44........ 10.00
Washington ................ 13........ 10.00
W ood:nml ................... 46........ 5.00

COUNCIL, R. & S . .M.

Council
No.
Amt.
California .................. 2........ 10.00
Long Beach ................ 26........ 5.00

No.
Amt.
11........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 1........ 5.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Commandery

No.

Amt.

~I ount Olivet .............. 20........ 5.00
Napa ............................ 34........ 5.00
Naval .......................... 19........ 10.00

Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
l'acific .......................... 3........ 5.00
I 'a lo Alto .................... 47........ 5.00
Pasadena .................... 31.. ..... : 30.35
l~edding ........................ 50........ 16.00
l<iverside .................... 28 ........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 2........ 10.00

Commandery
No.
Amt.
San Jose ...................... 10........ 10.00
San Luis Obispo.......... 27........ 5.00
Santa Ana .................. 36........ 10.00
Santa Cruz .................. 7........ 5.00
Santa Rosa .............. 14........ 10.50
St. Bernard ................ 23........ 10.00
Ukiah ............................ 33........ 5.00
Vacaville ...................... 38........ 5.00
Visalia .......................... 26........ 10.00
Watsonville ................ 22 ........ 10.00
Woodland .................... 2L...... 5.00

A. A. 0, N. M. S.

Temple
Amt.
Aahmes ....................................$ 10.00
Tslam ........................................ l 00.00
LOJJCI-; OF PllRl•'JlCTION, A. & A. S. R.

Lodge
No.
Amt.
( 'alifornia .................... 10........ 25.00
Frl'sno .......................... 6........ 5.00
Isaac Davis ................ 4........ 10.00

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Oakland ........................ 2........ 15.00
San Francisco ............ 1... ..... 25.m
San J<ise ...................... 13........ 5.00

o. Jl. s.
Chapter
No. . Amt.
Chapter
No.
Amt.
:\n1apola ...................... 119........ 10.00 San Jose ...................... 31... ..... 50.00
Naomi .......................... 36........ 10.00 Santa Ana .................... 195 ........ 25.00

Comwil

Los Angeles

ORTJI-;R OF AMARANTH

Court
No.
Amt.
Starr King ,................. 17........ 5.00

COMMANDJlRY, K, T.

Commandery
No.
Amt.
Bakersfield .................. 39 ........ 10.00
Berkeley ...................... 42........ 10.00
California .................... 1........ 25.00
Eureka .......................... 35........ 10.00
Fresno .......................... 29........ 5.00

Commandery
No.
Amt.
Glendale ...................... 53........ 5.00
Gol<len Gate................ 16........ 25.00
Golden WesL. ............. 43 ........ 25.00
Los Angeles ................ 9........ 25.00
Marysville .................... 7........ 10.00

133

SCIO'fS

Court
Pyramid

........

No.
Amt.
1... ..... 16.50

134

INDIVIDUALS
Chapter
No.
Amt.
Baker, Thos. J .......................... . 10.00
Baldwin, Wallace ................... . 1.00
Bennet, T. D ............................. 1.00
Bogart, C. H .......................... . 2.50
Carpenter, Roy ...................... .. 1.00
Cash ........................................... . 1.00
Cash .................................. :....... ..
Cash .......................................... ..
Chapman, Mrs. Walter S ...... . 2.SO
Chi!ds, L. J ............................. .. 1.00
Clemmons, Vv'm ....................... S.00
Cohn, Lewis ............................ S.00
Crandall, T. N ......................... LOO
Dean, D. W ............................. 1.00
Fulli11gton, G. L ........................ . 1.00

.so
.so

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Guthrie, S. P. ............................
.SO
Hassfurther, Frank ................ S.00
Holloway, J. B ......................... 10.00
Hunchberger, J. G................... S.00
Kief, Prof. ................................
.25
Know, W. F. ............................ 1.00
Lawson, F. H. .......................... LOO
Match<;s, Jack .......................... 2.00
Member of Volcano No. 56.. 1.00
Mordough, J. C ....................... 2S.OO
Morris, Samuel ........................ 2.00
Patterson, H. C. ......................
.SO
Rose, E. A. ................................ 1.00
Thompson, W. C. .................. 2.00
Wes ton, Chas. .......................... 1.00

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME-Men 94, Women 53.
The following is a complete list of the residents of the Dccoto
Home. the dates of their admission·. their respective ages, the name and
nnmher of the Lodge nominating them, and the location of such Lodges:
MEN, 94.
ADMITTED.
LODGE.
NO. WCA'flON.
AGE.
NAME.
Anderson, C. A ............... Feh. 9, '09 Mt. Moriah .......... 44 San Francisco.70
Bell, Bradford ... :............ Dec. S, '15 Mt. Jackson .......... 259 Guernevillc ....76
Bemis, Ernest H ............. Mar. 19, '16 Hollenbeck ............ 319 Los Angeles ....67
Bieler, Nicholas .............. Aug. 2S, '17 Jefferson ................ 97 La Porte ........ 77
Branthaven, D ................. Jan. 18, '04 Durant ................... .268 Berkeley ..........88
Bradbury, Wm. W ....... Oct. 28, '14 St. Helena ............ 93 St. Helena ...... 7~
Bartholemew, J. S .......... Jttne 15, '13 Mt. Jackson ......... .29S Guerneville .... 70
Broadwell, Melvin L ..... Dec. 7, 'lS Oakland .................. 188 Oakland .......... 66
Brown, Jam es M ........... Mar. 22, '17 Santa Lucia ..........302 King City ......80
Burner, Henry .............. Jan. 10, '16 Occidental .............. 22 San Francisco.71
Chamblin, M. R. ........... .Sept. 28, '10 Hartley ................. 199 Lakeport ........90
Chapman, J. A ............... Oct.
6, '11 Concord .................. 117 Sacramento ....68
Cogswell, James L.. ....... May 19. '15 California .............. 1 San Francisco.89
Cole, W. N ..................... Jan. 18, '18 Long Beach .~ ........ 327 Long Beach ....84
Crail, Luke D ................. Junc 29, '18 Chico ....................... .! 11 Chico .............. 76
Davidson, Frank M ....... Dec. 1, '15 Porterville ............ 303 Porterville .... 69
Davis, Charles H ........... Dcc. 12, '15 Xaval ...................... 87 Vallejo ............69

135

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME.

ADMITTED.

I >a vis. John M ................. July 26, '17
I 1t·1111is, John S............... Aug. 19, '16
I 11·1111is, William .......... Feb. 28, '11
I l!mham, Murray .......... Dec. 11, '15
l"r:inck, Isadore ........... Jan. 10, '16
Fl1111, Alexander ............ May 11, '18
t.'nTman, Isaac L. ........ Mar. 17. '18
l"n·11ch, John A ............. June 8, '07
fi'i11k, Conrad .................. Aug. 23, '12
l~111t's, Dawson D ........... Fch. 8. '14
l :r<'gnry, Anwyl ............ Jan 31. '16
1:11is10, John .................. Aug. - , '17
I lamilton, John ...... ___ .'Feh. 6. '15
I lanhige, James M ....... ~far. 13, '17
llill, Maxwell G ............. June 30, '16
I lndgc, Edward T ........... Feh. 20. '15
J1•1Tt•rs, S .........................Jan. 5, '10
_1,,1111;;, Josiah .................. April 15, '12
.f 1111l's, Samuel A ............ April 2, '16
l\alfus, J. L ..................... Dcc. 15, '17
i.;,.,.m., James ................ Sept. 4, '10
l\1·lkr, Willis A ............. Nov. 11,'15
l\1·11.v, Charles M .......... .Nov. 21, '16
l\P11ncdy. Duncan ........ June 19, '17
l\l'1T, Earl ...................... Sept. 11,'09
l\laassen, Henry ............ Nov. 1, '17
l\11ight, Lewis W ........... April 2, '14
1.allonte, Francis X ....... Nov. 2. '14
l.1·v.v, Samuel ................ Feh. 4, '18
l.1•wis, George L. ............ Mar. 15, '18
l.1·w!y, David .................. Ju11e 27, '1'6
Lippoldt, H. J\ .............. Jan. 20, '07
Lippman, George .......... Nov. 2, '13
Magee, David B. ............ April 19, '11
l\h·hrtens, Richard ...... Nov. 12, 'U
Mau hews, Edwin D.... Jan, 21, '18
Manil'ce, John ................ June 17, 'IS
M<'!ealf, Solon T ............. Jan. 26, '18
M ill'hell, Charles E. ...... Nov. 20, '15
M.. yer, Wm. D ............... Aug .•11. '12
M.. rgan, Josiah W ......... i\ug. 11, '14
Mrl•:lroy, Joseph T ....... i\ng. 2S, '17
M"l•:wen, John !L ........ i\ng. 21, '13
I )gden, B. F ..................... i\pril 19, '05

LODGE.

NO.

Keith ...................... 187
San Jose ................ 10
Sierra Valley ........184
Plumas ................... 60
La Parfaite Union 17
Alameda ............... t67
Elk Grove ............ 173
Wes tern Star ...... 2
Hermann ................ 127
Eden ....................... .113
Mizpah .................... 378
Amador .................. 65
H umholdt .............. 79
Sunset ....................3S2
Forbestown ............ 50
South Gate ............320
Eden ........................113
East Belt ................391
Mission ................. .169
San Jose .................. 10
M cndocino ........... .179
Mendocino ............ 179
Live Oak ................ 61
Redlands ................ 300
Pacific ...................... 136
Hermann ................ 127
Evcr,1<rcen ............. .259
Reading ................. .254
Hartley ................. .199
Oak Grove .............. 215
Guadalupe ............. .237
Northern Light... .. 190
Pacific ...................... 136
Doric ..................... 216
Crock<'tt .................. 139
Yount ...................... 12
San Diego
.1S
Sequoia .................. 349
LGs Angeles ___ ., ...... 42
Mountain View ... .194
Phoenix .................. 178
Cohk•n Cate .......... 30
Pajaro .................... 110
Mission ................. .169

LOCA'l'ION.

AGE.

Gilroy .............. 69
San Jose ..........82
Sierra ville ......86
Quincy ..............88
San Francisco.71
Centerville ......80
Elk Grove ...... S9
Shasta ..............84
San Francisco.BO
San Leandro .. 6S
Los Angeles .. 71
Jackson ..........84
Eureka ............ 70
Los Angeles ..72
Forbestown ....81
Los Angeles ..74
San Leandro ..80
Tuolumne ......65
San Francisco.72
San Jose ........ 65
Mendocino ......81
Mendocino ...... 68
Oakland ..........86
Recllands ........ 71
San Francisco.81
San Francisco.72
Riverside ........69
Re<kling ..........71
Lakc-port ........74
Alameda ..........83
Guadalupe ...... 76
Millville ..........88
San Francisco.74
San Francisco.77
San Francisco.73
Napa ................64
San niego ......82
Oakland ..........77
Los Angeles .. 76
Mount'n View.57
S. Ilernardino.86
San Franeisco.58
Watsonville ....73
San Francisco.79

126

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The general health of the Home has been good, with the exceptiC>n
of those who by reason of age have become infirm and helpless.
Though the past season has been an unusually dry one, and the
water levels in the wells in the vicinity of the Home have lowered, our
well continues to give its usual supply of water.
The greater portion of the hill ranch has been leased either <;m
shares or cash rental. The orchards, hay fields, the chicken and hog
ranch, vegetable and berry gardens have given good returns. The sure
plus being sold in the local and San Francisco markets.
Owing to the high price of feed and other expense in maintaining
our dairy, it was found advisable to sell the dairy herd and for· the present to purchase milk for table use.
. A large quantity of fruit has been dried and stored for future use.
A number of the brethren have contributed to the welfare of the
Home by their labors in the carpenter, tailor, shoe and barber shops,
picking fruit, watering lawns, garage, kitchen work and light chores,
also work in the drug, dental and optical departments. All mending
and the making of household linen has been done by the ladies of .the
Home.
The ladies of the Home have taken entire charge of the care .of
not only their own rooms, but also the halls, stairways, wash rooms,
reading, linen, and reception rooms; also the Assembly hall in the
buildings occupied by them.
The library is well patronized, and the reading and duh rooms
are snpplied with magazines and daily papers.
A complete dental outfit has been donated to the Home by Brother
Jed C. Stanton, consisting of one dental chair, one instrument and
supply case, one bracket case, forceps and dental supplies, etc. A dental department has been opened up in one of the rooms in Cottage No.
1, where all who need dental work done can be attended to by him.
A large Packard Reed Organ has been donated to the Home by
Brother Edwin D. Matthews. It has been placed in our Temple Lodge
room.
Gold Hill Lodge No. 32 donated seven cane and umbrella stands.,
These stands have been in and around the several buildings of the
Home.
The Lodges of the 28th District donated six settees, each six feet
long. They have been placed on the porches of the cottages and new
buildings.
Each Thursday afternoon a moving picture entertainment has been
given at the Temple. The Thursday evening socials and card parties,

•

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

127

t lw Friday evening chorus practice, the daily practice by the orchestra,
nnd the reading class for the blind have been regularly held. The usual
"'rvices on Sunday, fol'.owed by a concert given by our orchestra, have
11 bm been held.
:\fany entertainments have been given for the pleasure and benefit
of the family by Lodges, members of Lodges and their ladies. All
linlidays have been observed in the usual way. The following is a list
nf those who have co1:1tributed to our enjoyment:
·

November 30, 1917-Thanksgiving exercises in Assembly Hall.
December 25, 1917-Christmas services in Assembly Hall, attended
l>y residents and emp'oyees. Large Christmas tree. rooms, halls and,
l'llrridors decorated with green and red festooning, bells and wreaths,
visit of Mr. and Mrs. Santa Claus .
December 31, 1917-Reception, musical program, games and dancin~-. Watch party at midnight attended by residents and employees.
February 12, 1918-Lincoln's Birthday. Patriotic exercises in As'"mbly Hall.
April 8, 1918---Easter services in Assembly Hall.
May 6, 1918---Hayward Amateur Minstrel Show. Program given
at the Temple.
May 20, 1918---Chautauqua at Centerville, California. Thirty-six
members of the Home had the privilege of attending the Chautauqua at
Centerville, for the week ending May 25, 1918.
May 30, 1918---Memorial Day exercises in Assembly Hall. Decora1ion at Decoto.
June 15, 1918-Livc Oak Lodge No. 61. Third Degree at Tcmph:
and Smoker.
July 4, 1918---ImkpelHlcncc Day. Patriotic Progra111 in Assembly
II all.
July 5, 1918-0aklancl Municipal Band. lland Concert on the
grounds of the Home.
July 15, 1918-Senior Wardens, San Francisco Lodges. Third Degree and Smoker at Temple.
August 31, 1918---Ahmes Temple Shrine Band. Concert on the
grounds of the Home.
September l, 1918-Charter Rock Lodge No. 410. Afternoon program in Assembly Hall. Formal presentation of 800 jars and glasses of
jelly, jam, etc.
September 14, 1918---Rockridge Lodge No. 468. Third Degree and
Smoker at Temple.

..

128

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

September 16, 1918-East Bay Matrons' Association. Eastern Star
Degrees for the benefit of the Eastern Star members of the Home. Musical program and candy.
September 21, 1918-Fruitvale Lodge No. 336. Third Degree, musical program, Smoker and candy.
September 28, 1918-Balder Lodge No. 393.
Smoker.

Third Degree and

All these gatherings, together with the comforts afforded by our
splendidly equipped club, music, library and reading rooms, croquet
grounds, etc., are factors in creating an atmosphere of peace and contentment throughout the Home.

DONOR.

129

ARTICLE.

Edwin D. Matthews .................................. ! large Packard organ, 1 large framed
oil painting, 1 large vase, 1 stand for
vase.
H: W. Emerson .......................................... l package of clothtingf. 1 thing etc
.
'
·
Estate of Henry Disque
..........................1 large assortmen o c o
.,.
.
fie Id. ...................................... 1 package yarn. ·
Sally
Damger
d riodicals
an pe
·
J H MacLafferty...................................... 1 package magazines
h'
!
Buhrmeister.................................... 1 package clo~ t~g· 1
· ·
1 package penod1ca s,
L. 'V. Hughes.............................................. acka e silk and velvet pieces.
W. E. ~uller .............................................. ~ far e ~hristmas tree.
California Nursery Co.............................
Ii?
d
• 336........................ 150 cigars' 60 boxes can Y·
Fruitvale Lodge No.

HF

DONATIONS TO DJ!COTo HOM!!
DONOR.

ARTICLE.

Gold Hill Lodge No. 32.......................... 7 cane and umbrella stands.
Porterville Lodge No. 303 .................... ..4 boxes oranges.
Live Oak Lodge No. 61... ........................ .150 cigars, 60 lbs. candy, 1 pool ball.
Senior Wardens, S. F. Lodges.............. 150 cigars and candy.
Charter Rock No. 410.............................. 200 jars and glasses of jelly, jam and
marmalade, cash $2.50.
Rockridge Lodge No. 468........................ 100 cigars, 80 jars and glasses jelly, jam
and fruit
Oroville Lodge No. 103.......................... 3 gallons olives,
Presidio Lodge No. 354.......................... 1 Bible.
Balder Lodge No. 393 ..............................Cigars and candy.
Jed C. Stanton .......................................... 1 dental chair, 1 instrument and supply
case, I bracket case, forceps and dental
supplies, 1 electric lamp.
Margaret B. Alverson.......................... I volume "Sixty Years of California
Songs."
Mrs. J. T. Morrison ................................2 packages reading matter.
B. E. Jones ..................................................6 volumes "History of Masonry."
Mary M. Reaves ........................................ ! small clock.
Mrs. Venice F. Cushing......................... .1 large leather arm chair.
Needle Work Guild of America.......... l box underwear, etc.
H. L. Hikes ................................................ 31 face and bath towels.
W. H. Mitchell... ....................................... l box seedless raisins.
East Bay Matrons' Association ............ Bananas and assorted candies.
Lodges, 28th District................................6 settees, each 6 feet long.
Islam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S ...........6 dozen playing cards; $100.00 for Islam
Temple Film Fund.
William S. Wells .................................... A packages magazines and periodicals.

CHRISTMAS CASH DONATIONS-1917

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Calaveras
....................
78
........
10.00
Abell ............................ 146........ 5.00
. Adin ..............................250........ 10.00 California .................... L ..... 27.45
·Alameda ..................... .167........ 5.oo Carquinez .................... 337........ 5.00
Alamo ......................... .122........ . 5.oo Charity ........................362........ 8.40
Alcatraz ........................ 244........ 10.00 Charter Rock ..............410........ 10.00
. Alpha ......................... ..431... ..... 10.00 Chico ............................ 111........ 10.00
Alhambra ....................322........ 20.00 Clay ............................. .101........ 5.00
·Alisa! ............................321........ 5.00 Clear Lake ................. .183........ 5.00
Amador ........................ 65........ 10.00 Coalinga ...................... 387........ 5.00
Amity ...... ~.: ...................370........ 20.00 Colusa ..........................240........ 5.oo
'Antioch ....................... .175........ 10.00 Concord ....................... .117 ........ 10.00
Apollo ..........................396........ 10.00 Confidence ..................203........ 5.00
. Arcata .......................... 106........ 20.00 Corinthian .................. 9........ 10.00
Arlington .................. ..414... ..... 17·00 Corona .......................... 324........ 20.00
'Arroyo ..........................274........ 5.00 Coronado ....................331........ 5.oo
·Artesia .......................... 377 ........ 10.00 Covina ..........................441........ 5.oo
. Ashier ..........................306........ 5.oo Crescent ...................... 45........ 5.00
Bakersfield ................. .224........ 25 ·00 Crockett ...................... 139........ 25.00
Balder ...........................'93........ 20·00 Curtis .......................... 140........ 6·00
Bay View ................... .401........ lO.OO Dinuha .......................... 385........ 5.00
Bear Mountain .......... 76........ 5.00 Downey ........................220........ 5.00
Benicia ........................ 5........ 10.00 Doric ............................ 216. ....... 25.00
Berkeley ...................... 363 ........ 10.00 Dunsmuir ....................297........ 10.00
. Blackmer ....................442........ 5.oo Durant ........................268........ 10.00
. Brooklyn ...................... 225 ........ 10.00 East Relt ...................... 391........ 5.00
; Buckeye ....................... .195 ........ lO.~ East Gate...... .. ............ 290....... IOOO
. Eden .......................... .113........ 5.00
Burlingame ................400........ 10·

130

Amt
No.
Lodge
Le Progres De
El Centro .................... 384........ 10.00
L'Oceanic ................ 371 ........ 18.50
Elysian ........................ ..418 ........ 16.43
Liberty ......................... .299........ 10.00
Enterprise .................... 70........ 5.00
Libertas ........................ 466 ........ 25.00
Eucalyptus .................. 243 ........ 25.00
Live Oak ...................... 61... ..... 25.00
Eureka ........................ 16........ 2.50
Lodi ............................. .256........ 10.00 ·
Excelsior ................... .166 ........ 25.00
Lompoc ....................... .262 ........ 10.00
Exeter ......................... .424........ 10.00
Long Beach ................327 ........ 20.00
Evening Star .............. 186........ 5.00
Los Angeles ................ 42........ 20.00
Evergreen ................. .259 ........ 10.00
Los Gatos ................... .292 ........ 10.00
Fairmount ................. .435 ........ 10.00
Las Palmas ................ 366........ 5.00
Fidelity ........................ 120 ........ 25.00
Madison ........................ 23........ 5.00
Fillmore ...................... 379 ........ 25.00
l\1agnolia ..................... .242........ 10.00
Forest .......................... 66........ 5.00
Marin ............................ 191... ..... 15.00
Francis Drake ..............376 ........ 10.00
Martinez ...................... 41... ..... 10.00
Franklin ...................... 143........ 5.00
McCloud ..................... .430........ 5.00
Friendship ................. .210 ........ 10.00
McKinley ....................347 ........ 10.00
Fruitvale ...................... 336........ 5.00
Mendocino ................. .179........ 5.00
Galt ............................. .267........ 5.00
Mill Valley .................... 356 ........ 25.00
Golden West ............. .455........ 10.00
Mission ....................... .169 ........ 25.QO
Gold Hill ..................... 32........ 10.00
Mizpah .......................... 378........ 10.00
Golden Gate................ 30........ 25.00
Moline .......................... 150........ 5.00
Hanford ..................... .279 ........ 10.00
Monrovia ...................... 308 ........ 10.00
Hawaiian ............... ."...... 21 ........ 50.00
Monterey ..................... .217........ 5.00
Henry Clay ................ 95........ 5.00
Morgan Hill... ............... 463........ 5.00
Henry S. Orme ......... .458 ........ 10.00
Morning Star. ............. i158 ........ 10.00
Hermann ..................... .127 ........ 15.00
Mosaic ......................... .218 ........ 10.00
Hesperian ................... .264........ 5.00
Mount Moriah .............. 44 ........ 25.00
11 ighland Park ............ 382........ 10.00
Mount Oso ................. .400........ 10.00
HiJls Ferry ................. .236 ........ 21.70
Mt. Diablo ................... 448....... 10.00 ·
Hiram .......................... 43........ 5.00
Mt. Jackson .................. 295........ 5.00
Hollenbeck .................. 319 ........ 10.00
Natoma ........................ 64........ 5.00
Holtonville ............... .425 ........ 14.00
Naval ............................ 87........ 5.00
Honolulu .................... 409........ 20.00
Nevada ........................ 13 ........ 5.00
Hollywood .................. 355 ........ 10.00
Nicolaus ..................... .129........ 5.00
Humboldt .................... 79 ........ 15.00
North Star .................... 91........ 5.00
111inoistown ................ 51... ..... 10.00
Norwalk ...................... 315........ 5.00
Inyo .............................. 221........ 8.00
Oak Grove ................... .215........ 5.00
Ione .............................. 80........ 5.00
Oakland ..................... .188 ........ 10.00
Jewel ............................ 374 ........ 5.00
Ocean Park. ................. 369........ 5.00
Kennet ......................... .456........ 10.00
'Ocean Side ..................381........ 5.00
Kilauea ........................ 330........ 128.55
Occidental .................. 22........ 10.00
King David's ............... .209........ 10.00
Olive Branch ............... .269........ 10.00
King Solomon's ......... .260........ 25.00
Lodge

No.

Amt.

131

GRAND LODGE OF CALIF'ORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

l.11dgc

No.

Amt.

11111111.:l· Grove ............. .293 ........ 16.00
I lrl1·11lal ........................ 144........ 25.00
I lrla11d ....................... .265........ 5.00
1 lrnard ........................ 341.. ...... 25.00
1111.-ific .......................... 136........ 25.00
1111.-ilic Grove .............. 331........ 5.00
l'11J11ro .......................... 110 ........ 10.00
l 111l1•s1ine ......................351 ........ 5.00
1'11111 i\lto ...................... 346........ 10.00
l 111li1s Verdes ................ 389........ 20.00

l 1111k .....•....••................. .449........ 15.00
l'urnassus .................... 388........ 10.00
1'11•:111<-na ................... .272 ........ 10.00
I '11 •11 Robles ............... .286........ 10.00
l'l111t•11ix ...................... 178........ 15.00
l'l1111k .......................... 353 ........ 10.00
l 1 il1sl111rg .................... ..429........ 20.00
l 1h1111as ........................ 60........ 5.00
l'n•sidio ...................... 354........ 25.00
U1·11ding ....................... .254 ........ 10.00
U1•do11<lo ...................... 328........ 10.00
lfrdwood City ........... .168........ 5.00
lfrdwood City ........... .168 ........ 15.00
lfridky ........................ 304........ 5.00
Ukl1111ond .................... 375 ........ 10.00
U isi11g Light ................ 397........ 10.00
U11s1·s Bar. ..................... 89........ 5.00
I~ 11.~•·ville ..................... .432........ 5.00
S11namento ................ 40........ 5.00
t-l11 li11as ....................... .204........ 5.00
S1111 I lenito ................... .211........ 5.00
Hnrr Bernardino ........ 348 ........ 15.00
S1111 I )iego .................. 35 ........ 10.00
S1111 Fernando ............ 384........ 5.00
S1111 Francisco ............ 360 ........ 10.00
H1111 Jacinto ................ 338........ 5.00
S1111 Jose ...................... 10........ 10.00
tl1111 Mateo ................. .226........ 5.00
!'11111 Miguel ................ 285 ........ 10.00
l'\1111 Pasqual ............. .452........ 10.00
1'11111 Pedro .................. 332........ 10.00
1'11111 Simeon ............... .196 ........ 10.00
1'11111ta Ana .................. 241... ..... 10.00
1'11111ta Cruz ................ 38. ....... 10.00

Lodge

No.

Amt.

Santa Barbara ......... .192........ 10.00
Santa Monica ............ 307........ 5.00
Santa Rosa ................ 57........ 25.00
Selma .......... ,.............. .277........ 8.50
Sequqia ........................ 349........ 10.00
Sierra Madre ..............408........ 5.00
Sierra Valley ............ 184........ 5.00
Silveyville .................. 201... ..... 10.00
Silver Gate .................. 296........ 10.00
Sisson .......................... 310........ 7.50
Snow Mountain ........ .271........ 5.00
Southern California ..278........ 25.00
South Gate ..................320 ........ 10.00
South Gate .................. 320........ 10.00
So. San Francisco ..... .212........ 10.00
S_peranza Ttaliana ..... .219........ 10.00
,Stanislaus ................. .206........ 5.00
Starr King .................. 344........ 10.00
St. John's ...................... 37........ 5.00
Suisun .......................... 55........ 2.50
Sunset .......................... 352 ........ 10.00
Tehachapi .................... 31.L .... .' 10.00
Tehama ........................ 3........ 25.00
Temescal .... ,...............314........ 5.00
Texas ............................ 46........ 5.00
Trinity .......................... 27........ 5.00
Truckee ..................... .200........ 5.00
Tuolumne .................... 8........ 5.00 .
Tuscan .......................... 261........ 5.00
Upland ........................ 41... ..... 10.00
Union .......................... 58 ........ 20.00
Unity ............................368........ 5.00
Vacaville ...................... 134........ ~.00
Valley .......................... 135 ....... ." 5.00
V etcran ........................ 373 ........ 32.00
Washington ................ 20........ 20.00
W clcome ..................... .255........ 10.00
Western Star.............. 2........ 5.00
West Gatc .................... 335........ 10.00
Whittier ...................... 323........ 5.00
Wilmington ............... .198........ 5.00
Wilshire ..................... .445........ 6.00
Woodbridge ............... .131........ 5.00
Woodland ................ ... 156........ 5.00
Yosemite ...................... 99........ 10.00

132

l'ROCEEDINGS OF THE

CHAP'l'J';R, R. A. M.

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Alameda ...................... 70........ 5.00
Alturas ....................... .107........ 2.50
Antioch ....................... 65 ........ 10.00
Benicia .......................... 7........ 10.00
Berkeley ...................... 92........ 10.00
California .................... 5........ 25.00
Charles Frederick
Crocker .................... 106........ 5.00
Coalinga ...................... 114........ 2.50
Corinthian .................. 51........ 5.00
Cxrus ........ .................... 15 ........ 10.00
Dixon .................... ........ 48........ 10.00
Donner ........................ 39........ 5.00
Doric ............................ 66........ 5.00
East Gate ................... .103........ 5.00
Fresno .......................... 69........ 5.00
Grass Valley ................ 18........ 5.00
Hollister ...................... 68........ 5.00
Howard ....................... 14........ 10.00
Humboldt .................... 52... ..... 10.00
Kern Valley.................. 75 ........ 20.00
La Purissuna ............. .104 ........ 10.00
Long Beach.................. 4........ 5.00
Los Angeles ................ 33 ........ 10.00
Mendocino .................. 88........ 5.00
Mill Valley .................. 108 ........ 10.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Modesto ...................... 49........ 2.50
Napa .......................... 30........ 5.00
Naval ............................ 35 ........ 10.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Oakland ..................... 36........ 10.00
Palo Alto .................... 93........ 5.00
Petaluma .................... 22........ 5.0'.l
Redondo ..................... .101 ........ 20.00
Sacramento ................ 3........ 10.00
Salinas .......................... 59........ 5.00
San Jacinto ................ 87........ 5.00
San Luis ...................... 62........ 5.00
San Pedro ................. .174........ 6.50
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 5.00
Santa Rosa .................. 45........ 10.00
Sebastopol .................. 117........ 5.00
Shasta .......................... 9........ 10.00
Signet .......................... 57........ 10.00
Siloam .......................... 37........ 10.00
Sonora .......................... 2........ 5.00
Sutter .......................... 1!........ 5.00
Temple ........................ 41........ 10.00
Tulare .......................... 71........ 10.00
lJ nity .......................... .116........ 5.00
Visalia .......................... 44........ 10.00
Washington ................ 13... ..... 10.00
Wood'.and ................... 46........ 5.00

COUNCIL, R, & S. M.

Council
No.
Amt.
California .................. 2........ 10.00
Long Beach ................ 26........ 5.00

Co1111dl
No.
Amt.
Los Angeles
11........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 1........ 5.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

(lormnandery

No.

Amt.
5.00
N11p;1 ............................ 34........ 5.00
N11val .......................... 19........ 10.00
Nc·vada ........................ 6........ 5.00
I111..i fie .......................... 3........ 5.00
l'nlo Alto .................... 47........ 5.00
1'11,adcna .................... 31.. ...... 30.35
H1·ddi11g ....................... 50........ 16.00
lfot'rside .................... 28 ........ 10.00
~11rramento ................ 2 ........ 10.00

Commandery
No.
Amt.
San Jose ...................... 10........ 10.00
San Luis Obispo .......... 27........ 5.00
Santa Ana .................. 36........ 10.00
Santa Cruz .................. 7........ 5.00
Santa Rosa ......... ... 14... ..... 10.50
St. Bernard ................ 23........ 10.00
lJkiah ............................ 33........ 5.00
Vacaville ...................... 38........ 5.00
Visalia .......................... 26........ 10.00
Watsonville ................ 22........ 10.00
Woodland ................... 21........ 5.00

~lount Olivet .............. 20........

A. A. O. N, M. S.

Temple
Amt.
Aahmes ....................................$ 10.00
Islam ........................................ 100.00
l.OIJG]l OF PllR1'JiCTTON, A. & A, S. R.

I ,oilge
No.
Amt.
( 'alifornia
10........ 25.00
Fn·sno .......................... 6........ 5.00
1,a:i,· Davis ............... . 4........ 10.00

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Oakland ........................ 2........ 15.00
San Francisco ............ !.. ...... 25.(X)
San J osc ...................... 13........ 5.00

o. ii. s.
('Ji apter

No.

Amt.
.\111apola ..................... .119........ 10.00
!\ aomi .......................... 36........ 10.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
San Jose ...................... 31... ..... 50.00
Santa Ana .................... 195........ 25.llO

OR!JllR 01' 1\ MARAN1'II

Court
No.
Amt.
Starr King .................. 17 ..:..... 5.00

COMMAND£RY, K. T.

Commandery
No.
Amt.
Bakersfield .................. 39........ 10.00
Berkeley ...................... 42........ 10.00
California .................... 1... ..... 25.00
Eureka .......................... 35........ 10.00
Fresno .......................... 29........ 5.00

Commarnlery
No.
Amt.
Glendale ...................... 53........ 5.00
Golden Gate ................ 16........ 25.00
Golden West... ............. 43 ........ 25.00
Los Angeles ................ 9........ 25.00 .
Marysville .................... 7........ 10.00

133

SC TOTS

. Court
No.
Amt.
Pyramid ............. . .... . !... ..... 16.50

IN DIVIDTJ ALS

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Baker, Tims. ]... .................
10.00
Baldwin, \Vallace .................... 1.00
Bennet, T. D............................. 1.00
Bogart, C. H. .......................... 2.SO
Carpenter, Roy ........................ 1.00
Cash ............................................ 1.00
Cash ..................................:......... .SO
Cash ............................................ .SO
Chapman, Mrs. Walter S....... 2.50
Chi'.ds, L. ]............................... 1.00
Clemmons, Wm. ...................... S.00
Coh11, Lewis ............................ S.00
Crandall, T. 1\......................... 1.00
Dean, D. W. ............................ 1.00
Fullington, G. L......................... 1.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
.SO
Guthrie, S. P. ............................
Hassfurther, Frank ................ S.00
Holloway, J. B ......................... 10.00
Hunchberger, J. G................... 5.00
Kief, Prof. ................................ .2S
Know, W. F. ............................ 1.00
Lawson, F. H. .......................... 1.00
Match.;:s, Jack .......................... 2.00
Member of Volcano No. 56.. 1.00
Mordough, J. C ....................... 25.00
Morris, Samuel ........................ 2.CXl
Patterson, H. C. ...................... .50
Rose, E. A................................. 1.00
Thompson, W. C. .................. 2.00
Weston, Chas. .......................... 1.00

RESIDENTS AT DitcoTO Ho~u-Men 94, \Vomen 53.
The following is a complete list of the residents of the Dccoto
Home. the dates of their admission, their resp<'ctivc ages, the name and
nnmhcr of the Lodge nominating them, and the location of such Lodges:
MEN, 94.
AG!\.
LODGE.
NO. LOCA1'JON.
San
Francisco.70
:\-ft.
Moriah
..........
44
Anderson, C. A.
.. Feh. 9, '09
Bell, Bradford ................ Dec. 5, '15 Mt. Jackson ......... .259 Gnerneville ....76
Bemis, Ernest H ............. Mar. 19, '16 Hollenbeck ............319 J.,os Angeles ....67
Bieler, Nicholas .............. Aug. 2S, '17 Jefferson ................ 97 La Porte ........ 77
Branthaven, D ................. Jan. 18, '04 Durant ................... .268 Berkeley ..........88
Bradbury, Wm. W ....... Oct. 28, '14 St. H clcna ............ 93 St. Helena ...... 74 .
Bartholemew, J. S .......... .June lS, '13 Mt. Jackson ......... .295 Gnerneville ....70
Broadwell, Melvin L ..... Dec. 7, '15 Oakland ................. .188 Oakland ..........66
Brown, James M ........... Mar. 22, '17 Santa Lucia ..........302 King City ......80
Burner, Henry .............. Jan. 10, '16 Occidental .............. 22 San Francisco.71
Chamblin, M. R. ............ Sept. 28, '10 Hartley ................. .199 Lakeport ........90
Chapman, J. A. .............. Oct. 6, '11 Concord ................. .117 Sacramento ....68
Cogswell, James L ......... May 19. '15 California .............. 1 San Francisco.89
Cole, W. N ..................... Jan. 18, '18 Long Beach .......... 327 Long Beach ....84
Crail, Luke D ................. Jtme 29, '18 Chico ........................ 111 Chico ..............76
Davidson, Frank M ....... Dec. 1, 'lS Porterville ............303 Porterville ....69
Davis, Charles H ........... Dee. 12, 'lS Naval ...................... 87 Vallejo ............69
NAME.

ADMITTED.

135

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

,

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

134

NAME.

ADMITTED.

1111\is, John M........
..July 26,'17
I 11·1mis, John S ............... Aug. 19, '16
I 11·1111is, William .......... Feb. 28, '11
l>111il1am, Murray .......... Dec. 11, 'JS
f.'ram·k. Isadore ........... Jan. 10, '16
Fl1111, Alexander ............ May 11, '18
1111 ... man, Isaac L ......... Mar. 17. '18
fln·11ch, John A ............. June 8, '07
Fink. Conrad .................. Aug. 23, '12
C~ntrs, Dawson D .......... Feb.
8. '14
t:n•i.tory, Anwyl ............ Jan 31, '16
c:11i,to, John .................. Ang. -,'17
l l;1111ilton, John ........... Feh. 6, '15
I l11nl:1g:e, James M ....... ~far. 13, '17
llill, Maxwell G............. Jnne 30, '16
I lndg-e, Edward T ........... Feh. 20, '15
.f1•ffrrs, S ......................... Jan. 5, '10
.fnh11s, Josiah .................. April 15, '12
.l111ws, Samuel A ............. April 2, '16
l\111f11s, J. L .................. Dec. 15, '17
I\ 1·1·1ie, James ................ Sept. 4, '10
l\<'ll<'r, Willis A. ............ Nov. 11, '15
l\1·ll.1·. Charles M ........... Nov. 21, '16
l\<'llll\'dy, Dnncan ...... Jnne 19, '17
l\1·1-r. Earl ...................... Sept. 11, '09
l\laasscn, Henry ............ Nov. 1, '17
l\1iii.:ht, Lewis W ........... April 2. '14
l.11ll11nte, Francis X ....... Nov. 2, '14
l.1·\'y, Samuel ................ Feb. 4, '18
l,.. wis, George L ............. Mar. 15, '18
L<'wly, David
........ Jnnc 27, '16
l.ippnldt, H. A............... Jan. 20, '07
l.iwman, GC"orgc .......... Nov. 2, '13
Magt•e, David B. ............ April 19, '11
Mt·lirtens, Rich;ml ...... Nov. 12, '13
Matthews, Edwin n ..... Jan. 21, '18
M11nh·ce, John ................ June 17, 'IS
M..tcalf, Solon T ............. Jan. 26, '18
Mitt·hell, Charles E. ..... ~ nv. 20, '15
~fryer, Wm. n ............. Aug . .'ll. '12
Morgan, Josiah \V ......... A11g. II, '14
Mc Elroy, Joseph T ....... 1-.1g. 25, '17
Md•'.wen, John JT .......... Ang. 21, '13
I 11.(den, B. F .................... April 19, '05

LODGE.

NO.

Keith ..................... .187
San Jose ................ 10
Sierra Valley ........ 184
Plumas ................... 60
La Parfaite Union 17
Alameda ................ 1.67
Elk Grove ........... .173
Wes tern Star ...... 2
Hermann ............... .127
Eden ....................... .113
Mizpah .................... 378
Amador ................. 65
H umholdt .............. 79
Sunset .................... 352
Forbestown ............ 50
South Gate ............320
Eden ........................ 113
East Belt ................391
Mission ................. .169
San Jose .................. 10
M rndocino ........... .179
Mendocino ........... .179
Live Oak ................ 61
Redlands ................ 300
Pacific ...................... 136
Hermann ..... :.......... 127
Evergreen .............. 259
Reading ................. .254
Hartley ................. .199
Oak Grove .............. 215
Guadalupe ............. .237
;--Jorthern Lii.:ht... ... 190
Paciric ...................... 136
Doric ..................... .216
Crockett ................. .139
Yount ...................... 12
San Di!.'go .............•15
Se<1uoia ...................~49
Los Angeli's
42
Mountain View .... 194
Phoenix ................. .178
Colden Gate .......... 30
Pajaro .................... 110
Mission ................. .169

LOCATION.

AGE.

Gilroy ..............69
San Jose ......... .82
Sierraville ......86
Quincy ..............88
San Francisco.71
Centerville ......80
Elk Grove ......59
Shasta ..............84
San Francisco.SO
San Leandro .. 65
Los Angeles ..71
Jackson ..........84
Eureka ............ 70
Los Angeles .. 72
Forbestown ....81
Los Angeles .. 74
San Leandro ..80
Tuolumne ......65
San Francisco.72
San Jose ........65
Mendocino ......81
Mendocino ...... 68
Oakland ..........86
Redlands ........ 71
San Francisro.81
San Francisco.72
Riverside ........69
Rectding .......... 71
Lakeport ........ 74
Alameda ..........83
Gnadalupe ..... .76
Millville ..........88
San Frandsco.74
San Francisco.77
San Francisco.73
Napa ................64
San Diego ......82
Oaklaml .......... 77
Los Angeles .. 76
Mount'n Vicw.57
S. Bcrnardino.86
San Francisco.SR
Watsonville .... 73
San Francisco.79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

136

137

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
NAME.

ADMITTED.

Olson, Ole ...................... Mar. 22, '16
Ong, Jackson W ............. May 12, '15
Payne, Edwin H ............. Mar. 23, '14
Parini, Daniel ................ Feb. 10, '14
Periam, Charles J ......... Jan. 15, '18
Potting, Henry .............. May 2, '11
Preston, J. N ................... May 22, '12
Robertson, Wm. B......... July 25, '14
Rumbo!, R. F ...................Jan. 30, '08
Redmond, Samuel ........ Aug. 21, '10
Righetti, Robert ............ Mar. 9, '18
Reynolds, Johnson ........ May 11, '18
Ross, Elias E ................... Nov. 12, '14
Rowley, Albanus B ...... .Oct. 19, '14
Rossow, Ernest F ........... Mar. 19, '16
Sculp, John ..........................................
Shane, Adolphus .......... Mar. 27, '18
Smith, Eli M ................... Nov. 25, '00
Stafford, Ralph L.:......... Feb. 17, '14
Stanton, Jed C................. April 9, '18
Schwartz, Jacob P ......... May 4, '16
Silver, Mark B ............... June 20, '16
Speidel, Adolph F ........... May 19, '16
Spooner, George C.........June 29, '18
Stickney, David ............ June 15, '16
Surface, James .............. Aug. 19, '16
Treat, James M ............... Nov. 2, '15
Whipple, Wm. M ........... Mar. 6, '09
Weil, Aaron ....................July 26, '17
Winkler, Theophilus .... Jan. 24, '16
Woodruff, Andrew F ... Aug. 19, '16
Yates, Enoch .................. Feb. 14, '17
Zimmerman, W. T ......... Feb. 2, '10

LODGE.

NO.

Solano ....... :........... .229
Hornitos ................ 98
Whittier ..................323
Nevada .................. 13
Mission .................. 169
So. San Francisco ..212
South Gate ............ 320
Yount ..................... 12
Redwood City ..... .168
Truckee .................. 200
l'cnt;.,lpha .............. 202
King Solomon's ... .260
Ophir ...................... 33
San Jose ................ 10
Naval ..................... 87
Evergreen ............ .259
Golden Gate .......... 30
Concord ................. 117
Granite ................... .222
Rio Vista ............... 208
WeJ.:0•11e .............. ?55
King Solomon's ... .2'50
Hermann ................ 12"'
Evening Star ........ 180
Oroville .................. 103
Ione ..................... 80
Hes!Jerian ............. .264
Brentwood ........... .245
Hiram ...................... 43
Charter Oak ......... .410
Emmanuel .............. 318
San Diego .............. 35
Abell ........................ 146
WOMEN, 53.
Ames. Minnie P ............ Oct. 21, '13 Oak Grove ............. .215
Baxter, M. F ................... April 16, '02 Santa Rosa ............ 57
Briggs, Mary L .............April 24, '07 Long Beach .......... 327
Barclay, Cornelia B ....... May 6, '16 Union ...................... 58
Bell, Lucy ...................... Dec. 5, '15 Mt. Jackson ............ 295
Davis, Eliza A ................. July 26, '17 Keith ........................ 187
Donaldson, A. R ............. Mar. 10, '14 Vacaville ................ 134
Dyer, Sarah .................... July 17; '00 Oriental .................. 144
Davis, Grace G...............July 25, '16 Naval ...................... 87
Dennis, Lydia ·................ Aug. 19, '16 San Jose .................. 10

LOCATION.

AGE.

Vallejo ............ 63
Hornitos ..........88
Whittier ..........80
Nevada City ..80
San Francisco.76
San Francisco.70
Los Angeles .. 86
Napa ................ 69
Red.wood City.88
Truckee .......... 74
Los Angeles ....67
San Francisco.74
Murphy's ........ 71
San Jose ..........86
Vallejo ............ 64
Riverside ........ 70
San Francisco.81
Sacramento ....88
Rocklin ............ 70
Rio Vista ...... 77
Lemoore .......... 65
San Francisco.73
San Francisco.71
Etna Mills ...... 77
Oroville ..........65
Tone ..................81
Santa Maria ..65
Brentwood ......85
El Dorado ......85
Berkeley .......... 70
Riggs ................85
San Diego ...... 72
Ukiah .............. 78
Alameda .......... 61
Santa Rosa ......81
Long Beach ....82
Sacramento .... 78
Guernevillc .... 70
Gilroy .............. 72
Vacaville ......... 86
San Francisco.SO
Vallejo ...........64
San Jose .......... 74

NAME.

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

NO.

Elder, M. J ....................... Jan. 8, '08 Pacific .................... 136
Elliott, A. M ................... May 1, '04 Occidental .............. 22
Field, Bessie M ............... May 25, '13 Hesperian ............. .264
Fountain, H. E ............... Sept. 7;'06 Evergreen ............... .259
French, Helen S ............. Aug. 17, '18 Occidental .............. 22
Fuller, C. T ..................... Feb. 9, '08 Michigan City ···-~- 47
Crant, Permelia ............ Feb. 2, '11 Antioch ................... .175
I leith, Catherine ............ Oct. 16, '10 ·Fresno .................... 47
I logan, Minnie G........... Nov. 22, '16 Palmyra .................. 26
I louse, Amanda ............ Sept. 13, '08 Georgetown ............ 25
11 unter, Mary R. S ....... Feb. 8, '17 Russian River ....... .181
J ohanningsmier, A.melia" April 28, '17 Fruitvale ................ 336
Johnson, M ..................... Mar. 6, '03 Summit .................. 112
Knight, Anna R ............. April 2, '14 Evergreen ............. .259
Keller, Maude E ............. Oct. 18, '15 Tehama .................. 3
Lawrence, Lucy P ......... N ov. 21, '17 Hoard of Relief............
Linder, Elvena B................................... South Gate ............ 320
McKinnon, M. A ............. Dec. 31, '14 Morning Star ........ 68
Matthews, Louise ........Jan. 21, '18 Yount ...................... 12
Moore, Emily N ............. May 7, '12 Madison .................. 23
Mast, Frances C........... Aug. 31, '13 Yosemite ............... .133
!\'ash, M. A ..................... Junc 11, '01 Palmyra .................. 26
Potting, Nellie E........... May 2, '11 So. San Francisco ..212
Proll, Anna R. G........... Feb. 5, '15 King Solomon's ... .260
Ramsden, Maria L ......... Dec. 8, '16 Mission ................... .169
Redican, M. A ............... Mar. I, '05 Los Angeles .......... 42
Rossi, Josephine ............ Oct. 20, '14 Alhambra .............. 322
Richardson, Julia A..... Mar. 26, '16 Live Oak ................ 61
Smith, Annie T ............. May 12.'15 California .............. 1
Smith, Elizabeth .......... Aug. 28, '13 Friendship ............. .210
Sawyer, Ella B ............... Aug. 30, '13 Natoma .................. 64
Sly, Ellen S ..................... Nov. 5, '13 Silver Cate ......... .296
Smalley, Emily A ........... June 22, '14 Santa Ana ............. .241
Surface, Emma ............ Aug. 19, '16 Ione .......................... 80
Theis, Elkn .................... May 11, '18 Berkeley ................ 363
Thomas, F. W ................. Jan. 4, '04 Ahcll ........................ 146
Walraven, Mary E ......... Oct. 13, '17 Chico ...................... 111
Wiel, Esther .................. July 26, '17 l liram ...................... 43
Wentworth, L ............... Feb. 16, '()() Hawaiian ................ 21
Winters, Josephine ...... Jan. 18, '18 Excelsior ................ 166
Wooley, Jane ................ Dec. 29, '03 Alcatraz ................. .244
Worden, Melissa ............ Mar. 27. '18 Golden Gate ............ 30
Wright, Sarah G........... Scpt. 13, '14 Eden ........................ 113

LOCATION.

AGE.

San Francisco.86
San Francisco.77
Santa Clara ....85
Riverside ........86
San Francisco ..... .
Michigan City.73
Antioch ............ 78
Fresno ............ 72
Placerville ...... 61
Georgetown ....80
Windsor ........ 57
Oakland .......... 73
Knight's Ferry.68
Riverside ........ 70
Sacramento ... .48
San Francisco.56
Los Angeles ....68
Stockton .......... 73
Napa ................ 64
Grass Valley ..86
Coulterville .... 73
Placerville ......80
San Francisco.74
San Francisco.61
San Francisco.68
Los Angeles ....87
Alhambra ........ 58.
Oakland ..........68
San Francisco.77
San Jose ........ 75
Folsom ............ 68
San Diego ...... 73
Santa Ana ...... 75
lone ..................66
lkrkcley .......... 71
Ukiah .............. 90
Chico ................81
El Dorado ...... 73
If onolulu ........ 73
San Francisco.59
Oakland ..........84
San Francisco.77
San Leandro ..80

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

139

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

188

H EPORT OF ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE, MASONIC HOMES.
Dl.\PARTURES DURJNG THF; YEAR 1918.

10, '17
Heath, George B.
l2 '17
Mueller, El.izabeth .................................. N~r
·,
18
29
Potts, Arcl11h~ld R. .................................. ~ ~ii 3'·, 18
Johnlson, DClav1dl ....P.....................................N~v.
'17
Malory, 1ar es .... "*...........................
15 '17
Mallory, Anna F.
/ '18
Rosengarn, John H.
'

1s'.

Dismissed.
Dismissed.
Dismissed.
Vohmtary.
Voluntary.
Voluntary.
Voluntary.

Bullier. Leon
Blair, Penelope M. W. B.

15. '18

................. Mar.

13, '18
,,
3 17

~~~th:ai~~.a~~::hard H ........................... July 2;: '.i~
Flagler, Amasa P ..................................... Mar.

,,
12 18
Freem.an, Ann E.
... Mar. 28, '18
Hawkins, Edward K. ...........................
Julian, Grace B. M .................................. Dec. i~: '.i~
Kane, Eliza J.
18, '18
Knickerbocker, Kiles
14,'l 8
Lindsay, Orville A.
15, '18
Mayer, Joseph
24. '17
Quinn, Michael
5 '17
Reaves, Mary McD. ................................ 0 ct. 12' '18
Redican, Bernard .................................... Mar.
•, .
Spencer, Thomas C ................................. Sept. 28• •17
17
. ar Ies ....................................... ..... Oct. 30
8, '17
Scu II ' Ch
Seele:l'., Nancy C.
10'. '18
,,
Schneider, Edward \V. ·· ··· ..................June

2 17

Taylor, Mary J.
20 '18
Tupper, John H ......................................... J;i 1Y ' '!7
Van Hove, Charles G ............................. ~o:. 106, '17
Wright Florence M ................................. No ·
'
Walton'. Oscar M..................................... April ! 7, '! 3

We, the members of your Endowment Committee of the Masonic
I lnmes of California, appointed by the Grand Master at the close of the
J;1st Grand Lodge, beg to report that this very important matter has
n·rcived our most serious consideration during the past year, but we
f'<'l-!:ret to advise that the results secured were small owing to existing
r1 •nditions.
a War Fund should be raised for Masonic purposes, requested that the

BURIF.n AT

DATE

'/'11 the .Tffost WorshiPful Grand Lodge of California:

The M. Vv'. Grand Master. deeming it essentially necessary that

DTJ\ll DURING THE YEAR-24.
NAME.

Los Angeles, California, Sept. 13th, 1918.

San Juan.
Oakland.
Decoto.
El Dorado.
San Francisco.
Elk Grove.
San Francisco.
Decoto.
Decoto.
Decoto.
Decoto.
San Mateo Co.
Deco to.
Angels Camp.
Decato.
Chico.
San Frandsen.
Decoto.
San Mateo Co
Dc>coto.
Decoto.
Decoto.
Oakland.
Yuha City

l•:ndowment Committee not to conduct its usual campaign of solicitation
through the Lodges and individual members for the reason that at this
I i111e the principal and practically the only business in which we are
c11g-aged is "War", and that it was the duty of the Masonic Fraternity
,.f California to have a Fund available to meet any condition which
miid1t arise, to properly care for Masons serving their Country in the
army and navy. Now, we must look to the future; our boys are sacrilicing all for us; it means many, many widows and orphans thereby malerially (in the almost immediate future) increased demands on our
I romes at Decoto and Covina.
Your Committee earnestly recommends that during the coming year
1ltc campaign for the Endowment Fund be one for Liberty Bonds.

If our Membership in the Grand Lodge could but realize that by
pnrchasing Liberty Bonds and transferring them to the Endowment
Fnnd, it will serve the douhle purpose of furnishing the money required
lo win the war, as well as providing an Endowment Fund of such proportions as will, through the irn:ome of same, take care of our Masonic
11 omes, the pride of Fratc>rnity.
The condition of Hrnlowm«nt Fund as n·ported hy our Grand
Treasurer is as follows:
,\ngust 1st, 1917.

Cash on lland.....................................
......$ 4,712.06
Securities, etc.................................................... 122,212.50
Total ..........................................................$126,924.56

;\ugust l;;;t, 1918.

Cash on ! land ................ .
Securities, etc.

................... $ 2,468.54
.. ·················· 145,912.50

Total .......................................................$148,381.04

140

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The miscellaneous receipts for the Endowment Fund since the last
report published in the Grand Lodge Proceedings of 1917, were as
follows:

Estate of Chas. T. Johnson .................................................... 1,348.32
~has. T. Johnson........................................................................
9;()()
l·.state of Herman Levy............................................................ 351.45

Hollenbeck No. 319 ..................................................................$
4.00
Sequoia No. 349 ......................................................................... . 264.25
Janesville No. 232................................................c•••••••••••••••••••
9.00
Hawaiian No. 21 ....................................................................... .
5.00
Berkeley No. 363...................................................................... ..
1.00
Mission No, 169......................................................................... .
1.00
Geo. W. Madeley................................................... :.................. ..
1.10
\Vestern Star No. 2................................................................ ..
2.00
Hawaiian No, 21 ....................................................................... .
1.00
St. John's No. 37..................................................................... .
36.50
Naval .Lodge No. 87................................................................. .
6.00
Summit No. 112......................................................................... .
9.40
Eel River No. 147.................................................................... ..
4.00
Excelsior No. 166..................................................................... .
5.00
Oakland No. 188. .........................................................................
5.00
Santa Barbara No. 192........................................................... .
29.00
Pentalpha No. 202..................................................................... .
13.00
Downey No. 220....................................................................... .
2.00
Solano No. 229........................................................................... .
1.00
Covelo No. 231.. ..........................................................................
10.00
Hope No. 234............................................................................ ..
29.00
Penrhyn No. 258....................................................................... .
6.00
Snow Mountain No. 271 ......................................................... .
5.00
Winnedumah No. 287 ............................................................. .
17.00
Tehachapi No. 313 ......................................................................
3.00
South Gate No. 320................................................................... .
10.00
Alhambra No. 322......................................................................
2.00
Richmond No. 375 ......................................................................
2.50
Artesia No. 377......................................................................... .
2.00
West Lake No. 392 ................................................................... . 252.00
Balder No. 393........................................................................... .
2.00
Burbank No. 406...................................................................... ..
27.00
Honolulu No. 409..................................................................... .
51.00
Chino Valley No. 427 ............................................................... .
2.00
Schofield No. 443 ....................................................................... .
7.00
Ramona No. 457....................................................................... .
3.00
Oscar C. rvfueller ....................................................................... . 104.00
25.00
Oscar C. l\1ueller................................................................... .
Falkenstein's Band ..................................................................... .
1.00
Ralph E. Swarts ......................................................................... .
5.00
Mrs. R. E. Swarts ..................................................................... .
1.00

(Mt. Moriah Lodge)
Oscar C. Mueller, Interest on Bond
Alex. Wark Bakersfield.................. ................................... .
Robt. E. C. Von Pertz........................ :::::::::::::::::::::::.:::::::.......

141

25.00
50.00
5.00

TotaL ....................................................................................$2,754.52
. Your Committee earnestly recommends an active, energetic camJ•a 1;:11 next year to go "over the top" with the Endowment Fund.
Fraternally submitted,
MOTLEY H. FLINT,
ALONZO

J. MONROE,

FRANCIS V. KEESLING,

WILLIAM A. SHJl~MAN,
ARTHUR S. CRITl!s,
JOHN
GWILT,

w.

G!!ORGI! F. Roooi:N,
FRED w. CLOUGH,

Endowment Committe Masonic
Homes of California.

142

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

. MENTAL AND PHYSICAL EXAMINATIONS
OF THE

CHILDREN OF THE MASONIC HOME
AT COVINA, CALIFORNIA

143

hy the watch test. It is very gratifying to state that the physical
fl'•ls showed a most satisfactory improvement in most cases. Nat11rully, the changes caused by children .corning and going from the
I ln111c interrupts an accurate comparative table, but that proper
l'l1otilance is exercised in the physical care is shown in the followh1M n·cord of treatments:
14 Tonsillectomies

7 Circumcisions
28 Dental attention
4 Orthodontic corrections

By MARY H. LAYMAN, M. D., and ARTHUR]. R1TTtR
Department of Pediatrics
From the Stanford Unii•ersity Medical School, Saii Fnmcisco, Cal.

LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY
MEDICAL SCH(l(1L, DlVISION 011 MF;DlCINl(

Sacramento and Webster Streets,
San Francisco, Cal., September 30, 1918.

Since our last report a most complete dental equipment has
lw1·11 established in the well-fitted and well-lighted operating room,
1111<1 we recommend the adoption of regular visits by the dentist as
11 part of the thorough system established there, in order to pre•1·rv<' the present good condition of the teeth.
'l'he operations for tonsils, ·adenoids, circumcisions, and other
111•l't ssary treatments were conducted by Drs. ]. M. Dunsmoor,
llohl'rt M. Dunsmoore, -waiter R. Crane, Frank D. Bullard, 0. M.
Ntaiford, and Nannie C. Dunsmoor, of Los Angeles. The work was
•ldll fully and carefully <lone, assisted by graduate nurses, who cared
1111· the patients in the comfortable hospital rooms. All these rooms
11n· in the main building and completely detached from the Dorrnit11ry buildings in such manner that the disturbances from anesthetics
11r treatments are not observed by the other children.
We recommend that a dependable specialist make at least a
loi1·1111ial examination of the eyes, as there are a few cases which
rl'1111ire expert examination. There are marked improvements in
puslure, but some corredions are yet to be made. This is rather a
1lifiicult matter to correct, but the management will find better
n·s11lts from their efforts when the gymnasium and playground is
1•q11ipped. This we arc informed is in early contemplation.
The measurements of weight and height show a marked advance
11vn last year, but it is still apparent that the increase in height
r x rn·ds the increase in weight.
0

Hon. William Rhodes Hervey,
Trust & Savings Bank, Los Angeles, Cal.
Dear Sir:
Vv e herewith take great pleasure to submit to you report of the
physical and psychological examinations of the children at the Masonic
Horne at Covina, California, made by us during the month of September, 1918, representing the Department of Pediatrics of the Stanford University Medical School, San Francisco.
Respectfully submitted,
MARY H. LAYMAN, M. D.,
ARTHUR ] . RITTER.
At the request of the Grand Master, Hon. William Rhodes
Hervey, a survey for the year 1918 was made of the Masonic Home
for Children at Covina, California. The purpose of the Survey was
to determine if the recommendations of the report of 1917 had been
carried. out by the management, what results had been obtained
therefrom, whether improvements had been made in the physical and
mental development of the children included in the former survey,
and recommendations and reports on those admitted subsequent to
the findings of last year.
Physical Status: This year's survey was conducted Oil the same
basis as that outlined last. year for both physical and mental examinations. The measurements of height and weight, girth of head,
chest and abdomen, tests of vision by Snellen types, and hearing

32-72, 8% increase in weight and hciisht
6-13, 6% remarkable increase
6-13, 6% lack of improvements
vVe desire to comment upon the mmsual dietetic selection, the
111·q1aratio11 of foods, quantities uf milk and fruits used, as well as
thl· sanitary conditions of the kitchen, refrigeration, and stores,,

. 144

145

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mental Status: The mental examinations were conducted on the
Yerkes-Bridges Point Scale examination method, according to the·
following table, with points obtained in each individual case.

11111itics offered to some of the older children to assume responMillil ities, such as keeping the records of stores, making inventories
1111•1 requisitions, receiving and checking supplies, as well as instructlni.: and coaching the younger folks in music, dancing, vocation,
h1111sc and school work. The boys are taken to manufacturing plants,
11iills, warehouses, institutions, automobile shops, etc., where illustrati1·1· talks and explanations are given, in order to broaden their vision,
<'1111rL·ption, knowledge, and association. The card system recom1111·11<led has been in use and each case recorded. This assistecJ in
• 1111' examinations very materially.
The "follow up system," which
kt·t·ps the Home in constant touch with the boys and girls wlm have
ldt for more active duties in the world, was very interesting to us,
1111<! most gratifying.
Letters received from those at a distance
•how a devotion both to the Home and those in charge. · A number
nl the boys employed in Los Angeles come out to spend the week-ends
ul their old Home, and the greetings exchanged on their arrival show
t li('lll to "be regarded as big hrothers and welcomed most heartily.
This speaks highly for the character of the Home spirit, as they
prdcr their visits there lo the many diversions offered young men
oi their age.

Years 5

20
28
39

No.
cases 3
Norm. 22

TABLE 1918
11
12

6
23t
25
40
46

10
8
9
49 60 60
51 62 68
54 63 71 §
60§ 75§ 73§
78§
61§
78§
49§
82§
54§
90§

4
29

7
35

7
29t
32t
33t
35
41

5
41

60* 73
72 89§
79 89§
84§ 89§
87§ 89§
87§ 90§

13 14
15 16
78 87 88 98
93§ 88 89
95§ 90§ 93
100§
97§

4

8

6

6

4

56

62

65

77

79

3
81

4
82

85

17

77*
96

2
85

tDull Normal
*Borderline
§Normal Superior

Enviro11mc11t:

The distribution of the children in the various intelligence groups
is as follows :
I Normal Superior intelligence ..............24 or 42. l %
II Normal intelligence ............................... .27 or 47.4%
III Dull normal intelligence ........................ 4 or 7. %
IV Borderline .................................................. 2 or 3.5%
V Feeble minded .......................................... 0
0
Total Cases ................................ 57

100%

The survey of last year showed already an unusual rating of
intelligence in a group of children, and the improvement shown here
could not have been ordinarily expected. This exceptional improvement in the individual case is largely due to the co-operation of
management and continuous application and instruction of the
children. The increase in scores is particularly noticeable in reasoning power and judgment. The boys have industriously assisted
in building up the Home, and as compensation received thrift stamps.
They also had considerable experience in making monetary transactions,
thereby learning the value of coins, in which they were rather backward last year. The examiners were very happy to note the oppor-

A description of the location, sanitary conditions,

a11<l equipment was given last year. Additional improvements arc
111<' dental equipment mentioned heretofore, and the development of

i.:rnunds. N cw modern barns for horses, and a sanitary dairy have
lwl'n established. Irrigation system and pipe lines, grading of playi.:nntnds, paving of roads, cement sidewalks, and lawns arc noticealik improvements accomplished dnring the year.

Conclusion: Jn conclusion, we desire to state that the work
accomplished during the year 1917-1918 at the Masonic Home for
l 'hildren is beyond anything expected. It 11111st he admitted that the
;;!amling of the children in 1917 was considered high, hut increased
rnnsiderahly dne to the understanding, study, and attention given
In the individual child.
We foci that the Masonic Fraternity can
Ill' congratulakd hy having in charge of this llomc the Managing
Trustee, Mr. E. B. Spencer, and the Matron, Mrs. Maude E. Miller,
who create an atnwsphcrc of kindliness, devotion, and goodwill
towards the children which made possible the standard shown in this
;;11rvey.

In connection with that part of the report of the Trustees of the Masonic JI om es, reading as follow<~; "There has
been but one disputed point in eligibility. A ruling was

146

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

made by a Grand Master that the female orphan of a Mason
was always an orphan, regardless of age, and regardless of
how many times they may have married outside of the
fraternity, and were entitled to relief. Our regulations provide for admission of orphans under the age of sixteen, and
we have not recommended any change. Vv e received two
applications this year for orphans seventy years of age, who
by the ruling of the Grand Lodge were entitled to Masonic
relief, but by our regulations not entitled to admission to
the Homes. Unless otherwise instructed, the Board will
continue under our present regulations." The Grand Secretary moved that it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that
the daughters of J..faster Masons over the age of twentyone years, who by our regulations are entitled to relief, are
eligible to the Masonic Home. The motion was considered
at length and lost.

were delivered he then secured the services of competent skilled craftsmen, and on Saturdays and Sundays the work was completed in true
and ancient Masonic spirit.

147

Brother Edwin T. Peterson of Amity Lodge donated all of the
lumber, and the following named brethren performed the labor:
John M. Hooper of Mission Lodge, John M. Reid of Mission
Lodge, John McChesney of Occidental Lodge, John Looman of Pacific
Lodge,' Ernest D. Perkins of Occidental Lodge, Richard Cannon of
Starr King Lodge, and Mr. Norman Duxbury.
Brother John Fraser, Past Master of Doric Lodge, donated the
paint, and Brother James \V. Jennings of Amity Lodge painted the
shelving, and to these brethren we are indebted for the ninety-five sections of shelving.
These ninety-five sections of shelving made room for all of the
Grand Lodge Proceedings of the several jurisdictions, thus giving to the
use of the Library all of the sectional hook-cases now in the Grand
Secretary's offices for about 2500 mor~ books.
NEW BOOKS SECURED SINCE LAST REPORT.

REPORT OF LIBRARY COMMITTEE

Since our last report your committee has secured the following
donations:

Brother Henry :.\L Owens, Chairman of the Committee
on Library, presented the Annual Report of that Committee
as follows:

From Brother A. J. Cloud of Live Oak Lodge, twenty-five volumes pertaining to language, literature and history.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Library herewith presents the following
report:
We have taken into consideration all of the recommenda.tions made
at the last communication of this Grand Lodge and have endeavored to
carry them into effect so far as it has been practicable and advisable.
BOOK SHELVING.

Last year we were without sufficient shelving to accommodate more
books, and during the early part of February your chairman solicited
the help and co-operation of Brother Fred H. Fewster of Paul Revere
Lodge, who is also the Business Agent of the District Carpenters'
Council of the Bay Counties. Brother Fewster prepared the plans and
secured the material for ninety-five sections of the shelving in the
entrance room to the Grand Secretary's office, and after the materials

•

From Mrs. Isabelle M. Curtis and Mrs. Elizabeth M. Mugan,
. nieces of the late Jacob Z. Davis of California Lodge, 000 volumes of
the Davis collection, consisting of histories, travel, description, essays,
poetry, encyclopedias, dictionaries, science, fiction, guides, school books,
and many other subjects. Many of these books are very rare and
exceedingly valuable.
From Mrs. I. M. Crawford, twenty-three volumes of essays and
fiction.
From Brother Denman S. Wagstaff, Past Master of Fairmount
Lodge, five volumes of Lamed's History of the World.
From Brother J. W. Divelbiss. Past Master of San Mateo Lodge,
twelve volumes of miscellaneous hooks.
From Brother Henry M. Owens, Past :\faster of California Lodge,
your chairman, fifty-eight volumes of encyclopedias. fiction, travels and
miscellaneous; also one quarter-sawed golden oak library tahle, 3x6 feet.

148

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

APPROPRIATION.

I :rand Secretary's office that at the end thereof a request be made for the
tl1111atio11 of books suitable for our Library, and that each Secretary of
I he several Lodges be requested to read this request at the stated mecti11gs of said Lodges during the year.

Last year the Grand Lodge appropriated for the use of this committee the sum of $500 for the purchase of books, shelving and cataloguing of the Library. Your committee has expended $81.75, as
follows:
Purchasing of 14 v~ls. Sacred Books of the Far East ......................$ 64.25
Purchasing of 1 vol. "What Is Masonry?"...................................... 2.50
Labor in listing and placing Davis collection ....................................~-- 15.00
Balance of appropriation on hand ..................................................$418.25
Your committee is of the opinion that the balance as above shown
should be left to the credit of the committee for the ensuing year.

149

ADDITIONAL DONATIONS.

Since writing the above, Brother Charles J. Abraham of Doric
'" •dge has donated a set of the city directories of San Francisco, coveri111{ a period of many years back, and with this nucleus we hope to
""·11re the remaining volumes and complete the set, because no library
is complete without a set of directories of as many cities as is possible
I 11 get them from in the State.

CATALOGUING OF BOOKS,

BOOKS ACCJ\PTATILJ\, AND DllSIRllD.

vVe now have about 6000 volumes in the Library, and through
the efforts of our genial and never-tiring Grand Secretary he has listed
and classified about all of the books, and when this work is done it
will be an easy matter to get the catalogue in shape to publish, when
it is deemed advisable; and while it is advisable to print the catalogue, nevertheless we are of the opinion that it is best to wait for a
few more years until we secure a greater number of books before
incurring this expense. Your chairman has been in communication
with Most Worshipful Newton R. Parvin, the Grand Secretary and
Librarian of the Grand Lodge of Iowa, which Grand Lodge has the
best and largest Masonic library in the United States. and has received
some very valuable information and assistance toward building up onr
Library. And we may say that during the past thirty-five years the
Grand Lodge Library of Iowa has not printed a catalogue. Until we
are in a position to employ an assistant Librarian, we advise that the
present system of securing hooks by donations and the purchase of a
few other books which we are not able to get donated to the Library,
he followed.
The chairman and your Librarian have at all times extended the
thanks of this Grand Lodge to every one who has assisted in the work,
and at this time we desire to thank the Past Master's Association of
California and Brother 0. L. Sues, its efficient Secretary, for its and
his efforts in doing all they could in securing donations of hooks.

The Essenes-Their History and Doctrines; Mithraica; Frce111asonry in China; The Gnostics and Their Remains; The Dionysian
:\ rtificers; Chinese Classics; Divine Legation; Mysteries of the Cabiri;
Asiatic Researches; Manners and Customs of the Ancient Egyptians;
I rumbolt Researches; Addison's History of the Knights Templars;
I listory of the Gypsies; Tradition in Reference to Mythology and Law
of Nations; Findel's Freemasonry; Hallam's Middle Ages; Apuleius;
Prehistoric Times; The Parsee; The Romans of Brittain; The Saxons
in England; History of Crime (Pike); Ecclesiastical History of Ireland; The Culdees of British Islands; Celtic Scotland; The Early Scot1ish Church; History of the Carpenters Company; The Secret Societies
of All Ages and Countries; The Four Old Lodges; Lyon's History of
Freemasonry; Laurie's History of Freemasonry; The Celt. the Roman
:i11d the Saxon; The Roman \Vall; Byways in Palestine; East of the
Jordan; An Inquiry Tnio the Credibility of Early Roman History;
Masonry Dissected; Illustrations of Masonry; Sir Christopher vVren
;md His Times; Annals of St. Paul's Cathedral (Milman) ; N cw Curiosities of Literature; Dr. Ahcl's American Tndian as Slavehol<ler and
St>cessionist (Clark & Co.); The Free Mason, Who Ts \Vl10 in Masonry (F. & A. M. Puh. Co., Rochester, X. Y.), or any other hooks of
a similar nature.
Respectfully submitted,

FU1'URF, WORK 1'0 TIF, DONll.

Your committee is of the opinion that there are many of r;ur
brethren who have valuable books and would donate them to the
Library if the matter was brought to their attention. \Ve therefore
recommend that during the ensiiing Masonic year that in all of the
official communications to the several Lodges in the jurisdiction from the

H. M. OWENS,
S. n. FORCE,
vV. A. Timnnr.K,
Litw E. WALT.ACF.,
M. J\. ScnMmLrn,
Committee.

The report was adopted as read.

150

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

AN:'.'JUAL ORATION
The Grand Lodge was then favored by an interesting,
instructive, and eloquent oration delivered by Brother Chas.
H. Victor, Grand Orator, as follows:
Most Worshipful Grand 11-faster and Brethren:
Very earnestly and sincerely have I wished that the appointment
given me by the Grand -Ylaster and the duty and the responsibility
placed upon me might have carried with it the inspiration and wisdom,
the power and the vision to have gra~ped so great an opportunity, but
this is a vain wish and likewise a fntile one; hut yet, perhaps, after all,
it is well that it should he so, for in times like these men are learning
to attempt tasks that are unusual and are taking up duties that seem
almost impossible, even when they are aware of their own deficiencies.
This is an unusual communication of the Grand Lodge. There is a
different atmosphere ahout our meeting this year from that which has
been present heretofore. We cannot help but feel it and we cannot fail to
recognize it. We do not greet each other in that care-free, off-hand way
so common to good fellowship that has marked our greetings in the
past. We are not interested in the ordinary social diversions and conversations that have been so pleasant a feature of the recurring anniversary of our meetings heretofore. When we grasp each other by the
hand it seems as though we can look into each other's hearts and have
a response come back to us that we are standing together. There seems
to be a deeper sense of our relationship and our brotherhood than has
marked this relationship heretofore. On the lapel of the coats of many
of you is that little button with its bright star that marks the fact that
the boy is gone, the fact that he is willing to offer up on the altar of his
patriotism a devoted service. And that star represents more than words
can tell. That star is at once your pride and your despair. and so we
cannot help but recognize the one great, outstanding, ever-present, overpowering fact that our condition is different this year from previous
years.

It seems to me that every sentence that has heen uttered since we
first gathered together has heen directed toward the one thought, that
we were at war. The one hig thing that stands out in our minds is not
a discussion of the beautiful philosophy of Masonry, not a discussion
of the abstract problems that are so interesting and that arc at times so
inspiring, not thinking even upon those things that intimately concern
our individual Lodges or onr individual fo~tunes, lmt rather is our
thought going all the time to the fact that although we are a peaceful
fraternity, and although we have been inspired through our entire his-

GRA:ND LODGE OF CAJ,JFORNIA

151

tory by the one great outstanding idea that peace is the desirable condition of the world, yet in our minds there is only running the thought
of war, war, war. And we cannot help but feel that, Brethren, because
the conflict in which we are engaged, the war that is weighing so heavily
npon our minds, upon our time, upon our thought and upon our resources, is a war forced upon us, attacking the very foundations of our
Institution; and we would be untrue as men, and more than untrue as
J\fasons, if we were not at this time thinking only of the ways and the
means by which this conflict may be brought to a close-yea, I should
say, a speedy close, and that right and justice and truth may triumph
and we may he allowed to continue our peaceful pursuits that were so
pleasant heretofore.
It seems appropriate and almost necessary that in any discussion
by the Grand Orator at this time, the principles underlying the great

conflict in which we arc engaged should be discussed. \V c have been
told, and we rightfully believe, that the war in which we arc engaged
is a war for democracy, a war to preserve for the world a democracy;
but, Brethren, I believe that we can state with equal force and with
equal truthfnlncss that this great war in which we arc engaged is a
war to make this world safe for Masonry, because I want to say to
you-am! I do not believe that you will contradict or deny the statement-that in tlieir very last and final analys<'S lkmocracy and Masoury
are one and the same thing.
We are waging a war today against 11ol a people primarily, not a
power primarily; !mt rather b thi;; grt·at conllict raging between two
great ideas, lwtwccn l wo great idl•als, hdwccn two great systems of
government-the system on the Olll' side that says "Might is right; those
who arc strong and can co11q11er must prevail; he who has the power to
claim may have; that the wl·ak simply exist for the hcnl·lit of the stronµ;
and that there is a God-given pown hy accident of birth that one man
might control the destiny of tlw world." But over against that ideal.
over against that system of governml'llt, is tlw one for which Masonry
has stood since time i111mtmorial :-the ilk a that a govn11mc11t derives
its jnst power from the consl'lll of the govl'rncd; tlw idea that the duty
of the strong is to protect thl' Wl':1k; the i<ka that has hl'cll so dearly
and so forcefully stakd hy om grrnt Presidrnt. that the ri!-(ht of sclftletermination is a right of all pl'oples and of all nations. and that it is
our businrss in this pn'Sl'llt crisis lo Sl'l' that right is prcservl·d to the
world.
1 ~
Masonry n'cognizcs amt rl'ally [('aches that this whok world is one
great n·1mhlic and brotlwrhornl of man, and that in this gn•a! rt'puhlic
dwell all kinds of peopk, and it exv111plilies in its 1·itual !ht· tl1011ght.
that brotherly love can hring togl'thcr all of these people am! that the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

152

153

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

world can be a great republic. \Ve say that it is on this basis of
brotherhood, that it is on this basis of mutual respect and understanding that we unite every race, sect and opinion, and cause true friendship to exist among those that might otherwise have remained at a
perpetual distance; and it is a broad interpretation of this ritual of
ours that enables us to stand firmly and squarely with our President in
the right of self-determination of peoples.
Now, we care not what the race may be; we care not what the
color of a man may be; we care not what his education and his culture
may have been, for we declare as Masons that that man has a right to
decide for himself and the nation for itself how they are to live, how
they are to act, what form of government they may want to have over
them in so far as their actions, their desires and their governments do
not interfere with the same liberty, and the same rights and the same
actions of other peoples and other governments. And that is the thing
we are fighting for today. That is the reason why we, as a country that
to a certain extent has a!ways been isolated from the great qnarrels of
the world, a country that has kept itself separated, that has not engaged
in the wars and the intrigues of other continents, have transported our
troops across seas to the continents of Europe and of Asia, and there
we are fighting battles, not for territory-because it has been clearly
stated that we do not want one foot of the territory of our enemies,
not for indemnity or money, because it has b(:en equally stated with as
great force that we do not want one penny of indemnity or pay for the
service we are rendering, hut rather that we might bear practical testimony to our consecration to the principles of liberty, fraternity, equality
and self-determination of all peoples of the earth.
And, Brethren, as we have waged this war, many from our own
ranks have gone; the report that was given by our Grand Secretary
showing that between live and six thousand Brethren arc now in the
active service speaks for itself. The same report has come from other
jurisdictions, and we have found our Brethren who arc capable of
arms springing to the defense of these princip'.es of ours.
Many of us have not been able to go, hut we have found consolation in
the effort and work behind the line. and that is perhaps the important
thing to you and to me this morning.
Oh, I know that it is inspiring and it just fills and it j{1st thrills
us when we hear the reports as they come to us of what the boys are
doing. It just makes us rise up and thank God that we are Americans.
It just makes us happy all over and proud to think that we have in this
country of ours raised a race of men of the power, of the heroism.
of the spirit and of the physical valor and courage that have made possible some of the brilliant exploits that our men have already experienced, and those of you who heard the story of our Marines at Chateau

Thierry were filled with that spirit, and I believe that It ts m keeping
with the spirit of the hour that the facts as they have come to us might
be repeated. Some of you know the story and some of you do not, but
over there on that eventful 15th day of July, ninety-five hundred of our
Marines were at Chateau Thierry faced by two divisions of the German
army-and crack divisions, we are told, the very flower and pick of the
Prussian army-and the order eame for the Germans to attack, and
that mighty horde came over, and nearly three to one, Brethren. With
strong arms and under the force of the compact the Marines yielded,
they reeled and went back about half a mile, and then the lines had
been re-formed and the order from the commander went out that they
go forward, and they started. Then the order came in from the French
general to retreat. The word went back from the commander of the
Marines that he regretted very much his inability to obey the order,
that his patrols had already gone forward and that his men were on
the march, and that he must save and protect those men whom he had
commanded to move, and so they went forward, and for three days
the battle raged. Then the fight was over, and what was the result?
The information that comes to us is just this: that but twenty-five
hundred of the ninety-five hundred Marines that went into that conflict were able to stand and answer roll call. Seven thousand of them
were either dead or wounded-a tremendous sacrifice laid upon the
altar of their country, but, Brethren, what of the horde that attacked
them? What of those two divisions that came over to drive them hack?
The story that comes to us is that not a squad could he gathered together
to answer roll call. The ninety-five hundred Marines had accounted
for two divisions, or twenty-four thousand Germans. That kind of a
story, Brethren, fills us with enthusiasm for our boys; it fills us with
enthusiasm for the American spirit, and I want to say to you that the
thing that put that kind of a spirit into the hearts of those men was
the free institutions that have hrought them up, the institutions that
have been nurtured, that have been fostered. that have hecn created
and hrought to fruition hy the principles laid down hy our Masonic
fraternity.
So while this thrills us, it also inspires us to our work behind the
lines, and we arc seeing a sp~endid exhibition of patriotic spirit harnessed for service. I do not know how many of you that are sitting
here this morning arc in the Four-minute service, but I think many of
you are. I <lon't know how many of yon have taken that little package
of cards and havl' go!ll' from door to door and from store to store and
from office to office, and have :mid l.ilwrty honds, hnt I dare say that
many of you have. I don't know how many of you have just wished,
away down in the hottom of your hearts as J have wished, that your
circumstances were such that you might wear on ynnr sleeve that Red

155

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Triangle and that you might go across to give comfort and consolation
to the boy in the hour of his greatest need, but you have not been able
to do it and you have taken up your burden right here, and when the
call has come you have gone down into your pockets and you have
given ·of your substance for the carrying on of that work. You have
done this and, more than that, I dare say, that many of you have gone
out and you have told the story individually and collectively to many
and have asked that they contribute likewise of their means that the
great work could be carried on. You have been the second line of
defense, away behind the line, away off seven or eight thousand miles,
perhaps, from the actual conflict, but you as Masons and as men have
been doing this wonderful, this beautiful patriotic work that has given
inspiration and encouragement and heartiness to the boys over on the
firing line. And we have seen a new spirit come up in our nation, a
spirit of community service, a spirit of mutual helpfulness, a spirit that,
properly directed after this war is over, will mean much for our country.

llll'rt' will be a great burden laid upon Masonry. No, I will change
111;1!, and say not particularly a burden, but a great privilege and a great
il''i'"nsibility will be laid upon Masonry; because in the last analysis
1111r Masonic brethren arc a choice selection of men-they are the pick
111' t l1l'ir several communities-they arc the men who by virtue of their
11111ral qualities, by virtue of their love of humanity, by virtue of their
t 1ai11ing and education within and without the Masonic Lodge, stand
11111 ahove and beyond the average man of the community. They have
"""11 a vision, and if they have not seen the vision then they have never
f,.·1·11 brought to Masonic light, and in the seeing of that vision they
li11v1· come to realize that they arc concerned with the welfare of their
1111'! liren; and I want to say to you, Brethren, that while I agree with
1111' (~rand Master's statement of this morning that the Masonic fral•·rnity is not organized for social service, I do want to say to you that a
~f;""nic Lodge is not measuring up to the full measure of its oppor1t111ily and responsibility unless in that Lodge it educates its membcr•liip to a large social service. And I want to say to you-and it is with ::
11 "'"'P regret that it has to be saicl-that I clo not believe our Masonic
l.11dg('s in the past have accepted the opporlnnity that has hcen offered
1111·111 for education in this broad direction, and if we do not in the days
111;11 are to come devise ways am! means and adopt plans and methods
wlll'rl'by we may clo this type of work, then we will be derelict in the
d111y we owe to our nation, and we will fall short of the duty we owe to
1111rsdvcs as men and as Masons.

154

And now, Brethren, while we recognize the condition and while
we appreciate the splendid services that our soldiers arc rendering, and
while we appreciate the work that each and everyone is doing in his
individual capacity, and will continue to do until this was is over, is
there not likewise a question that raises itself in your minds as to what
is going to happen when the fight is over and when the boys come
home? Is there not a question that arises in your minds, as has been
hinted at in that masterful address of our Grand Master yesterday, a>
lo what part Masonry is going to play in the day of reconstrnction?
I dare say that this is in your minds, because not one hut many of
you have spoken of it since we came to Grand Lodge, and I am won- ·
ckring whether in that period of reconstruction (a period which T am
satisfied is going to try the souls of men perhaps as the war has not
tried them, a period that will present problems that will be greatc'r problems and problems that will mean more to the life of our nation even
than the problems of the war), Jhings will readjust themselves wit ho~1t
that of which I have spoken, because after the war is over the spirit of
conflict will he gone; after the w;1r is over we will not have an enemy
right in front of us attacking us, hut rather will we have lo fight foes that
are in the dark, foes that will practice insidious program and propaganda
that will far outweigh the propaganda we have had forcod npon us hy
our present enemies.
And arc you going to he satisfied as Masons to go on in just the
same way that yon have gone heretofore? I do not helicvc that there
is a Mason in this Grand Lodge this morning that will he satisfied
after the war is over to drop back to the same kind of staid routine
that characterized the average Masonic Lodge before the conflict hcgan.
And I want to say to you, Brethren, that in the reconstruction period

Now the qtwstion naturally comes up, "What can we do?" and I
l11·lil'vc that it is more a matter of the lack of a method or a program
l i1l l1«r than a disinclination to accept the duty of the hour. And jnst hy
wa.1· of suggestion, I might say that many qucs\ions of pnhlic importance
1111.t public moment arc interesting to Masons. Jn your Masonic Lodges,
tl1r1111gh the instrumentality of a Masonic brother who has informed
lii111sl'lf and who can speak with authority upon a given snhjcct, why not
l1.iv1· him come and tell you Masons, met in a Masonic Lodge, the truth
111 I he reasons or the idea hack of a public movement? Incickntally we
u11· going to vote on some twenty-five or more amendments to our
~talc Constitution next month. Why would it not he a good idc'a for
nny Master of a subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction to have in hi"
I ,11dge not a discussion, hnt an explanation of those amendments, what
1lll'y mean lo the people, why they arc proposed, what condition they
l111t'11d to correct, or what condition they intend to create, so that our
~lasons may go out am! "be thereby more intelligent citizens?
I just
1ilfrr that as one suggestion.
There is another thing, Brethren, that I hclicvc it is time the Ma"'111ic fraternity took a larger interest in. We hclicvc in education.
\\'1· came into our Mason'ic Lodges that we might receive light, Ma·

1156

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

sonic light. We were fitted to receive that type of light that 1s given in
a Masonic Lodge by an elementary education, and I believe that the time
has come when Mason.;, not necessarily Masonic Lodges-because the
Masonic Lodge, our Grand Master has said, is not organized for that
purpose; but the time has come when Masons must interest themselves
more particularly in the elementary education of their children than
heretofore. If I were to ask all the Brethren present this morning to
stand who believed honestly and sincerely in the public school, each and
every one of you would be on your feet in an instant, and you would
say that the public school is the bulwark of the nation-and it is. Btit
if I were to ask you how many of you knew anything about your public
schools, how many of you were acquainted with the principals of the
school to which your children went, how many of you even could
recall the names of the teachers that were daily giving your children
instruction, I dare say that but few of you would be on your feet.
Brethren, I hope that the time will come in this fair land of ours
when it will be absolutely necessary that every child between the age of
six and sixteen must spend at least five hours a day in the public school.
I believe that the time is coming when we should take a stand against
the narrow bigotry of the parochial school and the snobbishness of the
private school. And I want to say to you that it is a fit subject for consideration in a Masonic Lodge, and I want to say to you that it is timtll
the Masons of every subordinate Lodge in this State knew who were
running the public schools in, their towns. And I want to go a little bit
further and I want to say that it is time the Masons of this country
were considering and understanding what is being taught in the public
schools.
Why, do you know that almost from the inception of our government we have been teaching errors in our history? Now, I dare say that
every one of you who was educated in a public school in this country
came through with one great big dominant idea in your mind-I know T
did-and that one idea that was placed in my mind because of the history I had studied was that if there was one people on the face of the
earth that America could "lick" it was England, and if there was one
people on the face of God's earth that was antagonistic to the American
republic it was England; and yet I want to say to you, Brethren, that
no greater fallacy ever existed in any history. And I want to say to
you further than that, that the progress of this o'.d nation of ours
would have been further advanced if there had been a better understanding between these two great English-speaking countries. And it is
only recently, when we have looked into the facts of the case, that we
have come to understand that the aims of the mother country and the
aims of this country have been one and the same thing and that we
stand together on the same p!atform of republicanism or democracy.
Now, how has this error crept in?

A VOICE:

157

The Irish.

MR. VICTOR: Perhaps the Irish. But I do not believe that we
111" going to place the blame this morning upon the Irish altogether,
11•ga nlless of what they may have to do with it, because I want to tell
.1·1111 that the Irish people today just as much misunderstand the great
l•:11glish nation as we ourselves have misunderstood them, and when the
I i111e comes that the light perco'.ates into the brain of the Irish people
1lwv will see that the best friend they ever had was England. But I
11111. not here this morning to laud England particularly. I merely
w;111tcd to bring home a truth, and if we will go back to the time of the
lfrvolution we will find that the true representatives of the English
pt·• 1ple were opposed to the treatment that was accorded the Colonies;
1111d we will find further, that it was a Prussian monarch upon the
throne of England that forced the Colonies to revolt. lf we go just a
lilt le further we will find that it was the hired soldiery of Hesse that
(ought the major part of the fight, so that our war was not a war par1irnlarly against the English people, but a war against a foreign king,
rnling over the English people-a king who was imbued with the same
ickas that the Prussian monarch of today is imbued with, a king· that
would have forced upon us the same kind of rule that the Prussian
111011arch would force upon us today, and I merely cite that so that we
,1i11uld know more about what is being taught and that the public
'"hool should engage more of our thought, more of our attention, more
"f our consideration as men and as Ma sons in the future. And so,
I \rl'thren, we could go on and we could enlarge upon the things that
we might discuss both politically, not in a narrow partisan sense; but
i11 the broader sense of those things that concern intimately the welfare of our people, and we must in our Masonic Lodges lay down some
d1·linite, specific program of education, and I commend to the Commit1t'l' on Education of this Grand Lodge the idea that the Blue Lodges are
1111! so much interested in the musty history of the past or in the musty
1ra<lition of Masonry, or of who lived and who died and who wrought
'"me thousand or two thousand years ago, and that if they will bring
111 the Lodges of this jurisdiction a program that will have for its purp11se a consideration of the men and Masons that arc living today, that
arc existing today, that is important to our welfare, and J might say
illlportant to our life itself, then they will find a response from their
Lodges that they have not had heretofore.
And so, Brethren, we have our work mapped out for us. There is
lllnch on the trestle board to be done, and it seems most fitting that we
,hould just adopt for the future that splendid cry that has come out
from the west front. You know, reganlkss of how the battle has
1'11hed or flowed, regardless of whether victory has been perching on
the banners of our British allies or whether ddeat has been their part,

158

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

there has just been a certain something down in the heart cif the British
Tommy that has found expression in that battle cry of "Carry on,"
"Carry on" through defeat, "Carry on" through victory-"Carry on,"
and so this morning I would say to the Grand Lodge of California, jn
full appreciation of the splendid work that has been done in. the past, in
full appreciation of the magnificent foundation that has been laid, in ·
full appreciation of tbe Lodge and the labors of the splendid men that
have gone before us, in appreciation of our defeats and of our victories,
as we face toward the future, as we look out upon the problems tha.t
confront us, as we realize the burdens that are being laid upon us, I
would say to the Grand Lodge of California, "Carry on, Carry on!"
(During the delivery of the oration the Brethren frequently manifested their approval and pleasure by lively applause, which was noted
by the stenographer. Brother Victor, however, requests that the reporter's transcript be amended by striking out references thereto, and his
desire is reluctantly granted.)
.

On motion the thanks of Grand Lodge were extended
to Brother Victor, and he was requested to furnish the
manuscript of his oration to be printed with the Proceedings of Grand Lodge.

159

Afternoon Session.
Wednesday, October 9th, 1918.
The Grand Lodge was called on at two o'clock, the
I ;rand Master presiding.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS
The Committee on Accounts presented its Annual Re·

p11rt as follows:

/'o !he 1liost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Accounts have the honor to report that purto constitutional requirements, we have met at the office of the
C :rant! Secretary on the last Saturday of each month, and have audited
1111 bills, claims and demands against the Grand Lodge as were placed
111 the hands of the Grand Secretary.
•1111111

EuwARD E. CoNN,
I,~:o BRUCK,

Lieutenant Doull, a veteran of the Australian forces
here on leave because of wounds received in battle, was introduced and talked briefly but entertainingly to Grand
Lodge.
The Grand Secretary presented a letter from a Surety
Company, offering to write surety hands for all Treasurers
and Secretaries of Lodges in the jurisdiction, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.
The Grand Lodge was called off until two o'clock this
afternoon.

FRJm B. \Voon,
)OHN

13. \VU1iR8CHING,
Committee.

Report aclopted.
lrnl'ORT OF COM.MJTTEE ON FRENCH l\lASONRY
Brother Hervey, Chairman of the Committee on French
~ 1asonry, presented the report of that Committee as printed,

but substituting for paragraph 2 of Recommendations, as
found on page 18 of the report, the following:
"That the Grand Lodge of California establish fraternal
al'rnrd and relation with the Grand Orient of France and
t•xchange representatives therewith when assured by the
I ;rand Orient of France that it is not invading the jurisdiction of any regular American Grand Lodge."
Thereupon the report was unanimously adopted.

160

PROCEEDINGS O~' THE

Immediately following this Brother Antoine Leon Aradou, Past Master of La Parfaite Union Lodge N"o. 17, sang
in most beautiful voice the inspiring song of France, the
Marseillaise, accompanied by Brother Mayer on the organ
and Brother William R. Proll with the drum. During the
singing Past Master Adolphe Huguenin appeared bearing
the tri-color of France, and Brother Fulton, Grand Standard
Bearer appeared with the starry flag of our Union, meeting
at the 'altar with the flags of these two cotmtries crossed,
typical of the close union of France and the U ~ited States,
and of the Masonic fraternity of the two countries.
The full text of the report is as follows :
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
At the annual communication of the Grand Lodge in 1917
the following resolutions were unanimously adopted:
·whereas, It is pre-eminently desirable that the "Universality of Masonry" no less than the "Fatherhood of
God and the Brotherhood of Man" shall be something
more than an empty phrase; and
\Vhereas The readjustment of the world's affairs that
will result f:om the conflict now raging will justify, if it
shall not require, a reconsideration of the judgments rendered in the past concerning what were believed to ~e
fundamental differences between Anglo-Saxon and Latin
Masonry; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That a Special Committee of five members
of this Grand Lodge be appointed by the Grand Master
to report at the next annual communication some plan
whereby, if possible, the breach between French and. -:ngloSaxon Masonry may be healed without the sacrifice on
either side of any essential principle or matter of conscience; and, be it further
, .
Resolved, That any inhibition upon the right of v1S1tation heretofore imposed by this Grand Lodge be, and the
same hereby is, modified insofar as it may be necessary to
allow and permit our brethren to hold Masonic intercou;s.c
with the Masons in France, Belgium and Italy, and to v1stt
any of their Lodges.
The Grand Master appointed \Villiam Rhodes Hervey, Bradford "Webster, Charles Albert Adams, George F. Rodden and
George W. Hunter a Special Committee to make the report provided for in the resolutions.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

161

Immediately after entering upon its task the committee was
confronted with grave difficulties arising out of the disturbances
resulting from our present state of war, lack of authentic and detailed information relating to the subject matter, and the widely
variant attitudes assumed by Grand Lodges respecting French
Masonic powers. Because of these difficulties your committee
finds itself unable at this time, notwithstanding its serious and diligent efforts, to comply with the requirements of your resolution.
However, it may be profitable to present a discussion of the subject
and respectfully to recommend a present course of action for the
Grand Lodge of California without presuming in any degree to indicate the attitude which should be assumed by any other body, or
remotely to suggest the propriety of similar action by any other
Grand Lodge of the great family of Anglo-Saxon Masonry.
The work entrusted to your committee is one of vital importance at this time. More than 5,300 members of California Lodges
have enlisted in the military or naval service of our government,
and thousands more, in all probability, will soon join the colors.
Many of these Masons arc already serving in France, and our
brethren will be sent in increasing numbers to that distant land.
California 11asons arc companions in arms with French Masons
who owe allegiance to bodies with which this Grand Lodge has no
fraternal relationship. These men are engaged in the same high
enterprise in behalf of honor and civilization, their brave hearts beat
in unison, they confront the same foe and equal dangers, and the
ashes of lllftl'!Y of them will commingle in the sacred soil of France,
which is being hallowed hy their blood. They are entitled to exchange and enjoy all the royalties and generosities and amenities of
Masonic fellowship and social intercourse unless some insurmountable barrier of conscience lifts between them ..
We are face to face with new and unnsual conditions in the
Masonic world. Our soldier brethren in France are unfamiliar with
the points of difference which separate the Anglo-Saxon Masons
from their French brethren. and they arc entitled to have this vexed
and difiicult question settled or to he advised of the reasons for a
continued separation. The French hodics have made overtures for
recognition. It seems our plain dttty to leave nothing undone that
can consistently he clone to cement more firmly the bonds of universal brotherhood. We desire, in this report. to lay before you
the facts pertinent to this inquiry and to point ont the ohstacles
which must he overcl)llle if French Masonry is to be recognized by
this Grand Lodge. W c regret that this report will be fottnd lacking in definiteness, but authentic information is not always available
and many aspects of the question under consideration are veiled in

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

162

1G3

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

obscurity. We believe the statements herein· contained, gathered
from many sources, to be facts in the case, although we can not, in
every instance, prove their authenticity.

French Masonic Powers
There are three Grand bodies in France exerc1smg authority
over the degrees of Symbolic and Ancient Craft Masonry, to-wit,
the Grand Orient of France, the Grand Lodge of France, and the
Independent and Regular National Grand Lodge of France and the
French Colonies. These three bodies are independent of each other
and exhibit differences in method and principle. It appears that
very little is known about French Masonry by the members of the
Craft, and the fugitive items in the Masonic and secular press on
this subject have not always dealt fairly with our French brethren,
and oftentimes have echoed the complaints and misrepresentations
of the enemies of Latin Masonry. The history of these powers
may be briefly summarized as follows:
(a) The Grand Orient. It is claimed that a Lodge of Masons
was organized at Dunkirk in the early years of the eighteenth century, but we have been unable to verify such facts. It appears that
the first Lodge actually known in France was that established in
Paris in 1732 by Lord Derwentwater. In 1735 certain Lodges at
Paris applied to the Grand Lodge of England for the constitution
of a Provincial Grand Lodge, but the petition was refused for political reasons. The Grand Lodge of England reconsidered its action
and in 1743 granted authority for the organization of a Provincial
Grand Lodge under the name of the Grande Loge J\lnglaise de
France. We have been advised that the constitution of this Grande
Loge was modeled on that of the Anderson Constitutions of 1723.
Soon after the organization of this Grand body differences arose
between the Parisian and Provincial Lodges and there ensued years
of turbulence. In 1755 the Grande Loge declared its independence
of the Grand Lodge of England and changed its name to Grande
Loge de France, and excluded all the Provincial Lodges from its
membership. It seems that this body recognized only the first
three degrees of Masonry. The difficulties between the Parisian
Grand Lodge and the Provincial Lodges seem to have been finally
healed and all the factions of French Craft Masonry were united in
1771, in which year a new constitution was adopted and the Grande
Loge de France was merged into the Grand Orient of France. It
appears, however, that soon a faction arose which repudiated the
merger or change and perpetuated the existence of the Grande
Loge, which engaged in a struggle against the new Grand Orient
until 1779, when the Grande Loge was finally and completely united
with the Grand Orient. In 1804 a second Grand body was organ·

ized, but by treaty was soon after mer d .
Even a cursory inquiry into th .h.
ge mto the Grand Orient.
cient to impress the student \~it~story of ~he Grand Orient is suffinature of the body and th
.
the belligerent and controversial
'
ere is reason to b 1·
h
.
conflicts in the Grand 0 · t
e ieve t at the mternal
nen are probabl
"bl
cnce, at this time of mo
th
.Y respons1 e for the exist.
'
re
an one rulmg bod
f C f
111 France.
yet it must b b
.
.
Yo
ra t Masonry
·
.
e orne m mmd th t
·
schisms m Masonry were th e outstandmg
.
a
even
featu
f · m England
.
tory, and that in 1753 th ere was a d"1viswn
. .
.mt 0 t re G
o itsd early histhe Ancients
and the Mode rns-w h"ic h were notwo
ranuntil
Lodges!
united
1813
t seems that the Grand Orient
.
trol over the "higher" d
f M' at an early date, assumed con.
egrees o
asonry a d
d
.
it entered• into a controversy WI"th th e S upreme
' n we
C rea ·1that
f Fm 1804
an
orgamzation
of
Scottish
R't
M
ounc1
o
ranee
1e
·
.
asons which
h
. '
mated m France in 17
d
h
seems to ave ong60 un er t e name of th R'
and in 1805 agreed upon a treat b
.
e 1te. of Perfection,
pendence of the Su1)reme C y ·1y which the sovereignty and indeounc1 was recogni d
1
a ove the eighteenth , wh"l
1 e th e G rand Ori t ze over a I degrees
b
en was agreed to have
full power over all the d
.
egrees up to and in I d'
h
.
This treaty was not sufficient to rod
c u i~g t e eighteenth.
soon after its ratification renew:d d"u~e ~he desired harmony, and
the violations thereof by th G
d o's t.tr ances began be. cause of
1
.
e ran
nent H
nent has continued for n
th
·
owever, t 1e Grand
.
wre
an a cent 11 th
0
most mfluential Masonic pow er m
. F ranee andry
e d"
strongest and
b d" '
reports. today rules over 465
' accor mg to recent
members.
su or mate Lodges with 35,000
(b) The Grand Lodge of France I
Council of the Thirty-th· d D
· t appears that the Supreme
ir
egree for France
· I
~odge
of
France
in
1804
t
d
.
.
orgamzec the Grand
I
.
o a mm1ster and
t I h
workmg
the first three deg rees o f M asonry alt!con ro
. .
I t e Lodges
1t1es contend that th' G
'
ioug 1 some author1s rand I odge
·
the body that was united t , th Gwas a survival of a faction of
0
· f
e
rand 0 ·
·
7
ori:iation respecting the histor of thi
nent m I 79. Our
time it claims to have been
~ d s Grand Lodge, from the
scure that we can not g·
organd1ze . until recent years, is so ohive any eta1ls of 't
howe.ver, that the Grand Lod e
I s c~reer.. It appears,
remamed a subsidiary
·
g was reorgamzed 111 1894. but
or an mstrumental't
1 0f I S
of France until 1904 wh
· b
Y
tie upreme Council
'
en it ecame a so
·
d ·
body. I ts independence from the G
d v.ere1gn an rndependcnt
1895. From the fact that th G ran 0.nent se~ms to date from
over all degrees under the ei h~ rahnd Orient clauned jurisdiction
possessed jurisdiction over ~h e~nt ' and that the Supreme Council
difficult to understand how the S egrees above the eighteenth, it is
e upreme Counc"l
· d · · · .
over the Craft degrees so that it mi h
. '. game JUnsd1ctwn
Grand Lodge, except upon the h
g t relrnr!U!sh the same to the
t eory that strife continued between

I~

PROCBEDlNGS OF THE

lti4

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

the two great Masonic powers in France, and that. notwithstanding
the treaty they had made, each continued to confer and rule the
first, second and third degrees. Not being able to trace the history
of the relations between these powers, we assume that the independence gained by the Grand Lodge of the Grand Orient in 1895, and
of the Supreme Council in 1904, terminated what must have been a
long quarrel. W c believe that, by reason of violations of the treaty
of 1805, from 1841 both the Grand Orient and the Supreme Council
conferred and ruled Craft degrees, and that the Supreme Council
relinquished control over the degrees of Ancient 'Craft Masonry to
the Grand Lodge in 1904. The Grand Lodge is said to have 136
Lodges, with a membership in excess of 8,500. It is interesting to
note that one of these Lodges. "Anglo-Saxon No. 343," works in
the English language, and that its members are mostly British and
Americans, and we are happy to state that fraternal good will has
existed uninterruptedly between these Grand Bodies since 1904.
The Grand Lodge claims jurisdiction over only the first, second
and third degrees of Masonry.
(c) The Independent and Regular National Grand Lodge of
France and the French Colonies. This Body was founded in
December, 1913, and has been recognized by the Grand Lodges 'of
England, Scotland and other countries. It was organized by three
Lodges which withdrew from the Grand Orient, and it appears that
at the present time the jurisdiction of the new Grand Body extend~
over three or four Lodges, with a membership of less than 200
Masons. This Body claims to be the only regular Grand Lodge in.
France, and we are informed, has modeled itself upon the laws and
principles of the Grand I.ridge of England. l t has been more thaR
once intimated in high places that this is hardly a new ·Grand
Lodge, but rather a sort of colonization in France of new Lodges
under English patronage. It seems to us that this Body may be
considered a negligible quantity nntil a longer life and greater
growth may justify the attention of the Masonic world.

Relations with Grand Orient Severed.
after its organization. the Grancl Lodge of California seems to have recognized or considered itself in fraternal correspondence with the Grand Orient of France, and under date of
May 1, 1852, Prince Lucien Murat, Grand Master of the Grand
Orient of France, addressed the Grand Master of the Grand Lodge
of California, announcing his election and extending fraternal greetings, and stating the desire for co-operation and future existence of
firm and friendly relationships, which letter was answered in a corresponding fraternal spirit by Grand Master Charles M. Radcli~f.
In 1858 Grand Master N. Greene Curtis received an invitation from '
the Grand Orient of France to send three members to that Grand
V~ry early

'll~;•dyGin order that more intimate relations might be established.
it·
rand Lodge of California approved of the plan to est bl' 1
J><'rmanent inter I
f
a 1s 1
.
c lange o representatives. In 1859 the I .
d
I .rand Secretar Al
G Ab ll
earne
11f the Grand o~i tc\
e ' rep?rted the receipt of the bulletins
I l1t• Grand Lod en 't~ ranee! at~d its calendars, and also furnished
1.1)(1 re L Cl ge w1 a. t.ra~s at10~ of a letter from the Master of
.
~
a .emente Amitie m Pans. Our report for 1861 shows
; '.'11tmued friendly correspondence between the Grand Orient o~
'ranee and the Grand Lodge of California.

F

lish ~i 1856 the Fo~lhou.ze-Cerrieau Supreme Council of the Scot.
te was orgamzed in Louisiana. Two of the sub d' t
f
I hl' Grand Lodge f L
· .
.
or ma es o
.
o
OU1s1ana withdrew and joined the illegal
d
NJ>nnous Supreme Council. The Grand Or' t f v
an
.
· ·
ten o L' ranee refused
''.'<'ogmtt~n to the Foulhouze-Cerneau Council and denounced the
NI '.1'.nedas01~regular and clandestine, but ten years later in 1868 the
1
·
'
of the' true condi.• an
. nent
.
. of France
. . , un d ou 1Jte di Y ignorant
l 11111s ex1st111g Ill LoU1s1ana and misled by its zeal in behalf of
'd
l11il'rance and libert of
.
a w1 e
.
.
y
conscience, accorded recognition to the
Npnnous Counc1l, whereupon the Grand Lodge of L ..
I raternal relations with the Grand Orient after
tout1.sian.a sev~red
pro es mg its action
.
,
I 11 or d er to give
emphasis to its 0 J • t'
·
·
·
·
.
J)ec 10n to the invasion of 't
;11rrsd1ct10n, the Grand Lodge of Louisiana presented its g .
I s
'".~he other Grand Lodges of the United States, and in a sh~1:tv;i~~:
1
: )''.'. ~Y t G;a;~d Loclges severed fraternal relations with the Grand
.11e1~ o •ranee. In 1869 the Grand Lodge of California
'>I this hostile and unlawful action of the Gran cl Orient of ~,ecau,se
s11.~.pended all Masonic intercourse therewith. Jn 1872 ti Grancel,
I lnent of Fran
h ·1
'll
.
le ranc
r ti . h
ce, w I e st1 persisting in its unwarranted invasion
'1' I1e ng t: o.f the. Grand Lodge of Louisiana, addressed the Grand
:"< ge of Cahfor111a, expressing a desire to renew fraternal rela
I 1< •ns and to submit a report concerning ti • I' ff'
I
.
I 'rand L ]
f T • ·
le < 1 1cu ty with the
'
oc g~ o . ,oUJs1ana . declaring that the Grand Orient c I I
11
11 t change its conclusions. hut hoping that the ,
.
Gou <
I I
· h
.
"mencan rand
.11c ges mtg t reconsider their decrees of intcrd1' t'
Tl
.
.. d ·
c
ion.
.
le
spun:',"s an irregu 1ar Supreme Council, which was the original cat;se of
I ic I severa~cel of fraternal relations between the American G.rand
·''.< ges an tie Grand Orient of France, has long since , I
t'< 1st and upon it d
·
h
.
.
ceasec to
. . ·' .
. . . s . em1se t e v1olat10n by the Grand Orient of th ,
ll'n 1tonal ;unsd1ct1on of the Grand I odge of T · .
e
That th G
d L cl
·
,ou1s1ana ended
·1 ,.• i
e ran
o g~ of Louisiana at this time has no grievanc~
l1~at~:\:~\e tl~:tnd ~r~ent of SF ranee is emphatically demonstrated
.
on e ruary •. 1918, the Grand Lodge of Louisiana
by an unan11110us vote repealed its ed1'cts 0 f
.
. . .
I G
·
'
non-111tercnurse with
t IC
~and Orient of France and arranged for an exchange of repre
sentattvcs.
-

166

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Reasons for Continuance of Breach with Grand Orient.
If the only differences between the Grand Orient of France and
the Grand Lodge of California were those growing out of the inva-·
sion of the territorial jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Louisiana,
then there would be no obstai;les in the way of immediate establishment of full fraternal relations with the Grand Orient of France.
It appears, however, that after the dissolution of relations in 1869,
certain changes were made in the Constitution of the Grand Orient
of France which are now the subject of controversy. For several
years the Grand Orient discussed the proposition of striking all
reference to the Deity from the rituals and the Constitution. In
1877 the Grand Orient, after a year of serious deliberation, by a vote
of 135 to 76 Lodges, resolved to make the change in the Constitution.
It seems that prior to 1849 the Constitution and rituals of the Grand
Orient were essentially the same as they stand today. In 1849,
probably because of growing closeness of political relations with
Great Britain, the Grand Orient amended its laws and practices so
as to more nearly conform to those of the Grand Lodge of England.
\Ve understand that, following the English model, the Grand Orient
adopted the following rule in 1849:
. "Freemasonry has for its principles the existence of God, the
immortality of the soul, and the solidarity of mankind."
In 1877 this provision of the Constitution was repealed, and in
lieu thereof the following was substituted:
"Whereas, Freemasonry is not a religion, and has, therefore, no
doctrine or dogma to affirm its constitution, the Assembly adopting
the Vaeu IX., has decided and decreed that the second paragraph
of Article I of the Constitution shall be erased and that for the
words of said article the following shall be substituted:
"'Freemasonry, an essentially philanthropical and progressive
institution, has for its object the pursuit of truth, the study of morality, and the practice of solidarity; its efforts are directed to the
material and moral improvement and the intellectual and social
advancement of humanity. It has for its principles, mutual tolerance, respect for others and for one's self. and absolute liberty of
conscience. Considering metaphysical conceptions as belonging
exclusively to the individual judgment of its members, it refuses to
accept any dogmatic affirmation. I ts motto is: Liberty, Equality,
Fraternity.' "
Upon making this change in the Constitution, the Grand Lodges
in English-speaking countries then in fraternal relations with the
Grand Orient, dissolved the same, and many of the Grand Lodges
in the United States, although having already severed relations
because of the Louisiana incident, protested the action of the Grancl
Orient. The attitude taken is not easily understood when we
remember that many protesting Grand Lodges held fraternal rela.
tions with the Grand Orient prior to 1849. and that the announced

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

167

princ!ples of the Grand Orient subsequent to 1877 w
. II
ull'nt:cal with those avowed in the years preceding 18~~e p;~ct1ca y
plausible explanation is that the Grand 0 . t
.
.
e ~?st
, ft • th
· I ·
. .
rien was under susp1c1on
.1 . er
e
atton of the Jurisdiction of Louisiana and th t .
d
111 <ktccordmg full faith and credit to its actions other Gra:d i~stde'a
1'"' ·ed askance up
II · d ·
'
o ies
l'r.
on a its omgs. It is needless to add that our
t nch brethren made the most sincere explanations of their
t'
:'.;::Ine~.ere astonished and grieved at the fraternal discordact~~~

:10

The Grand Orient explained that by its action in 1877 it
1
rl'verted to the Anderson Constitutions of 1723 which
mere y
where
re cogmze
· d as t h e common law of Masonr'
..
Th are every.
lullons appear under the title "Th Ch
f y. , ese Const1B
e
arges o a l· reemason" 111
1111r Jue Book, at page 342. Article I reads as follows:

Concerning God and Religion.
"A Mason is obliged b h.
if he rightly understands tl;e ~~t th1~u~e. to o~ey the mora! law, ~nd
uor an irreligious libertine But th 11 \1 n.e•er ~e a s~up1d atheist,
W«re charged in e
·
'
oug 111 ancient tunes Masons
"" nation, whatev~~r1t c~~~ti'etto.tb~ of )he religion of that country,
only to o?lige them to that' religi~nl~ noh. v:o~lght more expedi~nt
thl'1r particular opinions to themselv~~·~h1~ . a m~n agree, leavmg
I rnc, or men of Honour and H
t 'b a is.. to e good men and
or Persuasions they may be d~~i~ Y., 1Yd';haiever. Denominations
i·• imes the centre of union and the n:Suls le ' w i~r~b:y Masonry beea~~ of ~onc11tat11;g true friend' hip among persons that must h
P<'tual distance."
ave 0 erwise remamcd at a per. The Grand I:odge of England adhered to these Constitutions

~111lll 1815, when it changed the Article by inserting the word God
;'.1 a dnurnber of. places, b1~t these changes were not ado;Jted by the

Il

The Grand 0 . t h
'
nen
owever
E '
:;~~~.Ill 1815. and then in 1877 reverted hack to the original ~si~n!f
•ran
I' 1 ·

' "

Lodges
1

the United States

·

I~ 849 make changes to correspond with those mad~ b

zhe French Masons have heen roundly denounced and abused
.'.Y. ran.cl .Lod~cs ~nd Ecclesiastical Powers as godless and atheJ;;ftc. It is 11!11111'.natmg to examine their views of the charge.
The. C.omm1ttee urging the adoption of the
111ent said m 1877:
proposed amendI

"_\Vho is not aware, at this tnoment that in advocatit

I·

~·i~~;~solCtAntol ~ne a_mnlng us n_nd,erstands 'himself as makin~: ll~~osf1~~=
·
1e1sm aru matertaltsm T11
1
1·
;11i~11~d~{stand/ng 1;nust t!isappea~ fron;ec~t~;c n;:;H~susa1\1~ttttrinev;~~

l

1r1':n~ kn~%e ·1011 < remm11.an.y dottbt in reference t'o this point let
_,.
t rnt the ~omtmss1011 declares without reservation that
1'}. acceumg
to t 11e wish of I ml,• N 9 ·
l
nhject than the proclamation, o rg:hsoYu· td l11~l)estr'tts ief·fore it. no o~,her
•
Y o conscience.

168

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Brother Frederic Desmons, a Protestant minister of reputation
and high character, who was nine times President of the Grand
Orient of France, strenuously urged the adoption of the amendment, and later said:
"In suppressing the formula respecting the G. A. of the U. we
did not mean to replace it by a materialistic formula. None among
us in proposing this suppression, thought of professing atheism or
materialism, and we declare formally and emphatically that we had
no other end in view than to proclaim absolute liberty of conscience."
Brother Maricault, the reporter of the committee on amendment of the law, in recommending a postponement in 1876 of the
question, made the following statement:
"Your Commission has recognized that bad faith alone could
interpret the suppression demanded as a denial of the existence of
God and the immortality of the soul; human solidarity and freedom
of conscience, which would be henceforth the exclusive basis of
Freemasonry, imply quite as strongly belief in God and in an immortal soul as they do materialism, positivism, or any other philosophic doctrine."
By "solidarity" Brother Maricault and his brethren mean
"brotherhood of man.''
The Grand Secretary of the Grand Orient wrote to an English
brother as follows:
"The Grand Orient of France has not abolished the Masonic
formula, 'To the glory of the Great Architect of the Universe,' as
you appear to believe, still less have they made profession of Atheism. ln their general assembly of September, 1877, they purely
and simply proclaimed absolute liberty of conscience as a right
belonging to every man, and out of respect for this liberty they
expunged from their Constitution a dogmatic formula, whicll seemed
to a great majority of the members to be in contradiction with liberty of conscience.
"In modifying an article of its statutes the Grand Orient of
France by no means intended to make profession of either Atheism
or materialism, as would seem to be understood. No alteration has
been made either in the principles or the practice of Masonry;
French Masonry remains what it has always been-a fraternal and
tolerant brotherhood."
We are informed that French Masons contend that prior to
1877 the Book of Constitutions had lain upon the altars, and that it
was interpreted as the "Book of the Law" or "Volume of Sacred
Law." In some quarters we find the claim made that the Bible was
taken from the altars of French Lodges because of the attacks of
the Catholic Church on Masonry in that Republic, and that because
the Bible was used on the altars of the Church Masonry could not
place it upon its altars and remain consistent in its defense of the
rights of conscience. It appears that no change of practice with
reference to the Bible has been made by the Grand Orient for

GRAND LODGE OJ<' CALIFORNIA

llt'urly a hundred years.
·I
· ·

We understand that the G

169
ran

d O ·
·
nent is

111•11 .''.:r de1st1cal. nor atheisti.cal, but tolerates the widest liberty of

'""" 1cnce and is not sectanan or dogmatic in matters of religion·
that. both the Grand Orient and the Grand Lodge open and
1·~ 11 M(" their ~odges and obligate their candidates "to the glory of the
I •l'«at Architect of the Universe."
111111

No Breach with Grand Lodge of France.
1
•

'l'h. Grand Lodge of California has never entered into fraternal
1·rl11tions wit~ the Grand Lodge of France, and thus far we have
hnd no occasion to protest its principles or practices. The Grand
11
L di.re of Franc~ 7tands before us today seeking our fraternal recog''.1.1 io1~.
It. ex~1bits the principles of the Ancient and Accepted
s.111111 t t ish ~1te m m~tters of religion, recognizes the existence of
•.•I'. requ1res t~e. Bo?k of the Law" upon its altars, prohibits
I rhi.nons and political discussions, and exercises jurisdiction of on!
flu· l~tre.e ~e~rees of Symbolic Masonry. It recognizes the concu:n·111 JLmsd1ct1on of the Grand Orient in its territory.
The Spirit of French Masonry.
, Your committee are satisfied that the brethren of the Grand
1
>nrnt. and .t~e Grand Lodge of France are actuated by a splendid
Masomc spin~, a.nd exemplify in an honorable and ttnmistakable
1111rn11n the principles of brotherly love, relief and truth. vVe think
I h...111ost. recent. communications received by us from these two
11
ll dtes will ~ully Justify our opinion. In these times. which are partlrnlarly trymg to the sottls of the men of France. when their peo i
1111~'.': been ~urdened and decimated by a dreadful war, and af~e;
1~1 1 ll Masonic powers have been scorned and repudiated by AngloS11~:•n Masonry, the two great French powers have taken the oppor1111:'.ly .to a~dress com~rnnications to the Grand Lodge of California
1' .tt lnng 111 every !me the aroma of friendship and fraternity
I li1·se letters are as follows:
·

!'.

GRAND LOGE De FRANCE
Hu« Puteaux 8
l'aris
1 ·1 )NSEIL FEDERAL
,.
.
0: de Paris. July 20, 1917 (E. V.)
I lt 1• <,rand Sec,retary, The Grand Lodge of California
Masomc Temple, San Francisco.
'
l>t•ar Sir and Very Worshipful Brother:
.. :n1.e landii:g in our country of the vanguard of •ottr arm
~.'i'~r1 , 1 ~ crdssmg/he ocean t9 unite with us in the griat struggf~
I
. ~ ree on.1 o. the world, is an event of momentous im ort It
IU~ .iro~sed. w1t.h1n. us the thought that it is highly desirable that
1111r ancient mstttut10n, which has always stood for liberty, should
0

170

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

celebrate this manifestation of brotherhood by drawing together of
the bonds of fraternal esteem and affection, which unite Freemasons all over the world.
With this thought in our minds. we are writing to extend to.
your Grand Lodge an invitation to enter into official relations with
us and to cement those relations by an exchange of representatives.
The Grand Lodge of France was constituted in 1804 by the
Supreme Council 33rd for France and the French Colonies, to administer and control the Lodges working the three degrees of Craft
Masonry. In 1904, as a result of friendly negotiations with the
Supreme Council, became a sovereign and independent body.
As an integral part of the A. & A. S. R., our Masonic principles
are those common to the Rite in general as set forth in the declarations of the convents of Lausanne of 1875. VVe have 136 Lodges,
working under our jurisdiction, among them one-the Anglo-Saxon
343-which works in English, and the members of which are almost
exclusively British and American.
.
In the hope that you will agree with us that sµch a union as we
propose will appear all the more in harmony with the ideals of our
Order, if realized in the hour when the brethren of our two countries are shedding their life-blood in common for the triumph of
justice and civilization, we are,
Yours faithfully and fraternally,
LE GR. MAITRE, General Peigne.
LE GR. ORA.TUER,
LE GR. SECRET. GENERAL,
LE GR. TRESORIER.

\Ve therefore ask you to kindly inform the brethren of your
Worshipful Lodge and their relatives that in applying to us they
will always find us ready to he of use to them, and happy to render
I hl'm any service within the measure of our means and capabilities.
Please communicate this letter to the different Lodges under
I ht· jurisdiction of your Grand Lodge.
\Ve are, worshipful sir and brethren, yours most fraternally and
•i11ecrely, for and on behalf of theM.\SONIC BUREAU FOR ALLIED ARl11ES IN FRANCE.
(Signed)
W. M. A. BESNARD,
F. D. P. 16, Rue Cadet, Paris.

16, Rue Cadet, Paris, October 12, 1917.
Worshipful Sir and Brethren: The world-wide conflict for the
liberation of oppressed nations and for the triumph of the principles
of justice and liberty in which a good many allied countries now
take an effective part, has assembled on French soil most of the
glorious armies fighting for right, who are now to be joined by an
imposing contingent of your noble country.
In the first rank of these gallant troops. their arm strengthened
by their ideal, we are sure to find, more numerous every day, Freemasons of the United States of America. and we have thought of
offering them, as sqon as they arrive in the French capital, a warm.
fraternal welcome becoming amongst brother Masons.
Under the auspices of the Grand Orient of France our wo.rshipful "La Fraternite des Peuples" has formed a reception at the
Temple of the Grand Orient, 16, Rue Cadet, a real Masonic home.
Here your brethren will always find devoted Masons, speaking
their language, ready to answer all inquiries and furnish any u.seful
information they may require; to assure them a fraternal help m all
circumstances, to keep in touch hy corresponding with them: to
visit them in case they are ill or wounded, to serve as intermediary
between them and their relatives, etc.
The usefulness of this central bureau will at once he apparent
to you. not only for our brethren who are in the army, but also to
those near and dear to them and who in their thoughts will follow
them across the Atlantic. and who will know that they are not left
to themselves and abandoned amongst the dangers of every-day
life, but that a fraternal and helping hand is always extended to
them in case of need.

171

Territorial Jurisdiction.
/\II the Grand Lodges in English-speaking countries tenaciously
ntlhere to the principle that each Grand Lodge is sovereign and
1'11prcme throughout its territorial jurisdiction, and that an invasion
uf the territorial jurisdiction of any Grand Lodge by another
Masonic Power is an act of hostility and operates to place the
llH11rper outside the pale of fraternal recognition and brands it .as
1111 outlaw. This is a salutary doctrine, and in English-speaking
t·111111tries at least should be vindicated and perpetuated. In the
r .al in countries the doctrine of exclusive territorial jurisdiction
1loes not obtain, but in those countries each Grand Body is sover1•i).(n and supreme, not throughout the territory it occupies, but
ovl·r its subordinate Lodges and their members. This explains why
lhc Grand Orient of France and the Grand Lodge of France, occupying the same territory, are in fraternal and friendly relations
t'al'h with the other. It does not seem necessary to the integrity
1111<1 maintenance of our doctrine of exclusive territorial jurisdiction
that we shall force the same upon our brethren of the Latin countries of the world who prefer to give their adherence to a different
doctrine, which suits them better and under which they seem to
live together in Masonic peace and fraternal concord.
The California Policy Respecting Recognition.
In 1913 the Grand Lodge of California adopted a certain report
and recommendation made by the late M. W. Edward H. Hart,
( 'hairman of the Committee on Correspondence, and thereby fixed
the tests to he applied by the Grand Lodge of California in the
111atter of recognition of other Grand Lodges. These tests are as
follows:
.
First, the Gra_nd Body seeking recognition must he regularly
lnrmed by subordmate Lodges which trace their origin to regular
a11d legitimate l\ncient Craft Masonry.
Secondly, the Grand Body applying- for recognition must hold
1111disputed sway as the acknowledged Supr('me Power in Ancient
('raft Masonry in the territory in which it claims jurisdiction, and
must not render allegiance or obedience, in any sense whatsoever
lo any other Masonic Power, or Supreme Council, hut must be abso-

172

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGJ'.l 01:<' Cl.ALIFORNIA

lutely sovereign and supreme within its territory. As a necessary
cor:<?llary of this condition, it must recognize the exclusive jurisdict10n of all other Grand Lodges in their respective territories, and
shall not presume to project its authority or sovereignty into the
territory of any other Grand Lodge.
Thirdly, the Grand Body applying for recognition as a sovereign Grand Lodge of Ancient Craft Masonry must confine its
authority, and the exercise thereof, to the three degrees of Craft 01
Symbolic Masonry.
Fourthly, the Grand Body applying for recognition must recognize and support the Ancient Landmarks, which include, particularly, the Three Great Lights, and belief in God, and the Immortality of the Soul.

IU1ode Island, Iowa, Kentucky, District of Columbia, New Jersey,
Nl'l'ada and Texas.
The following Grand Lodges, in addition to California, have
1•1111t·ted laws permitting their members to visit the Lodges and hold
frn11·rnal relations with the members of the obedience of the Grand
1 liit·nt and the Grand Lodge of France: Alabama, New York, New
Jns<'y, Utah, Indiana, Georgia, Florida, Manitoba, Colorado and
Nrvada.

An application of the foregoing rules promulgated hy the
Grand Lodge of California to the Grand Orient and the Supreme
Council of France shows that no recognition can be given to these
Bodies without a change of the policy of this Grand Lodge. The
Grand Orient is regular in its origin, but its sway as a Supreme
Power is acknowledged only by the Lodges of its obedience, and in
its territory it has concurrent jurisdiction with the Grand Lodge of
France. It does not appear to be invading the jurisdiction of any
regular Grand Lodge, and does not expressly and in terms profess
a belief in God and the immortality of the soul. The Grand Lodge
of France more nearly meets these requirements than does the
Grand Orient, for, as heretofore stated, the Grand Lodge confines
its jurisdiction to the three degrees of Symbolic Masonry and it
exhibits the Three Great Lights and obligates its candidates and
opens and closes its Lodges with appeals to the Great Architect of
the Universe, and requires the "Book oi the Law" upon its altars,
but it may trace its origin to a Supreme Council having jurisdiction
over many degrees instead of to Ancient Craft Masonry.

Precedents of Today,
Since the great war came to America, many Grand Lodges of
the United States have been seriously and earnestly considering
the matter of fraternal relations with the French Bodies. At the
time of formulating this report several Grand Lodges have not held
their annual communications for I 918, but the action taken by some
of the Grand Lodges during this year is significant of the widespread desire for harmonious relations with France. and is indica·
tive of ultimate concord between the Grand Lodges of France and
those of the United States.
The following Grand Lodges have resumed fraternal relations
with the Grand Orient of France: Louisiana, Rhode Tsland, Iowa,
Kentucky, New Jersey, Texas.
The following Grand Lodges have recognized and entered into
fraternal relations with the Grand Lodge of France: Louisiana,

173

Argument.
Notwithstanding the attitude assumed at different times in the
i'il'I hy the Grand Lodge of California with respect to the recogqillun of Grand Bodies of Masonry in Latin countries, the time has
1111w arrived when there must be a new examination of the question
111111 a revision of former judgments. Our past judgments correctly
n•flccted our best thought, but now a new spirit broods over the
world and the conditions growing out of the great war compel us to
rhange some of our rules and earlier determinations. The time has
Ol'rived when our brethren demand that the reality of universal
hrotherhood be substituted for empty words, phrases and expres"ions; that we be neither confused nor misled by catch words for
which we have developed an almost superstitious reverence. Now
IM a time for our Institution to show a broad catholicity of spirit
nnd not to reject any Masonic Power which holds sway over the
nffections of men and engages the attention of the world, if that
l'ower displays the principles of brotherly love, relief and truth, and
111 working for the benefit and happiness of humanity, and bases
Itself upon the .eternal and immutable principles of Freemasonry.
Masonic scholars and jurists are divided in their opinion
r<>specting the recognition of French Masonry. The members of
11ne group contend that there can be no recognition of these Powers
lwcause: (a) they are not sovereign and supreme within their territory; (b) that the Lodges of the obedience of the Grand Lodge
of France do not trace their origin to regnlar Ancient Craft
Masonry; (c) that the Grand Orient exercises power over degrees
other than the first three degrees of Symbolic Masonry; (d) that
I he Book of Constitutions, instead of the lloly nib le, is found upon
the altars of the Lodges: (e) that a belief in God and the immortality of the soul is a landmark and is fundamental in Masonry.
This group contends that when a Mason ceases to express a belief
in Deity, he ceases to be a Mason. It also asserts that an open
Bihle is an indispensable part of the furniture of a Lodge, and that
I hese rec1uireme11ts are immovahl<' landmarks. \Ve know that until
rccently most of the Grand Lodges in English-speaking countries
were to he found espousing these principles, am! they were sup-

175

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ported by innumerable determinations, precedents, statutory enactments and utterances of the sages of the Craft.
However, there is a second group, which is constantly growing
in size and importance, which has made new evaluations and formed
new conclusions since the war has thrust this subject into prominence and caused a demand for a better and wiser solution. Your
Committee feels that it is in harmony with the thought and spirit of
this second group. The requirement that Lodges must derive me'diately or immediately from regular organizations of Ancient Craft
Masonry does not find universal adherence among Grand Bodies.
The application of the doctrine would serve to arrest the growth
and development of Masonry in many parts of the world, and
might forever destroy the possibility of universal Masonry. No
harm could be done by adopting the principle of recognizing, in
countries where no Symbolic Grand Lodge exists, the Lodges and
members of a legitimate and regular Supreme Council. If we deny
the legitimacy of Lodges originally founded under the Supreme
Council or Grand Orient system, then a large part of the territory
of the world must, perforce, remain unrecognized, and we could
have no relations with the Masons of South America, France, Italy,
Greece, Spain, Belgium and other countries, in all of which lands
are Supreme Councils recognized by the two Supreme Councils of
the United States. It seems to your Committee that a just rule to
apply to the Masonry of Latin countries would be to recognize
Lodges and Masons of any country where no Grand Lodge of Symbolic Masonry exists, provided such Lodges and members are of the
obedience of a jurisdiction recognized by the Supreme Council of
that country, and such Supreme Council is affiliated with the
Supreme Council of the Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite of
Freemasonry for the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States.
With respect to the acceptance on the part of Grand Bodies in
Latin countries of the principle of concurrent jurisdiction, we do
not see why the Grand Lodge of California can not tolerate the selfdetermination of this subject by such Bodies. It is true that the
Grand Orient and Grand Lodge of France have not at all times, nor
do they now in all respects, comport themselves in accordance with
the standards which we have set for the regulation of our principles
and practices, but we have no more right to demand that they
accept the principle of exclusive territorial jurisdiction than they
have to demand that we accept the principle of concurrent Grand
Lodge jurisdiction. Our Latin brethren seem to live in fraternal
concord under the rule they have seen fit to adopt, and we are per·
suaded that the Grand Orient of France and the Grand Lodge of
France, notwithstanding their adoption of this jurisdictional peculiarity. are not weakened in their Masonic powers, and they are

doing a great Masonic work in behalf of the distressed, of the
brotherhood of man, of the welfare of humanity and of the advance
of civilization.
On the subject of the exercise of authority over degrees of
Masonry other than the first three, we merely direct your attention
to the fa<;t that the Grand Orient of France, prior to 1877, ruled
more than three degrees of Masonry, that it placed the Book of
Constitutions, instead of the Bible, upon its altars, and operated
under the same form of government as that in force at the present
time, and yet, for generations prior to that date, it enjoyed the recognition of and held fraternal relations with the mother Grand
Lodge of the world-the United Grand Lodge of England.
Religious dogmatism was not introduced into Masonry until
1760, when the Holy Bible was, on motion of Preston, made a landmark, and as dear as this alleged landmark is to the hearts of
American Masons, we can not thrust outside the pale of brotherhood good men and true who have not followed this innovation in
the body of Masonry. The form and nature of our rituals as the
same have developed through the years have· operated to fix in the
minds of English-speaking Masons the belief that Masonry is a
religious institution, and that the Bible is a necessary part of the
furniture of a Masonic Lodge, yet the ritual itself is not fundamental, and "its biblical nature is largely due to the chance that
made its chief compilers a French Huguenot and a Scotch Presbyterian. . . . This holy and apparently indispensable book is quite
unnecessary for the validity of a Lodge which is neither Christian
nor Jew." If there has been a departure from the Ancient Constitutions, we, and not our French brethren, have drawn away "from
them and asserted a dogmatic landmark.
When we arrive at the ultimate and basic cause of the estrangement of the Anglo-Saxon Masonry and the French Masonry, we
find it to consist in the religious test applied by the English-speaking Lodges and renounced by the French Lodges. The Grand
Master of Louisiana, in addressing the Grand Lodge in 1918, said:
"I submit, my brethren, that in the misconception of the position of our French brethren regarding their interpretation of
Masonic philosophy, English-speaking Masonry is clearly in the
wrong, and we, as Masons, should be ready to admit it. While
French Masonry is religiously tolerant, it is not in itself a religion
in the restrictive sense of the word. It proclaims no dogma; it
demands no profession; it respects all opinions, and in that tolerance is an exemplar of that true religion which is the basis of
Freemasonry-the brotherhood of mankind, which leads us through
love of our fellow men-a spark of His own divinity-to the love,
honor and glory of the Great Architect of the Universe."
It is held by many of our best thinkers that no man's creed or
religious observances should be made an issue in any matter indirectly connected with religion; that Freemasonry is not a religion

174

176

177

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and, therefore, a religious test should not be applied to it, and that
while it is perfectly competent for any Masonic Body to require
such confession of faith from its own members as it deems expedient, yet it should not refuse the name of brother to those who act
on truly Masonic principles, but do not demand any confession of
religious faith as a condition of membership.
It is not possible for us, as deeply attached as we are to our
rituals, forms and professions, to affirm with any surety the attitude that we would take on the subject of religion, if we were
unhappily situated in a Catholic country, in the midst of an antagonistic population and subject to the vicious and continuous attacks
of powerful ecclesiastical and illiberal influences. Our brethren in
France suffer from slanderous reports and accusations and are the
objects of hatred and persecution. They should have our sympathy
and we should strive to view with brotherly concern the measure~
they have in good faith adopted. Because references to the Deity
have been stricken from the French Constitutions and the Bible
does not lie upon French altars. your Committee has no more right
to pronounce French Masonry godless and atheistic than it has to
assert that the people of the United States arc godless and atheistic
because there is no reference to the Deity in their Constitution, or
that the schools of our country are atheistic because the Bible is
not taught therein. We are not disposed to reverence the religious
sentiments nor admire the Christian kindness of the German militarists, no matter how loudly and frequently they call upon God;
but, on the other hand, we believe in the charity and tolerance and
brotherly love and love of liberty of our valorous French brethren,
who have omitted the name but not the service of God from their
rituals and Constitutions, and who are fighting for the very essence
of Freemasonry. Nob le Frarice is in the very forefront of the great
fight for humanity and is aiding in no uncertain or impotent way
the great cause of Masonic brotherhood and the universality of
Freemasonry. We are very hopeful that our French brethren, having been brought into new and intimate relations with their American brethren, will in the near future, out of a new-born love for
us, and inspired by a fraternal desire for a closer spiritual union,
alter their Constitutions and rituals to more nearly conform to those
which bind in fraternal bonds the hearts of more than a million
American Masons.
Conclusions.
It is the belief of your Committee that the Grand Lodge of California should retain the policy it adopted in 1913, hereinbefore set
out, as the test to be applied to any Grand Lodge of an Englishspeaking country seeking our recognition, but that such test should
not hereafter be the measure applied to Grand Lodges situated in
the Latin countries of the world. That each application for recog-

nition made by a Grand Lodge or Grand Orient located overseas or
in South America should be considered by this Grand Lodge on its
merits, and that if it appears that such Grand Body exercises authority over the three degrees of Symbolic Masonry, and is recognized
as a sovereign power over its Lodges and members, and exhibits
its adherence to the principles of protherly love, relief and truth,
and is engaged in the promotion of the happiness of mankind and
the brotherhood of man, then, unless objections of a character other
than dogmatic appear, such Grand Body should be entitled to recognition. We believe that the Grand Lodge of California should labor
unceasingly in behalf of the universality of Masonry and should
strive to promote fraternal relations between all the legitimate
powers of Masonry in the world, and to this end should examine
into the regularity and Masonic character of the Grand Bodies with
which it is not now in fraternal correspondence.

0

Recommendations.
Your Committee respectfully recommends the adoption of the
following:
I. That the action taken by this Grand Lodge in 1869, by
which fraternal relations with the Grand Orient of France were
severed and forbidden, be, and is hereby repealed.
2. That the Grand Lodge of California is hereby declared to
be in fraternal accord and relation with the Grand Orient of France,
and that an exchange of representatives be requested of said Grand
Orient. (Not adopted-See next paragraph.)
2. That the Grand Lodge of California establish fraternal accord
and relation with the Grand Orient of France and exchange representatives therewith when assured by the Grand Orient of France that it is
not invading the jurisdiction of any regular American Grand Lodge.
(Adopted.)
3. That the Grand Lodge of California is hereby declared to
he in fraternal accord and relation with the Grand Lodge of France,
and that an exchange of representatives he requested of that Grand
Lodge.
4. That the principles enunciated by this Grand Lodge in 191.3
as tests for the recognition of other Grand Lodges, be, and the same
are applicable only to Grand Lodges of English-speaking countries.
and that as to the Grand Lodges and Grand Orients of other countries, each application be considered upon its merits with relation
to the situation of the applicant and with a view to doing full and
complete Masonic justice.
5. That the permission granted by resolution in 1917 to our
brethren to hold Masonic intercourse with the Masons in Belgium
and Italy and to visit any of their Lodges, be continued until the
further order of this Grand Lodge.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Since compiling the foregoing report, a letter has been received from the President of the Grand Orient of France in response to inquiries recently made of him, and although this latest
communication does not add to our stock of information, yet it
conveys a message that will be heartening to all of us. A translation of the letter is as follows:

The b~lief in God is not with us a mandatory obligation. For
that reason we have been charged with harboring sentiments which
are not true: for example, we have been accused of being absolutely
atheistic, which is the gravest of errors. To disprove this unwarranted accusation, we can only quote to you the second paragraph of Article First of the Constitution, which says:
"Free Masonry has for its fundamental principle mutual tolerance, the respect of others and of one's self, and the absolute
freedom of conscience."
The Grand Orient of France is neither deist, nor atheist, nor
positivist; it respects all philosophical conceptions, proclaims the
absolute freedom of conscience, but that cannot be construed as
its exclusion of a belief in God from its Lodges; on the contrary,
it leaves to each and every one the free exercise of believing in
God or not, so as to respect in the broadest possible manner the
convictions, doctrines and beliefs of everyone.
We consider that this standpoint is not contrary to the traditions of the Order.
Besides, the Grand Orient of France, whose Constitution hears
the date of 1736, has such an ancient birthright that, in our belief,
it should assure it a place within the Masonic world.
We send you herewith a booklet, "The Masonic Tenets of the
Grand Orient of France," which will explain to you who we are and
what we stand for.
We are most willing to aecept your Grand Lodges as now operating; we deem that we have no jurisdiction, nor criticism to
make concerning the inner workings of your Lodges, which is your
own and sole concern, nor the laws that have been freely accepted
by you to govern them.
We, in return, deem it a matter of logical reciprocity that the
Grand Orient of France be accepted under the same conditions,
feeling, as it does-as well as you possibly can-that it has a
legitimate claim to be solely composed of Free Masons, faithful to
the fundamental tenets of Free Masonry.
We fondly hope that the frequent visitation of American Masons to our Lodges will greatly assist in removing the existing objections, which, we are certain, rest on false premises.
We receive a great many Americans in the Grand Orient, where
a room has been set aside for the sole use of all the Rrethren
among the Allies, and we extend them the warmest welcome of
fraternal love and interest.
Do you not believe. therefore. that it would be indeed a great
pity that French and American Masons sho11ld continue to ignore
one another, at this very moment when France and America are so
closely and so intimately united in the struggle for the defense of
Right, Justice and Civilization? No! That seems to us impossible.
Since friendship of the deepest character entwines the hearts
of our two peoples, amity between brother Masons of our two countries should be closer than ever.
Awaiting the official re-establishment of relations between
our two Grand Bodies, we ask you, very dear and Most Illustrious
Brother, to accept the assurances of our best and most fraternal
sentiments.
The President of the Council of the Order.
(Signed) CORNEAU.

178

Council of the Order
Office of the President

Liberty-Equality-Fraternity

GRAND ORIENT OF FRANCE
Supreme Council
for France and French Colonies
O. ·. of Paris 5 September 1918.

...

To T.". C.". et T.". Ill.". F.". Rhodes Hervey,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California.
Very Dear and Most Illustrious Brother.·.
It is with the greatest pleasure that at its last meeting .the
Council of the Order took cognizance of your fraternal commumcation informing it that your Grand Lodge had authorize.d and permitted to the Brethren of its jurisdiction to have Masomc relat10ns
with the Masons of France, Belgium and Italy.
Ily this measure you have re-established the right of visitat\on
in our respective lodges; a right, by the way, we never ha~ demed
your Brethren of California, who have always been permitted, as
visitors, to witness the work in our lodges.
We rejoice to note this handsome Masonic and fraternal act. of
yours. We eagerly hope that it is only the prel_ude of forthcommg
relations far more close between our two Obediences (Grand Bodies); this re-establishment which we desire from the bottom of
our hearts.
We have already taken a new official contact and assum~~ exchange of amicable relations with the Grand Lodges of LoU1s1ana,
New Jersey and Iowa.
We ardently hope that such relations will soon be extended
to all the Grand Lodges of the United States.
It only remains for ~s to a?swer fully, .and with .the frankness
which pertains to Masomc relat10ns, the various questions you have
propounded to us.
In the matter of territorial jurisdiction, we beg to refer you to
paragraph one of Article 45 of our Copstitution: .
"The Grand Orient of France will not constitute any lodges
in foreign countries where there is a regularly constituted Masonic
Grand Body which is in fraternal int~rcourse w~th it.''. .
It is in the absence of such relat10ns of amity ex1stmg between
us and the Grand Lodges of the United States that a lodge was
created in New York in 1900, and another in San Francisco in
1911, otherwise these two lodges would not have had Charters
granted them.
.
.
.
The Bible is not used m our lodges. You will fmd herewith a form of the obligation that all neophites must subscribe to
before receiving their first degree.

179

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDE~CE

WJ:i.ereas, The present cataclysm in Europe threatens the very
l'xistence of the principles for which Freemasonry has labored for
centuries to perpetuate; and

180

Past Grand Master Murphey presented the report of
the Committee on Correspondence, printed copies of which
had been previously distributed to the representatives present. The report was ordered to be printed as an appendix
to the Pro.ceedings.
RESOLUTIONS
Brother Leo Bruck presented the following resolution:
Whereas, This Most Worshipful Grand Lodge has by its vote
decided that the daughter of a Mason after becoming of age, is not
entitled to admission to the Masonic Home; and
Whereas, The obligations of this fraternity should not be greater
than the obligations of a father; therefore, be it
Resolved, That Sections 163, i, j and k be repealed, and 163q be
amended by expunging all that following the words "Masonic Lodge
for assistance," and inserting in lieu thereof the following: "And the
daughter of a deceased Master Mason shall not be entitled to relief
after reaching the age of 21."

181

Whereas, These practical Lewises are many in this Grand jurisdiction, sacrificing all, arid striving to uphold the principles of Masonry
in its strength and purity; therefore,
Be It Resolved, by the Masons of California in Grand Lodge assembled, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that the Lewis, as an
emergency tool, be at once ins.tituted in the Grand Lodge, and the age
limit of Lewises in this Grand jurisdiction be fixed at whatever age
the United States Government fixes for enlistment into service, either
as volunteers or by selective draft system.
Resolved Further, That the privileges of the Lewis shall be granted
only to "candidates who have actually enlisted or been drafted or commissioned officers in the United States forces in the great war, and during the term of said war," and shall be extended to such candidates
regardless of whether the candidate's father be a Mason, or infirm,
and on the same terms and conditions, and with such privileges as the
Grand Lodge grants to persons of similar service in the government
who are over the age of twenty-one years.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
Brother John A. Smith introduced the following:
Brother A. H. Alderman introduced the following resolution:
Resolved, That Section 163q of the Constitution of this Grand
Lodge be amended by adding thereto the following:
Section No. - - . That the son or daughter of a Master Mason
after having attained his or her majority as recognized by the laws of
California, and having changed his or her name in any way, is not (as
a matter. of right) entitled to relief as an orphan by the subordinate
Lodges of this jurisdiction.

Resolved, That the Constitution be amended by repealing sections
88a and 88b.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
Brother E. B. Power for the Committee on Grievances
and Appeals reported as follows: ·

Referred to the Committee on Jurisp~udence.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Califomia:

Brother Louis Muller introduced the following:

Your Committee to whom was referred trial Record No. 246, Arcata Lodge No. 106, respectfully report as follows:

Whereas. "The Lewis," as a working tool of Ancient Craft Masonry
-used only under great emergencies-has for a long time been dropped
from use hy the Craft because it was not needed; and

The accused was found guilty of falsifying a claim against tht>
Government of the United States in this: the accused made out accounts greatt>r in amount than the goods actually delivered and t he

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

claim was presented to the Assistant Paymaster in the United States
Navy on the United States ship "Cheyenne." The accused pleaded
guilty to the charge in the Federal Court of the United States.

These acts constitute a grave offense against the laws of our country, a violation of his Masonic duties, and contrary to the principles
and purposes of Freemasonry.

Accused was thereafter tried for unmasonic conduct, was found
guilty by the unanimous verdict of the Commissioners, but the sentence impc;sed was that the accused be reprimanded.

We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:

182

Your Committee feels that the sentence of reprimand for defrauding the Government at any time is extremely too light, and particularly inadequate at this critical moment.

Resolved, That the verdict of the Commissioners on trial record No.
242 be sustained and the same is hereby approved and confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
LEo YouNGWORTH,

w ALTER F. HAAS,

W c, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the verdict of the Commissioners in trial record
No. 246 be sustained, but that the punishment be fixed at suspension,
and that the accused be and is hereby suspended from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry.
Respectfully submitted,

E. B. POWER,

183

J. P. BERNHARD,
E. B. PowER,
Committee.

The report was adopted and Benjamin Livingstone's
expulsion from all the rights and privileges of Masonry
was approved.

LEo YouNGWORTH,

J. P. BERNHARD,

w ALTER F. HAAS,
Committee.

The report and recommendation were adopted, and
Eldrick H. Connick, formerly a member of Humboldt Lodge
No. 79, was declared to be suspended from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry.

Brother ]. P. Bernhard, Chairman of the Committee
on Grievances, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to which was referred Case No.
242 (from Pasadena Lodge No. 272), begs leave to report:
The record discloses the following facts and circumstances:

Brother Bernhard also reported the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was teferred the petition
for restoration to the rights and privileges. of Masonry of. Henry Hei!pern (Case No. 122), expelled by Naval Lodge No. 87, on a charge of
unmasonic conduct in 1912, report as follows:
This petition has been approved at a meeting called for the purpose by the votes of more than two-thirds of the members of Na val
Lodge; it is accompanied by strong letters testifying to the exemplary
conduct of the petitioner, and to his high standing in the community
in which he now makes his home. He has letters from the Grand
Master of the Grand Lodge of Alabama, the Mayor of Montgomery,
and the Master of the Masonic Lodge in that city. We are satisfied
from the showing made, that he is really penitent, truly reformed and
worthy of again becoming a Mason. We, therefore, recommend the
adoption of the following reso'.ution :
Resolved, That the petition of Henry Heilpern for restoration he
granted, and that he may he and he is hereby restored t~ all the rights
and privileges of Freemasonry.
·

About the first day of June, 1918, the accused being under indictment in the District Court of the United States, in and for the Southern
District of California, charged with concealing the whereabouts of his
brother, who was attempting to evade the Draft law, ran away, forfeited his bail and was at the time of the trial a fugitive from justice.

Respectfully submitted,

J. P. BERNHARD,
LEO YouNGWORTH,

w ALn:R F. HAAS,

'

E. B. POWER,
Committee,

184

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The report was adopted, and Henry Heilpern was
ordered restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Brother Bernhard also presented the following "Omnibus" report :
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

.
Y.our Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred the followmg tnal records, to-wit ;
Record No. 244, Starr King Lodge No. 344;
Record No. 237, Bay View Lodge No. 401;
Record No. 236, Burbank Lodge No. 406;
Record No. 235, Azusa Lodge No. 305 ;
Record No. 234, Ocean Park Lodge No. 369;
Record No. 233, San Mateo Lodge No. 226;
Record No. 231, Blackmer Lodge No. 442;
Record No. 230, Brooklyn Lodge No. 225;
Record No. 232, West Lake Lodge No. 392;
Record No. 243, Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389;
Record No. 241, Lexington Lodge No. 104;
Record No. 239, Yosemite Lodge No. 99;
Record No. 245, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219;
Record No. 238, Marin Lodge No. 191;
~espectfully reports that it finds the records in each of the above
ment10ne~ cases c?:Up'.ete. In some there are slight irregularities, but

as these irregularities are not vital, and in no way prejudice the acc:1sed or accuser or affect the merits of the case, your committee has
disregarded the same. In none of these cases ~as there an appeal
and st.1bstantial justice appears to have been done in all of them. Th~
comn~1ttee therefore offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Re.solved, That the decision in each case herein referred to, and
the action of the Lodge thereon, bt" and the same are hereby approved.
Respectfully submitted,

J. P. BERNHARD,
w ALTER F. HAAS,
E. B. POWER,
LF.o YouNGWOR'.!'H,
Committee.

'

The report
was
adopted as presented.
.
.

185

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother vValter F. Haas, for the Committee on Grievances, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances to whom was referred the following petitions for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry,
to-wit: James P. Reed, and William Henry Hindle, respectfully
shows:
Your committee has carefully reviewed the record in each of said
cases, and has also gone into and examined all other testimony offered
and recommendations for restorations presented, and after so doing is
of the opinion that it is not for the best interests of the craft that
either of said petitioners be restored. Your committee therefore offers
the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That the petitions of \.Villiam Henry Hindle and James
P. Reed, and each of them, for restoration to the rights and privileges
of Masonry, be and the same are hereby denied.
Respectfully submitted,
WAL'.!'ER F. HAAS,
LEo YouNGWOR'.!'H,

E. B. Powl!R,
J. P. BERNHARD,
Committee.

The report was approved.
Brother Haas also reported the following:
To the Most Worshipful Gramd Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances and Appeals, to whom was referred
trial record No. 240, respectfully shows:
The accused was charged with embezzling $355.20 belonging to
the Lodge of which he was a member. The accused pleaded guilty to
the charge, and upon a vote had on the question: "Shall the accused
be expeiled ?" the ballot stood, Aye 3, X o 4; the Master then submitted
the question: "Shall the accused be suspendt"d ?" and the ballot stood
Aye 6, X o 1. The accused was thereupon declared suspended. X o ex·
planation was offered by the accused relative to his acts and no ex·
tenuation of the offense was attempted to be shown. Your committee
believes the offense to have been one of so serious a nature that the
same merits expulsion. \Ve, therefore, offer the following resolution
and recommend its adoption :

186

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNL-'\

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Address-Brother Frank M. Dickey.

Resolved, That the action of the Lodge in the matter of trial record
No. 240, insofar as the same relates to the penalty imposed, be disapproved, and that the accused be expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.
Respectfully submitted,
\V ALTER F. HAAS,

J. P. BERNHARD,

Violin solo-Brother Firestone.
Raising of Service Flag.
Song-"\:Vhen the Boys Come Home," "The Flag That
!\ever Touched the Ground," Brother Godfrey Price.

E. B. POWER,
LEo YouNGWORTH,

Committee.

The report was adopted and Toy B. Gibson. late a member of Downey Lodge No. 220, was ordered expelled from
all the rights and privileges of ~fasonry.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until ten o'clock
tomorrow morning.

187

Address-Brother vVilliam MacCormack, Grand Chaplain.
Cello solo-Brother Van Hagel.
Benediction-The Grand Chaplain.

lfn "rnnb illnbgr
Morning Session.

PATRIOTIC >TIGHT
vVednesday evening, at the Temple, a large number
of brethren assembled for the purpose of renewing their
allegiance to the government of the United States, and to
do honor to the nearly six thousand members who have
answered the call of country and taken up arms in defense
of decent democracy.

The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and apJ>roved.

The programme presented was inspiring. The brethren
who favored the assemblage with music seemed to be imbued with the patriotic spirit that pervaded the house, and
the addresses of Brother Frank M. Dickey of Vallejo and of
the Yery Rev. \:Villiam MacCormack voiced the loftiest patriotism in most eloquent speech. The full programme was
as follows:

Brother ::V1acKillop, author of the resolution presented
last year relating to individual contributions to the Endowment Fund of the Masonic Homes, and which had been referred to a special committee, now asked that consideration
of the matter be deferred until the next Annual Communication and it was so ordered.

Remarks-The Grand Master.
Prayer-The Grand Chaplain.
Trio-Violin, cello, piano-Brothers Firestone, Van
Hage!, Bruck.

Thursday morning, October 10th, 1918.
The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the
<;rand Master presiding.

Brother Fred \IV. Clough introduced the following proposed amendment to section 13i of the Constitution:
Provided, if it is found after due investigation by the District Inspector that any Lodge in his district is without resident members who

189

PROCEEDINGS O:B' THE

GRAND LODGE OJ;' CALI:B'ORNIA

can properly qualify in accordance with the first provision of this section,
such Lodges, with the approval of the Grand Lecturer, may elect and
install Vv ardens without certificates, they being otherwise competent.
This amendment shall become void one year after the restoration of
peace.

The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of the j urisd irt ion were indebted for the year ending July 31, 1918, and which have
1111 hcen paid, are as follows:

188

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
The Committee subsequently reported, recommending
the adoption of the resolution. The recommendation was
adopted, ano section 137 of the Constitution was thereupon,
by unanimous vote, amended as therein above proposed.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
Brother James B. Gist, Chairman of the Committee on
Returns, read the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of C'1lifornia:

Your Committee on Returns has carefully performed its duty and
reports as follows :
We have examined the Returns of the 379 chartered Lodges and the
three unde1· dispensation, a total of 382, of this jurisdiction for the year
ending July 31, 1918. All the Lodges have filed their reports with the
Grand Secretary~ and the same are found ,to he correct and properly
entered on his books.
By comparing the totals of this year with those of last year we are
very pleased to report that we find 54 more restorations; 39 less withdrawals; IC~ less suspensions for non-payment of lit1es, and 54 less
deaths.
Fraternally submitted,
JAMJ\S B. GrsT,

c. D. BARNJi'l'T,
Committel'.

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

( ':tli fornia .............. 1
W <'Stern Star.......... 2
'J'l'l1ama .................. 3
lk11ida .................... 5
T11olumne .............. 8
('<1ri11thian ............. 9
S1111 Jose .................. 10
\' Ollllt ...............
12
Nt•va<la .................... 13
T1·111plc .................... 14
l•:ureka .................... 16
I.a l'arfaite Union 17
f\l 01mtain Shade .... 18
:->an Joaquin ............ 19
Washington ............ 20
I lawaiian ................ 21
( kddental .............. 22
Matlison .................. 23
Mariposa ................ 24
t :<'nrgetown ............ 25
l':1lmyra .................. 26
Trinity .................... 27
t :olden Gate ............ 30
1:,,Jd Hill... ............... 32
< lphir ...................... 33
S:111 Diego ................ 35
SL John's ................ 37
Santa Cruz ............ 38
Sacramento ............ 40
Martinez .................. 41
I ,os Angeles ............ 42
I lirarn ...................... 43
Mount Moriah ........ 44
( 'rescent .................. 45
'l'l'xas ........................ 46
Forbestown ............ 50
lllinoistown ............ 51
Suisun ...................... 55
Volcano .................... 56
Santa Rosa .............. 57

$579.90
89.40
290.30
185.00
116.10
209.90
444.90
200.70
126.70
98.20
120.10
180.90
26.10

420.80
216.60
291.25
590.70
105.00
55.40
46.90
174.00
77.20
550.20
66.40
43.50
434.60
100.40
228.90
308.80
99.60
581.40
31.50
368.80
73.20
36.20
28.30
74.30
84.60
40.20
233.80

$551.00
86.00
257.00
120.00
119.00
211.00
431.00
183.00
133.00
88.00
119.00
171.00
29.00
362.00
184.00
335.00
593.00
110.00
46.00
51.00
180.00
58.00
528.00
56.00
45.00
374.00
106.00
211.00
242.00
94.00
516.00
25.00
362.00
78.00
28.00
27.00
77.00
84.00
28.00
242.00

Allowed
Represent·

Total.

$275.50 $1,406.40
43.00
218.40
128.50
675.80
365.00
60.00
59.50
294.60
105.50
526.40
215.50
1,091.40
91.50
475.20
66.50
326.20
44.00
230.20
59.50
298.60
85.50
437.40
14.50
69.60
963.80
181.00
492.60
92.00
167.50
793.75
296.50
1,480.20
55.00
270.00
23.00
124.40
123.40
25.50
444.00
90.00
164.20
29.00
264.00
1.342.20
28.00
150.40
111.00
22.50
187.00
995.60
53.00
259.40
105.50
545.40
121.00
671.80
47.00
240.60
258.00
1,355.40
12.50
69.00
181.00
911.80
39.00
190.20
14.00
78.20
13.50
68.80
38.50
189.80
210.60
42.00
14.00
82.20
121.00
596.80

atives.

$..........
21.05
5.40
2.25
12.05
8.75
3.40
2.95
13.60
8.40

5.10
5.40

12.40
25.00
12.70
10.15
38.40
7.35
.20
46.80
32.40
6.05
5.40
2.05
40.65
9.60
46.10
5.60
9.40
3.25
3.55

190

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Home

Home

Fund.

Fund.

Allowed

General ~Iain tenance Building

Fund.

191

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Total.

Represent~

atives.
Union ·········------------- 58
284.90
271.00
135.50
691.40
5.40
Gravel Range.......... 59
24.30
27.00
13.50
64.80
Plumas ------···-·····----- 60
58.70
63.00
31.50
153:20
25.30
Live Oak ................ 61
823.10
759.00
379.50
1,961.60
.20
Geo. Washington .... 62
27.00
30.00
15.00
72.00
Natoma -------------·------ 64
102.60
94.00
47.00
243.60
6.90
Amador .................... 65
76.60
74.00
37.00
187.60
11.00
Forest ........................ 66
52.20
48.00
24.00
124.20
Morning Star .......... 68
388.10
279.00
139.50
800.60
5.10
Enterprise ................ 70
162.70
143.00
71.50
377.20
8.70
Bear Mountain........ 76
88.40
86.00
43.00
217.40
13.70
Calaveras ................ 78
68.00
70.00
35.00
173.00
Humboldt .............. 79
339.40
306.00
153.00
798.40
25.90
Ione .......................... 80
50.90
51.00
25.50
127.40
7.80
Yolo .......................... 81
47.50
45.00
22.50
115.00
5.95
Rising Star ............ 83
35.30
37.00
18.50
90.80
Vesper ...................... 84
139.10
149.00
74.50
362.60
16.25
Na val ........................ 87
473.90
451.00
225.50
1,150.40
2.05
Rose's Bar. ............... 89
45.00
50.00
25.00
120.00
North Star ................ 91
43.50
45.00
22.50
111.00
36.00
St. Helena ................ 93
75.20
78.00
39.00
192.20
3.90
Henry Clay.............. 95
51.40
56.00
28.00
135.40
11.00
Howard .................... 96
96.10
79.00
39.50
214.60
32.40
Jefferson .................. 97
32.40
36.00
18.00
86.40
25.60
Hornitos .................. 98
39.00
30.00
15.00
84.00
Yosemite ................ 99
140.70
123.00
61.50
325.20
8.75
Clay .......................... 101
60.20
60.00
30.00
150.20
10.50
Oroville .................... 103
233.90
191.00
95.50
520.40
9.70
Lexington ................ 104
103.80
82.00
41.00
226.80
40.65
Arcata ...................... 100
122.70
123.00
61.50
307.20
Pajaro ...................... 110
121.20
118.00
59.00
298.20
6.60
Chico ........................ 111
202.60
204.00
102.00
508.60
11.90
Summit .................... 112
27.90
31.00
15.50
74.40
8.25
Eden ........................ 113
137.30
127.00
63.50
327.80
Concord ................... 117
125.70
123.00
61.50
310.20
5.40
Clinton .................... 119
47.10
49.00
24.50
120.60
Fidelity .................... 120
520.50
515.00
257.50
1,293.00
Alamo ...................... 122
92.SO
37.50
75.~'
205.00
3.50
Sotoyome ................ 123
199.90
191. 0
95.50
486.40
4.80
Table Mountain ...... 124
63.10
59.00
29.50
151.60
16.00
La Fayette ............. .126
127.80
122.00
61.00
310.80
3.00
Hermann ................ 127
188.40
196.00
98.00
482.40
Visalia ...................... 128
152.20
138.00
69.00
359.20

:t\ icolaus -----····---------129

Woodbridge ---------·-.131
Sincerity ................. .132
Vacaville ·····--·----···.134
Valley ...................... 135
Pacific ......................136
Crockett .................. 139
Curtis ...................... 140
Grafton .................... 141
Franklin .................. 143
Oriental .................. 144
Vitruvius ................. 145
Abell ........................146
Eel River ............... .147
Lassen ...................... 149
Molino ..................... .150
Woodland ............. .156
Kevstone ................. .161
Ha~mony ................. .164
Excelsior ................ 166
Alameda ..................167
Redwood City....... .168
Mission .................... 169
Elk Grove ................ 173
Drytown .................. 174
Antioch -·····----··--··--··175
Phoenix .................. 178
Mendocino ............. .179
Petaluma ................ 180
Russian River ....... .181
Meridian ................. .182
Clear Lake ............... .183
Sierra Valley .......... 184
Claihorne ................ 185
Evening Star .......... 186
Keith ........................ 187
Oakland .................. 188
Northern Light... .. .190
Marin ...................... 191
Santa Barbara ........ 192
Ferndale ................. .193
Mountain View ..... .194
Buckeye ................ .195

Allowed
Representatives.

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund,
Fund.
Fund.

Total.

78.10
94.90
130.60
116.00
56.20
729.40
572.80
50.00
42.80
76.10
350.50
65.60
129.40
115.20
133.10
65.10
167.50
39.90
13.80
535.60
105.80
140.90
832.20
72.70
22.50
120.90
293.00
135.30
238.60
106.10
52.90
35.90
32.60
54.00
28.90
123.10
698.20
64.20
272.50
233.40
108.80
112.70
81.20

196.60
231.40
. 226.60
296.00
128.20
1,743.40
1,325.80
125.00
90.80
179.60
883.00
161.60
318.40
292.20
311.60
168.60
400.00
86.40
31.80
1,216.60
258.80
337.40
2,104.20
182.20
60.00
287.40
698.00
340.80
544.60
239.60
129.40
82.40
83.60.
129.00
75.40
301.60
1,595.20
166.20
640.00
497.40
246.80
267.20
198.20

79.00
91.00
64.00
120.00
48.00
676.00
502.00
50.00
32.00
69.00
355.00
64.00
126.00
118.00
119.00
69.00
155.00
31.00
12.00
454.00
102.00
131.00
848.00
73.00
25.00
111.00
270.00
137.00
204.00
89.00
51.00
31.00
34.00
50.00
31.00
119.00
598.CO
68.00
245.00
176.00
92.00
103.00
78.00

39.50
45.50
32.00
60.00
24.00
338.00
251.00
25.00
16.00
34.50
177.50
32.00
63.00
59.00
59.50
34.50
77.50
15.50
6.00
227.00
51.00.
65.50
424.00
36.50
12.50
55.50
135.00
68.50
102.00
44.50

25.50
15.50
17.00
25.00
15.SO
59.50
299.00
34.00
122.50
88.00
46.00
SI.SO
39.00

8.70
24.80

6.25
5.40
4.75
6.55
24.30
39.00
15.50

2.15
1.70
5.40

40.65
17.50
2.50
4.10

27.95
12.95
37.50
4.75
.20
25.05
.70
31.70
25.70
5.40

193

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

192

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Home
Home
General :Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

San Simeon .............. 196
Wilmington ............ 198
Hartley ........... :..... 199
Truckee ................... .200
Silvey ville .............. 201
Pentalpha ................202
Confidence .............. 203
Salinas ..................... .204
Olivet ..................... .205
Stanislaus ............... .206
Anaheim ................. .207
Rio Vista ................. .208
King David's ..........209
Friendship ..............210
San Benito ............. .211
So. San Francisco..212
San Buenaventura ..214
Oak Grove ............. .215
Doric ....................... .216
Monterey ................217
Mosaic ................... .218
Speranza Italiana... .219
Downey ................. .220
Inyo ......................... .221
Granite ................... .222
Bakersfield ............. .224
Brooklyn ................. .225
San Mateo ............... .226
Athens ..................... .228
Solano ......................229
North Butte ........... .230
Covelo ..................... .231
Janesville ............... .232
Calistoga ..................233
Hope ---··········-----·····.234
Surprise Valley ..... .235
Hill's Ferry ........... .236
Guadalupe ...... ., ....... .237
Colusa ..................... 240
Santa Ana ............. .241
.Magnolia ............... .242
Eucalyptus ............. .243
Alcatraz ................. .244

37.00
56.50
110.10
105.20
80.40
519.10
20.70
148.00
88.80
171.40
160.50
63.90
208.50
248.10
99.40
216.00
124.50
431.50
530.90
112.20
96.10
238.80
76.90
75.20
51.30
358.90
497.60
149.30
70.70
384.50
93.30
39.90
46.00
96.10
64.60
55.00
76.20
59.70
90.20
325.70
139.90
116.80
485.50

40.00
55.00
109.00
108.00
76.00
479.00
23.00
140.00
92.00
136.00
135.00
61.00
185.00
249.00
86.00
200.00
125.00
415.00
481.00
108.00
89.00
222.00
81.00
58.00
57.00
301.00
414.00
147.00
73.00
315.00
87.00
41.00
50.00
89.00
54.00
50.00
68.00
63.00
88.00'
323.00
111.00
102.00
405.00

20.00
27.50
54.50
54.00
38.00
239.50
11.50
70.00
46.00
68.00
67.50
30.50
92.50
124.50
43.00
100.00
62.50
207.50
240.50
54.00
44.50
111.00
40.50
29.00
28.50
150.50
207.00
73.50
36.50
157.50
43.50
20.50
25.00
44.50
. 27.00
25.00
34.00
31.50
44.00
161.50
55.50
51.00
202.50

Allowed
Represent·
atives..
Total.

97.00
139.00
273.60
267.20
194.40
1,237.60
55.20
358.00
226.80
375.40
363.00
155.40
486.00
621.60
228.40
516.00
312.00
1,054.00
1,252.40
274.20
229.60
571.80
198.40
162.20
136.80
810.40
l,118.60
369.80
180.20
857.00
223.80'
101.40
121.00

24.00
41.50
10.80
20.80
40.65
6.50
7.00
11.70
42.65
4.75
21.65
3.15
5.75
35.05
.20
7.55
2.70
40.65
48.50
6.90
26.55
.20
1.20
4.95
2.15

..

·~~~··

22p.60

15.10
37.60
4.40

145.60
130.00
178.20
154.20
222.20
810.20
306.40
269.80
1,093.00

7.30
24.55
9.70
42.65
31.70
1.40
.20

Home
Home
General l\faintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Laurel ..................... .245
Pomona ................. .246
Fresno ................... 247
Alturas ................... .248
Adin ..........................250
Bodie ....................... .252
Landmark .....:......... .253
Reading ................... .254
Welcome ..................255
Lodi ......................... .256
Penrhyn ................. .258
Evergreen ............... .259
King Solomon's ......260
Tuscan ................... .261
Lompoc ................... .262
Hesperian ................264
Orland ................... .265
North East..............266
Galt ......................... .267
Durant ....................268
Olive Branch .. :....... 269
Snow Moun tain ..... .271
Pasadena ............... .272
Anchor ................... .273
Arroyo ................... .274
Oakdale ................. .275
Selma ..................... .277
Southern Calif ....... .278
Hanford ................. .279
Madera ................... .280
Mount Shasta..........281
Callayomi ................ 282
South West ............ 283
San Miguel .., ...........285
Paso Robles .... ,....... 286
Winnedumah ..........287
.Maxwell ..................288
Elsinore .................. 289
East Gate ............... .290
Santa Paula ........... .291
Los Gatos ................292
Orange Grove ........293
Traver ......................294

127.80
287.60
395.00
59.50
42.60
21.60
66.60
138.70
79.70
215.20
79.50
332.30
685.10
46.90
120.60
230.20
94.10
57.20
57.30
437.70
176.20
48.20
440.60
64.30
54.70
85.40
146.10
619.60
188.20
141.90
49.30
44.20
132.90
77.10
68.70
111.00
92.90
73.60
835.20
145.50
129.00
141.90
91.40

102.00
254.00
380.00
65.00
44.00
24.00
54.00
133.00
83.00
198.00
85.00
307.00
579.00
51.00
114.00
198.00
79.00
48.00
47.00
413.00
148.00
38.00
434.00
67.00
53.00
76.00
139.00
624.00
178.00
121.00
47.00
38.00
111.00
79.(X)
63.00
100.00
51.00
64.00
748.00
135.00
120.00
131.00
76.00

51.00
127.00
190.00
32.50
22.00
12.00
27.00
66.50
41.50
99.00
42.50
153.50
289.50
25.50
57.00
99.00
39.50
24.00
23.50
206.50
74.00
19.00
217.00
33.50
26.50
38.00
69.50
312.00
89.00
60.50
23.50
19.00
55.50
39.50
31.50
50.00
25.50
32.00
374.00
67.50
60.00
65.50
38.00

Total.

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

280.80
668.60
965.00
157.00
108.60
57.60
147.60
338.20
:l>4.20
512.20
207.00
792.80
1,553.60
123.40
291.60
527.20
212.60
129.20
127.80
1,057.20
398.20
105.20
1,091.60
164.80
134.20
199.40
354.60
1.555.60
455.20
323.40
119.80
101.20
299.40
195.60
163.20
261.00
169.40
169.60
1,957.20
348.00
309.00
338.40
205.40

9.80
40.65
42.20
42.20
6.40
21.05
20.05
5.40
7.25
40.65
8.20
27.60
24.70
10.80
51.20
5.40
.20
21.90
14.75
40.65
40.65
23.85
7.25
18.90
40.65
20.00
2020
15.25
46.80
13.50
14.05
54.25
8.75
43.40
40.65
36.75
3.25
42.65
23.65

GRAND LODGE OF CA):.IFORNIA

194

195

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Home
Home
General Maintenance Iluilding
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

120.10
Mt. Jackson ............ 29S
S09.10
Silver Gate ............. .296
110.20
Dunsmuir ............... .297
43.20
Mokelumne Hill ... .298
184.30
Liberty ....................299
238.00
Redlands .................. 300
132.60
Ontario ....................301
60.80
Santa Lucia ............ 302
199.80
Porterville .............. 303
66.80
Reedley .................... 304
8S.10
Azusa ...................... 30S
129.80
Ashlar ...................... 306
210.20
Santa Monica .......... 307
120.00
Monrovia ................308
119.90
Delano .................... 3d9
79.80
s'isson ...................... 310
67.60
Los Banos .............. 312
112.90
Tehachapi ................31"3
102.90
Temescal ................314
69.00
Norwalk .................. 31S
87.70
Sanger ...................... 316
44.60
Fall brook ................ 317
S3.30
Emmanuel .............. 318
Hollenbeck ............ 319 1,080.20
72S.30
South Gate .............. 320
77.10
Alisa! ........................321
264.40
Alhambra ................ 322
204.70
Whittier .................. 323
378.60
Corona .................... 324
lOS.90
Consuelo .................. 32S
174.20
Needles ....................326
417.70
Long Beach ............ 327
163.90
Redondo .................. 328
108.10
Vallee de France .... 329
173.7S
Kilauea ....................330
69.30
Pacific Grove .......... 331
306.10
San Pedro ................ 332
26.10
Alta .......................... 333
168.SO
Covina ......................334
472.30
West Gate ................ 33S
4S7.10
Fruitvale ................ 336
10S.3b
Carquinez ................ 337
llS.SO
San J acinto ..............338

93.00
449.00
108.00
48.00
177.00
240.00
124.00
62.00
162.00
62.00
79.00
132.00
1S8.00
120.00
101.00
82.00
64.00
121.00
91.00
70.00
83.00
44.00
47.00
938:00
707.00
69.00
266.00
163.00
364.00
81.00
138.00
373.00
lSl.00
99.00
181.00
67.00
249.00
29.0b
lSS.00
427.00
369.00
97.00
lOS.00

260.20
1,182.60
272.20
115.20
449.80
S98.00
318.60
1S3.80
442.80
1S9.80
203.60
327.80
447.20
300.00
271.40
so.so
202.80
41.00
163.60
32.00
294.40
60.SO
239.40
4S.SO
174.00
3S.OO
212.20
41.SO
110.60
22.00
123.80
23.SO
2,487.20
469.00
l,78S.&}
3S3.SO
180.60
34.SO
663.40
133.00
449.20
81.SO '
924.60
182.00
227.40
40.SO
381.20
69.00
977.20
186.SO
390.40
7S.SO
2S6.60
49.SO
44S.2S
90.SO
169.80
33.SO
679.60
124.SO
69.60
14.SO
401.00
77.SO
1,112.80
213.SO
1,010.60
184.SO
2S0.80
48.50
273.00
S2.SO

46.SO
224.SO
S4.00
24.00
88.SO
120.00
62.00
31.00
81.00
31.00
39.SO
66.00
79.dO
60.00

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Allowed
Representatives.
Total.

4.65
46.80
27.0S
2.80
41.30
40.6S
10.10
22.70
19.4S
40.6S
40.6S
41.3S
40.65
24.IS
29.10
8.10
40.6S
40.6S
19.80
47.30
40.6S
40.65
2.40
40.6S
41.3S
40.6S
47.20
41.3.'i
41.35
40.6S
7.90
41.3.S
40.6S
40.6S
.20
1.9S
4S.IS

Fullerton ................ 339
Oxnard .................... 341
San Fernando.......... 343
Starr King .............. 344
H.rentwood .............. 34S
Palo Alto ................346
McKinley ................ 347
San Bernardino .... 348
Sequoia ....................349
Palestine .................. 351
Sunset ...................... 3S2
Pinole ...................... 3S3
Presidio .................... 3S4 ·
Hollywood .............. 3SS
Mill Valley .............. 3S6
Buena Park ............ 3S7
Golden State .......... 3S8
Loyalton .................. 3S9
San Francisco ........ 360
F'.ort Bragg ............ 361
Charity ....................362
Berkeley .................. 363
Willits ...................... 36S
Las Pal mas ............ 366
South Pasadena
...... 367
,•
Unity ........................368
Ocean Park. ............. 369
Amity ...................... 370
Le Progres de
l'Oceanie .............. 371
Gardena .................. 372
Veteran .................... 373
Jewel ........................ 374
Richmond ................ 37S
Francis Drake ........ 376
Artesia .................... 377
Mizpah .................... 378
Fillmore .................. 379
Huntington Beach .. 380
Oceanside ................ 381
Highland Park ...... 382
Orosi ........................ 383
El Centro ................384

Allowed
Total.

233.10
228.80
108.50
338.00
94.00
299.70
21S.40
297.10
664.80
34S.10
490.SO
86.00
331.SO
491.40
2S9.00
8S.OO
606.10
41.40
283.00
8S.30
93.70
409.30
101.00
429.70
1S2.40
228.00
202.40
3S3.20

209.00
182.00
8S.OO
300.00
80.00
213.00
196.00
279.00
SS2.00
329.00
43S.OO
90.00
29S.OO
416.00
220.00
80.00
S29.00
36.00
2SO.OO
77.00
83.00
347.00
90.00
363.00
1S6.00
220.00
196.00
328.00

104.SO
91.00
42.SO
lS0.00
40.00
106.SO
98.00
139.SO
276.00
164.SO
217.SO
4S.OO
147.SO
208.00
110.00
40.00
264.SO
18.00
12S.OO
38.SO
41.SO
173.SO
4S.OO
181.SO
78.00
110.00
98.00
164.00

S46.60
SOl.80
236.00
788.00
214.00
619.20
S09.40
71S.60
1,492.80
838.60
1,143.00
221.00
774.00
l,llS.40
S89.00
20S.OO
1,399.60
9S.40
6S8.00
200.80
218.20
929.80
236.00
974.20
386.40
SS8.00
496.40
84S.20

200.2S
84.30
193.40
103.00
464.00
94.60
80.60
422.90
103.20
81.40
60.00
3S7.30
73.30
167.90

191.00
87.00
166.00
100.00
3SO.OO
84.00
84.00
391.00
88.00
66.00
S0.00
307.00
67.00
141.00

9S.SO
43.SO
83.00
50.00
17S.OO
42.00
42.00
19S.SO
44.00
33.00
2S.OO
1S3.SO
33.SO
70.SO

486.7S
214.80
442.40
2S3.00
989.00
220.60
206.60
1.009.40
23S.20
180.40
13S.OO
817.80
173.80
379.40

Representatives.

40.65
34.SO
'39.6S
3.70
.SS
40.6S
.20
40.6S
40.65
1.20
40.6S
.SS
40.6S
40.6S

IS.SS
3.10
.20
9.0S
17.70
40.6S
41.10
41.4D

41.15
41.3S

.65
41.6S
40.6S
' 37.40
44.60
40.6S
23.90
61.10

196

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

125.00

62.50

197

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Total.

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

334.00

20.80

146.50
Dinuba ....................385
24.30
369.80
71.00
142.00
156.80
Coalinga ..................387
893.80
166.00
332.00
395.80
Parnassus ............... .388
41.35
570.80
103.50
207.00
260.30
Palos Verdes .......... 389
60.80
173.80
33.50
67.00
73.30
Imperial ..................390
134.20
24.00
48.00
62.20
East Belt .................. 391
40.65
1,684.60
317.00
634.00
733.60
Lake
..............
392
West
850.20
136.50
273.00
440.70
Balder ...................... 393
40.65
862.40
150.50
301.00
410.90
..............
394
University
7.35
247.40
48.00
96.00
103.40
Turlock ....................395
.,20
455.60
82.00
164.00
209.60
40.65.
Apollo ......................396
418.60
77.00
154.00
187.60
Rising Light.. ..........397
3.15
537.40
103.00
206.00
228.40
Fraternity ................ 399
1.10
462.00
87.50
175.00
199.50
Burlingame ............ 400
.20
650.60
122.00
244.00
284.60
Bay View ................ 401
60.00
224.20
41.50
83.00
99.70
Brawley .................. 402
.20
619.20
104.00
208.00
307.20
Y erba Buena .......... 403
40.65.
148.00
27.50
55.00
65.50
Glendora .................. 404
40.65
806.80
148.50
297.00
361.30
Moneta .................... 405
39.90
181.20
36.50
73.00
71.70
Burbank .................. 406
47.30
!56.00
30.00
60.00
66.00
La Mesa .................. 407
40.65
150.00
30.00
60.00
60.00
Sierra Madre......... .408
481.50
101.00
202.00
178.50
Honolulu .................. .409
.20
996.80
181.00
362.08
453.80
.......
.410
Rock
Charter
42.05
!56.40
28.00
56.00
72.40
Perris .................... ..411
61.95
229.00
45.00
90.00
94.00
.................
.412
Calexico
57.60
96.60
17.00
34.00
45.60
Waucoba ................ 413.
40.65
384.40
73.00
146.00
165.40
Arlington ............... .414
40.65
474.40
90.50
181.00
202.90
Silver Trowel... ...... .415
21.95
179.00
32.50
65.00
81.50
Lindsay .................. ..416
18.60
221.60
32.00
64.00
125.60
40.65'
C!ovis ..................... .417
671.00
122.50
245.00
303.50
Elysian .................... 418
40.65
174.80
33.50
67.00
74.30
..................
..419
17.70
Upland
114.80
23.50
47.00
44.30
Kerman .................... 420
41.15
226.00
42.50
85.00
98.50
Inglewood ................421
40.85
145.20
26.50
5J.00
65.70
Eagle Rock. ............. 422
41.15
173.20
31.50
63.00
78.70
York ........................423
22.55
176.00
30.00
60.00
86.00
62. !(),
Exeter ..................... .424
155.40
28.00
56.00
71.40
Holtville ..................425
29.55
401.40
73.00
146.00
182.40
Midway .................... 426
40.65
11 !.80
21.00
42.00
48.80
Chino Valley ............427
40.65
148.00
30.00
60.00
58.00
San Dimas ............. .428
2.90
134.60
27.00
54.00
53.60
Pittsburg .............. ..429
30.70
107.40
20.50
41.00
45.90
McCloucl ..................430

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

1\ lplia ...................... ..431
H1"l'ville ................. .432
I l11111111onton ............433
l\larkopa ............... .434
1'11ir111ount ............... .435
l 'l11n·mont ..............436
I ,111 rcaster ............... .437
(~t·r111ania ................438
'l'yrian .................... ..439
1'111111dard .................. 440
l '11r1111ado ................ 441
lll11ckmer .................. 442
~rlr11lield ............... .443
l '11rpi11teria .............. .444
Wilshire .................. 445
I.a I'uente ................446
'1'11rra11ce ................ ..447
M1. Diablo ..............448
l'11rk ........................449
V1111 Nuys .............. ..450
l\l1111tcbello ............. .451
~1111 I'asqual .......... ..452
llrilrll'hem ............ :.453'
l 'r11cker ................... .454
t:11lcll'JJ West.. ......... .455
,, l'lllll'tt ....................456
H111111111a .................... 457
I l1·11r_v S. Orme ...... ..458
Hlv<'rl1ank ............... .459
1\11111111 Oso ........... .460
t\ r1-t< 111aut ............... .461
1111111 Revere ......... .462
l\l111wm Hill .......... 463
t\ Ila Vista ............. .464
l '1•11tl'r ......................465
I ,il11·rtas .................... 466
l '11lvl'r City ............467
H1wkridge .............. ..468
V11rl>a Linda ........ U. D.
l,i11r11ln ................ U.D.
I >.. Ila .................... U.D.

264.00
121.30
49.00
84.80
433.40
53.70
94.20
85.90
64.40
141.90
-112.30
201.60
180.00
29.90
296.20
63.50
65.90
58.10
373.90
75.70
81.40
95.10
163.20
82:80
349.30
62.90
114.30
264.70
45.90
91.00
164.70
450.40
29.60
95.40
99.10
109.80
39.70
162.20
59.10
54.00
18.90

200.00
97.00
50.00
62.00
366.00
53.00
58.00
81.00
46.00
121.00
87.00
134.00
128.00
31.00
258.00
45.00
41.00
49.00
221.00
63.00
46.00
79.00
98.00
62.00
207.00
51.00
77.00
143.00
41.00
60.00
83.00
216.00
24.00
56.00
59.00
52.00
23.00
58.00
29.00
30.00
21.00

100.00
48.50
25.00
31.00
183.00
26.50
29.00
40.50
23.00
60.50
43.50
67.00
64.00
15.50
129.00
22.50
20.50
24.50
110.50
31.50
23.00
39.50
49.00
31.00
103.50
25.50
38.50
71.50
20.50
30.00
41.50
108.00
12.00
28.00
29.50
26.00
11.50
29.00.
14.50
15.00
10.50

Total.

Allowed
Representatives.

564.00
266.80
124.00
177.80
982.40
133.20
181.20
207.40
133.40
323.40
242.80
402.60
372.00
76.40
683.20
131.00
127.40
131.60
705.40
170.20
150.40
213.60
310.20
175.80
659.80
139.40
229.80
479.20
107.40
181.00
289.20
774.40
65.60
179.40
187.60
187.80
74.20
249.20
102.60
99.00
50.40

6.60

40.65
35.60
40.65
5.90
.20
46.80
46.80
32.50
40.65
40.65
41.15
2.70
41.65
41.15
40.65

22.40
40.65
40.65
6.80
4.30

26.55
40.85
.20
42.65
5.10

Totals .................... $68, 227-05 $60,296.00 $30,148.00 $158,671.05 $6,776.30

Report adopted as presented.

198

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORTS OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
The Grand Secretary presented the reports of the
Boards of Relief, all which were referred to the Finance
Committee.
SAN FRANCISCO BOARD OF RELIEF
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

We hereby beg to present the following report for the year
beginning August 28, 1917, and ending August 26, 1918, both dates
inclusive.
Like every other social agency, our organization has been confronted,
during the year, with unusual conditions owing to the rnost trying period
in the world's history, and while the attention of the Fraternity is
focussed upon the activities incident to this unfortunate war, we are
pleased to state that our own needy ones have not been neglected. The
calling to arms of the large number of young men has made it possible
for our older men and women to get employment, some of whom
would be unable to get anything to do but for this condition, and were,
heretofore, a charge upon the Fraternity. Were it not for this elimination of cases, our expenditure for relief would have been a great
deal higher during the year on account of the increased cost of everything appertaining to food and wearing apparel, but as it was, our
disbursements were a little less.
The members of the Board at all times assisted with their hearty
co-operation, an<l to them is due the thanks of the Fraternity for their
untiring devotion to a branch of Masonic activity, whose only reward
is their own knowledge of having assisted in this noble work and to
which is attached no glory and public applause.
We were ably assisted, as heretofore, by our good Brethren of the
medical profession, and our thanks are due them for their untiring
devotion without recompense to the needy ones who called upon them.
We were ably assisted during the year by the following: Doctors H. I.
Block, J.' C. Egeberg, Aaron S. Green, Otto Freyermuth, Jacob Schwarz,
W. Wal<leyer, and A. L. W. Zillmer.
The amount shown in our report which has been expended for
relief does not, by any means, represent the whole activity of the Board.
The members of the Board at all times have been divided into
visiting committees for the sick Brother who is a stranger in our midst,

199
and have brought the hand of fellowshi
have been neglected At
h
. p to those who would otherwise
I'
·
no ot er time does a st
'raternal visit from a Br th M
ranger appreciate a
a sick bed.
o er ason so much as when he is lying on
Legal advice was sought a great deal d .
hy women, and we take this
.
urmg the year, particularly
to extend 0
.
t o B rothers Arthur Joel and occas10n
.111 L B
ur warm appreciation
01
·111gI y o f their
· time and
•
erry ' who h ave given
·
.
so unstmt.
energy and who have I d h .
.
onr disposal freely and "th
P ace t e1r services at
·
w1 out reserve when
If not for these Brethren and
b I
ever ca 11ed upon. Were
rail, and who give their servi~~;nfr::less others on whom we can. always
y, the expenses of conductmg this
Board would be mate'r1· II .
a Y mcreased.

In conclusion we desire to re eat wh
.
111 the past, that is: that the
~t we _have said many times
port of the members of th B g d hw1ll, friendship and undivided supave made the responsibilities of its
conduct one of pleasure. e oar

ool .

Fraternally submitted,
LEO BRUCK, Secretary.
JAMES W. DAVIES, Chairman.

BALANCE-SHEET.
Cash on Hand August 27, 1917.......................................................... $ 2,909.03
RECEIPTS.

Refunds-California Jurisdiction
Rf d
·········
...$ 508090
e un s-Other Jurisdictions in U. S
'
.
Refunds-Foreign Jurisdictions
··························· 6,374.84
Refunds-Grand Lodge ..................._... _.._._._._._._...........

TOTAL REFUNDS

492.87
5,101.39

······································································$17,050.00

201

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

200

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Assessments-City Lodges ·································································· 4,0l7.55
Interest on Bonds................................................................
545.00
130.22
Interest on Deposits ........................................................... .
675.22

TOT AL CASH AV AILABLE ..................................................$24,651.80

DISBURSEMENTS.

Relief-California Jurisdiction .................... $ 6, 138.07
Relief-Other Jurisdictions in U. S......... 8,049.88
..
.
. d'1c t'10ns ...................... 1,135 ·38
Reltef-Fore1gn
J uns
Relief-'Unknown Lodge -····························Relief-Dimited Cases -·································

360.00
489.10

TOT AL RELIEF ---············································-·-···-$16,172.43
Expense-Salaries ..........................................$ 2,176.50
Expense-Office Suppl1es ............................
266.64
Expense-Rent -.·-····-······································-Expense-Telephone
..................................
Expense-Telegrams -····-································

380.54
164.28
16.26

Donations to Employment Bureau ............................... .

2,983.68
560.00
19,716.11

BALANCE ON HAND ................................................................$ 4,935.69

RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY
JURISDICTIONS.
UNITED STATES.

Received from
JurisdictionIndividuals
Lodges
Arizona ............................ -···-···-···-··· $
20.00
Arkansas .......................... ............... .
---······-······
99.50
18.00
Colorado .......................... $
50.00
Connecticut ...................... ............... .
................
Delaware ......................... .
87.75
District of Columbia ... .
5.00
Georgia ........................... .
--··············
375.90
22.00
Illinois ............................. .
330.50
94.50
Iowa ................................. .
245.00
10.00
Idaho ............................... .
15.00
20.00
Kansas ............................. .
18.00
Louisiana ....................... .
11.50
Massachusetts ............... .
···--·-·········
213.25
90.00
Maine-···--···-········-·············
10.00
Maryland ......................... .
15.00
112.20
Michigan ......................... .
10.00
Mississippi ..................... .
320.00
Minnesota ....................... .
409.70
15.00
Missouri ......................... .
5.00
Montana ......................... .
20.00
40.00
Nebraska ......................... .
North Dakota ................. .
--············-·
15.00
New Jersey ..................... .
94.50
242)0
400.32
Nevada -············'············329.95
New York ..................... .
56.65
36.00
North Carolina ............. .
················
30.00
Ohio ................................. .
343.68
Oklahoma ....................... .
9.00
··-·············
234.81
Oregon ........................... .
400.00
20.00
Pennsylvania ................. .
40.00
Philippine Islands ....... .
················
Rhode Island ................. .
················
South Dakota ............... .
················
172.35
Texas ............................... .
241.85
Utah ................................. .
39.00
················
50.00
180.34
Vermont ......................... .

Received
Total
$
20.00
----············
117.50
50.00
········-·······

87.75
5.00
397.90
425.00
255.00
35.00
18.00
11.50
303.25
25.00
112.20
10.00
320.00
424.76
5.00
60.00
······-·········

109.50
643.02
386.60
36.00
373.68
9.00
634.81
20.00
40.00
................

................
414.20
39.00
230.34

Disbursements
$
20.00
240.00
60.00
50.00
330.00
336.00
643.00
425.50
225.00
15.00
128.38
510.63
25.00
73.00
10.00
275.00
631.01
29.00
75.00
13.00
109.50
886.42
524.50
50.00
473.23
9.00
514.81
20.00
40.00
1.50
36.60
409.70
154.30
204.25

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

202

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Received from
Lodges
Individuals
86.50
Virginia ........................... .
516.83
127.50
Washington ................... .
Wisconsin ...................... ..
25.00
West Virginia ..........

Received
Total
86.50
644.33
25.00

muits
86.50
385.05
5.00
25.00

2,177.22
Total
496.87
California ..........................

$ 4,197.62
4,584.05

$ 6,374.84
5,080.90

$ 8,049.88
6,138.07

s................$ 2,674.09

$ 8,771.67

$11,455.74

$14,187.95

J urisddction-

Total U.

Disburse-

212
216
219
226
260
344
354
360

370
374
375
388

FOREIGN.

British Columbia ............ $
Canada ............................. .
England ........................... .
Ireland .......................... ..
New Brunswick ..............
New Zealand ................. .
Nova Scotia .................. ..
Scotland .......................... ..
Total ............................ $

$

50.00
$

150.00

25.00
213.52
20.00
10.00

24.35
95.00

$

397.87

$

20.00
10.00
24.35

97.50
150.00
89.40
179.73
355.60
20.00
10.00
233.15

492.87

$ 1,135.38

50.00
150.00
25.00
213.52

$

393
400
435
449
453
454
455
461
462
464

South San Francisco ................................................................... .
Doric ............................................................................................... .
Speranza Italiana ..........................................................................
San :Mateo ..................................................................................... .
King Solomon's ............................................................................
Starr King ......................................................................................
Presidio ........................................................................................... .
San Francisco ............................................................................... .
Amity .............................................................................................. ..
Jewel .............................................................................................. .
Richmond ......... :............................................................................ ..
Parnassus ...................................................................................... ..
Balder ............................................................................................. .
Burlingame ..................................................................................... .
Fairmount ....................................................................................... .
Park ................................................................................................. .
Bethlehem ........................................................................................
Crocker .......................................................................................... ..
Golden West ..................................................................................
Argonaut .......................................................................................... .
Paul Revere ....................................................................................
Alta Vista ...................................................................................... .
TOTAL

203

71.55
176.70
77.25
51.45
203.35
109.00.
118.25
96.20
120.15
34.95
126.15
111.35
93.70
61.95
146.70
84.30
37.65
19.50
66.00
29.30
65.85
17.10

..................................., 4,017.55

Dimitted cases ..............................................................................................$489.10
Lodge Unknown-\Voman vouched for ................................................ 360.00

ASSESSMENTS RECEIVED FROM LODGES CONSTITUTING
THE BOARp.
204.50.
1 California
61.00
17 La Parfait Union ........ :....................... ~ ....................................... ..
227.20
22 Occidental ...................................................................................... ..
198.65
30 Golden Gate ................................................................................. .
126.90
44 lvft. Moriah ................................................................................... .
198.70
120 Fidelity .......................................................................................... ..
71.60
127 Hermann ......................................................................................... .
239.05
Pacific
............................................................................................
..
136
171.60
139 Crockett ........................................................................................... .
132.05
144 · Oriental ........ ................... . ...................... ........ . .................. .
156.25
166 Excelsior ...................................................................................... ,...
31 t:65
169 ;'Yfissioti .......................................................................................... ..

During the year the following have been buried or their remains
shipped according to the wishes of the families:

1917
Sept. 8 Mrs. Belle Huden .............. Pleiades No. 248 ................ Fayette, Ia.
16 Warren F. Cook................ Arcturus No. 237.............. 0ssian, Ia.
21 Return Roberts .................. Madera No. 280................ Madera, Cal.
· 27 Lowell B. McCubrey .......... Washburn No. 193............ Washburn, Me.
Oct. 1 James W. Davis .................. Olive Branch No. 269......Tulare, Cal.
4 George Thompson ._ ......... Buckeye No. 195 .............. Winters, Cal.
20 Keith F. Gray...................... Winchester No. 1737....... Winchester, N. Z.
27 Charles H. Moler ..... :.......... Hope No. 22 ...................... Yerington, Nev.
Nov. 2 Flora Williams .................. Yerba Buena No. 403 ...... 0akland, Cal.
7 Capt. Charles McDonald.. Mariners No. 80................ Louisburg, N. S.
15 Chauncey M. St. John ...... Mill Valley No. 356 ..........Mill Valley, Cal.
17 Peter Claudius .................... Fruitvale No. 336.............. 0akland, Cal.
21 Mrs. Grace Johns ................ Pocahontas No. 240........ Pocahontas, Va.

204

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Dec. 17 Charles H. Erb .................... Palestine No. 158 ............ Marysville, Cal.
18 Daniel Jutton .................... Syracuse No. 50L. ........... Syracuse, N. Y.
22 Ross A. Richards ................Sunset No. 623.................. Washington, Pa.
26 Philip Miller ........................ North Bend No. 40.......... North Bend, Ore.
1918
Jan. 12 George W. Hitchcock ........Yakima No. 24.................. North Yakima, Wash,:
17 Mrs. George R. Judd ........ Unity .......................:.......... Dalton, Mass.
19 John G. K. Whittlesey ...... Lodi No. 256 ...................... Lodi, Cal.
Feb. 5 William J. Smith ................ Montgomery No. 68........ New York, N. Y.
7 William W. Cross.............. Hollywood No. 355 .......... Hollywood, Cal.
18 Mrs. Lizzie N. Fletcher ....Ancient Land Mark No.17Portland, Me.
21 George W. Courtney.......... Hannibal No. 188.............. Hannibal, Mo.
23 Thomas J. Bennett ............ Unity No. 36......................Jefferson, Ga.
Mar. 2 William S. Allen ................Tucson No. 4....................Tucson, Ariz.
5 Jeremiah J. Wilson ............Wil:its No. 365 .................. Willits, Cal.
6 George A. Wright ............Gosport No. 903 ................ Gosport, Eng.
14 Burns Gleason .................... Washington No. 240........ Buffalo, N. Y.
14 William E. MacClymont..Anchor No. 149................ Plainfield, N. J.
24 Henry Levy ........................ Cambridge No. 662.......... Brooklyn, N. Y.
26 Thomas Holland ................ Portneuf No. 18. ............... Pocatello, Ida.
27 Nathanial D. Arnot... ......... Palmyra No. 26................ Placerville, Cal.
29 William F. McA11ister...... St. Helena No. 93............ St. Helena, Cal.
April 5 Edward Dreyfuss .............. Petaluma No. 180............ Petaluma, Cal.
17 Mrs. George Spooner........ Evening Star No. 186...... Etna Mills, Cal.
May 2 Maurice Krasynski ............ Union No. 40.................... Danbury, Conn.
13 Leander Holmes ................Weber No. 6...................... 0gden, Utah.
16 Mrs. David Shakespear .... St. Helena No. 93 ............ St. Helena, Cal.
18 Mrs. Ella Blackman .......... East Gate -:\'o. 290............ Los Angeles, Cal.
June 4 Maurice Lazarus ................Genesee Falls No. 507 ...... Rochester, N. Y.
7 Harley W. Kittinger .......... Orion No. 358 ..................Union, Ill.
9 Frank G. Powrie ................ Fraternity No. 1111 ........ El Paso, Texas.
12 Francis J. Brunton ............ .Mountain View No. 194.. .Mountain View, Cal.
17 Samuel Simmons .............. Union No. 58 ......................Sacramento, Cal.
20 Lucius Wright .................... Meridian No. 308.............. .Meridian, l:Iiss.
24 Edward Smith .................... Granite No. 35 .................... Barre, Vt.

205

l<J.'.l'ORT OF THE MASONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
We hereby beg to submit our report for the year ending August
.II. 1918.
Notwithstanding the abnormal demand for labor during the past
.1·mr, our Bureau has been most active in helping the employer to adjust
his husiness in accordance with the demands of the times. The large
1111mber of young men who have been called to serve their country have
l1·ft a vacancy which employers have found hard to fill.
A great many women have been able to secure positions which
paid them sufficiently to live comfortably without assistance, who have,
la·rctofore, been aided by the Board of Relief.
A great many of our older men who were hard to place before,
arc now doing their share. It is heartily gratifying to note that men
of seventy or thereabouts are doing their bit to help win this war and
have come into their own.
It was not an easy matter to convince employers at first that old
men could be of use to them, but they have taken the place of office
hoys and errand boys so successfully that we are convinced they will
he retained in such positions.
It is a novel sight to see an e.rrand boy of seventy five, or thereabouts, and brings strongly to mind the fact that we are passing through
unusual times.
The Fraternity at large deserves our thanks for the valuable aid
rcnderea by them at all times and it is a pleasure to be able to serve
where service is so much appreciated.
Fraternally submitted,
THOMAS IRWIN, Secretary.
CHARLES H. S. PRATT, President.
Applications filed during the year .............................................................. 2,690
Total positions secured ........................................................................ 2,635
Applications withdrawn ...................................................................... 33
Applications on file............................................................
22
MAL:£.

Aug. 22 James W. French................ Parian No. 321... ...............Harlan, Ia.
Total, 48.

Applications filed ............................................................................................ 2,315
Applications withdrawn ................ ................ .................................... 15
Applications on file................................................................................ 10
Positions secured .................................................................................. 2,290

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

21l6

207

PROCEEDINGS OF THB:

LOS ANGELES BOARD OF RELIEF
FEMALE

Applications filed _____________ -------------------------·-·········-----·--·································· 375
Applications withdrawn --····----·---·--··---········-·······--····--·-··-··-········-··-····-· 18
Applications on file ·-·-------------------------··------·--··-····-----·- ····-·-------------·-·--···· 12
Positions secured ···········-···---····-····-····--············-··---···---····-·······················345
Total expense for the year.. ............. ·-··-····-·············-···--·--········---···········-$1,751.25
Total positions secured ......................... ·--·---·-······---·-·-····-·---···-··-·--·····-····
2,635
Average cost per position se,cured....................................................

66c

BALANCE SHEET.
Balance on hand September 1, 1917 ................ ---···-···--··---·--·-···---'---·····-$ 127.84

The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los Angeles, herewith presents the following report of its labors from September 1,
(1>17, to August 31, 1918.
The Masonic Board of Relief is composed of the Masters (exofficio) of the 28 Blue Lodges of this City and two members appointed by him, together with the· Past Grand Masters residing
within the City of Los Angeles, the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts of Los Angeles City, one representative from each of
the several Royal Arch Chapters, the Council, the Commanderies,
the Scottish Rite bodies and the Shrine, the manager of the Masonic Employment Bureau, and one Past Worthy Matron of the
< lrder of the Eastern Star.
Officers: President, Brother John Hill Bean; Vice-President,
Brother Dana Reid Weller; Treasurer, Brother Motley Hewes
Flint; Secretary, Brother John Marcus Dunsmoor.

RECEIPTS

California Commandery No. 1, K. T ... ·-··········-········---·---·······-$120.00
Golden Gate Commandery No. 16, K. T ... ---············-····--········ 120.00
San Francisco Commandery No. 41, K. T ......... ·-·····-····-······· 60.00
San Francisco Chapter No. 1, R. A. M .......................... -........ 120.00
California Chapter No. 5, R. A. M ..... _..................................... 120.00
Mission Chapter No. 79, R. A. M ........... ·-··············-··············· 120.00
San Francisco Lodge of Perfection No. l.. .... ·-····-·····--······-··· 120.00
California Lodge of Perfection No. 10............ ___ ·-·· ·- ............ 120.00
Islam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. Shrine ................ ·-·-···········-···· 240~00
San Francisco Pyramid No. 1, A. E. 0. Sciots .... ·--····-········ 60.00
Board of Relief of San Francisco ............................................ 560.00

Stated meetings are held on the first Sunday of each month.
The officers form an Executive Board and are on duty daily.
In presenting our report for the year 1917-1918, we will not
dwell on explanations, but will confine ourselves to the financial
transaction.

1,760.00.
Total Cash Available -···-············--·······-··-·······

'/'11 the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

-··········-·-···········-$1,887.84

DlSBURSEMENTS

Salaries ········-·-·----·········-·-···· --·······--·---······--·····--·--· --·-····-··········-$1,325.00
Rent ···- -···········-·-----·--·············--·-··-·····--····--·---······-···--·-·-·············· 180.00
Printing ··················-·-···-············--··-------············--····················-·····
26.75
Telephone and messenger ............ ----·--·--··········-·····--·--······-···--· 160.00
Carfare, stationery, postage, etc .................. ·-···-------·-·-·---···--··
59.50

1,751.25
Balance on hand August 31, 1918_ ___ ............ ------···-- -·-·--········-··--·-··-$ 136.59

There have been many appeals for small contributions from
ladies whose husbands or sons are serving in the army. to bridge
them over till employment could be found, or till the government
allotment could be forthcoming.
CEMETERH'.S

The Masonic Fraternity of Los Angeles has had no satisfactory
place for the burial of its dead until this year, when arrangements
were made with the Forest Lawn Memorial Park, to set aside a
beautiful tract of land within its boundaries, which will receive perpetual care and be forever kept g:een. This tract of land is known
as the "Masonic Plot," and in which only Masons or members of
their families will be interred. The cost of these interments is considerably lower than can be obtained for a like situation in other
cemeteries.

208

209

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OI~ CALIFORNIA

INVALIDS COMING

We are proud of the fact that the steadily increasing success
11f the Bureau demonstrates that on longer acquaintance with the
11hjccts and aims of the Bureau employers and employees share
alike and better results are obtained, but space forbids showing in
dl'tail the great amount of good accomplished.

Invalids coming to California, particularly consumptives,
quote from the statement of Dr. John W. Trask, Assistant Surgeon
General, United States Public Health, who says: "No locality has
a climate that is favorable for all the year. In one's quest for
favorable climate you must not forfeit suitable food, rest and peace
of mind. The consumptive can usually obtain the most favorable
conditions for recovery, including outdoor life, suitable food, rest,
medical attention and nursing, at or near his home. Leaving home,
except to a sanitarium, is fraught with much danger, unless one is
financially able to meet all possible demands. It should be most.
carefully considered, even then." In the foregoing, I most certainly
concur.
MASONJC EMPLOYMENT llURl\AU

The Manager of the Employment Bureau, Brother F. T. Purdy,
reports as follows:
Af>/>lications

Men and Boys .............................................................................. 1067
Women and Girls ........................................................................ 267
Total applications ............................................................. 1334

Positions Fvllcd

DEATHS

During the year ending August 31, 1918, the following ninetythree Masons or members of their families have passed to their
final reward, and their remains have been given burial with Masonic honors, or shipped according to the wishes of the families, viz.:
11117
Patrick D. Silver.. .......... Oklahoma City No. ,36 .. 0klahoma City, Ok.
Max Stern ........................ Acacia No. 4.................... Gd. Forks, N. Dak.

Kc•pt. 11 \Vm. M. Hackett ............ Antic1uity No. 252 .......... Moravia, Iowa
18 Palmer S. Wilson ............ Acacia No. 9 .................... Lawrence, Kan.
26 Charles H. Jennings ...... Neosho No. 27 ................ Le Roy, Kan.
27 George E. Gibson ............ Covert No. 11 .................. 0maha, Neb.
t lit. 13 Mrs. Jessie Murry ............ Craft No. 287 .................. Canton, Mo.
14 Arthur Chas. Palmer ...... Temple No. 46 ................ Peoria, Ill.
19 Herman G. White .......... Warren No. 24 ................ Piciua, Ohio
r\11v.

4 Geo-rg7°F. Leavy.::':'.~~.~cYi;;~~~ No: 227 ... :.. :..~~... Laclede; M~. - 9 Eugene .W. Spencer ........ Emporia No. 12.............. Emporia, Kan.
12 James A. Foote .............. A noka No. 30 .................. Anoka, Minn.
12 Herbert Alex. lkll... ..... Colmnhian No. 819 ........ Chicago, Ill.
15 William F. Nichols ........ Wilcox No. 10.................. Wilcox, Ariz.
16 Richard TL ·Pugh ............. Siloam No. 780 ................ Chicago, Ill.
22 William Snyder .............. Olive lfranch No. 32 ...... Saguache, Colo.
26 Wm. Zuinn McDonalcl..Columhus No. 30 ............ Columhus, Ohio
28 Elmer H. Drake .............. Colorado City No. 76 .... Colorado City, Colo.
28 Jam es MacCorkell... ....... Mattoon No. 260 ............ Mattoon, Ill.

llt·<-.

6 Frank Cutter .................... Temple No. 6.................. Alhm111erque, N. M.
10 Orrin H. Prnner .............. lluron No. 26 ................ Huron, So. Dal<.
12 Charles E. Cook .............. Forest City No. 388 ........ Cleveland, Ohio
18 Frank A. Bowles ............ Minerva No. 792 ............ Brooklyn, N. Y.
18 Charles G. Snow ............ Garden City No. 14i°...... Chicago, Ill.
18 Charles H. Roberts ........ Wrights Grove No. 779 Chicago, Ill.
21 Richard Morton ............ Willamette No. 2............ l'ortland, Ore.
23 James A. Bement ............ The Barton No. 6 ............ Hamilton, Ont., Can.

Men and Boys ............................................................................... 513
Women and Girls ........................................................................ 157
Total filled ............................................................................ 670
Temporary jobs for the year ...................................·'............... 897
Total ...................................................................................... 1567
Ten applications cancelled during the year for good and sufficient reasons.
Two applications cancelled for placing their labor unions above
Masonry, and refusing good paying positions.
Four for refusing good paying positions out of city.
Three applications cancelled for drunkenness while on duty.
One failing to report for duty after position was secured, and
offering no excuse for failure to do so.

no

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

1918

Jan. 13 William H. DeHart ..... -Olean No. 252 .................. 0lean, New York
19 \.Villiam R. Rogers ........ Mount Vernon No. 145 .. Beloit, Kan.
20 Isaac Rothstern .............. Eau Claire No. 112........ Eau Claire, Wis.
29 Mrs. Rena Stearns .......... Three Oaks No. 239 ......Three Oaks, Mich.
Feb.

4 Thomas Holbrook ........ Washington No. 59........ Philadelphia, Pa.
7 Bert S. Porter .................. York No. 410 .................... Grand Rapids. Mich.
8 John H. Effinger ............ California No. L ............ San Francisco, Cal.
11 Charles W. VanLoon .... Yeatman No. 162............ Cincinnati, Ohio
18 Wright H. Emerson ...... Lockport No. 533 ............ Lockport, Ill.
19 Daniel Dake .................... Traverse City No. 222.. Traverse City, Mich.
21 Dr. James \.V. ShauL. ... Wayne No. 416 ................ 0ntario, N. Y.
23 William D. Coberly ........ Continental No. 454 ........ Stewartsville, Mo.
26 Dr. Ransler R. Peebles .. Bigelow No. 243 .............. Clcvcland, Ohio
26 Olonzo A. Dinsmore ...... Washington ....................Roxbury, Mass.
27 Charles E. Deal... ........... Hornellsville No. 331.... l lornell, N. Y.

Mar.

7 Ivan H. Wilson ................Corydon No. 91.. .............. Corydon. Iowa
9 Fred \V. H agenbruck .... Herman No. 39................ Quincey. 111.
13 George D. Powers .......... Rcno No. 1.3.. .................. Reno, Nevada
14 Jas. Leroy Mathews ...... Tulsa No. 71.. .................. Tulsa, Okla.
14 Joseph W. Skelton ........ Em. Crawford No. 148.. Broken Bow, Neb.
17 Philip Laichener ............ Palestine No. 357 ............ Dctroit, Mich.
21 George W. Lewis ............ Durango No. 46.............. Durango, Colo ..
24 Stephen L. Bean .............. Aurora No. 100 .............. Brainerd, Minn.
28 Willard Otis Turner ...... Kilwinning No. 311... ..... Chicago, Ill.
28 \.Villiam R. Jones ............ Murphyshoro No. 498. ... Mnrphysboro, Ill.
31 Grant Cowley .................. Eddyville No. 74 ............ Eddyville, Iowa

Apr.

May

5 William L. Slaughter .... Old Glory No. 975 .......... Chicago, 111.
14 Charle.s Williams .......... Hawaiian No. 21.. ............ Honolulu, 1 I. I.
14 William D. Noble .......... I': ion No. !. .......... ____________ Detroit. Mich.
14 Louis Melton .................. Union No. 7 ...................... Denver, Colo.
15 William J. Berg ............ -.Pinnacle No. 661............ Middlcsboro, Ky.
16 Walter F. Colwell ........ Alcona No. 292 ................ Harrisville, Mich.
20 G. S. VanWagenen ........ Kcnosha No. 47 .............. Kenosha, Wis.
21 Wm. Allen Eldridgc_ .... Mt. Olive No. 48 ............ Dclphi, Ind.

S Willard Smyers ................ Washington No. 17........ Hamilton. Ohio
8 Frank S. Champion ....... Antwcrp No. 335 ............ Antwerp, Ohio
15 Joseph B. Roe .................. C<;lling-wood No. 457 ....Toledo, Ohio.
16 James C. McKim ............ Dctroit No. 2 .................. Dctroit, Mich.
20 Richard Foster ...... -... _... G. W. Guthrie No. 69LPittshurgh, l'a.
20 Edward C. Bailcy ............ Marquettc No. 101........ Marquettc, Mich.
20 Edward G. Caruthers .... Ymna No. 17 .. _................. Yuma, Ariz.
23 De Verna Hotchkiss ... -Trio No. 57 ___ ................... Rock Island, lll.
26 Charles Harcourt .......... Mt. Pisgah No. 96.......... Cripple Creek, Colo.

SU

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

11111<'

2 Elmer E. Brewer ............ Delano No. 309 ................ Delano, Cal.
6 George W. Daly.............. Republic No. 914 ............ Chicago, Ill.
6 Lorenzo H. Preston ...... Pleaidcs No. 218.............. Fayette, Iowa
15 Capt. J. B. Nicholson .... Albercorn No. 159.......... Johannesburg, S. Af.
16 Dr. James S. Owens ...... Ashlar No. 308. ...... -........ Chicago, Ill.
18 Edward R. NeilL_ .......... Mnrphysboro No. 498 .... Murphysboro, Ill.
20 George W. Signor.. ....... Shreveport No. 115 ........ Shreveport, Ill.
27 Henry Best .................... Dearborn No. 310 .... _..... Chicago, Ill.
28 David L. Aiken ..... _........ Onalaska No. 214 ..... _.... Onalaska, Wis.
,Inly 3 Perry J. Johnson ............ Temple No. 6.................. Albuquerque, N. M.
1 Walter Arthur Jeffrics .. Doric No. 92............ -....... Seattle, Wash.
9 \Vallacc J. PattetL.. ......... Needlcs No. 325 .............. Necdles. Cal.
19 Joel B. Doty..... ----·-·--····--Pacific No. 822 .... __ .......... Honolulu, H.I., Scot.
22 Geo. H. English .... _......... Windsor No. 442 ______ ...... Windsor, N. Y.
25 John M. Turner.. ............ Ctlrtis No. 168. ................. Curtis, Neb.
27 John B. Rueben ............. _.Crockett No. 139 ........... _San Francisco, Cal.
29 John C. Devlin ............ _..... Montana No. 2 ................ Virginia City. Mont.
.\11g-. 2 Dr. Chas. H. Douglas .... Saint John No. 1.. ......... Providence. R. I.
4 Ras Craig ........................ Yuma No. 17................... Yuma, Ariz.
9 Chris Wilson .................. South Pueblo No. 31.. .... l'ucblo, Colo.
8 Charles D. Reppy .......... Gila Valley No. 9 ............ Florence, Ariz.
22 John lT. Williams .......... St. Jn. the Tlaptist, 184 .. Valdosta, Ga.
25 John F. C. Schrocdcr .... Templc No. 6 .................. Albutjtterque, N. M.

nJ\'l'AILt;n S'tATl(MltNT OJI RliCElPTS AN!J lllSllURSEMl!NTS

Classified by Jurisdictions
Paid
Alabama ...................................................................-$ 105.00
50.00
Alaska ........................ ·-·---·----·--··--·······--···-----.......... .
35.00
Alberta ............ -.............. ·-··-----···--·----········ .............. ..
Arizona ........ _........... _............... __ ............. _, ... _..... _.... .
66.00
Australia ............................................................. --.. .
5.00
15.00
Bermuda .................................................................. ..
British Col um hia .............. __ .......... _............... _.... ..
106.00
California _,_ ............................ -.... ·-----------.............. .. 1.011.90
Canada .... -..... -................................................. _...... ..
174.95
Canal Zone ·--·-· .. _............. _.................................... ..
55.00
5.00
China .............. .
Colorado ·--·-·---· ....................... _....................... ______ __
204. 50
10.0()
Connecticut ........ ____ ........................ _........... -......... ..
Delaware ..................... -... _............................ -......... ..
10.00
District of Colnmbia ........ _............... _................... ..
10.00
England .... __ .................. -.......................................... .
30.00

Received
105.00
20.00

$

25.00

106.00
1,008.99
210.00

55.00
295.00

212

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Paid

Florida ·-----------------------·-·-·-·--------·--·-·-------·--··-----··-···-Georgia ···-·-·---.. ·-------·-------·---·--·--·-----·--·--··--------······-···
Germany ··-··-··················--·-··-·--·-··-----·····-················Hawaii ---------------·-·---····-------------·-····-······-··················
Idaho ·-··-···-·-··-····-·-············-······························-·········
Illinois ·······················-········-···-··-~---·--·-·····-·-··-········ ..
Indiana ····--·············-···-·····-····---·················-·-··········-··
Iowa ·····-··-·--·--········--····-··-···-··--·····-·····-·········--··········
I re land ···············-·····--·-·-·······-·····-·······------······------··-Kansas ----------·-·····-----------------·-------·--··--·-··-········-·······
Kentucky ---···--···-··-·--·-···--------·-·······-·--···-····-·--·-·-·-·-·Louisiana ···-···--·-·······----····----·--·------·--·--·----·---·----·----·
Maine -·-----------···-------------------·--···-----------·--·-·--·----------Massachusetts ----------------·--·---·-------·----·----·--·-·----····Mexico ·----------------------------------- --····--·-········-····-·-···---··
Michigan ------------·----·--------------·--·--··--·--·-·· .. ····--·----·--··Minnesota ··-··-···--·-------·-··----···--··-·-·-····-·········---·----·-Mississippi ·-···-----···-······--··--··-·-·--·····-·····-··-·------·-: ...
Missouri ······----~----·-···-·······-·-·· ... ··-·-··--···-· ----·-·--·-···-·
Montana ·-···-····--·---······································-·-·········
Nebraska ··-·············---················-···-···--·---·------·········Nevada --·--------··--···-···--·-·-·-·-----·--····-··-·-·--···---------····-·
New Brunswick ·········-·-··········-··-····················-·······
New Hampshire ----·-------·-----·------·--·-····-·····--·-········
New Jersey ····-·-··-···-·------------------·············-····--···-·····
New Mexico ----------·-····-------··-·········-··----··-·--·-·--------New South Wales -------------·-·--··-··----··---------·-··-·-·--·New York ·-------···------··---··--------·-··-·----·-·-····-·--·--------New Zealand ·-··-·-·-·-··-··--····---··---·-·--··-··-----------·-----North Carolina ····-··-·--····--·-·······-····--·----··--·-··-····-···Nor th Dakota ----·-----------·-··-··-----------·--·-----··-····-·-----~ova Scotia -----------------------·---· .. ··--····-··-----------------··
Ohio -----------------------------------------------------.. ---·--------···---Oklahoma -····----·---------···--··--··-·--------···-·----··-···----·-···
Ontario -··-···--····------···-·-·-···-·--····-····--------------··---------Oregon ----------··-----~---····-·----·--·--·--·-·-·-·----·-···-·-··········­
Pennsylvania ---·················-····-································
Philippines --··············-···-··························-··············
Porto Rico ··········-········-····························--············
Prince Edward Island ......................................... .
Quebec ·····-····························--·-·····----~---···················
Queensland ------····-··········-·······················--·-···-·······-·
Scotland ··-------------------···------···-··-----------------··-··--·-····
South Dakota ------------·--------···--······-·-··-·--··-···-··-·-···-·

30.00
136.00
56.00
108.00
10.00
722.78
412.00
646-25
35.50
216.50
350.51
6.50.
30.00
127.00
415.00
491.50
160.00
5.00
311.00
260.80
366.06
5.00
10.00
15.00
157.95
45.00
15.00
813.35
18.00
10.00
11.60
5.00
544.10
242.50
5.00
148.00
679.00
25.00
5.00
5.00
2.00
12.00
60.50
105.00

Received
10.00
110.00

108.00
549.14·
285.00·
853.50

25.00
200.00
170.00
48.4.50
86.00
105.50
275.80
553.46
5.00

Paid
10.00
289.35
59.50
398.00
15.00
165.00

Received
5.00
224.00
68.75
308.00

$10,665.60

$ 8,975.50

·I' 1• 1111 es see ---··-·---·-·-··-··-··-···--·····-·---···--···-··--···----·····'I'.- xas ---·----·--·-·-··---···-···-·----------·····-······-·-·····-····-·-----I ltah -·-·-·--·-·-------------·-·-·······--·-·-·······-··-·------·-------------\Vas h ingto n ------·-··------··---·-------··--·-·········-···-·-···-----\ Vt•st Virginia ---·------------········---··--··-·····----·-··-·------Wisconsin

212.50
319.51

213

95.00

Rl!CAPITULAT ION

Receipts

Ilalance September 1, 1917 ... ·--------------·-··-----------··-·-·-·--···-·--·····-----$ 5,216.88
l<t·ceived Interest .............. ---·--······-······-··-··-········-······················-··-·
115.77
lfrccived from Grand Lodge ................. ·--·------------------------------·---- 2,500.00
,,. n nn Sister Jurisdictions----···---·-·-------·-··--··-····-----··--·---··-··-----··-··- 8,97 5.50
Total -·-·-·····-·-·-·-· ·--·---···-······- --·-···--·-·--··-- ····--··--····-···-·-·-·-·-··-·--···--$16,808.15
Disbursements

412.90

Telegraphing -·--·--········-·--············--·-·-··--·-------·····-·-··········--·-·······-·-···$ 318.45
I Jrugs and Medicines.·---··--·······--·········--··-·····-·-··-····-·-·-·--·-·---·-----···
251.80
l 'hristmas Charities ·--·····-·········-···-·-·········-··-··-·--·-··--·-···-··--·······-·--·
67 5.59
<'hristmas Dinners -----·------···-·-·--··-····--··--·-·-· .. ··--··------------------------·-·
248.00
Stt•el Safe & Index, etc·---··-··-··-···--·········-··--·--·-----·----·-·--·····--·······-575.50
<"1·metery Account --·-----····--··--·····-··-·······-··---·······-··-------·---··-···-···--· 2,087.50
t 'lassified by Jurisdictions .................. --·--·---·············-·····-· .. -·--·-··-·-- 10,665.60

5.00

Total ---·--··-···-·-----···-···-·-··--··--····---------·---·-··-·--·-····-··-------·----------·-·$14,822.44

300.00
240.00

llalance 011 hand September 1, 1918......-----·----······------·-----··--·-····$ 1,985.71

9.60
184.35
80.00

All of which is respectfully submitted.

125.00
605.00

J. H. BEAN,
President.
:\ ttest:

J. M. Dt:NSMOOR,
Secretary.

30.00
100.00

214

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

215

Disbursel!lents

OAKLAND BOARD OF RELIEF

I'• •r California Lodges ........................................................ _............ $1,899.15

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith presents the
following report of its labors for the year embracing September 1,
1917, to August 31, 1918.
The Board is composed of the Masters and Wardens of the
ten Lodges located within the municipality of Oakland.
The officers elected to serve until the first ·w ednesday in
January, 1919, are Allen Martin Wickland, Chairman; Albert Barclay Cosad, Treasurer; Robert Griffith Evans, Secretary.

: .: : ';,~~::i~· Y~!~~~c~ii~t~~~-~-.:::::::-.-.-.::-.:::::-.::-.-.::-.:::::-.:-.·::::::::-.·_:-.:::::-.-.::-.·_ l,~~~ ~~
..

Total relief ................................................................................$3.749.97
lfr11t, salaries and incidentals ...................... .'................. -................. 1,586 64
'l"c·legraph and telephone..................................................................
53. 74
Stationery and
38.95
I '1 •stage ................................................................................................
32.81
Total disbursements

.... $5,462.11

Receipts

Refunded by Lodges in California................................................ $1,318.10
Refunded by other U. S. jurisdictions ........................................ 1,121.35
Refunded by foreign jurisdictions................................................ 142.50
Refunded by individuals.................................................................. 539.55
Grand Lodge account sundry jurisdictions................................ 864.03
Interest from bank........................................................................... 102.51

llalance on hand ..................................................... .

......... 2,521.94

$7,984.05
RECElPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY JURTSD!CTJONS

United States.
$4,088.04

Live Oak Lodge No. 61. ................................................................... $ 247.30
Oakland Lodge No. 188.................................................................. .. 19~.10
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 .................................................................. 141.66
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244 ................................................................... . 131.73
Fruitvale Lodge No. 366................................................................. . 118.08
Sequoia Lodge No. 349.................................................................. .. 197.74
Bay View Lodge No. 401. ...............................................................
75.76
Y erba Buena Lodge No. 403 .......................................................... ... 77.00
Standard Lodge No. 440 ................................................................ ..
47.10
Rock ridge Lodge No. 468 ............................................................... .
2.32

Received from
Jurisdiction.
Individuals. Lodges.
Arizona ----···-····--·--·---------( 'olorado
15.00
I listrict of Columbia .... 110.00
$ 13.00
Idaho .... ··--·----------------------150.00
I lawaiian Territory........
5.00
45.00
Illinois -----··----------------------- 64.88
201.60
Indiana
72.00
Iowa
.............................. 10.00
3.00
l\ansas ..............................
1.50
143.50
Maine
34.50
3.00
Massachusetts -------·········
65.00
Michigan ·························· 160.00
47.50
Minnesota ---------------·······-45.00
Mississippi ••••••·••··-.•H••···•
Missouri ••••••wWWMHH•H••••••HO 25.00
Nebraska
81:00
Nevada .............................. 20.00
3.00
New York ........................
172.25
Ohio
25.00
••••H-w•H•••••••••••••••••

----·~

••••MWMHO••••••••••ooo•owOO••••

Total from contributing Lodges ............................................ $1,236.79
Total receipts ...........................................................................................'""''"'"'·o"
Balance on hand September 1, 1917.............................................. 2,659.22

-W••••••W•••••••••••••••••

Total receipts and balance ...................................................... $7,984:05

•••••••w>-••••~••w••~•H••dw.••••~

Received
Total.
$

15.00
123.00
50.00
266.48
72.00
13.00
145.00
37.50
65.00
207.50
45.00
25.00
81.00
23.00
172.25
25.00

Disbursemen ts.
$ 77.00
45.00
122.00
260.00
292.00
72.00
12.00
122.00
31.00
65.00
108.00
55.00
10.00
35.00
77.00
27.00
95.25
25.00

216

PROCEEDINGS 01'' THE
. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Received from
Jurisdiction.
Individuals. Lodges.
Oregon ............................ 26.50
Pennsylvania ................. .
13.50
Utah .................................. 5.57
Washington ................... .
13.00
\Visconsin ........................
25.00
Wyoming ....................... .

Received
Total.
26.50
13.50
5.57
13.00
25.00

Disbursemen ts.
1.50
112.00
5.57
35.00
5.00
10.00

--Total ..........................$477.95

$1,121.35

$1,599.30

$1,696.32

California ........................ 61.60

1,318.10

1,379.65

1.899.15

Total U. S ................$539.55

$2,439.45

$2,979.00

$3,595.47

$ 142.50

$ 142.50
2.00
10.00

Foreign.
Canada ··-·-······· ................ -Scotland
Portugal

$ 142.50

.. ~WWHwwwwwwwwwww+•••wWWWW

••••••••••••OMHW••••·~•wo

Total

n••W•WHHWWwwwwwww•oH

•••H•~•O

$ 142.50

$ 142.50

217

Mar. 18 Emile Chatelaine ............ Naval No. 87....................Vallejo, Cal.
April 8 John Sherwood ................ Escurial No. 7..................Virginia City, Nev.
15 Earl V. Case ...................... Siloam No. 225 ................Topeka, Kas.
Mny 6 Andrew Bronson ............ Monterey No. 217 .......... Monterey, Cal.
7 George F. Lucas .............. Eureka No. 20..................Seattle, Wash.
,lm11· 6 Milton E. Pinney ..............Western Star No. 2........ Nebraska City. Neb.
17 Bernard Conway .............. Culbertson No. 174....... Culbertson, Neb.
26 George Lester Farmer.. Calistoga No. 233 ............ Calistoga, Cal.
July 5 Charles Purdy.................. Fenton No. 109................Fenton, Mich.
9 Carsten Namanny ............ Emulation No. 255 .......... Clinton, Iowa.
23 Don A. Valentine ............Mendocino No. 179........ Mendocino, Cal.
Aui,r. 10 George Livengood ..........White Mountain No. 3.. Globe, Ariz.
IS George E. Wissman .....Gothic No. 519................ Philadelphia, Pa.
19 Charles S. Harker ............ San Jose No. 10.............. San Jose, Cal.
31 Sydney H. Stewart ..........Tanana No. 162.............. Fairbanks, Alaska
Respectfully submitted,
A. M. WICK'LAND,
Chairman.

ROB1'.

G. EVANS,
Secretary.

$ 154.50

SACRAMENTO BOARD OF RELIEF
r'UN!\RALS

During the year ending August 31, 1918, the following named
Masons, or members of their families, have been given Masonic'
burials, or shipped in accordance with the wishes of the families:.
1917.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Colifornaa:

The Masonic Board of Relief of Sacramento herewith submits
its report for your consideration from October 1, 1917, to September 30, 1918, inclusive:

Sept. 8 Chas. Wood \Vise ............ Petaluma No. 180............ Petaluma,.Cal.
25 James A. Hudson ............ Richard Cole No. 697.... Chicago, Ill.
Oct. 1 Daniel J. Wilcox ............ Onyx No. 419 ................. Sanborn, Iowa,.
16 William A. Saunders...... Henry Clay No. 95 ....... Sutter Creek, Cal.
26 William H. Beck. ........... Dawson No. 16............... Washington, D. C.
Nov. 9 Ash H. Merrill... ............... Topeka No. 17............... Topeka, Kas.
1918.

This Board is composed of the Masters and Wardens of Lodges
holding concurrent jurisdiction in the City of Sacramento, which
contribute to, but draw nothing from the funds of the Boardsojourning Master Masons, their widows and orphans alone being
recipients of its charities. Money refunded. is again given to the
needy. Regular meetings are held the first Sunday in each month
in the Masonic Temple at 11 o'clock A. M., and to the credit of the
members thereof let it be said there has always been present at
every meeting representatives from each Lodge.

Jan. 11 Sloman Small... ............... Galt No. 267...................... Galt, Cal.
•
31 Thomas Care .................... Madison No. 23 ............. Grass Valley, Cal.
Feb. 21 John J. McKenzie .......... Bodie No. 252.................. Bodie, Cal.
26 George Nicholson ............ St. Johns No. 484............ Slamanan, Scotland.

Officers of the Board: "Bro. \Vallace H. Renwick, President;
Bro. _Milton J. Ferguson, Vice-President; Bro. Richard C. Irvine,
Secretary-Treasurer.

219

GHAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

218

11UNERALS
FINANCIAL STA'l'EMEN'l'

Cash on hand October 1 1917
3 2
Received from Grand L~dge Q~~~b~~--·l9tJ·························--··-$l, 5 .ZO
Refunds from all sources
'
···· ·····-··········-·-·--·
340.00

D?~ations

48· 8

111ic services:
Bro. John Murray, Salentia Lodge No. 198 of New York, died
November 3, 1917; Concord Lodge No. 117 officiating November

10.00

5th.

1

~ive Sacr·~~~~;·~~-"L~-d~~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: ·;~;·~~

from
D1v1dend on Savmgs Bank deposit..............
Return from Ex-President of Board
···-·······--··········
····-······················-················

During the year the following sojourners who died here or
whose remains have been sent here for burial were accorded Ma-

.4

Total cash ··----·--·--·-········-·····························································$3, 361 _09
Disbursed
Salary of Secretary..................
$
Stationery, printing etc.......... ·····-···················:················-·······--······ 180.00
2
Liberty bonds third series.. ···················--······································
2.65
General relief'
..... ............................................
500.00
······························· ........................................................ 1, 585.38

H•

Bro. Thomas Jefferson Schoonover, Eaton Lodge No. 63, at
l•:aton Rapids, Michigan, died February 27, 1918. Buried by Tehama Lodge No. 3, March 3, 1918.
Bro. James Penny Craighead, McCandless Lodge No. 390 at
Pittsburg, Pennsylvania, died May 20, 1918. Funeral conducted by
Washington Lodge Ko. 20, May 22, 1918.
Isaac Nathan Lambert of Lamar Lodge No. 292 at Lamar,
Buried May 28th by Sacramento Lodge

Mo., died May 25, 1918.

Total disbursements ................................................................$2,288.03
Balance
cash on hand October 1' 1918........................................$1,073.06
.

f

Assets

~~:~ ~ oia;~~-erty bonds, third series ...........................................$ 500.00

··························-····················-·······-··· ........................... 1,073.06

T 0 ta! ·················--····· ......................................................................$1,57 3.06
Receipts and Di_sl:l(l_rsements
Classified by JurisdictionsReceived
California
475.97
Illinois
........................................... .
•
.. W••w••
20.00
213.50
15.00
Nevada .............................................................. .
217.76
New York
17.40
-•••••••••••~v;H••••••-

BE~E~ia : : : : ·: :.: : · :_·: :· : : : :·: : : :·: : : : .: : : : : : : : :

~Ji§;:~:: ; t :: ~; .

epu iated by Lodge ............................ .
Individuals .............................................. ·:::::::::::··-····

12.50
43.33
10.00

Disbursed
$ 444.37
45.00
10.00
284.05
15.00
19.90
1.25
12.50
91.62

202.50

164.19
240.00
257.50

$1,227.96

$1,585.38

No. 40.
Bro. (Dr.) William S. Watson of Beacon Lodge No. 283 at
l\cacon, New York, died May 26, 1918. Funeral conducted by Union
Lodge No. 58, May 28, 1918.
Bro. Charles Evans McBean of El Paso Lodge No. 130 at
El Paso, Texas, died July 1, 1918. Funeral by Concord Lodge No.
117, July 3, 1918.
Bro. Sydney Holmes Stewart of Tanaria Lodge No. 162 at
Fairbank, Alaska, died in Berkeley, California, on August 31, 1918.
Remains shipped here and cremated on September 3rd. Funeral
conducted by Tehama Lodge No. 3.
Bro. Edward \V. Ferguson of Breckenridge Lodge No. 47 at
Breckenridge; Colorado, died at Yreka, California, on September
2, 1918. Remains brought here and buried by \Vashington Lodge
No. 20 on September 5, 1918.
WALLA CE H. RENWICK,

President.
Attest:

R. c. lRVINll,
Secretary-Treasurer.

-----

---

---- - - - ----

220

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SAN DIEGO BOARD OF RELIEF

t\I A SONIC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU OF SAN DIEGO

September 1, 1917, to August 31, 1918

From August 31, 1917, to August 31, 1918

Receipts

W<1rk offered .............................................................................................. 752
\V <>rk accepted ............................................................................................ 675
I hid jobs, few days at time ...................................................................... 187
Work lasting two to four weeks ............................................................ 357
I 'l'rtnanent positions ................................................................................ 131

~eptember 1, 1917-Balance on hand ........................$1,367.35
I rom local Lodges .................................... c................... 809.60
nterest ..........................................................................
44 23
Refunded by California Lodges .............................. :: 1,475:00
Refunded by Lodges in U.
l 053 20
Refunded by Grand Lodge........................................
'502:87
Refunded by Foreign Lodges............................. ..... 289 45
Refunded by Individual Masons..............................
929.75
Refunded for Funerals advanced ............................ :: 359:79

221

The Employment Bureau has earned the reputation of furnishEfficiency is demanded and satisfaction to
I he employer secured.
i11is dependable help.

Receipts
Disbursements
Advanced to Masons in California
Advanced to other jurisdictions ··························
Advanced to Foreign jurisdictio~~··············· .. ···········
Advanced to Individually ................ :::::::::::::::::::·······
Advanced to Funerals of Masons ..................... :········
Advanced to Donation Employment Bureau::::::::
Advanced to Charity ..................................................... .
Advanced to Widows and Orphans ......................... .

$1,820.42
1,502.00
151.40

37.25

Al Bahr Temple, San Diego ..............................................................$120.00
A. & A. S. Rite, San
140.00
San Diego Commandery, K. T. No. 25............................................ 60.00
San Diego R. A. M. No. 61................................................................. 50.00
Masonic Board of Relief... ................................................................... 249.25

687.5Q
249.25
312.62
202.00

$619.25
Disbursements
Salaries .................................................................................................... $600.00
Carfare ....................................................................................................
5.00
Postage .......................................................... .........................................
4.25

Expenses
Salary of Secretary........................................$775.00
Telegraph and telephone.............................. 28.35
Postage .and carfare...................................... 10.00
Printing and stationery................................ 15.90
Incidental minor expenses.......................... 60.32

$609.25
889.57

Aug. 31, 1918-Balance on hand in bank & office ..

$5,852.01
979.23

The Employment Rureau has rendered tmusual service to the
families of Masons in the U. S. service, by finding employment,
thus helping them remain self-sustaining and independent.
R. w. BtLDING,
President.

$6,831.24 $6,831.24
R. W. BELDING,
President.

s. WOODMAN PO'l'Tl\R,
Secretary.

S. WOODMAN POTTER,
Secretary.

222

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

223

GRAND LODGE OF CA'LIFORNIA

HONOLULU BOARD OF RELIEF
SAN JOSE BOARD OF RELIEF

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of Honolulu begs to submit the following
report for the year ending August 31, 1918:
"

/ 11 1/i,·

Most Worshipful GrC1nd Lodge of CC1lifomia:

l·"illlowing is a report of our receipts and disbursements from
l lrtoher 1, 1917, to October 1, 1918:
Receipts

Receipts
Balance of August 31, 1917............................................................... $724.62
Member of Chickasha Lodge No. 94, Oklahoma. repayment. 250.00

11117
c kt.

1 Balance on
5 Veteran Lodge No. 373.·------··--···---···· --------····--······--·H-·
17 Grand Lodge of California ........................................... .

375.41
5.00
758.39

Ja11. 7 Loan returned .............................................................. .

5.00
94.05
20.00
2.00
15.00
25.00
96.16
250.00
50.00

1•118

$974.62

Disbursements
Membership in Masonic Relief Association ................$ 6.98
Member demitted from Star in the East Lodge No.
640, S. C. 1 Yokohama, Japan .................................... 182.00
Key Lodge No. 7, Siloam Springs, Arkansas ................ 117.38
Member of No. 94, Chickasha, Oklahoma ................... 250.00
Expenses, sundry ................................................................ 31.02 $587.38

Balance cash on hand ............................................................... $387.24
\VILLIAM BELL,

Secretary.

l·'t·h. 5
25
Mar. 11
1\pr. 10
May 3
Jttnc 11
20
30

Western Star Lodge No. 240....................................... .
Tuscaloosa Lodge No. 785 ........................................... .
Loan returned ................................................................. .
Tuscaloosa Lodge No. 785 .................................... .
Loan returned ................................................................. .
Charter Oak Lodge No. 249....................................... .
Grand Lodge of Iowa ..................................................... .
Temple Lodge No. 299, Kansas City, Mo ................ .

Total receipts ..............................................................$1,696.01
Disbursements
Incidentals
Error in assessments ................................. ········································
I.nan to Mrs. C .................................................................................. .
Member Temple Lodge No. 299................................................... .
Mrs. H., for Hibreten, N. C ............................................................ .
Mrs. S .. Tuscaloosa ......................................................................... .
Funeral of member of Charter Oak Lodge No. 249 ............... .
l'uneral of member Western Star No. 240................................. .
Mrs. M., Dublin, Ireland ................................................................. .
Mrs. F., mother of 1iason...................................... ·························
Member Astral Lodge No. 324, Iowa ................ -························

38.98
.75
25.00
360.00
100.00
66.05
94.05
95.16
10.00
15.35
425.54

--~

Total disbursements ............................................................. $1,230.88
October 1, 1918, balance on hand .......................................... .
465.13

RonT. J. BuTLl!R,
Chairman.
L. J\i. SIMONSltN,
Secretary.

224

225

PROCEEDINGS OF THlil

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS

Brother J. F. \Vest, Chairman of the Committee on
By-Laws, presented the following report:

Brother Frank Tade, Chairman of the Committee on
( 'harters, presented the following report:

To the J1ost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

To the Jfost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on By-Laws has received, carefully considered and found that the following applications for changes in bylaws conform to the Uniform Code of this Grand jurisdiction, and
it recommends that the same be approved as follows:

Your Committee on Charters, to whom were referred the petitions for charters of the several Lodges to whom dispensations
have been issued during the past Masonic Year, to-wit: Lincoln
Lodge, at San Francisco; Delta Lodge, at Stockton, and Yorba
Linda Lodge at Yorba Linda, now reports:

1. Twelve petitions increasing dues: 1 from $6.00 to $7.50 per
annum; 8 from $6.00 to $9.00 per annum; 1 f'rom $6.00 to $12.00 per
annum; 1 from $7.50 to $12.00 per annum; 1 from $6.00 payable
semi-annually, to $6.00, payable quarterly in advance; 1 reducing
dues from $18.00 to $12.00 per annum.
2. Four applications reducing initiation fees: 2 from $75.00
to $50.00; 2 from $100.00 to $50.00.
3. Four applications increasing initiation fees: 1 from $30.00
to $40.00; 2 from $30.00 to $50.00; 1 from $50.00 to $75.00.
4. Four affecting affiliation fees: 1 providing for an affiliation fee of $15.00; 3 abolishing affiliation fees.
5. Seventeen petitions changing date and time of stated meeting.
6. Three sets of By-Laws of Lodges under dispensation.
7. Your Committee also considered one application to reduce
dues from 75 cents per month to 50 cents per month, but as no
substantial reason was given for the change, your Committee recommends that same be denied. (This refers to Plumas No. 60,
denied approval by the Grand Master.)
8. Your Committee carefully considered standing resolutions
of four Lodges providing for an increase in fee for life membership.
All of these conform to the provisions of Section 129 of the Constitution.
Your Committee recommends that all four b~ approved.

J. F. W:i;:sT,
E.W. Fox,
CHAS. F. FURY,

H. M. WALLENSTEIN.

Adopted as presented.

Your committee followed with precision the examination of the
records of said Lodges prescribed by sections 74 and 75 of the
Constitution. We examined the records, including the reports of
said Lodges to the Grand Lodge, their dispensations and by-laws
and books ·of records of meetings; also their certificates as to proficiency of their respective Masters and Wardens.
We find first, that the said records of Lincoln Lodge and of
Delta Lodge were in proper form and kept in an orderly and commendable manner. Further, that said Lodges were clear of all
debts. We, therefore, recommend, as to Lincoln Lodge, at San
Francisco, to be numbered 470. and Delta Lodge, at Stockton, to be
numbered 471, that charters be granted.
As fj~l'Yorba Linda Lodge, at Yorha Linda, Orange County,
we found that the minutes of their meetings exhibited certain omissions of necessary actions with respect to tl\e issuance of a dispensation and the spreading thereof upon the minutes, and also the
adoption of their by-laws and the spreading of said by-laws in
full upon the minutes of the meeting after they were adopted.
Certain other rectifications of the minutes we deem desirable, in
order that the records may fully and accurately exhibit the necessary actions of the Lodge in the essential preliminary matters required by Masonic Law. \Ve, therefore, recommend in the case of
Yorba Linda Lodge that the minutes be amended in the respects
wherein they are deficient, and that upon certification by the Inspector of the 62d District, in which said Lodge is located, to the
effect that the minutes have been properly amended and the submission of said certificate to the Grand Secretary for his approval,
a charter be issued to Yorba Linda Lodge, to be numbered 469.
Your Committee further reports a recommendation to the effect
that the request of Germania Lodge No. 438 of Los Angeles, for

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRANL> LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

perm1ss10n to change its name to Acacia Lodge No. 438 a.nd to
render the ritual in the English language hereafter, be granted, and
that said Lodge be commended for its patriotic action.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

226

Respectfully submitted,

Brother William P. Jeffries, Chairman of the Com111ittee on Finance, presented the following general report :

FRANK TADE,

A. L. TREDWAY,
HENRY

227

R. BRADEN,

DANIEL }. BROWNSTEIN,
EDw ARD E.

Moss,
Committee.

The report and recommendations were adopted as presented; and charters ordered to be issued in accordance
therewith.

'J'o /he Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ca1/ifornia:
Your Committee on Finance begs leave to report as follows:
In conformity with the rules of the Grand Lodge, three memhns of the Finance Committee, viz.: Arthur S. Crites, John H.
M r(;ehee, and W. P. Jeffries, in company with the Grand Treasurer,
William P. Filmer, visited the vaults of the Mercantile Trust Company on California street, in the city of San Francisco, on Monday,
I lctober 7th, and there examined and personally handled the following securities, property of the Grand Lodge of California, of the
l•:nclowment Fund, Masonic War Fund, and Special Building Fund.
Grand Lodge of California

Par Value.

7 Blue Lake Water Company 6% Bonds .............................. $ 7,000.00

GRAND LODGE OF CHILE
Past Grand Master Murphey, Chairman of the Committee on Correspondence, presented the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Californ,ia:

Your Committee on Correspondence, to whom was referred
the application for re~ognition of the Gran Logi de Chile, begs leave
to report that it is not sufficiently advised .at this time to recommend such recognition, and therefore respectfully recommends that
the matter be continued over to be taken over by our successors,
and considered at the next Grand Lodge.
Respectfully submitted,

J. D. MURPHEYAdopted.

6 Southern Pacific 4% Refunding Bonds............................
6,000.00
9 California Gas & Electric Co. 5% Bonds.......................... 9,000.00
8 Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. 5% Bonds......................................
8,000.00
2 Los Angeles Gas & Electric 5% Bonds..............................
2,000.00
11 U. S. Government Liberty Loan (2nd Issue) Bonds.... 11,000.00
.17,000 Shares stock Masonic Temple, S. F., par $10............ 370,000.00
$413,000.00
Masonic War Fund
5 U. S. Government Liberty Loan (3rd Issue) .................. $ 5,000.00
Endowment Fund
21 4)/,% City of Santa Barbara Bonds ....................................$ 11,287.50
5 4)/,% City of Santa Barbara Bonds .................................. ..
5,000.00
16 5% Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. Bonds ....................................... . 16.000.00
12 4)/,% San Francisco Hetch Hetchy Bonds ...................... .. 12,000.00
2 5% City and County of San Francisco Bonds ................ ..
2,000.00
5 6% City of Upland Bonds .................................................... ..
3,125.00
9 5% City of Ashland Bonds ................................................... . 9,000.00
5 5% City of Richmond Bonds .............................................. ..
5,000.00
10 5% California Gas & Electric Bonds ................................ .. 10,000.00
11 3)/,% U.S. Government Liberty Loan (!st Issue).. ....... . 11,000.00
14 47'1% U. S. Government Liberty Loan ............................... . 14,000.00
12 U.S. Government Liberty Loan (!st Issue) ................... .
700.00

$ 99,112.50

'

228

PROCERDINGS OF 'l'HE

GRAND LODGE Olf CALIFORNIA

Special Building Fund

Your Committee on Finance has also considered the claim of
Arroyo Lodge No. 274, of Arroyo Grande, for reimbursement for
overpaid Grand Lodge dues. It appears that in February 1917
,\rroyo Lodge received an application for affiliation, accom~anied
hy a certificate of standing from King David's Lodge No. 209 of
lhis jurisdiction, and that the affiliate was duly elected and his
11ame entered upon the books of Arroyo Lodge, but the Secretary
of Arroyo Lodge neglected to notify the Secretary of King David's
I .odge of such election, and did not procure the demit from King
David's Lodge. The error was not discovered until after King
David's Lodge had made its annual report and paid dues to the
(;rand Lodge on the brother in question. Hence it is clearly evident that dues were paid to the Grand Lodge in the amount of $2.40
for the year 1917 on the name of Brother James Eugene Wilson by
both Arroyo Lodge and King David's Lodge.

5 Pacific Gas & Electric Bonds·----------------·---··············--·-----····-$ 5,000.00
5 Los Angeles Railway Bonds .. ·------------····-·······-··-------------------- 5,000.00
9 California Gas & Electric Bonds............. ----------------------------- 9,000.00
4y,( % U. S. Government Liberty Loan (3rd Issue) ........ 1,000.00
$ 20,000.00
All unmatured coupons are intact on the bonds, and said securities are in two safe deposit boxes, those oi the Grand Lodge and
Masonic War Fund in one box, and those of the Endowment Fund
and Special Building Fund in another box.
Your Committee recommends that bonds of the first issue
(Liberty Loan) be not converted, but that all the bonds of the
second issue of all the Funds be converted into third issue bonds.

Adopted.
Your Committee has had under consideration the claim of El
Centro Lodge No. 384, of El Centro, for reimbursement for expenses
amounting to $252.20 incurred for the relief of Brother Isaac Harry
Todd, a member of Gothic Lodge Xo. 852, of East St. Louis, State
of Illinois.
It appears from the correspondence that Brother Todd was
brought to the hospital in El Centro with a serious case o.f dropsy.
that the officers of El Centro Lodge wired Gothic Lodge of the
serious condition of the Brother, and received an answer to give
Brother Todd whatever assistance they deemed necessary and
draw a draft on Gothic Lodge for the amount. El Centro Lodge
followed instructions to the letter, but when the draft was drawn
for the balance due for $252.20, payment was refused, and El Centro
Lodge has ever since been trying to secure the refund of the above
amount.
Our Grand Secretary has written the Grand Secretary of Illinois
in regard to this matter, but so far no reply has been received.
The date of the Grand Secretary's letter being September 20th,
1918. \Ve offer the following resolution and recommend its adoptiQn:
Resolved, That El Centro Lodge No. 384 be reimbursed in the
sum of $252.20, being the amount of indebtedness incurred for the
relief oi Brother Isaac Harry Todd, a member of Gothic Lodge No.
852, of East St. Louis, State of Illinois.

Adopted.

229

Resolved, That Arroyo Lodge No. 274 be reimbursed in the sum
of $2.40, being the amotmt of Grand Lodge dues over paid.

Adopted.
Your Committee has also had under consideration the claim of
San Mateo No. 226, of San Mateo, for reimbursement for expenses
incurred in the burial of Brother John James Richards, a member
of Wynberg Lodge No. 2577, of Wynberg, South Africa.
It appears that Brother Richards died in a sanatorium at San
Mateo, and that San Mateo Lodge. in conformity with the ancient
usages of our Institution, gave the body decent burial, for which a
moderate bill has been rendered. Letters have been addressed to
\Vynberg Lodge, but no reply has ever been received. The last
letter written to Wynberg Lodge was in October, 1914.

Resolved, That San Mateo Lodge No. 226 be reimbursed in the
sum of $90.30, for the funeral expenses incurred in the burial of
Brother John James Richards, a member of Wynberg Lodge No.
2577, of Wynberg, South Africa,

Adopted.
Your Committee has also considered the application of Los
Gatos Lodge No. 292, of Los Gatos, for reimbursement in the sum
of $139.20 for money expended during the final illness of late
Brother Ira K. McEwen, a member of Aurora Grata Lodge No.
756, of New York.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

It appears that Brother McEwen was ill at the sanatorium at
Los Gatos, and his papers showed that he was in good standing.
Aurora Grata Lodge claimed that Brother McEwen's relatives
should take care of his financial needs, but pending an extensive
correspondence Los Gatos Lodge guaranteed the expenses at the
sanatorium, since when they have been compelled to pay. When
the Brother died his Lodge did pay the funeral expenses, but has
refused to pay the $139.20 in question.

111l'mbers. One of the members had been carried on the books for
It'll years.

230

Resolved, That Los Gatos Lodge No. 292, be reimbursed in the
sum of $139.20, being the amount of money expended on behalf of
Brother Ira K. McEwen, a member of Aurora Grata Lodge No. 756,
of New York.

Adopted.
'

In the matter of Mrs. Finn, to whose support Oakland Board
of Relief or this Grand Lodge has paid $20 a month for a number
of years, your Committee on Finance recommend that the payment
of $20 a month to Alameda Lodge No. 167 continue for another
year.

Adopted.
In the matter of Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76, of Angers
Camp, which Lodge reported 86 members on July 31, 1918, whereas
in reality there were only 83 members, your Committee has taken
into consideration that the Secretary of this Lodge was ill for a
number of months before his death and was practically incapacitated from attending to his duties, and we recommend that the sum
of $7.20 be returned to Bear Mountain Lodge.
Resolved, That Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76 be reimbursed in
the sum of $7.20, being the amount of Grand Lodge dues over paid.

Adopted.
Your Committee has considered the claims of Monrovia Lodge
No. 308, of Monrovia, and Needles Lodge No. 326, of Needles, for
reimbursement for dues paid to this Grand Lodge on members carried on their books which later developments showed were dead,
or had disappeared. Your Committee has rejected the above claims
on the ground that Lodges should suspend members who are in
arrears for unpaid dues, and not carry them on their books expecting the Grand Lodge to reimburse them for dues paid on such

231

Adopted and claims denied.
Resolved, That our M. W. Grand Master, William Rhodes Herl'l'Y, be requested to sit for his portrait done in oil, and that, when

linished, the V.". W.". Grand Secretary have the same suitably framed
and placed with the portraits of other Past Grand Masters in the
Masonic Temple, of San Francisco.

Adopted.
Your Committee on Finance have received and considered the
reports of the Boards of Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles,
Oakland, Sacramento, San Jose, San Diego and Honolulu. These
reports are comprehensive and reflect credit on those of the craft
who have these important matters in charge. We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $11.954.77 be and the same is hereby
appropriated from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be divided as
follows:
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco .................................... $4,585.94
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles ...................................... 5,042.64
To the Board of Relief of Oakland.............................................. 498.00
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento ....................................... . 404.19
To the Board of Relief of San Diego.;········································ 1,324.00
To the Board of Relief of Honolulu ............................................ . 100.00

Adopted.
The Board of Relief of San J osc has not asked for any reimbursement, as all moneys advanced have been refunded by the
Lodges for whom expended.
The Employment Bureaus operated in conjunction with the
Boards of Relief have continued to show steady progress, and we
are confident that their good work should be continued and commended.
We have also had under consideration the matter of salaries
for the Grand officers, and beg leave to report thereon as follows,
and make the following recommendations:

232

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The salary of the Grand Treasurer ................................................ $ 200.00
The salary of the Grand Secretary ................................................ 4,200.00
The salary of the Assistant Grand Secretary ............................ 2,100.00
The salary of the Grand Lecturer................................................ 3 000 00
The salary of the Grand Organist... ........................................... :: '100:00
The salary of the Grand Tiler........................................................ 125.00
For the services of the Chairman of the Committee on
Correspondence .......................................................................... 200.00
For contingent expenses of the Grand Master, to be used in
defraying actual expenses incurred by him in the performance of his duties .............................................................. 1,200.00

Adopted.
It is impossible to appropriate a definite sum for the contingent expenses of the Grand Lecturer. The Committee, therefore
recommends that an itemized account of the actual expenses in~
curred by him in the discharge of his duties be filed by the Grand
Lecturer with the Grand Secretary, and that when these accounts
have been audited by the Committee on Accounts, they be paid in
the usual manner.

For the continued maintenance of our Homes at Decoto and
l 'ovina, your committee offer the following resolution ;:.nd recommend
ii s adoption:
Resolved, That the usual per capita tax of one dollar per annum
lie levied on our membership for the maintenance of said Decoto and
l ·, 1vina Homes.

Adopted.
Your committee to whom was referred the annual report of the
Masonic Temple Association of California, has carefully considered
the same, and is pleased to advise that the deficit for the year ending
August 31, 1918, amounted to only $1,321.03, whereas the deficit for
the year ending August 31, 1915, was $7,256.69. The annual rent
having increased from $22,440.70 in 1914 to $28,355.58 in 1918. Your
committee offers the following resolution and recommends its adop·
tion:
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge stthscribe for 1,000 shares of
the capital stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California (par
value of $10 per share) in addition to the stock already owned.

The resolution was denied passage.

Adopted.
MASONIC HOMES

Your Committee on Finance has examined the financial report
presented by the Board of Directors of the Masonic Homes of California, and finds the statement accurate and correct.
\Ve could not feel that our work was completed if we failed to
express our admiration for the excellent methods of administration
of the affairs of the Homes, and we unanimously subscribe to the
fervent sentiment expressed in our Grand Master's report that all
engaged are doing God's work.
From the financial report of the Homes, at Decoto and Covina
it appears. that the deficits .occasioned by the maintenance of thes~
homes during the past three years have amounted to $13,030.72.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the per capita tax for the
~aintenance of the Home should not be increased at the present
time. We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend
its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $13,030.72 be appropriated from the
funds of this Grand Lodge to extinguish the deficit in the "Maintenance Fund" of the Masonic Homes of California.

Adopted.

233

Your committee has considered a request from El Centro Lodge
No. 384, to purchase U. S. Liberty bonds (2nd and 3rd issttc) to the
amount of $800 from said Lodge.
Last year El Centro Lodge was visited hy fire, which destroyed
the furniture of the Lodge, and as they now have rebuilt and are ready
to refurnish their Lodge, they desire to dispose of these Liberty bonds.
Your committee docs not desire to establish a precedent by purchasing
these bonds, but in view of the fire loss we feel that the Grand Lodge
could afford to buy the bonds. We therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption :
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge purchase from El Centro Lodge
U. S. Liberty bonds (2nd and 3rd issue) and p'ay therefore $800, that
being the face valt1e of the bonds.

Adopted.
Your committee is of the opinion that the fonds of this Grand
Lodge, as far as possible, should he employed in the service of our
cottntry, and they therefore offer the fo!lowing resolution and recommend its adoption :

234

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Resolved, That the v:. w:. Grand Treasurer be requested to invest from the General Fund of this Grand Lodge the sum of $10,000 in
U. S. Liberty bonds of the 4th issue.

On motion, concurred in by the Finance Committee,
the resolution was amended to recommend the pmthase
of Liberty bonds of the fourth issue to the amount of
$35,000, and as so amended the resolution was adopted by
unanimous vote.
This report contains recommendations that this Grand body reimburse its constituent Lodges and Boards of Relief in the sum of
$8,966.47, expended by them for the relief of Masons and the families
of Masons of other jurisdictions. It is not only right, but it is n
privilege to take care of these needy when within our doors. If the
Masons of this jurisdiction did less, they would not be living up to the
obligations of the fraternity. But your committee is strongly of the
opinion that some other jurisdictions are not doing their full duty when
they permit the expenditure by this jurisdiction of such sums for the
relief of their needy without reimbursement.
We are informed by the Boards of Relief that the matter of reimbursement is always taken up with the responsible Lodges and often
with the Grand bodies, and much of the money expended is returned,
but the recurring reports of this Grand Lodge show that there is a
large sum each year which is never returned.
This committee is strongly of the opinion that if the matter of
reimbursement was promptly and energetically taken up to the last
resort, it would result in the recovery of more of the sums expended.
Your committee therefore recommends that Lodges and the
Boards \if Relief be required to render quarterly, to the Grand Secretary, and before they shall be enabled to come before this committee
for reimbursement, a complete report of each case where relief has
been extended for the benefit of outside jurisdictions, and where such'
expenditure has not been repaid, together with copies of all correspondence had in connection therewith; provided, however, that each Lodge
and Board of Relief shall be required to exhaust all reasonable means
for the collection of all items before including the same in such report,
and that the Grand Secretary then take up with the Grand bodies of all
sueh jurisdictions the matter of reimbursement.
WM. P. JEFFRJES,

s.

ARTHUR
CRJTES,
0. M. GowARACENA,
JOHN H. McGEHEE,
JOHN CLUTE,

Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.

235

TRANSFER BY GRAND MASTER OF PLACE OF
TRIAL
Past Grand Master Angellotti presented the following
report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

The Grand Master ordered a transfer of the place of trial from
ITawaiian Lodge No. 21 to Mission Lodge No. 169 in the matter of
charges preferred in the first-named Lodge against two members
thereof. It appears that this transfer was not made upon the request
of the Master of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, and that the Lodge has presented a protest against or appeal from such action. There d'oes not
appear to be any express provision in our Constitution relative to a
change of place of trial except that in the enumeration of the powers
of the Grand Master in Section 43, we find the power expressly given
hv the 9th subdivision "to transfer upon the reauest of a Master to
whom charges nf unmasonic conduct a!lainM a Mason have been presented. the trial * * * to some other Lod1Te * * * whenever.
for the <'onvenience of witnesses or other p-ooo c::iuse. such trnnsfer is
in his indi<:mt>nt. necessflrv or <:'xoedient." The circumstances of thi~
c:i•e. :is stated hv the Grand Master in his Address. are sneh that.
:><s11minP' the uower to exist. we flre of the opinion th;:it it c<innot fair1v
h<' hel<i thnt> w<is :mv :i hnse of r'fiscretion on his uart in nrclt>rinP' the
chano-e. The 011estion th:it would he mort> troublesome. if it were a
nt>-w ouestion in this Gr:rnd Lodat>, is as to his uowt>r lmder our Constit11tion to m:ik" snch an nrdf'r in the ah•Pnc<' nf a reonf'5t from the
:",f,,st<'r of th,., Lno"'"· We finrl. howevf'r. th"t thi1; n11estion was oresr>ntPrl to this horlv in 1RR9. flnd w:is rnnsid<'r<'d at some leneth bv the
l"t<' P:ist r.r:inrl M:ister Belcher anrl his ::is<nci'lt<'s on this committf'<'.
Aunrov:il of the :iction of the Grann Master in orrlerinrr s11C'h " tr:insfer
in the .ahsence nf a reouest nf the Master was recntnm,.nrlf'rl. :>nn thf'
c;rflnd Torl..,e concurred in the recommendation (Vol. XIX. Proc .. p.
209). This :iction was hased upon the provisions of our Constitution
which rrive lo the Grand Lodi;e the power to exercise, R'enerally. all ·
such authority as may be necessarv to c::irry its own legislation into complete effect (sec. 9). and to the Grand M::ister authority to exercise a
genernl and careful supervision over the craft and to discharge all the
necessary executive functions of the Grand Lodge when that hody is

236

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE QF CALIFORNIA

not in session (sec. 44). This carefully considered precedent appears to
determine the question.
\Ve recommend that the action of the Grand Master be approved.
F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS.

L. PATTON,

DANA R. WEL'LF.R,
ALBF.RT

G. BURNETT,

FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
]OHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.
To the Afost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Referring to Decisions 2, 3 and 4 of the Grand Master :
As we understand Decision 2, the ruling of the Grand Master was
to the effect that it is not an appropriate function of the Grand Lodge to
conduct dedication ceremonies of a room occupied by a Lodge for its
meet~ngs, where such room is not owned or controlled by the Lodge,
~nd is not ~rimarily and principally devoted to Masonic purposes, but
is one used m common for meeting purposes by the Lodge and several
non-Masonic fraternal societies, all of whom hire the same from one
who is conducting and controlling it as a purely commercial enterprise.
We do not understand it to apply to halls owned by Masonic Hall Associations, conducted primarily for the purposes of the Craft.
\Ve think the correctness of this decision is manifest and recommend that it be approved.

Adopted.
Decision 3, relative to per capita tax where Lodge dues have been
remitted on account of members being in the military or naval service
of the United States, is, in our judgment, a ·correct construction of
section 128 of our Constitution. We recommend that it be approved.

Adopted.
Decision 4, relative to Entered Apprentices and Fellow Crafts, is.
in our opinion. a clear and accurate statement of our law. We recommend that it be approved.
F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
DANA R. WEL'LER,
ALBERT
FRANCIS

G. BURNETT,

v. KEESLING,

]OHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

Adopted.

237

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

The Grand Master rendered a decision to the effect that the
<'xception in favor of persons in the army or navy of the United States
contained in section 96 of our Constitution does not apply to officers
and men of the army or navy who entered the same purely for the purposes of the present war from the National Guard, or as volunteers or
hy way of the selective draft. That section provides that the application of one "belonging to the army or navy of the United States" may
he received by a Lodge, though he has not the qualification of residence
ordinarily prescribed, by dispensation from the Grand Master.
Sub. 5 of section 43 authorizes the Grand Master to grant a dispensation in such a case, while section 107 provides that no such dispensation shall be issued in such a case unless application therefor be
made by the Lodge by unanimous vote, by ballot, and requires the
usual reference and ballot after issuance of dispensation. The language in all of these provisions is a person "belonging to the army or
navy of the United States," and, of course, is applicable to anyone who
comes within the description at the time of his application. We do not
feel authorized in reading into this plain and unambiguous provision
any limitation based on the manner in which the applicant became a
member of the army or navy of the United States, or on the term for
which he enlisted or was commissioned, whether for a term of years,
or for the duration of the war, of for an indefinite time. Nor do we
think it can be disputed that one who has entered such service of the
United States by volunteering for the period of the war, or under the
selective draft, or from. the National Guard, is a person "belonging to
the army or n,avy of the United States." In our judgment, there is no
room left for construction, in view of the language in fact used. The
exception includes all persons in fact belonging to the army or navy
of the United:iStates.
The decision of Grand Master Keesling in 1917, which was
approved by this committee and by the Grand Lodge, was with reference to a member of the National Guard who had )tot been mustered
into the service of the United States. We held that prior to being so
mustered in he did not belong to the army or navy of the United
States, but we further said that as our Constitutional provision now
reads, the exception does include all persons belonging to the army or
navy of the United States. This question therefore has already been
decided in accord with our views by this Grand Lodge.
Of course, all this means simply that the Grand Master has the
power to grant such a dispensation. Whether he shall do so in any
particular case is a matter for him to decide in the exercise of a wise
discretion in view of the circumstances of that case. Jt is to he pre-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

238

239

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

sum.ed that he will discharge that duty with a view to the proper protect10n of the Craft against the admission of unworthy candidates and
that if in any case he concludes that the applicant should be req~ired
to ap~ly to the Lodge of the locality in which he has a legal residence,
he will deny the dispensations. The members of this committee all
believe that, as a matter of policy, application for such dispensation
should be scrutinized with extreme care, and should not be granted in
any case in the absence of exceptional circumstances. Whenever reasonably practicable, the applicant should be required to apply to the
Lodge of the locality from which he has a legal residence, or obtain a
waiver of jurisdiction therefrom. If it be desired to limit the power
of the Grand Master in this regard, we deem an amendment to our
Constitution essential.
We recommend that the decision be not approved.
F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS.

L. PATTON,

DANA R. WELLER,
ALRERT G. BURNETT,
FRANCIS

v. KEESLING,

JOHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
There have been referred to us certain recommendations of the
Grand Master contained in his Address.
The recommendation as to the future conduct and disposition of
the Masonic War Fund, being a fund raised at the request of the
Grand Master by voluntary subscription, appears to us to be in all
resp~cts ~rop~r.
The wo.rk of the Grand Master in this regard. as
detailed m 111s Address, 1s worthy of earnest commendation by this
Grand Lodge.
We recommend that his action be in all respects approved ancl
that the rules and regulations proposed for the conduct and dispo~ition
of the fund, including all amounts hereafter received as parts thereof
be adopted, reserving to the Grand Lodge the power to revise, modif;
or amend the same.

Adopted.

The Grand Master recommends that section 100 of the Constitution relative to reports of investigating committees be amended, so as
to require such reports to set forth in detail the facts respecting the
applicant, as well as the conclusion of the committee, and the reading
in the Lodge of the full report except the names of the committee. As
the law now stands, there is no requirement as to the furnishing in
the report of anything but the conclusion of the committee, and nothing is read but the conclusion. The question presented is one of policy.
We see no objection to the proposed amendment if it is desired
to adopt the method recommended, and we believe that the proposed
change is a desirable one.
We
adopted.

therefore recommend

that

the proposed amendment

be

Adopted, and section 100 amended by unanimous
vote.
The Grand Master recommends that sections 149 and 150 of the
Constitution be amended so as to require the giving of bonds by the
Treasurers and Secretaries of subordinate Lodges.
We see no objection to either proposed amendment, except that
we deem the proposed proviso in regard to the Treasurer undesirable.
Under the provisions of our Constitution, the Secretary is required to
pay over moneys col!ected to the Treasurer. We are in accord with
the views expressed by the Grand Master as to the desirability of
bonds as to these officers, and
We recommend the adoption of the proposed amendments, eliminating, however, the proposed proviso in sub. 6 of section 149.

Adopted, and section 149 was amended as thereinabove recommended by unanimous vote.
The Grand Master recommends an amendment to section 87 of
the Constitution by adding a proviso prohibiting investment by a subordinate Lodge of any of its funds in corporation stock, lands or building, without the approval in writing of a majority of the members of
the Finance Committee of the Grand Lodge.
We doubt the advisability of this Grand Lodge attempting to
limit to the extent proposed the power of a Lnclgc in the matter of its
investments.

241

PROCEEDJ'NGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

We recommend that the proposed amendment be not adopted.

Adopted, and the proposed amendment to section 87
was denied approval.

The Grand Master has recommended that the privilege extended
by resolution at our last Communication to our brethren serving or
visiting in France, Italy and Belgium to hold fraternal intercourse with
the Masons of those countries and to visit in their Lodges, be extended
to cover the countries of Holland and Switzerland.

The Grand Master recommends an amendment of section 128 by
raising the minimum Lodge dues from $6 to $9 per annum.

If such a privilege is to be given at all, we know of no logical
rvason why it should not cover the two last-named countries.

The proposed amendment is in proper form and there is no legal
objection to the same, but as it presents purely a question of policy on
which we do not feel qualified to express an opinion, we report the
same without recommendation.

We therefore recommend that the Grand Master's recommendation be adopted.

240

Adopted, and section 128 was amended by striking out
the first sentence thereof and inserting the following:
"From and after the stated meeting of December, 1918,
no Lodge shall charge or collect as its annual dues from
members less than nine dollars."
We are in accord with the recommendation of the Grand Master
that our law be so amended as to permit an applicant elected to
receive the degrees who has entered the military or naval service of the
United States or its allies prior to or within three months after his
election, to come forward for initiation at any time within three
months after his discharge from such service. As the law now stands,
the applicant who does not come forward to he initiated within three
months after his election forfeits certain rights.
,We recommend that section 2 of Article IV of the Uniform Code
of By-Laws be amended by the addition of the following proviso, towit:
"Provided, however, that this section shall have no application in
the case of an applicant who entered the military or vaval service of
the United States or any of its allies, prior to or within three months
after his election to receive the degrees, who comes forward for
initiation within three months after his discharge from such military
or naval service."
We deem any further amendment in this regard unnecessary and
inadvisable at this time.

Adopted, and section 2 of Article IV of the Uniform
Code of By-Laws unanimously amended as recommended.

F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS.

L. PATTON,

R. WELi.ER,
ALBERT G. BURNETT,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
]OHN D. MURPHEY,
Committee.
DANA

Adopted.

LODGE MAUI
Past Grand Master Patton, for the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was referred that
portion of the Address of the Grand Master referring to Lodge Maui
No, 984, A. F. & A. M., under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of
Scotland, located at Kalmlui, Maui, Territory of Hawaii, and the
petition of that Lodge requesting that this Grand Lodge receive it
under its jurisdiction and grant it a charter, have had the matter
under consideration and report as follows:
The petition is in due form and in accord with the requirements
of our Constitution, excepting in so far as it asks that the Past Master:;
of the Lodge be named in the Charter as Past Masters.
The application is accompanied by the certificate of our Inspector
of the district that the Masters and Wardens proposed in the petition
a re fully competent properly to confer the three degrees of Masonry
an(! to deliver entire the lectures thereunto appertaining in conformity
with the ritual of this jurisdiction.
The petition is also accompanied by a recommendation from each
of our Lodges in the district, setting forth in due form all the matters

?42

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

and things required by section 73 of our Constitution as a prerequisite
to the issuing of a dispensation for the formation of a new Lodge.
Although the by-laws, books of records and returns of the Lodge
are not submitted, yet the Inspector of the district has certified to the
Committee that they are all in due form and properly kept and' that
the by-laws of the Lodge are in such form as to conform with our
Uniform Code of By-Laws.
It has also been shown to the Committee that Lodge Maui is not
only clear of all indebtedness, but that it has accumulated and now
holds property of the value of $20,000.00.

243

"Provided, however, that if any Lodge duly chartered by any
1:ra11d body recognized by this. Grand Lodge shall, with the consent
111111 approval of such Grand body, petition this Grand Lodge for a
l'l1a rt er, this Grand Lodge shall have the power to direct a charter to
i'sue to such Lodge upon such terms and in such manner as it shall
dl'('ll! proper without any dispensation having theretofore been issued."
Resolved, That section 224 of the Constitution be amended by
adding after the words "Grand Lodge," at the end of the first para1-.: ra ph thereof, the following:

The petition is also accompanied by a proper consent from the
Grand Lodge of Scotland to the surrendering of the charter of Lodge
Maui and to its coming under our jurisdiction.

"Provided, however, that if this Grand Lodge shall direct a
rharter to issue to any Lodge formed by a Grand body recognized by
this Grand Lodge, then and in such event it may by reso1ution provide
that the title of Past Master shall apply to the Past Masters of such
I .<·clge, and that such Past Masters shall thereupon become to all
i11tents and for all purposes entitled to all the rights and privileges of
l'ast Masters of this jurisdiction as defined herein."

Evidence has also been presented to the Committee showing that
it is for the benefit of the district and Lodge Maui that a charter be
issued to it.

Resolved, That a Charter in the usual form be granted to Lodge
fllaui, to be numbered 472, at Kahului, Territory of Hawaii.

In fact all the data is furnished to the Committee required by our
Constitution as a prerequisite to the issuance of a dispensation and. to
a charter.

A very forcible showing has been made as to the hardship which
would be worked on the Lodge and its members by insisting upon an
application for a dispensation to form a new Lodge, the withdrawal
of the members of the old Lodge and a transfer of th~ property, and
the Committee is of the opinion that the petition should be granted, but
that our Constitution will not permit the taking over of this Lodge
and the issuance of this charter, because as it now stands the req1,1irement seems to be definite that a charter shall not be granted until the
Lodge has worked a time under dispensation; and as it appears from
the Constitution and laws of the Grand Lodge of Scotland, submit,ted
with the petition, this is not a prerequisite in that jurisdiction, and this
Lodge was formed without any dispensation, and we are also of the
opinion that there is no warrant in our laws for naming the Past
Masters in the Charter as Past Masters.
The Committee is, however, of the opinion that the desired result
can be accomplished with some slight changes in our laws, and that
it will be for the best interests of Masonry in the district to grant
the petition.
We therefore offer the following resolutions and recommend their
adoption.
Resolved, That section 72 of the Constitution be amended by
adding at the end thereof the following:

Resolved, That the title of Past Master as ·defined in our Constitution shall apply to all the Past Masters of Lodge Maui, No. 472,
and that all such Past Masters shall hereafter be entitled to all the
rights and privileges of Past Masters of this jurisdiction under our
Constitution.

F. M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS. L.

p ATTON,

R. WELLER,
ALBERT G. BURNETT,
DANA

FRANCIS

V.

KEESLING,

JoHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

The report was adopted as presented, and sections 72
and 224 of the Constitution by unanimous vote were amended as therein recommended, and a charter ordered issued to
Lodge Maui No. 472.
The Grand Lodge was called off until two o'clock this
afternoon.

244

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Afternoon Session.
Thursday, October 10, 1918.
The Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the
Grand Master presiding.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
EDUCATION
Brother Irving J. Mitchell, Chairman of the Committee
on Masonic Education, reported as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Masonic Education report as follows:
We are confident that the hour has arrived when the craft in
this jurisdiction are willing and anxious to give a larger measure of
time, attention and effort to the understanding of the vital teachings,
purposes and needs of Freemasonry.
There permeates our Institution a longing for a fuller conception
of its duties and its possibilities along the broader lines of human
activities.
It is recognized as never before, that to achieve results which
are really worth while, we must give more freely of our time to the
understanding of the spirit of our fraternity and less time to the
letter of its work.
We recommend to your especial consideration that part of the
Most Worshipful Grand Master's Address under the caption, "Conditions of the Craft," which refers to the need for greater educational
endeavor. He has truly said, "The Lodges throughout the jurisdiction
are devoting an immense amount of time to the work of initiating,
passing and raising Masons, but find little time to instruct or help, or
minister to their members."
This very condition has proved an unsurmountable barrier to
effective work on the part of this Committee. Again and again we have
been told that as the Lodge's time was so completely absorbed by the
pressure of degree work, no time could possibly be given to addresses
which might illuminate, direct, and inspire both candidates and
members.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

245

Keen regret has been expressed by many of our Lodge officers
and members that such are the unfortunate circumstances.
Heretofore this Committee has . voiced the imperative need of
!.ringing to the c~aft a broader vision of the purposes of our fraternity.
We have emphasized the need of understanding the basic principles
for which we stand and the practical application thereof.
We have tried to impress the idea that in our Masonic work we
should depend less on formalism and more on enlightenment. If we
may correctly judge from the sentiments expressed in this Grand
Lodge; if we mistake not the spirit which broods over this Communication, it is no longer necessary to reiterate these statements. ·There
is no question but that the craft longs for the inspiration which shall
he found through the application of Masonic truths to our civic activities. There is a strong desire to drop generalities and to consider the
specific and the concrete.
Many now feel that Masonry should inspire men to render a
larger public service.
We heartily agree with the Most Worshipful Grand Master that
"Little interest is taken in the reading of lectures or themes, no
matter how excellent the subject ·matter or how attractive the method
of its presentation. To be of value there must be a personal touch
;ind many will throng to hear a speaker or teacher who is a master
of his subject and imbued with the Masonic spirit."
We are of the opinion, that, in these larger days, men are not so
much interested in the musty things of the past, as they are in the
vital issues of the present. For this reason we believe that to attract
and hold interest, Masonic addresses should measure up to the demands
of the new era we have just entered, with its complex problems of
human relationship.
The walls of every Masonic Lodgeroom should echo and rel'Cho with the great questions which deal with the welfare and progress of humanity.
If some plan can be arrived at hy this Grand Lodge whereby
there will he a reasonable opportunity for time to carry on the work
11f Masonic Education through addresses, we would suggest the following plan :
First: That Lodges throughout this jurisdiction co-operate with
the United States Government by inviting at frequent intervals, members of the fraternity who are enrolled as "Fonr Minute Men" to
;iddress them. Application can readily he macle in most practical
fashion of the duties we owe as Masons and citizens. We can thus
perform a patriotic duty and give to our gatherings an added interest.
Second: That Lodges throughout this jurisdiction organize a
corps of Masonic speakers. following the same system as that cm-

246

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

ployed by the Four Minute Men's organization, but devoted to the
discussion of purely Masonic subjects.
Third: That Lodges throughout this jurisdictfon hold meetings
now and then to be known as a "Masonic Forum," where an address
will be given, followed by a general discussion.
Fourth: That joint meetings be held by several Lodges in a
community, to be addressed by some well informed Mason. \Ve
believe that the influence of such meetings will result in immeasurable
good.
Fifth : That the Committee on Masonic Education exercise a
helpful influence toward all Lodges who desire tlieir counsel and
co-operation. That this Committee shall foster and encourage throughout this jurisdiction, the study and research of Masonic history, law,
philosophy and especially the dominant fnwposes of this Institution.
Respectfully submitted,
IRVING J. MITCHELL,
JESSE \VHJTED,
HARVEY D. LOVELAND,

Committee.

The report was adopted.
Brother T. ]. Milliken offered the following resolution:.
Resolved, That section 77-1 be amended to read as follow~:
"No Masonic precedent is violated by sending out a printed
folder, but that the names of applicants for the degrees shall not
be published therein. (1897, p. 239.) Nor shall the name of such
applicants be printed on postal card, notices, folders or cards." ( 1913,
pp. 76, 162.)

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence, which
· Committee through Chairman Angellotti subsequently reported thereon as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
This is really a proposition to amend two decisions of this Grand
Lodge by substituting the word "shall" for "should" in two places.
Regardless of any question of the propriety of amending a decision,
we consider the proposed change entirely unnecessary. The decisions
mean exactly what the maker of the proposed amendment would have
them express in different words. When the Grand Lodge decl~res
that under our law a certain practice "should not" be followed, it
necessarily means that such practice "shall not" be followed. .
We recommend that the proposed change be not made.

The recommendation was adopted.

247

I~ l•:PORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND LECTURER'S

REPORT
Brother Chas. F. Fury, Chairman of the Committee to
which had been referred the annual report of the Grand
J .ecturer, presented the following:
'/'o the Most vVorshipful Grand Lodge of Ca!ifornia:

Your Committee to whom was referred the Annual Report of
ill<' V.". vV.". Thomas J. Baker, Grand Lecturer, has carefully considered

1lw same and begs leave to report:
The Grand Lecturer calls attention to the fact that during the
y<·ar there has been an enormous increase in the number of degrees
rnnferred by the subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction, due in large
part to conditions growing out of the great war. There has also been
!lie largest net gain in membership in the history of this Grand
I ,mlge, probably attributable to the same cause. The report, how<'\'<'!', sounds a note oi warning that we should 1lot sacrifice quality
for quantity, which should be borne in mind by all of us. The Grand
Ll'cturer says he trusts that these novitiates fully realize the importance
nf the lessons and oh'igations they received and shall not consider their
obligations as mere lip service.
\Ve note with mingled feelings of pride and regret, that the call
111 arms in defense of our country has invaded the ranks of the corps

of Inspectors, four of whom are now serving with the colors.

The
\·arnest words of the Grand Lecturer, j'.:ommending the efficient services
of the Inspectors and acknowledging their loyalty and co-operation are,
we sincerely believe, well deserved. It is umloubtedlv true that to the
Inspectors of the various districts in this jurisdiction much credit
is due for the high standard attained and maintained bv the subordinate Lodges.
,
The report refers to a matter of more than passing interest, and
one which, in our opinion, should receive particular attention at this
Communication. It appears that in some cases Lodges at their last
annual meetings elected as :Master and vVardcns brethren who were
in line for advancement. lmt who were unab'.e to qualify nr perform
their duties by reason of entry into the service of the United States.
This has seriously interfered with the work of some of the Lod:,es.
It is more than likely that there will he other instances of similar
character this year, and we heartily imlorsc the suggestion of the
(~rand Lecturer that at the ensuing elections the Lodges elect such
nfficcrs as shall he able to qnalify and perform their duties, upon the

248

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

249

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

understanding that those in line for advancement, but who are in the
service of our country, shall resume their respective stations upon
their return. Therefore, we recommend that the Grand Secretary
circularize the Lodges of this jurisdiction upon this subject as soon
as practicable, in order that due consideration may be given to the
question before the next election.
The Grand Lecturer in his report directs the attention of the
Grand Lodge to the unlawful use of cipher rituals by some of the
officers and brethren of this jurisdiction, and has requested that
some action be taken in this regard. Your Committee coincides with
bis views in this matter, and recommends that the Grand Master cause
to be read in open meeting in each Lodge his emphatic demand that
such practices be discontinued. We also suggest that the gentle admonition of the Inspectors concerning this error may prove efficacious
in most circumstances.
Your Committee earnestly commends the proposal that the
ceremony of receiving the flag of our country as now exemplified in
many Lodges of this jurisdiction be made an integral part of the
opening of all Lodges, not only at stated meetings, but also at all special
meetings for the conferring of degrees. The few minutes required to
bring into the Lodgeroom the banner in whose defense so many of our
brethren have enlisted cannot be spent in more inspiring service. We,
therefore. trust that the Ritual Committee will propose and this Communication adopt a prescribed form for such ceremony to be used by
all Lodges within this jurisdiction.
In conclusion, we desire to extend to the Grand Lecturer our
sincere congratulations upon the able and efficient conduct of his ·
high office. It is within the knowledge of all the officers of subordinate Lodges that to the untiring ze~l, conscientious effort and loving
kindness of our Grand Lecturer is due much of whatever success and
prosperity the craft enjoys in the jurisdiction.

Respectfully submitted,

REPORTS OF COMMITTEE ON JURISPRUDENCE
Past Grand Master Weller reported concerning special
dispensations issued by order of the Grand Master as
f111lows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration
the special dispensations issued by the Grand Master during the year,
:ind finds that all the acts of the Grand Master in regard to these
111atters have been in compliance with the requirements of our ConHI itution.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master
therein be approved.
FRANK M. ANGJ(LLOTTI,
CHAS.

L. p ATTON,

DANA

R. WJ(LLJ(R,

ALBJ(RT G. BURNJ(TT,
FRANCIS

v. KJ(J(SLING,

]OHN D. MURPHJ(Y,

Committee.

Adopted.
GROUP PLAN OF INITIATION
Past Grand Master Weller, Chairman of the special
committee to which had been referred that portion of the
address of Past Grand Master Keesling, relating to the socalled group plan of initiation, presented the following report:

CHAS. F. FURY,
Enwrn A.

P ALMJ(R,

ELON A. 0RMSllY,

Committee.

The report was adopted as presented.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom was referred that portion of the
:1<ldress of Past Grand Master Keesling at the last Communication
relating to the so-called "group plan" of initiation, have considered
the same and beg leave to report as follows:
The Grand Master says:
"The fact that Lodges doing a great deal of work are compelled
particularly to initiate and pass several candidates in an evening, and
that under Constitutional requirement this must be severally done, has

251

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

no <loubt influenced attendance adversely. The required repct1t10n
consumes so much time that before conclusion many brethren depart
owing to the lateness of the hour. I am satisfied that repetition also.
influences brethren to remain away. Fully appreciating the evident
purpose of severally initiating, passing and raising of candidates, I am
of the opinion that modification permitting of exemplification of portions of the ceremonial on groups would not in the least detract from
effectiveness and, by lessening the time and avoiding repetition, conduce
to an increased attendance by reason of the fact, and, permitting of the
employment of a portion of the time for educational purposes and social
intercourse, would thereby materially increase efficiency. I therefqre
recommend that consideration of the subject matter be referred to such
standing or special committee as may ·seem to the Grand Lodge proper
for report and recommendation at the next stated communication of
this Grand Lodge."

lu• the product of a degree factory. Quantity and quality relatively
rii11si<lcrcd, we adhere to our preference for the result of individual
dfmt.

250

Obviously the Grand Master coul<l not state in his address what
portions of the ceremonies might be performed in groups, and for the
same reasons this Committee is unable to incorporate in this report
some of its findings, which must be left for oral presentation at its
hearing.
For precedent we have made inquiry in regard to the practice in
other jurisdictions, and learn that several have a plan similar to the
one recommended. We are not informed, however, that in their Lodges
any more time is devoted to educational purpos~s and social intercourse
than in some of the Lodges in California. On the other hand, we do
know that many Lodges in California which are enjoying a period
of prosperous popularity, have ample opportunity to indulge in. fraternal intercourse and are continually absorbing the truths of Freemasonry through intimate association with the ritual, which expounds
our lessons in terse and beautiful language, well calculated to impress
the novitiate and the adept as well.
It is admitted that there are cogent reasons why the initiate
should receive the individual instruction, and they are so apparent as
to need no exposition here.. Here follows the inquiry if the gain
in time and opportunity for other purposes is sufficient to balance the
loss to the novitiate of the impressiveness of the work caused by
divided attention. After a careful snrvey of the ceremonies of initiating, passing, and raising, we are unable to fin<! that any other
portions than those now so conferred, can be as effectively done on
groups as on indivi<luals, and the time saved in any event is negligible.
First impressions are often the most lasting, and a proper dignified initiation is more apt to produce a Mason inspired with a veneration for the Institution and its forms and ceremonies than would

W c believe that poor attendance and lack of interest are not at1rili11table in any manner to the length of time consumed in conferring

t !1t· degrees, but rather to the absence of the effort or ability to make
t !1<·111 <luly impressive. The officer with the necessary degree of dignity
:ind efficiency should find no difficulty in making the ritual attractive
111 all members who are equipped with the essential qualities of under•,t a1uling and appreciation. If the ritual properly rendered does not at1rat'l members to the Lodge, no other form of proper social intercourse
11r c<lucational facilities will draw them away from their homes or
places of amusement.
If it is deemed advisable to- shorten the ritual, it can be done by
, 1111itting certain parts which are now ~onferred on groups without harmf11l results, and these portions communicated as is now done in other
parts by reference to the Monitor. We have not undertaken this task,
:1s we consider it to be within the province of the Committee on Ritual.
We also believe that much time might be saved to the Lodges for
the purposes mentioned were it not for the apparent desire of some
of the officers to extend the princip~e of the universality of Masonry
t" the entire community in which they reside, regardless of the fitness
of the candidates to appreciate or be benefited by the lessons which we
attempt to inculcate. To obviate this, and to limit this misdirected amliition, we would recommend an amendment to the Constitution to the
<"ffect that not more than three degrees be conferred at one meeting, and
that at least one calendar month must elapse between the degrees confcrred on any candidate.
DANA R. WELLER,
CHAS. H. VrcToR,
EDGAR

v. VAN NORMAN.

In conjunction with the above report, Brother Weller
introduced a proposed amendment to section 115 of the Constitution as follows:
"Sec. 115. No Lodge under the jurisdiction of this Grand Lodge
shall confer any degree of Masonry on Sunday, nor shall it confer degrees upon more than three candidates at any one meeting; nor shall
it confer more than one degree upon any one candidate at any one
meeting; nor shall it confer either of the degrees upon more than one
candidate at a time; nor shall it confer more than three degrees· in

252

253

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

any one day; nor shall any Lodge confer a succeeding degree on a
candidate until at least one calendar month has elapsed since the conferring of the preceding degree."

This was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence
and was reported back without recommendation. After
general discussion the report of the special committee was
adopted except the recommendation in the last sentence of
the report and the proposed amendment was not adopted.

REPORTS OF JURISPRUDENCE COMMITTEE
Past Grand Master Keesling presented the following
report, with relation to the resolution of Brother Bruck, as
follows:

Brother Keesling also presented the following report:
Fo the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
A resolution by Brother Alderman providing that section 163q of
I hi' Constitution be amended by adding a provision "that the son
11r <laughter of a Master Mason after having attained his or her ma.i11rity, as recognized by the laws of California, and having changed his
11r her name in any way is not (as a matter of right) entitled to relief
ns an orphan by the subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction," is not
proper procedure because it is not an amendment of the Constitution
1>111 of a decision construing the law. The intention of a portion of this
proposed resolution will have been reached by action upon that portion
11f the resolution relative to limiting relief to a daughter of a deceased
~1 aster Mason to those under the age of twenty-one. The remaining
pnrtion of the resolution is ambiguous and will be fraught with many
,., 1111plications. We, therefore, recommend that the resolution be not
:id11pted.
Respectfully submitted,

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,

A resolution to expunge section 163i, section 163i, section 163k and
section 163q is not proper procedure. Such action is not an amendment
of the Constitution but of a decision construing the law.

CHAS.

The resolution carries with it, however, a suggested amendment as
follows: "And the daughter of a deceased Master Mason shall not be
entitled to relief after reaching the age of twenty-one; provided, however, that nothing herein contained shall be construed as prohibiting any
Lodge from granting such relief." Assuming that this is intended as
an amendment. to section 163, it being purely a matter of policy, we
refer it to Grand Lodge without recommendation.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS.

L. PATTON,

R. WELLER,
ALBERT G. BURNETT,

DANA

FRANCIS

v. KE.ESLING,

JOHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

Thereupon Brother Bruck moved the adoption of his
proposed amendment, which motion was lost.

L. PATTON,

R. WELLER,
ALBERT G. BURNETT,
DANA

FaANCIS V. KEESLING,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.
Also,
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

A resolution striking out sections 88a and 88b is not proper prol"l'<lure for the reason that it is not an amendment of the Constitution
li11t of a decision construing the law. The specific purpose should be
:1ccomplished, if desirable, by definite amendment. We, therefore, rec11111111end that the resolution do not pass.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS.

L. PATTON,

DANA

R. WELLER,

ALBERT G. BURNETT,
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
JOHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.

254

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Also,

,jr .. d to reduce the age limit it will have to be done by amendment of
111.. Constitution and many sections. will have to be considered carefiilly before the Committee could determine as to the proposed change.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

There was referred to your Committee on Jurisprudence a suggestion made by the Grand Master at the Annual Communication in
1917 that it would be well to change the designation of the Finance
Committee to "Ways and Means Committee" and that the Committee
should meet at least quarterly.

We, therefore, recommend that the resolution be not adopted.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,

To make the change in name would require several amendments to
the Constitution and, as the scope of the duties of the Committee is well
understood, there would be but little or no advantage to be gained from
a change of the .name.

CHAS.
DANA

ALBERT G. BURNETT,
JoHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.

PROPOSED AMENDMENT

Respectfully submitted,

Brother John A. Smith introduced the following:

FRANK M. ANGl\LLO'I"I'T,

L. PATTON,

R. WELLER,_
ALBERT G. BURNET'!',
FRANCIS V. KEESLING,
DANA

JOHN D. MURPHEY,

Committee.

•

The report was adopted.

L. p ATTON,
R. WELLER,

FRANCIS V. KEESLING,

Relative to the suggestion that there should be quarterly meetings,
it is believed that the requirement of a stated meeting would in all
likelihood result in unnecessary inconvenience to committeemen and,
upon the presumption that the duties devolving upon the Committee will
be satisfactorily performed, for the present at least it is deemed inadvisable that stated sessions of that Committee be prescribed.

CHAS.

255

...

.

Resolved, That section 88 of the Constitution be amended by add"Except that subordinate Lodges may appropriate funds to purchase a Past Master's jewel for their retiring
~I aster, and that they may also appropriate a sum not to exceed ten
dollars for a floral wreath to be placed on the casket of a deceased
brother."
111~ thereto the words:

Referred to the Committee on J urispru<lence .

Past Grand Master Burnett, for the Committee on ] urisprudence, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Brothers Louis Muller and Frank G. Watson submit a resolution
providing that we shall institute as an emergency tool the so-called
"Lewis."
As we understand the term, a "Lewis" was the son of a Mason
who at the request of his father might be initiated although not yet
twenty-one years of age, provided a dispensation for the purpose was
secured.
It is clear, however, that the resolution introduced will not accomplish the adoption of the "Lewis" as a working tool. If it be de-

REPORT OF FINANCE COMMITTEE
Brother \,Y m. P. ] effries, Chairman of the Finance Committee, presented the following report:
Your Committee on Finance has considered the claim referred to it
hy the Grand Lodge for reimbursement of San Buenaventura Lodge No.
214, of Ventura, for money expended in the care and burial of Brother
I<. H. Smith of Milan Lodge No. 126, of Milan, Mo., amounting to

$234.10.
It appears from the record that a claim was presented to the Finance
Committee of the 1917 session of this Grand body and that $431.00 was
allowed. It is now claimed that this amount was only a portion of the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

expenditure and that the above amount of $234.10 is still due as a balance of the actual expenditure.

ficers; provided, however, that no office be bonded for a sum less than
$500.00. The bond shall be in favor of the Grand Lodge for its own
officers and as trustee for each subordinate Lodge insured thereunder.
The annual premium on said bonds shall be advanced by the Grand
I ,oclge, who shall be reimbursed by each subordinate Lodge for the pro
rata share of the premium chargeable against sai.-1 subordinate Lodge
for any amount of Bond used by them.

256

The original papers in the case were sent by our Grand Secretary
to the Grand Lodge of Missouri, and although our Grand Secretary
has requested the return of the papers, his request has not been complied
with, and therefore, your Committee has not sufficient evidence to pass
on the claim. But as San Buenaventura Lodge has already been out of
its money for more than a year, your Committee recommends that said
Lodge furnish duplicate bills for all amounts expended and file the same
with the Grand Secretary, and if such bills in the aggregate amount
to the sum of $431.00, allowed during the 1917 session, plus the $234.10
now claimed, that the Grand Secretary be instructed to draw a warrant
in full settlement of all claims since the beginning of the world.

l:57

Fraternally submitted,
WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES,

0. M. GOLDARACENA,
ARTHUR
JoHN

s. CRITES,

H. McGEHEE,

JOHN CLUTE,

Fraternally submitted,

Committee.

WILLIAM P. JEFFRIES,

0. M. GOLDARACENA,
ARTHUR
JoHN

s. CRITES.-

The report and resolution were adopted.

H. McGEHEE,·

JOHN CLUTE,

Committee.

The report was adopted as presented.
Brother Jeffries also presented the following:
Your Committee has considered the matter of procuring a schedule
bond in favor of the Grand Lodge of California to cover the Grand Secretary, Grand Treasurer and the Secretary, Treasurer and Trustees,
when desired, of each subordinate Lodge in this jurisdiction.
Your Committee is of the opinion that the covering of all by a
schedule bond will be the cheapest and most satisfactory method of
bonding the officers, not only of the Grand Lodge but of all the subordinate Lodges desiring to avail themselves of the opportunity. Your
Committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and recommends
its adoption.
Resolved, That the Grand Secretary is authorized to procure from
a surety company licensed to do business in California, which shall offer
the best service, a schedule bond covering the offices of Grand Secretary and Grand Treasurer, also Secretary, Treasurer and Trustees, of
such subordinate Lodge in this Grand jurisdiction as may desire to
avail themselves of this provision in an amount app'.icable to the office,
as fixed by the Grand Master in the case of Grand Lodge officers, and
as fixed by the Master of the Lodge in case of subordinate Lodge of-

FORM FOR INSTITUTING LODGES UNDER
DISPENSATION
The Grand Lecturer presented a form for instituting
Lodges under dispensation as follows:
The dispensation for the formation of a new Lodge is issued by
order of the Grand Master, and is sent to the Inspector of the Masonic
J)istrict in which the Lodge is situated, who should acknowledge receipt
thereof to the Grand Secretary. The Inspector should arrange with
the Master regarding elate of institution, and the members named in the
Dispensation notified by the Master to assemble in their Lodge room at
the time determined upon.
If the Inspector cannot attend, he may deputize some competent
Past Master to institute the new lodge.

After the brethren are assembled, the instituting officer will assume
the East. He then causes the Dispensation to be read, after which the
names of the officers appointed by the Master of the new Lodge will be
announced, together with the names of the Treasurer and Secretary
srlectecl by the brethren. As these names arc called, the officers will
form in line west of the altar and facing the East, the Master at the
right of the line, and the instituting officer will then descend from his
station and invest each officer with his jewel. The Master named in the
Dispensation will then be seated in the East, on the right of the in·

258

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

stituting officer. The other officers will take their respective stations
and places. If convenient, music should accompany these movements.
The instituting officer will then open in the third degree.
The instituting officer tben addresses the Master (who should
rise) as follows:
CHARGE To THE MASTER. The Grand Lodge havinz committed to
your care the superintendence and government of the brethren who are
to compose this new lodge, you cannot be insensible of the obligations
which devolve on you as their head, nor of your responsibility for the
faithful discharge of the important duties pertaining to your appointment.
The honor, reputation and usefulness of this Lodge will materially
depend upon your skill and assiduity; while the happiness of the members will be generally promoted in proportion to the zeal and ability
with which you propagate the genuine principles of Freemasonry. For
a pattern, consider the great luminary of Nature, which, rising in the
east, regularly diffuses light and lustre to all within its circle. In
like manner it is your duty to spread light and instruction to the
brethren of this lodge. Forcibly impress upon them the dignity and
high importance of Masonry, and seriously admonish them never to disgrace it. Charge them to practice out of the lodge those· duties which
they have been taught in it, and, by amiable, discreet, and virtuous conduct, to convince mankind of the goodness of the institution, so that,
when a person is said to be a member of it, the world may know that. he
is one to whom the burdened heart may pour out its sorrow; to whom
distress may prefer its suit; whose hand is guided by justice, and whose
heart is expanded by benevolence. In short, by a diligent observance
of the laws of our Grand Lodge, ancient landmarks, and regulations of
Masonry, and above all, the Holy Scriptures, which are given as a
rule and a guide to your faith, you will be ,enabled to merit the contidence reposed in you.
CHARGE To THE WARDENS. Brothers Senior and Jm_1ior Wardens
(who are called up by two knocks): You should be examples of good
order and regularity, for it is only by a due regard to the laws, in your
own conduct, that you can expect obedience to them from others. You
are as~duously to as~ist the Master, in diffusing light and imparting
know'.edge to all whom he shall place under your care. In the absence
of the Master you will succeed to higher· duties; your acquirements
must therefore be such that the Cr:::ft may never suffer for want of
proper instruction. From the spirit which you have hitherto evinced, I
entertain no doubt that your future conduct will be such· as to merit
the approval of your brethren and the testimony of a good conscience.

GRA~D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

259

L d CHARGE TO THE DRETHREN OF THE LODGE. Brethren oL ....................... .
.
o ge U. D. (who are called up by three knocks) . y

formed under a disp~nsation into a lodge of Free and .A o~ ~a; been
~nd are empowered to confer the several degree~ of An~~:~t eCraf~s~ns~

sonry, and to transact the neces
b ·
· .
a
author.ity i~ strictly limited by th es~:: ~s:~:s~;~~~d~~d~~er;to& : o~r
of Cahfonua and your continuance as a I d
.
' .. . . .
ject to the will and pleasure of the Crane~ ~:s~~:er i1spensat10n is s_ubrevoke the authority which you are now
k" ' w do may at any time
wor mg un er.
~t is your duty, as officers and members to
and
d
'
strictly obey the law,
111 or er to do so you should carefully study all of its pr ..
'
as any departure therefrom
b.
ov1s10ns,
It . h
may su Ject you to censure, and mig-ht
resu 111 t e recalling of your dispensation.

0

th~o~~;i:ea~e a:~t ~~=:~tutedt under d\spensation as a test of the ability

of
upon them and "f

ft redn o p_roper Y perform the duties incumbent
a er ue tnal, they are found
ti
qualified, they are constituted and f
d into
wor iy and well
power to work under charters.
orme
regular lodges, with full
'

I '

In addition to observing ti I
·
.
ficers to conform to the rule i~ ~w, it ~ti.I also he the duty of the ofregard to work. The Gra d Ls adn hre~t~ at10ns of th~ Grand Lodge in
its own esoteric
k . d h
G,rand Lecturer to teach ni"t .o dge. as
.
wor <tn
as a
•
an
it
1111poses
sever
.
I
·
departure therefrom Th
.
e pen<1 ties f or any
·
e momtor adopted by th G
d L d
be used and no other Tl d .
h
e ran
o ge must
.
,
.
ie es1re on t e part of lodge
d d"
sat10n to confer degrees on applicants too
. s un er ispeninto our Fraternity of
I
.
often results m the admission
.
some w 10 are not worthy and
ll
l "f' I
Bear m
mind that the stabilit
f . I d
we qua I iec .
its members, and not upon th~ ~ al o ge depends u~on the quality of
stowed. As the strength of a 1~11: ie:s upon who1~1 Its favors are be·
d c ~Ill Is test.ed by Its weakest link, so
the standing of a M
asomc 1o ge is measured h 1.t
k
'·
Y s wea est member.
I especially admonish yo t 0 .
:
·
LI
mqu1re carefully into ti
I
standing of those who seek d . .
.
ll' c iaracter and
be solicited to become one ~/111ss10~mto our Fraternity; no one should
we accept, and we should knt~~ be eo~~nfer fa_vors epon those whom
are worthy of wh t
h
.
Y
questwn that the recipients
a we ave to impart.
I charge you to guard well the portals 0 f I .
right to know that ever F
·
t us Lodge, as we have a
"t . y re~mason you create is entitlccl to be greeted
by the Fr t
a erm y ds a fnend and brotl
I
throughout the globe.
'
ier w lCresocver dispersed
PROCLAMATION
lNS'flTUTING OJIIIJCER: I ti
M
n ic name and hy the authority of the
ost Worshipful (~rand Lodge of Free and A ,
I M
•
cccptec
asons of

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

260
California,

GRAND LODGE UF CALIFOHNIA

261

do proclaim that ................................................ Lodge, U. D., of

.......................................................... has been duly instituted in conformity to
the rites of our institution and the charges of our ancient and honorable
Fraternity, and may our Father prosper, direct, and counsel you in
all your doings.

Morning Session
Friday, October 11, 1918.

Bl-:NEDICTION BY INSTALLING OFFICER OR CHAPLAIN
The Lord bless thee, and keep thee :
The Lord make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee:
The Lord lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace.
Amen.

The Grand Lodge was called on at ten o'clock, the
(;rand Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.

RESPONSE BY ALL THE BRETHREN : So mote it be.

HEPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF l\'.l"KMBERS
The instituting officer may conclude with such personal instruction
as he deems proper for the occasion; and handing to the Worshipful
Master the dispensation and the gavel of authority, he will resign the
chair, and take the place vacated by the Master. The brethren a;e
seated and the Lodge proceeds with its business. The Secretary will
copy the dispensation into the records, and make full and comple,te
report of all proceedings.

Adopted without reading.
The Grand Lodge was then called off uutil 10 o'clock
Friday morning.

Brother Joseph H. Stephens, for the Committee on Pay
of Members, presented the following report:
To the M.". w:. Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost of
transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in the
State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return, and of
reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the officers
or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well as the Grand
Officers, Past Grand Masters, Chairmen of Standing Committees, and
Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure for transportation to and
from the Grand Lodge, report that they have carefully discharged that
duty, and submit the following statement:
GRAND OFIIJCERS
William Rhodes Hervey, Grand Master, Los Angeles ....................$ 40.65
William MacCormack, Grand Chaplain, Los Angeles........................ 40.65
James F. Fenwick, Grand Marshal, Honolulu, T. H ......................... 162.00
Herbert L. Fulton, Grand Standard Bearer, Brawley...................... 60,00
Wm. T. Osterholt, Grand Sword Bearer, Los Angeles.................... 40.65
John P. Jarman, Grand Bible Bearer, San Jose.................................. 3.40
Charles G. Johnson, Junior Grand Deacon, Sacramento.................... 5.40
Porter Munsey, Senior Grand Steward, Bakersfield.......................... 26.55
Alfred Seale, Junior Grand Steward, Palo Alto.................................. 2.05
Theo. J. Milliken, Grand Pursuivant, Sacramento ............................ 5.40
Total ........................................................................................................$386.75

262

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
PAST GRAND MASTJlRS

William T. Lucas, Santa Maria ................................................................ $ 24.70
Orrin S. Henderson, Stockton .............................,............................... :.... 5.10
Motley H. Flint, Los Angeles.................................................................... 40.65
Dana R. Weller, Los Angeles.................................................................... 40.65
John D. Murphey, Berkeley..... ~---······-·····················································
.20
Alonzo J. Monroe, Eureka........................................................................ 25.90
Albert G. Burnett, Sacramento..................................................................
5.40
Total ......................................................................................................... $142.60
CHAIRMEN OF STANDING COMMITTEES

Joseph P. Bernhard, Fresno, Grievances .............................................. $ 17.70
Frank C. Mulkey, Los Angeles, Credentials.......................................... 40.65
Jam es B. Gist, Los Angeles, Returns...................................................... 40.65
Joseph H. Stephens, Sacramento, Pay of Members............................
5.40
Irving J. Mitchell, Los Angeles, Masonic Education........................ 40.65
William P. Jeffries, Los Angeles, Finance........................................ 40.65
Total ........................................................................................................ $185.70

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Robie E. Dill, Fifty-fifth District, Los Angeles....................................
Winfred J. Sanborn, Fifty-sixth District, Los Angeles......................
Will H. Fischer, Fifty-seventh District, Los Angeles........................
Russell B. Lafontaine, Fifty-eighth District, Los Angeles............
Wm. A. Vandegrift, Sixtieth District, Pomona....................................
Frank C. Owens, Sixty-second District, Whittier................................
Eli B. Trago, Sixty-fourth District, Santa Ana..................................
Walter B. Howes, Sixty-sixth District, San Bernardino..................
Henry D. French, Sixty-seventh District, Riverside..........................
J. Stewart Ross, Sixty-eighth District, El Centro..............................
Arthur A. Mathewson, Sixty-ninth District, Coronado......................
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angeles..........................................

263

40.65
40.65
40.65
40.65
40.65
41.35
42.65
40.65
40.65
61.10
46.80
40.65

Total ........................................................................................................ $817.45
RECAPITULATION

*For Representatives of Lodges .......................................................... $6,776.30
For Grand Officers ................................................................................ 386.75
For Past Grand Masters ...................................................................... 142.60
For Chairmen of Standing Committees ............................................ 185.70
For Inspectors .......................................................................................... 817.45

INSPECTORS

Frank E. Morrell, First District, Arcata .............................................. $ 26.70
Alfred A. Lord, Second District, N oyo ................................................... .12.9i
Gustav A. Hutaff, Fourth District, Dunsmuir...................................... 27.05
M. David Lininger, Thirteenth District, Auburn.............................. 8.40
Lewis B. Wilcoxon, Fifteenth District, Marysville............................ 8.75
Herman Jacobson, Sixteenth District. Colusa...................................... 9.70
Chas. E. Trower, Nineteenth District, Napa........................................
2.95
H. Hayes Gable, Twenty-first District, Esparto.................................. 6.60
Jacob E. Hughes, Twenty-eighth District, Crockett..........................
1.95
Fred'k L. Arbogast, Thirtieth District, Oakland..................................
.20
Chas. B. Greeley, Thirty-first District, Alameda..................................
.20
Granville D. Warren, Thirty-second District, Oakland......................
.20
John Clute, Thirty-eighth District, Ross..............................................
.75
Chas. G. Landscheit, Thirty-ninth District, Redwood City............
1.70
Chas. K. Tuttle, Forty-second District, Pacific Grove......................
7.90
John L. Mitchell, Forty-seventh District, Selma.................................. 18.90
Francis W. Mixter, Forty-eighth District, Exeter.............................. 22.55
Wm. W. Kaye, Fiftieth District, Bakersfield........................................ 26.55
David J. Reese, Fifty-second District, Ventura.................................... 35.05
Samuel E. Burke, Fifty-third District, Los Angeles.......................... 40.65
Edward B. Spencer, Fifty-fourth District, Los Angeles.................. 40.65

Grand total ........................................................................................ $8,308.80

*For items see Report of Committee on Returns.
We offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:
Resolved, That there be levied upon the subordinate Lodges of the
State of California for the current fiscal year, in addition to the clues
prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of 15 cents for each member
borne upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports. Said
levy shall be for the payment of Representatives, Grand Officers, Past
Grand Masters, and Inspectors, and shall be paid at the same time and
in the manner prescribed for th~ payment of the annual dues.
Jos.

H. STEPHENS,

GusTAv A. HuTAFF,
HUGH

K. MCKEVITT,

CHAS. T. LYNDALL,
JoHN

Report adopted as presented.

H. McGEHEl\.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

264

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Frank C. Mulkey, Chairman of the Committee on Credentials, reported the following officers and representatives
of 327 chartered Lodges, delegates from three Lodges under
dispensation, and Past Masters by service within this jurisdiction as being present, namely:
California ............ No.

Wes tern Star ...... No.
Tehama ................ No.

Benicia .................. No.
Tuolumne ............ No.

Corinthian .......... No.

San Jose ...,. .......... No.

Yount .................... No.

Nevada ..........:..... No.

l.... Thomas Rolph, Master;
H. A. Cline, Past Master;
P. M. Downing, Past Master;
F. V. Keesling, Past Master;
H. M. Owens, Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past Master;
E. Peabody, Past Master;
W. A. Scott, Past Master;
]. M. Whited, Past Master.
2 .... August Tillman, Master and Past Master.
3....John A. Brown, Master;
R. ]. Carpenter, Past Master;
T. ]. Milliken, Past Master.
5.... H. P. Ward, Representative and Past
Master.
8 .... G. T. Black, Past Master;
W. L. Hood, Representative and Past
Master;
0. ]. Mouron, Inspector and Past Master.
9.... Alfred H. Alderman, Master;
C. A. Trow, Past Master;
L. B. Wilcoxon, Inspector and Past
Master.
10.... George B. Stevens, Master;
Claude 0. Winans, Senior Warden;
]. P. Jarman, Inspector and Past Master;
]. H. McGehee, Past Master;
C. H. Wheeler, Past Master.
12.... Clarence D. Clark, Master;
]. A. Pederson, Past Master;
C. E. Trower, Inspector and Past Master.
13 .... Lloyd W. Jennings, Master and Past
Master;
F. L. Arbogast, Inspector and Past
Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

265

Eureka ...... ;........... No. 16.... Kelley D. Robinson, Master;
M. D. Lininger, Inspector and Past Master.
La Parfaite Union .. No. 17....Joseph H. Plante, Master and Past Mas.
ter;
Albert ]. Fabre, Senior Warden·
B. F. Ames, Past Master;
'
A. L. Auradou, Past Master;
0. M. Goldaracena, Past Master·
A. Huguenin, Inspector and Past' Master·
H. Mottet, Past Master.
'
San Joaquin ........ No. 19.... James A. Tandrow, Master;
Fred L. Kincaid, Junior Warden.
Washington ........ No. 20.... Milton ]. Ferguson, Master;
Walter L. Dosch, Senior Warden·
A. M. Cameron, Junior Ward en.
'
Hawaiian .............. No. 21.. .. K. R. G. Wallace, Representative and
Past Master.
Occidental ............ No. 22.... Frederick W. Nish, Master;
David P. Vail, Senior Warden;
William P. Humphreys, Junior Warden:
S. H. Clawson, Past Master;
F. W. G. Moebus, Past Master;
M. A. Schmidljn, Past Master.
Madison ................ No. 23 .... T. Ingram, Inspector, Representative and
Past Master.
Mariposa .............. No. 24 ....]. P. Mc Elliott, Representative and Past
Master;
E. P. Wason, Past Master.
Georgetown ._ ....... No 25 .... George G. Devore, Master and Past Mas·
ter.
Palmyra ................ No. 26.... George C. Rolleri, Master and Past Master.
Trinity .................. No. 27 .... J esse F. Tourtelotte, Representative,
Master and Past Master.
Golden Gate ........ No. 30.... 0scar R. W. Krenz, Master;
Edward C. C. Wellesley, Senior Warden;
A. F. Heuer, Past Master;
T. H. Macdonald, Past Master;
E. L. Meyer, Past Master;
W. G. Wright, Past Master.

t

266
Gold Hill .............. No.
Ophir .................... No.
San Diego ............ No.
St. John's ............ No.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

32 .... Walter K. Jansen, Master.
33 .... D. B. Driver, Past Master.
35 ... .John F. \Vest, Master.
37 .... Frank B. Ackerman, Master;
G. A. De Witt, Past Master.
Santa Cruz .......... No. 38.... Emmet C. Rittenhouse, Master.
Sacramento ........ No. 40 .... vVallace H. Renwick, Master;
J. H. Stephens, Past Master;
F. Tade, Past Master.
Martinez .............. No. 4L .. T. H. Shookly, Representative.
Los Angeles ........ No. 42 .... Sidney K. Lehman, Master.
Hiram .................. No. 43 ....J. A. Fisher, Representative and Past
Master.
Mount Moriah ...... No. 44 .... Karl F. Holzmuller, Master;
Christian H. Hjul, Senior Warden;
Thomas Nixon, Junior \Varden;
S. K. Campbell, Past Master;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
J. C. Jens, Past Master;
D. B. Richards, Past Master;
J. J. Stahl, Past Master.
Crescent .............. No. 45 .... Raleigh S. \Vinton, Senior Warden and
Past Master;
0. Dudley, Past Master.
Texas .................... No. 46.... William R. Flint, Master and Past Mas·
ter.
Forbestown ........ No. 50.... M. G. Hill, Past Master.
Illinoistown ........ No. 51.. .. A. Stevens, Representative and Past
Master.
Suisun ................. :No. 55 .... Thomas 0. Dowdell, Master;
E. L. Dearborn, Past Master.
Santa Rosa .......... No. 57 .... William B. Corrick, Junior Warden;
C. D. Barnett, Past Master;
J. T. Mailer, Past Master;
A. C. McMeans, Past Master.
Union .................... No. 58 .... Charles F. Nehrbass, Master;
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
J. P. Bascom, Inspector and Past Master:
\V. W. Douglas, Past Master;
·
J. F. Morgan. Past Master.
Plumas .................. No. 60....Jacob N. Stephan, Master;
J. 0. Moncur, Inspector and Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALJFOR.'iJ!A

21i7

Live Oak .............. No. 61.. .• Charles A. Anderson, Master;
Herbert Beckwith, Senior Warden;
L. S. Griswold, Past Master;
.c. E. Haven, Past Master;
C. H. Victor, Past Master.
Geo. \Vashington .. No. 62.... S. Morris, Past Master.
Natoma ................ No. 64.... S. C. Boarman, Representative.
Amador ................ No. 65 ...• William K. McFarland, Master and Past
Master.
Forest .................. No. 66 .... E. S. Brindle, Past Master.
Morning Star ...... No. 68.... Arthur L. Tredway, Master;
William P. Fergusson, Senior \Varden;
0. S. Henderson, Past Master.
Enterprise ............ No. 70 .... William B. Clark, Master.
Bear Mountain .... No. 76 .... Frederick W. Clough, Inspector, Master
and Past Master.
Humboldt ............ No. 79 ....Hans C. Nelson, Master and Past Master;
T. R. Dinsmore, Past Master;
A. J. Monroe, Past Master.
Ione ...................... No. 80.... Elbert W. Perkins, Master;
Robert H. Frost, Junior Warden.
Yolo ...................... No. 81.. .. Perley G. Friday, Master.
Vesper .................. No. 84 .... 0tto C. Combs, Senior \Varden.
Kava! .................... No. 87 .... Frederick Graff, Master;
Hert C. Whiteley. Senior Warden;
Carl L Rhodes. Junior Warden.
Korth .Star .......... No. 91.. .. James A. Walker, Representative and
Master.
St. Ilclena ............ No. 93 .... J. S. Noble, Representative and Past
Master.
Henry Clay ........ No. 95 .... John L. Redpath. Master and Past Mas·
ter.
Howard ................ No. 96 .... Lee A. Sarter, Master.
Jefferson .............. No. 97 .... R. H. Kingdon, Representative and Past
Master.
Yosemite .............. No. 99 ....John A. Robinson, Master;
Archibald L. Silman, Senior Warden and
Past Master.
Clay ...................... No. 101.. .. S. McK. Curtis, Past Master.
Oroville ................ No. 103 .... C. G. Crowe, Representative and Past
Master.

268

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lexington ............ No. 104.... Roy Wilkerson, Master.
Arcata .................. No.106....F. E. Morrell, Inspector and Past Mafiter.
Pajaro .................. No. 110.... Ralph Wyckoff, Representative.
Chico .................... No. 11 L .. Roy G. Estes, Master;
Robert H. B. Booth, Senior Warden.
Summit ................ No. 112.... James A. Morrison, Representative.
Eden ...................... No. 113.... S. B. Force, Past Master.
Concord ........ '. ....... No. 117....William K Lindsay, Senior Warden;
]. M. Chapman, Past Master.
Fidelity ................ No. 120.... Herman M. Wallenstein, Master;
Herbert S. Bibbero, Senior Warden;
V. Aaron, Past Master;
J. D. Abrams, Past Master.
Alamo .................. No. 122.... Herbert H. Daley, Master;
H. F. Spencer, Representative and Past
Master.
Sotoyome ............ No. 123.... George T. Hansen, Junior Warden.
Table Mountain .. No. 124.... Charles M. Hendrix, Senior Warden.
La Fayette .......... No. 126.... William Stillings, Junior Warden.
Herman ., .............. No.127 .... E. L. Tretten, Junior Warden;
S. J. Thesisen.
Nicolaus .............. No. 129 .... Frank L. Koch, Master;
Clyde Waltz, Senior Warden;
Charles A. Riechers, Junior Warden.
Sincerity .............. No. 132.... Frank J. Standart, Master and Past Master.
Pacific .................. No. 136....Wilhelm Waldeyer, Master;
Paul Nathan, Senior \Varden;
Robert L. Lincoln, Junior .Warden;
T. Anderson, Inspector and Past Master;
I. J. Aschheim, Past Master;
G. L. Darling, Past Master;
F. Mueller, Past Master;
A. W. Turpin, Past Master;
E. L. West, Past Master.
Crockett .............. No. 139.... Arthur H. Canaris, Master;
William R. Gibson, Senior Warden;
Robert J. Thompson, Junior Warden;
J. W. Davies, Past Master;
H. ]. Lloyd, Past Master;
H. W. Maass, Past Master;
H. McBirney, Past Master;
T. Rowlands, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

269

Grafton ................ No. 141.... A. L. Kennedy, Representative.
Franklin ..............No.143 .... Charles E. Bauer, Master;
J. H. Hyde, Representative and Past
Master;
H. D. Kercheval, Past Master.
Oriental ................ No. 144....Alfred J. Snow, Master;
Owen L. Gibson, Senior Warden;
C. W. Dobie, Past Master;
W. S. Hamilton, Past Master;
H. M. Jeffreys, Past Master;
R. C. Jewell, Past Master;
C. W. Whitney, Past Master.
Vitruvius .............. No. 145.... Clyde L. LeBaron, Senior Warden;
Eugene H. Steinbeck, Junior Warden.
Abell .................... No. 146.... Hubert J. Wellman. Master;
J. M. Mannon, Sr., Past Master.
Eel River............. No. 147.... William S. O'Connor, Senior Warden.
Lassen .................. No. 149.•..J. A. Pardee, Representative, Inspector
and Past Master.
Molino .................. No. 150....John T. Youles, Master and Past Master.
Woodland ............ No. 156.... H. H. Gable, Inspector and Past Master.
Excelsior .............. No. 166.... Carl V. Klinker, Master;
Louis F. Knight, Senior Warden;
W. N. Brunt, Past Master;
H. C. Collins .• Past Master;
R. G. Guyett, Inspector and Past Master;
D. A. Hare, Past Master.
Alameda .............. No. 167.... Elon A. Ormsby, Master;
F. B. Hartman, Past Master.
Redwood City .... No. 168.... Ben C. Zimmerman, Master;
Harry Potts, Junior Wa~den;
0. M. Carrington, Past Master;
C. G. Landscheit, Inspector and Past
Master;
F. K. Towne, Past Master.
Mission ................ No. 169.... William H. Worden, Master;
R. E. Allen, Past Master;
J. Hazlett, Past Master;
G. W. Lunt, Past Master;
W. W. Moore, Past Master;
• M. H. Renwick, Past Master;
0. L. Sues, Past Master;
E. W. Tucker, Past Master;
L. E. \Vallace, Past Master.

no

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Elk Grove ............ No. 173.... Thomas L. Conrad, Master.
Phoenix ................ No. 178. ... William T. Hamblen, Master;
W. B. Howes, Inspector and Past Master.
Mendocino .......... No.179 .... H. A. Atwood, Past Master;
C. Banker, Representative and Past Master.
Petaluma .............. No. 180.... Charles F. Fury, Master;
Newton A. Johnson, Senior Warden.
Russian River .... No. 181.. .. G. T. Trowbridge, Past Master;
C. Van Grafen, Past Master;
Mr. Bradhoff, Representative.
Sierra. Valley ...... No. 184.... Earl T. Couch, Junior \Varden.
Claiborne ............ No. 185 .... \Villiam I. Thomas, Master and Past
Master.
Evening Star ...... No. 186.... Charles W. Nutting, Jr., Master.
Oakland ................"No. 188.... Don F. Harris, Master;
Charles Quayle. Senior Warden;
R. B. Gaylord. Past Master;
S. J. Taylor, Past Master;
C. N. Walter, Past Master.
Northern Light..No. 190.... Henry H. Butzbach, Senior \Varden and
Past Master.
•
Marin ..,................. No. 191.... Abraham L. Borkheim, Senior Warden;
J. Clute, Inspector and Past Master;
G. F. Rodden, Past Master.
Santa Barbara .... No. 192.... 0scar \V. Smith, Master.
Ferndale .............. No. 193 .... Leslie R. Codoni, Master.
Buckeye ................ No. 195 .... John E. Sackett, Jr., Master.
San Simeon ........ No. 196....J. H. Bradhoff, Representative and Past
Master;
A. Frankl. Past Master.
Wilmington ........ No. 198.... Henry F. Lembke, Senior Warden;
C. F. Harrold. Past Master.
Hartley ................ No. 199.... C. J. Monroe, Representative and Past
Master.
Truckee ............... No. 200 .... George Carson, Representative and Past
Master.
Pentalpha ........... No. 202 ....James D. Taggart, Master;
Charles W. Gist, Senior Warden;
]. B. Gist, Past Master;
W. R. Hervey, Past Master.
Confidence .......... No. 203 .... \Valter C. Buttle, Master and Past Master.

S11linas .................. No. 204.... Robert D. Logan, Representative, Juninr
Warden and Past Master;
F. W. Schmeckel, Past Master;
L. Schneider. Past Master.
C Iii vet .................... No. 205 .... 0tto B. Liersch, Master.
Stanislaus ............ No. 206....J. E. Hosmer, Past Master.
:\naheim .............. No. 207.... Harry 0. Henderson, Senior Warden.
I~ io Vista ............ No. 208.... Silveria ]. DeSoto, Master.
I\ ing David's ...... No. 209.... 0liver H. P. Meck, Master;
John Whicher, Past Master.
l'ril'IHlship .......... No. 210.... Albert G. Ramstad, Master.
San Benito .......... No.211.. .• William A. Johnson, Master;
Herbert M. Williamson, Junior Warden.
S. lluenaventura.. No. 214.... Edward E. Moss, Master;
D. J. Reese, Inspector and Past Master.
C lak Grove .......... No. 215 .... Frank Billington, Senior Warden.
I loric .................... No. 216.... William W. Kelly, Senior Warden;
George A. Levy, Junior Warden;
B. Levi, Past Master;
A. A. Rosenshine, Past Master;
F. L. Wight, Past Master.
Monterey ............ No. 217....John A. Johnson, Master.
Mosaic .................. No. 218 ....T. F. Brady, Representative.
Spl'ranza Italiana No. 219.... Clemente C. Peini, Master and Past Master;
Joseph Perazzo, Senior \Varden;
E. V. Lonigo, Past Master;
G. Scalmanini, Inspector and Past Mas.
ter.
Downey ................ No. 220.... Httme H. Coward, Senior \Varden.
Inyo ...................... No. 221.. .. J ohn C. Baxter, Master.
I ;ranite .................. No. 222 .... Albert R. Delano, ;\faster;
Bakersfield .......... No. 224 .... Dallas Hayes, Master;
A. S. Crites, Past Master;
C. R. Dennen, Past Master;
H. Eissler, Past Master;
W.W. Kaye, Inspector and Past Master;
E. P. Munsey, Past Master.
Brooklyn ............ No. 225 .... Allan M. Wickland, Master;
William F. Woods, Senior \Varden;
William H. McCutcheon, Junior Warden;
F. J. Rennie, Past Master;
G. D. \Varren. Inspector and Past Master.

271

'
272

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

San Mateo ............ No. 226.... Edward C. Aldwell, Master;
Joseph B. Gordon, Senior Warden;
H. Luff, Past Master.
Athens .................. No. 228 .... B. B. Tuttle, Past Master;
A. G. Anderson,· Representative.
Solano .................. N.o. 229 .... Henry A. Frahm, Master;
Edward F. DeLaMater, Senior Warden;
Edward N. Sanders, Junior Warden;
A. S. Halliday, Past Master;
R. L. Robertson, Past Master;
]. E. Sanderson, Past Master;
]. F. W;ilter, Past Master.
Covelo .................. No. 231.. .. Charles H. Hurt, Master and Past Master.
Janesville ............ No. 232 .... William A. Dill, Master.
Calistoga .............. No. 233 .... Archibald H. McArthur, Master.
Hill's Ferry .......... No. 236 .... Walter H. Klehn, Junior Warden.
Guadalupe ............ No. 237 .... 1. M. Burola, Representative and Past
Master.
Colusa ··········----~---No. 240.... Fernando J. Mendosa, Master and Past
Master;
G. P. Ahlf, Past Master;
H. Jacobson, Inspector an·d Past Master.
Santa Ana ............ No. 241.. .. William W. Clevenger, Master;
E. B. Trago, Inspector and Past Master.
Magnolia .............. No. 242.... William A. Patton, Master.
Eucalyptus .......... No. 243 .... Harrison W. Holmes, Master;
Leonard R. Rosenberg, Junior Warden;
G. W. Madeley. Past Master;
E. F. Musson, Past Master.
Alcatraz ................ No. 244 ....James G. Kane, Master;
David T. Gardner, Senior Warden;
William L. Warner, Junior Warden;
]. Crossman, Past Master;
W. G. Davison, Past Master;
•
H. A. Glines, Past Master;
]. L. Vandenbos, Past Master.
Laurel .................. No. 245 .... Leon Speier, Representative.
Pomona ................ No. 246 .... Stacy W. Clapp, Master;
Almon T. Richardson, Junior Warden;
W. A. Vandegrift, Inspector ancl Past
Master.
Fresno .................. No. 247 .... W. J. Harris, Past Master;
\

l

273

Alturas .................. No. 248 .... C. S. Baldwin, Inspector, Representative
and Past Master.
/\din ...................... No. 250 .... John D. Graham, Master.
I .anclmark ............ No. 253 .... Sidney L. Murray, Master.
lfrading ................ No. 254.... George R. Milford, Representative and
Junior Warden;
McC. Fitzgerald, Past Master.
Wt•lcome .............. No. 255 .... R. E. Shore, Representative, Inspector
and Past Master.
I .ocli ...........•.......... No. 256 .... Robert A. Richards, Master.
I 'l'nrhyn .............. No. 258 ....J. J. Callison, Master.
Evergreen ............ No. 259 .... Charles H. Daum, Master;
H. D. French, Inspector and Past Master.
King Solomon's .. No. 260 .... George E. Weaver, Master;
E. E. Conn, Past Master.
Tnscan .................. No. 261.. .. Everett J. Worsley, Master.
I .nmpoc ................ No. 262 .... Ronald McD. Adams, Master.
11 csperian ............ No. 264.... George R. Jenkins, Master.
( >rland .................. No. 265 .... Thomas H. Brown, Master and Past
Master.
North East .......... No. 266 .... D. E. Wellman, Representative.
(;alt ........................ No.267 ... Joseph L. Orvis, Senior Warden.
I >urant .................. No. 268 .... Edward L. Soule, Master;
Walter W. Bradley, Senior Warden;
William E. Ashland, Junior Warden;
A. Fouch, Past Master;
E. D. Thomas, Past Master.
Olive Branch ...... No. 269 .... U. G. Cottle, Master and Past Master.
Snow Mountain .. No. 271.. .. Robert H. Yearn shaw, Master.
Pasadena .............. No. 272 .... Leon C. Brockway, Master.
/\nchor .................. No. 273 .... Allan E. Thompson, Master.
Arroyo .................. No. 274 .... Edward Chase, Representative.
()akdale ................ No. 275 .... Clarence E. Wood, Master.
Selma .................... No. 277 ... .J. L. Mitchell, Inspector and Past Master;
W. B. Belliss, Representative.
So. California ...... No. 278 .... Cyrus W. Grant, Master;
W. P. Jeffries, Past Master;
E. B. Spencer, Inspector and Past Master;
D. R. Weller, Past Master.
Hanford .............. No. 279 .... Elmer F. Clute, Master.
Mount Shasta .... No. 281.. .. 0tto Grantz, Representative and Past
Master.

274

PROCEEDINGS 01<' TH.El

Callayomi
.No. 282.... Simonic Lewis, Junior Warden.
South \Vest ........ No. 283 .... Frederick F. Martin, Senior Warden.
San Miguel .......... No. 285 .... Glen R. Short, Master;
),
Thomas H. Rougeot Senior Warden
Paso Robles ........ No. 286 .... Joseph W. Eddy, Master and Past Master.
\Vinnedumah ...... No. 287.... George A. Clarke, Senior \Varden and
Past Master.
Max:well .............. No. 288 .... Charles E. Brennir, Senior \Varden and
Representative
Elsinore ................ No. 289.... Ernest H.J. Witzel, Master;
M. N. Herbelin, Past Master.
East Gate ............ No. 290 .... Luther L. Yates, Master;
F. C. Mulkey, Past Master.
Santa Paula ........ No. 291.. .. Frank F. Harvey, Master.
Los Gatos ............ No. 292.... Charles 0. Silvertsen, Senior Warden;
M. F. Blank. Representative;
R. B. Chandler, Past Master.
Orange Grove .... No. 293 .... \Villard Smith, Master.
Traver .................. No. 294.... Godfrey E. Andrews, Master.
Mt. Jackson ........ No. 295 .... Walter G. Fonda, Junior \Varden and •
Representative.
Silver Gate .......... No. 296.... Edward Crolic, Master.
Dunsmuir ............ No. 297 .... Benjamin R. Fauber, Junior \Varden and
Representative;
G. A. H utaff, Inspector and Past Master.
Liberty .................. No. 299.... I rvan A. Ball, Senior \Varden;
Charles A. English, Junior Warden;
H. A. Myers.
Redlands .............. No. 300 ....Charles A. Blomquist, Junior \Varden.
Ontario ................ :;-{o. 301.. .. R. D. Newton, Representative.
Santa Lucia ........ No. 302.... Robert R. Allen, Senior \Varden and
Past Master.
Porterville .......... No. 303 .... Edward G. Shore, Master;
Oscar L. Hemphill, Senior :\Varden.
Reedley ................ No. 304 .... F: E. Studley, Representative.
Azusa .................... No. 305 .... Chester A. Savage, Master.
Ashlar .................. No. 306.... Ralph E. Gilbert, Master.
Santa Monica ...... No. 307 .... Edwin C. Bouquet, Master and Past Master.
Monrovia ............ No. 308.... Edward Brunner, Master.
Delano .................. No. 309.... Harry W. Kent, Master;
B. Thomas. Past Master.
Sisson .................. No. 310.... Walter C. Dismukes, Junior \Varden.
Los Banos .......... No. 312.... Frank D. Maginnis, Master.
·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

276

Tcmescal .............. No. 314 .... Fred E. Snedicor, Master and Past Master.
Norwald .............. No. 315 .... Louis F. Buehn, Master.
Sanger .................. No. 316.... Erik A. Boye. Master.
Jiallbrook ............ No. 317 .... Edward C. Reader, Senior Warden and
Past Master.
11 oil en beck .......... No. 319 .... Frank E. Burger, Master;
Jacob B. Ginther, Senior \Varden;
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
L. V. Youngworth, Past Master;
\V. ]. Sanborn, Inspector and Past Master.
South Gate .......... No. 320 .... George E. Cota, Master;
R. E. Dill. Inspector and Past Master;
M. L. ,Griffith, Past Master.
.\lisal .................... No. 321.. .. James H. Cope, Master and Past Master.
.\lhambra ............ No. 322 .... John N. Gillies, Master;
E. E. Ford, Past Master.
Whittier .............. No. 323 .... Arthur J. West, Master;
F. C. Owens, Inspector and Past Master.
Corona .................. No. 324.... Bert Stoddard, Master.
Consuelo .............. No. 325 .... Milton V. \Visdom, Senior Warden.
Long Reach ........ No. 327 .... R. B. Skinner, Representative.
Redondo .............. No. 328.... A. M. Harter, Representative and Past
Master.
Vallee DeFrance No. 329.... Alfred Chevalley, Master.
Kilauea ............... No. 330.... James F. Fenwick. Representative.
Pacific Grove ...... No. 331.. .. R. Chivers. Past Master;
E. S. Johnston, Representative an<l Past
Master;
C. K. Tuttle, Inspector and Past Master.
San Pedro ............ No. 332.... Ernest F. Brouse. Master.
Covina .................. No. 334... .Frederick P. Wilson, Master;
T. F. Griswold. Past Master.
West Gate .......... No. 335 .... lrwin D. Nokes, Senior Warden;
D. J. Brownstein, Past Master;
D. Cave, Inspector and Past Master.
Fruitvale .............. No. 336.... Harry N. Thornally, Senior Warden;
William I. Day, Junior \Varden;
J. C. McEwen. Past Master;
H. C. Schwinn, Past Master.
Carquinez ............ No. 337.... Francis P. Doughty, Master;
Joseph J. Burdon, Senior \Varden;
J. E. Hugh es, Inspector and Past Master.

,
276

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

San Jacinto ........ No. 338 .... Carsten Truelsen, Master and Past
ter;
G. Matthews, Past Master.
Fullerton ............ No. 339 ....J a mes A. Green, Master.
Oxnard ................ No. 341.... Frank Wasserman, Master.
San Fernando .... No. 343 .... Herbert M. Foster, Master.
Starr King .......... No. 344 .... Charles 0. Clausen, Senior Warden;
Bernard J. Joseph, Junior Warden;
J. W. Gale, Past Master;
C. 0. Munson, Past Master;
C. M. Wollenberg, Past Master.
Brentwood .......... No. 345 .... John F. Burns, Master.
Palo Alto ............ No. 346 .... A. Seale, Past Master.
McKinley ............ No. 347 .... Walter T. Helms, Master.
San Bernardino .. No. 348.... Adam 0. Miller, Master.
Sequoia ................ No. 349 .... Charles E. Poulter, Master;
J. W. Gwilt, Past Master;
E. F. Hughes, Past Master;
C. Husband, Past Master;
C. C. Young, Past Master.
Palestine .............. No. 351.. ..Johnson A. Atkinson, Master;
W. F. Haas, Past Master.
Sunset .................. No. 352 .... Rollie W. Miller, Master;
David G. Kendall, Junior Warden;
C. H. Bridges, Past Master;
S. E. Burke, Inspector and Past Master;
D. M. Sutherland, Past Master.
Pinole .................... No. 353 .... Sank V. Sharp, Master.
Presidio ................ No. 354 .... Robert A. Ritchie, Master;
Calvin S. Grandi, Senior Warden;
J. B. Wuersching, Past Master.
Hollywood .......... No. 355 .... Edward W. Fox, Master.
Mill Valley .......... No. 356 .... Edwin S. Merriman, Master;
Charles J. Brockhoff, Junior Warden;
A. Coffin, Past Master.
Buena Park ........ No. 357 .... Charles L. McComber, Master and Past
Master.
Golden State ...... No. 358.... Frank S. Hutton, Master;
Clarence G. Weisbrod, Senior Warden;
J. H. Bean, Past Master;
R. B. LaFontaine, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

277

Sn11 Francisco .... No. 360 .... Charles H. Roddan, Master;
Ernest R. Byers, Junior Warden;
H. S. Johnson, Past Master;
J. C. Perry, Past Master;
V. E. Perry, Past Master.
l'"rl Bragg .......... No. 361.. .. Henry A. Doidge, Master;
A. A. Lord, Inspector and Past Master.
( 'harity .................. No. 362....Thomas L. Mendel, Senior Warden.
lh-rkcley .............. No. 363 .... Edward C. Forbes, Master;
George L. Everett, Senior Warden;
'R. P. Arnold, Past Master.
Will its .................. No. 365 .... R. C. J. Ritschel, Representative and
Past Master.
I .as Palmas .......... No. 366 .... Harry C. Wilber, Senior Warden;
J. P. Bernhard, Past Master.
South Pasadena .. No. 367 .... Harry R. Archbald, Master.
llnity .................... No. 368 .... Jordan S. Neel. Master.
I lccan Park ........ No. 369 .... Clyde V. Hover, Master.
Amity .................... No. 370.... Walter G. Campbell, Master;
John W. HatrJl, Junior Warden;
W. B. Curtis, Past Master;
H. C. Klevesahl, Past Master;
R. F. Lange, Past Master;
P. F. Schaffner, Past Master;
W. P. Stanton, Past Master;
W. E. Wood, Inspector and Past Master.
I .c Progres de
L'Oceanie ........ No. 371.. ..James F. Fenwick, Representative.
Cardena ................ No. 372 .... Harry J. Wood, Master.
Veteran ................ No. 373 .... James E. Bond, Master.
J ewe! .................... No. 374 .... Curtis Benton, Master and Past Master;
Albert A. Greenbaum, Junior Warden;
Leo Bruck, Past Master;
J. A. Snell, Past Master.
Richmond ............ No. 375 ....John A. Johnson, Master;
William G. Brown, Senior Warden;
E. L. Fischer, Past Master;
A. MacKillop, Inspector and Past Master;
L. Sanborn, Past Master.
Francis Drake .... No. 376 .... John A. Riordan, Master;
E. N. Brown, Past Master;
G. A. D. Kneese, Past Master.
Artesia .................. No. 377 .... Franklin D. Caldwell, Senior Warden.

279

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Mizpah ---------------···No. 378 .... Gale F. Bonney, Master;
William G. Wells, Senior Warden.
Fillmore ----------------No. 379 ....W: W. Newcomer, Representative.
Oceanside ____________ No. 381.. .. Edward J. Shives, Senior Warden.
Highland Park .... No. 382 .... Ed. W. Hopkins, Master.
Orosi --------------------No. 383 .... Charles S. Beinhorn, Master.
El Centro ------------No. 384 .... Charles N. Perry, Master;
]. S. Ross, Inspector and Past Master.
Dinuba ------------------No. 385 .... Clarence V. Martin, Senior Warden;
]. D. Pillsbury, Past Master.
Coalinga -·-·------·---No. 387 .... William H. Halford, Senior Warden.
Parnassus ____________ No. 388 .... Clifford T. Dorman, Master;
Horace R. Spaulding, Senior Warden;
John C. Doest. Junior Warden.
Palos Verdes ______ No. 389 .... Thomas D. Fite, Master.
Imperial --------··----No. 390 .... Harry N. Dyke, Senior Warden.
West Lake __________ N o. 392 .... Samuel Silve'rman, Master;
W. T. Osterholdt, Past Master.
Balder -----····---------No. 393 .... Alfred Berglof, Senior Warden;
Elias Ellison, Junior Warden;
C. G. Johnson, Past Master.
University __________ No. 394 .... Edward A. Brown, Master;
Horace E. Saunders, Senior Warden;
L J. Mitchell, Past Master.
Turlock ________________ No. 395 .... Frank C. Harder, Master.
Apollo ···---·--------·--No. 396 .... J a mes T. Rattray, Master;
Paul R. Melchert, Junior Warden;
C. Tl. Greeley, Inspector and Past Master.
Rising Light.. ...... No. 397 .... John Richards, Master.
Fraternity ____________ No. 399 .... Robert J. Butler, Master;
Frank E. Jameson, Junior Warden.
Burlingame ________ No. 400 .... William Wiekin, Senior Warden;
Andrew S. Lamond, Junior Warden;
W. J. Kidd, Past Master;
C. Jellinek, Master Master.
Bay View ------------No. 401.. .. Harry E. Long, Master.
Brawley ·····---------No. 402 .... Fred M. Blood, Master;
H. L. Fulton, Past Master.
Y erba Buena ...... No. 403 .... Russell L. Countryman, Master;
Albert B. Casad. Senior Warden;
A. L. Gifford, Past Master;
F. W. Le Ballister, Representative and
Past Master.
Glendora .............. No. 404 .... Fred'k H. Nushickel, Master.
Moneta ····-·----------No. 405 .... Charles M. M arleau, Master.

l\11rbank ______________ No. 406 .... J aeon A. Swall, Master.
I .a Mesa ______________ No. 407 .... Harry H. Hill, Master.
Sierra Madre ...... No. 408 .... Carleton J. Pegler, Master.
11 onolulu ____________ No. 409 ....James F. Fenwick, Inspector, Representative and Past Master.
( 'harter Rock ...... No. 410 .... Henry R .. Barden, Master;
Charles H. Walworth, Senior Warden;
George L. Sargent, Junior Warden;
vV. A. Louis, Past Master;
R. W. Myers, Past Master;
P. Nicklas, Past Master;
M. A. Plumb, Past Master;
S. Vlf. Smith, Past Master;
E. S. Valentine, Past Master.
Perris ----·--···········--No. 41 L .. Frederick J. Bonner, Master;
Clifford R. Stewart, Senior Warden.
Calexico ---------·-··-No. 412 .... William H. Lorenz, Jr., Representative
and Junior Warden.
\·Vaucoba .............. No. 413 .... J am es l l. Down, J nnior Vv arden.
;\ rlington ----·-··---·No. 414 .... Frank L. Stiff, Master;
C. P. Lyndall, Past Master.
Silver Trowel ____ No. 415 .... Chas. L. Bagley. Master.
Lindsay ................ No. 416.... Albert C. Tienken, Master.
Clovis __________________ No. 417 ... .Fred ll. lllakely, Master.
l•:lysian ................ No. 418 .... Arthur Beardsley, Master.
Upland ------··----·---No. 419 .... William A. Lucas, Master.
K crman ---·--·--···--·-No. ·420 .... Alexandet Cowan, Representative.
Inglewood .......... No. 421.. .. Carlos R. Engle, Master.
l·:agle Rock ........ No. 422 .... John W. llroxholmc, Senior Warden.
York -----------·-····--·No. 423 .... llurgoyne E. Wolfe, Master.
I-: xeter ---·--··--·-----·-No. 424 .... Charles K. Cr a Ill', M asll'r;
F. W. Mixter, Inspector ancl Past Master.
11 oltville .............. No. 425 .... Carner M. Dotson, Senior Warden.
Mid way -----·--··------No. 426 .... A re hie M. Kidd, Senior Warden.
Chino Valley ...... No. 427 .... Elmer C. Daniels. Master and l'ast Master.
San Dimas .......... No. 428 .... Arthur E. Tangerman, Senior Warden.
I 'ittsburg .............. No. 429 .... J ohn E. Bankson, Master.
AlcCloud .............. No. 430 .... Thomas F. Sadll•r, Master;
E. M. Smith, Past Master.
lfoseville .............. No. 432 .... Rohe rt F. Watson, Master.
I lammonton~----·-No. 433 .... J. H. McGill, l'ast Master.

2i8

280

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fairmount .......... No. 435 .... Henry F. Harwood, Master;
Robert D. McFarland, Senior Warden;
George M. Bernhard, Junior Warden;
D. S. Wagstaff, Past Master.
Claremont .......... No. 436.... Ernest W. Browning, Senior Warden;
W. L. Smith, Past Master.
Lancaster ............ No. 437 ... .J esse M. Hoskins, Master.
Germania ............ No. 438 .... Rudolph G. Kiesling, Master.
Tyrian .................. No. 439 .... Hardin W. Forgy, Junior Warden.
Standard .............. No. 440 .... Lewis P. Way, Master;
William F. Wood, Senior Warden;
E. M. Jones, Past Master.
Coronado ............ No. 441.. .. William D. Rodgers, Master;
David G. Davidson, Senior Warden;
A. A. Mathewson, Inspector and Past
Master.
Blackmer ............ No. 442 .... Warren E. Libby, Senior Warden;
Chas. W. Potter, Junior Warden.
Schofield .............. No. 443 ... .James F. Fenwick, Representative.
Carpinteria .......... No. 444 .... Chas. Curtis, Representative.
Wilshire .............. No. 445 .... Buford A. Tucker, Master;
W. H. Fischer, Inspector and Past Master.
La Puente .......... No. 446 .... Raymond Hooper, Master;
J. W. Hudson, Past Master.
Torrance .............. No. 447 .... Clinton W. Northrup, Senior Warden.
Mt. Diablo .......... No. 448 .... Edward A. Palmer, Master.
Park ...................... No. 449 .... Arthur H. Wilde, Master;
Leslie Il. Fox, Senior Warden;
Foster G. Dyer, Junior Warden;
F. R. Jackson, Past Master;
E. B. Power, Past Master.
Van Nuys ............ No. 450 .... J. A. Bailey, Past Master;
T. A. Bailey, Representative.
Montebello .......... No. 451.. .. Chas. C. Johnson, Master.
San Pasqual ...... No. 452 .... Hiram W. Harmon, Master.
Bethlehem .......... No. 453 .... William W. Healey, Master;
Hayes P. Speakman, Junior Warden;
C. F. Bovee, Past Master;
C. K. Harper, Past Master;
E. Squier, Past Master.
Crocker ................ No. 454....John Robertson, Master;
George Watson, Senior Warden;
Angus Campbell, Junior Warden.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

281

( ;oltlcn West ...... No. 455 .... Elner M. Hundley, Master;
George E. Chapin, Senior Warden;
Merton M. Hall, Junior Warden;
G. R. Brockmann, Past Master;
J. D. McAlpine, Past Master;
A. L. W. Zillmer, Past Master.
Kl'llnett ................ No. 456 .... C. L. Gregg, Past Master;
P. L. Hjortsberg, Representative.
Ramona .............. No. 457 .... Royal F. Richards, Master.
I lenry S. Orme .. No. 458 .... John H. Sheridan, Master and Past Master.
Riverbank ............ No. 459 .... DeSoto E. Grant, Representative.
Mt. Oso ................ No. 460 .... Lynn 0. Stark, Master.
Argonaut .............. No. 461.. .. Harry W. Reis, Master;
Walter LeR. Bowden, Senior Warden;
James W. Strawn. Junior Warden.
Paul Revere ........ No. 462.... William A. Gerder, Master;
Arthur Heinz, Senior Warden;
Philip Werner, Junior Warden.
Alta Vista ............ No. 464.... Harry G. Hansell, Master.
Libertas ................ No. 466.... Ira H. Glenn, Master;
William A. Eardley, Senior Warden.
Culver City ........ No. 467 .... c'has. E. Shillito, Master and Past Master;
Henry L. Canning, Senior Warden;
Chas. L. W. Vocke, Junior Warden.
Rockridge ............ No. 468 .... Roy R. Beggs, Master;
Willard W. Shea, Senior Warden;
J. A. Smith, Past Master.
Yorba Linda, U. D ............. James W. Newell, Master.
Lincoln, U. D ....................... James C. Wilder, Master and Past Master;
Robert A. Peabody, Junior Warden;
Arthur M. Joel, Senior Warden.
Delta, U. D ............................. Fredericlr \i\T. Moore, Master;
Parke E. Grady, Senior Warden.

The report was adopted.

282

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

2f3

The R.". W.". Bradford Webster, of Live Oak Lodge

N11. (Jl, was elected Grand Master.

JEWELS AND FLORAL PIECES
Past Grand Master Murphey, from the Committee on
Jurisprudence, reported concerning the proposed amendment
to section 88 as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

This proposed amendment to the Constitution will, if adopted,
abrogate the expressed will of the Grand Lodge on the matters
embraced therein. The Grand Lodge has expressly inhibited the
purchase. with Lodge funds, of either floral pieces for deceased
brothers or jewels or other mementoes to be presented to distinguished brethren. The subject matter of the amendment is purely
one of policy, and your Committee is disposed to submit it to the
consideration of the Grand Lodge without recommendation. Should
the Grand Lodge favor this legislation your Committee would suggest the following as a substitute for the amendment proposed by
Past Master Smith:

The. R.". W.". Charles Albert Adams, of Excelsior

I .1 H!ge No. 166, was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R. ·. VI.·. George F. Rodden, of Marin Lodge No.
11) I, was elected Senior Grand Warden.
The W.". Samuel E. Burke, of Sunset Lodge No. 352,
was elected Junior Grand Warden.
The V.". W.". William P. Filmer of King Solomon's

I .11clge No. 260, was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V.". W.". John Whicher, of King David's Lodge
No. 209, was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V:. W .". Thomas J. Baker, of Union Lodge No. 58,
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.

•

"Provided, that a subordinate Lodge may in its discretion; appropriate from its funds. not to exceed thirty-five dollars, for the
purchase of a Past Master's jewel for its retiring Master and not to
exceed ten dollars for the purchase of floral pieces for a deceased
brother."

A motion to adopt the substitute was lost. and the
or'ginal proposed amendment failed of passage.

INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master-elect then caused to be read the list
11f appointed officers as follows:
,,.Grand Chaplain, the Very Rev. Edgar F. Gee, of Live
I lak No. 61.
Grand Orator, Charles H. Victor of Live Oak Lodge

Past Grand Master Weller moved that the salary of
the Assistant Grand Secretary he increased by three hunclred dollars a year. Carried by unanimous vote.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master then announced that the election of
ufficers for the ensuing year was now in order, and appointed the following tellers:
\\'infred J. Sanborn, Chas. G. Landscheit, Angus MacKillop, John H. McGehee, William\,\/. Kaye, James D. Taggert, R. G. Guyett, Robie E. Dill, James A. Tandrow. The
election resulted as follows:

:\1l. 61.

Assistant Grand Secretary, 1-T arry S. Johnson, of San
Francisco Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal, James F. Fenwick, of Honolulu Lodge
No. 409.

Grand Standard Bearer, Herbert L. Fulton, of Brawley
I .odge No. 402.

Grand Sword Bearer, George E. Weaver, of King Sololllon's Lodge No. 260.
Grand Bible Bearer, John P. Jarman, of San Jose Lodge
No. 10.

284

285

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Senior Grand Deacon, Charles G. Johnson, of Balder
Lodge No. 393.
Junior Grand Deacon, James B. Gist, of Pentalpha
Lodge No. 202.
Senior Grand Steward, Richard E. Shore, of \Velcome
Lodge No. 255.
Junior Grand Steward, Alfred Seale, of Palo Alto Lodge
No. 346.
Grand Pursuivant, Theodore J. Milliken, of Tehama
Lodge No. 3.
Grand Organist, Samuel D. Mayer, of California Lodge
No. 1.
.
Grand Tiler, George P. Adam~, of California Lodge
No. 1.

•

The Grand Officers were then duly installed in their
several stations and places by Grand Master William
Rhodes Hervey, assisted by Past Grand Master Francis V.
Keesling, as Master of Ceremonies.

ST ANDING COMMITTEES
The Grand Master announced the appointment of standing committees for the ensuing year, as follows:
Jurisprudence: Frank M. Angellotti, Wells Fargo Building,
San Francisco; Charles L. Patton, Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Dana R.
\Veller, Albert G. Burnett, Francis V. Keesling, John D. Murphey.
Grievances: Joseph P. Bernhard, Fresno; Leo V. Youngworth,
Walter F. Haas, E. B. Power, George L. Jones.
Finance: William A. Sherman, Merchants Ice and Cold Storage
Co., San Francisco; 0. M. Goldaracena, W. P. Jeffries, Arthur S.
Crites, John H. McGehee.
Credentials: R. E. Allan, 320 l\forket St., San Francisco; Fred
W. LeBallister, John Clute, Hans C. Nelson, Francis W. Mixter.

Accounts:

Edward E. Conn, 347 Clay St., San Francisco;

I), E. F. Easton, Fred B. Wood, Leo Bruck, John B. Wuersching.
Returns: R. G. Guyett, Crocker Building, San Francisco; C.H.
Wheeler, Charles D. Barnett, Porter Munsey, Montgomery M.
Moulton, George W. LeMoin.
Ritnal: Thomas J. Baker, Masonic Temple, San Francisco;
l lana R. Well er, William P. Filmer.
Correspondence: Jesse M. Whited, 354 Pine St., San Franrisco; Alonzo J. Monroe, F. L. Hansen, Joseph P. Abrams, Henry
I J. French.
Pay of Members: Hugh McKevitt, Hearst Building, San ~ran­
risco; Gustav A. Hutaff, Joseph P. Pillsbury, Walter D. Adriance,
Arthur \V. Gluckman.
Library: Henry M. Owens, 948 Market St., San Francisco;
Martin A. Schm.idlin, Sidney B. Force, Charles A. Vandenbos, Leyr
E. Wallace.
Masonic Education: Irving ]. Mitchell, 1127 West Twentieth
St., Los Angeles; D. S. Wagstaff, Robert B. Gaylord .
Trustees Masonic Home: \Vm. S. \Velis, Courthouse, Oakland; Edward B. Spencer, Oscar Lawler, C. M. Wollenberg, and the
Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Wardens.
Endowment Committee Masonic Homes: Motley H. Flint,
Trust and Savings Building, Los Angeles; A. J. Monroe, F. V.
Keesling, Robert Greig, Arthur S. Crites, John \V. Gwilt, George F.
Rodden, Fred W. Clough.
Administrators of War Fund: \Villiam Rhodes Hervey,
Thomas J. Baker and John Whicher.

The retiring Grand Master was presented with a beautiful bronze clock by the Grand Lodge, the presentation being
made by Past Grand Master Patton in his own inimitable
style.
At 2 :15 o'clock, all business being now completed, the
Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form.
BRADfORD WEBSTER,
Grand Master.
JOHN WHICHER,
·
Grand Secretary.

62

28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
41
42
43
44
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
.36
57
58
59
60
61

27

26

23
24
25

21
22

11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20

4
5
• 6
7
8
9
10

3

1
2

E

~

Town.

Places of Location.

County.

........

.

.

. .. .....

. ......

San Diego • . . . . . . 35 San Diego ......... San Diego .........
St. John's ....... 37 Yreka .............. Siskiyou ..........•
Santa Cruz . . . . . . 38 Santa Cruz ......... Santa Cruz ......•.•
Sacramento ..... 40 Sacramento ............. Sacramento .. ...........
Martinez . . . . . . . . 41 Martinez ....•.•..•. Contra Costa •......
Los Angeles . . . . . 42 Los Angeles .....••. Los Angeles ........
Hiram ' .......... 43 El Dorado .......... El Dorado ..........
Mount Moriah. . . . 44 San Francisco •..... San Francisco ..••.•
Crescent ........ 45 Crescent City ....... Del Norte ..........
Texas ........... 46 San Juan ........•• San Benito ...•..•.•
Forbestown . . . . . . 50 Forbestown
Butte •.............
Illinois town ..... 51 Colfax ••.........•• Placer ••..•........
........ 55 Suisun •..•..•...... Solano •............
Suisun
Volcano ........• 56 Volcano •.••........ amador ............
Santa Rosa . . . . • • 57 Santa Rosa •.•...... Sonoma ..••.••.....
Union ..........• 58 Sacramento ........... Sacramento .. " "
Gravel Range . . . . 59 Camptonville •...... Yuba .•.•••••••••••
Plumas ......... 60 Quincy •.•••••..... Plumas •..•••..•...
Live Oak ........ 61 Oakland ...•.......• AJameda •..•......•
Geo. Washington .. 62 Chinese Camp ...... Tuolumne ...•.....•
Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ............. Sacramento ..........
Amador ......... 65 Jackson ............ Amador ...........•
Forest . . . . . . . . . . 66 Alleghany .......... Sierra ... . ...
.
Morning Star.. . . . 68 Stockton •.......... San Joaquin ........
Enterprlse ••..... 70 Yuba City ...•....• Sutter .......•.•..•
Bear Mountain. . . 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras •..•..•..•
Cala ,·eras . . . . . . . 78 San Andreas ....... Calaveras •.........
Humboldt ....... 79 Eureka ......... ,. ..... Humboldt ..........
Ione . . . . . . . . . .. . 80 Cone .........•..... Amador
,. ...........
Yolo ............ 81 Yolo ...........•... Yolo ..............•
Rising Star . . . . . . . 83 Forest Hill ........• Placer ....................
Vesper .......... 84 Red Bluff .......... Tehama ......•...••
Xa·rnl ........... 87 Vallejo ............... Solano ..............
Rose's Bar ...... 89 Bmartsville ....••..• Yuba .........•••••
North Star ..•.... 91 Fort Jones ......... Siskiyou ............
St. Helena . . . . . . 93 St. Helena ; •....... Napa .••.•••.......
Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek ........ Amador •..••.......

California
1 San ]'raneisco •..•• ·!San Francisco ..... .
W estem Star ••..• 2 Shasta .........•..• ,Shasta •............
Tehama ..•.. : .. . 3 Sacramento ...•..•. Sacramento .......•
Benicia ....... .. 5 Benicia .....•...... Solano ........•....
Tuolumne •.••... 8 Sonora ....••....... Tuolumne •....•..•.
Corinthian
9 Marysville •........ Yuba ...•.•........
San Jose ......... IO San Jose ........... Santa Clara ...... ..
Yount ......... .. 12 Napa .............. Napa ............. .
Nevada ........ . 13 Isevada City ....... Nevada .......... ..
Temple ........••• 14 Sonoma ......•..... Sonoma ........... .
Eureka .•........ 16 Auburn .. , .......• ,Placer ........••...
Parfaite Union .. 17 San Francisco ...... ' San Francisco .•••..
Mountain Shade .. lSjDownieville .......• Sierra ..........•.•
San Joaquin .....• 19.Stockton .....•....• 1San Joaquin ....... .
Washington .... .. 20 Sacramento •....... !Sacramento ....... .
Hawaiian' ...... . 21 Honolulu, H. T ...... Hawaiian Ter ...... .
Occidental •...... 22 San Francisco ......• San Francisco
Madison ........ . 23,Grass Valley ....... Nevada ........... .
Mariposa ......•. 24,Mariposa .......•... Mariposa ..........•
Georgetown •...• 25 Georgetown ........ El Dorado ......... .
Palmyra ........ . 26 Placerville ......... El Dorado ......... .
Trinity ........ .. 271Weaverville ........ Trinity .......... ..
'lolden Gate •..•• 30!San Franciseo •..... San Francisco ..... .
Gold Hill ........ 321Lineoln .....•...... IPJacer ............ .
Ophir •.......... 33 1Murphy 's .......... 1Calaveras ......... .

Names of Lodges.

.;

..
~

"
"

6,

"

May

"

"

"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"
"

1856.
May

8,

"
1, 1855.

"·

"
"
3,
"
"
"
2, 1855.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
"3, "
"
2,
"
" "
" "
"
"
" "
"4, "
"

"5, "
"
3,
"
" "

1853.
1854.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
July

"
"

"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

7,
3,

"

"6,
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
1853.

1852.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
1851,
"
"

1850.

.. "" ""
May
May

"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
20,

"
"
"
"
"
"

5,

7,
5,

"

Nov.
May

"

"

''
"
"
Nov.
"
27,

19,

"
"
"

April

Date when Charter
was hsued.

I

5

1

~.

5
50
50 ......
50
1
75 10
50 ......
50 10
30
1
50 10
50
6
30
1
30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
30
5
75; 5
75! 10
30 ....
50
5
75 25
2
50
50
5
50 ......
50 ......
50 ······
50
5
3
50
50
5
50 .....
50 ......
30, ......
30
5
50 ......
75 10
50
5
5
35
30
1
40,. .....

4

IO

75
50
50

~

30 ..... .
50 ..... .
75 10
50 10
75 10
53 ..... .
36
5
30 ..... .
50
5
50
5

75

J (j(J 201
50
ff
75 10
50 ......
50
2
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
40 ..... .
50 ..... .
30
2
50 ..... .

<'1

~~

l~ i:..!S

~g

.g ~ 2'.;3

... .;
,.,;,

~:::

~I

9

\I

9
9
9
9
9

9

9

\i

\j

12
9

\)

9

9
9
9

9

"j

9
9

9

9
9
9
12

l•

9
J2

9

!j

9

9

\j

9

9
12
9
9

9

12
12
10

9

\)

\)

9
9

12
9
9
12

455
50
45
85
58

153

28
78
96
28
254
286
29
63
789
30
94
77
50
821
148
87
76
342
53
48
37

32

439
l ''"'
2.!J
255
100
547
25
367
79

47
51
188
6i
563
59
48

123

638

257
126
124
219
440
184
140
94
126
176
29
377

92

601

~
;a::: ~~

-

A

1l

u,

With date of Charters, Fees, Dues and Membership for the Masonic Year ending July 81, A. L •. 591 8.

LIST OF SUBORDINATE LODGES,

N>

N>

00

...

....z
>

::0

0

"1

....t:"'

>

Q

"1

0

~

8

0

I"'

t1

z>

::0

G)

~·

..,

0
':ii

~

l'l
t:"'
0

..,~

~

8

Ir,

er.

0

..,rii

°'

00

County.

125
126
127

124

122
123

121

105
106
107
108
109
110
111
112
113
11+
115
116
117
11.'l
119
120

10±

103

102

101

100

Curtis .......... 140!Cloverdale ......... Sonoma ..........•.
Grafton ......... 141 Grafton .••.....•... Yolo ............. ..
l!'ranklin ........ 143 Courtland .•...••... Sacramento ....••..
Orient;i.l ......... 144 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .•.•••
Vitruviu.s ........ 145 Bloomfield .......... Sonoma .......... ..
Abell .......... !146 Ukiah .............. Mendocino ........ .
Eel Rh-er ....... 147 Fortuna ......••••. Humboldt •••....•••
Lassen .......... 149 Susanville •......-... Lassen ............ .
Molino .......... 150 Tehama ••.•.......• Tehama •...........
Woodfand ....... 156 Woodland ••........ Yolo .•.............
Keystone ........ 161 Milton •...•....•.•. Calaveras •...•...••
Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City ..••.•... Sierra •........•.••
Excelsior ........ 166 San Francisco •...•• San Francisco ••••••
Alameda ........ 167 Centerville ........ Alameda ......... ..
Redwood City •.. 168 Redwood City ••..•. San Mateo ••..•...•
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco ...•.• San Francisco ..... .
Elk Grove ....... 173 Elk Grove .......... Sacramento ....... .
Drytown ........ 174 Plymouth .......... Amador ........... .
Antioch .•....... 175 Antioch •.•...•••••• Contra Costa .•.•••.
Phoenix ......... 178 San Bernardino •..•• San Bernardino •••••
Mendoeino ...... 179 Mendocino .......... Mendocino •........
Petaluma ........ 180 Petaluma •..••••..• Sonoma •.....•••...
RusRian River ... 181 Windsor ••.••••••.• Sonoma ........... .
2\Ieridian ........ 182 Arbuckle . • . . . . . . . . Colusa ....•.•...••.
Clear Lake ...... 183 Lower Lake ••.•.••• Lake ............. .
Sierra Valley ... 184 Sierraville ......... Sierra .....•......•
Claiborne ....... 185 Point Arena ...•••.• Mendocino •........
E>ening Star . . .186 Etna Mills ......... Siskiyou .......... .
Keith ........... 187 Gilroy ............. Santa Clara ...... ..
Oakland ......... 188 Oakland •.•••.••••• Alameda ........••.
Northern Light .. 190 Millville ........... Shasta ............ .
Marin ........... 191 San Rafael ••••..... Marin •........•...
Santa Barbara. .... 192 Santa Barbara ••••• Santa Barbara .... .
Ferndale ........ 193 Ferndale •••••••.••• Humboldt ......... .
Mountain View .. 194 Mountain View ..... Santa Clara ....... .
B•ekeye ......... 195 Winters ........... Yolo .............. .
San Simeon ••.•. 196 Cambria •••....•••• San Lnis Obispo ••••

I

91
92
9• v0
94
95
96
97
98
99

Town.

Howard . . . . . . . . . 96 Yreka •...•••..•... Siskiyou .........•.
Jefferson . . . . . . . . 97 La Porte .•.••••••.. Plumas ...•........
Hornitos ......... 98 Hornitos •••.••••••• Mariposa ••.•.•••...
Yosemite . . . . . . . . 99 Merced ••....••••.. Merced .......... ..
Clay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ••..•.... Placer ........... ..
Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ............ Butte ............ ..
J,exington ....... 104 El Monte .•••••..•. Los Angeles •....•.•
Arcata ........•. 106 Areata ••.•.....• ·.•• Humboldt ••••....••
Pajaro .......... 110 Watsonville ..•.••.• Santa Cruz ••.......
Chico ........... 111 Chico ..........•. : • Butte •......•.•.•••
Summit ......... 112 Knight's Ferry ....• Stanislaus ....•••..•
Eden ........... 113 San Leandro ..•.... Alameda .......... .
Coneord ......... 117 Sacramento '. •.....• Sacramento •..•.•..
Clinton .•....... 119 Igo •.......•••••••• Shasta ...••••..•..•
l!'idelity ......... 120 San Francisco •....• San Francisco ••••••
Alamo .......... 122 Walnut Creek ....•• Contra Costa ...... .
Sotoyome .....•. 123 Healdsburg .....•.•• Sonoma •..•....•..•
Table Mountain ..• 124 Cherokee ••.•...••.. Butte ............. .
La Fayette ..•.. 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma .......... ..
Hermann ........ l 27 San P'ranciseo ••••.• San Francisco ••••.•
Visalia .......... 128 Visalia .......•••... Tnlare ••.•.••••...•
Nicolaus ........ 129 Wheatland ......... Yuba ............. .
Woodbridge ..... 131 Woodbridge •••....• San .Joaquin ...... ..
Sincerity •....... 132 Greenville ......... Plumas ........... .
VacaYille ........ 134 Vacaville .......... Solano ............ .
Valley ........... 135 Linden ............. San .Joaquin ...... .
Paeifie .......... 136 San Francisco .•.••• San Francisco ...•••
Crockett ........ 139 San Francisco . . • • • . San Francisco •.•..•

z

J:l

Places of Location.

63
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
7£
73
74
75
76
77
78
79
80
81
82
83
84
85
86
87
88
89
90

Names of Lodges

.,...oi
s

''
1857.

"
"
"

"
"
"
15,
13,

"

10,

.May
May

"
"
"
17,

"
"
"
"
May
"
May
"
Oct.

gg ....~

30! ..... .

sol ..... .
50

50
1
35
3
50 ......

''
''
''
1868.

''

"
''
"
''
15,
''
15,

''
''

"

''

"
"

"

14,

''

''

,,
''
''

1869.

''

1868.

"

1
301

''

1867.

''

5

5
30 ..... .

50

50 ..... .

50 ······

50 .... ..

1

30! ..... .

50

50'1

~..,

,_

-9

64

378

:l3

'51)

120
48
700
507

75
175

12
9
12
9
12
12

83
40

~

198
93
119

256

72

641

119

83

31
34
50

9

9
12
9
9
9

12

9

!)

12

9

51

89

-228

146

300

118

27

461
113
160
900
74

12

31

127
125

9

'°

~

00

....;...~

~

d

0

lzj

~

t"

g

~
lZ
tJ

l'l

~

'::J

rn
0

200
59
131
204
152
79
95
71

ti
0
t."l

t"
0

t."l

50
572
78

131

31
139

216

133

~

ti

125

!J

12
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

''

ti:I
0

93

213

rn
60

q

~
128

138

12

t"'
'"3

al

00

QO

~

90
37
33

u

~~

9
9

12

1

10,

5()

50
50

9'

9
9

5
JO
5
5
3
5

''

,,

50

50
100

30 2~
30;
5
50 10
50
2

50
1
50 ......

30
1
50
8
50 ......
50
1

50; 1
75 10

,,
''

11,

Oct.

"

"

Oct.

"

"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
Oct.
"

"

"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"

"
"
"

5

75

5

20

100

5()

"
"
1863.
'' ''
13, 1864.
"
''
" ''
"
''
'' "
13, 1865.
'' ''
12, 1865.
14,

9
9
9
9

9
9
9
12

12
8
50 5
30 ......
30
5
30 ..... .
30 ..... .

9
9
9

12
9

9
9

9

10

75
50

::io

"

10
0

100 50
50 ..... .
50 5
35
]
50 ......

75
30

50
5
50 271!

20

18

12

9
9
12
50
50
50

3

60 ..... .
50
5
40
1

-<

i::

9
9
9
15
9
12
9

50
1
30
6
5
36
50 ..... .

"

1861.

-<

.;

..o-§ A§
~i
_..,
-; ,,.;:i ~
~~ ~ii i::

1860.

''

1860.

"
"
"
15, 1862.

16,

"

10,

May

"

~lay

,,

''

''

"
"

"

<I

"
"
"
"
"
1859.

"

"
"
1858.

"
"
" "
11, 1860.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
May 14,
13,
"

May

"

"
"

''

15,
14,

''
"
May
''
"
"

''''

1856

''
,,
,,

8,

""

""
"
''

''
,,

May

was Issued.

Date when Charter

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

176
177
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187
i88
189
190
191
192

175

156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
li2
173
174

149
150
151
152
153
154
155

148

134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147

13;)

128
129
130
131
132

"'

~

a
z::I

.0

Town.

~

··············
........... ....
.... .. ..

············

............

Solano .......... 229 \o '1.Ilejo ............. SollUl.o •..•..•...•••
North Butte ..... 230'Gridley ............ Butte .............. ;
Covelo •....•..•• 231 Covelo ••••••••....• Mendocino •..••••••
Janesville ....... 232 Lassen ..••.•.•....
Lassen ••..•••...•••
Calistoga ....•.•. 233 Calistoga .......... Napa ••.••..•.•.•••
llope .•........ ..,.234 Beckwith ••••••.••. Plumas ...•....••••
Surprise Valley .. 235 Cedarville ••••••.••.
Modoc •.•••...•••.•
Hill's l!'erry ..... 236 Newman ...••••••.. Stanislaus ••••••••••
Guadalupe ....... 237 Guadalupe •••....•.
Santa Barbara ••••.
Colusa ...••...... 240 Colusa .•.••.•.•..•. Colusa .....••...•••
S11<nta Ana ....... 241 Santa Ana •.•.••.•. Orange ......•....••
Magnolia ........ 242 Santa Barbara ..•...
Eucalyptus •..... 243 Haywards .•....•.•• Santa Barbara ....••
Alcatraz ......... 244 West Oakland ••..•. Alameda •...•....••
Alameda •....••••••
Laurel ........... 245 Willows •...••••...• Glenn ..............
Pomona ......... 246 Pomona
l!'resno .......... 247 Fresno ............. Los Angeles .•••••.•
Alturas .......... 248 Alturaa •.••••••.••. .Fresno .••••••••••••
Modoc ••••...••.•••
Adin ............ 250 A din
Modoc .••..•••..•••
Bodie ...•.•..... 252 Bodie
Mono •..•..•....••.
Landmark .....•. 253 Esparto
.. .. ..
Reading ......... 254 Redding ............... Yolo .................
Shasta ..••...••.••.
Welcome ...•..•. 255 Lemoore
Kings .........••.•
Lodi ............ 256 Lodi ... : : : : : : : : : : : San Joaquin ........
Penrhyn ........ 2581Penryn ............ Placer ......••.•.•.
Evergreen ....... 259 Riverside .......... Riverside ......••.•
King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco ....•
San Francisco •..•••
Tusea n .......... 2611 Williams •...••.....
Colusa ...........•.
Lompoe ......... 262 Lompoe ............ Santa Barbara •....
Hcsperian ....... 264 Santa Maria ....... . Santa Barbara •.••.
Orland .......... 265 Orland
.............
North East ....... 266 Fort Bidwell •..... . Glenn ...... ,.
Galt ............ 267 Galt •..........•.. . Modoc •....•••.•..•
. Sacramento ..........
Durant .......... 268 Berkeley •..•..•.•.
Olive Branch .... 269 Tulare ..•.•.•.•... • Alameda ••....••••.
Snow Mountain .. 271 Stony Ford ....... • Tulare .............
• Colu.ea •..•.•..••.••
Pasadena ....... 272 Pasadena
....•••.••. Los Angeles ...•.•.•

...... 198 Wilmington ........ Los Angeles •..•.••.
H:utley .....•... 199 Lakeport ••••••••.. Lake ............ ..
Truckee ....•..•. 200 Truckee •..•.•.••.•. Nevada ........... .
Silveyville ...... 201 Dixon ............. Solano ........... ..
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles •.....•. Los Angeles ...•.•..
Confidenee ....... 203 Castroville •......•. Monterey ...•••••••
Salinas .......... 204 Salinas ••..•••...•• Monterey .......•••
Olivet ........... 205 Corning ............ Tehama ............ .
Stanislaus ....... 206 Modesto •..•......• Stanislaus ........ ..
Anaheim ........ 207 Anaheim ........... Orange •..•••.•.••••
Rio Vista ....... 208 Rio Vista ........... Solano ............ .
King David's ..... 209 San Luis Opispo ..... San Luis Obispo ... ..
Friendship ....... 210 San .Jose .........•• Santa Clara ...... ..
San Benito ...... 211 Hollister ........... San Benito ........ .
So. San Francisco.212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ••••••
San Buenaventura.214 Ventura ........... Ventura ........... .
Oak Grove ....... 215 Alameda • • • • • .. .. • Alameda .....•.••••
Doric
.......... 216 San Francisco ••••.. San Francisco •••••.
Monterey ........ 217 Monterey .......... Monterey ......... .
Mosaic .......... 218 Livermore •..••..... Alameda ......... ..
Speranza Italiana.219 San Francisco ..•... San Francisco ....••
Downey ......... 220 Downey •••..•....•. Los Angeles .....••.
Inyo ............ 221 Independence ....... Inyo ............. ..
Granite ......... 222 Rocklin ............ Placer ...•......••.
RakerBfield •..... 224 Bakersfield ...•••... Kern ......•.•••••.
Bro.iklyn •...••.. 225 East Oakland ....... Alameda •.......•.•
San Mateo ...... 226 San Mateo ......... San Mateo .......••
Athens .......... 228 Davis ............. Yolo •••.•.....•••••

Names of Lodges

Pl!.ees of Location.

,,
"

1876.

"

"

"

Oet.

"

"

"
Oct.

" "
11, 1883.
" "
" "
16, 1884.
" "

1882.

12,

Oct.

"

" "
"
"
"
"15, 1881.

"
"
"11, 1877.
"
" "
" "
10, 1878.
"
"
" "
"
"
16, 1879
"
"
" "
" "
15, 1880.

"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
Oct.

"

Oct.

"
"

"
Oct.
"

"

"
"
Oct.

Oct.
Oct.

12,

"
" "
" "
"
"
"
"
"
"
14, 1875.

"
"
"
"
"

"

16,

"
1874.
"

157'3.
Oct.

IS,

"
"

,,
''''
,,'' ''''
,, ''
11, 1872.
,, ''
"
"
" ''
'' "
18, 1873.
'' "
'''' ,,
''

''
14,

,,"
"
1871.
,,
,,"

"

"
,,

1870.

''

''

,,
"
'',,

1869.

14,

'i

Oct.

"
"
"

Oct.

"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.

"
"
"
Oct.
"

"

Oct.

"

"
''

,,

"
"
"
"
"

''

14,

Oct.

ssued.

n... '"~ T~knn Charter

List of the Snbordinat.e Lodges, etc.-Conttnned.

1
10
1

. . !I

l'iO

~

.....

50
30
50 ......
50 10
50 ......
50
1
50
3
50 . .....
50 .
50
5
50
3
3
50
40
1
30 ......
60 ......
30
1
50
8
50 ......
50 ......
30
3
50 ......
50 15
50 ......
35,
1
1
50
2
50
30
5
30 . ....
50 10
50 ·-····
30
1

~

;;; l(•
50 .....

1~1

9'

9i

12
12
9

~

12
12

H

9

ti
\I

18
8
9
9
9
12
\J
12

9

9

9

9
8
9
9
9
9
9

9

9'
12
9.

41
436

HIB

68
44
24
58
147
88
210
88
325
595
53
115
202
88
50
50
451

!<l
41
51
91
59
50
81
64
93
345
118
111
420
113
284
394

SJ~

506
10<J
95
228
91
62
57
325
439
147
77

448

203
137

IOO

147
146
67
203
268

!!7

83
510
24
·154

]Jl
112

61

~)!

.s.,::g>l

..,.;

~

'°

>

z

".I
0
:i:i

t:"
.....

~

0
".I

8tlJ

t<
0

I-"

N

z~
t:I

0

trj

II:

0
"1
8

filrn

t"
0
t:I

~

>

z

t:I

~

0

tli

q

rn

ltj

0

t"

'°0

N

;:I

e
Town.

Connty.

..... .......

..................

............

...................

Anchor .......... 273 Compton ........... Lo11 Angeles ...•..•.
Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande •.••. San Luis Obispo .....
Oakdale ......... 275 Oakdale ••......•.•• Stanislaus ••••.•....
Fresno
Selma •.......... 277 l:lelma
Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles ........ Los Anl{ele11 ......•.
Hanford ..•...... 279 Hanford ........... Kings •.•...........
M:adera ......... 280 Madera .........••• Madera ...••••....•
Shasta •.••.....•...
Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson .
Ca1layomi ....... 282 Middletown ........ Lake ...•....•..•..
South We.s;t ..... 283 rlational City •...•. San Diego ..........
San Miguel ...... 285 San Miguel ........ San Luis Obispo .....
Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles ........ San Luis Obispo .....
Winnedumah .... 287 Bishop ............• Inyo .. ·.............
Maxwell ......... 288 Maxwell ........... Colusa •.•...••...•.
Elsinore ......... 28!' Elsinore ...........• Riverside
East Gate ...••••. 290 Los Angeles .......• Los Angeles ........
Santa Paula .... 291 Santa Paula •....... Ventura .........•.
Los Gatos ....... 292 Los Gatos ..•....•.. Santa Clara ........
Orange Grove ... 293 ')range ..•......••. Orange ............
Traver .......... 294 Kingsburg ......... Fresno •............
Mt. Jackson .•... 295 3uerneville •........ Sonoma .••.........
Sil\'er Gate ...... 296 San Diego ........•• San Diego ..........
Dunsmuir ......•. 297 Dunsmuir .......•.• Siskiyou ...........
::Mokelumne Hill •. 298 :Mokelumne Hill .... Calaveras ........•.
Liberty .......... 299 Santa Clara .....••. Santa Clara .....•..
Redl11;11ds .......• 300 Redlands ........... San Bernardino ...••
Ontario · ......... 301 Ontario •.......• ti• • SaD Bernardino •••••
Santa Lucia ..... 302 Kings' City •••••••• :Monterey ••••••• ; ••

z

Pla.ees of Location.

221 Porterville ....... 3031Porterville ......... Tulare .....•......
222 Reedley ......... 304 Reedley •.......... Fresno .....•......
223 Azusa ........... 3051Azusa ............. Los Angeles ...... .
224 Ashlar ..•....... 306 1Colton ............. San Bernardino .. .
225 Santa Monica .... 307 Santa :Moniea •..•.• Lo11 Angele11 •••..•.
226 Monrovia ........ 308 :Monrovia ••..•••.•• Los Angeles •••..•.
227 Delano .....•••.. 309 Delano •.•..••.•.•.• Kern •••••••..••..
228 Sisson •........•• 310 Sisson .•.••.•.•...• Siskiyou •.•..•.•..
229 Los Banos ......• 312 Los Banos •..••...• Merced .......... .
230 Tehaebapi ....... 313 Tehaehapi •...••...• Kern •.....••.•...
231 Temescal ..•..... 314 Corona ............. Riverside ••....•..
232 Norwalk ........ 315 Norwalk ........... Los Angeles ...... .
233 Sanger ..•....... 316 Sanger ...••••...•• Fresno •...•••.....
234 Fallbrook •...... 317 Fallbrook •.••.•.•.. San Diego ....... .
235 Emmanuel ...•... 318 Biggs •..•.........• Butte ••...••...•.•
236 Hollenbeck .•.... 319 Los Angeles ..••.... Lo11 Angeles •.•..•.
237 South Gate ...... 320 Los Angeles ••.••... Los Angeles ••.....
238 Alisal ........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ..••......
239 Alhambra ....... 322 Alhambra •........• Los Angeles
240 Whittier ......... 323 Whittier • . . . . . . . . . Lo11 Angeles •.••.•.
241 Corona .......... 324 Pasadena .......... Los Angeles ..... ..
2·i2 Consuelo ......... 325 Escondido •..•.....• San Diego ..••....
243 Xeedles ........• 326 Needles .•.•........ San Bernardino ..•
244 Long Beach ...... 327 Long Beach •.••.... Loe Angeles ...... .
245 Redondo ........ 328 Redondo .....••.... Los Angeles ......•
246 Vallee de Franee .. 329 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •..•...
247 Kilauea ......... 330 Hilo ............... Hawaiian Ter•.....
248 Paeific Grove ....• 331 Pacific Grove •....•. Monterey •.......
249 San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro .......... ,Los Angeles •....•.
2.50 Alta ............ 333 Bridgeport ......... Mono ........... ..
251 Covina .......... 334 Covina .........•.•• Los Angeles ••.•...
252 West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles •.•..•.. Los Angeles ..•••••
2.'i3 Fruitvale ....... 336 Oakland . . . . . . . . . . . Alameda .••.......
254 . Carquiuez ...... 337 Crockett ......••... Contra Costa ••••..
255 San Jacil'lto ...... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ...•••••.
256 Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton .......... Orange •..•.••.•.•
257 Oxnard .......... 341 Oxnard •.....•..... Ventura •.••••••••

213
214
215
216
217
218
219
220

212

198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205
206
207
208
209
210
211

197

193
194
195
196

Names of Lodltes.

,Q

<ll

.,j I

.
"

"

"

"

''
12,

Oct.

"

"

15,

''
''
"
"

Oct.

"
"

''

''

10,

II

Oct.
Oet.

"

"

1901.

'' ''
'' ''
11, 1900.

1899.

14,

Oet.

II

II

Oet.

"
"

''
''
" "
14, 1898.

II

"

1897.

''

13,

"
Oct.

II

''
''
1896.

"

"
"
Oct.

II

"
"
"
Oet.

"

"
Oct.

1892.

''
''
''

"
"
''

lSW.
1891.

"

"
"
'' "
11, 1893.
"" ~'''
" "
''11, 1894.
''
" ''
" "
'' "
11, 1895.

''

"

''

"

"

""
"
"
"

"

1890.

"

16,

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
" "
" "
11, 1888.
" "
" "
" "
" "
10, 1889.
" "
"
"
" "

"
"

16,
14,

"

"

"
"
14, 1886.

Oct.
Oet.

"
"

Oet.

"
"
''

"
"

"

"
"
"
Oct.

"

"
Oct.

"
"

"

Oet.

"

"

"

"
"
"

1885.

"

16,

"

"

Oct.

1884.

~~'
"

Oct.

Date when Charter
was Issned.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, ete.--Continued ..
.;

..

~!'::::::

gg '"'""i

30 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 .... ..
50
2
50 ......
50
1
50
2
30 .... ..
50 ...... .
30
5
3.5
5
50 10
50 15
35 ..... .
50 ..... .
30
3
50
8
30 ......
50
1
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
50 12
50 .... ..
50 ..... .
50 .... ..
5;~ .... ..
30 ..... .
50 20
50, ..... .

5(1
15.
30~ ..... .

~

~

~

fl~·

9

9

9
9

9

9

101
91
9,

91

g1

~I

9

9

9
9.
12
9

~1

9

9
9

9

...~.~I gl

····11

50
30
50
30
75
50
3
40
30 ......
30 ..
30
1
30 10
50
3
30 ......
30 ......
30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
50 .. ...
30
1
30 ......
30
5,
50 ......
50 ......
3
50
30 ......
50 ......
50 .....
40 ......

-<

;:I
;:I
;:I

~

;:I

.. g A"

$:~

...
<l>t<I Q).~
&;i§
"'"'
~A
-<

.... II>

,..;
oa;

rJl

:>

t'

63
lll
51
69

191

225

29
158
444
881
101
110

67
249

190
387
86
146
375
161
104
184

279

128
103
72
87
45
51
967
714
77

64

82
132
]73
133
115
87

tk)

r:~

258
139
64

186

150
134
134
80
97
466
110
48

~

~

t..l

'°

N

~
:d
z
;;

a

bj

0

t'J

tj
Q

0

t<

ztj

Q

la

:i1

8

bj

1A

0

764

trl

Q

t::l

0

8

t'l

0

'...z°

trJ
0

c::

0

bj

u
8

79

N

130

41

156
676
178
123
55

78

68
53

~::;

....

~~

. ,;;

---

N

'°

28.5
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
29i
298
299
300
301
302
303
30±
30.5
306
307
308
309
310
311
312
313
ill±
315
316

284

278
279
280
281
282
283

9--11

258
259
260
261
262
263
26426'>
266
267
268
269
270
211
272
273
274
275
276

a

z"'

I

Town.

~

~

I
County.

Places of Location.

I

·j

rarin .............

l 'Oceanie ...... 371 Honolulu ..••.••••.. Hawaiian Ter••••••.
Gardena ......... 372 Gardena ........... Los Angeles .......•
Veteran ......... 373\Sawtelle •....•••••. Los Angeles ........
J~wel ........... 3~~1San Franc~sco ...••• San Franc~sco •....•
Richmond ....... 3rn San Francisco •..•.. Sa.n FrancISco ••••.•
Francis Drake ... 376 South Sa.n Francisco. San Mateo •••.•••..
Artesia .......... 377 Artesia ................... Los Angeles •••...•.
:Mizpah ......... 378 Los Angeles •..••••. Los Angeles ••••.•..
Fillmore ......... 379 Fillmore ................ Ventura ............
Huntington Beaeh.380 Huntington Beach .. Orange ............
Oceanside ....... 381 Oceanside ••.••.•..• Sa.n Diego ..........
Highland Park ... 382 Los Angeles ..•..•••• Los Angeles .••..•...
Orosi ............ il83 Orosi .............. Tula.re ••..•.....•••
El Centro ........ 384 El Centro ..•..•..... Imperial ...........
Dinuba ..•...... 385 Dinuba ............. Tulare •....••.•..•.
Coalinga ........ il871Coalinga .••...••••• Fresno .....•.••...•
Parnassus ...•... 388 San Francisco .....•• San Francisco •..••••
Palos Verdes .... 389 Long Beach ....•.... Los Angeles •........
Imperial ........ 390 Imperial ........... Imperial •..•..•....
East Belt ....... 391 Tuolumne .......... Tuolumne ..•••.....
West Lake ...... 392 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles .•...•..
Balder .......... 393 San Francisco ..•.... San Jt'raneisco ....••.
l'nfrersity ...... 394 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles .........
Turloek ......... 395 Turlock •........... Stanislaus ....••....
Apollo .......... 396 Alameda . . . . . . . . . . . Alameda ...........
Rising Light ..... 397 Huntington Park .... !Los Angeles ..•......
Fraternitv ....... 399 San Jose ........... ISanta Clara •.......
Burlinga~1e ..•.. .400 Burlingame ........ 'San Mateo ....•....
Bay View ...... .401 Oakland ........... Alameda ...........
Brawley ........ .402 Brawley ................. Imperial .................
Yerba Buena ... .403 Oakland............ Alameda ... , ..•....
Glendora ....... .404 Glendora ........... Los Angeles .........
J\foneta . . . . . . . . .405 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... * ..

lo Progres de

.... .

"

15,

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"
"
"

"

Oct.

"

"

"
"

"

..

"
Oct.
"
"
"

"

"
"
"

Oct.

"
"

"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"

1~06.

1905.

"
"

"
"

"

"

"
"

"
"
"

"
"
"

"

"

1909.

"

14,

"

"

"

. "

"

"
1908
"
"
"

"
15,
"
"

"
"
" "
"10, 1907.
"
" "
" "
" "
" "
"
"

"
"

"
"

12,
10,

"

"

"

Oct.
Oc.t.

"

"
"
"

"
" "
"
"12, 1905.
" "
"
"

"
"

"
"
"
"16, 1903
" "
" "
"
"
" "
" "
"
"13, 1904.

"
"

1902.

was Issued.

Dare when Charter

San Fernando •... 343 rernando •••......• Los Angeles ........ Oct.
Starr King ...... 344 San Francisco •..... Sa.n Jt'raneiseo ......
"
Brentwood .....• 345 Brentwood ......... Contra Costa .......
"
Palo Alto .....•• 346 Palo Alto .........• Santa Clara ..•.....
"
1\fcKinley ......• 347 Richmond .......... Contra Costa .......
"
San Bernardino .. 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino .....
"
..... Alameda .•.•••..... "
Sequoia . .. • . . . . . 349 Oakland
Palestine
. . . . 351 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ••••.... Oct.
Sunset .......•. ,352 Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles ••••...•
"
Pinole ........... 353 Pinole ••......•...• Contra Costa .•..••.
"
Presidio ....... .. 354 San Francisco •..... San Francisco '!'-. ••••
"
Hollywood ....... 355 Hollywood ••..•.•.. Los Angeles .•.•....
"
Mill V •llov ...••• 356 Mill VWI• y .••..••.
"
Buena Park ...... 357 Buena Park ........ Orange ...••.....•.
"
Golden State .... 358 Los Angeles •.•..... Los Angeles ........ Oct.
Loyalton ........ 359jLoya.lton : ........•. Sierra •.. : ....•••..•1 "
San Francisco .... 360 San Francisco .•..•. San Francisco •.... · 1 "
Fort Bragg ...... 361 Fort Bragg •..•..••. Mendocino •.......•
"
Charity .......... 3621Campbel1 ........... Santa Clara ........
"
Berkeley ........ 363 iBerkeley •..•..•.... Alameda ......•....
"
Willits .......... 365!Willits ............ Mendocino ...•••... Oct.
Las Palmas ...... 366:Fresno .......•...•• Fresno •.......... ·•
"
South Pasadena .. 367 South Pasadena .... Los Angeles •....••.
"
lT nity ........... 368 i Glenda}~ ........... Los Angeles ........
"
1
Ocean Park ...... 369 Ocean Park ........ Los Angeles .......
"
Amity ........... 370,San Francisco ...... !San Francisco ......
"

Names of Lodges.

.0

"'

~

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

~i ····5;
30 ......

50 ······

J::r :

-<"'

"'

~

"'

~I

i~Iig,

]

Ml~

51

~I

1~1

i

~1
12

9
12;

\)

9;
12
9
9
9

1~19

50 JO, 12
50[
9
30
9
75
12
12
50
50
30
50
50
g,
50 .....
50
50
30
&I
12;
50
40
75
75
12
50
9
50
12
50
9
50 ......
9
50. 10 12
9'
501 ......
9
40,. .....
9
1
75
9
50 ......
50 ......
9
50 ...... 12
9
50
1
9
50.
5
50! 25 12
9
30/······
9
50 ......

50
5
l
50
3
75
50!······1
501
3
50: ......
5
I 75

I

I

::::::1

r.;~

..;

"

A

50 ......
9
75 10 12
12
30 ......
9
50 4X
9
50 ······
!Ji
3
50
50
1
50
50
91
50 ......
12
75 15 121
51
9
50
50 ......

l'<A

"
$~I~;:::

~...

t:i 11'.l \ .....t:ig
.....
::

,....;

336
68
141
129
155
345
208
75
56
667
286
310
96
178
160
206
185
248
83
248
64
325

53

lfJl
87
171:\
100
379
84
86
424
96
69

98
318
94
250
209
291
620
347
465
!19
342
436
224
85
562
37
280
81
89
385
98
3H4
169
230
204
353

~~

""

-;;g
'"'

N

~

N

(JI

'°

>

z

l;ll

0

"'.!

t:

c
>

0

Cl
l1'J

0
ti

t"'

zt1

~
:...

....l;:J

!-'!
..,..

"'.!

0

Q
[::;
rJ2

t"'
0
ti

l1'J

>
>-:l

z

Pi
ti
.....

0

ttl

c:

rJ2

0
"'.!

>-:l

00

t"'
.....

'°"""

...

"E

::i

z
... " ........

Town.

Places of Location .

.

···-···.

343 Roseville .....•.. 432 Roseville ••••••••••• Placer ..•.......
344 Hammonton .... .433IHammonton ........ Yuba ............ .
345 Maricopa ..•..... 434'Maricopa ... ; ...... Kern ••...•........
346 Fairm-0unt ....•. .435'San Francisco ...... San Francisco ..•...
347 Claremont •...... 436IC1aremont .......•. Los Angeles ...•...
348 Lanc'.1'8ter ...... .4371Lancaster ..•...... Los Angeles ..•...•
3-19 Acacia ......... .4381Los Angeles ....... Los Angeles ...••..
350 Tvrian ........• .439.Manteca .....•..... San Joaquin .••...•
351 Standard ......•. 440'0akland ........... Alameda .•.•.......
352 Coronado ....... .4411Coronado ..••.•.... San Diego ........ .
3;)3 Blackmer ....... 442 San Diego ......... San Diego ........ .
354 Schofield ....... .443 Scboneld Barracks ... Hawaiian Ter ...... .
355 Carpinteria •.... .444 Carpinteria ........ Santa Barbara .... .
356 Wilshire .••.•... 445 Los Angeles ......• Los Angeles ......•.
357 La Puente ...... 446 1Puente ............ Los Angeles ....... .
358 Torrance ••.•.••. 447 Torrance ••••.•...•• Los Angeles ...•....
359 Mt. Diablo ..... .448 Concord ........... Contra Costa ..... ..
360 Park ............ 4411 San Francisco •..... San Francisco ..... .
361 Van Nuys ...... .450 Van Nuys ......... Los Angeles ......•.
36~
.Montebello ...... 451 Montebello ........• Los Angeles •.......
363 San Pasqual ..... .452 Pasadena ........•. Los Angeles •.......
364 Bethlehem ...... .453 San }'ranciscll ....... San }'rancisco ...... .
365 Crocker .......... 454 Daly City ........... San Mateo ......... .
366 Golden West .... 455 San Francisco ....... San Francisco ...... .
367 Kennett ..•...... 456 Kennett •.......... Shasta ............ .
368 Ramona ........ .457 Alhambra .......... Los Angeles ....... .
369 Henry S. Orme ... 458 Los Argeles ........ Los Angeles ...... .
370 Ri\-erbank ...... .459 Riverbank ......... Stanislaus ........ .
371 Monnt. Oso .•••••• 460 Tracy ............. San Joaquin ...... .
37ll Argonaut ....... 461 San Francisco ..... San Francisco ..... .
373 Paul Revere .... .462 San Francisco. . . . . San Francisco ..... .
374 Morgan Hill •.... 463 Morgan Hill ........ Santa Clara ....... .
375 Alta Vista ..••... 46~ San Francisco ..... -1San Francisco ...... .
376 Center ....••... .460 Fresno ............. Fresno ..........•.

...........

"

"

''

12,

Oct.
Oct.

"
"

"
"

"

"

''

"
"
"
"

''
''

1915.

"
''
''

,,''
''
,,''

''
''

''
''
''
''

,,"
''
''
''

''
"
''
"

''
''22, 1913
''

''

14,

''

''
''
''
''
''
''
''''
''
''''

" ''
'' ''
'' ''
15, 1914.

Oct.

"It

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
Oct.
"

"
"

"

''
''
''

"

"
"
"

12, 1912.
16, 1913.

"
"
•"

"
"
"
"
"

1912.

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

~.

1'1

"

"
"
"
" "
"
"
"
"
" "
" "
" "
"
"11, 1911.
" "
"
"

"

"
"

Date when Charter
was lssued.

Diego ..........
Sierra Madre ... .408 Sier:ra Madre, ...••.• Los Angeles ........
"
Honolulu ........ 409 Honolulu
Haw..ii ............
"
Charter Rock ... .410 Berkeley ......•.•.. Alameda .....•..•..
"
Perris ......••.. .411 Perris , .........••• Riverside ............
"
Calexico ........ .412 Calexico .............. Imperial ........••.
Waucoba . . . . . . . .413 Big Pine ........... Inyo •.•............
"
325 Arlington ...•.•. 414 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
326 Silver Trowel. .. .415 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
327 Lindsay •....... .416 Lindsay ............... Tulare
"
.
"'"'""
Clovis
.•........
.417
Clovis
...............
Fresno
.
..............
~28
"
29 Elysian •........ 418 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
"
il30 .. Upland ......... .419 Upland ............... San Bernardino ..... Oct.
331 Kerman ......... 420 Kerman ............ Fresno .......•......
"
332 Inglewood ...... .421 Inglewood .•••••••... Los Angeles ..••..•.
"
333 Eagle Rock ..•... 422 Eagle Rock ......... Los Angeles •........
"
334 York ........... .423 Watts .•.........•.. Los Angeles ...•...• Oct.
335 Exeter ......... .424 Exeter ............ Tulare ..•.•....•...
"
336 Holtville ........ 425 Holtville ......••.•.. Imperial • .".•......•
337 :Midway ......... -126 Taft ..........•••.. Kern .........•.... i "
"
338 Chino ·valley ... .4271Chino ......•....... San Bernardino •....
"
339 San Dimas ..... .428 1San Dimas • • . . . . . . . os Angeles ........
"
340 Pittsburg ••...... 429jPittsbnrg ••........ Contra Costa .. ; ....
"
341 McCloud ......•• 430IMcCloud •........ ·-Siskiyou ...........
"
342 Alpha ........... 431. Richmond .......... Contra Costa .......
"

Names of Lod11es.

,,;
.0

·~

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

~

5

~.

~

......

30' ..... .......
9
50 . ....
50 ......
9
5
50
!li
l
91
50
5 91
50
3
9
50
9
35 ......
9
50
3
9
50 ......
9
50 ......
F)O •••••.
10
!)
50
100 ......
9
9
50 ......
9
35 ......
50
12
I
50 ...
9
9
50 ......

50,

12
9
10
12

8

s

..
7

4

0

c

69

56

26

218

!l4

207
51
82
174
44
60

122
62

51
87

63

90
135
128
33
279
47
48
50
257

133

81
50

62
62

426

62

53

10-i

0
3
'' 8

7
2

4
0
66
3
8

1
4

5

: 0

>'!
t'J

~

~

'°

N

~

"l
0

~...

0
"l

t'J

8

t'

~

:i:
trl

'11
>'!

0

w

G'.l
t'J

t'
0
ti

~

~
4
I
69
2

tJ:I
0

Cfl

0
"l

>'!

t:Cfl

3
4
6

.: ,55

:>l:

...

~

N

"''°

47
48
49
52
53
54
63
67
69

34
36
39

29
31

28

15

11

4
4
6
7
7

No.

Location.

County.

-·

EXTINCT

•

Chartered.

11, 1917.
"
"
"
"
10, 1918.
''
''
"
"
"
"

IBecame Extinct

LODGES.

...

"
"
Oct.
''
"
"

was Issued.

Date when Charter

,.. ,,;
~
::::
::::

,. ,,;

164,095

--·---

109

29
30
21

58

9
121
9
...

9

55
24

.;;!~
..-....,

l2i~
0

-<:
12
9

Remarks.

75 ......
50 ... .. .
5o 10
50 ......
50 10
50 ......

~

_

:i: ~ ~;;:i
~A """""

g g;"'
A

,..
o._
"+-!~

o ~
ru
~

N

....

(:i:j

l:li

':ij

..,

0

ti>

~

0

J:"'

>
~

z

t:1
....

l>;i

Cl
to
0

ti>

~

ti>

..,.

J:"'

00
'°

Berryman ........ Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... April 19, 1850 •...••..•..... Name changed to Jennings.
Jennings .....••.• Sacramento ...... Sacramento ......••••••••••.•.• May
6, 1856 Charter surrendered.
Sutter ....•...•.. Sacramento ...... Sacramento •...•. May 7, 1850 May
6 1 1856 Surrendered.
Davy Crockett .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 Aug. 18, 1852 Name changed to San Francisco.
San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, Hl5_9 Revoked.
Willamette ....... Portland ........ Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
La Fayette ....... La Fayette, Ore •......•........... May 9, 1851 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
Nashville ........ ,Nashville ...•.. · 1El Dorado .•.•... ,Dec. 24, 1851 * .............. Charter never issued.
Pacific .........• Valparaiso ...... Chili . . • . .. . . • . .. May 5, 1853* ..••.......... Charter never i11sued.
15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
Columbia .....•.. Columbia ..•.... Tuolumne ..•.... May 5, 1853 Oct.
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
Tuolumne No. 8.
18, 1873 Surrendered.
Diamond ......... ,Diamond Springs. ,El Dorado .••.... ,May 5, 1853 IOet.
Mokelumne ...... Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras •..•... May 5, 1853 Oct.
13, 1883 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
15, 1887 Revoked.
Santa Clara ....... ,Santa Clara .•..•. ,Santa Clara ...... lMay 5, 1853 1oct.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
Butte ............ Bidwell.......... Butte .......•... May 3, 1854 Sept.
Yuba ........... :Marysville •••••• ,Yuba .....•..... May 3, 18541.June J6, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff ... Placer .......... May 3, 1854 Oct.
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Grass Valley ...•.. Grass Valley ..... Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 May
Lebanon ........ San Francisco .... San Francisco .... May 3, 1854 June 29, 1857 Revoked.
1864 Surrendered.
Rough and Ready. Rough and Ready. Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 Nov.
Franklin .•..•.... Sacramento .•... Sacramento ...... May 3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
20, 1857 Surrendered.
Saint James ...... Jamestown •..... Tuolumne ..•.... May 2, 1855 Feh.
29, 1857 Surrendered.
Iowa IIill ........ Iowa Hill ........ Placer .......... May 3, 1855 Oct.
Minnesota ..•.... Minnesota ....... Sierra •.......... May 2, 1855 May 14, 1859 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
Ind. Royal Arch .• Marysville .....• Yuba ........... l\iay 2, 1855 May
69.

Na.!lle.

.

379
380
381
382
383

Places of Location.

..............
City .... .467 Culver City ......... Los Angeles. . . . . . . .
Rockridge ....... 468 Oakland ........... Alameda . . . . . . . . . • .
Yorba Linda ..... 469 Yorha Linda ........ Orange . . . • • . . . . . . .
I.,incoln ...•..... .470 San Francisco ...... San I<'rancis-co . . . . . .
Delta ........... .471 Stockton ........... San Joaquin . . . . . . .
:\faui ........... .472 Kahului ............ Hawaiian Ter. .. . . .

Names of Lodges.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

:8

N

~

~

I

~

~

~
s
ti

•

Location.

County.

Saint Louis ....... !Howland 's Flat ... !Sierra .......... /May
Unity ........... Orleans Flat ..... Nevada ........• May
Quitman ......... North Bloomfield. Nevada ......... May
Polar Star ........ Poorman 's Creek. Plumas .....•... May
Acacia .......... Coloma ........• El Dorado ......• May
Caymus .......... !Yountville ..•... !Napa .......... ·!May

86
88
88
90
92
93

:Uemarks.

175

172

1n

152
153
154
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170

1

1

I
Josephus ..•.••••• ,Brush
Creek .....• Butte ............IMay
Rising Sun .•••••• Brandy City ....• Sierra .......... :May
Carson ........••• Carson City .....• '.~evada Ter ..... ·!May
Mount Carmel. .••• 11Red Dog ......... Nevada ........• May
Washoe .....••.•• :Washoe City ..... iNevada Ter ...... iMay
G~bsonville .•••.• ,G~bsonville •....• Sierra ........... May
Gilroy ........... Gilroy .......... :Santa Clara ...... 1May
Pilot Hill ..••••••• Pilot 'Hill ......•• El Dorado .....•. IMay
Virginia City ..••• Virginia City..... 'Nevada Te,. ...... :May
Silver City ....••• Silver City ......• 1Nevada Ter ...... 'May
Silver Star ...•••• Gold Hill ........ JNevada Ter ...... :Oct.
Esmeralda .•••••• Aurora .........• !Nevada Ter ...... ,Oct.
Escurial ..•..•••• Virg~nia City .... ,Nevada Ter ...... :oct.
Lander .......... Austin .......... Nev:i.da Ter ...... ;Oct.
Alpine ........... Markleeville .....4.lpine .......... IMay
Claiborne •••••••• Antioch .......... Contra Costa ..•.. Joct.

148 San Luis Obispo •.• lsan Luis Obispo .. !san Luis Obispo .. !May
151 Palmyra ..••••••• !Placerville .....• :El Dorado ....... iMay

now known as Yosemite No. 99.

1862 Surrendered.
1879 Surrendered.
1882Consolida.ted with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.
2, 1865 Surrendered.
16, 1861 Dec.
10, 1911 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
16, 1862 Oct.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
15, 1862 Oct.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
16, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 .July 16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Aug. 16, 1872 Surrendered.
14. 1863 .Jan.
16, 1865<;ransfe;rred to j~risdiction of Nevada.
14; 1863 Oct.
15, 1908 ..;onsohdated with Jefferson No. 97.
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 1Surrendered.
14, 1863 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Georgetown No. 25.
14 1 1863 Jan.
161 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
15 1863 Jan.
16 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13: 1864 .Jan.
16: 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada,
13, 1864 Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 .Jan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1864 Tan.
16, 1865 Transferred to jurisdietion of Nevada.
25, 1864• Oct.
1, 1864 Charter never issued.
12, 1865 .............. Name changed to Antioch.

I

Oro Fino .••.••••• JOro Fino ........• lsiskiyon .......• May ;t,O, 1860 June,
Violet .••.••..••• Spanish Flat .•... 1EI Dorado ...... , jMay 10, 1860 Oct.
Colusa ..••••••••• :Colusa .......... Colusa .......... May 10, 1860 April
1

11

137
138
142

109
114
ll5
116

·

15, 1908 Consolidated with :S-orth Star
,1 No. 91.
27, 1879 Surrendered.
11, 1911 Consolidated with Palmyra No. 1:6.
26, 1894 Revoked.
18, 1861 Surrendered.
28, 1858 Charter never issued.
5, 1859 Surrendered.
8, 1905 Surrendered.
14, 1870 Revoked.
13, 1863 Revoked.
16, 1913 Consolidated with La Grange No. 99,
14, 1857 !Sept.
14, 1857 pct.
14, 1857 IJune
14, 1857 ,May
14, 1857*1Jan.
13, 1858 Jan.
13, 1858 Oct.
1
1858 IOct.
13, 1859 May
13, 1859 Oct.

Owen ....•••••••• Scott's Bar ....... Siskiyou ......... May H, 1857 Oet.

108

Dibble............ l.on;riga ........•. Nevada ........ ·I' May
Mt. Zion •••••••• !Grizzly Flat •.... El Dorado .••.••• May
Saint Mark's ••••• JFiddletown .....• Amador ...••.••. May
Windsor ........ .'Windsor •....•.• Sierra ........... May
Folsoll? ..•.. , •••• :Folsoll? .....••••• Sacramento ...... Feb.
118 Val~ec1to ••••••• , Vallec1t? .......• Calaveras .....• ·:May
121 loIDc ..•.••••••••.Iowa Hill ........ Placer .......... 1May
125 Progress •.•..•••• San Francisco .... :San Francisco ....
130 Unity ...••••.••• :san Bernardino ... iSan Bernardino .. 'May
133 Yosemite .•...••• [Coulterville ........iMariposa .....••• ,May

Mount Jefferson ... !Garrotte ......... /Tuolumne ....... !May

107

...

Manzanita ...... ·!North San Juan .. ,Nevada ........ · 1May
Siskiyou ......... Henley ......... Siskiyou •.•..•.. May

102
105

94 Mount Hermon .... Elizabethtown ... Plumas •......... ,May
98 Quartzburg ....... Quartzburg ...... Mariposa ........ May
99 La Grange ....... Merced .....•... Merced ..•..•... ,May
100 Campo Seco ....... Campo Seco ...... Calaveras ....... May

Mountain ....... · jDon Pedro's Bar· 1Tuolumne ...... · 1May
Indian Diggings ... Indian Diggings .. El Dorado ....... May

82
85

Extinct

1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
2, 1855 Oct.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
15, 1857* ..•..•........ Charter never issued.
3, 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dec.,
1898 Consolidated with Arcturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
18, 1861 Surrendered.
8,, 1856 May
8, 1856 Oct.
17, 1874Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
115 as St. Mark's No. 85.
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
8, 1856 IM
No. 158.
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
8, 1856 May
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13.
8, 1856 Oct.
8, 1858 Surrendered.
8, 1856 May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No.
26, as Palmyra No. 26.81 1856 !Oct.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
St. Helena.
8, 1856 Dec.
24, 1859 Surrendered.
8, 1856 .............. Name changed to Hornitas.
16, 1913 Name changed to Yosemite No. 99.
9, 1856 Oct.
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
8, 1856 Oct.,
No. 78.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada No. 13 .
8, 1856 IOct.
11, 1876 Consolidated with St. John's
15, 1856 Oct.
No. 37.
11, 1876 Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
14, 1857 !Oct.
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol·
umne No. 8 •

2, 1855

Chartered.

Corinthian ....... !Marysville ...... !Yuba ........... /May

Name.

71 Nebraska .....••. Michigan Bar ••.. Sacramento ...•.. May
72 E. K. Kane ....... Nevada , ........ Nevada ......... May
73• Tyro .....•..••.. Drytown .....•.. Amador ......... May
:F'ranklin ......... Meadow Valley ... Plumas ......... May
74 Wisconsin Hill .... Wisconsin Hill ... Placer .......... May
75 Mountain }"orest .. Eureka North .... Sierra ........... May
77 Petaluma .....•.. Petaluma .....•.. Sonoma ......... May

69

No.

EX'l.'INC'1' LODGES-CONTINUED

~

>

z

~

~
6

0

';j

ti
0
t:i
0

t<
0

ti

z

0

t>l

l:Ii

...;

~

t'l
rn

~

~

!-"

~

0

I><

::!!

l"l

g

~

Became Extinct!

398
438

386

364

350

*Date of Dispensation.

.Manila .......... ,Manila ........•• ,Philippine Islands, Oct.

10, 1901 ,Dee.·

12, 1865 Oct.
11, 1866 Mch.

I Chartered

w1ili

Remarks

19, 1912 Transi.!rred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands,
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Cavite ........... Cavite ........•• Philippine Islands Oct. 15, 1903 Dee.
Philippine Islands.
Olivet ........... !Corning 1 • • • • • • • • !Tehama · · ....•• , Oct.
13, 1904 ...........•.• Consolidated with Newville No.
205, as Olivet No. 205.
Corregidor ....... JManila .....••.. JPhilippine Islands!Oct. 10, 1907 Dec.
19, 1912 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Philippine Islands.
Fowler .......... ·!Fowler .......... ,Fresno ...•...... ,Oct. 15, 1908 Oct. 14, 1915 Consolidated with Selma No. 277.
Germania ........ Lo.s Angeles ..... Los Angeles ............•..•••• Oct. HI, 1913 Name changed to Acacia.

County

342

Location

16, 1879 1Surrendered.
25, 1882\Tran~ferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
1898 Consolidated ~ ith Petaluma No.
11,
1866
!Dee.,
Arcturas
.........
I
Petaluma
.......
1Sonoma
..........
I
Oct.
180
77 as No. 180.
10, 1867 ............. · 1Name changed to Claiborne.
Arenas
...........
Punta
Arenas
....
Mendocino
......
Oct.
185
15, 1868 Dee.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.
189 Latrobe .......... Latrobe ......... El Dorado ....... Oct. 14, 1869 July
20,
1872 Surrendered.
197 Paradise ......... Haywards ......• Alameda ........ Oct. 30, 1870* ...........•.. Charter never issued.
Rocklin .......... Rocklin ......... Placer ........... July
14, 1871 Oct.
12, 1889 Revoked.
213 Bodega ........•. Bodega ......... Sonoma ......... Oct. 11, 1872 Oct.
18, 1881 Name changed to Mosaic.
Pleasanton
......•
Livermore
.......
Alameda
........
Oct.
218
18,
1873
Nov.
17,
1877 Surrendered.
223 Maui . . . . . . . . . . . . ailuku ......... Hawaii ......... (\et. 18, 1873 Oct.
15, 1897 Surrendered.
Contra
Costa
.....•
Somersville
......
Contra
Costa
.....
(Jct.
227
14, 1875 Oct.
16, 1884 Surrendered.
238 Tyre ............ Gold Run ........ Placer .......... Oct. 14, 1875 Sept. 26, 1890 Surrendered.
Peseadero
...•••••
Pescadero
.......
San
Mateo
.......
Oct.
239
14, 1875 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142
240 Equality ......... Colusa .......... Colusa .......... Oct.
as Colusa No. 240.
16,
1896
Consolidated
with Sincerity No. 132
10,
1878
IOct.
249 Greenville ......•• Greenville ....... Plumas .......... loet. 10, 1878 April 19, 1888 Surrendered. ·
251 Brotherhood ..•.. Duncan's Mills ... Sonoma ........ ·\Oct. 16, 1879 Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
257 Arizona ........•• Phoenix ........ Arizona Ter ...... Oct.
Arizona.
Solomon ......... 1Tomb~tone ...... IArizona Ter ...... IJune 4, 1881 *IMch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Arizona.
15, 1881 • Mch. 25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of
263 Tucson .......... !Tucson ....... •.. IArizona Ter ...... IOct.
Arizona.
10, 1895 Revoked.
11, 1883 Oct.
270 Fall River ....... Burgettville ..... Shasta .......... Oct. 16, 1884 May 26, 1888 Surrendered.
276 Westport · ........ Westport ........ Mendocino ....... Oct. 14, 1886 Oct.
11, 1911 Con11olidated
Woodland No. 156
284 Tyrian ........... Dunnigan ........ Yolo ......... : .. Oct. 12, 1892 Oct.
16, 1902 Consol'<Iated with Oxnard No. 341.
311 Hueneme ........ Hueneme .... , ... Ventura.......•.. Oct. 11, 1900 Oct.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Hesperian No. 264.
340 Santa Maria ...... 1Santa Maria ...... Santa Barbara .... Oct.

I

Merced ....... : • ·!Snelling ......... Merced ........ • 10ct.
Aztlan .......•••. Prescott ......... Arizona Ter ...... Oct.

Name

176
177

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED
N

0

~

(;>

0

(;>

;;

z

0
:d

';;:J

t"

>

0

'7J

0

ti:J

G)

t:J

t"
0

t:J

>
z

:d

G)

l'1

=

>'3

"<l

0

~w

b

>'3

z0

H

l'1

(;>

304

L861
l862
1863
l864
l865

L866
l867
1868
1869
L870
1871

L872
l813
1874
1876
1876
t877
1878
1879
1880
1881

1882
1883
!884
1886
1886

1887
1888
1889
1890

•891
1892
1393
1894
IS95

305

LIST. OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

l8TH DAY OF APRIJ,, A. L. 5850.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson .. .
•John A. Tutt ............ .
•Benjamin D. Hyam ..... .
•Charles M. Radcllt't .•.•..
•wmlam H. Howard ....•
•W1lllam H. Howard .••.•
•Wllllam H. Howard •••••
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ......
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ...••.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis •....•
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ..... .
•James L. English ••.••...
*William C. Belcher .•.•..
•William C. Belcher ..••••
•wnua.m c. Belcher ..••••
•Gilbert B. Claiborne .....
•Gilbert B. Claiborne ...•.
•William A. Davies ...... .
•Charles Marsh ...••.•.•.•
•Leonidas E. Pratt ••.•••••
•Leonidas E. Pratt ....... .
•Leonidas E. Pratt ....... .
•Leonidas E. Pratt ...... ..
•Isaac S. Titus •.....•••..
George C. Perkins ........
•.John M. Browne .....•..•
•John M. Browne ...••••.•
•John M. Browne ...•..•••
•John M. Browne ....••...
•William W. Traylor .••...
•Samuel C. Denson ...... .
•Clay W. Taylor ........ ..
•Clay W. Taylor ......... .
•Jonathan D. Hines .••••.
•.Jonathan D. Hines ••.•..
•wuey .J. Tinnin ......... .
*Edmund C. Atkinson ....•
•Hiram N. Rucker ........
•Morris M. Estee •.....•..
•Morris M. Estee ...•..•..
•Alvah R. Conklin •........
•William .Johnston ....... .
•Charles R. Gritman ..••.
•Henry S. Orme ..........•
James B. Stevens .•..••.•
•Edward M. Preston ..••.•

•.John A. Tutt ..••••••
•Benjamin D. Hyam ••
*Charles M. Radclli'f .•
•Townsend A. Thomas
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ..
•Townsend A. Thomas
•John A Raymond •.•.•
•Charles Marsh ••.....
•Phlllp W. Shepheard.
•Philip W. Shepheard.
•Phlllp W. Shepheard.
•Wl!Uam C. Belcher ..
*Gilbert B. Claiborne ..
•Gilbert B. Claiborne ..
•Gilbert B. Claiborne..
•William A. Davies ...
•Henry H. Hartley •...
•Henry H. Hartley ... .
•Leonidas E. Pratt .. ..
•Isaac S. Titus ...•..••
•Isaac S. Titus ....... .
•cliarles L. Wiggin ..•
•Benj. H. Freeman ..•
George C. Perkins ••.
•John M. Browne ..•..
•Charles L. Wiggin ...
*Charles L. Wiggin ..•
•Charles L. Wiggin ...
•Wllllam W. Traylor ..
*Ramuel C. Denson ... .
•Clay w. Taylor .... ..
•John Q. Adams ..... .
•.Jonathan D. Hines •••
•Wiley J. Tinnin .....•
•Wiley J. Tinnin ..... .
•Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Hiram N. Rucker ...•
•Morris M. Estee .•.•.
• Alvah R. Conklin •..•
•William .Johnston ...•
•Wll!lam Johnston .•.•
•Charles Ray Gritman.
•Henry S. Orme ...... .
James B. Stevens ... .
•Edward M. Preston .•
William T. Lucas ••••

•Caleb Fenner.
*E. F. W. Ellis.
*Adolphus Hollub.
•.John R. Crandall.
•Rector E. Cole.
•John A. Raymond.
•Lemuel Lyon.
•Aaron D. Park.
•William McCormick.
*Ebenezer Lane.
*William c. Belcher.
•John W. Harville.
•John W. Harvl!le.
•Louis Cohn.
•Wllllam A. Davies.
•Isaac S. Titus.
•Wm. H. Peterson.
'Thomas Beck.
•Theodore G. Cockrill.
•.John S. Ward.
•Charles L. Wiggin.
•Benj. H. Freeman.
George C. Perkins.
•.John M. Browne.
•William B. Parker.
*Wiley J. Tinnin.
*William S. Wells.
*William W. Traylor.
•William H. Crane.
•clay w. Taylor.
•John Q. Adams.
•Jonathan D. Hlne11.
*Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Edmund C. Atkinson.
•gdmund C. Atkinson.
•Hlro.m N. Rucker.
•Morris M. Estee.
•Alvah R. Conklin.
•William Johnston
"Charles R. Gritman.
•Charles R. Gritman.
*Henry S. Orme.
James B. Stevens.
*Edward M. Preston.
William T. Lucas.
Thomas Flint.

Year
Elected.
t850
t851
t862
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
t858
1859
l860

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

*Deoeased

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer

Grand
Secretary.

•Hnehel Woods ........ •Levi Stowell.......
•John H. Glhon ...... .
•nenj. S. Olds ...•.•••• •Townsend A. Thomas •Levi Stowell ••.•. , ..•.
•.John R. McConnell ... *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
'Hlchard F. Knott. ... *Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
'Hobert N. Wood ..... *Addison Martin ....•. •Levi Stowell .........•
•Hamuel A. Merritt ... •Addison Martin ...... •Levi Stowell ......... .
*l'eter W. Randle ••••. *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
•,John B. Bope ........ *Addison Martin ...... *Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•James W. Bicknell ... *Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•"rhomas P. Hawley .. •Addison Martin ...... *Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Alvlnza Hayward .... •Addison Martin..... *Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Caleb E. Wilcoxon ... •.James Laldley .....••. •Alex G. Abell ....•.••
•.John B. Hewson ....• •.James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
•William A. Davies ... •.James Laldley ....... •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Isaac S. Titus ...•.••. •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell .......•
•Henry H. Hartley ••.• •James Laldley .••...•. •Alex G. Abell ...•....
•Thomas Beck ....... •.James Laldley ....•... •Alex G. Abell •.......
•J,eonldas E. Pratt .... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
l•'rederlck F. Barss ... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•!Uchard Dale ........ •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Benj. H. Freeman ... •James Laldley ........ *Alex G. Abell ....... .
Gao. C. Perkins ...... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
•John M. Browne ..... •Jamee Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ....... .
Chas. E. Mitchell .... •James Laldley ........ "Alex G. Abell ....... .
•Wiley J. Tinnin ..... •James Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
•Jncob H. NetT ... • • .. • •James Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Solon W. Craigue .... •.James Laldley ........ •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•wm. H. Crane ........ •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Hobert C. Broder .... •Moses Heller .•....... •Alex. G. Abell ..•.•..•
•John Q. Adams ...... *Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Orrin W. Hollenbeck. •Moses Heller ..••••..• •Alex. G. Abell ..•.•.••
•'rhomas .r. Bowers ... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ••......
•oeorge Hindi! ........ •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
*Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
•Hiram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Henry H. Knapp .••.. •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ••.•...•
*Alvah R. Conklin ..•• *Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell .•.....•
•Wm . .Johnston ....... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell ........
'Marcus D. Boruck ••• •Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell ......•.
•11enry S. Orme ...... •Nathan W. Spaulding. *Alex. G. Abell •.••....
•nenry S. Orme ...... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnson ..... .
.James B. Stevens ...• •Nathan W. Spa.uldlng. •George Johnson ..... .
'Eldward M. Preston .. •Nathan W. Spnuldlng. •George Johnson ..... .
Wm. T. Lucas ....... "Edward Coleman ..... •George .Johnson .... ..
Thomas Flint .......• •JGdwa.rd Coleman ..... •George Johnson ..... .
Frank M. Angellotti •. •J.!l1lward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .... ..

*Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

306

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRA*D OFFICERS

l\L ._ W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

18Trr DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Year.
i896
1897
1898
189~

1900
1901
ldl2
1903

t•04
1906

1906
1907
1908
1909
1910
1911
1912
1913
1914
1915

1916
1917
1918

Grand Master.

Deputy

Grand Master.

307

Senior
Grand Warden.

William T. Lucas ..••••.. Thomas Flint .......• Frank M. Angellotti.
Thomas Flint ............. . Frank M. Angellotti.. Charles L. Patton.
Frank M. Angellotti ...••• Charles L. Patton .. .. *James A. Foshay.
Charles L. Patton ......• , *James A. Foshay .... . Wllllam S. Wells.
•James A. Foshay ........ . William S. Wells ... .. Orrin S. Henderson.
William S. Wells •••.•.••• Orrin S. Henderson., *Charles W. Nutting.
Orrin S. Henderson ..... . *Charles W. Nutting .• George w. Hunter.
•Charles W. Nutting ..... . George W. Hunter ••• Motley H. Flint.
George W. Hunter ...... . Motley H. Flint .•..•• *Edward H. Hart.
Motley H. Flint ......••.• *Edward H. Hart. .... George M. Perine.
•Edward H. Hart. ....... . Geo. M. Perine ••..... *Reuben H. Lloyd.
George M. Perine .......• *Reuben H. Lloyd .... . Oscar Lawler.
Oscar Lawler •........••. •v . Frank Pierce .... . Dana R. We!ler.
*W. Frank Pierce ........ . Dana R. Weller..... . Alonzo J. Monroe.
Dana R. Weller ......... . Alonzo J. Monroe .•.• Wm. P. Filmer.
Alonzo J. Monroe ......•. Wm. P. Fllmer .....• John D. Murphey.
Wm. P. Filmer ......... . John D. Murphey ..•• Benj. F. Bledsoe.
John D. Murphey ..•..•.. Benj. F. Bledsoe ..•.. Albert G. Burnett.
BenJ. F. Bledsoe ........ . Albert G. Burnett .... ]'rancls V. Keesling.
Albert G. Burnett. ..... . l<'rancls V. Keesling .. Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Francis V. Keesling ..... . Wm. Rhodes Hervey .. Bradford Webster.
'Wm. Rhodes Hervey .... . Bradford Webster ...• Charles A. Adams.
Bradford Webster ..... , .. Charles A. Adams ..... George F. Rodden.

.Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary

1'li11rles L. Patton ... *llldward Coleman .... . *George Johnson ...•• ,
A. Foshay ... •Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson •....•
William S'. Wells .... *Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson •.•..•
•George Johnson ..••..
1 •rrln s. Henderson .. *Edward Coleman .... .
•1 'h11rles W. Nutting ..•Edward Coleman .... . *George Johnson .•...•
*George Johnson ..... .
11 .. orge \V. Hunter ... •Edward Coleman ... ..
Motley H. Flint ..... •Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson .....•
•1•:.tward H. Hart. ... !Edward Coleman ....• •George Johnson ...•.•
Clrn1rge M. Perine .... *Edward Coleman ... .. •George Johnson ...•.•
•ttcnillen H. Lloyd .... •Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson ....•.
*George Johnson ..... .
1 l•<'ar Lawler ....... *Edward Coleman .... .
Johnson ....••
•w. Frank Pierce .... ~Edward Coleman .... . •George
John Whlcher .......•
AlollZO J. Monroe .... "Edward Coleman .... .
John Which er ..•....•
William P. Filmer ... •Edward Coleman ... .
John Whicher ....... .
.lnhn D. Murphey .... *FJdward Coleman .... .
.John Whicher ....... .
11.,1ij. F. Bledsoe .... •Edward Coleman .... .
John \Vhlcher ....... .
Alhort G. Burnett ... *Edward Coleman ....• ,John ·which er ....... .
l"mncis V. Keesling .. Wm. P. Filmer ..... .
John ·whlcher ....... .
W. Hhodes Hervey .. ·wm. P. Filmer ...... .
John Whlcher ....... .
111·1111ford Webster ... Wm. P. Filmer ..... .
John Whlcher ....... .
1•1111s. Albert Adams Wm. P. Filmer ..... .
John Whicher ....... .
tlt•orge F. Rodden ..• Wm. P. Filmer ...... .
John Whlcher ....... .
~1111111el E. Burke .... \Vm. P. ]~llmer .... .

Grand
Lecturer.

•.l111 11 cs

Wm. H. Edwards.
\Vm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.·
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
ThOmaa J, Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. ·Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.

308

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES AND BRITISH AMERICA.

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH AMERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California
Grand Secretaries.
Grand Lodges.
Residences.
Organized
Alabama •.. , ••.••• George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery ••..• ,June 15, 1821
Alberta ..........• S. Y. Taylor ...........Calgarv ........... Oct. 12, 1905
Arizona ........... George J. Roskruge ..• Tucson ............ Mar. 26, 1882
Arkansas ........ .,Fay Hempstead ...... Little Rock ........ Mar. 26, 1882
British Columbla. ...W. A. DeWolf Smith .. New Westmlnster..Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ............W. W. Logan ......... .Hamilton .......... Oct. 10, 1856
Colorado .••••••••••Charles H. Jacobson ... Denver ......•..•.. Aug, 2, 1861
Connecticut •..••.• George A. Kies .........Hartford ....•....• July
8, 1789
Delaware ••••••••••H. J. Guthrie ........ :Wllmlngton .•••....June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbla .• Arvlne W. Johnston •..Washington ....... Feb. 19, 1811 ~
Florida ............ Wllber P. Webster ....Jacksonvllle ....... July
6, 1830
Georgia ........... Frank F. Baker ..... Macon ............. Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho .............. Geo. E. Knepper ..... .Boise .............. Dec. 17, 1867
Illlnels .............Isaac Cutter .......... Camp Point ....... April 6, 1840
Indiana. ....•.••.•••Calvin W. Prather •... Indianapolis •....• Jan. 12, 1818
Iowa ...•.••••.•••• Newton R. Parvin ..... Cedar Rapids ...... Jan.
8, 1844
Kansas ............ Albert K. Wllson ....•. Topeka ............Mar. 17, 1856
Kentucky •••••••••• Dave Jackson ....••...Louisville .......... Oct.
8, 1800
Louisiana ..........John A. Davilla ....... New Orleans ...... June 20, 1812
Maine ....••••••••• Chas. B. Davis ....... .Portland ........ , .June 1, 1820
Manitoba .......... James A. Ovas ........Wlnnepeg .........May lll, 1876
Maryland ...•..... George Cook ..........Baltimore ......... Apr!! 17, 1887
Massachusetts. . .• Fred'k vV. Hamilton .. Boston ............ Mar. 8, 1777
Michigan .......... I~ou B. Winsor ........ Reed City ......... Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota .........John Fishel ........... Saint Paul ........Feb. 23, 1863
Mississippi •••••••• Frederick G. Speed ....Vicksburg ..•...... July 27, 1818
Missour •.•••.•••••John R. Parson ......• St. Louts ...•...•.• May
•• 1821
Montana ..... , ..... Cornelius Hedges, Jr .. Helena ...•........Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska , .•.••.•••Francis E. White ..... Omaha .•.......... Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada ••.•.•.••• ·•Edward D. Vanderleith.Carson .•.......... Jan. 16. 1865
New Brunswick ••• J. Twining Hartt. .•.. Saint John ......... Oct. 10, 1867
8, 1789
New Hampshire ...• Harry M. Cheney ..... Concord ........... July
New Jersey ....... Jsaac Cherrv ..........Trenton ........... Dec. 18, 1786
New Mexico ••.••.• AJpheus A. Keen .....•A.lbuquerque ..•..• Aug. 7, 1877
New York ....••••• Robert J. Kenworthy.New York •.•.••... Sept. 6, 1781
North Carolina .... w. W. Willson ...... Raleigh ............ Dec. 12, 1177
North Dakota. ..••• Walter L. Stockwen .•. Fargo ..............June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ....... Thomas Mcwhray ..... Halifax ........... Jan. 21, 1866
Ohio •..........•.• Jacob H. Bromwell •.. Cincinnati •.•••••. Jan.
7, 1808
Oklahoma ....•...• Wm. M. Anderson .... Oklahoma City ....Nov. l 0, 1909
Oregon ............ James F. Robinson .... Portland .......... Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsylvania .....• John A. Perry ....••...Philadelphia ...... Sept. 26, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .. Walter P. Doull ....... Charlottetown ....... June 24, 1875
Quebec ............Walter c. Ha~ar ......Montreal .......... Oct. 20, 1869
Rhode Island •...• s. Penrose Williams .. Providence ........June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan ..... w. B. Tate ...........Regina ............ Aug, 9, 1906
South Carolina .... o. Frnnk Hart. .......Columbia ..........Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota •..• Geo. A. Pettigrew ..... Sioux Falls ....•... July 21, 1775
Tennessee ......... Rtltll M. Cain ......... Nashvllle ..........Dec. 27, 1813
Texas ..............\V. B. Pierson ........ Waco ............. Dec. 20, 1837
Utah .............. Freeman A. l\frCnrty .!'lalt Lake City ..... Jan. 17, 1872
Vermont •••••.•••••!<'rank A. RoRS' ••...•.. Burlington •....... Oct. 14. 1794
Virginia ...•..••••• Charles A. Nesbitt .... Richmond ......... Oct. 13, 1778
Washlnirton ....... Horace W. Tyler ...... Tacoma ............ Dec.
8, 1858
11, 1865
'\V~st Virginia ......Tnhn M. r.omns .•..... Charleston ......... May
18,
1843
Wi,,<'ons!n .......... Wllllam W. Perry ..•.. Mllwaukee ........ Dec.
Wyoming ...........Tos. M. Londes ........ Casper ............ Dec. 15. 1874

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

309

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Abell •.••••••••..•. 146 Ukiah •••••••••••.••• Mendocino.
A<'.:tl'ia ...•......... 438 Los Angeles ...•..... Los Angeles.
A din ............. ,250 Adin •••••.•.•... ,.... Modoc.
Alamo •...•..•••••• 122 Walnut Creek .••.••• Contra Costa.
Alameda •..•••••••• 167 Centerville •••••.•••• Alameda.
Alcatraz , ..••••••.. 244 Oakland •..•••••••••• Alameda.
Alhambra •••••••••. 322 Alhambra .•••.•••••• Los Angeles.
Alisa! •.••••••.••••. 321 Pleasanton •••••••.••• Alameda.
Alpha ............. .431 Richmond ..••.....•• Contra Costa.
Alta •••••...•.••• , .333 Bridgeport •••••••.•• Mono.
Alta Vista ...•.. ; .464 San Francisco ......•. San Francisco.
Alturas ..•.••.••..• 248 Alturas ..............Modoc.
Amity •.••••••• , , •• 370 San Francisco •.•••••• San Francisco.
Amador ...••••••..• 65 Jackson ••..•..•••••• Amador.
Anaheim •..••••••.. 207 Anaheim ••••.••••... Orange.
Anchor .•.•..••.••• 273 Compton .............Los Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ............. Contra Costa.
Apollo ••• , •••.••..• 396 Alameda ............. Alameda.
Arcata ••••••••.•••• 106 Arcata •••••...•••.•• Humboldt.
Argonaut .....•...• 461 San Fra.ncisr.o ....•...San Francisco.
Arroyo •...••• , •.•• 274 Arroyo Grande .......San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ........• .414 Los Angeles ..•••....• Los Angeles.
Artesia ••.... , •.... 377 Artesia ..•.•••••••••• Los Angeles.
Ashlar ••••••••.•..• 306 Colton •.••..••••.••••San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davis ............... Yolo.
Azusa •..•• , .•••••• 305 Azusa •••••••.••...•• Los Angeles.
Bakersfield ••••••••• 224 Bakersfield •••. • • • ....Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco ••.•.•.• San Francisco.
Bay View •..•••••• 401 Oakland ••....••••••• Alameda.
Bear Mountain ••..• 76 Angels Camp .•.••••• Calaveras.
Benicia • • • • • • • . • • . • 5 Benicia •••...••••••..Solano.
Berkeley •••.••••••• 363 Berkeley •..•••.•••.• Alame!la.
Bethlehem ......... 453 San Francisco .....•.•. San Francisco
Blackmer .......... 442 San Diego ......•.... San Diego.
Bodie •••• , •••••..• 252 Bodie ••.•......••.•• Mono.
Brawley •.••••.•••• 402 Brawley ............. Imperial.
Brentwood •.•..•••. 345 Brentwood ........... Contra Costa.
Brooklyn ••••.•..•. 225 East Oakland •.•••..• Alame!la.
Buc)ieye ........... 195 Winters ............. Yolo.

310
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

Buena Park ........ 357 Buena Park •....••... Orange.
Burbank •.......... 406 Burbank ...........• Los Angeles.
Burlingame ........ 400 Burlingame .......•.. San Mateo.
Calexico ........... 412 Calexico ............. Imperial.
California . . . . . . . . . 1 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Calrtveras ......... 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Callayomi ......... 282 Middletown .........• Lake.
Calistoga .......... 233 Calistoga ............ Napa.
Carpinteria ........ 444 Carpinteria .......... Santa Barbara.
Carquinez .......... 337 Crockett ............. Contra Costa.
Center ............. 465 Fresno .............. Fresno.
Charity ........... 362 Campbell ..........•. Santa Clara.
Charter Rock ....... 410 Berkeley ............. Alameda.
Chico .............. 111 Chico ..............• Butte.
Chino Valley ...... 427 Chino ............... San Bernardi a o.
Claiborne .......... 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino.
Claremont ........ .436 Claremont ........... Los Angeles.
Clay .............. 101 Dutch Flat ........... Placer.
Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake .......•. Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo .................. Shasta.
Clovis ............. 417 Clovis ............... Fresno.
Coalinga ........... 387 Coalinga ............. Tulare.
Concord ........... 117 Sacramento .......•.. Sacramento.
Confidence ......... 203 Castroville .......... Monterey.
Consuelo •....•.... 325 Escondido .....•..... San Diego.
Colusa ............ 240 Colusa ............... Colusa.
Corinthian . . . . . . . . . 9 Marysville ........... Yuba.
Corona ............ 324 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles. •
Coronado .......... 441 Coronado : ........... San Diego.
Covelo ............ 231 Covelo .............. ,Mendocino.
Covina ............ 334 Covina .............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ....•...... 45 Crescent City , ....... Del Norte.
Crocker ............ 454 Daly City ............ San Mateo.
Crockett ........... 139 San Francisco ....... ·San Francisco.
Culver City ......... 467 Culver City ...........Los Angeles.
Curtis ............. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
Delano ............ 309 Delano .............. Kern.
Delta .............. 471 Stoekton ............ San Joaquin.
Dinuba ............ 385 Dinuba .......... , •.. Tulare.
Doric ............. 216 San Francisco ...•.•.. San Francisco.
Downey ........... 220 Downey ............• Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Plymouth ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir ......... 297 Dunsmuir ............ Siskiyou.
Durant ............ 268 Berkeley ............ Alameda.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

1°:11gle Rock ......... 422 Eagle Rock ...•...... Los Angeles.
l•:ust Belt ..•..•.... 391 Tuolumne ........... Tuolumne.
l•:ast Gate ... , ...•. 290 Los Angeles •.......• Los Angeles.
Jo:den .•............ 113 San Leandro .. , ...... Alameda.
l•:el River .......... 147 Fortuna ............. Humboldt.
Ml Centro ........... 384 EI Centro .......... , .Imperial.
l•:Ik Grove ......... 173 Elk Grove ........... Sacramento.
J<Jlsinore ... , ....... 289 Elsinore ............. Riverside.
l•:lysian ............ 418 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ...•..... 318 Biggs ............... Butte.
Enterprise •.... , •.. 70 Yuba City ........... Sutter.
Jo]uealyptus •....... 243 Haywards ........... Alameda.
l!:ureka . . . . . . . . . . . . 16 Auburn ............. Placer.
l!:vening Star ...... 186 Etna Mills ........... Siskiyou.
Evergreen ......... 259 Riverside ............ Riverside.
Excelsior .......... 166 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Exeter ............ 424 Exeter .............. Tulare.
l•'airmount ......... 435 San l<'rancisco ....... :::lan Francisco.
Fallbrook ......... 317 Fallbruok ........... San Diego.
Ferndale .......... 193 Oakland ............. Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fillmore ............. Ventura.
Forbestown ........ 50 Forbestown .......... Butte.
Forest ..... , ....... 66 Allegheny ........... Sierra.
Fort Bragg ........ 361 Fort Bragg ...........Mcn<locino.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland ...........•Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ... San Mateo.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno ...............Fresno.
Friendship •..... ; .. 210 San Jose ............ Santa Clara.
Fruitvale , ......... 336 Oakland ........... ,Alameda.
Fullerton;.. ......... 339 Fullerton ............ Orange.
Galt ............... 267 Galt ................ Sacramento.
Gardena .......... 372 Gardena ............. Los Angeles.
Georgetown . . . . . . . . 25 Georgetown .......... El Dorado.
George Washington , 62 Chinese Camp .... , .. .'l'uolumne.
Glendora .......... 404 Glendora ........ , . , .Los Angeles.
Golden Gate ....... 30 San Francisco ........ San Frandsco.
Golden West ........ 455 San Francisco ....... San Jo'raneisro.
Golden State ...... 3Jb Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill , ......... il2 Lincoln .............. Placer.
Grafton ...... , .... 141 Grafton ... , ......... Yolo.
Granite ........... 222 Rocklin ..... , ....... Placer.
Gravel Range ...... 59 Campton ville , ... , ... Yuba.

311

312
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL I,IST
No.

Post Office.

01~

LODGES
County.

Guadalupe •••...... 237 Guadalupe ...•....... Santa Barbara.
Hammonton ........ 433 Hammonton •........ Yuba.
Hanford •......... 279 Hanford •..........• , Kings.
Harmony .......... 164 Sierra City ......••.. Sierra.
Hartley ........... 199 Lakeport ............ Lake.
Hawaiian •.•...•..• 21 Honolulu .........•.• Hawaiian Ter.
Henry Clay •....... 95 Sutter Creek ..••..... Amador.
Hermann •....•.... 127 San Francisco .......• San Francisco.
Hesperian ......... 264 Santa Maria .•....... Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..... 382 Los Angeles ........•. Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry ....... 236 Newman ............• Stanislaus.
Hiram . • . . . . . . . . . . . 43 El Dorado .....••.••• El Dorado.
Henry S. Orme ..... 458 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck •••...•• 319 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Hollywood ...•.... 3f15 Hollywood •..•..•••.• Los Angeles.
Holtville ........... 425 Holtville •...•.••...• Imperial.
Honolulu ........ : .409 Honolulu ...........• Hawaiian Ter.
Hope ...••......... 234 Beckwith ....•.•..... Plumas.
Hornitos •.........• 98 Ilornitos ..•.•.••••.•• Mariposa.
Howard ........... 96 Yreka .....•..•••.••. Siskiyou.
Humboldt ...•.••.. 79 Eureka ........•.•.. Humboldt.
Huntington Beach •.. 380 Huntington Beaeh ....Orange.
Illinoistown ...••... 51 Colfax ...•.......... Placer.
Imperial .....••••.. 390 Imperial .............Imperial.
Inglewood ......... .421 Inglewood .......•... Los Angeles.
Inyo •••........... 221 Independence ..•..... Inyo.
Ione •.....•.....•. 80 Ione •......••.••.••. Amador.
Jefferson ....•..... 97 Laporte .....•.•.••.. Plumas.
Janesville .......... 232 Lassen .......•....•.Lassen.
Jewel .........•.•. 374 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Keith ....•...•.••. 187 Gilroy ...•..•........ Santa Clara.
Kennett .. , ....... .456 Kennett ..•........ ...,S_hasta.
Kerman ........... .420 Kerman ......•..•... Fresno.
Keystone ••.......• 161 Milton , ............. Calaveras.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ................ Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ...•.• 209 San Luis Obispo , .•.. San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's ••.. 260 San Franeisco ........ San Francis<•o.
La Fayette •• , ..••• 126 Sebastopol· ••......... Sonoma.
La Mesa ........... 407 La Mesa ............. San Diego.
£,an caster .......... 437 Lancaster ........... Los Angeles.
Lantlmark ........ 253 Espnrto ...........•. Yolo.
La Puente ......... '±46 Puente ...........•.. Los Angeles.
Las Palmas •....•.. 366 Fresno ...............Fresno.
LaHen .••.••••.••• 149 Susanville •••••••• , , . Lassen.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

r.odge.
No. Post Office.
County.
f,nurel •..•.••...•. 245 Willows ..............Glenn.
111 I'rogres de
J 'Oeeanie ........ 371 Honolulu ........•...Hawaiian 'fer.
f,j\xington •••• ; •.•• 104 El Monte ......•..•.. Los Angeles.
Li hertas· .......... .466 Bakersfield ..........Kern.
l.lberty •......••••• 299 Santa Clara ..•....... Santa Clara.
1,incoln ............ 470 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Lindsay ...•.....•. 416 Lindsay ..•..•.....•. Tulare.
Live Oak ••••...•• 61 Oakland ..... : . .•..•• Alameda.
[,odi .............. 256 Lodi ................ San Joaquin.
Lompoc ...••...•.. 262 Lompoc ..............Santa Barbara.
Long Beach •.••.•.. 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
J,os Angeles • • • • • • • • 42 Los Angeles ••.•....• Los Angeles.
1,011 Banos ...•••••. 312 Los Banos •••.••..... Merced.
Los Gatos .•.••.••• 292 Los Gatos ..•.......• Santa Clara.
f,oyalton .••..... , • 359 Loyalton .•.•.•...... Sierra.
Madera .•.••••••. ·.• 280 Madera ..............Madera.
Madison •.••..••.•. 23 Grass Valley •.•...•.. Nevada.
Magnolia , .•..••... 242 Santa Barbara ....... Santa Barbara.
Maricopa .......... 434 Maricopa •..•....... Kern.
Marin .•......•.••• 191 San Rafael ••••••.•.. Marin.
Mariposa ..•. , ..••• 24. Mariposa .•.••.•••... Mariposa.
:Martinez ........... 41 Martinez •.••.••••... Contra Costa.
Maui .............. 472 Maui, Kahului ....... Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell .• , ....•... 288 Maxwell .........••.. Colusa.
McCloud •...••.... 430 McCloud ....••....••• Siskiyou.
.McKinley ..••.•• , , .347 Richmond •.......•.. Contra Costa.
.Mendocino .••...••. 179 Mendocino •••••..... Mendocino.
Meridian ....•••••• 182 Arbuckle ...•.•...... Colusa.
Midway ............ 426 Taft .•..••.•••••...• Kern.
Mill Valley .••..... 356 Mill Valley ..•.••.... Marin.
Mission •.•••••..... 169 San Francisco ...••••. San Francisco.
Mizpah •••.••••.... 378 Los Angeles •....•..• Loa Angeles.
Mokelumne Hill ..•. 298 Mokelumne Hill ...••. Calaveras.
Molino ...•.••.•••• 150 Tehama •..•••••..•.. Tehama.
Moneta ..........•• 405 Los Angeles •••...... Los Angeles.
Montebello ........ 451 Montebello .......... Los Angeles.
Monrovia •........ 308 Monrovia ......•.•... Los Angeles.
Monterey .......... 217 Monterey •........... Monterey.
Morgan Hill ........ 4G3 Morgan Hill .......... Santa Clar~.
Morning Star •.•••• 68 Stockton •........... San Joaqum.
Mosaic .. , ..•..•... 218 Livermore •.......... Alameda,
Mount Diablo ...... 448 Concord ............. Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson ...•. 295 Guerneville ...•••...• Sonoma.

313

314
Lodge.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
No.

Post Office.

Lodge.

County.

Mount Moriah ..... 44 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mount Oso ....... .460 Tracy ............... San Joaquin.
Mountain Shade •. : 18 Downieville .......... Sierra.
Mount Shasta ...... 281 Anderson ............ Sha~ta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Natoma ..........• 64 Folsom .............. Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Needles ............ 326 Needles ...........•• San Bernardino.
Nevada ........... 13 Nevada City ......... Nevada.
Newville •......... 205 Paskenta ............Tehama.
Nicolaus .......... 129 Wheatland ..........• Yuba.
North Butte ....... 230 Gridley ............• Butte.
North East ........ 266 Fort Bidwell ........ ,Modoc.
Northern Light .... 190 Millville ..........•.. Shasta.
North Star ........ 91 Fort Jones ........... Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ............ Los Angeles.
Oakdale ........... 275 Oakdale ............. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove •..•..... 215 Alameda ......•.....• Alameda.
Oakland ........... 188 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Occidental ......... 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park ...•... 369 Ocean park ............ Los Angeles.
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ....•...... San Diego.
Olive Branch ...... 269 Tulare .............. Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ........ , .... Tehama.
Ontario ........... 301 Ontario ............. San Bernardino.
Ophir ............. 33 Murphy's .... ·'· ...... Calaveras.
Orange Grove ...... 293 Orange •............. Orange.
Oriental ........... 144 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Orland ............ 265 Orland .............. Glenn.
Orosi . . . . . . . . . . . . . 383 Orosi ...........•.•.. Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ..........•.. Butte.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
l'acific ............ 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove ....... 331 Pacific Grove •.......• Monterey.
Pacific ...........• 136 Watsonville •........•Santa Cruz.
Palestine .......... 351 Los Angeles ....•..... Los Angeles.
Palmyra .......... 26 Placerville ........... El Dornclo.
Palo Alto .......... 346 Palo Alto ............ Santa Clara.
Palos V crdes ....... 389 Long Beach •......... Los A ngcles.
Parfaite Union .... 17 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Park ............. .449 Ran Frart<'.isco ........ Ran Francisco.
Parnassus .......... 388 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pasa<lena .......... 272 Pasadena .•......•••• Los Angeles.
Paso Robles .....•.. 286 Paso Robles •......•••San Luis Obispo.

'

No.

Post Office.

County.

Paul Revere .. , .... 462 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn ............. ,Placer.
Pentalpha ..•..•... 202 Los Angeles •......••. Los Angeles.
Perris ..•......... .411 Perris ............... Riverside.
Petaluma •..•.•..•. 180 Petaluma .......•.... Sonoma.
Phoenix ........... 178 San Bernardino ..... San Bernardino.
Pinole .•••.•....... 353 Pinole •....•••••••••. Contra Costa.
Pittsburg ....•..•.• 429 Pittsburg ...•.....•.. Contra Costa.
Plumas •.•.•••••••• 60 Quincy •...•...••.••• Plumas.
Pomona ........... 246 Pomona .............. Los Angeles.
Porterville •••••.••• 303 Porterville •.......... Tulare.
Presidio •.•..•.•••. 354 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Ramona ........... 457 Alhambra ............ Los Angeles.
Reading ........... 254 Redding ••••••••••.•• Shasta.
Redland1 •......... 300 Redlands ............•San Bernardino.
Redondo •.•.•••..•• 328 Redondo .....•.•...•. Los Angeles.
Redwood City ••.•.• 168 Redwood City •••..•.. San Mateo.
Reedley ...•••..••. 304 Reedley ..••...•..•.. Fresno.
Richmond •••••.••. 375 San Francisco ••••... San Francisco.
Rio Vista •••••••••. 208 Rio Vista .......•.... Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Rising Star .••.••.. 83 Forest Hill .......•.. Placer.
Riverbank ......... 459 Riverbank .......•.•. Stanislaus.
Rockridge ........ .468 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Rose's Bar •.•.••.•• 89 Smartsville .....•.•••.Yuba.
Roseville .....•.•.•. 433 Roseville .............. Placer.
Russian River •••••. 181 Windsor ....•....•... Son.oma.
Sacramento ••••.... 40 Sacramento •......... Sacramento.
Saint Helena .••..•• 93 St. Helena •.......... Napa.
Saint John's •..•.•. 37 Yreka ••••..•.......• Siskiyou.
Salinas •.....•.....• 204 Salinas •..•.......... Monterey.
San B~nito ......•.. 211 Hollister .........•.•. San Benito.
San Buenaventura •.• 214 Ventura ......•.....• Ventura.
San Diego • • • • • . • • • 35 San Diego .•.•....... San Diego.
San Dimas •......•. 428 San Dimas •.........• Los Angeles.
Sanger ••••. ; •.•... 316 Sanger •.....•...•••. Fresno.
San Bernardino ...•. 348 San Bernardino •....• San Bernardino.
Sari Fernando ••.••. 343 Fernando •....••..... Los Angeles.
San Francisco •.•.• 360 San Francisco .••....• San Francisco.
San Jacinto •.••.•.. 338 San Jacinto ••••....• Riverside.
San Joaquin ••••••• 19 Stockton ••.•...••.••. San Joaquin.
San Jose ........... 10 San Jose •...•••.•••. Santa Clara.
San Mateo ••••••.•. 226 San Mateo .• , ••••.••. San Mateo.
San Miguel •••••.. 285 San Miguel •••••••.•• San Luis Obispo.

315

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

316

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
San Pedro ••••••... 332 San Pedro •..•..•.... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana .••••.... 241 Santa An'\ •..•••....• Orange.
Santa Barbara ..... 192 Santa Barbara •.••••. Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz •.•....• 38 Santa Cruz ....••..• Santa Cruz.
Santa Lueia •••..•. 302 Kings City ...•••••. Monterey.
Santa Monica ....•. 307 Santa Monica •..•.•.. Los Angeles.
Santa Paula ••••••. 291 Santa Paula •.••.••.. Ventura.
Santa Rosa .....••• 57 Santa Rosa ••••...... Sonoma.
San Simeon .....•. 196 Cambria •.••••••••.•. San Luis Obispo.
Schofield .......... '<43 Schofield Barracks •... Hawaiian Ter.
Selma ••••••••....• 277 Selma ...••......•..• Fresno.
Sequoia ••••.•••.•.. 349 Oakland •..••.•....•• Alameda.
Sierra Madre ....... 408 Sierra Madre ..•...... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley •••... 184 Sierra ville •.•• , •••.•. Sierra.
Silveyville •••• , •.•. 201 Dixon •..•.....• , .• , .Solano.
Silver Gate •.••.... 296 San Diego ..•.....•.. San Diego.
Silver Trowel. ...... 415 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Sincerity •..•••...• 132 Greenville •••...•... Plumas.
Sisson •..•....•..•• 310 Sisson .•...•.......•. Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain ..•. 271 Stony Ford , .....•.•. Colusa.
Solano ...•..••••.• 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome ....•••... 123 Heahlsburg • . . . . . . . . Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles .•.••••...Los Angeles.
South Gate ••...•.. 320 Los Angeles •..•••..• Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .... 367 South Pasadena ....•. Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 Ban Francisco ......•. San Francisco.
South West •.•..... 283 National City .•...... San Diego.
Speranza Italiana .•• 219 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Standard .......... 440 Oakland ....•....... Alameda.
Stanislaus •..•.•.•. 206 Modesto , ...• , , •.•.•. Stanislaus.
Starr King •...•... 344 San Francisco ••• , .... San Francisco.
Suisun • • • • • • • • • . . . 55 Suisun ..•.••........ Solano.
Summit •.•....•..• 112 Knights Ferry .•..... Stanislaus.
Sunset .....•....... 352 Los Angeles .. , ..•... Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley •.•. 235 Cedarville ........•.. Modoc.
Table Mountain ••.. 124 Cherokee •.....•.•.•. Butte.
Tehachapi •.•••..•• 313 Tehachapi •.•.....••. Kern.
Tehama . . • • . • • • • • • • 3 Sacramento ..••...... Sacramento.
Temeseal •....•.••• 314 Corona •..•.••.••••.. Riverside.
Temple • . • • • • • . . • . • 14' Sonoma ...••.•.••••• Sonoma.
Texas •••••••••••.• 46 San Juan •.•••.••••. San Benito.
Torrance .......... 447 Torrance •..•......... Los Angeles.
Traver •.•.•••••••• 294 Kingsburg •••... , ..•• Fresno.

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County·

T • 't

'l'rinity .......• · · · · 27 Weaverville •• · • · • • · .. nm Y·
Truckee .......•••••. Nevada.
'!'ruek ee •..... ·• · · · 200
8 Sonora ...•.... , •.•.. Tuolumne.
'l'uolumne •. • • • • • • • •395 Turlock ..••...••.••. Stanislaus.
'l'urlock ..... · · • • · • · 261 Williams ..•••.••••.. Colusa.
'l'usean ... • · • · · · · · ·
J
·
'l'yrian ........•... 439 Manteca ............ San oaq;m.
58 Sacramento •.......•. Sacramen o.
Union . · • · · • • · · · · · •
A
1
U ity ............. 36!1 Glendale ... • • .........Los nge es.
•t
394 Los Angeles • ..•....• Los Angeles.
lr n.
nivers1 y ..... • • • ·
Bernard'mo.
419 Upland .......•...... San
pan
d
........•.•
•'
S 1
U 1
·11
134 Vacaville .......... ·. o ano.
Vacav1 e •.. • · · · · • ·
A
I
Vallee de France .• • .329 Los Angeles ...•• • ...,Los nge ?s.
135 Linden .......•...... San Joaqum.
V a 11 ey .••• · · · • • · · · ·
•·an N u ys •••.•... · · 450 Van Nuys ........... Los Ange 1es.
V
84 Red Bluff •• , ......... Tehama.
Vesper ...•• · · · • • · •
·
1
373 Sawtelle •.•...•.••••. Los Ange es.
eran
.........•
·
e
V t
. l'
128 Visalia .............. Tulare.
Visa ia ........ · .. .
•t
'us
145 Bloom:6.eld ...... • .••. Sonoma.
••.... · · • ·
V1 ruv1
56 Volcano .. · • · ·•·····.Amador.
Vo1ca.no ... • · • · • · · •
to
20 Sacramento • .•. , ..... Sacramen •
. ton
Wash ing
• •••••· ·
413 Big Pine ............. Inyo.
Waucob a . · · · · · · · · ·
.
Wel come •. · · · · · • · · 255 Lemoore . · · • · · · · • · · .Kmgs.
Western Star ... • •. 2 Shasta .......•...... Shasta.
335 Los Angeles .. • ...•.• Los Angeles.
A
l
t .........
Wes t Gae
92 Los Angeles .......•. Los nge es.
A
I
WetsLake ......... 3
Wh'tt'
323 Whittie.- .•...••...... Los nge es.
·111·tier ..... • ..... 365 Willits .............. Mendocino.
L A
l
Wi1s.............
·1 • gton
........ 198 Wilmington . • • . . . . . . . os A nge1es.
W 1m1n
··1 h'
445 J,os Angeles ........•. Los nge es.
W ~ s irdeum·a·h· • ....... 287 Bishop • ..•.......•.• Inyo.
inne
•••.
·
.
·
.
W
'dge
131 Woodbridge • ······•.San Joaqmn.
•.... · · ·
Woo db r1
156 Woodland · · • • ·······Yolo. d
dl d
Wooan..........
Yerba Buena ...•• • ,403 Oakland .....••••.••• Alame a.
81 Yolo ....... • ........ Yolo.
Y0 10 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
469 Yorba Linda ··•••··.Orange.
. b I 'nda
Y or a ,1
• • • • • • •
423• Watts , •..• • ......... Los Ange1es.
Y ork ... ···•······•
M
d
Yosemite .......... 99 Merced .. ·. · · · · · · · · · erce ·
Youn t ...•..... • · · · 12 Napa •.• · · • • ·•··•·· .. Napa.

317

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

318

319

LOCATION OF LODGES

LOCATION OF LODGES
Alphabetically Arranged

Post omce.
Lodge.
No.
A-Oin ....•......••••••.•• A din .••.•.•.••.••••....•... 250
Alhambra ......•••.••••• Alhambra ...•••••••..•..•.• 322
Alhambra •.............• Ramona ........••.....•... .457
Alameda ..•••••••••••••• Oak Grove ..••.••...•••..••• 215
''
.....•.••••••.. Apollo .••..••.••.......•..•. 396
Alleghany ••.••.••••••••• Forest • . . . . . • . • • . • • • • • . . . . . 66
Alturas ................. Alturas .... , . , ............. 248
Anaheim •••••••••••••• , .Anaheim •••..•..•.••...••.• 207
Anderson •••..••• , ••• , • , .Mount Shasta •..••.••••..••• 281
Angels Camp •••••••.•••• Bear Mountain ••• , ••..•..•. 76
Antioch ................. Antioch .................... 175
Arroyo Grande •••••• , •••• Arroyo •••••••.•••...••.•••. 274
Auburn ••••••••••• , •• , ••• Eureka • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • . . . 16
Arbuckle ••••.•.......•.. Meridian ..•.......•.•••.•.. 182
Arcata ••••.•••••••••••.. Arcata •.•••••.....•.••••••• 106
Artesia ••.•...••••••••••• Artesia , ..• , • , . , , ...••...... 377
Azusa •••••.••••••••••••• Azusa •.••••.••••.•••.•.•... 305
Bakersfield ••••••••••.••. .Bakersfield , ••.• , ..•..•••.•• 224
Baker.sfield .•.••. , •••.••• Libertas .................. .466
Beckwith •••••••.•••••••• Hope ••.•..•••••.•..•..•.... 234
Benicia •.• , •••••.••••••••Benicia • . • • • • . • • • • • • • • • . • . . 5
Berkeley ••••••••• , •...•• Durant •••••.•••.••••.••••.. 268
Berkeley •.•••.••••.••..• Berkeley ••••••..•.•.. , , •••• 363
Berkeley •.•....•..••.•.. Charter Rock •.•..•......... 410
Big Pine ...........•..•• Waucoba ...........•....... 413
Biggs •••..•••••••.•.•.•• Emmanuel ••...••.••.....••• 318
Bishop •....•••••.••••••• Winnedumah •.•••••.•.•• , .. 287
Bloomfield •.••••..••••••• Yitruvius •.••••.•...•...••• 145
Bodie •.••.•••••••••••••• .Bodie •..•...•••••••••••••.. 252
Brawley . , •••••••••••••.• Brawley ••••.•.•....••• , ••.• 402
Brentwood ............... Brentwood ................. 345
Bridgeport •••••••• , , •. , ..A:lta ••.• , •••••••••••....... 333
Buena Park ••••••• , , ••• , .Buena Park ...•.•••••••.... 357
Burbank ...••.••••••.. , .. Burbank ••...•...•..••..• ( •. 406
Burlingame •.•..••••••••• Burlingame .•...••.......... 400
Calexico ...•..•....•..•.. Calexico .......... , ......... 412
Calistoga •••••••••• , ••••• Calistoga •••••••.•..••.•.••. 233
Oambria ..••••••••••••••• San Simeon
196

.................

Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Campbell ...••••••••••••• Charity , •••.•••.•••••••.•.. 362
Uamptonville •••••••••••• Gravel Range ••••••...••..•• 59 .
Carpinteria ............•. Carpinteria ......•.......... 444
Castroville ••••••••••••••• conftdence ••.••••••..••••• · .203
Cedarville ............... Surprise Valley ............. 235
Centerville , •. • ...........Alameda ....•.. · · · .. · . · · . · .167
Cherokee ••••••••••• , •• , • Table Mountain ..•••••.•..• 124
Chinese Camp ••••• , ••••• ,George Washington •••••..• • 62
Chfoo
Chico •••••.•••••.•..••••••. 111
Chino ·'. • · '·. ·' •••••• ·•"chino Valley ••..•••.......•. 427
Olarem~~~.:::::::::::::: :·Claremont ....•. · .. · .. •. •. · .436
Cloverdale • • • •• • • •••••••.Curtis • .•• • •. • • • ... • •. • • •... 140
Clovis
Clovis ............. • • ....... 417
~oaling~· : : ·.::::::::::::::Coalinga •••••••••.•••••.••• 387
Colfax •• , ••••••• , , , •• , , •.Illinoistown • • . • • • • • • • . • . • . • 51
Corona •.••••••• , • , •••••• Temescal ••••.••.••••.••..•. 314
Courtland ••• • • .. • ... • ... .Franklin • •. • •.. • •. • • .•••• • .143
Covelo ••.•...••• , ••• , , , , .Covelo , •••••••••••••••••.•.• 231
Colusa ••••••• , •• , ••••• , , •Colusa ......................240
Co Iton ..••..••••• , •••• , , .Ashlar ......................306
Covina .•••••••••• ' ••••• ••Covina ...................... 33-i
Compton •••••••••• , • , • , •.Anchor .••••.••••••..•..•.•.273
Concord , .................Mt. Diablo ................ .448
Corning ••.• , , •• , • , , •• , •• Olivet • ••• •. • •. ·• · • • · · • • • • • .364.
Coronado ....•••..•.••••• Coronado •....•..•........ • .441
Crescent City •••••••••••• Crescent ••••••••••• •• ·• · · • · 45
Crockett ••••••••• , ••• , ...Carquinez ...................337
Culver City .......•••.•..Culver City ........ · •.... · .467
Daly City ......••.•.•••• Crocker •.•..•............•• 454
Davis ................... Athens ..................... 228
Delano •..•••••••• , , ••• , .Delano •••••••....•.••.•.• • .300
Dinuba ••.•••••• , •••• , • , ,Dinuba ....••.••••••.•.••••• 385
Dixon ••.••••• , •••• , , , • , .Silveyville •.•.•••.•••••.•••. 201
Downey .••••• , •• , •• , , , •• Downey •.•••.•••.•••••••... 220
Downieville , .......•..... Mountain Shade ••..•.•••• •• 18
Dutch Flat •..••••••••••• Clay ...• • • •• • • • • • •. · • • · • • · .. 101
Dunsmuir , ••••••••• , •••••Dunsmuir •.•..•..••• • ..•.. · . 297
Eagle Rock ••...••.• , .....Eagle Rock •••.•••.••..••..• 422
Elk Grove ............... Elk Grove .......... • ....... 173
Elsinore •••••••••••• , , , •• Elsinore •...•••••... · .••. · • • 289
El Centro •••••••••••••••• El Centro •••..•••••.•..•.••. 384
El Dorado •••••.••••••••• Hiram ••••.•. · •. • · · · • · · • • • · 43
El Monte , •••••••••••• , , .Lexington •..•..•.••....• • •• 104
;Eseondid• •.•••••• , •• , ....Consuelo •••••••.•..•.•.•••. 325

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

320
Post OfHce.

Lodge.

Post Otnce.

No.

Esparto .................La;ndmar k ................. 253
Etna Mills .............. Evening Star ............... 186
Eureka •...•.•..••••••••• Humboldt . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 79
Exeter .......•...•.•••• , ,EJreter ......... , .........• .424
Fallbrook , ...•••. , , , , ••• .Fallbrook ................ ·; .. 317
Fernando •...•••••••• , • , .San Fernando ....•..•.••.•.. 343
Ferndale .................Ferndale .................... 193
Fillmore •.••. , , •.••.• , , .• Fillmore ·.................... 379
Forbestown •...•.••.•• , , .Forbestown • • . . . . . . . . . . • . . . • 110
Folsom , . , , .• , •••.•• , • , , .Natoma ...•...............• 64
Fort Bidwell ............. North East ................. 266
Fort Bragg .......... , ... Fort Bragg ................. 361
Fort Jones ........... , ••• North Star ................. 91
Forest Hill .............. Rising Star .......... ."...... 83
Fortuna .....•........... Eel River .................. 147
Fresn.o .••.•• , ••. , , , ••• , , .Fresno ..................... 24 7
''
.................. Las Palmas ................ . 366
''
................. .Center .................... . 465
Fullerton •..•....•.•.•••• Fullerton •.....•.••.••...... 339
Galt .....................Galt •......•..•...•...•..... 267
Gardena .•..•.••••••••••• Gardena ........ ,. .......... 372
Georgetown .......••••••• Georgetown . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 25
Gilroy .....•••...•••••••• Keith •..................... 187
Glendale , , , •• , ..••••••••• Unity .: .•..•............... 368
Glendora ......••.••••••• Glendora ................•.. 404
Grafton , .•.••• , ••••••••• Grafton .................... 141
Grass Valley , .••. , ••••••• Madison ......•............• 23
Greenville •..•••.•••••••• Sincerity •.................. 132
Gridley ..••.••••••••••••• North Butte •............... 230
Guadalupe •....•.•••••••• G~adalupe ..............•... 237
Guerneville •••.•••••••••• Mount Jackson •............ 29l'i
Hammonton ............. Hammonton ................ 433
Hanford •..••.•.••••••••• Hanford .•...•..••.......... 279
Haywards ...•.••• , ••.•.• Eucalyptus .•..•............ 243
Healdsburg •• ; ..••.••.••• Sotoyome ................... 123
Hilo, T. H ................Kilauea ..................... 330
Hornitos •..••..•••.••.•.• Hornitos •...........•....... 98
Hollister ................. San Benito ........•.•..•... 211
Hollywood ............... Hollywood •.•..•..••...•.... 355
HoltTille ................• Holtville ................... 425
Honolulu, T. H ............Hawaiian .................. 21
Honolulu, T. H ........... .le Progrcs de I 'Oceanic ...... 371
Honolulu, T. H ............Honolulu ............... ; ... 409
Huntington Beach ••••••.• Huntington Beach •.••.•..•.. 380

•

Lodge.

321
No.

Huntington Park .......... Rising.Light ................ 397
Igo .....•...•••..••.••••• Clinton ..................... 119
Imperial ................. Imperial .................... 390
Independence •...•••.• , .. layo ..•..•••................ 221
Inglewood .•.........•.... Inglewood .................. 421
Ione ......•••..•.....•..• Ione . . . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 80
Jackson .•.......•.•••• , ,Amadgr •.....•......•...... 65
Kahului, T. H ..............Maui .... : ................. 472
Kennett ................. Kennett .................... 456
Kerman .................. Kerman .................... 420
Kingsburg •••.••....•• , • , Traver •.................... 294
Kings City ..... , .•••.•• , .Santa Lucia ................ 302
Knights Ferry .......... ,Summit ..................... 112
Lakeport ..•..•..•.•••••• Hartley ••.....•............ 199
La Mesa ................ La Mesa .................... 407
Lancaster ................Lancaster .................. 437
Laporte ......•...•• , . , , ,Jefferson •.................. 97
Lassen .................. Janesville .................. 232
Lemoore ..........•••• , , , Welcome ................... 2511
Lincoln ...•......•••• , ••• Gold Hill ................... 32
Linden ..........•...• , • , Valley . . . . . . . .............. 1311
Lindsay ..............•.. Lindsay ............ .- ....... 416
Livermore ..•..•••••• , • , .llo~aic • • . . . . .....•....... 218
Lodi •..••.•..•..•.• , ••• , ,Lodi • . • . . . . . . ............. 256
Lompoc •..•....•..•..•• , .Lompoc ..................... 262
Lower Lake •.....••...•• Clear Lake .................. 183
Long Beach ......••••.••• Long Beach •••..........•... 327
''
............. ,Palos Verdes ............... . 389
Los Angeles •..•••.•.•••• ,Los Angeles ..........•..... 42
''
............. .~'ilmington ................ . 198
''
............. . Pentalpha .................. 202
"
............. . Southern California . ·........ 278
''
........... , , .East Gate .................. . 290
''
............. . Hollenbeck ................. 319
''
............. . South Gate ................ . 320
''
.. •••'•········Vallee de France .......... .. 329
''
.............. West Gate .................. . 335
''
............. ,Palestine .................. . 351·
''
.............. Sunset ..................... 352
''
............. ,Golden State ............... . 358
..•........... Mizpah .....................378
. • ........... Highland Park ........•..... 382
''
........... ... West Lake ................... 392
.......••.•..• University .................. 394
.............. Moneta ...•...............•• 405

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGEb

322
Post 0111ce.

Lodge.

No.

Loa Angeles ........•...•• Arlington •.....•..•..•..•. .414
.............. Silver Trowel. .....•....... .415
.........••• : .Elysian ..................... 418
''
............. .Acacia .................... . 438
''
................ Wilshire ......... * • • • • • • • • • 445
''
............... llellry S. Orme ............. 458
Los Banos ........... «••• Los Ba.nos .................. 312
Los Gatos ...•.••••••••••• Los Gatos ••••.......•....•• 292
Loyalton •..•••••.••••• , ••Loyalton •••.•...•.....•.• : • 359
Manteca .................Tyrian .•........•.......•.. 439
Maricopa •...........•.• Maricopa .................. 434
Marysville ............... Cqrinthian • . . • . . . . ... • • • . . • • 9
Maxwell ••..•.••.•••.••.•:Maxwell ••••.....•....••.•.. 288
Madera ••....••••••••• ·••• Madera ...•..•.............. 2!3o
Mariposa •••• , •••••••••• ,Mariposa ••.••••.•...•.... ~. 24
Martinez ••••••••••••••• ,,Martinez • • • . . . • . . . • • • • • . . • .. 41.
McCloud •..••...••••..• : :Mccloud •........•.••...... 430.
Merced ••.••••••••••••••• Yosemite ................... 99
Mendocino ....••••.•••• ,.:D.lendocino ................ ·.179
l14iddletown ..............Callayomi .........•••... , • , 2S2
Milton .................. .Keystone .................. , llh
Mill Valley .............. Mill Valley ................. 356
Millville ••••••••••••••••• Northern Light •..••••.....• 190,
Mokelumne Bill ••.•. , •••• Mokelumne Hill •.....•• , •.. 298.
Monrovia ••••••••••••••• ,:Monrovia •..•••..•••...•.. , .30&
Montebello , .....••...••• Montebello ..................4iH
Monterey ............. , ••Monterey ................... 217
Morgan Hill ...........•. Morgan Hill ................. 463:
Mountain View ...... , ....~fountain View ............. 194
Modesto •••••...••••••••• Stanislaus ••........•..•....• 206
Murphy's ................ Ophir ..••.•.•..........•.•• SS
National City ............ South West ................. 283
Napa •.••.•••• , •.••.• , •• ;Yount . • • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . • . . . . 12
Newman •.••••••.•.••••• .Hill's Ferry •....•.......••• 236
Needles •••.•.•••••• , ;, • i .Needles .• •••..•.........••.. 326
Nevada City ............ ;Nevada .................... 13
Norwalk .................. Norwalk ................... 315
Oakland .......••••••••• ,Live. Oak •...••......••.••. 61
''
............•.... Oa·kland ................... . 188
. jj
•..•••••••.•••••• Brooklyn .•.............•.... 225
••.••• , ••••••• : •.• Sequoia ......••..........•. 349
"
•........•.••••• ,Alcatraz •••••....•..•....•.. 244
"
......•..•..•. ,., .Fruitvale ................... 336
"
•...•.......•..
.,Bay View •.........•....... 401
"

Post Office.

Lodge.

323
No.

Oakland ...............••Yerba Buena ............... .40:i
''
.................. . Standard ................... . 44•}
''
........ ~ ........ Rockridge .................. 468
Oakdale •......•.....• .••• Oakdale ·•.••..•..••......... 275
Oceanpark ................ Ocean Park ................ 369
Oceanside ................Oceanside .................. 381
Ontario .................. Ontario .................... 301
Orange •••....••..••••••• Orange Grove •.........•.•.. 293
Orland •.....•.....•.••.. Orland ••••.•...•.......••.. 265
Orosi . , , •........••...•••Orosi •••.•.•..•......•••••.. 383
Oroville •••.....••....••• Oroville ..•••...........•... 103
Oxnard ••...••....•••.•.• Oxnard .•................. 341
Pacific Grove ............ Pacific Grove .............. 331
Palo Alto ................ Palo Alto .................. 346
Pasadena .....•.....•.... Pasadena •........•..••.... 272
Pasadena ......••...••••. Corona ..................... 324
Pasadena ................ San Pasqual ............... .452
Paskenta ................. Newville •.......•.......... 205
Paso Robles .....•••••.•.. Paso Robles .....•......•.•. 286
Penryn ••.........••....• Penrhyn ....................258
Perris ...••••••.......... Perris ..................... .411
Petaluma ••.........•.•.. Petaluma ..••......••...... 180
Pinole .•.•.........•..••. Pinole ••...••...•.....•.... 353
Pittsburg ................ Pittiiburg .................. .429
Placerville ..•..•••......• Palmyra . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 26
Pleasanton ..•... , ....•••• Alisal ...........•..•.....•. 321
Plymouth ................ Drytown ................... 1 H
Point Arena ......•..•.•. Claiborne ...............•.. 185
Pomona ...•........••...•Pomona •.............•..... 246
Porterville ...•.....•.•••• Porterville ..........•...... 303
Puente .................. La Puente .................. 446
Quincy .........•••.•.••• Plumas . . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . • . . 60
Rei!ondo •••...........••• Redondo ................•.. 328
Redfling ........•..••.•.• Reading ......•............. 254
Redlands ..•..• , .•..••.•• Redlands .•................. 300
Reedley ••.•......•.•...• Reedley .................... 304
Rerlwood City ........••.• Redwood City .............. 168
Red Bluft' ..........•••••• Vesper ..................... 84
Richmond .............•..Alpha ................. , .... 431
Richmond ............... McKinley .................. 347
Rio Vista ..............•• Rio Vista ....•..•.......... 208
Riverbank ............... Riverbank .................. 459
Riverside ........••..•..• Evergreen .................. 259
Rocklin ..•..•..••••..•.. Granite ..................... 222

Post Otflce.
Lodge.
No.
Hosevil!e ................ Roseville ................... 432
Sacramento • . . .........• Tehama • • • . . . . . . • . . . • • • . . . . · 3
'•
. . . .....•.•.• Washington .•.............• 20
''
.............. Sacramen ta . . . . . . . .. . . . . . . . . . 40
"
.............. Union ...................... 58
''
.............. Concord ...................... 117
Saint Helena. ............ Saint Helena ............... 93
San Andreas ............. Calaveras .................. 78
San Bernardino ...•...••• Phoenix ...•.•.............. 178
''
........... . San Bernardino .............. . 348
San Diego .•••...•....•.. San Diego .......•.....•.... 35
''
.................. . Silver Gate ..................... . 296
''
................ .. Blackmer .................. 442
San Dimas .............. San Dimas ..•............... 428
San Francisco ...........• California. . . . . • . . . . . . . . • • . . . l
Parfaite Union ................. 17
11
• • • • • • • • • • • • Oecidental
•••........•••... 22
•........••• Golden Gate . . • . . . . . . • • . . . . • 30
"
............ Mount Moriah .............. 44
"
......•..••• Fidelity •.•........•••...... 120
"
•.....•...•• Hermann ...............•••.127
"
•..••••••••• Paeifie ............. : ....... 136
"
..........•• Crockett ..•.•••.....•.•.... 139
• ..••....••• Oriental .................... 144
• ........••• Excelsior •..........••...••. 166
, ........... Mission .................... 169
• ........... South San Franeiaco ........ 212
• .•......••• Doric ............•......... 216
•.••....• , , .Speranza Italiana ........... 219
"
• ........ , .. King Solomon's .........•... 260
•••..• , ..•• , Starr King •..............•. 344
••....•..• , .Presidio .....•.............. 354
"
•..•.....•.• San Franciseo .............. 360
• •.•.....•.• Amity ...•................. 370
. .. , ...•.• , ,Jewel ....•................. 374
. ........••• Richmond .................. 371i
.........••.
Parnassus ................ , .. 388
"
............ Balder ..................... 393
"
...........• Fairmount ................ .435
"
.............. Park ....................... 449
............Bethlehem .................. 453
"
. ........... Golden West ............... 455
............ Argonaut .................. 461
............ Pa nl Revere ................ 462
"

....
....
....
......
..

........ H

.......

325

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCA TTON OF LODGES

324

l'ost Office.

Lodge.

No:

;-;an Francisco ............ Alta Vista . -. .............. 464
''
........... Lincoln .................... 470
San Jacinto ............. ,San Jacinto ................ 338
San Jose ..•.•.•.......•.• San Jose .........•....•.... 10
"
..•... , •.... , • , . ,1''riendship ................. 210
•..........•..•.• Fraternity .................. W9
"
San Juan ..••....•.•••••• Texas ·• . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 46
San Leandro ••••...•..•.• Eden ..... · ....••. · · . · · · · · · · 113
San Luis Obispo •••.....•• King David's ............... 209
San Mateo ............... San 1viateo ................. 226
San Miguel , .. , .•.•.••• , ••San Miguel •................ 285
San Pedro •..••......•.•••San Pedro .................. 332
San Rafael •••••• , .....••• Marin •••........ · •... · · · · · .191
Santa Ana ..••.••..• , , ..• Banta Ana .................. 241
Santa Barbara ...•.•....• Santa Barbara .............. 192
•1
• • • • • • • • • • • Magnolia .........•......... 242
Santa Clara ....••..•..••• Liberty ....•......•..... · .. 299
Santa Cruz ..••.••.......• Santa Cruz ...... • • · · • · · · · · · 38
Santa Maria •.......••• , .Hesperian ••.........•• · · · · .264
Santa Monica ............ Santa Monica ............... 307
Santa Paula .........••••• Santa Paula ..••.••......... 291
Santa Rosa •. , , , •.•.••.•• Banta Rosa ........••... · ·. · 57
Salinas ...•..• , • , , ••.•••• Salinas •.....•.....•...... · · 2 04
Sanger , .• , .....••• , , . , , ,.Sanger •..................... 316
Sawtelle •.....•..•.•.•••• Veteran .......... · · · · · · · · · .373
fll-hofiel<l Barracks ....... Schofield ................. · .443
Sebastopol ..•. , ..... , , ... La Fayette ............. · · · .126
Selma ..... , , ••...••..•.• Selma .................. · • · .277
Shasta ......•..•••••••••• Western Star .............. • 2
Sierra Cay •••......•..•.• Harmony ......•......... · · · .164
Sierra Madre ............. Sierra Madre ............... 408
Sierraville ............... Sierra Valley ............... 184
Sisson •.....•.••.• , •• , ....Sisson ...................... 310
Smartsville ••.•..••.....•Jl,ose 's Bar .............. · . · · 89
South Pasadena ••.•...••••South Pasadena ..•••........ 367
South San Francisco ...•.•• Francis Drake ......•....... 376
Sonoma ..•..•••••.•••.•.• Temple ••................ • · • 14
Sonora •..•..•.•••.••••.•• Tuolumne ....•.•....... • .. • 8
Stockton , , , •• , •.. , . , •.••• San Joaquin ............... 19
"
............. , ... Morning Star ............... 68
............... Delta ...................... 471
stony Ford .............. Snow Mountain ............. 271
Susanville .....•...•.•.•• Lassen •..••.............. · .149
Sutter Creek ............. Henry Clay ................ · 95

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

326
Post Office.

Lodge.

No.

Suisun •.....•..• ; .•....•.Suisun • . . . . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 55
Taft ..................... Midway .................•. .426
Tehama ..................Molino •.••.•........••..... 150
Tehachapi ••.......•..••• Tehachapi ................... 313
Torrance ................•Torrance .................. .447
Tracy ..................• 1\.H. Oso ..................... 460
Truckee ........•.....••. Truckee •.................•. 200
Tulare ••...•• ,,. ..•.••.••• Olive Branch .......••...... 269
Tuolumne ............•..• East Belt .•.....•........•. 391
Turlock .................•Turlock ......•............. 395
Ukiah •....•...•...•...•• Atiell ...••.•............... 146
Upland .................. Upland ..................... 419
Vallejo ...•.•......•••••. Naval ••.................... 87
''

f

........ ,. ........... . So1ano ......... ~ ............ . 229

Vacaville ..••..........•. Vacaville ...... ~ ............ 134
Van Nuys ............... Van Nuys ................. .450
Ventura .....••••...••••• Ban Buenaventura .•......... 214
Visalia •.....•...•..••••. Visalia ..••.••.••....•...... 128
Volcano ..•.....••.•..•• ,Volcano •.... '...•......•.... 56
\Valnnt Creek •••..••••••• Alamo •...•.........•....... 122
Watsonville •......••••••• Pa.jaro .•....•.............. 110
Watts .................... York ...................... .42R
Weaverville ••.•.•••••••• Trinity • . . . . • . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 27
Wheatla'l'.ld ............... Nicola.us ................... 129
Whittier •.•••.•.•.....••• Whittier .•.................. 323
Winters ...•.•...•••..••• Buckeye •.••......•.•......• 195
Willits •.•.••••••••.••••• Willits .•....•..•.. : .•...... 365
Willows ..................Laurel .....•....•.......... 245
Windsor •.••....••...•••• Russian River .......•....•.. 181
Willia.ms ..•••.•.••.•.••• ,Tuscan •.••...........•..... 261
Wilmington ..............Wilmington ................. 198
Woodbridge ............. Woodbridge ................ 131
Woodland •.•......•.••. ,Woodland •••..•............ 156
Yolo .....................Yolo ............•.......... 81
Yorba Linda ........••... Yorba Linda ............... 4(i9
Yreka .......... , ........ St. John's .................. 37
''
................... . Howard ........... ~,.. . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City ..•••...•••..•. Enterprise •.•............... 70

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, 1918

BY JOHN DOUGLASS MURPHY, P. G. M.
Introduction
The matter contained in this report is in the nature of an innovation from the beaten path of the "Correspondence Round Table."
lt is very much an assemblage of matters relating to the war and
war activities; and I do this without apology, as at this critical time
in the world's history there is nothing really worth thinking about,
talking about, living for or dying for, except such matters as in some
way are in$~rumental in helping directly or indirectly to win this
war.

'

In my judgment the report of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence is matter for home consumption. Nearly 95 per cent
of those who read the report of this Committee on Correspondence
are members pf California lodges, and it is needless to say they are
not vitally interested in the small details that go to make up a very
large prop,o;tion of the reports of the several States.
What do Californians care that in Illinois the Grand Lodge
opened in ample form; that practically all the Lodges were represented; that forty of the representatives of other jurisdictions were
present; that a cordial welcome was extended to a distinguished
brethren; that certain distinguished members were present that
were introduced, and appreciated responses were made; that the
printed proceeding is a volume of excellent taste; that the Grand
Master, judging from his picture, is a fine-looking fellow, etc.?
These matters constitute a third of the space of the report of each
of the Grand Jurisdictions.

\,

2

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In this report I have endeavored to assemble information that
will int~est and inform such brethren as feel disposed to read it,
and I trust that my efforts in this respect may not be wholly in vain.
In 1914, at my suggestion, this Grand Lodge adopted legislation
liberalizing the physical qualification requirements. Since that time
many jurisdictions, as will be observed from this report, have broken
away from the cast-iron rule of "literal conformity." Some, however, fearing an encroachment on ancient landmarks, still adhere to
the old rule. My own judgment is that this liberal legislation is in
strict conformity with ·the best and oldest admonitions we have
received as Masons. It will immediately recur to any brother that
very early in his progress in Masonic work, he was informed that it
is the internal and not the external qualifications that recommend a
man to be made a Mason.
This question is of vital import at this time. Are we who stay
at home and enjoy the fruition of the loyalty and heroism and sacrifices of our sons at the front, to deny to them the benefits and
privileges of our order when they return to us full of mental vigor
and industrial usefulness, but unfortunately suffering from some
physical defect as a consequence of valorous conduct? Let the
Masons of the world answer this question.
I have given in these pages sufficient data on the question of
recognition and fraternal intercourse with the brethren of our allies
to present the question in all its aspects. I feel that the least that
should be done is to permit full fraternal intercourse with the
Masons of our allies during the period of the war, and trust to a
satisfactory adjustment of any differences when 11111tters of less
vital import are demanding our attention.

OUR

·

3

RELATIONS WITH FOREIGN JURISDICTIONS
ALLIED WITH THE UNITED STATES
IN THIS GREAT WAR.

Following the lead of the Grand Lodge of California in the year

1917, there is a strong and growing disposition on the part of

Masonic Grand Jurisdictions on this continent, as well as the Austndian Grand ] urisdictions, to clear the way, as far as possible, for
f'n·t• Masonic intercourse among Masons who are fighting shoulder
lo shoulder in this terrific world contest.
the following pages I give all the information on the subject
that I have been able to assemble. To procure which, communica1ions have been sent to all of the Grand ] urisdictions on this conti111•nt. Many of these communications have not as yet elicited a
reply, occasioned, no doubt, by the fact that no action has been
taken in the respective Grand Lodges.
I may add that most of the Lodges in the United States working in the German language have displayed a commendable and
1•atriotic spirit, becoming to all Masons in this country, by renouncing the German language and conducting their ritualistic work in
English.

In

The following report of Raymond Daniel, chairman of the
Committee on Foreign Correspondence of the Grand Lodge of
Georgia, made after an extensive investigation, sets forth the conditions as they appear to him.
SCOPE OF TH.I( RllPORT.-The report of your committee will be confined to the' following organizations:
, In France: The Grand Orient of France, the Grand Lodge of
T•rance, and the Independent and Regular National Grand I .odgc of
France and the French Colonies.
In Italy: The Grand Orient of Italy.
In Belgium: The Grand Orient of Belgium.
In the discussion of the situation in France your chairman
acknowledges a communication from the Grand Lodge of France,
addressed to the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of Georgia
requesting fraternal recognition and the exchange of representatives'
and an official circular from the Grand Orient of France, addressed
to the Grand Master of Masons in Georgia, advising of the establishment of a Masonic visitation center in Paris, under the auspices
of the Grand Orient of France, with the request that the members
of the Grand Lodge of Georgia be permitted to take part.
A haze of conflicting records, discrepancies in dates and disagreements between historians and writers cloud authentic details
in regard to the establishment of French Masonry and much of its
subse9uent develol-!me_nts. So~e writers hold t.hat a Lodge was
orgamz;d a! Dunkirk m the ear!1est part of the eighteenth century.
Most historians agree that the first authentically known Lodge was

4

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

founded in Paris in 1732 by Lord Derwentwater.
Organized
Masonry in France apparently dates from 1735, when Lodges at
Paris petitioned the Grand Lodge of England for a Provincial Grand
Lodge, which had been refused on account of political reasons. In·
1743 authorization was granted to the petitioning Lodges by the
Grand Lodge of England for the organization of a Provincial Grand
Lodge under the name of the Grand Loge Anglaise de France. Its.
constitution is said to have been a model of that of Anderson which·
was framed in 1723.
EARLY FACTIONALISM R(SillT(D.-Almost co-incidental witli. the 1.•
granting of the warrant and the constitution of the French Grand'•\
Lodge, factionalism sprang up between the Parisian and Provincial,,
Lodges and anarchy resulted. The Provincial Grand Lodge declared ,
its independence of the Grand Lodge of England in 1755 and assumed
the name of the Grande Loge de France. It is said to have recog- ··.
nized only the first three degrees and was composed of Grand ·Officers
to be elected out of the body of the Fraternity and of the Masteraf
for life of the Parisian Lodges. It formally excluded provincial Lodges
from participation. Such a period of dissensions followed that meetings
for a time were forbidden by the civil authorities.
In 1771 the factions were united. In the meantime, hodies conferring higher degrees had been organized. Recognition was der
mantled and finally granted by the Grand Lodge of France.
Shortly afterward apparent peace was broken by members of 'the.,.
provincial faction, who had been expelled but afterward reinstated."
This faction succeeded in having a new constitution adopted and
December 24, 1771, the Grand Lodge of France was declared extinct
and another substituted with the new name of the Grand Orient. The
Grand Lodge of France, however, continued its existence and the
conflict was waged until the French Revolution terminated the struggle. With the restoration of civil order, both bodies resumed their
contentions until June 28, 1779, when the Grand Lodge of France
was united with the Grand Orient under the name of the latter organization. The Grande Loge Generae Ecossais de France was organized
in 1804, but union was shortly afterward effected by treaty.
THI( GRAND ORJl(NT OJI FRANC(.-From the time that the Grand Orient
became the ruling organization its history was ma~ked by what appears
to have been continued conflicts and violation of landmarks and constitution, which finally resulted in recognition being withdrawn by practically all English-speaking Grand Lodges. The Grand Orient was first
engaged in dissension over the control of the degrees higher than the
first three. The organization afterward abolished the office of Grand
Master in 1871. Recognition was granted to a spurious Louisiana
Scottish Rite Body which invaded the jurisdiction of the regular Louisiana Grand Lodge. The name of Diety was expunged from the Constitution and the ritual and it was stated that the Holy Bible was
removed from the Altars. it was also the contention of a prominent American Masonic writ< r that the Grand Orient extended recognition to bodies admitting r. ~groes.
It was in 1804 that the 1;rand Orient is said to hav·e become involved in controversy with the Supreme Council of France, an or-.
ganization reputed to have been fused with Scottish Rite Masons. A.
compromise was agreed upon June 16, 1805, by which the Supreme
Council l;ecame an independent body with power to confer warrants ··

5

f11r all degrees superior to the eighteenth, while Chapters of inferior
d<',1-(l"<'e.s were placed under the exclusive control of the Grand Orient.
Vtolat10ns of treaty were reported until some sort of recognition was
df<'cted in 1841.
, IN_YASJON OF ~ouis1_ANA.-ln 18561 or thereabouts, an il!egal Supreme
l 111111c1l of Scottish R1.te was orgamze.cl in Louisiana by Joseph Foullt1111ze, who b~g~n ma~mg Mason~ at s1g.ht. Two Lodges of the Grand
I..• 11lg-e of Louisiana ~1th drew their _alleis1ance and took part in the spurt1111s s_upreme council. The ~rgamzat10n, fostered by Foulhouze, was
l'<'l'llgmzed by the Grand Onent of France. The Grand Lodge of
l,1111isiana p_rotested and; _upon its action being ignored, severed fral<'rnal relations. Approximately thirty other Grand Lodges of the
l lnill'd States took the same action.
, By an. amendment to its constitution on September 14, 1877, the
( oran~l Onent of France effaced the name of Diety and forbade the
11,11·11t1_on of God or any ref_erence to a Supreme Being in its Ritual.
l a11d_1dates were not. penmtted to affirm any belief in the Grand
:\ rrl11tect of the Um verse.
The following is the. text of the original second paragraph, which
was expunged, and the amendment as adopted:
,
Original paragrapl~: "Fre~masonry has for its principles the exhi l'llc_e of God, the 1111111ortality of the soul and the solidarity of
111a11kmd."
Substituted paragraph: "Whereas, Freemasonry is not a religion
1111d has therefor_e no doctrine or dogma to affirm its constitution thd
\ ssrn1bly adoptmg the V_aeu J X, has decided and decreed that the
... ,., md paragraph of Article 1, of the Constitution shall be erased
1111d ~hat for the ¥'.ords of_ th_e ~aid articli; the following shall be
'11lis1_1tuted: I. Be1.ng a~ mst1tut10n essentially philanthropic, philo"'Ph1c and progre~s1ve, } reema.sonry. has for its object, search after
I r_111h.' study of umv~rsal m?rality, ~c:ences and ar_ts and the practice
1
' 1 Ii< nevolence .. It. h.is. for Its pnnc1p.es, absolute liberty of conscience
1111d ~rnman sol.1dar~ty, 1t exclud_es no person on account of his belief
1111d lts _motto is Liberty, Equality and Fraternity." (Mackcy's Encyd11pae<lia of Freemasonry.)
. It is. said tha.t the amendment was adopted after a year of deep
d<'l1herat10n and Judgment.
. The. Grand Lod~e of Engla~1d immediately appointed a committee
111 111v,:st1gate. the. act1011 of the Grand Orient and report was made that
•11cl1 alterat10n 1s. opposed to the traditions! practice and feelings of
1111 lrue and genume M~sons from the earliest to the present time."
I1 was resolved that f<?re1gn. Brethren could only be received as visitors
II th~y had been adn~1tted 111 a Lodge professing belief in the Grand
:\ rcl11tect of the Um_verse and would themselves acknowledge such
lll'ltd to be an essential landmark of the Order.
RECOGNlTION, ls WITHllRAWN.-Recognition was immediately withdr:1w11. ~y the C'.r~nd Lodge of E1~gland and other Crand Bodies of
1111· Bnt1sh Donu_mon and the English-speaking world. It was further
111·1<,I . that the Bible was removed from the altars, but it has been
"t11vely stated by French ~ri~ers that, prior to 1877. the altars had
tdd ~l~~Y the Book of Co,1,1s,~1tut10ns, which f:rench Masons interpreted
1i- lite
Book of the Law,
Volume of the Sacred Law," etc.
French Maso1.1s are. said to have justified their action by declarill''
1l1al they had no 1ntent1011 to replace a religious formula by a material~

I"

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

istic expression nor to make any profession of athei~m, but simply. to
proclaim absolute liberty .of conscience. Others claim that ~he Bible
was driven from the french altars by the attack of the Catholic church
on Masonry and as the church used. the Bible as .the ri.;le. and guide
of its faith Masonry could not allow it and be consistent m its defense.
Upon thes~ assertions your chairman has no desire to pass.
THE GRAND LODGE OF FRANCE.-The Grand Lodge of France claim.s
to have been organized in 1804, and cons~ituted by t~e. Supreme Council
33rd for France and the French colonies to admmtster and eontrol
the Lodges working the three degrees of Craft Masonry. It is said
to have been reorganized in 1894 an,1 to have become !ndependent .of
the Grand Orient in 1895. In 1904, as the result of fnendly negotiations with the Supreme Council," the Grand Lodge of France became
a sovereign and independent body.
The Grand Body claims 136 Lodges under its jurisdiction, among
them "Anglo-Saxon, No. 343," which w.orks in English with. me~be.rs
almost exclusively British and American. Its membership m its
Grand Jurisdiction is estimated at 8,000.
The Grand Lodge of France requires its subordinate Lodges to
open and close with an appeal to the Grand Architect of the 1:.Jniversc ..
Candidates are obligated with the same appeal. It has ilpon its altar:;
the "Book of the Law," which in its English-speaking Lodge is the
Holy Bible. It does not allow political or religiou.s discussion. It
claims jurisdiction over only the first, second and third degrees.
THE NEW GRAND LODGE.-The Independent and Regular National
Grand Lodge of France and the French colonies was .founded ~n
December 1913. It claims ·to be the only regular Masomc power 111
France ac'cording to Anglo-Saxon Masonic principles. It is said that
its constitution was favorably influenced by the Grand Lodge of England which has extended recognition and exchanged representatives.
It i~ also recognized by the Grand Lodges of Scotland and Missouri.
It consists of three, probably four, Symbolic Lodges with an estimated
membership of 150.
The Lodges constituting the Grand Body withdrew from the Grarid
Orient and its Grand Master is a Prof. E. de Ribacourt, who was formerly a member of the Grand ·Orient of France.
The new Grand Lodge has practically the same constitutional requirements as the Grand · Lodge of France, viz. : The appeal to the
Grand Architect of the Universe, "the sacred writings on the Master's
desk," the ban on political and religious discussion and jurisdiction
over only the first three degrees.
Discussing the recognition of this Grand Body by the Grand Lodge
of England, Past .Grand Master Charles T. Gallagher of the Grand
Lodge of Massachusetts, writes as follows:
I do not understand England's attitude with regard to this new
Grand Lodge. It does not strike me as a recognition of the Grand
Lodge, but rather as a sort of colonization on French soil of some
new Lodges under English patronage or autonomy with French sovereignty, agreeing to comply with English regulations, but with no
inspector or censor on the spot to •ee that they do as they agree.
·
:Much as your committee respects the opinion of the Grand Lodge
of England with which we are in most amicable relations, and whose
action and judgment in a matter similar to this we should be pleas.ed

t!} follow, we cannot feel that we should recognize in a great nation
number of Lodges
a!1d whose. membership m a year after its creation was not more than
sixty and m two years not more than 125.
Turr GRAND ol'.IliNT OF ITALY.-Lord Charles Sackville is said to have
earned Masonry mto Italy in 1733, the first organintion heing known
as the "Cof'.lpany ~f. t.he Trowel.'' F?llowing 1735, when the Grand
Duke Francis was 1111t1a.t~d, the orgamzation flourished, but was later
retarded by Papal opposition. It received a new impetus under French
rule and a new Grand Lodge was formed in 1809. Persecutions were
renewed. after Na pol eon .was deposed. A secret political organization,
the ?oc1ety of c;:;arbonan, had a serious effect upon Italian Masonry
an~ it was practically extinct from 1840 until 1860. In 1861 the Grand
9r1ent was organized by Garibaldi at Palermo. It was re-constructed
m 18,72, and ackn.owledged ia 1~7. The Jurisdiction controls 493 St.
J<:lm s, 127, Scottish, and 16 Regional Symbolic Rite Lodges and 188
Circles. Fifty-two of the St. John's Lodges are in Roumania Tripoli
'
'
Egypt, North and South America.
• The present situation in Italy is set forth in the statement of
191~ of ~hen Gran~ M.aster Benjamin F. Bledsoe of the Grand Lodge of
Califorma, who said m his annual address:
During the course of the pas~ spring your Grand Master, the Grand
Secretary, Past Gr~nd Master Filmer, Past Grand Master Hart, chairman ~£ the Committee on Correspondence, and some other Brethren,
met with Past G;and Master Ernesto Nathan and Grand Master Ferrari,
of the 9!and Orient of Italy,. who were extremely desirous that fraternal
rec?g111t10n should be accorded by our Grand Lodge to the Grand
Onent of Italy.
We ascerta!ned at this conf~rence that the Grand Orient of Italy
now conforms m every substantial respect to the requirements as we
understand t~em, of regularity in Free Masonry. The regular 'Blue
~odges are divor.ced fi;om, an? n? longer under the control or domin10n of, the Scottish Rite Bodies m Italv. The Bible is recognized as
the rule and guide of. their faith, and there would seem to be no ;eason
why the regular I~ahan Masons. in Ca~ifornia should not be permitted
!O hold. Masomc mtercourse :v1th their. Brethren of the old country,
m all~giance to the Gra!1d Onent therein. It was emphatically stated
~o Grand Master Ferr:-in, how~v~r, ,that the Grand Orient of Italy had
mvad~d· several American J unsd1ct1ons and established Italian Lodges
the~em; that so long as this course was persisted in we could not
h.avmg due .regard ~o .th~ amenities of the occasion as between ou;
s1s~er American J1msd1ct1ons and ourselves, give countenance to the
claims of regul:inty and conformity on the part of the Grand Orient
of Italy. We did, however, assure them !~at it would be a pleasure for
us to be able to extend fraternal recogmt1on to the Grand Orient ·md
that s_uch migl?t ~e. accompli;;hed were the charters of the Lod~es' in
our sister. Junsd1ct1ons heremabove referred to withdrawn. This, it
was. promised, woul<l he done. I therefore recommend that the inco~1ng Grand Master be authorized to extend recognition to the Grand
Orient ?f It~ly, when he shall be satisfied that the Grand Orient is no
longer mvad111g any of our American Jurisdictions.
Later in the Proceedings of the 1915 communication of the Gra1id
~.,odge of California, <~ reso~ution was adopted that the Grand Lodge
1 ccommend that the mcommg Grand Master extend recognition to

6

~ike France a Grand ~oc;lge composed o~ so sma.11 a

7

8

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the Gran<l Orient of Italy, "when he sha·ll be satisfie<l that the Grand
Orient is no longer invading any of our American Jurisdictions." No
further action appears to have been taken by the Grand Lodge of
California until the communication of 1917, when the resolution was
adopted permitting California .Masons to visit Lodges and hol<l Masonic
intercourse with the members of the Grand Orient of Italy.
THE GRAND ORJl1NT 01' Bl1LGJUM.-The first Lodge said to have
existed in Belgium was established in 1770 at Mons, under the name
of "Perfect Union." lt is said to have held a warrant from the Grand
Lodge of England. Sixteen Lodges were reported in 1785, but the
Order was interdicted during the French Revolution. Under the protection of the Grand Orient of France. labor was resumed. When the
French dominion was terminated in 18i4, independence was declared by
the Belgian Lodges. The Grand Lodge of Belginm and the X ether lands
was organized in 1817, but dissolved by mutual consent in 1830.
In 18J2 the Grand Orient of Belgium was formed. Excommm1ication of the members was declared in an edict of the Bishop of Luxemburg in 1845. The matter was carried into politics and the Grand
Orient of Belgium attempted to justify their unmasonic position upon
the grounds of self-defense. A protest was made against such a sti!nd
by practically all the Grand Bodies of Europe and the Grand Or~nt
ceased to be recognized as a legitimate Masonic body.
It is stated that conditious improved some time afterward. The
Grand Orient of Belgium is the snpreme body in Belgium for· the
three degrees of Symbolic· Masonry. It controls 25 Lodges, two in rlie
Belgian Congo, and four Circles.
·~
The Grand Orient of Belgium is recognized by fifteen Englishspeaking Grand Bodies, including the Grand Lodges of Utah, New
Brunswick and New South Wales.
Upon the requirements of the Grand Orient of Bclgimn your
chairman has no positive first-hand information. It is stated hy a
number of Masonic writers that the Grand Orient of Belgium adopted
the same platform in regard to the absence of a Bible upon the altar
as that of the Grand Orient of France and the Grand Lodge of Franc~:
At the same time we are in fraternal relationship with the Grand
Lodges of Utah, New Brunswick and New South Wales (which are.
also in fraternal relationship with the Grand Lodge of England) by
which the Grand Orient of Belgium is recognized.
•
R11suLrs OF INVES'r!GA'r!ON.-ln his invl'stigations. your chairman
has witnessed a desire upon the part of all Grand Jurisdictions, which
have undertaken similar inquiries, to he as liberal as possible in the
interpretation of the right of intercourse hetwccn members of the Fraternity in the United States and those of unrecognized bodies in Allied
countries. This is evidenced by the willingness of the Grand Lodge of
California to waive all contentions of invasion of American Jurisdictions
by the Grand Lodge of Italy and the same viewpoint held hy. the Grand
Master of Louisiana toward the Grand Orient of France. This is particularly indicative when it will be recalled that it was the question of
invasion by the Grand Orient that caused upon the part of Louisiana
the first severance of relations and l'ngendercd such action hy a number of other Grand Lodges of the Unitl'd States.
As stated in the beginning of this report. your chairman docs not
possess the- intimation of a desire to sec disregarded certain principles'
that can not he violated; yet we arc mindful that a hitherto 11nwit-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENGE.

9

"'''st"! condition exist; and that, insofar as compatible, toleration
i.ho11ld attend the most careful and conservative consideration of the
"11hjcct.
It is in such a spirit that your chairman announces the result of
his investigations:
CRAND ORIENT l1LIMINATl(u.-In the consideration of the three Grand
lltulies of France. vi;;;.: The Grand Orient, the Grand Lodge of France,
and the independent and Regular National Grand Lodge of France.
t lw Grand Orient must be eliminated from forthcr discussion, for the
following specific reasons:
(1) The forbidding of any mention of God or a Supreme Being in
rmmection with the candidate or the ritual.
.
(2) The exercise of control over so-called higher degrees.
(3) The recognition of bodies admitting negroes.
The tempestuous past history of innumerable contlicts with other
so-called Grand Bodies revetils the spirit that characterizes the Grand
( )rient.
The attributes of .the Grand Lodge of France and the Independent
and Regular National Grand Lodge of France can be considered
jointly:
(1) The Grand Lodge of France opens and closes and obligates
the candidate with an appeal to the Grand Architect of the Universe.
The Indepcmlent and Regular National Grand Lodge observes the same
requirements.
(2) The· Grand Lodge of France l'C(Jllircs the "Book of the Law"
on its altars, which in the English-speaking Lodge is the Holy Bible.
The Independent and Regular National Crand Lodge has the "sacred
writings" on the Master's desk.
(3) Both Grand Bodies har po!itical and religious discussions.
( 4) Hoth Grand Bodies claim jurisdiction of only the first, second
and tl11rd degrees:
·
Insofar as the requirements of the two Crane! Bodies, the principles a re the samt!
The· Grand Lodge of England has recognized the Independent and
Regular.National Grand Lodge on the same (kclaration of requirements
as possessed by the Grand Lodge of France. The Independent and
Regular National Grand Lodge is a new and untried (;rand Body.
lts three constituting snhordinate Lodges, as well as its Grand Master,
emanated from the Grand Orient in the last three or four years. 1t
has a membership of 158.
The principles of the Grand Lodge of France possess the same
merit as those of the lmkpendent and Regular National Crand Lodge.
The Cr;111d Lodge of France comprises a mcmhership of over 8,000.
including many of the most prominent men of Paris and France.
Of tht• two, your chairman is of the opinion that the Grand Lodge
of France possesses the most favorable attribntcs. and as much as are
valued the opinions of the mother Grand Lodge of England, the Independent and Regular National Grand Lodge of France mnst he eliminatell. leaving only the Grand Lodge of France for further deliberations.
THE GRAND ORn:N'I' OF 1'rA1. Y .-Accepting the report of the confer1'.llCe .of the (~rand Masti:r, Crand Officers and Past Grand Masters of

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the Grand Lodge of California with the Grand and Past Grand Masters
of the Gran? Orient o.f Italy, the !'!otter Grand Body appears to have
met all requirements with the exception. of previous invasions of American Jurisdictions. It was pledged by the Grand Officers of the Grand
Orient of Italy that this error would be rectified. In the resolution
a.dopte.d by .the Grand Lodge of California, the opposition to the invaSl<;>~s is waived, and your chairman is of the opinion that in such a
crisis as the present our Grand ] urisdiction can afford to do likewise.
. Tm.; GRAND ORIENT OF BELGJUM.-The requirements of the Grand
Orient of Belgium, part!cularly in regard to an expressed belief in God
and the s~atus of the Bil~le, appea_r to be clouded. But, as hereinabove
stated, this Gran~ Bod;r 1s recogmzed by a number of English-speaking
Grand Lodg~s, 111clud111g our sister Grand Lodge of Utah. In the
r~commendat1ons your chairman shall 111ake, the Grand Orient of Belgium should have a part.
A.s a part of t~is report, your chair111an wishes to call particular
a!tent10n to the act~on of the Grand Lodge of California which provide<;! for the appomtment by the Grand Master of a committee to
consider methods for healing the breach between French and Anglo,Saxo~ M:isonry. Such a c01_nmittee, with the extension of its duty to
mvestigat1?ns of, and remedial plans for, the differences existing betwe.en Latin, a~ "".ell as French! a~d Anglo-Saxon Masonry, would be
of mv~luable a1~ m the determmat10n of a general policy in regard to
such Grand Bodies.
Your chairman presumes. that .additional. information will provide
fnrther. fa~ts for f~t~1re cons1derat1c~n, but with th~ advices now possessed, it. is the op11110i:i of your chairman that the mterests of all will
be best aided by adoption of the following recomnwndations:

I'.ir~t: That all Breth;en. of the Gran~ Lodge of Georgia be given

p~r.m1ss1on to hold M'.lsomc mtercourse with 111e111bcrs of Lodges and

v1s1t such Lodges holdmg under
(a) The Grand Lodge of France,
(b) The Grand Orient of Italy,
( c) The Grand Orient of Belgium,
and that inhibition of the right ,of ¥isitation with these Grand Lodges.
be temporarily so modified.
Second.: Th~t the matter of the advisability of establishing fra~
ternal relat10ns with the Grand Lodge of France the Grand Orient of
Italy and the. Grand Orien.t of Belgium be deferr~d until the Chafrman
of the ~omm1tt~e. on F_ore1gn ~orrespondence shall report. as promptly
as possible, add1t10nal 111format10n and recommendations.
ALBERTA.
The Grand Lodge of Alberta disposes of the French recognition
problem in the following manner:
That recognition be given to the "National Imlepenclent an cl Regular Gran~ Lodge of France, and of the French Colonies." You followed tlus. ;eco~mendation. Your present committee is of the opinion
that cond1t10ns m France are "Unsettled,"-very much so and have
been so for almost four years.

11

We also recommend that recogmt10n be withdrawn from this soralled Grand Lodge of France, at once, and without ceremony. This
body has but two or three small Lodges in its allegiance. Its foundation is recent and by one Ribancourt, who left t~e ran~s of the Gr.and
( lriertt of France two or three years ago and nnmediately orgamze.d
this so-called Grand Lodge. One naturally wonders at hasty recogmt ion, extended to a very small, new organization, which makes such
l'xtensive claims. French Masons fight for us and with us. They have
proved themselves real brothers in time of need. The recognition extended to this new French body from England was by one "Pro. Grand
Master" alone. It has not been generally recognized, and there is every
evidence that it will not now receive further recognition. On the other
hand, there is a very strong current toward re-adjustment with the
Grand Orient of France. We further recommend that encouragement
he given this move, even to the extent of granting their request f~r
recognition, if this Grand Lodge can so decide. · In support of tl11s
recommendation, we would refer to the reports of the special committee
on the' subject by other Grand Lodges, especially Utah and our own
sister ] urisdiction Manitoba.
Your Committee would recommend that a special committee be
appointed to comider these four recommendations and report at the
next meeting of Grand Lodge.
This report. was adopted.
MANITOBA.
The chairman of the Foreign Correspondence Committee of
the Grand Lodge of Manitoba submitted the following very just
solution of this problem. The Grand Lodge continued the matter
by further investigation.
Since that report was presented the subject has been before many
of the Grand Lodges of the United States of America, ancl several
American Grand Lodges have authorized their members to visit lodges
under the jurisdiction of the Grand Orient of France. The enlistment
of thousands of A111erican Masons now fighting on French soil in defence of France, civilization and Christianity has brought home to the
people of this continent ·and of Great Britain the realization of the
weakness of a divided craft and the advantage to our co111111011 interests
and the welfare of the western democratic nations of a re-union of
those who ought never to·have been separated. As has hcen well saicl
by those who have commented on this situation-what was impossible
industrially, linancial!y and politically in 1914 has been found easy of
accomplishment under the stress of war, and Masonry should he ready
am! willing to drop dogma for the great cause of universal Masonry.
Your Ctnnmittee lwlieves that the events of the past year have only
strengthened the reasons for such a reunion of Masonry and intensifiecl
the desire of all the craft for the breaking clown of the Masonic harriers now existing between those who arc allies in arms in dcfem·e of
humanity and freedom.

12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

13

TENNESSEE.

The Grand Lodge of Tennessee disposed of the matter by the
adoption of the following report of the Jurisprudence Committee:
.. Your ~ommittee has. carefully con~idercd the question of the recog111t1on of ~ rench M ason.1c Grand Bodies, as submitted in the report of
~he Com1111tt.ee on Foi:e~gn Correspondence, and while we are heartily
11~ a,ccord. w.1th the sp1.nt of univc:rsal frate~n_ity, and sincerely appre<:;1atc the int!mate relations that urntc us as c1t1;.;ens of two great republics merg~d m a c::n~1mon cause for the weal of humanity, we believe that
the ~ecuh~r. con:httons that many years since interrupted our fraternal
relations, 111volv111g fundamental principles of our institutions. arc of
too grave a n.ature to f;>e hast ii)'. determined. \Ve therefore appro'1e the
r~commendat1~n of said c01;11111ttee that the question of recognition of
I• rench Masomc Grand Bodies be referred to the incoming Grand Master, the _Deputy Grand Master, the Grand \Vardens and the Committee
O!l Foreign Co_rrespond.encc, with authority, after having carefully con-.
s1dered ~uch mfor111at1on as may be obtained through all available
~ou~ces 1 if they shall find it for the vital interest of this time honored
mstttutlon and the sublime principles for which it stands, the Grand
Master may extend fraternal recognition to such French Grand Bodies
as may have met the approval of himself and his associates. , _
.
2. \Ve !~ave considered the question of aliens joining Lodges dur111g th~ contmuance of the war, and we recommend the adoption of the
followmg:

•

"That during the continuance of the p'tesent war, it shall be unlawful for. any Subordinate Lodge in Tennessee to admit an alien· enemy
to receive the degrees of Masonry.''
. Several Grand Jurisdictions have assumed this attitude towards
ahen enemies and it meets with our cordial approval.
ORl\GON.

.. The Grand Master of Oregon presented his views of the recog111t10n of French lodges in these telling words.· The matter was
referred to a special committee:
THI\

GRANll

':OlJGI\ 011

FRAi;.'<.E.-A

111ighty Brotlwrhoocl has heen

fo;1~1ed. by the tmton of .all Allie<! forces to defend Democracy against

M1htansm and Oppression. Thi~ force seems to bridge over what
C!tnnot be spanned hy our Fraternity. We hesitate to extend recognition to the FrcJ1ch Mason, yet we proclaim the univctsalitv of our
Order, and why? Cm1 we not have conlidence in the belie( that our
French bre!hren are tru~ to their ideal~? We have differences, of
course.. but it seems there is enough on which we can agree that we may
proclaim them brothers.
Again he says :
But, ou~ boys are on _Fre:ich. soil, lighting for !"'ranee's rights, for
~ngland s rights,. for Relg1u111 s rights and for our own rights; fig'hting
l'.lr the, gram!. pnncip;es, <_if :Vlas.t;nry ag-;~inst I'rus~ia1.1ism and oppression. Some Douh~mg I horn~s !1as said that tl11s is not Masonry's
fight. It certamly is Masonry s fight. I dread to think what would
become of our Order if ~he principles of the. "Hun" should prevail.
But, lo! the dark clouds d1i;appear as l am rc1111mled that, "\Vrong for-

1·ver, on the scaffold; right forever, on the throne, but that scaffold
sways the future, and behind the dim unknown, standeth God within
the shadow keeping watch above His own."
I am willing to go on record and stand here 011 the shores of the
proud Pacific and stretch forth my hand across the States and clasp
the hand of each one in Fraternal Friendship. I am ready to reach on
over the old Atlantic, which is the resting place of many an innocent
victim of Hun atrocity, and extend the same Fraternal handclasp to our
hrother Allies.
MASSACHUSETTS.

In December, 1912, the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts passed
on the recognition of French Masons as follows:
At the June Quarterly Communication, M.'. \V:. Brother Gallagher presented a Memorial relative to the possible recognition of the
Grand Lodge of France by this Grand Lodge.
It will be remembered that there are three several bodies claiming
authority over Symbolic Masonry in Fnmce; the National Independent
and Regular Grand Lodge for France and the French Colonies, the
(~rand Orient of France, and the Grand Lodge of France.
The Xational Independent and Regular Grand Lodge for France
and the French Colonies asked for recognition in 1914, and, on report
of a Committee, recognition was refused in 1915. (See 1914 Mass.,
page 233 ffg., and 1915 Mass., page 168 ffg.)
Thus while the flags of our two Nations float side by side with
that of England in the common cause of civilization, let us extend to
the Brethren of the Grand Lodge of France our expressions of good
will and, by sending a copy of this memorial say to them that when•·ver they can adopt in their Grand Lodge the spirit herein expressed
as a part of their Masonic principles, and embody in their Constitution
a belief in Deity or a recognition of the. Supreme Being in all their
obligations, we shall hail with delight the opportunity to be first to extend to them the right hand of fellowship, and enter into Fraternal and
official relations with them, as one of the Masouic powers of the world.
After receiving the Memorial the Grand Lodge passed the following vote:
"That the Grand Secretary. be directed to send a copy of the
Memorial, as presented, to the Grand Lodge of 1:ra11ce, with a request
that an answer he returned stating the action taken hy them, and also
the form in which such action will appear in their Constitution."
Before this Memorial and vote were transmitted a communication
was received from the Grand Lodge of France soliciting the opening of
fraternal relations.
The Memorial and vote were then transmitted to the Grand Lodge
of France, with an expression of satisfaction that their desire to open
fraternal relations had been anticipated by the action of this Grand
Lodge.
No answer has yet hecn received from the Grand Lodge of France.
Fearing that our communication, or reply thereto, may not have been
delivered because of the uncertainties of ocean transit during the last
year, I have directed the Grand Secretary to send a duplicate commtmication and thus reopen the subject.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
14

15

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

TEXAS.
On the recommendation of the Foreign Correspondence Colll· ·,.
mittee the Grand Lodge of Texas passed the following resolution:
Resolved, That the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Texas hereby i
extends fraternal greetings to the Grand Loge de France, and hereby '
recognizes the same and welcomes it among the Grand Lodges of the
world, and that the usual representatives be changed between the two .;
bodies.
.,

ALABAMA,

The Grand Lodge of Alabama adopted the following recommendations of the Committee on Foreign Correspondence:
Your Committee on Foreign Correspondence has had referred to it
a communication from the Grand Lodge of France, extending an invita·
tion to the Grand Lodge of Alabama to enter into fraternal reliitions
with it, and to ~rr'.lnge for an exchange of represeqtatives. It is !?roper
to state that this 1s not the recently formed so-called "National Independent and Regular Grand Lodge for France and the French. Colonies,"
to which we refused recognition one year ago, but a Grand Body organized in 1879 under the auspices of the Supreme Council 33° Ancient and
Accepted Scottish Rite. In 1904, it, however, became entirely independent of the Supreme Council and now controls the three symbolic degrees.
The claims of this Grand Body to recognition have never been fully con- '
sidered by the Grand Lodge of Alabama. The nearest approach to such
consideration was in 1912 when the Grand Master answered an inquiry
from New Mexico 'that we did not recognize the Grand Lodge of France
because it did not require the Bible to be displayed in its Lodges. This
action of the Grand Master was approved by the Grand Lodge.
Your committee has also received a communication from the Grand
Orient of France, a separate and distinct body from either of those
already mentioned, which controls many degrees including the first
three. In 1878, this body was carefully considered by the Grand Lodge
of Alabama and fraternal relations with it were severed, because it had
in 1877 eliminated all reference to Deity from its constitution and· ritual
and no longer required of its initiates a declaration of belief in Deity.·
During the recent months, circumstances have given renewed importance to the subject of the relations between the Masonic bodies of
France and those of the United States. Thousands of American Masons, including many from Alabama, find themselves in France an·d
companions in arms with French Masons. It is not at all certain that
there ~ill be among them Lodges chartered by their own Grand Lodges
wherem they may enjoy the pleasures of Masonic intercourse and labor.
But whether there are or not, it is highly desirable that there should be
during the war, the fullest possible measure of social and fraternai
intercours.e between ;'\mericai;i Masons and those of France, not only
that nothmg may arise to disturb the harmony already existing, but
that the people of these two great republics and traditional friends may
be knit together even more closely than ever.
At the same time, your Committee is not possessed of sufficient data
and has been unable to give sufficient consideration to make a recommendation at this time as to what shotild be the permanent attitude of
the Grand Lodge of Alabama towards these two Grand Bodies. With-

1111t deciding this question the Grand Lodges of California, Kentucky
1111<1 New York have recently taken action authorizing Masons of ~heir
11ht'<liences to visit Lodges of the Grand Lodge and Grand Orient of
France and to hold Masonic intercourse with their members, pending
lnrther consideration as to what shall be their final action. This app1·ars to us as a cautious and at the same time fraternal course, and
w1· have decided to recommend that this Grand Lodge take similar
11rt ion. It can certainly do no harm and will afford an opportunity for
11' to learn more of French Masonry than we have heretofore known.
We, therefore, recommend the adoption of the following:
1. Resolved, by the Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and Accepted
Masons of Alabama, That Masons holding membership in its Lodges
111'1', until otherwise ordered, privileged to visit Lodges of the Grand
l.11dge and of the Grand Orient of France and to hold Masonic interr1111rse with their members, and that Lodges holding under this Grand
I ,odge are authorized to admit as visitors Masons holding under said
t :rand Bodies of France.
2. Resolved, That the Committee on Foreign Correspondence
11ather all obtainable information and report to the next Annual Com1111111ication of this Grand Lodge its recommendation as to what should
lo1· the attitude of this Grand Lodge towards those Grand Bodies.
LOUISIANA.

France offended most flagrantly against the Louisiana Grand
I .odge, as is shown by all the records. Nevertheless, in a spirit of
trne Masonic chivalry, living up to the highest ideals of our professions, this Grand Jurisdiction, after thorough investigation, unani1110usly adopted the following report of the chairman of the For1·iJ.(n Relations Committee, passing the following resolutions:
Be It Further Resolved, That the Grand Master be and is hereby
anthorized to notify the Grand Orient of France of the repeal of our
1·dicts of non-intercourse and arrange for an exchange of Represcntat ives.
Be It Further Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of France be and is
h<'reby recognized and an exchange of Representatives be requested.
Resolved, That the Supreme Council of the Argentine Republic be
a 111 l is hereby recognized.
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Panama be and is hereby rec11J.(nized and an exchange of Representatives is requested.
FOREIGN RELATJONS.-In these days of world turmoil I find it rather
difficult to speak of our foreign relations. An almost universal war
dividing into conflicting elements all governments, aligning the forces
11f Democracy against the evil influences of Autocracy, rending political
1111d econG1mic relations seemingly beyond the possibility of reorganization, has unquestionably worked incalculable injury to the best interest
of an institution whose Master roots are planted in the doctrines of
1.iberty, Equality and Fraternity. We, of America, at least, are
,1/,asonically at peace with all the nations engaged in this superhuman
l'1111f!ict. No inhibitory measures against free, liberal and unequivocal

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

fraternization have been adopted by the Grand Lodges of America. We
still respect the Masonic rights and privileges of our enemy brethren,
and true to our principles, not unmindful of the experiences of our own
Civil \Var, we can still recognize the Masonic worth of those brethren ·
who by force of circumstances, environment, or other influence, may be
sincerely opposed to us. I admit it requires a supreme confidence in the
purposes. aims and aspirations of Masonry to view with equanimity
and confidence of result the raging conflict of the present day and its
possibilities. In these times of trial, however, let us not despair; let us
strain our vision through the darkness which surrounds us and ·seek the
ray of light which will lead us to the practical philosophy of Peace and
good will to all men.
.
·
True to its ideals, American Masonry is. today paving the way·
to Universal Brotherhood, and he is blind to the signs of the time who
does not see its realization in the very near future. What a formidable
front would be present as a world force for honorable and enduring
peace based upon the eternal principles of Justice and Right, if as an
institution we had been mindful of our teachings ! •
'
It is not my purpose, my brethren, to keep you in longer suspense.
Briefly and as clearly as I can, I desire to call your especial attention..
to a matter which has been a subject of considerable thought. There
is hardly a Grand Lodge in these United States which, during the past
few months, has not given thought and consideration to the matter
which I desire to bring before you, viz.: our relations to our French
Brethren. Most of our Grand Bodies partially have solved the problem. It is fortunate that we have a record which enables us tci solve' '
it completely.
"The history of the Fraternity in France, as we all know, is cone
fused and difficult to follow, but as France in its every political change
has not lost sight of the principles of the Revolution, reaching over to a
higher and broader conception of liberty, so has French ·Masonry,
through its struggles and in spite of many mistakes, worked consistently and determinedly to a more complete realization of the humanitarianism that is the foundation and raison-d'etre of our Institution."
Our French Brethren have always felt that in its pragmatic philosophy
lies the logic of .'.\fasonry's lieing and t.hat the conclusions of that philosophy cannot be avoided. It is in that spirit that they are still holding
to the Con.stitutions of 1723 which have proclaimed that all men, regardless ot race or religion, can freely and fraternally meet on the
Level.
As a matter of history, let me recall that it was only in 1849 that
the Grand Oric11t of France declared "that the basis of Freemasonry
is a belief in God and the Immortality of the Soul." Prior to that time,
it held to the spirit of the Ancient Constitutions as evinced in the
wording of the first article of the original draft of the said constitu·
tion. Let us not forget also that prior to 1849 and for twenty years
thereafter, the Grand Orient of France was in frakrnal relation with ·
the entire Masonic world.
In 1869 the invasion of the territorial jurisdiction of this State
through the chartering and recognition of clandestine lodges. both of
white and of colored membership, caused the Grand Lodge of Louisiana
to adopt a resolution recommending the severance of fraternal relations
with the Grand Orient of France. Ostensibly we have no other griev-

ance with this Grand Body; that is, no other grievai1~e of recor4. This
resolution remains the only obstacle to the resumption of cordial and
' fraternal intercourse between the two Grand Bodies, and it would seem
to be logic as well as good law that where conditions producing certain effects have ceased to exist, the effects themselves should no longer
prevail.
While all of the above is absolutely true, the current of opposition
to the recognition of the Grand Orient does not flow from its attitude
in regard to the Grand Lodge Sovereignty hut :ath~r from t.he. conception unfounded and _unp:oven that the Gram! 0;1~1~t ts an athe1sttca\ bo~y
for the reason that 1t fails to demand from its 1111tiates the profession 111
the belief in a Supreme Architect. I am again compelled to repeat that
prior to 1849, the Grand 9ricnt of France held strictl.y tp the first arti~le
of the Ancient Constitut10ns of 1723. In the later s1xt1es or the earher
seventies, realizing that its platform of princi1>les was not sufficiently
broad and liberal, the Grand Orient, through a resolution proposed by
Hrother Desmons, a Protestant Divine, whose belief in the Supreme
Architect of the Universe cannot he questioned. reverted to its original
plan and in accord with the true spirit of Toleration, declared that
Fre~masonry being an "institution essentially philanthropical, philosophical, and progressive, has for its object the seeking after Trnth, 1he
study of Morality, and the practice of Human Soli.darity; that its obj~et
is the material and moral improvenu•nt, and the 111tellcct11al an? soctal
perfection of Humanity ; that it is based upon m~1tual tolcrattoi:, the
respect of others and for one's self, and ahsol11te liberty of consctencc,
and that it considers metaphysical conceptions as belonging to the exclusive domain of the individual appreciation of its mcmhers, and that
it refuses to interfere in dogmatic qm·stions." The Masonic world went
wild. Not a single English-speaking Grand Lodge looked upon this
declaration in the true light of Masonic Philosophy, and the Grand
Orient of France hecamc an 011tcast in the Ma sonic World,

16

I submit, my brethren, that in the misconception of the position of
our French hrcthren regarding their inkrpretation of Masonic Philosophy English-speaking Masonry is clearly in the wrong, and we as
:.\fa~ons should he ready to admit it. While French Masonry is religiously tolerant, it is not in itself a religion in the restrictive :;cnse of the
word. l t proclaims no dogma ; it demands no profession ; it respects all
opinions, and in that tolerance is an exemplar of that tru~ relig~on
which is the basis of Freemasonry-the Brotherhood of Mankmd which
leads 11s through the love of our fellow men, a spark of his Own Divinity-to the Love, Honor, and Glory of the Great Architect of the Universe.
As a great many of the Grand Lodges of America have submitted
through resolutions a modus vivendi between Amttrkan and French
Masons permitting unrestricted fraternization with the members of the
several Grand Bodies of ,France, let us go a set further, heing true to
ourselves and to the Institution of which we arc memhl·rs and resume
once and for all, free and fraternal intercourse with the Grand Orient
and the Grand Lodge of France, leaving time and results to prove the
rectitude of our line of action.

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

19

UTAH.

The following interesting report on this subject by Chairman
Goodwin, of the Foreign Relations Committee of Utah, was concurred in by the Grand Lodge:
A letter from the Grand Lodge of Fran~e, under date of July 26
1?17, h!ls been referred to your Committee on Correspondence for con~
s1derat1on and report.
·
Tqis commu~ication, af!er briefly reciting the conditions ~hich
called 1t for!h,-v1z., the land1n~ of American soldiers upon French soil,
and the .desire for a closer 11111on of the Masons of the two countries
which this event aroused,-extends an invitation to the Grand Lodge
of Utah to enter into fraternal relations with the Grand Lodge of _
France.
·
-

Sin~e the reception of this request, your Committee has given to
the subject n;iuch careful c~nsiderat!on, an~ has endeavored to gather
from all available sources mformatton which would make possible a
fair, impartial presentation of the matter.
In view of the fact that so little is known ahout French Masonry by
the Craft of this Jurisdicti<?n-and b)". .Masons, generally-and that the
ca~ses of the p~esent stramed relations have not always been quite
fairly presented, 1t seemed well to begin with a brief statement of some
of the outstanding features of the situation.
.
Let it be borne in mind at the outset that the Grand Lodge of
France and the _Grand Orient. of France are independent of each other,
and. have been mdependent Smee 1895, and that they differ in several
particulars. Also, that the Grand Lodge of France has been independent of the Supreme Council of Scottish Rite, since 1904.
With this preliminary word, let us now note the causes of the
rupture of fraternal relations between Masonry in France and that in
English-speaking countries.
·
Some time in the fifties, a spurious Scottish Rite Council began
crea~i!1g Symbolic Lodges wi~hin the) i;risdiction of the Grand Lodge ()f
L<?ui~iana.. Beca1;1se. o~ r~lattons ex1st1ng between the prime mover. in
this mvas10n of )unsd1ct1011, and t~e. Grand .Orient .of France, appeal
was. made to that J:;lody for r~cogmt1on. This was ·most emphatically
demed, and the spurious Council denounced as irregular and clandestine,
by the Grand Onent. About ten years later-October 17, 1868-the new
head of ;Freemasonry in France, accorded recognition to the spurious
.
Council, and commended its principles and work.
At once, Louisiana protested and then severed fraternal relations
with th~ Grand Orient of Fr~rn;e, and appealed to the Grand Lodges of
the Umted States to .t~ke s1mdar action, thus giving added emphasis
to the ptotest of Lomsiana;. In response, some twenty-eight or thirty
of the Gran.cl L.o~ges of this country took the action desired. In this,
we have. the ongmal cause of the dissolution of fraternal relations between French Freemasonry and that of .the English-speaking countries.
A little prior. to this ~vent, a,nd for some years subsequent to it,
t!1er,e had been d1s~ussed m t~e Grand Orient of France the proposiu.on to make certam changes 1n the Constitution of that Grand Body.
1 he Franco-German w~r, an? events growing out of that struggle, apl?ear to h~ve pus.hed aside tins matter. lt came up again however. and
lmally at its session held September W-15, 1877, the Grand Orient voted
for the change, .135 to 76 Lodges.

By this action the Bible was removed from th~ Lodge rooms, ref- ·
<'f'l'nccs to Deity in tlie Constitution-and later m the Ritual-were
"s1mnged, and the affirmation of belief in T. G. A. 0. T. U. was no
lo11µ;cr required of candidates.
It might be noted in this connection, that the statements adopted
dt·l'lared, concerning Masonry, that
.
"Its principles are absolute liberty of conscience, and human so!~­
darity"; and further that "It excludes no .per.son on account of fits
la·lief." This last clause was in the Constitution before the changes
Wl'l'e made.
At once when this action became known the Grand Lodge of Irehml later the Grand Lodge of England, and then other Grand Lo?ges
i;, Jinglish-speaking countries followed in. dissolving fraternal re!attons.
In this country, those Grand Lodges .w~1c~ had taken. ~uch action, on
a<·count of the invasion of the Junsd1ction. of Lom~ian~, protested
against the· course taken, and reaffirmed ~heir determmat1on. to have
nothing whatever to do with the Grand Onent of France.
Section 159 of the U'tah Code, was adopted in 1872, as a S~anding
lfrsolution, thus registering the protest of this Grand Body agamst the
invasion of the Jurisdiction of a sister Grand Lodge.
We must not overlook the fact that, prior to the year 1849 the Cons1 itution, and the position of the Grand O~ient on the matters under
consideration-were practically, if not precisely what they -ar.e today.
It further appears that anterior to the date named not a fe:w of t.he
(;rand Lodges of the United States were in fraternal relations with
the Grand Orient.
However in the year 1849, for reasons that are not quite clearlmt for whi~h various explanations have been al!eged-the Grand
Orient modified its law, so as to conform to the requ1re1!1ents set fo~th
in that of the Grand Lodge of England. The much discussed act10!1
of 1877, as your Committee understands _it, simply restore<;! the prov1;;ions of the Constitution, as they were 111 1849, and previous to that
date.
The Grand Orient itself declared that in making the changes in
1877 it was simply reverting to the Constitutions promulgated by the
Gra~d Lodge of England in 1723, known to us as, "The Charges of .a
Freemason," published in our Code, and "recognized and ad<?pted by this
Grand Lodge as the fundamental laws, rules, and regulation~ for the
.rovernment of all Masons" (Section 213). Reference to Article I, of
those "Charges" seems to sho"'. tha.t th~ point. is we!! take1~, and that
the contention of the Grand Orient 111 this particular 1s sustamed.
French Masons further declare that in making the changes of 1877,
thev had 110 thought either of becoming, or beirtg known, .as at~eists.
Your Committee has been unable to find any ev1.dence bean?g <;11rectly
upon the 'truth or falsity of thi.s statement, bu~ is strongly mclmed t.o
the belief that it accords better with the teachmgs of M!lsonry, and 1s
more in harmony with that charity which should characterize the Ma.son,
to accept the statement of these Brothers. So far as your Comn:nttee
has been able to ascertain, assertions to the contr:iry are . J?racttca_lly
confined to two classes: Those who have not been m a pos1t1on to mvestigate for themselves, and so have been obliged to take the st~te­
ments of others, who, perhaps, were no better informed on the subject

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

than they. Secondly, those who are the recognized, avowed, and unremitting enemies of Masons everywhere, as they have been, for some •
hundreds of years.
So much of a general statement concerning the Grand Orient, and
French Masons, appeared to be necessary in order that we might have
something of a background upon which to project other details which
may seem to have a closer connectio!1 with the matter in hand.
It must be obvious, too, that in dealing in this general way with
the Grand Orient, we have at the same time indicated, in faint outline
at least, certain facts essential to an understanding of the Grand Lodge
of France. The different threads of their history were so closely interwoven through so many years that they seem to form one, rather than
two strands, and after their separation, and independence of organization came, there would still be, in things fundamental, such a community of interests and similarity of ideals, as to make the annals of the
one, bear many of the marks of the history of the other. And in the
great ends sought, they are one. For the practical mission of Masonry
in France, as was recently pointed out by a member of the Grand Lodge
of France, is "* * * to promote and sustain liberty, to further equal
conditions and opportunities for all men, to urge a true fraternity among
the people."
The Grand Lodge of France had its birth in 1804-1821, say$ another French writer, and became an independent, sovereign Body in
1895, as already indicated. It has 150 Lodges under its. jurisdiction
with a membership of 8,000, according to recent reports.·
In the matters upon which the Grand Orient and English-speaking
Lodges differ, the Grand Lodge of France appears to be more tolerant,
in that it permits its Lodges to exercise their own judgment. At least
one Lodge under its jurisdiction is composed for the most part of
English-speaking members, and follows the Grand Lodge of England
in its religious requirements.
The Grand Lodge of France, like the Grand Orient, stands squarely
on the Constitutions of 1723, and these, as already intimated, seem not
to justify any such insistence upon the three points in dispute, as characterizes the attitude of Grand Lodges in this country. It may not be
amiss to note in this connection, just what is demanded by that Article
"Concerning Goel and Religion".
It declares that "A Mason is obliged by his Tenure, to obey the
moral law." It further declares, that, "if he rightly understands the
Art, he will never be found a stupid Atheist, nor an irreligious Libertine." Without pausing to consider the possible or probable meaning
of the words "Atheist," and "Libertine," as used in the year 1723 you
notice that the condition is found in the words: "if he rightly u;1derstands the Art". It does not say that he may not be both an Atheist
and Libertine, as well as a Mason; nor does it say that an Atheist or a
Libertine may not be a Mason. It does say that "if he rightly understands the Art" (but this he may not do}, he will be neither the one
nor the other. Then follows a statement of what formerly was requi;ecl of the Brethren, vi~.,_ t~. be of the religion .of the country in
which they lived,. b?t n?w 1t _is thought more expe?1ent m~ly to oblige
them to that Religion m whtch all men agree, leavmg thetr particular
opinions to thernselves; that is, to be good Men and true, or Men of
Honour and Honesty, by whatever Denominations or persuasions they

21

may be distinguished." In this, then, we have the religious platform
ttpnn which the Grand Lodge of France takes its stand. In explanation
of this, its Grand Secretary wrote recently: "Concerning metaphysical
>hlcms we impose no dogmas, but propose by symbols. to give the
11itiate the proper conception of the G. A. 0. T. U., believing that with
111tr aid they will rightly understand our art and not be 'stupid atheists
unr irreligious libertines.'"
With this statement of the position of our French Brothers, on the
11111· hand, and the "essential requirements of regularity," as developed
h)· various Grand Lodges on the other, it must he apparent to the least
nhservant, that, as has been repeatedly pointed out by others. religion is
tlil' rock which has split our great Fraternity into its several fragments
nr g-roups. It fa no less apparent. to the Mason who observes, and
rl'ads, and thinks, that some Grand Lodges in the United States are
l'<'l".V perceptibly swinging toward a confounding of Masonry and
l 'liristianity. For example, here is a Grand Orator who declared: "True
~lasonry * * * recognizes the church as having been founded by
<:nd, with His Son Jesus Christ as the Chief corner-stone." And a
(:rand Master insisted that "Our Book of Constitutions teaches us that
Ill<' Sublime Person, the Lion of the Trihe of Judah, is the Christ, the
Snn of the Living God: and if our Book of Constitutions does not so
l1•ach, then is our Masonry a ,.;otmding brass and a tinkling cymbal."
ft is not the purpose of your Committee to discuss this feature, or
I» indicate any of the re,nlts which naturally follow,-both as regards
onr relations with foreign Bodies of Masonry. and in our own conception of the scope and character of the mission of }fasonry,-from the
injection of :mch radical and extraneous ideas into the teachings of
~lasonry. Our only purpose in thus contrasting and emphasizing the
positions hc!d by the two parties, on the questions at issue,-and at
Ihe same time directing attention to the fundamental principle which
hnth accept,-is that we may he led to sec more clearly what is our own
a It itudc, and at the same time be helped to do j usticc to the claims of
011r Brothers of France.
·
There is another fact which bears upon the situation, that should
11111 be overlooked. The Grand Lodge of Utah is now, and has been for
<'ightecn years, in fraternal relations with the Grand Orient of Belgium.
I11 this, it does not stand alone, as there are fourteen other English'l'l'aking Grand Lodges-all but one. your Committee believes-in the
Pnited States, who are in fel!owship with the Belgian Craft. Yet, on
the question at issue, the Grand Orient of Belgium stands on precisely
Ihe same platform, as do the Grand Orient. and the Grand Lodge of
France. And, like their Brethren of France. Belgian Masons have been
l'nrced into what their critics call "political activities." This docs not
mean, however, in either case, petty partisan politics. On this matter
a prominent Belgian Mason recently wrote, after giving a brief glance
at the history of the Craft in that distressed land, since 1832: "During
all these years the fraternity has had to defend its existence against
an enemy that has never hecome lax or indifferent. Its position has
lit·en peculiarly diffict1lt, as representing liberal thought in a state that
has until of late years heen closely under the influence of the Catholic
l 'hnrch." And again. the same writer observes: "As an organization.
Belgian Masonry has on occasion entered the political arena. Unless
lhis had heen done, political intriguers hostile to us would have de'troycd Freemasonry in our country. and would thus have weakened the
Ii her al clements.'' It would therefore appear to he a fair and legitimate

I'"'

t
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

22

inference, that any objection to recognition of the Masonry of France;,
based on the conditions which are always specified, would apply .with :
equal force to that of Belgium. Yet, as already noted, fifteen English·
speaking ] urisdictions, including Utah, maintain fraternal relations•·
with the Grand Orient of Belgium.
Another set of facts, to which some weight at least should be
given, is what may be called a noticeable trend in Masonic circles since ·
the beginning of the war toward a new appraisal of the questions at
issue. One manifestation of this appears in the unmistakable desire to
go to the proper sources for information, rather than to accept the]
dictum of those who sometimes speak of the issues involved, with an,
emphasis of seeming conviction . out of all proportion to the extent and.
character of the knowledge possessed. Pending the outcome of su~h
investigations, in some cases, and in others not even instituting them,>
significant action has been taken by several Grand Lodges. .
.
The Committee of one Grand Lodge reported adversely on. the re-·
quest of the Grand Lodge of France that is now before us. Th~ principal reason adduced was, as stated in the words of the Committee, that
while "the Grand Lodge of France is not strictly an atheistic organiza·.
tion, yet it is not deistic. It does not require of the petitioner a belief in!

1

deity."

23

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

"

On the other hand, the Grand Lodge of X ew York, the largest:
and strongest, numerically, in the United States, if not in the world, at:
a Called Communication, held September W, 1918, grapted "full lib~'
erty * * * to all New York Masons in France, to hold Masonic.
intercourse with French Masons, and _visit their Lodges." This, your :
Committee understands, was restricted to the Masons and Lodges '
of the Grand Lodge of France.
· ·
The Grand Lodge of California, at its Annual Communication, held
October 9-12, 1917, provided for a Committee of five to consider the;
hreach hetween French and Aqglo-Saxon Masonry, nnd if possible, to ';
devise some means by which it may be healed. Fnrther it modifie;:I any
inhibition upon the right of visitation, in existence at that time, irtsofar
as to allow California Masons to hold Masonic intercourse with the
Masons of France. Belgium and Jtaly, am! to visit any of their Lodges.
Apparently, no distinction was made bctwee11 memhers of the Grand
Lodge and the Grand Orient of France.
At. the Annual Communication of the Grand Loclgt• of Kentucky,
which occurred October 16-18, 1917, a resolution was adopted which
tlec'.ared null and void the edict of 11011-interconrse with the Grand
Orient of France, which had been its Code since 1869. Grand Lodge
also adopted the Grand Master's recommendation, "That. where .no
official prohibition against interco11rse exists, Kentucky Masons may
visit all foreign Lodges." This leaves the Kentucky Brethren practically
··
free, Masonically, to go where they please.
Earlier in the year just past, the Grand Master of Louisiana, in his
address at the Annual Communication of that Grand Lodge, reecm~
mended that the Grand Orient of Frnnce should he recognized. This
was referred to the Committee on Correspondence. Later in the ses·
sion this Committee reported that we "are inclined to believe that it
is the right of the Grand Orient to receive our renewal of recognition,"
but it asked for further time, pending the arrival of certain dornmentary
evidence which was desired.

When the Grand Lodge of Manitoba met in Annual session in 1916,
1111' Committee on Foreign Correspondence-now Grand Master o+ thar
J11risdiction-presented a very foll and exceedingly vahmble report on
Ill<' slatus of the several Grand Lodges with which his own was not in
norr('spondence, and made certain recommendations. At the Annud
l '11111111unication of 1917, the same Committee brought forward additional
lad~, and recommended that the Grand Orient of France he reeog11!1<'11. By resolution, the Grand Secretary was directed to bring thi.1'"'"mmendation to the attention of the several Lodges of the ] urisdic ·
lion, request them to give the whole subject careful consideration, and
lt1 instruct their representatives to the Annual Communication of the
pr1's1·11t year, in order that definite action may be had.
The foregoing are some of the considerations which have been
p1111tkred by your Committee dming the last six months.
The matter before ns is intern;ely practical. Already Utah Masons
un· 011 the battlefields of France. Others will follow. The tremendous
pr .. ssure of events is driving into the human mind and heart the fact
Iha!:

"New occasions tt:ach new duties"; and that, "Time makes ancient
11""<1 unconth." Along a thousand lines, that, which before the summer
nf 1914 was thought and declared to be absolntcly impossible, has bf..'1·1>11ll' commonplac1'. New alignments, new adjustments, new evaluations
nf human relationships have been forced upon the world by the titanic
Iii"· and death struggle which· has now become our own, and in whieh
11"' are to have, we trust. an honorable and no small part. Our soldiers
frt1111 every part of thb broad land-tens of thousands of whom are
llrothers of the mystic-tie-arc girding themselves for this awfol conlliet. Soon they will come to death-grips with the foe of every ideal for
which America has stood in the years that lie behind-the foe of our
1·0111111011 humanity.
Jn this they will come into intimate fellowship
with our Brothers of England and onr Brothers of l<'rance, whose
lwroism on a hundrc<l hattlefields has glorified-beyond the power of
lime to tarnish-those c1ualities of human life which unmistakably link
ii lo the Divine. lnto all the frllowships and relationships of the soldier's
life our hoys will come-hut into the joy of Masonic fellowship with
I he Mason lwrocs at t!H•ir side, our memhers may not come till we
'l"·ak the word. They will turn to ns with the question:
"Shall T ask the hravc soldier, who fights hy my side
Jn the cansc of mankind, if our creeds agree?"
To snch a question, yonr Commit\('C brlievcs a specific answer
,1wuld he given. It is abo of the opinion that the interests of all conn·rned will bl•st be served hy the adoption of the following recommendation:
First-That all Utah Masons in France be p;iven permission to l1old
1'1asonic intercourse with the members of the Lodges holding under the
(:rand Lodg·e of Frann• and to visit such Lodges.
Second-'That the matkr of establishing fraternal relations with
I he Grand Lodge of France he placed in the hands of such Committt'C'
a., may be designated by Grand Lodge, or the Cram! Mastcr, and that
such Commft:tee report, with reeomn1endations, at the next Annual
t 'ommunication.
The first recommendation was adopted. The second recommendation was referred to a committee to report on at the next
Annual Communication.

\

24

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

25

GJWl<GJA.

The Committee on Foreign Correspondence presented the following, which was adopted:
In view of the. fact .tJ1at many .Brethren of this Gran<l Jurisdiction
are now .eng!1ged 111 m1ht'!-1:Y service across the seas and that many
oth.ers w~ll . m all probab1\1ty be called into action in countries in
wh1cl,1 ex1stmg Grand, Bocl.1es . ar.c not now fraternally .recognized by
the C,r,and Lodg,e o~ (,eorgia, 1t ts s11ggested by the duprman of your
Committee on I< ore1g11 Correspondence:

That the .incon~ing. chairman of this committee be authorized to
make proper 11:west1&at1on of these foreign Grand Bodies and report
at. once to the 111com1!1g Grand Master of our Grand Lodge who shall
w1t.hout. delay det.en.mne tl~c advisability of this Grand Juri;diction entermg .11.ito negotiations with such foreign Grand Bodies for fraternal
recogmt10n.
NEW J1':RsJiY.

The Grand Lodge of New Jersey concurred in the views of the
Correspondence Committee expressed as follows:
.Your Committee on Foreign Corn·spondencc has bad time to investigate the request~ for recogni~ion hy the Grand Lodges now referred to us, and having duly cons1dcrt•d the merits of each, hegs leave
to report upon them.
In refer~1~ce to the Gran<l Lodge of France we cordially recommend recog1~1t1011 a1.1~ cxclu1~1~c of representatives therewith, and would
do .so t;':en if cond~tions ans11.1g from '.he war h~<l not cmphasizt'd its..
<les1rab1hty: fhere 1s no qtwstion as to its regularity 1111<1 the st•ntiments
exi:ressed 111 the letter read to you by the Grn11d Master should find
reciprocal response from us.

And adopted the following resolutions:
WHI\R:EAs, .It appearing on page 239, Procecdi11gs of 1871, that out
of ~ympathy with th~ Grand. Lodge of Louisiana in its remonstrance
agam~t the Gra1.1d Ortcnt of ~·ranee for its constructive diswgard of the
Amencan doctn~1c of exclusive territo:·ial jurisdic'.ion, hut without any
re.quest !Jy the (J~aml Lod_gc of L<:lllsiana for actmn, an interdict was
hud agamst the (,rand Orient of I• ranee; a11d

~H;l\Rl\A~, Th~ Grand .Lodg~ of Louisiana at its last Annual Commu.mcat1on did withdraw its edict of 11011-mtercoursc with tlll' Crand
Orient of. France and resumed its former frakrnal relations therewith;
llOW, be It

Rcsoh•cd, That the h!tcnlict laid against the Grand Orit•nt of
France, appearing in the D1gpst, page 104, section 14, be :md is hl'l'elw
rescinded.
'
M H.l'l'.\ln'

l.UllGl\S.

The question of Military Lodges is of great interest at this time
and I include in this report the action of several Grand Lodges on
the subject as indicating the sentiment pro and con on the subject.

In connection with this subject I may say that the question nf
eonferring degrees by courtesy has assumed tremendous magnitude
since this country entered the war. This is especially true in States
where army camps have been established. To the credit of the
fraternity be it said that, regardless of the burdens it has imposed.
the lodges adjacent to army centers have assumed the added
responsibility cordially and willingly.

This move frequently and generally involves the conferring of
degrees nearly every night in the we~k and not infrequent afternoon sessions.
ILLl:S-OIS.

The Grand Master of lllinois has this to say on the subject of
Military Lodges:
J have been approached by a number of brethren with reference to
grantiug dispensations for lodges to he known as Military Lodges and
to he opt•r.a tccl in connection with some military organization or unit.
There is nothi11g in our law that permits a 'Grand :\faster to grant such
a dispensati01l and .I so advised the brethren who came to me in this
regard. Some of these brethren wanted a dispensation for a lodge to
have all the powers of the lodges now in existence, that is, to transact
the ordinary business of a lollgc, receive and act upon petitions, and
confer the degn;cs. Otlwrs wanted to organize for the purpose of
transacting th<: ordinary business of a lodge but without :Lcquiring any
jurisdiction over candidates for the degrees. Jt was their desire to have
an organization wlwre they wot11d enjoy the fraternity and good fellowship of meeting together, and to confer degrees upon candidates who
had heen ekcted in regular lodges, this work to be done only upon request coming from the mother lodge through the proper channels.
To my mind there is some douht as to whether there is any necessity whatever for lodges in co1111cctio11 with the military or naval activities of this government. With reference to the question of lodges of
this "kind having jurisdiction to receive and act upon 1wtitions, I am of
the firm hclicf that this shot1ld not he permitted hy a11y jurisdiction, and
I am surt· that if a lodge holding a charter of this character from some
other jurisdiction shoulcl invaclc Illinois, by holding meetings within its
jurisdiction and rccl'ive and act upon petitions, this· Cram! Lod!o(c would
rcs('llt it, and I cannot u11dl•rsta11d how any Cram! Lod!o(e could defend
such action. Lodges or!o(anizcd without any jurisdictional rights would
of coursl' he much less ohjcctionahlc, but the opportunity for supervision
over Jo<lgl'S of this kind is very limited and it has hecn demonstrated to
tlw satisfaction of all that the method of observation now in vogue in
lllinois has ;1 very hcnclicial effect and I am of the opinion that there is
danger in granting <iispl'nsations or charters to lod!o(es situated so that
tht•rc ca11 he no supervisio11. All of this is from a Masonic point of
view.
From a military point of view the question arisei; as to whether org,anized institutions of this kind within the military or naval forces of
the govcrnnwnt woulcl hn Vt' a hencficial dfrct or not llfJOn the discipline.
l have giv<'n a grt·at <lea! of thot1ght to this question and have had con-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

26

REPORT ON 'CORRESPONDENCE.

siderable correspondence with Grand Masters of other jurisdictions and
have come to the conclusion that there is no occasion for the granting
of charters or dispensations for military lodges. If the members of the·
fraternity located in a particular camp, regiment, fort, on board a battleship or at some training camp, believe that it would be desirable to have
a Masonic organization, they can, if permitted to <lo so by the military
authorities, organize a cltlh, which to my mind will serve all of the
purposes of a lodge.
NF,W YORK.

The Grand Lodge of New York has sanctioned the formation of
Sea and Field Lodges. The following interesting report of Sea and
Field Lodge No. 1 is written by its secretary to the Grand Master:

My Dear Grand Master:
It may be appropriate at this time to make some formal report t"
you of the proceedings of Sea and Field Lodge No. I.
On September 10, 1917, at an Extraordinary Session of (;rand
Lodge, resolution was enacted on report of the Committee on Plan
and Scope, amending the rcgtllations, Sections 24 and •25, in respect
of the number of candidates, the time between Degrees, and the requirement of the l!St1al proficiency before advancement, as applied to
regular chartered Lodges in the State concerned with military or naval
material only. The report of the Committee, which was adopted ·by
the Grand Lodge, also covered the establishment of Sea and Field
Lodges in the Grand Master's discretion, and si1ggested the inclusion
in the available material, of sons of Master Masons tlnder the age of
21 years, who arc engaged in the Service.
Ptlrsua11t to this general authority,. yon isstled your warrant, elated
October 6, 1917, creating Sea and Field Lodge No. I with an unusual
personnel, the warrant dcsignatinJ.{ the seven officers from the Master
to the ] llnior Deacon, necessary to constitute an Entered Apprentice
Lodg.e, and atlthori7;ccl it to .si~ .in the City of N_ew ,Y o.rk, and elscwher~
as nught be convenient; to 1111ttate, pass and raise its own war material,
withotlt the usual formalities required by regular chartered Lodg1:s; to
initiate, pass or raise war material for foreign jur.isdictions on reqtlest
of the Grand Master; and to pass or raise for other Loclgcs in the
State of New York, war material which had been initiated.

In the followinJ.{ month, the sittlation seeming to require it, a suppkmcntal warrant, extending its allthority to initiating for other LmlJ.{cS
in this State, was granted, coterminus with the oriJ.{inal warrant, which
was limited l~y the official life .or earlier pkasnrc of the Crane! Master,
and on Apnl JU, 1918, you 1ssuecl a further supplemental warrant
appointing new Senior and ]llnior Wardens and Senior Deacon, mad~
necessary hy the untimely cleath of the Senior Warden, R.". W.". Gl\oRG1'
]. J.ACKSON, the appointments in qm·stiun being in the nature of promotions.
Promptly on the issuing of the warrant, with your co-operation
ancl to some extent, participation, the officers of the Lo<lJ.{e undertook
to formulate a simplified ritual for the extraordinary purposes for
which the Lodge was createrl, and adapted, which, with some evolution
as a resnlt of experience, has now reachccl a stage of perfection which 1
l am disposed to believe, is permanent. The Lodge has sat 23 time~

27

t 11 elate, always at New Yo:k City, som~times in the afterno.on, usu~lly
111 the evening, at substantially we~kly 111tervals, saye that 111 the first
11·11 days of December, it sat twice 111 the space of f1Ve days.
Its session commences with th.e usual ceremonies including the car1ving ~f the Colors, the Lodge singing the first yerse of "My Country,
'iis of Thee," with a second verse composed s111ce the war, and apprnpriate to the occasion. The several Degrees ai:e taken ~harge of
, ally by particular persons, members of the Lodge, 111 su.ccess1ve stages,.
11 11
tlu· entire human equipment of the Lo~ge, however, be1!1g on the qui
·i·i·1•c to render any and all services which may be required and full!'
,.. 111 ipped to take the other's par~ on a moment's notice .. T~1e .esprit.
11f the enterprise has been most s.mgula~ from the very. beg!nnmg '. notwithstanding the frequency of 1t sess10ns, and the. 111ev1table mterfl'rence thereby with the personal freedom of th~ off1c.ers, for the past
,ix months, the same zest and life seems to persist winch characterized
its early session.
Seven candidates only from foreign jurisdictions ~1ave received l.ess
than all of their Degrees, 2 having beet~ passed ~n~l .raised, and 2 havmg
Iwen raised; 3, as above indicated, havmg been 1111t1ated only.
To date, we have admitted 13, and are cc;instantly urging all material,
i·xcepting that under age, to promptly ally itself with regular chartered
J.oclges, to the end t~at in no event ~hall the gentlemen be embarrassed
l1y the untimely demise of Sea and Field.
The Lod~e has n? .By-Laws, as. is natural. }t h~s 1~0 dues. Its
·11trance fee 1s the 111m1mum prescnhecl hy the Constttutt.011. All the
1
·andidates arc prepared in the same way ancl at tl~l'. ~amc t1111~. whether
1
they have already received a Degree or are t? .he 111~t1atecl, winch preparation includes a brief prayer, an~, at the f1msh, sign the roll hook of
the Lodge beneath the pledge winch all meu who have passed throu.gh
11111· doors since the second session have hl'l'n glacl to take, ancl which
rracls as follows :
"We undertake to maintain our part of the war free from halrecl,
brutality or graft, trne to the Amrrican purpose ancl icleals.
"Aware of the temptations incidental to camp life and the 11101:al ancl
social wreckage involved, we covenant together to hvc the clea11 hfr and
to seek to establish the Amrrican uniform as a symbol and J.{uaranty of
rral manhood.
"We pledge our example and our influence to make these idl'als
clominant in the American Army and Navy."
This pledge has been commented on fr~ely, and pul~lishecl. quite
extensively in connection ~ith the general snhicct of Masomc service on
men in the country's service.
Finally, if expression is any. imkx of true opinion, t.hc service whi~h
this extraordinary instrun1l'ntahty has n·mkred, both 111 resprc~ of its
timeliness and method, is signal and 111e~norahk., ancl the quality am!
dignity of its pcrformancr of great lwnd1t to officers of n·gular chartered Lodges who have witnessed it.. The aclopti~n. of a mrthod,un11s11al
in this country in thr Sl'Concl section of the .1 lnrcl l>cgrcr. (hut one
which is familiar to those who have travl·llccl 111 othrr countncs) lends
itself peculiarly to the dignity am! harmony of our efforts.

'
28

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
OREGON.

The attitude of Oregon may be had from the following:
Petitions were signed asking for Special Dispensations to form
Military Lodges in the different organizations forming the Oregon Contingent of the U. S. Forces at Camp Mills to be sent ahroad; but these
petitions never reached me. This is perhaps due to the fact that I let it
be known in advance that they could not be granted without invasion
of the rights of other Jurisdiction;;. However, if these petitions could
have been presented while the applicants were still within our State,
the Dispensations could have been consistently issued. I believe that
every privilege and opportunity for fraternal association should be given
those of our boys who have enlisted in the cmrnc of Democracy, but we
should even remember that conferring degrees is only a mca.ns of
recruiting our ranks and but a small part of our real Masonic work.
By the formation of Masonic clubs in thc various cantonments and
instruction camps, and even among the troOj)S abroad, much beneficial
service could be given and mutual hcncfits received.
KANSAS.

The Grand Lodge of Kansas disp(>Scs of Military Lodges as•
follows:
in

The Deputy Grand Masll'r handlt·s tht' question of Military Lodges
thorough manner in answer to a request n· the formation of one.

1-1 is reply is worthy of a full quotation :
"lvfy D('ar Sir a11d BrothN:
"The petition of yourself and other Hrdhre11 addresscd to the Most
\Vorshipful Grand Master Clrnrh·s E. Lolidcll, asking for lcttcrs of dispensation to form a Military Lodge ll. D., under authority of the Crane!
Lodge of Kans;;s, has in the ahst·nn· of Bro. LolHkll from the Stale,
heen refern·d to me. After giving tll(' mailer careful aml due consideration, I have coml• to llH' conclusion that it is ncitht•r t•xpedic11t
nor desirable to grant such lctkrs of dispensation. To clo so would he
to act contrary to the rulings aln·ady laid down on this s11hjcct hy
previous Grand Masters.
"In the Proceedings of the Grand Lodge of Kans:1s of 1866, page
15, it is said in relation to Military Lodgl's:
"'Now, when these Lod!{cs havc ceast>d to l'xist, truly, imlced, it
is said that the "<1ucstions raist>cl" arc of tlw most gran· and serious
import. The Grand Lodge of Kansas has cause to rejoice• that she
unhesitatingly refused to give tlw sanction of her Masonic authority
to a single military Lodge, and may co1111:ratulate hersdf ihat none of
those Masonic Jshn1aditcs can trace~ their paternity to her indiscretion.'
"The history of military Lodges in otht•r Crand J urisdietions has
proven most unsatisfactory. ~fosl Worshipful Thomas]. Turner, Cram!
Master of lllinois, in his achlress to the Grancl I.rnlgt• of Illinois in 1865
concerning Military Lodges, had this to say:
'
"'Previous to my installation sl'veral displ·mations had hcen grantrd
by my predecessor to open Military l.,oclgt•s in the army then in tlw
tield. I have never het•n fully informed as lo the extcnt of the powe.rs
granted by these dispensations, !Jut I stt(lpose they did not confer any

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

29

authority to invade foreign Jurisdictions and make Masons from the
citizen soldiery of other States. In all the dispensations for Military
Lodges granted by me, jurisdiction was limited to the single regiment of Illinois troops to which the dispensation was granted. I
am led to believe that some of the Military Lodges working under
•lispensation from our Jurisdiction have greatly abused their privileges,
and brought reproach upon our Order. Instead of confining their
operation to Illinois regiments and troops exclusively, as they ought to
have done. they made Masons indiscriminately from soldiers and citizens
of other States, with very little regard for the kind of material used.
Wisconsin, Minnesota, Iowa and Missouri have especial cause to complain in this respect.'

"I desire also to call your attention to the Grand Lodge of California, on this subject. It says :
"'An army lodge is an anomaly in Masonry. Its meetings are held
at any place where the exigencies of the military service may cause a
temporary encampment. If held in our own country, such meetings are
necessarily an invasion of the jurisdiction of other regularly constitute(!
lodges. During the clash of battle in our late Civil War, it sometimes
happened that army lodges, with their charters ·and records, were swept
from existence, and the unfortunate members of such lodges were thus
deprived of mcmhenhip, without dimits or other records to show that
they had received the degrees of Masonry in a regularly chartered
Masonic Lodge.'
"There are many other authorities holding to the same effect, but
it woul.d seem unnecessary to quote them further. For the good of the
fratermty generally, throughout not only the Grand Jurisdiction of
Kansas, but throughout the world, 1 am constrained to deny your petition for letters of dis1iensation for such military lodge."
on JO,
The Grand Master of Ohio has this to say of Military Lodges,
which m~t with the approval of the Grand Lodge:
I have received some informal requests for the establishment in the
state of Ohio of military lodges, sometimes called traveling or army
lodges. I have answered these requests by stating that it would not be
conducive to the best interests of Freemasonry, in my opinion to authorize such lodges. I have explained that the Grand Master ha~ no power
in the premises, but that the initiative would have to be taken by the
Grand Lodge, I am opposed to this idea. With fifty Grand Jurisdictions in the United States of America and no General Grand Body over
all, each Grand Jurisdiction is a law unto itself. 1f each Grand Lodge
of the fifty should unckrtakc to establish military lodges, the result
would he untold confusion, and, in my humble opinion, disastrous to the
cause of Freemasonry. All honor to the man who has gone forth to
battle for this glorious country of ours and who is offering his life as a
sacriticc to the cause of Lilwrty and Humanity; hut what real benefit
can he derive from hecoming a member of one of these military lodges?
All of the benefits of Freemasonry will accrue to him from association
with his companions in arms who are members of the Order. and by
being permittcd to visit regularly established Lodges near the camp or

30

REPORT O:N CORRESPONDENCE.

cantonment where he may be located. No proper place can be h.ad .for
the meeting of a Lodge under conditions now existing in Europe where
the men are engaged in actual fighting. No proper safeguard could be
thrown around a Lodge of Masons. And as no necessity exists for it in
this country, and it is not practicable elsewhere, I trust the Grand Lodge
of Ohio will not be prevailed upon to take this dangerous step.
MASONRY AND THE WAR-UNANIMOUSLY PATRIO.TIC.
From the moment when this Great Republic bowed to the will
of the inevitable and cast its lot with the nations that were struggling to death with the unspeakable barbarism of the central powers,
Sovereign Masonic Bodies of this country immediately allied themselves with unbroken unanimity back of the Government. This
unanimous sentiment of the grand jurisdictions of the United States.'
pervades all the Masonic jurisdictions of the colonies and countries
arrayed against Prussian barbarism. The Masonic grand bodies' of
Australia and Canada have evidenced their devoted loyalty by taking an unalterable and unyielding stand to support the Mother
Country and her Allies until such time as further fear of the Uomination of Prussianism shall have been beyond the pale of possible
resurrection.
The spirit that pervades the Masonic world is exemplified in
the splendid patriotism which runs through the acts of every Grand.
Lodge that has convened since April, 1917. It would be impossible
and unpracticable to atte~npt, within the limit of tpis review, to give
each Grand Jurisdiction a representation; but it may be said to the·
credit of all that what follows is not an exaggerated exemplification
of the judgment of Masonry.
FLAG CERJiMONIALS.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

31

'l'hC'se are the crosses of St. George, St. Andrew and St. P;africk, St.
:l'orge being the patron saint of England, St. Andrew the tutelary saint
of Scotland, and St. Patrick the well-beloved saint of Ireland.
The banner of St. George was a red cross laid perpendicularly
across a white field. \Ve can all recall the famous legend of St.
C ;corge and the dragon, how the beautiful daughter of the King of
1 ln :was rescued from the flaming jaws of the dragon which threat1·ned to devour her. Today in France the sons of St. George are
freely offering up their lives to rescue God's beautiful daughter Libt•rty from the all-devouring jaws of the dragon of militarism. ·
The banner of St. Andrew consisted of a white cross. laid diagonally upon a blue field. It. has a special meaning for Masoris, for
in the early days it was the banner of the craftsman, and King
J;111ies the VI was heard to say that whenever he attempted to
i11Jpose upon these sturdy workmen the smallest burden, they arose
in their wrath and hoisted "their bloody blue bHmket" and resisted
him. This banner had painted upon it a thistle and round about it
the motto: "N emo me impune· lacessit." This, my brethren, is a
Latin phrase, which being interpreted, meaneth: "Nobody monkeys
with me without getting stung," and the sons of Scotland. fighting
today somewhere in France, are proving to the enemy how sharply
this thistle can sting.
C

The banner of St. Patrick consisted of a red cross stretched
<liagonally across a white field. \Ve are told that St. Patrick was
especially beloved because he drove the snakes out of Ireland. I
sometimes suspect, however, that their real reason for leaving was
that they could hardly stomach the music made by the Kilkenny
cats, of whom the· poet tells us:
"There were two cats of Kilkenny,
They fought and they fit,
They scratched and they bit,
Until instead of two cats of Kilkenny
There wasn't any."

Many very beautiful flag ceremonials were presented in the
several Grand Lodges. None were more instructive or impressive
than the following in the Grand Lodge of Iowa;

Be this as it may, it is, nevertheless, sure that the sons of the
old sod are today proving to the Prussians that the Kilkenny cats
could take lessons from their Irish masters when it comes to
fighting.

TH}\ Rl\C:llPTION OF '!'HJ\ FLAGS.

Taken. all together, the three crosses go to make up the Union
Jack, the banner of our ancient enemy, John Bull. You know that
in the old days we were forced to teach him a couple of lessons in
human liberty, forced to make him understand that we would
neither, endure taxation without representation, nor permit him to
impress free-born American seamen upon the high seas, and to
make him learn this lesson we had to larrup him twice, once by Ian(!
and once by sea. But that was a long time ago, and for over .a
hundred years now he has been our good neighbor on the north,
and we have lived side ,by side with him for over a century with
never a soldier or a fort needed to maintain peace between us.
This is the flag of the land which gave Masonry her birth. It
is the banner of the country which produced the greatest system of
human law known to man-at once the wisest and fairest, the safest

The British, French and American flags were each presented by a 1
girl dressed in the white nurse's uniform of the Red Cross. ·when the
British flag was borne down the aisle to the stage the quartette sang.
"Rule Britannia," and the flag was received and welcomed by the speaker
with these words;
'rHJt U!'<ION JACK.

This is the flag that is best known as the "Union Jack." It is ca!led
this because it svmbolizes the union of England, Scotland and Ireland.
As vou will see; it consists of a blue field across which there are laid
three crosses, a red one running straight across <ind up and down, and
a white one and a red one which run cross-ways from corner to corner.

33

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

and squarest system of free self-control that has ever blessed a
troubled world.
·

The other day in addressing the Chamber of Deputies, Monsieur
IWiot, the president of the Council, speaking of us to his people,
Kaid that the powerful and decisive aid which the United States had
1h11s brought to France was not only a material aid but was more
than all else a moral aid and a real consolation in their hour of
heavy affliction. Let us here highly resolve that we will prove ourMclves true to the faith our French brothers have in us.

32

This is the national emblem of the people who speak our mother
tongue, and for that reason we can know and understand them a
little bit better than any other people on the earth.
We used to think and feel that while England loved liberty for
herself, she was not quite so ready to grant it to others. But we
have seen her heart undergo a wonderful change-have seen the
soul of the great British people rise and shake off its selfishness
and offer itself as a sacrifice for the suffering and the oppressed of
the world. If Britain was ever beset with the greed of conquest
she surely has shriven her soul by the great sacrifice made by her
sons in behalf of poor, broken, bleeding Belgium, and we are now
ready to believe that with her whole heart and soul she loves
liberty for her own sweet sake, and that when she proudly declares
that "Britons never, never, never will be slaves" she means that
slavery shall exist nowhere in the world, and so we are glad to welcome here today the proud banner of Britain, fold it to our hearts
and wave it aloft alongside tli: Stars and Stripes.
THI\ TRl-COLOR.

Then the national flag of France was home to the stage and
the quartette sang the "M arsellaisc," and the speaker welcomed it
by saying:
"'
This, my brethren, is the tri-color. the tried colors of the
sunny land of France. It is the flag of our sister republic, .the
standard of a great, cheery, laughing, sunny-souled and happy.
hearted people, and if there is a flag on the face of the earth to
which the American soul is irresistibly drawn with a tingling thrill,
it is this beautiful hanner of France. How well our own song of
the Red. White and Blue would fit this fine flag. Let us give three
cheers for this Red, White and Blue!
Whereupon the great audience arose to their feet and roared
out a cheer that seemed to rock the liuilding on its foundations.
This is the banner that has proved to the world that a people
can be free and still not lose its power of fighting. Just think of
the magnificent resistance that this free people has made against
the most powerful. most magnificently organized, and perfectly
operating fighting machine the world has ever seen. Under the
leadership of old Papa Joffre. the General Grant of France, thc!!y·
have fought this military machine to a stand-still and are making
its wheels grind backward. At last, my brethren, we have an opportunity of paying the debt we have so long owed to Rochambeau
and Lafayette, and we were sodden ingrates, indeed, did we not
respond to the call of our ancient friends who have sn freely poured
out floods of their patriotic blood upon the sacred altar of Liberty.
Verily, it takes a fre<' people to know the heart of a free people, and
if there is a land in the world to which our hearts go out in its hour
of trial, it is this dearly beloved land of France, the land that was so
true and helpful to us in our own hour .of crying need.

'

OLD GLORY.

Then the Stars and Stripes were carried to the stage, the audi1·nce standing and singing the "Star-Spangled Banner." \Vhen the
flag was placed in the hands of the speaker, he said:
This is Old Glory, my flag and your flag. If there ever was a
flag about which an American ought to be able to speak freely,
fluently, and with great force, it surely is the Stars and Strijiles.
But, alas, on this occasion I feel as though human speech were far
too frail, poor and weak a thing to tell of the thouqhts that fill the
mind and the feelings that thrill the soul. This is one of the times
when words seem absolutely worthless. This is the flag which the
poet spoke of when he sang:
"When freedom from her mountain height
Unfurled her standard to the air,
She tore the azure robe of night,
And set the stars of glory there!
She mingled with its gorgeous dyes
The milky baldric of the skies,
And striped its pure celestial white
With streakings of the morning light.
Then from his mansion in the sun
She called her eagle bearer down,
And gave into his mighty hand
::'.fhe symbol of her chosen land."
Unequal as I am to the occasion, I yet must try to tell what
this banner means for us as"Rlue and crimson and white it shines
Over .the steel-tipped ordered lines."
Or as it"Catches the gleam of the morning's first beam
In full glory reflected now shines on the stream."
Even if I call to my help the words of others to tell the story.
This is the flag that speaks to us of"Sea fights and land fights, grim and great,
Fought to make and to save the state,
Weary marches and ,sinking ships,
Cheers of victory. from dying lips.
"Days of plenty and days of peace, ·
March of strong lands swift increase,
Equal justice, right, and law,
Stately honor and reverend awe.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT. ON CORRESPOND.ENCE.

"Sign of a nation great and strong,
To guard her people from foreign wrong,
Glory, pride, and honor all ·
Live in the flag to stand or fall."

Some of us can fight, others can work, others still can pay, each
in his place can do his duty and be worth;v of the .honor of being an
American citizen and enjoying the blessings of liberty. Each on.e
or us can do his bit, and remember that-

Even though I had the skill of the sculptor that fits him to carve
the cold rock into a living semblance of life, or the inspiration of a
painter who dips his brush in the colors of the sunset to ma~e-the
glowing landscape quiver with life upon the ~anvas before hnn, <?r
the exaltation of the singer who caught the high note of the music
of the spheres when the morning star\ sang together-even then I.
could not begin to picture the power, the glory, ~he 'maj~sty, the·
dignity, and the sanctity of the love of the free patriot for his flag.
"I am unworthy,
Master hands
Should strike the chords
And fill the lands
From sea to sea with melody
All reverent yet with harmony,
Majestic, jubilant to tell,
How love must love
If love loves well."

"Honor and fame from no condition rise,
Act well thy part, there all the honor lies."
The poorest citizen in the land can buy at least one Liberty
Bond, and every dollar spent for a Liberty Bond is a bullet blown
in the bowels of the enemy. Let us here today in overwhelming
J.(ratitude for the blessings that we have enjoyed under this banner
of the free, consecrate our souls anew to its service.
THE MISSING PLAG,

Think of the sacrj!d love of a mother for her little child-01
the cradle"Gently rocking, rocking,
Silent, peaceful, to and fro,
Of the mother's sweet looks dropping : - -'
On the little face below."
Think of the love of a fine, strong man as he clasps to his
breast his blushing bride; think of the sacred affection linking
together the lives of an old couple who have journ~}'.r.d far along
life's road side by side into the sunset; think of the love and the
pride and the joy that flames back and forth between a staunch and
sturdy son and his silver-haired sire-think bf all these and roll and
blend th.em into one and you cartnot begin to tell of the love of the
freeman for his flag! Surely, then, we are ready to say:
"This is my flag. For it I will give
All that I have, even as they gave. They who dyed those blood-red bands. Their lives that it might wave.
"This is my flag. I am prepared
To answer now its first clear call,
And with Thy help, 0 God,
Strive that it may not fall.
"This is my flag. Dark days seem near.
Oh Lord, let me not fail.
Always my flag has led the right,
Oh Lord, let it not fail."

35

But there is another banner which is not here with us today, a
flag which for the present at least we are forced to shut out of our
~acred circle. I speak of it with pain and regret, with heartache and
with a great sense of deep pity, for it is the flag of my ancestors,
and my own father's ashes now lie buried beneath the soil over
which it waves. It is needless to say that I speak of the German
flag. Tl:ii's 'flag once flew over the heads of a great people, a people
that stood high' in the ranks oi world achievement; a people who
were masters of the world, both in medicine and music, and a people
who love liberty, a people who produced Martin Luther, who was
the foremost champion of religious liberty in the world. There is
une curious thing about the colors of these flags which I am not
imre that you have noticed. Is it by mere chance that it happens
that the colors of all of the flags of freedom are red, white and blue,
while those of the banner of Prussian despotism are red, white and
hlack? Was it a matter of mere accident that this dark streak and
sinister stripp appears in this flag which now stands for the outlaw.
among the riations? ls not this dark stripe symbolical of the dark-·
ness of the mind, the military madness that holds a great people in
honds and is fast driving it on to ruin? Surely the black must be a
symbol of the madness of militarism.
vVhen a storm gathers in the heavens black clouds shut out
from sight the face of the sun. But when the rage and madness of
the elements have worn themselves out and the roll of the thunder
has died away in the distance, then slowly but surely the blackness
fades to blue and the earth is bright and happy once more. Let us
hope that so it will be in this awful world war, and that, when the
storm of rage and madness has been swept from out the hearts of
our German brethren, the blackness which now blinds their sight
will clear away and be supplanted by the pure blue of the unclouded
sky of freedom, and that peace and happiness will once more prevail among all the peoples of the earth.
THE FLAG OF FRATERNITY.

;

But there is another banner here today, although we cannot see
it with our mortal eyes. It is the unseen flag of katernity that
floats above the dome of that great "house not made with hands,"
that temple of liberty which stands forever eternal in the heavens.
lts colors are all the colors of the rainbow and it spreads its flaming

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

folds across the world from sunrise to sunset. It is a flag that shall
fall upon the world as a reward for the awful sacrifice it is now
being called upon to make. In all of the history of this old earth
never has there been a sacrifice so awful, so bitter, so heart-rending,
so soul-terrifying, so overwhelming, as that which we are making
today for the sake of human liberty, and just so surely as we believe
that there is a God of justice, just so certain must be the reward
that will bless humanity for this mighty manifestation of divine
devotion to a most holy cause. Out of it all there must come a
world-wide unity and friendship, and a fraternity that shall reach
wide-swept to the uttermost corners of the globe. There mi~st be
a union of the states, not of Europe alone, but of the whole worl<;I.
and Masonry, which has never been the destroyer but always the
builder, must play a mighty part in erecting this world-wide temple
of humanity. Even now Masons everywhere are praying for the
dawn of that day so beautifully pictured by Albert Pike-

('!tarter, by which certain rights were secured to the people, free
from the autocratic power of the ruler. The rights secured were,
c11111paratively, but few, and some were inconsequential. But bemuse it was a first step toward an abridgment of autocratic rule.
it was a real step of magnitude in the march of the people toward
l{overnment of, by and for the people.
Every school boy is taught and we all remember various dates
which mark great steps in the progress from a worid of autocracies
lo that goal of every liberty-loving people-a world oi democracies.
There is the year of 1215, marking the grant of the Magna
Charta.
There is the date of the Declaration of the Independence of our
own beloved country. July 4th, 1776.
There is the date of that proclamation by which our great
!'resident Lincoln gave freedom to the slaves, the Emancipation
Proclamation, January 1st, 1863.
There is the date of the birth of the present French Republic,
1870.
There is the year 1913. when China took its place among the
republics of the world.
The year 1917 we all hope may go down in history as the year
of the end of autocratic rule in Russia.
'
The dates, marking steps in the triumphant onward march of
democracy, as distinguished from autocracy, are familiar to everyone.
But there is one period which, unfortunately. cannot be distinuuished by a definite or positive date, marking the greatest single
;tep toward democracy which the world has ever known. of which
the general public knows and hears but little. Could the step be
attached to a definite date, the world might know more of it. But
we Masons, who should and do know the most of it. have positive
information as to no definite date and know but the period of the
great step.
I refer to the birth of Speculative Masonry.•
In ancient times we Masons existed as lodges of actual workmen-operative masons, practicing the principles and following to
some extent, as is shown by the old charges, the doctrines we now
teach, though probably only in an incidental way, for we were primarily concerned in the proper application of the useful rules of
architecture. But at some time prior to 1717. our ancient operative
brethren admitted to their ranks, as members of their order. individuals who were not operative or actual builders.
Our history previous to the year 1717 is cloudy; dates cannot be
definitely fixed; records were either not kept or were destroyed.
Just how long before 1717 men were admitted to lodges oi Free
Masons, who had no connection with the builder's trade or profession, we do not know. Rut we do know that in the preceding century, many, among those whose names are familiar to ns being Ashmole and Mainwaring, both scientists and philosophers. and not at
all eligible as builders, were admitted to memhership. The presence

36

"vVhen all mankind shall be one great lodge of brethren,
And wars of fear and persecution shall be known no more forever."
When that day comes we shall behold with our spiritual eyes
. the mighty temple of human liberty made more magnificent than
ever, and over its shining portal we shall read in letters of living
light the words: "Liberty and union, freedom and fraternity, now
and forever, one and inseparable, world without end."
No stronger statement of the real Prussian situation as represented by the Hohenzollerns-its origin and growth-can be found
anywhere than is expressed in the following oration delivered before
the Grand l~odge of Minnesota by Worthy Brother Harry G. Gearhart, Grand Orator, and I commend it for the careful perusal and
consideration of all thoughtful Masons. It demonstrates that which
we all knew, that this most momentous struggle in history was
inevitable.
He said, in part:
These forms of government by which the world was for so long
ruled, whether we call them autocracies or monarchies, early gave
birth to the theory of the divine right of kings-the theory that the
ruler was the ruler by divine right-and to such sayings as "The
king can do no wrong", "Might is Right", and that famous truism
of that king of France, "The State; I am the State."
Plato, that old Greek philosopher, in his "The Republic," cynically yet truly for his time and for many centuries thereafter, maintained that political governments existed for the benefit of the governors and not for the benefit of the governed, and makes his char-·
acter, Thrasymachus, say "Might is right; justice is in the interest
of the stronger."
Prior to the middle of the seventeenth century, the government
of autocrats which existed throughout the world, had received but
one substantial check. In the year 1215 there was wrung from King
John, of England, that great document, the Magna Charta, or Great

37

REPORT ON CORRESPONDI'JNCE.
38

39

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

of these non-operative Masons had an effect upon the workings of
Lodges of Free Masons, and that they crystallized in such Lodges
the principles of Speculative Masonry long prior to 1717 cannot be
doubted, for that year found these non-operative members in control of the situation, and from that time on Masonry has been as
we know it-primarily teaching and inculcating those principles
which are so familiar to us today.
Whether the birth of Speculative Masonry is placed in the year
1717 or at some time prior thereto, I say that its birth marks one ot
the greatest, if not the greatest, single step toward a world of
democracies.
Think of the countless ages previous to the birth of Speculative
Masonry, during which time autocratic rule was universal, and the
influence against autocracy was wielded by so few people. From
the very birth of the human race up to the eighteenth century, the
world had been ruled by might, and the principles of whi~h we are
reminded by the square, the compass and our other workmg tools,
had played hut incidental parts in matters of government.
But taking the year 1717 as the earliest starting point of Speculative Masonry, and the time from which we Masons were bound
to practice and teach the beliefs we now hold, obser~e the changes
which have since transpired in the method of governmg.
While a republican form of government had been e~tablished
in Great Britain in 1649 under Cromwell, the greatest smgle step
taken by any body politic toward a democratic form of government
was that taken by our forefathers in 1776, when they signed a declaration of their independence from Great Britain, and ~hen later
they adopted that constitution which became, and has smce been,
the very foundation of our government.
There is no question but that the Constitution of the United
States and the success of our form of government has been largely
instrumental in influencing other peoples to adopt the same or a
similar form of government.
France first endeavored to throw off the yoke of tyranny in
1792 and was only partially successful for but a short time, returning to monarchical rule, which it fi~ally overthrew in 1870, since
which time it has been a true republtc.
The autocratic rule of the king of Italy was, in 1848, by a determined effort upon the part of the people, abridged by a ~onstitution,
and he has since been but the executive head of the nation, the real
governing power being vested in the people. through .two legislative
bodies. In the same country the autocratic power of the Roman ·
Church in matters of state, was legislated out of existence in 1861,
though it retained some semblan.ce of temporal pow~r ~n~il _1870,
since which time the people have Jealously guarded their civil rights
from interference by the church.
The various countries in our southern hemisphere, after years
of persecutions at the hands of se!f~sh European mona_rchs who
truly exemplified the theory that poltt.1ca! governm.ents ex1~ted only
for the benefit of the governors, bcgmnmg early 111 the nmeteenth
century, one by one established liberal forms of government.

The political futures of China and Russia are as yet uncertain;
hut the fact that each has proclaimed and is struggling to establish
a republican form of government is sufficient to illustrate the fact
I have in mind. And that fact is this: That these numerous and tre111cndous changes and efforts toward changes in the form of govc•rnments, from autocracies to democracies, have taken place since
Speculative Masonry came into being.
At first we were naturally few in numbers. But our growth has
been most marvellous. The voices of the few who, as individuals', so
ineffectively preached and tried to teach the ideals of truth, justice,
equality and liberty in past ages, have, since the birth and growth
of Speculative Masonry, become the voice of a host teaching and
working for those same id~als.
vVe can only roughly estimate our numbers at present. The
Masons in the. world may number approximately 2,500,000, and we
have even less of an idea as to our total numbers at any time in the
past. But we do know that wherever our Lodges have existed,
there has been a body of men-men of an intelligence above the
average and among the leaders in their communities-whose efforts
have heen directed toward the spread of the spirit of truth, justice
and liberty.
Our ar!fumcnts may be no more substantial and our beliefs no
more conscientious than those of the old individual worker or the
old individual philosopher and seeker after the truth; but any argument or belief which is urged, acted and lived by its hundreds of
thousands all over the world, is bound to be most effective.
We arc sending to the European battle front hundreds of. thousands, possibly millions of men, with the idea that, through the
force of their numbers they can cause an effect which could not
possibly be produced hy a less number. So with Masonry; its principles are urged with the combined force of all its members-a force
which should he tremendous. And, therefore, considering the principles in which we Speculative Masons believe and for which we
labor and have always lab'orcd, I say that the birth of Speculative
Masonry, as the beginning of the particular force urging Masonic
principles, doctrines and ideals, is the period marking the greatest
single step toward a world of democracies.
It will be noted that, in mentioning the countries of the civilized
world where a liberal form of government has superseded the original tyrannical form, I have not mentioned Turkey, Austria-ll ungary
and Germany, the three principal countries which arc today waging
war against democracy-the greatest war, in point of numbers and
principles involved, which the world has ever known.
That Masonic principles have not yet permeated the soul of the
masses in Mohammedan Turkey and Roman Catholic AustriaHungary, is not to be wondered at; the reason is apparent why it
should there take longer than in other countries. Hut their ally,
Ge~many, has long been considered as one of the most enlightcnccl
nat10ns of the world. Among its people have been found scientists,
philosophers, men of letters the equal of any. ·Its people are free
to worship as they please, and are credited with the highest average
education among the peoples of the world.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

'Vhy. then, is Germany not only fighting this war against the
peoples having and believing in a liberal form of government, but
the instigator of and leader in the war?
Jn my judgment, the answer to the question is found, primarily,,
in the form of government which obtains in the German empire,
and secondarily, in the peculiar tastes, beliefs and mental characteristi~s of the members of the Hohenzollern family, of which Kaiser
William II is the present head.
The German empire is composed of what were once a number
of independent kingdoms, duchies and states, now generally called
states, each governed by a king or other hereditary ruler. T.he
kingdom of Prussia is one of these, and the Hohenzollern family
has for centuries been its reigning head. •
The empire, consisting of these several so-called states, has
what is called a constitutional form of government; that is, the conduct of its affairs is regulated and the powers of its ruler fixed by
a constitution adopted in 1870. which also, in theory and only in
theory, grants to the people a voice in the government.
This constitution is a very ingenious document. It was adopted
practically at the dictation of Prussia, and provides that he who is
king of Prussia shall be the ruler of the empire-the German kaiser.
It also provides for two legislative bodies corresponding in a faint,
though very faint, degree to our Congress-there called the Rundesrath and Reichstag. The members of the Bundesrath, or upper
house, are appointed by the reigning heads of the several states and
kingdoms comprising the empire. But the ingenuity of the practical working of this develops in the fact that, through the methods
by which members are appointed. and the exceptional numbers
allotted to Prussia, and the powers given the Prnssian members in
affairs concerning the army. the navy and taxation. the voice of
Prussia dictates the action of the body. Therefore, in such matters
the voice of the Bundesrath is simply the expression of the will of
the king of Prussia-the German kaiser.
The other legislative body. the Reichstag, is composed of members who are elected by the people. This sounds like democracy;
hut it is not as encouraging as it sounds. For here, again, Prussia
furnishes a great majority of the memhers (232 out of a total of
397), and, what is more important, the kaiser .can, at his will, dissolve the Reichstag and compel another election of memhers. .If
he has an unruly Reichstag, which will not yield to his dictates, he
can dissolve it and compel another election and continue so doing
until he secures a Reichstag where a majority will do his will and
indorse measures passed ,by his BundeHath. By these constitutional provisions the kaiser's autocratic power is limited, in that he
is refused the right to make laws by his word alone. as he could
were the powers of government vested in him and in no other individual or body. But by that most ingenious constitution of Prussian manufacture, the kaiser has merely to conforpl to or put up
with a little red tape, and his will is law.
At the beginning of the present war we hear much from German sources as to how Germany had been attacked by France and
Russia, and how Germany was forced into the war in self-defense.
The reason for this is found in another provision of this remarkable
constitution which gives the kaiser the right to declare a war only

in defense of the empire, and which all authorities agree impliedly
prohibits him from declaring an offensive war. Yet the constitution fails to state what shall happen if he does declare a war of
offense; and, as it is a fact that every German soldier and sailor is
bound by an oath of allegiance, not to the empire and not to the
particular state from which he comes, but to the kaiser personally,
it is not difficult to see that the kaiser, with the army and navy
under his absolute direction, can actually declare and prosecute a
war of offense and conquest, without any serious consequences by
reason of his overrnling the provisions of the constitution.
I have no doubt but that the argument that Germany was the
country attacked in the war, was made by the German people in
order to defend their constitution to themselves and to the outside
world, and to justify their kaiser's declaration of war.
From these facts, it will be seen that Germany, though assuming to he a so-called constitutional monarchy, is really an autocracy
-an autocracy which, headed by an individual of decidedly autocratic tendencies, can be as pronounced an autocracy as ever existed,
And what are the peculiar tastes and beliefs and mental characteristics of the members of the Hohenzollern family, of which the
present kaiser is the head?
In the first place, from the rulers of the original kingdom of
Prussia, which containea approximately 24,000 square miles. the)'
have extended their rule over what is now the German empire, an
area approximating 209,000 square miles; and practically every
square mile of that additional territory has been brought under the
rule of the Prussian reigning family by force of arms or coercion.
For several centuries past the heads of this house have been
believers in the doctrine of the right of might. and have had the
physical and mental attainments necessary to enforce that doctrine
upon their own and neighboring peoples.
This family also holds another belief, one of which much has
been said and written, but one which l doubt is thoroughly appreciated by anyone who is not imbued with the spirit of democracy.
That is the belief that the Hohenzollern family rules by Divine right
-that it has been especially chosen by the Almighty to rule over
the people of the German empire, and that the Almighty and the
kaiser, working together, can do no wrong. Many expressions hy
various German rulers can be found which prove such beliefs, but I
,,.ill quote but two hy the present kaiser-William 1I.
Jn a famous speech made by him in Bremen in 1897, the kaiser
said:
·
"lf we have been able to accomplish what has been accomplished. it is due. above all things, to the fact that our house (the
house of I lohenzollern) possesses a tradition by virtue of which we
consider that we have been appointed hy God to preserve and direct
for their own welfare the people over whom he has given us power."
Again, in a much commented upon speech at Konigsberg, in
1910, he said:
"lt was upon this spot that my grandfather, in his own right,
placed the crown upon his head, insisting once again that it was
bestowed upon him by the grace of God alone, and not by parlia-

40

41

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
42

43

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

men ts and meetings and decisions of. the people, He thus regarded
himse,lf as ~he chosen instrument of Heaven, and, as such, carried
out his duties as a ruler and a lord. I consider myself such an instrument of Heaven, and shall go my way without regard to the
views and opinions of the day."
With such a principle dogmatically asserted for centuries by
one ruler after another, especially as that ruler has been able to
defend, and has defended, that principle with force of arms, is it
any wonder that the German people themselves have become imbued
with that belief?
And that you may appreciate to what extent this monstrous
belief h.as become the belief <?f the German people, listen to the
expressions of Germans of various callings.
A minister of the Gospel, Rev. Lehman, in a published sermon
th~ text of which was "On the German God," says, among othe;
thmgs:
"If God is for us, who can be against us? It is enough for us to
be a part of God.
"The German soul is the world's soul-God and Germany belong to one another.
"We ;;r~ begin~in15 slo~-ly, humbly and yet ~ith a deep gladness, to d1vme Gods mtent10ns. It may sound proud, my friends,
hut we are c<;mscio~1s that jt is also in humbleness we say it; the
,German soul 1s Gods soul; 1t shall and will rule over mankind.
"It is no foolish over-valuation of ourselves, no aggressive arrogance, no want of humility, when we more and more let Bismarck's
faith prevail within us, that God has taken the German nation under
His special care, or, in any case, has some special purpose in view
for it. Germany is the center of God's plans for the world."
One H. S, Chamberlain, born an Englishman, but, having lived
in Germany for many years, became a German citizen and imbued
with all the irreligious arrogance which the Prussian belief has
instilled into all Germans, in a book written by him, entitled "Political Ideals,'' says:
·
"I want to make clear in what sense we may say, without
extravagance or the least trace of self-exaltation, Germany is
chosen. Germany is chosen for her own good and that bf other
nations to undertake their. guidance. Providence has placed the·
appointed people, at the appointed moment, ready for the appointed ,
task."
In another work entitled "Confidence," the same author uses
this language: ,
,
"On this planet, as a result of millenniums of developn~ent, has
it come to this, that Germany-and in a wider sense, Germanism,
within and without the empire-has become an instrument of God,
an indispensable, irreplaceable instrument of God? This question I
ask and answer it in the affirmative."
One E. von Heyking, at one time a German consul irr New
York, in an article entitled "The Real England", says:

"England is our worst enemy and we will fight her until we
have overthrown her. So it may please our Great Ally, who stands
lu·hind the German battalions, behind our ships and U-boats, and
b1·hind our blessed militarism."
I have had before me expressions to the same effect from many
1liff1•rent German writers and speakers, But these few suffice to
•how the widespread effect of the belief of the House of Hohen" diem that it rules by Divine right, in that the German people
hdicves that it has an especial alliance with God.
Such belief as this is most dangerous, not only for the ones
mssessing it, but for their neighbors. It would be a most dangerous
11·1icf for a man super-humanly fair, but it is infinitely more dangerous when held by one of the powerful nations of the world-a
lusty, growing nation whose interests conflict with those of every
111 her nation, with a great army, a great navy, great wealth and
arrogant in power.
Co-ordinate with this belief, making it still more dangerous, is
th<• German idea that peace is not a condition to be desired, unless
it he through force of expediency, and that war is noble, sacred and
In he desired as a necessary factor toward a higher development.
This belief has also been taught the German people for many
,Vl'ars, It is the philosophy of those two German writers and think«rs, Treitschke and Neitzsche, of whom we have heard so much
during the past twenty years or more, and it is the doctrine which
one would expect to appeal to a military-loving people. And as it
has the approval of their Prussian ruling house, it has become thorn111<hly implanted in the German mentality.

l

Listen to what has been said upon the subject bv Germans from
111any walks in life.
•
The great Von Moltke, warrior as he was, as long ago as 1880,
wrote:
"Perpetual peace is a dream, and it is not even a beautiful
1ln·am; war forms a part of the eternal order instituted by God.
Without war humanity would sink into materialism."
Treitschke, in his work entitled "Politics", says:
"God above us will see to it that war shall always recur, as a
drastic medicine for ailing humanity,
"The appeal to arms will be valid until the end of history, and
therein lies the sacredness of war."
Again, in the same work, he says:
"It is only since the last war (1870) that a sounder theory has
nrisen of the state and its military power. · War, therefore, will
rntlure to the end of history, so long as there is a multiplicity of
~t:ites."

Neitzsche, in 1885, wrote:
"The time for petty policies is past; the next century will bring
I he, s~ru~gle for the dominion of the world-the compulsion to great
pnl1t1cs.

44

REPORT ON. CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In his "\Var and Warriors" he writes:
"Ye say it is the good cause which halloweth every war?
unto you it is the good war which halloweth every cause."

I say

And again, in the same work:
"Ye shall have peace as a means to new wars-and the short
peace more than the long."
One Otto von Gottberg, the editor of a very popular a.nd widely
read magazine called "\Veekly Paper for the Youth of Germany "
expresses himself in such paper:
'
"Let us laugh with all our lungs at the old women in trousers
who are afraid of war, and, therefore, complain that it is cruel and
hideous. No, war is beautiful. Its august grandeur elevates the
heart of man high above all that is commonplace and earthly."
One Klaus \Vagner, a prolific writer upon German politics and
policies, in his work entitled "\Var", says:
"Only over the black gate of the cemetery can we read the
words 'Eternal peace for all peoples.' For peoples who live and
strive, the only maxim and motto must he eternal war."
These few quotations well indicate the trend of German thought .
for years past, but such thought is definitely summed up in the now
famous book entitled "Germany and the Next War". published in
1912 by General Bernhardi, then chief of a department in the great
Germ~n gen.er~.! ~taff. Th~ very title of the work, "Germany and
the Next War , 1s suggestive of the German thought that a war
should come. The fact is taken for granted.
Thes<; quotations from such work are but a few of many thou:.
sands which I could use, and I assure you that they but feebly
express the spirit of the entire work. He says:
•
"The effor~s directed toward ~he abolition of war must not only
be termed foolish but absolutely immoral, and must he stigmatized
as unworthy of the human race.
"The duties and obligations of the German people cannot he
fulfilled without drawing the sword.
"Since almost every part of the globe is inhabited, new terri~ory must, as a rule, be o~tained at the cost of its possession-that
1s to s'ay, by ~onquest, wh1ch thus becomes a law of necessity.
"In one way or another we must square our account with
J::rance if we wish for a free hand in our international policy.
J• ranee must be so completely crushed that she can never again
come across our path.
·'If we wish to compete with them (the other powers), a policy
which our population and civilization both entitle and compel us to
adopt, we must not hold back in the hard struggle for the supremacy of the world:
•
"The brutal incidents inseparable from everv war vanish completely before the idealism of the main result. Strength, truth and
honor come to the front and are brought into play."

45

Jn connection with the last quotation, "The brutal incidents
inseparable from every war vanish completely before the idealism
of the main result", listen to what is said by one of the men whom
this government of ours sent over to France to investigate stories
and rumors of German brutalities. This man, a minister of the
( ;ospel, whose name is known in almost every household an.d
respected wherever known, writes:
"The cold catalog of German atrocities . . . makes the most
sickening page in history.''
Some of you older Brothers can look back to the: time of the

1nd.ian uprising here in our own state. The outrages committed by
the savages here, and by the bloodthirsty Apaches in the southwest,
are pages in history, and most terrible pages, too. But this government official says:
"The cold catalog of German atrocities .
makes the most
sickening page in history .
. leaves one nauseated, physically
and mentally. . . .
"These atrocities were not committed in a mood of drunkenness, nor in an hour of anger, but were organized by a so-·called
German efficiency, and perpetrated on a deliberate, cold, precise,
scientific policy of German frightfulness.
"It is not simply that they looted factories, carried away
machinery, robbed houses, bombed every farmhouse and granary,
left no plow or reaper, chopped down every pear tree and plum
tree, with every grape vine, and poisoned .all we.lls. The Germans
slaughtered old men and matrons, mutilated captives irt ways that
rnn only be spoken of by men in whispers; violated little girls until
chey were dead
and the worst atrocities cannot even be
named."
This commissioner, securing his information as an official of
nur government and for the purpose of an official report, recites
specific instances of many such brutalities, among which I find one
as to a child of two years, pierced through the body with a soldier's
hayonet, and so carried away on the shoulder of the soldier; the
cutting off of the hands and feet of a sixteen-year-old boy; the killing of a child three years of age, and nailing it to a door by its
hands and feet; the cutting off of the breasts of women.
Only this last week I met a man who told me that he himself
had, in an eastern hospital, some time ago, seen and talked with two
Red Cross nurses who, while engaged upon their work of mercy
with the Allies in Belgium, had been captured by Germans, who had
cut off their .hands at the wrists and, in that condition and pregnant
hy German soldiers, had been returned to the Allies and been sent
hack to this, their own country.
And these are some of the "brutal incidents inseparable from
every great war", which, according to this Gertdal Bernhardi, this
member of the kaiser's general staff, "vanish completely before the
idealism of the main result".
The present kaiser's belief. .in the league between himself and
his people and God, is proven by utterances which I have heretofore
11ttoted. If it is necessary to prove, by his words, his belief in the

46

REPORT . ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

right of might, in the doctrine of war, I quote from a printed
pamphlet distributed by the kaiser at a conference in Potsdam as
far back as 1892. In it he states that the ultimate goal of the Getman people is the Germanization of all the world, and says:
"From childhood. I have been under the influence of five menAlexander, Julius Caesar, Theodoric Second, Frederick the Great,
Napole~n. Each of thes~ men dreamed a dream of world empire.
They failed. I am dreammg a dream of the German world empireand my mailed fist shall succeed."
Can you not, from these words, analyze the character of. the
man who gave utterance to them? A vain man, or he would not
have placed himself above such famous characters of history as
those he named; a worshipper of military power, or the five individuals under whose influence he believed himself to be would hardly
have been five who might well be considered as the military gen-·
iuses of all time; a man with an inordinate desire for power; or he
w?uld not confess to a dream of a German world empire; a man
wtth every confidence in the strength of his military establishment,
or he would not promise the fulfillment of his dream through his
mailed fist.
What a dream of power! What an ambition to express to a.
people already believing in his league with God Almighty, and
alr~ady made to believe in war as a thing to be welcomed; yes,
desired.
We, my Brothers, Americans that we are, cannot at this time
help but feel that the German people are our enemies. We of
America, are at war with them. We must destroy or we and 'our
principles will be d~stroyed. Yet, considering the doctrines which·
for so long have been preached to that people-that God is with
them, that their ruler is their ruler because God has made him so
and wishes him to be so-that war is grand and to be desired, and.
that its brutalities vanish entirely before the idealism of the main
result, that they are entitled to world dominion and that their arms
~an win it for them, we cannot altogether wonder that they believe
!n and act, ~s they haye, upon these doctrines. I do not suggest this •
m extenuation of the acts of any German, but only to prove that we
must, for the cause of this war and for the prevention of another
look behind and beyond the individual; yes, even behind the kaise~
-to the condition in Germany which makes it possible for one man
or one family to dominate an entire people; which makes it possible
for one man to bring such a calamity upon the world .. We must
look to the system of government-that autocracy masked as a constitutional monarchy, that· autocracy paraded· before the world as
a s.emi-democracy through the representation of the people in the
R~t~hstag. In th.at system of government which permits a vain,
m1lttary-mad, selfish seeker of world power, to dominate and autocratically rule a great people, is found the thing which made this
war possible, and the thing which, in the interest of the peace of the
world, must be changed when the nations of the world sit in council
to determine the future of Germany. And. Brothers, the future of
Germany will be decided at a council of the world. And I thank
God that O'ur own country, the greatest democracy the world has

47

i·vcr known, can now honorably occupy a pc;isition in that council.
And it would, in my judgment, have been a misfortune for ~he wo.rld
and especially for our Or4er, had t~is. greatest. of all wars. mvolvmg
the greatest of all princ1ples-prmc1ples which 'Ye ~fasons h_ave
adopted as our principles-been brought to a termmatton at a hme
when our own great democracy could not have hc;inorably ~er;nanded
and willingly been conceded a prominent part m determmm15. the
h'rms upon which the conflict should be settled, and the condtttons
which should obtain after the war.
The lessons which we, in our Lodges, are tau~ht by our working tools and through our lectures, were never de~1gned to and cannot now be considered in any limited or restricted sense.. Our
standard of and pledge to justice,, for instance, mu~t be considered
in a large way and not merely with reference to d1spu~es ~etween
individuals. It means that we shall stand for whatever ts right and
good and just.
That remarkable document, our own revered _Declar!lt!on .of
Independence from Great Britain, was merely a recital of tnJUSt1ce
and wrongs suffered by the colonies at the hands of the mother
country, and a conclusion that, because thereof, we !llu~t alter the
then existing system of government and be free and independent.
Of the committee of five which drafted that great document,
every man was a Mason; and of the fifty-five who finally signed it,
it is believed that every man but one was a Mason.
That declaration was one of the greatest protests ~gai!1st injustice the world has ever known; and as such, and cons1dermg t~?se
who prepared. an.d signed it, _it must be est~i;med as an. e:ii;pos1tio11
of Masonic prmc1ples as applied to the cond1tton then ex1stmg.
It would have been little short of a world calamity ha? cond.itions been such that representatives of our government, with their
minds charged with those principles which are embodied in th1.
Declaration of Independenc~ through the work of. t.hose Brother
Masons Washington Franklm, Adams, Jefferson, L1vmgston, Sherman, a1{d a host of others, could no!, with abs~lute s.elf-~espect and
entire propriety, have taken a prominent part m ~em~n~mg of Ge;·
many, and for poor Belgium and Fra!lce, that ~~1ch 1s J!!St-af!d m
insuring the rest of the world agamst cond1t1ons which existed
nnder a world of autocracies.
We Masons can have no sympathy with the principle of autocratic government. We Masons can have no sympathy for any man
who claims that God Almighty has given him the right to rule a
people· nor ·can we uphold a people which professes a belief that
God is' with it in preference to the rest of the ~or!~. W~ cannot
meet .upon the level, nor can, we dwell together m unity with those
holdfr1g any such beliefs.
We can have no sympathy with a people believing that might
is right and whose desire is to forcibly dominate th~ entire. world.
For such beliefs are directly contrary to the ~fasonic teachmgJ! of
the compass.
We can have no sympathy with a people which believes and
. ~eaches that war is a beautiful thing. We can have no sympathy

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

with a people believing that the brutal incidents inseparable from
every war vanish completely before th.e idealism of the main result.
\Ve can have no sympathy with or for people who, when it is
tQ their interest to do so, violate a solemn treaty with other nations,
and lightly refer to it as a mere scrap of paper. The lessons which
we, as Masons, learn from the square, cause us to view such action
with abhorrence.
\Ve can have no sympathy for people who conduct a war in
violation of all codes of civilized warfare; who wreak their vengeance upon women, children and non-combatants, generally; who
do not respect the Red Cross; who wantonly and unnecessarily
wreck and ruin those magnificent monuments erected by our operative brethren centuries ago.
These things are not in accord with our Masonic principles;
therefore we, as Masons, must oppose them.
It is a matter of personal regret to me that our Blue Lodges, as
Masonic institutions, cannot or do not take a more prominent part
in matters v.ital to our communities, or to our country. The Blue
Lodge stands, upon principle, for everything that is good and is
opposed to everything which is bad; yet my personal belief is that,
as an institution, it does all too little in a public way; that it should
not be content merely to impress its principles upon its members
and, through them, exert its influence for good, but that it should
itself take its place as a direct and open advocate of its principles,
striving to directly impress them upon all the world. However, our
conservatism is the result of centuries of conservatism, and no one
can expect any such change as I hope for to be brought about in
any manner other than the most gradual. So we cannot expect that
Masonic institutions, as such, can take any prominent part in the
conduct of the war or in the adjustment of conditions which must
obtain when the war is over. But, as individual Masons, if we are
true Masons, if we believe in the lessons which are taught us in our
Lodges, we, every man of us from the youngest Entered Apprentice
in the northeast corner of the Lodge to the Master, must do everything in our power to support our country during the war and until
it is brought to a successful conclusion.
Our obligation to do this is twofold. We are American citizens, and it is the duty of every citizen to stand solidly behind our
government at Washington. But we are also Masons, and we are
under the additional obligation of defending our principles and our
teachings. Therefore, I say to you, Brothers, that we Masons of the
United States are doubly obligated to uphold and fight for the principles urged. by our government, and t0 annihilate that German
system of government which is the primary cause of the war.
Most of us are beyond the age when we would be permitted to
actually bear arms for our country and our principles. As the
situation is at present, that must be done by younger men, But the
use of the rifle and the work in the trench is but one form of the
fighting in this war.
The man who supports the Red Cross, the ~an who furnishes
the government with his money, either through the purchase of the
government's bonds or the payment of taxes, the man who contrib·

utes to the work of the Y. M. C. A., the man who eats less meat and
less wheat and, in general, regulates his food supply according to
the requests of the authorized government official, the man who
if he be an employer or an employe, for the time being adjusts hi~
grievances arising out of labor conditions so that a strike or a cessation of work is impossible, the man who produces the food and the
materials necessary to the conduct of the war-each of these is
doing a share of the fighting just as surely as the man who is in the
first-line trenches in Belgium and in France.

48

49

There is still another and a very practical way in which we
Masons can support and be of service to our government and our
country.
There is still too much German sentiment among our people.
There are still those whose sympathies are with their fatherland
rather than with this land where they have prospered and which
they have chosen as their home in preference to the fatherland.
There are still those who, maliciously or because of selfish political
reasons, criticize our government for entering into the war. There
is still too mucla seditious talk. There are many who still spread German propaganda, the intended effect of which is to cause some
measure of weakness in the spirit of some of our people. Along
this line are the stories of the mismanagement of our soldiers'
camps, the immorality in the army, the ravages of disease, etc .. the
misappropriation of Red Cross funds and supplies. More talk of
this kind is that to the effect that we are in the war because munitions makers want to keep busy, or that this is a Wall Street war,
and that, now we are in the war, France and England are not exerting themselves to the utmost, and are shirking their part of the
burden.

If such stories are believed, they will naturally create in our
minds some measure of dissatisfaction with the government's conduct of the war. And German propaganda is calculated only to
sow seeds of dissatisfaction in the minds of her opponents.
We have, doubtless, made mistakes in grasping the new problems which we have had to confront. \Vhen one considers the vast
number of people in our country, suddenly called upon to meet in a
practical and efficient manner conditions entirely new to them, is it
any wonder that these people upon whom new duties are thrust are
not immediately JOO per cent efficient? Mistakes have been made
and will continue to be made, but I know that our government is
weeding out the incompetents, and will continue to weed them out,
and to, as rapidly as is possible, render us as nearly 100 per cent
efficient as it is humanly possible for us to be.
There are still those who, for selfish reasons or to help Germany, talk about the unfairness of the draft.
·All these things, if not constituting actual sedition, or the more
inclusive term "espionage'', as it is now called, come close to it.
Let me give you a political definition of the crime of espionage,
as we now know it.
The United States statutes provide "whoever, when the United
States is at war, shall willfully make or convey false reports or
false statements with intent to interfere with the operation or s11c-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

50

51

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

.cess of the military or naval forces of the United States, or to promote the success of its enemies, and whoever, when the Unit.ed
States is at war, shall willfully cause. or attempt to cause insupordination, disloyalty, mutiny or refusal of duty in the military or
· naval forces of the United States, or shall willfully obstruc\ the
recruiting or enlistment services of the United States" is guilty of
espionage. ·
. · '·
Bearing .this partial definition in mind, you will see that t.here
are still too many seditious utterances-too much talk which approaches sedition, or espionage.
I am officially connected with one of the local boards in my
own city, and I know whereof I speak.
··
It is most vital to our government that this German propaganda
and this seditious talk be suppressed.
The government has its agents throughout the country, but
they are all too few. And should every one of us Masons make it
our individual business to do what we can do to trace this talk to
its source., or to investigate the channels through which it comes,
and to report to the United States District Attorney, or to any of
his assistants, what we may hear of such talk and what we may
know or learn of its source, thus giving him the benefit of what we
have heard and learned, and putting him in a position where he can
take such action as he may see fit, we will be doing a real service
to our country.
We Masons must all get into this war and fight-fight for our
·country and our Masonic principles, in one way if not another.
Let us realize that every assistance we give our government, everything we do to help our soldiers, every contribution we make to the
Red Cross, everything of which we deprive ourselves in order that
our soldiers may be better supplied, everything which we can do to
· keep the wheels of industry and of commerce moving at a greater
efficiency than ever before, everything which we can do to secure
the punishment of the spreaders of this seditious talk and thus suppress it, is not only giving to our government the support it deserves
from its citizens, but is fighting the battle in defense of the principles and teachings of our Order. Let us not be slackers in our
obligations to our government or in our obligations to Masonry.
This war must be won by our country and its allies. If Germany triumphs, the theory of the Divine right of kings will be elevated to the position it held three and more centuries ago; the doctrine that might is right will be re-established as it was in the days
when the world was ruled by the sword; the suggestion of honor
and jusdoe among nations will be a thing to laugh at; any weaker
people will be the natural prey of the stronger, and every nation
will have to be an armed camp, ready to .defend itsel( upon a
moment's notice.
,
That the war be won by our country and its allies is as much
to our interests as Masons as it is to our interests as loyal Americans; for if it be Jost, Masonry will have lost most of the material
result of its teachings and the application of its principles.
It will be won because it must be won. And, when the representatives of the nations sit in council to determine· 'the terms of
the settlement with Germany, while we Masons, as such, cannot
take part in such conference, .I pray that those who will dictate the

terms of the adjustment may be either Masons or as staunch supporters and advocates of Masonic principles as were those who· die'
tated and signed our own Declaration of Independence, and as
those, of whom our Brother LaFayette was one, who instilled into
the French people the principles of Libe_rty, Equality and Justice. ·
If they are, the Hou~e of Hohenzollern will no longer rule the
German people; there will be none left to support the theory that
mortal man can rule a people by virtue of a God-given right to do
so; the German's. form of ~overnment will be changed, so that no
one man or· no few men will longer have the power to bring conf~ict and. hat~ed, grief an~ sorrow to a whole world; Masonic principles will trmmph, and, m the language of our President, "Democracy will be made safe for the world."
, Listen to this red-blooded talk by the Grand Master of Indiana:
We have developed a crop of wild-eyed I. W. W.'s bewhiskered
Bolsheviki, and dirty-faced anarchists.
'
··
.We l.iave suf~ered the Russians to colonize little Russias, the
.r tahans little I tahes, and the Germans little Germanies. While llvmg. under t~e protectioi: of American institutions they have remained foreigners to all intents and purposes. It is said there are
more Germans in New York than in any other city of the world
excepting only the city of Berlin.
'
There are communities in America where the pictures of the
kaiser. and Bismarck are the chief works of art, and the German
language is the well-nigh universal lang_uage of print and speech.
Our boasted "little red school house" has too often been made
a breeding pla.ce of German kultur, its walls adorned with the ugly
1r;ug of the kaiser, the only man on earth who ever publicly shamed
his own mother.
.. A few days ago ~he "New Yark er Staats-Zeitung," in defense of
the enemy press, said that there were thousands of young men in
the National Army, about to risk their lives in defense of our cau'se
who did not understand enough of the English language to answe;
orders.
·
.
In heaven's name, who and what is responsible for such a
shameful condition? Is it possible that there are "thousands" of
yo.ung men in this country, between the ages of ·twenty-one and
thirty-one, who do not know their right foot from their left except
.in German? Little red school house, have you forgotten the language of Patrick Henry and Daniel Webster and Abraham Lincofo?. Do our boys and girls hear the story of Bunke£ Hill and
Jafl,1estown and of Washington's barefoot and bleeding army?·· ·
. ,l:;erman day:-"Deutsch.er-Tag"-down our way before the war,
was ,fast ~)ecomrng a strong competitor. with the Fourth of July.
\Ve Americans do not seem to have realized that German activities
and C?erman, i,nfluences ."'.ere or ev:r could become. a menace to
American ~pmt and traditions. But m the last year or two we have
been learninwa good many lessons that we will not soon forget.
Do not misunderstand me. I do not doubt the whole-hearted
loyalty of the grt'.:it and increasing majority of our American· citizens of German birth or German descent. Their loyalty is in spite
of, and not because of, the German press, the German schools and
the German church.

52

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

As Masons and as Americans, my brethren, let us see to it that
never again shall there be banished from our. schools the "StarSpangled Banner", the Holy Bible, nor the i::nghsh l~nguaise.
Out of th:is war will come a new ;\mencan nation, with a new
American spirit of patriotism. There 1s _not now, and never can be,
any place on this soil for a Turn Verem, or a Maennerc.hor, or a
Deutch-Haus. Budweiser and Pilsener and Goldblume will.go out
with the German brewery. There will be no more little Itahes, nor
little Germanies in America.
The English language must be the exclusive la~guage of f!U.blic
and private schools and of churches, and the fore1.gn-b?rn. c1t!zen
must have a chance to catch the spirit of our Am~nc<.m mst1tutt<?ns
by reading an English language newspaper, or having 1t read to him.
Very few homes are represented here, I fancy, from which have
not gone one or more sons or brothers. W~en these boys cross the
Rhine there will be no reason for any Americ~n mother to. hang h7r
head in shame. There will be no woman ravished or babies mutilated for our boys, thank God, are gentlemen.
They will fight like a bag of wild cats, but they ;viii fight like
men and soldiers. They will not be found .skulkmg from the
trenches with spiked clubs to beat out the brains of the wounded
and dying enemy.
.
.
Only yesterday your soldier boy was but a. child, with a toy
drum and a stick horse; almost in a day yo~ ~eahzed that he was a
man, stout of heart and ready to face a man~ JO]:>. You hourly pray
for his safe return to you,· and only the pnde m the lad helps the
choke in your throat.
If you could you would throw your arms about him and shield
him from the cruel fury of the Hun.
Last week an American fighting man in France. a lieutenant in
a machine gun battalion, in whom I have a vert; great, a very tende,~
interest wrote to his parents that he was as proud as a peacock
because' they were doing their best to hold the trenches at home,
and that if the home folk continued to do their p~rt ~? back up ~he
boys in France the boys in France would speedily put the skids
under the kaise~ and his Fritzies." Will we do it? I ~ope none of
us will be able to close our eyes in sleep until. w~ kno~ m our hearts
that during that day we have done all. that w.1thm us h~s t9 .he}p ?,ur
boys in khaki to "put the skids under the kaiser and his F r1tz1es.
If you have the courage of your boy, you will share his fixed
determination to do your part to crush Germa~J'. and haste!1 the d.a~
when khaki and horizon blue will be the pr~va1lm~ styles. 111 Berlin,
when a treaty of peace will be written, not 111 Pa:1s, n.ot 111. London,
nor in \:Vashington, but in Potsdam. A.s God lives m Hts heav~n
and governs the destiny of men and nations, no Hohenzollern wtH
have a part or place in that council.
Then, and only then, will this vy-orld of ou;.s cease to be an
armed camp; then, and not before, will there be Peace on earthgood will to men."
May the Great Captain ol our salvation hasten the coming of ·
that glad, glad day.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

53

Here follows a practical common-sense talk given before the
Grand Lodge of New York by a worker with the United States
forces and the Allies. It touches the heart of every true patriot and
makes us feel proud to know that we are Americans:
Brother Charles W. Whitehair: Brothers, it is not easy to come
and speak when, within the last hour, you have told your kiddies
good-bye by long-distance telephone, and turned your face out there
for the fourth time. It is not easy. Money could not bring me here
today. This organization could not give me a check that would
tempt me to come here today. But I did come, and I have come,
because I feel that in this organization, our organization which is
close to the heart of every one of us. are possibilities and power
which will mean much to the boys out there.
And, then. when I left that Western front last year, I said, "I
am going back to America to do anything I possibly can do to back
up the boys overseas."
I don't like this talk that food will win the war. I don't like
this talk that Liberty Bonds will win the war. I don't like the talk
that the Y. M. C. A. or the Red Cross or any other organization witl
win the war. If you had gone with me last September from the
French front on down the British front to Arras. Armentieres.
Vimy, Messines. Bixshoote. Ploegsteert and Kemme! Hill, on down
through the mud plains of Flanders on that September morning,
and you had stood with me in the front-line trench, and seen them
crawl out of their trenches to go over the top and die by the thousands before your eyes, you would come back and ask God's mercy
to forgive you if you ever talked about anybody winning this war
but the boys that go over the top. (Applause.)
These are serious hours. \Ve are facing one of the crucial
periods of the war. I am going to talk on the square this morning
-there aren't any newspaper men here, I take it-we are facing a
crucial hour of the war; in fact, the most crucial nour since August,
1914; more critical than the Marne, more critical than the Somme;
more critical than Verdun, the most critical hour the war has gone
through. It is the time for the blow of the strong man who knows
that he has met his match. and that he is going down if he does not
strike and strike quick; and that is the blow of Germany today.
But, they did get through, and we have got to admit it. But they
are not going to take Calais. (Applause.) They may go further
through our lines; but if you think afteT three years and over going
and coming out there, that we are not going to win, then you don't
know anything about it. We are going to win. (Applause.) We
are going to win if it takes every drop of American blood and every
dollar of the world. (Cries of "Hear, hear," and great applause.)
It is not alone a question of making the world safe for democracy. Quite frankly, it is a question of self-preservation, and we
might as well face the truth.
\Vhen Mr. McAdoo asked me to delay my trip two months ago,
he said: "\Ve want you to go out and tell the truth to the country,
uncensored." That is what I have been trying to do; but I hope I
will speak here more frankly than I have spoken at other places,
because I can.

54

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The last day before I left France, General Pershing stood up at
the end of our interview and said: "You have got to go back to
America, to help kill that damnable German propaganda that we
cannot break the Western line." (Cries of "Hear, hear," and applause.) We can, and eventually will break it, and, men, as God is
my witness, I believe to the very bottom of my feet that we are
going to win this war and we are going to smash that line to pieces.
(Applause.) But, it won't be tomorrow, and it won't be the next
few months, make up your mind, because the bloodiest parts of this
war are ahead.
When ex-President Taft told me last Spring, just before I
started on my third trip, that he thought it might t<;lke two million
American lives to win the war, I think he put it right. We are facing a united Germany. . . .
It is a united Germany; but, friends, why did I say that they
would not win and we would win? Because I am in the large army
where we believe in God, and ours is a righteous cause, and we are
going to win because we are on God's side. (Applause.) That is
the spirit out there.
But, quickly let me jump to the other questions. You are cone
sidering our American boys. They are a remarkable lot and you do
not need to ask me how they act under shell fire. I know. I have
been under it. I spoke one night in a tent up near the front line,
and a German aeroplane came around and began dropping bombs.
Well, I have been going to war for quite a while, and I thought, out
of courtesy to the chap up there, we would adjourn the meeting.
A tent is not shell-proof. Don't think that. It is not bomb-proof.
On either side of me was the camp-one was here and one there.
And I was talking about the one subject which I have found men ·•
will sit for hours and listen to. They will sit and listen to you talk
if you have a real message. I have talked ·to them on the far-flung
plains of the Albion Desert, on 1'he Suez Canal; and within a shorter
number of hours than I dare say, I will turn my face out there again
to go to the Turkish frontier of Transylvania. I have talked to
them all along the Western front on the one subject they want to
know: "What does God have for a man out here, who has given up
everything, home, and life?"
I was talking to our American soldiers, and I thought we would
adjourn the meeting, but one big Yankee sergeant stood up beside
me and did not say a word, but just blew out the candle, and never
left the tent; and there was nothing for me to do hnt go ahead and
talk. There wasn't a boy that left that tent-not a hoy. The shells
were bursting one after another overhead, and the German wa.s
throwing bombs around us, and I want to say to yoti there is only
one man in this war that counts. I don't count, and you don't
count. It is the boy that wears the khaki, and the blue, that is doing
his bit. (Applause.)
They are doing their bit, but will you do yours? Don't put this
off on Tom Brown or John Jones, or somebody else. I want to
know: Will you do your bit?' Do not ever be guilty of talking
about somebody being a slacker, somebody who is sorry and trying
to get .out of the fight because he has been conscripted, when you
have kept your hands down in your pocket and won't fork out your
money. You are just as much of a slacker as he is. (Applause.)

55

J\ny man to?ay who hoards his money is a slacker. Remember we
have conscnpte? our boys. Any man who hoards his money is' not
a .slacker.? He is an absolute traitor. You will see that thing; you
Will see It when the. papers carry the news of your QWn boys· you
have got to stand with them.
·
· '
Now, what is the great problem today? Our boys are clean·
yes, cle<l;n as can be., I have not gone over there for the past thre~
years without knowmg there are great moral problems, but I want
to say to you when 1 have seen what I have seen at the front I
marvel tl~at more of ?Ur boys do not go absolutely to pieces.. Put
Y.ourse.lf m he.II !or six days, and then you go into the rest billet
~·et this description; you have not known it, most of you. you g~
11~to the rest billet for another six days, but you are still under the
1
( erman guns, and the shells are bursting all around.
You are back
from under t.he s.hrapnel; you are out from under the front trench,
hut you are m billets where there are shells overhead. For three
months you have been _up there~ and you come back, and you see on
the street t~e te.mpta tlon that 1s not foreign to New York City or
any other big city, and you want to forget the hell; and there is
where you have got to have help to stand by.
We have got to do everything in our power to help those boys
when ~hey come out of the trenches, to have the conditions down
there Just a~ near home as possible, and just as near like home
Now, homesick? Of ~ourse, they get homesick! Blue? Of course.
they get blue, and d1s~ouraged! They are men just like we are'
hut we have got to go m and hold them.
'
Wh~n I came back last fall to speak for the Y. M. C. A., I said
.'. a~n gomg to tell the truth, and when people asked me a question
Did the boys out there do this and that?" I think of the story of
I.hat great Scotcl~ preache~", Dr. John Kellman, the greatest in all
Scotland. H~ sa1? t? me. m Paris last September, before I left-I
had toured wit~ h1~11 111 this country-he told me of an old lady who
had come to ~nn 111 church and said: "Dr. Kellman, is it true the
!:oys smoke cigarettes out there?" And he said, "Yes." She said
Do they get them at the Y. M. C. A.?" "Yes, they get them at th~
Y. M. C. A., at the front, when they are wounded and straggling
hack." "~~t, Dr. Kellman, is it true that some of the boys swear
ou.t there.
And Dr. Kellman, one of the greatest preachers that
tl~1s war has produced, looked her in the eyes, and he said, "If you
had s~en wl~at I have seen-the boys crawling out of their trenches
~we~n~1~ with one breahth, adnd prayking with the next," he said, "if
an.y ~. Y s prayers are ear , yo1:1. ??W those are heard"; and he
said, I look~d ~t that old lady cnt1cmng-old saintly lady that she
was-and said, l have got to tell the truth,' I said, 'Yes, my good
lady, some of the 1 boys swear .out there and damn it you would
swear, to.o, if you were out there'." (Applaus~.)
'
. You are coming into the cities. I don't know what you are
gomg to do, but I tell you, you never dreamt of the homesickness
and loneso.men~ss. ~ think the best thing I can do to help to make
up your mm,?s .1s to ~~st tell you ,an incident of "out there." I have
been to the Liberty land. It will raise you np.
·
,?n S~ptember 19th I was at. the great British front. They told
zero was tomc;irrow mornmg. Zero, the hour appointed for
going over the top mto No Man's Land on a raiding party. The
111~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
56

57

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

great September push was ready to begin. Up between the lines I
went. I have seen crowds, but I have never seen a crowd in New
York equal to that. I have been in places where they said thirty
thousand people were in the crowd, but I never saw a crowd until I
stood at the \Vestern front. The roads were jammed with men and
boys, shoulder to shoulder, steel helmets on, gas masks on their
chests, full equipment on their backs; motor lorries going by with
ammunition and food, gun carriages going by with ammunition for
hungry guns; little dispatch riders going by fifty or sixty miles an
hour, and riders with pigeons on their backs; and in the dugouts
are the men. Everywhere I looked I saw a seething mass of human
life. And 1 want you to get this point in your mind: Were they
singing? Smiling? Cheering? I did not hear a single song. I
did not hear a single cheer. I did not see a single smile. I did not
even hear a whistle. Only at one point there, in a Canadian rei<lment, were they playing an old hymn of the church, before they
sprang into the trench that leads over the top. No, the order was
said, and you know, you do not need to talk to men that are going
over the top. They are thinking about it. The most lonesome road
that any boy ever took is the road that leads down over the top,
outside of the road that Christ took when He went in the garden of
Gethsemane. Again, I looked into their faces; they looked like
stone, hewn out of the hills. They did not want to di" Your
dreams of tomorrow-of course, they did not want to die. But with
Christ they had made up their minds to give their lives, if need be,
for us, and there they went. I did not see a single boy that I
believe would have turned his back on that thing if he could-not
a single boy. (Applause.) If you had written your last letter home,
and were walking down the road to go over the top, you would not
go singing, cheering and laughing, and they did not.
We walk over the road. I stand there in a shell hole, and I
look down the line; and they are putting in a line of white posts.
just like the sign posts uv here. I said, "What is that for?" "Oh,
that is for 'zero' tomorrow morning." "Zero?" "Oh, yes; the men
that fall wounded tomorrow morning, and have to walk back, will
find their way back to the dressing stations down that path of the
white posts."
vVe go into another hole. Oh, this was Messines Ridge. I can
talk frankly. All around were the great guns. I sat in the entrance
of the Y. M. C. A. hut, with tl1e preacher; and there were 'the crowds
saying, "Good-bye," "Good luck," and "God bless you"; and as each
boy went by he was given an extra large piece of chocolat<'. At
other times a smaller piece was given, because the Y. M. C. A. had
furnished a large amount of money for the chocolate to he given
away. Everybody that went by got a piece of chocolate-just an
ordinary piece of sweet chocolate. 1t would not mean much to you
back here. But he was not allowed to eat that-not unless he fell
wounded in No Man's Land anrl could not crawl back.
And over here stands a yonng lieutenant by his batteries-not
more than eighteen-I doubt if he was more than seventeen: and he
calls out. just like a boy, "I wonder if .you wouldn't like to see a
shot?" We stepped over behind him. He got his megaphone in his
hand-and a little walking stick-and here he is calling to the five
great machines of death-the great six-inch guns. "Fire No. l!

Fire ~o. 2!. ~'ire No. 5 ~" and the great shells go shrieking over in
lhc air. W1th1r_i thre~ m1.nutes from the time the shells have left the
iruns-I have timed tt with my watch-within three minutes comes
I he word .over the telep~one, ".No. ~ change so many points." Way
~IP there in the observation pomts, m front in the observation lines
:.'~the stuhmp of an .old !ree, the boy there whispers in his telephone'.
: o. 1 .c a~ge pomt-f1ve-left-seven-O." Way up there. over the
''rrnch hne, 1.n th~, sprapnel and out of the shrapnel, they are ticking
" on the wires, No. 2 change so many points." And here twent
feet below us are two officers talking to each other and he
· y
11 ian ~uickly checkin~ off the shells and calling off their ord:r~s t~
~ 11e 1eute11at?t the .mmute those orders are given. The sergeant
111mps up, with a big shell and then jumps back "K l
d t
fire, sir." "No. ·I, change point-five-left-seven-0 "' N ~· t rseha yt do
"No ·• I read Y to f"ire. " "N o. I f'ire,'" All within three
·
·
ou
e •
minutes
from
lhe time the last shell left the end of that gun. They have gotten
~he range. They have checked up. No gun is fired without keeping
accurat_e record: All around us the guns are firing-just recip·
1 ocal gunfire-gettmg ready for tomorrow morning.
. . \'Ve stand. at three o'clock the next morning on the hillside
I he. ~arrage ts on. No man can describe it. Imagine the most
H'rnf1c thunderclap you e~er heard in your life; multiply it by ei ht
long ~ours, and you are 111 the barrage, because at ten o'clock gon
the night before: on the seco~d, the gates of hell burst open, and
th!:re came runmng out the mighty torrent of the wind N 0 I
· hounds
onger
"l•1re No • I"·' no
d' lo nger "I''
. '!re N o. 2" · F'ourteen thousand
of
11e.11 were 1oa mg and f1rmg as one gun. The heavens were as
~mght as d~y. That was the first ni~ht. The long barrage started
.1hout ten. o clc:ck, and then we were m the front line and the earth
was shak!ng hke a tree shakes in a mighty wind storm with th
~leavens l~ght .as day. But the noise all disappears, even ti10ugh yo~
.ire standmg 111 the presence of the most colossal drama the w rid
l~as evei;- seen up to that time; hut yo~t fo_rget the noise, You fo~get
~ veryth.mg, for there ~hey stand, .ltghtmg a cigarette. toss in · it
tt·wi;Y w.1th oheyuff; takmg. another m ~heir lips and puffing it ag~in;
tefi~!1g t e~r belts; st;emg that th ell' steel helmets are all right
o ta mg. ~o. attemptmg to talk. The noise is too terrific. Rut
the most a~omzmg momeut that ever came into any boy's life is the
last n't
few mmutes before
goes over the to11 · It ·1s rammg
· ·
I
doe
· Che
n!ean muc I1 111
orne·1I. Ithaca, N cw York
in thos 't '11 t
s
1~here I hve, whe1: it rains at five o'clock in the m~rning; J~~t fJv~
<~clock that .mornmg on tha~ great deep sector-at five o'clock, l
~ank down m.to the 11111d-1t was my little daughter's hi thd
fhey were. gomg oyer the top in thirty minutes. The rear 5 h alyl ·
were burstmg, turnmg the dirt into mud and they had gt t
e s
Do you real'1ze 1't was rammg
, .
o· 11go, over
w h en they' went that
N ·
Perhaps. the .sun was shining, birds singing. But it ~c~~~ ~tran ~·
Everythmg 1s strange out ther-e. Afternoon-the sleet and ~ ·
Tahme on. Thhe waves kept going over. And the days that follo!~d
e men w o were there tell me that many mornings as ma
b ·
who fell. wounded in No Man's Land sank into the mud t 0 d~y f oys1
Ruffocat1on and drowning, as died from their wounds and trhoeni·r
i<oing over.

1

·:n

Ng

58

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The shells are falling. Five-thirty. Five-forty-five. Down the ·
line co.mes the word, and there they stand. Oh, don't any man ever
dare talk of sacrifice, for there they stand! Do you think that any·
of us could ever sacrifice like that? Fifteen minutes. You bare
your chest to it. Six o'clock. Every gun speaks, and into hell they
go, with machine guns firing four hundred or six hundred shots a
minute, with high explosive shells, with the shrapnel; and they are
running over ground that has been mined, and barbed-wire fences;
and last of all, the battle. And you have never heard of one like
that. And over they ga for us. And as I stood there that morning,
I thought of back home, and I said, "With God as my witness, I
am never going to say anything on any American platform-no
man, I don't care if he is the president of the biggest corporation in
America-any man, be he the president of the great labor unions
holding up shipbuilding-be he the man grafting half of the price by
giving them inferior material that he is sending out, shoes and clothing, and endangering their lives-be he German professor or professor preaching in the university and in the German schoolroom,
German class, preaching propaganda-be he preacher preaching
pacifism-I say pacifism, that is worse-German propaganda-any
man today who wilfully hinders military preparation or hinders our
backing the boys to the limit out there, if he is the biggest man in
America, he deserves only one thing-what they get out there:
Stone wall, in front of a firing squad! (Great cheering and ap-.
plause.)
I have only a few more minutes and I want you to hear what I
have to say, and then I leave you. I must go.
?.1en, any enemy back here is worse than an enemy out there.
You cannot get a way from that. There are our boys on the French
front. I have gone over the ground. I have heard them speak when
I was in Verdun. \Veil, God forgive any of us who now pick the
Americans to settle it. I walked over the graves of the men in
1915. I was in Verdun on the last Sunday in September. Those
once beautiful hills now are hills of graves-graves of their sons.·
There are a million of her boys under the sod for us; and it does
not do well for us to talk about how we are going in to settle it..
When we have tasted of th<; true sacrifice we won't want to boast.
Now, let me lift the curtain on what I call the most horrible
act of the war, and yet the most Christ-like. I stood along that line
of the white posts. I have spared you the scene of that field there
of No Man's Land. But, I stood on the line of the white posts, and
there they come; not by the score . but by the hundreds they are
coming back. Well, I won't spare your feelings! I saw them there
with arms shot off; undressed, with twists taken around to stop the
flow of blood; I saw them coming with both arms shot off; I saw
them staggering back with an eye gone, with the nose shot off,
with the chin gone, shot through the body, the legs were shattered,
and every stitch of clothing below the waist torn off.
You say men cannot walk hack like that. No. they cannot!
They cannot walk back, shot like that; but it is walk back or die,
ai1d they walk back. The stretcher-bearers are only bringing those
who cannot move; and back they are coming.
·

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

59

They are coming past an old dugout here. Here is where you
rnme in and I come in. They are coming past an old dugout, before
tht•y get to the dressing station, and we are picking up an old tin
rn11 of tea, putting it to their feverish lips, just as they go by. They
rnnnot even stop to drink it, for up there are the German eyes. It
i~ daylight now, and out there is a German officer who, if they
~topped around this old Y. M. C. A. dugout, would say, "No. 2 fire,"
ll!HI over the lines comes the shell, and into the midst of the dugout,
:11111 every boy goes \Vest.
No, but they do not lose their humor. Remember, over them
an~ the German eyes.
I found in one dugout-it is the strangest
I hing-if it wasn't for the humor out there I firmly believe every
hoy would lose his mind, but it holds them-I saw over one dugout
this sign, "Men, don't loiter about here"-room only for the walk~
ing wounded, overhead the German eyes-"Men, don't loiter here;
la·sides, it looks had."
Come to the dressing station; are you thinking of a dressing
station with beautiful white bandages and nurses? I am not. I am
I hinking of an old barn out in Flanders. There is no nurse in that
hour of death. We are sitting along a wall, just as close as you are
sitting here; and here is a surgeon rushing from boy to boy; and
I hey are puffing their cigarettes. I stood outside the dressing station, and they were packed in the Y. M. C. A. tent, in the dugout
and in the courtyard outside, every man that can have it now is
getting something to drink and something to smoke, before his
wounds are looked at. And outside that one dressing station alone
--and carry this picture away-were more than two thousand boys
shot to hell, and not a boy that had had his wounds looked at.
I went among them, giving· them a cup of tea, and giving out
the chocolate, and every time I touched a boy I caused him pain;
and as I turned he would look at me and smile-did not smile
hefore the battle. But now, I saw the boy. He could not walk.
11 e was staggering and his trousers were gone. He could not walk,
he was so badly shot. He was staggering along, and then when he
saw me break down and cry he tried to smile at me. I saw that lad
standing there, both hands gone, and J say to you the most Christian act I think I have ever done in my life was when I stepped
over to that young Tommy, both hands gone, as he stood there
suffering the tortures of death, and put into his mouth a cigarette
and lit it. I say to you, one of the most Christian acts I have ever
done in my life was for that little boy when 1 helped him bear his
pain.
And we back here have got to get into our minds that they will
win the war for us if we stand back of them, there is no question
about that. (Applause.)
The one thrng I want you to get fixed in your mind in this
room, and those of German descent, too-I don't care, as long as
he is American-I want you to get this now: We talk of atrocities!
I saw the German prisoners come back. There is no power under
heaven that can take this sight from me. I saw the German
wounded prisoners come back with the British. Now, I didn't sec
it once: I saw it a score of times: a wonnded British soldier time

REPORT ON comtESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

after time take his cigarette and his cup of tea and give it to the
wounded German prisoners, before he touched a single thing to his
own lips. (Applause.)
When the war is over Great Britain need never hang her head
in shame for the way she has treated her prisoners. I didn't see
that only once.
I saw a young Tommy who had been gassed. He couldn't take
anything, and he looked at the young German lad standing near
him and forgot his pain. There stood the young German shaking
in ~very limb· his eye was shot away; an old dirty handkerchiet
covered it· an'd the young Tommy looked at him and said: "Poor
devil; ain't it too bad? He got his, all right." Tommy forgot his
own wounds.
And, men, I have seen this war, and I want to say to you that
I am an American from the bottom of my feet to the top of my
head, and I went to this war two years ago, in spite of the fact that
my little wife is a Quaker we declared war in 1914; and I went out
there, and I want you to hear what I have to say. That talk that
America will never quit is all right, as long as you don't make insinuations. But the talk that Britain and France may quit-but we will
never quit-I don't like! Wait until we have played the game!
Wait until we have paid the sacrifice! But I will say this: Nobody
can talk with me about France breaking down. I have been in the
front-line trench with the French and seen their dirty, ragged uniforms; but, thank God, I have got their spirit, and the French will
never say quit until they have won, if it means death.
But, consider, for the sake of argument, that France might be
forced out; Italy might have to quit, and America, through faint
hearts back here and through German propaganda, should lie down.
But thank God, I can say to you today, from all that I have seen
and' heard that Great Britain will never quit until the last man is
under the sod. If any man tells you that Great Britain is not in
this war, he doesn't know the truth. I have been there; I know,
and the British Tommies are going forward to die, because God is
on their front, and they believe in righteousness, and they are giving their lives not for any false ideas of the issue.
God pity the German people. I say it honestly. They are misled. But General Pershing said: "We have got to kill, kill, kill,
until we have so dissolved their man-power that they cannot ever
again put on to the world or attempt to put on the world the Prussian yoke!" And we are going to do it, if it takes all of our money
and men.
But, alongside of the sacrifice out there, may l say this in all
kindness: I cannot make a sacrifice and you cannot make a sacrifice that would be worth touching the old, muddy, bloody coat of
the boy that goes over the top to fight our battles.
I don't know what you are going to do. I don't know what the
purpose of your plans are, but I do know this, men: In spite of all
the organizations that are working, what is done is only a drop in
the bucket. It is only a drop in the bucket. One man said to me in
Seattle-I went to see him to have him interest himself in a certain

cause. They said they might get two thousand dollars. He is not a
Christian man, not interested in these things. And I said, "This is
not my war any more than it is yours." I said, "We have got to
hack the boys up out there. I thought you might like to start this
I hing with ten thousand dollars." He looked at me and said, "Every
damn thing I have got is in this war; my two boys are in"; and he
said, "I am not going to say to any organization, 'Why do you do so
much for those boys?' I am going to say, 'Why do you do so
little?'" And he said, "I will give ten thousand dollars-in fact, I
will give twenty-five thousand dollars, because they are all my
hoys."
And, men, we will win this war, and with this war goes the
heart of every man, woman and child in America, who boasts of
heing a true American. (Applause.)
Men, stand back of them! Stand back of them to the limit!
And as I go back within the next few hours "over there," I am
l(Oing to take them the message-because I have toured the past
few months and traveled over eighty thousand miles, and I think I
can say to them, "The boys back home are with you, and they are
with you if it takes all their money." I have seen many men back
there, all over America, with gray hair-veterans of the Confederate
army, or veterans of the Civil War-who have said to me time after
time, "Tell the boys out there, if they need us to help win the war,
we will go out." (Applause.)
Russia-we would have won before this, I firmly believe, if
Russia had not gone under. I do, without any question.
The morale of the army is the most important thing of the
whole business-the helping of the men when they are on rest, the
cheering of them, to send them back so they will be as new soldiers
when they go back. And possibly the biggest things we can do are
in the big cities where they go on leave. One cannot always pull
the curtain aside. If I was to tell you the story of the things that
occurred during the first few months of the war when I was out
there, you could not believe it-where literally thousands of men
went to pieces, and many were sent back home unfit for action.
Now, I know army officers, and I want to tell you that army
officers-high up, and down, as far as that is concerned-but I
know them at the top and all along-the men who have our boys in
charge are more ·concerned with the morale of the boys than you
are concerned. Why, look here!. The boy who goes down with a
bullet is out of. the game; he is neither an asset nor a liability-he
is out. But the boy who goes down with a venereal disease is out
until he is patched up, and it takes more men to take care of him.
And God forgive you if you have joined that crowd of bleating
propagandists that are going around and talking about how wicked
our boys are over there. I say to you that I wonder that more of
them do not go to pieces. And if you want them to keep clean and
come back to us, then you have got to stand back of them back
here.
Some of you cannot go out to fight, but I tell you there are a
whole lot of you here who can find yourselves out there giving a
friendly hand, a cup of tea, a bowl of soup; and then more than

60

61

REPORT . ON' CORRESPONDENCE.

62

63

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

that, you will find yourselves down there with some young lonely
soldier, before this war is over, talking over with him the great·
fundamental problems of the boy's life. This is for a good many
of you men.
·:·:
Men, think of this great organization! You would be surprised if'
you knew the number of Masons I met up and down the line. We
have got an appeal to every Masonic heart, and in some way this
organization must be organized. I don't know how to do it; you
will work that out; but we have got. to so organize that over there
they will be bound together in the same way that the Masons of
New York City are bound together here, and the same way the
Masons of our little city of Ithaca are bound together there; but we
have got to help them, and we have got to stand by, and we have'
got to do this willingly.
I know what you will say: "Is this not duplication?" There
will be no duplication if you send your wisest, or put on to your
commission your wisest and most level-headed men.
·
I have been from one to the other end, and I thank r.od that
the different organizations are out there-the Knights of Columbus,
the Red Cross, the Y. M. C. A., the Salvation Army-because they
need our help. They need our help, and now you are going to give
it. I don't think that I shall say more.
(The brethren rise. Great applause.)
The Grand Master: Just a moment, brethren.
Brother Whitehair: May I give one more little in~tance-bcfore
I go-of the firing line? You are going to think seriously, but I
would like, just for a minute, to show you how the boys act; it
won't take but a moment. They are shot to pieces, and when they
come back it is the most ma.rvelous thing in the world how they
stand their pain, and retain thei\". humor after the battle.
·
':1
Everybody that goes over the to·p is a souvenir hunter. Every
fellow that come back, staggering ·back, has something in his.
pocket, has something hanging on his arm or shoulder, to show he
has been over the top. He has got a helmet; he has a penknife; he
has a watch, and compass; and when the German prisoners come in
- I don't like to make any insinuations, but it is no use to look for
watches in their pockets. There is no use to look for any othe.f1·d
thing of that sort, because it won't. be there.
.·
The fellows come back. I stood outside of one dressing station,
and they were all there with their souvenirs-wounded, British soldiers-and do you know a peculiar thing is-you .will always find
among the German soldiers some that can talk English,-you will
find a whole crowd of wounded Tommies congregated around a
German that talks English, and they are visiting together exactly
like a bunch of old friends .would visit together.
But I will tell you this: A Tommy learns not to turn hi's ·back
on the German! Do you get me? (Applause.)
I saw one Scotchman-Sandy-standing there, a little lad. He
called me over, and they were insisting on my taking .a certairt
souvenir. "I have just got something I would like to give yOu."

Th<')'. all want to give you everything they have. Talk about hosp1t'.ll~ty t You fit!d it on the Western front. There is where you find
rd1.g10n. He said, ".I have got s~methin?' I would like to give you."
\V di, I thought this was very mterestmg, and he reached in his
porke.t and h_e pulled out a little gift, that, if I was ever certain of
a11.ythmg I ~1d not want, it was that. It was a German bomb! I
•:ud, "That 1s ve~y·kind'of·you, but it wouldn't be nice for me to:
lal.<e your souvenirs. ~ ~ppreciat~ y~~r presents, but, really, I don't
I h111k I ought to take 1t.
He said, That's all right· I really want
.vou to have it." I said, "Oh, rto; I mustn't take it.'; But he sai·d
"I rea~ly want you to have it." And finally I couldn't camouflag~
lhr thmg any longe_r, and I said, "Look here; that thing might be
loaded." And he said, ''.I d<;>n't think it is; I will just look and see."
·\ 11 d h_e st,~rted to e:x;am me 1t; and I said, "Hold on, I wouldn't take
1
I he th mg, -apd I d1dn t. And as I stqod there, he looked down at
l11s leg, bleedmg profusely-bad leg wou.nd-and I said, "That is a
pretty bad 'Yound you have there." He looked down and looked
hack, <i;nd his face was mud and blood all over,-you couldn't in
your wildest moment~ drea~ of what they look like when they come
hack-the most horrible sights the human eye could dream ofoh, you could not !-but there he stood, all of the gore of battle and
!1e _looked ~own at his leg and he said, "Not so bad; not so b~d · it
1s JUs.t a bhghty wound," and he said, "I will soon be back am;ng
I he highlands of Scotland-going home." And as he looked at his
leg, h_e 1~,oked at .me. and he said, "Yes, he got me in the leg, but,"
he sa.1d," I _got hnn m the guts.'' What he meant, you know; nut,
h~ said, I JUSt want to show you what I got." He reached down in
l11s pocket :ind pulled out an old dirty handkerchief, and unfolded it
and there 1t was-he had gotten it-a German officer's iron cross'
1914. He went in.to ~is other pocket, and he pulled out a watch'.
and co'?pass, and. m his pocket up here he pulled out this thing and.
I hat th mg, an~ fmally he went back under his coat over his kilts
a!1d he pulled 1t ~rnt, and said, "There is the best of all." It was ~
<1erma_n_ automatic revolver.
The only thing I could think of was
the British Museum.
And ~hey all c01~1e back with their souvenirs; but, men, if it
look a shipload to brmg back the souvenirs of every regiment that
went over the top, I believe they are entitled to them.
The unanimous sentiment of the Grand Lodge of Nova Scotia
is expressed by its Grand Master as follows:
Duri~g t~e interim since our last communication there has been
!1;l cessation m the terrible conflict in which our nation is engaged.
I he year has brought home to us even more keenly the terrors of
wa~, and the pangs and sufferings which are part of such underl:~kmgs.
From the. in~~ption of this fight for freedom, the Canadian .h~s taken a s1gmf1cant part, and as a portion of this Great
Domm1.on, ~here h.ave been no laggards among the many brave
hearts m .tills provmce by the sea. Our lads have gone forth and
taken their full share of the battle for right, and won their full
mea~ure of applat~se from the civilized world .. They have not been
afraid to cast their all in the balance and make their sacrifices on
the altar of love for the nation. Among them have been scores of
the Brethren of our Lodges, and for those who will never return

65

REPORT -ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

we are brought to mourn, but the spirit which prompted their devotion benumbs the feelings of pain. The blanks in our ranks are
many and they are the result of love. We bow the head reverently
before those who fight, those who suffer, and those who have laid
down their lives. For those who have fallen we place the floral
offering in their bier and raise our thanks to Heaven that we were
privileged to call them Brethren. They volunteered for the conflict
from love of country, love of democracy, love of that freedom and
liberty found under the British flag. The nob.ility and beauty of
such lives will stand forever a lasting inspiration. For-

The Grand Master of Kansas promises a generous response by
the Masons of his state to the call of duty:

64

"What a man does for bread and butter
Is worth its market value and no more;
But what a man does for love's sake
Is gold, indeed, and rings well upon
God's touchstone."
It is assuring to us that now linked upon one side in this great
struggle are, as we know them, all the Masonic countries of the
globe. The declaration of the greatest republic on the Western
Hemisphere to become a partner in the defeat of ruthless villainy
and revolting tyranny is a contribution to Christianity and the cause
of humanity. The United States of America, with its millions of
Freemasons, casting its stupendous weight on the side of common
justice, marks historical.Jy a Masonic event, in that it inseparably
forever links the Anglo-Saxon Masonic world. In the union of arms
between the two great English-speaking nations, we find forged
with increased strength the chain of our fraternity. Through the
agency of the combined military endeavors we can perceive tke
dawn of the day when peace, with its charitable mantle, will once
more cover the blood-stained peoples; of the work for which we are
banded together progress unhampered and. the cardinal virtues
become the dominating influences of all governing powers. It will
hasten the better, the happier day. It gives courage to the faith
that is in us-a faith such as expressed by Fay Hemstead, poet
laureate of Masonry, when he penned:
"But over the war-cloud, rolling low,
And above the tide of tears and woe;
And through· the blight of harrowing fear,
His higher purpose shineth clear.
For like the light of the opening day,
His hand shall sweep the mists away;
And over that hour supreme shall span,
Blest Peace, and the Brotherhood of Man.
"God grant it so. And grant we may
Sooner usher in that gracious day;
When men shall turn to war no more;
And peace abide from shore to shore;
When states be ruled by kindly thought,
And sword and spear be held for naught;
And evermore among us dwell,
The reign of Prince Immanuel."

We stand today amidst a world in flames fanned by a universal
whirlwind of violence and destruction for which history affords no
p11rallel. This is not a time for impassioned words, for the fires of
hate and passion are already well beyond human control; but it is an
hour which calls for all that is in us of sober thought, of self-denial,
1111 flinching, heart-breaking sacrifice, and patriotic Masonic manhood.
Victor Hugo said, in substance, that it were idle to search in the
of the battle of Waterloo for the reason for Napoleon's
ddeat. He lost because for him to have won would have been for
111an to have triumphed against God. We may borrow his thought
a~ a rainbow of hope. We know hot at what sacrifice of blood and
trl'asure; we know not on what field or by what strategy; but as
<;od reigns, we do know that William of Germany must fail, because
fnr his ideas of government to triumph would mean the defeat of
i11 finite justice, which is God Himself. And it would seem especially
i11 keeping with our traditions if the final thrust which shall strike
111ilitary despotism from the government of men should be adminis1<•rcd ·by American soldiers bearing the Stars and Stripes on the
hanks of the Rhine.
This, however, my countrymen, means sacrifice, ghastly sacrifin~.
It means that hearts must be broken, homes desolated, and
fortunes poured into the melting pot. It means that we must each
ht• ready to sacrifice, if need be, all that we hold dear, save honor,
on the altar of our country. We are not all privileged to put on the
1111iform and take a place in the ranks, but there is plenty that each
111ay do. Financial sacrifice we can all make, and must make. When
our country calls for funds, it is not a question of what we can do
<'<•nvenientli¥ but what we can do by the utmost sacrifice. It is a
loan and nriitr a gift, but if it were a gift it should make no difference.
~lrategy

When our young men are offering their lives and all that young
life holds dear, the man is a coward and a slacker that will not put
his last dollar behind the boys in the ranks. This is a war of
rl'sources as well as of men, and unless our united resources are
u11grudgingly cast into the balance the struggle cannot be won, and
I he sooner we wake to this realization the sooner it will all be over.
I do not conceive that any distinctive action by the Masonic
institution, as such, is called for, or even desirable; but I do urge
111ost earnestly that every Masonic agency be placed at the disposal
of the government and respond with Masonic thoroughness,
promptness and fidelity to any call that may be made upon it.
The crises of the times are not, however, military and financial
alo11e. The world will never be again as it was before. Social, civic
and economic orders are changing. Already a great autocracy has
fallen, and the largest contiguous empire in the world is prostrate
i11 the throes of a reaction of anarchy and chaos. In our own the
1110st democratic of nations, we stand aghast at the delegatio'n of
rl'ntralized and autocratic power more complete than any autocrat
dare assert. This is not said in criticism, but is noted with pleasure
for it is the supreme test of power in a republic that in moments of

67

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPON:>ENCE.

stress. individual rights and individual power are centralized, yielded
and delegated; but that power must be returned to the people, and
centralized power is never readily surrendered.
We expect a cardinal clause in the final treaty of peace to be
the disbanding of navies and the disarmament of nations, with a
court of nations to protect the democracy of the world. To restore
our own equilibrium so that this great free nation shall continue a
fit democratic example, will be a test of our judgment, our patience,
and our courage.
·
And in the establishment of this new-world order the principles
we were taught as we advance in Masonry must be the guide to men
and nations. These, my brethren, are some of the tasks that lie
before us and constitute the challenge of the hour to every patriotic
1\merican. To it, I have no doubt, Kansas Masons, in common
with their countrymen everywhere, will generously respond.
The Grand Master· of North Carolina, .in the uniform of his
country, addresses these inspiring words to his Grand Lodge:

llrotherhood of Man, has been forgotten. Men of almost every
11ation of the earth have forgotten the goodness and mercy of the
Father common to all, and clutch each other by the throats, being
hathed in their brother's blood. The Jubela of Austria, the Jubelo
of Turkey, and the still more determined Jubelum of Germany have
set themselves at the gates of the modern world and demanded of
a patient, plodding mankind the priceless jewel of human rights! he right of liberty, the right of universal peace, and the right of
I he pursuit of happiness gained through years of labor and of sacrifices. They give no reason for their horrid conspiracy against mankind, this outrageous demand upon, this predetermined murder of,
Right, save that they would fain seek in foreign countries wages
and emoluments that are not their just due. In frightfulness they
~trike, and lo! an innocent and bleeding Belgium lies mangled at
I heir feet, a prey to avarice and autocracy, a martyr to duty.
And now, from out of somewhere of time and space, an order
has come thundering from the heart of the Great I Am. To the
three He speaks in ancient tones, "What of thy brother? Go find
the ruffians, or you yourself shall be deemed as guilty as the mur1lerers." In response to that great mandate, with hearts aflame with
brotherly love, relief and truth, with hand linked in hand and heart
joined to heart, go forth the three principal Fellow Crafts of the
modern world on the Master's bidding-France, England and
America.
Each of us must needs feel the throbbing of a patriotic heart in
such a time as this. Each of us must feel that no sacrifice is too
i<reat to render to the country that has given birth and peace and
protection all our days. And so, my brethren, for the second time
in the history of the Grand Lodge of North Carolina, your Grand
Master, moved by that mysterious hand, comes before you in the
uniform of the government we love, and under whose protection
Masonry has reached its highest plane of development.
Your Grand Master has been questioned as to why he should
have sacrificed his business, and his family; why he should have
left his Grand Lodge and the sweet companionship of his brethren,
to take up the hardships of the service for a people of whom he
knew but little. To you I give answer tonight in but a single word
-Masonry.
Long, long ago, as I studied the beautiful secrets and symbols
of our beloved Order, 1 dug from out of the rubbish of our symbolism some of the wonderful truths that were there concealed. ln
later years, it has been my duty and my pleasure to teach these
great truths to my fellow-men as they were given to me by the
Supreme Architect of the Universe. As an humble Mason, I do not
feel t-hat I could now repudiate these great doctrines revealed to me
by Masonry, and since you did me the great and undeserved honor,
just twelve short months ago, of elevating me to the highest position in Masonry in this great commonwealth of ours, I feel that I
would be. ungrateful and detestable, indeed, were I, as your chosen
leader, to repudiate those sublime teachings so long promulgated by
our Craft; to trample upon the very principles upon which our
foundation is laid, and remain at home with a gnawing conscience,
seeking ease and pleasure.

66

Strange is the finger of Destiny! Mysterious, indeed, is the
hand of Fate, which, moving silently amongst the household ot
Masonry, guides its sons to action and ever urges them to greater
deeds, to higher thoughts, to nobler achievements. Wonderful.
almost unbelievable, changes that hand has wrought since last we
met together here and surfeited our souls .in a feast of friendship
and brotherly love in this, our magnificent Temple of Masonry.
Strong ran the pulses then, my brethren, stimulated and quickened
by the draught of friendship, of love, and of hope, High flame<l the
heart and the soul, fanned by the zephyrs of kindness, of gratefulness, and of glorious opportunity. I feel and I know that the pulses
of those of us who have come again to this, our one hundred and
thirty-first Communication, run stronger still tonight, but they are
quickened by a friendship, a love, a hope, finer and grande~ than the
world has ever before witnessed. Our hearts are truly aflame, but
with the fire of the greatest opportunity ever offered to man.
The great, long-looked-for, world-wide opportunity for Masonry
has come, my brethren; the opportunity of sending forth the thousands who have knelt at our sacred altar and learned the sublime
lessons which Masonry inculcates, out into the heights, the depths.
into the very bosom of the other nations of the earth, taking with
them as a part of their very being, if we have labored well, the great
Masonic teachings: freedom of thought, freedom of speech, the
rights of the masses of humanity, and their peculiar right to worship their God according to the dictates of their own consciences.
Democracy and truth, the greatest of all Masonic principles,
are trembling in the balance in the world at large tonight. Mighty
powers.are at work, fighting with all their fury to set back the clock
of Time and revert to an age when autocracy ruled over the natural,
as well as the spiritual, life of men; an age in which a man dared not
think for himself, or, if he did, to confine such daring to secret
appointments on high hills or in low dells.
The whole civilized world seems stunned and disorganized because of the fact that the great Masonic ambition, the Universal

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

There is in our symholism a Mason who was every inch a man.
He was always faithful and punctual to his trust and his duty. He
teaches us in a most emphatic way that dutv should be our greatest
care as Masons; that, no matter what our stations in life may be,
duty is always with us as unrelenting as fate; that to each of us, in
some measure, is entrusted our share in the happiness and welfare
of our fellow-men. He surely teaches with great and sacrificial sublimity that, when the night lowers, when the rights of mankind are
threatened, when the real grim test arrives and stares into our very
souls with gaping, fleshless grin, duty waits with us as inflexible as
destiny. The reward after the darkness, my brethren, lies "Solel,Y in
our present decision. I do not believe that I could look my friends
in the eyes and smile, should I fail to recognize, as a Mason, the
great symbol of duty as Masonry has revealed it to me. l do not
believe that I could ever stand in a Masonic Lodge again and teach
these wonderful lessons of ours, should I, as your Grand Master,
have failed when the real test came.

It has been with considerable pride and satisfaction that I
have noted the patriotic manner in which our constituent lodges and
our members have subscribed for the Liberty Loan bonds and the
liberal donations which they have made to the Red Cross funds.
I ·most heartily approve the action of many of our constituent
lodges in annually remitting the dues of all of their members who
have enlisted in the service of their country, and I would recommend that this Grand Lodge recognize and encourage this spirit by
nempting all of our constituent lodges from the payment of Grand
I .odge dues on such patriotic members whose dues they may remit.
And ] believe that some action should be taken by this Grand
I .odge to the end that we may be kept informed as to the condition
and welfare of our Brothers in the field, and thus be enabled to
assist them at a time when it may be most needed.

68

The Grand Master of Idaho commends his brethren for their
war activities:
\Ve should all be proud of the fact that we are citizens of the
United States, the greatest country in the world, the fundamental
principles of whose government are founded upon liberty, equality
and justice to all men. \Ve are involved today in the greatest war
the world has ever known, and our nation is now facing the gravest
crisis in its history. With a threatening meuace within our own
borders, fostered and encouraged by the enemies of this country
and by the army of discontent, many of whose members have in
times past sought her protection and the freedom of her laws, it
behooves each and every one of us to stand loyally and solidlv
behind our President and our country, and obey the charges received in our Entered Apprentice degree, by paying due allegiance
to the country under whose protection we live. Our mothers are
giving up their sons and daughters, and the members of our fra·
ternity are nobly responding to our country's call.
Masonry is the oldest fraternity now in existence, a fraternity
which has always stood for freedom, for equal rights and against
the so-called divine right of kings, and upon those fundamental
principles the government of this United States was founded ..
Masons were the guiding spirit in the formation of this government
and the framing of our constitution, and to the Masons of today
this nation looks for loyal support during these trying times. This
Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of
Idaho has a duty to perform, as have our sister jurisdictions. The
time has come when we should show to the world that we are
whole-heartedly behind the government, and that we have all
learned the principle and teaching of Freemasonry, and that we
recognize and pay due allegiance to our country and the principles
for which it stands. It is our duty as a Grand Lodge, as members
of our constituent lodges, and as individual Masons, to loyally support the beautiful Stars and Stripes, which is the emblem of our
country, standing for the right of life, liberty and the pursuit of
happiness.

69

The Grand Master of Prince Edward's Island has sent a word
oi greeting to every Brother in the service; what a fitting bit of
thoughtfulness:
In this age of commercialism and business activity many times
we are forgetful of the duties which, as Masons, we have bound
ourselves to perform in aiding a fallen Brother to rise, or extending
a word of cheer and comfort to the Brother who has grown weary
and discouraged, and we can never tabulate the value of these ministrations. Your Grand Master sent a special word of greeting to
l'very Brother who is serving king and country, either at home or
over seas, as well as each Grand Lodge officer, master and past
master in this jurisdiction, and hopes that these messages have
brought cheer and encouragement. In these unparalleled days of.
stress with a pall of war hanging over the world, liberty assailed,
and famine threatening many nations, it is the urgent and sacred
tlnty of every one to do his share. If ever there was a time in the
world's history when plain living and high thinking should be the
universal rule, this is the time. We have been prodigal of time and
means. and it now becomes our duty to render our best service to
onr country in this, the time of her greatest need. Jn these days,
large with opportunity, let it be everything to each of us what we
do and how we do it, and be ever found in the path of duty, regardless of reward and applause, and always as in the sight of Him who
g·ave the strength and opportunity to do our part. Let us dedicate
.mr lives, our talents, our means, everything we are, everything we
have, in this great struggle for world freedom. We welcome the
rntrance of the United States into this great struggle, and a new
..Jement of union and strength has come into the cordial relationships that have existed for one hundred years between Great
Britain, Canada and the United States. For a century the only
rivalry we knew was in business: the only contention indulged in
was one of love and good work. We speak the same language, hold
the same faith, are the heirs of the same past, and cherish the same
high ideals, and now that the great republic which occnpies with us
I his X orth American continent is our mighty ally in this strugglr
against Prussian arroga11ce, aggression and ambition, our brotherhood will develop into a yet stronger one. in which blood will be
11ht>d in defense of freedom and in p11nishing a ruthless enemy who

70

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

holds life and honor so cheap, and as the flags of the two nations
a:e place~ side by side· in th.e mighty struggle, may they ever float
side by .side over free, .enlightened :i-nd God-fearing people, and
forever m defense of liberty and righteousness. Evidently the
Anglo-Saxon race has found once more a common ground in the
defense of liberty. It was Kipling who called Canada "Our Lady
of the Snows," but her .war record s.hows that when her pride, her
loyalty and her affections are enlisted, she is the Vesuvius ot
nations.·
The Grand Master of Nevada proclaims his love and the love
of the membership of his Grand Jurisdiction for flag and country:
Our country, in keeping with the traditions of the fathers of the
republic, in harmony with the principles upon which it was founded,
and in defense of a true democracy that builds itself on liberty, has
entered the mighty conflict now convulsing the world.
Masonry stands where it has always stood-for that which is
right, for that which is true, and at its sacred altar its members are
pledg~d to. be true to their g~vernment, just to their country, to
submit patiently to legal authonty and to conform with cheeriulness
to the mandates of the land in which they live. Though the spirit
of Fre~masonry is antagonistic to war, and while every Masonic
Lodge 1s a temple of peace, harmony and brotherly love, sti11 to be
15o~d ~~as<?ns we must be. good citiz.ens. We love our country and
its 111st1tut10ns from the highest motives that can inspire the soul of
citizenship.
In consonance with these teachings and in unison with our sister Grand Jurisdictions throughout the land, I ask the Masons of
Nevada, in annual communication assembled, to pledge thefr alle"
giance. to. the gov~rnment '!-nd .its flag, tl~e Stars and Stripes, and to
the prmc1ples of right and Justice for which they stand, representing
"one conntry, indivisible, with liberty and justice to all."
The Grand Master of Saskatchewan declares that delay in providing for worthy brethren, reduced to poverty by war, is criminal:
Our empire is still engulfed in the toils of a great military cataclysm. Armageddon is yet being waged. Material progress is at
a standstill; ruin and devastation more than counteract the effects
of increased production. And yet, infinitely more deplorable than
material losses, is the great sacrifice of human life on the altar of
li~erty and justice. For,. while industrial and financial depression
will, no doubt, be succeeded by an era of marked prosperity yet
alas, bleeding hearts may be assuaged but never healed. The v~cant
chair, the memory of a cheery voice will bring the pang of grief to
many a breast; but th~re is also the bright side to the picture.
Many of our heroes will return to take an honored place in our
midst and to renew the associations of former days.
The great war has almost reached the end of the third. and we
trust, the last year of its duration. The future is bright with hope
of an early peace, which, the Allies demand, shall he based on the
eternal principles of justice <tnd liberty. Ours is an ahiding faith

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

71

I hat a more glorious era of democracy is at hand when the destinies

of weaker nations shall be shaped anew, and when the peoples of

t IH• world may live together uncursed by the fea~ of war.
The grim and ghastly melodrama of the present war, with its
1111merous examples of "Murder in Uniform," has become somewhat
of a commonplace. Fiendish atrocities committed during the past
three years have made the unexpected seem impossible. We all
admit the justice of the Allies' cause and boldly proclaim that to
have deserted that cause would have been a crime of the blackest
dye. But there is a possibility, perhaps, that some of us may not
fully appreciate the bounden duty imposed on our fraternity as a
rl·sult of the great sacrifice made by our fellow citizens and more
particularly by Brother Masons. Surely it is unnecessary to defend
their claim or to advocate its justice. They have fought for prin«iples, for empire, for us; their sufferings have been en-dured that
we might work out our destiny unmolested by the mailed fist of
I 'russian despotism. Shall we prove unworthy of that great sacrifice? Shall we be guilty of apathy and mock-heroic professions of
diarity and justice? Decidedly no! The spirit of our Order and
the dictates of conscience unite in acclaiming that we will share our
l\rother's burdens, that his load of suffering shall be lightened.
\Yhen the urgency of the situation is once realized the response
will be immediate and ample; undue delay would be well-nigh
rriminal.
THE PROBLEM FOR MASONS AT HOME
Granted, then, that we stand nnited each to "do his hit" in this
noble work of relief, let us examine more closely the character of
the problem that challenges us.
In the first place, it should be clearly understood that we are
not setting ourselves up as charity-mongers. The question is not
one of charity, but is distinctly of the nature of a bounden duty on
our part to see that the dependents of these brethren who offered
their lives on the altar of liberty shall not suffer from a privation
.,f the necessities of life. Many brethren have risked their all in the
1-:lorious cause. Not from unforeseen circumstances-for it was to
hr expected that not a few would make the supreme sacrifice, while
others would be maimed for life-have misfortune and calamity
overtaken them.
Undoubtedly, Grand Lodge is the fit and proper authority to
institute further action. Many questions demand our most serious
consideration. Shall we consider steps looking forward to the ultimate establishment of a Masonic home? Perhaps this is not the
most urgent problem pressing for solution, and yet, it seems to me,
the time has come when this matter might engage 011r attention.
To what extent and in what manner shall we augment the funds
now existing?
The problem is vital and demands immediate consideration.
In all likelihood these funds will soon prove inadequate to meet our
Masonic obligations. and to shun our duty would assuredly brand
Masonic benevolence is not only a
11 s as ingrates and "slackers."
sacred duty hut a privilege, and I believe that when the brethren

72

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

realize the seriousness of the situation they will cheerfully respond
to the appeal. 1 cannot bring myself to believe that our professions
of brotherly love, relief and truth are empty symbols and meaning~
less rhetoric. Masons of Saskatchewan are true at the core, and, I
am sure, will admit the justice of the end we wish to attain; though
it is to be expected that we shall differ somewhat with regard to
the best means available to secure that end.
Our benevolent fund has reached, as yet, only modest proportions, but the future is bright with prospects of greater success.
There is no need for cavil nor dismal exhortation. I am not
attempting to rattle the skeleton of despair. But we must arrive at
a thorough understanding of our position as a preliminary step to
successful effort in the future. It has been objected by some
Brother Masons that the incidence of the burden is not equitably
distributed among the different lodges and that some method should
be adopted for securing greater uniformity in this respect. No one,
however, has questioned the sincerity of those who are directly
responsible for administering the benevolent fund, or has ever
impugned the principles of which this fund is the concrete embodiment. If there are valid grounds for the objections raised, we are
all anxious that such defects should be remedied, and now is the
proper time to deal conclusively with the matter.
The Grand Master of Manitoba proclaims that "living and dead
battle together for victory":
As we are met here for the Forty-third Annual Communication
of the Grand Lodge of Manitoba, the thought uppermost in our
minds is the war. Overseas the fight rages with redoubled fury; the
very mists are charged with torment, and death rides on every wind.
The Teuton is pitted against civilization, endeavoring to uphold the
barbarous doctrine that "might is right," in keeping with Nietzsche's
enunciation, that, what we recognize as the binding power of the
Sermon on the Mount is the greatest obstacle in the path of progressive civilization, because it is contrary to that biological law
that gives dominion to the physically strong. We hold that there
is something more mighty than might, more enrluring than the
thirst for blood and dominion. This fundamental of our faith we
will defend with the last ounce of our treasure and the last drop of
our blood. The war, to be won in Europe, must be strenuously
supported here.
The Grand Master of New South Wales extends fraternal love
and grateful remembrances to 2,300 Brothers in service:
For nearly the whole of the past three years the world has
been under the shadow of the great war, a conflict that has brought
within its train death and untold misery to millions of our fellow
beings. It is said that there is nothing that is wholly evil, and even
this, the most cruel and barbarous war that has ever cursed humanity, has its redeeming features. lt has broken down thr nld-time
harriers of sect. creed and class, and has taught men to appreciate
the good there is in one another. It has drawn them closer together

73

and has diffused a spirit of fraternal love amongst those engaged in
a great common cause. But above all, it has inculcated the .most
divine of all attributes-the spirit of self-sacrifice.
On the one hand we have those brave men of ours who have
heard the call of empire and humanity, and have gone forth prepared to make the greatest sacrifice that men can make-their
bodies and their lives-and are bravely fighting and nobly dying in
defense of our lives, our liberty and our freedom. On the other
hand, we have the Spartan spirit of the parents who yield as a willing sacrifice all they hold most dear; and we have those noble workns who devote all their energies to alleviate the general suffering.
Of our own members no less than 2,300 are on active service,
and 120 will never more return, but sleep beneath the little mounds
on the barren rock-strewn hillsides of Gallipoli, or the fair fields of
stricken France, and to them will ever stretch the tendrils of fraternal love and grateful remembrance.
I am profoundly grateful to the brethren for their generous
response to my appeal for the War Benevolent Fund, which now
<"xceeds £15,000, and is an evidence of the fact that they fully realize
lhe debt owing to those of our brethren who are doing so much
for us.

The Grand Master of Virginia prays that the Supreme Architect of the Universe will give our ,Commander-in-Chief in France,
who is a Mason, wisdom to lead onr forces as did Washington of
old:
When we closed the Grand Lodge last February, we were
apprehensive as to the future. W c <lid not want war. Our President tried every means in his power to prevent our entering into
I hat stupendous conflict which was ravaging and devastating the
fair lands of France and Belgium; but from the time the Lusitania
was sunk and American citizens murdered, it was only a question of
time before our country would he forced to defend its rig lits. The
l'russian autocracy, in their mad scheme to conquer the worlrl, <lid
not stop at anything. The murrlcr of innocent women, children
and non-combatants, the outrages perpetrated upon the people of
llelgium and France were only a part of their diabolical scheme to
tt·rrorize the whole world so that neutral nations would not take
11p arms against them. Even while professing friendship for our
l'ountry, they were plotting to entangle us in war with other nations,
and we know now that even had peace been declared prior to the
l'll try of our country in to this great war that the military autocracy
of the German empire was only waiting for the proper moment to
strike a blow at the destruction of the republican institutions of
this country. The blood of our murdered citizens cried aloud for us
to enter the war so that this cruel monster should be removed. At
last, forced to <lefen<l our rights-in fact, forced to defend our right
lo exist as a nation-our countrv entered the !.rr<''lt war. The task
that has been undertaken is no easy one. Armies must be raised.
trained and equipped, ships constructed and our soldiers, munitions
and food must he transported to the battlefields. We heheld with
umazement the armies of France, bleeding, torn and battered, hold-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

ing the enemy until the Stars and Stripes could float on the battlefields entwined with the battle flag of France. It was from the '
sunny land of France that Lafayette, that soldier and patriot, came,
afterwards a member of our fraternity, who offered his sword and
his fortune to that gallant son and Mason of Virginia, George
Washington, in the fight that he was then leading for the independ,
ence of the Colonies. We were assisted in our fight for freedom
and independence by the people of France, and so when the savage
enemy was attacking France and endeavoring to destroy their
republic and bring them under the domination of the military autocracy of Germany; when the man-power was almost spent, when 1
dastardly ravages had been committed under the guise of war, it
was then that our country, in the hour of their deepest distress and
peril, remembering that there was a debt we owed to France, gave
them of our treasury, put the resources of our country behind them,
and, what was more dear to us than all, gave them our boys to drive
the savage Huns back from the land that they had devastated and
despoiled. And may our boys never stop until the military autocracy that so miserably oppresses the German people shall be overthrown, and when that day comes, when the battle flags of the
Allies, with the Stars and Stripes among them, shall float over the ,
castle of the German emperor in Berlin, then it will be that the
German people may choose rulers to govern them; and when no
longer a man shall rule by kingly right, but by the suffrages of his
fellow citizens, they will take their place with the other republics '
of the earth. But the end is not in sight, and as Masons, always
loyal to the government of the country in which we live, it becomes
our duty to fall in line behind the government in doing 'our part to
make, as the President has said, "the world safe for democracy."
In making the world safe for democracy we are making it safe
for the Masonic Order. Many of the members of our Lodges are
in the military service. All honor and glory to them. We hope
that all will return. Some are now on foreign soil, some in training
camps, and some on naval vessels; may the example of such illustrious Masons as Washington and Warren, and those who did such
valiant service for the Colonies in 1776, as well as the splendid.
achievements of John Paul Jones, be an incentive to them to do
their full duty, whether as officers or privates. We know that the
honor of Old Glqry will be safe in their hands.
The commander-in-chief of our forces in France, I am in··
formed, is a member of our fraternity. Let us pray that the
Supreme Architect of the Universe will give him wisdom, so that
he will lead his army, as did Washington of old, to a glorious victory
that will usher in the time when all people and nations shall have
for their motto: The Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of
·Man.
Our armies are in the field, and it costs money to maintain
them. Equipment, provisions, guns, ammunition, etc., must be purchased by the government. The government of the United States
can obtain money by taxation or by borrowing. The method used
by the government in borrowing is the sale of bonds. In order for
the government to sell its bonds, someone must have the money to
buy, and it, therefore, behooves us to be frugal and conservative in
our financial affairs, so that when the time comes when the govern-

llll'lll asks you to loan your money you will have that with which to
111-rt•clc with the request. I especially urge upon each Lodge that
w h1·11 the government offers for sale the third issue of the Liberty
I .11a11 bonds, they subscribe just as liberally as the financial condi1i1111 of their treasury will permit.
The government urges you not to waste food. It is food that
will go a long way toward winning the war. The supply of food is
li111itcd, therefore that which you save may be that which will be
11c·1'Clcd to carry our armies to victory. As Lodges and as individ11als, do your full duty to the government in the campaign for food
C"1111scrvation which is now being carried on.
The government also asks you to be thrifty and inculcate in the
llll'tnbers of your household and your friends, this principle. The
I .11dges of this state will be asked to organize themselves in the
ra111paign that is now under way for the sale of War Savings Certificates and War Thrift Stamps.
It is needless for me to urge you to perform your full duty as
n·gards the .purchase of bonds, food and fuel conservation, and the
purchase of War Thrift and War Savings Stamps. The resolution
that each Mason should make in order that government of the peopk, by the people, and for the people, should not perish from the
c•arth, must be that "our fortunes. our lives, and our sacred honor"
11ri· dedicated to the service of the government in this hour when
1•ach one is called upon to do his part.

74

75

The Grand Master of Missouri recognizes that fact that one
yi•ar ago they decided themselves that there could be peace for us:
Our Most Worshipful Brother Jesse, in his masterly address at
1111r last annual communication, congratulated us that our beloved
nation had not been drawn into the awful carnage; that amidst this
111aelstrom of war and desolation we still enjoyed the blessings
ll'hich peace alone can give, and we, with our beloved Grand Master,
li11wed our heads and joined with our Grand Chaplain in a prayer of
I hankfulness.
Brethren, we now know we were deluding ourselves. It was
plain then to many, as it is now to all, that the sinking of the
I .11sitania was a deliberate act of war against civilization, and that
w1• would certainly be drawn into conflict with an enemy amenable
I 11 no other argument than force. Germany is writing the blackest
pai.:e in the history of civilization.
It is difficult for Americans to comprehend the quality of mind
I hat rejoices in killing wome·n and children by dropping bombs on
d wcllings and school houses, when no object of the slightest mililary value can possibly be gained. They do not understand blood1 hirstiness.
The military caste that now rules Germany was brought up ir,
I hl' cult of war, and, after all the fine phrases are said, blood thirst
is the groundwork of the Prussian cult. In order to believe in war
fnr its own sake, as the Prussian nobility mainly does, one must
ht•licve in the righteousness of shedding enemy blood wherever it
is found.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Tamburlaine and Jenghiz Khan understood it. So did Bismarck. He condemned any leniency toward French civilians who
resisted Prussian soldiers as "a culpable laziness in killing," adding:
"Our people are good marksmen, but poor executioners." H.e
bitterly regretted taking any more French prisoners, instead of
shooting them down on the spot. Concerning a Prussian colonel
who gave a French woman safe conduct to come and plead for her
husband's life, the chancellor expressed the opinion that he was
certainly off his head!
In the Prussian cult of war mercy is the grand heresy, the most
intolerable fault. The business is to kill; anyone who does not go
to that business joyfully is little better than an apostate and a renegade. The execution of the English nurse, Miss Cavcll, was undoubtedly a deep satisfaction to the German military mind-an
acceptable offering to its god.

and convincing that could be conceived. Our existence as a nation
has been imperiled, our honor and our rights upon sea and land
have been violated; and notwithstanding the voice of the pacifist,
the socialist and the pro-German, we have cast our lot with those
whom we conceive are fighting for the upholding of the right. To
those of our countrymen who are opposed to war on principle, or
whose views give them the opinion that war could have been
avoided, let me state that the time has passed for such arguments
a~. they advance; the only aim now considered is a successful and
victorious ending at the earliest possible moment, that our men,
1111r guns, our explosives, and all other means at our command can
accomplish, and the man who opposes this aim has no right to the
protection of our flag or of our organization.

It is against this bloody, brutish Prussian cult of war that
America is now in arms. There can be no peace until the German
people renounce its domination.

Another year of supreme importance and anxiety has passed by.
Not for a day or an hour can we be forgetting the sense of the
awfulness of the tragedy of this war, which for nearly three years
has filled full the pages of the world's history.

76

But, brethren, we must not despair. There is a gentle influence
that has been abroad in the world for nearly 1900 years, against
which "the gates of Hell shall not prevail."
In these words the Grand Master of Utah expresses onr obligations as Masons:
We gather at the appointed time, with hearts filled with gratitude for the many blessings which surround us in this glorious land
of liberty; and yet we sorrow, that over the world has fallen the
blight of uncurbed, selfish ambition, and unrestrained militarism,
resulting in the most awful physical conflict recorded in history.
Hence, while we contemplate the ways in which our fraternity, and
each of us, can be of the greatest service to our fellow-men, we
must also recognize that included in our obligation to humanity is
the necessary and unavoidable duty of supporting in the fullest possible measure, every effort which is being put forth by our national
government to "make the world safe for democracy." I know to a
certainty that the Masonic fraternity of Utah is willing and determined to answer the call in a way befitting us as men, worthy· of
the proud title of Masons and Americans. May God give us wisdom
to direct us, and may He strengthen our endeavors in the entire
fulfillment of our duties and responsibilities.
The Grand Master of Alabama declares that the man who
opposes our war aims is not entitled to the protection of the flag:
At the last session of this Grand Lodge, we were hopeful that
we could, with honor, keep out of the world-wide war which had
hl·en raging for nearly three years throughout Europe. Conditions,
however, havi; involved us. as well as almost every country of
moment in the entire world. To comment on the reasons for our
entering this war, or our aims for its conduct, would be si~ply a
repetition of what each of you have heard and read many times in
the past few months. Our reasons for entering are the most logicai

77

The Grand Master of New Brunswick says:

By day and in nightly vigils our thoughts are of the tramp of
111en marching, the breath from breasts heaving, the din and terror
11f modern warfare but partially realized by us, the wounded, the
unnumbered dead, the dreary hospitals of pain, the relentless fury
and vandalism of· the enemy incomparable with that of any other
warfare, and, above all, of our brave soldiers, and of the call for
111rn and more men. "This war is breaking my heart," said Lord
l'alkland, of the great Civil War in England, and throughout this
vast empire the sorrow and anguish and overpowering sense of loss
in hundreds of thousands of homes is breaking hearts and crushing
mature life. But above all and over all there is a calmness, full
measure of faith as to the final result. And we as Masons are not
losing sight of fundamentals. For truth, for liberty, for justice;
a~ainst falsehood, against slavery, against injustice, is this war being
waged by the Allies, and more than ever arc the neutral nations of
the earth realizing this.
"There is not a man among us," says England's former premier,
"who does not breathe more freely now that the whole English~pcaking race is to fight .as comrades, side by side, in the most
momentous struggle in history." Through the clouds of warfare,
hy faith, we can perceive what the future has in store. More and
more we realize that this war is a struggle of democracy against the
power of absolutism, of militarism__.:._that while in the upheaval of
l"vents monarch thrones, claimed by Divine right, may become as
footstools, the ultimate peace will be settled "in the parliament of
111an, the federation of the world." And at last. through much trib11 ratiOn, we shall fully realize that "God's iri His heaven and all's
ri~ht with the world."
The Grand Master of Illinois says that this government was
"conceived by Masons" and they will defend it:
When we came together one year ago the war clouds were hov1•ring near; today we are actually engaged in the greatest conflict

78

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

the world has ever known. Little did we realize at that time what
was about to befall us, and even today I am fearful that many of
our people are not fully aroused to the ~eriousness of the situation.
When you eonsider that out of a membership of 158,000 we have
approximately 10,000 already in the service of the government, with
every probability that if the war lasts for another year a much
larger number will be called to the colors; and when you review the
report of the finance committee and find that your appropriations
of a year ago for the maintenance of your Homes were wholly inadequate, and that you have expended thousands of dollars more than
was contemplated, and that this additional expenditure has been
caused entirely by the war conditions, you must realize in some
small degree at least the effect this terrible conflict is having on
all of us. Every hour that the struggle continues adds to the seriousness of the situation and calls to our attention in a forceful manner that each and everyone of us has a duty to perform.

of the civilized world is trembling in the balance. For us this means
more than I dare say, but this one thing we do know: Australia's
future is in jeopardy. lt is ours to take our part and to give our
services, to give of our substance, and, if need be, to give our lives.
(Applause.) We have come to the supreme crisis, and our determination and our fortitude must be shown now by our acts, not by
our words alone. It is time to do, not to talk. It is time to forget
olir party differences; it is time to unite as one nation-part of a
great empire-and forget our own needs and our own comfort, and
lo throw ourselves, heart and soul, into the great work which lies
hefore us. There is no need to enlarge on the loyalty and patriotism of Freemasons. Every good Mason is loyal to his king and to
his country. Every member of the Order is, I feel sure, doing his
hest to evidence his patriotism so far as his circumstances will permit by acts of sacrifice and service. (Applause.) Brethren, our
Masonic life is uneventful during this time of war strife. Our activities are of necessity cramped, so far as material development is
concerned. But there comes to everyone of us a stern discipline.
to strengthen and develop our characters, enrich our lives and
destroy our selfishness, to bring out all that is highest and best to
make us worthy citizens of that great empire that stands for civilization. (Applause.) General Haig has called upon his soldiers to
fight with their backs to the wall, to fight to the end for the safety
of our homes and the safety .of mankind. Brethren and friends,
how stand we tonight? We stand with our backs to the wall, ready
to strike a blow for king, country, empire, and the right. (Loud
applause.)

Masons are loyal citizens and when the record is made the
world will know that our brethren have fulfilled their duty.
"Masonry hath been always injured by war, bloodshed and confusion" and has "ever flourished in times of peace," and as an institut~on it has no plaee whatever in the present conflict, and it is to be
smcerely hoped that when the dreadful war is over we will find
Masonry in all its purity and splendor unchanged.
. This government was in the main conceived by Masons, and
this government can always depend upon the Masons to defend it.
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ancient Free and
Accepted Masons of Illinois, in annual communication, recognizing
that our country has been forced into war to preserve those ideals
which are the fundamental teachings of our fraternity, hereby registers its assurance to the President of the United States of it11
unqualified loyalty to the federal government, and its unit~d support in this. great struggle that righteousness may prevail in the
world and its peoples safeguarded from the evils of autocratic
oppression.
Loyalty to God and to country is a dominant note in all the
teachings of Freemasonry. As the representatives of the 160 000
members o~ the f;ate.rnity in .Illinois, w~ pledge renewed fealty to
our Masomc obligat10ns which recogmzes no compromise with
treason.
The Grand Master of South Australia admonishes his brethren
that it is futile to speak of complete victory at this time, and idle
to speak of peace:
I feel a great difficulty in what I should say to you tonight.
Brethren, it is not because J have nothing to say.· It is because the
thoughts of everyone of us are centered on this great war and all
other matters-matters which in pre-war time appeared ~o large
and loomed up so important-seem no more to be of interest. It is
futile at the present time to speak of a complete victory, it is idle
to speak about peace. We must look facts in the face. The fate of
the empire is to be decided now on the fields in France. The future

79

The Grand Master of Tasmania is pleased with the activities of
the membership of his jurisdiction:
The great and terrible war that is still waging at the other end
of the world, and in which we are so closely concerned, calls to our
mind that amongst those who have already enlisted in the great and
noble cause for which we are contending are about one hundred and
fifty members of the Craft in Tasmania. Some of them have
answered the last summons-unhappily for us-but their names will
he added to the scroll of honour in connection with the glorious
deeds with which their death will be associated. Our earnest prayer
will be that the G.A.0.T.U. will not only watch over and protect
our remaining brethren, but all those who are fighting for liberty
and righteousness.
It is pleasing to note-turning to some foaancial matters-that
onr benevolent fund still progresses satisfactorily, this fund now
standing at .£5,000, while we have been able to invest in the War
Loan £1,100 of our funds, and the many calls ma.de upon our fund
have been cheerfully met.
The private Lodges, too, by their monthly contributions, subscribed as a self-denial nearly .£600 to the Red Cross funds. This
only shows what the result of co-operation is. This self-denial to
ns, after all, is a very small matter, but when we note what results
can be attained thereby we have tause for congratulation on our
forethought, and it behooves us all. during the period of the war .
to still continue, and, if possible, increase the donations that are
now given to this most laudable object.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

In \Vest Virginia the Grand Master says there is no Lodge but
has a member who sleeps in a soldier's tent:

I hat anywhere in our country there can be found a Mason who is a

80

Never in the history of our beloved country have more important and perplexing problems puzzled the minds of the wisest and
wittiest of men than at the present hour. As we convene 'here
tonight, in every part of our land. are assembled the soldiers ready
to do and die for the cause we all hold dear. If we are to remain
true to the immortal declaration, "Millions for defense, but not ane
cent for tribute," the hour is here when we must all do our best.
It is, however, in behalf of those who are members of our own
fraternity that I plead. It is hardly possible that there is a single
subordinate Lodge in all our country that does not have at least
one Brother who sleeps this night in a soldier's tent. If there was
ever an hour when there should be an united effort to aid in all
possible ways to make camp life pleasant, pure and home-like, that
time is now. For years, to do good to others has been a theory;
today it is a practical reality. One of the District Deputy Grand
Masters of this Grand Lodge is authority for the statement that
nearly one-third of all the young men now in training at one of the
officers' training camps of our country are Masons. If this be true
of all the camps of the nation, what is the present duty of our
fraternity?
I know n.ot what is best to do in the present pressing situation.
I am confident, however, that it is an hour for action. The solution
of the problem and the plan to add to the happiness of our brethren
who are "somewhere" tonight should enlist the best of heart and
bi:ain. May I dare even to suggest for your maturer consideration
two or three ways in which we can help in some small manner to
keep in touch with our brethren, wherever they may be, and cause
them to feel and know that we shall be interested in them every
hour, and our daily prayer shall be that success may crown their
efforts, and that the hand of Him, who neither slumbers nor sleeps,
sha:tl finally return them safely to home and loved ones.
First-I recommend that this Grand Lodge remit to each subordinate Lodge the annual Grand Lodge tax chargeable to each
brother now in the service so long as he shall remain in such
service.
Second-If deemed advisable, I further recommend that an
effort be made to ascertain the number of brethren in our Grand
Jurisdiction who are already in the service, and add thereto such
others as may hereafter enlist; that a committee be appointed for
that purpose, and that this Grand Lodge, in session now convened,
consider seriously the proposition of appropriating a fund sufficient
to enable said committee to dispense such financial aid as will add
to the comfort and happiness of our brethren as are deservedly
needing the soothing balm beneficial to their immediate circumstances. That sublime precept, "Inasmuch as you have done it unto
the least of these my brethren, you have done it unto me." should
be the daily doctrine of every American citizen, and particularly of
us as Masons.

81

The Grand Master of New Mexico says that it is inconceivable
slacker:
It is inconceivable that there could be found anywhere within
our country a Mason who is a "slacker" or a traitor to his country,
or one who would in any way give aid and comfort to the enemy.
The central powers who have formed a coalition for the purpose of
imposing their autocratic will upon the rest of the world, little
n·eked of the great power and determination of liberty-loving people. Those powers have disregarded every principle held dear to
Ma sons. The most solemn trea.ty to them is a scrap of paper. The
1-(rcat principles of international law that have been recognized by
1·ivilized nations for centuries are to them in the same class as their
~nlemn treaties: they are disregard·ed at will. The destruction of
<lt•fenseless cities, the murder of non-combatants, the bombardinguf hospitals, the sinking of Red Cross relief ships, the torpedoing
of ships that travel the high seas, leaving defenseless women and
l'l1ildren and other non-combatants to drown, and the carrying of
<ldenseless women and girls into a service worse than death itself.
has been condemned by every civilized nation, but is adopted by
these autocratic powers as an example in frightfulness that is supposed to make freemen tremble. How could any liberty-loving
pt•ople stand by and not fight? Is it strange that our country.
founded upon the immutable principles of liberty and upon the
tht•ory that governments are instituted among men deriving their
j11st powers from the consent of the governed. should oppose with
all its might the attempt of any autocratic power to destroy the
liberty of the world? There is no compromise hetween military
<ll'spotism and liberty. Either liberty will be wiped out or despotic
power must be so crushed that it shall never again assail the liberty
of the world. The President has well said that the United States of
America has entered this contest to make the world safe for democracy, and that no treaty can he made with a despotic power which
hns violated every obligation and is bankrupt in its promises.
It behooves every citizen of this great republic to stand bv the
Prl'sident and his country in this great contest. If he cannot ·fight
ht· can work. If he cannot work he can contribute of his means.
uml if he is not a:ble, through misfortune, to perform any of these
~1·rvices, he can Still be a patriot. There is no room for "slackers"
or traitors; all must follow the flag, so that not a star of its bright
~alaxy shall be dimmed or a fold of its bright colors soiled by
1lisloyalty.
The Grand Lodge adopted these patriotic resolutions:
\Vhereas, with the entry of the United States into active participation in military and naval operations in the great war now ragini.;, members of the Masonic fraternity promptly rallied to the support of our arms and those of our gallant allies; and,
\Vhereas, in the struggle many of our brethren have alreadv
11m1le the last sacrifice in defense of country. home and family, an~l
have shed their life-blood in support of the great cause of right and
lltH'rty against the dark forces of tyranny, cruelty and oppression;

and,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

Whereas, at the last annual communication of the Grand Lodge
a resolution was adopted pledging to our government the support of
our fraternity; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That we, the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of the State of New York, reaffirm the resolution of loyalty
adopted in 1917 in annual communication assembled, and again
pledge to the government of the United States our unswerving support, and to our country our best efforts, our fortunes, ahd our
lives, to the end that victory may crown our arms, arid government
of the people, by the people, for the people, may not perish from
the earth.
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge record with sincere ap'predation and pride the names of the patriotic brethren who .. hav,e gone
into the service of our country in the great world w;i.r for liberty
and democracy, and furthermore proclaim to them our earnest
wishes for their welfare and offer our earnest prayer to Go.d for
their safety.

palriotism, when love of country becomes supreme. Entering the
alliance in such a spirit means more to the world than even America's guns, her navy or her men. There are today marshalled
against the German autocracy, forces moral, military and economic
which, in the end, ought to, and will, I believe, prove invincible.
So, my brethren, though our millions march forth to serve duty,
and though we could have ransomed all the misery and lighted the
last black corners of earth with the gold and zeal now promoting
war, and though civilization might have made a sun ladder of the
timbers in her crucifix, history will not count the present as a loss.
When this war shall have ended, the world will have gained in
humaneness, in efficiency, in the realization of community power,
and in the acquisition of a world-wide democracy and a permanent
peace. Then, I trust, shall be realized the prayer of our great
prophet and leader, Albert Pike, soldier, statesman and philosopher,
who prayed for the coming of the day "when all mankind shall be
i111e great lodge of brethren, and wars and persecutions shall be
known no more forever."
·

82

The Grand Master of Wyoming asks all who see no just cause
for this war to cast their lot with those who are attempting to
overthrow our government:
To attempt to say anything as a justification of this war seems
almost unnecessary. If there are still those who feel that there is
no just reason for this war, and that there is no place for the discussion of it in our Order, or that the government of these United
States is all wrong in appealing to us for our loyal support in this
great crisis, then I would suggest that they withdraw from the
country and cast in their lot with those who are trying to overthrow our government, that they may be justified in their position
and choice.
We are either for the flag or against it. We are now about to
accept the gauge of battle with this natural foe to liberty, and, if
necessary, so the world may be made safe for democracy, spend the
whole force of the nation to check and nullify its pretentions and
its powers.
In closing this first section of my address, I earnestly ask that
every member of our beloved Order in this jurisdiction pledge himself to support, with sincere personal devotion, the President and
government of the United States, and do all in his pmyer to encourage others to do likewise.
The Grand Master of Texas asks the br.ethren to stop spending
foolishly and support the government:
My brethren, these are stirring times. No man can predict
what the day or the hour will bring forth. At the conclusion of
this, the greatest war of all ages, the world· will then all be free, or
all nations will be subject to Prussian autocracy. America's aims
are above suspicion. She se,eks no oversea empire. Our resources
are adequate; our will is perfect; our spirit is indomitable, and Go.d
helping us, our success is certain. Already we have demonstrated
what a united people can do when partisanship is subordinated ~o

83

My brethren, the holiday season is fast approaching. Let me
suggest this year that instead of spending money uselessly for gifts,
Christmas cards and other luxuries, that you remember the boys in
the trenches, the poor and the needy, the loved ones at home and
<'specially the families of our soldiers and sailors in service. What
you would in other years spend foolishly, give to the Red Cross, or
through some other like channel and you will have the most satisfactory Christmas and New Year in all your lives.
The Grand Master of Mississippi bids us have patience and
courage:
I feel today that we are just entering into, or I might more
properly sa:y: approaching a new era, when all the world will experil'nce and enjoy that for which Masonry from its very inception has
rnntended. The world today is engaged in the greatest conflict
<'Ver known. At our first Grand Lodge meeting one hundred years
ago no such conflict was ever dreamed of; even one year ago when
we met in Jackson we had fond hopes that our beloved country
would not be drawn into this terrible conflict; but alas! the heel of
the oppressor of the innocent, the murderer of our wives and sistns, and the mutilator of our defenseless little ones, has borne
drnvn with such terrible pressure that our nation has seen fit to
1•ntcr into the war and cast her all in on the side of the fight for
lihnty and all that we as Masons and citizens hold most dear· but
brethren, the old saying, "There is never a cloud so dark but lt ha~
a silver lining," is, I believe, a true one, and I cannot but believe
that there is a divine purpose in it all, so let us not despair, but in
this, as well as in all other things, look to Him for guidance and
n·member that for more than nineteen hundred years there has been
a gentle influence for peace abroad in the land against which even
"The gates of hell shall not prevail," and also remember the promise that "He that endureth to the end, the same shall be saved."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPO).!DENCE.

"Be patient, 0 be patient! though yet our hopes are green,
The harvest field of freedom shall be crowned with sunny sheen,
Be ripening, be ripening, mature your silent way,
Till the whole round world is tongued with fire on Freedom's harvest day."

constituent lodges in this jurisdiction for the duration of the war;
that this money be turned into the Grand Lodge Relief Fund, and
that said $1.00 be collected from each member of all constituent
lodges and remitted to the Grand Lodge with the Annual Returns
beginning April, 1918.
In this manner the Grand Lodge A. F. & A. M. of Nor th
Dakota goes on record as standing by the President and adminis1ration in every way. May the "American sword, which has never
been drawn save in the cause of liberty, never be sheathed save
in victory," may the American flag forever float over a free and
united people until it shall be forever furled and laid at the feet
of the "King of Kings," and time shall he no more.

84

By a rising vote the Grand Lodge of North Dakota adopted the
following resolutions:
Whereas, Masonry stands for liberty, justice and equality and
teaches us to believe in the ".Fatherhood of God and the Brother~
hood of Man" and persistently "to spread the cement of brotherly
love and affection," which shall unite not only our nation but all
mankind into one "sacred band or society of friends and brothers
among whom no contention should ever exist save that noble contention who best can work and best agree;" and,
Whereas, a portion of mankind seems to have gone mad, and
is attempting to force upon the world an autocratic military government that has for its underlying principles, "might makes
right," and that international agreements are mere "scraps of
paper;" and, •
Whereas, the sacred rights of neutral nations have been ruthlessly prostituted on land and sea to the extent of murdering
women and children; and,
Whereas, at first this military power did not seem to affect
America, but later spread until it now threatens the very existence
of our cherished institutions of democracy; and,
Whereas, our President of the United States has asked in no
uncertain tone for the nation to rise to repel a foreign aggressor
that liberty and equality and justice shall not perish from the
earth;
Now, Therefore. Be It Resolved, that this Grand· Lodge
A. F. & A. M. of North Dakota, in this twenty-eighth annua.J
communication assembled pledges its united support· to the President and administration in this unavoidable conflict until liberty
shall again emerge victorious.
Be It Further Resolved, That the Trustees of the Relief Fund,
in their discretion as to time, be authorized to purchase $5,000:00
worth of Liberty Bonds, and that the Grand Master and the Grand
Secretary and the Chairman of the Finance Committee, in their'
discretion as to time, be authorized to purchase $5,000.00 Liberty
Bonds from the General Fund;
Be It Further Resolved, That a donation of $1,000.00 out of
the General Fund be made to the National Red Cross Society,
$500.00 payable July !st, 1917, and the remaining $500.00 April !st,
1918;
Re It Further Resolved, That a donation of $1.000.00 out of
the General Fund be made to the Army Y. M. C. A., $500.00 to be
payable July !st, 1917, and $500.00 April !st, 1918;
Be It Further Resolved, That a special assessment of $1.00 per
capita he imposed annually upon the combined membership of the

85

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS.
UTAH.

In Utah the following requirements must be md:
First. Be a man, free born.
Second. Have the senses of a man.
Third. Be a believer in the Grand Architect of the Universe.
Fourth. Be capable of reading and writing.
Fifth. Ile of mental worth and have a record of a moral am!
11pright life, andSixth. Possess physical ability to earn a livclilwod, and to conform
,;11l:stantially to the forms and ceremonies of Masonry, and he instructed
in its mysteries.
HHODE ISLAND.

The Grand Lodge of Rhode Island approved this ruling of the
Master and Jurisprudence Committee:
I. I held that an applicant whose right leg has been a111p11tated
,;ix inches below the knee, hut who was able by use of an artificial
limb to suhstantially perform every part of the work of the three
1k·grees of Symbolic Masonry, and was in no likelihoocl of becoming a
l'hargc upon the Fraternity, was eligible to receive these degrees, proYiclcd he possessed the proper internal qualifications. (Constitution
.\rticle VJ I, Section 12, Standing Order No. 12.)
It is ckmentary that the internal rather than the external qualifi\'a tions a re the essential requisites for entrance into the l nstitnt ion.
If a man possesses suitable qualities of mind and heart, the physical
qualifications arc and should be considered as· secondary. At the same
I ime, it must he recognized that in order to comply with the requirements of the· fraternity; the candidate must possess certain physical
qualifications and there arc certain deformities which wouhl necessarily
bar him from entrance.
ln the opinion of the Committl'e, for reasons which can he no hetter
't:1tecl than they arc already stated in the address of the Crallll Master,
I he Standing Order should receive a liberal interpretation. The Com111ittee cannot believe that however the Standing Order is amended, the
m·cessity of a resort to the Crand Master for interpretation from time
'" time will he removed. On the contrary, a conscientious Master will,
t ~rand

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPOR'r ON CORRESPONDENCE.

and should, in all cases of doubt, refer the question to the Grand Master
that there may be a uniformity of interpretation.
The Committee believe, however, that an addition to the Standing
Order will perhaps make the intent a little m,ore clear and we suggest
an addition which is an adaption of a by-law adopted by the Grand
Lodge of North Dakota.
They, therefore, recommend that the Standing Order be amended
so as to read as follows :
"Resolved: No man who is unable to perform every part of the
work in the three degrees of Symbolic Masonry is eligible to receive
those degrees; but an applicant, physically defective, who can by artificial means controlled by himself, perform all the requirement of the
work, shall be eligible.

want to establish a precedent, which might turn out to be dangerous
and costly for this Grand Lodge to follow. This is a question that
should be carefully considered at this Grand Lodge session, and a definite policy laid down for future guidance. The problem will be placed
before you for your decision, when the new Constitution is being considered. My own opinion is that we should guard against being swayed
altogether by sympathy. It would redound very much to the discredit
oi our fraternity, if we assumed a burden greater than we could bear.
Our fraternity is not in any sense a Benefit Society. If the ha rs are
taken down almost altogether, it will undoubtedly result in our having
added to our membership a great many who would he a charge against
the fraternity for the balance of their natural lives. Jn that case, in
place of $100,000.00 we might need a Benevolent Fund of $1,000,000.00.
Can we raise such a fund? h was never the intention of our Jnstitution to have any for its members but such as were not only able to he·'.p
themselves, but were also able and willing to help others. 1t seems to
me that safety lies in adhering pretty closely to the original intent.

86

ALBJiRTA,

The Grand Lodge of Alberta approved the following liberal views
of the Grand Master:
The dispensation to act on applications of candidates with physical
defects were as follows:
Lethbridge Lodge No. 39, to initiate a returned soldier who had
lost his right arm below the shoulder. He had an artificial, mechanical
arm, and was able to fulfill the necessary requirements.
Bow River Lodge No. 1, to initiate a returned soldier who had
defective hearing and was obliged to use an ear trumpet. I was present
at this initiation and was quite satisfied that the candidate was able
to fulfil the necessary requirements.
I feel that the broadest possible view should be taken in the matter
of granding dispensations to initiate ottr returned soldiers. who have
been wounded in the service of the Empire, provided they can fulfil
the necessary reqttirements, and I therefore granted these dispensations
gladly.·
Speaking of the constantly increasing number of applications for
dispensations to confer degrees on persons not physically perfect, the
Grand Master recommended that the rule suggested by the Board of
Ceneral Purposes of the Grand Lodge of England he followed: "To
consider a candidate digihle for election who, although not pcrkct in
his limbs, .is sufficiently so to comply with the various cnemonies required in the various degrees. The merits of each case must be decided
by the individual Lodge.
MANITOBA.

The Grand Lodge of Manitoba on physical qualifications :
As in some cases dispensation was refused, it may be fitting for me
to make some comment, especially as each was a case of physical defect,
and owing to the war such cases in the future may be more numerous .
than in the past. I refused dispensation in one case where a soldier
had lost his legs, both off a few inches from the body. Sympathy would
urge one to overlook almost any physical defect in a soldier who had
become maimed in this war. But I felt no great hardship would he incurred by waiting. Dispensation can be applied for again. I did not

87

LOUISIANA.

Decision from the Grand Lodge of Louisiana:
11. A candidate should be able to see, hear, feel and walk, and
should be in such possession of his physical and mental faculties as
will enable him to fully prove both himself and others, and be enahled to
obtain thereby a living, that he may not become a charge to the Order.
-(Adams, 1859.)
51. An E. A. who had lost a leg cannot be passed to the degree of
Fellow Craft. The candidate should be of entire limbs, in possession
of all his faculties, and be fully ab!e to go through, without inconvenience, every part of our ceremonies; to give every sign and be able
to instruct and be in;;tructed in every physical means of recognition, and
beyond these physical qualifications the candidate should possess a
souml body. We want, and want only, nien who can, in case of need,
be able physically to meet all the requirements of the obligations of
:'lfasonry they may be called upon to take.-(Todd, 1870.)
NI\W ~11\XlCO.

The Grand Lodge of New Mexico has this to say of physical
qualifications:
Ruling and decision number fifteen, where a Lodge in this jurisdiction conferred the degree by courtesy to the jurisdiction of Missouri,
npon Missouri material, where the candidate has his left leg taken off at
or just below the hip, and had a cork leg, is disapproved. The Grand
Lodge in New Mexico has consistently held in conformity with our
by-laws that the Masonic degrees can be conferred only upon one who
is physically able to conform to the letter and spirit of the ceremonies
of the fraternity. One of the essential qualifications is that a candidate
must be of sound body. \Ve do not believe that the officers of our
subordinate Lodges are authorized to confer the degrees upon any
candidate through request and upon whom they would be disqualified
from conferring such degrees if they were our own jurisdiction's material. The conferring of the degrees in this instance was not the conforming to the rites and ceremonies of oi1r jurisdiction as heretofore
proclaimed and generally understood in this jurisdiction. While this

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

88

89

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
INDIANA.

candidate may have been qualified under the jurisdiction of Missouri to
receive the degrees, no Lodge in this jurisdiction is authorized to confer
Missouri work, which is necessarily implied by the candidate being
unable to comply with the rites and ceri:'monieo of this jurisdiction as
heretofore determined hy this Grand Lodge. \Ve therefore hold that
any member of another jurisdiction by request must be able' to conform to the requirements of this jurisdiction. ln so holding we do not
attempt to criticize or invade the right of other jurisdictions to prescribe
such qualifications as they may see tit, but insist that WC' must, by precept and example, in conferring degrees in our subordinate Lodges,
conform strictly to the requirements of this jurisdiction.
NJiBRASKA.

The Nebraska rule is as follows:
"A Lodge cannot initiate any one having physical imperfections
which impair his ability to support himself and family, or by reason of
which he is unable to conform to all of our peculiar rites and ceremonies. But a physical disability occurring a ft er initiation will not prevent advancement."

In 1918 the Grand Lodge of Indiana amended its General Regulations to read as follows:

Section 86. Lodges are prohibited from initiating any candidate
1111<ler twenty-one years of age, or one who has not made a declaration
of his belief in the existence of the Deity, or one whose physical disability is such as to prevent his literal compliance with the ceremonies of
lhc Order: Provided, That the Grand Master may, with the consent
of the Committee on Jurisprudence, allow Lodges to receive and ballot
on petitions for membership of those, who can, by the aid of artificial
:1pplia11ces, conform to the ceremonies of the Order in every particular.
l'rovided, also, That the Grand Master may, with the consent of the
Committee on Jurisprudence, arow Lodges to receive petitions and
ballot upon such petitions of thosC' who arc not physically perfect,
hut who can suhstantially conform to the ceremonies of the Order.
TJlN Nl\SSl•:Jl.

In Te1111cssec the question of Physical Qualifications is left to the
discretion of the Subordinate Lodge.

MONTANA.

In Montana the rule as stated by the J misprndence Committee is
as follows:
"A candidate for the degree of entered apprentice should be ab!e
physically as well as intellectnaJy to receive and imp:1rt all the essentials of Masonic recognition, and this the Lodge may determine."
SOl:'r H llA KOTA.

In South Dakota the rule is as follows :
If the physical disability of any applicant for the degrees docs not
amount, aided by ordinary artificial means, to an inability to meet the
requirements and honestly to acquire the means of subsistence it sha.l
constitute no hindrance to his initiation.

NEW JERSEY.

Tn New Jersey where the question of physical qualifications is left
lo the Grand Master he reports as follows:
During the year I have received 124 requests for permission to receive and act upon petitions from applicants possessing visible physical
defects. These were in each case forwarded to the District Deputy of
lhc district from which such petition emanated, with instructions to
make cardnl examination and report. This having hecn done, I have
granted or refused permission to ballot, according to my hcst judgment
in determining the physical qualifications of the petitioner. These
cases arc all recorded in the Grand Secretary's Office.
ARKANSAS.

COLORADO.

Colorado adheres to the strict rnle:
Section 239: Qualifications of Candidate: A candidate for the
Degrees shall be a man, at least twenty-one years of age at the time his
petition is presented to the Lodge; free-born, of sound mind, having no
maim or defect in his hotly that may render him incapable of learnin::ithe art and becoming perfect in the work, but physically able to cnnform
literally to what the several degrees may require of him: shall he of
good report, and shall possess a he:ief in one ever-living and trne Cod,
No lodge shall confer the Entered Apprentice Degree upon a candidate
unless he shall possess these qualifications. No substitution of artificial
parts or limbs. is a compliance with the law. The loss of a hand or a
foot, or any considerable part of such member, or a material natural
deformity therein. is an absolute disqualification. Except where the
qualification is ahsolute, tlw Lodge has discretion, which must Lie governt>d hy the spirit of the law as above set forth.

In Arkansas the Grand Lodge adopted the following regulations:
"That any person posse'ssing the requirements prescribed hy MaHmic Law and Usage, although not physically perfect, b11t possessing
110 defect which incapacitates him from giving and seeing the signs,
grips, steps and salutations, including the positions necessary to take
the obligations, and who can give and hear the secret words of Masonry,
'hall be eligible tu the degrees of Masonry."
MISSOURI.

In Missouri the rule is that any one who is able by artificial appliances to conform to the ceremonies of the degrees is eligible.

90

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENGE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENO.l!J.

'I'l\XAS.

i111possible to waive; and in going over the Approved Decisions of this
(:rand Jurisdiction I find that Past Grand Master Carothers in 1898
rendered a decision upon the point which you raise. He ruled that a
candidate whose hearing was so defective that he could not hear a
whisper without what was said being heard by others standing near,
rould not be considered. I take it from your letter that this is the situation with the candidate referred to, and while I regret very much
I h:it the candidate is unfortunate, I feel compelled to rule that the
candidate is not eligible for the Masonic degree.

The Grand Lodge of Texas applies the rule set out in this preamble
and resolution :
\VHl\Rl\As, The perfect man is an ideal being, and absolute perfection does not exist among men, neither physically, mentally, nor
morally; therefore, be it
Resolved, (1) That it is not obnoxious to the Ancient Landmarks
and Charges of Masonry that slight maims or defects of body should
debar an applicant for initiation or advancement in Masonry; and
(2) That an applicant for initiation must be sound and hale, without maim or defect in his body that may render him ineligible to be a
Mason; that is, physical maims and defects should be considered on
the basis of his ability to receive, practice and impart freely and without
artificial or other aid all the rites and ceremonies of Ancient Craft
Masonry, including :\fasonic work in the Lodge room, and shall possess
the mental and physical ability to earn his livelihood in his chosen
occupation outside the Lodge room; and
Resolved, That when an applicant for initiation has a maim or
defect, the Lodge to which the application is made shall refer the case,
with a faithful description of such maim or defect, to the Grand Master,
who shall thereupon rule upon the eligibility of the applicant in the
light of these resolutions.
ALABAMA.

The rule in Alabama is stated by the Grand Master as follows:
At the last meeting of the Grand Lodge, an amendment to the
Constitution was adopted, placing the decision as to the physical qualification of a candidate in the hands of the Lodge, subject to the written approval of the Grand Master.
I had .been of the opinion that the intention of this amendment was
only to 111odi'fy to a limited extent the laws previously existing, and the
Grand Lodge having declined to make any interpretation of the new
law, but leaving each case to the judgment of the Grand Master I
adopted for myself a rule that where the candidate could, either
with his own person, or with the aid of artificial limbs, place
himself in the necessary positions and give the signs and grips, that I
would approve the action of a Lodge in accepting snch candidate.
I think that the language of the amendment would permit the
acceptance of one who was so maimed that he could not comply with
this rule which I outlined for my guidance, but I acted upon what I
considered the spirit of the amendment, rather than the strict letter of
the law.
The several cases acted npon by me are not here reported in detail,
but the rule which I have just given has governed my action throughout the year in all cases on this subject submitted to me for action.
NORTH DAKOTA.

North Dakota decides that one who cannot hear whisper, disqualified:
As indicated by the Grand Secretary, the Grand Lodge is disposed
to construe rather liberally the matter of physical qualificatiom. However, there are certain fundamental conditions in our ritual which seem

91

CHAIN LETTERS.
As expressing the attitude of the several Grand Jurisdictions
it1 the Chain Letter humbug, I ca11 attention to the following:
The Grand Master of Rhode Island has this to say:
In spite of the fact that much has been written and said with a view
of discouraging the evil of chain letters in general and of the "Masonic
I 'rayer" chain letter in particular, many members of the craft in this
jurisdiction appear to have thoughtlessly let their superstition get the
!Jetter of their good judgment and have aided in perpetuating and in·
ercasing an altogether foolish and useless undertaking.
It may not be amiss to quote from an article by Bro. Newton appearing recently in the Builder:"Perhaps half a hundred brethren have sent us the following prayer,
saying that it had been sent to them with the request that they send it on
to nine brother Masons, forming an endless chain of prayer: 'O Lord,
I implore Thee to bless all mankind. Firing us to Thee. Keep us to
•lwell with Thee." So far, good; it is a brief, wise and universal prayer.
like a line caught from a vast litany of humanity. But the usual form
of the letter adds that this prayer was sent by all :\fasons in the olden
ti111e, and that all who wrote it would be free from calamity, and that
I hose who did not pass it on would be in danger of misfortune. What
a pity to spoil the beauty of it all, breaking the links which Tennyson
said bind us as with 'chains of gold about the feet of God.' with such a
hribe and such a threat! It becomes a matter of luck, like wearing a
rabbit foot, or some other token handed down from old-time magicwhereas, prayer, if it has any meaning, much less worth, is a wish sent
( :odward, a law of life."
I suggest that the Masters of Lodges bring this matter to the attention of their members urging them to discourage the practice and assist
in minimizing at least, the evil of an undertaking which appeals only
to superstition and not at all to intellect or reason.
The Grand Master of Minnesota advises his brothers as follows:
The members of the Craft have been frequently warned against
"Chain Letters."
The Chain Letter calling upon Masons to contribute ten cents each

rnr a McKinley Monument bobs up occasionally, although no one was

1·ver found who would assume any responsibility .for it. and. notwithstanding the fact that the monument was completed and paid for years
ago.

92

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

The "Masonic Prayer" Chain Letter is now being widely circulated and we are humiliated by one of our own Lodges issuing a
Chai~ Letter last year, soliciting contributions for the relief of a distressed brother.
The brethren are again cautioned to pay no attention to any Chain
Letter or to any requests for contributions for any purpose whatsoever,
unless' they have the approval of the Grand Master or the Grand Loqge.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
r.<"al object of Freemasonry is the search for truth.

93

It stands for en·

hi.ihtenmen~ and an advancement toward a higher or better state. It is
I he foe. c:f ignorance a!1d h~s a contempt for every shape and shade of

snp~rstitlon ~nd worship ammated by terror. Dispel darkness-let there
""·light._ It is to be hoped that the Nevada brethren will not help along
111ts cham prayer, a fakcment worthy of the dark ages.

BONDS AND RELIEF FUNDS.
The Grand Master of Massachusetts says:
Again it seems necessary to call your attention to another epidemic of chain letters that has recently broken out. I have personally
received large numbers of them. Chain prayer letters seem to be the
present most popular form and are being widely circulated in additio.11
to those seeking money for various objects. Such letters are unmasomc
and prohibited in this jurisdiction. They are calculated to appeal to the
superstitious and are a rank imposition upon those to whom they are
sent. Every loyal Masonic officer and memher should use every reasonable effort to rid the Fraternity of this pernicious practice so contrary to
Masonic ethics and authority.
The Grand Master of North Dakota advises to "break the chain
every time":
Doubtless your attention has been called lo chain letters, some of
which are in general circulation in this jurisdiction at the present time.
The McKinley Chain Letter seems lo have been stopped, but the
"Ancient Praver" Chain Letkr has become an intolerable nuisance within the past month.
Recently our attention has been called to a Chain Letter sent out
bv Solomon Lodge No. 280 of Moose Lake, :VJ innesota, asking for rel id
for a distressed brother, formerly a member of a Lodge in this jurisdiction. This letter has not the approval rJf the Grand Master of l\1 innesota, in fact only recently he has issued a circular against it.
We urge you to pay no attention whatever to such Chain Letters,
and do not consider the request, "not to break the chain," as personal
in any way. BREAK THE CHAlN F.VERY TH-1E.
Please see that this letter is read at your next stated commnnica~
tion that the brethren may have due notice and govern themselves
accordingly.
The Grand Master of Nevada condemns it as ignorant and superstitious:
A few years ago it became necessary lo warn the Craft against
a fake chain letter, calling upon Masons to contribute ten cents for a
McKinley monument. The scheme was never authorized by anybody
who could be found and was condemned hy the commitlt·e in charge of
the monument fund. Notwithstanding repeated warnings this swindle
still hangs on.
During the past few months a chain prayer letter has mad{' its
appearance, and while not a swindle in a money-getting wtty, it is
a humbug even more insidions in working ill among the unwary. The

The response to the appeal for funds by the Government has
heen most enthusiastic and generous in the several Grand Jurisdictions. An inspection of the proceedings of the Grand Jurisdictions
iu this country discloses the fact that not more than two or three
have not taken some substantial action providing for the relief
and rehabilitation of wounded and invalided men in the service
and for the care of their dependents. And also to meet the unprece~
dented demand of the Government for necessary funds.
TH!l INDIANA PLAN fOR WAR RliLJEF.-Since within the past few
weeks th_e war .has gro\~11 to such unusual proportions as affecting the
eall for immediate service upon the part of our American soldiery it
s<"ems .clear that we. ought no !onger to defer action. We ought' to
t't•cogmze .a1~d appre~mte the act1011 our Government has taken by statlllcs prov1dmg for msurance of all enlisted men .• for the care of the
•!qiendents of all soldiers. and. sailors, and for the relief and rehahilita·
I 1<lll of. all wounded am\ mvahded men in the service.
W c should also
r<'c.ogmze the very efficient work of the American Red Cross for the
r1•hef of all the men at the front as well as in the care and protection
11f the wives and children behind the lines.
, Freemasonry in .Jndiana, ~1~\~ever, i~mst he prepared to supplement
t .ovcrnm<;ntal agencies and c1vil1an .rchef and he ready to do its full
1l11ty for Its. own boys who .arc makmg the suprem<.> sacrifice upon the
altar of th.cir c<_nmtry's serv1c;e. l,. therefore, submit the following n•cn1nmendat1ons tor your cons1dcrat1on:
1. Tha.t ~he Grai:id Lodge constitute an Indiana .:Vfasonic War
Board cons1st111g of mnc members, to serve for one vear.
2.. That .in the scl<;ction of such Board we recog~ize the difforent
Maso_n1c b<;d1cs of Indiana Freemasonry, including the Order of the
;vlyst1c Shrme, and the Order of the Eastern Star.
. 3. That suc}1 War B.oard be committed to the policy of co-ordin11l111g all war reltef w.ork 111 behalf of our membership serving with the
rnlors as well as their dependents.
4. That such War Board be directed to co-operate with the Gov•:rnment, the .Red Cross and the Y. M. C. A. in all plans for raising
I ttnds for relief.

. .5. That such .War Board join hands with all other patriotic organ1rnt!ons 111 promotmg a loyal and patriotic sentiment in every cominun~
hy 111 the State.
6. That .stich War Board enconrage every movement looking to
1!1<· conserv::t1011 ?f ~ood sup1>ly, am} of the industrial resources of our
~talc; that It assi~t 111 every ca!11pmgn for the limmcinl snmiort of the
t "'yernment and 111 the education of onr citizenship to imlustry and
lhnft.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

7. That such War Board aid and assist in all proper ways in
maintaining the morale of the men in the service without infringing
upon the work of any other organization.
8. That such War Board may, as the necessity shall arise, contribute to any special object at home or abroad, worthy our sympathy
and support.
9. That a per capita tax of one dollar per member per annum,
for the term of the war and including the present calendar year, be ~
levied, payable to the Grand Secretary, to be drawn tipon on order of ·
the said War Board; the unexpended balance, if any, remaining at the
end of the war to be subject to the order of the Grand Lodge.
10. That the fund so accumulated be kept on deposit with a bank .
or trust company affording ample security and offering the best terms '
of interest, and that no part of said funds be expended for administration purpose.
11. That in each subordinate Lodge a local Masonic War Board
be constituted which shall act with and under the direction of the
Indiana Masonic War Board and in such manner as to inform the
State War Board of the necessity for relief in the several commun- ·
ities of the State and so as to bring abo11t efficient service of each
individual Mason in all patriotic endeavor.

111 k<'<'P up appearances and the house warm for. the six-weeks-old baby."

MASSACHUS!lTTS.

In Massachusetts the Committee in War Relief offer the following suggestions that must appeal to one's sense of justice:
The committee have held several meetings and have sent out a
general appeal for voluntary snbscriptions to the War Relief Fund.
These subscriptions are being collected through the various constituent Lodges. It is confidently hoped and believed that a large
sum will be raised and that we shall be able to take care of our
wounded Brethren and their dependents in a way that is in keeping
with the standing and professions of our fraternity.
It is our purpose to ket•p in touch with our memhers who are serving in any branch of the military or naval service of their countrv, and
to give thetn and their dependents such assistance as may he needed.
Letters are constantly being received from men who have· enlisted and
who are now stationed in the various camps (some acros~ the water)
telling of their experiences and needs.
One case came to my attention yesterday of a member of our fraternity who was drafted and who was obliged to leave a wife and twomonths-old baby to live on an income that would not exceed fom lumdred dollars a year. It would be to the everlasting shame of our Brethren if we did not seek out just such cases and provide suitable food,
clothing and housing. We ean and should supply all of the dependents
of our Brethren who are in the service with the actual necessal'ies of life
without their being obliged to call for them.
Another letter from a Brother, a Past Master, who is now in a
southern camp, tells me that he is serving on the pay of thirty-eight
dollars a month and ten dollars allowed by the state, making a total of
forty-eight dollars; that his son is in the Naval Militia and now on a
destroyer in the submarine zone. A wife was left alone at home with a
six-weeks-old baby, of whom he says, "who, like many a brave, stouthearted New England mother of the good old Pmitan stock, is trying

95

.', '"· goes on and urges that we seek out and have a heart-to-heart talk
with the no~le women who are really suffering more than the men at
I Ii<' front, as m m?st cases t~ey are t~o proud to ask for aid, and only
tlll' ~faster of their husbands Masomc Lodge could find out the true
rntH!ttio1! of the family and just why the gray hairs are prematurely
"".111111g 111 !11other's case." The recitation of many other similar cases
1111ght be given.
. The great need and oi:portunity. for :1Vfasonic service must be appar' 111 lo anyone who has given the s1tuat1on any thoughtful and careful
..111cly. Someone ~as sai~. in urging contributions to this fund that the
f\rl'lhren shot1l? g1ve-!il'1ye until it hurts; but I say give, give 'until you
";1trh the real J,OY of g1vmg! There 1s no happiness on earth that can
i. .. compare~! with that which comes from self-sacrifice for the good of
'.'!hers. It IS that very sort of service that has given to our fraternity
"' place and permanence in the world.
..Remember that t~e giving to this Masonic War Relief Fund is a
privilege; a1.1 opportumty to attest the sincerity of one's Masonic interest
111Hl profess1011s .. L<=:t no B'.oth~r solicit subscriptions to this fund with
1u1 apology on hts bps or 111 his manner. The Brother who does not
lltve and who can afford to do so, is the one from whom an apology is
'Im·.
Some ,reople ha".e a.sked: "What are you going to do with the
111011cy wluc.h you raise 1f the war should encl within a short time?"
~ 1~ ;'.nswer ts that every dollar will be needed and will be spent for warr.. Jiet purposes. If. the war s.hould end today there would be neerl of
t'l'<'~Y dollar suhscnbed. to this fund to provide suitably and properly
ug;~mst the want and d1sti;css of those who have offered their lives for
!h"'.r country, an<l for their dependents .. P?sitions of employment will,
111 some cases, hav.e hecn lost; health will, m many cases. he impaired;
'"illC s.ort of pe.ns1t?n syste11! may have to he provided.
Brethren who
!1;n•(: risked their hvcs-the1r all-should never have to ask for hC'lp.
I ht•1r needs .sh~uld he. songht out and anticipated. This is 110 time for
111t'rc Masonic hp service.
Deeds should substitute words.
. I To:-v mnch of !he fptnrc lrnppiness and welfare of our BrC'thrcn,
1ht'_11' wives, and their c!nldren, is in our keeping. The honor, the reput.1111111. and the 11sefnltH•ss of nltr institution arc at stake.
Arc we
1\nrth~ of the !rnst? 1 hclievc we are. The thcmsamls of clnllars that
an· l!cmt: conlnlmtcd ~rom ftll over the state to this War Relief Fund is
prov111~ IL Masonry m Massachltsetts is going to mean more to every
nw: of its members lwcause the tenets of our profcssio11-hrntherly love.
n·hd and truth-have. hren given a living cxprrssion. Comfort and
n 111rai.;e, hope and hal!pmcss sh~tll again find a place in thr Jwarts of the
:11ffcnng and sorrow111g, attcstmg the true frllowship anrl sacred min1,lry of Masonry.
NJ\W HAMPSHIRE.

The Gran cl L()(lg·c of N cw IT amps hire unanimously adopted the foll1>wi11g plan:
.. \VHF.RMS, ahout fiv.e lmndi;ed memhers of our Lodges are in the
1111htary, naval •\tHl marme sc•rv1ce of our co1111try in its war with Ger111any and Austria. and many more of onr mcmh(•rs will be called to our
rnlors before the war is ended, it is necessary that this Grand Lodge

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.
provide money, in addition to what we have in our treasury,. to be used•
and expended for the comfort and support of such of our membess and
their dependents as may find themselves in need of financial assistance.
by reason of the service, injuries or death of our said members in the
discharge of their duties in this war;

Reso/i!ed That we hereby assess each of our Lodges one dollar for
each brother ~ho was a member thereof on April 15, 1918, and that each
of our Lodges shall pav this assessment on it to our Grand Secretary
on January 1, 1919, and° that all of the money obtained from this assessment shall be used by our Grand Lodge for the comfort and maintenance .
in health and in sickness of such of our members of our Lodges, and
their dependent wives, widows, orphans and minor children as may fi~d'
themselves in want, in destitute circumstances and in need of financial
assistance by reason of service and of injuries or death of our said
members in the discharge of their duties in the army, navy and marine
service of our country in said war.
Resolved, That the money received from this assessment· of our·
Lodges shall be paid by our Grand Secretary to our Grand Treasurer,
and 'shall be known as our War Relief Money, which money, with all •
the interest that may accrue thereon, shaII be used and expended for· the
charitable purposes above stated, by a committee consisting of the Grand'
Master, Deputy Grand Master, Grand Wardens and Grand Secretar·y of
this Grand Lodge, and that any bills for the expenditure of our said.
War Relief Money shall be approved by a majority of said ~ommi~tee
and paid by our Grand Treasurer, who shall make a report of his reeetpfis.
and payments to our Grand Lodge at its annual communication, an?- .
said committee shall also make a report of all of the money used by tt
and for whom, to our Grand Lodge at its annual communication.
Rcs;lvcd, That the Master and Wardens of each of our Lodges
shall he a committee to assist the said committee of our Grand Lodge
in investigating app!ications for financial assistance to our memhers in,
or who have hccn in, or may he in said war service for our country in
this war, and of their dependent wives, widows, orphans and minor
children.
OHIO.

The Crancl Lodge of Ohio adopted this plan:
WHJ\I!EAs, the Grand Lodge of Ohio, F. & A. M .• created, in 1914•
a fund for Masonic War Relief to be expended hy the Grand Master
at his discretion ;md under his direction; and,
WHEREAS. Action has bet•n deferred in this matter by the Grand
Lodge until it should he dl'emcd opportun.: for definite action looking
toward war rel id; and,
WHHRl\A~, There are now assemhkd at Camp Shcnnan, near ChiJlic
cothe, sonw thirty thnu,;and of !he soldiers of the new Aml'rican army,
several th011samls of whom arc rcporte(I to he 111emhl'rs of the Masonic
fraternity of Ohio, Pennsylvania and \Vest Virginia; therefore, be it
Rcsoh•ed, That. in accordance with the spirit of the' hour which
calls for loyalty and clcvotinn, this Gran<] Lodµ-c of Ohio considers that
it is high time for the Crarnl Lodge of Ohio, F. & A. M., and its thou-

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

97

'arnls of members, to enter in upon the grave responsibilities devolving
all loyal citizens arising out of this great war. It is reported to
I Ii<· Grand Master by Scioto Lodge No. 6, F. & A. M., of Chillicothe,
1hat there are several thousands of young Masons in Camp Sherman,
wi1hin the jurisdiction of Scioto Lodge, who should have the care of
'"111c organization that will look after and give fraternal support, encour:1gcment and care to them as soldiers who arc being trained for the
l1altles of the repub'.ic abroad; therefore, be it
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge, through its Committee on Finance
;111<1 Accounts, give consideration to the creation of a special fund to be
lwnwn as "The Emergency War Fund of the Grand Lodge";
Resolved, That the fund so created shall consist of the sum of ten
thousand dollars, to be paid out of the general fund of the Grand
Lodge, and shall be transferred from said general fund to the credit of
lhe Grand Lodge Emergency War Relief Fund;
Rcsoh1ed, That the subordinate Lodges of this Grand Lodge be
r"qnested to make subscriptions to this special fund, either from Lodge
f11nds or from individual members;
Resolved, That the Grand Master shall have full power to carry
11n the work of Masonic war relief for the benefit of soldiers and sailors
al home and abroad who are Masons, and of their wives and children,
wi<lows or orphans, or those who are dependent upon them.
11po11

The attitude of the Grand Lodge of Alberta is shown by this action:
At the convocation of Grand Lodge held in the city of Red Deer,
i11 May, 1915, there was established a Patriotic Fund for Masonic De1w11dents. Two thousand ($2,000) dollars was appropriated to this fund
;11 the convocations of 1915 and 1916.
Subscriptions from the various
J ,mlges within the jurisdiction have augmented these appropriations, and
at this date there is a balance of three thousand six hundred and ninctvfour ($3,694) dollars standing at the credit of the fund.
•
The objects of the fund arc as follows:
(a) To assist our .Masonic retnrned vett•rans in case of need,
diher by way of immediate grants of money, or to procure hospital and
1m·dical attention, employment, homes, etc.
(b) To aid dependents of our soldier brethren overseas needing
:i'sistance.
( c) To provide assistance in cases of need for the widows and
orphans of our soldier brethren, deceased, also to procure homes for,
and advance the education of their children.
·
( d) To assist in work of the Y. M. C. A. and other kindred insti111tions at the front.
Our obligations to our brethren at the front and their dependents
a1 home are very great, and as a fraternity, we have done little up to the
pri:sent time to discharge them. In this connection, I cannot do better
lhan quote the words of our Past Grand ::Vfaster. M. \V. Brother E. T.
Bishop, in his address to Grand Lodge a few weeks ago:
"As I went from place to place I saw in our Lodges the names of
nnr men who have gone; the records of the men who have fallen .. Very

98

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

many of our brethren arc now at the front; many of them will never
return. All this is throwing upon us a responsibility which we cannot
ignore, and which it will be our greatest honor and our highest privilege to meet. The welfare of the widows and children of our departed
brethren must be, for years to come, the principal concern of this fraternity. Our obligation in this regard will not be answered by subscriptions suitable to our convenience, or given with consideration as to what
others give. Not until the giving hurts us <lo we really begin to give.
If the money and effort that are expended in less laudable ways in the
name of Masonry were directed to the help of the relatives of our brethren who need it, then would Masonry, indeed, be a great benefit to the
community, and not merely a hope but partially realized.
"If it were a question of the price to be exacted from us that we be
aJlow<.>d to remain in our own country that we might be with and care
for our loved ones, what would we not give, what would we not do?
This, 1 take it, is the nature of our obligation. This great privilege is
being purchased for us by the sacrifices of our Brothers overseas, by
the anguish of their wives, by the sorrows of their children. To pay
this debt we may easily do too little; we cannot do too much."
My aim is to bring the present fund up to $25,(X)() before the next
convocation of Grand Lodge, in May, 1918. With even slight effort at
organization this can be clone, and if the Masters, officers and brethren
of all Lodges take this matter as a sacred Masonic <luty, even more than
this might be accomplished.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

99

NEW MEXICO.

In New Mexico the Grand Lodge, by a unanimous rising vote, took
this stand:

The undersigned, the committee appointed to consider and report
upon the advisability of investing a part of the permanent funds of this
Grand Lodge in bonds of the Second Liberty Bond issue of the government, after due consideration, begs to submit that in this extraordinary
crisis, the Grand Lodge of Masons can consistently show its deep patriotism and attachment to the principles of our government, by subscrib··
ing for ten thousand dollars of the Liberty Bonds of our national government, such sum to be taken from the Masonic Home Fund, and we
recommend that the committee having charge of this fund immediately
causr such subscription to be made in the name of the Grand Lodge.
We also recommend that the subordinate Lodges be advised and
counseled to purchase such number of these bonds as the funds in their
treasuries will warrant.
The Committee on Grand Master's Address, having referred the
last section of the Grand Master's address to this committee, we recommend that the same he published in the press of our state for the immediate information of the brethren of the craft. together with the fact
that this Grand Lodge has subscrillf'd for $10.000 of the Liberty Bonds.
The sentiments expressed hy the Grand Master should meet with the
hearty approval of every Mason.

MANITOBA.

The Grand Lodge of Manitoba has taken 111 excess of $50,<XXl gov- ·
<.>rnment war bonds.
UTAH.

The Grand Master of Utah has this to say of Libcrt.Y Bonds:
My understanding is that every Masonic organization within the
state; including not only the Blue Lodges, but the several Chapters,
Commanderies, Council, Scottish Rite, Shrine, and also Eastern Star
bodies, both state and subordinate, holds one or more Liberty Bonds,
and that the amount subscribed by the bodies alone is more than $20.00
per capita for each of our members.
Of even greater importance, however, is the fact that the influence
of the fraternity was everywhere directed to the furtherance of this
important work. A few illustrations of the effect may not be out of
place. Canyon Lodge, one of our country Lodges, having a membership
of only about eighty Masons, found itself able to purchase only $500.00
worth of the first issue of bonds, but it is reported to me that the membership of that particular Lodge purchased, at the time of the first issue,
bonds to the value of more than $15,000.00. The Lodge also took $500.00
worth of the second issue. In another country community within the
state, the individual subscriptions aggregated more than $200,<XXl.OO worth
of the first issue (with no individual subscription exceeding $500.00), and
over $400,000.00 worth of the second issue. It is not possible to identify
absolutely the Masonic work done in that community at that time, other
than to the extent that our membership at that point not only co-operated to the utmost of their ability, but also were very largely instrumental in the promotion and sale of the bonds. .

NEBRASKA.
The Grand Lodge of N cbraska adopted the following resolution :
Resolved, That for the purpose of providing a War Relief Fund,
the sum of one ($1.00) dollar per capita, in addition to the dues now
payah~e annually, he assessed against the Lodges of this jurisdiction, to
be paid to the Grand Secreta'ry on or before January 1st, 1919, the same
to be collected or paid out of the Lodge funds.
WISCONSIN.

The Grarid Lodge of Wisconsin adopted the following resolutions:
WH1\Rl.\AS, Our government has askecl all of the lihertv-loving people
of this country to take their share of the two-billion-dollar bond issue,
which has rightfully been called the Liberty Loan of 1917, because it is
the loan of the great democracy of the new world to support the <kmorracy of the o!d, and to aicl in the establishment of liberty throughout the
world; and,
WHEHEAS, Tt is the loyal duty, as well as the patriotic pleasure of all
individuals and organizations to respond to this national call; therefore,
be it
Resolved, That the Trustees of this Grand Loclge arc hereby authorized and directed to forthwith make a subscription to the United States
Liberty Loan of $5,000.00 in bonds of such character and size as they
deem advisable, and to pay for the same out of any funds available for
investment; and that the Grand Secretary he authorized to draw his
warrant on the Grand Treasurer in favor of the said Grand Trustees
for this amount.

100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE.

SOUTH CAROLINA.

the Grand Lodge had twenty-five thousand ($25,000) dollars available
and that we could do no better than to make an investment in these
honds, and by so doing, believe that we placed yonr money in the most
wcure investment possible, and at the same time assisted the govern111c11t in a small way.
The government has just Issued another call for support from the
pt•ople and I consider it our duty to demonstrate that we stand ready
and willing to assist and that we are what we profess to be, truly patriotic American citb:ens. I would, therefore, recommend that an addi1ional twenty-five thousand ($25,000) dollars be invested in the new
"Liberty Loan."
·

The Grand Lodge of South Carolina adopted the following resolution as its bond program :

Resolved, That it is the sense of this Grand Lodge that from the
funds in the hands of the Trustees of the :Vfasonic Relief Fund the sum
of twenty thousand ($20,000) dollars be invested in the next issue of
Liberty Bonds; that the Trustees are directed to make a like investment
in each succeeding issue of Liberty Bonds up to one hundred thousand
( SI00,000) dollars; provided it is deemed advisable to <lo so by the
Board of Trustees.
VIRGINIA.

The Grand Master of Virginia sent out this call:
Early in the summer of this year the President of the United States
and those in authority under him, realizing the demand for financial aid
in the great struggle in which our country is engaged, appealed to the
people of our nation to purchase bonds generally designated as "Liberty
Bonds." Deeming the matter of the utmost importance to the present
and future welfare of all the people, I dared to issue a circular letter to
each of the subordinate Lodges in the Grand Jurisdiction calling attention to. the proposition and suggesting in a very general way that such·
Lodges as were in position financially so to do, could safely invest such
,;urplus money as they might have, and at the same time lend a helping
hand to one of the noblest movements that has ever demanded our attention as a fraternity. No complete report of the amount of money subscribed has heen received, but from several Lodges it has been asce1·tainc-d that bonds in various amounts were purchased, and I have the
fullest belief that the Lodges, so far as possible, have done their full
duty.
OREGON.

The Grand Lodge of Oregon adopted the following report of a
special committee :
Your special committee, to whom was referred the portion of the
Grand Master's address treating of an Emergency War Fund for the
special relief of soldiers and sailors who are Masons, recommend that
no action be taken in the matter because of the limited state of our
finances and for the reason that creation of special funds leads to duplication of effort in a field already covered more effectively by the American Red Cross and the Y otmg Men's Christian Association.
Concentration of effort, under efficient .central control, is far more
beneficial to the cause in view.
ILLINOIS.

The Grand Lodge of Illinois took fifty thousand:
At the time that our government called upon the people to purchase
bonds known as the "Liberty Loan," I took ttp the question of the
investment of some of the funds of the Grand Lodge with the Finance
Committee and Grand Treasnrcr, and we arrived at the decision that

101

INDEX
TO

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
Page
BONDS AND RELIEF FUNDS ....................................................... 93
MASONRY AND THE WAR. ............................................................
.\ddress of Grand Master of Alabama................................................
of Idaho ....................................................
of Illinois ..................................................
of Kansas ....................................... ........
of Manitoba ............................................
of Mississippi ..........................................
of Missouri ..............................................
of Nevada ............................................ ....
of New Brunswick ......................... :........
of New Mexico..........................................
of New South Wales..............................
of North Carolina....................................
of Nova Scotia ............................:.............
of Prince Edwara's Island....................
of Saskatchewan ....................................
of South Australia....................................
of Tasmania .............................................
of Texas ....................................................
of Utah ....................................................
of Virginia ................................................
of West Virginia......................................
of \Vyoming ............................................
Flag Ceremonials
Oration of Grand Orator, Minnesota..................................................
of Brother Whitehair, New York..........................................
Resolutions, New York............................................................................
North Dakota......................................................................

30

76
68

77
65
72
83

75
70

77
81
72
66
6..l
69
70
78
79
82

76
73
80
82
30
36
53
82
84

ii

INDEX

MILITARY LODGES ······----~ ... :...... :.,....... ·------··--······· .. ·····
Illinois ··············---·-····-··--··-················-··-·······-·· -----·············Kansas ·····-····-···············------············----.. -······ ------······················--······
.N~w. York ........................... , .................................. ,_," _____, _________ ,..... .
·Ohio :o..••....•.•.. , .........c.·.·h ..• , .••.......
Oregon ........................................................................................... .

INDEX-J9l8
Page
A
Acacia Lodge-Request of Germania Lodge to change
name
98, 225
Accounts-Personnel of committee on ..........................................................285
Reports of Committee on ...................................................................... 159

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS ·······················:··:·······················
Alabama ......................................................................................... .
Alberta ............................................................. _. ............................. .
Arkansas
Colorado
Indiana ........................................................................................... .
Louisiana ........................................................................................ .
Manitoba ......................... ..............................................................
Missouri ............................................................................................ .
Montana ......................................................................................... .
Nebraska ............................................................................ .
New Jersey .................... ................................................................
New ~1exico ....................................................................................
North Dakota ................................................................................
Rhode Island ................................................................................
South Dakota ..................................................................................
Tennessee ........................................................................................

86
89
88
88
89
87
90
85
88
89

Texas ·····················-.-······-·····························--·······-·····--··--·····-··········
Utah ·········································-····································--···············---

90
85

RELATIONS WITH ALLIED JURISDICTIONS....................
Action of Grand Lodge, Alabama..............................................

3
14
IO

Alberta ··························-~-----····················-··-········-······--····--············
Daniel, Raymond, of Georgia ····--······················-·······--·-······----··
~
Georgia ····················--··············--·-······-·-···-··········--·······--··········---····· 24
Louisiana ·······························-····-·············································-····· 15
Manitoba ............................... :.......................................................... 11

Massachusetts ········································-··············-····--·······-·········· 13
New Jersey ······--···············--··---········---·-······---·····---·-···-·····-··-·--·--······ 24
Oregon ··---------·····-··-- -----·······-----·-·······--·····-··-·-··-·---···················-······ 12
Tennessee ··-···············-····-··-····-····---.. ·-·-·····-······-······························· 12
Texas ·················-----····-·············-·················-·····-··· .. _................. ....... 14
Utah ······--········--····-···········-···············-··········"·'···························--···· 18

Address of Grand Master (see also Grand Master's Address) ·······--····-····7
Adin Lodge-Duplicate Charter issued ............. ·--··---···········------·-···-·-··- -····· 70
Administrators of vVar Fund-Names of... ................. ---····-····--·········-----··285
Alameda Lodge-Relief for Sick Dependent ....................... ·-··--····-- -----····.230
Alphabetical List of Lodges ...........................................................................309
Location of Lodges ............................................... ---·············--·-·--·-······----318
Alta Vista Lodge-Life Membership Fund created ... --··----·--·················· 70
Amendments to By-Laws reported by Lodges................................ -··· .. 68
Amendments to Constitution (See Constitutional Amendments) ....... .
Annual Oration, by Chas. H. Victor............................................................ 150
Applicants, Names of on printed folders ............................ --········--············.246
ArcaNt Lodge-Trial record in ................................................................68, 181
Army and Navy-Distinction between regular and national
army ............................................................................................ 20, 237
Arroyo Lodge-Reimbursement.........................................
..................... 229
Azt1sa Lodge-Trial record in ..................................................................67, 184

B
Bay View Lodge-Trial record in ...........................................................68, 184
Bear Mountain Lodgc-Reimbursemcnt ........................................................ 230
Beersman, Charles-Color Guard.................................................................... 6
Blackmer Lodge-Trial record in ..................................................67, 184
Bonds, Liberty, number of Lodges purchasing............................................ 72
Purchase by Grand Lodge ................................................................... .234
Bonds of Grand Lodge-Interest collected 011 ........................•....•••...•.....•• 83
Bonds of Lodge Officers required ................................. .42, 43, 158, 239, 256
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for ........................................................... .231
Reports of... .................................................. .198, 207, 214, 217, 220, 222
To render quarterly statements, when ..............................................234

ii

INDEX

Page
Brooklyn Lo<lgc-Trial record in ............................................................67, 184
Browne, John Mills-Portrait hung .............................................................. 72
Buck, Charles Francis-Tribute to.................................................................. 8
Burbank Lodge-Trial record in ..............................................................68, 184
Burial of Ottr Soldier Dead.............................................................................. 16
By-Laws-Appointment of Committee.......................................................... 6
Report of Committee 011 .••••.••..••....•..••.....••.....•....•...............•..............•.224
Uniform Code of-Amendment to .................................... .44, 240
Amendments by Lodges.. ................................................................... 68

c
Charters-Appointment of Committee........................................ ................. 6
Granted ................................................................................................. .243
Report of Committee on ................................................................... .225
Chili, Gran<l Lodge of, Application for Recognition ............................ 226
Cipher Rituals forbidden ................................................................................... 89
Report of Committee on ....................................................................... .248
Claiborne, Gilbert B.-Portrait hung ............................................................ 72
Collins, Stanley L.-Death 0£... ....................................................................... 16
Color Gttard at opening of Grand Lodge...........................................
6
Committees-By-Laws-Appointment of................................................
6
Report
Charters-Appointment 0£............................................ ................................. 6
ReJlort of ................~ .. ···*'··············--···················· ..................................... 225
Committees-Finance-Appointment of ..................................................6, 10
Reports of.. ........................... :........................................................... .227, 255
French Masonry-Report of ......................................................... 159-179
Grand Master's Address .............................................................. 59, 94
Grand Secretary's Report............................
.. ........8.1, 97
Pay of Members, appointment of...........................
............. 6
Report oL .................................... .".......................
............. .261
Personnel of Standing.............................................
.284
War Fund, names of....................................................
.. ............30, 285
Constitutional Amend111cnt s-llonds of Treasurer and
......... .42, 239
Secretary. Secs. 149, 150.................... .
..... .42. 239
lnvestigating Committees, Sec. 100........ .
Lodges of other obedicm~c. petitions for Charter
.............. .242
from Secs. i2 and 224
......... .43, 44, 240
Minimum dues, St·c. 128

INDEX

iit
Page

l'orrespondence-Personnel of Committee .................................................. 285
Report of Committee ............................ ,................................................. 180
Credentials-Report of Committee on ......................................................... .264
Culver City Lodge-Constituted...................................................................... 9

D
Decisions-(See Grand Master) ............................................................. .20, 236
Dedication of Halls not property of Lodgcs ......................................... .20, 236
!)elta Lodge-Charter Granted ........................................................................225
Dispensation issued ................................................................................. 10
List of Members ...................................................................................... 66
Dickey, Frank M.-Grand Lodge addressed by ......................................... .186
Dispensations issued during the year ................................................... 10, 69
l)oull, Lieutenant, introduced .......................................................................... 158
Downey Lodge-Expulsion of Member ............................................ .'..68, 185
Dues-List of Lodges changing during the year.. ...................................... 68
Mininmm requircd ...................................................................... 43, 44, 240
Remission of-What Grand Lodge Tax payablc ................... .21, 236
Table showing, by Lodges ..................................................................... .286
Durant Lodge-Life Membership Fund creattd ....................................... 70

E
East Belt Lodge-Duplicate Charter issued .............................................. 70
El C!!ntro Lodge-Loss by fire ......................................................................... 17
Purchase of Bonds by Grand Lodge..................
....................... 233
Rl·im burscml'llt
Employment Ifareaus-Reports oL ........ ~ ................................... .205, 20!-l, 221
Endowmc·nt Committee of l\.fa;mnic Home;;-!l/anws of.. ....................... 285
H.eport
Subscriptions during year ............................................................ 140
Endowment Fnnd-Con<lition of.....................
................................. 61
Cram! ;\laster's reference to.....................
.. ... 25
Relative to contributions to........................
........ 187
English, Jamc·s L.-Portrait hung........................
........... 72
Entered Apprrntices-Rcsidcntial qualilicatiom; ..
... .21, 23"
Escher, Albert \V.-Color Gnard
. ........ 6
Expulsions and Suspensions....
..... 6i, 181. 186
Extinct Lodges, tist

IV

INDEX

F
Fees and Dues of Lodges-Table showing ___________________________ ...........

lNDEX

Pa~
_________ .286

Fe:low Crafts-Residential qualifications ............. ----··--·····-··············-···.21, 236
Finance-Report of Committee on ______ ·-······-·······------·················.227, 255
Flag-In Grand Lodge_·-···············------···············-----··-·-····---···········----·----·· 6
In Lodges .................... ---········---·-··-··--·-········-··········---·-·------······---____ 89
Proposed Ceremony for .............. ·-···-·-··---·····-·-···················---·-··--······-····248
Foreign Relations ............ ---·········-·--········-·····--···-·---·-··-·····--····-·······-·····-············· 39
Form for Instituting Lodge under dispensation. _________ ................ --.. ________ .257
France-Tenders of Masonic Service---···-··············--·-··---················-········--·· 36
French Masonry ........ ·-·······················--·--········---··-··········----·--··-·····-····-···· ____ 59, 98
Report of Committee on ........ ·-························-················------·--··· 159, 179
Fullerton Lodge-Dedication of Hall... ....... -·················--··-·--···············-·····-·· 10
Funds of Grand Lodge-Receipts and Disbursements _____ -----····-·····-···.74-~3
Of Lodges-Use of... ... ·--·············-························-··-··.181, 253, 255, 282
Investment of, recommendation of Grand Master ··········-·-······.43, 239
Funerals-By Boards of Relief... ......................... ---··-·-······203, 209, 216, 219

G
George Washington Masonic Memorial Association ...... ·-·····-··---··········· 35
Germania Lodge-Request to change name ......................... -7, 98, 225
Golden Gate Lodge-Petition of expelled member for
restoration ································································-···-·······-···-·73, 185
Golden State Lodge-Dedication of Hall.···············-··········-········-················· 10
Grand Lecturer's Report.. ...... ·-·····································-···-···-·-························· 84
Cipher Rituals ....................... ·-············-···············-····-·-····-···-·-·············-···· 89
Committee on .. ·-···········------······················-·················-··········-········ ......... 92
Report of Committee on......................................................
........ 247
Grand Lodge of Chili-Application for recognition ................................ .226
Grand Loclge of France_···················-·················································
..... .159
Grand Lodge-Election of Officers ................... ·-·······················
............ .282
Installation of Officers........................................................ ................. 284
Grand Lodges of North America-List of............ ---·········-········.
Grand Master-Annual Aclclress ........................................................ .
Army and Navy, dispensations to ballot for members of.
Buck, Charles Francis, tribute to ......... ---·-·············
Burial of onr Soldier Dead ....................................... .
Commendations hY····-···················································

..308

7
10
8
16
40

v

Page
Committee 011 . ··················--······-·----······--····
--·····--·····--···-··--59, 94
Conclusion of Address to be reprinted for soldier members .... 96
Consolidations urged ................. ·--·------- -----------·-······---·---------·----···· 12
Decisions-Army and Navy-distinction between
regular and national army .... ·----·-······---·--·-·····---·················20, 237
Dedication of halls not owned hy Lodges_···-·---·-·-···········20, 236
Entered Apprentices and Fel!ow Crafts-Residential
qnalifications ············--·---------·-··----· --···--·-············-·····--·---··· __ .21, 236
Remission of Dnes-What Grand Lodge Tax
__ 21, 236
11ayable ············--·-·--···-------------·-·····---------____
JO, 249
Dis1wnsat ions issncd. ____________ --------······-···--··---·········-· .
Educational and Social Functions urged .......... ,.. _________ _
.12
El Centro Lodge-!oss by fire __ ·--·-·-···········--·-···-·----------········-········-·-·· 17
Enclowment Fund, referred to .. ·-·----·-·-·-···············--------------·---····--······-· 25
Foreign Relations ·····-·-···-··----·· ---·················-·---- -------················-·-··------ 39
George Washington M ernorial Association_·---·········-·-----··
35
l Talifax, relief to_·----···············-···-·---··---·····-··-····---·------------···-----···--·-····-·· 16
I fawaiian Lodge, transfer of trial from ...... ------··-····-··········
18
I Tonolnlu, trip to···-·······15
Inspectors, commendation oL_.........
-···· ............
41
l tal_v, felicitations from .... ·-·----···-········-· 40
Craml Orient of.. ......... ·-········---·--·
------ 39
37
L<1dge Maui ··-·····-····················- -----·-························----······
l\Tasonic Homes, cornrnen<lation of_
22
24
Delicit, reference to···---··-··--·-·····
Cavel presentccL.. .... _.
23
1\lasnnic Servkes temkred from abroad.
36
Masonic War Fnml.. ........ -----···--·····-········-·- 25
i\1 emhers in armed service ... ·-··- --· 12
8
>lccn>logy ···········-····-···-·---····-········-···--·-········ ···················--··············
>Jew York Conference ................................ ·············-····-··········-···
33
()wens, I lenry M., commen<lation of........................................
41
1'ortrait of, reqnestc<l... ................ - ---·················-····-···-·············--·····-·-231
I 'resentation to, hy Grand Lodge_______
···--·············-··
-·-·····---285
Rl'Ct·ss app<>intments ............ -·-····-----·--·-· -···················---···--· -·················· 10
Rt-co111nH'1Hlations, action 011.. ........ -····-···-····---· _________ 239-241
llonds of Oflicers ................ _______
-·-····--····--··---·--··--· 42
I 11 vestment of Lodge Fnnds
_·--···········-·--··-········--···········- 43
:VI em hers lw permitte<l tu visit in Latin countries______
45
1\1 ininmm Dnes ____________ .................. ______ ····--··-············-·43, 44
Reports of Investigating Co111111ittc·t·s .. __________________________
41
Time fur soldier to come forward for initiation ..... -----·········· 44

INDEX

INDEX

Page
San Jacinto Lodge-Loss by earthquake........................................ 17
Shryock, Thomas }.-Tribute to...........................................
8
Special Communications called..............................................
9
Tax on fees and dues........................................ .................
18
Transfer of place of
235
Visitations

85

War Fund-List of Lodges contributing....... .
Recommendations as to use of...........
\Vashington conkrcnce..........................
Grand Orient of France ..................................................... .
Grand Secretary-Annual Report of.. ................... .
Amendments to by-laws rcportc<l..
Colketion fnr I loml's rluring the Far
Committee 011 Report oi
Diplomas for mt•111h<'n; in armed s<·rvkc

49
......... 30
............... 31
159
. .. 64
68

H3
H3
65

l)ispensations issuecL .................. .

69

Duplicate Charkrs isst1cd ..
Emergency Hclid Fund, condition oi
Gains am! losses for the year .... .
Interest eol~ertcd on homls .................... .
Library n•port
Liberty Honds, Lodges pnrchasing.... .
T,ist of Trial lfrrnnk_ ...................... .
Lodges consti!Hkd during 1hc year ....... .
L()(lges having "'Tr 500 11H·111hl'rs
Lifr .1Vfr111ll('rsliip Fnnds cn·;1!c•cl
Or1kre1l to pnlili.sh p1>rtio11 of Cr;111d '.\last<"r's .\ddr1·s,
T'ortniits of Past Crnrnl :'vlaslns ..
He(·cipt~ d11ri11g th" .\'<';1r ..
Report of Co111111it tn· 011..

70

I
Initiation, Group Plan-Report of Committee
Inspectors-Commendation of........................... ..
In armed service, names oi.. ................................. .
Italy, Grand Orient of......................

................249
41

............. ., ..

Felicitations from .............. .

85
... 39
40

J
282

J cwds and Floral
Jon<'s, Ccorgc L.-Resignation as Cram! Orator...................

... 10

Jnri.sprncknce Committt'<'. lfrporls of (Sec lfrporb of Cnmmitt\'('.<) . .235

K
Kl'e.sling, Francis V.-l'orlrait hung ...................... ..
T\:iecling, ]{\H\o:ph C.-l'r1·sc11tatio11 of n·quest from C\'rn1:rni:1
Lodge ........... .

Lar.s<'ll, L. ;\,-;-;.,ng hy ..

Layman, ,\J:1ry 11., !'I!. ll.~Survl'Y of l'hildrc·n at <..«"·in;,
Lcxi11gt1111 Lodge-Trial lfrcnnl Ill
"l,.nvi.,'', prnpns,·d ITl'il :d of
Lill\'rt;1s

\Var Fund. n·n·ipt o; and dislims«llll'llis
\Varra11ts dra\\'11 d11ri11g th" y<'ar
Cra1•cl Treast1r«r. lfrport •1l
\V:1rra11ls paid rl1rrit11.\· the _1T;1r

7

If,

1:-:. .!.l~

70
..!XS

Li111·,,J11 l,1«lgl". ch;1rkr r<rd1-rc1l..
I >i;-;1w1L-;:1i ion i:--~uvd ..
Lisi "f ll\('illlil'rs

2!.S

1-+r.
l il
(15

tif 1.(Hlgv:... ...

\l:111i ···hOl'Jllll"l r<i ('n\lHHit\\'1· 1111

Form 11i i1Hil11li11g

.257

\lpli;tll('Jical list of.
l«<11triln1ti11g t" \\ar hrnd.
! li~lH'll'.-';1t inn...; f11r ttl'\\'

311')

3111)

L"dg1·s

l!l.

(1(,

f~.

.!41

l·'.~1inct.

li:-.t «i

!.~

1,, ll·:1t i· in

c, r

!;

()

J,il.r;1ry .. r Cr:1111\ l,odgv .. J\x1wl1St'.S of c .. 111mitt1·v
l'n,;•>lllH'l of ('n1111nilk1• ...
Rvport nf C1111llliilt1'\'

1.odg,· l '. I>.

I lalil;tx, rl'lid In ..

.... 1i<4
IXO. .254

J,1bt 1\1 l\1<11<1'~ 1111111l1tT oi !,ndg<'s pun·!i:1si11g
I 'nrclt:1.sv nf liy Cr;111d l,"dgl".

f.<1di~<'

H

J,od)..(<'-l'n11.'1it111<'< 1

6
. 14.2

7!.
. 2.11

l,1n·;J1ic111

l\1·1H1rl .,j C11n1mit1t·«

I l;rn·;1iia11 l,ndg(· Tr;:11,in of trial from ..
I krn11<.';1 l\1·aclt l,nd~y ;11. <il'llil'd
I loll;i11d, ;\lt'111IH'1·, Jl<'l"ll'ill\'!I to yj,it l,odgTs i11
I lrnwl11h1-·Vi,it "f Crand \1:1:-tt'l' to
I loli\'ill1· l,nd_g\' -ll\'dic::lio11 ,,f li:ill

Page

L

·Saks clnri11g tl1(' y'l'ar ...

t:ro11p pl;111 <>f initi:;tin11

Vil

.j<)

10

viii

INDEX

Page
Los Gatos Lodge-Reimbursement................................................................229
Lowe, Ralph-Death 0£........................................................................... 10, 70

M
MacCormack, William, Grand Lodge addressed by................................186
MacKillop, Angus-Relative to Endowment Fund ................................. .187
Marin Lodge-Trial Record in ..............................................................68, 184
Masonic Education-Personnel of Committee on .................................. .285
Remarks of Grand Master on ........................................................... 12
Report of Committee ............................................................................ .244
Masonic Homes-Accounting and Finances ..................................... .102- lOS
Admission of aged orphans .................................................. .101, 146
Admission of pay residents............................. ..................................101
Report of Trustees, Annual... .............................................................. 99
Appropriation for............................................
......... .232
Assets and Liabilities......................
............................................! 13
Collections for during the year...........
.......................................... 83
Cost of maintenance .............................................................................. 108
Covina Home............................................
........................... .114
Christmas donations to .................. .
........................................ 122
Children, names of.. ....................................................................... 123
Departures during year ........... ~ .................................................... 125
Donations to .....................................................................................] 16
Mental and Physical Survey................
................................142
Deficit for three years ......................... ..
.. ,.................... .24, 106
Decato Home......................................... .
........................................ 125
Christmas donations to ................ .
Donations to ................................... .

................................. 129
.. ................. 126, 128
Deaths during year ............................ .
...................................... 1.l8
Rl·sidents, names of.. ..................................................................... 134
Endowment Committee, report of......
................... .139
<':avd presented to Grand Master..................................................... 23
General conditions .................................................................................. 105
Gram! Master's report 011...........
. .............................•......... 22
Receipts and Disln1rsl'ments............................................................... 110
Sl'crctary's Report ............................................................................... 106

ix

INDEX

Page
Soldier Dead, and their Orphans....................................................... 24
Trustees, names of ..................................................................................285
Vocational work ~wJµ .................................................. .
:\fasonic Temple Association-Appropriation for dcniecL .....................233
Report of.................................................................................................... 92
Jl,.Iasonic \Var Fund .............................................................................................. 25
Maui Lodge, Grand Master's reference to .................................................... 37
Report of Committee on ....................................................................... .241
l\faxwell Lodge-Duplicate Charter issued .................................................. 70
l\IcG!'hce, John H.-Appointed on Finance Committcc ...................... 10, 70
Membership gains and losses ............................................................................ 66
Memorial tablet proposed for our soldier <lead ........................................ 95
Monrovia Lodge-Claim (knied ................................................................. .230

N
Nathan Ernesto-Telegram from................................................... ............ 40
Naval Lodge-Restoratiun of expelled rncmbcr..
......... 67, 183
Xecrology ....................................................................................................... 8, 70
N erllks Lodge-Claim dcnic<L .................................................................... .230

0
Ocean Park Lodge-Trial n:cord in.......................................
........ 67, 184
Offerman, Otto-Color Guard................................................................
6
... .282
Offic1:rs of Grand l,odge-Election of... ..
Names of ........................................................................... .
..4. 5, 282
5
Present at
Since organization................................................................
...... 304
Ontario .Loclw·-l't'lition of l'Xpcllcd member for resloratio11 ...... .JJ7, 185
Oration, J\1111ual, hy Chas. 11. Victor.. .......................................................... 150

Orphans, over the age of 21.. ..................................... :......... .146, !HO, 252, 253
O~krholt, William T.-Appointcd Grand Sword Ikarl'L ........... 10, 70
Ow(·rn;, l knry M.-Commcmlation of..........................................
.. ....... 41
Gift of tahk hy.................................................... ......................... . ....... 70

p
Palos Verdes I,odge-Trial record in ...

.......................... 68, 184

...... 68, 182
Pa:;t Maskr's J<'wl'l-lfrlati~l' to p11rcha>c of from Lodge funds .. 255, 282
Pasadrna Lodgl·-Trial n'Conl in............................................

INDEX

INDEX

x

Page
..... .186

Patriotic night-Programme oL. ................ .
Pay of members-Personnel of committee mi.. ...... .
Report of committee on ................................
Portraits of Past Grand Masters painted ......... ..
Pratt, Leonidas-Portrait hung ............ ~ ....... .
Printed folders-Names of applicants on .. .

.285
..... .261

72
72
....... .246

R
16

Relief, emergency, t0 Halifax ................. ..
.......................... ..

72
..198

Rt•ports of Boards of Re-lid-San Francisco ..

............... 19H

Relief, emergency fund. condition of.. ........ ..

Rc-lid, Reports of Board,; of

San Diego

207
..214
.. ..217
. 220

1r0110111111

.. .zn-

Los i\ngeks

Oakland ....
Sacrall1<.'l1tn

San Jose
Rt'ports of C0111111itl!'<'s-.\c·L-,>lllltS
l_ly-laws ....... ..
Charters
C<>rrespondcncl·

... ... 230
..22<J

Bear l\1ou1Hai11 (,.,,I,c:v. rl'illlhllr'<'lll<'lll

. 230
.231

Boards of !'did.. \ppropriatin11 ftJr.
Hnanls of l\vlid to n·ndn q11;1r!t·rly st;1tc•rtwnl> l<>
~\'crdttry

. ......... .231
............ .232
San Mateo Lodge-reimbursement .. ...............................229
San Ruena\Tntura Lodge, reimh11r,e111L'llt ........... .
...... .255
Jurisprmlenec-lfonds of Treasnrers and Secretaries .....
.... .239
By-laws, Uniform Code, amemlment
Tkcisious of Grand '!\faster .................. ..
..236-237
Dispensatiom; issued hy Cran<l l\Ltst\'r
............... 249
Funds of
Investigating commitkes, rqJurts of
..... 239
....2.19
lnv<'slnwnts by Loclgc•s ....... ..
"L<·wis," rvlath·e to .................. .
..... 254
Lodge l\Tani .
... 241
Salaries of Grand Officers ................... .

Minimum dm•s, sec 128

~I :is( mic ·r,·n·pi~

\ -.:-;( 11.:i:ttion

2~1

23'-i

Ways :111d .\k:u1s Cnminittl'l'. l«·l;1ting to cn·;1tio11 .,f
Cr;111d

r,l'Cll\1'1·r·, J{vpnrL.

Cr;111<l

!\l;1skr's .\ddrc.'s

!Xl- !Sf:

Croup pl:t11 <:i initiation

2-l'J

I ,ihrary (. '•ll111ni1 I<'<'

.1 -4(1

~1a"i11ic

2-4-1

l•'.d11rnt ion

IX'i

I~('( 111"l1S

lfrpnrl ,,[ (:r:111d l.1Tt11rn

___
,,-,

Hvp11r! 11f (:ran1l ·r·r{·; __·,1ir•:r
!\vpi1f"1 uf \J;i:--;1J11ic Tt·111ph·

.. 232
233

.2.'i-1
. .. 2-17
!)..j

( ~rit ·v;111~·v ,. ;

h!q111rl of (~r;111tl Sn·ri:t~tl'.\

1,os (~ato'i l,1i<l.L!,1-·-l'l'i1nhur~t'tlll'lll

:'dasonic 11<>111< -. :q•propria!inn ,-,,,._

..... 25.1

I ';1y ,,f l\k111J.crs

of l'. ::'. purcha,;v of..

Fxa1ni11:tt 11 ip 1 ·i .;vl'llrit iv~ ....

..... 24(;

Prinkd foldcrs-11alllL'S of app:irants
R\•lid of ;1d11lt sons or daughters.:
Visiting in Latin c01111triv, ...
VVar Fund, r1111dnrt of..

2.H

El (\·ntr" Lu kt ---l'ur,·lias•· of bond- frn111

El (\·11trn L•"k•·. n·imhttrS<'llil'llt.

.240
Y)
......... _;,_

Orphan daughters ........

nnnd, St.'hedttlc, 1'111' ] .1 idge uiiirt•rs
l\1>JH]s

.. .............. 230

Portrait of Grand Master.. ................................... ..

....... !KO

.\rroy1i J,.,.Jgv. n·imlntr•'<'lllelll ..

(~rand

Needles Lodge, claim denied ................ ..

. 225
.. 2M

Page
...230

l\fonnn·ia Lodge. claim denied ................. ..

.223
.JS<J
......... 224

C rc<kntials
l;ina11re-J\la1m••L. J,, 1d.C:l'. lfrlid for

xi

l\\:p!ll'I

\:-."n1:i:di!i1I

ni 'l'nP-~lvc-.. _\];1-..1)11it• i iilffll'~

( s~'\' :tl"\1

.\l'.1'."\il.llk I !11Jlll'" 1

xii

INDEX

Page
Resolutions-Funds of Lodges .............................................. .181, 253, 255, 282
Orphans over 21, relief for ............................................... 180, 252, 253
Qualifications of W ar<lens .............................................................. 18i-188
The "Lewis" ..................................................................................... 180, 254
Returns-Personnel of committee on..........................
.......................... 285
Returns of Lodges-Report of committee on ............................................. .188
Revenue tax on fees and dues ............................................................................ JS
Ritter, Prof. Arthur ].-Survey of children at Covina ...................... .25, 142
Ritual-Personnel of committee on..................
............................... .285
Rockridge Lodge-Constituted . .................. ................................................... 9
Life Membership fund
70

s
Sacramento Masonic Temple-Corner stone laid .................................... 9
San Buenaventura Lodge-reimbursement..
.............................. 255
San Jacinto Lodge-Loss by earthquake ...................................................... 17
San ,'\fateo Lodge-reimbursement ................ .
......................229
Trial record ,,,. ............ .
184
San Pedro Lodge-Life membership fnnd created ......... .
. ...... 70
Secretaries of Lodges-Bonds required ................. .
... ..42, 239, 256
Shryock, Thomas J ,-Tribute to.......................... .
. .................... 8
So'.diers-Administration of \Var Fund ....... . ···················· ...................... .285
Soldier-Time in which to come forward for initiation .......................... 44
Soldier dead, rnemori;il tablet proposed ....................................................... 95
Relative to burial of.. ..................................................... .
................. 16
Special Communications of Grand Lodge.. ................. .
. ............. 9
Speranza Italiana Lodge-Trial record in............................
.......... 68, 184
Starr King Lodge-Trial record in........................
..........68, 184
Switzerland-lVlembers permitted to visit Lodges in ....................... ..45, 241
Tenders of Masonic service ......... .
························ ...... 36
Visiting in ......................................... .
............... 45, 241

T
Tax on fees and dues ................................................. .
·········· 18
Treasurers of Lodges-Bonds reqnired.....
............ ..43, 239, 256
Trial, transfer of, from Hawaiian L<,dge............................
............. .18. 235
Trial Records-Report of committee ..................................................... 181-186
List of ............................. ........................ ...................
............. 67
Trustees l\Iasonic Homes (See Mas011ic Homes) ....... .
................ .2~5

INDEX

xiii

v

Page

Vallejo Masonic Temple-Dedication of..................................................... 9
Victor, Charles H.-Appointed Grand Orator ........................................ 10, 70
Oration
Visitations of Grand Master ............................................................................ 13

w
16
War-Burial of ottr Soldier dead ................................... .
6
Color Gttard at opening of Grand Lodge ..
Conference at New York ........................................................................ 33
Conferences at \Vashington .................................................................. 31
Funds for relief........................................................
........... 25
Members in service..........................................
.......... 12
Patriotic services held.......................................
........................ 186
Proposed Memorial tahlet to our soldier dead ............................. 95
Tenders of sen·ices from abroad ........................................................ 36
War Fttnd-Administration of ................................................................30, 238
Disbursements .......................................................................................... 58
List of Lodges contributing to ........................................................... 49
Receipts and disbursements .................................................................. 73
Wardcns-Qualitication of ........................................................................ 18i-188
Ways and Means Commith:c, relative to creation of.. ............................. .254
West Lake Lodge-Trial record
184

y
................................. 225
Yorha Linda Lodge-Charter grankrl... .............. .
Dispensation issued .......................................
.............................. 10
List of members ..................................................................................... 65
Yosemite Lodge-Dedication of Hall... .......................................................... 9
Trial record m .................................................................................68, 184

,., ·f-

,:, 1

:,11.
'1i,1

( (,

·:·

,,,,

.

.I•"•
''·
'

'I

I•

'.'

I'

I\

•(

,,,

...,.

BRADFORD WEBSTER

l

'

Grand Master

1919

.-:·•

',

. ,,
"

I

I

I

!

(~ -

/

t..,l'

<Jirauh tnhgr nf C!Ialifnruia
I, ]oHN WmcHJlR, Grant! Secretary of the M." .\\':.Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of the jurisdiction of California, <lo
hereby certify that the following pages contain a true and faithful
transcript of the proceedings of that Grand Body at its Seventieth
Annual Commnnication-commenced at the City of San Francisco on
Tuesday, the fourteenth day of October, A. L. 5919, and terminated on
Friday, the seventeenth day of said month.

31n Wrstimnny ll~erenf
l have hereunto appended my
official signature and have af ·
fixed the Seal of the Grand
Lodge of the Jurisdiction of
California, at the office of the
Crand Secretary in the City of
San Francisco, this twentyfourth day of Octoher, in the
year of Light, Five Thousand
N inc 11 umlrcd and N inetecn.

PROCEEDINGS
OF THE

M.·. W:. GRAND LODGE
OF

JJfree anh J\tttptrh ilaso11s
OF THE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
AT ITS

SEVENTIETH ANNUAL COMMUNICATlnN
HELO A'f Tllll:

CITY OF SAN FRANCISCO
COMM1'NCJNG ON

Tuesday, October 14th, A. D. 1919, A. L. 5919
AND '1'1'RMINA'l'JNG ON

Friday, October 17th, A. D. 1919, A. L. 5919

SAN FRANCISCO:
Shannon-Conmy Printing Co., 500 Sansome St.

rnrn

GRAND OFFICERS
OF THE

Grand Lodge of California

GRAND LODGE

FOR

01'

The Year Commencing October, A. L. 59 I 9.
Grand Master ................................................ Charles Albert Adams (166)
Humboldt Bank b'uilding, San Francisco.
Deputy Grand Master ........................................ George F. Rodden (191)
177 Post Street, San Francisco.
Senior Grand Warden .......................................... Samuel E. Burke (352)
Trust and Savings Building, Los Angeles.
Junior Grand Warden .................................... William A. Sherman (354)
Lombard and Battery Streets, San Francisco.
Grand Treasurer ..................................................William P. Filmer (260)
330 Jackson Street, San Francisco.
Grand Secretary ..........................................................John Whicher (209) ·.
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Lecturer ........................................................Thomas J. Baker (58)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Chaplain .......................................... Very Rev. Edgar F. Gee (61)
5589 Taft A venue, Oakland.
Grand Orator ...................................................... Albert E. Tioynton (103)
Insurance Exchange Building, San Francisco.
Assistant Grand Secretary ................................ TT arry S. Johnson (360)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
Grand Marshal... ...................................................James F. Fenwick (409)
Box 492, Honolulu, T. H.
Grand Standard Eearer ................................ Charlcs S. Chapman (339) ·
Fullerton.
Grand Sword Bearer........................................ Benjamin Il. Tuttle (228)
Davis.
Grand Bible Bearer................................................... .] olrn P. Jarman ( 10) .
90 South Second Street, San Jose.
Senior Grand Deacon .......................................... \:Valter T. IT elms (347)
Richmond.
Junior Grand Deacon .................................................... Paul Nathan (136)
311 California Street, San Francisco.
Senior Grand Steward .......................................... Warren E. Libby (442)
San Diego.
Junior Gran.cl Steward ................................ Charles A. Vandenbos (226)
San Mateo.
Grand Pursuivant. ...............................:............ Theodore J. Milliken (3)
Courthouse, Sacramento.
Grand Organist-. ........................................................ Samuel D. Mayer (I)
1272 Clay Street, San Francisco.
Grand Tiler ................................................................ George P. Adams (1)
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.

lfl'rtt auh 1\rr.epteh .tlasnus
OF TlIE

JURISDICTION OF CALIFORNIA
SEVENTIETH ANNUAL COMMUNICATION
The Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of the Jurisdiction of California commenced
its seventieth Annnal Communication in the .Masonic Temple, in the City of Sau Francisco, on Tuesday, { ktoher 14,
19JC), at 10 o'clock a. m.
There were present ~lie following (;rand <)!Tic:crs:
M.'.\v.·.n1<AnF011n \V1·:nsn:R .......................................................... Gra11d Masltr
R.·. 'vV.'.C11ARLJ\S /\1.m-:1n· /\u,\MS ................ ................. l!eputy Grand Master
R. ·. \V. ·.(i1~01<Cl\ F. Hrn>DEN ............................................Scuior (;ra11d /Varden.
R.', \V. '·SAM Ul\J. E. BURKE.................................... ...... .J 1111ior (,'raud I Varden
v.·. w.-.J(lllN W111c111\R................ . ................................(:raud Sart'lary

v.·. w.·:rnoMAS J. HAKl\R .........:......... ...................................(;ra11d J,ecturei·

v.·. R.·. E1x:A1< F. C1\1·:...................

. ............................ .<:rand Chaplain
'vV · · -11 ARRY $. J011 :-isoN .... _, ____ ....................... .-lssisla11I (,"rand Scrrctar:y
Vv.·.]AM1·:s F. F1\NW1CK .. ___
............................ Gri111d 1Wars!111l
\V ·.I fERlll\R'l' L. Fur:roN .. ...................................Cra11>l Sta11dard Htarcr
w.·.(:1-:rnH:1-: E. W1\AVJ-:R .............................................. Gra11d ·'"''('!!Yd I/carer
W.'.Jo11N !'. ]Ai<MAN ........................... ................... c:m11d l!i/111· /frarcr
v\'.".C11A1<1.l'.S C. )011 NSON...........................
..Sc11iur (,"ro11d !!caco11
\V.".JAMt·:s B. C1s'l' ................................................... .J1111ior (,"m11d /Jcarn11
W.'.R1cl!AR!l E. Sllrnn: ..................................... ....Senior (,'ra111I ,\"tc<c'llrd

w.· .i\1.t'Hl\ll Sl·'.ALI\ ............................................. .... .J1111ior (,"rnud S/r''il'OJ'd

\V ·. :r11 J\OlttlRJ' J. MILLI 1.;1-:N .................................. ......... (,'rand /'11rs11i'l'1111/
w.· .CEot<GE l'. AllAMS ...................................... .........................Grand Tila

332

n.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PAST GRAND MASTERS :

and at last bring us all to that temple not maclc with hands, eternal in
the heavens. Amen.

l\r:.w:.JAMEs
SrEvENs
M:.w:.CHARLEs L. PATToN
M.".W.".CEORGE w. HUNTER
;.,1:.w:.DANA R. WEu,ER
M.".W.".ALllliRT G. BURNETT
M:.w::w1LLrAM RHonEs HERVEY

M:.w:.w1LLIAM T. LucAs
rvr:·.w:.ORRrn
HENnERsoN
M.".W.".CEORGE M. PERJNE
l\<1.".W.".JoHN D. MuRPHEY
M.".W.".FRANCIS v. KEESLlNG

s.

and 787 Representatives of 358 chartered Lodges and dele"
gates from two Lodges under dispensation.
Our venerable and clearly-loved Past Grand Master
James Baunty Stevens was present, and was given special
welcome hy the Grand Master and brethren.
The GratHl Master filled the two vacant places hy appointment, as follows:
Grand Treasurer, Charles G. Lambert; Grand Organist, R. Fletcher
Tilton.

and Grand Lodge was opened in Ample Form, with a song
by Brother Louis A. Larsen and prayer hy the Grand Chaplain:

PRAYER
Supreme Ruler of the Universe! W c have assemhkd in Thy name
and presence. Do Thou guide and direct us in all our proceedings. Jn
om deliberations may we ,-;eek only Thine honor and the aclvaneement
of those sublime principles 1111011 which our lnstitution i8 founded. Remove from us all scllish ancl ulterior motives. May the Divine \Visdom
enlighten our minds ancl direct our wills that we may perceive and
know what things we ought to do, and grant us power to exemplify in
our claily lives tl,:osc virtues which shall ever render onr service acceptable unto Thee. Bless, we hesccch Thee, the Grand Master and other
officers throughout this jurisdiction. Especially at this time would we
remember the Presillent of these l7nitcd States. If it be Thy will,
restore him to his former health. Endue him plenteously with Thy
heavenly gifts. Crant to him, to his Cabinet, to the Senate and Re11rcsent;1tivcs in Congress asscmhlccl, wisdom in national and international
affairs, that those serious prob!cms now under their consiclcration may
he settled upon the hest and smest foundations, that peace and happiness,
truth ancl justice, righteousness and Thy will may he cstablishecl on
earth as it is in hcav~n. May hannony prevail in ail our com1sds. and
brotherly love rnlc in each of our hearts. Direct us in the way of truth,

333

The Grand Master announced the appointment of the
following committees:
Committee on By-Laws: W. H. Dchy, George \V. Lyon, Paul
Nathan, Herman Jacobson, \V. W. Kaye.
Committee on Charters: Albert A. Rosenshine, Paul R Melchert,
Ralph Wyckoff, Frederick F. Wright, John F. West.

ADDRESS OF GRAND MASTER
The Grand Master th,en delivered his annual address,
as follows:
Brethren of the Grand Lodge:

As we approach the conclusion of one of the most significant aml
portentous years in the history of the world, I cannot forbear to direct
attention briefly to the conditions which prevai:cd one year ago, when
I entered upon the discharge of the duties of Grand Master.
The entire civilized world was more or less actively engaged in a
death struggle, was just beginning to sec gleams of light in the darkness, was just beginning to feel that the end was dimly in sight, to feel
that the forces of Ught and Civilization were bound to triumph. But
few, if any, had any reasonable hope, much less assurance that the
victorious end was near, and that the forces of darkness, r~prcscntcd
and functioning through the mightiest military machine in the world's
history, had met their Waterloo.
It was then, with almost a fce!ing of stupefaction, that when the
armistice was signed, early in N ovcmbcr, we realized that the feared
and hated German machine had collapsed, and that the mighty menace,
\Var'. .no longer .was to be , feared, if the problems arismg rrom that
cond1t10n were rtghtly and wisely faced and handled.
But it was no light or conventional task which the leaders of civilization faced in the attempt to restore order out of chaos, and to so
handle the situation that a· just and lasting peace might ensue.
If such were the difficulties and pcrp'.cxitics attending the lcaclcrs
of forty nations, it is no tmlust thing to say that such were the difficulties of the worlcl and humanity as a whole. ] low much more significant a_nd . importa.nt . was the ;espon.sihility resting upon that great
humamtanan Institutton of which tlus gram! jurisdiction was and is
a component part. Neither to this country nor to this State had come
the most trying features of war. Our lands had not been devastated
nor invaded. But we had been callecl upon to pour out of our blood

334

PROCEEDINGS 01!' THE

and our treasure, and business, social and family tics had been rudely
broken and disorganized.
It remained, then, for us as Americans and above all as Masons,whose sole reason for existence rests fundamentally on our recognition of the essential bonds of this common humanity,-to gird up our
loins, and enter heart and soul into the weighty problems of reconstruction and rehabilitation. So that in proportion as we have realized
the problems and risen to our responsibility the history of that struggle is to some extent the history of California Masonry throughout
the past year.
With this recognition of our responsibility, I conceived it to be
the duty of California Masons to lend a hand wherever possible, to the
furtherance of the work of those great organizations which had distinguished themselves so signally in the fields of human service. I
therefore gladly circularized the Lodges of this grand jurisdiction in the
interests of the Red Cross; and believing that the objects of service to
and for our devoted heroes could best be accomplished by centralized
bodies already organized, I declined to lend the aid of this Grand
Lodge to the more or less sporadic efforts of well-intentioned and
devoted brethren to initiate new movements under exclusively Masonic
names and labels.
The fact that other organizations, such as the Knights of Columbus,
were doing good and efficient work in a limited way, and securing unlimited advertising thereby, seemed to me no good reason for spending
time, effort and money to dup'.icate the noble and efficient work already
initiated am! splendidly carried on hy the Red Cross, the Y. M. C. A.
and the Salvation Army. I therefore declined an invitation to participate
in a conference of Grand Masters held in Iowa' early in the present
year, and which. had for its object the organization of an Overseas
Mission to carry on distinctively Masonic service overseas.
I believed then, and I still believe, that the same time, energy and
expense lavished 011 this abortive attempt to do something distiHctively,
Masonic among our boys overseas, might better and more efficiently
have been employed in the service of those agencies already established,
Knowing that one of the greatest and most urgent prob'.l'.!ms of·
reconstruction was the re-employment of those who had given
up their places, in order to enter the service of their country, I .·cir-·
cularized the Lodges of this grand jurisdiction, requesting the appoint-.
ment of a committee in each Lodge, to· have for its S[)Ccial care the
taking up of that problem for the members of that Lodge, believing
that by thus segregating and placing the responsibility, each Lodge conld
take care of its own; and I have reason to believe from the reports
which have reached me, and the ahscnce of complaint, that this work
has been efficiently and faithfully carried out.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

335

It being evident· from the newspaper reports 'chat a frightful and
widespread disaster had visited our sister jurisdiction in Texas, as the
result of the tornado of September 15, 1919, I requested the Grand
Secretary to wire the Grand Master of Texas, tendering the sympathy
of this grand jurisdiction, and offering financial assistance, ~hould such
be necessary, to relieve any distress occasioned among the Texas
brethren by this calamity, to wl'iich offer the Grand Master of Texas
replied as follows:
"John \Vhichcr, Grand Secretary California Masons, San Francisco,
California.
"Your message conv<'ying the sympathy of California :VT a sons to
storm sufferers in this.Cram! Jurisdiction is gratefol:y apprcdate<l. Full
extent of devastation and loss of life yet 1111known, htit it is lwlicvcd that
Texas Masons can care for the situation so far as our Brethren are
concerned.
"A. A. Ross, Grand Master."
\Ve will not soon forget the wave of horror and indignation which
swqit this Nation, and especially this State, when it became known that
our distinguished Past Grancl Master Oscar Lawler and his family had
been made the victims of a dastardly and mnrdero11s bomb attack upon
their home in the dead of night, and that as a result, not only had his
home hcen wrecked, hut he am! his wife had received painful and dangcrnns injnries, which seriously thn•atcnecl the lives of hoth. J t was
at first thought that this outrage had hcen perpetrated at the instance
of some of the organized forces of disorder and anarchy, which arc
rampant at the present tinH', and realizing that our brother had at
various timrs been especially active in the prosecution of these miscreants in the discharge of his official clntil~s, we felt, thcrdorc, that in
addition to expressing our M.asonic am! personal sympathy, it was incmnhent upon us as Masons to lend s11hstantial assistance to the
ferreting out of the instigators of the crime. I therefore wired the
authorities at Los A11gclcs on behalf of the Cram! Lodge, am! offered
a rewanl of $5000.00 for the arrest and conviction of the criminals.
Suhscqnent events seeming to establish the fact that the crime was
the work of a disgnmtlcd and ill-halancccl man, who rnmmit lc<I
s11icide when his gnilt was about to be fastened upon him, and being
advised that similar offers m1 the part of the anthoritics and other
orga11izatio11s had been withdrawn, I authorized the withdrawal of this
offer, I fed Sllrt', howt'Vt'r, that the sympathy of all .:V1aster '.\faso11s,
whitlwnmcvn dis1wrnccl, goes ont to Brother I,awler am! his family,
a11d that the liveliest hTlings of gratitude arnl rklight possess us a'.! in
the recovery of our brother and his dcvolcd wife from the painful
i11j urics snffcrcd hy them.
In order that we might intclligeutly meet the newer and various
problems of s11ddc11!y restored peace, I conceive<! it to he my duty to
personally visit every section of our jurisdiction, and although ham-

336

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

pered and disappointed greatly at first by the continuance of the great
influenza epidemic, as I approach the end of my official year, I am happy ·
to be able to state that with two exceptions I have visited at least once
every Masonic district in this State. These visits, which were mainly
in the form of District meetings, so that I was enabled to get in touch
with practically every Lodge, were occasions of great interest,
enthusiasm and inspiration. And I cai'1not refrain, at this poi11t, from
voicing my gratitude and appreciation of the untiring and courteous
efforts of our Grand Lecturer in planning and arranging for th~sc
meetings. During the early pnrt of the year, in many instances, I installed the officers of one or more Lodges, and after the period of installation was passed, I had the pleasure and houor of conferring· the
third degree on the occasion of nearly every one of my visits. In this
delightful duty I was ably assisted by the Grand Lecturer, the Inspectors and officers of the various Lodges visited, and represented in these
District meetings. So universal has been the interest and enthusiasm
shown, as well as the cordial and bounteous hospitality, that it would
be difficult, if not unfair, to single out any particular occasion for expressions of commendation or appreciation. Suffice it to say that the
historic setting of many of the sections visited made these occasions.
doubly interesting; but throughout the State, without exception, I
found the liveliest interest and enthusiasm prevalent, and everywhere.
a profound determination to perpetuate the solid a11<l enduring purposes of Masonry.
A detaile,d summary of official visits will be found in the report
of our V.'. W:. Grand Lecturer.
CONS'rITUTION OF NEW LODGES

On October 11, 1918, I convened the Grand Lodge in special
session, at King Solomon's Hall, in San Francisco, and constituted
Lincoln Lodge No. 470, and afterwards installed its officers.
On the evening of October 12, 1918, I convened the Grand Lodge
in special session at Stockton, California, and constituted Delta Lodge
No. 471, afterwards installing its officers.
The R.'.W.'.Samuel E. Durke convened the Grand Lodge in special
session, at Yorba Linda, California, on the evening of November 23,
1918, and constituted Yorha Linda Lodge No. 469, concluding the ccrc·
monies with the installation of its officers.
The W.'.Jas. F. Fenwick, Inspector of the &5th Masonic District,
convened the Grand Lodge in special session, December 14, 1918, at
Kahalui on the Island of Maui and constituted Lodge Maui No. 472,
and installed its officers.
On the evening of January 10, 1919, being unable, owing to illness
in the family, to fulfill my engagement previously made, the M:.w:.

GRAND LODGE OF CALiFORNIA

337

Francis V. Keesling graciously consented to visit Richmond, California,
and install the officers of McKinley and Alpha Lodges. On the followiLg evening, being for the same reason unable to meet m~ engagement
for similar duty the R.' .w. ".Charles Albert Adams 1ourneyed to
Crockett and offi~iated at a joint installation of Carquinez Lodge, and
the local Chapter -0£ the 0. E. S.
.
For this assistance, courteously rendered by these officers, I wish
to express my profound appreciation and gratitude.
On the occasion of many of my visits about the State I have been
accompanied and greatly assisted by the R:.w:.Deputy Grand Master Charles Albert Adams, the R.'. W: .Senior Grand Warden George
F. Rodden, the R.'.W.'.Samuel E. Durke, Junior Grand Wa~den, ~he
\'\!.'.Grand Orator, the Very Rev. Grand Chaplain and the W. · Semor
Grand Deacon, and their presence has been of great assistance and
inspiration to me on these oecasions.
Under date of April 2, 1919, I approved a petition for the formation of a Lodge at Illythe, San Bernardino County, to be called I3l_Y~he
Lodge; and under date of May 14, 1919, I also approved. a pet1t10n
for the formation of a Lodge in the City of San F~anc1sco, to be
known as Victory Lodge. A list of the brethren joining in the petitions
for these two Lodges will be found in the report of the Grand Secretary.
NtCROLOGY

Our dearly beloved Brother Frederick W. Clough, for many years
Inspector of the 23rd Masonie District, contracted the dread influenza
at or in1111ediately following our session of 1918, in which he participated
with his usual earnestness and enthusiasm. He was unable to overcome the attack and passed to his rest on October 24, 1'918, to the
great sorrow and distress of his devoted family and many friends ~n.d
brethren. It needed no such experience, but during a subsequent v1S1t
to Brother Clough's home and the region where he was most active,
I found his name a household word, and throughout the district it was
evident that in the passing of Brother Clough a great and irreparable
loss had been suffered, not alone by the Lodges, but hy the communities
of that district, and we know that the memory of his many virtues is
safely recorded in every Mason's heart.
On the arrival of Brother Baker and myself at Chico, January
23, 1919, we were greatly shocked and grieved by the receipt of a telegram from our Grand Secretary, announcing the sudden death of the
M:.w:.wmiam Sewall Wells, Grand Master of this jurisdiction in
1901. \Ve immediately returned, convened the Crand Lodge in special
session at Oakland, the home of Brother Wells, and at the Scottish
Rite Cathedral in that city and subsequently at the crematory, I conducted the funeral of our deceased brother in accordance with the
so?emn rites of the Order.

338

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Brother Wells had been so long and intimately associated with
the larger activities of the Grand Lodge, and particularly with the
organization and management of our Homes, that it seemed impossible
that that important feature of our work could go on without him. His
work for the Homes was so manifestly a labor of love that he had
endeared himself to the hearts of the Trustees and residents alike, and
no words of mine can adequately portray our profound sense of ~;orrow
and bereavement in the transition of our distinguished brother to that
Supreme Lodge above where his great heart of love can find untrammelled expression and where the wicked cease from troubling and
the weary arc at rest.
Our official family suffered another severe loss in tlic sudden
passing on September 12, 1919, of Brother Frank E. l'viorrell, Inspector
of the First District. Brother Morrcll's earnest and sympathetic
handling of that sparsely settled district, extending from Ferndale to
Crescent City, a distance of 125 miles, had endeared him alike to the
Grand Lectnrer and the brethren of his district, and our deepest and
heartfelt sympathy goes out to the brethren who have lost a most
efficient Inspector, and more particularly to his hcloved family, wh~.
have sustained a deep and lasting personal loss.
This Grand Jnrisdictio11 has suffered Sl'Vt'rPly in the loss at the
front and in cantonments of those brave and va!iant ia<b of our membership, who made the great and supreme sacrifice in the cause of
Country and Liberty, and it has therefore been deemed fitting to extend
the purview of our annual memorial service to our brave soldier dead.
To that end, the program has hccn arranged for such service, so that
this grand !Jody may properly and fittingly express in that service its
:ippreciation of the noble sacrifice of those heroes.
February 23, 1919, an invitation was extended to the Grand Master
and Grand Sccret;iry hy the Grand Master of England to attend the
Especial Juhike Session of the Grand Lodge of England, to be held
June 20-30, 1919. lt sccmc<l to me that this occasion was a monu1lll'ntal and historic one, and that on no account shoitld this !.(ram!
jurisdiction he unrepresented there. Jn view of the press of personal·
h11sim•ss and· my previously-made cngagt'lllcnts for official visits in. this
State, I could not serious:y contemplate an hliscnce of sixty days
from the State. In my dilemma, I learned !hat our Junior Past Grand
Master the M.'.\V:.William Rhodes Ilcrvcy, could attcrnl, and I
very glndly IWJHcsted th:it the invitation of the C:rand Mastrr
of Fn!.(land hl' ''xtended tn him, whkh was drnw. and Brother
1 lcrvcy V('ry grado11s?y cons<'llll·d to rcprc'S<'llt the <:r;111d Master
and this grand jurisdiction on that occasion.
I le left for that
purpose about June !st, 1919, and will give you a deiailed account of

339

bis experiences on the trip, a convenient time for which I shall gladly
set apart as a special order of business of this ?r~n~ ~odge for
that purpose. It seemed to me also that this grand JUnsd1ct10n should
be represented on this significant occasion b~ our ?;~nd Secretary, as
one who from long experience in the executive acttv1ttes of our Grand
Lodge and a trained observer and student of the problems of our own
and other jurisdictions would not only derive great benefit and enlightenment himself from this gathering of M?sons from ~II quarters of
the globe, but also bring back to us valuab'.e hmts and ass1st~nce toward
the solving of many of our most perplexing problems, particularly that
of the management of our charities, and providing funds therefor .. r
therefore strongly urged upon Brother Whicher the acceptance of tlus
invitation, amt that he go on this mission at the expense of the ~rand
Lodge. This he finally consented to do, and the brethren may Judge
how valuable has been the service rendered us and how well he ~ias
performed his mission by his comprehensive and keenly analytical
report rendered me on his return, as follows:
I'EACE JUll!Ll!l! GRAND m' ENGLAND,

1919

"H011. Bradford \Vebstcr,
Grand Master of Masons in Ca!ifornia.
Dear Grand Master :-By invitation of the Grand Master of tt:c
United Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of England, lhs
Royal Highness the Duke of Connaught, and with your approval, I
attended the Masonic Celebration of Peace, held at London, Junc 27,
1919 and herewith present a brief account of wbat I saw and heard,
and 'some observations concerning the operation and conduct of Ma
sonry as practiced by our brethren of th.c M?th~r ~~r~nd Lodge: Invita·
tions were restricted to English-speaking Jttns<hct10ns, .and masn.mch
as London is today practically the center of the world, tt wa~ entirely
·fitting that the Craft should foregather there that representatives f.rom
all the earth might "unitedly give cxprt'ssion to the Great Ardutect
of the Universe of its thankfulness for the cessation of hostilities and
for the blessings of peace."
Past Grand Master William Rhodes 1 lervcy also attended as your
personal representative, and I have pleasure in her~ t.cst~fy~n~ that l~c
was a worthy representative of your office and of tins Jllnsd1ct10n. H .s
knowledge of English history, his general literary attainn1c.nts, and .!us
ability as an after-dinner speaker, combined to make h11~1 . ~ pnme
favorite at the numerous banquets given in hnnor of the v1s1t111g delegations, and on all occasions he proved to be the peer of the ablest
Masons present.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

340

341

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

3 p. m.
.

We sailed .from New York June 14, on the steamer Mauretania,
m compan~ with Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries of Massachusetts: New. york, Ne:V Jersey, Georgia, Kentucky, District of
Columb1~, ~?U!Slana, Florida, Iowa, Michigan, Nebraska, Colorado,
West V1rgm1a, Montana and Arizona, and arrived at London, via
s.ou.thha.mpton, late on the night of June 20, where we were met by
d1stmgu1shed brethren representing the Grand Master of Engla d
d
conducted to the Piccadilly hotel; and from then until June 30 w:
guests of the Grand Lodge. We ·soon learned that English hospitality
was as gen;rous. and whole-hearted as our fondest hopes could expect.
Every cons1de~ahon was accorded us, and we were .at once made to feel
that we were in the hands of brethren, and at home.

::re

The official itinerary for the days of our stay included the following:
June 23, 10 a. m.. Visits to places of interest in London.
8 p. m. Reception dinner, by Grand Lodge Lord Ampthill pro
Grand Master, presiding. (The ·Grand Master w~s seriously ill.)'
June 24, 1 p. m.. Luncheon with Grand Stewards' Lodge.
Dav~. p. 111 • Reception by American Ambassador, Brother John W.
5 p. m.. Canadian Lodge No. 3527, installation of Master.
6 :15. ?mner with Nine Muses Lodge No. 235.
June 2:i, 10 a. m. Visit to places of interest in London.
~ p. m. Luncheon with Motherland Lodge No. 3861.
(Brother
Pe~km: Bull, t?e Master of the Motherland Lodge, established and
ramtamed at lus personal expense a hospital in London which cared
or more than five thousand sick and wounded soldiers during the
wa~)
·
3 p. m. Visit to the Masonic Institution for Girls
6 p. m. Joint meeting of Antiquity Lodge No. 2 and Royal Somerset
House and Inv~rness Lodge No. 4; first degree, dinner at 7. The two
Lodge:, work without. c?art;,r'. being two of the original Lodges that met'
at the Goose and ?r1d1ron rn 1717 and organized Grand Lodge. Their
records go back without fault to 1685.
June 26, 10 a. m. Visit to House of Parliament and Westminster·
Abbey.
Noon. Visit to Masonic Institution for Boys at Bushlcy; lunch'
eon at the Institution.
6 p, m. D.inner at Conservative Club, to Grand Secretaries,
7 p. m. Dmner at the Mansion House, by the Lord Ma or to
Grand Masters.
Y '
9 p. m. Reception at the Mansion House by Lord Mayor.
June 27, 11 a. m. Visit to St. Paul's Cathedral.

Especial communication of Grand Lodge at Royal Albert

Hall.

7 p. m. Dinner by members of Grand Officers mess.
June 28, noon. Visit to Hampton Court palace; luncheon at Mitre

hotel.

6 p. m. Jubilee Masters' Lodge No. 2712; third degree for Drury
Lane Lodge; dinner at 7 :15. This Lodge is composed of Masters and

Past Masters only.
June 29, 11 a. m. Church at Temple Bar; luncheon with Temple
Bar Lodge. (No hired waiter appears until coffee is served.)
6 p. m. Dinner at University Club with Secretary of State for
Scotland.
June 30, noon. Farewell luncheon by Grand Officers mess.
6 p. m. Empire Lodge and Royal Colonial Institute Lodge ; installaation and third degree.
7 :30 p. m. Dinner with members of above Lodges.
All these functions were enjoyable, and the details were worked
out hy the committees in charge to the last degree, each guest being
attended to as though he were the only person to be looked after. The
great and crowning event of course was the Peace Jubilee meeting.
To adequately describe the meeting at Albert Hall on the afternoon
of June 27, a book would be required. The actual registered attendance
was as follows: Masters, Wardens and Past Masters, 7523; Visitors,
182; Grand Officers, including Grand Stewards, 625; total, 8330. This
in addition to many Master Masons in the galleries not in regalia.
As was stated in the London Times of the next morning, "Craftsmen
were present from all parts of the British Empire-dignity and brilliance being added to the stately ceremonial by the many gradations
of color which distinguished the clothing of the brethren of the many
jurisdictions now spread over the surface of the globe. Men came
from the .City of London and from every province in England; from
Scotland and from I relarnl. Australia, Canada, New Zcalond, South
Africa, and a dozen or more dominions and dependencies sent their
representatives. Guests were gathered from America, where Grand
Masters and Grand Secretaries arc as numerous as the stars and
stripes that embellish the hattlc-staincd folds of Old Glory. When
the battle trenches stretched from the North Sea to the Mediterranean,
the United States sent her sons lo light for the salvation of Europe.
Now specially-chosen messengers came to hear part in common thanksgiving that Peace was once more within sight. Altogether it was
an assembly worthy of a great and historic occasion. As a spectacle
alone the scene deserved record. Massed around the Grand Master
on the platform were the purple and gold of the Provincial Grand

343

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Masters, and of Past and Present Grand Officers of England, who
came in such numbers that they overflowed into and almost filled the.
spacious arena. Mingling with them were the brilliant gree·n and
gold of the Scottish brethren, and the light blue and gold of the
Irish representatives. But the center of all eyes were on the chairs
on the right of the pro Grand Master, Lord Ampthill, on which were
seated Grand Masters and Grand Secretaries from the United States.
Some of them had been seen in English Lodges in the closing months
of last year. Then they wore the simple unostentatious badges of the
Master Masons-for they had come as brethren to minister to the
sufferings of the sick and wounded. Then there was no mark of rank
or authority; they were voluntary missioners of good will. Now they
attended with all the pomp and circumstance attaching to their exalted
Masonic positions. The English ·brethren were massed in a solid
phalanx-those of London and Provincial rank distinguished by the
darker shade of their clothing. There were nearly nine thousand of
them. All were wearing a new Peace jewel. Striking across the
arena-north, south, east and west-)VaS a deep double line of cardinal
red, marking the position of the Grand Stewards, and forming as it
were a cross of St. George on a great Masonic ensign. It was down
through this double line of scarlet that the distinguished guests passed
in marshalled processions when the time came for the ample opening
of the Especial Grand Lodge."
The opening ceremonies of Grand Lodge were impressive and
inspiring, participated in as they were by some nine thousand whitegloved Masons. After prayer by the Grand Chaplain, the Lord Bishop
of Chelmsford, a message was read from the Grand Master cxp~ain- .
ing that he was prevented, under medical direction, from attending, and
saying that his "earnest desire had been to associate himself with lh~·
craft on so memorable an occasion, and to give a cordial welcome to
those distinguished representatives from the United States who hart
come in such large numbers as brethren and as allies to join with
us in thanksgiving."
The address of the pro Grand Master was brief but masterly.
(He hrid but recently returned from army service in France.) He
said that the fact of the great assembly spoke for itself. That it was
only necessary to say sufficient to express some idea of what we.
all felt for those hrethren who were not so fortunate as to he pr<'sent.
It was not a concourse brought about by some passing wave of
enthusiasm. It was nothing less than the ftmdament:1l tenets of onr
profession, our tenets as Freemasons, our belief in the Great Architect
of the Universe and submission to His divine laws, which we try to
begin to understand in our search for that which we call Truth. He
said that "the whole world has been convulsed in an unprecedented
outbreak of the the eternal struggle between those who would uphold

and those who would pervert Truth. Behind the material warfare
there has been a spiritual conflict which has not yet ceased. There
has been a clash of ideals, a struggle between the two forces of good
and evil, of light and darkness. We are here to render thanks to the
Great Architect of the Universe for having delivered us from the
appalling perils of this material warfare, and to implore His continued aid in that spiritual conflict which will go on in the world. Freemasonry is one of the greatest forces of good, and we have striking
proofs that this is recognized in the world at large. \Ve are here,
therefore, to make a steadfast resolve to persevere more carnest:y than
ever before in those aims which we profess, and in the duties to which
we are pledged."
All through the cerep1onies Fidelity was the dominant noteFidclity to God, to the countries of our al!egiance, to home, to self.
The Deputy Grand }.faster paid an .eloquent tribute to the men
who had fought on the sea, on the land, in the air, and in every direction, saying among other good things that "It is not unfitting that I
should, in the presence of so many representatives of the United States,
pay a tribute to their gallant army. Though we arc independent nations
I can say, and I think I can say for them, that we are proud to belong
to the Anglo-Saxon race, and I trust and firmly believe that, as Masons
and as men, we shall ever be united in the good cause for the help of
mankind and the principles of our Institution-Ilrothcrly Love, Relief
and Truth."
Judge Farmer, Grand Master of New York, and Dr. Hami!ton,
Grand Secretary of Massachusetts, addressed the vast assemblage in
behalf of the representatives from the United States, both brethren
proving eloquent and worthy proxies for the visitors.
Ilefore closing, Lord Ampthill expressed the thanks of Grand
Lodge to the many brethren who had traveled across the seas to be
present, voicing the hope that the Masonic unity shown in the exercises of the day and in the presence of so many distinguished visitors
might become a strong force to maintain and promote anew the principles of Masonry, and tend largely towards promoting friendship and
good wi11 between the English-speaking races throughout the world;
and further, that we might some day meet again.
'l'hc brevet rank of Past Grand Warden was then conferred upon
our brother from West Virginia, John W. Davis, American Ambassador, as a mark of special favor to the Lodges d the United States.
It may be of interest to report, also, that the rank of Past Grand Chaplain was conferred upon Brother Holden of Victoria, who is a Methodist
minister.

342

344

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

The proceedings closed with the singing by the mighty choir of
nine thousand voices of the hymn, "O God, Our Help in Ages Past."
Not only this Especial Grand Lodge, but the entire round of
Lodge meetings will long linger in the memory of the American delegates. There was no stiffness nor restraint on the part of our English
brethren in our entertainment-there was not the least suggestion of
caste displayed-and as I indicated heretofore, we all speedily were
made to feel very much at home.
Brother Hervey and I took with us to England, by your direction,
a trowel as the gift from the Lodges of California to the Mother Grand
Lodge. I hand you herewith a photograph of this artistic piece of
work. It was my privilege to present this trowel on Saturday evening,
June 28, at a banquet given by Jubilee Masters' Lodge, there being
present probably five hundred brethren. My. remarks on this occasion
were substantially, as follows:
"I came to your land at fhe gracious invitation of Ili~ Royal
Highness the Duke of Connaught, Grand Master of the United Gram)
Lodge of England, knowing you only by tradition and through your·
good work and good influence as Masons, for which we of Atnerica
had formed an opinion which amounted to genuine affection. I have
now for a full week tasted of your sweet hospitality, and can say with·
·truth that I have spent a week in a paradise of good fellowship, the
memory of which I will carry back with me to my distant home as a
precious souvenir like unto sweetest forgctmenots. Ilut I cannot let'
this glorious week pass into history without executing a pleasant duty
commanded of me by the Grand Master of Masons in California, six
thousand miles to the westward.
"Your Masonic brethren-not cousins-but brethren, of the jurisdiction which I have the honor to represent, are but yotiths in the
great work of the Masonic Institution, but we are inspired to effort
by the traditions of our Mother Grand Lodge of England. In our
humble but earnest way we, like you, are fighting the good fight for
civic and personal righteousness, and are keeping the faith as taught
by our forebears of old England. And as visible evidence of our esteem,
our reverence, our love for the United Grand Lodge of England, I am
commanded by my Grand Master to present to you, and through you
to the proper custodian of your Grand Lodge, this trowel, ancl with it
the greetings of your brethren of the land by the sunset sea, on the
western shores of America. If I am correctly advised, it is an instrument not known to the ritualistic work of the Lodges of England,
except possibly in the Province of Bristol. Its use in the hands of the
operative Mason is obvious, that of spreading the cement which unites
the building into one common mass; and of all operative tools it is
the most indispensable. Therefore have we sent you our most precious

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

345

working tool, which all American Masons are taught symbolically to
use for the noble and glorious purpose of spreading the cement of
brotherly love and affection; that cement which unites us and all Masons
into one sacred band or society of friends and brothers, among whom
no contention should ever exist but that noble contention, or rather
emulation, of who best can work and best agree.
"This trowel is typically and essentially Californian. Its component parts of gold quartz, of onyx, of silver and of gold, were taken
from the rugged mountains of our golden State, and fashioned by the
loving hands of Masonic artisans, true descendants of that first artificer
in metals whose name is known to all Masons. The casket in which
this trowel rests was made from the burl of the sequoia gigantea, the
largest and noblest tree in the world. This tree, which is found only
in California, can trace its genealogy in direct descent beyond history,
and is the oldest Ii ving thing on the earth. It flourished full grown Jong
before the building of King Solomon's temple at Jerusalem; it was a
giant of the forests when Moses was rocked in his cradle of rushes;
and if Jethro's flocks had wandered afar to our shores, they might
have browsed in peace aild plenty beneath the shade of these monarchs
of arboreal beauty. To my mind therefore, this casket is a fitting
resting place for this gift of my brethren to the oldest Masonic body
in the world; and I have much pleasure, sir, in placing it in your hands
as tangible and visible evidence of our loyalty and 'love to you and
your brethren, in the hope and with the prayer that the legend engraved
on the face of this trowel will stimulate you, and all who view it, to
heartily assist in the great work of spreading the cement of Brotherly
Love."
Brother Sir Alfred Robbins, President of the Board of General
Purposes, accepted the gift with every manifestation of pleasure. It
would, he said, serve to commemorate a most wonderful week. In the
history of Freemasonl'y that week would stand out as marking the first
occasion on which so many representatives of the English-speaking
world had foregathered from all parts of the globe. He said the Grand
Lodge of England would treasure the trowel as a link between them
and the Grand Lodge of California.
I devoted as much time as I could to a study of English methods
of raising revenues for their poor, and heartily commend their manner
of teaching their members the glory of giving voluntarily. A brief
sketch of their several charities is herewith submitted:
The Royal Masonic In.rtitution for Girls, located at Clapham Junction, London: Number in institution, 377; girls out-educated and
u1aintained, 328. Expenditures for year ending December 31, 1918,

347

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

$200,000. The expenses include girls' holiday traveling expenses, $3200;
for gratuities and outfits to girls leaving the school, $1700; girls educated and maintained out of the school, $50,000; office expenses, $26,000;
and pensions to former governesses, $3000. It is of interest to note that
of the office expenses, $13,000 go to salaries, and $1600 are paid for
votes of thanks· to Stewards who assist largely in promoting yearly
subscriptions to the Institution.

Girls are admitted to the bene8ts of the Institution for "out-education" and maintenance on practically the same terms and conditions as
those who elect to attend the school at Clapham.

346

The fixed income of this Institution is $55,000, and the donations last
year amounted to $300,000. Unexpected balances are invested, and
go to swell the fixed income. Lodges are not taxed for the maintenance
of the Institution, it depending entirely, as above indicated, on voluntary donations from Lodges, Chapters, etc., and from individual Masons.
Some money is received yearly from legacies. The form of bequest
adopted and found to be legally sufficient is as follows:
"I give and bequeath unto the Treasurer, for the time being, of
the Royal Masonic Institution for Girls, Clapham Junction, the sum of
........................ , to be applied for the general purposes of the lnstituti~n."
Girls whose mothers desire to have tbem at home during the
holidays are permitted to leave the Institution for the purpose, their
traveling expenses being paid by the Trustees. Holidays are three
weeks at Easter, six weeks in the summer and a month at Christmas.
Other ho:idays are the last Saturday in ] une (ex-pupils' day), and
afternoons of each Wednesday and Saturday.
No girl is eligible for admission to the Institution undeF six
or over eleven years of age, and must be recommended by two subscribers and the Master and Wardens of a Lodge; nor unless her
father has been a member of a Lodge under the English Constitution
for seven years. "No girl shall remain after the age of sixteen years,
except upon the recommendation of the Head Mistress and with the
approval of the House Committee."
If it be shown that any girl in J:he Institution exhibits marked
talent for a particular branch of education, calculated to be practically
useful to her in after life, the Trustees have discretionary power to
afford such girl the means of extra instruction. Under this rule
many girls are sent to other schools.

Children under the age of six, who require Masonic aid, are looked
after by the Board of Benevolence.
Before any girl be received into the Institution, a written guarantee
must be given by two responsible "householders to remove her if required by the Trustees, to receive her upon leaving, and in case of death,
to bury her free of expense to the Institution.

Daughters of ] ewish parents may be educated Gut of the Institution,
if their guardians so desire.
All the members of the resident staff received their early education in the school. The girls receive a sound education, including hospital nursing, shorthand, typewriting, pianoforte, singing, swimming,
and calisthenics, and are employed by turns in the domestic duties of
the house. Great pains are taken to render them skilful in needlework,
dressmaking, and practical cookery. Dinners served to the Trustees
are cooked by the girls, and the prii1cipal dishes bear the names of the
girl cooks. The Trustees always call in the girls after dinner, and
praise-or censure-each dish and girl.
The Royal Masonic Institution for Boys, at Bushey, Hertfordshire:
The Institution for Boys is supported largely in the same way as the
Institution for Girls-by voluntary contribution from Masonic bodies
and from Masons. Nearly eight hundred boys receive the benefits of
the Institution, of which four hundred are at Bushey, the others-being
between the ages of six and ten-are receiving "out-education" socalled, many of them being with their mothers. The conditions of
admission are much the same as at the Institution for Girls; Sixtyodd boys beyond fifteen years of age are being retained this year for
higher education. The fixed income of this Institution is about $50,000
a year; the ordinary annual expenditure is $210,000 and not less than
$160,000 is required to be raised each year by voluntary contributions.
At the annual festival in May, 1919, the donations to the Boys' Institution aggregated $435,000. The boys are well cared for, ancl sent out
from the Institution well equipped to battle with "life ancl be self-supporting members of society. Through Scholarship Funds a consiclcrablc
number of boys are sent to the best universities and technical schools.
The Masonic Bene11olent Institution at Croydon provides for and
pays annuities to aged Masons and the widows of Masons. No Mason is
eligible under the age of sixty years, ilor unless a member of his Lodge
for at least fifteen years, and whose income is in excess of $150.00 a
year. And no widow is eligible under the age of sixty years whose
income is more than $150 a year, nor unless her last husband had been
a member of a Lodge for ten years. This Institution costs about $150,000 a year, and all the funds are raised by yearly donations.
In aclclition to the three charities above mentioned, there is the
Board of Benevo!ence, associated directly with Grand Lodge, intrusted
with a special fund raised annually, devoted solely to relief. Brother
John White, Deputy Past Grand Master for Kent, is Chairman of the

348

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Committee charged with raising funds for this benevolence for the
coming year, and he told me he had been directed to raise one hundred
thousand dollars from the brethren for this purpose. He furthermore
told me he would .raise the money by merely telling the brethren, at
Lodge meetings, of the needs of the Board of Benevolence and of the
opportunity of the members to do their plain duty-and that he had
no doubt or fear but he would secure the full amount desired. He said
he would not exhort no~ beg, but simply give his brethren their chance
to exercise this blessed privilege.
To summarize the voluntary yearly donations of English Masons, as
shown by last year's receipts:
To the Board of Bcncvolence ................................................$100,000
To the Institution for Aged Masons and Widows ........ 150,000
To the Institution for Girls ................................................ 300,000
To the Institution for Boys .................................................... 435,UOO
A total yearly donation of ............................................$985,oqo
This is exclusive of $100,000 from Lodge treasuries to the Fnnd of
General Purposes.
The membership of the jurisdiction is about 200,000.
These donations do not come alone from wealthy members . . On
the contrary, they come from the great body of "average" Masons,
who are taught from the day they apply for the privileges of Freemasonry that it is the glory of our Institution that its ritual and
practice arc to regard the human species as one family, and that to
relieve the distressed is a duty incumbent on all Masons; that Masonry
gives a foremost place to the privileges and obligations of practical
benevolence; and that actual giving of something for the distressed
brother, his widow and orphan, is an indispensable quality in all
members of our ancient and honorab!e, craft. The novitiate and members arc enjoined that while benevolence is not the only good quality
of Masonry, yet they arc urged to remember that it is the outward
and visible sign of the inward and spiritual grace which exists in
our Institution, and which ought to be the ideal of its members.
The ritualistic work in English Lodges is much the same, in aJJ.
essentials, as in American jurisdictions. The lectures and opening
ceremonies arc shorter, and more time is given to the social side of
:Y:Iasonry than to ritualism. Lodges with large memberships are not
known, it being the rule that members must know one another and
be personally "grata." The usual meeting hour is six o'clock, and
Lodge work or business is finished by seven o'clock, when the members and visitors repair to dinner. By ten o'clock, or a little later, •
the brethren go to their homes.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

349

I have no recommendations to make, but call your serious atten·
tion to the good points of Masonic practice as established by our
brethren of the Grand Lodge of England, particularly with relation
to the social side of Masonry, which they deem of more importance
than the ritualistic side. They teach, enough of ritual to inculcate in
the minds of their novitiates that Masonry stands first and foremost
for the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man; for personal
righteousness; for law and order; for good and orderly government by
orderly men; and that man is his brother's keeper. At their social
gatherings they aim to, and do, bring to the surface the good qualities
of their members-and never lose sight of their obligations to the
poor and distressed in their midst. The matter of relief is not referred
to the Lodge treasury, but to the individual member, who, as I stated
above, is early taught that his obligations as a Mason extend to his
personal purse, with the result that nearly every Mason of an English
Lodge yearly contributes not only to his Lodge treasury sufficient to
pay the ordinary running expenses of the Lodge, but to the several
charities maintained by Committees of Grand Lodge, as well to Scholarships to aid poor boys and girls to extend their education even to the
larger universities and schools of technology.
The visit across seas was expensive in time and energy and money,
but I believe it was well worth it all. And if any of the suggestions
noted appeal to you or to Grand Lodge as being worthy of even further
investigation, I shall be amply repaid, and content.

JOUN WITTCHER,
Grand Secretary."
HOMl<:S.

As the time has elapsed, more and more has been demonstrated
the wisdom of the reorganization and composition of the Board governing and managing our Hom es. The personnel of the Board and of
those in direct management of the respective Homes presents a: wellbalanced and intelligent government, and the results in both Homes
are gratifying in the extreme. More and more it becomes apparent
that in Jlrothcr I lartman, the Supcrintctl(kllt of lkcoto, and :Miss
Daingerfield, the Matron there, we have personalities ideally suited
to the work; and the same is equally true of Brother Spencer, who
without material compensation has Iahorecl incessantly and earnestly
among the children at Covina, and been in all respects an ideal Superintendent without the name or the emoluments of that office. While
of Mrs. Miller and Miss Lloyd, it is increasingly. evident that their
work with the children is a labor of love which explains to the last
degree the snceess of all those named at either Home.

350

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Believing that much good had been accomplished toward an intelligent governing of the Home at Covina by the physical and mental
surveys comlnctcd by Professor Arthur J. Ritter and Dr. Harold K
Faber, I requested Prof. Ritter to again perform that duty for this
year, and was advised by him that in conjunction with Dr. Herbert I.
Bloch, he would gladly undertake the work again. The survey was
made somewhat late in the year, and I have not had the opportunity
therefore, to digest it before the preparation of this report,. but feel
certain that it is better to let the report speak for itself. It will be
found in the Report of the Trustees. I herewith again express my
deepest appreciation for the unselfish efforts and inestimable service
to our Fraternity of these distinguished gentleme1i.
The Grand Lodge at its last annual communication, having recommitted itself to the policy of renewed efforts to complete the Endowment fund of $1,000,000.00 for the maintenance of the Homes, I authorized another drive in behalf of the same, and fixed the time therefor
coincident with the Victory Loan campaign. The Endowment Com. mittee, under the able direction of the M." .·w: .Motley H. Flint, organized and carried on the drive indefatigably and systematical'.y, and
the response of the brethren was most hearty and encouraging. ·while
the amount realized has not been all that could have been hoped, much
good has been accomplished in an educational way, and I firmly believe
that there is a better understanding and appreciation throughout .the
jurisdiction generally, not only of the net>ds of the Homes, Jmt also
of the compelling nature of the ob'.igations of the individual brethren
toward this and all legitimate calls of humanity.
Personally, f lent my endeavors to the work of the committee in the
prosecution of the drive hy speaking, writing and wiring in the effort
to make the brethren realize how fundamental and essential this work
was, to us as Masons, if we were not to be self-discredited in our
professions.
I found here am! there, throughout the State, many individual
brethren who seemed conscientiously opposed to the plan, as a who!e,
and devoted my efforts in such cases to impressing the thought that as
loyal members of this great organization, it was their duty as well as
privilege to carry out the expressed will of their brethren as manifested
by the action of the Grand Lodge.
The brethren in some quarters have been slow to realize that the
Grand Lodge is not some mysterious force or autocratic body imposing
its will upon the subordinate Lodges and members, without regard to
protest or valid objection, and f was at some pains to impress upon
such by persona\. visits and correspom!ence that they had every
opportunity through their representatives to shape and bring about
the legislation they desired. But on the other hand, I can feel but slight

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

351

patience with a protest against action of th'.' ~rand Lodge coming from
. . te Lodge which has been too md1fferent to send represen·
a su b or d nM
'
·
f
tatives to the session enacting the legislation complamed o ·
It is my judgment that the English method of handl.ing .their
charities and especially of providing for the Homes, which ts so
ably prc~ented in the report of the V." .w: .Grand Secretary, may well
he studied, and that many valuable hints may be gathered therefrom
for our guidance in future efforts.

\Vhat is termed the Pennsylvania plan, and which in~olves the
addition of a stated sum to the initiation fee in every case, 1s reported
as a great success in that jurisdiction, and this plan, as a means of
providing a maintenance fund for our Homes, to take the place,
partially or wholly, of the per capita .tax, will he presented a~
this session by the Trustees of the Homes; and I am so thorough\_)
convinced that this, as well as other suggestions to be made at th1>.
session to adequately provide for the maintenance of our. Ho111es,
~hould receive the utmost careful and painstaking attentl?n, and
that at this session some defmitc action should be taken, either . by
adoption of the Pennsylvania plan, or some other equally practical
one, that, at the request of the Trustees, I would urge. and stro:1gly
recommend that I he given authority to appoint a special comnnt:ee
to thoroughly investigate these various phms, and rc~?rt thcreo1;. w1t.h
recommendation for the adoption of some propos1t10n early 111 this
session.
It being evident that the duties of the Gr~nd .Treasurer have !>cen
greatly augmented by the form in which contnlmttons have come. m : 0
the Endowment fund, particularly in the ch:;ract~r of bonds, it has
been suggested for a lightening of his labors 111 tins regard'. that Section 47 Subdivision 2, of our Constitution be amended by acldt~g thcrct~
the w;rds "or with a Trust Company." This, if ado~tcd, will p:rm'.t
our Grand Treasurer to be re'.ieved of a mass of det;nl work, winch it
w;is iwvt·r cnntcmplatt·d 11c shonhl he hunkm·<'. .with, and .nla:t· the•
same in expert ha.uds, without in any sense impamng the obhgat10n or
·1 ·1·t
f
r ('rand
Treasurer , and. I .therefore recommend the
rcspons111
1 y o 011
.•
adoption of such amendment to our Constitut1on.
DISPENSATIONS.

I freely granted dispensations to rehallot on rejected applicants
where request tlwrdor was made in a. constitntinnal. manner, for l
believe that the subordinate Lodge 1s tlw hes~ Jlld"'<; of loc~I
conditions, and that their wishes, in this regard, manifested m a constitutional manner, should be complied with.
the ~ther han~, I h~ve
very sparingly exercised my power to grant d1spensat1011s to ha.lot with-

?n

352

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

out reference to committee, and confined such to cases of manifest
emergency, and only when the applicant came strictly within the
constitutional requirements for such action. During the prevalence of
the influenza epidemic, when meetings were quite generally under the
ban, and it being feared that the Lodges would not be able to hold
their annual meetings at the time prescribed by our Constitution, to
meet the emergency I issued a blanket dispensation, permitting Lodges
to hold their stated meetings on five days' notice and at times other
than thos.e prescribed by the Constitution.
Believing that it was manifestly impossible to make the necessary
or proper investigation of an app!icant, so far from his home and
customary environment, I declined to accede to the request· of the
Grand Lodge of -New York to waive jurisdiction, so as to permit the
initiation of applicants from California into Sea and Field Lodges,
operating overseas,' under the jurisdiction of the Grand Lodge of New
York.
I declined participation in or contribution to the work of the Geqrge
\Vashington Memorial Association, believing that at this pcrioa of unrest, reconstruction and rehabilitation, our time, attention and money
could be better employed in more imminent and vital problems, and
that this highly laudable enterprise could well wait more stable
conditions.
·
I declined invitations to lay the cornerstones of Methodist churches,
believing it to be well settled by our Jaw and practice that the Grand
· Lodge should officiate only for buildings strictly Masonic, or of a
public nature, and, therefore, we could not participate in a denomina·
tional or sectarian function.

On October 7, 1919, at the invitation of Crocker Lodge No. 454,
convened the Grand Lodge in special session at Daly City, California,
;ind dedicated the Masonic Hall in that city in due and ancient form.
RECOM ME:N'DATIONS.

I referred previously to the zealous cooperation and inestimable
assistance of our V.'.\V.'. Grand Lecturer, and I want to repeat again,
and as a basis for the recommendation which follows, that travels with
him have brought home to me with great force that Brother Baker has
111 ade of the office of Grand Lecturer a vital and valuable force in the
Ma sonic life of this State.
At no time has he spared himself or limited his efforts to the
activities which might naturally be supposed to belong to the sphere of
his duties. On the other hand, there has been no s.lightest suggestion
n f officiousness or interference with the prerogative of any other office.
Nothi.ng but the most zealous cooperation and kindly and disinterested
~ympathy has marked his intercourse with the brethren of the State.
It is difficult to define in words what I mean when I say that Brother
Baker has made of the office of Grand Lecturer a monumental factor
i 11 Masonic life. It needs to be seen and lived with day after day and
month after month, as I have been privileged to do while traveling with
Brother Baker. The physical and nervous strain of the office is
st upcndous, and I know from personal observation that an average of
sixteen hours a day is devoted by Brother Baker gladly and sympa1hctieally to the duties of his office. In view of the marked increase
in his labors, due in great part to the phenomenal growth of the Instil nlion and the vastly increased expense of all the means and incidents
of cxi stence, and, above all, the unique place which Brother Baker has
made for himself and his office in the State, I strongly recommend a
snhstantial increase in his salary.
Jt will he remembered that at our last annnal communication, the
I 1rl'thre11 of Germania Lodge in Los Angeles, feeling the urge of patriotism and the desire to omit no word or act which could by any means put
them in line with loyal Americanism, both in appearance as well as fact,
voluntarily presented to the Grand Lodge the proposition to change
the name of their Lodge from Germania to Acacia, and to use the
English rather than the German language in their work. This action
on their part was gladly concurred in and approved by the Grand Lodge,
and the changes duly authorized.
During my visit to the South, I learned from the Inspector, Brother
Will H. Fischer, that matters were not going smoothly in this Lodge
:md that there was a very general feeling among the brethren of Acacia
that they had been deceived or coerced into making the changes referred
1

At my request, the Right Worshipful Samuel E. Burke convened
the Grand Lodge in special session on September 20, 1919, at Fi11111ore,
California, and laid the corner stone of the Masonic Hall in that dty.
The same zealous and eflicicnt officer convened the Grand Lodge in
special session at Ifoena Park, California, and laid the corner stone of
their Masonic Hall on August 30, 1919. The same officer convened the
Grand Lodge in special session at Covina, California, and with proper
Masonic ceremonies laid the corner stone of the new grammar school
in that city on September 27, 1919.
Being unable, owing to the postponment of the function, to pe!'sonally officiate, or to send any of the active Crnml Officers for that
purpose, I requested the \Vorshipfnl James 0. Moncur, Inspector of
the Tenth Masonic District, to convene the Grand Lodge in special
session for the purpose of laying the corner stone of the new court
house for Plumas County, at Quincy, California, which ceremony was
duly performed in the able and efficient manner characteristic of that
officer, on September 13, 1919.

353

354

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

to. Through the ,kindly offices of the Inspector, an apportunity was
arranged for ~he Grand Lecturer and myself to meet with these brethren, and to listen to their exposition of the situation. ·Accordingly
o~ the 15th day of June, 1919, the Grand Lecturer and I met
with these brethre? at a special meeting of Acacia Lodge, called for
the purpo~e, and hste~ed for upwards of two hours to a presentation
of the incidents and circumstances leading up to the changes referred
to, and learne~ that t?eir action.' while voluntary, as above stated, had
been largelr dictated_ 1~ the beltef and upon the expressed or implied
representat10n that s1m1lar action would be taken by Hermann L d
of S F
.
h
o ge
an ranc1sco, or t at such change would be ordered by th~ Grand
Lo dge.
When no. mandatory action was taken by Grand Lodge in this

rega~d, n~r did Hermann Lodge ~oluntarily concur, the brethren of
Acac!a fe.t that they had been deceived, more by implication and force
of circumstances,. than by the direct representation of anyone, but
neverthclc.ss. decc1v;d, ai:d. ~ very unpleasant foeling grew up Jn: 'the
Lodge, stiflmg their act1v1ttes and creating manifest dissension and
lack of harmo.ny in their ranks. I wa.s so convinced of these facts,
that after their clear and dispassionate presentation of the case I
addressed them at some length, telling them that while I had no po~er
personally to change the status which they themselves had created I
;ealiz:d their situation and felt that they had been made t~ b~ar
meqmtable burdens, an~ that at the coming session of Grand I,odge,
I should recommend either that the privilege of using the German
language be resto;ed to them, or that all Lodges working in foreign
languages be required to adopt the English language in their work
I reached this decision, and now reiterate it, becavse I believed

~hen: and d? now, that this Grand Lodge cannot afford to be inequitable
1~1

1U; rnhngs, and

that it should not

place the

ban

on

the

(~crman lang11age in Los Angeles, and permit its use in San Francisco. ~nd furt~er, I stated then, and still believe, that the necessity

for f.ore1gn-spcak1ng Lodges has gone by, if it ever existed, and that ill.
the. mt:rest and ~urtherance of that thoroughgoing Americanization,
wluch is the dommant hope of the Nation today, we shonld reqtlire
all the Lodges ho!~ing allegiance to this- Grand Lodge to uniformly adopt
and use the English language in their work.
. If the Grand Lodge does not see fit to adopt this suggestion ·in its
entirety'. however, I would strongly recommend that Acacia Lodge
be permitted, on application therefor, to revive the use of the German
language, that our attitude may be uniform to all and witho11t apparent invidious distinction.
'

355

By the presentation of a petition and resolution from San Fernando
Lodge No. 343, seconded by the action of Elysian Lodge of Los Angeles, the Grand Master and Grand Lodge have been requested to grant
San Fernando Lodge concurrent jurisdiction with the Lodges of Los
i\ngeles-thus bringing to the front the troublesome question of j urisdiction.
It is evident that a very manifest hardship is worked upon San
Fernando Lodge by the curtailing of its territory, dne to annexation
of surrounding territory by Los Angeles, and the operation of our
present rigid law governing these situations. San Fernando Lodge is
entirely surrounded by the city of Los Angeles, and necessarily is conlined to its own city limits in its territorial jurisdiction, so that while it
originally had 700 square miles of territory to draw from, it now has
but one.
Under our present law, the Grand Master has no power to remedy
this situation, as Sections 82 and 92A apply only to defining limits of
exclusive jurisdiction, and not to concurrent. It seems to me, however,
that this and many similar situations throughout the State deserve a
remedy, and I would strongly recommend that our law be so amended,
or added to, that concurrent jurisdiction could be granted Lodges in
similar situations, where it would be manifestly just to do so.
As an alternative, it has hcen suggested that our entire policy with
reference to jurisdiction be changed, and that we adopt the same rule
therein which now prevails on application for affiliation. In other words,
that we permit a petitioner for the degrees to apply to any Lodge in
the State, upon notifying the Lodge nearest his place of residence, of
his intention so to do.
I firmly believe some definite action should he taken in one or the
other direction at this communication, for the present law bears particularly hard upon many Lo(Jges and <listr:cts.
I approved the consolidation of TuG!umnc Lml"c No. 8 and Cconyc
Washington Lodge No. 62, although constitutional requirements could
not be complied with strictly hy Cconi;c Wa~hin'.'J<m, owing to its inability to hold meetings or reach all its members.
Since 1913, when a similar situation arose, in that it was impossible for one of the Lodges desiring to consolidate to ho~d the meeting
required by the constitution, it has been prrmittcd to take the written
ballots for or against the proposed consolidation, and when the assent
of three-fourths of the members of said Lodge was so ohtain,~d, the
consolidation has been permitted and such action hy P.'.G.".:\1.'.Angellotti and the Committee on Jurisprudence has been repeatedly approved by the Grand Lodge. No change in our organic law has been
made, however, definitely permitting such procedure.

356

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

In the case of George Washington Lodge now before us, we were
confronted with an additional obstacle. It was impossible to locate
and obtain answer of any sort from nine of the members of George
Washington Lodge, and there were but twenty-eight members on the
rolls. The nineteen members located, unanimously voted for the
proposed consolidation. Confronted then with this impasse, it was
either necessary to let the proposed consolidation go by the board and
permit George Washington Lodge to languish still further, and ultimately
forfeit its charter, or I must go one step further along the road'tnarked
out by my illustrious predecessors, and approve the consolidation upon
the unanimous written consent of all the members of George Washington Lodge who could be located, after diligent search, certified to by
the Secretary, even though such number of consents fell short by two
of the constitutional three-fourths required. Believing it to be in the
interest of justice and sound common sense, and the other party to
the proposed consolidation, Tuolumne Lodge, having performed in
strict accord with the Constitution, I accepted the action of (;corge
Washington Lodge as a substantial and sufficient compliance with
the requirements, and approved the consolidation. That it may not he
necessary in the future to so strain the legal requirements, I would
recommend that our constitution be so amended that si111ilar situations
be taken care of within the strict letter of the constitution.
PHYSICAL R!IQUIRI!MI!NTS.

Throughout the year I have hem 1·cpcatcdly asked to decide the
eligibility for admission to our Order of candidates who have suffered
the loss of one or both hands or feet, and in every case I have decided
that it was the intent of 'the amemlm('nt of 1913 to Section 94 of the Con'.·,
stitution, substituting therein the word "substantially" for "literally,"
to relax the rigidity of our former rule, and vest the Master and the
subordinate Lodge with discretion to determine in each individual case
whether or not the applicant could conform su/Jsta11ti111ly to the require- ,
ments of the different degrees; and with such preamble, have held
that an applicant who had lost his left hand or arm or either foot or
leg below the knee, especially where the loss had been supplied by an .
artificial limb, was not by reason of sueh loss ineligi!Jlc.
Our sister jurisdiction of Iowa bas p;one a skp fortlwr, rmd
definitely provided that where the loss has been replaced hy an artificial·
member, permitting a substantial compliance with the requirements of
the degrees, he was not ineligible, the Grand Master of Iowa stating
in his reeornmendation for such amendment, that we had better accept
members with wooden legs than with wooden heads.
I feel that the attitude of the Grand Lodge in the matter of Past
Master's jewels and floral offerings for deceased brethren is unfair and

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

35i

inconsistent, and have found throughout the State a very p:onounced
dissatisfaction over the fact that the Grand Lodge :xpen~s. its m?ney,
drawn from the subordinate Lodges, for presents to its retm~g. officers,
but docs not permit the subordinate Lodges the same privilege. I
believe this inequality should be remedied, and so recon;m~nd; but
feel if such legislation should be enacted that a modest. hm1t should
be placed upon the expenditure permitted.
I have l;een the recipient of many suggestions and recommendations from the Inspectors and Masters of this i urisdiction, and pro~­
ably the most urgent and oft-repeated is the call for mo:e . Maso?~c
education and that time be spared from degree work w1thm which
to rccciv~ it. I am not in sympathy with the so-called grou~ plan of
initiation; it has not been frequently suggested, nor do I .beh:ve that
it will solve the trouble. It, seems to me that except m times .of
stress such as the preceding two years, it is within the power and d1scretio~1 of any Lodge to refuse to do an immoderate amount of degree
work, and if candidates by reason of such refusal are compelled to
wait a little longer for their degrees, such dcla~ would only ~dd to
the dignity of Masonry and enhance the appreciation of the candidates.
Another favorable result might and probably would ensue fro~
such delay, namely, to drive the applicant to less busy Lodges and m
some instances of great congestion I believe more new Lodges would
be formed, and the unwieldy growth of the older Lodges prevented,
all which I believe would be to the advantage of Masonry and the
promotion of greater and closer fratcrnalism.
It is commonly said that there is no sociability in the ~argc
Lodges, hccanse it is impossible for the mcmhe.rs to get a<:qnarnted
with their Lotlgc family, and a spirit of formality and coldness prev·tils not through any lack in the individual, but because the task of
g~tti;ig in touch with all in such a Lodge is too stupendous. 1'hcrc
should be the closest feeling among members of the same Lodge, and
we find the Jincst spirit prevailing and ruling the smaller and more
compact Lodges.
The brethren arc no doubt aware, if they have observed the
course of events in preceding communications of this Gran'.! llo<ly,
that frciincntly matters of suggested policy arc . pr~sentcd .either by
amendment to our Cons!lt11t1011,
rcso 1u t!.011 , or proposed
.
,
. wl11ch Junder
..
the prt'seit! plan arc referred of nect'ssity lo the .(01111111ttcc on t1r1s:
prmkncc. Jn many cases, however, these suggcstrnns arc merely ones
f o1icy an<I do not affect the legislative feature of our Grand Lodge,
~nd do 1; 0 t require legal construction of existing legislation to put t?em
into effect. I 11 other words, as frequently reported by our C~mnnttee
on Jurisprmkncc, "this is a question of policy merely, and wlnle there

358

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

is no legal objection to the adoption of the suggestion, we return it to
the Grand Lodge without recommendation!' It, therefore, appears
to me that we might do well to follow the example of some older
jurisdictions and add to our list of standing committees by creating
one which shall be termed "The Committee on General Policy and
Purposes," to consist of from seven to eleven members as in the
judgment of the Grand Lodge seems best, and to whom shall be referred
all. t?ose matters w?ich do not require, to put them into effect, legal
op1111ons and analysis, but may properly be termed matters of policy
or even matters affecting the good of the Order.
'
GROWTH OF THI\ ORD!lR.

At tlic conclusion of the last Grand Lodge year, it was seen that
the net gain in membership for the year l9l'l had Ileen phc110111cn;;l and
unprecedented, and it was undoubtedly felt by many that this phenomenal growth was due in large measure to war conditions. Today, however, upon a survey of the year just past, most of which has "been
without the period of war, we find that the phenomenal growth has
still continued, and that the net gain of last year, 3591, has been surpassed in this, and that the membership in this State has been increased
to the extent of 3887 members. This in itself, and so far as numbers·
go to indicate strength and interest, is an encouraging indication of tiie
general . con~ition, not alone of our Order, but of thinking men, .in
that tlit:tr 111mds and attention are being turned to an Institution based
upon principles such as ours, and which promises something in the
way of self-development and self-expression. Sufficient has been said
by earlier and abler kaders and writers in Masonry to prevent anv
undue elation over large accessions in numbers. We are constantly;
ringing the changes on the doctrine that it is quality and not quantity
that we seek and that we are not at all interested in acquiring members,
unless they also shall be, or appear likely to become, Ma sons, in fact
as well as in name. I do not desire to trespass on tlic attention of the·
Grand Lodge in reiterating at tiresome length the very evident truth
of these propositions, and that our attitude should continue the same
upon this all vital point. I have the courage to believe from my observation throughout the State, and my correspondence with other
jurisdictions, that a greater and more vital interest is being taken
in what Masonry stands for than ever before, but whether or not•
that awakening of interest in vital topics is a by-product or in any
sense clue to war conditions, is really not important. The sa 'icnt thinq is
.that there is this awakening of interest, and it is most decidedly a
feature which must be taken into account in our calculations, and
as we recognize the fact, we realize that more and more it is true that

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

359

the eyes of the world are upon us, and that our responsibility is correspondingly enhanced.

In the light of this view, I watched with intense interest the responses of the Masters of this grand jurisdiction to my request for suggestions for the Good of the Order. Many of them have been both
illuminating and instructive. To draw a composite conclusion from the
great mass of suggestions I have received, I should say that I find a
pronounced undercurrent of dissatisfaction at undue emphasis placed
upon ritualistic activities. In other words, the remedy, if such there
be for these conditions, seems clearly indicated to confer fewer degrees,
take less time of the Lodges in so doing, and emphasize the social
features by the maintenance of club rooms, by holding frequent social
and educational meetings, which shall be devoted to these purposes
alon~, without the addition of any ritualistic work; and to the encl of the
promotion of the social feature, I find considerable sentiment in favor
of more frequent banquets as a means of furthering social interest
and feeling. I realize that it is hardly possible for a large Lodge,
especially if it lets its intention be known, to banquet its own members and receive hospitably the visitors who would naturally come to
such occasions. So that we are confronted with a practical difficulty,
even though this feature be, and I believe is, most desirable.
In conclusion, then, it seems that so far as we can make a
general recommendation, it should be along the line of emphasizing
the social and fraternal features of our Order. If we can once get
the great mass of the brotherhood to realize that there is nothing
more important than the recognition of the common bonds of humanity, that the doctrine of brotherhood means in very fact just
what it says, that we are all descendants of one Almighty Father, that
we arc linked together, in fact as well as in name, by an indissolub!e tie of sincere affection, I venture the prediction that we will
see the Masonic Order take its rightful 11lace as a dynamic force
in the Na ti on, and in the life of the people, and that it will command
recognition not alone for its professions, not alone for the beauty
of its doctrines, but des<;rvcdly for its solid, practical accomplishment
in all constructive po!icies and endeavors for the uplift and unity of
Humanity.
BRADFORD WEBSTER,
Grand Master.

The Deputy (;rand Master appointed the following
committee on Crarnl Master's address: Frank Tade, H. D.
Loveland, J. Stewart Ross.

360

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

On motion of the Senior Grand W ardcn, the Grand
Master appointed a special committee to survey and report
relative to various plans suggested to adequately provide for the maintenance of the Masonic Homes, as follows:
Francis V. Keesling, Walter D. Adriance, John H. McGehee, Joseph H. Stephens, G. A. H utaff.
On motion of Past Grand Master Perine the Grand Secretary was directed to telegraph the felicitations of Grand
Lodge to our Senior Past Grand Master George C. Perkins; and also to send a message to our veteran Grand
Organist, Samuel D. Mayer, now ill in hospital, conveying
the love ,and sympathy of his brethren.
The following was thereupon wired to Brother Perkins:
"Your California breth rcn of the Ancient Institution of Freemasonry, assembled in Grand Lodge and representing now sixty-eight
thousand lovers of law and order and good government, extend to you
felicitations and love, and wish you all happiness."

The following answer was received:
"Oakland, Cal., October 15, 1919.
"I am deeply touched for the fraternal greeting and kind expressions by the meml:ers of the Grand Lodge, am] I extend to them my
hearty thanks. I regret that illness deprives me of the pleasure of being
present on this auspicious occasion. l t is a wise provision in our organic law to meet annually with the delegates in session, represent1ng
each Lodge in the jurisdiction, its mission being to enact wise and hcnciicent laws and regulations for the goml of humanity. Masonry is th~
keystone of the arch of civil am! religious liberty. May its good work
continue until lost in the shadowing morning of time, prayeth,
"Faithfully yours,
"GEORGE CLEMENT PERKINS."

George W. Madeley, now at Allentown, Pa., also wired
greetings, as also did l'ast Grand Masters Lawler and Filmer, each with the hope and belief that the result of our

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

361

labors in these'critical times may be for the benefit of our
country and humanity.
The message to Brother Mayer was delivered by
Brothers Leo Bruck, E. B. Spencer and James C. Wilder,
who reported thereon as follows:
Your Committee, to whom was entrusted the task of conveying the
good wishes and compliments of the Grand Lodge to your Grand
Organist, Samuel D. Mayer, procured a beautiful basket of flowers,
called on Brother Mayer at the hospital, and conveyed to him the sentiments expressed.
He desires to thank the Grand Lodge for their good wishes, and to
assure them of his appreciation of their thoughtful and timely expression.
TT c seems to he well on the road to recovery, and we have every
conflcl('nce that he will soon he up and around, and he ahlc to serve this
Crane! Lodge as its Grand Organist for a good many years to come.

362

PROC.EEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF GRAND TREASURER

GRAND LODGE-WAR FUND, JULY 31,

Drother Lambert, for the Grand Treasurer, presented
the following report:
To the Most ·worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I herewith present my annual report as Grand Treasurer and
Treasurer of the Masonic Homes of California.
GRAND LODGE-{;.ENERAL l'UND, JULY

363

1919.
Receipts.
Balance on Hand August 1, 1918. .............................................$ 51,047.60
Grand Secretary ............................................................................ 9,249.33
liank Interest ..................................................................................
1,429.11
Bond Interest ................................................................................
353.33

Total Receipts

31, 1919.

Receipts.
Balance on hand August 1, 1918................................................ $ 24,569.74
Grand Secretary ............................................................................ 74,916.84
Bank Interest ................................................................................
611.41
Bond Interest .................................................................................
2,780.96
Total Receipts ......................................................................$102,878.95

Disbursements.
Secretary's \Varrants Nos. 1 to 254 ................$ 60,814.87
Liberty Loan 4% Bonds......................................
500.00
Liberty Loan 41'! % Bonds.................................. 35,300.00

62.079.37

Disbursl'me11ts.
Secretary's Warrants Nos. 35 to 73 .................... $ 5,785.25
Liberty Lo~n Bonds.............................................. 10,000.00
Liberty Loan Bonds.............................................. 10,000.00
Total Disbursements ................................... .

25,785.25

Balance on Hand July 31, 1919 ..........................................$ 36,294.12

Bank Balances.
Humboldt Savings Dank ...................................... $ 15,560.76
Savings Union Bank & Trust Co...................... l0,616.67
Crocker :National Bank........................................ 10,116.69

Total Disbursements ........................................................... · 96,614.87
Balance (as above) ...................................... .

$ 36,294.12

Balance on hand July 31, 1919............................................$ 6,264.08
Assl'IS.

Cash Ralanas.
San Francisco Savings & Loan Society ........$ 3,943.41
Crocker National Bank ...................................... . 2,000.67
320.00
Cash on Hand for Deposit.. ............................... .
llalance (as a hove) ....................................... .

Cash, July 31, 1919 (in Banks) ............................$ 36,294.12
U. S. i\. Liberty Loan Bonds, 4 .'4 %................ 25,000.00
Total Assets ............................................................................$ 61,294.12

$ 6,264.08

Assets.
Cash on Hand or in Banks July 31, 1919 .......... $ 6,264.08
Seven 6% Elue Lakes Water Co. Bonds ....... . 7,700.00
Six 6% Southern Pacific R. R. Bonds ........... . 5,580.00
Nine 5% Cal. Gas & Electric Co. Bonds ..... . 8,550.00
8,000.00
Eight S'Y,1 Pacific Tel. and Tel. Co. honds ........
1,860.00
Two 5% L. A. Gas and Elec. Co. Bonds .... ..
4%. Liberty Loan Bonds .................................... .. 11,500.00
4)1,io/o Liberty Loan Bonds ................................. . 35,300.00
37,000 Masonic Temt)le Association Shares .. 370,000.00
fotal Assets .......................................................................... $454,754.08

MASONIC IIOMEH <Jll CA!.Jl<'Ol!NJA-1\NrnlWMl\N'r J"UNll

JULY 31, 1919.
Balance Cash on Hand August 1, 1918....................................$ 2,188.54
Receipts.
Donations
67,527 ..16
City of Santa Barbara Bond Redeemed ......... .
l ,000.00
Bond 1ntcrest ........................................................... . 3,644.08
Bank Interest ......................................................... .
72.95
Interest on Note, Account l>uilding Fund ... .
l ,145.00
.Miscellaneous .......................................................
351.61

Total Receipts .............................................. ..

$ 73,741.00

Making Total Cash Available ............................................. $ 75,929.54

364

Composition of Cash Balance.

Disbursements.

Humboldt Savings Bank
Cash for Deposit.....·----·-·-····---·-···-··----· .. ·---············

Liberty Bonds ··-······--·············-··-····-·------------····----$ 40,000.00
Interest ·-·····-·······---··--·--··-····-·······-···················-····-··
218.12
Funeral Expense ·--·-·-·-······-··································
90.00

Composition Special Home Fund.

40,308.12

Balance Cash on Hand July 31, 1919.------·--··---···--··--·-----$ 35,021.42
Composition of Cash Balance:
Humboldt Savings Bank, Endowment
Fund Balance.·-········---············-·--···-·--------$ 31,211.19
Plus Cash for Deposit.................................. 4,410.23 •
·Total Available Cash July 31, 1919....

1,465.12
21.25
1,486.37

Total Disbursements ..... ,............................... .

$ 35,621.42

Composition Endowment Fund.

Total Cash Available on Hand July 31, 1919.. $ 35,621.42
Note of Building Fund (Loan to Trustees
Masonic Homes) .......................................... 45,800.00
Bonds:
4Y,.% City of Santa Barbara Ilonds ......... . 16,287.50
6 % City of Uplands E'onds ___________________ _ 3,125.00
5 % Pacific Tel. & Tel. Co. Bonds ....... . 16,000.00
4%% San Francisco Retch Hetchy
Bonds ---·-·-·-·------·--··--·-·-····························· 12,000.00
5 % City of Richmond Bonds ................
5,000.00
5 % City and County of S. F. Bonds .. 2,000.00
5 % City of Ashland Bonds ................... . 9,000.00
5 % Cal. Gas & Electric Co. Bonds ... . 10,000.00
4y.j% U. S. Government Liberty Loan
Bonds ··-··-·········-·-···--············---·······-·······-·· 65,700.00

.

..

Pacific Gas & Electric Co ........$5,000.00
California Gas & Electric Co .. 9,000.00
Los Angeles Railway ................ 5,000.00
Liberty Loan .............................. 1,000.00
20,000.00
Total Special Home Fund ..........................................$ 21,486.37

Total Available Cash on Hand July 31, 1919....................$2,993.97
WM.

P. flLMl!R,

Grand Treasurer.

Referred to the Committee on Financ'e.

572.13.

31.84
882.40
914.24

Total Cash Available ............................................................$

!fonds:

Total Receipts ................ ------ -----· ---·-·----··-·--··-·-------··· ........................ $3,271.25
Total Disbursements ···-···-·-·------------·········-------··-·-····---·-·-·---·-·---------- 277.28

MASONTC HOMTiS Of CALlFORNTA-SPTiCTAL HOMTi FUND.

E'alance Cash on Hand August 1, 1918.................................. $

Total Available Cash on Hand ..........................$ 1,486.37

MASONIC HOMES 011 CALJllOl-tNJA-l!NTl!RTAlNMl!NT 11UND.

Total Endowment Fund July 31, 1919....................$220,533.92

Receipts.
,
Bank Interest ·-···--·------··················--··--···············-·-$
Bond Interest

.365

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF- THE

1,486.37

366

PROC.BJilJDINGS OF THE

REPORT OF GRAND SECRETARY
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
I have the honor to report herewith the transactions of the
Grand Secretary's office for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1919,
together with a detailed account of all moneys received within the
year, and a detailed and itemized statement of the dis bur semen ts of
the Grand Lodge. In addition thereto, I have appended an account o'f receipts since the close of business July 31 to and including October 2, 1919, and all uniinished business of Grand Lodge.

For the first time in many years the report is not complete
as to all the Lodges on our registery. Mokelumne Hill No. 298
and Loyalton No. 359 have not reported; Los Banos Lodge No,
312 has sent its annual report, but has not paid Grand Lodge du~s.
In my tabulation of membership I have included Los Banos Lodge
and estimated the two other delinquent Lodges.
Because of the scourge of influenza the Craft in California
suffered many losses, the toll of death being 50 per cent more
than last year. llut notwithstanding the fact that for many
months our Lodges were not permitted to meet, the great numbei;
0£ 17,233 degrees were conferred, being 3114 degrees more than
last yt·ar, ancl the net increase of membership for this year is 3904.
The net membership now is 67,890.
At the close of the last annual communication there were 382
Lodges on our regis_try, with a membership 'Of 63,986, a net gain
for that year of 3593. Charters were ordered issued at that cornmunication to Yorha Linda Lodge No. 469, located at Yorba
Linda, Orange County, constituted November 23, 1918, by Samuel
E. liurkc, Junior Grand Warden; Lincoln Lodge No. 470, located
at San Francisco, constituted October 11, 1918, by Bradford Webster, Grand Master; Delta Lodge No. 471, located at Stockton,
constituted December 12, 1918, by Bradford vVehster, Grand Master. And by resolution of Grand Lodge, after due petition, Lodge
Maui No. 472, located at Kahalui, Territory of Hawaii, was
granted a charter and was duly constituted December 14, 1918, by
James F. Fenwick, Inspector of the Sixty-sixth Masonic District.
Lodge Maui has been working for a long period of years under
obedience to the Grand Lodge of Scotland, which body generously
relinquished all claim to the Lodge and its property.
'
Two Lodges have been formed during the year: Victory,
located at San Francisco, and I3lythe, located at Blythe, San Ber-

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

367

nardino County. The list of brethren signing the petitions for the
formation of those two Lodges is as follows:
Blythe Lodge: Dispensation issued April 2, 1919. Cecil Byron
Randall, Master; Albert Obando vVight, Senior \Varden; Joseph
Wilson McKenney, Junior \:Varden; and Henry Arthur Walsh,
Henry Lewis Christian, Edward Andrew Macclonald, Harry
Noland Stanton, John Baptist Cambon, Edward John Frayne.
Alonzo Duffin Hitchcock, Robert Adolph North, James Edward
Longacre, Henry Alfred Dolge, Orlando Francisco Rudd, and
Addison 0. Longacre.
Victory Lodge: Dispensation issued May 14, 1919. vVilliam
Edgar Shipley, Master; Harry Chrisley Moore, Senior Warden;
George Lyle Halek, Junior \:Varden; and David Edward Marchus,
Charles Edward Wilson, John I'. Faivre, Harry Sherman Griffith.
Erwin Ladislaf Chlottpek, Humphrey Scroggins Ren can, John
Milton Prnseus, August Henry Tiartcher, Clark Somerville i\uhrcy,
George Madison Gnldager, Otto Langpaap, David Franklin Reecl,
Jackson Arthur Morie, Wes Icy Dixon Smith, and Clarence Bertrand Roode.
Following is a comparative statement of work done in 1918
and 1919:
1919
1918
2
Number of Lodges organized .........................'...........
4
6,380
Nnmher of initiations reported._. ................................ 4,890
5,604
Numher passed to degree of Fellow Craft .............. 4,677
Number raised to degree of Master Mason ............ 4,551
Number affiliated ...... ~................................................... 930
N nm her reinstated ........................................................ 245
Numher withdrawn ...................................................... 725
Number suspended for non-payment of dues........ 609
Number suspended or expelled for cause..............
12
Numher of deaths reported........................................ 810
Numher of members July 31.. .................................. 63,986
Numher exempted from paying dues ........................ 3.(l90
N ct increase for the year.. .............................................l,593
Number of Lodges consolidated ....................................... .

5,248
957
238

776

550
21
1,218
(17,890
2,786
3,904
4

,,

GRAND LODGE OF 'CALIFORNIA

368

369

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

It will be noted above that Lodges remitted dues of 2786
members and the Home Maintenance and Building Fund were
thereby .re~uced $4179.00. Technically, Section 128, providing for
the rem1ss1?n of. dues to members in the service of the United
S~ates and its allies (Grand Lodge sharing in the Joss of revenue)
did not apply on the 31st of July of this year, and I respectfully
refer to Grand Lodge whether Lodges should be taxed for account of soldier members whose dues were remitted this year I .
recommend that the action of the Lodges be sustained in ~his
regard.
The Grand Master has approved resolutions providing for life
memberships as follows:
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, $150.00.
Southern California Lodge No. 278, $150.00.
West Gate Lodge No. 335, $150.00.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461, $200.00.
Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469, $150.00.
The following proposed amendments to t h e B' y-Laws have
been approved by the Grand Master:
Decreasing dues: Stanislaus No. 206, to $12.00; South Pasadena No. 367, to $9.00.
D eNcreas ing fees for the degrees: Presidio No. 354, to $50.00;
J ewe 1 o. 374, to $50.00; Torrance No. 447, to $50.00. (This is
merely a rearrangement of the table of fees.)
Increasing ~ues: Antioch No. 175, to $9.00; Claiborne No. 185,
to $12.00; Stanislaus No. 206, to $18.00 (subsequently reduced as
above); Surprise Valley No. 235, to $9.00; Hanford No. 279 to
$12.00; Madera No. 280, to $12.00; San Pedro No. 332, to $1Z.OO;
Turlock No. 395, to $12.00; Lindsay No. 416, tG $9.00; La Puente
No. 446, to $12.00.
Increasi~g fees for degrees: Occidental No. 22, to $100.00;
Sotoyome No. 123, to $75.00; Sincerity No. 132, to $50.00; Salinas
N_o. 204, to $50.00; Lompoc No. 262, to $50.00; S<'luth West No. 283, to
$~?·00; Madera_ No. 280, to $50.00; Paso Robles No. 286, to $50.00;
V\ mne~umah No. 287, to $50.00; San Pedro No. 332, to $75.00; Vete;an No. 373, to $50.00; La Puente No. 446,· to $40.00; Riverbank
No. 459, to $50.00; Presidio No. 354, to $75.00· Paul Revere No 462
to $75.00.
'
· ·
'

Changing time of stated meetings: Tuolumne No. 8, Howard
No. 96, Oro_ville. No. 103, Sotoyome No. 123, Meridian No. 182,
South San I• ranc1sco No. 212, Calistoga No. 233, Madera No. 280,
Paso Robles No. 286, Elsinore No. 289, Santa Monica No. 307,

Emmanuel No. 318, Artesia No. 377, Kerman No. 420, Hammonton
>Jo. 433, Lancaster No. 437, Bethlehem No. 453, Morgan Hill No.
463, Rockridge No. 468.
By order of the Grand Master, special dispensations have been
issued as follows:
To elect officers at a time other than that fixed by the Constitution: Temple No. 14, Palmyra No. 26, Gold Hill No. 32,
Hornitos No. 98, Hermann No. 127, Excelsior No. 166, Keith No.
187, Ferndale No. 193, Stanislaus No. 206, Oak Grove No. 215, San
Mateo No. 226, Covelo No. 231, Surprise Valley No. 235, Colusa
No. 240, Magnolia No. 242, Paso Robles No. 286, East Gate No.
290, Ashlar No. 306, Los Banos No. 312, Paeific Grove· No. 331,
Willits No. 365, Ocean Park No. 369, Francis Drake No. 376, Huntington Beach No. 380, B'rawley No. 402, Yerba Buena No. 403,
Carpinteria No. 444, Ramona No. 457, Maui No. 472.
To re ballot upon candidates rejected within twelve months:
La Parfaite Union No. 17, Sotoyome No. 123, Crockett No. 139 (2),
Keith No. 187 (2), Dorie No. 216, Speranza Italiana No. 219, Madera No. 280, Presidio No. 354, Richmond No. 375, West Lake
No. 392, Acacia No. 438, Argonaut No. 461, Paul Revere No. 462
(2), Rockridge No. 468.
To receive petitions from members of the army and navy who
did not have the required residential qualifications: San Diego
No. 35 (2), Humboldt No. 79, Silver Gate No. 296 (3), Monrovia
No. 308, Palo Alto No. 346, Richmond No. 375, Standard No. 440,
Blackmer No .. 442 (3), Bethlehem No. 453, Golden West No. 455.
To receive and act upon petitions without reference to committee: San Jose No. JO, Santa Rosa No. 57, Sincerity No. 132,
Phoenix No. 178, San Buenaventura No . .214, Parnassus No. 388,
Fraternity No. 399, \Vaucoba No. 413, Exeter No. 424, Golden
West No. 455, Paul Revere No. 462 (9).

Consolidation of Lodges.
We have lost from the registry four Lodges by consolidation.
Bodie Lodge No. 252 and Winnedumah Lodge No. 287 consolidated, effective December 20, 1918, to be known as Winnedumah
Lodge No. 287.
Granite Lodge No. 222 and Roseville Lodge No. 432 consolidated, effective May 29, 1919, to be known as Roseville Lodge

N'o. 222.

370

PHOCEEDJNGS OF THE

Eureka Lodge No. 16 and Rising Star Lodge No. 83 consolidated, effective September 2, 1919, to be known as Eureka Lodge
N~l~
.
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8 and George Washington Lodge No. 62
consolidated, effective September 14, 1919, to be known as Tuolumne Lodge No. 8. The total membership of George Washington Lodge was 28, and 19 members voted in favor of the consolidation-less than three-fourths. The whereabouts of the nine
members who did not join in the request for consolidation are not
known.

Dup\icate Charter Issued.
By reason of loss by a fire which occurred December 31 1918,
a duplicate charter was issued to Sotoyome Lodge No. 123. '
Bonds of Secretaries and Treasurers.
Pursuant to the resolution of Grand Lodge, I entered into
arrangements with Brother Jesse M. Whited, manager of the Lion
E'onding and Surety Company, to bond the Trustees, Treasurers
and Secretaries of such Lodges as desired to be thus insured
through the agency of Grand Lodge, in amounts to be fixed by the
several Masters, and 164 Lodges have taken advantage of this
proposition. Grand Lodge advanced the premium on all the bonds
taken, and all moneys thus advanced have been repaid, excepting
from nine Lodges.
The Grand Master ordered the issuance of a com1111ss10n to
Worshipful Brother Herbert L. Toney of McMinnville. Oregon,
as Representative of the Grand Lodge of California near the Grand
Lodge of Oregon.

Trial Records.
Transcripts of trial records have been received and delivered
to the Chairman of the Committee on Grievances. as follows:
No. 84-Expellcd by Live Oak Lodge No. 61, Man:;h 4, 1910.
Petition for restoration.
No. 148-Expelled by Ontario Lodge No. 301, December 5,
1913. Petition for restoration.
No. 81 Yi-Expelled by Sacramento Lodge No. 40, August 5,
"1910. Petition for restoration.
No. 245-Expelled by Speranza Italiana Lodge N' o. 219, October 3, 1918.
No. 247-Expelled by Ashlar Lodge No. 306, December 5, 1918.
No. 248-Suspended by Temescal Lodge No. 314, January 7,
1919.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

371

No. 249-S!lspended by Balder Lodge No, 393, February 7,
1919.
No. 250-E:-..pelled by Brooklyn Lodge No. 225, January 7, 1919.
No. 251-Expelled by Crescent Lodge No. 45, March 3, 1919.
No. 252-Expelled by Evergreen Lodge No. 259, November 1
1918.
No. 253-Expelled by Blackmer Lodge No. 442, April 7, 1919.
No. 254-Member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, tried by Mission
Lodge No. 169 and sentenced to reprimand April 2, 1919. Appealed by Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.
No. 255-Member of Coronado Lodge No. 441, tried by Blackmer Lodge No. 442 and expelled May 5, 1919.
No. 256-Suspended by East Gate Lodge No. 290, June 5,
1919.
No. 257-Member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21, tried by Mission Lodge No. 169 and expelled July 2, 1919. Appealed by accused.
No. 258-Expellcd hy Claiborne Lodge No. 185, July 12, 1919.
No. 259-Membcr of Crockett Lodge No. 139, tried by King
Solomon's Lodge No. 260 and sentenced to reprimand July 7, 1919.
Appealed in behalf of Crockett Lodge.
No. 260-Expellcd by Reading Lodge No. 254, July 17, 1919.
Appealed by accused.
No. 261-Expelled by Oxnard Lodge No. 341, September 10,
1919.
No, 262-Expellcd by Bakersfield Lodge No. 224, September
4, 1919.
No. 263-Suspended by Excelsior Lodge No. 166, September 3, 1919.
No. 264-Expellcd hy Moneta Lodge No. 405 in 1912. Petition for
,i'·
reotoration.

Unfinished Business.
At the last annual communication the following resolution was
adopted:
"Resolved, that it is the intention of this Grand Lodge, acting
on behalf of the whole craft of Masonry in the grand jurisdiction of
California, to erect, in this our Temple, as soon as may be after the
close of the war in which our nation is now engaged, a tablet in
hronze as a lasting testimonial of love and memory to those Masons
who have gone forth from the Lodges of this jurisdiction to fight
for justice among men and nations and to exalt the sacred cause of
democracy." (Proceedings 1918, page 95.)

372

PROCEEDINGS Ol~ '!'HE

373

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

In pursuance of the spirit of this resolution, the Grand Master
appointed Brother Will H. Fischer a committee to report thereon
at this communication.
I have endeavored to get a full list of all Brethren who lost
their lives in the service of their country since April 6, 1917, and a
full roster of such names will be presented this afternoon at a
special service to be held in memory of our Brethren who have paid
the supreme tribute to Country.
A resolution "that a special committee be appointed by the
Grand Master to formulate and present amendments to the existing
law that will provide some method by which each member of the
fraternity shall be required to contribute one dollar a year to the
Masonic Homes Endowment Fund." (Proceedjngs 1917, page 523;
Proceedings 1918, page 187.)

Courtesy Work.
conditions, many degrees have_ be_en
Largely because of ':ar ·a Lodges, the number (by jurisd1cconferred by and for Cah~~;~1 to September 1, 1919, being as foltions) from September 1,
•
lows:
By
For
California
California
Lodges

Lcl,
6

List of Large Lodges.

2

;: ~;\-il\i ;l:I:;· ·~: ;: :·: ~

13

·······--·········· .. ··············· District of Columbia ............................ 3

The Lodges of the jurisdiction having five hundred or
members are as follows:

1915
Hollenbeck No. 319.................. 727
Mission No. 169........................ 908
Live Oak No. 61........................ 719
East Gate No. 290.................... 656
South Gate No. 320.................. 729
Pacific No. 136............................ 669
West Lake No. 392.................. 557
Oakland No. 188........................ 558
Sequoia No. 349........................ 499
So. California No. 278.............. 682
King Solomon's No. 260.......... 511
Occidental No. 22...................... 548
California No. 1........................ 573
Golden State No. 358................ 445
Golden Gate No. 30.................. 538
Los Angeles No. 42.................. 490
Fidelity No. 120........................ 546
Pentalpha No. 202.................... 506
Crockett No. 139........................ 432
Doric No. 216............................ 476
Silver Gate No. 296.................. 405
Totals ..................................12,165

1916
810
902
738
706
742
675
579
572
543
680
513
581
583
480
548
517
561
499
442
503
4z.J

12,598

1917
882
896
748

725
719
. 670
616
594
581
668
568
643

581
515
560
533
568
506

1918
967
900

789

833

784

729

700

710

667

703

641

698

620

678
666
635
632
619
605
592
588

595
638
601
562
563
547
572
510

585

504
443

506
466

529
522
521
510

12,993

13,505

14,075

473

507

-------····-·------·-·----·.

903

764
714

676

.. M•O••••••-•oH•o•M•• ••••M•M•MM

1919
1033

'! :::·.:·····. ~~~~.'::! : ::: : : : ::
Massachusetts .......................... ·

17
. Michigan ......................................
1:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.
·............................................. .12
5
.................................. Miss1ss11'.'.~:.... :::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: 3

Min~es?ta.

~ ~~~!~~ :·: :: : : ;: fl

1•::-J:::·::: .-:: _:. f

..
North Carolina ............................... ..
;:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::: New Hampshire ........................::::::::::
North Dakota ..............................

~

:~·- - - ~·-.:· =~: ~f!~;::~~;: . ::: ;: · :· .~

7

2.................................... Rhode Island ........................................ 3
................... u

........................ .

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS 01'' THE

374

1.................................... South Carolina ...................................... 7
.................................... South Dakota ........................................ 4
43.................................... Texas ...................................................... S6
3.................................... Tennessee .............................................. 8
S.................................... Utah ......................................................... 7
! .................................... Vermont --····--······························------······
49.................................... Virginia .................................................. 1
68.................................... Washington ........................................ 117
1.................................... West Virginia ....................................... .
2.................................... \Visconsin .............................................. lS
.................................... Wyoming ············-···········-·-·-····-············-- 1
539

714

Constitution and Ceremonies.
Immediately after the close of Grand Lodge in 1918, I caused to
be printed six thousand copies of the Constitution and Ccrcm'onies,
at a cost of 39.6 cents each. The postage on a single book is S cents.
It was sold to Lodges and Brethren for SO cents a copy, postage
prepaid. In July of this year the entire edition was sold, and an
edition of fifteen hundred copies was printed, at a cost of S2 cents
each-being the actual cost to the printer. This lot has now been
sold, at the old price of SO cents a copy. I find that because of the
increase of wages, paper and cloth it will he impossible to secure
another edition of the book for less than SS cents a copy, ancl if
many changes arc made in the Constitution, that price may be increased slightly. I therefore ask that Grand Lodge intimate the
price to be charged for the hook to be printed this fall, and recommend that it be fixed at SO cents, Grand Lodge absorbing the loss.

Suspensions for Non-Payment of Dues.
Every year the suspensions for non-payment of dues indicate
that we arc probably unnecessarily losing members. It will not he
seriously disputed that one who has been suspended will feel hurt
and refuse or neglect to take further active interest in Masonry.
Some of our best Lodges-Lodges whose members maintain the
keenest pride in keeping their fellows enthused with the notion that
theirs is just a little the best Lodge in the jurisdiction-have small
losses for non-payment of dues. This spirit should pertain in all
onr Lodges. And I therefore again urge upon Masters to provide
committees whose particular duties will he to personally interview
det!nc1uent members and ascertain in a friendly way the cause of
the delinquency. If the committee reports that the delinquent member has met with misfortune which his pride will not permit him to
report to his Lodge, that fact should he reported and the Brother's
ciaes remitted and a receipt for dues sent to him without the asking.

37S

If the committee finds that a member is spending too much money
for non-essentials, the Brother should be kindly admonished-and
experience has proved that this sort of endeavor ~ill result in fewer
suspensions and a better spirit of Lodge fellowsh1p.

Past Grand Masters and Elective Officers Dying in 1918-19.
Alabama-George Alhurtus Joiner, Past Grand Secretary, December 8, 1918.
Canada-Ralph Leeming Gunn, Grand Secretary, October, 1918.
Connecticut-Randolph R. Chapman, Grand Master 1911, July
13, 1919.
Florida-James W. Boyd, Grand Master 189S, May 29, 1919.
Idaho-John Kennaly, Grand Master 1872, December 13, 1918.
William Carroll Whitwell, Grand Master 1907, December 29, 1918.
Andrew Lounsbury, Grand Master 1918, June 16, 1919. Joshua M.
Cowen, Grand Master 1903, August 6, 1919.
Illinois-Austin JI. Scrogin, Grand Master 1918, April 26, 1919.
Monroe C. Crawford, Grand Master 1893, March 9, 1919.
Indiana-Lincoln V. Cravens, Grand Master 1906, August 4,
1919.
Iowa-John W. Barry, Grand Master 1917, Dccemlier 1, 19lfi.
Philo J. Martin, Grand Master 1908, February 15, 1919.
Maine-Stephen Berry, Grand Secretary 1891-1917, and for
more than sixty years prominent in Masonic work, died February
1, 1919.
Minnesota-Alonzo Brandenhnrg, Grand Master 1900, June 22,
1919.
Montana-Alcxancler D. Macdonald, Grand Master 1906, April
S, 1919.
Nebraska-Thomas Milburn Davis, Grand Master 191S, August
11, 1919.
Nevada-Mathew Kyle, Grand Master 189R, June 17, 1919. James
Garfield Gault Grand Sword Bearer, Novcmher 20, 1918. Adolph
f.icohs, Grand' Tiler, December 23, 1918. Alfred War:e~1 llotm.es,
Grand Master 1916, March 13, 1919. George vVarrcn Keith, Junwr
Grand Warden 1888, May S, 1919.
N cw York-Frank R. Lawrence, Senior Past Grand Master,
October 26, 1918. Theodore Roosevelt, a member of Matinecock
Lodge No. 806, January 6, 1919.
North Carolina-Sanmel IL Smith, Grand Master 1889, October
27, 1918. Hezekiah A. Gudger, Grand Master 1891, September 22,
1917. John Nichols, Grand Master 1872, September 28, 1917. Charles

376

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

377

H. Robinson, Grand Master 1887, November 6, 1917. Francis M.
Winchester, Grand Master 1913, November 11, 1918. Leo D. Heartt,
Grand Treasurer 1905-1917, December 13, 1917. Robert Henry
Bradley, Grand Tiler 1886-1918, May 17, 1918.

During the year ending July 31, 1919, I have drawn warrants
against the Grand Treasurer as follows:

North Dakota-Sylvester J. Hill, Grand Master 1908; March 1,
1919.
Nova Scotia.:_Thomas Barnard Flint, Grand Master 1897-99,
April 7, 1919.
Ohio-Ralph Reamer Rickly, Grand .Treasurer 1894-1919, January 16, 1919.
Oregon-Thomas McClelland E'aldwin, Grand Master 1911,
January 14, 1919.
Pennsylvania-William B. Hackcnburg, Grand Treasurer 19071918, June 27, 1918.
South Carolina-Benjamin E. Nicholson, Junior Grand Warden,
January 13, 1919. Walter M. Whitehead, Grand Master 1901, Apdl
10, 1919.
South Dakota-Frederick Alexander Fowler, Grand Tiler 191019.19, January 25, 1919.
Tennessee-Thomas J. llrandon, Grand Master, February 21,
1919.
Utah-Arvis Scott Chapman, Grand Master 1894, May 12, 1919.
Washington-Robert Lee Sebastian, Grand Master 1915, .December 14, 1918.
West Virginia-Thomas Perry Jacobs, Grand Master 1913, October 30, 1918.
Wyoming-Edmund John Wells, Past Grancl Senior Warden,
April 8, 1919.

300.00
250.00
175.00
70.00
150.00
25.00
15.00

Emergency Relief Fund.
H;appily there have been no calls upon our Emergency Relief
Fund. At the time of the disastrous floods in the Galveston section of Texas the Grand Master authorizecl nic to wire the Grand
Master of Texas a proffer of relief in such stun as might he necessary. Our Texas brethren repliecl that they were able to care for
all of the suffering poor of their jurisdiction. The condition of
this fund is now as follows:
Dalanee on hand per report of 1918.................. $
Liberty Boncls, 3Y,% ............................................. .
December 15, 1918, interest on bonds ................. .
December 31, 1918, interest bank deposit.. ....... .
June 15, 1919, interest on bonds ........................... .
June 30, 1919, interest bank deposit ................... .
Total in fund, counting bonds at par ............... .

4,231.29
4,000.00 $ 8,231.29 ,
70.00
84.62
70.00
87.70
$ 8,543.61

Warrant
No.
1. John Whicher, salary, August, 1918 ..................................$
2. T. J. Eaker, salary, August, 1918....................................... .
3. H. S. Johnson, salary, August, 1918................................. .
4. M. Van lluskirk, salary, August, 1918............................. .
5. Masonic Temple Association, rent, September, 1918..
6. Clark H. Shaw, for Brother H .......................................... .
7. A. T. lliddle, for Mrs. F .................................................... .
8. Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues, $30.00; 200 circulars, $4.75 ..........................................., ............................... .
9. Ya wman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ................
10. Shannon-Conmy Co., 500 small 2c envelopes, $13.00;
425 notices of rejection, $27.50; 500 small 3c en
velopcs, $18.00; 2 receipt books, $16.50; 1000 small
3c envelopes, $35.00; 500 small 2c envelopes, $13.00
11. Blake, Moffitt & Towne, 12,000 cards ............ ,.............. ..
12. F. W. Wentworth, 5000 cards .......................................... .
13. Filmer Brothers, 1000 copies Masonic Parliamentary
Law ..................................................................................... .
14. Rabjohn & Morcom, frame Keesling's portrait ........... .
15. Neal Publishing Co., 1200 cards (Credential Committee) ............................................................................... .
16. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent, July, 1918................................. .
17. T. J. Baker, expenses to August 30, 1918....................... .
· 18. Gabriel - Meyerfeld Co., printing signatures on
diplomas ........................................................................... .
19. John Whicher, postage stamps, $36.45; mimeographing, $3.00; telegram, $1.05; rubber stamps, 60c;
typewriter ribbons, $2.00 ............................................... .
20. Alhambra Water Depot, 25 gallons water ....... , ............. .
21. John Which er, salary, September, 1918........................... .
22. T. J. l3aker, salary, September, 1918.............................. ..
23. H. S. Johnson, salary, September, 1918........................... .
24. M. Van fl'uskirk, salary, September, 1918. ............. ,........ .
25. J. D. Murphey, Chairman Committee on Correspondence ........................................................................... .
26. Masonic Temple Association, rent, October, 1918....... .
27. Clark H. Shaw, for Brother H ......................................... ..
28. A. T. Biddle, for Mrs. F ...................................................... .
29. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent to August 20, 1918................. .
30. T. J. Baker, expenses to September 24, 1918............... .

34.75
3.80

123.00
17.52
23.00
87.15
35.00
15.00
9.10
129.84
1.25

40.10
2.50
300.00
250.00
175.00
70.00
200.00
150.00
25.00
20.00
8.55
57.45

378
31.
32.
33.
34.
3S.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
4S.
46.
47.
48.
49.

so.

Sl.
S2.
S3.
S4.
SS.
S6.
S7.
S8.
S9.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

John \-Vhicher, expressage, $2.11; stamped envelopes,
$6.72; water, $.SO; cable to Honolulu, $2.0S ............. .
11.38
26.SO
Phillips & Van Orden, 2000 programs Grand Lodge
Yawman & Erbe Co., tray and guides ........................... .
1.40
Walter N. Brunt, 1000 mileage tags, $4.7S; receipts,
10.2S
$S.SO ······················································································
H. S. Crocker, changes on addressograph ..................... .
.67
. 2.71
American Railway Express, sundry shipments ........... .
John H. McGehee, pay of members .............................._.. 8,2S2.4S
El Centro Lodge No. 384, reimbursement account of
I. H. T ................................................................................ .
2S2.20
Arroyo Lodge No. 274, reimbursement account of
back dues ........................................................................... .
2.40
San Mateo Lodge No. 226, reimbursement account of
J. J. R .............. :....................................................................
90.30
Los Gatos Lodge No. 292, reimbursement account of
139.20
I. K. McE. ················································-~---·····················
Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76, reimbursement account of back dues ........................................................... .
7.20
Bradford Webster, contingent expenses Grand
Master ............................................................................... . 1,200.00
Board of Relief San Francisco, appropriation ........... . 4,S8S.24
Board of Relief Los Angeles, appropriation ............... . S,042.64
498.0Q
E'oard of Relief Oakland, appropriation ....................... .
Board of Relief Sacramento, appropriation ................. .
404.19.
Board of Relief San Diego, appropriation ................... . 1,324.00
Board of Relief Honolulu, appropriation ..................... .
100.00
S. D. Mayer, salary as Grand Organist.. ......................... .
100.00
Geo. P. Adams, salary and sundries ............................... .
128.00
Masonic Homes, appropriation ......................................... . 13,030.72
El Centro Lodge No. 384, purchase of Liberty Bonds
800.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent of hall, annual
communication ..................................................................
1S0.00
William P. Filmer, Liberty Loan Bonds ........................ 3S,OOO.OO
Masonic Homes, survey of children at Covina ............. .
lS0.00
John Whicher, salary, October, 1918 ............................... .
3SO.OO
T. J. Baker, salary, October, 1918............. :....................... .
2SO.OO
H. S. Johnson, salary, October, 1918............................... .
200.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary, October, 1918........................... .
70.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, November, 1918... .
lS0.00
Payot, Stratford & Kerr, one record book ..................... .
4.6S
Walter N. b'runt, receipts for dues, $46.2S; service
flag, $88.SO; second sheets, $3.SO ................................... .
138.2S
T. J. Baker, expenses to October 22, 1918..................... .
28.08

6S.
66.
67.

68.
69.
70.
71.
72.
73.
74.
7S.
76.
77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
8S.
86.
87.
88.
89.
90.
91.
92.
93.
94.
9S.
96.
97.
98.

Mary Tower, washing 606 aprons and 30 pairs of
gloves ................................................................................. .
M. M. Barkley, mimeographing ....................................... .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1000 small 2c envelopes, $26.00;
1000 envelopes, $12.7S; 1000 large 3c envelopes,
$37.00; 47S lists of rejections, $26.00; 3000 ballots,
$2.00 ······················································································
A. L. Auradou, engrossing 4 charters ............................. .
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to machine
Doris Barton, stenographer to committees ................... .
A. Meese, SOO 3c envelopes, $20.00; 1000 letter heads,
$10.SO ····················································································
S. D. Mayer, services of A. L. Larsen, opening Grand
Lodge ................................................................................. .
Leo Bruck, piano rental and services of four musicians ................................................................................. .
Isaac Upham Co., ink, pens, twine, rubber bands, etc.
H. S. Crocker Co., changes on addressograph ............. .
Star Towel Supply Co., rent to October 1, 1918........... .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent to September 20, 1918........... .
H. T. Wright, assistant to Grand Tyler ......................... .
John Whicher, expressage, $4.17; telegrams, $6.S2;
postage stamps, $3S.61; taxi, $1.SO ............................... .
Alameda Lodge No. 167, account of Mrs. F ................ .
John Whicher, salary, November, 1918........................... .
T. J. Baker, salary, November, 1918................................. .
H. S. Johnson, salary, November, 1918........................... .
M. Van b'uskirk, salary, November, 1918....................... .
Masonic Temple Association, rent, December, 1918.... ,
Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues ................................... .
Alameda Lodge No. 167, account of Mrs. F .................. .
Alhambra Water Depot, water ......................................... .
Nathan Dohrmann Co., clock for W. R. Hervey ......... .
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent to October 20, 1918 ................. .
T. J. Baker, expenses to November 2S, 1918................. .
Phillips & Van Orden Co., 2000 post cards .............. :.... .
N ea! Publishing Co., SOO circulars and 2000 amendment slips ........................................................................... .
A. Meese, 1000 letterheads and SOO 3c envelopes ....... .
Savings Union & Trust Co., rent safe deposit box ..... .
Frank G. Watson, tiling schools of instruction ........... .
Yawman & Erbe Co., card cases and guides ................. .
Lion Bonding & Surety Co., Bonds Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer ....................................................... .

379
31.80
7.SO

103.7S
4.00
4.14
12.00
30.SO
S.00
2S.OO
lS.90
.29
2.2S
8.93
lS.00
47.80
20.00
3S0.00
2SO.OO
200.00
70.00
lS0.00
26.2S
20.00
3.00
267.00
14.19
63.3S
9.00
21.7S
48.00
6.00
6.00
l.8S .
62.SO

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

380
99.

100.

101.
102.
103.
104.
105.
106.
107.
108.
109.
llO.
111.
112.
113.
114.
115.
116.
117.
118.
119.
12(1
121.
122.
123.
124.
125.
126.
127.
128.
129.

Ga.briel-Meyerfeld Co., 500 letter circulars, $7.25;.
2000 soldier diplomas, $35.25; 3000 inspector's cer(3.75
tificates, $22.25; overprinting 6000 blanks, $9.00 ....... .
Shannon-Conmy Co., 500 blanks, $7.00; 500 clasp envelopes, $9.60; 1000 2c envelopes, $26.00; 2000 summary of proceedings, $147.50; 800 copies report on
French Masonry, $30.00; 600 copies report of
mental and physical condition children Covina,
$6.50; 1000 Monitors, $200.00; 500 large 3c envelopes, $18.50; 7000 folders to soldiers, $49.00; 425
511.60
copies lists of rejections, $17.50 ................................... .
John Whicher, telegram, $1.55; cxpressage, $1.05;
14.72
postage stamps, $12.12 .................................................. ..
American Railway Express ............................................... .
1.10
350.00
John Whicher, salary, December, 1918........................... .
25().00
T. J. Baker, salary, December, 1918..................................
200.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, December, 1918........................... .
70.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary, December, 1918....................... .
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, Jannary, 1919....... .
Alameda Lodge No. 167, appropriation account of
20.00
Mrs. F ................................................................................ .
62.50
\Vatter N. Brunt, receipts for dues ................................... .
John Whicher, postage stamps, $134.49; inspection of
136.99
typewriters, $1.50; Alhambra water, $1.00............... .
1.98.
American Railway Express .............................................. ..
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.. ..................................................... .
8.6$
J. Baker, expenses to December 29, 1918................ ..
86.49
2.25
Star Towel Supply Co., rent to January 1, 1919............
Gabriel-Meyerfcld Co., 500 letter circulars ..................
8.50
N cal Publishing Co., 500 Inspector's commissions ..... .
13.25
Shannon-Conmy Co., 1300 copies proceedings ............. . 1,180.50
Yawman & Erbe Co., card case and guides ....................
2.60
350.00
John Whicher, salary, January, 1919 .............................. ..
250.00
T. J. Haker, salary, January, 1919.................................. ..
200.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, January, 1919.............................. ..
70.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary, January, 1919............................
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, Fehruary, 1919......
John Whicher, postage stamps, $15.96; telegrams,
$2.70; expressage, $2.98; 2 cases repaired, $1.25 ....... .
22.89
T. J. Baker, expenses to January 23, 1919...................... ..
43.90
110.00
I. Upham Co., 500 receipt holders .................................. ..
Payot, Stratford & Kerr, twine and record book ........
6.40
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ........................................................
8.37
Kley11 & Foulds, ·inspecting typewriters ......................... .
1.50

+.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

381

6.50
130. Gabriel-Meyerfeld Co., 500 letter circulars .................. ..
6.20
L31. Yawman & Erbe Co., trays and guides ........................... .
1.62
132. H. S. Crocker Co., changes on addressograph ..............
47.50
133. W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues ..........................................
5.00
134. J. A. Hill, account of W. S. Wells funeral... ...................
25.00
135. S. D. Mayer, choir Wells funeral... ...................................
l 36. American Letter Co., printing account Endowment
22.74
Fund ................................................................................... .
20.00
137. W. I. Macdonald, floral piece Wells funeral... .............. .
16.00
138. Albert Brown Co., 2 limousines Wells funeral... ......... ..
350.00
139. John Whicher, salary, February, 1919............................. .
250.00
140. T. J. Baker, salary, February, 1919 ....................................
200.00
141. H. S. Johnson, salary, February, 1919.............................. .
70.00
142. M. Van Buskirk, salary, February, 1919......................... .
150.00
143. Masonic Temple Association, rent, March, 1919........ ..
144. John Whicher, postage and revenue stamps, $40.00;
47.76
cxprcssage, $7.11; telegram, $.65 ..................................
I.SO
145. Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ....................... .
75.50
146. Gabriel & Meyerfeld, 15,000 blanks ................................. .
40.75
147. W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues ......................................... .
4.30
148. Yawman & Erbe Co.,. trays and guides .......................... ..
9.45
149. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.. ................................................... .
150. N cal Publishing Co., 6000 Constitutions ........................ .. 2,376.00
2.25
151. Payot, Stratford & Ketr, sundry supplies for office ... .
120.98
152. T. J. Baker, expenses to February 20, 1919.................. ..
153. Shannon-Conmy Co., 700 copies roster of officers,
$336.00; 500 clasp envelopes, $6.75; 500 dispensation hlanks, $9.25; 2000 address labels, $4.50; binding 4 proccctli11gs in cloth, $6.25; 500 large 3c envelopes, $18.50; 500 small 3c envelopes, $18.00; 500
small 2c envelopes, $13.00; 425 lists of rejections,
436.75
$20.00.; 300 hill heads, $4.50 ........................................... .
350.00
154. John Whichcr, salary, March, 1919................................. .
250.00
155. T. J. hakcr, salary, March, 1919 ...................................... ..
200.00
156. 11. S. Johnson, salary, March, 1919................................ ..
150.00
157. Masonic Temple Association, rent, April, 1919............ ..
66.75
158. Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues ..................................
4.30
159. Yawm;m & Er.be .Co., trays and guides ........................... .
I.SO
160. Alhambra Water Depot, water ........................................ ..
2.25
J61. Star Towel Supply Co., re.nt to April 1, 1919................
3.65
162. Payot, Stratford & Kerr, paper & twine ....................... .
I.SO
163. Klcyn & Fonlds, inspecting typewriters ....................... .
164. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent ..................................................... .
9.i.1
1.35
165. S. F. Chronicle, advertising Wells funeral... ................ .
9.77
166. John Whicher, postage stamps, $9.32; telegram,$ .45

382
167.
168.
169.
170.
171.
172.
173.
174.
175.
176.

177.
178.
179.
180.
181.
182.
183.
184.
185.
186.
187.
188.
189.
190.

191.
192.

193.
194.
195.
196.
197.
198.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

N ea! Publishing Co., 6 books roll call... ........................ .
13.50
The Neuner Co., half tones Covina and Decoto,
endowment fund .................................................... .
17.91
Ruckstell & Land, installing system of reports for
Gr. Treas ........................................................................ .
135.00
H. S. Crocker, changes on addressograph ................... .
1.18
T. J. Baker, expenses to March 27, 1919 ....................... .
97.22
A. R. Eastman, mailing circulars, endowme11t fund
100.46
L. A. Trust & Savings Bank, envelopes and
postage, endowment fund ....................................... .
41.29
W. P. Jeffries Co., printing, endowment fund ............. .
171.25
American Letter Co., typewritten letters, endowment
fund ............................................................................... .
19;2<>
Times-Mirror Printing House, 65,000 circulars, endowment fund ............................................................... .
453.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary, March, 1919............................. .
70.00
350.00
John Whicher, salary, April, 1919................................... .
250.00
T. J. Baker, salary, April, 1919......................................... .
200.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, April, 1919 ................................... .
.75.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary, April, 1919 ............................... .
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent, May, 1919........... .
Durant Lodge No. 268, account of Mrs. C .................. .
43.75
27.25
Walter N. n'runt, receipts for dues ................................. .
Burroughs Adding Machine Co., attention to
machine ......................................................................... .
5.20
44.00
Gabriel-Meyerfeld Co., 10,00.0 blanks ..............................
80.00
Schmidt Lithograph Co., 200 Diplomas ..................... .
1.50
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriter ......................... .
Yaw man & Erbe Co., tray and guides ........................... .
1.10
John Whicher, postage stamps, $5.51; expressage,
$18.72; telegram, $1.30; adding machine paper,
26.55
$1.02 ··················································································
American Letter Co., 850 typewritten letters, endowment fund ............................................................. .
9.92
Shannon Conmy Co., 500 large 3c envelopes, $18.50;
425 copies list of rejections, $20.00; 1000 small
2c envelopes, $26.00; 100 sheets wrapping paper,
66.00
$1.50 ······················································································
Mercantile Trust Co., rent safe deposit box ............... .
66.00
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent.. ................................................. .
8.00
T. J. Baker, expenses to April 26, 1919......................... .
52.25
Palace Hotel, dinner to Philippine Grand Officers ... .
34.30
John Whicher, expenses account Peace Jubilee
England ......................................................................... . 1,000.00
John Whicher, salary, May, 1919 ..................................... .
350.00

199.
200.
201.
202.
203.
204.
205.
206.
207.
208.
209.
210.
211.
212.
213.
214.
215.
216.
217.
218.
219.
220.
221.
222.
223.
224.
225.
226.
227.
228.
229.
230.
231.
232.
233.
234.

383

250.00
T. J. Baker, salary, May, 1919.............................................
200.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, May, 1919..................................... .
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent June, 1919............. .
75.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary, May, 1919 ............................... .
8.20
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent to April 20, 1919................... .
Pantagraph Printing Co., 400 Lists of Regular
Lodges ....................................................................... .
147.96
John Whicher, expressage, $13.87; telegrams, $2.00;
57.79
postage stamps, $41.92 ............................................... .
10.75
N ea! Publishing Co., 1000 sacred rolls ........................... .
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ....................... .
1.50
450.00
Shreve & Co., Peace Jubilee Trowel... .......................... .
Walter N. Brunt, receipts for dues, $58.00; endow72.00
ment fund receipts, $14.00 ....................................... .
San Buenaventura Lodge No. 214, reimbursement
234.60
a/c R. H. S .................................................................. .
25.00
Durant Lodge No. 268, account Mrs. M. C. ................
44.45
John Whicher, balance Pay Roll... .................................. .
130.47
T. J. Baker, expenses to May 29, 1919....................... .
M. H. Flint, telegrams and postage a/c endowment
65.80
fund ............................................................................. .
W. P. Jeffries Co., 2000 circulars a/c endowment
14.00
fund ............................................................................ .
12.50
E. & M. Teahon, circulars a/c endowment fund ....... .
American Letter Co., typewritten letters a/c endow10.79
ment fund ....................................................................... .
43.48
Western Union Tel. Co., account endowment fund ... .
100.00
ffradford Webster, expenses as Grand Master ........... .
350.00
John Whicher, salary June, 1919 ........................... :......... .
250.00
T. J. Baker, salary, June, 1919......................................... .
200.00
H. S. Johnson, salary, June, 1919................................... .
75.00
M. Van Buskirk, salary June, 1919 .................................. .
150.00
Masonic Temple Association, rent July, 1919............. .
8.43
Pacific T. & T. Co., rent to May 20, 1919..................... .
1.80
Payot, Stratford "& Kerr, 1 cone twine.: ....................... .
2.80
Yawman & Erbe Co., 1 tray and guides ........ ~.............. .
1.50
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters ....................... .
5.2j
George R. Armstrong, 100 mailing tubes ..................... .
Shannon & Conmy Co., 500 small 3c envelopes,
42.00
$18.00; 425 lists rejections, $24.00 ............................. .
87()
Gabriel Moulin, photos of trowel... ................................ .
19.00
W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues ....................................... .
55.00
Gabriel-Meyerfeld Co., 11,000 blanks ............................. .
John Whicher, postage stamps, $8.53; expressage,
23.44
$8.76; telegrams, $6.15 ............................................... .

·1 .~ !
.)•'

,

.. ~

(,

I":

I}

--'3SU
. :r: '.

384

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

T. J.. Baker, expenses to June 26, 1919........................... .
Durant Lodge No. 236, account of Mrs.· C. ................. .
M. Prosser, stenographic work a/c endowment fund
John Whicher, salary, July, 1919 ..................................... .
T. J. Baker, salary, July, 1919 ......................................... .
H. J. Johnson, salary, July, 1919 ..................................... .
M. Van Buskirk, salary, July, 1919 ............................... .
Wm. P. Filmer, salary for year ending July 31, 1919
Masonic Temple Association, rent August, 1919....... .
Kleyn & Foulds, inspecting typewriters, $1.50; 2
boxes carbon paper, $7.00; box bond paper, $3.00
245. Shannon-Conmy, 400 envelopes, $5.75; 500 bill
heads, $5.50; 500 large 2c envelopes, $13.50; 400
envelopes, $6.25; 200 sheets wrapp.ing paper,
$4.25; 2000 address labels, $4.50; 825 ·annual return blanks, $112.00; 1000 small 2c envelopes, $26.00; 425 copies list of rejections
$26.50 ...............................................................................:
246. W. N. Brunt, receipts for dues ......................................... .
247. Ruekstell & Land, accounting Grand Treasurer's
books 5 months ................................................ .
248. A. Meese, 3000 letter heads, $40.00; 1 check -b~~·k:
$18.00 ...................................................................... :... .
249. Pacific T. & T. Co., rent to June 20, 1919...................:::
250. T. J. :b'aker, expenses to July 24, 1919........................... .
251. John Whicher, postage stamps, $32.00; expressage,
$6.84; ink well, $1.50 ................................................. .
252. Lion Bonding & Surety Co., premium on schedule
bonds ·············-···-------------·························-········
253. Star Towel Supply Co., rent to July I, 1919..::::::::::::::
254. M. H. Flint, circular letters, envelopes, postage account endowment fund ................................................. .
235.
236.
237.
238.
239.
240.
241.
242.
243.
244.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

122.73
18.50
35.00
350.00
250.00
200.00
75.00
200.00
150:00
11.50

Receipts for Dues ......................................................................... .
Receipt Holders ........................................................................... .
Proceedings ................................................................................... .
Card Cases and Guides ............................................................... .
List of Regular Lodges ............................................................... .
Bound Volumes ........................................................................... .
Ftmeral Services ......................................................................... .
Blanks ............................................................................................. .
Diplomas (large) ......................................................................... .
Diplomas (small) ......................................................................... .
Service Diplomas ......................................................................... .

385
436.00
58.50
3.00
35.05
I.SO
2.50
26.00
288.99
202.00
138.25
269.25

Total Receipts General Fund ...................................................... $ 74,916.84
Total Receipts Home Maintenance Fund................................ 60,296.00
Total Receipts Home Building Fund........................................ 30,148.00
204.25
14.50
50.QO
58.0D
10.03
53.27
40.34 I
662.97
2.25
48.30

Total... .....................................$96,614.87
The Grand Secretary in account with the Grand Lodge of California for the fiscal year ending July 31, 1919:
Dues from Subordinate Lodges ........................................................ $ 68,227.05
Charter· Fees ..........................................................................................
200.00
Dispensation to Form Lodges..............................................................
225.00
Special Dispensations for Various Purposes..................................
900.00
Premium Collected on Bonds of Secretaries and Treasurers....
537.50
Sales for the Year:
Monitors
245.75
Constitutions
3,1~0.50

Amounting in the Aggregate to ........................................$165,360.84
All of which has heen paid to the Grand Treasurer, as per receipts
on file in this office, and as should be shown by his report.
Interest on boncls and deposits has been collected hy the Grancl
Treasurer as follows:
Interest on Deposit with Ilanks ........................................ $611.41
Seven Blue Lake Water Co. Bonds ................................ 420.00
Six Sonthern Pacific 4% Refunding Tlonds .................. 240.00
Nine California Gas & Electric 5% Bonds .................... 450.00
Eight Pacific Tel. & Tel. 5% bonds ................................ 400.00
Two Los Ange!es Gas & Electric 5% Bonds ................ 100.00
Eleven U. S. Gov't Liberty Loan non els (2nd) ............ 440.00
Thirty-five U. S. Gov't Liberty Loan Bonds (4th) .... 707.00
Eight U. S. Gov't Liberty Loan Bon<ls (3rrl) ............ 23,96
$ 3,392.37
Total receipts from all sources for the year ending July
31, 1919 .................................................................................... $168,753.21
Rl\CAPITULATTON-GF.NF.RAL JIUND

Balance with Grand Treasurer, July ·31, 1918................................ $ 24,569.74
Receipts hy Grand Secretary.............................................................. 74,916.84
Interest on Bonds and Deposits........................................................ 3,392.37
Total ................................................................................................$102,878.95
Less Warrants Nos. 1 to 254.............................................................. 96,614.87
Balance with Grand Treasurer July 31, 1919..........................$ 6,264.08

'1
1

3

386

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

For the period August l, 1919, to October 2, 1919, inclusive, l have
collected and paid to the Grand Treasurer the sum of $173,095.15 se regated as follows:
' g
Home Maintenance Fund

..................................................................p

65,024.()()

Home Building Fund .... :..................................................................... 32,512.00
General Fund
66,007.60
Representative ..F~~·d··········••••••••,••o•••••••oo••••oWHoOOo•o•••••••••U•ooo••••••••o•••Oooooooooo~...
9,581.5,5

......................................................... ·········

A Total of........................................................................................$173,095."ts
The annual r~turns of Mokelumne Hill Lodge No. 298 and Loyalton
Lodge No. 359 hnve not been received, and the Grand Lodge dues of
Los Banos Lodge No. 312 have not been pnid.
JOHN WHICifF.R,

Grand Secretary.

Referred to same committee as that to which had been
referreC: the address of the Grand :\faster.
The Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 :30 o'clock
this afternoon.

Jn "rnnh Jljnhgr
Afternoon Session.
Tuesday, October 14, 1919.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.

L/
387 !

Addresses were delivered by Brothers Thomas Ingram, G
Inspector; Frank M. Angellotti, Past Grand ::\faster; \Vil- ,.,
liam D. Stephens, Governor of California, and by Rev. Dr. f
Jacob Nieto, Past Grand Orator. The entire program was Q
as follows:
·

lo

Organ voluntary, R. Fletcher Tilton, Grand Organist.

/I

ItInvocation, Edgnr F. Gee, Granll Chaplain:
Almighty God! With humble grntitude we are assemblccl to render
honor to our brethren, who at tlie call of their country went forth to
battle for those principles which are the very foundation of our Order.
They counted not their lives clear unto them, but were ready to
make the supreme sncrifice in a righteous cause. We praise Thy Holy
Name that so many have returned to us, safely guhlcd through the
many dangers bravely endured. \Ve give Thee hearty thanks for the
good examples of all those who, having finished their course in faith,
now rest from their lahors. May their sacrifice not have been in vain,
hut may the day soon dawn when injustice among the peoples he done
away, when the shackles of oppression shall he hrokcn, and that glorious
liberty-religious and political-which we enjoy, shall hclong to all the
nations; when justice am\ toleration shall prevail throughout the world.
May that time soon arrive when wnr shall he no more and enduring
peace shnll he cstahlished.
We woul<I also remember those hrethrcn who from the several
Lodges of this jurisdiction have entered into their rest. Crant to us
who arc still in onr pilgrimage that we may so follow their gond
exnmplcs that when we shnll he called hence we mny with them hear the
"Well done, good and faithful st'rvant."
Comfort the hearts of the hcrcaved am\ sorrowing. Raise up
friends for the desolate and lonely, an<l grant that we may a1\ strive to
fttliill Thy will here on earth even as it is in henven. Amen.

~fi°G.~f

Eulogy-Inspectors Clough nm! Morrell-Thomas Ingram:

MEMORIAL SERVICES
A_ very ~olernn service in memory of our dead-Inspectors Frederick Warren Clough (died October 24, 1918),
Frank Edward Morrell (died September 12, 1919), Past
Grand Master William Sewall Wells (died January 23,
1919), and those of our members who lost their lives in the
service of their country, was held.

Most Worshipful Gmnd Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:

The greatest tragedy of life is death. And just as we are aho11t
to realize the hopes of our ambition in our travels thro11gh this
transitory world, often the cold finger of death touches us and we
are called to our eternal home. It was the privilege and pleasure of
the Grand Master at the last Convocation to :mnl'!unce to the brethren that the linger of death had not touched any member of the official family of the Grand Lodge during that year, and we had sincerely hoped and trusted that the past year would also giv~ to \lS

388

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

such a record; but hardly had the goodbyes been said and the exchange of departing messages given by our brethren, before one of
our worthy and honored Inspectors, Brother Frederick W. Clough,
was called to his eternal rest. Brother Clough was one of those
!"fasons who endeared himself to the members of his constituency
m the Lodges which he served so faithfully and so well for a num?er o~ years, .and his loss is deeply felt not alone in the community .
m which he hved, but amongst his brother Inspectors and members
of the Grand Lodge. It was his privilege and his pleasure to be
~resent ~t ~he last session of the Grand Lodge, and he took a deep
mtere.st m its proceedings, I can picture him now, in my mind's eye,
standing upon this floor and claiming that the Inspectors had at last
been recognized in a ruling in which he was deeply interested. It
was a pleasure in his heart, and a pleasure for us to know that he
was taking such deep interest in Masonic affairs. In his home life he
was kindly and generous. The members of his neighborhood respected him as a citizen and friend, as we respected him as a true
and upright Mason. He labored in that portion of our jurisdiction
known as ."the ~outher~ ~ines," in Angels Camp, where the people
are open m. their hospttahty, true in their friendships, and firm in
acknowledgmg what is right and for the benefit of manki.nd.
Brother Clough grew up in that sturdy atmosphere and became one
of the leaders in its affairs, as well as a leader in Masonic principles.
We exten~ today our heartfelt sympathy to his survivfog relatives.
We feel his loss deeply and keenly, and we trust that his life has
set us an example to follow, and we· will long revere his memory.
Another memher of the Inspectors, one in the far North came
to his death during the latter part of this Masonic year, Fr~nk E.
Morrell, of the First District. He, too, was deeply imbued with
Masonic principles, and also undertook the work of spreading the
~o~pel of ~asonry and endeavored to hring out its purest teachings.
m its true light, and for the benefit of his brethren of the First Disirict; Raised in the mountains of the grand redwoods, where God's
sentmels have kept vigil over mankind, Brother Morrell was honored
and .r~spected by his fellow men. He was esteemed for his manly
qualities, as well as for his superior knowledge of the Masonic law.
The Inspectors and Grand Lodge, I feel certain, recognize that
in the demise of these two worthy brethren, our Grand Lodge has
suffered a loss which it will be hard to fill. Now, brethren let us
follow in the footsteps of these two Masons, whose lives' left a
lasting impress upon the communities in which they lived. Time
alone will replace their us.efulness with other good men and true.
We say to them, farewell, and sincerely trust that in the future we
shall meet' again in a higher plane.

GRAND LODGE 01<~ CALIFORNIA

389

Vocal so'.o-"No Night There"-Louis A. Larsen.
Eulogy-William Sewall Wells-Frank M. Angellotti:
On the 23rd day of January of this year, William Sewall Wells,
l'ast Grand Master of this jurisdiction, in the prime of life and apparcnt'.y with many years of useful service before him, quietly passed from
us. For almost thirty years he had faithfully attended the annual communications of this body, giving to its work all of the splendid ability
of which he was possessed. By reason of his natural talents, his pleasing personality, his devotion to Masonry and his active interest in all
matters pertaining to the Craft, his had become a most familiar figure
to all those who have been attending the communications of the Grand
Lodge, and his absence from our midst today brings home with fu:I
force the realization that he is gone from us forever. Justly had he
rnme to he considered one of the pillars of Freemasonry in California.
Universally respected as he was by all of the Craft and beloved by all
those who cainc into intimate association with him, it is hard for us to
reconcile ourselves to his loss. The tribute that we offer to his memory
today is no merely formal thing, accorded so'.cly bt:causc of the high
official positions attained by him in Masonry, but something that truly
comes from the heart of each and every one of us who knew him well.
In preparing my few words of eulogy of Brother vVells, I have been
somewhat burdened by the feeling that what in simple justice I must
say concerning him, would be distasteful to him, could he hear, as
seeming llattcry. vVhile always desirous, of course, of the respect and
conliclcncc of his fol!ow men, which he with full right uniformly enjoyed
from the heg-inning to the eml of his line career, nothing could he more
repugnant to him than even the appearance of adulation. Indeed, he
cared little for words of commernlation at any time. vVhatever he did
was done simply because he felt that in vh:w of all the circmnstarn:es it
was the right aml proper thing to do, and he had no thought that he
was entitled to special praise for being faithful to the ohligations resting
upon him as a man and a Mason. That, with him, was a mere matter
of course-the essential thing for any honest man. Certainly he never
did anything for the mere purpose of ohtaining the praise of others. 111
all my long and intimate acquaintance with him extending over a
period of thirty years or more, I never knew him either here or elsewhere to say a word or do a thing designed to ohtain the applause of
the moment. To the contrary, always brave and fcnrless, he was ever
ready and willing to strike a blow for what he conceived to he the
right, regardless of any possible loss of immediate favor. All of you·
who knew him long and well will bear witness with me to this attribute
of Brother vV ells. It was as though there were engraven upon his
heart, as the rnlc am! guide of his life, the immortal words put by
Shakespeare into the mouth of Polonius:

390

l'HOCEEDlNUS 01•' '.l'H.El

"This above all-To thine own self be true;
And it must follow, as the night the day,
Thou canst not then be false to any man."
Always conscious of his own honesty of purpose, he was content to
await such vindication as the sober thought and judgment of his contemporaries might bring, and he scorned, as involving an e'.ement of
dishonesty, the idea of resorting for his own glory and gain, to the
wiles and arts of the shrewd and cakulating seeker for popular favor.
\Vould that in this period of stress all over the world, when at times it
seems that the fate of civilized government is almost trembling in the
balance, we all lived more nearly up to the standard of our departed
brother in this respect, for never before were simple honesty and 'unselfishness of purpose more essential to a settlement of the difficulties
besetting mankind.
Brother \Veils was a faithful and devoted Mason. As a lover of
humanity, the principles and teachings of our fraternity appealed to him
with special force, and having become a Mason he henceforth to the
end of his life gave to Masonry the best that was in him. The bare
records demonstrate his devotion to duty and the confidence reposed in
him by his brethren. Made February 25, 1889, passed March 2, 1889,
and raised March 9, 1889, in Martinez Lodge No. 41, he continued .an
honored member of that Lodge to the time of his death. Within nine
months from the time he acquired membership iu the Lodge he was
e'.eeted from the floor to be \Vorshipful Master, and having been first
installed as Master on January 4, 1890, he was re-elected and re-elected·
until he had served in that exalted office for eight successive years.
What more convincing evidence of duty well performed and unfaltering
confidence on the part of his brethren could be given? During all thi>
period he was also the incumbent of the responsible office of Inspector
of his Masonic district, being first appointed to that office in April, 1890.
In Octohcr, 1890, he attended his first communication of this body, and
from the very outset took an active part in its work. He served on
various committees at the Communications of 1890, 1891, 1892 and 1893,
and in 1893 was appointed to the Committee on Grievances. On this
important commitee he served until and through the Communication of
1898, being from 1895 its chairman. At the Communication of 1898 he
was elected R.'.W.'.Junior Grand \Varden of the Grand Lodge. In 1899
he was elected R.'.W.'.Senior Grand Warden, and in 1900 he was
unanimously elected R.'.W.'.Deputy Grand Master. At the Communication of 1901 he was unanimously elected M.' ·\V: .Gram! Master of
Masons of California, thus being selected in a little over twelve years
from the time he was made a }.Jason to occupy the most exalted position
in Masonry in this jurisdiction. Of his administration, the committee
appointed to review his official acts, expressing their "great appreciation

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

391

of the zeal, the fidelity and the ability displayed by him in the discharge
of the trust committed to his charge," succinctly, and truly said: "We
honored him; he has faithfully served and honored us." He retired
from his high office but to continue in the service that he loved. Immediately appointed to the Committee on Jurisprudence, he continued to
he an active and faithful member of that committee, except for one
year, until in 1917, by reason of the responsibilities and labor imposed
on him as President of the Board of Trustees of our Masonic H.ome, he
felt constrai~ed to give up all other official positions in the Grand
Lodge. To the latter office he had been appointed in 1908, and he held
it by appointment each year, until his death. W c all know how unreservedly he gave himself to the work of this great practical charity of
our Fraternity, and how near and dear it was to his heart.
It was my privilege to be intimately associated with Brother \Velis
in much of his work in this Grand Lodge. \Ve were together prefcnt
at twenty-seven annual communications. For two years we were fellow
members of the Committee on Grievances. During my term of office
as Grand Master, he was Junior Grand \Vatden. For fourteen years
we were together members of the Committee on Jurisprudence. I feel
that I know of what I speak when I say that he was ever faithful
to duty, efficient in performance, wise in counsel and a loyal friend.
Surely we will sorely miss his kindly and helpful presence in this
Grand Lodge. His death means a loss to Freemasonry in this jurisdiction as to which we may well use the words of lamentation of an
o'.d Moorish ballad: "A tower is fallen, a star is set! Alas! Alas!
for Celin."
The career of Brother Wells in Masonry is but typical of his
career in every other walk of life. In selecting his life work he followed in the footsteps of his distinguished father, William S. Wells,
one of our pioneers, and was admitted to the bar in the year 1884.
After having practic<>d law in Contra Costa county for fifteen years
he was appointed judge of the superior court of that county, and was
subsequently twice elected to that office. Jn April, 1909, he was appointed judge of the superior court of Alameda county, and occupied
that important position to the time of his death, having been twice
elected to succeed himself. As a judge he stood unexcellcd among
the j udgcs of this commonwealth. His conscientious devotion to the
duties of his important and responsible office, his knowledge of legal
principles, his inherent love of justice, his sound common sense, his
fearlessness and freedom from demagogism, and his sympathy with the
unfortunate and oppressed, all combined to make him an ideal officer,
possessing at all times the respect and confidence and affection of both
the bar and the people. He was equally efficient in all the varied
duties that devolve upon a judge of the superior court, but it was

392

PROCEEDIN08 OJi' THE

perhaps in the discharge of his duties while presiding over the juvenil~·
court work that he showed most clearly some of the traits that endeared him to the people of his county. The welfare of the unfortunate or wayward child who came before him, and whose future was
thus to some extent committed to his determination, was to him a!ways
a matter of supreme importance, worthy of his best consideration. and
utmost effort. One of the memories of Brother Wells that will ever
remain with me is of a call that he made one afternoon at mv cha~­
bcrs in this city, having come from his own chambers across .the bay
solely for the purpose of discussing wjth me how best he could dis- '
pose of the case of one of these little unfortunates. For over an hour
he talked with me about the case from every possible angle, his sole
desire being to adopt the course that would be for the child's best
interests. His abso'.utc devotion to the matter of this little child made
a lasting impression on my mind. I remember that a friend who was
with me that afternoon, meeting Brother Wells for the first tim·e. and
hearing the conversation, said, after he had gone: "That is a good
man." And so truly, he was. Many there doubtless arc who in the
years to come will realize that it is due to his kindly words, fri~ndly
council, patient consideration, and wise determination they were started
upon the way that has made of them worthy and self-respecting. men
and women and good and useful citizens.
Brother Wells was born in Fairfield, Solano County, California,
on Jtme 24, 1861. All his life was lived in this, his native State, indeed, within a range of a hundred miles from the place of his birth.
lfr was cllucatcd in the schools of this State. He was twice married,
first to Ella O'Neal on November 4, 1885, who died July 3, 1913, and
second to Frances Bancroft Lemon on September 9, 1915, who survives him. He also leaves surviving him two chi:drcn, i!'.suc of his
first marriage, a son, William S. Wells, and a daughter, Ella Mildred
B:trhour. Our heartfelt sympathy goes out to those who were nearest.
and dearest to him and who have been deprived of an affectionate ·and
devoted husband and father.
To his fricn1ls he was ever loyal and devoted, as those who ·hat!
the priceless treasure of his fricncbbip will ever remember. Truly,
he grappled them to his soul "with hoops of steel."
As a citizen he was right in the head and right in the heart.. He
loved his country and firmly believed in its institutions, and never
failed to give of his hest in its service.
In every relation of his life Brother Wells hn.s left a stainless
page. \Ve who loved him, in thinking hack over his record, can think
of nothing that we would have preferred otherwise. He was true and
faithful to every obligation. More can not be said of any man.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

393

At the time of his death Brother Wells ha<! not yet attained his
fifty-eighth birthday. vVe had every reason to believe that he would
he spared to us for many years to come, and in our grief we may at
first have questioned in our minds the wisdom of the Divine decree
that took him from us while still in the full strength of his glorious
manhood. But we know that his going was in accord with the Divine
plan, and that he has simply preceded us a little on the road along
which we all must journey. His life was such that there can be no
sorrow on our part for him. The time of his departure was at hall(!
and we can not- doubt that it found him ready. In the words of the
apostle he truly could have said: "I have fought a good fight, I have
tinishcd my course, I have kept the faith." His death was hut his
passing to that place not made with hands, eternal in the heavens,
where the Supreme Grand Master of the 'Universe forever presides,
there to enjoy the reward .that we hclievc awaits all who have hccn
faithful.here. \Ve who arc for a brief season left hhind will mourn
his absence and long for the sight of his familiar figure, the sonnd of
his kindly voice, the touch of his friendly hand. nut in truth he is
not wholly lost to us, for he will always live in our memory as one
who was ever our loyal friend and faithful brother. Jn conclmling,
we may truly say of him in his own simple words spoken in eulogy
of another distinguished rnemher of our Fraternity: "An honrst,
upright man and Mason, truthful and jnst, loyal to his frirnds ancl
to his Fraternity-may he reap the reward of a wcll-sprnt life; and
to the will of our Heavenly Father we, in sorrow, rrvrrcntly bow."
Amcrka-Organ all(! all the Tirethrcn.
Rrading the :Namrs of Our Soldier Dead-Thomas Ingram.
OUR $0!.Hll\R Jll\All

Shall T wear mourning for my solclicr dead?
I, a hclkvcr? Cive me red,
Or give me royal purple for the King
At whose 11 igh Court my love is visiting.
Dress me in green for growth, for life mnde new;
For skies his dear feet march, dress 111<' in hlnc;
Jn white for his white soul; rohc me in golcl
For all the priclc his new rank shall holcl.
In earth's dim gardens hlooms no hue too hrig-hl,
So dress me for my love who walks in Light

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

394
NAME

LODGE

DATE AND PLACE OF DEA'TH

Allen, Milton Silas ........................ Oriental No. 144 ........... Nov. 23, 1918.
Anderson, Cecil Melville .............. Salinas No. 204 ................ Scpt. 15, 1918, France.
Anrlerson, Edmund Rudolph ........ Ilenicia No. 5 .................... March 7, 1919, France.
Auerbach, Paul Harolcl.. ................ Solano No.. 229 .................. May 8, 1919, Colorarlo.
Bailey, Lewis Newton .................... Ilcrkeley No. 363 .............. May 1, 1918, Camp Mer.
names, Louis .................................. Forcst No. 66 .................... Nov. 16, 1918.
Ileach, Egbert Wm ......................... Neva<la No. 13 .................. April 27, 1918, France.
Beauman, Lo.uis Charles .............. Durant No. 268 .................. March 23, 1918, Florida.
nisbee, Earl Ilrunson .................... Ilurbank No. 406 ................ Sept. 15, 1918, France,
mackwood, Frank Stephen .......... Paul Revere No. 462 ........ Sept. 15, 1918, France.
miss, Vance W ............................... Santa Cruz No. 38 ............ 0ct. 12, 1918, Englanrl.
Tiowsher, Robert Vincent ............ Conconl No. 117 ................ Feb. 4, 1919, France.
Brooke,- Samuel Pearson .............. Eel River No. 147 ............ Nov. 17, 1918, Utah.
Jluckwaltcr, George I-1 .........,....... Highland Park No. 382 .... April 25, 1919, Mid-Pac.
nurcharrli, A'rlolph .......................... Alameda No. 167 .............. Francc.
Hurt, Cleon Leslic .......................... Ocean Park No. 369 ........ 0ct. 2, 1918, France.
Husser, Edward McLarcn ............ Occirlcntal No. 22 .............. 0ct. 14, 1918, France.
Call, Joel ITorton ......................... Las Palmas No . .168 ........ Fcb. 12, 1919, New York.
Carlson, Arthur Wm ..................... Stanislaus No. 206 ............ Dec. 9, 1918.
Collins, Stanley Lcwis .................• Smnmit No.. 112 ................ Fcb. 5, 1918, Tuscania.
Colton, llany Lcslic ...................... Burbank No. 406 .............. 0ct. 28, 1918, France.
Cooper, Robert Stuart .................. Crnckctt No. 139 .... ·............ Scpt. 26, 1918, Arg. For.
Davies, Oliver Wm ....................... Golrlcn ~tatc No. 3.18 ...... Ncw. 3, 1918, at sea.
Davis, Frank Garrison .................• Santa Paula No. 291.. ...... Sept. 28, 1918, Arg, For.
TleTTaven, Thomas Shields .........• Sacramcnto No, 40 .............Nov. 19, 1918, Kelly Ficlrl
Dunn, James Arthur .................... Fairmount No. 435 ............ Aug. 10, 1918, France.,
Dutton, Rohert McMillan ............ Oriental No. 144....
. .. Feb. 18, 1918, Colorarlo.
Dykeman, John Joseph .................. Parnassus No. 388.
July 8, 1918.
Eley, Geo, Samuel llarnarrl ........ Scquoia No. 349....
China Sea.
Fanton, Clark Denihe .................... Evcrgrccn No. 259 .......... Oct. 4, 1918.
Fnrwcll, r.corgc Wells .................. .:.,outh Gate No. 320..
Oct. 2, 1918, France.
Fcrnan<kz, Leon Mcckcr .............. Calistoga No. 23.1......
France.
Floocl, William Tlcrhcrt.. .............. t Tniversity No ..194.....
Aug. 1 J, 1Ql8, Franrr.
Freer!, Henry Blanchard .............. lfo.ntercy No. 217....
July ,10, 1'!18, Berkeley.
Fi·ccsc, llarry Francis ................. .<~oldcn Gate No. JO.
Oct. 27, 11>17, Ft. Drnllo{c.
Cage, Jknjamin Franklin ............ llcrkclcy No . .163
Nov. 10, 1918.
Gardner, John Alvcrt.. ....... ., ......... St111n~t No . .152..
Oct. 19, 1918.
Coe, Rufus Nelson ........................ \1adn No. 191...
Nov, 19, 1918, Mnther F.
Tlarris, Pt.~rry T~aForcst .............. 0Nortl1 Star No. 91..
Jan. 9, 1918, }i'ra11ct.'~
TTarrison, Frcrlerick ....................... .Pacific No. l.l6
Aug. 27, 1918, Italy,
Hart, Wm. Randolph Wilso.n ..... .Vctcran No. 37.1..
Oct. 12, 1918, France.
Harvey, (;corgc Goorlse!L. ........... Ncvada No. 1.1......
Sept. 20, 1918, Mas,,
TTill, Ralph William ......................Frnitvalc No. 336..
Sept. 18, 1918, France.
Jloisholt, Arne Knucl llouro ......I>urnnt No. 268......
Sept. 7, 1918, Frnncc.
Jlolrlzkom, Paul Raphacl... ........... Morning Star No. 68.. Oct. 2, 1918, Arg. Forest'.
llopps, Martin S ........................... Sa1inas No. 204............
Ju1y 23, 1918, France.
TTovard, llcrbcrt.. .......................... Lodi No. 2.16......
Oct. 15, 1918, France,
JTuntington, Cecil Stcwart .......... Occidcntal No. 22 ............. Aug . .I, 1'!18,
Johnson, Benjamin ........................ Pcntalpha No. 202 ......... June 1, 1918.
Jonnrnn, Walter SoulanL ............llichmonrl Nn. .17.1 .......... April 26, 1918.
Johnston, John Tlarvcy .............u.Mii-;sion No. ](19_. ............. A'pril 21, 1919, FranrC'.
Kini-(, Sawrin Dnnahuc .................. San Benito No. 211.. ....... Oct. 2, 1918, Vir!(inia.
Kronk, Lcntts Custavc .................. San Francisco No. 360 .... Scpt. 5, 1917, Ft. StcvC'n~.

NAME

LODGE

395

DATE AND PLACE OF DEATH

Levin, Melville Arnold ................ Pacific No. 136 ................. Oct. 18, 1918.
Loomis, Alvan EveretL ................ South Gate No. 320.......... At sea, Mexican coast.
:\fcQuarric, John Elmer ................ Pinole No. 353 ................. April 24, 1919.
McConaughy, Charles Wm ........... Corinthian No. 9.............. Nov. 18, 1918, Camp. IT.
Madrlen, Michael Christopher ...... San Mateo No. 2J6 ........ Nov. 8, 1918, llalifax.
Marr, Kenneth Durfee .................. Ilonolulu No. 409 ............. December, JY18.
Marsh, Clark Ilcrbert.. .................. Fullerton Nn. 339 ............ March 4, 1919, France.
Miller, James Partce .................... Mt. Diablo No, 448 ......... France.
Mills, Percy Albert.. ...................... Petaluma No. 180 .............. Nov., 1918, France.
Morin, Adrian Lewis .................... California No. !.. .............. Oct. 18, 1918, Camp Frc.
Nesbitt, William John .................. Pctaluma No. 180.............. Dec. 5, 1917, Fo1·t Riley.
Newell, Frederick Francis ............ Coalinga No. 387 .............. Nov. 13, 1918.
Nurnberger, Elwood ...................... Scquoia No. 349 ................ Mar. 14, 1919, Ft. Lyon.
Orear, Clifford Talmage ... , ............ Durant No. 268 ................. Nov. 17, 1918, Mather F.
Parr, John Dallas .......................... California No. !.. .............. Jan. 27, 1919.
Pctc1·son, Nelson Jamcs ................ Clinton No. 119 ................ Fcb. 13, 1919, Germany.
Han, (;corgc Jamcs ........................ Sacramcnto No. 40 ............ Jan. 21, 1919.
Reece, Frc(lcrick llcn nctt ............ l>urant No. 268 .................. April 20, ] 918, France.
H.ichcscn, Franklin Cartcr ............ I>inuba No. 385 ................. July 15, 1918, France.
Hohhins, Ccorgc Washingto.n ...... Occan Park No. 369 ........ Qct., 1918, Franc('.
Rohin~on, Herbert Pollcxpcn ...... Las Palmas No. 366 .......... Scpt. 2, 1918, France.
Ross, Karl Erskine ....................... :Morning Star No. 68 ...... 0ct. 31, 1918, Jlcl~ittm.
l~oth, William Jl ............................ .Pacific No. 136 ................ -Oct. 14, 1918, Florida.
Rowe, Chat"lc8 Palmcr .................. P~m?na No. 246 .............. -Oct. 1.1, 1918, France.
SalTonl, Ray Phillips .................... M1ss10n No. 169 ............ ···Jnly 27, 1918, France.
Scohy, John Carl....
.............. Golrlen Gate No. 30 ...... ·N<l.V. 5, 1917,
Sclwood, Thomas Frank. ............. Mount Moriah No. 44 .... -Oct, 26, 1918.··
Simpson, Sirlncy W ....................... Los Gatos No. 292 ............ Jan. 14, 1919.
Smith, Clarence Fairchilrl.. .......... Wcstlakc No. ,192 .............. fJct. 1, 1918, Frnnrr.
Smith, Joseph Fn·rL ...................... <;aJt No. 267 ...................... Fcb. 10, 1919, Siberia.
Spil•rin~, Emil Ilcnry .................... l:(lcn No~ 113 .................... ()ct, 26, 1918.
Stahl, Erlgar F ............................... Sr>. California No. 278 ···Nov. 11, 1918, Franrc.
Staffon!, Alhcrt Francis .............. <;rock.ctt No. 1.19 .............. Scpt. .10, 1918, at sr·a.
Stephenson, John Mitchcll... .......l'lk <.rove No. 17.1 ........... ._ran, 18, 1918.
Snllivan, Crover A lhert .............. Montchcllo No. 451.. ....... -Jnly 1.1, 1'!18, Franc<'.
Taylor, E<lwnrd M ......................... Northcrn Light No. 190 .. Arlo{o1111c Forest.
Thoma!-1, Frank ...... ~-···
............ Univt'ndty No. .194.. . .. Oct. 10, 1 CJ t R.
Thompson, Charles Jlcnry ............ Chartcr Rock No. 410 ...... 0ct. 27, 1'!18, Aq,:-n11nc.
Tipton, Melville Rowc .................. <;olrlt'n State No .•158 ...... Oct. 9, 1918.
Van Fossen, J<"ssc Paul... ............. Tchaclrnpi No. 313 ............ Nov. 9, 1918.
Virit, JT11gh Alcxanckr .................. Mission No. 169 ................ Nov. 25, 1918,
Weaver, William lrwin ................Turlock No. 395 ................ Nov., l'Jl8, France.
Weber, l'aul... ................................. Sunsct No. 352..........
Nov. 14, 1918.
Wclin, Albert Fahian .................... Rio. Vista No. 208......
.Oct. 21, 1918.
Wenzel, George Elwood .............. Bcthlehem No. 453....
!lee. 10, 1918, at sea,
Wessel, Olaf.. .................................. Crockctt No. 13Q........
July 31, 1919.
W<'ston, Henry R ........................... Santa Ana No. 241.. ......... Nov. 27, 1918.
Wheeler, Samuel EarL ................ Santa Monica No. 3Q7 .... 0ct. 4, 1918.
Wilhelm, Clarcncc .......................... Eurcka No. 16 ................... Jan. 20, 1918, France.
Wil«m, Thomas John ...................• Excclsior No. 166....
Jan. 7, 1918.
Wornt, Floy1l Humphrcy .............. Occidcntnl No. 22 .......... .. June 19, 1918, F'rnncc.
\Vonrlmanscc, Frank Flccncr. ..... A'din No. 250.........
.Sept. 22, 1918, France.

396

PHOt)EEDINGS OF THE

Violin Solo-Nathan M. Firestone.
Address-California's Departed Heroes-William D. Stephens.
It was on the 19th clay of November, 1863-almost fifty-six years
ago-that Abraham Lincoln dedarccl at Gettysburg that the living owe
it to the heroic dead to dcclicate themselves to the completion of the
task begun in blood and sacrifice. He saicl that from the honored
cleacl the living should take increased clevotion to the cause for which
the dead had given the last full measure of devotion.
So today, we may best honor our heroic dead by dedicating ourselves anew to the ideals they defended and for which they laid down
their lives that not alone this Republic they loved hut the entire civilized world might have a new birth of freedom.
The war from which we so recently have emerged has taught us'
the real meaning of mobilization. We have learned that the mobilization of a nation is vastly more than the marshalling of its armies,
the gathering of its material resources anti the transportation of men
and munitions to the scene of conflict. Men who had all their lives
abhorred war as an instrument for imposing on the weak and rlcfcnsclcss the will of the strong, hafl to learn that there is a justified
war of defense which is the very highest possih!c expression of loyalty
to principJc and devotion to justice. One of the hran~st deeds of the
whole war, let it not be forgotten, was registered on the battlefields
of France in the valor and heroism of an ohscnre, poorly-edncatcd
son of the Tennessee mountains who not only knew nothing of war,
hut as a "conscientious objector" had to he convinced of the moral
justification of even a war of national defense.
.
The mohilization of America was more than the httilding of
ships, the rnantt factnrc of equipment and the arming, drilling and
transportation of trorips. Dack of all that was the fine universal spirit'
of service, the sp\•ndid grasping of an ideal that was to Cl'ntt•r the
hearts ancl nerve the purpose of millions of men in a high common
intent. This intelligent understanding of the fundamental issue of
the war and of the part we were to play in it, was the hasis of the
wonderful nmrnle that chara<'terized our troops on the lmttlcficlds of
Europe. Tt was this that gave them their dash and high courage and
made them in effectiveness the superiors of professional foreign
soldiers.
There is little indeed of real service that we now can render our
heroic dead. We may and we wi!l care for the survivors who have
returned to tts maimed am! crippled for life, hut there is no service
we may now render those who in the language of Lincoln pair! the
"foll measure of their devotion," except as we St'rve the country

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

.397

they loved with a devotion equal to that which they gave. To do
less, is to fall short of the privilege we have and to avoid in part the
responsibility imposed 011 us by the events of the last three years.
As our heroes so bravely died that their country might live, shall
we not as unselfishly live that our country shall never die? Shall
we not devote our purpose and our strength toward making America
wholly American? Must we not make sure that American citizenship
shall mean a larger freedom, under the law-a due regard for the
rights and comforts of others and a loyalty to home and country that
shall be unquestioned?
You and I, if we would measure up to our departed sons, must
so conduct our business affairs as to give no reason for or encouragement to the spread of anarchy in America. Neither ana1-chism, nor
I. W. W.ism, nor Bolshevism, nor any other traitorous ism should
be tolerated in this free and God-favored land of ours. Ii1decd in
this particular day we, individually and collectively, have an obligation to fulfill-that of preserving law and order. To that end we
must sec to it that if a citizen assail our flag he shall be promptly
arrested and promptly punished, and if an alien speak or act ;:igainst
America, he shall promptly be put out of America.
Masonry contributed loyally and generously to the success of
American arms on the hattlcficlds of France. \Vhcn the appeal for
men was sounded hy the President, the response from our Masonic
firesides was prompt, spontaneous an cl in full measure. We all remcmher t!1e days when our young men in civilian dress gathered
from city, country hamkt nncl farm, marcht•tl through the streets,
and we wonclt•rcd then what sort of solclicrs thi·y were to 111akc nm!
what part they were to play in a war whose frightfulness was well
nrnlcrstoo1l. On they came from thousands of homes <.:vcrywhcrc.
Quitting their prolitahlc cmploynwuts, postponing their high ambitions, they left behind them their carm:tl prospects in life to engage
in th<.: awful game of war.
Not for love of the fight, hut for love of the right, they n.1arche<l
and fought. True to the high principles of th1•ir fraternity-splendid
indeed was the spirit they showed.
\Vith fine self-adjustment, individual clash and energy, self-mastery
:me! r<"sourcduhwss our hoys went into the war and brought unmca:-nm.·d honor to their State and country.
/\ml friends, in speaking of our M asnnir deacl, may I he excused
for the moment if I spl'ak of my Masonic <lcacl?
Some seven years ai.;o a young Marine officer, Randolph T. Zane,
married my own baby. In due time they were stationed at Honolulu
and when America entered the war he cabled the Department to b~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

sent to the front immediately. In due time the Department accepted
his offer and he was ordered this way. He came to California, stopping with us three or four days, and then went on to Virginia, to the
training camp, and then to France. He gave a good account of himself-for he was cited for bravery and decorated for the defense of a
little town and of the people, where he repulsed an almost overwhelming force of the enemy. He escaped without any injury at that
time, but a few clays later, in another battle, just at the beginning
of the turn of the tide, o'ne of his Sergeants was wounded, as I
have heard the story from others; he took a man with him and went
out to sea~ch for his Sergeant, and as he stooped to pick· him up
a German shell burst nearby, took both legs off the Sergeant, killed
the man who was with soldier Zane, and wounded him iJ fou.r
or five places, and from one of these wounds he afterwards diednot before however, he had been made a Major. Friends, . I on'.y
speak of ti1is to lead up to what I have to say about our boys in
action. But in the three or four days that Major Zane was .with us
with his wife on the way to Virginia, a friend of mine was with Mrs.
Stephens and me at Sacramento, when he saicl, "Father Stephens, I
want to join the Masons." "\V ell," I said to him, "my boy, you ):an
<lo that; I think I can arrange for you to take the degrees in Virginia while in camp there and before you go to France.'' .. No,
Father Stephens," he said, "that is not what I want. I want to join
when I return from France-I want to join where you will be with
me." Is it any wonder, Brethren, that when I speak about the .Masonic
dead I include my Masonic dead?

In France they lie where li:ies bloom,Those flowers fair for them made room.
Not vainly placed the crosses stand
Within that brave and stricken land;
Their honor lives, their love endures,
Their 119ble death the right assures,
For they shall have their heart's desire,
They who, unflinching, braved the fire;
Across the fields their eyes at last shall sec
Through clouds and mist the hosts of victory.
-Pcrcii,al Allen..

398

How can we of the Masonic order better honor our men who
in the war paid the full limit of sacrifice <\nd whose graves • are
today on some sunny slope in France, than to pledge anew our love
and loyalty to the flag that on a foreign soil and far from home
symbolized to them as they gazed into its starry fo!ds, their country
and all that was dearest to them in life!
Thcv lie in France where lilies bloom;
Tho~e flowers pale that guard each tomb
Are saintlv souls that smiling stand
Close by them in that martyred land;
And nmtclv there the long night shadows creep
From quiet hills to mourn for them who sleep,
\Vhile o'er them through the dusk go silently
The grieving clouds that slowly drift to sea;
And latelv round them moaned the winter wind
Whose v~ice, lamenting, sounds so coldly kind,
Yet in their faith those waiting hearts abide
The time when turns forever that false tide.

399

Our greatest debt of gratitude to our own heroic dead is for the
Rplendid proof they gave that the spirit of America lives in ever
glorified form. The valor of the American citizen soldier has commanded recognition on every great lmttlcfield of the war. It was the
determining factor both on land and on the sea. \.Vhercvcr American
blood has flowed on the fields of France and Flanders in the defense
of liberty and justice there homage will be paid by future generations
to the courage and the splendid i<lea!ism of those Americans among
whom were these whose sacrifices we today here commemorate.
Lincoln at Gettysburg voiced the deeper sentiment of those wl10
would frame in words adequate tribute to the men who have given
all for the freedom of mankind. It is indeed impossible to fran;c in
words the deep-felt trihutc we hol<l in our hearts. To attempt it were
vain. Ami so, it is hy lives of patriotic cndC'avor that we may hcst
re-dedicate ourselves to the completion of the task they hcgan. As
trnly :ts America can hcst s<'rvc humanity hy 11nsclfish co-operation in
all that uplifts and liberates mankind, so truly will we honor our
California de:td by huilding here a commonwealth that shall he alwavs
in the forefront of every hroadly patriotic movement-a State who~c
civic ideals shall contribute in a large way to the permanent advancement and glory of the Republic.
Vocal Solo:

Requiem, hy Sidney H omcr-Louis A. Larsen.

Address-The Men Who Have Served-Jacob l\'ieto.
Mo.st W orshi/>ful and Brethren:

It is meet and proper that we shoulcl shed a tear for the dead.
rehearse their heroism, recall their deeds of valor and acknowledge
our indchtcdncss to them for fhc snprcmc sacrifice made. Thrir
marvelous intrepidity-the almost divine character of their efforts to
demonstrate to the worlcl how the passionate impctl1s of a holy ideal
will raise to the loftiest heights of heroism-will he faithfully recorded

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

in history and treasured in the soul of humanity. They fought for
liberty and justice, and, possessed by a spirit that had transcended the
human, they were oblivious to danger and fearless of death. It was
as though heaven opened to them and the greatest glory enwrapped
their souls. Their translation was ecstatic and their end, peace.
They are with God. But the living arc still with us. They, who
went down into the jaws of death, into that hell on earth created
by the Huns,-they, who went through those nameless horrors, are in
our midst, 'impressing upon us, if we arc heedful, the great lesson
America taught the world; that glorious faith in God and justice, the
United States and her sons have exemplified. Let us turn for a
moment, my good brethren, to the description of the horrifying experiences our boys had to endure.
Down in the trenches, in mud and slime, strnggling agaimt vermin
and cold, with shot and shell in continuous vo'.ley, hovering over and
around them, fighting all day, nmrching' all ni)!ht with rr feverishness
and excitement that numhcd their senses, cheering and singing in the
face of death. Rumble and explrn;ion, and rumble and swish of shots
as they flew and the earth trembling beneath their feet, while the
deafening tumult continued throughout the night, hrot1ght no rest or
relaxation. All through the night, the sky am! the field, made to resemb!e a hell, that outrivalled in hellishness any description of hell
thus far known. And then, in the miclst of the din and the roar,
while cannon atlfl airship vomited forth certain derrth, over the top
sprang these intrepid hrothcrs of ours to defeat injustice and crime.
Nor was this the only terrifying experience. J\11 along the ocean
path, as the transports plm1ghcd on to land !111111rrnity'~ champions on
the field of hattle, stealthily plied the suhmarinc, the terror of the
deep. No mrrn lay down to rest hut that his life preserver were
either buckled on. to him or plrrcecl conveniently near. The tension
must have been awful; keeping watch for a hidden foe, whose whereabouts cou:d he discovered only too late. Can 'you not imagine the
sensation of expecting at any moment to he lannched into eternity,
the nerve rrrcking strain of the pnlsating moments? Moments that
seemed years? and through it all they wrnt and came hack-back to
a cotmtry that finds itself incrrpable of giving adequate expression to its
feelings of admiration for them and their deeds.
Some of them have hecn wound('d, ancl so carry the marks and
testimony of their service visihlc on their bodies. They, too, arc remcmhcrcd hy a grntdnl pnhlic and every means known to love and
science will he acloptcd to make their lives plcasrrnt, to i:dve them an
opportunity to enter active life again on an equal footing with a'.I
other citizen!l'.

But they have had time to find themselves. In the long hours of
their retirement, they have had ample opportunity to meditate, and
the relaxation has brought them back to normal mentality.

400

401

Many of you brethren still remember our awful experience of
1906, when the earthquake shook us into a condition bordering on
insanity. You may recall numerous instances of people affrighted
by the terror, nuining aimlessly about, uttering meaningless jumbles
of incoherences. Then, too, were seen trifles and empty bird ·cages
in the hands of those who had left valuables behind to be devoured
by the fire. It was a case of shattered nerves all around. And this
was the result of but a few moments' dreadful menace of destruction
and death. \Vhat, then, do you suppose, is the condition of those
stalwarts who, unwounded, are returned to us? Theirs was not the
abject terror of <l moment's awfulness, but the continuous nerve strain,
a century of fears extended over months. How, then, will you descrihe their condition, brethren? Strong men, apparently hale and
hearty, have almost wept as they dec!ared to me that, in spite of. the
pl1ysician's declaration that there was nothing the matter with them,
that there was and that something was holding them back. There was
-sha ttcrcd nerves. And no time to rediscover themselves.
From the earliest times, men have always cried out against injustice, and no period of history has yet been chronicled but that that
cry has been recorded. Not that men are designedly unjust, but that
our own growth enlarges our comprehension of justice and shows
the insufficiency of our present mode of satisfying justice. Still, we
strive to do our best. And it is true hcyond all contradiction, that in
the matter of recompense, we can never do exact justice to our nervestricken boys. It is yet manifestly our duty to do all we can, especially
we of the· fraternity who speak and teach justice. Getting these men
jobs immediately placing them in positions as soon as they return (I
mean those who went across to France) is almost futile. None of
them is sufficiently recovered to stay. steadily at anything. They
should be given time to recover, and the six months' pay idea shoulcl
have been so strongly backer! and fostered hy all of us that they
would have been able to enjoy the required respite.
Still, we can persevere to render them that mead of respect and
affection that may solace them for our neglect and in this manner
endeavor to give them some justice. Let us encourage them to get
together and to keep together, that their getting together may stimulate
us to conserve and to conform to those great ideals, now the admiration of the entire world. Let it not be said that we, who went forth
to obtain justice for the world, fail to uphold justice in our own midst.
Let not all the admiration and praise showered upon them before
they left, ooze out of us now that peace is here and they are back.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Let them feel that we have not forgotten. Both they and the uniform
they w~ar arc entitled to respect. Don't tum aside from a uniformed
man. \Ve arc advised that rnme places in our city have refused
admission to men wearing Uncle Sam's uniform. This is not only
a disgrace, but almost treason. The uniform stands for what our
flag represents. He who turns his hack in disgust upon the uniform,
insults the flag.
And now we are about to lower our service flag; to pass it
down from the place of honor it now occupies and in its stead· again
unfurl 0'.d Glory,-more glorious than before, symbolizing to us and
to the world those great and fundamental pri11ciples of freedom and
justice for which all Americans live, and for which those glorious
boys died. There is· nothing beyond the symbolism· of that glorious
flag, and no honor can he greater to any man than the distinction of
having been privileged to bear it.

California, to erect in this our Temple, as soon as may be after the
close of the war in which our Nation is now engaged, a tablet in
bronze as a lasting testimonial of love and memory to those Masons
who have gone forth from the Lodges of this jurisdiction to fight for
justice among men and nations and to exalt th<: sacred cause of
democracy.
On May 7, 1919, I was notified by the Grand Secretary of my
appointment as a Committee of One "to present to Grand Lodge in
October, 1919, a reso'.ution covering the intent of said resolution (as
above set forth) and carrying an appropriation sufficient to carry
out the intent thereof." Conti1mi11g, the notice of appointment stated:
"The Grand Master also desires that you present with your resolution a sketch of what in your judgment should he provided in the
way of a tablet, with an estimate of the cost to be covered by appropriation."
With reference to the above matters I beg leave to report as
follows:
It was the opinion 'of your Committee, shared hy the Grand
Master and other Masons consultccl, that a memorial to he erected
in our Temple in commemoration of the service rendered to their·
country during the war by California Masons, should be noble in its
character and in keeping with the hcst dictates of taste as exemplified in the arts and sciences.
Your Committee had several preliminary sketches of designs of
tablets prepared, but they were not satisfactory. The decision was
then reached to prepare a design which, whi!e not occupying too great
a space in the main vestibule of the T<·rnplt', would nevertheless be
momlmental in its general proportion~. Mr. Daryl B. M ilkr of Berkeley, late of the School of Architrcture at Colttmhia lJniversity, was
induced to prepare a preliminary sketch of this kind. This sketch
was submittcll to bronze casting couct•n1s who estimate<! that its cost
would he approxiatcly $5,000.00. This fignn• was snlnnitt<•d to the
Grand Master, together with the rnggcstion that if Mr. Mil!er were
asked to continue his work and prcparC' a more detailed drawing, he
should he guaranteed a proper compensation.
In a letter elated July 11, and adclrcssC'cl to your Committee, the
Grand Master, taking the position that <irand L0<lg-e had not provided an appropriation of any kind. instructed your Committee that
no guarantee of compt•nsation could lw made. The CraJ1(1 Master
furthermore expn•ssC'<l himself as follows: "£ frd ·constrained to say,
in this connection, that T do not hclit-ve, as nearly as J can sense
the temper of the hrethrcn of the State. that they will in Cran<! Lodge
assembled authorize the expenditure of any such sum as you feel
would be necessary to acleqnate~y produce the proposed memorial."

402

Lowering of Service Flag-Brother Benjamin R. Buzzo of Masonic Ambulance Corps.
Taps-Buglers.
Benediction-Grand Chaplain.

On motion of I'ast Grand Master vV eller, the thanks
of Grand Lodge were extended to all who participated in
the program, and it was ordered that a transcript of the
entire service he printed in the proceedings; and that so
much of it as relates to our soldiers and sailors he printed
in hook form and a copy mailed to each family of those of
our boys who did not come hack, and to each Lodge in
the jurisdiction.

MEMORIAL TADLET
Brother vVill H. Fischer, as a committee to whom had·
been referred the matter of a tablet in memory of the members who served in the late world war, presented the following report :
To tha Most Worslvipful Crand !,odue of California:
At the commtmication of our Grand Lodge in October, 1918, the following resolution was unanimously adopted:

Resolved, That it is the intention of this Grand Lodge, acting in
behalf of the whole c'raft of Masonry in the Grand Jurisdiction of

403

:;:•rtOCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

The Grand Master, however, concurred in the op1111011 of the Coi11111ittee that if a memorial was to be erected it should be fully worthy
"of the Order and of the Temple where it should be p!aced."

Resolved, That Grand Lodge hereby requests its Finance Committee to consider and report for action by Grand Lodge the appropriation of a sum which in its judgment will be a proper compensation to Mr. Daryl B. Miller for his services in connection with the
preparation of a design for a memorial to those of our Brethren who
served the Government of the United States during the late war. Also,
that the Finance Committee be directed to consider, in view of the
finances of the Grand Lodge, and report upon the advisability of
erecting a memorial at the present time.

404

In view of the circumstances above related your Committee did
not feel authorized to direct Mr. Miller to proceed. The situation
was explained to him, however, and he consented to proceed with his
work up to and including the delivery of a perspective drawing of
the design upon which he and the Committee had agreed. This perspective drawing has been completed, and is at the present time displayed in the main vestibule of the Temple.
The Commiftee believes that the design is, indeed, "worthy of
the Order and of the Temple," and would rejoice to see Grand Lodge
make the necessary appropriation for the casting in bronze of this
artistic monument. Under the circumstances, however, the Committee
desires only to submit the matter to the judgment of the Grand Lodge,
If erected, this memorial would cost between $5,000 and $6,000 completed and erected.
As will be noted from a study of the memorial the feeling e~­
pressed is appropriate, both with respect to Masonry and with respect
to those of our Brethren who participated in the service of the Gov-•
ernment during the war.
The base of the monument, which would be situated in tlic center
of the main vestibule, is approximately three feet square ,;nd three
feet high. It is designed to represent the altar of Masonry as ab
altar of service. Upon the altar rests an ornamented drum: encircling
which in bas-relief, appear representations of men in all the various:
branches of war activities. Above this drum rests a circular fluted
column with a handsome capital in classic design, whic11 capital is
surmounted by a ground glass globe representing the world. This
globe is to be lighted in token of our recognition that the service of
our brethren, based upon the foundation of Yiasonry and patriotism.
has helped to diffuse light throughout the world. The monument is·
approximately eleven feet in height.
Your Committee believes that Grand Lodge, in view of the sacrifices made by our brethren, and in testimony of its appreciation of
such sacrifices, could well afford the expenditure involved in the erec-.
tion of this memorial.
In conclusion, you'r Committee feels that in any event, Grand
Lodge should, as. a matter of fairness, offer compensation to Mr.
Daryl B. Miller, the designer of the memorial. He has expended a
large amount of time in this work, and in fact devoted his summer
vacation very largely to the development of this monument. Y01.1r

Committee therefore offers. the following:

405

Fraternally submitted,
WILL H. F1scHl\R.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

REPORT OF GRAND LECTURER
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

I herewith present for your approval an account of my official
acts during the year, and to give a summary of the general working
condition of the Lodges. It can safely he said al the outset, that a
very large majority of the Lodges have never before heen called upon
to confer so many degrees, and there seems to he no end to the
petitions. Many of our hoys who were overseas have since their return sought admission to our Lodges, on arriving nt their respective
homes. It is apparent that the cau;;e for this great increase must he
the general prosperity of the country, and a favorable opinion con·
ccivcd of the fraternity, as well as a sincere desire to he S('rviccahlc
to their fellowmen. I smcly 1H'lieve that most of the boys who wl're
on the other side have returned with a far diffcn•11t viewpoint, and
look at life a bit more seriously.
Shortly after the c'.osc of the last session of the Cram! Lmlge
many localities an<I Lodges were sadly <lisorganizcd on nccount of the
epidemic that prevailed at that time. No meetings hcing permitted,
many of the Lodges were not able to hold their clection.s on time.
Many of mtr hrcthren were victims of this tcrrihlc scourge. Brother
Frederick Warren Clough, Inspector of the 24th District at J\nc;ds
Camp, contractc~l the disease while in attendance at the Crand Lod:,c,
and after returning to his home died on the 24th of Octoher. Brother
Clough was Inspector for many years, and always was ready and
willing to assist the officers and 111('111l1crs of his District in the work,
many times laying off from his own business in order to go to some
of his Lodges to give them instruction. /\ more conscientious and
painstaking Mason and man wou!d be hard to find, and it may well

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

be said of Brother Clough, "Well done, good and faithful servant,
enter thou into the joy of thy Lord." Masonry and the community
in which he lived have lost a good man, and we will miss his annual
presence in the Grand Lodge.
Brother Frank Edward Morrell, Inspector of the First Masonic
District at Arcata, died on the 12th of September. Brother Morrell
had been Inspector of that District for several years and had given
good service to the Lodges. He will be greatly missed by the brethren
of Humbo!dt and Del Norte counties. We regret his untimely taking
off, for he had many years of usefulness.
I desire to express my sincere appreciation to the Inspectors of
the jurisdiction for their untiring efforts and assistance in the work
of the year, and to congratulate them on the condition of the Lodges
in their respective Districts.
·
I have visited all the Districts in the State and have held schools
of instruction, both day ancl night sessions, and with few cxcc;tion;
all were well attended by officers ancl members.
Dispensations have been issued to two new Loclgcs, Blythe Lodge
at nlythc, and Victory Lodge of San Francisco. Several consolidations have taken place during the year. I fear that several more will
be necessary on account of conditions existing in the c01111mmities in
which the Lodges arc located. This is to be regretted. Many of
these Lodges have a hard struggle to exist, and find it almost in;possible to get a quorum for meetings.
I am greatly inclehtcd to the V.".W.".Grand Secretary and his
assist<mt for the courtesies ancl information extended to me at all
times in his office.
The work accomplishccl by the Most Worshipful Grarnl Master
in his visitations during the year has been of much benefit to the
Craft. I I e has visited almost every District and has conferred degrees at most of these meetings, which were all attended by large
gatherings of the officers and members of the Lodges comprising the
Districts. The splendid and impressive manner in which the Grand
Master has performed this work, and the instructive lessons he has
convcyccl to the hrcthrcn in his messages to the Craft, will surely
resnlt in much good. The goodly numhcrs that attended these meetings, is evidence of how mnch they were apprcciatccl hy the hrcthrcn,
many of these visits being to Lodges that had never before been thus
honored.

October 12, 1918: Constitution Delta Lodge No. 471, at Stockton, Calif., and officers installed.
October 14, 1918: Reception by Marin Lodge No. 191, on occasion of its fiftieth anniversary, and address.
December 17, 1918: Installed officers J ewe! Lodge No. 374. Address.
December 19, 1918: Installed officers Ycrba Buena Lodge No.
403. Address.
December 26, 1918: Installed officers Bethlehem Lodge No. 4S3.
Address.
December 27, 1918: Officiated at joint installation of Tehama
Lodge No. 3, Washington No. 20, Sacramento No. 40, Union No. S8,
ancl Concord No. 117, at S;icramcnto. A cl dress.
Dcccmhcr 28, 1918: Officiated at joint installation of officers of
San Joaquin No. 19, Morning Star No. 68 ancl Delta No. 471, at
Stockton. Address.
December 30, 1918: Officiated at joint installation of officers of
San Jose No. IO, Friendship No. 210 and Fraternity No. 399, at San
J osc. Address.
January 4, 1919: Officiated at joint installation of the officers of
Naval Lodge No. 87 and Solano Lodge No. 229, at Vallejo. Address.
Grand Master presented with magnificent loving cup on this occasion.
J;inu;iry 14, 1919: Visited Rio Vista Lodge No. 208. Conferred
Third Degree; installed officers. Address.
January IS, 1919: Officiatecl at joint installation officers Corinthian Loclgc No. 9 ;incl Enterprise No. 70, at Yuh;i City. Acldrcss.
January 16, 1919: Installccl officers Turlock Lodge No. 39S.
Address.
January 23, 1919: In~tallcd officers of Chico Lmlgc No. 111 at
Chico. Address.
January 24, 1919: Officiated at joint installation of Laurel Lodge
No. 24S and Orland Lodge No. 26S, at Wi'.lows. Address.
January 2S, 1919: Conducted funeral of M .".W.".William Sewall
Wells, P. G. M., at Oakland.
March 13, 1919: Visited Fifty-first District, <it nakersficlcl. Conferred third degree. Address.
March 14, 1919: Visited Forty-ninth District, at Porterville. Conferrccl third degree. Adclress.
March IS, 1919: Visited Fiftieth District, at Hanford. Conferred
third degree. Address.

406

Following is a cktailcd account of the visitations of the Gr;ind
Master:
October 11, 1918: Lincoln Loclgc No. 470. Constitutccl and officers installed.

407

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

March 16, 1919: Met informally officers ancl members of Orosi
Lodge No. 383 at home of Brother Thos. Muirhead at Orosi, where
Grand Lecturer and Grand Master were entertained with that bounteous hospitality for which Brother Muirhead is justly famous. Later
in same day journeyed to Orange Cove, met with officers and members of proposed new lodge at that p'.ace. Inspected proposed meeting
place and conferred with brethren of that place and vicinity.
.:Vfarch 21, 1919: Tendered reception by Live Oak Lodge No. 61,
Grand Master's own lodge. Present twenty-two Past Masters out of
twenty-six living. Address.
March 26, 1919: Tendered reception by all lodges of Oakland,
acting iointly. Address.
.:Vfarch 27, 1919: Entertained at dinner at Palace Hotel, San
Francisco, officers of the Grand Lodge of the Philippine Islands,.
later in the same evening accompanying said officers to the lodgcroom'
of Bethlehem Lodge No. 453, where the third degree was conferred,
fo'.lowed by banquet and addresses by Rafael Palma, Deputy Grand
l\faster of the Philippines, and by the Grand Master of California.
March 29, 1919: Tendered reception by the lodges of the city
of Berkeley, acting jointly. Address.
April 5, 1919: Visited Fortieth District, conferring third degree
at joint meeting held at Palo Alto. Address.
Apdl 10, 1919: Visited Sixteenth District, conferring third degree at joint meeting ·held at Colusa. Address.
April 11, 1919: Visited Twenty-lirst District, conferring third
degree at joint meeting held at Davis. Address.
April 12, 1919: Visited Nineteenth District, conferring third
degree at joint meeting held at Napa. Address.
April 18, 1919: Visited Watsonville at the request of Pajaro
Lodge No. 110 and addressed large and enthusiastic n1eeting in the
interest of the Endowment Fund.
April 19, 1919: Visited Thirty-third District,. conferring third
degree at joint meeting held at San Leandro. Address.
April 22, 1919: · Visited Twenty-seventh District, conferring thinl
degree at joint meeting held at Concord, Address.
April 24, 1919: Visited Twenty-sixth District, conferring third
degree at joint meeting held at Lodi. Address.
April 29, 1919: Visited Twenty-eighth District, conferring third
degree at joint meeting held at Richmond. Address.
May 1, 1919: Visited Forty-seventh District, conferring third
degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Las Palmas Lodge
No. 366, at Fresno. Address.

May 2, 1919: Visited Forty-eighth District, conferring third degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Selma Lodge No.
277. Address.
Same date, visited informa'.ly the brethren of Dinuba and Reedley, having luncheon with the brethren of the latter place.
May 3, 1919: Visited Forty-fourth District, conferring the third
degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Mariposa Lodge
No. 24 at .:Vfariposa. Address.
May 9, 1919: Visited Twelfth District, conferring the third degree at joint meeting held 11nder the auspices of Madison Lodge No.
23 at Grass Valley. Address.
May 10, 1919: Visited Thirteenth District, conferring the third
degree at joint ~eeting held under the auspices of Gold Hill. Lodge
No. 32 at Lincoln. Address.
May 16, 1919: Visited Fifth District, conferring third degree at
joint meeting held under the auspices of Reading Lodge No. 254 at
Redding. Address.
::\fay 17, 1919: Visited Fourth District, conferring third degree
at joint meeting held under the auspices of Dunsmuir Lodge No.
297 at Dunsmuir. Address.
May 20, 1919: Visited Twenty-eighth District, conferring the
third degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Pino'.e Lodge
No. 353 at Pinole. Address.
May 22, 1919: Visited Twenty-third District, conferring the third
degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Amador Lodge
No. 65 at Jackson. Address.
May 23, 1919: Visited Twenty-fourth District, conferring the
third degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Bear Mountain Lodge No. 76 at Angels Camp. Address.
May 24, 1919: Visited Twenty-fifth District, conf..:rring the third
degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Tuolumne Lodge
No. 8 at Sonora. Address. The Grand Master was presented with
a handsome gold nugget scarf pin on this occasion. Presentation for
Tuolumne Lodge made by Past Master Burden, a pioneer and stal·
wart figure in Masonry in this District.
May 26, 1919: Visited Occidental Lodge No. 22, at San Francisco. Address.
May 28, 1919: Visited Forty-second District, conferring the third
degree at joint meeting under auspices of Keith Lodge No. 187 at
Gilroy. Address.

408

I

409

May 31, 1919: Visited Thirty-ninth District, assisting our V.'.
W .' • Grand Secretary in conferring the third degree upon his son at

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

joint meeting held under the auspices of Petaluma Lodge No. 18~ at
Petaluma. Address.

June 21, 1919: Joint reception by lodges of Los Ange'.es.
Address.
June 23, 1919: Visite<l Forty-sixth District, auspices Waucoba
LQdge No. 413, at Big Pine. Conferred third degree. Address.
June 24, 1919: Visited informally lodgeroom and brethren of
Inyo Lodge No. 333 at Independence.
June 25, 1919: Visited Sixty-second District, auspices of Azusa
Lodge No. 305, at Azusa. Conferred third degree. Address:
June 25, 1919: Visited Silver Trowel Lodge No. 415. Conferred third de'gree.
June 26, 1919: Visited Sixty-third District, auspices Artesfa
Lodge :-\o. 377, at Artesia. Conferred third degree. Address.
June 27, 1919: Visited 'Sixty-fifth District, auspices Anaheim
Lodge No. '207, at Anaheim. Conferred third degree. Address.
June 28, 1919: Visited Fifty-sixth District, auspices Ocean Park
Lodge No. 369. Conferred third degree. Address.
July 3, 1919: Visited Speranza ltaliana Lodge Xo. 219 at San
Francisco. Address.
July 14, 1919: Visited Forty-first District, auspices .San Jose
Lodge No. 10. Conferred third degree. Address.
July 18, 1919: Visited Twenty-ninth District, auspices Suisun
Lodge N' o. 55. Conferred third degree. Address.
August 4, 1919: Visited Oakland Lodge of Perfection, A. & A.
S. R., by invitation and addressed the members of that body on the
subject of Grand Lodge and its special activities.
August 18, 1919: Visited Tenth District, auspices Sincerity Lodge
No. 132, at Greenville. Conferred third degree. Address.
August 19, 1919: Visited Xinth District, auspices Hope Lodge
No. 234, at Beckwith. Conferred third degree. Address. Present
on this occasion, P. G. M. Pratt, the Grand Secretary and the Grand
Lecturer of Nevada.
August '20, 1919: Visited Eighth District, auspices Lassen Lodge
No . .149, at SusanviUe. Conferred third degree. Address.
August 21, 1919: Visited Truckee Lodge 'No. 200. Address.
August 23, 1919: Visited First District, auspices Ferndale Lodge
No. 193, at Ferndale. Conferred third degree. Address.
August 25, 1919: Visited Crescent City and Crescent Lodge No.
45 in that city. Address.

410

June 5, 1919: Visited Eighteenth District, conferring the third
degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Santa Rosa Lodge
No. 57 at Santa Rosa. Address.
June 6, 1919: Visited Third Distric~ joint meeting held under
the auspices of Abell Lodge No. 146 at Ukiah. Reception and address.
June 7, 1919: Visited Seventeenth District, conferring third
degree at joint meeting held under the auspices of Hartley Lodge
No. 199 at Lakeport. Address.
June 10, 1919: Visited Fifty-second District, conferring third
degree at joint meeting held under auspices King David's Lodge No.
2fY} at San Luis Obispo.
Address.
June 11, 1919: Visited Fifty-third District, conferring third degree at joint meeting, auspices Oxnard Lodge No. 341 at Oxnard.
Address.
June 12, 1919: . Visited Fifty-fifth District, conferring third
degree. Meeting under the auspices of Unity Lodge No. 368 at Glendale. Address.
June 13, 1919: Visited Sixty-ninth District, conferred third degree. Meeting under the auspices of El Centro Lodge No. 384 at El '
Centro. Address.
June 14, 1919: Visited Seventieth District, conferred third degree. Meeting under the auspices of Silver Gate Lodge No. 296 at
San Diego. Address.
June 15, 1919: Visited Acacia Lodge No. 438 at Los Angeles.
Special meeting called to discuss abandonment of use of German
language by said lodge. Address.
June 16, 1919: Visited Sixty-seventh District, conferred third
degree. Meeting under the auspices of San Bernardino Lodge No.
348 at San Bernardino. Address.
June 17, 1919: Visited Sixty-fourth District. Reception and
musical entertainment. Meeting under auspices of San Pedro Lodge
No. 332 at San Pedro. Address.
June 18, 1919: Visited Sixty-eighth District, conferred third
degree. Meeting under the auspices of Evergreen Lodge No. 259 at
Riverside. Address.
June 19, 1919: Visited Sixtieth District. Meeting under the
auspices Southern Pasadena Lodge No. 367 at Pasadena. Conferred
third degree. Address.
June 20, 1919: Yisited Sixth-first District, aqspices Pomona
Lodge. No. 246, at Pomona. Conferred third degree. Address.

411

August 26, 1919; Joint meeting at Eureka under auspices of
Humboldt Lodge 'No. 79. Conferred third degree. Address.

412

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

August 27, 1919: Visited Second District, auspices Mendocino
Lodge No. 179, at Mendocino. Conferred third degree. Address.
August 29, 1919: Visited Thirty-sixth District, auspices Amity
Lodge N' o. 370. Conferred third degree. Address.
August 12, 1919: Attended meeting under auspices Pacific Lodge
No. 136 and officially on behalf of the Grand Lodge and Masons of
California welcomed members of the Masonic Ambulance Corps.
\Vitne'ssed third degree conferred by them. Address.
September 11, 1919: Visited Twenty-second District, auspices
Palmyra Lodge No. 26, at Placerville. Conferred third degree. Address.
September 23, 1919: Visited Thirty-first District, auspices Apollo
Lodge No. 396. Conferred the third degree. Address.
September 25, 1919: ·Visited Forty-second District, auspices
Pajaro Lodge No. 110, at \Vatsonvillc. Conferred third degree.
Address.
September 26, 1919: Visited Forty-third District, auspices Salinas
Lodge No. 204, at Salinas. Conferred third degree. Ad1lress.
September 29, 1919: Visited King So!omon's Lodge No. 260.
Conferred third degree. Address.
September 30, 1919: Visited Thirty-seventh District, auspic~s
Parnassus Lodge No. 388. Conferred third degree. Address.
October 7, 1919: Officiated at the dedication of Masouic Temple
at Daly City under the auspices of Crocker Lodge No. 454.
I have received reports from almost all the Inspectors aml they
report the Lodges, at least most of them, to he in prosperous condition and all gaining in membership. Brother Reese, Inspector of the
Fifty-third District, conceived the idea of forming an Officers' Assa~
ciation. Meetings are held monthly, alternating in the respective
cities. A dinner is served and a business meeting held, then the.
officers repair to the Lodge room, where either a degree is conferred,
a Lodge of instruction held, some Masonic topic considered, or to
hear a Masonic lecture. These meetings seem to have produced th~
purpose for which they are held, namely the get-together spirit, and
to perfect themselves in the ritual and Masonry in general. It was
my pleasure to attend one of these meetings while holding schools
of instruction in the District, and I was impressed with the splendid
spirit of good fellowship that prevailed, as well as furnishing an •
opportunity for the officers to get better acquainted, and it appeared
that the desired results had been accomplished.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

413

Lodges of instruction have been held at the following places
and times:
San Francisco ............October 12-13
Forbestown ···--------·-···October 19
Chico ............................ October 20
Yuha CitY-··-··················October 21
Lincoln ················-···November 20
Benicia ........... _.... November 21-22
Alturas ................ November 23-24
Windsor ··············-···November 30
Oakland .................... December 1
Lodi .......·-····-····-·······December 5
Willows .................... December 6
Tehama .................... December ')
Sacramento ............ December 8
Modesto ············------December 9
Turlock ·············-······December 10
liakcrslield .............. December 11
Maricopa .................. December 12
Tehachapi ................ December 13
Visalia ...................... December 14
Lindsay .................... December 15
Kingsburg ................ December 16
Dinuba ·················-··-·December 17
Sacramento .............. December 29
Vallejo ................. :........J anttary 4
Folsom ··-····················-January 5
Benicia .......................... January 6
Vaca ville ······-····-·········-January 7
Excelsior Lodge, No. 166.....-..
-················-···············--··-January 12
Rio Vista ................ Jannary 13-14
Y uha CitY············-·····----J anuary 15
Turlock ........................January 16 ·
Lincoln Lodge No. 470 ............
-······················-·············-Jan nary 19
Chico ··············-····-········January 23
Willows ........................ January 24
Redwood City ............ -.J anuary 26
Modesto ........................January 27
Oakland ....................... .] anuary 30
Los Angeles .. _........... Fchruary 2
Compton .................... February 3

Orange ...................... February· 4
Long Beach ..... ······-·-··February 5
Whittier .................... February 6
El Monte .................... February 7
Wilmington .............. February 8
El Ccntro ................ February 9-10
Coronado .................. February 11
San Diego ..............-... February 12
Oceanside .................. February 13
Downey ·····-····--········February 14
Colton ·-················---···February 15
San Ilernardino ........ February 16
Redlands .................... February 17
Perris ...........-.............. February 18
Elsinore -··············--·····February 19
Corona ········-······--······-February 20
Ontario ·····-················February 21
Claremont ·············-····February 22
Anaheim ................... _February 23
Los Angeles .............. February 24
Huntington Park ...... February 25
Ramona ...................... February 26
Pasadena ····-···············February 27
So. Pasadena .............. Fehrnary 28
Gardena .......................... March l
Burbank -······~·-········-······March 2
Acacia Lodge No. 438.. March 3
Highland Park Lodge No. 382
···························-········ .... 11arch 4
JI nntington Beach ........ March 5
Elysian Lodge No. 418 ............. .
-····-···················-.............. March 6
Glendora ················-·········March 7
Covina ............................ March. 8
Los Angeles .................... March 9
Santa Monica .................. March 10
Glendale .......................... March 11
Lancaster ........................ March 12
Bakersfield ...................... March 13
Porterville ··-··················-March 14
Hanford .......................... March 15

414

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Fresno ............................ March 16
Rockridge Lodge No. 468........
........................................ March 18
San Francisco ................ March 19
Oakland .......................... March 20
Hayward ........................ March 21
Calistoga ........................ March 22
Napa ................................ March 23
Martinez .......................... March 27
San Jose .......................... March 29
Concord .......................... March 30
Park Lodge No. 449 ........ April 2
So. San Francisco ............ April 3
Palo Alto ............................ April 5
Pinole ................................April 6
Sonoma .............................. April 7
Sacramento ...................... April 9
10
Colusa
Davis .................................. April 11
Napa .................................. April 12
San Rafael... ....................... April 13
California Lodge No. LApril 16
San Leandro ...................... April 19
Concord ............................ April 22
Newman ............................ April 23
Lodi .................................... April 24
Dixon .................................. April 25
Courtland ..........................April 26
Elk Grove .......................... April 27
Richmond ..........................April 29
Berkeley ............................ April 30
Fresno ................................ May 1
Selma .................................. May 2
Mariposa ............................ May 3
Merced ................................ May 4
Tracy .................................. May 5
Linden ................................ May 6
Maxwell .............................. May 7
Williams .............................. May 8
Grass Vallcy ........................ May 9
Lincoln ................................ May 10
Wheatland .......................... May 11
Hammonton ...................... May 13
Anderson ............................ May 14

Red Bluff ............................ Miy 15
Redding .............................. May 16
Dunsmuir ............................ May 17
McCloud ............................ May 18
Yreka .................................. May 19
Redding .............................. May 20
Corning .............................. May 21
Jackson ..........., .................. May 22
Angels Camp ...................... May 23
Sonora ................................ May 24
Stockton .............................. May 25
Sacramento ........................ May 26
Los f>anos .......................... May Z1
Gilroy .................................. May 28
Petaluma ............................ May ,31
Santa Rosa ........................June 5
Ukiah .................................. June 6
Lakeport ............................ June 7
San Luis Obispo ..............J une 10
Oxnard ................................June 11
Glendale ............................June 12
El Centro ..........................June 13
San Diego .......................... J une l-4
San Bernardino ................ ] une 16
Riverside ............................] tme 18
So. Pasadena ......................] une 19
Pomona ..............................] unc 20
Los Angeles ........................ June 21
Big Pine .............................. J une 23
I nclependence .................... ] une 24
A z11sa ..................................June 25
Artesia ................................ June 26
Anaheim ............................June 27
Ocean Park ........................ ] une 28
Santa Paula........................] une 29
Santa Barbara....................Jtme 30
Lincoln Lodge X o. 470 .... J uly 8
Victory U. D ......................July 9
Bethlehem No. 453 ............ July 10
Rloomlleld ..........................July 12
San J use .............................. July 14
Hay View No. 401.. ............ July 17
Suisun ..................................] uly 18
Oakland No. 188................July 19

GUA1'D LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Santa Rosa ..........................July 20
Guerneville .......................... ] uly 22
Petaluma ............................ July 24
So. San Francisco ............ ] uly 25
Santa Cruz .......................... July 27
Hollister ..............................July 28
Palo Alto ..............................July 29
King City .............................. July 30
San MigueL........................July 31
Arroyo ............................ August l
Oxnard .......................... August 2
Lompoc .......................... August 3
Santa Maria .................. August 4
Speranza Italiana .......... August 7
Alta Vista No. 464........ August 8
Santa Clara.................... August 9
Pacific Lodge No. 136.. August 10
Oakland .......................... August 14
Fruitvale ........................ August 16
Greenville ...................... August 18
Beckwith ........................ August 19
Susanville ...................... Augus.t 20
Truckee .......................... August 21
Ferndale ........................ August 23
Crescent City ............ August 24-25
Eureka ............................ August 26
Mendocino .................... August 27
Amity No. 370.............. August 29
Ifrcntwood .................... August 30
Speranza Italiana .. September l
Plymouth ................ September 3

415

Jackson .................... September 4
Angels Camp .......... September 5
Sonora ...................... September 6
Oakdale .................. September 7
Nevada City............ September 8
Alleghany .............. September 9
Colfax ...................... September 10
Placerville .............. September 11
Sacramento ............ September 12
Smartsville .............. September 13
Chico ··············'·········September 14
Willows .................. September 15
Corning .................... September 16
·w eaverville ............ September 17
Igo ............................ September 18
Dunsmuir ................ September 19
Red BlufL ............... September 21
Roseville .................. September 22
Watsonville ............ September 25
Salinas ...................... September 26
Antioch .................... September 28
Vallejo .......................... October 2
Middletown ................ October 3
Lakeport ...................... October 4
Healdsburg ................ October 5
Mill Valley.................. October 6
Victory U. D ............... October 8
Grafton ........................ October 9
Lincoln No. 470.......... 0ctober 11
San Francisco ........ October 12-13

Thanking the Grand Lodge and Brethren for the honor conferred as your Grand Lecturer, which I have endeavored to merit
to the best of my ability.
Fraternally submitted,
THOMAS J. BAKER,
Grand Lecturer.

The report was referred to the following committee:
Will H. Fischer, Arthur Joel, L. C. Drapeau.

416

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAXD LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE AMERICAN'S CREED
Brother Eugene S. Elkus presented the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Whereas, There appears to be a world-wide and organized movement fostered by enemies of law and order to subvert and destroy
government, which movement is very manifest in our own free Amer~
ira; and
Whereas, Masonry recognizes that all nature is and must be subservient and obedient to law _and order, and
Whereas, Masonry believes in and inculcates obedience to human
laws and enjoins loyalty to established government; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California in annual co1111111111ication assembled does
renew its pledge of absolute fca'.ty to our Government, and further
pledges the entire membership to use all lawful means to check the
growth of the destructive and treasonable doctrines that now threaten
our free institutions;
Resolved further, That the American's creed as accepted by the
National Publicity Committee on behalf of the United States give.s
expression to the loyalty of every true lover of country, and as
Masons we and each of us affirm our belief therein as fol'.ows:
"I believe in the United States of America as a government of
the people, by the people, for the people, whose just powers arc derived from the consent of the governed; a democracy in a republic;
a sovereign nation of many sovereign States; a perfect Union one
and inseparable, established. upon those principles of frecclom, equality,
j usticc and humanity for which. American patriots sacrilicecl their
lives and fortunes. I therefore believe it is my duty to my country
to love it; to support its Constitution; to obey its laws; to respect
its flag; and to defend it against all enemies."
Resolved, That the Grand Secretary cause these Resolutions to
be printed in sufficient number to supply every Mason in California
with one copy, that he send them in suitable quantities to the Secretaries of our Lodges with instrnctions to mail or otherwise clclivcr
to each member a copy thereof.
Resolved, That the Master of each Lodge at the next annual
meeting, cause the same to be read, and to direct his brethren in
):..odge assembled to repeat with him the American's Creed.
Respectfully submitted,
EuGENE

S. ELKUS.

417

The resolutions were adopted as read, except the paragraph which provides for printing and circulating the same,
which matter was referred to the Committee on Finance.
That committee subsequently reported, recommending "that
in view of the fact that this Grand Lodge now has an Educational Committee, that this matter be referred to said
committee for disposition." Later, the Finance Committee
recommended that the resolutions be printed and distributed under the auspices of the Committee on Education, and
it was so ordered.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock

vV ednesday morning.

3Ju (l;rauh iljohgr
Morning Session.
Wednesday, October 15, 1919.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and
approved.
RESOLUTION
The following resolution was presented by H. R.
Braden, Past Master of Charter Rock Lodge No. 410:
Whereas, Crave manifestations of unrest, sedition and treason
pervade all ranks of society in the United States, as shown by widespread propaganda maintained by men and women who masqucraclc
as good citizens, hut who are at heart anarchists, and
Whereas, We believe the time has arrived for the disp'.ay of
true patriotic leadership; therefore, he it
Resolved, by the Grand Lodge of California, that measures be
taken to instruct the subordinate Lodges of this jurisdiction to use
constant ancl vigorous efforts at their meetings to oppose this grave
clanger which threatens our country, hy informal speeches and acldrcsscs, the presentation of facts a11d arguments and hy any other

418

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

effective means which shall specifically and directly oppose the teachings of Bolshevism.

Referred to the Committee on Masonic Education,
which committee subsequently reported that the spirit and
subject matter of the resolution would be covered by the
report of the Committee on Masonic Education.
REPORTS OF BOARDS OF RELIEF
The reports of the several Boards of Relief were presented and referred to the Committee on Finance:
RE'.PORT OF TH}t MASONIC IlOARD OF RltLlEF OF SAN }'RANCJSCO

To the M.'. W.'. Grand Lodge of California, and the Lod1;es constituting the Board:
We herehy beg to present the following report for the year beginning
August 27, 1918, and ending August 25; 1919, both d:ites inclusive.
A year of great activities has just closed, and this Board has justified its existence by extending its labors beyond those heretofore under~
taken.
The relief work done is fully shown in our report annexed, and we
have nothing to add thereto, except to praise those jurisdictions which
show a true Masonic spirit by responding readily and liberally to the
calls of their distressed brethren. Some of the j urisdietions are models
which we wish others would imitate.
The Masons of San Francisco fully realize their responsibility in
caring ,for those in their midst, and do not try to shirk, and it is a matter
of congratulation that letters from which the following paragraph is
taken arc not numerous. (This letter is in answer to one requesting
relief for a brother aged eighty years.)
"It seems to me that if we should assume the burden of seeing him
through, together with our other demands, thM our members would
soon. feel that being a Mason r.,qas not worth while, and wou·ld all desert
us. If he has been in the Poor House four years, we should thinli
he would as soon die there as any where else."
We wish to add that this brother is being taken care of by this
Board, notwithstanding the fact thnt the Lodge to which he has belonged for a great many years, refuses to do its duty.
The thanks of the Fraternity arc due to our brethren of the Medical Profession, who have given so unstintingly of their time and ability
for the unfortunate ones in need of their services. Without them we

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

419

should fall far short of doing our duty to the sick, and we hereby thank
Doctors ]. C. Egeberg, Aaron S. Green, Otto Freyermuth, William P.
Read, Jacob Schwarz, Wilhelm Waldeyer and A. L. W. Zillmer.
The epidemic of Spanish Influenza tested the ability for our relief
work more than anything has done for years, and we are glad to report
that we were able to attend to all cases coming to our notice, being ably
assisted by a great many volunteers.
During the month of April a Children's Health Center was conducted by us in our rooms, in the Masonic Temple, where 211 children
of Masons, up to the age of six years, were examined, and the following
table shows the results:
CHILDREN'S WELFARE WORK CONDUCTED BY THE
BOARD IN APRIL, 1919.
Total examinations ............................................................ 211
Total 100 per cent children .............................................. 81
No. under Nuinher
Number
Number
Number
Number
l year
1-2 years
2-3 years
3-4 years
4-5 years 5-6 years
37
35
44
28
27
40
CoRRl!CTAnLE DEFECTS.
Under 1 yr. 1:2 yrs. 2-3 yrs. 3-4 yrs. 4-5 yrs. 5-6 yrs.
4
7
Adenoids ........................ 4
6
5
11
Tonsils ........................... 9
14
19
11
8
17
Teeth ................................ 1
1
2
2
7
10
Eye ..................................
1
2
Ear ..................................
1
3
Posture .......................... 2
2
3
1
3
Nutrition ........................ 4
2
4
1
5
7
Below wt. or height... ... 5
5
11
3
6
12
W c desire to thank the following doctors who assisted in this
We'.fare work: W. C. Eidcnmullcr, L. L. Dorr, G. F.'Brackett, Wilhelm
Wal<lcyer, Arthur H. White, Frederick G. Canney, E. V. Lonigo, E. L.
Herrington, J. C. Lewis, Chas J. Lander, A. L. W. Zillmer, H. A. Hess,
W. P. Read, S. J. Hunkin, W. A. Meierdicrks, S. C. R. Edwards.
We also desire to thank the many ladies who assisted the doctors
during this work, and who gave so unstintingly of their time.
In conclusion, we desire to thank the members of the Board ·for
their support and assistance, and trust that they will find their reward
in the knowledge of the good they have helped to accomplish during
the year.
Fraternally submitted,
Dl!LJJERT M. BROY, Chairman.

Lito BRUCK, Secretary.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

420

421

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BALANCE SHEET.

RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY
JURISDICTIONS.

Cash on Hand August 26, 1918 ............................................................$ 4,935.69

UNITED STATES.

RECEIPTS.

Jurisdiction-

Refunds-California Jurisdiction ......................................$4,219.37
Other Jurisdictions in U. S ............................. 6,545.86
Foreign Jurisdictions ........................................ 1,035.68
Grand Lodge ...................................................... 4,585.24

$16,386.15

TOTAL REFUNDS ........................................................... .

Assessments-City Lodges .................................................... $4.282.0'1
Interest on Bonds ................................................................. . 545.00
Interest on Deposits ............................................................... . 144.48

4,971.48

.

$26,293.32

TOTAL CASH AVAILADLE ............................................... .
DISDURSEMF,NTS.

Relief-California Jurisdiction ............................................$5,262.63
Other Jurisdictions in U. S ................................. 9,401.31
Foreign Jurisdictions ............................................ 1,928.37
Unknown Lodge ...................................................... 360.00
Dimitted Cases ........................................................ 420.00

$17,372.31

TOTAL RF,LIF,F ............................................................ ..

Expenses-S~~i~i;s s~;-;ii~~·-::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$2,~~g~~
Rent ....................................................................
Telephone ............................................................
Telegrams ..........................................................

360.00
153.40
' 11.74
-~- 3,114.52

Conducting Children's Health Centre ................$ 91.00
Donations to Employment Bureau ........................ 650.00
~dditional for Liberty Bonds ............................... 399.37

- - 1,140.37
- - 21,627.20
BALANCE ON HAND, August 25, 1919........................ ..

$ 4,666.12

Received from
Individuals
Lodges

Alabama ---···-····················· $
10.00
Arizona ········-····-··············
30.00
Arkansas .......................... ················
Colorado ·························· ................
Connecticut ······················
225.00
Delaware ·························· ················
District of Columbia ......
15.00
Georgia ······························
160.00
Illinois ·····························2.00
Iowa ··································
26.00
Idaho ································
20.00
300.00
Kansas ······························
Kentucky ·························· ················
Massachusetts ················
1000
Maine ································
35.00
Michigan ··························
10.00
Mississippi ························ ················
Minnesota ···················-···· ················
Missouri -···························
12.00
Montana ·························· ················
Nebraska ··-······················· ················
13.00
North Dakota ··················
190.00
Nevada ······························
New York ························
120.00
North Carolina ·············· ················
Ohio ··························-·······
242.63
Oklahoma ····················-···
130.00
Oregon ····························
65.00
Pennsylvania ··················
80.00
Philippine Islands ··········
335.00
20.00
South Dakota ··················
15.00
Texas ······························
90.00
Utah ··································

Received
Total

$10.00

10.00
40.0J

--~--------·····

················

................

207.18
········-------················

$

207.18
225.00
················

················
171.00

15.00
168.05
2.00
256.00
190.00
682.75
123.50
338.75
35.00
181.00

················

I"•··············

270.00
105.00
132.45
43.00

270.00
117.00
132.45
43.00
13.00
41000
460.00
5.00
322.63
215.00
280.10
80.00
335.00
20.00
40.00
90.00

. ...............

8.05
................

230.00
170.00
382.75
123.50
328.75

················

220.00
340.00
5.00
80.00
85.00
215.10
················
················
OOOOOOoOHOoOOOO

25.00
................

Disbursemen ts

$

10.00
40.00
315.00
242.18
226.70
231.00
15.00
110.30
97.57
695.85
250.00
652.75
148.50
349.60
239.47
290.85
25.00
359.16
181.00
132.45
28.00
30.00
750.00
526.00
36.05
665.33
225.00
375.00
85.00
315.00

................

40.00
20.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

422

Received from
Lodges
Individuals
Jurisdiction88.20
Vermont ............................
················
940.25
25.00
Washington
80.00
30.00
Wisconsin ························
75.00
Wyoming·······················'·· -···············

Received
Total
88.20
965.25
110.00
75.00

Disbursemen ts
175.00
1,291.18
152.37
75.00

Total ······················-· $2,298.83
246.15
California ..........................

$4,247.03

$6,545.86

$9,401.31

3.973.22

4,219.37

5,262.63

Total u. s................. $2,544.98

$8,220.25

$10,765.23

$14,66~.94

$ 571.10
25.00
150.00

$ 571.10
45.00
150.00

················
................

················
················

················

················
················

················

5.00

----·-···--·-···

$ 632.88
45.00
186.79
71.20
297.00
89.00
384.00
4500

·············-··

10.00

5.00

·-··········--··

················

96.88
48.70

••••••• 0 ••••••••••••••

----

----

----

I'ORE!GN.

Alberta ···············--·········--··
British Columbia ..............
Canada ······························
England ·············-·;············
Ireland ······························
Mexico ······························
New Brunswick ..............
N cw South Wales ............
Nova Scotia ····················
Ontario ..............................
Saskatchewan ················
Scotland ····························

.

-···············

$20.00
················
················
················

89.00

15.00

Total ·······················--· $ 134.00

89.00
5.m
10.00
5.00
96.88
63.70

rn:oo

5.00
100.00
62.50

----

---

----

$ 901.68

$1,035.68

$1,928.37

Din1itted cases .............................................................................................. $420.00
Latlge tmknown ............................................................................................ 360.00

ASSESSMENTS RECEIVED FROM LODGES CONSTlTUTlNG
THE BOARD.
California
..........................................................................................
$ 215.45
1
63.05
17 La Parfaite Union ........................................................................... .
223.80
Occidental
.........................................................................................
.
22
203.15
30 Golden Gate ..................................................................................... .
132.90
Mount
Moriah
.................................................................................
.
44
203.50
Fidelity
...............................................................................................
.
120
70.85
Hermann
...........................................................................................
.
127
244.10
Pacific
.................................................................................................
.
136
177.55
139 Crockett ............................................................................................. .
131.45
Oriental
.............................................................................................
.
144

166
169
212
216
219
226
260
344
354
360
370
374
375
388
393
400
435
449
453
454
455
461
462
464
470

Excelsior
Mission ............................................................................................... .
South San Francisco ..................................................................... .
Doric ................................................................................................. .
Speranza Italiana ............................................................................. .
San Mateo ......................................................................................... .
King Solomon's ............................................................................... .
Starr King ....................................................................................... .
Presidio ............................................................................................. .
San francisco ................................................................................. .
Amity ................................................................................................. .
Jewel ................................................................................................. .
Richmond ........................................................................................... .
Parnassus ......................................................................................... .
Balder ................................................................................................. .
Burlingame ....................................................................................... .
Fairmount ......................................................................................... .
Park ................................................................................................... .
Bethlehem ......................................................................................... .
Crocker ................................................................................................ .
Golden West ..................................................................................... .
Argonaut ........................................................................................... .
Paul Revere ..................................................................................... .
Alta Vi,ta ......................................................................................... .
Lincoln ............................................................................................... .

423
165.70
314.05
73.40
179.68
81.55
52.60
217.90
114.80
120.65
102.45
127.70
34.30
139.80
111.40
110.95
69.70
154.10
99.75
52.80
25.40
81.40
39.35
102.65
24.60
19.60

Total ...................................................................................................... $4,282.00
FUNI\l!ALS

During the year the following have been lmried or their remains
shipped according to the wishes of the families:

1918
S<'pt. 21 Samuel William Barnes ....Monrovia No. 308 ............ Monrovia, Cal.
(let. 5 Elisha Don McCrary ........Blanco No. 48 .................... Marshlield, Ore.
10 John Bauer ........................Kennett No. 456 ................ Kennett, Cal.
15 Joseph Malais .................. North Star No. 91... ......... Fort Jones, Cal.
16 Wm. Robertson Brmmer.,St. John's No. 37 ............... Yreka, Cal.
16 John Pugh ..........................Perfection No. 9................ Calgary, Alberta
16 George Hall ......................Monterey No. 13 ................ Monterey N. L. Mex.
17 James H. Lce ....................Calvcrt City No. 543 ........ Pcducah, Ky.
18 Jack I. Pugh ......................Perfection No. 9................ Calgary, Alberta
21 King Brandenbury ..........San Miguel No. 285 .......... San Miguel, Cal.
28 Alfred Berard ..................Stanislaus No. 206 .............. Modcsto, Cal.
28 Robert Lee Rcading ........Reading No. 254 ................ Redding, Cal.

424

1918
Oct. 29 Roy Oscar B. Gunn ..........Mt. Pisgah No. 96 ..............Cripple Creek, Colo,
29 Bert Garfield Hines ..........Mt. Moriah No. 19............ Douglas, Ariz.
29 Walter Joseph Koehn ......Santa Barbara No. 192.. .. Santa Barbara, Cal.
29 Oscar Figle Goodday ......Tablc Mountain No. 124.. Chcrokec, Cal.
31 James John Lcwis ............ Friendship No. 210............ San Jose, Cal.

Nov.

3 Frederick Zensen .............. Wasco No. 15 ...................... Dalles, Ore.
6 Mrs. Emma M. Andrew ..Lamar No. 292.................... Lamar, Mo.
6 William D. Mcrritt .......... Edisto No. 148.................... Ridge Springs, S. C.
5 Milton G. Phil'.ips ..............Lebanon No. 104................Tacoma, Wash.
·.
8 Charles M. Bottomley ...... San Joaquin No. 19......... Stockton, Cal.
10 Herbert La Ray Gillett .... Constellation No. 95 ......... Fredonia, Kas.
13 Hans Jacob Gcrshoi... ....... Silver Gate No. 296 ....... San Diego, Cal.
19 John Samuel Egger ..........Granite No. 222.................. Rocklin, Cal.
21 Field Ellison Smith .......... Newkirk No. 88 .................. Newkirk, Okla.
23 Henry P. Leonard ............ Franklin No. 5.................... Port Gamble, Wash.;,
24 Henry Fred ErrctL .........Frcsno No. 247 ................... Fresno, Cal.
30 Cyrus Hout ------··----------------Galion No. 414................... Galion, 0,

Dec.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l.'HE

3 Hugh Wm. Pritchard ...... Home No. 342................... Ft. Wayne, In'1.
17 Thomas Hussey Nelmes .. Corona No. 324.................. Pasadena, Cal.
20 William Pierce Brown .... Norfolk Union .................. Randolph, Mass.
23 Matthieu Flouraud ............ Santa Rosa No. 57 ............ Santa Rosa, Cal.
24 John Morrell Fulton ........ Gcorge Washington 6...... San Luis Potosi, Me:ii:'·
24 Robert C. Moutford ........ Outlook No. 65 .................. 0utlook, Saskatch'wn
26 James Emile Jacger .......... Honolulu No. 409 .............. Honolulu, T. H.
,
27 John Shaw Young ............ Sotoyoma No. 123............ Healdsburg, Cal.

1919
Jan.
6 James Wm. Fraser ............. Mcndocino No. 179.......... Mendocino, Cal.
8 Mark Marccn Fowlcr. ..... Chetopa No. 73 .................. Chctopa, Kas.
9 James Wesley Stcwart.. .. Tonopah No. 28 .................. Tonopah, Nev.
13 Benjamin K. Michacls .... Morning St;1r No. 68 ....... Stockton, Cal.
13 Thomas E. Bourchicr ...... Port Townsend No. 6 ..... Pt. Townsend,
16 Arthur Cole ........................ Anvil No. 140...................... N ome, Alaska
18 J olm W. Gamble ................ Helena No. 3...................... Helena, Mont.
31 Anna Cecile Andcrson .... Forbestown No. 50........... Forbestown, Cal.
Feb.

12 Mrs. E. R. Merri!L ......... Somerset No. 34................ Skowhegan, Me.
14 Herman Sachs .................. Moneta No. 405 .................. Los Angeles, Cal.

Mar.

4 William E. Veazie ............ St. John No. 618, S. C..... Victoria, H.K., China
5 George Heinemann .......... Hawaiian No. 21.. .............. Honolulu, T. H.
7 John Henry Scotford ...... Multnomah No. L. ........... Oregon City, Ore.

425

1919
;\pr. 24 Thomas N. Smith
· N o. 76 ____ A ngels Camp, Cal.
. . -------------- B ear M 01.1nt am
25 George W. W1lhams ........ Montezuma No. 30............ Gol<lfield, Nev.
~lay
1 Herman Jacobson ............ Hebron No. 354.................. Mexico, Mo.
2 L~wrence Laurcnze·n ...... Santa Cruz No. 38 ............. Santa Cruz, Cal.
7 Richard Emmet Doran .... San Joaquin No. 19............ Stockton Cal
12 Paul Harold Auerbach .... Solano No. 229................... .Vallejo, Cal. .
14 Grace Brown .................... Battle Creek No. 12......... Battle Creek Mich
20 Alfred Carroll Lowe!L ...North East No. 266............ Ft. Bidwell Cal .
22 James Claud Mahan ........ Alcatraz No. 244............... Oakland, C~l. .
.J1111c 3 Edward E. Sterling.......... Granite No. 222.................. Rocklin, Cal.
1; ~enry C: Curtis ................ Eureka No. 16................... Auburn, Cal.
1 'rank Pierce ......................Philanthropic ...................... M arblcheacl Mass
17 W'll'
1 1am Don Becch .......... Concord No. 117................ Sacramcnto,' Cal. .

,Inly
!\Ilg.

16 Lewis W. Knight .............. Evergreen No. 259 ............ Rivcrsiclc, Cal.
31 Anna M. Hauck .............. McMillan No. 141............. Cincinnati O
13 Bendix Hcndriksen ........ Humboldt No. 79 ................ Eurcka, ~al. .
Total, 66.

REPORT OF THE MASONrC EMPLOYMENT BUREAU OF
SAN FRANCISCO.
The Ma sonic Employment Bureau of San Francisco submits its
report for the year ending August 31, 1919.
. The activities of the Bureau for the year rrportcd were conducteil
'.lurmg ~ period of terrible war. We arc proud in the thought that
111 tl~c t~mc of o~r Nation's need the Bureau was able to render full
scr~1cc m supplymg much needed help to the many inc111stries, all of
which were necessary to the successful conduct of the war.
W c arc now aga~n approaching normal conditions. Tn the readj nstmcnt of commerce, 1t1 the reconstruction of the relation between employer and cmplo~ec, .the B.ureau. will play its full part. The experience
of ~he past. has iustified its existence many times over; we hope to
ac111cvc a still greater measure of success in the future.
Th_c Employment Bureau can be developed to its utmost usefulness
o?ly with the unqualified cooperation of all the mrrnl:crs of the fratcrmty. The brethren have done nobly in the past and we are thankful;
we ask the same loyalty and devotion in the future that our fondc t
hopes may be realized.
s
Fraternally suhmittccl,
A RTTTUR JOEL, Prcsiclcnt.
GEORGE S. BA UM, Secretary.

426

427

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PlWCEEDINGS OF THE

Applications filed during the year ..........................................
Total positions secured .......................................................... .
Applications withdrawn ..........................................................
Applications on file ....................................................... ··········

2,256
2,177
16
63

MALE.

./\.pplications file<] ...... .................... >4·-·········· ...... H.....H·-··-·····
Applications withdrawn ...................... ···· ··· ··· ··········· ·····
Applications on file ................................................................... .
Positions sccurccl ..................................................................... .
•H

l,811

12
53
1,746

FEMALE.

Applications filed ........................................................................
Applications withdrawn ............................................................
Applications on file ....................................................................
Positions scc11rc(l ......................................................................

DISilURSEMENTS.

Salaries ......................................................................................$1,470.00
Rent ............................................................................................ 180.00
Printing ....................................................................................
19.00
Telephone and messenger.................................................... 150.00
Carfare, stationery, postage, etc.........................................
52.45

Balance on hand August 31, 1919..................................................$ I 15.14

445
4
10
431

BOARD OF RELmr OF LOS ANGELES

To the Most Worshipful Grnnd Lodge of California:

The Masonic Board of Relief of the City of Los l\ngclcs lwrcwith presents the following report of its lahors from September 1,
1918, to August 31, 1919.

Total c-xpcnsc for tlic year ...................................................... . $1,871.45
2,177
Total positions secure(!. ............................................................ .
A VERACE COST PER POSITION SECURED .... ·····

1,871.45

86 cents

DAtANCE SHEET.
Balance on ham\ Septcmher 1, 1918. ..................... ·· ............................$ 136 -59

The Masonic Boart! of Relief is composed of the Masters (exofficio) of the twenty-eight Blue Lodges of this city, and two mcmhcrs
appointed hy thC'm, togctht•r with the Past Crand Masters rl'siding
within the City of Los Angeles, the Inspectors of the several Masonic
Districi·s of Los A ngclt's City, the manager of the M asonk Employment Hnreau, and one Past Worthy Matron of the Order of the
nastcrn Star.
OJ11•'JCJ\H8:
Prcsi(knt, Brother John l !ill Bean; Vicc-Pn'sidt•nt,
Brother Dana Reid Wdk•r; Treasurer, Brothcr Motky lfrwes Flint;
Secretary, Brotht•r John Marcus Dunsmoor.

RECl\!PTS.

California Cmnnrnndcry No. I, K. T ...................................$;~-~~
Gol<irn Catt- Comman(kry No. 16, K. T ............. ···········:···· - ·
San Francisco Cmmnarnkry No. 41, K. T......................... 60.~
San Francisco Chapter No. 1, K 1\. M .................... ········ l;~California Chapter No. 5, R. /\. M ....................................... 1 ;~·~
Mission Chaptt•r No. 79, R. A. '."f ········ ····················· ······· 1 ·
20 00
San Franch;co Lo(\gc of l't·~·frctton No. !.. ...................... 120.(0
California Lodiis of l't·rfectirnt No. 10 ................................ 1 · J
·l·
T ·111pl" \ !\ 0 N. M. Shrine ............................... 240.fll
TS ,lJ]l (
'• I " ' •
'
•
(ii) 00
San Francisco l'yramit! No. I. !\. E. 0. Sc1ols ................
Board of Ht•lid of San Francisco ........................................ 650.00

State1! Mcetings are held 011 the first Sunday of each month.
offieers form an Ext•c11tiV(• Hoard arnl are on duty dai:y.

The

H is 11tmt•cessary to go into mirrnk dl'tails whkh have l'allecl for
the ('Xt•rdse of Masonic Charity. Suffice it to say that we have
calkcl upon onr he st j udgnwnt to ai<l us in dispt•nsing the funds
place<! in our hands for that purpose.

1,850.00

Total cash availahle ........................................................................... $1,986.59

At the rNJllcst of Past Gram[ Master llrotlwr Motley 11. Flint,
the Manager of the Christmas Charilk's of i\1 Malaikah Shrine, Mrs.
Ob Taylor, my assistant, and a Past Worthy Matron of the Orck·r
of the Eastern Star, dispensed nearly live hmH[re<I dollars of thdr
money for the bcm•fit of ncccly familit•s whose wants conld hanl!y he
snpplkd from the funds of this Boan[ nf Tklid, hut who were
nevertheless worthy ancl indeed needy.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

428

GUAND LODG!D OF CALIFORNIA

With this money, together with $945.35 supplied from the funds
of the Board of Relief for the relief of those whose Masonic standing was without question, she was able to go into the open market
and purchase food, clothing, household utensils, invalid chairs, toys,
etc., and by paying cash secure the discount and thereby extend the
scope of her charity.
}'RAUDS

While the fraud and the impostor are always abroad in the land
and their cunning will at times deceive the most watchful, I believe
they were fewer this year than usual. On the other hand, there is
undouhteclly an increase in the number of wives seeking to locate
runaway husbands, and Brothers are trying to locate runaway wives.
This latter is to he deplored.
INVALIDS COMING

Let me again call attention to the wrong that is done to your
invalid Brother. and to the Masons of California hy sending your sick
out here, unless they have money sufficient to proviclc for thcmsclvc5.
Tt is just as expensive to live here as anywhere, and costs more for
burial expenses. Just look at the burial record in this report.
Rcmcmhcr a sick man. CAN'T get hy the examining physicians
for the larger corporations, and it is of no use to try.
The officers upon. v. hose shuulclcrs falls the work of this office
do it cheerfully and elevate their entire time thereto. I hcrcwitT1
present a compact statement of its magnitude, viz., since September

I, 1918.
More than 5000 letters sent.
More than 300 telegrams sent.
More than 400 investigations.
And arranged for the disposition of 136 deaths, besides other
miscellaneous matters attcnclccl to on the spot in the office.
DllATHS

During the year cncling August 31, 1919, the following 136
Masons or mcmhcrs of their families have passed to their final
rcwarcl, and their remains have been given hurial with Masonic
honors, or shipped according to the wishes of the families, viz. :
1918
Aug. 29 Alfred M. Thornberg ..... Samaritan No. 105 ............ Marion, Ind.
31 Joseph H. Martin .............. Flagstaff No. 7.................. Flagstaff, Ariz.
Sept. 8 Joseph B. Crcamcr. ........... Arizona No. 2.................... Phocnix, Ariz.
19 Artemas L. Grow .............. King Solomon No. 5........Tombstone, Ariz.
22 Eli A. Cook. ....................... Spickardvi!lc No. 524 ....... Spickard, Mo.
2.1 Phillip C. Armbrustcr ...... Apollo No. 642.................... Chicago, Ill.

Oct.

429

10 Chas. F. Cox ...................... Anahuca No 3
M . c·
12 Wi J N
· ·········· ······· ex1co 1ty Mex
n. . ewcornb .............. DePeyster No 573
D p
,
.
16 Lewis A D ·
'
·
·········· e eyster, N. Y.
. wmneL. ........... So. Park No. 662
Ch"
Ill
18 Jas W H"ll
················ 1cago, .
.
•
I ......................•.York No 563
K
c·
25 Wm T B
N
·
·············· ······ ansas 1ty Mo
· · urns.................... ewport No. 358
N
'
·
25 Chas. P. Glassbrook. ......... Capitol No 66 .. ······· ... ew~ort, Ky.
27 Frank H
r
· ··· ··········· ·· Lansmg, Mich.
·
a e.................. Monument No 293
A
h
27 John H
lk
.
·
··· ······ · rapa oe, Neb.

w
w
.
a er ................ Kensmgton No. 804

Ch"
Ill
29 Jesse Lee Mor
F .
····· · · 1cago, .
ton.............. !mt N I!.. .... ·
St1"l II Oki
29 Abraham B Bro
.. ··········
we ,
a.
.
wn .......... St. John No. 233
P"tt t
p
30 Geo. S. Hutchinson ..........Huron No. 26 ·········· .. I s on,, a.
Nov. 3 W 111 M Al
cl
A
········· ········· Huron, So Dakota
.
.
exan er.......... mity No. 169
Rusi ·n
b
Thomas E. Symon<ls ........Khurum No.
M" 1v1 e, . c ..
1 Andrew M. Isom .............. Hope No. 234. ............ B mkne~pho!C1s, Mmn.
2 Jno D Murra
.
············· ···· ec wit , al.
. .
y.................. Pac1fic No. 233
N
y k N
5 Samuel Van Hook. ...........War Eagle No ··4············. e_w or , . Y.
10 Robt C k R
S
· 29 .......... W.tr Eagle Ark
. oo
oy ............... an Bernardino N 348 S· B
,
.
12 Marion, A. Felt ..................Sylvan No. 303
o.
~n . ~rn.arclino, Cal.
13 Chas H B
.
······ ·· · ··· · .S11Jcla1rv11ic N y
. . urger ................0 nental No 144
S F
. , . .
13 Adam E B h
I
·
···· ······· · an 'ranc1sco Cai
. o 11.. .................. nglewood No 421
I I
cl
,
.
17 Rev. A. P. Peel... ............... Yell No. 64 .
·········· ng cwoo , Cal.
22 Wilson Gruwell
,
G
················ ......... Carrollton, Ark.
13 Max A. Durh ··················T ave! No. 48······················· S o. B en d , Wash.
am................ orrance N 0 447
T
13 Joseph c Ch · t
S
·
·············· orrance Cai
r1s ensen ...... anta Barbara N 0 192 Sant B 'b ·
.
15 Geo. A. Merrill ..................Wilshirc No 4
.
..
a ar ara, Cal.
26 Jno W w· kl d
y
· 45 ............. Los Angeles Cal
. :
•
IC an ··········. ork No. 563
K . c· ,
.
27 L1lh·m For!
C
·· ·················· ansas 1ty Mo
'
JCS •···••····•·····•••• ovenant No 456
Pl ·1 1 I . ,
.
28 Joseph LcRo
M M .
·
·········· ... 11 ace ph1a, Pa.
y ................... t.
onahNo 19
D
1
23 Geo. G. WadlcH
Mt z·
·
··········· W
oug as, Ariz.
'"' i..............
• 1011 Nu. 327
·t I,!· ·
30 Horace R Tut! ·11
J· ,.
······· ······
cs
ctllls, Mo.
~
.
11 ············• amestown No 6
Jam t
Dec.
2 I•ran.k 0. Lambcrson ........Hancock No. IOI············ .. G cs -~wn, N. Dak.
2 E<lwm C R
L
······· ·· ···· rccnheld Ind
· agers ................ otus No. 625
T I d
'. ·
7 John Be
GI
·················· 0 c o, Ohio
mon........................ cnwoocl No. 65
GI
. .
Cl ~nwoo<l Sp1 mgs, Col.
7 Oscar Stromberg ................. Lincoln Park No ..
······· 1.1cago, Ill.
6 Frank Hilliar.. .................... Mt. Pisgah No .
14 Furci Howard
R k
· 96 ............Cnpple Creek, Col.
······················ oc port No. 830.
Rock
. .
11 W1lhs Geo. Emerson ........ Encampment No j9··· ····· E
port, Ill.
13 Fred'k Grunwakl... ...........St. John No 113.
······· ··c ncampi_nent, Wyo.
21 Thomas N k
M .
. .
. . ············ oncord1a, Kan
o es..................... ystic Tie No. 17............. Whitehall M .
21 Wm. 0. Wasswe1ler .......... Phoenix No. 178
S
, _ontana
20 Albert O L ·
F 1
·············· an Bernarclmo Cal
· ew1s ................ u ton No. 210
Fu!t
K
, ' .
S A
··················
on, an
24 Geo Jessu
·
P·························· t. nclrews No 64
w·
.
24 Marion L Gard
E
Cl .
· ·········· msteacl, Conn.
.
ncr.. .......... au a1re No 112
Ea Cl .
24 Chas. W. Shi
y ·
·
············ u a1re, Wis.
pp.................. entas No. 926 .................Chicago, Ill.

°·

3

Ii.z . ·········

6i·i--······

N

430

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF TH:Jil

Dec. 25 Darius F. Rccse ..................St. Paul No. 3................... St. Paul, Minn.
26 .Merri'.l BlaitL ................... Corinthian No. 241... ......... Detroit, Mich.
27 Wm. WincU\l (llemittcd) Peoria No. 15 ..................... Peoria, Ill.
28 Jas. A. Parker .................... Lancastcr No. 437 .............. Lancaster, Cal.
28 Fred W. Saltcr ..................Crockett Ko. 139 ............... San Francisco, Cal.
28 Alhert W. Bennett.. ..........Camhria No. 259 ............... Cambria, Mich.
31 Alexander McDonald ...... Myrtle No. 795 ................. Chicago, Ill.
1919
7 Isaac Peterson ....................Landmark No. 422 ............Chkago, Ill.
Jan.
9 F. V. Marvin ..................... El Paso No. 130.............. El Paso, 'Tex.
9 Frank W. Blair. ................. Hespcria No. 411... ........... Chicago, Ill.
22 Ray M. Staley .................... So. Denver No. 93 ........... Denver, Colo.
21 Walter Ely..........................Minncapolis No. 19 .......... Minneapolis, Minn.
25. Hiram M. Lamphear ........ Kansas City No. 220......... Kansas City, Mo.
26 J. Howard W. Ransom ....Kcdron Ko. 803 ................. Brooklyn,N. Y.
24 Henry D. Klcinkauf... ....... Fellowship No. 341... ....... Joplin, Mo.
27 Chas. K. Buckle ................. .lnglcwood No. 421... ....... Inglewood, Cal.
30 Pascal K. Hargravc ..........Yosemite No. 99 .............. Merced, Cal.
30 John Horner ......................E<tst Gate No. 290 .......... Los Angeles, Cal.
1 Olaf H. \Vcstcrgard ..........Freedom No. 434.............. Akron, Iowa
Feb.
3 John A. Kcndcr ..................Westport No. 340............. Kansas City, Mo.
5 Albert 0. Wedge ................Clifton Heights No. 520. St. Louis, Mo.
9 l\falcolm N. Mclvcr ..........Granitc No. 35 ................ Barre, Vt.
14 Frank A. Wiser ..................Santa Paula No. 291.. .... Santa Paula, Cal.
17 Joseph Stark. ..................... Phoenix No. 62-. .............. Rushville, Ind.
17 Thomas Scott Fo:;tcr ........Egcria No. 106.................. Yampa, Colo.
20 Chas. H. Know1es ............. Jslaml No. 5...................... Corregidor, Manilla
27 Floyd E. Prowty................ Acacia No. 477 .................. Detroit, l\1ich.
28 Wm. Wayne Duncan ........ Parkland No. 638 ............ Louisville, Ky.
!vf ar. 10 John W. Cowhig................ Mountainview No. 161.. Edgemont, So. Dak
13 John D. Luthcr .................. Pakstine No. 357 ............. Detroit, Mich.
15 Henry F. Righctti.. .......... ..J\rroyo No. 274... ,. ........... Arroyo Grande, Cal.
16 Erastus N. E111111ons ..........Fronticr No. 104 .............. Washington, Kan.
17 Mrs. Mary C. Rorer ..........Lacledc No. 83 ................. Lebanon, Mo.
19 Carl C. Strassberg........... Erwin No. 121.. ................ St. Louis, Mo.
19 Geo. G. Read ......................Landmark No. 422 ......... Chicago, Ill.
20 Donald Nicolc. ................. Excelsior No. 195 ............. New York, N. Y.
28 Wm. H. Short... .................Canyon City No. 34 ......... Canyon City, Ore.
30 Nicholas P. Starks ............ Hurns No. 173.................. Monticello, Iowa
April 1 ·wilson McQuiston ............ Smumitt City No. 170..... Ft. \'Vaync, Ind.
8 Roy A. Ha wdon ..................Pkiacles No. 478 ............... Chicago, Ill.
8 Dr. M. S. Jscman ..............\Vash. Centennial No. 14.:Washington, D. C.
9 Walter Wm. Hamilton ....Pacilic No. 136.................. .San Francisco, Cal.
9 Geo. V. Sharp ...................Merchantville No. 119 ...... Merchantvillc, N. J.

431

April 13 Chas. S. Strickland .......... ...Evans No. 524 ................... Evanston, Ill.
13 Capt. Sam'! Crangle .......... St. Andrews No. 16........ .Toronto, Canada
17 Chas. H. Loper..................Blackmer No. 442.............. San Diego, Cal.
16 E<lwd. L. Blincoe .............. Albert Pike No. 162..........Guthrie, Okla.
20 \Nm. H. Kirkman ..............Madison Ko. 44................ Pendleton, Ind.
21 Jacob H. SchoelkopL. ..... Leadville No. 51... ............Leadville, Col.
25 John Hunter ........................Acada No. 18....................Washington, D. C.
28 Chas. Rittcrsbachcr ..........Bartlesvillc No. 21:14.......... Bartlesville, Okla.
May 1 Henry J. Besarick ..............Unity .................................... Dalton, Mass.
6 Jacob Bach ..........................Bcsscmcr No. 458 .............. Bessemcr, Ala.
8 Thos. B. Cot:icr .................El Paso No. 130............... El Paso, Tex.
15 Lewis Deck ..........................Redlands No. 300.............Redlands, Cal.
15 Andrew A. Purman ..........Sol D. Bayliss No. 359 .... Ft. \Vayne, Ind.
19 Ervin. S. Merrill ................ Armourdalc No. :.!71.. ..... Kansas City, Mo.
23 Jas. W. Gill... .....................Clinton No. 119 .................. Jgo, Cal.
24 Solomon Lewin..................Englcwood No. 690......... Chicago, Ill.
25 Griffith Ci. Thomas ...........Mt. Moriah No. 24 .......... Dnttc, Mont.
29 Chas. Krocssing ................Chilton No. 154 .................Chilton, Wis.
June 8 Chas. R Howard .............. Anamosa No. 46............. Anamosa, Iowa
, 14 Dr. Wm. R Sevcrson ......Kankakcc No. ,189 .......... Kankakee Jll
29 Dank! C. Oyster................ Marquettc No. 101 .......... Marquettd M.ich.
July 1 Edwanl A. Fano ............... Silver Gate No. 296......... San Diego: Cal.
2.1 l lomcr H. Hemcnway .... J1vcrgrccn No. 144......... Lansing, Iowa
23 John S. Rayburn ................ Mesa No. 55 ...................... Grand Junction Col.
23 Tims. M. Wright ................ Pcrfcct Ashlar No. 12.. ... Bisbee, Ariz. '
27 Nicholas McDonald ........ J~rnnd Haven No. 139 ..... Grand Haven, Mich.
29 Blanche M. Doughty.; ...... Veritas No. 608................. Jnclianapolis, In<I.
Aug. 4 Byron \V. Kies ....................Consuelo No, .125 ............... Escondido Cal.
July 30 Frcd'k Fulkr ...................... Ncedlcs No . .126 .............. Needles, C;tl,
4 Jno. M. Richcson ..............San J)imas No. 428........... San Dimas, Cal.
J\ug. 6 Jas. P. Kirhy ..................... .l lailcy No. 16..................... Hailey, Idaho
8 Wm. J. Jligelow .................. F.1 l'aso No. 130............... El l'aso,Tcx.
11 l\frs. Jessie M. Pt•rkins .... 1\rk No. 176....................... M inncapolis, :\1inn.
13 Thomas J. ))111111 ................Prairic No. 465 ................. ] lamburg, J\ rk.
13 Tlwodorc C. Schulzc ........Occansi(k No. 381.. ......... Oceanside, Cal.
1.1 Judson 1£. McClintock. .....1\nchor !'.:o. 149 ................. Plainfield, N. J.
14 J. Frcd'k Macart ................Cbelianse No. 429............. Chebanse, Ill.
23 Luther E. Fitch .................. Excdsior No. 166.............. San Francisco, Cal.
25 Thomas Warmington ........ L:nik(I No. 5..................... Springtid(l, Mo.
31 CNi. l,. Morris ....................l'i1H' Bluff No. 69 ............. Pinc Bluff, Ark.
.11 l\krk· H. Wallacc .............. 1form•llsvillc No. 133 ....... Horncll, N. Y.
( (kmitted)

.11 Wm. C. Hnst... ................... <;ranitc No . .15 .................... Ilarre, Vt.
.11 Joseph Reid ........................ Marsh No. 188 .................. Brooklyn, N. Y.

432

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

DETAILED STATEMENT OF RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEMENTS

Classified by J uris<lictions
Paid
Alabama ..............................................................................$
92.70
Alaska ..................................................................................
100.00
Alberta ..............................................................................
82.50
Africa So. .................................. ........ ..............................
5.00
Arkansas ............................................................................
160.00
Arizona ..............................................................................
83.00
Australia ............................ ..... .... .................. ................ ....
10.00
California .......................................................................... 1,424.75
Canada ·········································-············~···-···---··············
204.04
Colorado ............................................................................
638.50
Connecticut ......................................................................
5.00
5.00
Cuba ....................................................................................
District of Columbia........................................................
85.00
Englanrl ..............................................................................
15.00
Florida ............................................................................................... .
Germany ............................................................................
10.00
Georgia ................................................................................
5.00
Hawaii ................................................................................
10.00
Idaho ....................................................................................
2.50
Illinois ................................................................................
788.00
In<liana ................................................................................
787.50
Iowa ............................. ......................................................
841.00
Ireland ................................................................................
10.00
Jamaica ..............................................................................
5.00
Kansas ................................................................................
740.00
Kentucky ........................................................... :................
255.00
Maine ..................................................................................
7.00
M assachusctts ..................................................................
171.66
Maryland ..........................................................................
50.00
M cxico .............................. ........ .. ............ ............................
145. 00
Michigan ............................................................................
471.00
M inncsota .......................... ...... .... .... ........ .................. ........
415 .SO
Missouri ............................................................................
250.00
Montana ............................................................................
60.00
Nebraska ........................................................................................... .
New Brunswick ............................................................... .
8.00
New Foundland ............................................................... .
5.00
New Jersey ....................................................................... .
1.00
New Mexico ..................................................................... .
83.50
New South Wales ........................................................... .
3.00
829.60
New York ..................................•.......................................

Received
$ 65.20
100.00
82.50
75.00
43.00
1,122.75
176.54
620.50
5.00
85.00

Paid
5.00
5.00
404.75
150.00
112.90
426.81
40.00
5.00
25.00
60.00
365.81
25.00
22.00
20.15
15.00
95.00

Received

$10,642.17

$9,241.81

New Zealand ................................................................... .
Nova Scotia ..................................................................... .
Ohio ................................................................................... .
Oklahoma ......................................................................... .
Oregon ............................................................................... .
Pennsylvania ....................................... :........................... .
Philippine Islands ........................................... ,. .............. .
Queensland ················:·····································'·················
Scotland ........................................................................... .
Tennessee ......................................................................... .
Texas ............................................................................·..... .
Utah ................................................................................... .
Vermont ............................................................................. .
Washington ..................................................................... .
West Indies ....................................................................... .
Wisconsin

10.00

433

375.25
141.50
121.40
360.31
35.00
10.00
60.00
245.81
25.00
70.15
145.00

RECAPITULATION

86.60
573.12
837.50
723.00

Receipts
Balance, Sl'ptember 1, 1918....................................................................$ 1,985.71
From Gram! Lodge.................................................................................. 5,042.64
95.26
Tnterest amt Miscellaneous....................................................................
Classilietl by Juris<lictions...................................................................... 9,241.81
Total ......................................................................................................$16,365.42

737.50
250.00
196.66
50.00
316.50
276.72
215.00
30.00
5.00

Dishursl'ments
Telegraphing ............................................................................................$ 349.48
Drugs anc.l M cdicincs ..............................................................................· 216.28
80 Christmas Dinners and Christmas Charities................................
945.35
Employment Bureau ..............................................................................
700.00
Cemetery Graves ...................................................................................... 1,900.00
Classified by Jurisdictions ...................................................................... 10,642.17
Total ......................................................................................................$14,753.28
Balance September 1, 1919......................................................................$ 1,612.14
All of which is respectfully submitted.

]. H. BttAN,
71.00

Attest:

President.

]. M. DUNSMOOR,
• 898.30

Secretary.

435

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF LOS ANGELES EMPLOYMENT BUREAU
The Masonic Employment Bureau is compose<l of a Board of
Directors, consisting of one representative of each of the following
Masonic bodies of Los Angeles City:

l\fen an<l bovs ........................................................................................................ 441
Women and
121

The Masonic Board of Relief
Scottish Rite bodies
Los Angeles Commandery Ko. 9 K T.
Golden West Commantlery No. 43 K. T. A. M.
Los Angeles Chapter No. 37 R. A. M.
Signet Chapter R. A. M.
East Gate Chapter
South Gate Chapter
Hollywood Chapter
Los Angeles Council No. 11 R. & S. M.
Al Malaikah Shrine
Jinnistan Grotto No. 76.

Temporary jobs filled during the year... ...................................................... 529

434

Positions Filled

OI'FICERS

Total filled ................................. ....................... ................ ............... ........... 562

Total.. ............................................................................................................. 1091

Applications Cancelled
Eighteen applications cancelled i.luring the year for good and sufficient reasons:
Eight for failing to report for duty after accepting positions and
promising to report.
Two for drunkenness while on duty.

s:

Presi<lcnt ... ., ..................................................................................... Dr.
E. Burke
Treasnrer................................................................................................ lVI. II. Flint
Manager .................................................................................................. F. T. Purdy
Assistant l\fanagcr.................................................................... S. T-Tcnry Kingery
M. Dunsmoor
Meetings arc held on the first Sunday of each month at 9 :30 a. rn.

Five for refusing good paying positions when offered and no plausible excuse for not accepting.
Two who did not want work, but were looking for positions.
One incivility to employer and this Tiurcan, after cndcavori.ng to
unioniz<; the fellow employees with whom he worked, ancl attcmptmg to
call a strike.
Forty-nine applicants foiling to qualify after positions were secured.
All of which is respectfully submitted.

The Manager reports as follows:
Just a few years ago, the Masonic Em1)loymcnt Bureau was struggling through disconragcmcnt and adversity to maintain its place, and
fn~fill the God-given duty of helping others to help themselves, for which
purpose it wns organized. The Bureau was considered the last hope of
the applicant for employment, and the employer for help.
Today, the Bureau is building a structure of service to humanity
which will stand as an enduring monument to the beneficence of
::\lasonry; for instead of the last hope, it is as the brightness of the
Eastern horizon at break of day to him who is seeking maintenance of
self respect, honor and manhood, by honest toil, the Mecca for the
employer an<l the employee.

Applications
11en and boys ...................................................................................................... 848
Women and girls ................................................................................................ 201
Total applications ........................................................................................ 1049

DR.

s. E. BUIHO\,
President.

Attest:

J. M. DuN":rnooR,
Secretary.

OAKLAND DOARD OF RELIEF

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
The Masonic Board of Relief of Oakland herewith presents the
following report of its labors for the year embracing Scpkmhcr l, 1918,
and August 31, 1919. The Board is composed of the Masters and
Wardens of the ten Blue Lodges within the municipality of Oakland.
The officers elected to serve until the first Wednesday in January, 1920,
are: Willard Wright Shea, Chairman; Albert Barclay Cosa<l, Treasurer; Robert Griffith Evans, Secretary.

436

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

437

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Receipts
Refunded by Lodges in California ........................................................$1,246.79
Refunded by other U. S. Jurisdictions ................................................ 1,837.30
Refunded by Foreign Jurisdictions........................................................
2.50
Refunded by Individuals.......................................................................... 561.92
Grand Lodge account sundry jurisdictions........................................ 498.00
Interest from bank......................................................................................
95.34

$4,241.85
Live Oak Lodge No. 61 ............................................................................$ 388.24
Oakland Lodge No. 188........................................................................... . 322.29
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225 ......................................................................... . 219.03
Alcatraz Lodge No. 244 ........................................................................... . 211.52
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 ........................................................................... . 192.96
Sequoia Lodge No. 349 ............................................................................. . 308.30
Bay View Lodge No. 401 ......................................................................... . 122.72
Yerba Buena Lodge No. 403 ................................................................... . 124.24
Standard Lodge No. 440........................................................................... .
67.06
41.03
Rock ridge Lodge No. 468 ......................................................................... .
Total from contributing Lodges ....................................................$1,997.49
Total reccipts ................................................................................................ $6,239.34
Balance on hand September l, 1918...................................................... 2,521.94
Total receipts and balance ................................................................$8,761.28
Disbursements
For California Lodges .............................................................................. $2,051.89
For other U. S. J urisclictions .................................................................. 2,040.26
For Foreign Jurisdictions........................................................................
55.79
Tota I relief ............ ------·-·-·-··················-····················-·············-············'..$4, 147.94
Rent, salaries and incidenta~s ................................................................. :$1,648.12
Telegraph and telephone..........................................................................
84.34
Stationery, printing and postage............................................................
64.39

REcr.:irrs AND DISBURSEMENTS CLASSIFIED BY JURISDICTIONS

United States
Received from
J uriscliction
Individuals
Lodges
$
5.00
Alaska ········-················-·······-···· ..........
Arizona .................................... $ 58.39
79.50
Colorado ................................. , 26.53
25.00
· Georgia ................................... .
290.00
Idaho ....................................... .
80.00
Tllinois ...................................... 35.00
336.20
Tndiana ................................... .
Iowa ......................................... .
Kansas ·--···············-···-·············
4.W
Kentucky ............................... .
55.00
Maine ..................................... .
247.00
M assaclmsctts ....................... .
138.00
Michigan ............................... . 25.00
190.60
Minnesota ............................. .
20.00
Mis·souri ................................. . 15.00
5.00
New Mexico ........................... .
50.00
Nevada ~--··-··············--·············· 3000
110.00
Ne.,.; York. .............................. . 5.00
25.00
New Jersey ............................. . 25.00
3.00
Ohio ......................................... . 30.00
100.00
Pennsylvania ....................... . 10.00
56.50
Washington ........................... .
3.00
Wisconsin ............................. .
IQ.Of)
Wyoming ............................... .
1.50
Rhock l slancl ......................... .
3.00
Tennessee ............................... .
Texas ..................................... . 15.00

$8,761.28

$ 137.89
51.53
290.00
115.00
336.20

4.00
55.00
247.00
163.00
190.60
40.00
5.00
80.00
115.00
50.00
33.00
110.00
56.50
3.00
10.00
1.50
.1.00
15.00

Disbursements
$
5.00
58.39
30.68
64.45
265.00
130.00
332.5cf
10.00
55.00
3.70
52.00
238.40
139.50
225.00
10.00
5.00
115.00
133.50
50.00
25.00
12.50
47.64
2.00

30.00

Total .................................... $27 4.92
California ............................... 287.00

$1,837.30
1,246.79

$2,112.22
1,533.79

$2,040.26
2,051.89

Total U. S .......................$561.92

$3,084.09

$3,646.01

$4,092.15

2.50

40.79
15.00

Foreign

Total disbursements ..........................................................................$5,944.79
Balance on hand .......................................................................................... 2,816.49

Received
Total

2.50

Canada ................................... .
New South Wales ................ .
Total ............................................. .

$

2.50

$

2.50

$

55.79

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

438

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

439.

FUNllRALS

During the year ending August 31, 1919, the following named
Masons, or members of their families, have been given Masonic burial,
or shipped in accordance with the wishes of the families :

WIB

;

Sept. 25 Richard Setchfield ............ Redlands No. 300............... Redlands, Cal.
Oct. 21 Will G. Mellen.................... Doric No. 92...................... Seattle, Wash.
23 Faraday 0. Tab~er. ............ Mnskegon No. 140............ Muskegon, Mich.
28 Albert F. Welin ..................Rio Vista No. 20K ............. Rio Vista, Cal..
30 Charles J. Gillam ................ Los Angeles No. 42............ Los Angeles, Cat
Nov. 2 Ellsworth C. Hodgins ...... Mystic Ko. 65 ...................... Hampden, Maine
2 Albert A. La Tourette...... De Soto No. 299............... Memphis, Tenn.
2 William H. Jenner ............Leipsic No. 548 .................... Leipsic, Ohio
7 Wingfield Scott Baggott..San Joaquin No. 19 .......... Stockton, Cal.
14 Frederick W. Thorp .......... Las Palmas No. 366.......... Fresno, Cal.
19 N. P. W. Miner.. ................ Sunbcam No. 428................ Plano, Ill .
. 29 Robert E. Vose ...............,,.Anchor No. 87.................... Kalamazoo, Mich.
Dec. 17 Bergen W. Jonsson ..........Anvil No. 140...................... Nomc, Alaska
28 John J. Grccn ......................Russian River No. 181...... Windsor, Cal.
28 Thomas C. Mastin ............ East Gate No. 290..............Los Angeles, Cal. ·
1919
Jan.
4 William D. Miller............ Monument No. 657 ........... .Indianapolis, Jn<!.
13 Roff Hague Wclls ............Corinthian No. 9............... Marysville, Cal.
23 George J. Rau .................... Sacramento No. 40............ Sacramcnto, Cal.
25 Wmiam Dupen .................. Ponsonby No. 708 .............. Auckland, K Z.
29 Gustave Thyson ..................Capital City No. 229.......... St. Paul, Minn.
Feb. 4 Daniel J. Griffin ................Charity Lodge .................... Cambridge, Mass.
Mar. 1 Albert W. T. Turner ........Morning Star ...................... Worcester, Mass.
April 2 Walter Wood ...................... Valley No. 60...................... Sparta, Wis.
22 Eber Ward Potter ............ Santa Rosa No. 57 ............ Santa Rosa, Cal.
May i Sydney M. Stone ................ Reacling No. 254............... Redding, Cal.
June 10 Thomas Axtdl... .................Temple No. 84.................... Dcnver, Colo.
July 5 William Tornstrom ..........Franklin No. 5.................... Port Gamhlc, Wash.
8 George Hood ......................Whitchall No. 310.............. Whitchall, Wis.
23 Ortis F. Lec ........................ Webhs No. 166.................... Augusta, Ga.

SAN DIEGO BOARD OF RELIEF
September 1, 1918, to August 31, 1919
Receipts
September 1-Ba'.ance on hand ....................-. ................$ 979.23
From local Lodges ............................................................ ..
726.26
From Grand Lodge.......................................................... .. 1,000.00
From interest.. ....................... :................................ .
25.73
Refunded hy California Masons ................................... .
260.00
Refunded hy Lodges in U. S ............................... ..
3,566.47
Refunded hy Grand Lodge ..............................................
324.00
Refunded hy Individual Masons ................................... . 3,601.64
Refunded hy Funerals Advanced ................................. .
843.40
Refunded hy Widows and Orphans ............................. .
416.15

Dislmrsements
Advancccl to Masons in California ............................... .
Advanced 10 other jnris<lictions ................................... .
Advancccl to Fon'ign jnrisdictions.............................. ..
Advanced to Individually .............................................. ..
Advanced to Funerals of Masons ................................ ..
Advanced to Donation Employment ........................... .
Advanced to Charity ..........................................................
Advanced to Widows anti Orphans ............................. .
Expenses
Salary of Secretary ................................................$850.00
Telegraph nnd tekpho11c...................................... 31.25
Postage anrl carfare.............................................. 9.75
Printing and stationery........................................ l<).(K)
l nci(kntal minor expc:nses.................................... 50.00

Total. 29.
Respectfully submitted,

w. SHF.A,
Chairman.

RonT. G. EvANS,
Secretary.

300.00
3,512.39
25.00
795.70
1,864.98
274.20
503.40
2,610.44

951.00
$10,837.11

Balance on hancl in hank and olTicc ................... .

WILLARD

$

905.77
$11,742.88 $11,742.88

C. WoonM A ::-i I'oTT!\R,
Secretary.

R. w. Bl·'.LIHN(:,
Prcsitlrnt.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

440

441

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

BOARD OF RELIEF OF HONOLULU, TERRITORY OF HAWAII
EMPLOYMENT BUREAU OF SAN DIEGO

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

From September 1, 1918, to August 31, 1919
Lodges of
San Diego
Work offered __________________________________ 167
Work acceptcd ________________________ ,_______ l 14
Odd jobs few days at time __________ 81
Work lasting two to four weeks 139
Permanent positions ...... ---------------- 69

Lodges of ,Lodges of
California Other Juris.
706
193
664
146
102
89
161
152
87
54

The Masonic Board of Honolulu begs to submit the following report for the year ending August 31, 1919:
Total.
1,066
924
262
452
210

Men in all branches of the U. S. Service appreciate the employment
secured through this Ilurcau. A Mason able to work spurns charity,
but welcomes employment. This Iloard looks into the physical condition
of an applic~nt, and his family; secures medical attention am! endeavors
to help a man to "he lit." The Employment Hnrcau is being nsed hy
many employers not members of the "Craft," stating: "Masons arc
dependable."
Receipts
Al Bahr Temple, San Dicgo .. ----------------------------------------------------$12000
A. & A. S. Rite, San Diego ........ ------------------------------------------------ 240.00
S. D. K. T. No. 25, San Diego: .... --------------------------------------------- 50.00
S. D. R. A. M. No. 61, San Diego ... ----------------------------------------- 50.00
Silver Gate No. 296, San Diego ... --------------------------------------------- 41.25
Masonic Iloard Relief. .... ----------------·-------------------------------------------- 202.20

Receipts
Balance August 31, 1918.............. ---·---·-··-···------·-----------·-··----Lodgc le Progrcs de L'Oceanic No. 371 ....................... .
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21.. ............ ---·-·····--······------··--··----·------H onolu lu No. 409 ...... ---·---·-------------····-----·--··--···-··-···----·----'----Rcim bursed. by Lodgcs ................ ---------------------·-·--·-·······-·--·-Crand Lodge of California refund ....
Key Lodge No. 7, Siloam Springs, A;k;;;;·~~-~::::::::::::::::::
Washington Lodge No. 45, Portland, Oregon ............... .
Amity Lodge No. 370........................................................... .

$ 387.24
183.36
321.60
194.88
100.00
109.80
20.30
135.00

Disbursements
M. 13. ··-·---·-·--·-····--···-······--·-······--·-·----·------·------------------------·-····-$ 190.00
Paul Revere Lodge No. 462, San Francisco ................... . 191.15
20.30
Washington I.,odge No. 45, Portland; Ore.------------·--------1\mity Lodge No. 370 San Francisco.
135.00
l'art payment on lm;ial plot, Ocean v-i~~--C~;;;·~-~~;;:
IIonolulu .... ______________________________ ··---------··--------------------------------50.00
Mcmbcrship in Masonic Relief Association ___________________ _
7.39
25.00
Flowers for funerals ............... -------····------------------·---------------.97
Stamps, etc. -----------------------------------------------------------------Balance cash on hand
---------- 832.37
·········-··················································

Disbursements
Salary ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------Telephone -----------------------------------------------·····························-·········
Telegraph ·-·-··---·-·-·--··---·········-·················-·········-·······················-·····
Carfare --·---···--··--·-·······--····································-············-················
Postage --········-·············--···-·--···-·-··················--···-·--···················-······
Printing and stationery ............................................................... .

$650.00
15.94
11.33
5.00
11.43
9.75

$1,452.18 $1,452.18
Respectfully submitted,
WILLIAM RELL, P. M.,
Secretary.
SACRAMENTO BOARD OF RELIEF

$703.45 $703.45

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

An array of figures cannot begin to express manhood clevclopcd,
self-respect maintained, and appreciation to the "Craft" for the practical
manner in which the Employment Bureau comes to one's rescue at the
opportune time.
C. WoonMAN PoTTF.R,
Secretary.

R. W. llI\LlliNr.,
President.

The Masonic Board of Relief of. Sacramento herewith submits its
for ~our consideration from October 1, 1918, to September 30,
1919, mclus1ve.
!his Board is composed of the Masters and Wardens of Lodges
h~ldmg concurrent jurisdiction in the city of Sacramento, which contribute to, but draw nothing from, the funds of the Board, sojourning
repor~

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Master Masons, their wido\\'s and orphans alone being recipients of its
charities. Money refunded is again given to the needy. Re~ular meetings of the Board are held the first Sunday in each month m the Blue
Room Masonic Temp'.e, at 11 o'clock a. m., and the regular attendance
of th~ members has been very good, each Lodge bein.g represented by
one or more. You will note we drew from our savings account and
invested $500 in Victory Notes to show our patrio.tism a~d fealty to our
country in time of need, and the Board trusts its act10n may be ap-

Classified by Jurisdictions

442

proved.
OFFICERS OF THE IJOARD

Drury D. Butler, Master of Union Lodge No. 58 ............................ President
Robert B. McNairn, Master of Tehan~a Lodge No. 3..........Vice-President
Richard C. Irvine, Past Master of Sacramento Lodge
No. 40................................................................................ Secretary-Treasurer
Receipts
Cash on hand October 1, 1918................................................
$1,078.06
Received from Grand Lodge, October, 1918......................$404.19
Received from local Lodges .................................................... 411.40
Refunds from other Lodges .................................................... 547.95
Received from individuals ...................................................... 119.00
Donations ....................................................................................
.81
Dividends on deposit in savings bank.................................. 39.88 $1,523.23
$2,601.29

Total cash ............................................................................. .
Disbursements
Salary of Secretary-Trcasurer .............................................. $180 00

~l~~i:~::;::·'.-·:~ ;

,~JE

Total disbursements ................................................ .
Balance cash on hand October 1, 1919 ............................... .

$ 587.94

$667.76

$1,325.45

FUNERALS

Bro. Nels Peterson, died October 10, 1919, aged 47 years. A native
of Denmark. Member of Southern Cross Lodge No. 6 at Manila,
P. I. Services by Sacramento Lodge No. 40. Remains cremated.
Bro. George H. Simmons, died N ovcmbcr 15, 1918, in Oaklal1l1, Cal.
Remains brought here and Union Lodge No. 58 conducted the services
on November 18, 1918. Bro. Simmons was 47 years old and a member
of Tuscan Lodge No. 261 at Williams, Cal.

Bro. Frank Albert Butler, member of Granite Lodge No. 222 at
Rocklin, Cal., died in Sacramento November 28, 1918, aged 42 years.
Services by Tehama Lodge No. 3 on November 30, 1918. Interment
East Lawn cemetery.
Bro. D. H. Walker, member of Tonopah Lodge No. 28 at Tonopah, Nev., died in Tonopah on January 11, 1919. Remains brought here
and buried by Sacramento Lodge No. 40 on January 14, 1919. Interred
in Sojourners' plot.

Assets of the Board
Five $100 Liberty Bonds, 3rd Series .................................... $500.00

~~s~ ~~~a~~~~-~'.-.~--~~-~~~·.:::::·.::::::::::·_·_·_:::::·.:::::::::::·.::::·.:::::::::::::::~~--~
Total assets ......................................................................... .

Received Disbursed
Alaska ...................................................................................... $ 30.00
$ 20.00
Arizona .................................................................................... 50.00
50.00
California ................................................................................ 251.81
200.00
Colorado .................................................................................. 10.00
200.00
District of Columbia ........................................................... .
Georgia .................................................................................... 46.45
46.45
Illinois .................................................................................... 13.00
35.00
30.00
Indiana ··············································································.······
Massachusetts ........................................................................ 127.50
125.00
Montana .................................................................................. 5.00
Nevada ................................................................................... .
15.00
Texas ....................................................................................... .
29.00
216.00
Non-Affiliates ........................................................................ 15.00
Individuals .............................................................................. 119.00
119.00
Repudiated ............................................................................. .
240.00

Bro. George F. Howell, member of Monitor Lodge at Waltham,
Mass. Died November 24, 1918. Buried by Washington Lodge No. 20
on November 27, 1918.
$2,013.35

All coupons attached to bonds and notes.

443

$1,587.94

Bro. Niels J. Nielsen, a member of Nevada Lodge No. 13 at
Nevada City, Cal., died February 2, 1919, aged 44 years, a native of
Norway. Buried February 5, 1919, by Union Lodge No. 58.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

444

Bro. George A. Burns, a member of 1Pacifi.c Lodge No: 50 at
Salem, Oregon. Died November 21, 1919, a native of Califorma, aged
64 years. Funeral conducted by Concord Lodge No. 117 on March 23,
1919.
Bro. Charles A. Day, a native of England, <lied May 4, 1919, aged
77 years, 7 months an<l 15 days. Life member of Home Lodge No. 508
at Chicago, Ill. Buried by Tehama Lodge No. 3 on May 6, 1919.
Bro. Wm. G. Howard, a native of Vermont, <lied June 29, 1919, aged
54 years. Member of Brentwood Lodge No. 345 at Brentwood, Cal.
Funeral conducted by Concord Lodge on July 1, 1919.
Bro. Henry Ca\cott Keyes, a native of Canada, <lied September 14,
1919, aged 67 years. Member of Morning Star Lodge No. 68 at Stockton, Cal. Funeral services conducted by Sacramento Lodge No. 40.
Remains cremated.

DRURY D. BUTLER,

President.

R. c. IRVINE,
Secretary-Treasurer.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Total clishursements ............................................................................$ 833.26
October I, 1919, balance on hancl ........................................ .

800.02

L. M. SrMONSl\N,
Secretary.

To the Most Worshi/>(111 Grand Lod1<e of California:

Financial report, October 1, 1918, tu October 1, 1919:
Receipts
1918

1 Balance on hand .......................................................................$ 465.13
25.00
14 Temple Lodge Nu. 299, Kansas City ................................. .
5.00
28 Brother W ...................................................................... .
5.00
St. C'.a ra County account F .................................................. .
Nl'V. 1
25.00
Los Angeles No. 42, account Mrs. G.................................. .
Dec. 30

Oct.

Park No. 449, San Francisco, account J. W. M .............. .
Jan. 3
Temple No. 299, Kansas City ............................................... .
Feb. 1
13 Eucalyptus No. 243, account J .............................................. .
Italian Lodge, San Francisco, account F .......................... .
Apr. 8
28 Tuscaloosa 785, account S .................................................... .
Temple 299, Kansas City ......................................................... .
June 3
Iowa Grand Lodge account S .............................................. .
23

Disbursements
2.00
F. S., Arapahoe Lodge No. 133, Denver, relief ..................................$
Mrs. H., relief ............................................................................................. . 225.00
J. W. S., Preston, Iowa, relief ............................................................... . 124.00
<i. W. H., Temple No. 299, Kansas City, relief (with funeral) ... . 240.00
85.29
T. F., Italian Lodge, San Francisco, re'.ief.. ....................................... .
27.50
Mrs. G., Los Angeles Loclge No. 42, relief... ...................................... .
J. J., 449, San Francisco, relief... ............................................................ . 25.00
J. W. M., Eucalyptus Loclge No. 243, relief ....................................... . 10.00
20.00
A. C., Tslam Temple, San Francisco, relief ......................................... .
50.00
L. M. Simonsen, expenses ....................................................................... .
Locker, telegrams, advertising, etc ...................................................... .
24.47

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRAND MASTER'S
ADDRESS

SAN JOSE BOARD OF RELIEF

1919

445

25.00
100.00

10.00
32.00
39.05

425.00
477.10

Total rectipts ...................................................................... $1,633.2~

Your Committee to which was referred the Annual Address of the
Most Worshipful Crane) Master ancl the Annual Report of the V.".W.".
Crane\ Secretary, has hacl the same uncler consic\cration ancl herehy
submits its rl'port as follows:
Tn the years which go to make up the history of the Grand Loc\ge of
California, it has. hl'l'n the privikgc of the lirl'lhren to listen to many
a(l(lressl's of n·tiring Crane\ Masters remarkable for their ck·pth of
frl'ling alH\ hrl'aclth of t111(krstancling of the princip'.cs of our Onkr ancl
of the great truths which line\ expression in its teaching am\ tenets.
No more thoroug·h, comprehensive ancl thoughtful aclclress, educational in charackr, lwantiful in appropriate presentation of interesting
data, was cvl'r in onr jmlgment presented to this Cram\ Hocly.
With this Wl'll -dl'servl'(\ rnmmcnclation of our Crane\ Master's account to his hrl'lhrl'n of his stewardship in the clischarge of the cluties
incicll'nt to the exaltc(l position to which he was callee\ one year ago, we
submit onr report.
Yonr Committee heartily approves arnl cnmllll'1His the action of our
Cram! Master i11 nrging upon the L()(\ges an<\ mrmhl'rs of the craft
generally that they exert themselves earnestly in the efTort to assist the

446

l'l\OCEEDINGS OF THE

brethren who have returned, and will return, from the service of thdr
country, to secure re-employment as an aid in the solution of one of the
problems of reconstruction.
It is to be noted in passing that our retiring Grand :Master has been
specially faithful in visiting the Lodges of the Grand Jurisdiction.
Your Committee desires to congratulate our worthy Brother, the
Grand Secretary, for his most entertaining, instructive and illuminating
account of the official visit of hitnself and Past Grand :.\faster Hervey
to the Especial Peace Jubilee session of the Gra11d Lodge of England in
June of this year. The members of the Grand Lodge are to be con-·
gratulated upon the great opportunity of hearing such a vivid and intensely interesting personal report from Brother Whicher, forming a
most life-like picture of the details of the great celebration. This jurisdiction is most fortunate in having been represented by such ahle and
distinguished members of the era ft on that important occasion.
The Grand Master's references to the Masonic Homes are instructive
and illuminating, hut as we confidently assume that his address will be
widely read by the brethren, we do not conceive that extended reference
thereto is necessary at this time, further than to express our approval of
the Grand Master's recommendation that he he given authority to appoint
a special committee to thoroughly investigate various plans for the hcttcr
support of the Masonic Homes, and report thereon with recommendations.
W c heartily concur in what the Grand Master has said of the loyal
and faithful service of our Grand Lecturer, Brother Thomas ]. Baker.
His recommendation as to appreciating the salary of Brother Baker is
something which your Committee believes shoulcl he acted upon by the
Grand Lodge itself.
A clifficult situation is presented to this Grand Lodge by the report
of _the Grand Master upon the circumstances conccrning Acacia Lodge
and Herman Lodge. Your Committee believes the recommendation of
the Grand Master to he in the interests of justice and equity and sug·
gests that this he referred to the Committee on J urisprndcnce.
The Committee is in accord with the Grand Master's interpretation of what should be the physical requirements for membership in our
order, and hopes the Grand Lodge, through the Committee on Jurisprudence, will concur.
Your Committee is also in hearty accord with his recommendation
with reference to the matter of permitting the subordinate Lodges to
expend money for the purpose of presenting their retiring officer with·
appropriate jewels, and we recommend this to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

447

With reference to those portions of the subject matter of the Grand

~!aster's "':ddress, which inay also properly be the subjects of consideration or act10n by Committees, we recommend the following distribution:
, To the Committee on Charters: That portion of the report of the
Gra~1d Secretary's report setting forth dispensations issued for the formatt©n of new Lodges, to-wit: Blythe Lodge, April 2, 1919, and Victory
Lodge, May 14, 1919.
To the Committee on Masonic Education: That portion of the
Grand Master's Address in which is discussed the need for a greater
educational and social function on the part of the Lodges.
To. the Committee on Jurisprudence: That portion of the Address

settin~ forth the recommendation for amendment or addition to our law
grant111g concurrent jurisdiction to Lodges existing under conditions
whc;e manifest justice calls for such concurrent jurisdiction. Also that
port10n of the Address recommending that necessary legislation be
enacted covering proposed consolidation of Lodges. Also that portion
of the Address recommending that necessary legislation be enacted to
create a standing Committee to' be termed "The Committee on General
Policy and Purposes," which has our hearty approval.
To the Committee on Finance:
relate to the expenditure of funds.

Such portions of the Address as

REPORT OI' V. W. GRAND SECRETARY

Your Committee has read and examined with much satisfaction the
rcpo.rt of the V cry Worshipful Grand Secretary, and we note with grati~
hcat1011 the facts therein set forth iu witness of the steady ;md healthy
growth of the fraternity and the it1tcnsc activity of the Lodges of this
jurisdiction in the various lines of fraternal life.
The report is a valuable compilation of the statistics pertaining to
our growth anti present condition, and rctlects with accuracy the material
features of our prc~cnt organization i11 a clear and succinct style.
Vv e recommend the reference to the Committee on Finance of those
portions of the report relative to the receipts and disburscmc1its of the
Grand Lodge and the financial statement, together with those portions
relative to the Emergency Relief Fund.
Fraternally submitted,
FRANK TADE,

H. D. LOVELAND,

J. ST!\WART Ross,
Committee.

The report was adopted as read.

448

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

be a departure from the avowed purpose and intention to "keep the
charity under the supervision of the Grand Master and in close
relation· to the Grand Lodge"; and that "to create for this purpose
an independent legal corporation with officers elected by an independent body of stockholders or members would not be so desirable
as to ,make it and its operation more immediateJy dependent upon the
Grand Lodge, to which report should be made and over which it
should exercise inspection and control."

REPORT OF THE BOARD OF TRUSTEES OF
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
To the Jfost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

We take pleasure in submitting to you the report of the Masonic
Homes of California for the year ending August 31, 1919.
In accordance with our by-laws, we met immediately after the
adjournment of the last communication of Grand Lodge. There
were present at this meeting, R.' .\V.'.Char!es Albert Adams, Deputy
Grand Master; R.'.W.'.Georgc F. Rodden, Senior Grand \Varden;
R.'.W.'.Samuel Burke, Junior Grand Warden; W.'.Eclward B:
Spencer, and W.".Chas. M. Wollenberg, the latter having been appointed by M.'.W.'.Bradford Webster to succeed himself.
Organization was effected by the election of Past· Grand Master
William S. Wells as President, and Trustee Edward B. Spencer,
Vice-President. Brother John Whicher as Gran<l Secretary, and
Brother William P. Filmer as Grand Treasurer, arc by virtue of'
their office, Secretary and Treasurer respectively of the I3oard.
During the year the Board held seven regular meetings at San
Francisco and Dcc~to and three at Los Angeles and Covina, and .
in addition, the members residing in San Francisco and Los Angeles
·held weekly conferences.
On the 23rd of January, 1919, the Hmtr<l lost hy death, William
Sewall \Velis, who since 1908 was President of this Board of Trustees.
His death was a distinct loss to the craft. Jn the years of his
incumbency on the I3oard, he had labored zealouRly for the welfare
of our Homes and on his jmlgmcnt his fellow memhers felt that
they might rely with a conlidcncc born of their knowledge of his
love for the wards of the fraternity and with a certainty his exper' ience would be a safe guide. To till the vacancy caused by the death
of Brother Wells, the Grand Master appointed Brother Chas. G..
Johnson to serve for the balance of the term; am! the Board then
reorganized by electing Trustee Chas. M. Wo1lenberg as President.
JNCORPORATJON

For some years past there has periodically arisen the question
of the advisability of conducting the affairs of the Homes as a
corporation. We have always realized that we were proccerling in
a somewhat loose manner in carrying the legal title to our properties
in the name of an individual; and that it would be better to have
the title stand of record in the name of the real owner. On the
other band there was a somewhat pronounced feeling that in carrying
on the business of the Homes as a separate legal entity there might

449

6

We therefore "muddled along," recognizing the fact that embarrassments might ensue upon the death of the individual in whom
the record title to our properties was vested; but trusting that if
the necessity therefor should ever arise, some way would he found
to me~ the situation. That necessity confronted us when Past Grand
Master Wells clied with the title to our properties standing in his
name.
After consulting .with Past Grand Masters Angellotti, Weller,
Keesling and other memhers of the Jurisprudence Committee, and having
considered the matter at length with the Grand Master, it appeared
in the jndgment of the Board that it would be advisable to create
a Benevolent Corporation to he known as the Masonic Homes of
California, in which should be vested the title to all property acquired
for the purposes and benefit of the Ho111cs; and the Grand Master
having authorized and directed the incorporation, if in the judgment
of the Board it was deemed advisable, it was dccicled to immediately
incorporate. It was, however, specifically understood that the Trustees
who are to manage and direct the affairs of the corporation should
he selected and appointee! as provided '>y the Constitution of the
Grand Lodge; that no power was to be given the Trustees under
the corporation not now vested in or exercised hy them; and that
the rights, powers and privileges of the Grand Lodge and Grand
Master to control and direct the affairs of the Homes were to he
in no way altered, limited or abridged; the sole intention of the
Trustees in incorporating heing to devise a cldinite legal entity
authoriz('cl aml empowered to take, receive, hold and transf~r in the
name of the Masonic Homes of California title to real and personal
property howsoever acquirC:d; and that the relation of the Trnstees
to the Grand Lodge and to the Grand Master should be in no
wise changed or altered by the incorporation.
We have therefore provided in our Articles of Incorporation
that everything is to he done "in accordance with the rules, regulations and discipline of the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted
Masons of California, which said mies and regulations and discipline
as now existing and as hereafter amended shall always be a part of
these 1\ rticlcs of Incorporation and this corporation shall always be

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

subject thereto"; and that the "Trustees shall be elected and appointed as provided by the rules and regulations of the Grand Lodge
of Free and Accepted Masons of California."
In the by-laws of the corporation it is provided that "In accordance with, and subject to, the rules, regulations and discipline of
the Grand Lodge of .Free and Accepted Masons of the State of
California, the corporate powers of this corporation shall be vested
in a Board of seven Trustees who shall be elected, designated or
chosen in such manner and for such term as the said Grand Lodge
shall from time to time determine or by its Constitution prescribe;
and the persons who shall act as Trustees of this corporation shall
be those selected, appointed, designated and elected in accordance
with the provisions of Section 33 of the Constitution of the said
Grand Lodge as adopted on the 11th day of October, 1917, which
said provision is as follows, to wit:
"Sec. 33. The Trustees of the Masonic Homes of California shall
be seven in number, four of whom shall be appointed by the Grand
Master, and the three others to consist of the Deputy Grand Master,
the Senior and Junior Grand Wardens, who shall be ex-officio Trustees. The term of office of the four appointed shall be respectively
one, two, three and four years, to he designated and determined by
the Grand Master appointing. Two of the Trustees shall be from
Lodges in the vicinity of Covina.· Succeeding Grand Masters shall appoint successors who shall hold office for four years. They shall he
the successors of the present Trustees and of the Trustees of the Masonic Widows and Orphans' Home hereinbefore appointed under the
resolution of the Grand Lodge adopted in 1892 and subsequently
thereto, and shall be vested with all the powers given such Trustees
and with all the rights by them or any of them acquired."
There is also a provision that "vacancies in the Board of Trustees
shall be filled by appointment by the Grand Master and the term
of office of the person so appointed shall he the unexpired portion of .
the term of the Trustee whose office bcean1e vacant. At any time
upon re{Jttest of two-thirds of the members of the Board the Grand
Master may remove a Trustee and appoint another in the place of
the person so removed.''
The officers of the corporation are a President, Vice President,
Secretary and Treasurer. The Preshlent and Vice President arc
under the corporation selected by the Board from their own number,
just as was the procedure prior to incorporation, and in accordance
with the Constitution of the Grand Lodge, the Secretary shall be
the person holding office as the Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge
and the Treasurer shall be the person holding the office of Grand
Treasurer.
The question of whether or not there should he a provision for
mcmhership in the corporation of those who were at the time

members of Grand Lodge or of a certain number to be selected
by Grand Lodge was considered at some length. It was finally
determined, however, that that plan would he best which entailed
no change i_n the Constitution of the Grand Lodge and which could
in no wise be construed as changing the relation between the
Trustees and the Grand Master and Grand Lodge. In other words,
under the present plan the Trustees to all intents and purposes
act exactly in the same manner they have always done, reporting
directly to Grand Lodge and being at all times under the control and
direction of the Grand Master; the only material difference being
that the title to properties is in the name of the Masonic Homes of
California instead of an individual; and that in dealing with those
properties the Trustees act as an incorporated body. It will of
course he understood that in referring to the properties belonging
to the Homes we have in mind particularly not the Homes themselves, hut the detached individual pieces of real estate which under
Rule 16 arc conveyed to the Homes by those who are admitted, and
which arc not required or necessary for the purposes of the charity.

450

451

After the corporation was organized a friendly suit was commenced against the executrix of the last will and testament of
Past Grand Master Wells. W. S. Wells, Jr., cooperated in every
way with the Board, and was our principal witness when the matter
was presented to the Court. We ohtained a decree to the effect
that Past Grand Master Wells took the title to the properties as a
naked trustee for the Masonic Homes of California; that neither
he, nor his estate, nor any of his heirs or legatees, had anv title
or interest to or in the property. It was also ordered and clccreed
that the executrix of his last will and testament should execute
deeds of conveyance. This was done and such title as stood in the
name of Rrother vV ells at the date of his death now stands in the
name of the Masonic Homes of California.
Jn reporting as to our action with rrforence to incorporation,
the Board avails itself of this opportunity to puhlicly express its
appreciation of and gratitude for the counsel and advice received from
the members of the Jurisprudence Committee with whom it was privileged
to rliscuss the question, When special mention is made of one of
that committee it is only because he was more intimately connected
with the actual work than were the others. Past Grand Master
Dana R. Weller has been more or less intimately connected with
the Board for many years in the capacity of counsel, and acting at
times as its attorney. In this matter he not only gave his counsel
and advice as did other members of the Jurisprudence Committee, but
:ook an active part in formulating the plan and materially assisted
111 the actual work of incorporation.

452

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Rl!SIDEN'l'S

At Decoto our aged brethren are well cared for and comfortable.
There naturally is a great contrast between this Home and that
at Covina. Here our plan is to make the last days of our brethren
comfortable and to furnish them with those things that will make
life happier, while at Covina we are developing the bodies and minds
of those who are to take our place. The Superintendent and his
assistants are to be congratulated upon the condition of the Home.
It should be mentioned here that during the influenza epidemic . of
last winter, no cases developed in either institution.
The Covina Home is running smoothly and beautifully in well
organized, steady, and dependable progress with the children. The
health record has been almost perfect. The children have been
unusually attentive to school work and home duties. The merit
system practiced the past year has given an incentive to applied
effort and created an interest in effective results in all their
work. Their discipline is quite satisfactory and their interest in
athletics, sports and diversions displays a desire to excel in competitive recreation as well as in their school and home activities.
The children have made a remarkable improvement due to
splendid work in physical and mental corrections which can be made
with growing children. It is desired that all Lodges make themselves
familiar with this work through the report of· the Medical Department
of Stanford University made to the Grand Master, showing results
of their survey of the children.
PHYSlCAL CONTHTJON OF PROPERTY

As the years pass by, the buildings at Decato become more and
more in need of repairs. This is particularly true at this time, as
the Trustees felt that they could not increase the deficit by the
expenditure of money on the lmi:dings. We have now reached a
point when it would be to the detriment of the best interests of
the Homes to longer delay certain needed repairs, and it will he
a real economy to spend money at this time, to do that which is
necessary to preserve the buildings and properties. we, therefore,
purpose during the year to do all the painting that the conditions of
the buildings indicate to be necessary, and to repair and replace
such woodwork as ti111e and decay have rendered unsafe, and to
rebuild the fences around the property. These things can be delayed
no longer.
At Covina the property is in good condition. The wagon-sheds
and barns completed this year from salvage of the old temporary
buildings meet all present needs. The fence around the lower
garden should be rabbit-proofed and an area of about two acres

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

453

added to our deciduous orchard. The citrus orchard is doing well
and the lemon trees doubled their production this year. A new
cottage was built for the men, replacing the one destroyed by fire.
Xo repairs have been needed except some interior painting during
the vacation season.
FARM

It has been found ih1possible to economically take care of the
entire farm at Decato. The original intention in purchasing the
tract occupied by the Home, was to cultivate the ground with the
aid of the residents. This did not work out, as the majority of our
fap1ily are too far advanced in years to be of real value. Only
enough land has been worked under the Home management to keep
the table supplied with vegetables. The remainder of the land, with
the exception of the orchard, is leased on shares. The in<;ome from
farm rentals and sale of fruits is to be found in the financial
statement in this report.
The farm at Covina is too new in general improvement to show
much resu!ts. The garden docs well, but the trees, while showing
exceptional growth, arc not old enough to bear fruit, except about
three acres of five-year- old lemons. Table grapes and berries are
now being set out and ground is prepared to seed alfalfa in the
spring.
I'INANCES

Owing to the conditions arising from the war and the constantly
increasing high cost of living, the expense of maintaining the
l lomcs has been, as it was· last year, greater than our income.
Such economy as we believed justifiable has been practiced both
at Covina and Dccoto; and it is pleasing to know that the percentage
of increase in the cost of living at our Homes has been iess than
the average as ascertained from C6vt~rnment reports. The daily per
capita cost at Decoto was $1.01 and at Covina 87 cents; the difference
in cost b<otwcen the ·two Homes being accounted for by the fact
that included in the cost at Decoto is the expense of maintaining
the hospital and farm. To meet the deficit we were compelled to
borrow the sum of $11,755.44.
There arc only two ways to prevent a deficit in the conduct of
any business. One is to reduce the expenses ; the other is to
increase the income.
The Trustees are of the opinion that it is practically impossible
to further reduce the expenses of maintaining the Homes. The
alternative is to increase the income. The Trustees realize that
even the present per capita tax has proved 'a burden upon certain

454

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodges; and they arc therefore unwilling to recommend an increase.
They are unanimously of the opinion that any change in the per
capita tax for maintenance should be toward a reduction rather
than an increase. It is, however, obtrusively apparent that if the
per capita tax is to be reduced, or even if it is to be maintained
at the present rate, some plan must be devised whereby additional
income can be derived from other sources. To this matter they
have given their best thought and have had under consideration
several suggested plans. In the consideration of the problem they
have not only conferred with brethren of the craft in California, ·but
have sought information from other jurisdictions.
After mature consideration they are inclined to believe that
the best method is that generally known as the "Pennsylvania Plan,"
but modified to meet conditions peculiar to our Lodges.
In Pennsylvania every applicant for admission to the fraternity
pays, in addition to the initiation fee required by the Lodge, the sum
of $20.00 for the support and maintenance of the Masonic Home.
Had this plan been in operation in California during the two
years last past, which of course were abnormal ones, the income
derived from this source alone would have amounted to the sum
of $224,0JO.OO, a sum far in excess of the entire cost of maintenance;
and it would have rendered unnecessary the levy o'f any per capita
tax on the Lodges. Of course, as we have said, the two years last ·
past were abnormal ones; but we may rcasonahly expect that the
annual increase in our membership will be not less than 4000. With
the payment by each new member of the sum of $20.00, if any per
capita tax at all would be required, it would be an extremely low
one; in no event probably more than 10 cents instead of $1.00 as
at present.
This computation, you will however note, is based on a uniform
fee of $20.00 to be paid by each new member
Therein lies the objection to the plan, because it may militate
against the smaller and less prosperous Lodges. An additional
charge of $20.00 to an applicant for membership in a Lodge where
the initiation fee is $100.00 would not be a serious objection. In
other words, whether the total fees would be $100 or $120, would not ·
in all likelihood affect the increase in membership.
Where, however, the initiation fee is $30.00 or even $50.00, an
additional charge of $20.00 might materially reduce the number of
applications made to those Lodges.
A provision for a uniform charge of $20.00 might therefore
perhaps prove to be a detriment to the less prosperous Lodges. This
of course must be avoided; and that objection to the plan suggested

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

455

will be obviated by a modification we have discussed, which is as
follows:
Instead of making the additional charge on all applications
for membership uniform, the amount to be paid for the support
and maintenance of the Homes might be made proportionate to
the initiation fee charged by the Lodge. If instead of making a
fixed charge ?f $20.00 there was a provision for the payment of
a sum equal to 20 per cent of the initiation fee, a member admitted
to a Lodge in which the initiation f~c was $100 would pay $20,
while a member admitted to a Lodge in which the initiation fee
was $30 would pay only $6.00. There. could therefore be no suggestion of any discrimination in favor of or against any particular
class of Lodges.
It is hardly conceivable that an additional charge of $6.00 would
prove an obstacle to an applicant who is able and willing to pay
$30.00 for membership in the fraternity.
In order merely that the members of the Grand Lodge may
know that the Trustees have not failed to consider the matter
from every point of view, and not because we believe it a valid
one, we may say that another objection made to the so-called
Pennsylvania Plan was that it "might produce an unfavorable
impression upon the minds of those aspiring to obtain Masonic
light, inasmuch as they may well assume it to be strange that the
great Imtitution of Masonry should require an applicant at its
doors to contribute directly to a fund for maintaining the Homes".
It seems to us that the exact converse· would be true. At the
very threshold of our door he who knocks would have impressed
upon his mind the fact that the care of the widow nnd the orphan
is an obligation every Mason take.s upon himself; and he could
not but be favorably impressed with the fact that of the amount
paid by him for the privilege of becoming a member of the fratcrnitv
one-fifth was devoted to the maintcna11ce of an institution whi~I~
should be the pride of every Masonic heart.
If the Pennsylvania Plan, as modified in accordance with our
suggestion, had been in operation this year, we would have obtained
for the Homes from that source the sum of $68,930.00. This would
have warranted even at this time, a recommendation for a decrease
in the per capita tax. With the increase in membership which we
can reasonably expect, the amount derived in this way, together
with the income from the continually increasing Endowment Fund,
would warrant the expectation that in a few years the per capita
tax might be not only materially reduced, but dispensed with
entirely.

456

PlWCEEDINGS OF '£HE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

This much at least is certain: If that plan were adopted it
would not in any event increase the burden the Lodges are now
bearing; but on the contrary would offer the hope that it might
be diminished.
\Ve can not therefore escape the conviction that · it should at
least be given a trial. None of the other plans which have been
suggested appeals so strongly to us as does this. N evcrtheless, in
view of the fact that there arc those who prefer some other
method of providing for the revenue required for the maintenance
of the Home·s, and because other plans may be submitted, instead
of making a recommendation for the adoption of the plan we favor,
we have asked the Grand Master to appoint a committee to which
the entire question may be submitted, with instructions to report
thereon at this communication with such rccommcndntion as may
seem to its members meet and proper.
LEGACIES

During the year, a number of legacies were received by the
Homes, the most notable of which are as follows:
John Tucker, a member of California Lodge No. l, died on
January 19, 1919. The Master of California Lodge, Brother Duncan
McLeod, notified the Trustees that Brother Tucker had deposited
in the Security Savings Bank of San Francisco in 1912, the sum of
$2000.00 to the credit of J olm Tucker, Trustee, for the :\1asonic
Orphans of California, antl that it was his desire that this sum
should be used for the children at Covina. This gift has been used
in the establishment of the "John Tncker Camp" at Balboa Beach.
For the last seven years the children have spent the month of
August in camp on an island at Balboa, occupyit~g property belonging
to Geo. W. Prince, Jr., who had very kindly given the use of it for
the purpose. We have purchased ten lots for $1100.00 at1d with
the ba'ance of the money have constructed sanitary lavatories, a
rustic dining room and kitchen, all fly-proofed, new tent frames
and stoves, and now have an ideal summer camp. :\1uch of the work
in the construction of the camp has been <lone by the children of
the Homes under tbe direction of Trustee Spencer.
We also received from the rstate of Mary M. Payne a legacy
of $1592.32 which has been deposited in the Endowment fund. Mrs.
Payne was the widow of G. H. Payne, a member of Oak Grove No.
215, Alameda. Also received from the estate of Brother Wm. F,
Fletcher of Mission No. 169, the sum of $1000.00.
It will be remembered that in 1917, we reported a gift of
$21,000 for use at Covina, and in 1918 a further gift of $19,000 for
use at Dccoto. Both of these were the gift of John Randolph Daggett

457

of California Lodge No. l, who expressly requested that his name
~:10uld not be mentioned until after his death. Brother Daggett
~eel on.June 27, 1919. In grateful remembrance the Trustees have
gi;en h1~ nai~1e. to t~e boys' dormitory, and a bronze tab~et with a
SU!table mscnption will be placed thereon.
SCHOLARSHlPS

. During tl~e year, the Trustees were in receipt of three scholarships,. all which were for the purpose of affording vocational or
tcchmcal edu~ation for the children of the Masonic Home. The
first s:holarsh.1p was that of San Francisco Pyra111 id No. 1, Ancient
Egyptian Order of Sciots, in the amount of $300.00 annually. The
second was that of San Francisco Bodies No. 1, Ancient and i\cce~~ed ~cottish. Rite, to the a~notmt of $750.00 annually, and la~tly
Ca.ifor~m Bodies No. 5, Ancient and Accepted Scottish Rite, has
appropriate(~ the sum of $1500 as n California Bodies ;;;cholarship.
The rcsolnt1on provides that when this smn is cxlw ustcd the Bodies
.
arc to be notified.
The Trustees take pleasure in acknowledging the co-operatiqn
and constructive interest displayed hy the ladies of the ~astern
Star and Amaranth orders. Different Chapters of these orders
have frequently visited the Hom cs and have matcriallv contrihuted
~o the happiness of the residents of both institutions. Their gifts of
J clly, ~tc., ha;e hcen partici1lariy appreciated by the children. We
a~pr~ciatc their c?-operati?n and trust that in the future they will
d1sp!,1y the same mtercst m our Homes as in the past.
The Trustees. avail themselves of this opportunity to specifically
call to the attention of Grnml Lodge certain conditions with which
they arc frequently confronted in applications for admission to the
Ho.mes. They make no recommendation with reference thereto, hut
hch~vc that the matter should receive the attention and consideration
of (,rand Lodge.

It not infrequently happens that an application is marle for
~dmission to the l lomc at Dccoto for a person who is not indigent
m the sense governing admissious to the Tfomc, hnt who is so situated
that he is without a home. For instance, very recently an application
was made for a man 68 years of age whose home had been broken
:1p by the death of his wife. He himself was in receipt of a monthly
1n_c~mc of $50.00 and had three sons, all of whom were able f.11(1
w11lmg to contribute to his support, but who were not so situated
that th:y. could provide for him a home. He and they were not
only w11lmg that there should be paid to the Homes the monthly

458

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND I.ODGE OF CALIFORNIA

income of $50.00 accruing to him, but they would in addition pay
such an amount as the Trustees might fix if he were admitted.
The old gentleman had always lived in San Francisco or the
vicinity, while two of the sons, according to our recollection, resided
in different parts of the State and the other in the State of Nevada.
All of them were married, but the old gentleman was seriously
averse to making his home with any of them, and was very anxious
to become a member of the family at Decoto. He had confidently
expected that upon the death of the wife, which had been for some
time anticipated, he would spend his last days with his Masonic
brethren, with whom in his old age he expected to find happiness
and contentment.
Under the rules and regulations governing
Trustees were compelled to deny the application.

the

Home,

the

The situation with reference to children is even more embarrassing. In the event of the death of the father, if the mother is
compelled to seek employment and therefore unable to care for the
child, it is adrriitted to the Home at Covina. In the event of the
death of the mother, however, the child is not admitted if the
earnings of the father are sufficient to provide for the support of
the child.
Under the discretion vested in the Trustees, if the earning~ of
the father are not sufficient to pay for some one in whose care
the child may he placed while the father is absent from home, the
child is admitted. If, however, the earnings of the father are
sufficient to maintain a home and hire a housekeeper, or if he is
only able to pay for some one in whose care the child may be
placed, the child is not eligible for admission to the Horne. We
are compelled to disregard entirely the question of whether or not
the best interests of the child will be subservcd hy p'.acing it unde;
the care of such a person as the father is ahlc to find.

In more than one instance it has occurred that while the father
has been financially able to pay therefor, he has not been able to
secure the services of what he deems a fit and suitable person to
whom the care of his child may be safely entrusted. Under those
circumstances he has made application for admission to the Home
upon the understanding that he would pay whatever sum the Trustees
might request. In one instance we were expressly told that it was
not a question of money. The father was wil!ing to pay $150.00 per
month to have his little girl under our care at Covina rather than to
entrust her to such a housekeeper as he might be able to secure.
He explained that it was not simply a question of the physical

459

welfare of the child or her mental training but
more particularly
her .n;oral welfare. He was extremely sur;rised to learn that no
prov1s1on
had been made for such a co n d't'
.
.
l ion as was presented in
h is case.
The theory of course upon which the Homes are maintained
is that. only those are admitted who would
otherwise be a charge
on their respective Lodges.
the We iresent this matter at this time not merely in order that
mem ers of the Grand Lodge may be advised of the restrictions
11 • h h J
placed upon admissions to the Homes but as
th t th b
'
we wit t c 1ope
a
: est thought of the fraternity will be given to an
t
I
perplexm
bl
h
ex reme y
.
g pro :m, t at some plan can perhaps be . devised to
ameliorate what ts certainly a most unfortunate condition.

In conclusion, we would call the attention of Grand Lori c to
:htc Cfoac~ tha.t aAve~yl cxhau.stive examination was made of our f'romc
pr1 of tlus year b ti
'
vma m
and Corrections Th . fi
Y. 1c
tatc Board of Charities
to the Home . Th . cir . n lll~s are 1n every way complimentary to
.
eir report is too long to be quoted in full and
we wot
ild suggest that those who are interested obtain
'f
the State Board of Charities. They say "th' . t'. .a copy r~m
one f h b
•
.
.
·
is ms 1tutton ts easily
is in~le t de t es~ we have m California and that the Masonic Fraternity
0
e congratulated on the high standard under which
.
ek
ti11 s wor is conducted".

s

d' '

RECOMMENDATIONS

!st-We recommcml that an appropriation be made by this
Grand Lotlge to cover the deficit 1·n tlie
Maintenance F1111d. This
amounts to $11,755.44.

I 1ratcrnally submitted,
CnAs. M.

E.

WoLLF.Nm\RC

n. SPl\NCl\R

OSCAR LAWLER

CHAS. G. JOHNSON
CHAS. A. ADAMS

G!!o. F. Ronm(N
SAMUEL

E. BURKE
Trustees.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

460

SECRETARY'S

461

Brought Forward .................. ....... : ...... $89,219.52

REPORT

To the Board of Trustees, Masonic Homes of California:
I have the honor to submit herewith the book account of the
Homes, as shown by Brother John R. Ruckstell, certified public
accountant.
JOHN \l\THICHER, .

Secretary.
MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA
SUMMARIZED STATEMENT
Year Ending July 31, 1919.

Income and Revenue:
Maintenance Fund ..............................
Farm Produce Sales: Decoto.......... 10,729.52
Farm Produce Sales: Covina.......... 2,016.39
Farm Rent: Decato........................... .
Maintenance : Decoto ........................ 2,379.80
Maintenance: Covina........................ 1,612.44
Salvage : Covina ....... :...................... ..
Interest ..................................................
General Expense: Decoto ............... .

EXPENSE

Maintenance :
Decoto ....................................................$28,706.61
Covina .................................................... 10,699.76

Total Revenue and Income ......

73,393.41

12,745.91
430.39

3,992.24
68.75
131.04
147.88
90,909.62

$39,406.37
Farm:
Decoto .................................................... 7,768.66
Covina
. ..................................... 4,050.47

Excess Income and Revenue Over Expense....................$ 1,690.10
11,819.13

Laundry:
Decoto
Covina

1,683.07
722.16
2,405.23

Payroll:
Decoto
Covina

10,220.45
4,102.29
14,322.74

General Expense :
Dccoto ................................................... . 13,670.02
Covina .................................................. . 5,092.56
18,762.58
Common Expense:
762.27
Trustees-Traveling Expense ......... .
315.00
Accounting and Bookkeeping ......... .
Interest ................................................. . 1,038.70
300.00
Pensions ................................................
12.50
Legal Expense ................................... .
75.00
Printing ............................................... .
2,503.47
Total Expense ............................. .

$89,219.52

462

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MASONIC HOMES OF CALIFORNIA.

General Expense :
Light, Heat, Power and Water ........$ 6,323.86 $ 1,331.68 $ 7,606.36
Plant, Repairs and Maintenance...... 1,410.66
790.17
2,200.83
Freight and Express............................ 1,241.52
194.65
1,436.17
Traveling Expense ..............................
60.04
60.04
Printing and Office Supplies..........
250.57
214.05
464.62
Insurance .............................................. 1,172.87
1,260.59
87.72
1,329.30
2,179.82
Taxes ·············-·······························--·······
850.52
Furniture and Equipment..................
122.05
166.84
288.89
Telephone and Telegraph..................
239.08
173.57
412.65
Sundries ................................................ 1,998.85
804.58
2,732]3

ST A TEMENT OF EXPENDITURES BY DETAIL
August 1, 1918, to July 31, 1919.
Total
Covina
Maintenance :
Decoto
Groceries ................................................$ 4,568.75 $ 1,523.48 $ 6,092.05
5,462.88
1,183.75
Meats ...................................................... 4,279.13
497.69
111.84
Fish ·······················-·--····---·················-······
385.85.
Provisions (cured and smoked
373.25
175.97
197.28
meats) ............................................... .
3,214.06
600.30
Fruits and Vegetables ......................... . 2,613.76
1,972.10 10,126.15
Butter, Milk and Eggs ....................... . 8,154.05
2,266.47
966.50
Bakers' Supplies ................................. . 1,299.97
696.16
101.40
594.76
Medical Supplies and Drugs ........... .
796.25
62.70
733.55
Hospital Expense ···-···-···················-····
209.90
204.00
5.90
Dental Expense ···················-·············--1,535.01
910.99
624.02
Clothing ................................................. .
880.63
606.60
274.03
Shoes ............... :..................................... .
24.86
7.80
17.06
Bedding ·······-········-······-···············-··········
58.01
58.01
School Supplies ·······-········-····-··············
159.07
103.20
55.87
Kitchen, Repairs and Maintenance
358.22
56.70
301.52
Kitchen Expense ···········-··················-·
1,975.89
771.75
1,204.14
Sundries ·········-·····-·-······-···-···--··············
4,679.82
1,282.67
Payroll ···-·····'···-·····-··--······--··········-········· 3,397.15
Total Maintenance ····-·-·--···-···-····$28,706.61 $10,699.76 $39,4-06.37
Farm:
41.24
41.24 $
Tools and Equipment... ...................... .
$
200.19
104.29
Seeds ......................................................$
95.90
5,949.95
1,290.75
Feed ···------------··--··············--·············---····· 4,659.20
2,959.50
1,337.00
Labor ·······-··--·--··--····----·················-··-······ 1,622.50
2,668.25
1,277.19
General Expense ·······-··-······-······--······ 1,391.06

463

Total General Expense ..............$13,670.02 $ 5,092.56 $18,762.58
Common Expense :
Trustees' Expense ····························································--·····--·--·-$ 762.27
315.00
Accounting ··-··························--············--·······--·············--····--····---------·
75.00
Printing ····································---····-················------············--·······--·-·-·
12.50
Legal Expense ·······························-·-·········-··········--······---······-········
Interest ···········································-···································-·············· 1,038.70
300.00
Pensions ········-····---······---····---·---···---·-----···---··--·-···---··-··-············-·--·--·
Total Common Expense ........................................................$ 2,503.47
Revenue:
Collection for Care, etc ......................$ 2,379.80 $ 1,612.44 $ 3,992.24
2,016.39 12,745.91
Farm Produce Sales ···-····-·······-········· 10,729.52
Farm Rent : Decoto............................
430.39
430.39
131.04
Interest ·····-···········-··-············-·-··············
Salvage and Miscellaneous ............. .
68.75
68.75
147.88
147.88
General Expense ..................................
Total Revenue .............................. $13,687.59 $ 3,697.58 $17,516.21

722.16 $ 2,405.23

Summary of Expenditures:
Maintenance ..........................................$28,706.61 $10,699.76 $39,406.37
Farm ...................................................... 7,768.66
4,050.47 11,819.13
Laundry ................................................ 1,683.07
722.16
2,4-05.23
4,102.29 14,322.74
Payroll-General ·············-·-·····-·········· 10,220.45
General Expenses .............................. 13,670.02
5,092.56 18,762.58
Common Expense ............................................... .
2,503.47

Payroll:
Wages ·······-····--···········-···-···-·······-·-····----$ 7,160.45 . $ 3,027.29 $10,187.74
Salaries -·····-····-·······-··-····--·········-·····-····· 3,060.00
1,075.00
4,135.00

Grand Total ..................................$62,048.81 $24,667.24 $89,219.52
Homes Revenue .......................... 13,687.59
3,697.58 17,516.21

Total Payroll ................................$10,220.45 $ 4,102.29 $14,322.74

Net Expense ................................$48,361.22 $20,969.66 $71,703.31

Total Farm ..................................$ 7,768.66 $ 4,050.47

$11,819.13

Laundry:
Labor ···-····-····--···········--···········-·····---······$ 1,010.33 $
Expense ·-········-···-········---···················-··
672.74

439.67 $ 1,450.00
282.49
955.23

Total Laun~ry ............................$ 1,683.07 $

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

464

Brought Forward ............... ......... $234,217.59

STATEMENT OF CASH RECEIPTS AND DISBURSEME:\'TS

DISBURSEMENTS

From August 1, 1918, to July 31, 1919.
Cash on Hand August 1, 1918............................................................$ 3,579.45

RI\Cl\IPTS

Grand Lodge, Account Building..........$30,148.00
Grand Lodge, Account Maintenance.. 73,326.72
$103,474.72
Subordinate Lodges for Maintenance:
Decoto ................................................ 2,438.98
Covina ................................................ 1,480.99
3,919.97
Farm Produce Sales:
Deco to
Covina

Claims Payable .............................................................. $ 83,739.57
Bank of Italy-Loans Repaid.................................... 57,324.33
Interest on Loan-Building Fund............................ 3,317.00
Interest-General .......................................................... 1,040.70
Special Rule No. 16...................................................... 2,155.91
Special Rule No. 16-lnterest....................................
133.30
Residents' Deposit Fund.............................................. 1,434.27
Permanent Endowment Fund.................................... 40,308.12
Entertainment Fund ....................................................
277.28
Suspense ..........................................................................
73.04
Total Disbursements, August 1, 1918, to July
31, 1919 ............................................

1,810.31
417.00

189,803.52

Balance on

2,227.40
430.39

Farm Rent
Permanent Endowment Fund:
Donations .............................................................. .. 67,372.76
Int rest, etc........................................................... .. 4,862.03
351.61
Niiscellaneous ....................................................... .
Special Rule No. 16.................................. :...................
598.00
City of Santa Barbara Bond Redeemed .................... 1,000.00
Funeral Expense ......................................................... ,· 1,202.72
914.24
Special Home Fund-Interest .................................. ..
Headstone Fund ........................................................... .
1"'1.00
Residents' Deposit Fund ........................................... . 2,934.35
Bank of Italy-Loan ...................................................... 35,000.00
124.00
Bank of Italy-Interest ................... :............................
7.04
Los Angeles Trust & Savings Bank-Interest..... .
500.00
Insurance, Account Building at Covina................. .
Entertainment Fund ................................................... . 3,271.25
Contributions to Furniture-Covina,........................ . 1,750.32
517.34
Nliscellaneous ...................................................... ., ........ ..
Total Receipts, August 1, 1918, to July 31,
1919 ................................................................. .

465

44,414.07

S'l'A'l'EMEN'l' OF CASH ON HAND AND IN BANKS

Humboldt Savings Bank-Special Home Fund ....$ 1,486.37
Humboldt Savings Bank-Endowment Fund........ 35,621.42
Los Angeles Trust & Savings Bank........................
546.64
Bank of Italy-Entertainment Fund........................ 2,993.97
Petty Cash-Decoto ................. ,.................. $119.10
Petty Cash-Covina .................................... 50.00
169.10
174.21
July Collections-Covina for Deposit in August
July Collections-Decoto for Deposit in August 1,337.24
F. S. Hartman, Trustee Residents' Deposit Fund 2,546.32
Total ........................................................................$ 44,875.27

Less Bank of Italy Overdraft....................................

461.20
$ 44,414.07

$230,638.14

Total Cash Available ....................................................................$234,217.59

•-••o•H--~--··-

""
z

~

~
(.n

""'

-~ *
:...
""'

~

11

0\
....

~8~Ri~~~~8

W

5~

N

<.nNN

.

wwOOO\OO\w<.nt::)

i!

g

'"1

'Ti.:::.

rt"

t:l

§~""
P-=o
;:;:!:;

~~~'.t!~~~g;~

.j:.,

P..

i5..:

$:!

o.?~:
....
°'"i
'"'Ii E

<.,,_
0

°''°

hw
~

e.. "''T!Q r-f'"~

::3

!l)

s w3 ~

"1"' ~§gm.&

t"b

::3.....;

a.:

..... § Z'g o."ig_;:r

t3

~

-

NWtFtN'l..-Qt.n<.n

i

!"

-

"'

~;;·

t'.
P>

f""f"

5· g ;o (ii" (lQ ::r: g "O

~

£

0

i-l

>i::l(')Z

~§":S

ao~~E~r-f'" Ul~ C!.
~
~
n :::-

m.::r::CJJ~t::l

-w
""'

h

11

.... (lO

'°. . . . .: >-!'>.
'° ;

:-. ~ ?;

.:-'
""' .... n

c::

(lQ

~

ffl
(.n

"--"

(lQ

.....
"'

0

<
I'>

....

e:
= >c

t3

Pi t3

n

"'

=
,.,
0

c

P>
....

t::l

;;;-

P>

"'>< ,.,>

:::.

~·

>
O"

fJ>

P>

"'
,.....

:OS
n

;;;-

P>

t;;;l

*Deficit.

(')
P>

:::j

(f;

!"

t:
>
!:!

~

~

J-

"'

"'~"'

>

!::.

~

i-l

(l)

a.c::

"'c::..

~

~:
...,
i7

0.

:=

r!

,...._

....

8~

0

....

-~

'° <n

N

"'

ga

0

g

>

s.

~

m.

:::: .o· .l:i

(l)

:

r

...,

a·

'Ti

c...,
::::

0.

t3

~
P>

(",>

""

,;-

.j:., ........

'

~
~~(Jt~~8~t

I'>

aa

u:- a a.

(J'l

~~~88t::l~~~

0\0~.-.W""""""\ON~

::;~'}s~~~~:::~

(:2.. c::

<f':r1::1::lJ:rj

5 3 .o·
Oil ~ ;!;.
.... "--" ~- >rj 0.
c:: r.rJ.
P>

"O ~ :;"

~f"'l'~~~

(l)

(!)

g-i~
gi21~3;.;ig;g:i~g;Q
f.fl:S
::s:::;:sO"t::l-t:::;:::..:tiJ::SVl
"""""
(",>:i...,3c::..o.-c::..0:::::ti (!) 0 '"1 Vl 0
"""" -·

Ul

eJ

>

Ul
Ul

c::

>
>
t"'

....

~

.j:.,

>

C'l

~

~

1::1

s

ti

z

~
>

l1.1

::i::

-i

0
"i

I'll

Cl

z

ti
....

l"l
l"l

C'l

0

;g

(.)\

0\

~

:;

z

l:::.1

q ~t"'

m.

::r::

(fl

!'""

:g

0
tr!

w

-< z

.......

t::l

$ 44,414.07

Balances .................................................................................. $ 3,579.45

--

119.10
50.00

$ 44,244.97

35,000.00

$ 9,244.97

Banks, etc. ....................................................................... "'·········· $ 3,410.35
Petty Cash-Decato ....'................................................................
119.10
Petty Cash-Covina ....................................................................
50.00

Totals .................................................................... ················ *$53,913.98 $198,115.64 $144,201.66 $134,956.69
Bank of Italy Loans-Net..................................................... 57,324.33

u~•••••••••••••

Ba:ance
Total
Balance
Funds
Aug. 1, 1918
Receipts
Available Disbursed July 31, 1919
General Fund-Maintenance ................................................. *$13,030.72 $ 82,851.96 $ 69,821.24 $ 81,576.68 *$ 11,755.44
7,456.46
Special Rule No. 16 Fund........................................................
598.00
8,054.46
5,765.25
2,289.21
Permanent Endowment Fund.................................................
2,343.14
73,586.40
35,621.42
40,308.12
75,929.54
Permanent Endowment Fund Building Note....
45,800.00
45,800.00
Residents' Deposit Fund ........................................................... .
1,046.24
2,934.35
2,546.32
3,980.59
1,434.27
Entertainment Fund
66.69
2,993.97
3,337.94
343.97
Headstone Fund
1,960.00
180.00
2,140.00
2,062.00
78.00
*102,237.74
Building Fund ............................................................
32,486.72 *69,751.02
*75,186.35
5,435.33
572.13
914.24
1,486.37
Special Home Fund....................................................
1,486.37
284.00
1,292.72
*88.57
Funeral Expense Fund..............................................................
1,665.29
1,576.72
Unapportioned _Funds and
1,825.82
1,825.82
1,825.82

SUMMARIZED CASH STATEMENT BY FUNDS

468

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THE DECOTO HOME

of not only their own rooms but also the halls, stairways, wash
rooms, reading, linen and reception rooms, also the Assembly Ha!l
in the bui:dings occupied by them.

During the past year the affairs of the Decoto Home have been
very satisfactory.
The permanent improvements and repairs made for several
years past ha vc enabled the management to render a higher standard
of service in meeting the physical, mental and spiritual needs of
the family.
1'hcrc has been a greater individual effort to interest themselves
in the general routine. work and to contribute according to their
strength to the general welfare of the H omc, with the result that a
splc11did spirit has been created which exerts a harmonious influence
in the daily life of the Home.
The social side of our Home life has been carried out by means
of diversions of various kinds. Suitable entertainments, out-of-doors
recreations, picnic parties, excursions to nearby places of interest,
etc., have enriched the social and farni'.y life of the Home.
There arc now at the Home 85 men and 46 women. During the
past fiscal year there bave been 21 admissions, 14 men and 7 women.
Twenty-seven have passed away.
The licalth of the Home has been good. Those now being
cared for at the Coleman hospital are hy reason of the inlirmities
of advancing years. There arc now 16 members of the family being
cared for at the hospital.
The operation of the heating, laundry, pumping and cold storage
plants and the blacksmith shop has been satisfactory.
The water supply has hccn plentiful for household, garden and
irrigating purposes. The reservoirs have at all times 700,000 ga!lon5
of water in storage.
The greater part of the hill ranch has been leased either on
shares or cash rental. 1'bc orchards, hay fields, the chicken and
hog rancb, vegetable and berry gardens bavc given good returns
the surplus being sold in the San Francisco markets. A larg~
quantity of fruit has been dried and 13,000 eggs have been put up
for future use.
A number of the brethren have contributed to the welfare of
the Home by their labor i11 the carpenter, tailor, shoe and barber
shops, picking fruit, watering lawns, garage, library, kitchen and
pa11try and dining room work and light chores, also work in the
drug, dental and optical departments.

~he ladies of the Home attend to all the making, mending and
markmg of tbe household linen, and have taken charge of the care

469

There arc 2700 volumes on the library shelves. Many magazines,
periodicals and daily papers arc received which arc placed on the
tables of the library, men's club rooms and the ladies' reading room.
Moving pictures, stcreopticon, and musical entertainments, orchestra and chorus practices, socials, ca rd parties, games and dances,
reading classes for those with impaired eyesight have been regularly
held. The usual Sunday services followed by a concert given by
the orchestra arc also well attended hy the members of the Home.
Arrangements have been made whereby the members of the family,
a few at a time, may visit nearby Lodges arnl Chapters. Dnrin:.\· the
year many trips were made by automohilc to Hayward, Oakland,
San Francisco and towns in the vicinity of ihc lTome.
Many entertainments have hccn given for the pkasmc aml
hcncfit of the family hy Lrnlg-cs, nicrnhcrs of Lodges ancl their
ladies. The following is a list of those who have contrilmtcd to
our enjoyment:
Novcmher 30, 1918--Thanksgiving cxcrdscs in Asscmhly Tlall.
December 13, 1918-Entcrtainmcnt hy students from Mi:ls
College, Christmas Carols, Recitations, etc.
Dcecmher 20, 1918-Amakur ministrels from IT ayward.
December 25, 1918-Christmas services attended hy rcshlents
and cmploycs. Large Christmas tree, rooms, halls and corridors
decorated with gn•cn and red frstooning-, hells aml wreaths. Visit
of Mr. and Mrs. Santa Clat1s. Distribution of presents.
Dccemlwr JI, 1918--Rcception, nmsical program, games and
dancing.
\Vatch party at mic\night, attcrnk•d hy rcshlt•nts an cl
cmploycs.
Fchrnary 12, 1919-Lineoln's birthday. Patriotic excrdst•s.
Fehruary 22, 1919.,-Washington's Birthday. Patriotic exercises.
April 20, 1919-Eastcr services in Assembly llall.
May 10, 1919-Mastcrs and Senior War<kns of San Francisco.
Third degree in Simonoff 1'emp'c. Smoker.
May 20, 1919-Chantauqua at Centerville. Twenty-four members
of the Home had the privilege of ath·nding the Chautauqua exercises
daily for the week ending May 25, 1919.
l\fay 24, 1919-Frnitvalc Lodge, No. 336. Third degree in Tcmpk.
Smoker.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

470

May 30, 1919-Memorial Day.
at Cypress cemetery at Decoto.

GRAND LODGE OF CAl,.IFOnNIA

Exercises in Assembly Hall and

June 7, 1919-Starr King Lodge, No. 344, and Pacific Lodge
No. 136. Third degree in Temple. Smoker.
June 14, 1919-Entertainment by teachers from the
department of the Deaf and Dumb Institution, Berkeley.
June 21, 1919-Rockridge Lodge, No. 468.
Temple. Smoker.
June 27, 1919-0akland Municipal band.
grounds of the Home.
July 4th, 1919-Independence Day.
sembly Hall.

musical

Third degree in

Band concert on the

Patriotic exercises in As-

August 1, 1919-East Bay Matrons' Association.
gram, songs and recitations in Temple.

Musical pro-

August 24, 1919-Santa Clara Chapter, No. 195, 0. E. S.
Entertainment in Assembly Hall. Songs, instrumental music, etc.
All these gatherings, together with the comfort afforded by our
splendidly equipped Temple, club, music, library and reading rooms,
croquet grounds, etc., are factors in creating an atmosphere of peace
and contentment throughout the Home.

DONATIONS TO DECOTO HOME
DONOR

ARTICLE

Morning Star Lodge No. 68 ................ 157 jars jelly, jam and fruit.
Mill Valley Chapter No. 219, 0. E. S .. 32 jars jelly, jam and fruit.
J. ·Halton ................................................... .! package clothing.
Durant Lodge No. 268 ........................... .296 jars je'.ly and fruit. Cash $3.50.
H. H. Wallenstein ................................... .1 package magazines.
Capt. L. E. Lyon ...................................... 6 jars of grape juice.
E. D. Matthews ........................................ 25 vols. miscellaneous books.
]. Linder ................................................... .2 packages magazines and periodicals.
Grau & Werner ........................................ 4 boxes grapes.
) 92 jars jelly, jam and fruit.
Apollo Lodge No .. 396....................... I 100 cigars and boxes candy.
S. B. Fountaine, D. D. S ...................... 9 scalers, dental instruments.
Needlework Guild of America .............. l large package clothing.
California Nursery Company................ l Christmas tree.
Mrs. Carrie Emerson .............................. 1 sack walnuts.

DONOR

471

ARTICLE

East Bay Matrons' Association
1 box oranges, 1 box cakes.
Rudolph'Franke ............................::::::::::::1 keg pickles, 1 keg chowchow.
Semper Fidelis Chapter No. 135,
0. E. S ...................................................... 52 jars jam and fruit.
H. W. Emerson, M. D ........................... .1 package clothing.
C. H. Kinkler ............................................ 40 lbs. raisins and 40 lbs. dried prunes.
Alameda Lodge No. 167 and Orient
Chapter No. 177, 0. E. S .................... 55 jars fruit and jam.
Oroville Lodge No. 103 .......................... 4 gals. ripe olives.
E. W. Perkins .......................................... 50 cigars.
Porterville Lodge No. 303 ......................6 boxes oranges.
Henry M. 'Owens ..................................... .1 package vegetable seeds.
San Joaquin Lodge No. 19................... .113 jaTS jelly and fruit.
Masters and Senior Wardens' Association of San Francisco .................... 150 cigars and 50 boxes candy.
Arthur Roth ............................................. .! package magazines.
Fruitvale Lodge No. 336 ....................... .150 cigars and 50 boxes candy.
Roderick G. Guyett ................................. .1 package clothing.
]. D. Smith ................................................! horse and 1 orchard truck.
Starr King Lodge No. 344 and Pacific Lodge No. 136............................. .150 cigars and 50 boxes candy.
E. M. Smith ................................................1 chest of carpenter tools.
Ruth A. Utz ................................................ 1 gramaphone record.
. 1 player piano record.
Islam Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S..... 2 package~ magazines and playing cards.
$100.00 for Islam Temple Film Fund.
Mrs. L. W. Knight... ................................. I package clothing.
Oak Grove Lodge No. 215 ...................... 4 large boxes of magazines and books.
Chas. D. Woodman .................................. 2 vols. California History.
J. Goodwin ................................................ 3 packages books and magazines.
S. W. Kilpatrick. ...................................... .1 large shipment of budding plants.
Charles F. Gompertz ....................... .-....... .1 set Dickens' Works, 1 set Scott's
Works.
G. L. Lewis .................................................. 1 clock.
M. B. Silver ................................................ 1 clock.
Rockridge Lodge No. 468 ...................... 150 cigars.
Masonic Club of San Francisco ............ 3 packages of magazines and periodicals.

~

472

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
CHRISTMAS CASH DONATIONS-1919

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Abell .............................. 146........ 5.00 Coronado ................... .441........ 5.00
Alameda ..................... .167........ 5.00 Covina ..........................334........ 5.00
Alcatraz ..................... .244........ 10.00 Crescent ...................... 45........ 5.00
Alpha ........................... .431 ........ 15.00 Crockett ..................... .139 ........ 25.00
Alisa! ............................321........ 5.00 Culver City ................ ..467 ........ 15.00
Alturas ........................248........ 5.00 Curtis .......................... 140........ 5.00
Amador ........................ 65 ........ 10.00 Clinton ......... :.............. 119........ 10.00
Amity .......................... 370........ 20.00 Dinuba ........................ 385 ........ 10.00
Anaheim ......................207........ 50.00 Downey ..................... .220........ 5.00
Apollo ..........................396........ 10.00 Doric ............................216........ 25.00
Arcata ......................... .106........ 20.00 Dunsmuir .................... 297 ........ 10.00
Arlington ................... .414 ........ 16.55 Durant ......................... .268 ........ 10.00
Arroyo ....................... .274........ 5.00 East Gate ......................290........ 10.00
Artesia ........................ 377........ 10.00 Eden ............................ 113.... ... 5.00
Ashier ..........................306........ 5.00 El Centro .................... 384 ........ 10.00
Bakersfield ..................224 ........ 25.00 Elysian ...................... ..418 ........ 16.25
Balder ..........................393 ........ 20.00 Enterprise .................. 70........ 5.00
Bay View .................. ..401........ 20.00 Eucalyptus ..................243 ....... 25.00
Benicia ........................ 5........ 10.00 Eureka ........................216........ 2.50
Berkeley ......................363 ........ 10.00 Excelsior .................... 166........ 25.00 ·
Bethlehem ...............:..453 ........ 10.00 · Evening Star .............. 186........ 5.00
Blackmer ....................442........ 5.00 Fairmount ................. .435 ........ 10.0J
Brooklyn ....................225 ........ 10.00 Fidelity ........................ 120........ 25.00
Buckeye ...................... 195........ 5.00 Fil!more ..................... 379 ........ 10.00
Burlingame ................400........ 20.00 Forest .......................... 66........ 5.00 ·
Buena Park ................ 357........ 5.00 Frnneis Drake ............ 376........ 19.rio .
Calexico .................... ..412........ 10.00 Franklin ..................... .143 ........ 1000
California .................... 1........ 30.70 Fresno ........................ .247.... ... 10.00
Carquinez .................... 337... ..... J0.00 Friendship ................. .210........ 10.00
Charity ........................ 362........ 9.10 Frnitva~c ...................... 336........ 5.00
Charter Rock .......... ..4Hl... ..... 10.00 Golden West ............... .455 ........ 20.00
Chico ............................ 111........ 10.00 Gold Hill ...................... 32........ 10.00
Claremont ................. .436........ 5.00 Golden Gate ................ 30 ........ 25.QO
Clay ............................. .101 ........ 20.00 Granite ....................... .222........ 20.00
Clear Lake ..................183........ 5.00 Hanford ..................... .279 ........ 10.00
Clovis ......................... .417........ 5.00 Hawaiian .................... 21... ..... 50.00
Coalinga .....................387........ 5.00 Henry Clay .................. 95........ 5.00
Colusa .......................... 240........ 5.00 Henry S. Orme ........ ..458 ........ 20.00
Concord ..................... .117........ 10.00 Hermann ................... .127........ 15.00
Confidence ..................203........ 5.00 Hesperian ....................264........ 5.00
Corinthian .................. 9........ 10.00 Highland Park ........... 382 ....... JOJO
Corona ........................324........ 20.00 Hills F crry ................. .236........ 17.25

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Hiram .......................... 43........ 5.00
Holtville ..................... .425........ 8.50
Honolulu ....................409 ........ 20.00
Hollywood .................. 355 ........ 10.00
Howard ..................... 96 ........ 10.00
Humboldt .................... 79........ 20.00
I!linoistown ................ 51... ..... 10.00
Ione ...... ._....................... 80...... _ 5.00
Jewel ............................374........ 5.00
Kennett .......................456........ 10.00
Kilauea ........................330...... ,. 36.35
King Davi<l's ............... .209........ 1000
King Solomon's ..........260........ 25.00
Keith ............................ 187........ 10.00
La Fayette .................. 126........ S.00
La Parfaitc Union .... 17........ 20.00
Liberty ........................299 ........ 10.00
Libertas ........................466 ........ 25.00
Lincoln ...................... ..470........ 5.00
Live Oak ..................... 61... ..... 50.00
Lodi ............................. .256........ 10.00
Lompoc ....................... .262........ 10.00
Long IlcaclL ............... 327........ 50.00
Los A ngelcs ................ 42........ 20.00
Los Gatos ....................292........ 5.0'.l
Los Palmas ................366........ 5.00
Madison ...................... 23........ 5.00
l\f agnolia ..................... .242........ 10.00
Marin ........................... 191... ..... 15.00
Martinez ...................... 41... ..... 10.00
McCloud .................... ..430........ 38.00
McKinley .................... 347........ 10.00
Mendocino ................. .179........ 5.00
Mill Valley ..................356........ 25.00
Mission ........................169........ 25.00
Mizpah ..........................378........ 10.00
Molino ......................... .150........ 5.00
Morirovia .................... 308........ 10.00
Monterey ................... .217........ 5.00
Morgan Hi!l ..............463........ 5.00
Morning Star ............ 68........ 10.00
Mosaic ..........................218........ 10.00
Mountain View .......... 194........ 10.00

473

Lodge
No.
Al,llt.
Mount Moriah ............ 44........ 25.00
Mount Oso ..................460........ 20.00
Mount Diablo ............448 ........ 10.0J
Mount Jackson ..........295........ 5.00
Natoma ........................ 64........ 5.00
.:\av al ............................ 87... ,.... 5.00
N ecdles ........................326........ 5.00
Nevada ........................ 13........ 5.00
Nicolaus ..................... .129........ 10.00
Norwalk ......................315 ........ 500
Oak Grove ................. .215........ 5.0D
Oakland ..................... .188........ 10.00
Ocean Park ................ 369........ 10.00
Occidental .................. 22........ 10.00
Olive Branch ..............269........ 10.00
Oriental ....................... .144........ 25.00
Orland ........................265........ 5.00
Oxnard ........................341... ..... 25.00
Pacific ......................... .136........ 20.00
Pacific Grove ..............331........ 5.00
Pajaro ......................... .110........ 10.00
Palestine ....................351........ 5.00
Palo Alto .... ,...............346........ 10.00
Palos Verdes .............. 389........ 20.00
;park ..............................449........ 15.00
Parnassus .....................188........ I0.00
Paso Robles ............... .286........ 10.00
Paul Revere ................462 ........ 25.00
Pinole ..........................353........ 10.00
Pittsburg .................. ..429........ 10.00
Plumas ........................ 60........ 5.00
Presidio ......................354........ 30.00
Reading ........................254........ 10.00
Redwood City ........... .168........ 20.00
Reedley ........................304........ 5.00
Rio Vista ................... .208........ 5.00
Rising Light .............. 397........ 10.00
Roseville ......................432........ 5.00
Rockridge ....................468........ 21.85
Russian River ........... .181........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 40..:..... 10.0o
Salinas ........................204........ 5.00
San Benito ................. .211........ 5.00

474

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Lodge
No.
Amt.
San Bernardino ..........318........ 15.00
San Diego .................. 35........ 15.00
San Fernando ............343........ 5.00
San Francisco ............360........ 10.00
San Jacinto ................338........ 5.00
San Jose ...................... 10........ 10.00
San Mateo ..................226........ 5.00
San Miguel ................285........ 10.00
San Pasqual .............. ..452........ 10.00
Santa Ana ................. .241... ..... 10.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38 ........ 10.00
Santa Monica ............307........ 5.00
Santa Rosa .................. 57........ 25.00
Selma ......................... .277 ........ 17.50
Sequoia ........................ 349........ 10.00
Silveyvilte .................. 201........ 10.00
Silver Gate ................. .296........ 10.00
Sisson ..........................310........ 5.00
Snow Mountain ........271........ 5.00
Solano ..........................226........ 10.00
Southern California ..278........ 25.00
South Gate ..................320........ 10.00
So. San Francisco -~.212 ........ 10.00
Speranza Italiana ...... 219........ 10.00
St. Helena .................. 93........ 5.00
Stanislaus ................. .206........ 15.00
Starr King .................. 344........ 10.00

Lodge
No.
Amt.
St. John's .................... 37........ 5.00
Suisun ......................... 55........ 7.50
Sunset ..........................352........ 25.00
Tehachapi .................. 313 ........ 10.00
Tehama ........................ 3........ 10.00
Temescal ....................314........ 5.00
Texas .......................... 46........ 5.00
Trinity ........................ 27........ 5.00
Truckee .................... ~200........ 5.00
Tuolumne .................... 8........ 5.00
Tuscan ....................... .26L...... 5.00
Union .......................... 58. ....... 25.00
Unity ............................368........ 5.00
Vacavil'.e .................... 134........ 5.00
Valley ......................... .135........ 5 00
Volcano ...................... 56........ 6.00
Washington .............. 20........ 20.00
Western Star.............. 2........ 5.00
West Gate ....................335 ........ 10.00
West Lake ..................392........ 10.50
Wilmington ................ 198........ 5.00
Wilshire ......................445 ........ 60.00
Winnedurnah ............287........ 20.00
Woodbridge ................ 131........ 5.00
Woodland .................. 156........ 5.00
Willits .........................365........ 10.00
Yolo ............................ 81........ 2.50

CHAPTJ!R, R. A. M.

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Alameda .................... 70........ 5.00
Alturas ........................ 107........ 5.00
Antioch ........................ 65........ 10.00
Berkeley ...................... 92........ 10.00
California .................... 5........ 25.00
Charles Frederick
Crocker ................... .106........ 5.00
Colusa .......................... 60........ 5.00
Coalinga ...................... 114........ 2.50
C':orinthian .................. 51........ 5.00
Dixon .......................... 48........ 10.00
Doric ............................ 16........ 5.00
East Gate ................... .103........ 5.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
El Centro .................... HR ....... 10.00
Fresno .......................... 69.. c••••• 10.00
Fruitvale ..................... .11 L ..... 10.00
Hollister ...................... 68........ 5.00
Howard ...................... 14........ 10.00
Humboldt ......................52........ 10.00
Kern Valley ................ 75 ........ 20.00
La Purissima .............. 104........ 10.00
Long Beach ................ 84 ........ 10.00
Los Angeles ................ 33 ........ 10.00
Mendocino .................. 88........ 5.00
Merced .. :..................... 12........ 10.00
Mill Valley ................ 108........ 10.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
Oakland ...................... 36........ 10.00
Palo Alto .................... 93........ 5.00
Petaluma .................... 22........ 5.00
Sacramento ................ 3........ 5.00
San Di~go .................. 61... ..... 10.00
San Jacinto ................ 87........ 5.00
Santa Cruz .................. 38........ 5.00
Santa Monica Bay...... 97........ 10.00
Santa Rosa ................ 45........ 10.00
Signet .......................... 57........ 10.00

475

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Siloam ........................ 37........ 10.00
Sonora ........................ 2........ 5.00
Sutter .......................... 11........ 5.00
Temple ........................ 41........ 10.00
Tulare .......................... 71........ 10.00
Unity ........................... .116........ 5.00
Vacaville ...................... 81........ 5.00
Visalia .......................... 44........ 10.00
Washington ................ 13 ........ 10.00
Yuba City .................... 110........ 5.00

COUNCIL, R. & S. M.

Council
No.
Amt.
California .................... 2........ 10.00
Fresno .......................... 18........ 5.00

Council
No.
Amt.
Los Angeles ................ 11........ 10.00
Sacramento ................ 1........ 5.00

COMMANDltRY, K. T.

Commandery
No.
Amt.
Cornmandery
No.
Amt.
Auburn ........................ 52........ 2.50 Oakland ...................... 11........ 10.00
Bakersfield .................. 39........ 5.00 Pacific .......................... 3........ 5.00
Berkeley ...................... 42........ 10.00 Palo Alto .................... 47........ 5.00
California .................... 1........ 25.00 Pasadena .................... 31... ..... 25.65
Covina .......................... 49 ........ 10.00 Riverside .................... 28........ 5.00
Eureka .......................... 35 ........ 20.00 Sacramento ................ 2........ 10.00
Fresno .......................... 29........ 5.00 San Jo sc ..... .......... ....... 10.. .... .. 10. 00
Glendale ...................... 53........ 5.00 San Luis Obispo ........ 27........ 5.00
Golden Gate ................ 16........ 25.00 Santa Ana .................. 36........ 10.00
Golden West .............. 43........ 25.00 Santa Cruz .................. 7........ 5.CO
Long Beach ............ .... 40........ 10.00 . Santa Rosa .................. 14........ 13.90
Los Angeles ................ 9 ........ 25.00 St. Bernard ................ 23........ 10.00
Marysville .................. 7........ 10.00 St. Omar ...................... 30........ 10.00
Mount Olivet ............ ZO........ 5.00 Vacaville ...................... 38........ 5.00
Mount Shasta ............ 22........ 10.00 Visalia ........................ 26........ 10.00
Naval .......................... 19........ 10.00 Watsonville ................ 22........ 10.00
Nevada ........................ 6........ 5.00
I
A. A. 0. N. M. S.

Temple
Amt.
Aahmes ...................................... 10.00

Temple
Amt.
Islam .......................................... 100.00

476

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
LODGI\ o~· PERFECTION, A. & A. S. R.

Lodge
No.
Amt.
California .................... 10........ 25.00
Isaac Davis ................ 4........ 10.00
Oakland ...................... 2........ 15.00

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Pacific .......................... 5........ 10.00
San Francisco ............ 1........ 25.00

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

477

RESIDENTS AT DECOTO HOME-Men 85, Women 46.

The following is a complete list of the residents of the Decoto
Home, the date of their admission, their respective ages, the name and
number of the Lodge nominating them, and the location of such Lodges:
MEN, 85.

0. E. s.

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Amapola ...................... 119........ 20.30
La Puente ....................325... ..... 30.00
San Jose ...................... 31........ 50.00

Chapter
No.
Amt.
Santa Clara ............... .195... ..... 25.00
Wheatland .................. 48 ........ 10.00
West Gate .................... 290........ 5.00

INDIVIDUALS

Amt.
Baker, R. H................................ 10.00
Baker, Thos. J .......................... 10.00
Blackwell, R. J.......................... 1.00
Clemmons, W. W.................... 5.00
Cash ................. ., ......................... 5.00
East Bay Matrons' Association ................. :........................ 5.00
Emerson, H. W ........................ 10.00
Fisher, J. W.............................. 1.00
Goshorn, A. T............................ 5.00

Amt.
Hassfurther, Frank ................ 5.00
Hjortsburg, P. L...................... 5.00
Holloway, J. B .......................... 10.00
Huntley, J. T............................ 5.00
Keesling, F. V............................ 5.00
La Fontaine, R. B.................... 5.00
Lynch, Walter .......................... 1.00
Streather, J. G................_.......... 3.00
Wright, F. F.............................. 5.00

NAME.
ADMITTED.
Anderson, C. A ............. Feb. 9, '09
Bell, Bradford .............. Dec. 5, '15
Beard, George ..............July I, '19
Bradbury, vVm. W ........ Oct. 28, '14
Broadwell, Melvin L .... Dec. 7, '15
Brooks, Adam .............. May 27, '19
Brunson, Horace A ...... Feb. 15, '19
Buckley, Peter .............. May 21, '19
Burner, Hc.nry ..............Jan. 10; '16
Chamblin, M. R ............ Sept. 28, '10
Chapman, J. M .............. Oct. 6, '11
Cogswell, James L ........ May 19, '15
Cole, W. :\! ...................... Jan. 18, '18
Crail, Luke D .................. June 29, '18
Croly, James .................. :\far. 31, '19
Davis, Charles H .......... Dec. 12, '15
Davis, John M................ July 26, '17
Dennis, John S.............. Aug. 19, '16
Dennis, William .......... Feb. 28, '11
Dunham, Murray ........ Dec. 11, '15
Ellis, David G................ Jan. 27, '19
Evans, Evan A.............. July 27, '19
Franck, Isadore ............Jan. 10, '16
Finn, Alexander .......... May 11, '18
Freeman, Isaac L .......... Mar. 17, '18
French, John A..............Jime 8, '07
Fink, Conrad ................ Aug. 23, '12
Gompertz, Charles F .... Oct. 19, '18
Gregory, Anwyl ..........~.]an. 31, '16
Guisto, John .................. Aug. 1, '17
Hardage, James M ........ Mar. 13, '17
Hill, Maxwell G............June 30, '16
Hodge, Edward T ........ Feh. 20. '15
Jeffers, S .......................... Jan. 5, '10
Johns, Josiah ................ April 15, '12
Joseph, Isaac C.............. Ang. 8, '19

LODGE.
NO.
Mt. Moriah .............. 44
Mt. Jackson ........... .259
Long Beach ............327
St. Helena .............. 93
Oakland .................. 188
Palmyra ................ 26
Tuolumne .............. 8
Hawaiian .............. 21
Occidental .............. 22
Hartley .................. 199
Concord ................. .117
California .............. 1
Long Beach ............327
Chico ...................... 111
Gold Hill ................ 32
Naval ...................... 87
Keith ..................... .187
San Jose ................ 10
Sierra Valley.......... 184
Plumas .................... 60
Washington .......... 20
East Gate ................290
La Parfaite Union 17
Alameda ............... .167
Elk Grovc ................ 173
Western Star........ 2
Hermann ............... .127
Durant ................. .268
Mizpah .................... 378
Amador .................. 65
Sunset ....................352
Forbestown .......... 50
South Gate .............. 320
Eden ....................... .113
East Ticlt ................391
Fidelity ..................180

LOCATION AGE.
San Fr'ncisco.71
Guerneville ..77
Long Beach ..70
St. Helena....75
Oakland ......67
Placerville ....88
Sonora .......... 73
Honolulu ...... 73
San F r'ncisco.72
Lakeport ......91
Sacramento ..69
San Fr'ncisco.90
Long Ilcach ..85
Chico ............77
Lincoln ..........81
Vallejo .......... 70
Gilroy ............ 70
San Jose ........83
Sierra ville ....86
Quincy ..........89
Sacramento ..79
Los A ngclcs .. 59
San Fr'ndsco.72
Centerville ....81
Elk Crove ...... 60
Shasta ............ 85
San Fr'ncisco.81
Berkeley ...... ,84
Los Angeles .. 72
Jackson ........85
Los Angeles ..73
Forbcstown ..82
Los Angdes ..75
San Le:rn cl ro .. 81
Tuolumne ....66
San Fr'ncisco.71

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

478
NAME.

ADMITTED.

Kalfus, J. L.................... Dec. 15, '17
Keene, James ................ Sept. 4, '10
Keller, Willis A. ........... Nov.'ll, '15
Kelly, Charles M............ Nov. 21, '16
Kennedy, Duncan ..........June 19, '17
Kerr, Earl ...................... Sept. 11, '09
Klaassen, Henry............ Nov. l, '17
LaBonte, Francis X ...... Nov. 2, '14
Levy, Samuel ................ Feb. 4, '18
Lewty, David ................ June 27, '16
Lippoldt, H. A............... .]an. 20, '17
Magee, David B............ April 19, '11
Mehrtens, Richard ........ Nov. 12, '13
Maniece, John .............. June 17, '15
Metcalf, Solon T ............Jan. 26, '18
Mitchell, Charles E ...... Nov. 20, '15
Meyer, Wm. D ................ Aug. 31, '12
Morgan, Josiah W ........ Aug. 11, '14
McEwen, John H. ......... Aug. 21, '13
McNoah, John ..............Feb. 15, '19
Ogden, B. F .................... April 19, '05
Olson, Ole ...................... Mar. 22, '16
Ong, Jackson W ............ May 12, '15
Payne, Edwin H ............ Mar. 28, '14
Parini, Daniel ................ Feb. 10, '14
Periam, Charles J ......... .]an. 15, '18
Potting, Henry F .......... May 2. '11
Preston, J. N .................. May 22, '12
Rumbo!, R. F ................. Jan .. 30, '08
Redmond, Samuel ........ Aug. 21, 'IO
Righetti, Robert ............ Mar. 9, '18
Reynolds, Johnson ........ May 11, '18
Ross, Elias E ................. Nov. 12, '14
Rossow, Ernest F .......... Mar. 19, '16
Sculp, John .................... Aug. 1, '18
Shepard, Amos B.......... May 20, '19
Smith, James D ............ May 12, '19
Stanton, Jed C................April 9, '18
Schartz, Jacob P .......... May 4, '16
Speidel, Adolph F ........ May 19, '16
Spooner, George C....... .Jtme 29, '18
Surface, James ............ Aug. 19, '16

LODGE.

NO.

San Jose .................. 10
Mendocino ........... .179
Mendocino ........... .179
Live Oak ................ 61
Redlands ................ 300
Pacific .................... 136
Hermann ............... .127
Reading ................. .254
Hartley ................. .199
Guadalupe ............. .237
Northern Light ..... .190
Doric ......................216
Crockett ................ 139
San Diego .............. 35
Sequoia .................. 349
Los Angeles ............ 42
Mountain View ..... .194
Phoenix .................. 178
Pajaro ....................110
East Gate ................290
Mission .................. 169
Solano ................... .229
Hornitos ................ 98
Whittier .................. 323
Nevada .................. 13
Mission ................. .169
S. San Francisco..212
South Gate ..............320
Redwood City........ 168
Truckee ................. .200
Pentalpha ............. .202
King Solomon's ....260
Ophir ...................... 33
Naval ...................... 87
Evergreen ............. .259
Galt ..........................267
Eden ..................... .113
Rio Vista ................ 208
Welcome ............... .255
Hermann ............... .12/
Evening Star......... .186
Ione ........................ 80

LOCATION

AGE.

San Jose ........66
Mendocino ... -82
Mendocino ....69
Oakland ........"J7
Redlands ......72
San Fr'ncisco.82
San Fr'ncisco.73
Redding ........72
Lakeport ...... 75 .
Guadalupe .... 77
Millville .: ..... -89
San Fr'ncisco.78
San Fr'ncisco.74
San Diego ......83
Oakland ....... .78
Los Angcles..77
M tn. View ......58
San B'r'd'no ..87
Watsonville .. 74
Los Angeles..73
San Fr'ncisco.80
Vallejo ..........64
Hornitos ......89
Whittier ......81
Nevada City..8'.1
San Fr'ncisco.77
San Fr'ncisco.71
Los Angeles..87
Redw'd City.. 89
Truckee ........ 75
Los Angeles ..68 '
San Fr'ncisco.75
Murphys ...... 72
Vallejo .......... 65
Riverside ...... 71
Galt ................88
San Leandro .. 74
Rio Vista ...... 78
Lemoore ......66
San Fr'ncisco.72
Etna Mil!s ...... 78
Ione ................81

NAME.

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

'l'reat, James M............ Nov. 2, '15
Tripp, William O .......... Sept. 14, '18
Whipple, Wm. M.......... Mar. 6, '09
Weil, Aaron ................. .July 26, '17
Winkler, Theophilus ....Jan. 24, '16
Yates, Enoch ................ Feb. 14, '17
Zimmermann, Wm. T..Feb. 2, '10

NO.

Hesperian ..............264
Morning Star ........ 68
Brentwood ........... .245
Hiram .................... 43
Charter Rock ..........410
San Diego .............. 35
Abell ........................ 146

479
LOCATION

AGJ(.

Santa Maria ..66
Stockton ........75
Brentwood ....86
El Dorado ......86
Berkeley ........71
San Diego...... 73
Ukiah ............ 79

WOMl!l'f, 46.

Ames, Minnie P ............ Oct. 21, '13
Armantage, Theresa A .. Jan. 5, '19
Ayers, Sarah ]. ............. Mar. 19, '19
Baxter, Mary E..............April 16, '02
Briggs, Mary ]. .............April 24, '07
Davis, Eliza A................ July 26, '17
Donaldson, Abigael R..Mar. 10, '14
Dyer, Sarah ....................July 17, '00
Davis, Grace G..............July 25, '16
Elder, Mary J ................ Feb. 19, '08
Elliott, Anna M............May 1, '04
Field, Bessie N .............. May 25, '13
Fountain, Harriet E .... Sept. 7, '06
Fuller, Catherine P ...... Feb. 19, '08
Grant, Permelia ............Feb. 2, '11
Hall, Maria A. ............... Aug. 22, '19
Beith, Catherine .......... Oct. 16, '10
Hunter, Mary R. S ........ Feb. 8, '17
J ohanningsmier, Amelia.Apr. 28, '17
Jones, Rosa .................... April 27, '19
Johnson, Maria ............ Mar. 6, '03
Kalfus, Sarah W ............Jan. 29, '19
Knight, Anna R. ........... April 2, '14
Lawrence, Lucy P ........ Nov. 21, '16
Linder, Elvena B.......... May 1, '18
McKinnon, Mary A ...... Dec. 31, '01
Moore, Emily N ............May 7, '12
Mast, Frances C............ Aug. 31, '13
Potting, :W ellie E .......... May 2, '11
Proll, Anna R. C............Feb. 5, '15
Powell, Mary A............ Feb. 16, '19
Ramsden, Maria L ........Dec. 8, '16
Redican, Mary A. ......... Mar. 1, '05

Oak Grove .............. 215
Needles .................. 326
Lodi ....................... .256
Santa Rosa .............. 57
Long Beach ............ 327
Keith ...................... 187
Vacaville ................ 134
Oriental .................. 144
Naval ...................... 87
Pacific ..................... .136
Occidental .............. 22
Hesperian ..............264
Evergreen .............. 259
Michigan City ........ 47
Antioch .................. 175
Live Oak .............. 61
Fresno .................... 47
Russian River ........ 181
Fruitvale .............. 336
San Diego .............. 35
Summit .................. 112
San Jose .................. 10
Evergreen ..............259
Board of Relief... ...
South Gate .............. 320
Morning Star ........ 68
Madison .................. 23
Yosemite ................ 133
S. San Francisco.. 212
King Solomon's ...... 260
Oxnard ....................341
Mission .................. 169
Los Angeles ............ 42

Alameda ........ 62
Needles ..........62
Lodi ..............77
Santa Rosa ....82
Long Beach ..83
Gilroy ............ 73
Vacaville ......87
San Fr'ncisco.81
Vallejo ..........65
San Fr'ncisco.87
San Fr'ncisco.78
Santa Maria ..86
Riverside ......87
Mich. City...... 74
Antioch ..........78
Oakland ........83
Fresno .......... 73
Windsor ........ 58
Oakland ........ 74
San Diego ...... 75
Knights F'ry..69
San Jose ........ 56
Riverside ...... 71
San Fr'ncisco.57
Los Angeles ..69
Stockton ...... 74
Grass Valley..86
Coultervil~e .. 74
San Fr'ncisco.75
San Fr'ncisco.61
Oxnard ..........67
San Fr'ncisco.69
Los Angcles ..88

480

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

NAME.
ADMITTED.
Richardson, Julia A ...... Mar. 26, '16
Smith, Elizabeth .......... Aug. 28, '13
Sawyer, Ella B. ............. Aug. 30, '13
Sly, Allen S .................... Nov. 5, '13
Shreve, Adeline ............ Nov. 17, '18
Smalley, Emily A ..........J une 22, '14
Surface, Emma ............ Aug. 19, '16
Thomas, Frances W ..... .Jan. 4, '04
Weil, Esther .................. July 26, '17
Wentworth,l,oraniaB .. Feb. 16, '00
Wooley, Jane ................ Dec. 29, '03
Worden, Melissa .......... Mar. 27, '18
Wright, Sarah G.......... Sept. 13, '14

LODGJ!.
NO.
Live Oak ............... 61
Friendship .............. 210
Natoma .................. 64
Silver Gate ............296
Alamo .................... 122
Santa Ana ............... .241
Ione ........................ 80
Abell ....................... .146
Hiram .................... 43
Hawaiian ................ 21
Alcatraz ..................244
Golden Gate............ 30
Eden ........................ 113

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION AG!.
Oakland ........69
San Jose ........ 76
Folsom ..........69
San Diego ....74
Wal nut Cr'k..84
Santa Ana ....76
Ione ... ., .........67
Ukiah ............91
El Dorado...... 74
Honolulu ......74
Oakland .. .'.....85
San J:r'ncisco.78
San Leandro..81

DEPARTUR!lS DURING THE YllAR 1919.
NA.ME.
DEPARTED
CAUSE.
Barclay, Cornelia B ............................ June 13, 1919..................... Voluntary
French, Helen S .................................. April 13, 1919..................... .Voluntary
Hamilton, John .................................. April 13, 1919..................... .Voluntary
Hogan, Minnie G................................ April 13, 1919................... .Voluntary
Jones, Samuel A ................................ April 13, 1919...........
Voluntary
Keller, Maude E ..................................June 13, 1919................... .Voluntary
Matthews, Edwin D ............................April 13, 1919................... .Voluntary
Matthews, Louise .............................. April 13, 1919................... Voluntary
Robertson, William B ........................ April 13, 1919.................... Voluntary
Rossi, Josephine ................................Dec. 12, 1918................... Dismissed
Stafford, Ralph ..................................Dec. 1, 1918..................... .Voluntary
DIED DURING THE YEAR-27.
NA.ME.
DATE
BURIED AT
Bemis, Ernest H .................................. Dec. 5, 1918...................... Decoto
Bieler, Nicholas ................................Feb. 2, 1919...................... Decoto
Bell, Lucy ............................................Mar. 18, 1919...................... Decoto
Bartholomew, James S ......................April 19, 1919...................... Decoto
Brown, James M .... ·--···--··········--········June 7, 1919...................... Decoto
Branthaver, Daniel ..................... _......Aug. 15, 1919...................... Decoto
Dennis, Lydia ......................................Dec. 16, 1918.-.................... Decoto
Davidson, Frank M_ ...........................Feb.
1, 1919..... -................ Decoto
Finn, Susan E ............ _......................... Nov. 18, 1918..................... Decoto
Gates, Dawson D ................................June 17, 1919.... -................. Decoto
House, Amanda .........:........................Oct.. 20, 1918............:......... Placerville

NAME

DATE

431
BURIED AT

1-\night, Lewis W .................................July 16, 1919...................... Decoto
Lewis, George L .......... _.......................Feb. 2, 1919...................... San Lorenzo
Lippman, George
4, 1919...................... Decoto
McElroy, Joseph F ..............................April 1, 1919............:.........San Francisco
Nash, Mary A. ....... ·--········-·----·····--·--··-June 23, 1919......................Decoto
lfowley, Albanus B ............................ Jan. 15, 1919...................... San Jose
Stickney, David ..................................Oct. 14, 1918...................... 0roville
Shane, Adolphus D ............................ Jan. 18, 1919...................... Decoto
Smith, Annie
2, 1919.......o•• : ........... San Francisco
Silver, Mark B .................................... Mar. 1, 1919..................... 0akland
Smith, Eli M ........................................June 22, 1919...................... Decoto
Theis, Ellen ........................................July 10, 1919............... _..... Berkc'.ey
Woodruff, Andrew M ........................Jan. 12, 1919...................... Biggs
Walraven, Mary E ..............................Feb. 10, 1919...................... Decoto
Woodman, Charles D ............... :........ Mar. 11, 1919......................Decoto
Winters, Josephine ............................May 10, 1919...................... San Francisco
COVINA HO.ME
The ·children of the Covina Home furnish a living example of
a due appreciation of Masonic practice. There they demonstrate the
happiness that can be provided to disp:ace the sorrows that brnught
them there. There, as one family, they try to prove to Masonry
as an adopted parent, that they can make themselves worthy of the
favors the fraternity extends to them. As they reach an age that
gives them a producing value, they are ambitious to succeed and
to do honor to the fraternity by making a creditable record. In
the daily care of the Home, the children do all that their time
and ability will permit to assist in reducing our maintenance cost,
and offset the severe influences of the H. C. L.
A splendid example of the voluntary desire to employ their time
usefully, is the ready and willing spirit manifested in wanting a
part in the general improvement of the place. The walks, trees,
lawn and grounds have the appearance of being cared for by
experienced gardeners. \Vhen the farmers' cottage burned down
one Sunday morning, the boys changed clothing at once, and worked
with both judgment and daring. They refused the wild and conflicting advice from the bystanders, and observed only the directions
of those in authority at the Home. Their loyalty in this regard
with their brave and well organized worked saved the barns, wagonsheds, and implements, and without accident to any of them.
Our remarkable standard of health, while due in a general
sense to a carefully selected diet and a watchfulness for all irregular-

482

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ities, is much influenced by the out of door diversions of the
children. Their interest in athletics will be intensified and more
systematized with the installation of a play ground equipment now
being provided. The frequent hikes in which many of the smaller
ones. participate, the regular Easter trip to the mountains, and their
summer camp at the beach give them unusual physical endurance.
For example, twenty-six children climbed a trail seven miles on
o'.d Baldy with a raise of 4300 feet one afternoon. Next day they
went to an elevation of 6600 feet on a sever~ trail to the heavy
snow, and returned to camp for six o'clock dinner, then went down
the seven miles grade the following day, and reached home at
Covina for six o'clock dinner. At the beach fifty-seven of the sixtysix children were swimming, and thirty-nine of them swam the bay,
which was more than a quarter of a mile across, through a strorig
tide current. The boys won the valley pennant for their school in
the baseball contest, and brought home a majority of the ribbons
in the field and track· meets this season.

The question is frequently asked about indoor diversions. While
the climatic conditions invite and favor outdoor diversions, the
indoor features are not neglected except for the gymnasium work.
This is because our gymnasium is not yet furnished. The boys
have a good library, a game room, a work shop and play room for
small boys. The girls have their music room, sewing room, library
room and reception rooms of the main building for mixed games,
music and dancing. Both have pianos, victrolas and other music.
Both have access to the plunge and gymnasium room for dances and
drills. Amateur shows, contests and other competitive features are
arranged between the boys and girls. The Sunday school is so
conducted as to make it very entertaining and instructive, without
the tiresome features too prevalent in religious work. The Grand
Chapter of Royal Arch Masons has set aside $5()()() for a :vocational
building for boys, and the Grand. Council of Royal and Select
Masters has appropriated $2500 for a Domestic Science bungalow.
When these buildings are constructed, a delightful, useful and most
instructive diversion will be provided for the older boys and girls.

The usual health survey was made at the c'.ose of school, and
all operations for tonsils, adenoids, circumcisions, etc., were performed
by the most skilled physicians of Los An_gelcs, who are members
of the eraft and who accepted no compensation for their services.
Our dental work has been employed, but our brethren of the pro-·
fession are now organizing to take care of this work for us. The
psychological and physical survey made annually by the Medical
Department of Stanford University was conducted this year by
Dr. Arthur J. Ritter and Dr. Herbert I. Bloch. Their report to
the Grand Lodge will probably accompany this report of the
Trustees. The Trustees desire to acknowledge the greatest improvement and advancement in the mental and corrective work with the
children through the recommendation of Dr. Ritter and his able
assistants. The children are appreciative of this work, and their
co-operation in our efforts to obtain results is admirable.
A health feature worthy of mention was the epidemic of influenza. The Trustees, knowing the fraternity desired every safeguard against this dangerous disease, closed the Home to all visitors.
At first some objection was made by relatives, but later when
fatalities were being recorded and we were free from the malady,
our action was highly commended. The local school Trustees
governed their quarantine by ours, and we lost little in the progress
of the school work. Much credit must be given to our loyal
employes who stayed at home, denying themselves all diversions
for the safety of these children. The children were patient and
checrfnl and provided their own entertainment during this period.

483

The visitations this year were greater in number than any
previous year. The increasing interest in our big family shown
by local Masonic bodies and members is pleasing. Never before
have the good ladies of the Eastern Star contributed so much to
the happiness and comfort of our big family. We may attribute
some of it to the fact that two· of our Trustees are Patrons of
Chapters this year. The greatest asset the children have is their
acquaintance in the fraternity, and they can best meet their friend>1
through these visitations to the Home.
\Vhile we cannot of
course name all visits of individuals, we must call attention to the
visits of the Lodges and Chapters which the children so much ap·
predate:
Sept. 8th, 1918--Garvanza Chapter No. 266 0. E. S. visited the
Home with a good attendance of members, including their Sunshine
Club. A program of entertainment was arranged for the visitors,
and they left a contribution of jams and jells for the children.
Sept. 27, 1918--Buena Park Lodge No. 357 and many , ladies
visited the Home. Children were well remembered with treats
and program. They responded with a good program.
Sept. 27, 1918--Grand Matron Order of the Eastern Star, Mrs.
Ivy Crane Shelhamer, with several grand officers, visited the Home.
Sept. 29, 1918--A committee called from Arab Patrol, Al
Malaikah Shrine, and gave each child a War Savings stamp. Grand
Master Wm. Rhodes Hervey accompanied the patrol and stayed for
supper with the children.

GRAND LODGE OF CAI,IFORNIA

484

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

March 21, 1919--Grand Matron :Mrs. Elizabeth Murray Marshall,
· Grand ·Patron Darwin Wilson Pierce and other grand officers of the
Eastern Star visited the Home. The children were well entertained
and they in turn entertained their visitors.
March 16, . 1919-Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 and Hermosa
Chapter No. 105 0. E. S. in good numbers spent a day with
the children, leaving a generous supply of canned fruits.
April 13, 191~~Temescal Lodge No. 314 and Crown Chapter
No. 162 0. E. S. brought lunch and program and enjoyed a full
day with the children, who also gave program.
April 13, 1919-Lexington Lodge No. 104 and Lexington Chapter
No. 178, our good neighbors, came for a call. Visitors and chi'.dr~n
jointly gave a program.
April 18, 1919-Twenty-six children took their annual hike
above the snowline on San Antonio inountain, known as Old Baldy,
to spend their Easter in the snow. Three days were spent on the
trails with no illness or aeddents, taking with them their own
foQd supplies and most of their equipment.
April 27th-Hollenbeck Lodge and Chapter have so well
identified themselves with the Home that it seems they have a great
part in furnishing joy as well as the most substantial things to our
big family. Their visits are always full of interest and this one
·
certainly was a day, long to be remembered.
May 4th-The Masonic Board of Relief met in the Library of
the Boys' building. After their regular business, the members and
their ladies went through the buildings and were entertained by the
children.
May 4th-"University Day," marking ·the annual visit of the
families of University Lodge No. 394, is one always looked forward
to by the children. This Lodge is most generous in their methods
.of ·entertaining as well as judicious in their selections of favors.
They have many members who arc all the year round visitors and
contributors.
May 11th-Glendale Commandery No. 53 chose to celebrate
"Mother's Day" with our children, and they so enj8yed themselves
they determined to make their visit an annual affair. Each mother
present adopted a chi~d for the day and a real family gathering
was enjoyed.
May 17th-Boys' cadet team was guests of Jinnistan Grotto and
gave an exhibition drill at Shrine Auditorium. The Grotto is a new
friend to the boys and they appreciate the generous interest of the very
live and very active organization.

485

May 25th-Members of Torrance Lodge No. 447 visited with their
families. Children gave program.
June !st-Pasadena Lodge No. 272 called and enjoyed a trip
over the grounds and through the buildings with the children,
their own two little girls representing them at the Home acting
as hosts.
June 5th-The drill boys gave an exhibition for the Grand
Commander and Covina Commandery, and were well entertained
afterwards.
June 8th-Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389 of Long Beach and
their families spent an active afternoon with the children. A program made up of visitors and children was enjoyed.
June 21st-Reception to M.".\V.'.Grand Master Bradford \Vebster.
Twenty-four girls gave group dances, the boys drilled, and the
Mandolin Club gave selections.
June 22nd-Our Grand Master Brother Webster and Grand
Lecturer Brother Baker, both of whom the children love and know
so well, visited the Home. The visit was so informal, one would
think these two good brothers were dai'.y visitors to the Home.
June 27th-La Paloma Chapter No. 202 0. E. S. of Covina,
our home Chapter, always displays a most neighborly and kindly
interest in our children, but this year with Sister Paige as Matron,
we were particularly favored. On this date this good Chapter
assembled all the Matrons and Patrons of the county and entertained them in our gynmasinm room. The children assisted in the
program. This evening was a profitable one to the children, as it
gave them many new friends among the ladies of the Eastern Star,
many of whom make good jam and are very generous with it.
June 28th-The Southern California Past Masters' Association,
who furnished our main hall, and have extended many other favors
through individual members, held a meeting at the Home on this
date. Dinner was served in the form of a basket lunch by the
visitors, and the children were scattered among the different families
for the afternoon. In the evening the ladies of the party were
entertained by the girls in the parlors, while the boys "opened up"
the meeting in the gymnasium room in due and ridiculous form for
the Past Masters. There was more fun than business accomplished,
but the day will long be remembered.
June 30th-Pasadena Chapter No. 100 0. E. S. visited the
Home and many of the members took possession of . our sewing
rooms and mended for the children all day. Thank you, Pasadena.

486

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GIU.ND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

July 6th-Rising Light Lodge No. 397 and Rising Light Chapter
No. 286 called and spent a most pleasant afternoon. There arc
some good comedians in these bodies and we would be glad to sec
them back soon.
July 8th-Another ·group of ladies from Pasadena Chapter called
and spent the day mending. They are real mothers.
July 19th-Covina Lodge No. 324 of Pasadena with their ladies
visited Home. The children were packing for the Beach trip and
the house was just informal enough for everybody to have a good
time. Some of the dignified members of the Lodge romped around
like newsboys with our active children.
•
July 28th-All children and some of the employes went into
Camp on Balboa island. This year was interesting, as everybody
helped in the construction and arrangement of the new camp
grounds with the funds left by Brother John Tucker of California
Lodge No. 1. A most de!ightful season was enjoyed, the Camp
remaining open until September 5th.
August 3rd-Jinnistan Grotto No. 56 joined with their families
in a picnic at the camp with the children. It was a pig day with
games, contests, and diversions, with handsome and useful prizes.
The children, matrons, cooks and everybody . were guests of the
Grotto members for lunch. Before leaving, a collection of sixty
dollars was made for a new boat, which was named "Jinnistan".
Aug. 12th-This and many other days during camp marked the
visits of members of Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 who brought candy,
fruits or melons, and a.re always thoughtful of us during the camp
season.
Aug. 19th-The Harry Carey Film Producing Co. worked for
three days opposite the. camp. Mr. and Mrs. Harry Carey lunched
with the children and showed them many favors. Mr. Carey had
his directors explain the work to the children and made it of educational
value to them.

Linhart, all members of the craft, and Drs. Nannie C. Dunsmoor,
Eleanor Seymour, E. C. J eanson, and J. M. Roberts, lady physicians,
all of whom donated their services and specialists in their line of
work. Among the nurses called to attend the children was Miss
Ruth Willis, who was formerly a member of our family. She
rendered us the most faithful service and refused to accept compensation. Dr. H. Bert Ellis is always ready to examine and give
prescriptions for fitting glasses. Dr. Ray D. Robinson, a specialist
in orthodontistry, is always at command for examination and recommendation, and takes one case each year at actual cost of materials
and adjustment.
The picture shows, films, and personal visits of Bessie Love,
Harry Carey and Chester Conklin, well known on the screen, havt
been much appreciated. Brother W. H. Engle, giving his instructio1t
to the older boys in bee culture, and catching new swarms with
them, is much appreciated. The donation of musical instruments,
victrola records, etc., is most acceptable. The special interest this
year, however, has been the generotts donations of jams and fruits
by the Eastern Star Chapters and Scottish Rite families.

DONATIONS TO

COVINA

This year has been a wonderful one in the way of substantial
donations. While the material contributions are of much value,
the greatest service to the children is the personal touch of those
competent to assist in educational lines or render some professional
service much needed by the children. The patient, continuous,
generous and most valuable service of Dr. ]. M. Dunsmoor as our
home physician is a great asset to the Home. In operations for
adenoids, tonsils, circumcisions, etc., we are also greatly indebted to
Doctors G. H. Carey, C. H. Criley, R. M. Dunsmoor and L. R.

DONOR

487

ARTlCU:

King Solomon's Chapter No. 170, O.
E. S ........................................................ .40 glasses jelly and jam.
Bro. and Mrs. A. T. Goshorn, Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319 ........................5 qts. preserves.
Garvanza Chapter No. 266, 0. E. S ....1 outing flannel skirt, 9 qts. fruit, 10 pts.
fruit, 11 glasses jelly.
Sunshine Club of Garvanza Chapter
No. 266, 0. E. S .....................................14 qts. fruit and 11 glasses jelly, $5.00
treats.
Miss Tegarden, Garvanza Chapter
No. 266, 0. E. S ....................................$1.00 treats.
Bro. and Mrs. Achie Brown, Pleiades
Chapter No. 281, 0. E. S .................... 6 prs. white bloomers, 4 white skirts, 3
white undcrwaists, 6 qts. fruit, $1.00
treats.
Mrs. E. B. Gammon, Los Angeles ..... .1 quilt.
Bro. and Mrs. W. J. Robinson, San
Pasqual Lodge No. 452..................... J tea strainer, 1 soup ladle, 8 2-qt. stew
pans, 2 qts. of peaches, 3 glasses jelly,
$1.00 treats.
Bro. and Mrs. Wm. Rhodes Hervey,
Pentalpha Lodge No. 202.................... 17 ties, fruits, jams, treats, etc.

PROCEEDINGS

488
DONOR

O~'

THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
AR'l'ICI ~

Bro, Chester C. Conklin, University
No. 394 ................................................. .100 all-day suckers.
Mrs. D. M. Sutherland, Jasmine Chapter No. 145, 0. E. S .............................. Coat.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458 ........... .1 qt. preserves, 2 glasses jelly.
Newell Brown, Lysle Tillston, C!ovis
Robert and Henry Clairville, grad·
uates of Home ...................................... Player piano records.
Scottish Rite Bodies of Los Angeles .Many, many jars of fruits, jellies and
jams from members in all sections of
Southern California.
Mrs. Anna Peterson, San Francisco... Clothing.
Mrs. J. E. Rickets, Covina .................... Books and magazines.
Marguerite Chapter No. 78, 0. E. S .... 9 pts. and 41 glasses jelly and jam.
Pomona Chapter No. 110, 0. E. S ..... .100 qts. fruit, 11 glasses jelly, 6
dried apricots.
Thomas Duncan, Los Angelcs .............. 11 lbs. Imperial Granum.
Hollenbeck Chapter No. 248, 0. E. S ..37 qts. fruit and vegetables, 30 glasses
jelly and jam.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339 ........................30 qts. jam, 13 glasses jelly.
Buena Park Lodge No. 357 ................... 240 qts. fruit, 166 glasses jelly and jam.
Mrs. Nannie A. Crouch, Los Angcles ..6 fine hand-made comforts.
Bro. W. H. Engle, Pentalpha No. 202 ..Instruction to boys in bee culture
many bee supplies.
Bro. H. R. MacLafferty, Mizpah 378.J pencil sharpener, 6).i lbs. scratch
paper.
University Lodge No. 394......................39 qts. fruit, 13 glasses jelly.
Arab Patrol, Al Malaikah Temple
Shrine ....................................................60 War Savings stamps.
Mrs. J. Tod Cook, Los Angcles ............60 Thrift stamps.
Bro. Robie E. Dill, South Gate Lodge
No. 320 .................................................. Olive oil.
Bro. Chester Conklin of University
Lodge No. 394 ........................................ A great many picture shows. Use of his
own films. Many treats all through
the year.
Garvanza Chapter No. 266, 0. E. S .... Made-over 24 pillows.
Mill Valley Chapter No. 219, 0. E. S..4 qts. fruit, 92 glasses mixed fruit.
San Francisco Chapter No. 196, 0. E.
S .............................................................. .15 qts. fruit, 26 glasses jelly.
Amity Chapter No. 262, 0. E. S .......... ..4 qts. fruit, 13 glasses mixed jelly.
Miss G. Faubt, San Francisco ............... .13 pts. fruit, 24 glasses jelly.

DONOR

•

489

ARTICL!l

Bro. R. S. Saunders, West Lake
Lodge No. 392 ........................................ 3 qts. fruit.
Miss Kate Stevens, Alhambra ..............2 gals. jam, 7 glasses jelly.
Bakersfield Chapter No. 125, 0. E. S .. 310 qts. fruit, 3 glasses jelly.
Grand Lodge Officers and Inspectors .. 20 Thrift stamps.
Dr. Mary H. Layman, San Francisco.. Kodak picture for each child (taken on
visit to Home).
Bro. John Lewis Carpenter, Bro.
Chas. E. Chapman, Mill Valley
Chapter No. 356, R. A. M .................. 50 pts. jam and jelly.
Bro. R. H. Baker, Los Angeles ............. .134 samples of linen.
Bro. Jack Paschall, Pentalpha Lodge
No. 202 ................................................. .4 large glasses jelly.
Bro. H. LeF. Marvin, California
Lodge No. 1... .................. :.................... :.$10.00 treats.
Mrs. Frank H. Brownlee, Esperanza
Chapter No. 167, 0. E. S ....................6 pts. jam.
Golden West Chapter, U. D., O. E. S .. 9 pts. and 16 glasses jelly and jam.
Veteran Lodge No. 373 .......... :................. 13 qts. fruit, 7 glasses jelly.
Mrs. P. Feddersohn, Puente Chapter
No. 325, O. E. S .................................... 1 sackwalnuts (55 !Ls.).
Fullerton Lodge No. 339........................ 110 qts. fruit, 27 glasses j clly.
Consuelo Lodge No. 325 .......................... 32 qts. fruit and vegetables, 27 glasses
jelly and jam.
Henry S. Orme Lodge No. 458 ............ 3 pts. fruit.
Herman Smith, Wilshire Lodge 445 ....4Y, qts. fruit, jam and preserves, 11
glasses jelly.
Bro. J. W. Lee ............................................ 50c treats.
Mrs. C. M. Ross, San Bernardino ........ 3 glasses jelly.
Visalia Lodge No. 118, Martha
Washington Chapter No. 13, 0.
E. S .........................................................250 qts. jelly, jam and . preserves, 59
glasses jelly and jam.
West Lake Lodge No. 392 ..................... .150 qts. jelly, jam and preserves, 117
glasses jelly and jam.
Midway Lodge No. 426................ :.........$75.00 for patriotic Fourth of July.
Max Levy, University No. 394........... 3 copper stew pans.
Golden West Lodge No. 455 ................ 7 qts. fruit, 28 glasses jelly.
Mission Court, Amaranth No. 8 ........... 2% qts. fruit, 69 glasses fruit.
Bro. Geo. C. Johnson, East Gate
Lodge No. 290 .................................... ..4 gal. cans olive, 2 glasses jelly.
Mr. and Mrs. Geo. W. Ward, Los
Angeles ..................................................3 qts. fruit.

490

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
DONOR

ARTICLE

Bro. and Mrs. J. Lynn Ryder, Los
Angeles .................................................. 3 pts. fruit, 3 glasses jelly.
Anaheim Lodge No. 207 .......................... 1 doz. cans marmalade.
Fullerton Lodge No. 339....................... .1 sack sweet potatoes, ge11erous amount
vegetables, nuts, fruit and jellies, $6.00
for jelly.
Bro. A.G. Miller, Fullerton No. 339 .... 1 sack walnuts.
Jasmine Chapter No. 145, 0. E. S...... 71 lbs. nice home-made candy.
Pomona Social Club, 0. E. S .............. 34 qts. fruit, 17 glasses jelly.
Yorba Li11da Lodge No. 469 ............... .24 qts. fruit, 17 glasses jelly.
Bro. George Beuzeville, Long Beach
Chapter No. 173, 0. E. S ..... :............. .11 Y, qts. fruit and 2 glasses jelly.
Broadway Department Store ................35 lbs. mixed candy.
West Gate Lodge No. 335 ......................10 lbs. candy, 4 bunches celery, 1 sack
apples.
Bro. John Kahn, Kahn-Beck Co ..........10 lbs. mixed candy.
Hollenbeck Chapter No. 248, 0. E. S.. 7 qts. fruit and 51 glasses jelly.
Bro. E. J. Gilletter, Long Beach..........$10.00 cash for merits.
Rev. W. B. Bellies, Selma .................... Cards, paper dolls, etc.
Bro. and Mrs. John R. Ruekstell,
Mission No. 169....................................10 lbs. mixed cakes.
Bro. Stanley Langdon............................. .150 lantern slides and photographs.
Amo Chapter No. 280, 0. E. S............8 qts. fruit and 30 glasses jelly.
Bro. and Mrs. John H. Feers, Long
Beach ......................................................$5.00 for Thrift stamps.
Lily M. Thomas, Columbus, Ohio ........$1.00 treat.
Orovil!e Lodge No. 103......................... .4 gals. olives.
Mrs. Amelia Johnson, Sacramento..... .1 pt. and 24 glasses jelly.
Wilshire Chapter No. 329, 0. E. S ....9 qts. fruit and 6 glasses jelly.
Bro. L. Scholler, Fresno ....................... .2 boxes nice oranges.
Santa Paula Lodge No. 29L .............. .49V, qts. fruit and preserves and 5
glasses jelly.
Bro. K. Plunnell, Fresno ...................... ..4 boxes oranges.
Berkeley Lodge No. 363 .......................... 9 qts. fruit and 73 glasses jelly.
Upland· Chapter No. 346, 0. E. S ....... .llY, qts. fruit and 7 glasses jelly.
West Gate Lodge No. 335 ..................... .1 pr. overalls.
H. \V. Baker Linen Co ............................ 96 pieces table linen and towel remnants.
~iiss Mozelle Anderson, Ripon ............$2.00 for candy.
Bro. Ben N. Powers, Game Warden,
Hollenheck No. 319 ............................1 dressed deer (42;/, lbs.).
Bro. Rohie E. Dill, South Gate No.
320 ............................................................Olive oii.

DONOR

ARTICLE

Bro. and Mrs. Geo. W. Tucker, Holle~beck No. 248.....................................•2 qts. jelly.
Bessie Love ................................................ Framed portrait of self.
Mrs. Ida Schwartz, Los Angeles .......... Sofa pillow.
Bro. John Henry Sheridan, Henry S.
Orme No. 458 ....................................... .10 lbs. candy.
Mr. and Mrs. Harry B. Shinholt,
Texas ..................................................... .12 qts. fruit.
Santa Ana Lodge No. 241 and Hermosa Chapter No. 105........................ ..77 qts. fruit, 19 glasses jelly
Inglewood Chapter No. 319, 0. E. S .. 10 qts. fruit, 16 glasses jelly. $1 00 t .
Bro. Ralph W. Gold, West Gate No.
' .
re,; 1s.
335
lbs. English walnuts.
Bro. John Sanford McQuiston, Southern California No. 278........................92 good books for library.
Bro. Chas. Day, DePauw No. 338, In.
tliana ........................................................ $5.00 treats.
Bro. Clark H. Shaw, Long Beach No.
327 ............................................................$1.67 treats.
Bro. and Mrs. John Clute Marin No
1
'
.
91 ....................... :.................................~ lbs. candy.
Mrs. Diddick, Covina .............................. 5Yz qts. fruit.
Mr. D. E. Hoover, Alhambra
50c treats
Mr. J. D. Hull, Alhamhra ........ ::::::::::::::::$1.00 trea~s.
Bro. F. B. Comfort, University No.
394 ............................................................ 101 bananas.
Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor and Dr. Nannie
C. Dunsmoor
glasses orange marmalade.
Crown Chapter No. 162, O. E. S ........ 23% qts. fruit, 5 glasses jelly and
pickles.
Bro. P. L. Klingerman, Lexington
No. 104 ....................................................2 qts. fruit, 2 second-hand books and 2
second-hand games.
Lexington Lodge No: 104, Lexington Chapter No · 172• O · E. · S ............2 bo xes
· <Ie1·1c10ns
·
app'cs
Mrs. J. \V. Rohinson, Pasadena.......... 12 qts. fruit and jam,' .glasses jelly
Lester Howard, graduate of Home ..... 100 candy Easter eggs.
·
Bro. amt Mrs. D. J. Brownsteiri, West
Gate Lodge No. 335 ........................ :..... A lot of nice clothing, toys, games and
candy.
Southland Chapter No. 307, 0. E. S..$25.00 treats
Euclid Chapter No. 179, 0. E. S........4 comforts,· ·~2
" pillow cases and l hath
towel.

J

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

492
DONOR

ARTTCLE

Hollenbeck Lodge No. 319, and Hollenbeck Chapter No. 248, 0. E. S ....19 qts. fruit and pickles, 35 glasses jelly.
Bro. and Mrs. John C. Bloeser, Los
Angeles ..................................................2 doz. glasses jelly.
Mrs. W. H. Gilbert, Los Angeles ........6 qts. fruit, jam and pickles.
Mrs. E. L. Biggs, Los Angeles ..............9Yz qts. fruit and preserves, 5 g:asses
jelly.
Mr. L. M. Kimberlin, San Jose ............$1.00 treats.
Bro. J. W. Webster, West Gate No.
392
nicely framed pictures.
Bro. F. B. Comfort, University No.
394 ............................................................... v Victrola records.
Mrs. Mabel R. Street, Pacific Chapter No. 192, 0. E. S ..............................4 glasses jelly.
..
Mrs. Alice M. Aten, Los Angeles ........56 bound volumes of magazmes.
Hollywood No. 209, 0. E. S. Concomforts.
stellation
Glendale Commandery No. 53 ..............Lunch, ice cream, bC!ttle soda, and box of
chocolates for each child with name
burned on redwood cover.
Bro. and Mrs. D. J. Brownstein ..........Good clothing.
Bro. Harry W. Reynolds, HoUebeck
No. 319 ..................................................$2.00 treats.
Bro. John North, Mizpah No. 378 ........140 tomato plants.
Bro. Oran 0. Davis, University 394.... 5 lbs. chocolates
Torrance Lodge No. 447..........................23 lbs. mixed candy, $8.00 treats.
Bro. J. Hugo Valley and wife, Moneta No. 405 ............................................8 lbs. home-made candy, 50c treats.
Bro. H. R. MacLafferty. Mizpah 378..4 books.
Bro. Wm. Taylor, Highland Park
No. 382
lbs. candy, 2 doz. qts. peaches.
.
Pasadena Lodge No. 272 ........................ Brick ice cream, cakes and cookies.
Present for each child, ties, handkerchiefs, writing paper, games, etc.
Laura F. Beecher, Wilmington, DeL..$5.00 treats.
Bro. Robert Parmelee, Pasaden;i No.
272
mandolin.
Palos Verdes Lodge No. 389 ..................$15.00 treats.
Bro and Mrs. L. J. Goff, Jasmine
·
Chapter No. 145, O. E. S .............. ,.....25 lbs. assorted stick candy.
Bro George C. Johnson, East Gate
N·o. 290
large cans of ripe olives.
Covina Book Store .................................. 2000 sheets of scratch paper.
Bro. R. L. Churchill, Oxnard ................ 2 sacks seed beans.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOR.N!A
DONOR

49J
ARTICLE

Bro. R. W. Young, Palos Verdes No.
~9 ............................................................ 7 books, magazines.
Fnend ....................................................... .21 little girls' pretty fancy dresses
Bro. M. Shane, Highland Park No.
·
382 ............................................................30 lbs. peanut brittle.
La Palom~ Chapter No. 202, 0. E. S .. 25 qts. fruit,,77 glasses jelly.
Rose Croix Chapter No. 317, O. E.
S., Comp!iments of the Sunkist
Candy Co............................................... 200 patriotic suckers.
Bro. J. N. Coulter, University No.
'
394 ............................................................ ! guitar.
Southern California Past Masters'
Association ............................................ Lunch for children, $18.55 collection for
baseball outfit.
Millicent Richards, Huntington Park..1 lb. candy.
Arroyo Lodge No. 274, King David's
No. 209 ....................................................6 lbs. of fresh cherries.
Emily Crowl, Los Angeles ......................4 bars Goblin soap, 1/
/2
2 <l oz. samp Ic cans
of Dutch Cleanser.
Bro. an<l Mrs. Chas.· Moritz, Mizpah
No. 378 ...........................,. .......................19 pk. "Life Savers."
Mr. and Mrs. Chas. Jacobson, Los
Angeles .................................................. 4 qts. fruit, 3 lbs. peanuts.
Bro. Wm. J. Fleckenstein, Los Angeles Consistory No. 3........................2 qts. fruit.
Rising Light Lodge No. 397, Rising
Light Chapt:r No: ~· 0. E .. S ........2 croquet sets, 100 pieces Cherry Flips.
Bro. G. E<lwm Williams, Wilshire
No. 445 ....................................................24 chocolate bars, 6 pkgs. candy wafers,
9 cocoa bars, S mint fizzes.
Bro. J. A. H. Kerr, Los Angeles .......... 25 lbs. black cherries.
Henry Clairville, graduate of Home ....2 piano records.
Mrs. Walter Verne Whitson, Santa
Ana ..........................................................Center piece.
Corona Lodge No. 324............................12 qts. ice cream, S lbs. little cakes, 5
doz. cakes of soap.
Bro .. G. W. Warwick, Corona 324....... .10 ties.
Mr. and Mrs. \Vm. Ray Shaw, Long
Reach ...................................................... A generous supply of all kinds of nice
c!othes, toys, etc., for small boys.
Bro. C. M. Scoville, Temescal No.
314 ......................................................... :..$5.00 treats.
Dr. Ludlow L. Haight, Sunset No.
352 ..........................................................% Borden's almond bars.

'\
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

494
CAMP DONATIONS A'l' llALllOA

.
Lunch for children, ice cream, candy,
Jinnistan Grotto........................................ popcorn, prizes for swimmers and
$6.00 for boat.
ill South Gate No. 320.... l gal. Sylmar brand of ripe olives.
Bro. R. E. D '
N 352
2 crates cantaloupe, 2 bxs. apples.
Dr. J. C. Horton, Sunset o.
········
Bro. F. Colman, Rising• Light No. 1.00 treats.
397 ····························································$
·
M L Keeler Santa Ana No.
d
Bro.
· ·
'
.
30 lbs. Paris cream can y. .
241 ········································:···················4 k buns 1 lug peaches and ph:ms, 150
Fleet Entertainment Committee............ :a~ales, gals. ripe olives ..

S

Bro. and Mrs. C. I. Berry, Los Anlbs
geles Chapter No. 168, 0. E. S.:·········30
. plums.
Mr. an~ Mrs. Harry Carey, Un'.~~-~~.20 watermelons, 70 Cherry Flips, 67 bags
peanuts.
sal City ··········································
.
2 lbs. chews (marshmallows and butterMrs. McCain, Balboa................................ scotch).
·
Bro. J. P . Gree1y and F . W . Beck- Boat "Balboa" for transportat10n
amI
with Santa Ana No. 241....................
f I "Id
.
'
pleasure o c 11 ren.
S ecial car to and from beach.
"fi Electric Railway Co .................... P
.
P ac1 c
.
Painting camp signs.
Bro. S. H. Perme ..................................... .

495

Bro. Frank and Clara Prescott, University No. 394......................................2 books.
N ewcll Brown, graduate of Home ......3 lbs. chocolates.
Mizpah Lodge No. 378 ............................$10.00 for Thrift stamps for eight Mizpah children, 38 hair ribbons, 70 hand··
kerchiefs.
Long Beach Chapter No. 173, 0. E.
S. ............................... ,..............................$1.00 for each child, 1 box apples, candy,
fruit and jelly.
Mrs. Clara Stevens, Long Beach
Chapter No. 173, 0. E. S .................. 1 mince pie for each child.
Dr. J. M. Dunsmoor.. ............................. .! guitar, 8 phonograph records.
Isabelle Yeager, graduate of Home ......5 lbs. chocolates.
San Rafael Chapter No. 215, 0. E. S ..4 linen table runners.
Corona Chapter No. 107, 0. E. S ........87 popcorn balls.
Lucerne Chapter No. 127, 0. E. S ........ Christmas box, present for each child.
Bro. Geo. F. Rodden, San Rafael... .......5 lbs. g}ace fruit.
Long Beach Shrine Club ........................ $1.00 for each child, 62 lbs. candy.
Bro. F. B. Gaul, San Dimas .................. 1 doz. Edison records.
Ramona Lodge No. 457 .......................... 58 candy canes.
Covina Commandery No. 53 .................. $10.00 Christmas collection.
Jinnistan Grotto No. 56 ......................... .4 Thrift stamps for each child ($58.00).
Jasmine No. 145, 0. E. S ...................... 10 lbs. plum pudding.
Paso Robles Lodge No. 286.................. 3 boxes apples.
NAMES OF CHILDREN RESIDING AT THE COVINA HOME
GIRLS, 33.

CHRISTMAS DONATIONS.

.
.
J hn Martin's Book for y car 1919.
Bro. Robert Hewitt DeWitt .................. 0
Bro. Fred J. Young, Gold~~---=~~~~-.A generous quantity of toys, games, pcnN o. 358 ···································
cils boxes and stationery.
.
·
bl ans
'
'
.
.
. L d No 394 .... Christmas tree, books, tics, caps, n J
Ladies of Umversity 0 ge
·
dolls, candy, fruit and nuts.
1
1 Stewart Los Ange.es
................... .Dressed 2 dolls.
E ( na
'
5
$5 00 treats
s·1vcr Wave Chapter No. 7 ·················· ·
.
~rs. J. J. Thomas, Columbus, Ohio .... $5.00 treats.
M Dunsmoor Hollenbeck
B ro. J ·
·
'
2 Victrola records.
No 319 ····················································
.F B Silverwood, Southern Cald
B ro. · ·
75 boxes of can Y·
ifornia No. 278 -·····································
California Almond Growers' Ex- 60 lbs. almonds.
change . ... ·········N········ 3··9··4 ................... 116 Thrift stamps, 35 lbs. chocolates.
University Lodge
o.
····················

NAME.

ADMlTTED.

LODGE.

NO.

LOCATION

AGE.

Borland, Jessie G............ May 21, '15 Richmond ................ 375 San Francisco ..10
Conley, Louise ................ Nov. 16, '16 Hollenbeck ............ 319 Los Angeles ...... 7
Dellman, Helen Bertha ..July 14, '18 Fresno .................... 247 Fresno ............. .10
Ferguson, Blanche B. ..... J tme 16, '16 Humboldt ............... .79 Eureka ........... .16
Ferguson, Esther M ...... June 16, '16 Humboldt ............... .79 Eureka .........: ..14
Fischer, Doris C .............. Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bd. Relief
San Francisco .. 11
Fisher, Alice E ................ Mar. 8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 San Francisco ..17
Fisher, Muriel ................ Mar. 8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 San Francisco .. 8
Fisher, Ruth H ................ Mar. 8, '14 Presidio .................. 354 San Francisco ..15
Herrington, G'nivere R .. Aug. 11, '17 San Francisco ........ 360 San Francisco ..!~
Herrington, Lolita E ...... Aug .. 11, '17 San Francisco ........ 360 San Francisco ..11
Hunt, Constance Aileen .. Oct. 23, '18 Golden State .......... 358 Los Angeles ...... 3
Inzer, Mary Lucile .......... Junc 21, '19 Sunset .................... 352 Los Angclcs ..... .12
Inzer, Ivy Myrtle ............ June 21, '19 Sunset .................... 352 Los Angeles ...... 2
Mastin, Alpha Lenora .... Aug. 22, '19 East Gate ................290 Los Angc~cs ...... 5
Neustadt, Henrietta ......June 20, '14 Snnset .................... 352 Los Angclcs ...... 16
Pascoe, Aline A .............. Sept. 6, '17 Amador .................. 65 Jackson ............ 14

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS 01<' THE

496
NAME

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

NO. LOCATION.

AGE.

Pascoe, Edna .................. Sept. 6, '17 Amador .................. 6S .T ackson ..........-.. 11
Poole, Dorothy C............ Mar. 3, '18 Pasadena ............... .272 Pasadena ........ S
Poole, Ruth Mary ............ Mar. 3, '18 Pasadena ............... .272 Pasadena ........ 6
Raftery, Bernice ............ May 11, '13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ..... .11
Raftery, Martha .............. Dec. 3, '17 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ...... 7
Raftery, Mary ................ Dec. 3, '17 Mizpah ··········:·········378 Los Angeles., .... 7
Rice, Edith W .................. Nov. 10, '16 Golden Gate ............ 30 San Francisco .. 7
Schellpeper, Mildred ...... Feb. 22, '19 Parnassus .............. 388 San Francisco... 8
Schcllpet>er, Regina ........ Feb. 22, '19 Parnassus .............. 388 San Francisco .. 12
Shipley, Eva V .................. Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana ............. .241 Santa Ana ....... .11
Shipley, Frances W ......... Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana .............. 241 Santa Ana ........ 9
Shipley, Hazel Fern ........ Aug. 17, '18 Santa Ana ............. .241 Santa Ana ........ 7
Stevens, Irene .................. Feb. 2S, '10 Agreement Bel. Trust
· 17
Virgo, Alice M .................. Dec. S, '13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ..... .12
Virgo, Sadie V .................. Dec. S, '13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ..... .11
Virgo, Winifred .............. Dec. S,' 13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ...... 9
BOYS, 33.
Borland, John C............... l\:fay 21, 'lS Richmond .............. 37S San Francisco .. 14
Borland, Robert M .......... May 21, 'lS Richmond .............. 37S San Francisco.JS
Brown, Herbert E ............June lS, 'lS Pentalpha ............. .202 Los Angeles ..... .12
Dalmas, Ramon Gcorge .. June lS, '19 Fairmount ............ ..43S San Francisco .. 10
Dellman, Wilhelm A ........ Mar. 4, '18 Fresno ................... .247 Fresno .............. 7
Fischer, Douglas E .......... Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bel. Relief
San Francisco .. 7
Fischer, Eugene A ............ Oct. 14, '16 Masonic Bel. Relief
San Francisco .. 8
Fisher, William D ............ April 10, 'lS Presidio ................ 3S4 San Francisco .. 13
Fisher, Harrison .............. Mar. 8, '14 Presidio ................ 3S4 San Francisco .. 10
Horton, Gordon Lee ........June 30, '19 Covina .................... 33~ Covina .............. 10
Howard, Homer E .......... Feb. 17, '13 Oriental .................. 144 San Francisco .. 11
Hunt, Roger Earl... ......... Oct. 23, '18 Golden State .......... 3S8 Los Angeles ...... S
Inzer, J. Wm. McK'nzie .. J une 21, '19 Sunset .................... 3S2 Los Angeles ...... 11
Jordan, Wm. Lewis ........ Feb. 27, '18 King David's ......... .209 S. Luis Ohispo.11
Marks, Earl William ...... J une 2, '18 Culver City .......... ..469 Culver City ...... 7
Marks, Rich'd Parham .. June 2, '18 Culver City ........... .469 Culver City ...... 9
Mastin, Thos. Griffith .... Aug. 22, '19 East Gate ................ 290 Los Angeles ...... 3
McDowell, John C.......... Sept. 27, '16 Mt. Jackson ........... .293 Guerncville ..... .16
Mooneyham, Wtn. O...... Jan. 29, '16 Uplanci .................. ..419 Upland .............. 12
Ncustadt, Lawrence ........June 20, '14 Sunset .................... 3S2 Los Angeles ..... .14
Parrent, Arvin Mahin .... J uly 9, '19 Golden State .......... 3S8 Los Angeles ...... 10
Pascoe, Rich'd Heclley.. Scpt. 6, '17 Amador .................. 6S Jackson ............ 9
Petersen, Chester H ...... Scpt. 28, '17 Live Oak ................ 61 Oakland .......... 6
Pctcrhans, Fred Noyes .. July 12, '19 San Diego .............. 35 San Diego ....... .13
Prewett, Frcdcrick. ......... Mar. 3, '19 Sisson ...................... 310 Sisson .............. 10

NAME

ADMITTED.

LODGE.

497
NO. LOCATION.

AGE.

Prewett, Robt. Harland .. Mar. 3, '19 Sisson ...................... 310 Sisson .............. 7
Prewett, Leland .............. Mar. 3, '19 Sisson ...................... 310 Sisson .............. 13
Raftery, Earl A ................ April 11, '13 Mizpah .................... 378 Los Angeles ..... .13
Rice, James Peter ............July 2, 'lS Golden Gate .......... 30 San Francisco .. 11
Schwartz, Emil P ............ June 29, '17 West Gate ..............33S Los Angeles ..... .10
Schwartz, Sidney ............ June 29, '17 West Gate .............. 33S Los Angeles ...... 8
Smith, Robert .................. Nov. 7, 'lS University .............. 394 Los Angeles ...... 6
Wehe, Victor .................. Aug. 28, '13 Amity ...................... 370 San Francisco .. 13
DEPARTURES DURING THE YEAR
NAME.

ADMITTED.

Edmund E. Brown ................................................ June IS, 'IS
Stanley E. Parke .................................................... Feb. 28, '16
Albert Quinton .................................................... Dec. 18, '09
Thomas. Ramsden .................................................. Nov. 16, '16
Fay R. Villalobos .................................................. Oct. 4, '16
Clarice M. Basenach .............................................. May 23, '16
Harry L. Basenach ................................................ May 23, '16
Jahicl T. Riley .................................................. :..... April 11, '11
Rebecca Riley ............................................................ April 11, '11
Tom Hunter Chester ............................................ Sept. 22, '17

DEPARTED

Sept.
Sept.
Nov.
Nov.
Mar.
April
April
July
July
July

16, '18
23, '18
8, '18
20, '18
30, '19
27, '19
27, '19
3, '19
3,'19
24, '19

498

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

499

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

MENTAL AND PHYSICAL SUR VEY

.

OF THE

d

•a.anttir :Hnmt fnr Q!.~ilhrttt nt Q!.nuitta. Q!.alifnrttia

Ill

1919

By HERBERT I. BLOCH, M. D., and ARTHUR J. R1TTER
From the Department of Pediatrics
of Stanford Univl'rsity M cdical School, San Francisco, Cal.

LELAND STANFORD JUNIOR UNIVERSITY
SACRAMENTO AND WEBSTER STREE'fS
SAN FRANc1sco, CALIFORNIA, October 6th, 1919.
Hon. Bradford Webster,
Grand Master of the Grand Lodge of California,
Masonic Temple,
San Francisco, Calif.
Most Worshipful Grand Master:
We have the honor in submitting to you the annual report of
the physical and mental findings with recommendations of the Masonic
Children at the Covina Home, California, made by the undersigned
during the month of September, 1919.

..

.} ""....,

·r:uk•.,.

~

..-y;.,,r\•

to

:>.

1:1

I

.(!

:<!

!

~

~

';)

1-.

• 0

..,
p

-::
~
·~

'Q
D-,j)'\"'in~

ti.

Fo"Xain

.,'f
-li

Fraternally submitted,
HERBERT I. BLOCH.
ARTHUR J. RITTER.

. ....,,.

.r".~I!.

.

Acting upon the request of the Grand Master, Hon. Bradford
Webster, a visit was paid to "Camp Tucker" prior to the annual
survey at the Covina Horne.

~
~

D,....,;n_jlcn-r-

/<i.i'fch,11
~to-ro

I~
~

~

-1.SoJt'-

The sanitary conditions were found to be good. Toilets have
sewer connections. The problem of the proper disposal of garhage
is the same as exists in all camps.
The daily routine of the camp was followed during our four
days' visit with much interest. What particularly impressed us was
the careful attention given by every child, from the youngest to the
oldest, to their teeth and personal hygiene.
The daily responsibilities were carried out the same as they
are at the Covina Home. Their pleasures included rowing, swimming,
fishing and hiking. All the children, excepting those helow the age
of six years, swim. The day was concluded with a bonfire about
which the children gathered, singing an.d telling stories.
While at Camp Tucker, mental and physical examinations were
made of those children who had entered the Home subsequent to the

Camp Tucker has been made possible through the $2000 donation
to the Horne by the late Brother John Tucker, of California Lodge
No. 1. This donation enabled the Board of Trustees to purchase
the camp site at Balboa island, Orange county.
The camp is arranged in the form of a quadrangle; the front is
made up of five tents, one occupied by the Matron, another for the
Trustees, and the remaining for the use of guests. To the right
a large dormitory tent for the boys; to the left a similar one for
the girls. These tents are divided into subdivisions. Behind each
of these tents occupied by the children is a permanent building
containing shower baths and latrines. Another permanent building
is that used as a storeroom, kitchen, and mess hall; the latter
completes the quadrangle.
I

survey made m 1918. The other children were re-examined after
their return to the Covina Home. These examinations were conducted along the same lines as in the two preceding years. All
recommendations made m 1918 for tonsillectomies and circumcisions
were carried out, and a number of those for dlintal work and
orthodontic corrections. During the current year the teeth of every
child will be examined, and receive the necessary attention. The
recommendation made in 1918 regarding the examination of the eyes
of the children should be carried out. While some improvement has
been noticed in posture, there is still much to be desired in this
direction. It is recommended that the gymnasium be equipped, and
that an instructor in physical culture be placed m charge. Without
such a person to direct the work the results will not be all that
might be desired.
Comment was made in last year's report upon the excellent
sanitary conditions of the kitchen, refrigeration, and stores. The
food supply is abundant, and the meals well prepared. During the
past year there has been an increase m the amount of butter fats
and fresh vegetables consumed. Each child receives a dai'y allowance
of one and one-half pints of fresh milk.
Having had the privilege of examining the children for three
successive years, we feel in the position to render a comparative
table showing the mental development of the children smce 1917
expressed in points. This table shows in addition to the mental
examinations, the school grading and the final disposition of those
who have left the Home.
TABLE
Ml(N'l'AL l(XAMINA'l'IONS

No.
1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.
7.
8.
9.
10.
11.
12.

A. F.
B.F.
D.F.
E.F.

s. s.
R. P.
E. S.
H.H.
J. R.
H.B.
S.P.
W.M.

1917
94
96
64
37
39
39
47
87
63
88
81
71

1918
98
100
73
49
54
51
63
90
78
90

1919
100
100
84
58
68
61

79

91

72
94
90
95

School Grade
High School
High School
Sixth Grade
Third Grade
Third Grade
Fourth Grade
Fifth Grade
Seventh Grade
Seventh Grade
High School

Disposition

···························· Returned to mother
Sixth Grade

501

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

500

No.
13.
14.
15.
16.
17.
18.
19.
20.
21.
22.
23.
24.
25.
26.
27.
28.
29.
30.
31.
32.
33.
34.
35.
36.
37.
38.
39.
40.
41.
42.
43.
44.
45.
46.
47.
48.
49.

so.
51.
52.
53.

1917

H.F.
45
84
E.R.
94
I. Y.
G.C.
68
H.B.
94
72
J.B.
A.Q.
81
L.N.
92
87
R.B.
L.H.
86
T. R.
78
71
R.P.
J.McD. 85
83
T.C.
M.M.
86
A.R.
86
L. c.
19
R.
ND
D.F.
25
E. B.
95
72
T.R.
80
V.Vf.
E.F.
57
M.B.
91
25
E.R.
M.F.
34
F.V.
39
34
c. n.
46
57
J.B.
D F.
51
52
L.H.
n. R.
57
55
67
E.R.
72
E.P.
49
R.R.
85
G. H.
74
A.
94
M.B.
85
E.F.

s.

w.v.

1918
60
89

1919
80
96

Disposition

...........................

Living with mother

·------------------------·-- Returned to mother
........................... Mother remarried

97
78

School Grade
Fifth Grade
Seventh Grade

93

Seventh Grade

················-··········· Adopted
95
89

100
95

87
94

23
28
40

36
41
46

77
89

96

33
61
60
54

43
71
fi()

75
72

............................

Returned home, died
Placed on r:tnch
............................ Returned to mother
···················-········ Returned to family
···----------------········· Mother remarried
·························-·· Referred hack to Lodge
•........................... Living with mother
Second Grade
First Grade
Second Grade
··············-············· Returned to mother
............................ Returned to relatives
High School
····--·-···················- Whittier State School
··················-···-····· University of California
Third Grade
Fourth Grade
............................ Mother remarried
Fourth Gracie
............................ Mother remarried
Sixth Grade
Fourth Grade
Fifth Grade
Seventh Grade
Fifth Grade
··-······-·················· Placed with family·
Fourth Grade
............................ Sonoma State Home
Eighth Gracie
Seventh Gracie
•··························· Living with mother
High School
••n••••••••••••••••••••••••

88
87

71
78

High School
High School

81
87
80
89
78

s.v.

84
68

94

v.

87
60
93
89
89

95

98

97

PROCEEDINGS OF Tll!C

502
No.
54.
55.
56.
57.
58.
59.
60.
61.
62.
63.
64.
65.
66.
67.
68.
69.
70.
71.

72.
73.
74.
75.
76.

77.
78.
79.
80.
81.
82.
83.
84.
85.
86.
87.

A.P.
R.F.
M.H.
H.N.
I. S.
C. P.
L.J.
H.D.
R. P.
E.M.
W.D.
R.M.
M.R.
M.R.
S.H.
S. F.
P.D.
S.E.
c. H.
L.I.
M. I.
A.M.
M.S.
R. S.
L.P.
H.P.
F. P.
A. P.
J. I.
R.H.
G.H.
R. D.
T.M.
F.P.

1917
84
82
95
90
89

1918
88
90

1919
90
98

93
90
39
73
60
25
41
46
49
27
35
32
62
20
82

98
100
43

School Grade
Eighth Grade
High School

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Disposition

503

'

Since the first survey in September, 1917, until September, 1919,
there were 87 children enroJled; during the two years 22 children
left the home and were p'.aced as follows:

............................ Returnd to mother
High School
High School
Fourth Grade
···························-

77
36
55
52
63
39
44
40
90
27
90
NE.
63
NE.
22
66
82
90
52
61

72
69
NE.
33
60
NE.
88

On leave of absence

Fifth Grade
Second Grade
Second Grade
Third Grade
Fourth Grade
Second Grade
Second Grade
First Grade
Fifth Grade
Kindergarten
Sixth Grade

22
At· present there arc· 33 girls and 32 boys in the Home;
are graded:

Fifth Grade
O•OOH000000000000000o00oo00

Kindergarten
Fourth Grade
Seventh Grade
Seventh Grade
Second Grade
Fourth Grade
Fifth Grade
Fifth Grade

Fourth Grade
............................

Sixth Grade

these

High School ............. '............................................................................. 10
Kindergarden-8th grade .................................................................. 50
Below school age .................................................................................. 4
Defective (Case 84) ............................................................................ 1

............................

............................
............................

Returned to parents .... :....................................................................... 13
Returned to relatives .................................................. :......................... 2
Adoption ................................................................................................. .
Whittier State School ......................................................................... .
Sonoma State Home .......... :................................................................ .
Placed with family ............................................................................... .
Returned to Lodge ............................................................................... .
Placed on a ranch ............................................................................... .
University student .............................................................................. 1

One child, Case No. 84, who had recently been admitted to the
Home, was found to be considerably below normal inteJlect, and
showed physical deformities.
In the interest of the remaining
children, it was necessary to advise the removal of this boy.

Recommended removal

With the exception of Case No. 84 and one Dull Normal child,
the remaining 63 children vary from normal to normal superior
intelligence. There is no doubt that this showing is due to the
personal interest of the management, the excellent environment and
the educational opportunities offered.
The physical and mental
standard is higher than expected. It must be admitted that some
of these youngsters come from more or less shipwrecked families;
the results are therefore so much more gratifying.
Feeling the importance of an investigation as to the conduct
and behavior of our children when away from the protecting inflnC'nce
and supervision at the Home, we interviewed the Principal of the
Covina Public School, and she expressed her opinion in a letter as
follow&·

504

l'UOCEEDINGS OF THE

OFFICE OF PRINCIPAL
CHARTER OAK SCHOOL,
Cov1NA, CALH'., Sept. 8, 1919.
Dr. Arthur J. Ritte•r,
Care of Stanford lJniversity Medical School,
San Francisco, California.
Dear Sir:
Referring to our today's conversation in regard to the conduct
and behavior of the children of the Masonic Home at Covina, I
wish to state that the children are above the average in mental
ability, refinement and athletics.
I should be very glad to co-operate with you in every way possible·
in the interest of the cause.
Very truly yours,
.
CLARA THOMPSON,
Prin. Charter Oak School.
It is strongly advised that children who are about to enter
nigh school be placed in the homes of Masonic families.- We believe
they would have more opportunities for exchanging ideas in larger
educational centers. At Covina there are limited opportunities for
girls and boys during their high school careers to enjoy the social
privileges which children of that age crave. In addition, we feel
that it would contribute vastly to their education and the development
of their characters, if they could receive the individual attention that
is obtained only in a private home circle. Until the high school age
we feel there are no better environment or educational opportunities
to be had than at the Covina Home, but during that period they
require the broadening influence which i;an only be obtained from
association with children of the same age and those more advanced
than. themselves. The plan that has been suggested to the Board
of Trustees is that during the time children are attending high
school they be placed with families, and that the Board of Trustees
continue their supervision, receiving, at stated periods, reports of
their progress and conduct, until they 'ilrc no longer subject to the
authority of the Home.

The report was adopted as presented, except as to the
request for an appropriation for $11,755.44, which was referred to the Committee on Finance.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

505

AN>IUAL ORATION
Brother Charles H. Victor, Grand Orator, then delivered his annual oration, as follmys:
Most Worshipful Grand Master and Brethren of the Grand Lodge:
'.fhe duty of your orator at this time is both a pleasant and a
serious one; a pleasant one because we have so many reasons for
congratulation, and serious in that we are confronted by conditions
that are at once fraught with menace and danger not alone to our
fraternity but to the land we love.
One year ago when we met together in annual communication
we were engaged in a war, the equal of which has never been
known in the annals of history. It seemed at that time, and we
felt, that the whole structure of civilization was threatened; we
were hopeful that it might be ended soon, but even the most optimistic of us had no idea the end was so near or that complete
victory could so soon be achieved.
The clouds of war passed, and today the banners of our gallant
allies float beside our own starry emblem, bathed in the sunlight of
a glorious victory. We cannot at this time refrain from congratulating ourselves, because now that the record has been made up,
we find that the destroying Death Angel passed lightly through
the ranks of our fighting men and our losses, severe though they
have been, were light when compared to the tremendous sacrifice
made not alo.ne by our allies, but inflicted upon our adversary.
Before the great Architect of the Universe we humbly bow in
thanksgiving for His goodness and mercy vouchsafed to us. Brethren, we would be untrue to our calling if at this time we did not
likewise refer to our 11llies who, through the many weary months
preceding the time when the strong urge and ca11 came upon us
as a nation to enter the conflict, stood in the breach and fought to
maintain the civilization in which we rejoice today.
We are prone to forget; we are prone to look to the future
always, rather than to the past, so let us remember our gallant
allies, and let us remember that they are allies still, and that in the
great fight that must be waged in the coming mq,nth and in the
coming year, and in the years that are ahead of us, the great fight
of reconstruction that must be made for the fulfillment of the
dream we had when we entered the c'anflict, that our allies must

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

stand with us and that they must fight with us and that the burden
cannot be borne by them or us alone. We must still be allies.

Oh, let us today not alone congratulate but likewise pay our
respect, our feeling of intense thankfulness to our sister across
the water for the fight that she waged, and let us stand unflinchingly forever against any propaganda that may be spread abroad
to separate these two nations whose lives and whose futures have
been brought together in bonds of blood!

506

What a wonderful record it is that they present to us. We
can spend a moment profitably in reviewing it. We all know how
~ur hearts were burdened when the first news· came that war had
been declared away back in 1914. It seems so long ago, it appears
to be a relic of almost a past age, and yet we were burdened
with an oppressive thought that things were not altogether right
in the world, and then those who afterwards became our allies in
the conflict stepped into the breach. France had her part. France
.vas true to the promise that she had made prior to this conflict.
When the hour came that she must fight-fight she did. There
.v:::s no sacrifice too great for her to make, and she poured out not
alone her manhood but likewise her womanhood upon the altar
of her patriotism. She fought and fought against odds that seemed
almost too 'great for human strength, on and on, willing if necessary to be annihilated rather than submit to a conquest she
knew would be worse than destruction to her national life.
And Belgium-glorious Belgium-who, rather than 1acrifice
her honor for temporary safety and peace, threw her puny strength
into the breach and fought back the invader who would at once
have raped and then destroyed her. Her puny strength was sufficient for the moment, and although she lay des6lated and almost
destroyed in the path of the conqueror, still that strength was sufficient to allow others to rush into the conflict and hold until the
hour when the death knell of autocracy could be sounded.
And then Britain-oh! we hear much of Britain in these days.
I want to say to you, l:l'rethren of the Grand Lodge, that we of
Anglo-Saxon origin can never cease paying our debt of gratitude to
that great Anglo-Saxon people, that great Anglo-Saxon nation
who had been so misjudged, who had been so misunderstood by
our adversary, that they were counted upon to violate the pledge
that they had made and leave their small neighbor in her hour of
trial. But Britain stood as Britain has always stood, ready to fight
for the right.
As we look over the record, England and Scotland and India
and Australia and New Zealand and our near friends on the north,
Canada, we find their blood and treasure poured out without stint,
poured out in a sacrifice unparalleled in the history of mankind,
and they stood and they fought and they waited until their AngloSaxon brethren on this side of the water came into the conflict
and finally assisted in the settlement of the difficulty.

507

And so the record runs on: Italy made a gallant and great
fight, at some times fighting up in the snow-covered Alps and at
others down on the plains-betrayed but never willing to give in;
yes, Italy was a gallant part of the host of righteousness that
fought in the conflict. And so with the others-Serbia, Roumania,
the blacks from Morocco, Japan and China and Russia.
And friends, let us not forget the part that Russia played in
this. struggle. For many weary months she fought; she fought
~t times almost with bare hands, attacked from behind by traitors
m her own camps, but ever fighting until resources were gone. But
credit must be given for one thing: It was due to Russia that
the horde of Huns was held back until their possible hour of
triumph had passed and their fate had been written in lurid letters
of fire on the sign-board of destiny. Russia played a splendid
part until she was practically destroyed.
So we can congratulate our allies for their part in the conflict
and it is only fit and right that we should remember. Yea, breth~
ren, let us never forget the part they played! Shame on him and
shame on those who in this hour of triumph, in this period of reconstruct.ion, would try to spread dissension in our ranks by
ende.avormg to allot to any one particular nation the supreme palm
of victory. All are conquerors, all have their part all have made
their sacrifice; so let us today congratulate and' commend our
allies and seek in no way whatever to take unto ourselves greater ,
credit than is our due nor to take from any full credit for service
rendered.
We are likewise to be congratulated as a fraternity. The
reports that come from all jurisdictions show that many have
been prompted to solicit the privileges of our fraternity. Our
growth has been unparalleled in the history of Masonry. We
cannot help but feel that these initiates of ours have come prompted by a desire to be of service to their fellow men. And Brethren
if that is true, and we cannot doubt it, then we have great caus~
for congratulations and great hope for the future, for it demonstrates that at heart the great mass of our people are sound. It
demonstrates that the desire to serve has not left us ;ivith the

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

war; it demonstrates that the principles that we have enunciated
for these many years are finding a responsive echo in the h1iarts
of more and more as the days go by. These numbers have augmented our material prosperity, so we can congratulate ourselves
and our sister jurisdictions today upon the great increase in numbers and material prosperity. This 1::1 the bright side of the picture,
and I would that I could spend the time allotted me in contemplation of a theme so pleasant and so delightful.

Oh, yes! We had a big ideal and we felt that we could sacrifice for that ideal. Then the war ended. Immediately there was a
relaxation-immediately a letting down of the tense feeling we had
had before. Some felt that duty was done; others that they had
really played their part, and then the element came that desired
to place a fallacious and absolutely wrong construction upon the
reason for the sacrifice and is endeavoring to break up all or.ganized society.

But there is another side to the picture and a side perhaps not
quite as inviting.

Now, that is what has led up to our present condition. We
must face that condition and I know of no institution, I know
of no organization that is better fitted to meet it than our great
fraternity.

508

The war is over and the days of relaxation have come, and
In the hearts of
many the blood-lust still remains and we find dissension-we find
indifference-we find active and open propaganda to destroy organized society-we find effort being made to spread confusion
among the ranks of those who labor-we find an effort being made
to destroy the. pleasant alliance that has been formed between
ourselves and other great nations who fought for liberty and for
freedom, and with that problem, we as Masons and we as citizens
are largely concerned, and we can readily afford to spend a few
minutes of our time in this session of Grand Lodge in trying to
find a soluti.on to the difficulties that confront us.

no~ the period of reconstruction is upon us.

To understand something of the problem we will have to revert
again for a moment to the reasons why we entered the conflict
that has just closed. Regardless of acts that may have been committed, there is no question in the minds of those who have studied
the matter and who have been close observers, that our participa- ·
tion in the conflict was due to our following a great ideal. We
fought the war for no mercenary motives-no thought of indemnity
-no thought of political aggrandizement-no thought of material
gain in any way whatever.
We felt that human rights and human freedom and liberty
of all peoples were at stake, and with that splendid idealism before
our minds we went into battle. No sacrifice was too great for us
to make. Our blood and treasure were poured out; our young
manhood was enlisted; conscription was accepted without a murmur; the onerous rulings of the Food Administration were taken
as a matter of course. Economy was practiced that the Nation
might have the funds wherewith to prosecute the war, and when
the call was made by those organizations that were ministering
to the comfort and to the welfare of the boys in camp and at the
front, our purses as well as our hearts were opened to them.

509

Why? Because from the very beginning of our government
the principles of Freemasonry have been inculcated in the minds
of our people. We hear statements made from time to time that
we have no real political influence, and far be it from me, Brethren, standing before you this morning to advocate that a Masonic
Lodge or the Masonic Grand Lodge or that any or all of our jurisdictions should in any time seek political preference. I rejoice
this morning that we have no machinery, no organization, that
can go into the political arena and demand things to which we
are not entitled by our rights as American citizens. And I hope
the day will never come when we will seek for the Masonic fraternity anything that she is not legitimately entitled to have.
E'ut let us look, Brethren, to see whether the statement is altogether true that we have no influence. Let us go back to the
very foundation of our government. We find that many of the
men who organized this government were Masons. Our leading
Colonial fathers were inspired by the lessons that have inspired us,
and in the foundation of our government they endeavored to inculcate in the minds of our people those lessons of Freemasonry,
and down through the years they have passed Masonry and Liberty, not with the many but rather with the few, and through those
few have reached the many, until the idea of liberty and the idea
of freedom and the \dea of the rights of men have been planted
in the hearts of our citizenship. And I say to you this morning,
and I do not believe that any will refute the statement as I make
it, that the idealism of the United States of America, that carried
it through this great war for civilization, was the idealism that was
planted through no other agency than the teachings of Freemasonry
through the years that preceded it. And I want to ask you a question, that if that is a fact and if it be true and if you do not dispute

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOHNIA.

:t-is it not better that we have the substance rather than the
shadow? Is it not better that our teachings through these years
have built up in the hearts of the people a desire for that which is
right, a desire for that which is true, a desire for that which
is good, and has led them forth to lay their lives upon the altar
as a sacrifice for those principles, rather than to gain some temporary advantage by political machinations? Brethren, we have
the substance; let those who desire the shadow play the game as
they will.

to be a Mason. He must be a man whose record as far as we can
ascertain it, at least, is clean. We are not a reform institution, but
religion has for one of its prime duties the building up of men
who have fallen and reclaiming the lost and instructing the young
and providing inspiration and meeting places for the sex that we
do not admit to our membership.

510

This opposition, this unrest, this indifference is the enemy we
have to fight. Now there is no new-there is no startling remedy
for this condition. I cannot stand here this morning and instruct
you in the ways of life that will lead to the solution of this problem,
but I can remind you, Brethren-I can only remind you-of the
lessons which you have learned and to attract to your thought the
fact that the promulgation of those lessons in your community
through the medium of your daily life and your activities will
bring about a solution to the problem.
Freemasonry stands today, as it has ever stood, for certain
well·defined principles. Freemasonry stands first for a belief in
God. It is primary and it is fundamental, and I want to say to
you this morning, Brethren, that without a belief in God you can
have no faith in your fellow man. Faith in fellow man is absolutely founded upon a faith in a higher or Supreme Being, so we can
profitably think for a moment upon the principle that we enunciate
-our belief in God.
Every Mason as he enters the Lodge is required to declare
that belief. He is not required to accept a creed. He is not
required to express an allegiance to any particular type of religious
denomination. Freemasonry does not stand as a religion. We are
not a religious organization, and yet there is another fact in the
same connection, Brethren, that we want to remember and never
lose sight of-Masonry is not a substitute for religion. Masonry
never can be a substitute for religion. I for my part would. not
want a religion that would be as narrow a religion as Freemasonry,
if Freemasonry were a religion. Freemasonry bars so many people.
I cannot take my children to the religion of Freemasonry. My
wife cannot go with me when I attend the inspiring ceremonies of
Freemasonry. My friend who has perhaps fallen, who has wandered
from the paths of rectitude, cannot come back and be reformed by
Freemasonry, because Freellllasonry is not a reform institution.
The man who comes to solicit our privileges must be a good man
and true. He must be a man who in his heart has been prepared

511

And so, when I think of my religion, I want a religion that is
broad enough and inclusive enough to include my family and my
friends along with me. Therefore, I do not this morning advocate
the thought that Masonry is a religion, but I do say this and I
believe that you can find an echoing response in your heart, that
each and every one of you will be a far better Mason if you will
ally yourselves with and support some type of organized religion.
The Church has its place in society. The Church has been
teaching for many years, and Masonry can support the Church
in so far as the Church does not attempt to impose upon it an
authoritative religion. Religion by authority, by direction, that
does not allow for the free use of the conscience and the develop·
ment of the int~llect that God has given to man in the working out of his relation between the Diety and himself has no part
in the support of Freemasonry.
So, let us, Brethren, endeavor as a means of meeting the
spirit of unrest-let us endeavor as a means of meeting the
anarchistic teachings that are.. being spread abroad today, support
the churches that are building up true piety and righteousness in
our several communities, so that their hands will be strengthened
in the fight that they are making along with us.
Masonry likewise teaches certain very pronounced doctrines
in regard to duty as citizens. Americanism is becoming a subject
that is on all tongues. And some say "Well, your doctrine of
Americanism-your doctrine of Nationalism does not confonn to
the universality of Masonry."
Brethren, let us get that idea or notion out of their minds!
The universality of Masonry teaches us that at heart men are alike,
and so they are. At heart we are inspired with the same feelings.
We love, we hate, we work, we play, and regardless of the modes
and the methods that we use, the feeling that prompts our motives
is largely the same, whether it is in the heart of the white in San
Francisco or the black in North Africa, so that universality is the
feeling that we can account for when we talk of the universality
of Masonry.

512

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Masonry does teach this: that we should render a proper· due
to all mankind. We are as much obligated to be just and to be
fair to our brethren who have the black skin or the yellow skin
or red skin as we are to our brethren of the white skin. That is one
of the phases of the universality of Masonry, but Brethren, never
think for one minute that the universality of Masonry denies the
doctrine.of a splendid nationalism or a splendid Americanism.
A man can be a true Frenchman and a good Mason:
A man can be a true Scotchman and a good Mason:
A man can be a true Irishman and a good Mason: ·
A man can be a true Canadian and a good Mason:
But I assert to you this morning, Brethren, that no man can
be a French-American; no man can be a Scotch-American; no
man can be an Irish-American or Canadian-American and owe
allegiance to those people and be a good American Mason.
Our safety as a people depends upon our loyalty to our own
country. If we find those in our midst who are Americans; if we
find those ·in our midst who have been born here and who have
been trained here and are yet concerned in plots to destroy the
liberty that has been built up through these many generations of
toil and bloodshed, then let us deal with them as traitors should be
dealt with. If we find in our midst those who have come from
other shores and are accepting our hospitality, our benefits and our
privileges, and yet are working as thieves in the night, ready to
stab us in the back and destroy the institutions that have made our
land what it is, then let us send them back to the p!ac·e whence
they came and rid our country of an undesirable element.
So Masonry teaches good citizenship; Masonry teaches good
Americanism. And Americanism today in its best sense can be
exemplified by the spirit that is willing to work in ·these problems
of reconstruction as men inspired by that spirit that is willing to
make the same sacrifice, who are willing to pay the same price that
our country may be perpetuated and may go on in peace as it did
in war, and if we can get that spirit in the hearts of our people then ·
our American Nation is safe.
·
As a citizen there is .one very important duty and that is the
duty as a voter. Our registration shows some remarkable things,
and one of the sad as well as remarkable things is that we are not
as a people as careful and as zealous and as jealous of the privilege of the ballot as we should be. Many are indifferent even to
registration, and of those who do register, large numbers of them

Gl<AND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

513

do not vote. Brethren, in every Masonic Lodge at the time when
an election is on, mention should be made that the prime duty of a
voter is to express his opinion-not the opinion of the Lodge, not
the opinion of Masonry, but his opinion as a voter.
Let us, Brethren, lay just a little bit more stress on the observance of this privilege and this duty and a little less stress on
who and what we are voting for. Oh, it is so easy to get up excitement over an individual; it is so easy to get up a temporary
excitement over an issue, but it is hard to get up enthusiasm and
excitement over just ordinary duty. But voting is not an ordinary
duty. It is the greatest duty that we as citizens have to perform.
Masonry should likewise enter into the everyday life of t~e
individual if these problems are going to be solved. Masonry ts
not a thing for the Lodge-room alone; it is not a thing. for our
festive occasions alone, but it is a practical everyday philosophy
of life. A man to be a good Mason should be a good business
man should be a good lawyer; should be a good bricklayer or a
good mechanic. Into his everyday work should go the. principlt;s
that have been inculcated in his life through the medmm of his
Lodge. He should feel that he is endeavoring to dignify his craft
or his profession,. he should endeavor at all times to show tha~ the
word of a Mason in business or as a laborer or as a professional
man is absolutely inviolable. The fact that he is a Mason should
be sufficient recommendation of his character. And in our Lodges
we should lay emphasis upon that fact. We should teach the
fact not alone in the beautiful phraseology of our ritual, but in the
common ordinary language that every man can understand, and
if we find in our community Masons who are not living up to
the teaching of Masonry in their everyday business life and affair~,
then so.!11e means should be found to show them the .error of their
ways.
Brethren, the teaching of Masonry is nothing more or less
than old fashioned, common honesty and common sense. T~o~e
are the things that are particularly needed in this hour of crisis.
There is no new panacea for the ills of the world. Work honestly
performed, duty faithfully done, will bring peace and happiness
and contentment to our land. Let us in our Lodges as we go back
from this communication of the Grand Lodge give consideration
to the old fashioned virtues; let us bring them before our membership as we have never brought them before. Let us put greater
stress upon the social side of our Institution, so that ;ve can come
to understand and know our Brethren better; let us give them the
inspiration of our companionship; let us give them the helpful and

514

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

strengthening influence of a closer acquaintanceship; let us have .
them feel that as they go out in their several walks of life that
they have the interest and support of the brethren of their Lodges.
Let us endeavor by this close, active connection and acquaintanceship and frequent meetings together to weld ourselves into one
solid mass that will stand for righteousness and for honesty· and
for uprightness in our civic as well as our private dealings; let us
be bound together into one great mass that will move forward as
a solid unit for righteousness.
Just a little while ago I heard a soldier telling of his experience with the army of occupation. He was sent to the Rhine after
the armistice was signed and reached the border or edge of the
river at night. In the morning, when he went out from his tet'\t
and went to the river to look across at Coblenz, he saw over the
great fortress of Ehrenbreitstein the American flag flying. It
made a wonderful impression on his mind. He said he had never
been thrilled before as he was thrilled by the sight of the American flag over Ehrenbreitstein, and he turned to his comrades and
found that they were feeling just as he felt; and so morning after
morning, during the time they spent with the army of occupation
they went out and saw Old Glory floating over Ehrenbreitstein
and as they returned to their native land he said the thought came
home with them. His whole company seemed to be inspired with
the thought that as they returned to their land they would endeavor
to so live and act that they might keep that American flag flying
over Ehrenbreitstein-Ehrenbreitstein, not in its physical character
but Ehrenbreitstein as it typified the ascension of righteousness
and of truth and of freedom over autocracy and sin and error.
And so, Brethren, in these, my closing words to you, I would
urge that' as we go forth from this communication of the Grand
Lodge, we go with the feeling and inspiration that we are going
to keep Old Glory flying over Ehrenbreitstein and that error and
unrighteousness and ignorance and lack of patriotic fervor shall be
forever cast forth from among us and that the principles that we
are so pleased to enunciate as the principles of our grand order
may animate and inspire mankind, to the end that we may have a
better, brighter and more glorious land in the future than even our
glorious record of the past.

Were it not for the modesty of the Orator, the transcript above would show the applause which frequently
greeted the speaker. On motion of the Junior Grand Warden a rising vote of thanks was extended to Brother Victor.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

515

The motion also included that the oration be printed and
supplied to Lodges for distribution, with the Grand Master's address, to the brethren. This was referred to the
Committee on Finance.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

Afternoon Session.
Wednesday, October 15, 1919.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
AMENDMENT PROPOSED
Brother Pollard, Master of Lexington Lodge No. 104,
presented the following:
Resolved, That section 89 of the Constitution he amended by striking
out the word "ten" and inserting in. lieu thereof the word "twenty," so
that the section will read as follows: "Sec. 89. Excepting, however, that
the Lodge may expend in each Masonic year twenty per cent of ifs total
revenue for the preceding Masonic year for purposes of refreshments
and the promotion of fraternal intercourse.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
PETITION OF ACACIA LODGE TO WORK IN GERMAN
Los Angeles, Calif., October 11, 1919.
Most Worshipful Bradford Webster, Grand Master of Masons, State of
California, and Brethren of the Grand Lodge.
Most Worshipful Sir an.d Bri;thren:

As the representative of Acacia Lodge No. 438, F. & A M., I have
to report, tlrnt at the stated meeting of the month of September, and
after all members were duly notified, it was unanimously decided to petition t1ie Grand Lodge to allow us to confer the work in the German
language.

516

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Just a year ago one of our Past Masters read a telegram before
your honorable body, expressing the desire of the Lodge to voluntarily
desist from using that language, because our country was at that time
at war with the German Government, people and tongue.
This war having now been won by America and to a great extent by
the loyal, actual, financial and economical support of the millions of
citizens of German descent, the members of our Lodge deem it proper
at this time to petition you, Sir and the Brethren, to allow them again
the use of the German language.
As the Lodge was founded to spread the cement of friendship and
brotherly love among those foreigners of German tongue who come to
our free country in search. of freedom in speech as well as development,
the members are sure that by joining our body of men they will not only
become better men but a!so more loyal citizens.
They have asked me to convey this sentiment and desire to your
most careful and kindest consideration.
Yours fraternally and obediently,
H. M. WF,GF,Nl\R,
Master.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
MERIDIAN LODGE-CHANGE OF NAME
Meridian Lodge No. 182 presented a resolution praying
that inasmuch as ~he Lodge is located in the city of Arbuckle, that the name of the Lodge be changed to Arbuckle
Lodge. This was referred to the Committee on Charters.

517

REPORT OF TEMPLE ASSOCIATION
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
We present herewith for your information and approval the annual
financial statement of the Masonic Temple Association of California:

Financial Report, September l, 1918, to September 1, 1919
Receipts
Balance on hand September 1, 1918................................
$ 4,376.88
From rentals ( 12 months) ................................................$30,758.03
From discounts, etc. ( 12 months)..................................
13.87
From insurance (fire loss)................................................ 1,500.00 32,271.90
Total receipts............... ................................................
$36,648.78
Disbursements
Taxes .. ..... , ................................................................................'!' 6,827.60
10,750.08
Interest
Current expenses ............................................................... . 4,176.35
Janitors .............................................................................. .. 5,637.00
90.00
Jmprovemcnt ........................................................................
Alterations and repairs .................................................... .. 2,168.67
318.22
Insurance ..........................................:.................................. .
300.00 30,267.92
Real estate agent, renting stores ................................... .
$ 6,380.86
Ba!ance cash on hand September 1, 1919..............
Total indebtedness September 1, 1919, mortgagc....$215,000.00
We arc pleased to report for the first time since the building was
occupied that the entire ground tloor is rented. This rental, however, is
not reflected in the foregoing statement but will indicate an increase in
the receipts of the year 1920 of some $5,000.00.
We invite attention to the fact that the ordinary receipts for the
year 1919 arc about $2,250.00 over those of 1918.
Our total indebtedness consists of the mortgage of $215,000.00.
No appropriation for the Jlllrchase of stock was made by Grand
Lodge in 1918 due to the purch\se of $35,000.00 for Liberty Bonds, and
in order that the Temple Association may be relieved from the burden
of interest it. is now bearing, we suggest a substantial appropriation this
year from the Grand Lodge for the purchase of stock and the reduction
of the mortgage. And we, therefore, fraternally request the Grand
Lodge to subscribe for stock in the Temple Association to the amount of
$25,000.00.
Respectfully submitted,
vVM. H. CRocKitR,
President.

Referred to Committee on Finance.

518

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON ACCOUNTS

who were engaged in the armed service, or .by the dependents of California Masons who were killed or crippled during the war. Happily for
us, hostilities in Europe ceased shortly after the close of the last communication of our Grand Lodge, and California Masons were relieved
of the anticipated burdens which would have resulted from the human
wreckage of a long war. At the time this fund was inaugurated and
during the year of its collection, we had in mind a just and proper
preparation for the performance of our Masonic duty with respect to
those who would be suffering and in need because of the ravages of the
war into which we had entered with so much energy and power. The
need for this fund has now passed away and the requirements of our
California brethren and their dependents can safely and confidently be
entrusted to the ample provisions which can and will be made for them
by the Lodges of this State.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Accounts have the honor to report that pursuant to constitutional requirements, we have met at the office of the
Grand Secretary ·on the first Saturday of each month, and have audited
all bills, claims and demands against the Grand Lodge as were placed in
the hands of the Grand Secretary.
EnwARD E. CoNN,
LEO BRUCK,

FRED B. Woon,
JoHN B. WuERSCHING,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

REPORT OF WAR FUND COMMITTEE
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

The undersigned, Masonic War Fund Committee, appointed by the
Grand Master, beg leave to report as follows:
That during the year your Committee has administered the said
War Fund in strict accordance with the rules and regulations governing
its administration as set forth on page 30 of the Proceedings of this
Grand Lodge for 1918, and as authorized by a resolution of this Gtand
Lodge set forth on page 238 of said Proceedings.
At the time of the appointment of this Committee the balance of
the War Fund in the hands of the Grand Treasurer amounted to
$60,188.29. During the past year contributions have been received and
paid over to the Grand Treasurer amounting to $4,077.25, making a
total of $64,265.54. Disbursements have been made from this fund
amounting to $5,160.16, and there is now in the hands of the Grand
Treasurer belonging to the Masonic War Fund the sum of $59,105.38.
To this balance must be added sundry items. of interest on bonds and
bank deposits, which will be shown by the report of the Grand Treasurer. (The net amount of the fund as of October 1, 1919, is $60,893.54.)
Annexed hereto is a detailed report of all receipts and disbursements
during the past year. An examination of the detailed report will show
that 104 Lodges have made contributions to the War Fund since October
4, 1918, and that the money disbursed has been almost entirely for assistance in the support and maintenance of social rooms and other instrumentalities of Masonic hospitality and brotherly attention to members of
the craft in the Army and Navy of the United States and its Allies.
Very little relief has been given to or required by California Masons

519

The Grand Master in his letter announcing. the establishment of a
Masonic War Fund, and asking for contributions thereto by the brethren
of California, stated that "in the event of the termination of war leaving
an unexpended balance in said fund, the same shall be donated pro rata
to the Lodges collecting the same, or shall be paid into the Masonic
Home Fund, in the discretion of the Grand Master." It seems to your
Committee that not only the best interests of the craft, but also the
desire of the subscribers to this fund will be served by turning the
largier part thereof over to the Masonic Homes of California. Expressions have been had from many Masons on this subject, among whom are
more than fifty Masters of Lodges that were large contributors to this
fund, and without exception it is their opinion that the Masonic War
Fund should be given to the Masonic Homes and that the same should
not be given back to the Lodges that acted as instruments for the collection of the same. Moreover, during the year of the collection of this
fund no general effort was made to increase the Endowment Fund of
the Masonic Homes.
Your Committee, therefore, recommends that the Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer be authorized and directed to transfer from the
Masonic War Fund to the Masonic Homes of California the sum of
$55,000, and that the balance remaining in the Masonic War Fund continue to be administered according to the rules and regulations relative
thereto adopted in 1918.

520

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

War Fund Receipts from October 4, 1918:
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Lodge
No.
Amt.
Pomona ...................... ..246......$203.50 Palos V erdes ................ 389 ........ 150.SO
Reading ....................... .254 ........ 86.SO Salinas ......................... 204........ 25.00
Burlingame ................ ..400........ 3.00 Galt ............................... 267........ ' 5.00
Pentalpha ................. ..202........ 64.00 Granite .........................222........ moo
Bear Mountain ............ 76........ 30.00 Corona .......................... 324........ 25.00
Martinez ...................... 41... ..... 25.50 Yerba Buena ................ 403 ........ 2LOO
E'.sinore ....................... 289 ........ 32.75 Mizpah ..........................378........ 9.50
Lompoc ....................... 262........ 23.00 Amity ........................... 270........ 90.00
Apollo .......................... 396 ........ 32.00 Puente ........................ ..446........ 50.00
Mok. Hill ......................298........ 5.00 Los Gatos ......................292...,.... 7.50
East Gate ..................... 290........ 90.00 Pasadena ......................272........ 90.00
University ....................394 ........ 54.50 San Joaquin .................. 19........ LOil
Occidental .................... 22........ 1.00 San Pedro .................... 332........ 14.00
Mok. Hill... ...................298........ 1.00 Balder ..........................393 ........ 32.00
Porterville .................. 303 ........ 33.50 San Dimas ................... .428........ 27.00
Bear Mountain ............ 76........ 12.00 Santa Barbara .............. 192........ 725
San Pedro ....................332........ 5.00 'Corinthian ........ ........... 9........ 6.00
I.,ancaster ................... .437........ 5.00 Oakland ....................... .188........ 79.50
Fort Bragg.................... 361........ 12.50 Morning Star .............. 68....... .147.50
Mendocino ................. .179........ 37.50 Fullerton ...................... 339........ 24.50
Park ............................. .449........ 6.00 Galt ............................... .267........ .2.00
Oakland ....................... .188 ........ 15.00 Los Angeles .................. 42 ........ 69.SO
Eagle Rock. ................... 422........ 6.00 Bay View .................... ..401... ..... 12.00
Elysian ..........................418........ 4.00 Golden State ................ 368........ 81.00
Monterey ..................... .217........ 51.00 West Lake .................... 392 ........ 100.00.
Bear Mountain ............ 76........ 5.00 Highland Park
12.UO
Crescent ...................... 45 ........ 19.00 Pasadena ..................... 272 ........ 50.00
Rockridge .................... 468........ 15.00 Golden Gate .................. 30........ 8.00
Standard ..................... .440....... 48.00 Buckeye ....................... .195........ 5.25
Santa Barbara ............. .192 ........ 23.75 St. John's ...................... 37 ........ 11.00
Burbank ....................... .406........ SO.GO Mountain View ........... .194........ 4.00
Liberty ......................... .299........ 48.00 East Gate ......................290........ 23.50
Marin ............................ 191........ 18.50 Confidence ................. .203........ 6.50
Benicia .......................... 5........ 15.50 Yount ............................ 12........ 5.00
Oakland ....................... .188........ 6.00 Santa Monica ..............307 ........ 25.25
Curtis ........................... .140........ l.00 Roseville ......................432........ 30.00
Golden Gate .................. 30........ 5.00 Magnolia ..................... .242........ 10.00
Curtis ........................... .140........ LOO Welcome ......................255........ 7.50
Claremont ................... .436........ 11.00 Francis Drake .............. 376........ 3.00
Chico ........................... .11 !........ 8.00 Friendship .................. 210........ 6.00
Brawley ...................... ..402........ 4.00 I.,os Gatos ......................292........ 5.00
San Diego...................... 35 ........ 23.50 Madera ..........................280........ 79.50
Dunsmuir ...................297 ........ 15.00 Park ............................. .449........ 7.00

GRAND LODGJ:; OF OALIFORNIA

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Arlington ..................... .414 ........ 15.00
Oxnard , ........................341... ..... 13.50
West Lake ....................392 ........ 17.75
Porterville ................403........ 8.50
Antioch ........................ 175........ 6.00
Bay View ......................401........ 8.00
Ferndale ..................... .193........ LOO
Lompoc ....................... .262........ 3.00

521

Lodge
No.
Amt.
Tehachapi .................... 313........ 2.00
Sacramento .................. 40........ 85.50
Occidental .................... 22 ........ 55.00
Alameda ......................167........ 3.00
Santa Cruz .................... 38........ 44.50
Tehachapi .................... 313........ 1.50
Consuelo ...................... 325 ........ 37.00
Ramona ...................... ..457........ 7.50

.~:~~~~~t!~r~:~~~ ..N~:-·243::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::$ 2,85~:;~
Occidental Lodge Xo. 22........................................................................
1.00
-Brother A. H. S. ......................................................................................
30.00
Overseas relief (money drawn and returned not used)................ 1,000.00
190.25
Sale of furnishings, San Francisco headquarters ....:.......................
Total receipts October 4, 1918, to September 9, 1919.............. $ 4,077.25
October 4, 1918-Balance in Fm;d .................................. $60,188.29
September 9, 1919-Receipts to date.............................. 4,077.25 $64,265.54
Dishursements October 4, 1918, to September 9, 1919...................... 5,160.16
September 9, 1919, balance in fund ........ ,.............................................$59,105.38
Disbursements
October 4, 1918-As per detail, page 58, Proceedings 1918............$ 7,462.00
Voucher
No.
47. Mas'onic Club of San Francisco ....................................................$
48. E. & M. Tcahon, mimeograph work. .......................................... .
49. San Diego Service Association ................................................... .
50. Masonic Club of San Francisco ................................................ ..
51. San Diego Service Association ................................................. ..
52. Masonic Club of San Francisco ................................................ ..
53. San Diego Service Association ........ :......................................... ..
54. San Diego Service Association................................................... .
55. Masonic Club of San Francisco .................................................. ..
56. Wilson Bros., shipping furniture to Manteca ......................... .
57. Adolph Meese, 500 circulars...................................................... ..
58. Brother A. IL S. (returned) ...................................................... ..
59. San Diego Service Association ................................................... .
60. San Diego Service Association .................................................. ..

50.00
7.35
317.87
50.00
395.57
50.00
616.50
476.91
50.00
6.50
10.00
30.00
71.12
150.00

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Voucher
No.
50.00
61. Masonic Club of San Francisco ................................................... .
8.85
62. Wilson Bros., shipping to Corning..............................................
10.00
63. Brother R. E. W ............................................................................ .
. 52.25
64. Temple Club, Vallejo, letter paper ............................................. .
50.00
65. Masonic Club, San Francisco ............................... :................... .
150.00
66. San Diego Service Association ................................................... .
9.25
67. Cable to Scudder, Paris ............................................................... .
150.00
68. San Diego Service Association ................................................... .
50.00
69. Masonic Club, San Francisco ....................................................... .
70. Overseas relief (returned) ........................................................... . 1,000.00
747.41
71. Sacramento Service Association ................................................. .
50.00
72. Masonic Club, San Francisco ....................................................... .
150.00
73. San Diego Service Association ................................................... .
380.58
74. Relief to stranded soldiers ........................................................... .
20.00
75. Overpayment to Treasurer ........................................................... .

had the hearty support and approval of our Most Worshipful
Grand Master.

522

Disbursements for the year .............. ~ ..........................................$ 5,160.16
Gross total disbursements from Fund ................................$12,622.16
W. R. HERVEY,
JOHN WHICHER,
THOMAS J. BAKER,

Committee.

The report was adopted and the recommendation concurred in.

REPORT OF ENDOWMENT COMMITTEE,
MASONIC HOMES
Los Angeles, California, October 1, 1919.
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

We, the members of your Endowment Committee of the Masonic Homes of California, appointed by the Grand Master at the
close of the last Grand Lodge, beg to report that our activities
during the past year have resulted in a very material increase in
our Endowment Fund.
Early in January of this year, the entire Committee was c.alled
together for consultation at the Grand Secretary's office; the general plan of campaign outlined and unanimously approved. It also

523

It is needless to recapitulate the plans adopted for the Victory
Drive held from April 21st to May 10th, of which the members of
the Grand Lodge are undoubtedly familiar. The State was divided
into regional districts-the members of the Endowment Committee
taking charge of the districts in which they resided.
There have been some criticisms, and, in some cases, lack of
enthusiasm. In most instances we have had the most whole-hearted
cooperation and wonderful organization. Generally speaking, however, it is a source of great pleasure for us to extend our deep and
heartfelt appreciation for the cooperation received from the officers
and brethren of subordinate lodges in this Grand Jurisdiction.
In the last report of the Endowment Committee, the status or
the Endowment Fund was given as follows:
August 1, 1918Cash on hand ....................................................$ 2,468.54
Securities, etc ................................................... 145,912.50
Total ..........................................................$148,381.05
Our Grand Treasurer, E'rother .Filmer, under date of September 20, 1919, advised that the status of the Endowment Fund on
that date was as follows:
Cash in bank ....................................................$ 35,387.83
Securities .......................................................... 219,003.86
Total ................................................... :.............. $254,391.69

It will be readily noted that we have made an excellent showing as a result of the Drive, and our brethren are obtaining a more
thorough knowledge of the needs of an ample Endowment Fund
for the care of our Masonic charities. The great difficulty confronting this Committee seems to be that the brethren generally
have no intimate knowledge of the magnificent homes for the
elderly at Decato and the Orphans' Home at Covina; and it has
been suggested that a motion picture film be produced so that the
brethren in all the lodges may have an opportunity of seeing f<;>r
themselves, if unable to make a personal inspection, just exactly
what Masonry in California really is accomplishing.
It has been suggested, and the Endowment Committee earnestly recommends the approval of the recommendation, that a proper

524

525

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

scenario be prepared and that a moving picture film be produced1000 feet for the Decoto Home, and
1000 feet for the Covina Home,
which would tell a most interesting story on the screen, lasting for
approximately one-half hour. The Committee has an understanaing with one of the largest picture producing companies that the
work will be done at cost. The directors and camera men will be
Masons, who will naturally take a personal interest in the work.
The Committee on Investigation has ascertained that the income from the per capita tax-$1.00 per member per annum-has ·
not, during the past year, on account of the abnormal prices prevailing for every commodity entering into the conduct of the
Homes, been sufficient to provide for all of the necessary expenses
in connection with same. This clearly indicates the necessity for
active work in materially increasing the Endowment Fund so that
the income thereof can be turned over annually to Trustees of the
Masonic Homes, thereby preventing, if possible, an increase in the
per capita tax on the subordinate lodges.
It is the opinion of j:his Committee that the Endowment Fund
for the Masonic Homes of California cannot be construed as a
Grand Lodge Fund, as referred to in the Constitution of the Grand
Lodge. It is our understanding that the donors to the Endowment
Fund contribute for a specific purpose and that it is in the nature of
a trust. Hence, we recommend appropriate action on the part·
of the· Grand Lodge as to the investment of the funds of the
Endowment Fund and also the safeguarding of the securities, so
that the Constitution of the Grand Lodge shall be clearly defined in
this particular.
We beg to submit herewith in detail as near a complete report
of the result of the Drive up to September 15, 1919, as possible.
We do not in any way guarantee this report to be correct, but
the figures submitted are the latest available and have been procured either from the Master or Secretary of the lodges. In some
instances it has been necessary to write four or five letters before
replies were received, and it will be noted in some cases, that no
reports of any kind have reached the Committee, all of which is
fraternally submitted.

Cl)

r.r..1

YT

:s
0
:r:

0

:o

~~

i~

cn"'T

: 0

:o
: \Ci

: 0

:N
'N

'~

Q).....!

p:;

u
.......

z

0Cl)

<

!8

: ci

:21

l V)

"'"' 0
~~

t..... V1 00 NV)

NO\t-...NNN
N.....i.....iN

<-

~-"'\O

E»

'

""'

~~

0

-~

0

os

0

0

~
g ~
~
~ l
·ut:::..-cv::lt::crJcrJO-;....t::
a t=0 ·u~ ~ =i:: ~ a ·u~
.... crJ
;:cu
E '""' crJ a .~ ~ i;; 6 ~ S E ~ .~ £ a :E e > 6 ~ ·:; ~ ~
.5 µ.. tl ~ .:: o » ._, e11 ;;! o ::i µ.. E ~ e11 o µ.. 'fl o. i:_D t > µ..
0

1

Q)

=

Q)

CL)

=
crJ u = = ~ = ~ > = .,£::J
p. u '""' =
r.n 'i: 0 u crJ
ell ~ ell v 0 ell ell ell v 0 ;:l = 0 0 u 0 = ~ ell v ell v =
~~~~~~~z~~~~Q~~~~0~0~~~

~JJl J!i l,!!~JJijllJll~

=~ =
.~ v
. . . : ~ .5 er bn = . . . =
0
i 0
a ·- a::i ~.....= o .....= ~ -0.v ~ p..... = o ·-~= ·-.~ ~v= .~o 0.o b/Jv ~ .....» =
v
:.: : >~ ~v =
o ·;:: = ::i > a ~
::i = ~ ~ ·;:; ~ ·;:: c; a ·a ~
v
0
0 v v
0
>
u
v -;;; ·- 0

~ ·a

0

.. ..

o v
.... ..... .....
ell

ell

e11

'fl

>-,

ell .:: -

;:l

ell

e11

ell

ell

ell

;:l

ell

e11
.....

e11

>-,

'fl

ell

.....

•

ell
ell

ell

ell

U?~~~u~~z~~~~~?~0~~0P--<~0

LODGE

Location
May 1, 1919

31

so

so

68 Morning Star .................... Stockton ··-···--·--·······-·------· 332
70 Enterprise ........................ Yuba City ···-······-·------·--··· 153
76 Bear Mountain .................. Angels Camp······--·-·-··-·--83
78 Calaveras .......................... San Andreas ···-··---·---···---- ......
79 Humboldt ---·-·······-·--·········-Eureka ·---·········--··------------· 351
80
Ione ··········-···········-··-···-Ione ····-·····-······---·-·-·---------81
Yolo ··-····-···-·········--·········-Yolo ----·--···--------------·--···-···- 81
83 Rising Star ·------···-··--··-·Forest Hill .... ,........................
84 Vesper ····-······················-l{ed &luff ···----------··--·-·----- ......
87 Na val ·---···-·-·········---·······--Vallejo ............................... ......
89 Rose's Bar ....................._Smartsville ···-·-····-··-··--·---91 North Star ..................._Fort Jones ·-------·--·--····-·--· ......
93 St. Helena ........................ St. Helena ····--··--··------·--···
85
95 Henry Clay ..........•..•....._Sutter Creek ----------····-----57
96 Howard ---····--····--·-·-·······--Yreka ................................ 94
97 Jefferson --------··-·-·····--·-··-·-La Porte --·--···-··-------------·-- ......
98 Hornitos ······-····-·········-Hornitos --···-···-···-··--··-·-···- 34
99 Yosemite ···-·--··-··········-Merced ····------·-···---·--········' 128
101
Clay ························-··--·-'Jutch Flat ····-·-·--·------------- 58
103 Oroville ............................_Oroville ····--······--··--------···· 211
104 Lexington ·············-···--"f:i'.l Mont'e ----·--·-----------------· 93
106 Arcata ·--···----------·-······-·-···-Arcata ···-···-········-···---···----· 130
110 Pajaro ·----···-····-···········---····Watsonville ..................... 130
l ll Chico .................................. Chico ····-··························· 220
ll2 Summit ·------··········-----····-··Knights Ferry·········----····

32 Gold Hill .......................... Lincoln ----··---·-------···-··-·--·· 60
33 Ophir .................................. Murphys
35 San Diego ......................._San Diego ....------·-···---------- 469
37. St. Joh n's ·-·--·-----···--····-··'··y reka ------------·-·---------·-·-----· 118
38 Santa Cruz ····----------····-··-··Santa Cruz ....................... ---·-·
40 Sacramento ·-----····-···········Sacramento ·----------·····-···- 270
41 Martinez -------·····--·-··········-Martinez ·---------····-----···-·--- 102
42 Los Angeles ................••.-Los Angeles -···············-·--· 557
43 Hiram ·--------·--··-····--·-·········El Dorado -------·--····---····-· --·--44 Mount Moriah --------··-----·San Francisco--·---··-··---·-· 385
45 Crescent ··········-···-····-···--Crescent City ·-·-···----·-··.. 45
46 Texas ·-·--·--------·-·····-·-··-·--·-··San Juan --·---------------········· ......
50 Forbestown -------------·······-For bes town ·-------------··--·· 29
51 lllinoistown ...................... Colfax ····--···--·--··--···----------- ......
55 Suisun ..............................-Suisun ····--····-···-·····-·-···--··- 95
56. Volcano ···-·····-·····-··-··········Volcano ·--··-··---··--··--···------· 26
57 Santa Rosa ········-···········--Santa Rosa---·······------------· ......
58 Union --·····--··-·---···-··-·-·······-·Sacramento ·------------·-······· 299
59 Gravel Range ...............•._Camptonville ·--------·-····--·-- 29
60 Plumas ..................•.........-Quincy ···········--··--····-··--·-··· ......
61 Live Oak ·-------··········-··-······Oakland -··-------·········--···---- ·---··
62 George Washington ........ Chinese Camp -···-···-·-----· 30
64 Natoma .............................. Folsom City ...... :............. 93
65 Amador ..............................Jackson ·········---·--·-····----···· 74
66 Forest ····-···········-···-····-Allegheny ···-·-··----·-····-·--·- 50

No.

.
-----····•••M•MHW•

..............

..............

50.00

30.00
72.50

78.50
28.00
218.50
100.00
40.00
120.00
192.50
309.00
6.00

··-~------

......... _____

·-·-·-----

··-----·--

----------

----------

50.00

--------

.................

--··---- .

...,. ..........

·---------

---·-···-.......
______

·-------~·

300.00
75.00
25.00

---------.

..............
. ...... _____ ,.

·-----.......

...................

--------· .

---------·

450.00
..............

. . . . . . WH••

....... _____

------------------··········

----------

---------~

----------

··----··-· ---------·

----------

--------~-

------. ·--

....... -.......

...........___

-H-•-••••

50.00

·---------

--···----~

........,. ____

,.~

···------- --·------.
....... ...--

150.00

.. H•••••••

---------135.50
439.50
10.00

··--···--- ---·-----............... -------····-------- ---------·

-----·--··

............ ____

131.LO

38.50
115.00

···-------

--------H

-------~--

-------·-·

23.5Q
3.00

.................
_______ ....

a•H---·-"'

....................
~

·---------

235.00
.................
.. ...............
510.00

····-·-"•"'

---"·----. _________

----------

100.00

..................
35.00

-------·-·

.................

~.

263.00

100.00
................
69.13

599.36

150.00
4,004.14

..................
................

----•-H• ..

~-----

_ _ _ ,,.

--------·· _H............
_______

........ ------

...... H

-----------·----------------

-----··--............,
. ...........

..............

50.00

---------- ---------..

-----·----

80.00
85.00
.................
...............

••HM•••••

•M•M•H•""

·--------·

--·-·----------·------------

16.00

.............

. . . . . . w. ........

----·-----

Pledges

•MHMMM"••

344.90
47.50

. .....

...

.................
----·-•Ha

______ d

5tamps

............ ___

200.00
50.00

MMHMo••-a

Int. Coupons

.......------

373.50
96.50
72.00
153.50
191.00
625.00
19.00
363.50
147.00
...............
30.00
....................
4.00
30.00

158.00

Ca sit

..

n

0

21

=

""
>'l

0

Ul

0

z

ti
....

l."l
l:J

'd
:i:l
0

~

<.n

78.50
28.00
218.50
100.00
390.00
195.00
217.50
309.00
6.00

·-·------..

80.00
72.50
500.00

P•HWW ___,.

589.50
10.00

ti

<.n
N
......

~

z

"'.l
0
p,

>
,...t'

(')

"'.!

t:J
0

0

lj

t'
0

z

---------- ·>~
135.50

............
38.50
115.00

131.10

263.00

100.00
123.50
72.13

579.90
47.50
150.00
5,148.50

--------u

4.00
30.00

----~-~~

373.50
296.50
122.00
169.50.
191.00
625.00
19.00
443.50
282.00
............
30.00

158.00

Totals

LODGE

Location

Membership
May 1, 1919

Molino ................................ Tehama ............................. 69
Woodland .......................Woodland ..............,.......... 172
Keystone .......................... Milton ............................... 32
Harmony ......................... Sierra City ....................... 12
Excelsior .......................... San Francisco ................. 475
Alameda ............................ Centerville ....................... 111
Redwood City .................. Redwood City ................. 165
Mission .............................. San Francisco ................. 899
Elk Grove .......................... Elk Grove ........................ 70
Drytown ........... :................ Plymouth ............, ..................
Antioch .............................. Antioch ............................. 115
Phoenix .............................. San Bernardino ............. 305
Mendocino ........................Mendocino ....................... 140
Petaluma ...................... ,..... Petaluma .......................... 231
Russian River ..................Windsor ........................... 92
Meridian ............................ Arbuckle .......................... 51
Clear Lake ........................ Lower Lake ..................... 30
Sierra Valley .................... Sierraville ..............................
Claiborne -......................... Point Arena .................... 50
Evening Star .................... Etna ................................... 35
Keith
---------··--····-······-------- 94
188 Oakland ........ _............. _....... Oakland ............................ 677
190 Northern Light ................ Millen·ille
lYl Marin .................................. San Rafael ....................... 261
192 Santa Barbara ................ Santa Barbara ................. 175

150
156
161
164
166
167
168
169
173
174
175
178
179
180
181
182
183
184
185
186
187

113 Eden .................................. San Leandro ..................., 139
117 Concord ............................ Sacramento ...................... 131
119 Clinton .............................. Igo ....................................... 48
120 Fidelity .............................. San Francisco ................. 580
122 A!a1no ................................ Walnut Creek ··········'··--·· 80
123 Sotoyome .......................... Healdsb~rg ...................... 200
124 Table Mountain ..............Cherokee ........................... 54
126 La Fayette ........................ Sebastopol ....................... 131
127 Herman .............................. San Francisco ................. 202
128 Visalia ................................ Visalia ............................... 159
129 Nicolaus ............................ Wheatland ....................... 77
131 Woodbridge ......................Woodbridge ..................... 93
132 Sincerity ............................ Greenville ......................... 85
134 Vacaville ............................ Vacaville ........................... 120
135 Valley Lodge .................... IJnden ............................... 48
136 Pacific ................................ San Francisco ................. 700
139 Crockett ............................ San Francisco ................. 510
140 Curtis .................................. Cloverdale ........................ 48
141 Grafton .............................. Grafton ,............................ 34
143 Franklin ............................ Courtland ......................... 73
144 Oriental .........................._San Francisco ................. 376
145 Vitruvius ............................ Bloomfield ....................... 65
146 Abell .................................. Ukiah ................................. 142
147 Eel River .......................... Fortuna ...................................
-----·
149 Lassen ................................ Susanville

No.

••••••H•"'

---·-----------·--·

··-------·
MHw••••••

..............
101.80

50.00

----------

412.00
168.00
67.50
1,368.50
704.00
35.00
92.50
317.50
1,437.00
115.50
255.00
----·••h"

···------·
•WwoWHO••

·----------····-·-..............
110.00

..............

----------

·------···
···-------

··-···---••W•••••••

--·----·--

619.06
72.50

---·-----·----·--·~

...........

50.00
3,200.00

•••M•WHW•

--·------·
---·-----57.00
27.50
223.00
4.77

----.------

···------·
-----H•••

---·-·-------··--·-

---·····-51.00

5.00

--·--·----

-----·--··
-------·-·

·-------··

--··-·-----------·-

45.00

•<••••••H

...........

H•e••••M•

----·--··--··------

...........
............

----------

·------··- ---·-----37.50
322.50
114.00
314.00
86.00
50.00

------····

····-····-

-----·---H•WWMwoow

···--·----

...........
--·-······

--·-------

·----·----

--·--·-~--

90.00

··--------

---------·
-·--·--·-·

-·-····--·

----·----··---·--·-

---------·

--------·-

...........

............

·-·--···--

----------

----·--·-·------~--

------·--·

............
...........
100.00
······---150.00
150.00
300.00
..... ---·--

----------

5.00

--·-·-------·--····
20.00

..............

··--·--···

............

•••&•OH•O

---··--·-·

149.50

----------

25.00

---·-----·---------

..............

-------------------

----------

5.00

··-·----------·---······----

-------·-·

Www••Hw••

-------···

...........

-----••*-••

52.00
146.50
10.00
60.00
1,427.50
400.00
24.00
429.50

150.00

----···"-:..

...........

---------·

--······-·
100.00

----------

------------------- ----------

51.00
----·•d·•

5.00

-··------------·---

50.00

---··-----

W••••*H*"'

----------

56.00
1.00
50.00
...........

---·-·-··-------·-- ---···--···--·-----

--------··

---··--·--

100.00

Pledges

Stamps

Bonds and
Int. Coupons

134.75
221.50
37.00
2,293.50
23.00
451.50
10.00
103.50
450.50
257.50
34.50

Cash

..

'1l

619.06
123.50

....z
>

------··-·
57.00
!7.50
273.00
3,31Y.77

1'-'

'°

Vt

;;;:

"'l
0

....

>
t<

l'.l

l'J
0
"'l

l::J
0

t:"
0

l::J

z>

0

;;;:

l'J

lJ:1

8

1-:j

0

ro

0

....l::J
z

['j

l'J

l'.l

0

;;;:

~

N

Vt

-·---··---

-·------··
37.50
367.50
114.00
314.00
86.00
50.00

•••••••HW

52.00
146.50
110.00
60.00
1,577.50
550.00
324.00
429.50

240.00

412.00
168.00
92.50
1,470.30
858.50
35.00
92.50
322.50
1,457.00
115.50
305.00

.......... u

234.75
277.50
38.00
2,398.50
23.00
502.50
10.00
103.50
450.50
357.50
.34.50

Totals

231
232
233
234
235
236
237
240
241
242
243
244
245
246
247
248

230

220
221
222
224
225
226
228
229

207
W8
209
210
211
212
214
215
216
217
218
219

206

193
194
195
196
198
199
200
201
202
203
204
205

No.

Downey ...........................-.Downey ........................... 89
Inyo ..........................._ ......Independent
Granite .............................. Rocklin
Bakersfield ................"....... Bakersfield ....................... 338
Brooklyn ............................ Oakland ........................... 461
San Mateo ........................ San Mateo ....................... 153
Athens ................................ Davis .......................................
Solano ................................Vallejo ....................................
North Butte ...................... Gridley ...................................
7
Covelo Lodge .................. Covelo ...............................
Janesville ....................._Lassen .............................. so
Calistoga ............................ Calistoga .......................... 72
Hope .................................. Beckwith .........................Surprise Valley .............. Cedarville ........................ 51
Hills Ferry ...............,...... Newman ........................... 78
Guadalupe .......................... Guadalupe ...:................... 62
Colusa ................................Colusa ............................... 98
Santa Ana .......................... Santa Ana -----------------------· 364
Magnolia .......................... Santa Barbara ..............:.. 115
Eucalyptus ........................ Hayward
Alcatraz ............................ Oakland ........................... 449
Laurel ...........................- ..Willows ............................. 112
Pomona ............................ Pomona ............................. 299
Fresno ................................ Fresno ............................... 376
Alturas ............................-Alturas ....................................

May l, 1919
Location
LODGE
Ferndale ····----····------··-·---···Ferndale ........................... 92
Mountain View ............... Mountain View ............... 125
Buckeye ............................Winters ............................. 79
San Simeon ...................... Cambria ..................................
Wilmington ......................Wilmington
Hartley ..............................Lakeport
Truckee ..............................Truckee ............................. 101
Silverville ..........................Dixon ....,............................ 80
Pentalpha .......................... Los Angeles .................... 525
Confidence ........................ Castroville ....................... 25
Salinas ................................Salinas ............................... 159
Olivet Lodge ....................Corning ............................. 98
Stanislaus ..........................Modesto ............................ 168
Anaheim ............................Anaheim ........................... 150
Rio Vista .......................... Rio Vista .......................... 61
King David's ....................San Luis Obispo ............. 206
Friendship ........................ San Jose ........................... 277
San Benito ........................ Hollister --------------------------· 96
So. San Francisco ............San Francisco ·---------------- 211
San Buenaventura ............Ventura ...................................
Oak Grove ........................Alameda ............................ 483
Doric .................................. San Francisco ................. 512
Monterey .......................... Monterey .......................... 109
Mosaic ................................ Livermore ........................ 95
Speranza Italiana ............ S<:.n Francisco ................. 232
•••••H•••

---------- --------------··--·
----------

_________ ,.

---------·

....,.,... _____

...................

................

-------···
159.00

----------

489.50
30.00
460.00
212.00
...................

25.00
45.00
55.50
62.00
102.00
258.00
30.00
62.00
478.00
100.00

---------.............

··-·------

··-·---·-·
..............

---------·

--------·
.............

---·······
-•••••••w•

-·---··-·- ---------...............

................

........ .., ___

.

---·---·-·
---------·

50.00
----------

~---

---------•••••H•--

........

69.00

--------··
-·------·.

...............

-------·-·

---------·

83.00
100.00

••••H•WM•

••••H••-·

··--------

---------·
2.50

---------·

-·-·----·----------

••w•••••-•

H•W••••••

50.00

-----·--··-------·--·------·
----------

"------·-193.00
--. -- ........

... _,,,______

90.00
10.00

-------- ...
---------l,250.00
860.50
123.00
261.50

,. _________

·------·-·

.......... _.
-~

·----. ·--·

............
··-··-- . ··

......... . -"'

30.00
····------

----·----100.00
364.50

••••••H"•

...............

26.00

----------

----------

•H•••••••

··--------

--------··

....,. .........

·--------.

250.00

-------·-- -------·----------· 5.00
-·-----···

---~------

50.00

•H•••H--

100.00

-·-···----

---------.

--------------··-- .
------------------50.00

•H•••••••

-----·---------------------. _.. _______

302.00

----------

----------

···-------

150.00

.. WH••HoO

------------------ .
----------

---··-----

--------·-

---·-·-·-·

-·-------·

64.00
···----···
100.00
~--·~H•••

----·····36.00

----··-·-..

..---------

Pledges

:Stamps

Int. Coupons

169.00
100.00
1,083.50
50.00
248.25
30.00
·--------292.50
142.50
483.50
157.50
325.50
193.50
416.50
1,052.00
635.50
168.50
118.00
571.00

19.50
250.00
197.00
.............

Cash

489.50
30.00
529.00
212.00
.............

25.00
45.00
55.50
62.00
102.00
310.50
30.00
62.00
611.00
200.00

----------

352.00

••••H••••

2.200.50
133.00
261.50

26.00

169.00
100.00
1,535.50
50.00
248.25
30.00
..................
342.50
142.SO
633.50
157.50
325:50
198.50
416.50
1,402.00
1,000.00
168.50
148.00
571.00

19.50
350.00
197.00
100.00

Totals

~

ti

"'
~

>

z

~

"l
0

>
....t"

(")

"1

0

tr;1

0

t"
0

ti

>
z

0
:::i

tr;1

::i:

..,"l

0

UJ

0

E
z

tr;1
tr;1

Q

0

"'

0

'-"
w

LODGE

Location

May l, 1919

301
302
303
304
305
305

300

Mount Shasta .................. An<lerson .......................... ......
Callayomi .......................... Middletown ..................... ......
South West ...................... ?\' ational City ................... 141
San Miguel ........................ San Miguel
75
Paso Robles ...................... Paso Robles .................... 64
\Vinnedumah ...................... Bishop ............................... 140
1faxwell ............................ Maxwell ..................................
Elsinore ............................Elsinore ............................ 68
East Gate .......................... Los Angeles
763
Santa Paula ...................... Santa Paula ..................... ......
Los Gatos ........................ _Los Gatos ........................ 135
Orange Grove .................. Orange .............................. 139
Traver .............................. Kingsburg ........................
Mount Jackson ................ GuerneYille .................... .- 103
Silver Gate ........................ San Diego .......................• 497
Dunsrr1uir ..........................Dunsmuir .......................... 112
Mokelumne Hill .............. Mokelumne Hill ............. ......
Liberty .............................. Santa Clara
86
Redlands ............................ Redlands ........................... ......
Ontario ..............................Ontario ......... ................... 145
Santa Lucia ...................... King City ......................... 62
Porterville ........................ Porterville ......................• 303
Reedley ............................_Ree<lley ............................. ......
Azusa .................................. Azusa .......................................
A.shlar ................................ Colton ............................... 137

Ad in .................................. Adin
Landmark ........................ Esparto ............................ 58
Reading ............................ ,.Redding ........................... 143
90
Welcome ............................ Lemoore
Lodi .................................... Lodi .................................. 208
Penryhn ............................ Penryn ...............:................ 90
Evergreen ........................ Riverside ......................... 324
King Solomon's ···········-·San Francisco ................. 625
Tuscan .............................. Williams .......................... 51
Lompoc .............................. Lompoc ............................ 118
Hesperian ..........................Santa Maria ..................... 229
Orland ................................ Orland ............................... 87
North EasL. ..................... Fort Bidwell ..................• 47
Galt .................................... Galt ...................................: 52
Durant .............................. Berkeley ........................... 459
Olive Branch ....................Tulare ............................... 165
Snow Mountain ................ Stony Ford ...................... 38
Pasadena .......................... Pasadena .......................... 443
Anchor .............................. Compton .......................... 70
Arroyo ................................ Arroyo Grande ..............• 54
Oakdale ...........:.................. Oakdale ............................. 81
Selma .................................. Selma ................................. 163
So. California .................. Los Angeles ................... 671
Hanford ............................ Hanford
Madera ........... :.................. Madera .............................. 115

281
282
283
285
286
21!7
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299

250
253
254
255
256
258
259
260
261
262
264
265
266
267
268
269
271
272
273
274
275
277
278
279
280

No.

303.00

----·-····

68.0CJ
1,073.50
521.00
3Sl.OO
139.50
--···--··215.50
190.50
119.00
2.00
274.50
90.00
124.00
30.00
231.00
69.00

------·-··

60.00
10.00
34.00
75.00
122.50
95.00

120.00

---··--·-----·-·····-------········--

35.00

-------···
H---··•••

·--·-·•-H

····-····-

100.00

••••#W••H

............

----------

---··--·-·
303.00

280.50
222.50
219.00
2.00
374.50
90.00
125.00
100.00
231.00
69.00
W•w••W•#H

·---··--··

···-----·-

········-1.00
70.00

#WWWWWM•H

-·-••HOW•

65.00
32.00

________ .._

68.00
1,355.50
521.00
39.00
174.50

-·-------·

60.00
10.00
34.00
75.00
122.50
180.00

120.00

110.00
72.00
560.00
315.00
239.00
555.50
1,000.74
88.50
187.50
558.50
146.00
100.00
125.50
1,704.58
582.65
62.50
722.29
123.50
170.00
132.50
326.00
1,161.00

Totals

··-···----

·-········

·-···--··-

------·-··

·---------

--~---·---

••H#HOw•

···-··----

·----·····
••••H•••w

------·-··
••••H•••-

100.00

--------··

----·-··-·

----------

·-------~-

·--------••••H••••

···-----··

---·--·---

10.00

...........

22.00

-····-·-~-

250.00

...............

85.00

----------

-------------------

.............

·······-·-

WWU•HWW•

40.00

-----··---

··-----·-------···-

•"WWWHMww

--·-······

-------···

WW•W•H••w

............

----------

----------

~>wHW••MW

..............

250.00

----------

---------- ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ····------------··· --------··

............
25.00

1,250.00

••••WW•WH

352.00
65.00
20.00

20.00

w.--------

----------

5.00

____ ,. __ . __

128.00
155.00

----··---·
----------

150.00

_____ ,, ____

5.00

Pledges

18.00
362.50

W•HOWWWW•

----------------------------

8.24

---------·

---------..
----------

OH••••"•"

Stamps

WHWWW""'"W

50.00
100.00
100.00

----------

----------

W•HW•••W•

------·---

·---HHWW

400.00

-------------------

Int. Coupons

107.50
72.08
582.65
62.50
370.29
58.50
150.00
132.50
301.00
871.00

----------

105.00
72.00
10.00
315.00
239.00
427.50
837.50
88.50
187.50
508.50
41.00

• Cash

lxJ

iJ::

>"'!

l:zj

0

[fl

0

l:zj

tM

w
"'

;..

!1

~

0

"l

s:

>

n

0

l;:j

ti
0

0

t"'

zti

>

0

:i:i

z

tt.1
tt.1
ti

n

0

It!

'd

N>

tM

<n

Alta .................................... Bridgeport .......................
Covina ................................ Covina ............................... 166
West Gate -·············--------Los Angeles ..................... ......
Fruitvale ----······---------------Oakland ............................ 413
Carquinez .......................... Crockett ........................... 101
San Jacinto .....................• San Jacinto ...................... 201
Fullerton ............••.. _ _Fullerton ........................... ......
Oxnard .............................. Oxnard .............................• ......
San Fernando ..................San Fernando ................. 106
Starr King ············-·······---San Francisco ................. 328
Brentwood ···················---Brentwood ....................... 101
Palo Alto .........................• Palo Alto ......................... 255
McKinley ........................_Richmond ......................... 210
San Bernardino ------San Bernardino .............. ......
Sequoia .............................. Oakland ...........................• 658
Palestine ............................ Los Angeles .................... ......
Sunset ··············-·····---- T~os Angeles ..................... 470
Pinole ................................ Pinole ................................ 100
Presidio ............................ San Francisco ·············---- 344
Hollywood ----------------Tfollywood ........................ 364
Mill Valley .....................• Mill Valley ······--·············- 229
E'uena Park ......................Buena Park ······----··········· 88
Golden State ....................Los Angeles -···············---- 587
Loyalton ............................ Loyalton ·-·····-----··············· ......
San Franctsco .................. San Francisco .................. 297

:Nlay 1, 1919

:.\Ieml:::ership

333
334
335
336
337
338
339
341
343
344
345
346
347
348
349
351
352
353
354
355
356
357
358
359
360

Location

Santa Monica --------------····Santa Monica .................. 173
Monrovia .......................... Monrovia ......................... ......
Delano ................................ Delano ............................... 120
Sisson ................................ Sisson
los Banos ......................... Los Banos ....................... 134
Tehachapi ..........................Tehachapi ......................... 134
Temescal .......................... Corona .............................. 106
Norwalk ............................ Norwalk ........................... 72
Sanger ................................ Sanger ............................... 89
Fallbrook ..........................Fallbrook ......................... ......
Emmanuel ........................ Biggs ................................. ......
Hollenbeck ...................__ Los Angeles .................... 1000
South Gate ........................ Los Angeles ..................... 726
Alisa! ·················-···············Pleasanton ....................... 76
Alhambra .......................-Al ham bra ......................... ......
Whittier ............................Whittier ........................... 207
Corona .............................. Pasadena .......................... 383
Consuelo ·····-~------·········--··Escondido ........................ 86
Needles .............................• Needles ............................. 152
Long Beach ...................... Long Beach ....................• 420
Redondo ··············------Redondo Beach ............... 165
Vallee De France ............ Los Angeles .................... 101
Kilauea .............................. Hilo, Hawaii ................... 167
Pacific Grove .................. Pacific Grove ................~. 64
San Pedro ........................ San Pedro ........................ 240

LODGE

307
308
309
310
312
313
314
315
316
317
318
319
320
321
322
323
324
325
326
327
328
329
330
331
332

No.

----------

50:00
400.00
100.00

40.00
93.00

5.00

----------

---·------

----------

----------

101.00

23.83

327.50

----------

----------

------------------

----------

10.00

----------

60.00
17.00

------------·------

----------

----------

---------- ------------------- .............
---------- ------------------- ----------

800.00
50.00
550.00
.................
50.00

---------------------------- ------------------- ..............
---------- 5.00
---------- ----------

-----·-··----------

····-··-··

--------------····-

----------

·---------

----------

106.50

----------

------------------·-·----------------

5.00
10.00

-----------·-------

----------

----------

25.86
200.00

797.75
51.50
204.42
100.00
754.50
620.60
203.50
66.50
345.00

----------

516.00
100.00
426.50
195.50

----------

258.00
799.00
698.75
116.50
350.00
640.00
821.50

--·----------------------------------

10.00
94.00
60.00
32.00
200.00

----------

---------------·---

------------------···------------------------··------··
----------

-------------·-----------------··---·
-------------··------------200.00 ------------------- ------------------- ------------------- ----------------·-· -----·----

-----------------------·----

5.00

----------

182.00

110.00

··-------··--------

Pledges

1,202.00

------------------·------------------------------------

5.00
10.00

Stamps
...........

25.00

2,700.00

--------------------------·----------

550.00
50.00

----------

150.00
200.00

Tionds :i.nd
Int. Coupons

85.00
561.00
60.00
108.00
63.00
469.25
90.00
212.50
313.50
128.00
139.25
153.50
80.00
355.00

------------·------

150.50
309.75
90.00
115.00

215.00
423.00
290.90

Cash

c:..

327.50

1,607.75
101.50
879.25
100.00
849.50
713.60
203.50
66.50
345.00

-------·--

258.00
804.00
815.25
116.50
350.00
640.00
871.50
400.00
616.00
100.00
486.50
217.50

4,012.00
561.00
60.00
108.00
73.00
563.25
150.00
244.50
713.50
128.00
139.25
153.50
80.00
580.86

·tel
t::l

-------------------

~

lj

<n

<n

c:..

...>z

~

0

'lj

...t"'

>

'=J
0

0

t::;

c

t"'
0

zlj

>

0

tel

::r:

t-3

'lj

0

[/!;

z0

....

lj

0
CJ

~

"d

"""

tit

882.50
359.75
95.00
115.00

365.00
628.00
410.90

Totals

388
389
390
391
392
393
394
395
396
397
399
400
401
402
403
404
405
406
407
408
409
410
411
412
413

Parnassus .......................... San Francisco ................. 355
Palos Verdes .................... Long Beach ...................... 251
lmperial ............................ Imperial
East Helt ..........................Tuolumne ......................... 49
West. Lake ........................ Los Angeles ..................... 689
Balder ............... :...............• San Francisco ................. 322
University ........................Los Angeles ..................... 331
Turlock .............................. Turlock ............................. 105
Apollo ................................ Alameda ........................... 198
176
Rising Light ...................... Huntington Park
Fraternity .......................... San Jose ........................... ......
Burlingame ........................ Eurlingame ...........................
Bay View ..........................Oakland ............................. 260
Brawley .............................. Brawley ............................. 94
Y erba Buena ....................Oakland ............................. 262
Glendora ............................ Glendora ........................... 64
Moneta .............................. Los Angeles ...........................
Burbank ............................ Burbank ........................... 78
La Mesa ............................ La Mesa ..................................
Sierra Madre .................... Sierra Madre ................... 70
Honolulu ..........................Honolulu ........................... 209
Charter Rock .................... Berkeley ............................ 425
Perris .................................. Perris ................................. 58
Calexico ............................ Calexico ............................ 98
Waucoba ............................ Big Pine ..................................

...\lay 1, 1919
Location
LODGE
81
Fort
Bragg
........................
Fort
Bragg
........................
361
362 Charity .............................. Campbell ........................... ......
363 Berkeley ............................ Berkeley ........................... 409
365 \Villits ................................ Willits ............................... 99
366 Las Palmas ...................... Fresno ..............................• 350
367 South Pasadena .............. South Pasadena ............. 175
368 Unity .................................. Glendale ........................... 240
369 Ocean Park ...................... Santa Monica .......................
370 Amity .................................. San Francisco ................ 365
371 Le Progress De L'Oceanie-Honolulu ................. 196
372 Gardena ·······················-···-Gardena ............................. 88
373 Veteran .............................. Sawtelle ............................ 176
374 Jewel .................................. San Francisco ................. 99
375 Richmond .......................... San Francisco ................. 405
376 Francis Drake .................. So. San Francisco ......... 90
377 Artesia ................................Artesia ............................... 88
378 Mizpah ................................Los Angeles ..................... 412
379 Fillmore ............................ Fillmore ............................ 105
380 Huntington Beach ..........Huntington Beach ........... 70
381 Oceanside .......................... Oceanside ......................... 53
382 Highland Park ................ Los Angeles ..................... 379
383 Orosi .................................. Orosi .................................. 65
384 El Centro .......................... El Centro ......................... 146
385 Dinuba ................................ Dinuba ............................... 130
387 Coalinga ............................ Coalinga ........................... 158

No.

10.00

...........

••HWWW•••

•h----..--

................

-----··---··------·

..............
150.00

. ............

-------·-350.00
271.00
241.50
86.00
275.00
140.25
10.00
43.00
921.50
1,058.06
80.00
417.00

..................

---------·

.............

---------·
735.00
..............

•••••••-H

. ...............

------------------·-----------------

••••H••••

...............

---------·

..........,. .....

••••••••H

8.00
••o•••H••

••••H••··

---------- --------- .

50.00

-····--··-

--------·........ H

----------

...

24.50

----------

••••••H••

·--·------

36.50

••••oWOOH

.................

----------

~

.. ........ .....
5.00

-·-----·-

··--------

----------

----------

65.00

Oo•oH0000

194.50

5.00

50.00
••OHOHO ..

..

---------OOHH~H

----·-----

77.50
............

OOHHWWO•

350.00

----·-----

250.00

10.00

----------

50.00
50.00

OooO••WOH

100.00
100.00

----------

------·--·

OwooooooH

---------~

1,400.00

100.00

---·-·--··
----------

··-----·-25.00

WH••ooooo

'"••••••OH

WHOO•••••

53.00
····------

ww•w•#HOW

w••••WWWH

----------

----·---·----------

100.00

----------

100.00

---------· -----·----

50.00

--------·----------

·---------

,,,

'""H""""""

-------------------

50.00
20.00
25.00
...................

.............

~

---·••HOA

.,. _________

178.00
292.50
240.00

----------

---·--·---

Pledges

•HM••••••

---------·--·------ ---------·--·------ _________
·---·-------------____ ... ____

78.00
377.00
1,426.50
415.50
305.50
677.00
247.50
11.00

446.00
859.00

-----------------·-

700.00
50.00

----------

20.25

--H-•••H

--·---------------·

-···---·--

Stamps

---·-- .. -100.00
50.00

. ,. .._______

Bonds and
Int. Coupons

42.00
353.00
167.50
158.50
245.00
459.00
298.50
180.50
412.00
343.00
85.00
49.00
1,500.00
74.00
232.00
339.50
500.bO

----------

1,730.50
100.00
554.50
57.50
435.00

281.00
________ ....

Cash

•••••H•••

355.00
271.00
616.00
86.00
275.00
198.25
10.00
43.00
921.50
1,793.06
80.00
567.00

------H••

78.00
527.00
1,526.50
615.00
355.50
792.00
247.50
47.50

623.50
869.00

----------

742.00
453.00
187.50
183.50
245.00
459.00
298.50
190.50
412.00
393.00
138.00
149.00
1,500.00
174.00
257.00
339.50
2,150.00

1,730.50
100.00
852.75
400.00
675.00

281.00

Totals

(..;>

"

"'

>

z
....

~

"i
0

~t'
....

".I

0

t:g

0

0
ti

t-<

ti

z

>

0
ill

t9

P'J

0
"i
>'3

00

zQ

t=J

t::i
ti
....

("J

0

'd

ill

°'

.......
(..;>

LODGE

Location

Membership
May 1, 1919

445
446
447
448
449
450
451
452
453
454
455
456
457
458
459
460
461
462
463

444

441
442
443

440

439

Tyrian ................................ Manteca ............................ 30
Standard ............................ Oakland ............................ 140
Coronado .......................... Coronado ......................... 103
Blackmer .......................... San Diego ........................ ......
Schofield ............................ Schofield Barracks ......... 150
Carpinteria ........................ Carpinteria ······················- 35
Wilshire ............................ Los Angeles ................... 283
La Puente ........................ Puente ............................... 42
Torrance ............................Torrance ........................... 50
Mt. Diablo ····················--·Concord ............................ 56
Park .................................... San Francisco ................. 288
Van Nuys ...................... _Van Nuys ......................... 72
Montebello ·····················--Montebello ....................... 60
San Pasqual ......................Pasadena ........................... 100
Bethlehem ........................ San Francisco ................. 152
Crocker ............................ _Daly City ......................... 76
Golden West .................. _San Francisco ................. 247
Kennett ··························-·Kennett ··························-· 53
Ramona ························-····Alhambra ................................
Henry S. Orme ............- ....Los Angeles ..................... 212
Riverbank ·······················-·Riverbank ........................ 56
Mount Oso ........................ Tracy ................................. 78
Argonaut ............................ San Francisco ................. 116
Paul Revere ...................... San Francisco ................. 310
Morgan Hill ·····-··············Morgan Hill ..................... 27

414 Arlington ..........................Los Angeles ..................... 158
415 Silver Trowel ..................Los Angeles ..................... 195
416 Lindsay ····················-··-.Lindsay .............................. 65
417 Clovis ..................................Clovis ................................. 74
418 Elysian ..............................Los Angeles ..................... 265
419 Upland ....................... _ _Upland ............................... 76
420 Kerman .............................. Kerman ............................. 43
421 Inglewood ........................ Inglewood ........................ 98
422 Eagle Rock .................--Eagle Rock ....................... 56
423 York ..................................Watts ................................. 70
424 Exeter ................................Exeter ................................ 67
425 Holtville ............................ Holtville ........................... 80
426 Midway ······················--·--Taft .................................... 170
427 Chino Valley .................... Chino ................................. 19
428 San Dimas ···········'············San Dimas ....................... 62
429 Pittsburg ............................ Pittsburg .......................... 60
430 McCloud ............................ McCloud ........................... 48
431 Alpha ..............................-Richmond ........................ 260
432 Roseville ............................ Roseville ........................... 117
433 Hammonton ...................... Hammonton .................... 52
434 Maricopa ............................ Maricopa .......................... 66
435 Fairmount .......................... San Francisco ................. 441
436 Claremont .......................... Claremont ........................ 60
437 Lancaster .......................... Lancaster ......................... 65
438 Acacia ................................ Los· Angeles ................... 78

No.

219.00
92.50
37.50
280.00
918.00
57.00

----------

50.00
200.00
137.50
150.00
10.00
50.00
445.50
10.00
96.50
79.00
838.00
4.00
47.50
265.50
269.50
22.00
384.50
154.00

25.00
64.50

Stamps

----------

--------------------·----------------

291.00
236.50
200.00
78.50

----------

5.00
55.00

---------·

802.50
11.00

----------

-------------------------------------

------------------200.00

-------------------

33.00

.5.00

-------------------

---------50.00

---------35.00
15.00

10.00

----------

---------- ----------

----------

----------

401.00
29.00

-------------------

----------

---------300.00

----------

20.00

----------

100.00·

----------

----------------------------

163.00

-------------------

---------·
----------

----------

---------- ----------

232.00

----------

68.50

---------·

-------------------

---------200.00

-------------------

27.50
7.50

----------

52.00
112.50

----------

-------------------------------------

-------------------

----------

----------

---------- ----------

-------------------

----------

-------------------

----------

----------

350.00
100.00

-------------------

640.00
121.50
337.50
290.00
953.00
72.00

----------

50.00
227.50
145.00
150.00
10.00
102.00
558.00
210.00
165.00
79.00
1,070.00
204.00
47.50
428.50
269.50
122.00
422.50
204.00

827.50
75.50

369.00

----------------------------

-------------------------------------

200.00

----------------------------

----------

----------

-------------------

-------------------

-------------------

100.00
256.00
200.00
497.00
13.00
321.00
166.50
158.45
537.00
161.50
150.00
375.50
1,167.00

----------

·--------·

----------

----------

195.50
320.00
300.00

Totals

20.00

Pledges

-------------------------------------------------------

---------- ---------200.00 ----------

----------

----------

----------

----------

----------

------------------- ----------

50.00

---------- ·---------

Bonds and
Int. Coupons

497.00
13.00
121.00
166.50
158.45
537.00
161.50
150.00
25.50
698.00

----------

100.00
256.00

286.00
. 181.50
200.00
78.50
_________ .

175.50
270.00
300.00

Cash

~

CH
"'
'D

>

z
.....

"'.!
0
:ll

....

>
t"'

l.l

0
"'.!

t<J

Q

t"'

0
ti

ti

>
z

:ll

Q

tg

....

t-3

l:::j

0

rn

zQ

t:J
t:J
ti
....

L.;

0

....
::5

CH

"'
00

'
540

PROCEEDINGS OF 'rHI!l

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

541

The report was adopted as read, and the recommendation with reference to the investment of endowment funds
\Vas referred to the Committee. on Jurisprudence.
Past Grand Master Hervey presented an interesting
verbal report concerning the Masonic Peace Jubilee held by
the Grand Lodge of England in June. Unfortunately no
notes were made, and his valuable report cannot be presented.
:o
:o

:o
:

U")

'("')

0
0

~

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON REPORT OF
GRAND LECTURER

:oo
:oo

i ...-) ,,.;
:
'

tr}

t.....

<')

8

l~
:N

000
0

" ' V">

'°"
d
..................
N

<'l 0

Brother ·wm H. Fischer, for the Committee on Grand
Lecturer's report, presented the following:
To the .41ost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your committee heretofore appointed to consider the annual report
of the Grand Lecturer desires to submit its report as follows:
The report of the Grand Lecturer makes clear the fact, \vhich was
previously reflected in the report of the Grand Secretary, that the doors
of Freemasonry in this jurisdiction are at the present time being sought
by an unusually large number of men who are attracted to our fraternity
hy reason of a favorable opinion conceived of it, and a sincere desire to
he serviceable to their fellow men. It likewise is easily to be observed,
from a study of the report, that the upright, courageous and manly conduct of our brethren who went overseas in the service of the government
during the late war has had a profound effect upon many young men;
for among those who are now seeking admission to our privileges, many
indeed come from the ranks of the gal!ant boys who fought under Old
Glory on the fields of France.
The work of the Grand Lecturer during the past year has been
rendered more than usually arduous by reason of the extended interruption of Lodge meetings on account of the influenza epidemic last fall
and winter; but as· usual, counting no inconvenience to himself, and
sparing himself naught of effort, the Grand Lecturer has fully made the
rounds of the Lodges. and has ministered to them all with the efficiency
for which he is so well known.
W c note with deep regret the passing from life of Brother Edward
Warren Clot1gh, Inspector of the 24th District, and Brother Frank
Edward Morrell, Inspector of the 1st Masonic District. Grand Lodge

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFOUNIA

already has given suitable testimony of its grief and the loss it has
sustained.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON FINANCE

542

vVe note with particular interest that paragraph of the Grand Lecturer's Report dealing with the formation of an Officers' Association in
the 53d Masonic District, and unite with the Grand Lecturer in extending to Brother David J. Reese our compliments upon the organization
thus alluded to. Your Committee coftlmends this plan to the consideration of the Inspectors of the several Masonic Districts, doing so in the
belief that frequent meetings of the Officers of the Lodges composing ·
districts will result in much good.
In c:osing, your Committee desires to testify in the strongest manner possible to its appreciation of th~ high service constantly rendered
to Freemasonry by our Grand Lecturer, Brother Thomas J. Baker. We
feel sure that no expression of commendation which we might be able to
write would be considered extravagant by the Inspectors, Officers or
brethren of the Lodges constituting this Grand Jurisdiction. Insistent
always on efficiency, demanding ever a full respect not only for the
discipline but as well for the principles of Masonry, Brother Baker, at
the same time, is a gentle, gracious and kindly guide, philosopher and
friend of the rank and file of the Fraternity, and we rejoice in commending him once more to the most generous consideration of Grand
Lodge.
Fraternally submitted,
WILL H. FrscHl!R,
ARTHUR M. JoJ:\L,
Louis C. DRAPl!AU,

Committee.

The report was adopted.

54.3

Brother \tVilliam A. Sherman, chairman of the Committee on Finance, submitted the following report:
To "the Mast Worshipful Grand Lodge of Ccdifarnia:

Your Committee on Finance begs leave to report as follows: Pursuant to annual custom, your committee, through Accountant E. S.
Valentine, ~as e;i<:amined the books and records of the Grand Secretary
and Grand Treasurer and compared the totals of the books of both
offices and are pleased to report that every item of receipt and disbursement has been properly entered and accounted for by these two efficient
Officers of Grand Lodge. Inasmuch as the Grand Treasurer was compelled to leave San Francisco to attend the Supreme Council of Scottish before the opening of this annual communication, two mem ·
hers of your committee examined the securities of the various Grand
Lodge funds, which are deposited in the vaults of the :Mercantile Trust
Company of this city, and found them to check correctly with the report
of the Grand Treasurer. All unmatured coupons are intact on the
bonds and otherwise properly segregated and in good form. It is the
intention of the Grand Treasurer to have the bonds of the various
Liberty issues registered, which will relieve him of considerable work in
the cutting of coupons. The work of the Grand Treasurer has materially increased because of the success of the Endowment Fund drives
and is entitled to the thanks of this Grand Lodge for the conscientious
and business-like manner in which he has conducted the duties of his
office.
Your Committee on Finance has received and carefully considered
the reports of the Boards of Relief of San Francisco, Los Angeles, Oakland, San Jose, Sacramento, San Diego and Honolulu. The reports
show conclusively the earnest and capable manner in which these Boards
of Relief are being conducted. Although th.e work of the Boards of
Relief is increasing very rapidly in the cities of San Francisco, Los
Angeles and San Diego, nevertheless the Boards are being operated
economically, which is due, no doubt, to the employment bureaus which
arc conducted in these three large cities with increasing efficiency. The
Board of Relief in San Diego has materially increased its work and as
it started without any capital it finds itself ha.ndicapped in its work to
such an extent that it needs a larger amount this year than it will in the
future when it will be reimbursed only for the money expended for
Lodges and J uris<lictions not now reimbursing it. In furtherance of the
work of the Board of Relief we offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

544

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Resolved, That $12,809.81 be and the same is hereby appropriate<!
from the funds of this Grand Lodge to be divided as follows:
To the Board of Relief of San Francisco ..........................$ 4,122.02
To the Board of Relief of Los Angeles.............................. 6,000.00
To the Board of Relief of San Diego................................ 1,675.00
To the Board of Relief of Oakland......................................
646.79
To the Board of Relief of Sacramento -------·--···--···············
366.00

$12,809.81
The Boards of Relief of Honolulu and San Jose have been able to
receive the necessary reimbursement for money expended and <lo not
ask any appropriation at this session.
MASONIC HOM!IS

Your Committee on Finance has examined the financial reports presented by the Masonic Homes of California which are ccrtilied as correct by the accountants of the Board, Ruckstell & Land. Howeve.r, we
would not feel that we had clone our full duty unless we matle particular
mention of the exce!lent methods of the administration used hy the
Board of Trustees in the management of the Homes at Covina and
Decoto. Although the cost of material and labor has risen considerably
<luring the past year, the Trustees have been able to so conduct the
affairs of the Homes without in any way stinting the residents, that the
deficit is much smaller than anticipated, and the Trustees have asked
this .Grand Lodge to reimburse them to the extent of the deficit in operation in the amount of $11,755.44. Your committee offers the following
resolution and recommemls its adoption:
Resolved, That the sum of $11,755.44 he appropriated from the funcls
of this Gran cl Lodge to take up the deficit in the maintenance fund of
the Masonic Homes of California.
For the continued maintenance of our Hom es at Dccoto and Covina,
your committee offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Resolved, That the usual per capita tax of one dollar per annum he
levied on our membership for the maintenance of said Decoto and
Covina Homes.
Your committee, to whom was referred the records of the Masonic
Temple Association, has carefully considerec~ the sam~ and is pka~cd to
find that the Association is now about breakmg even, m fact were 1t not
for the large interest payments on ,the outstanding mortgage amounting
to $215,000.00, the Temple Ass.ociati?n would be paying a .small. diviclcrnl:
All the stores are rented, which will be a source of sat1sfact10n to the

545

Grand Lodge. In orde.r that the item of interest may be further reduced
and the earnings of the Temple increased, your committee believes that
this Grand Lodge should purchase stock in the amount of $25,000.00 and
offers the following resolution and recommends its adoption:
Resolved, That this Grand Lodge subscribe for 2,500 shares of the
capital stock of the Masonic Temple Association of California (par
value at $10.00 per share) in addition to the stock already owned.
Your committee has given serious consideration to the matter of
salaries of the Grand Officers, having discussed the subject from all
angles and taken into consideration the continually increasing duties
required of them; the material increase in the cost of living, and also of
traveling expenses; the recommendation of the Most Worshipful Grarnl
Master on the salary of the Grand Lecturer, and also the condition of
your finances and particularly as it hears on the subordinate Lodges, and
begs leave to report thereon as follows, and makes the following rccommemlations :
Salary of Grand Treasurer ...................................................................... $ 200.00
Salary of Grand Secretary ...................................................................... 4,800.00
Salary of Assistant Grand Secretary .................................................... 2,700.00
Salary of Grand Lcctt1rer ........................................................................ 3,600.00
Salary of Gram! Organist ................ ------------·--·········-·----···-·-···---·---·-······-- 100.00
Salary of Grand Tyler.............................................................................. 150.00
For services of the Chairman of the Committee on Corrcsponclencc.................................................................................................... 200.00
For contingent expenses of the Cram! Master to he usecl in
defraying actual expenses incurred in the performance of his
duties---··----·-·----·······-·--·-·--·····----·-··----·-···--·-········--······--·-·--··········-----··-···--·- 1,500.00
As it is impossible to appropriate a definite sum for the contingent
expenses of the Crarnl Lecturer, yonr committee recommends that an
:itemizer! account of actual expenses incurred hy him in the dischaq.(e of
his duties he filccl with the Grand Secretary, am! when audited and
approved by the Committee on Accounts, that the expenses he paid in
the usnal manner.
It having come to the attention of your committee that the present
Grand Master has expended in his extensive visitations a sum in excess
of the amount appropriated by your last Communication for that purpose,
recommends that an acl<litional sum of $300 be appropriated from the
funds of the Grand Lodge for his reimbursement.
Resolved, That our M. ".W.'.Grancl Master, Bradford Webster, be
rcqnestcd to sit for his portrait clone in oil, ancl that when finished, the
V.' .W.' .Grand Secretary have the same suitably framed and placed with
the portraits of other Past Grand Masters in the Masonic Temple in
San Francisco.

546

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Your Committee on Finance has had under consideration the claim
of Olive Branch Lodge No. 267, of Tulare, for reimbursement for
expenses amounting to $156.30 incurred by said Lodge for the relief and
burial of Brother John C. McGill, late a member of Jerusalem Lodge No.
356, of Troy, New York.

finances, however, and the many pressing demands which must receive
immediate attention, your Finance Committee recommends that the
matt':r of the adoptio~ of a design and the erection of a memorial be
held m abeyance, pendmg more favorable conditions in future.

It appears from the correspondence, and statements made by the

Representative of Olive Branch Lodge, that this relief was furnished on
telegraphic communication from Jerusalem Lodge, but the bill has never
been paid.

547

Your committee fully appreciates the service rendered to Grand
~odg.e by Mr. Daryl B. Miller, who produced the design, and believing
it fair and just that he should receive compensation, hereby recommends that the sum of $200 be appropriated in his favor.

W. A. SmlRMAN,

The Grand Secretary of California forwarded the papers in the case
to the Grand Master of the State of New York, but no reimbursement
has ever been made.

w. P. JEl•'FRIES,
ARTHUR s. CRITES,

We offer the 'following resolution and recommend its adoption :

JoHN H. McGEHEE,
0. M. GoLDARACENA,

Resolved, That Olive Branch Lodge No. 267, of Tulare, be reimbursed in the sum of $156.30, being the amount of indebtedness incurred
for the relief and burial of Brother John C. McGill, a member of J erusalem Lodge No. 356, of Troy, New York.
In the matter of the resolution submitted by Brother Eugene A.
Elkus, asking that a supply of printed copies of the American Creed,
sufficient to mail one to each Mason in the State, we recommend that in
view of the fact that this Grand Lodge now has an Educational Committee that this matter be referred to said Committee for their disposition.
The Grand Secretary has submitted to this Committee a letter
written by Newton R. Parvin, Grand Secretary of the Grand Lodge of
Iowa, in the matter of the purchasing of copies of "The Builders" in
large quantities for distribution to Master Masons in place of our
present Constitution.
Your Committee does not believe that this matter comes within
their Jurisdiction and would respectfully request that this also be referred to the Committee on Education, for a decision as to which books
would serve the best interests of the Craft.
Your Finance Committee, having had under consideration the report
of your special committee, heretofore appointed to prepare a design for
the proposed memorial to be erected in commemoration of the service
rendered by our Masonic brethren during the late war, begs leave to
report as follows :
Your Finance Committee has observed with admiration the handsome design submitted by your special committee, and is fully conscious
of and in accord with the patriotic spirit which, in this connection, animates the Grand Lodge. In view of the present state of Grand Lodge

Committee.

The entire report was aclopted seriatim as presented.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 10 o'clock
Thursday morning.
1

Jn "rnnlt mnltgr
Morning Session.
Thursday, October 16, 1919.
Grand Lodge was called on at 10 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
. The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.
PROPOSED AMENDME~T

Brother John W. Gwilt presented the following:
Resolved, That the word "<limit," as it first appears in Section 248
of the Constitution, be stricken out, and the word~ "Certificate of Stancling," be inserted in lleu thereof.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

'

}>R!JCEEDINGS OF 'l".HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Past Grand Master Well er introduced the following
proposed amendment to Section 34 and to repeal Section 37
of the Constitution:

\Ve emphasize in this connection that Freemasonry should not and
Nor should it become compronused by entangling alliances. But, as one of its chief functions is to
illuminate, it can consistently and without violating any of its ancient
landmarks or traditions, enlighten its member• in a broad way upon
those subjects which vitallr concern human welfare.

'548

Sec. 34. The persons thus appointed, and their successors so appointed from year to year, shall, upon their appointment, bec.ome and
remain during the period for which they are appointed, Trustees of the
corporation formed under the laws of the State of California, known as
"Masonic Homes of California," in which corporation shall be vested
the title to all property, real and personal, and all rights of action, belonging to said charity, or to which it may in any way become entitled.
Repeal Sec. 37.

Referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.

REPORT OF THE COMMITTEE ON MASONIC
EDUCATION
Brother Irving J. Mitchell, chairman of the Committee
on Masonic Education, reported as follows:
To the 1l1.'.

w:. Grand Lodge of California:

The Committee on Masonic Education report as follows:
It is quite apparent to all intelligent men that today humanity
stands face to face with conditions of tmparalleled difficulty. Everywhere social and economic problems baffle the sagacity of the wisest.
From the chaos of war man has entered a period of confusion and discontent. The threatening voice of force is heard in the most unexpected
quarters. Lack of respect for law, order, and the rights of others has
become all too common.
How shall Freemasonry concern itself with the storm and stress
through which suffering mankind is now groping its way? Shall it he
in deed and in fact a helpful, constructive power in the civic life of the
present, or shall it be indifferent and unconcerned?
Never before has the need for right thinking !lnd clear understanding been so manifest as today; Never in this generation has there been
greater necessity among Masons for voicing and keeping constantly in
mind the potent principles for which this institution stands four-square.
Masonry can and should be a stabilizing force in a world filled with disturbances .. If we mistake not, the thought of larger service is a matter
of profound concern to the Craft.

549

m~st not commit itself to partisanship.

The exigencies of the past year have made educational work upon
the part of our Lodges extremely difficult. Meetings have been held
necessarily in many Lodges twice or three times each week, and every
moment has hcen required for degree work. With all the gain in ·
membership, however, and the apparent prosperity, the average attendance of the Lodges in this Jurisdiction is approximately 15 per cent.
This very con(lition evidences the fact that all is not well, and we need
to do something to awaken the interest of the missing 85 per cent.
The need for a better understanding of the basic principles for
which this institution stands, and the practical application of those principles to the great prohlcms of the clay, is just as pressing as ever. This
conviction is voiced on every side. The same old question p;esents
itself, "How shall we find the time?"
Upon the direction of this committee an <'Xperimcnt has l:ccn tried in
Los Angeles. l n July the Masters and 'War deus of the Lodges of that
city were formed into an organization. It is not a social organization.
It is devoted solely to the Cause of Enlit;htenmcnt.
It has gathered together a permanent board of local speakers,
whose services arc available to all of the Lodges of that city and vicinity. They comprise some of the ahlest men of the Craft. Mass meetings of the Fraternity have hccn addressed hy Ma sons of national cminc11cc and similar meetings arc planned for the near future. Through
these addn•sscs, practical application has been made of Masonic princi~
pies to the problems of the day.
The work tints far accomplished has shown clearly that what is
particularly needed today is concert of action among the Lodges. It has
been demonstrated that by the Masters and Wardens meeting together
frequently, getting hctter acquainted, thinking together, planning together
and working together toward a common ohjcctivc, practical results in a
large measure will surely he attained. Such results can be accomplished
throughout the State by organized effort in each city or inspection district.
Quoting from the address of the M.'. \V.'. Grand Master: "A
greater and more vital interest is being taken in what Masonry stands
for than ever before, hut whether or not that awakening of interest in
vital topics is a by-product or in any sense due to war conditions, is

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

really not important. We realize that more and more it is true that
the eyes of the world are upon us, and that our responsibility is correspondingly enhanced."

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CORRESPONDENCE

550

We recommend the following:
First-That the Committee on Masonic Education shall consist of
three members from each of the following' districts: Northern California, Bay Counties Region, Central California and Southern California, together with a general chairman; a local chairman to be appointed from the committee in each district; this committee to be appointed by the M.'. W.'. Grand Master and to be directly responsible
to the Grand Lodge.
Second-That each District Committee organize the Masters and
Wardens of the district in such groups as may be most convenient, for
meetings at regular intervals under the direction of the committee.
Third-That the committee procure (!st) a series of subjects for
discussion, (2nd) a list of local speakers available to the Lodges, and
(3rd) addresses at Masonic mass meetings by speakers of established
reputation.
Fourth-That through the organization above outlined, the Lodges
of this jurisdiction be encouraged to participate actively in the solution
of the problems of the day.
Fifth-That the committee also promote a proper understanding of
and interest in the sublime teachings and ritual of the Craft.
Sixth-That the Committee on Masonic Education shall in every
way be helpful to all Lodges who desire its counsel and co-operation.
That this committee shall encourage the development of a broader
understanding among the Craft of the fundamental principles of this
institution, and the practical application thereof.
Respectfully submitted,
IRVING }. MITCHELL,
DENMAN

S. W AGSTAil!o',

ROBERT B. GAYLORD,

Committee.

The report was adopted as read, except that portion
that provided for a larger committee, which was referred to
the Committee on Jurisprudence.

551

Brother Jesse M. Whited, chairman of the Committee
on Correspondence, formally presented his report without
reading, printed copies being already in the hands of the
Represen ta ti v es.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON RETURNS
llrother Rod. G. Guyett, chairman of the Committee on
Returns, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Returns has examined the returns of the subordinate Lodges of this J uriscliction for the year ending July 31, 1919.
It is gratifying to note that the returns for this year show a clcciclccl
improvement over former years, as, with a few exceptions, they w'rc
transmitted within the prescrihccl. time, were accompanied by the right
amount of clues, and were properly prepared. The few errors noted
were promptly rectified and the returns of Lodges, except one, arc now
on file in the V.'. W.'. Grand Secretary's office.
The returns of Loyalton Lodge No. 359 were not received until
October 3rd, too late to be included in the Grand Secretary's report and
tables. They were accompanied by a letter of cxplanati~n and apology
for their tardiness.
Mokclumne Hill Lodge No. 298 have not sent in thdr annual returns
nor have they paid their Grand Lodge Dues. On October 6th the following letter was received from the Master of the Lodge:
John Whichcr, Grand Secretary, San Francisco.
Dear Brother Whicher:
I have just received your letter requesting the immediate return of
the annual report to your office. Things have happened that arc beyond
my control and will be straightened out very soon.
My wife has been sick for over a year and I can't attend to the
business of the Lodge any more. Our Sccreta'ry's (E. E. Burce) wife
was in a very. bad condition for a long time and could not live in this
climate. He took her to Napa, expecting her to improve and soon to
return to Mokelumnc Hill and attend to his duties as Secretary of our
Lodge, but his wife did not get well and has died.
I appointed Brother Arthur Maasburg as Secretary pro tern., but he
didn't understand making out the report and so it has not been sent in.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

552

553

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Our Lodge has voted to consolidate with Calaveras :r\ o. 78 at San
Andreas and they have agreed to accept us, and we are only awaiting
meeting of the eommittees and their signatures to make it legaL
My wife is in San Francisco at present under the doctor's care and
I am alone with the babies, I am very sorry that I can't be with you
at this session of the Grand Lodge, !mt the circumstances are against
me. With best wishes to you and yours, I am
Very sincerely,
CLARENCE A. BERRY,
Master Mokclumne Hill Lodge No. 298.

The amounts for dues for which the several Lodges of the jurisdiction were indebted for the year ending July 31, 1919, and which
have all been paid, except Mokelttmne Hill No. 298, Los Banos No.
312 and Loyalton No. 359, are as follows:
Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

California ---·---h• 1
Wes tern Star .... 2
Tehama .............. 3
Benicia ................ 5
Tuolumne .......... 8
Corinthian .......... 9
San Jose ............ 10
12
Yount
13
Nevada
14
Temple
Eureka ................ 16
La Parfaite
Union .............. 17
Mountain Shade 18
San Joaquin ...... 19
Washington ...... 20
J lawaiian .......... 21
Occidental ........ 22
Madison ············ 23
Mariposa ............ 24
Georgetown .... 25
Palmyra .............. 26
Trinity ................ 27
Golden Gate ...... 30
Gold Hill............ 32
Ophir .................. 3.l
San Diego .......... 35
St. John's .......... 37
Santa Cruz ... :.... 38
Sacramento ······ 40
1fartinez ············ 41
Los Angeles ...... 42
Hiram ................ 43
Mount Moriah .. 44
Crescent ............ 45
Texas .................. 46
Forbestown ...... 50
HU••••••••••••

We recommend that the Ma~ter of Mokelunme Hill Lodge be directed to have the annual returns and the Grand Lodge dues of his
Lodge forwarded to the Grand Secretary at the earliest possible moment
and that the proposed consolidation be not approved by the Grand
Master until this has been done.
Los Banos Lodge No. 312 sent in their returns on time, accompanied by a warrant on their Treasurer. This warrant was returned
by the Grand Secretary with a request that.the warrant be made payable
on some bank or a check or money order sent to cover their Grand
Lodge dues. Several letters have been written by the Grand Secretary
relative to this matter, but no reply has been received from the Lodge.

vV e recommend that the Inspector of Los Banos Lodge be instructed
to order this Lodge to pay its Grand Lodge dues at once and also to
have the Master make an explanation why the Grand Lodge dues of his
Lodge were not paid and also the reason why the letters of the Grand
Secretary remain unanswered.
·

••••u,.u••~~-

•••*OMHt••H•

$628.50
99.30

333.90
137.10
132.70
233.60
458.10
196.70
126.00
121.50
125.70
187.70
26.10
452.60
265.10
284.25
609.40
119.30
57.00
42.30
166.60
69.00

602.90
62.90
43.60
613.30
132.70
253 ..l()
.115.00
107.50
674.50

27.70
492.00
73.20
28.80
27.20

Allowed
Represent·

Total.

$595.00
97.00
281.00
119.00
123.00
224.00
. 429.00
183.00
130.00
95.00
123.00

$297.50
48.50
140.50
59.50
61.50
112.00
214.50
91.50
65.00
47.50
61.50

$1,521.00
244.80
755.40
315.60
317.20
569.60
1,101.60
471.20
321.00
264.00
310.20

173.00
29.00
394.00
219.00
335.00
576.00
117.00
50.00
47.00
174.00
60.00
561.00
61.00
44.00
477.00
l 13.00
237.00
250.00
105.00
57 5.00
23.00
390.00
78.00
32.00
28.00

86.50
14.50
197.00
109.50
167.50
288.00
58.50
25.00
23.50
87.00
30.00
280.50
30.50
22.00
238.50
56.50
118.50
125.00
52.50
287.50
l l.50
195.00
39.00
16.00
14.00

447.20
69.60
1.043.60
593.60
786.75
1,473.40
294.80
132.00
l 12.80
427.60
159.00
1,444.40
154.40
109.60
1,328.80
.102.20
608.80
690.00
265.00
1,537.00
62.20
1,077.00
190.20
76.80
69.20

atives.

$21.05
2.16
13.10
8.64
3.14
3.14
13.20
3.15
8.20

5.50
5.83

12.85
25.00
10.78
38.40

7.66
20.00
45.45

30.32
5.84
5.8.l

2.26
36.08

46.10
5.60
7.50

554

Illinois town ·····- 51
Suisun .................. 55
Volcano .............. 56
Santa Rosu ........ 57
Union .................. 58
Gravel Range .... 59
Plumas ................ 60
Live Oak ............ 61
G. Washington .. 62
Natoma ........ ,..... 64
Amador .............. 65
Forest ................ 66
Morning Star.. .. 68
Enterprise ........ 70
Bear Mountain .. 76
Calaveras .......... 78
Humboldt .......... 79
Ione .................... 80
Yolo .................... 81
Rising Star ........ 83
Vesper ................ 84
Naval .................. 87
Rose's Bar ........ 89
North Star ........ 91
St. Helena .......... 93
Henry Clay ........ 95
Howard .............. 96
Jefferson ............ 97
Hornitos ............ 98
Yosemite ............ 99
Clay ..................... .101
Oroville .............. 103
Lexington ......... .104
Arcata ................ 106
Pajaro ................ 110.
Chico .................. 111
Summit ............. .112
Eden .................... 113
Concord .............. 117
Clinfon ................ 119
Fidelity .............. 120
Alamo ................ 122

PROCEEDINGS OF

'l'HE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Allowed

Home
Home
General Maintenanre Iluilding
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Total.

74.00
86.00
28.00
250.00
282.00
28.00
65.00
812.00
28.00
87.00
71.00
47.00
322.00
143.00
86.00
64.00
358.00
53.00
48.00
38.00
153.00
477.00
50.00
40.00
86.00
55.00
78.00
32.00
36.00
122.00
55.00
194.00
81.00
118.00
125.00
215.00
30.00
132.00
123.00
49.00
569.00
76.00

181.60
218.40
74.20
634.00
758.80
70.20
166.00
2,142.80
69.20
213.80
170.40
112.80
836.80
373.20
227.40
158.60
915.20
135.20
116.20
91.20
383.20
1,301.80
120.00
104.00
210.40
138.00
193.20
76.80
95.40
313.80
136.00
492.60
213.40
295.20
321.00
540.00
72.00
346.80
322.20
117.60
1,442.60
204.40

70.60
89.40
32.20
259.00
335.80
28.20
68.50
924.80
27.20
83.30
. 63.90
42.30
353.80
158.70
98.40
62.60
378.20
55.70
44.20
34.20
153.70
586.30
45.00
44.00
81.40
55.50
76.20
28.80
41.40
130.80
53.50
201.60
91.90
118.20
133.50
217.50
27.00
148.80
137.70
44.10
589.10
90.40

37.00
43.00
14.00
125.00
141.00
14.00
32.50
406.00
14.00
43.50
35.50
23.50
161.00
71.50
43.00
32.00
179.00
26.50
24.00
19.00
76.50
238.50
25.00
20.00
43.00
27.50
39.00
16.00
18.00
61.00
27.50
97.00
40.50
59.00
62.50
107.50
15.00
66.00
61.50
24.50
284.50
38.00

Representatives.

9.82
3.24
7.00
3.56
5.83
26.11
.30
7.34
23.90
5.50
7.88
13.70
10.10
25.90
. 9.72
5.94
16.26
2.16
8.62
36.00
4.32
11.06
32.40
25.60
15.72
9.72
9.72
40.65
6.48
10.90
8.25
.40
5.83
17.10
3.88

Sotoyome _________ .123
Table Mountain 124
La Fayette ......... .126
Hermann ............ 127
Visalia ................ 128
Nicolaus .............. 129
Woodbridge ...... 131
Sincerity ............ 132
Vacaville ....... .-.... 134
Valley ................ 135
Pacific ................ 136
Crockett ...... :..... 139
Curtis .................. 140
Grafton .............. 141
Franklin ............ 143
Oriental .............. 144
Vitruvius ........... .145
Abell .................. 146
Eel River .......... 147
Lassen ................ 149
Molino ................ 150
Woodland .......... 156
Keystone ............ 161
, Harmony ............ 164
Excelsior ............ 166
Alameda ............ 167
Redwood City.. 168
Mission .............. 169
Elk Grove ......... J73
Drytown ............ 174
Antioch .............. 175
Phoenix .............. 178
Mendocino ........ 179
Petaluma ............ 180
Russian River.. . .181
Meridian ............ 182
Clear Lake ........ 183
Sierra Valley .... 184
Claiborne ......... .185
Evening Star ..... .186
Keith ................. .187
Oakland .............. 188

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

225.20
53.20
123.10
192.30
145.60
75.20
89.00
143.50
125.00
46.10
731.00
570.10
43.30
56.20
91.50
387.90
74.20
128.00
131.10
116.80
76.80
147.90
29.30
10.80
561.00
117.30
173.60
842.00
65.20
21.60
130.90
374.90
115.50
259.90
104.40
52.80
27.00
29.80
56.60
33.50
128.90
818.20

208.00
58.00
119.00
197.00
144.00
78.00
90.00
85.00
120.00
49.00
680.00
519.00
47.00
38.00
75.00
371.00
68.00
130.00
129.00
122.00
72.00
161.00
27.00
12.00
480.00
107.00
144.00
850.00
68.00
24.00
121.00
291.00
125.00
231.00
96.00
52.00
30.00
32.00
54.00
35.00
121.00
698.00

104.00
29.00
59.50
98.50
72.00
39.00
45.00
42.50
60.00
24.50
~40.00

259.50
23.50
19.00
3J.50
185.50
34.00
65.00
64.50
61.00
36.00
80.50
13.50
6.00
240.00
53.50
72.00
425.00
34.00
12.00
60.50
145.50
62.50
115.50
48.00
26.00
15.00
16.00
27.00
17.50
60.50
349.00

555
Allowed
RepresentT~l.

537.20
140.20
301.60
487.80
361.60
192.20
224.00
271.00
305.00
119.60
1,751.00
1,348.60
113.80
113.20
204.00
944.40
176.20
323.00
324.60
299.80
184.80
389.40
69.80
28.80
1,281.00
277.80
389.60
2,117.00
167.20
57.60
312.40
811.40
303.00
606.40
248.40
130.80
72.00
77.80
137.60
86.00
310.40
1,865.20

atives.

4.80
16.00
3.00
19.60
8.42
7.78
27.20
4.32
6.80

2.75
6.26
7.56
4.75
7.45
24.30
39.00
15.50
8.64
30.40
2.16
1.70
8.10
.l.56
39.96
17:50
2.50
4.10
7.46

12.95
37.50
5.10
.30

556

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Horne
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Northern Light 190
Marin .................. 191
Santa Barbara ....192
Ferndale ............ 193
Mountain View .. 194
Huckeye ..............195
San Simeon ........ 196
Wilmington ...... 198
Hartley .............. 199
Truckee ............. .200
Silveyville ..........201
Pentalpha ......... .202
Confidence ....... .203
Salinas ................ 204
Olivet ................205
Stanislaus ......... .206
Anaheim ............207
Rio Vista ......... .208
King David's ... .209
Friendship ....... .210
San Benito ....... .211
So. S. Francisco . .212
S. Buenaventura 214
Oak Grove ....... .215
Doric ..................216
Monterey ......... .217
Mosaic ............... .218
Speranza Ital... .. 219
Downey ............. .220
Inyo ....................221
Roseville ........... .222
Bakersfield ....... .224
Brooklyn ........... .225
San Mateo ........226
Athens ................ 228
Solano ............... .229
North Butte ..... .230
Covelo ................ 231
Janesville ............232
Calistoga ........... .233
Hope ..................234
Surprise Vall ey..235

65.60
291.30
246.60
86.00
142.70
67.60
43.00
103.80
111.70
117.30
74.40
543.40
26.50
174.50
94.20
195.50
167.20
65.70
210.80
291.20
104.20
225.20
174.90
530.10
560.40
114.50
97.70
270.20
86.10
69.80
232.20
366.40
535.30
158.40
81.20
481.40
94.00
37.50
47.90
85.10
92.60
72.30

64.00
247.00
204.00
90.00
123.00
74.00
40.00
72.00
113.00
117.00
76.00
476.00
25.00
155.00
88.00
155.00
148.00
63.00
192.00
258.00
98.00
208.00
141.00
459.00
506.00
115.00
93.00
228.00
89.00
62.00
168.00
336.00
447.00
136.00
78.00
356.00
90.00
35.00
51.00
89.00
64.00
57.00

32.00
123.50
102.00
45.00
61.50
37.00
20.00
36.00
56.50
58.50
38.00
238.00
12.50
77.50
44.00
77.50
74.00
31.50
96.00
129.00
49.00
104.00
70.50
229.50
253.00
57.50
46.50
114.00
44.50
31.00
84.00
168.00
223.50

68.00
39.00
178.00
45.00
17.50
25.50
44.50
32.00
28.50

557

Allowed
Represent-

Total.

161.60
661.80
552.60
221.00
327.20
178.60
103.00
211.80
281.20
292.80
188.40
1,257.40
64.00
407.00
226.20
. 428.00
389.20
160.20
498.80
678.20
251.20
537.20
386.40
1,218.60
1,319.40
287.00
237.20
612.20
219.60
162.80
484.20
870.40
1,205.80
362.40
198.20
1,015.40
229.00
90.00
124.40
218.60
188.60
157.80

atives.

25.05
1.00
28.26
2.38
5.40
24.00
41.50
10.80
18.74
4.45
36.18
7.02
11.66
38.00
4.75
19.50
.ll3
5.94
30.20
.30
8.llO
3.13
36.93
48.50
7.02
26.55
.30
1.20
4.97
2.16
9.83
15.10
36.70
4.86
22.30
42.52

Hill's Ferry ..... .236
Guadalupe ....... .237
Col us.a ............... .240
Santa Ana ..........241
Magnolia ............ 242
Eucalyptus ....... .243
Alcatraz ........... .244
Laurel ............... .245
Pomona .............. 246
Fresno ............... .247
Alturas ............. .248
Adin ....................250
Landmark ......... .253
Reading ............. .254
Welcome ........... .255
Lodi ................. .256
Penrhyn ..............258
Evergreen ......... .259
King Solomon's 260
Tuscan ............... .261
Lompoc ..............262
Hesperian ......... .264
Orland ............... .265
North East ........ 266
Galt ..................... .267
Durant ................ 268
Olive Branch ..... .269
Snow Mountain ..271
Pasadena ............ 272
Anchor ............. .273
Arroyo ................ 274
Oakdale ..............275
Selma ................. .277
Southern Cal... ..278
Hanford ..............279
Madera ..............280
Mount Shasta ... .281
Callayomi ......... .282
South Vv est... .... .283
San Miguel... ...... .285
Paso Robles ........286
\Vinncdumah ....287

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Total.

78.50
75.00
59.70
63.00
104.20
98.00
418.70
353.00
151.90
121.00
139.50
115.00
534.30
447.00
142.80
112.00
278.40
266.00
391.00
396.90
73.30
67.00
41.00
40.90
61.20
58.00
117.80
122.00
100.20
88.00
200.50
205.00
89.90
91.00
329.40
306.00
712.20
618.00
48.80,
52.00
121.00
140.90
220.20
208.00
102.10
89.00
48.20
48.00
50.00
54.00
442.00
557.80
169.00
191.10
38.10
39.00
439.00
430.00
70.00
76.00
67.50
55.00
84.80
82.00
179.00
160.00
617.20
648.00
166.80
172.00
123.00
138.70
54.30
57.00
38.00
40.00
154.40
136.00
77.00
72.30
67.00
66.30
129.00
156.70

191.00
154.20
251.20
948.20
333.40
312.00
1,204.80.
310.80
677.40
983.40
173.80
102.40
148.20
300.80
232.20
508.00
226.40
788.40
1,639.20
126.80
322.40
532.20
235.60
120.20
129.00
1,220.80
444.60
96.60
1,084.00
181.00
150.00
207.80
419.00
1,589.20
424.80
323.20
139.80
98.00
358.40
187.80
166.80
350.20

37.50
31.50
49.00
176.50
60.50
57.50
223.50
56.00
133.00
195.50
33.50
20.50
29.00
61.00
44.00
102.50
45.50
153.00
309.00
26.00
60.50
104.00
44.50
24.00
25.00
221.00
84.50
19.50
215.00
35.00
27.50
41.00
80.00
324.00
86.00
61. 50
28.50
20.00
68.00
38.50
33.50
64.50

Allowed
Represent~

atives.

7.88
9.70
38.33
28.26
.30
9.83
38.44
16.70
42.52
42.20
6.59
18.53
19.50
6.30
39.95
8.21
24.70
24.70
51.20
7.34
.30
20.71
14.75
36.15
36.93
23.85
17.77
36.18
18.96
12.10
17.77
46.80
13.18
13.82
54.25

558

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PHOCEEDINGS OF TH l~
Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Maxwell ........... .288
88.10
75.30
Elsinore ............289
875.90
East Gate ......... .290
164.50
Santa Paula ..... .291
Los Gatos .......... 292
136.10
Orange Grove .... 293
151.80
Traver ................ 294
86.20
130.80
Mt. Jackson ...... 295
Silver Gate ........ 296
607.60
Dunsmuir .......... 297
132.80
Mokelumne Hill 298
Liberty ................ 299
177.90
Redlands ............ 300
257.80
159.60
Ontario ..............301
68.00
Santa Lucia ......302
205.70
Porterville ........ 303
Reedley .............. 304
83.20
Azusa .................. 305
81.00
141.50
Ashlar ................ 306
167.20
.Santa Monica .... 307
144.60
Monrovia .......... 308
115.60
Delano ................ 309
Sisson ..................310
81.70
Los llanos .......... 312
140.30
Tehachapi .......... 313
124.70
Temescal ..........314
82.60
Nor walk ..............31 5
Sanger ................ 316
105.70
Fallbrook ....... _.... 317
46.00
57.70
Emmanuel ........ 318
Hollenbeck ........ 319 1,155.80
782.70
South Gate : .......320
86.00
Alisa I ..................321
268.80
Alhambra .......... 322
236.20
Whittier ........... -323
Corona ........... _....324
380.40
112.60
Consuelo ............325
167.50
Needles .............. 326
536.60
Long Eeach ......327
204.70
Redondo ............328
99.50
Vallee deFrance 329
156.75
Kilauea .............. 330

Total.

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

59.00
67.00
771.00
145.00
129.00
142.00
78.00
102.00
494.00
112.00

29,50
33.50
385.50
72.50
64.50
71.00
39.00
51.00
247.00
56.00

176.60
175.80
2,032.40
382.00
329.60
364.80
203.20
283.80
1,348.60
300.80

8.75
43.40
36.18
36.75
3.35
42.65
19.20
4.96
46.80
23.73

181.00
252.00
144.00
60.00
183.00
68.00
80.00
135.00
158.00
124.00
104.00
83.00

90.50
126.00
72.00

449.40
635.80
375.60
158.00
480.20
185.20
201.00
344.00
404.20
330.60
271.60
206.20

2.92
40.60
38.76
10.37
21.23
18.20
37.80
40.65
37.68
37.36
22.76
24.70
9.18
23.54
36.18
36.17
18.76
47.30
10.04
36.18
36.18
2.70
36.18
37.47
36.18
47.20
49.50
37.58
37.58
36.18

127.00
103.00
74.00
93.00
40.00
53.00
952.00
723.00
80.00
262.00
198.00
376.00
94.00
135.00
404.00
173.00
95.00
177.00

~0.00

91.50
34.00
40.00
67.50
79.00
62.00
52.00
41.50
63.50
51.50
37.00
46.50
20.00
26.50
476.00
361.50
40.00
131.00
99.00
188.00
47.00
67.50
202.00
86.50
47.50
88.50

330.80
279.20
193.60
245.20
106.00
137.20
2,583.80
1,867.20
206.00
661.80
533.20
944.40
253.60
370.00
1,142.60
464.20
242.00
422.25

Pacific Grove ....331
San Pedro ............ 332
Alta .................... 333
Covina ................ 334
West Gate .......... 335
Fruitvale ............ 336
Carquinez ........ 337
San Jacinto ........338
Fullerton .......... 339
Oxnard .............. 341
· San Fernando ....343
Starr King.......... 344
Brentwood ........ 345
Palo Alto ............346
McKinley .......... 347
San Bernardino .. 348
Sequoia .............. 349
Palestine ............351
Sunset ................ 352
Pinole .: ................353
Presidio ..............354
Hollywood ........ 355
Mill Valley ........ 356
Buena Park ... _.... 357
Golden State ...... 358
Loyalton ............359
San Francisco ....360
Fort Bragg .......... 361
Charity ____ ........ 362
Berkeley ............ 363
Willits ................ 365
Las Pal 111 as ........ 366
South Pasadena 367
lJnity .................. 368
Ocean Park ........ 369
Amity .................. 370
Le Progres de
!'Oceanic ........371
Gardena .............. 372
Veteran .............. 373
Jewel .................. 374
Richmond ..........37 5

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Total.

67.30
67.00
346.50
255.00
26.10
29.00
181.30
157.00
593.40
476.00
543.00
410.00
106.l 0
99.00
102.70
103.00
270.10
229.00
212.60
194.00
109.80
102.00
366.50
315.00
108.60 . 84.00
289.30
227.00
242.40
206.00
324.50
305.00
805.70
673.00
429.00
360.00
492.90
461.00
129.10
99.00
352.50
325.00
593.90
481.00
259.90
231.00
118.20
88.00
701.60
584.00

33.50
127.50
14.50
78.50
238.00
205.00
49.50
51.50
114.50
97.00
51.00
157.50
42.00
113.50
103.00
152.50
336.50
180.00
230.50
49.50
162.50
240.50
115.50
44.00
292.00

167.80
729.00
69.60
416.80
1,307.40
1,158.00
254.60
257.20
613.60
503.60
262.80
839.00
234.60
629.80
551.40
782.00
1,815.20
969.00
1.184.40
277.60
840.00
1,315.40
606.40
. 250.20
1,577.60

348.60
77.00
103.50
543.80
97.40
379.70
162.00
274.00
234.80
403.20

284.00
80.00
95.00
412.00
96.00
373.00
160.00
240.00
202.00
348.00

142.00
40.00
47.50
206.00
48.00
186.50
80.00
120.00
101.00
174.00

774.60
197.00
246.00
1,161.80
241.40
939.20
402.00
634.00
537.80
925.20

199.00
90.40
223.40
109.80
540.50

200.00
86.00
176.00
92.00
395.00

100.00
43.00
88.00
46.00
197.50

499.00
219.40
487.40
247.80
1, 133.00

.559
Allowed
Represent·
atives.

8.10
37.57
37.80
36.18
1.95
40.68
40.65
30.75
36.20
4.10
2.05
.55
39.96
.30
36.18
31.18
1.50
36.18

.55
36.18
36.18

15.55
3.13
.30
9.07
16.70
36.18
36.71
37.68

41.15
41.35

560

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Francis Drake .. 376
Artesia .... :........... 377
Mizpah ................ 378
Fillmore ............ 379
Huntington
Beach .............. 380
Oceanside ..........381
Highland Park .. 382
Orosi ..................383
El Centro .......... 384
Dinuba ................ 385
Coalinga ............387
Parnassus .......... 388
Palos Verdes ...... 389
Imperial ..............390
East nelt ........... 391
West Lake ..........392
Raider ................393
University .......... 394
Turlock ..............395
Apollo ................ 396
Rising Light.. .... 397
Fraternity .......... 399
Burlingame ........400
Bay View .......:..401
Brawley ............402
Yerba Buena ... .403
Glendora ........... .404
Moneta ............. .405
Burbank ........... .406
La Mesa ........... .407
Sierra Madre ... .408
Honolulu ........... .409
Charter Rock .. ..410
Perris ................. .411
Calexico ............ 412
Waucoha ............ 413
Arlington ......... .414
Silver TroweL..415
Lindsay ............. .416
Clovis ..................417
Elysian ............... .418

Total.

118.40
92.10
481.20
129.90

96.00
89.00
418.00
111.00

48.00
44.50
209.00
SS.SO

262.40
225.60
1,108.20
296.40

64.30
S0.70
370.60
83.10
1S2.40
152.20
182.60
426.30
431.60
68.20
56.40
820.50
465.40
489.10
141.20
284.70
221.30
232.50
246.20
321.40
113.80
327.00
60.80
427.20
89.00

67.00
53.00
344.00
69.00
136.00
138.00
164.00
347.00·
274.00
68.00
S6.00
685.00

33.50
26.50
172.00
34.SO
68.00
69.00
82.00
173.50
137.00
34.00
28.00
342.50
163.00
169.50
54.00
101.50
88.50
92.50
99.00
128.00
46.00
130.00
31.00
169.00
40.00
33.00
32.00
105.00
218.00
30.00
50.00
17.00
79.50
100.00
36.00
31.50
127.00

164.80
130.20
886.60
186.60
356.40
359.20
428.60
946.80
842.60
170.20
140.40
1,848.00
954.40
997.60
303.20
589.20
486.80
510.00
543.20
705.40
251.80
717.00
153.80
934.20
209.00
178.40
173.60
511.50
1,171.40
214.00
276.00
84.60
426.60
528.00
202.80
165.20
688.60

79.40
77.60
196.SO
517.40
124.00
126.00
33.60
188.10
228.00
94.80

70.70
307.60

326.00
339.00
108.00
203.00
177.00
185.00
198.00
256.00
92.00
260.00
62.00
338.00
80.00
66.00
64.00
210.00
436.00
60.00
100.00
34.00
159.00
200.00
72.00
63.00
254.00

Allowed
Represent·
atives.

.65
41.65
36.18
32.93

44.60
36.18
23.90
58.29
19.74
23.30
37.58
57.97
13.40
36.18
36.18
8.32
.30
36.18
3.13
1.10
56.66
.30
36.18
36.18
36.18
47.30
40.60
.20
42.05
59.15
S6.60
36.18
36.18
20.58
36.18

Home
Home
General Maintenance Building
Fund.
Fund.
Fund.

Upland ............... .419
Kerman ............. .420
Inglewood ...... ..421
Eagle Rock. ....... 422
York ...... :............ .423
Exeter ................424
Holtville ........... .425
Midway ............ .426
Chino Valley ..... .427
San Dimas ...... ..428
Pittsburg ........... .429
McClond ............430
Alpha .................. 431
Hammonton ..... .433
Maricopa ........... .434
Fairmount ....... .435
Claremont ........ ..436
Lancaster ......... .437
Germania .......... 438
Tyrian ................ 439
Standard ........... .440
Coronado ......... .441
Blackmer ............442
Schofield ............ 443
Carpinteria ...... ..444
Wilshire ........... .445
La Puente ......... .446
Torrance ........... .447
Mt. Diablo ....... .448
Park ................... .449
Van Nuys ......... .450
Montebello ....... .451
San Pasqual ..... .452
Bethlehem ......... .453
Crocker ............. .454
Golden West ... .455
Kennett ..............456
Ramona ............. .457
Henry S. Orme ..458
Riverbank ......... .459
Mount Oso ....... .460
Argonaut_ ........... .461

85.10
50.70
117.20
74.30
101.50
97.80
86.30
266.90
40.90
59.10
64.00
66.10
356.50
51.00
96.00
406.30
75.20
96.90
75.00
85.50
180.10
158.10
242.80
I 71.2S
38.70
347.60

79.20
80.60
72.90
393.40
109.20
93.20
135.10
275.20
121.60
431.30
62.80
88.10
330.70
82.60
142.60
237.70

79.00
43.00
88.00
57.00
75.00
72.00
67.00
181.00
41.00
59.00
60.00
49.00
255.00
50.00
70.00
367.00
68.00
71.00
80.00
55.00
139.00
109.00
162.00
139.00
33.00
294.00
58.00
54.00
51.00
286.00
78.00
58.00
89.00
138.00
74.00
267.00
52.00
79.00
203.00
54.00
84.00
123.00

39.SO
21.50
44.00
28.50
37.50
36.00
33.50
90.SO
20.SO
29.50
30.00
24.50
127.50
25.00
35.00
183.SO
34.00
35.SO
40.00
27.50
69.SO
54.50
81.00
69.50
16.50
147.00
29.00
27.00
2S.50
143.00
39.00
29.00
44.50
69.00
37.00
133.50
26.00
39.50
101.50
27.00
42.00
61.50

Total.

203.60
1 lS.20
249.20
159.80
214.00
205.80
186.80
538.40
102.40
147.60
154.00
139.60
739.00
126.00
201.00
956.80
177.20
203.40
195.00
168.00
388.60
321.60
485.80

561
Allowed
Represent·
ativcs.

36.18
36.18
36.18
37.58
21.25
62.10
28.81
38.76
38.12
2.90
26.86
.50
5.50
24.08
38.18
31.85
36.18
6.37
.30
45.45
45.45

379.75
88.20
788.60
166.20
161.60
149.40
822.40
226.20
180.20
268.60
482.20
232.60
831.80
140.80
206.60
635.20
163.60
268.60
422.20

29.02
36.18

37.47
36.18
2.70
36.18
36.18
36.18

19.72
36.18
36.18
7.13
4.30

562

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Home
Home
General Maintcnanee Building
Fund.
FundFund.

Paul Revere ____ .-462
642.30
327.00
Morgan Hi!L .... .463
31.30
27.00
Alta Vista. ________ .464
155.90
81.00
Center _______________ .465
117.50
85.00
Libertas :___________ __466
134.10
79.00
Culver City _...... .467
68.40
36.00
Rockridge _________ .468
207.30
107.00
Yorba Linda. ____ .469
58.40
36.00
Lincoln _____________ .470
200.40
76.00
Delta ........... _______ 471
167.20
68.00
Maui ................. --.472
86.50
86.00
57.00
30.00
I>Iythe ____________ u. D.
Victory ____ .. ____ u. D.
84.90
31.00
Totals ________ ...... $75,559.15 $65,024.00

163.50
13.50
40.50
42.50
39.50
18.00
53.50
18.00
38.00
34.00
43.00
15.00
15.50

GRAND LODGE OF CALlFOR"HA

Total.

Allowed
Reprcsentatives.

1,132.80
71.80
277.40
245.00
16.70
252.60
24.80
36.18
122.40
.30
367.80
42.65
112.40·
314.40
269.20
5.10
215.50
102.00
58.42
131.40
$173,095.15 $6,725.65

Roo. G. Gun:TT,
RUDOLPH BECK,

c. H. WH£ELER,

•

563

RESOLUTION-SAN JACINTO LODGE
The following was introduced:
·whereas, On April 21st, 1918, the Masonic Temple at San Jacinto,
Calif., was totally destroyed by earthquake, and as there was no available place to meet, San Jacinto Lodge No. 338 had to rebuild, and the
officers and members of said Lodge were forced to borrow the sum of
four thousand ($4000), pledging the good faith of San Jacinto Lodge
No. 338, F. & A. M., through a few of its members; and
Whereas, The efficiency and the life itself of said Lodge is endangered from the heavy debt overshadowing it, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the sum of $4000 be hereby appropriated from the
funds of this Grand Lodge to be expended through the Grand Master
and Grand Secretary to remove the burden from the shoulders of said
San Jacinto Lodge No. 338.

Referred to the Committee on Finance.

Committee.

The report was adopted, together with the recommendations. On motion the Grand Secretary was directed to
write to Brother Clarence Berry, giving expression of the
appreciation of Grand Lodge for his efforts in holding his
Lodge together, and our sympathy in his domestic afflictions.
:N1ASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIATION
Past Grand Master Hervey presented a resolution that
this body affiliate with and send a representative to the
Masonic Service Association of the United States, which
was referred to the Committee on Jurisprudence.
LECTURE
At 11 o'!='.lock the Grand Master introduced Brother
B. R. Baumgardt of Pentalpha Lodge No. 202, who delivered an eloquent and· instructive lecture on "Masonry and
the Spirit of the Age." On motion of Brother McKillop a
rising vote of thanks was extended to our distinguished
brother.

R£PORT OF LIBI~ARY COMMITTEE
Brother Henry M. Owens, chairman of the Committee
on Library, reported as follows:
Tu the Must Worshipful Gmnd Lodge u{ Cali{umia:
Your Committee on Library herewith presents the following report :
Owing to conditions prevailing generally during the past year, the
ending of the war and the returning of our troops, your committee has
not been able to do as much work in securing books as might he desired.
\Ne have, however, secured many valuable books which are now on the
shelves of our library and take pleasure in reporting as follows:
NEW BOOKS SECURJ\D SJNCI\ OUR LAST Rl\PORT

Since our last report your committee has received the following
donations:
From Brother James D. Smith of Eden Lodge No. 113, about 400
volumes, including histories, travel, music, science, etc., and many school
books. Out of this collection about 200 volumes are now available for
the library.
From Brother William A. Burdick of Richmond Lodge No. 375,
two volumes.

'

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

564

565

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

From Brother Walter Perry Johnson, of California Lodge No. I,
four volumes.
From Brother Joseph Rosenberg, Doric Lodge No. 216, one volume.

and in that connection we desire to call the attention of the membership to the recommendation made last year with reference to books
acceptable and desired.
RespectfuJly submitted,

From Brother H. R. Ingram of Richmond Lodge No. 375, eight
volumes.

HENRY M. OWENS,
MARTIN A. SHELDON,
SIDNEY B. FORCE,

From Brother Fred B. Woods of King So.lomon's Lodge No. 260,
six volumes.
From Brother E. M. Cherry of Occidental Lodge No. 22, six volumes.
From Palmyra Lodge No. 26, six volumes, including Gould's "History of Free Masonry" and Mackey's Encyclopedia of Free Masonry,
and a large number of old Proceedings of Grand Lodge.

v ANDEN!lOS,
w ALLACE,

CHARLES A.
LEW E.

Committee.

Report adopted.
Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 0'clock this
afternoon.

From Brother Henry M. Owens, your chairman, sixty-six volumes,
including histories, fiction ~tories, and the works of Richard Harding
Davis and Rudyard Kipling.
From Brother H. J. Lloyd, Past Master of Crockett Lodge No. 139,
one rare volume entitled "Eighteen Books of the Secrets of Art am!
Nature, Being the Summc and Substance of Naturall Philosophy, Methodically Digested. First Designed by Dr. V. V echer, Doctor in
Physick, and now so Augmented and Inlargcd Ly Dr. R Read. A Like
Work Never Before in the English Tongue." Printed for Simon Miller
at the Starre in St. Paul's Church-Yard, 1660.
APPROPRIATIONS

Since 1917 the Grand Lodge has appropriated for the use of this
committee the sum of five hundred ($500) dollars for the purchase of
books and she'.ving. The sum of $81.75 was expended in 1918, and your
committee has not expended any money during the past Masonic year.
There is now a balance of the appropriation not expended in the sum <;>f
four hundred e.ighteen dollars and twenty-five cents ($418.25). Your
committee might have expended this money, but it was dec;med advisable
not to make any purchases during the past year, or until our social conditions had become more settled.
Your committee is of the opinion that the balance above shown
should be left to the credit of the Committee on Library for the ensuing
year.
And your committee desires to impress upon the members of the
Grand Lodge that we still have shelving for over two thousand books,

Afternoon Stssion.
Thursday, October 16, 1919.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CHARTERS
Brother Albert A. Rosenshine, chairman of the Committee on Charters, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful .Grand Lodge of California·:

Your Committee on Charters begs to report as follows:
During the past Masonic year dispensations were issued to two
Lodges, namely, Blythe Lodge, at Blythe, California, an<l Victory
Lodge, at San Francisco, California. Each of these Lodges has petitioned this Most Worshipful Grand Lodge for charters.
Your committee has made careful examination of the records of
each of said Lodges and w.e find that the same substantially conform to
all the requirements of the Constitution and that they arc kept in an
orderly and careful inanncr. In the case of Victory Lodge, the minutes
fail to set forth in full the by-laws adopted hy that Lodge, and we rec-

'

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

ommend that the by-laws as .adopted by said Lodge be spread in full
upon the minutes.
The communities in which each of these Lodges have been established are sufficient both in population and resources to justify the
chartering of these Lodges. Each of the Lodges are free from debt
and have substantial cash balances on hand.
We therefore recommend that a charter be issued to Blythe Lodge
situated at Blythe, California, to be known as No. 473; and that a
charter be issued to Victory Lodge situated at San Francisco, California, to be known as No. 474.
There was also referred to your committee the request of Meridian
Lodge No. 182, situated at Arbuckle, California, asking that it be
granted permission to change its name from Meridian Lodge .No. 182 to
Arbuckle Lodge No. 182.
Your committee finds this request to be in proper form and that the
Lodge meets at Arbuckle and not at Meridian, and that the facts
brought out before your committee justify the granting of this request.
'We therefore recommend that the name of Meridian Lodge No. 182
he changed to Arbuckle Lodge No. '182 and that this Most Worshipful
Grand Lodge grant said change of name.

ducing fees for the Fellow Craft and Master Mason degrees from $35
to $25, and for the Master's degree alone, from $20 to $10.
Increasing Dues: One Lodge from $12 to $18, but afterwards reduced to $12; two Lodges increasing dues from $9 to $12; five Lodges
from $6 to $12; two Lodges from $6 to $9; one Lodge reducing dues
from $12 to $9.

566

567

There are nineteen applications for changing the time of stated
meetings.
We find all of the above applications to be in proper form and all
have been properly adopted, and we recommend their approval.
Your committee also carefully considered two sets of by-laws of
Lodges under dispensation and find the same to be in proper form.
Your committee recommends that all applications for amendments
and the by-laws of Lodges under dispensation be approved.
Respectfully submitted,
W.W. KAYE,
PAUL NATHAN,

Committee.

INVESTMENT OF ENDOWME.:-JT FUNDS

Respectfully submitted,
ALBERT A. RosENSHINJ\,
PAUL R. MJ\LCHJ\RT,
RALPH WYCKOFF,

Committee.

The report and recommendations were adopted.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON BY-LAWS
Brother W. \V. Kaye, chairman of the Committee on
Dy-Laws, reported as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grnnd Lodge of California:

Your Committee 011 By-Laws has carefully examined the various
app:ications for changes _in by-laws and find that there have been proposed the following changes:
One Lodge increasing fees for degrees from $75 to $100; four
Lodges from $50 to $75; three Lodges from $40 to $50; one Lodge from
$35 to $50; five Lodges from $30 to $50; one Lodge from $30 to $40;
two Lodges reducing fees for degrees from $75 to $50; one Lodge re-

Past Grand Master Keesling, for the Committee on
Jurisprudence, reported as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Gra11d Lodge of Califomia:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom has been submitted
the recommendation of the Endowment Committee, Masonic Homes,
respectfully recommends the adoption oj the following resolution:
Resolved, That funds of the Endowment Fund be invested only in
Federal, State, county or municipal honds legal for savings banks.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS. L. PATTON,

DAN A R.

w ELI..J\R,

ALB!\R'I' G. BURNF,'M.',

F. v. KEJ\SLING,

J. D. MuRl'HF,Y,
Committee.

The report and resolution were adopted.

,
PROCEEDINGS OF THE

568

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PLANS FOR
HOMES REVENUE
Past Grand Master Keesling, chairman of the Special
Committee appointed pursuant to the Grand Master's recommendation to survey and _report some plan for providing
revenue for the Homes, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your special committee appointed with the duty to thoroughly investigate the various plans and suggestions to adequately provide for
the maintenance of the Masonic Homes respectfully submits its report
as follows:
The plans considered were the one pending as unfinished business
by resolution providing for the devising of ways anti means for charging
the individual members of the Craft at the rate of one dollar ($1.00) per
year for this purpose, an endowment insurance plan, the so-called Pennsylvania plan, and the modification of the Pennsylvania plan as reported
by the Trnstecs of the Masonic Homes.
We have given these various plans careful consideration, and with
definite objects in view submit our recommendation.
We believe in a permanent endowment fund; that that fund should
be at least two and one-half million dollars; that any plan for obtaining
money must provide for an allocation of part of the money collected to
the endowment fund, thereby providing a means for lessening the burden as time goes on and the fund increases; that the problem is not so
much to provide a means whereby the present per capita charge may
be reduced, but, owing to increasing demands and responsibilities which
must he assumed by the fraternity, the Prevention of ati increase in the
per capita.

Whether or not the value of money and its decreased purchasing
power will continue is at kast a problem for present consideration and
the fact is that if the cost of maintenance continues, it will be necessary
to raise the per capita or restrict our activities and not fully perform our
duty. An increased per capita would mean an additional hardship on
those lodges which are now complaining of the burden and would cer
tainly mean in some instances a readjustment of dues with its attendant
difficulties. It is quite likely that the conditions affecting the value of
money will prevail for some time. Our responsibility grows in_ propo~­
tion to the growth of the membership. As the expenses grow, if that is
to be relieved by a permanently invested fund, it is self-evident that the

569

amount of the endowment fund must be increased. We all realize the
importance of the endowment fund. Conceding its importance from
the point of view of a possible reduction of the per capita it becomes
exceedingly more important if we consider the possibility of in.crease of
the Per capita. It may be well to note what has happened with reference
to institutions which have considered themselves sufficiently endowed
and no": find that, by reason of growing responsibility, if they are to
keep their proper p!ace and perform a sufficient duty, they must meet a
s_ituation which demands increased funds. Stanford University, at one
tune the most largely privately endowed institution in America, if not in
the wo:ld, ".'as consi<!cred to be beyond all question of necessity, and
today hnds itself laclong funds by reason of a change of circumstances
an_d_ increased rc.sponsibilitics and under the necessity of imposing a
tmt10n fee when 1t was the hope and the aspiration of the founders that
an education should be furnished free to the boys and girls of California
and elsewhere.• The exigencies have compelled that action or a restriction of activities. Harvard University and other universities largely
endowed arc making strenuous drives for money. A study of the
appropriations for the University of California would indeed prove
interesting.
Therefore, it seems that the plan for charging the individual member
One Dollar ($1.00) per annum for the benefit of the homes, even if such
IL:gislation _could he effectively enacted, would be but a temporary expedient and, m the end, mean but a compulsory addition to the <lues of the
Lodges and the transfer of the present per capita in that manner.
There was submitted a plan for endowment insurance contemplating
(Jc) per day by every member of this grand
J unsd1ct10n wl!h which insurance on the lives of younger members
might be purchased on the endowment plan-IO, 15 or 20 years-for the
benefit' of the homes. It was accompanied by a plan for organization
of clubs among the members of the Lodges and a central organization
for administration charged with the responsibility of collecting the
money and main.taining the interest. The contributions were to be voluntary. This plan was submitted by Past Master Valentine of Charter
Rock Lodge, who has been earnest and sincere in his desire to evolve a
plan which will insure a sufficient endowment fund. We appreciate his
earnestness, his energy, and his enthusiasm, and it is with no disregard
of these meritorious characteristics that we have come to the conclusion
that the plan is impracticable, that, while it calls for on!y one cent (le)
a day, the translation is $3.65 per year, and owing to the tremendou~
amount of energy which must be expended, to persuade the membership ·
of the value of this voluntary contripution, we believe it would not be
successful and that, in addition, i,t would be provocative of misunderstanding and dissatisfaction among the brethren.
·
~ c?nt.ri~ution _of one cent

570

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

A financial secretary employed by reason of special ability to col!ect
funds was suggested. Believing that the voluntary activities of the
brethren under direction of a committee of this Grand Lodge will more
than equal the activities of any paid official, we believe the suggestion
should not be considered.
There remains for consideration (1) the recommendation of the
Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes of the "Pennsylvania Plan
modified to meet conditions peculiar to our Lodges," which in a few
words is a substitution for a uniform membership charge, an amount
proportionate to the initiation fee charged by the Lodge, and (2) the
so-called Pennsylvania plan itself.
Careful consideration has been given to both plans. We believe that
the theory of the charge for the maintenance of the homes is based upon
the requirement that the individual member shall bear an equal .proportion of the burden. That is the basis of the per capit~ tax. That a
Lodge charges Nine Dollars ($9.00) or Twenty-four Dollars ($24.00)
dues or a Thirty Dollar ($30.00) or One Hundred Dollar ($100.00)
initiation fee makes no difference and that we believe to be perfectly
proper. The dues and the initiation fee of a particular Lodge are based
upon what the members conceive to be the requirements for administration and other standards established for their membership. We believe
that the proposed fee, if it may· be so defined, is in the nature of a
capital contribution and should not be entirely expended for maintenance,
but a portion thereof should be allocated for the purposes of permanent
improvement or become a part of the permanent fund. It is our opinion
that no man who is desirous of membership in the fraternity will be
balked by a Twenty Dollar additional charge; that it will be willingly
paid; that it is a most feasible plan and will have a salutary effect of
impressing upon the initiate the responsibility of a Mason toward the
less fortunate, which probably would not have been amiss hitherto. It
may be claimed that this is imposing an unfair charge upon the initiate.
It should be unnecessary to comment upon the fact that the present
members of the Fraternity have been bearing the present burden continuously since the establishment of our homes, and, if they have not,
they should have contributed at least the amount expected of the initiate
and that, under the plan, a portion thereof being used for permanent
improvement and a permanent fund will result in reducing responsibility
in the future. It can just as well be claimed why should any initiate be
permitted to enter now and avail himself of the privileges without bearing a portion of the burden thereof which those in the fraternity have
borne. It is a well recognized system in some institutions to add to
initiation fees any amount which has been paid by members by way of
assessment.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

571

We therefor~ . f~vor. the ~doption of a Twenty Dollar ($20.00)
payment by each m1tiate m addition to the initiation fee for the purposes
of the homes: one-half thereof to be allocated for maintenance, one-half
to be ~et aside for permanent improvement and endowment fund by·
a.llocatto~ of the surplus in either fund to the endowment fund from
time to hme by the Board of Trustees of the Masonic Homes.
We also firmly believe that the annual solicitation for the endowment fund should be continued. We are cognizant of the fact that ma
of our members .less fina~cially equipped than others to give have pror;:.
ably oyer-subscnbed, while many of the better financially conditioned
have not assumed their proportion. In this connection a particular
effort .should be made to obtain proportionate subscriptions from the
wealthier mem?ers. There should also be an especial effort to obtain
pledges extendmg over a period of time not too long and fortified b
notes. T~ere. can be no valid objection to the solicitation for a volu:
tary contribution unless a Mason has forgotten all he has been t
ht·
d th
I I' . .
aug '
an
e annua. so 1c1tat~on for the benefit of the Endowment Fund has
been valuable m educatmg the members of the Craft generall relative
to the accomplishment in the Homes.
Y
Respectfully submitted,

F. v. K£Ii~LING,
JoHN H. McG:EmtE,
G. A. HUTA~'F,
Vv'. D. ADIUilNCE,
Committee.

.on the suggestion of Brother Keesling, this report was
received, and he then introduced the following resolution:
-""
·Resolved,
y ·
hThat on and after January 1' 1920, eac h pe t't•
1 101n:r
or Int 1atton s al 1 pay to the Lodge in addition to the fee required
by the ~!-Laws of the Lodge the sum of Twenty Dollars and
each aff11tate from a jurisdiction other than California, the sum
of Tw~nty Dollars, for the maintenance and preservation and
perpetUtty of the Masonic Homes of California. And each Lodge
shall pay to the Grand Secretary, at the time of payment ~f the
an~ual dues as prescribed in Sections 41 and 80 of the Constitut.1?n• for each petitioner elected and initiated and for each
affiliate, the sum of Twenty Dollars.
f

. . . Resolved further, That all moneys received from such
m1tiates shall be paid by the Grand Secretary to the Grand
Treasurer for the use and benefit of the Masonic Homes.

572

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Resolved further, That one-half of the sum thus obtained be
set aside for the mainteriance of the Homes, and one-half i:e
set aside for permanent improvement, and that any surplus 1.n
either fund be allocated by the· Board of Trustees of the Masomc
Homes to the Endowment Fund.
Resolved further, That the Jurispruaence Committee be instructed to present to the Grand Lodge such. amendments to the
Constitution as to make this resolution effective.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

573

"And the sum of $20.00 as required in subdivision 1st, Section
41 oi this Constitution."
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGELLOT'l'I,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
DANA R WELLER,
ALBERT G. BURNET'!',

F. V. KEESLING,

J. D. MURPHEY,

The resolutions were adopted as read, and thereafter
Brother Keesling, for the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee to whom was submitted ·the resolution rela•
tive to the additional fee for the maintenance ~nd ~ermanent
Improvement Fund of the Masonic Homes of Califorma, for th.e
purpose of submitting required amendments, respectfully subnnt
the following:
Amend Section 41 by addin!f after the word "dollar," in paragraph designated 1st:
"And from and after the 1st day of January, 1920, for each !niti~te
and for each affiliate from a Jurisdictiou other than Cahforma,
the sum of $20.00 which shall be paid by the Grand Secretary t.o
the .Grand Treasurer for the use and benefit of the Mas?n1c
Homes of California, provided, that one-half the st1111 thus obtained
shall be set aside for the maintenance of the said Homes, and onehalf thereof shall be set aside for permanent improveme~t, and
that any surplus in either fund shall be allocated from time to
time by the Board of Trustees of said Masonic Homes to the
Endowment Fund,"
And that Section 114 of the Constitution be amended ~Y add·
ing after the words "for the Degrees" in the 3rd and 4th lmes of
said section, the following:
. "And ~he sum of $20.00 as .provided in subdivision 1st, Section 41 of the Constitution."

By adding to Section 122 of the Constitution, subdivision 3d,
after the words "by Section 165" these words:.

Committee.

After full discussion, the report and the amendments
were adopted by a five-sixths vote, ancl Sections 41, 114 and
122 were declared to be amended as recom111e11ded.
(It would appear from a reading of the above amendment to Section 41 that the Lodge and not the petitioner
should pay the ·$20.00 tax, and that Lodges would be
liable for this tax upon candidates elected prior to Jan""
nary 1, 1920, hut not initiated until after said date. The
Grand Master, however, rules that the resolutio11 upon
which the am~ndment is predicated should govern. Therefore, on and after January 1, 1920, Lodges must collect
from each petitioner the sum of $20.00 for the benefit of
the Homes. Secretaries should he advised. by their Masters to collect this fee from all petitioners after the December stated meeting.)
PAY RESIDENTS AT THE HOMES
The Grand Secretary called attention to that part of the
Report of the Trustees of the Masonic II om es relating to
the matter ·of the advisability of admitting pay residents to
the Homes, and in order that expression might be had by
(;rand Lodge, moved that the Trustees be given discretion
to admit pay residents whenever in their judgment it was
advisable. After discussion, the motion was withdrawn
pending the coming in and disposition of the report of the
Jurisprudence Committee on the proposed creation of a
new Committee on General Policy and Purposes.

574

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

JURISDICTION OF SAN FERNANDO LODGE
Past Grand Master Angellotti, chairman of the Committee on Jurisprudence, reported as follows:

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

575

regardless of his place of residence. Section 92A was drawn for
the express purpose of enabling us to make special provision in
cases where our general rules produce undesirable conditions, and
we think that it will be found sufficiently broad to enable us to
grant all necessary relief.
·

To the Jfost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

With regard to the application of San Fernando Lodge No.
343, either that it be granted .concurrent jurisdiction with the
Lodges of the City of Los Angeles, or that its exclusive jurisdiction be defined to be the same as it was previous to the annexation of the San Fernando Valley by the City 6f Los Angeles, we
beg to report:
It is manifest that the situation is such as to make it proper
for this Grand Lodge to grant relief. By reason of the annexation
by the City of Los Angeles of all of the territory surrounding the
. little city of San Fernando, wherein is located San Fernando
Lodge No. 343, the jurisdiction of this Lodge is now confined to
the territory within the town limits, about one mile square, while
prior to such annexation its jurisdiction extended over some 700
square miles of territory. The Grand Master correctly concluded
that under our existing law the Lodge could not be given concurrent jurisdiction with the Lodges of the City of Los Angeles
over territory within the legal bounds of the City of Los Angeles. But we see no reason why it cannot be given, under the
provision of Section 92A, exclusive jurisdiction over the City of
San Fernando, and over all the territory outside of said city over
which it had jurisdiction prior to the annexation by the latter city
of. the San Fernando Valley. This is exactly the character of ·
case contemplated by Section 92A. The procedure had is in
substantial accord with the requirements of Section 92A. The
notice required by such section has 'been given to every Lodge
where jurisdiction will be affected by the proposed change, and
no opposition has been recorded on the part of any such Lodge.
Th~ section requires as a prerequisite to action by the Grand
Lodge, the recommendation of the Grand Master. That recommendation has now been made. \Ve believe the Grand Lodge
should in this way grant the relief sought by San Fernando Lodge
No. 343. If this be done, there will be no necessity for any
amendment of Section 92A in so far as the needs of this Lodge
are concerned, and we are not at the moment sufficiently advised
::s to the necessity of any amendment or as to what should be
the provisions thereof. We doubt very much whether it would
be expedient to amend our law in such a way as to permit a
petition·er for. the degrees to apply to any Lodge in the State

We recommend the adoption of. the following resolution:
Resolved, That the jurisdiction of San Fernando Lodge NG.
343 be and the same is hereby defined as including all of the City
of San Fernando and also all of t1'e teritory outside of said citv
over which it had jurisdiction immediately prior to the annexatio~
by the City of Los Angeles of the San Fernando Valley, whether
within or without the City of Los Angeles. Such jurisdiction to
be, as provided in Section 92A, Constitution, an exclusive juri~­
<liction.
FRANK M. ANG1'LLO'l"l'J,

CHAS. L. p ATTON,
DANA R. W1'LL1'R,
ALBERT G. BURNl(TT,

F. v. K£ESLINC,

J. D. MURPHl(Y,
Committee.

The recommendation was adopted by unanimous vote.

WORK IN ENGLISH LANGUAGE
Past Grand Master Angellotti presented the following
report:
To the i"tfost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Certain recommendations of the Grand Master, arising from
difficulties in Acacia (formerly Germania) Lodge No. 438 of Los
Angeles, have been referred to your Committee for consideration.
At the last communication, upon a request based on the unanimous
action of that Lodge, held at a stated meeting, to the effect that the
name of the Lodge be changed from "Germania" to "Acacia," and
that its work thenceforth be given in the English language instead
of German, it was in effect resolved that the name be so changed
and the ritual thereafter rendered in the English language.
In view of internaltdiscord in the Lodge resultant of this change,
the Grand Master recommended either that the privilege of using

576

PROCEEDINGS .OF THE

the German language be restored to the Lodge, or that all Lodges
working in foreign languages be required t() adopt the English language in their work. In this connection it should further be stated
that the Grand Master is of the opiniori that "in the interest and
furtherance of that thoroughgoing Americanization which is the
dominant hope of the nation today, we should require all the Lodges
holding allegiance to this Grand Lodge to uniformly adopt and ~se
the English language in their work." At the very outset we desire
to state that your Committee unanimously concur in this last expressed view of the Grand M<1ister as to any Lodge that may .hereafter be instituted.
With relation to the matter of allowing Acacia Lodge to resume the rendition of the ritual in the German language, we are satisfied that no action should be had at this time. This conclusion
is based on the information given us by the Inspector of the Masonic District including that Lodge, and the Master of the Lodge.
There is no difference between these two brethren as to the cause
of the trouble that now exists in the Lodge. The great majority
of the members of the Lodge, including the present Master, who
opposed the making of such request, have loyally conformed to the
new policy inaugurated therein at the request of the Lodge, and
have faithfully endeavored to carry on the affairs of the Lodge
thereunder. The only difficulty now existing is due to the action
of a very small minority, the members of which substantially declared that they would not conform, and that for so long as the
Lodge failed to go back to the use of the German language there
would be no degrees conferred in the Lodge. A$ a result, such
applications for degrees as have been made ha_v: been :ejected. In
view of our decisions, the members who participated in such conduct have been guilty of a serious Mas.onic offense. In any event,
neither this Grand Lodge nor Acacia Lodge can allow itself to be
thus dragooned by such conduct on the part of these few recalcitrant members into taking the action they thus desire to accomplish.
We, therefore, recommend that no action be taken at this co~1munication looking to the restoration of the German language m
the ritualistic work of Acacia. Lodge.
With regard to the recommendation that all Lodges working
in foreign languages be required to adopt the English lapguage in
their work: As already stated, we heartily concur in the view of
the Grand Master, if the same be limited to Lodges to be hereafter
instituted. Rut we see no such exigency as now requires us to
take action which would have the immediate effect of depriving
several of our oldest and best Lodges, among others our Lodges

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

577

working in the French and Italian languages, a privilege given
them by our predecessars many years ago. We have only recently
registered in express provision of law our approval of these Lodges.
(S<'e sec. 121, Constitution.) If any necessity therefor hereafter
arises, we can easily take such action as may be desirable.
\Ve, therefore, recommend that no action be now had on this
recommendation of the Grand Master.
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,

CHAS. L. PATTON,
DANA R. WELL!tR,
.ALDER'!' G. BURNETT,

F. v. KEESLING,
J!D. MURPHEY,
Committee.

The report anc! the recom111endatio11s were adopted.
COMMITTEE ON GENERAL POLICY
AND PURPOSES
Brother Angellotti also presented the following report:
To the Most Worshi/>(ul G1wul Lodge of California:

The Grand Master recommends the establishment of an additional standing committee on policy to be termed "The Committee
on General Policy and Purposes," to which shall be referred such
matters as may properly be termed mere matters of policy and
matters affecting the good of the Fraternity. \Ve do not understand this recommendation to refer to any matter which is now
required J)y express provision of our law to be referred to any
speci.fied committee. It is obvious that this recommendation involves purely a question of policy, one concerning which we may
well 8ay that while we sec no legal objection to the adoption of
the suggestion, "we retnrn it to the Grand Lodge without recommendation." This we do. At the same time we submit for the action of the Grand Lodge the following proposed amendments to our
Constitution, which if adopted, will accomplish the desired purpose:
Amend Section 28 of the Constitution, by inserting therein after
the words "and ·On Library, to consist of five members each " the
following words, to-wit: "And on General Policy and Pu~po;cs, to
consist of seven members."

578

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Add a new section to be known as Section 32B, to read as follows: "The Committee on General Policy and Purposes shall consider and report upon such matters as may be referred to it,
which shall include such matters not referable by express provision
of existing law to some other committee as may properly be
termed mere matters of policy, and as to which it is deemed that
reference to such committee is advisable."
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
DANA R. WELLJ<:R,
ALBERT G. BURNETT,

F. v. KEESLING,

J. D. MURPHEY,
Committee.

The report was adopted and the Constitution was de·
clared to be amended as thus recommended, by a five-sixths
vote.

LIFE MEMBERSHIP
Past Grand Master \:Veller, for the Committee on Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under consideration
the approval of the Grand Master of standing resolutions adopted
by Lodges creating life memberships, and finds as follows:
That Southern California Lodge No. 278, West Gate Lodge No.
335, and Yorba Linda Lodge No. 469, have each complied with the
requirements of our Constitution in all respects, and we therefore
recommend that the action of the Grand Master in approving the
resolutions of said Lodges be approved.
The record submitted in connection with the action of Hawaiian
Lodge No. 21 and Argonaut Lodge No. 461 shows that neither of
said Lodges followed the procedure prescribed by our law.
Section 129 of our Constitution provides for a system of life
membership by the adoption of a standing resolution wherein shall
be provided the sum to be paid for the life memberships, the securities in which the funds may be invested, and also the duty of the
Secretary. to report to the Grand Lodge annually the number of
life members, the amount of the fund thus created, and the manner
in which it is invested.

579

Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 merely adopted the recommendation of
a Committee that life members be created upon the payment of
$150, and no provision was made for the investment of the funds
or report of the Secretary.
Argonaut Lodge No. 461 adopted a resolution as follows:
"Resolved, That this Lodge does hereby establish the fee for a
Life. Membership at the sum of $200, subject to the provisions of
Section 129 of the Constitution."
·
It does not in terms provide for the creation of life membersh.ip, but purp?~ts only to fix the fee therefor; nor does it comply
vv 1th the prov1S1ons of Section 129 that the resolution itself shall
specify the securities in which the fund may be invested, nor for
the Secretary's report.
The method prescribed by Section 129 is simple, and there
should be no difficulty experienced in following the plan outlined
the;ein. This statement is fortified by the fact that all Lodges
:Vh1ch have heretofore adopted the system, have complied with
its requirements before approval by Grand Lodge, and we can see
no reason for countenancing any deviation therefrom.
We, therefore, recommend that the action of the Grand Master
. in ·approving the resolution of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 and Argonaut Lodge No. 461 creating life memberships, he not approved and
that the Lodges affected be permitted, if so advised, to take the
necessary action to adopt a valid resolution creating life membership.
FRANK M. ANCF.LLOTT!,

CHAS. L. PATTON,
DANA R. WF.!.LF.R,
AI.ll>'.RT G. BURNF.TT,
F. V. Kr.;:sr.rnc,
J. D. MURPHEY,
Committt'e.

.

The report was adopted as presented.
\

580

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE OI•' CALIFOHNIA

APPROVAL OF DISPENSATIONS ISSUED
To the ,Host Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence have had under conside.ration the special dispensations issued by the Gran~ Master. durm~
the year, and are of the opinion that his discretion has m eac ,
instance been exercised with due regard for the welfare of the
Craft; and
We therefore recommend that the action of the Grand Master
in granting such special dispensations be approved.
FRANK M. ANGELLOTTI,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
DANA R. \VELLER,

ALBERT G. BURNETT,

F. V. Km<:sLmc,
J. D. MURPHEY,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

CONSOLIDATI ON OI< LODGES
Brother \Veller, for the same Committee, also submitted the following report :
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
.
.
Your Committee on Jurisprudence has had under c~ns1dle.raht1ol n
that ortion of the address o f t h e now Grand Master 111 w 11c - 1e
~ having approved the consolidation of Tuolumne Lo_dge. No.
~e;~~ ~eorge Washington Lodg<; No .. 62 without the Const1tut10nal
requirements having been comphed with.
Section 91 provides for three months' notice to the .me1:1he~s
.
is
of the stated meetmg
a t w hich the proposition of consolidation
1 11
to be presented, and that three-fourths of the mcm 1)Crs s ia co 11 o:ent in writing to the proposed change.
.
The record submitted to us discloses that 1.10 meetmg was held,
that the number of members of George \.Vashrngt?n I_,mlg? N~) .. 62
. 28 nd that only 19 assented to the consohdation, it emg
1 a
IS
b
impossible to locate the other nine mem ers.
Under these circumstances it cannot. be sai·d· that even sub. comp 1·1ance wa"" had with the plam prov1s10ns of· our law.
stant1al
.
We believe
t h e G ran d Master had not the power to ignore or

581

modify the rule we have laid down for our guidance in such matters,
and that this Grand Lodge has not the right, under the existing
provisions, to. permit· such a violation of our Constitution.
While it may work hardship in some cases, such as this, we
are of the opinion that to be cq.nsistent with our provisions, we
should adhere to the terms of tfie law as written, and trust this
Grand body to remedy the condition by appropriate legislation.
\'Ve therefore recommend that the action of the Grand Master
in that regard be not appr~ved.

The recommendation was adopted.
Brother \Veller then introduced the following proposed
amendment to the Constitution:
Resolved, That Section 91 of the Constitution be amended by
adding thereto the following:
Provided, that if the Grand Master finds that it is impracticable
to hold such meeting, or to secure the requisite written consents,
he may approve the consolidation upon the written consent of not
less than a majority of the members of such Lodge.

The amendment was adopted by unanimous vote.

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON GRIEVANCES
Hrother Bernhard, chairman of the Committee on
Grievances, presented reports as follows:
To the l.!ost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom was referred Trial Record No. 251,
Crescent Lodge No. 45, respectfully report as follows:
The accused was found guilty on three specifications; first, that
of having disobeyed a summons sent from within the Lodge.
Second, that of having made disrespectful remarks relative to
said summons; and
Third, that the accused had failed to assist a needy sister of
his and thereby made her a charge on the fraternity, he having
the ability to aid her and also that he wrongfully wi.thheld certain
personal property from her.
On the first and second specifications there is absolutely no
evidence in the record on the subject; the record disclosing ouly
the accusation and the answer denying the same on the part of the

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

582

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

accused. The record does not even show that the summons which
the ~ccused is charged with having disobeyed was ever issued or
served on the accused.
, In support of the third specification the only evidence offered
is a letter from the sister of the accused to a third person with
reference to making certain collections from the accused and recovering certain personal p~operty claimed by her from him.
This letter is not under oath nor does it appear from the eviderice that any deposition of said sister or any one, was ever taken
in said matter.
While no appeal was taken by the accused, your Committee
nevertheless feels constrained to reverse the findings of the trial
commissioners on all three specifications, for the reason that the
same are absolutely unsupported by the record.
Your Committee begs to call attention to the fact that trial
commissioners frequently accept the unverified statements filed
with them as evidence; these do not rise to the dignity of proof,
and are only to be taken if at all as admissions, where they constitute admissions of the person making them, and not for any other
purpose. This practice is not to be commended and often results
in grave injustice~
Your Committee therefore offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Resolved, That the verdict of the Commissioners in Trial
Record No. 251 be and the same is hereby reversed.
Respectfully submitted,
WALTER F. HAAS,

J. P. BERNHARD,
LEO YouNGWORTH,

GEo. L. JONES,
E. B. POWER,
Committee.

The report was adopted, and the accused was restored
to membership.

583

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances to whom was referred Trial
Record No. 259, Crockett Lodge No. 139, begs leave to report as
·follows:
The accused was found guilty on three specificationsFirst, that of using violence on the person of a brother Master
Mason.
Second, that of using vile and threatening language toward
said brother.
Third, that the accused testified falsely in a Police Court with
reference to state~nts alleged to have been made by the Master of
said Lodge.
The Commissioners found the accused guilty on all three
charges and sentenced him to be reprimanded.
Your Committee, after a careful review of the evidence. believes
the sentence to be inadequate to the offense proven. The record
shows that the accused, to use his own language, "heat up" a
brother Master Mason, knowing him to he such, two days after the
accused received his third degree, for the reasons as claimed by
the' accused, that the brother had opposed his advancement in
the Lodge and had spoken ill of him. It also appears from the
reeord that the accused intended to beat .the brother as soon as
he learned of the statements, but was advised by a subordinate
officer of the Lodge to wait until the accused received his thirtl
degree and then to heat up the brother who was claimed to have
made the statements about the accused and opposed his advancement. This conduct on the part of the subordinate officer n[
said Lodge was in our opinion most reprehensible, partic11larly
as such officer knew that he was giving the advice to a brother
not versed in Masonic law or practices. We feel that this circumstance must be taken into consideration in the fixing of the
penalty and that under all the circumstances the ends of justice
and the best interests of Masonry will he best suhscrvcd by suspending the accused, rather than expelling him.
Your Committee, therefore, offers the following resolution and
moves its adoption:
Resolved, That the findings of the Commissioners in trial
record No. 259 as to the guilt of the accnsed be and the same

f'HOCEEDINGS OF ·.rn rn

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

are hereby sustained, but that the penalty to be imposed upon the
accused be and the same is hereby fixed at suspension ..

Resolved, That the decision in ~ach of the cases herein above
mentioned, and t~ action of the Lodge thereon be, and the same
are hereby approved.

584

Respectfully submitted,

585

Respectfully submitted,

J. P. BERNHARD,
GEo. L. JoNEs,
E. B. PowER,

J. P. BERNHARD,

LEO Yoi;NGWORTH,

E. B. POWER,

GEo. L. JoNEs,

w ALTER F. HAAS,

LEo YouNGWORTH,

w ALTJ\R F. HAAS,

Grievance Committee.

Committee.

The report was adopted, together with the recommendation and the accused was declared suspended from all
'
.
the rights and privileges of Masonry.

To. the Most Worshipful Gran.d Lodge of California:

Your Committee to whom was referred the following trial
records, towit:
Record No. 247-Ashlar Lodge No. 306;
Record No. 248-Temescal Lodge No. 314;
Record No. 249-Balder Lodge No. 393;
Record No. 250--Brooklyn Lodge No. 225;
Record No. 252-Evergreen Lodge No. 259;
Record No. 253-Blackmer Lodge No. 442;
Record No. 258-Claiborne Lodge No. 185;
Record No. 261-0xnard Lodge No. 341;
Record No. 262-Bakerslicld Lodge No. 224;
Record No. 263-Excelsior Lodge No. 166;
Respectfully reports that it finds the records in each of the
above mentioned cases complete.
In none of these cases was there an appeal, and substantial
justice appears to have been done in all of them. The Committee,
therefore, offers the following resolution, and recommends its
adoption:

Adopted.
To the },fost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial
Record No. 260, from Reading Lodge No. 254, reports as follows:
The accused was found guilty upon the following charges:
1. Battery upon the accuser, a brother Mason; 2. Personal violence upon a brother; 3. Striking a brother; 4. \Vounding a
brother; 5. Adultery; 6. Divulging contents of a trial record.
Charges one to four embrace the same offense. All of the acts
charged were done at the same time and against the same
brother, and are sustained by the evidence.
The divulging of the contents of a trial record was the act of
the accused in allowing one of his witnesses to read the charges.
·While this act might be considered a technical violation of Masonic law, yet, under the peculiar circumstances of the case it
was a natural thing to do, and is not such a Masonic offense as
to warrant expulsion.
The transcript in this case contains 779 typewritten pages.
The entire evidence directed to the charge of adultery is hearsay.
The chief evidence relied upon by the accuser is a letter said to
have been written by the woman at the home of the accuser.
The woman denies having written this letter. This witness is
impeached by the accuser, and claimed by the accuser as unworthy
of belief.
T.his charge, under the rules as laid down in Section 202 of
our Constitution, that hearsay evidence is not admissible, is not
sustained by any competent and credible evidence.
We are of the opinion that the circumstances under which
the contents of the Trial Record were divulged, and under which
the battery was committed,-the accused acting under· great provocation and excitement and at the time when he had just been

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

586

accused of rape-are mitigating circumstances, and we think th~t
the penalty of expulsion as fixed by the Commissioners is too
severe and that the penalty of reprimand is a sufficient punishment. ' \Ve therefore offer the following resolution and move its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the Commissioners in Trial
Record No. 260, in finding the accused guilty of adultery and
divulging the contents of a trial record, be reversed; and
The action of said Commission in finding the accused guilty
of battery be sustained, but that the punishment be fixed at
reprimand.
Resj;lectfully submitted,
J. P. BllRNHARD,
Gm. L. JoNlls,
Lto YouNGWOR'fH,
E. B. PowllR,
\V ALTJlR F. HAAS,
Committee.

The report was adopted as read.
To the Most Worshipf'ul Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial Reccd
No. 245, respectfully reports:
The accused was tried and fo~md guilty in the United States District Court of the N orthcrn District of Ca:ifornia, for the violation of
Section 13 of the Act of May 18, 1917, and was sentenced to a term of
one year in the city and county jail of the city and county of San
Francisco.
The Trial Commission found the accused guilty and imposed the
punishment of expulsion.
\Ve, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the action of the trial commissioners in the matter
of' Trial Record No. 245 be sustained, and the same is hereby approved
and confirmed.

Adopted.

Respectfully submitted,
Lllo YouNGWORTH,
J. P. BllRNHARD,
GJlo. L. JoNES,
E. B. PowJlR,
WALTJlR F. HAAS,
Committee.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

587

To the Afost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
No.

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial Record
beg leave to report :

The accused was tried and found gnilty in the United States District Conrt for the Northern District of California, for violation of Sec
tion 13, Act of May 18, 1917, was sentenced to be imprisoned in the
county jail of Alameda county, State of California, for the period of one
year and to pay a fine in the sum of five thousand dollars.
The accused was indicted, charged with conspiring to set on foot,
provide and prepare means for a military enterprise to he carried on
from within the territory of the United States against India, which was
a part of the territory and dominion of the United Kingdom of Great
Britain and Ireland; the object and purpose of the conspiracy being to
incite military and armed rehellion in India; to overthrow and destroy
the government and authority, and to hinder and obstruct the military
operations of the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Ireland, and t;i
aid and assist the military operations of the Emperor of Cermany.
At the time of the conspiracy the government of the United States
was at peace with both the Kingdom of England and the Empire of
Germany.
'
The Trial Commission found the accused guilty and the penalty of
expulsion was imposed.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Reso]v('d, That the verdict of the trial commissioners in the matter
of Trial Record No. 255 he sustained, and the same is hereby approved
and confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
Lllo YouNGWor!'rn,

J. P. BJ\RNHAlrn,
GEo. L. JoNES,

w ALTISR F. l [AAS,
E. n. POWER,
Committee.

Adopted, and the expulsion of Julius C. Hizar was confirmed.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

588

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

589

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial Record
No. 257, beg leave to report:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred Trial Record
No. 254, beg leave to report:

The accused, who was a member of Hawaiian Lodge No. ·21, was
tried by a commission elected by Mission Lodge No. 16~, ~ change 0 ~
venue having been directed by Past Grand Master Wilham Rhode~
J;!ervey.

The accused was a member of Hawaiian Lodge No. 21 and was
tried by a trial commission elected by Mission Lodge No. 169.

The accused was indicted and pleaded guilty in the Unite~ Sta~es
District Court for the Northern District of California, to havm~ VIOiated Section 13, Act of May 18, 1917, was sentenced to pa~ a fi.ne 111 tl~c
sum of one thousand dollars and in default thereof was nnpnsoncd 1_11
the county jail in the city and county of San Francisco, State of California, for the period of three months.
The accused in this case was one of the defendants included _in the
indictment and charged with the acts of conspiracy referred to 111 t~e
report of this committee in Trial-Record Case No. 255, reported at this
session of the Grand Lodge.
The Trial Coi11missioners found the accused guilty and the penalty
of expulsion was imposed, from which decision and judgment the
accused appealed.
The Committee finds that ample opportunity was given the a:cuscd
to present his defe1ise and there is sufficient evidence to sustam the
findings of the commission.
•
W c, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the verdict of the trial commissio.ncrs in the matter
of Trial Record No. 257 be sustained, and the same 1s hereby approved
and confirmed.
Respectfully submitted,
LEo YouNGWORTH,
J. P. BERNHARD,
GEo. L. JoNES,
ALTER F. HAAS,
E. B. PowER,
Committee.

w

Adopted, and the expulsion of Heinrich A. Schroeder
was confirmed.

The accused was indicted and pleaded guilty in the United States
District Court for the Northern District of California, on the violation
of Section 13, Act of May 18, 1917, and was sentenced to pay a fine in
the sum of ten thousand dollars.
The Trial Commission found the accused guilty and as a penalty
directed that the accused be "reprimanded." Hawaiian Lodge No. 21
appealed.
The accused in this case was one of the defendants included in the
indictment and charged with the acts of conspiracy referred to in the
case of Trial Record No. 255; reported by this committee at this session of the Grand Lodge.
Your Committee has considered the able arguments presented by the .
counsel for the accused, has carefully investigated the record, and believe ·
that the penalty of reprimand imposed by the Trial Commissioncr·s is
inadequa tc.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and move its adoption:
Resolved, That the verdict of the trial commissioners in Trial
Record No. 254 be sustained, but that the penalty he fixed at expulsion,
and that the accused be, and he is, hereby expelled from all the rights
and privileges of Masonry.
Respectfully submitted,
LHo YouN(:wol<'tH,
Clio. L. JoNJis,
wAL'n:R F. HAAS,
E. ll. PowJiu,
Committee ..

Adopted, and the accused, George Rocleik, was declarecl
expelled from all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

590

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

591

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Grievances, to whom was referred certain petitions for restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, report as
follows:
,.
Case No. 84-A. ]. F., expelled March 4, 1910: It appears that
notice of the intention to petition for restoration in this case was not
given to the Lodge which expelled him until September 8, 1919, whereas
the Constitution provides that such notice shall be given at least sixty
<lays before the annual communication. This necessary provision not
having been complied with, the application should not be further considered at this communication. We, therefore, recommend that the
application be denied without prejudice to a renewal thereof by the
applicant.

The recommendation was adopted.
Case No. 144-William S. R., expelled October 16, 1913: Petitioner
was found guilty of defrauding his emp'.oyers out of large sums of
money and was expelled. His application for restoration is supported
by a letter of his father, but no other affirmative showing is made that
•the petitioner has so conducted himself since his expulsion as to compel
the conclusion that he has made amends for his offenses 'and is now
worthy of being restored to the rights and privileges of Masonry.
We, therefore, offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of Willi;un S. R. for restoration he
denied.

Adopted.
Case No. 148-]. P. R., expelled December 5, 1913: The pet1t10n
in this case has been indorse<l by the Lodge which expelled the petitioner, and there have been presented several affidavits and letters in
which the petitioner is favorably recommen<lc<l. Your Committee, however, feel that in view of the character of the offense for the commission
of which the petitioner was expelled, the time has not yet come for his
restoration to the rights and privileges of Masonry, for we arc not fully
satisfied that the petitioner has under control the morbid temperament
which it ·is averred was the cause of his trouble.
Your Committee therefore offer the following resolution and rccom-·
mend its adoption:
Resolved, That the petition of]. P. R. for restoration he denied.

Grand Lodge refused to concur in the recommenclation,
and on motion the petition was granted and T. P; R. was
restored to all the rights and privileges of Masonry.

To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Con.;mittee on Grievances, to wl;om was referred Trial Recore\
No. 256, report as follows :
The accused was found guilty as charged. The Trial Commission
fixed the penalty at suspension, and no appeal has been taken in the
matter.
The. evid~nce amply justifies the finding of the Commission that the

~ccusecl ts _g1'.tlty, lmt we arc not satisfied with the conclusion reached hy
t 1c Comn11ss101: that the penalty of suspension is proper punishment fo.r
the acts co~1m1ttcd by the accused. There is, in our opinion, hut one
penalty winch should be imposed
when ,a M·ison
·
t·a nccs
·
' . , ttltllc r circun1s
such a_s -:vere shown to exist in this case, violates his ob'igation as the
Com1111ss1on found the accused to h•ve clone and th at . It ·
sion.
' '
' pena y 1s cxpulW e therefore offer the following resolution and recommend its
adoption:
Resolved, T~1at the verdict of the Trial Commission in Trial Record
No. 256 he sustained; hut that the punishment he fixed at expulsion and
th~t. the accused he and he is hereby expelk<l from all the right; "IHI
privileges of Masonry.
· ··
Rcspcctfolly submitted,
CEo. L. ]ONES,
Li·:o Y ouN<:wmiTn,
E. B. Powmi,

WAr.n:R F. llAAS,
]. P. Dl\1rnnAirn,
Committee.

The r~cport Was adopted, and Arthur L. Robbins, tried
by East (,ate Lodge No. 2lJO an cl suspcnclcd Tune 1 1<Jl CJ
was cleclared expelled from all the rights and privilc~es ;>f
Masonry.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

592

Western Star ...... No.
Tehama ................ No.

Morning Session.
Friday, October 1..7, 1919.
Grand Lodge was called on at 9 :30 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
The minutes of yesterday's sessions were read and approved.
MASONIC EDUCATION
Past Grand Master Well er, for the Committee on Jurisprudence, to whom had been referred the recommendations
of the Committee on Masonic Education, referred the matter back without recommendation, and on motion the recommendations of the Committee on Masonic Education as
presented in the report of that Committee, were now
adopted.
REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON CREDENTIALS
Robert E. Allan, chainiian of the Committee on Credentials, reported the following officers and representatives of
358 chartered Lodges, delegates from two Lodges under
dispensation, and Past Masters by service within this jnrisdiction as being present, namely:
California ............ No.

1.. .. Duncan A. McLeod, Master;

Walter P. Johnson, Senior Warden;
H. A. Kline, Past Master;
W. Crocker, Past Master;
P. M. Downing, Past Master;
D. E. F. Easton, Past Master;
F. V. Keesling, Past Master;
H. A. Marvin, Past Master;
H. M. Owens, Past Master;
C. L. Patton, Past Ma~ter;
E. Peabody, Past Master;
Jesse M. Whited, Past Master.

593

2.... Chas. E. Brown, Master and Past Master.
3.... T. J. Milliken, Representative and Past
Master;
J. Mclndeor, Past Master;
F. L. Thirkield, Past Master.
Benicia .................. No. 5.... Arthur N. Wheeler, Master;
William H. Graham, Junior Warden.
Tuolumne ............ No. 8 .... G. T. Elack, Past Master.
Corinthian .......... No. 9 .... Harvey D. Eich, Master;
S. Lewek, Past Master;
L. Il. Wilcoxon, Inspector and Past
Master.
San Jose .............. No. I 0 .... Claude 0. Winans, Master;
E. R. Bailey, Past Master;
,,
J. P. Jarman, Inspector and Past Master;
J. H. McGehee, Past Master;
C. H. Wheeler, Past Master.
Yount .................... No. 12.... Clarence Il. Kinney, Senior Warden;
J. Il. Stevens, Past Master;
C. E. Trower, Inspector and Past Master.
Nevada .................. No. 13 .... Horace A. Curnow, Master.
Temple .................. No. 14 .... Peter F. McGill, Master.
Eureka .................. No. 16.... J a mes H. Jeffreys, Senior Warden;
L. Buchanan, Past Master;
M. D. Lininger, Inspector and Past
Master;
C. F. Richter, Past Master.
La Parf. Union .... No. 17.... Aibert J. Fabre, Master;
Camille Artru, Senior Warden;
Louis Figeac, Junior Warden;
M. E. Diebold, Past Master;
H. Mottet, Past Master;
J. H. Plante, Past Master;
P. Pommier, Past Master.
Mountain Shade .. N o. 18 .... E. L. Case, Inspector and Past Master.
San Joaquin ........ No. 19.... J am es F. Campbell, Master;
Fred L. Kincaid, Senior Warden.
Washington ........ No. 20 .... Walter L. C. Dosch, Master;
Eugene Benjamin, Junior Warden.
Hawaiian .............. No. 21.. .. Lester Petrie, Senior Warden.

594

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Occidental ____________ No. 22 ____ David P. Vail, Master;
William P. Humphreys, Senior Warden;
Lem W. Spriggs, Junia~ Warden;
F. W. G. Moebus, Past Master;
F. W. Nish, Past Master;
M. A. Sheldon, Past Master.
Madison ________________ No. 23 .... Tames J. Rowe, Master;
T. Ingram, Inspector and Past Master;
G. L. Jones, Past Master.
Mariposa ______________ No. 24 .... Lorenzo A. Offield, Master;
Howard B. Kinsman, Junior Warden.
Palmyra ________________ No. 26 .... Marshall T. Kelly, Master.
Trinity __________________ No. 27 .... Clarence A. Chamberlain, Master.
Golden Gate ________ No. 30 .... Edw. C. C. Wellesley, Master;
Geo. H. Dannemark, Senior Warden;
Fred'k G. Canney, Junior Warden;
P. R. Bjick, Past Master;
S. A. Clarke, Past Master;
A. F. Heuer, Past Master;
J. H. Humphreys, Past Master;
E. L. Meyer, Past Master.
Gold Hill ______________ No. 32 .... Walter K. Jansen, Maste-r and Past
Master.
Ophir ------····----------No. 33 .... David Eltringham, Master and Past Master.
San Diego ____________ No. 35 .... Samuel W. Hackett, Master;
Frederick W. Reif, Sen·ior Warden.
Santa Cruz __________ No. 38 .... Alex. J. Petitdidier, Master.
St. John's ____________ No. 37 .... 0rlo G. Steele, Master;
G. A. DeWitt, Past Master.
Sacramento __________ No. 40 .... Arthur F. Henning, Senior Warden;
W. H. Renwick, Past Master;
F. Tade, Representative and Past Master.
Martinez ··--------····No. 4L .. 0rville E. Hayward, Senior Warden.
Los Angeles ________ No. 42 ____ Arthur T. Richardson, Master;
William C. Mcintyre, Senior Warden.
Mount Moriah ______ No. 44 ____ William E. Rampe, Junior Warden;
T. C. Conmy, Past Master;
T. Frolich, Past Master;
R. A. Pratt, Past Master.
Crescent ______________ No. 45 ____ Wm. Marshall, Jr., Junior Warden;
0. Dudley, Past Master.

Texas ---··-----··-···---.No. 46 ____ William R. Flint, Master and Past
Master.
Forbestown -·-·-·--No. 50.... William J. Schultz, Master and Past
Master;
M. G. Hill, Past Master.
Illinois town ________ No. 5L .. Frank E. Miner, Master and Past Master.
Suisun ·--·-·-------···--No. 55 .... Kenneth I. Jones, Master.
Volcano -·-·-----·--·---No. 56 .... L. J. Camicia, Representative.
Santa Rosa ·---··-·--No. 57 .... George J. Reading, Master;
William B. Corrick, Senior Warden;
A. G. Burnett, Past Master.
Union ____________________ No. 58 .... Drury D. Butler, Master;
Rufus B. Carlton, Senior Warden·
T. J. Baker, Past Master;
'
J. P. Bascom, Inspector and Past Master;
J. F. Morgan, Past Master.
Plumas --··--------··----No. 6Q ____ Micheals C. Kerr, Master;
J. 0. Moncur, Inspector and Past Master.
Live Oak --······-·---·No. 6L .. Herbert Beckwith, Master;
Samuel W. Burtchaell, Senior Warden;
L. S. Griswold, Past Master;
C. H. Victor, Past Master;
A. n·. Webster, Past Master;
C. H. Wood, Past Master.
Na tom a ·--········-----No. 64 ____ Alexander Dickson, Master.
Amador ·-···-----------No. 65 .... William T. Brewer, Inspector, Sehior
Warden and Past Master.
Forest ____________________ No. 66 .... Frederick A. Austin, Senior Warden.
Morning Star ______ No. 68 .... William P. Ferguson, Master; _
H. W. Hessac, Inspector and Past Master;
0. S. Henderson, Past Master.
Enterprise ---------···No. 70 .... Walter J. Shelly, Junior Warden.
Dear Mountain .... N o. 76 ____ Thomas H. Davey, Master and Past
Master.
Calaveras ··-·-·--------No. 78 .... Chas. P. Snyder, Master ancl Past
Master.
Humboldt ____________ No. 79 ____ Tohn A. Sinclair, Junior Warden;
T. R. Dinsmore, Past Master·
G. W. Hunter, Past Master. '
Ione ______________________ No.
80 .... George H. Yager, Senior Warden.
Yolo ---·-·-·----···-------No. 8L .. James E. Harmon, Master.

595

596

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Vesper .................. No. M .... Otto C. Combs, Master.
Naval .................... No. 87 .... Bert C. Whiteley, Master;
Carl Rhodes, Senior Warden;
Mark T. Andrews, Junior Warden;
C. W. Causbrook, Past M.aster;
F. Graff, Past Master.
Rose's E'ar .......... No. 89 .... Chas. E. Collins, Master and Past
Master;
B. Palmstrom, Past Master.
North Star .......... No. 91-. .. J oseph D. Loots, Representative.
St. Helena ............ No. 93 .... Theo. Summonson, Senior Warden.
Henry Clay .......... No. 95 .... Henry Warrington, Master;
M. Brinn, Past Master.
Howard ................ No. 96.... Lewis Carrigan, Master.
Jefferson .............. No. 97 .... Arthur T. Gould, Master and Past Master.
Hornitos -------·-·····No. 98 .... Frank N. Solari, Master and Past Master.
Yosemite .............. No. 99 .... J ohn A. Robinson, Master and Past M;aster.
Oroville ................ No. 103 .... A. E. Boynton, Past Master;
C. G. Crowe, Representativo and Past
Master;
C. 0. Hamilton, Inspector and Past Mas•
ter.
Lexington ............ No. 104 .... Thomas Pollard, Jr., Master.
Pajaro .................. No. 110.... Frederic S. Wilson, Master;
Edward G. Burland, Senior Warden.
Chico .... :............... No. 111.. .. Robert H. B. Eooth, Master.
Summit ................ No. 112.... Herbert Collins, Representative.
Eden ...................... No. 113 .... S. B. Force, Representative and Past
Master.
Concord -------------···No. 117 .... William K. Lindsay, Master;
Frederick J. Harris, Junior Warden;
J. M. Chapman, Past Master;
C. A. Schocke, Past Master.
Clinton ................ No. 119 .... Stanley J. Jones, Master.
Fidelity ................ No. 120 .... Herbert S. Bibbero, Master;
Alfred E. Hofmann, Senior Warden;
P. Jacobovics, Past Master;
H. M. Wallenstein, Past Master.
Alamo -----············-No. 122 .... Rollin N. Foster, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

597

\ Sotoyome ............ No. 123 .... George T. Hansen, Master;
John W. Hillhouse, Junior Warden;
M. H. Cox, Past Master;
J. H. Wilson, Past Master.
Table Mountain .. No. 124.... Adolph N. Caspare, Senior Warden.
La Fayette .......... No. 126.... William E. Parks, Master;
. R. E. Swarts, Past Master
Herman ................ No. 127 .... Hans H. Schmalfeld, Mas.ter;
Emil L. Tretten, Senior Warden;
Max Breithaupt, Junior Warden·
E. A:Neuaerkel;
'
Visalia .................. No. 128.... Leroy W. Potter, Senior Warden.
Nicolaus .............. No. 129.... Clyde Waltz, Master.
Woodbridge ........ No. 131.... Harvey S. Van Vicar.
Sincerity ....... :...... No. 132.... Hugh C. Chamberlain, Master and 'Past
Master.
Vacaville .............. No. 134.... John T. Montgomery, Master and Past
Master;
Frank H. Clark, Senior Warden and Past
Master;
J. M. Arnold, Past Master;
F. E. Dickie, Past Master;
S. P. Dobbins, Past Master.
Valley ..................... No. 135 .... Frank J. Foote, Master.
Pacific .................. No. 136.... Paul Na than, Master;
Robert L. Lincoln, SPnior Warden;
Arthur Roth, Junior Warclcn;
T. Anderson, Inspector and Past Master;
G. L. Darling, Past Master;
E. S. Elkus, Past Master;
F. L. Hansen, Past Master;
G. M. Perin<', Past Master;
J\. W. Turpin, Past Master;
E. L. Wrst, Past Master.
Crockett .............. No. 139.... William R. Gibson, Master;
Robert J. Thompson, Senior Warden;
Pet<'r Jorgensen, Junior Warden;
J. 0. L. Brunswig, Inspector and Past
Master;
A. H. Canaris, Past Master;
TT. W. Maass, Past Master;
H. McBirney, Past Master;
T. Rowlands, Past Master;
C. Teigeler, Past Master.

598

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Curtis .................... No. 140.... George Cavalli, Master.
Grafton ................ No. 141.... R. S. H. Leathers, Representative and
Past Master.
Franklin .............. No. 143 .... P. J. Huth, Past Master;
J. H. Hyde, Representative and Past
Master;
H. D. Kercheval, Past Master.
Oriental ................ No. 144.... 0wen L. Gibson, Master;
Isaac H. Cory, Senior Warden;
Herman ·v. Leffler, Junior \Varden;
C. W. Dobie, Past Master;
H. M. Jeffreys, Past Master;
C. W. Whitney, Past Master.
Vitruvius .............. No. 145 .... William J. Cunningham, Master and Past
Master;
•
Eugene H. Steinbeck, Junior Warden.
Abell .................... No. 146 .... J. M. Mannon, Representative an<l Past
Master.
Eel River ............ No. 147.... William S. O'Connor, .Master.
Lassen .................. No. 149.... J. E. Pardee, Representative.
Molino .................. No. 150.... J. T. Youles, Representative and Past
Master.
Woodland ............ No. 156.... H. H. Gable, Inspector an<l Past Master.
Keystone .............. No. 161.. .. H. B. Allen, Representative and Past
Master.
Harmony .............. No. 164.... Thomas C. Botting, Senior Warden.
Excelsior .............. No. 166.... Leslie E. Alt, Master;
C. A. Adams, Past Master;
vValter N. Brunt, Past Master;
D. A. Hare, Past Master;
L. C. Hunter, Past Master.
Alameda .............. No. 167 .... Harry C. Searles, Master;
F. B. Hartman, Past Master;
A. Norris, Past Master;
E. A. Ormsby, Inspector and Past Master.
Redwood City ... No. 168.... Harry Potts, Master;
Lawrence A. Heiner, Junior Warden;
C. H. Lambert, Inspector and Past Master.

GHANO LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

599

Mission ................ No. 169.... Henry J. Trowbridge, Master;
Frank H. Mattern, Senior Warden;
vVilliam C. Strickler, Junior Warden;
R. S. Allen, Past Master;
R. E. Allan, Past Master·
J. Hazlett, Past Master; '
\V. \V. Moore, Past Master·
M. H. Renwick, Past Maste;;
E. \V. Tucker, Past Master;
L. E. Wallace, Past Master.
Elk Grove .............. No. 173 .... Clarence L. Martin, Master;
T. L. Conrad, Past Master.
A nt10c
. h ................ No. 175 .... Herbert A. West, Master;
L. B. Brewster, Past Master.
Phoenix ................ N"o.178. ... Verne E. Johnson, Master;
J. Culbertson, Past Master·
W. B. Howes, Inspector a;1d Past Master;
M. J. Newburg, Past Master.
Mendocino .......... No. 179.... \Villiam Henry, Senior Warden;
H. A. Atwood, Past Master.
Petaluma .............. No. 180.... \Villiam A. Meyers, Master.
Russian River ...... No. 181.... Tra n. Gutshall, Senior Warden.
Meridian .............. No. 182.... Edison C. Schrader, Junior Warden
Cl 'b
..
a1 orne ............ No. 185 .... Edward W'. Chalmers. Master;
W. I. Thomas, Past Master.
Evening Star ..... So. 186.... William Y. Young, Master.
Keith .................... No. 187.... Bert \V. Martin, Senior Warden.
Oakland .............. No. 188.... Charles Quayle, Master;
Sophus N' clson, J nnior Warden·
R. B. Gaylord, Past Master·
'
F. R. Arbogast, Past Maste~.
·
Northern Light .... N"o. 190.... Edwin H. fiutzbach, Master and Past
Master.
Marin .................... No. 191.... Ahraham L. Borkheim, Master;
Horace \V. Rice, Senior Warden·
William L. Chamberlain. Junior Warden;
J. Clute, Inspector and Past Master;
A. B. Dewing, Past Master;
R. Furlong, Past Master;
G. F. Rodden, Past Master.
Santa Ilarbara ......Xo.192 .... George W. Tomlinson, Master.

600

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Mountain View .... No. 194.... Thomas E. Watts, Master;
H. H. Ainsworth, Past Master;
C. P. Berry, Past Master.
Buckeye ................ No.195 .... John M. Goodyear, Master.
San Simeon ........ No. 196.... John H. Bradhoff, Master and Past Mas-.
ter:;
A. Frankl, Past Master.
Wilmington ........ No. 198.... Henry F. Lembke, Master.
Hartley ................ No. 199.... C. J. Monroe, Representative and Past
Master.
Truckee ................ No. 200 ...c George Carson, Master and Past Master.
Silverville ............ No. 201....Chas. B. Phillips, Master;
Eggert Rohwer, Senior \Varden;
Isaac F. Beckley, Junior \Varden.
Pentalpha ............ No.202 .... Chas. W. Gist, Master;
Jack Paschall, Senior \Varden;
J.B. Gist, Past Master;
W. R. Hervey, Past Master;
F. M. Parker, Past Master.
Confidence .......... No. 203 .... Walter C. Buttle, Master and Past Master.
Olivet .................... No. 205 .... George
Lyon, Master;
·William H. George, Senior Warden;
Homer D. Crooke, Junior Warden;
B. L. Reynolds, Past Master.

yv.

Anaheim .............. No. 207 .... Harry O. Henderson, Master.
Rio Vista .............. No. 208 .... Harry K. Stewart, Master.
King David's ........ No. 209 .... Edward H. Abrams, Master;
\V. D. Adriance, Inspector and Past
Master;
John \Vhicher, Past Master.
Friendship .......... No. 210 ..•. W. W. Paull, Past Master.
San Benito .......... No. 21 I.. .. Herbert M. Williamson, Senior Warden.
S. San Francisco No. 212 .... Thomas Skelly, Master;
\Villiam H. Johnson, Senior \Varden;
S. McG. McDonald, Past Master;
W. J. B. \Varner, Past Master.
S. Rucnaven.tura .. No.214 .... Louis C. Drapeau, Master;
Ernest W. Argabrite, Junior Warden;
D. J. Reese, Inspector and Past Master.
Oak Grove .......... No. 215 .... Frank Billington, Master.

GRAND LODGE OF .CALIFORNIA

601

Doric .................... No. 216 .... William W. Kelly, Master;
Clyde C. Gilbert, Senior Warden·
M. Lafee, Past Master;
'
B. Levi, Past Master;
S. Myrson, Past Master;
A. A. Rosenshine, Past Master·
F. L. Wright, Past Master.
'
Monterey ............ N q. 21_7.... Frank C. Jakobs, Master.
Mosiac
. .................. No.
T
218 .... Frank Curzon, Master;
T. F. Brady, Representative and Past
Master.
SperanzaltalianaNo. 219 ... Joseph Perazzo, Master;
John Isola, Senior Warden·
A. Cogliandro, Past Master'·
J. Icardo, Past Master·
'
G. Scalmanini, lnspec;or and Past Master.
Downey ................ No. 220.... Hume H. Coward, Master.
Inyo ...................... No. 221.. .. John C. Morris, Senior Warden.
Roseville .............. No. 222.... Chas. T. McCracken, Senior Warden.
Bakersfield .......... No. 225 .... Dallas Hayes, Master and Past. Master;
Ed L. Hougham, Junior Warden;
A. B. Crites, Past Master·
W. W. Kaye, Inspector ~nd Past Master.
Brooklyn ............ No. 225 .... William H. McCutcheon, Senior Warden;
Irving Magnes, Junior Warden·
G. D. Warren, Inspector and P'ast Mas. ter.
San Mateo .......... No. 226 .... John E. Gordon, Master;
Albert A. Rochex, Senior Warden;
H •. Luff, Past Master.
Athens .................. No. 228 .... B. B. Tuttle, Representative and Past
Master.
Solano .................. N o. 229 .... Edward F. DeLaMater, Master;
Edward N. Sanders. Senior Warden·
H. A. Frahm, Past Master·
'
A. S. Halliday, Past Mast~r;
J. E. Sanderson, Past Master;
J. F. Walter, Past Master.

602

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

North Butte ........ No. 230.... G. \V. Blair, Representative.
Covelo .................. No. 23 L .. Byron L. Hurt, Master.
Janesville ...... c••••• N o. 232.... Otis Clark, Master.
Calistoga .............. No. 233 .... Harry Von Arz, Master.
Hope .................... No. 234.... Chas. Garrison, Master.
Surprise Valley .... No. 235 .... Chris H. Hansen, Master and Past Mas=
ter.
•
Hill's Ferry .......... No. 236.... H artley R. Smith, Master.
Guadalupe ............ No. 237 .... W. T. Lucas, Representative and Pa~t
Master.
Colusa .................. No. 240.... G. 0. Ahlf, Representative and Past
Master;
H. Jacobson, Inspector and Past Master.
Santa Ana ............ No. 241.. .. Marshall L. Keeler, Master;
E. B. Trago, Inspector and Past Master.
Magnolia .............. No. 242.... Phillip Crother, Representative. .
Eucalyptus .......... No. 243 .... E. F. Musson, Past Master.
Alcatraz ................ No. 244.... David T. Gardner, Master.
Laurel .................. No. 245 .... Leon Speier, Junior Warden.
Pomona ................ No. 246 .... Earl Fredensall, Master;
Joseph A. Allard, Jr., Junior Warden;
W. A. Vandegrift, Inspector and Past
Master.
Fresno .................. No. 247 .... William F. Dunn, Master;
W. J. Harris, Past .Master.
Alturas ................ No. 248.... Thomas F. Wilbur, Master;
C. S. Baldwin, Inspector and Past Master;
E. C. Bonner, Past Master.
Adin ...................... No. 250: ... Buffington A. Chace, Master.
Landmark ............ No. 253 .... E'enjamin F. Davisson, Master.
Reading ................ No. 254.... George R. Milford, Master;
Clarence C. Dakin, Senior \Varden and
Past Mast.,er;
A. M. Dean, Past Master;
McC. Fitzgerald, Past Master.
Welcome .............. No. 255 .... Vernon \V. Henley, Master;
M. C. Carter, Past Master;
R. E. Shore, Inspector and Past Master.
Lodi ...................... No. 256.... Rolla J. Cnster, Master.
Evergreen ............ No. 259 .... Chas. E. Brouse, Master;
H. D. French, Inspector and Past Mas. ter;
A. H. Winder.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

603

King Solon;on's .. No. 260 ... Frederick F. \Vright, Master;
John H. Crabbe, Senior Warden;
E. E. Conn, Past Master;
G. E. Weaver, Past Master;
F. B. \Vood, Past Master.
Tuscan .................. No. 261.. .. I. A. Fouch, Representative and Past
Master.
Lompoc ................ No. 262 .... Wright C. Eissinger, Master.
Hesperian ............ No. 264.... Guy L. Goodwin, Master.
Orland .................. No. 265.... VV. Clark. Inspector, Representative and
Past Master.
North East .......... No. 266.... Henry Kaber, Representative.
Galt ........................ No. 267 .... Albert Osler, Junior Warden.
Durant .................. No. 268.... Walter W. Bradley, Master;
William E. Ashland, Senior Warden;
Ingnald E. Flaa, Junior Warden;
R. Greig, Past Master;
E. D. Thomas, Past Master;
\V. H. Waste, Past Master.
Olive Ilranch ........ No. 269 .... John E. Noyes, Master;
U. G. Cottle, Past Master.
Snow Mountain .. No. 271.. .. Ira E. True. Junior Warden.
Pasadena .............. No. 272 .... Arthur C. Kendall, Master.
Anchor .................. No. 273 .... Tames \V. King, Master.
Arroyo ····--············No. 274 .... Edward Chase, Master.
Selma .................... No. 277 .... George W. Glines, Master and Past Master.
So. California ...... N o. 278 .... Grand Jackson, Senior Warden;
William P. Jeffries, Past Master·
E. B. Spencer, Inspector and P~st Master;
D. R. Weller, Past Master.
Hanford ................ No. 279.... Wallacc Collins, Master;
]. C. Ensign, Past Master.
Madera .................. No. 280 .... Samuel G. Owens, Master.
Mount Shasta ...... No. 281.. .. 0tto G. Trautz, Representative.
South West ........ No. 283 .... Frederick F. Martin, Master.
Paso Robles ........ No. 286-... Grover H. Coburn, Master;
]. W. Eddy, Past Master.
Winnedumah ...... No. 287 .... George A. Clarke, Master and Past Master.
Maxwell ................ No. 288.... C. Ernest Abel, Master.

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Elsinore ................No. 289 .... D. R. Crane, ·Representative and Past
Master;
M. N. Heb-elin, Past Master.
East Gate ............ No. 290.... Gordon R. Martin, Master;
Luke Hubbard, Senior Warden;
F. C. Mulkey, Past Master;
L. L. Yates, Past Master.
Santa Paula ....... .Xo. 291.. .. Ira B. Martin, Master.
Los Gatos ............ No. 292 .... Elton M. Hogg, Master and Past Master.
Orange Grove ...... No. 293 .... Herbert V. Harris, Master;
Harrison Z. Adams, Senior Warden.
Traver .................. No. 294 .... Phillip N. Olson, Master;
E. M. Kimberlin, Past Master;
H. E. Verble, Inspector and Past Master.
Mt. Jackson .......... No. 295 .... Wi!liam L. Cole, Master;
Walter G. Fonda. Se.nior Warden.
Silver Gate ............ No. 296.... John J. Manny, Master.
Dunsmuir ............ No. 297 .... Benjamin R. Fauber, Master;
Alexander Levy, Junior Warden and Past
Master;
G. A. Hutaff, Inspector and Past Ma::iter.
Liberty ................ No. 299.... Irvin A. Bell, Master;
Charles A. En~lish, Senior Warden;
H. A. :Myers, Past Master.
Redlands .............. No. 300.... J. A. Stone, Representative and Past
Master.
Ontario ................ No. 301.... Eugene R. Jenkins, Senior Warden.
Santa Lucia ........ No. 302 ....Jorgen C. Falkenberg, Master and Past
Master.
Porterville ............ No. 303 .... 0scar L. Hemphill, Master.
Reedley ................ No. 304 .... F. W. Davis, Representative.
Azusa .................... No. 305 .... Chester A. Savage, Master and Past Master.
Ashlar ................. .N' o. 306 .... Edgar E. H elsby, Master.
Santa Monica ...... No. 307 .... Charles S. Robinson, Master.
Monrovia .............. No. 308.... Frank M. Beardsley, Master.
Delano .................. No. 309 .... Tohn K. Hamilton, Master;
A. S. Kramer. Past Master.
Sisson ..................:.No. 310.... Walter C. Allingham, Master and Past
Master.

Los E'anos .......... No. 312 .... Lewis T. Mason, Jr., Master.
Tehachapi ............ No. 313 .... Glenn M. Andrus, Senior Warden;
Clyde E. Mallochowitz, Junior Warden;
H. J. Beuaford, Past Master;
L. B. Kessing, Past Master.
Temescal .............. No. 314... ,0rean A. Ward, Master.
Norwald ................ No. 315 .... J. Hay, Representative and Past Master.
Sanger .................. No. 316.... \Villiam Radley, Master.
Fallbrook .............. No. 317 .... Harry H. Smelser, Junior Warden.
Emmanuel ............ No. 318. ... H. Cohn, Past Master.
W. E. Walker, Representative and Past
Master.
Hollenbeck .......... No. 319 .... Tacob n. Ginther, Master;
Melvin A. Bresee, Senior Warden;
J. M. Dunsmoor, Past Master;
W. J. Sanborn, Inspector and Past Master;
L V. Youngworth, Past Master.
South Gate .......... No. 320.... Frederic C. Bell, Master;
R. E. Dill. Inspector.
Alisa! .................... No. 321.. .. Hugh A. Sinclair, Master.
Alhambra ............ No. 322.... Frank W. Bieckenridge, Master;
E. E. Ford, Past Master.
\Vhitticr .............. No. 323 .... Cyrus E. Trueblood, Master.
Corona .................. No. 324 .... Humbert L. Gianetti, Master;
·
]. V. Eliot, Inspector and Past Master;
L. L. Test, Tnspector and Past Master.
Consuelo .............. No. 325 .... Lawrence N. Turrentine, Master and
Past Master.
Long Beach ........ No. 327 .... Arthur H. Adams, Master;
C. C. Flint, Past Master;
C. H. Shaw, Inspector and Past Master;
H. E. Shaw, Past Master.
Redondo .............. No. 328 .... Roy W. Heath, Master.
Vallee de France No. 329.... Leon Curtet, Past Master and Senior
Warden.
Kilauea ..... :.......... No. 330.... James F. Fenwick, Representative.
Pacific Grovc ...... No. 331.. .. E. S. Johnston, Past Master and Senior
Warden;
D. J: Leary, Past Master;
C. K. Tuttle, Inspector and Past Master.
San Pedro ............ No. 332 .... Leonardo S. Anderson, Master;
Alvis F. E. Irwin, Senior Warden.

604

605

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE

anAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Alta ........................ No. 333 .... J. D. Murphey, Representative and Past
Master.
Covina .................. Xo. 334 .... T. F. Griswold, Representative and Past
Master;
West Gate .... :..... No. 335 .... Jrwin D. Nokes, Master;·
Jacob C. Cummins, Senior Warden;
D. Cave, Inspector.
Fruitvale .............. No. 336.... J. C. McEwen, Past Master;
H. C. Schwinn, Past Master.
Carquinez ............ No. 337 .... Joseph J. Burdon, Master;
]. E. Hughes, Inspector and Past Master.
San Jacinto ........ No. 338.... Clyde C. Kuykendall, Master;
G. Matthews, Past Master.
Fullerton ............ No. 339.... Robert J. McKee, Master;
C. R. Allen, Past Master;
C. S. Chapman, Past Master.
Oxnard ................ No. 341.. .. Harry P. Speer, Master;
Herbert J. Prentice, Senior Warden;
Philip S. Cummings, Junior Vvarden;
R. Beck, Past Master.
San Fernando .... No. 343 .... Clifton vV. Judy, Senior Warden.
Starr King ............ No. 344.... Chas. G. Clausen, Master;
Bernard J. Smith, Senior \Varden;
Arthur Cantrowith, Junior vVarden;
]. W. Gale, Past Master;
C. 0. Munson, Past Master;
C. M. Wollenberg, Past Master.
Brentwood .......... No. 345 .... Robert H. Wallace, Senior Warden.
Palo Alto ............ No. 346.... James B. Wells, Master.
McKinley ............ No. 347.... Fred G. Blackhart, Master.
San Bernardino.So. 348 .... Norris A. Dixon, Master.
Sequoia ................ No. 349 .... Tesse F. Mote, Master;
Wesley W. Kergan, Senior Warden;
J. C. Cole, Past Master;
]. W. Gwilt, Past Master;
C. Husband, Past Master.
Palestine .............. No. 351.. .. W. F. Haas, Past Master;
\Viii H. Light, Representative.
Sunset .................. No. 352 .... Hobart M: Thatcher, Master;
S. E. Burke, Past Master;
D. M. Sutherland, Past Master.
Pinole .................... No. 353 .... Adolphus D. Hinton, Master.

Presidio ................ No. 354 .... Calvin S. Grandi, Master;
]. B. Glennie, Past Master;
H. Locks, Past Master;
W. A. Sherman, Inspector and Past Master;
F. G. ·watson, Past Master;
J. B. 'Wuersching, Past Master.
Hollywood .......... No. 355 .... Homer W. Glidden, Master;
Mill Valley .. :....... No. 356.... Frederick A. Burden, Master;
Chas. J. Brockhoff, Senior Warden;
Leon P. Van Atta, Junior Warden;
A. Coffin, Past Master;
E. S. Merriman, Past Master;
K. J. C. Seymour, Past Master.
Buena Park ........ No. 357.... James W. Bishop, Master;
A. S. Feagan, Past Master;
S. D. "Winters, Past Master.
Golden State ...... No. 358.... Jay W. Hanhy, Senior Warden;
J.' H. Hean, Past Master;
R. B. LaFontaine, Inspector and Past
Master.
San Francisco .... No. 360.... Cale C. McQuaid, Master;
Ernest R. Byers, Senior Warden·
Hubert R. Stovel, Junior Warden';
H. S. Johnson, Past Master;
H. D. Loveland, Past Master;
J. C. Perry, Past Master;
V. E. Perry, Past Master;
C. H. Rod<lan, Past Master.
Fort Bragg.......... No. 361.. .. Henry A. Doidge, Master.
Charity ................ No. 362.... F. A. Robinson, Representative.
Berkeley .............. No. 363 .... George L. Everett, Master;
R. P. Arnold, Past Master.
Willits .................. No. 365 ....J. E. Winstandley, Junior Warden.
Las Pahuas ........ No. 366.... Harry C. Wilber, Master;
J. P. Bernhard, Past Master.
So. Pasadena ...... No.367 .... Dudley W. Robinson, Senior Warden;
J. C. Pridham.
Unity .................... No. 368 .... Roy W. Masters.
Ocean Park ........ No. 369 .... Edward Malley, Master.

606

607

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Amity .................... No. 370.... Russel I. Wisler, Master;
John \V. Hatch, Senior Warden;
Frederick H. Wood, Junior Warden;
R. Cain, Past Master;
W. B. Curtis, Past Master;
H. C. Klevesahl, Past Master;
P. F. Schaffner, Past Master;
W. P. Stanton, Past Master;
W. E. \Vood, Inspector and Past Master.
Le Progres de
L'Oceanie ........ No. 371.. .. James F. Fenwick, Representative.
Gardena ................ No. 372.... Harry J. \Vood, Master and Past Master.
Veteran ................ No. 373 .... R. G. Putnam, Representative and Past
Master.
Jewel .................... No. 374 .... Albert A. Greenbaum, Master;
C. Benton, Past Master;
John H. Adams, Junior Warden;
L. Bruck, Past Master;
John A. Snell, Past Master.
Richmond ............ No. 375 .... William G. Brown, Master;
Frank C. Ruppel, Senior \Varden;
Frank Hollingshead, Junior Warden;
W. E. Bidwell, Past Master;
E. L. Fischer, Past Master;
A. MacKillop, Inspector and Past Master.
Francis Drake ...... No.376 .... Harry L. Holston, Master;
A. 0. Lockhart, Junior Warden;
J. A. Riordan, Past Master.
Artesia .................. No. 377 .... Franklin D. Caldwell, Master.
Mizpah ................ No. 378 .... wmiam C. Wells, Master.
Fillmore .............. No. 379 .... Thomas F. Wileman, Master and Past
Master;
Ralph E. E'urson, Senior Warden.
Oceanside ............ No. 381.... William V. Nichols, Master and Past
Master.
Highland Park .... No. 382 .... Alexander Nicolson, Master;
Claude W. Stowe, Senior Warden.
Orosi .................... No. 383 .... Joseph W. Floyd, Master;
\V. M. Beinhorn, Past Master.
El Centro ............ No. 384 .... Lodah P. Alexander, Master;
J. S. Ross, Inspector and Past Master.

Dinuba .................. No. 385 .... Clarence V. Martin, Master;
J. S. Fullard, Past Master.
Coalinga .............. No. 387 .... William H. Halford, Master.
Parnassus ............ No. 388 .... Horace R. Spaulding, Master;
John C. Doest, Senior Warden;
C. T. Dorman, Past Master;
T. J. Green, Past Master;
A. L. Johnston, Past Master.
Palos Verdes ...... No. 389.... William E Hastings Ma t
· 1
N 390
·
'
s er.
I
mperia ................ o.
····William A. Frix, Junior W~rden.
0
E~sti Belt ············~ - 391....Willis R. Berry, Master.
West Lake .......... No. 392 .... Harry G. Manville, Master;
•
Chas. L. Wild, Senior Warden.
Raider .................. No. 393 .... Alfred Berglof, Master;
Elias Ellison, Senior Warden;
C. G. Johnson, Past Master;
F. 0. Sjogren, Past Master;
N. S. Stohl, Past Master.
Univer.sity .......... No. 394.... J-Jorace E. Saunders, Master;
Carl H. Von Breton, Senior Warden·
T
I. J. Mitchell, Past Master.
'
Turlock ................ No.
.
W ar d en.
• 395.... Fred Chester E ng Ies b y, S enior
Apollo .................. No. 396 .... Paul R. Melchert, Master;
James F. Craig, Senior Warden;
Hugh 0. McCoy, Junior Warden;
E. N. Clintsman, Past Master;
C. TI. Greeley, Inspector and Past Master.
~ising .Light... ..... No. 397 .... Carson TI. Hubbard, Master.
hatermty ····· ...... No. 399 .... William J. Close Master.
• I'mgame .......... N
T>ur
i o. 400 .. ,. William Wilkin ' Master·
.
n
. ay V 1cw
............ No. 401.. ..
Jellinek, Past' Master.'
H. E. Long, Representative and Past
Master.
Tirawley ................ No.402 .... Witliam I. Wilson, Master;
IL L. Fulton, Past Master;
C. J. Park, Past Master.
Yerba Tiuena ...... No.403.... Albert B. Cosad, Master;
Snook Chas. Wade, Senior Warden·
F. W. Ostrander, Junior Warden; '
F. W. LeBallister, Past Master.
Glendora .............. No. 404 .... Frederick H. Nushickel, Master and ·Past
Master.

608

c.

609

610

GltAND LODGE OF CALIFOR1'1IA

PROCEEDINGS OF TIIE

Moneta ............... :xo. 405 .... William J. Webb; Master.
Burbank .............. No. 406 .... Nathaniel Story, Master.
La Mesa .............. No. 407.... Byron G. R. Canon, Master.
Sierra Madre ........ N o. 408 .... Francis D. R. Moote, Master.
Honolulu .............. No. 409.... James F. Fenwick, Representative, Inspector and Past Master;
James C. McGill, Past Master;
H. H. Williams, Past Master.
Charter Rock .... No. 410.... George L. Sargent, Senior Warden;
John A. Wolcott, Junior Warden;
H. R. Braden, Past Master;
M.A. Plumb, Past Master and Inspector;
E. S. Valentine, Past Master.
Perris .................. No. 411.. .. Ralph E. Halloway, Senior Warden.
Calexico ............... No. 412 .... Leve S. Jacobson, Master. ·
Waucoba ............. .Ko. 413 .... Raymond E. Burdick, Master.
Arlington ............ No. 414.... SJocum B. Norton, Master;
Roscoe H. Haverfield, Senior Warden;
Chas. P. Lyndall, Inspector and Past
Master.
Silver TroweL.... No. 415 .... Harry R. Cage, Senior Warden;
C. L. Bagley, Past Master.
Lindsay ................ No. 416 .... Harvey A. Barr, Master;
Glen LeR. Johnson, Senior Warden;
Elysian .................. No. 418.... John J. Stanton, Master.
Upland .................. No. 419.... Patrick H. McQuillen, Master.
Inglewood ............ No. 421.. .. Earl T. Stoops, Master.
Eagle Rock ......... .Ko. 422 .... Reginald Allen, Representative.
York ...................... No. 423.... Albert P. Henry, Master.
Exeter .................. No. 424 .... Chas. L. Burnett, Maste.r;
Andrew W. Quinn, Senior Warden;
Walter P. Ballard, Junior Warden;
C. K. Crane, Past Master;
F. W. Mixter, Inspector and Past Mas·
ter.
Holtville .............. No. 425 .... John C. Allen, Representative.
Midway ................ No. 426.... Archie M. Kidd, Master;
R. E. Ranous, Past Master.
Chino Valley ...... No. 427 .... Ralph C. Homan, Master;
E. C. Daniels, Past Master.
San Dimas .......... No. 428.... Arthur E. Tangeman, Master.
Pittsburg .............. No. 429 .... Leslie C. Keithley, Senior Warden.
McCloud .............. No. 430.... David S. Painter, Master;
E. M. Smith, Past Master.

611

Alpha ................... No. 431...:Harry J. Hill, Master;
William J. Lane, Senior \Varden;
Chas. C. Olney, Junior Warden;
H. A. Stiver, Past Master;
T. Thayer, Past Master:
Hammonton ........ No. 433.-.. Etmer L. Titus, Master;
James. H. McGill, Past Master and Sen·
ior Warden.
Maricopa .............. No. 434 .... Robert W. McGill, Senior Warden.
Fairmount ............ No. 435 .... Robert D. McFarland, Master;
G~orge M. Bernhard, Senior Warden;
George W. Gerhard, Junior Warden;
D. S. Wagstaff, Past Master.
Claremont ............ No. 436 .... Homer E. Robbins, Senior Warden.
Lancaster ...... :..... No. 437 .... Bertram C. McMurray, Master.
Acacia .................... No. 438 .... Hans M. Wegener, Master.
Tyrian .................. No. 439.... Ralph P. Duncan, Junior Warden;
C. F. Palm, Past Master.
Standard .............. No. 440 .... William F. Wood, Master;
Clyde L. Foster. Senior Warden.
Coronado .............. No. 44L .. navid G. Davidson, Master;
A. A. Mathewson, Inspector and Past
Master.
Illackmer .............. No. 442 .... warren E. Libhy, Master;
Chas. \V. Potter, Senior Warden;
E. L. McKie, Past Master.
Schofield .............. No. 443 .... J. F. Fenwick, Representative.
Carpinteria .......... No. 444 .... Amos D. Olney, Master.
Wilshire ................ No. 445 .... \Varren D. Gill, Master;
Paul Burks, Senior Warden;
W. H. Fischer, Inspector and Past Master.
La Puente ............ No. 446.... Edward S. Tripp, Master.
Torrance .............. No. 447 .... Ralph. L. Dinger, Senior Warden.
Mt. Diablo .......... No. 448 .... Nelson J. Frater, Master;
L. L. Martin, Inspector and Past Master.
Park ...................... No. 449.... Leslie B. Fox, Master;
Foster G. Dyer, Senior \Varden;
Carl A. Allen, Junior \Varden;
F. R. Jackson, Past Master;
E. B. Power, Past Master;
A. H. Wilde, Past Master.
Van Nuys ............ No. 450 .... Bert R. Holloway, Master.

612

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

Montebello .......... No. 451.. .. Chas. W. Schaack, Master.
San Pasqual ........ No. 452 .... Arthur B. Cadman, Master.
Bethlehem .......... No. 453 .... Robert H. Gay, Master;
Hayes P. Speakman, Senior Warden;
Chas. W. Green, Junior Warden;
C. F. Bovee, Past Master;
C. K. Harper, Past Master.
Crocker ................ No. 454 .... George Watson, Master;
Angus Campbell, Senior Warden.
Golden West ...... No. 455 .... George E. Chapin, Master;
Lewis H. Colen, Junior Warden;
G. R. Brockmann, Past Master;
E. M. Hundley, Past Master.
Kennett ................ No. 456 .... J oseph Urban, Junior Warden.
Ramona ................ No. 457 .... Frederick W. Busch, Master;
W. J. Johnson, Past Master.
Henry S. Orme .... No. 458 .... John H. Sheridan, Master and Past Master.
Riverbank ............ No. 459 .... 0tto ]. Stevens, Master.
Mt. Oso ................ No. 460 .... Joseph S. Winkler, Master.
Argonaut .............. No. 461.. .. Walter L. E'owden, Master; .
James W. Strawn, Senior Warden;
Joseph A. I3lackford, Junior Warden.
Paul Revere ........ No. 462 .... Arthur Heinz, Master;
Philip Werner, Senior Warden;
Leonard S. Leavy, Junior Warden;
W. A. Gerder, Past Master.
Alta Vista ............ No. 464 .... H. G. Hansell, Past Master.
Center .................. No. 465 .... George C. Thomas, Master;
James E. D. Harrison, Senior Warden.
Libertas ................ No. 466.... William A. Eardley, Master;
James R. Dibble, Senior Warden;
Howard C. Yates, Junior Warden.
Culver City .......... No. 467 .... Henry L. Canning, Master;
Chas. L. W. Vocke, Senior Warden;
Calvin A. White, Junior Warden;
C. E. Shillito, Past Master.
Rockridge ............ No. 468 .... Williard W. Shea, Master;
R. R. Beggs, Past Master.
Yorba Linda ........ No. 469 .... Carl H. Seamans, Master;
J. W. Newell, Past Master.
Lincoln ................ No. 470 .... Arthur Joel, Master;
Robert A. Peabody, Senior Warden;
J. C. Wilder, Past Master.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

613

Delta .................... No. 471.. .. Frederick W. Moore, l\fast~r a··,• ::'::st
Master;
Parke E. Grandy, Senior Warden;
S. G. Gearhart, Junior Warden.
Maui ...................... No 472 .... J a mes Fenwick, Representative.
Blythe ...................... U. D ..... J. W. McKinney, Master.
Victory .................... U. D ..... W. E. Shipley, Master;
H. C. Moore, Senior Warden;
G. L. Halek, Junior Warden.

The report was adopted.
Grand Lodge was then called off until- 9 :30 o'clock
Friday morning.
BUSINESS IN FIRST DEGREE
Past Grand Master Henderson offered th.e following:
Whereas, The work in Lodges, in the desire to clear their calendars,
has become a burclcn; and
Whereas, Such rapidity betokens no great good to the brotherhood.
Whereas, A Committee on matters of policy has been orclcrcd to be
appointed; therefore be it
Resolved, That the incoming Committee on General Policy report at
next annual communication whether it woulcl not be best for this juriscliction to return to the practice of conducting all business in Lodges
while open on the first degree, ancl thereby pursue a more leisurely
course in conferring the other clegrccs, when full worth of association,
fraternal and otherwise, determines that the honor thus conferred is
placccl upon those who can worthily wear said honors. For Masonry
shoulcl honor no man that docs not fully honor it, and one that has fully
proven himself entitled thereto.

Referred to the Committee on General Policy and Purposes.
WAR SAVINGS
In behalf of Brother Clovis Farnsworth, of the Publicity
Bureau of the United States, the following was introduced:
Whereas Broad educational work has been undertaken by the
United Stat~s Government for the promotion of thrift through systematic saving and sensible spending with a view to eliminating waste

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

on the part of the American peop'.e and developing a bigger appreciation of American citizenship; and

PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIO~S

614

Whereas, The Federal Government has instituted a campaign to
make permanent the lessons of saving and safe investment beguri during
the war by urging investni.ent in Thrift Stamps, War Savings Stamps
and Treasury Savings Certificates, therefore be it
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and ·Accepted Masons of
California, in convention assembled in San Francisco, Octobe·r 16, 1919,
hereby endorses the movement undertaken by the Federal Government
in behalf of Thrift, and warmly recommends full cooperation by the
subordinate Lodges of this Jurisdiction with the Federal Government in
this undertaking, and be it further
Resolved, That each subordinate Lodge be requested to name a
Thrift Agent to cooperate with the Government in the sale of Thrift and
\Var Savings Stamps, War Savings Certificates and Treasury Savings
Certificates, and that such agent be provided with an adequate revolving
fund to enable him to carry on hand for the convenience of purchasers a
sufficient supply of such securities of the United States Government.

Adopted.

VOTE OF THANKS
Past Grand Master Keesling introduced the following:
Whereas, On the evening of Thursday, October 16, 1919, Brothers
Edgar M. Cameron, Owen L. Gibson, Edward E. Conn, Jesse M. Whited,
Cecil C. Cline, George M. Van Buren, John Hoffman, Dr.. Arthur H.
\Vhite, Harry L. Dewey, William R. Gibson, James W. Davies, Harvey
A. Marvin, Carl Anderson. Robert Saxe, CJ;irence Oliver, Charles Lloyd,
John A. Dignan, George L. Halek, Thom;is Irwin, Carl Neucr, John B.
Wuersching, Ellis S. Thomas, with the assistance of Brothers Samuel B.
Stevenson, Thomas E. Guest, Emil P. Ziegler and the Masonic Ambulance Corps ( 364th Ambulance Company), presented before the members of the Grand Lodge and the Fraternity in general, the historical
Masonic drama entitled, "An Eighteenth Century Lodge,'' and
Whereas, The members of the Grand Lodge were entertained and
instructed by the presentation of the ancient Craft work, and
Whereas, the Masonic Hornes Endowment Fund was likewise
financially benefited; therefore be it
Resolved, That the thanks of the Grand Lodge of California are
hereby tendered to the brethren above mentioned, for their efforts.

Adopted by unanimous vote.

615

Past Grand Master :Murphey, for the Committee on
Jurisprudence, reported as follows:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was referred that portion of the Grand Master's Address with reference to physical qualifications of candidates, beg leave to report:
That in view of the language of Section 94 of the Constitution, we
are not prepared to go to the extent reached by the Grand Master in
holding that an "applicant who has lost his left hand or arm, or either
foot or leg below the knee, especially where the loss has been supplied
by an artificial limb, was not by reason of such loss ineligible."
When Section 94 was liberalized in 1914 the then Grand Master
said: "I feel that this great Fraternity would be taking a long step in
the right direction if the requirements as to physical qualifications were
eliminated from our laws, or the law amended so as to require only substantial physiqil conformity' leaving a very large discretion in the subordinate Lodge to determine what shall constitute substantial conformity. Jn other words, where the local Lodge shall favorably pass
upon the physical sufficiency of a candidate, that finding shall he practica:Jy the final determination of the issue."
In response to the Grand Master's recommendation, the Committee
on J urisprudencc reported: "Your Committee concurs with the Grand
Master in this recommendation and therefore submits the following
amendmcn t to the Constitution and recommends its adoption :

"Resolv~d, That Section 94 of the Constitution of the Grand Lodge
of California be ame11dcd by striking therefrom after the words 'able to
,-onform' the word 'literally' and by inserting in lieu thereof the word
'substantially'.
"If this amendment to the Constitution is adopted it will render
inapplicable in the futu.re Sections 94j and 94k and will accomplish the
object of leaving the matter practically in the hands of the local Lodges."

Under this law and the interpretation of. it hy the Cram! Lodge, the
Master of a subordinate Lodge should, in the exercise of a wise discretion, determine the question of fact for himself. It was the hope of
the Gr;ind Master and the Committee on Jurisprudence that succeeding
Crand Masters would not be further burdened with the determination

616

PROCEEDINGS OF THI!.

of this question in individual cases. Each case should be determined on
its merits without fixing and promulgating any hard and fast rules.
F. M. ANGELLO'I"'rI,
CHARLES L. PATTON,
DANA R. \l./ELLER,
ALBERT G. Bi:.:RNETT,
F. v. KEESLJNG,
]OIIN D. MURPHEY,
Committee.

The report was adopted.

JEWELS AND FLORAL PIECES
Brother Murphey also presented the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee, to which was referred the Grand Master's recommemlation regarding Past :\fasters' jewels and floral offerings, has had
the same under c011sideration and reports as follows:
This same matter was before the Grand Lodge at its last session and
your Committee then reported as follows:
"This proposed amendment to the Constitution will, if. adopted,
abrogate the expressed will of the Grand Lodge on the matters embraced therein. The Grand Lodge has expressly inhibited the purchase,
with Lodge funds, of either floral pieces for deceased brothers or jewels
or other mementoes to be presented to dbtinguished brethren.
The
subject matter of the amendment is purdy one of policy, and your Committee is disposed to submit it to the consideration of the Grand Lodge
without recommendation. Should the Crand Lodge fayor this lcgisll).tion your Committee would suggest the following amendment to Section
88:
"Provided, that a subordinate Lodge may in its discretion appropriate from its funds, 'not to exceed thirty-five dollars', for the purchase of a Past Master's j ewe! for its retiring Master and 'not to·
exceed ten dollars' for the purchase of floral pieces for a deceased
brother."
If the membership of "this Grand jurisdiction is dissatisfied with the
present status of this subject matter, as is suggested by the Grand
I\faster, the adoption of the above amendment will clear up the situation.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

617

On motion of Past Grand .!\faster \Veller the resolution
was amended to read as follows:
"Provided, that a subordinate Lodge may in its discretion appropriate from its funds any amount for the purchase
of a Past .Master's jewel for its retiring ).laster and for
floral pieces for a deceased brother.".
The resolution as amended was adopted by unanimous
vote and Section 88 of the Constitution was declared to he
amended as thus stated.

FUNDS FOR REFRESHMENTS
Past Grand Master Patton, for the Committee on Jurisprudcnce, presented the following report:
To the i'tfost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:

Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was referred the
resolution offered by the Master of Lexington Lodge proposing to
amend Section 89 of the Constitution so that Lodges may expend
twenty per cent of their revenue for social purposes instead of ten
per cent, is clearly of the opinion that the proposed change presents
for consideration a matter which the Grand Lodge is amply able tn
determine in its wise discretion and therefore reports the resolution
hack without recommendation.

On motion of Past Grand Master Keesling the original
resolution was adopted, and Section 89 of the Constitution
was declared to he amended hy unanimous vote-permitting the expenditure of twenty per cent of the previous
year's revenue for social purposes.

METHOD OF REIN STATEMENT
Brother Patton also presented the following:
A question as to. the proper method of reinstating a brother
sentenced to reprimand in his own Lodge and. after an appeal suspended by the action of this Grand Lodge itself, has been submitted.
The Grand Lodge unquestionably exercises this power to originally suspend a Mason after trial in the Lodge and appeal as an
original power inherited by the Grand Lodges from the General

618

PROCEEDINGS OF 'l'IIE

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Assemblies of Masons and not parted with by this Grand Lodge in
its Constitution.
In this view of the matter it is clear that the Lodge has no
jurisdiction to restore such a Mason, for under Section 210 the
Lodge may only annul a sentence of suspension pronounced by
itself.
By the provisions of Section 211 the Grand Lodge may reswre
to the rights and privileges of Masonry any Mason who has been
suspended or expelled within its jurisdiction.
Your Committee is therefore of the opinion that when it is
desired to restore a brother so suspended by this Grand Lodge the
procedure prescribed in Sections 211 and 212 of the Constitution
must be followed.
Respectfully submitted,
FRANK M. ANGl\LLOT1'T,
CHAS. L. PATTON,
DANA R. Wl\LLl\R,
ALnl\RT G. BuRNl\TT,

F. v. Kl\l\SLING,

J. D. MuRPHl\Y,
Committee.

Adopted.

CERTIFICATES OF STANDING
Past Grand Master Durnett, for the Committee on
Jurisprudence, presented the following report:
To the Most Worsh1:pful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee on Jurisprudence, to which was rd erred the
resolution offered by Brother John W. Gwilt of Sequoia Lodge
No. 349, amending Section 248 of the Constitution, has had the
matter under consideration and reports as follows:
If we read Sections 159, 161 and 248 and 247 of the Constitution together, we find that it would be possible for a brother desiring to affiliate by the use of his Certificate of Standing instead of· a
Dimit to conjure up quite a number of difficulties standing in the
road, but we believe that ever since the adoption of the Certificate
of Standing as a method for affiliation there has been no real difficulty in accomplishing the desired purpose.
Perhaps, however, there have been cases when brethren have
taken a dimit where if they fully understood the matter they would

619

only desire a Certificate of Standing; and in order to make the
whole procedure perfectly plain hereafter, your Committee offers
the following resolutions and recom1pends their adoption:
Resolved, That the last sentence of the first paragraph of Section 161 of the Constitution be amended to read as follows:
"If such applicant be elected to affiliate with a Lodge, he can
become a member thereof only after the issuance of a certificate of
his withdrawal which shall be immediately issued upon due notice
of his election from the Lodge with which he desires to affiliate."
Resolved, That Section 247 of the Constitution be amended by
inserting in brackets after the word "withdrawn" the following:
"that he is now a member oL ...................... Lodge number ....................... .
in the ________________________ of.. ...................... " and it is suggested that the Grand
Secretary add a note to the effect that the part of the application
which does not fit the facts is to be stricken out.
Resolved, That Section 248 of the Constitution he amended by
striking out the word "Dimit" as it first occurs in said Section and
mserting in lieu thereof the words "Certili~ate of Standing."

The report was aclopted, ancl Sections lol, 247 and 248
were cleclarecl amended as above by unanimous vote.

MASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIATION
Past C rand Master M urphcy, for the Committee on
J urisprndcnce, presented the following:
To the Most Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
To your Committee on Jurisprudence has been referred the
following resolution, introduced by Past Grand Master 1l ervey:
"Whereas, The organization of a Masonic Service Association of
the United States has been effected, and more than forty American
Grand Lodges have joined the Association and ratilied its constitution; and
"Whereas, The formation of this Association represents a significant advance movement of the craft and inay become an instrnment of noteworthy service to our country and to Freemasonry; and
"Whereas, This Grand Lodge has been invited to join the Association and to send accredited representatives to the meeting to he
held on November 11, 1919, at Cedar Rapids, Iowa; now, therefore,
be it

620

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

"Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of California approves the
constitution of the Masonic Service Association of the United States
and accepts membership therein; and be it further
"Resolved, That the Grand Master be and he is requested to
attend the meeting of Kovember 11, 1919, in person or by representative, and that the Grand Secretary also be and is requested to
attend said meeting."
The prospect to which said resolutions relate seems alluring and
to constitute a scheme of co-operative effort through which the purposes of our Institution may be promoted; but the proposition
comes to us late in our deliberations and we have not been able. to
devote to it that careful and mature consideration to which it is
entitled, and we are not prepared now to recommend its adoption
by the Grand Lodge. Moreover, the adoption of the resolution
would necessarily impose a financial burden of uncertain extent
upon this Grand Lodge, and therefore, if the members of this grand
body deem it advisable to take definite action in the premises, the
Finance Committee should first have an opportunity to consider it
in the light of the condition of our treasury. However, we believe
the matter should be deferred to some more convenient season, and
we recommend that no action be taken at this time on the resolutions.

The. report was adopted as presented and subsequently
Past Grand :i'v1aster Burnett moved that the matter he referred' to the Committee on General Policy and Purposes,
and it was so ordered.

GHAND I,ODOE OF CAl,H'OHNIA

621

GRAND OFFICERS

Samuel E. Burke, Junior Grand Warden, Los Angeles ..............$ 36.18
James F. Fenwick, Grand Marshal, Honolulu, T. H ................... 172.80
Herbert L. Fulton, Grand Standard Bearer, Brawley................ 56.66
John P. Jarman, Grand Bible Bearer, San Jose............................ 3.13
Charles G. Johnson, Senior Grand Deacon, Sacramento..........
5.83
James B. Gist, Junior Grand Deacon, Los Angeles.................... 36.18
Richard E. Shore, Senior Grand Steward, Lemoore.................. 19.50
Alfred Seale, Junior Grand Steward, Palo Alto............................
2.05
Theo. J. Milliken, Grand Pursuivant, .Sacramento...................... 5.83
TotaL ................................................................................. ,................$338.16
PAST GRAND MASTERS

William T. Lucas, Santa Maria ......................................................$ 24.70
Orrin S. Henderson, Los. Angeles.................................................... 36.18
George W. Hunter, Eureka................................................................ 25.90
Dana R. \Veller, Los
36.18
John D. Murphey, Berkeley................................................................
.30
Albert G. Burnett, Sacramento..........................................................
5.83
W. Rhodes Hervey, Los Angeles...................................................... 36.18
Total .................................................................................................... $165.27
CHAIRMEN 01' STANDING COJILl\.UTTEJ!S

Joseph P. Bernard, Fresno, Grievances...........................
16.70
Irving J. Mitchell, Los Angeles, Masonic Education................ 36.18
52.88

REPORT OF COMMITTEE ON PAY OF MEMBERS
Brother Gustav A. Hutaff, for the Committee on Pay
of ::Vlembers, presented the following report:
To the lvlost Worshipful Grand Lodge of California:
Your Committee, charged with the duty of ascertaining the cost
of transportation for one person from the location of each Lodge in
the State to the place of meeting of the Grand Lodge and return,
and of reporting such cost of transportation as the sum due to the
officers or representatives in attendance from each Lodge, as well
as the Grand Officers, Past Grand Masters, Chairmen of Standing
Committees, and Inspectors, for their necessary expenditure for
transportation to and from the Grand Lodge, report that they have
carefully discharged that duty, and submit the following statement:

INSPECTORS

Gustav A. Hutaff, Fourth District, Dunsmuir............................$ 23.73
Charles S. Baldwin, Sixth District, Alturas.................................. 42.52
Willard Clark, Seventh District, Orland........................................ 10.80
James 0. Moncur, Tenth District, Quincy.................................... 26.11
E. Lewis Case, Eleventh District, Downieville............................ 21.97
Thomas Ingram, Twelfth District, Grass Valley........................ 12.85
M. D. Lininger, Thirteenth District, Auburn................................
8.20
Chas. 0. Hamilton, Fourteenth District, Oroville...................... 9.72
Lewis B. Wilcoxon, Fifteenth District, Marysville ................. 1.. 8.64
Herman Jacobson, Sixteenth District, Colusa.............................. 9.70
Charles E. Trower, Nineteenth District, Napa............................ 3.14
Jesse P. Bascom, Twentieth District, Sacramento........................
5.83
H. Hayes Gable, Twenty-first District, Esparto.......................... 6.60
Wm. T. Brewer, Twenty-third District, Jackson.......................... 11.00

622

PROCEEDINGS OF

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

THI!~

Henry W. Bessac, Twenty-sixth District, Lodi.. ........................
Leonard L. Martin, Twenty-seventh District, Concord ........... .
Jacob J. Hughes, Twenty-eighth District, Crockett.. ..........._...... .
Max A. Plumb, Thirtieth District, Oakland ..................................
Charles B. Greeley, Thirty-first District, Alameda ..................... .
Granville D. vVarren, Thirty-seeond District, Oakland ............ ..
Elon A. Ormsby, Thirty-third District, Centerville .................. ..
John Clute, Thirty-ninth District, Ross ........................................ ..
Ch~rles G. Lambert, Fortieth District, Redwood City ............... .
Charles K. Tuttle, Forty-third District, Pacific Grove ............ ..
Henry E. Verble, F orty~eighth District, Kingsburg ..................
Francis' W. Mixter, Forty-ninth District, Exeter...................... ..
Richard E. Shore, Fiftieth District, Lemoore ..............................
Wm. W. Kaye, Fifty-first District; Bakersfield .......................... ..
vValter D. Adriance, Fifty-second District, San Luis Obispo ..
David J. Reese, Fifty-third District, Ventura ................................
Chas. P. Lyndall, Fifty-fourth District, Los Angeles .......:........ ..
Edward B. Spencer, Fifty-fifth District, Los Angeles .............. ..
Robie E. Dill, Fifty-sixth District, Los Angeles ......: ................. ..
vVinfre<l J. Sanborn, Fifty-seventh District, Los Angeles ....... .
Will H. Fischer, Fifty-eighth District, Los Angeles ................. .
Russell fi. LaFontaine, Fifty-ninth District, Los Angeles ....... .
Lemuel L. Test, Sixtieth District, Pasadena ............................... .
Wm. A. Vandegrift, Sixty-first District, Pomona ...................... ..
John V. Eliot, Sixty-second District, Covina .............................. ..
Clark FL Shaw, Sixty-fourth District, Long Beach ................... .
Eli B. Trago, Sixty-fifth District, Santa Ana .............................. ..
vValtcr H. Howes, Sixty-seventh District, San llcrnardino ....... .
Henry D. French, Sixty-eighth District, Riverside ..................... .
J. Stewart Ross, Sixty-ninth District, El Centro ........................ ..
Arthur A. Mathewson, Seventieth District, Coronado .............. ..
Daniel Cave, Special District, Los Angeles ................................... .

623

6.80

\Ve offer the following resolution and recommend its adoption:

2.70
1.95
.30
.30
.30
2.16
1.10
1.70
8.10
19.20
21.25
19.50
24.80
19.50
31.20
36.18
36.18
36.18
36.18
36.18
36.18
36.18
38.44
37.80
37.58

Resolved, That there be levied upon the constituent Lodges of
the State of California for the current fiscal year, in addition to the
dues prescribed by the Constitution, the sum of 15 cents for each
member borne upon the respective rolls at the date of the annual reports. Said levy shall be for the payment of Representatives, Grand
Officers, Past Grand Masters, and Inspectors, and shall be paid at·
the same time and in the manner prescribed for the payment of the
annual dues. ' .

38.33
39.96

39.95
58.29
45.45
36.18

Total. ................................................................................................... $986.89
RECAPITULATlON

H. McKEvI'l"I', Chairman,

(Signed)

w.. D. AnRrANCE,
G. A.

HuTAl-'I',

Committee.

A SH< )RTER RITUAL
The Grand Lecturer stated that many requests had
heen suggested that some revision of the ritual he made, ii
possible so to do without making material drnnges, to the
end that degree work may he less burdensome on officers
of Lodges, and he moved that the subject he referred to the
Ritual Committee with directions to shorten the work if it
may he done without loss of the dignity and effectiveness
that distingnishes the present ritual, and without adding
new matter, and to stthmit the results of such revision to
the Grand :Vlaster and the other elective Cram\ Lodge officers for approval. It was so ordered.
H.El'ORT OF FINANCf~ COl'vl.\1fTTEE

Brother Arthur S. Crites, for the Committee on Fi ..
nance, presented the following reports:

*For Representatives of Lodgcs ....................................................$6,725.65
For Grand Officers......................................................................... 338.'16
For Past Grand Masters................................................................ 165.27
For Chairmen of Standing Committees....................................
52.88
For Inspectors.................................................................................... 986.89

To the Most Worshif'ful Grand J,odRe of Califomia:
Your Committee on Finance has had undc.r consideration the
application of San Jacinto Lodge Ko. 338, ior an appropriation of
$4,000.00 for the purpose of relieving the Lodge of a debt of that
amount incurred in rebuilding its temple.

Grand Total .................................................................................$8,268.85

It appears that this Lodge had its· temple entirely destroyed hy
an carth(111ake on April 21st, 1918, anrl that at the same time the
entire business district of the town at San Jacinto was destroyed.

*For items sec Report of Committee on Returns.

624

PROCEEDINGS OF THE
GRAND LODGE Ol!~ CALIFORNIA

thereby leaving the Lodge without any place of meet~n~; and, as it
was unahle to arrange from outside sources for the bmldmg of .a h~ll.
suitable for Masonic meeting purposes, and own its own lot m tee
and clear from incumbrance, arranged to rebuild by pledging the
good faith of the Lodge for a loan of $4,000.00. It also appears that
although the Lodge is prosperous and has properly respond~d t.o all
charitable requirements, yet it cannot reasonably hope to liquidate
this debt without seriously interfering with the future growth and
prosperity of the Lodge. Your Committee is of th~ o~i~ion that
under the circumstances it would be a 'proper apphcat10n of the
funds of this Grand Lodge to appropriate a sum suffi,cient to relieve the Lodge of the obtigation, and as it does not establish. a
precedent, offers the following resolution and recommends its
adoption:
Resolved That this Grand Lodge. appropriate the sum of
$4,000.00 to b~ paid to San Jacinto Lodge No. 338, for the ~quidation
of a debt incurred in the rebuilding of its temple destroyed by
earthquake.

The report and resolution were adopted.
Also, your Committee on Finance herewith presents the following report:
In the matter of the printing of the Grand Orator's oration,
your Committee recommends that the Grand Secretary he instructed
to have sufficient copies of the oration printed and delivered to the
Lodges for distribution to the membership, and charge the same to
his regular printing account.
I

Adopted.
Also, in the matter of the printing and distribution of the
"American Creed" as presented by Erother Eugene S. Elkus, the
same has been considered by your Committee in conjunction with
the Committee on Education, and we recommend that this creed be
printed and distributed under the auspices of said Committee ?n
Education in connection with such other matter as they may desire
to circulat~, and that the bill be paid out of their appropriation.

Adopted.

62.'i

Your Finance Committee also recommends that a sum not to
exceed one thousand dollars may be expended by the Committee on
Education, under the supervision and with the approval of the Grand
Master, on requisitions of said Committee from time to time as
needed.
WM. A. SHl(HMAN,
0. M. GoLDARACE:Nll,
w. P. ]EFFRlllS,
A. s. CRITES,
]. H. McGl(HllE,
Committee.

The recommendation was adopted.
ELECTION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master announced that the election of officers for the ensuing year was no.w in order, and appointcll
the following tellers: Charles M. Wollenherg, Henry W.
liessac, Albert C. \Vilson, J. 0. Moncur, A. A. Mathewson,
William E. Wood, Clark H. Shaw, Robie E. Dill and Hugh
C. Chamberlain. The election resulted as fol_lows:
The R.'. W. ·. Charles Albert Adams of Excelsior Lodge
No. 166 was elected Grand Master.
The R.". 'vV.". George F. Rodden of Marin Lodge No.
191 was elected Deputy Grand Master.
The R.". \V:. Samuel E. Burke of Sunset Lodge No.
352 was elected Senior Grand \Varden.
The w:. William A. Sherman of Presidio Lodge No.
354 was elected Junior Grand \Varden.
The V. ·. W. ·. William P. Filmer of King Solomon's
Lodge No. 260 was re-elected Grand Treasurer.
The V. ·. W. ·.John Whicher of King David's Lodge No.
209 was re-elected Grand Secretary.
The V.'. W.'. Thomas J. Baker of Union Lodge No. 58
was re-elected Grand Lecturer.

626

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

PUBLIC EDUCATION
Drother Charles Albert Adams offered the following:
Whereas, It is our belief that there is no higher duty devolving
upon us as Masons than the duty we owe the State as citizens; and
Whereas, we believe that the hope of a free and untramrpelled
democracy depends upon the enlightenment 'and education oi the
citizens of this Republic, the Americanjzation of its alien population, and the instruction of its illiterates; and
Whereas, We believe certain measures now pending in the
Congress of the United States give promise of the fruition of that
hope by the passage of an act introduced as House Bill No. 7 by
Representative Towner of Iowa and as Senate Bill No. 1017 by
Senator Smith of Georgia; and
Whereas, Those measures provide for the creation of a Department of Education and for an annual appropriation of one hundred
million dollars to encourage the States in the promotion and support
of education and the strengthening of the public school system; and
Whereas, The traditional policy of the craft, which precludes
the consideration of political question~ by the ftaternity, finds its
origin in its desire to preserve harmony in the Lodge and to avoid
the discord which might possibly arise from the expression of differences of opinion existing among the brethren; and
Whereas, There are certain fundamental principles concerning
which there can be no difference of opinion among Masons, and one
of those principles finds its expression in the support of the public
school system; now, therefore, be it
Resolved, That the Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons
of the State of California, while not feeling justified in formally indorsing any specific measure, indorses the spirit and purpose of the
measures referred to, and its members express the hope that they
will receive careful consideration.

Adopted by unanimous vote.
It being intimated to Grand Lodge that the mqther of
Past Grand Master Bledsoe had this clay passed to the Great
Beyond, on motion the Grand Master appointed a committee
to convey to our distinguished brother the sympathy of his
brethren in Grand Lodge; and this Committee sent the following telegram :

ORA::-JD LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

627

"Hon. Benjamin F. Bledsoe,
Federal Building,
Los Angeles:
Your brethren assembled in Grand Lodge learned today of the
passing of your mother 'to the realm where the rainbow never
fades,' and we are directed to express to you the profound sympathy
of Grand Lodge.
·
FRANc1s V. Kn:sLING,
JOHN WHICHER,
EDGAR F. GEE."

Grand Lodge was then called off until 2 o'clock this
afternoon.

3Ju °'raub 1Jlobge
Afternoon Session.
Friday, October 17, 1919.
Grand Lodge was called on at 2 o'clock, the Grand
Master presiding.
INSTALLATION OF OFFICERS
The Grand Master-elect then caused to be read the list
of appointed officers, as follows:
Grand Chaplain, the Very Rev. Edgar F. Gee, of Live
Oak Lodge No. 61.
Grand Orator, Albert E. Boynton, of Oroviile Lodge
No. 103.
Assistant Grand Secretary, Harry S. Johnson, of San
Francisco Lodge No. 360.
Grand Marshal, James F. Fenwick, of Honolulu Lodge
No. 409.
Grand Standard Bearer, Charles S. Chapman, of Fullerton Lodge No. 339.
Grand Sword Bearer, Benjamin B. Tuttle, of Athens
Lodge No. 228.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

629

PROCEEDINGS OF THE

628

STANDING COMMITTEES
Grand Bible Bearer, John P. Jarman, of San Jose Lodge
No. 210.
Senior Grand Deacon, \Valter T. Helms, of McKinley
Lodge No. 347 :.
.
Junior Grand Deacon, Paul Na than, of Pacific Lodge
No. 136.
Senior Grand Steward, Warren E. Libby, of Blac~mer
Lodge No. 442.
Junior Grand Steward, Charles A. Vandenbos, of San
Mateo Lodge No. 226.
Grand Pursuivant, Theodore J. Milliken, of Tehama
Lodge No. 3.
.
.
Grand Organist, Samuel D. Mayer, of Cahforma Lodge
No. 1.
Grand Tiler, George P. Adams, of California Lodg~

Jurisprudence: Frank M. Angellotti, Wells Fargo Building,
San Francisco; Chas. L. Patton, Mechanics Library Building, San
Francisco; Benjamin F. Eledsoe, Federal Building, Los Angeles;
Dana R. Weller, Courthouse, Los Angeles; Albert G. Burnett, State
Capitol, Sacramento; Francis V. Keesling, Chronicle Building, San
Francisco; John D. Murphey, 1911 Parker Street, Berkeley.
Committee on General Policy and Purposes: Bradford W ehster, 957 Pacific Building, San Francisco; Wm. Rhodes Hervey,
Trust and Savings Building, Los Angeles; Oscar Lawler, I. N. Van
Nuys Building, Los Angeles; Thomas Flint, Hollister; Orrin S.
l-1 enderson, Western Mutual Life Euilding, Los Angeles; Eugene S.
Elkus, 729 Mission Street, San Francisco; John I-l. McGehee, San
Jose.
Grievances: Joseph P. Bernhard, Fresno; Leo V. Y oungworth,
H. W. Hellman Building, Los Angeles; Walter F. Haas, 718 Citizens National Building, Los A ngcles; E. B. Power, I 1umholdt Bank
Building, San Francisco; George L. Jones, Nevada City.
Finance:

No. 1.
The Grand Officers, excepting the Grand Treas~1rer
and Grand Organist, were then installed in due and. ancient
form by Past Grand Master Bradfor~ Webster, assisted by
Past Grand Master Francis V. Keeslmg as Master of Ceremonies.
Our dear Grand Chaplain, in a feeling speech, presented
to the retiring Grand Master, in the name of the Grand
Lodge; a beautiful set of table silver.

Arthur S. Crites, Bakersfield; 0. L. Goldaracena,

550 Montgomery Street, San Francisco; William I'. Jeffries, 117

Winston Street, Los Angeles; lT enry C. Klcvesahl, II umboldt Bank
H'uilding, San Francisco; Leo Bruck, Ma sonic Temple, San Francisco.
Credentials: R. E. Allan, 1290 Sutter Street, San Francisco;
Fred W. LeBallister, 906 East Twelfth Street, Oakland; Fred W.
Moore, 407 East Main Street, Stockton; Chas. K. Crane, Exeter;
Wm. E. Park, Sebastopol.

At 3 :15 o'clock, all business· being now completed, the
seventieth annual Grand Lodge was closed in Ample Form.

Accounts: Edward E. Conn, 347 Clay Street, San Francisco;
D. E. F. Easton, V/hitcomh I I otel, San Francisco; John ll. Wuersching, 1625 Lyon Street, San Francisco; Olin Berry, Merchants
National Bank Building, San Francisco; Jlarvey A. Klyce, Call
Building, San Francisco.

CHARLES ALBERT ADAMS,
Grand Master.

Returns: C. IT. Wheeler, San Jose; Chas. D. Barnett, Santa
Rosa; Rudolph Beck, Oxnard; T. R. Dinsmore, Eureka; L. E. Alt.
American National Bank, San Francisco ..

JOHN WHICHER,
Grand Secretary.

Ritual: Thomas J. Baker, Maso11ic Temple, San Francisco;
Dana R. Weller, Los Angeles; William l'. Filmer, 330 Jackson
Street, San Francisco.

•

631

GRAND LC>DGE OF CALIFORNIA
PROCEEDINGS OF THE
Ol

Correspondence: Jesse M. Whited, 354 Pine Street, San Francisco; Frank H. E. O'Donnell, 2728 Hillegass Street, Berkeley;
Joseph J. Burdon, Crockett; Byron L. Hurt, Covelo; G. A. DeWitt,
Yreka.

Ol
lO

Pay of Members: Hugh K. McKevitt, Hearst Building, San
Francisco; Howard D. Kercheval, Courtland; Arthur W. Gluckman,
Marysville; Guy L. Goodwin, Santa Maria; Chester 0. Porter,
Dunsmuir.
Trustees Masonic Homes: Chas. M. Wollenberg, Relief Home, •
San Francisco (1922); Chas. G. Johnson, Fortun Building, Sacramento (1921); Edward B. Spencer, Trust and Savings Building, Los
Angeles (1920); James B. Gist, 314 Merritt Building, Los Angeles
(1923); and the Deputy Grand Master, Senior and Junior Grand
Wardens.
Library: Henry M. Owens, 948 Market Street, San Francisco;
Lew E. Wallace, 323 Geary Street, San Francisco; Martin A. Sheldon, 3115 Jackson Street, San Francisco; William P. Read, Flood
Building, San Francisco; Clemente C. Peini, 23 Hill Street, San
Francisco.
Masonic Education: Irving· J. Mitchell, 1127 West Twentieth
Street, Los Angeles. Northern California-J. Fontaine Johnson,
Chairman, Capital National Bank Building, Sacramento; George F.
Hudson, 440 East Main Street, Stockton; Egbert A. Brown, California National Bank, Sacramento. Bay Counties: Chas. H. Victor, Ch<!irman, 132 Sutter Street, San Francisco; Robert B. Gaylord,
270 Perkins Street, Oakland; Denman S. Wagstaff, 210 Scott Street,
San Francisco. Central California: Duncan D. Allison, Fresno;
Ben R. Walker, Fresno. Southern California: Paul Burks, Chairman, Los Angeles; John. F. West, Pasadena; Reynold E. Blight
(Van Nuys Euilding), Los Angeles.
Endowment: Motley H. Flint, Trust and Savings Bank, Los
Angeles; Alonzo J. Monroe, Eureka; John F. Ellison, Red Bluff~
Sidney B. Force, 101 Post Street, San Francisco; Drury B. Butler,
Sacramento; Dudley B. Saeltzer, Redding; Herbert Levy, Fresno;
0. L. Gibson, Fifth and Erannan Streets, San Francisco; Chas. E.
Glidden, Weed.
War Fund: William Rhodes Hervey, John Which er, Thomas
J. Baker.

·suOS'llW

ia1suw

j

·sana [1muuy

<

·uonumyv

00

·saail!aa

),

WJ

..,::i
bG

c

:a
00~ c
Q)

WJ BBJ!
88Ji

...

$...

., ..,;

.i::

u

9."'

.....~

0

Ol~~

...

0: .:!.;
.i::

0 >
~

$ ~

·~

i:=<

<~

~

tU

Q)

0

.5!

H

0

~

:E

"'
:<

.,

c

rn

tU

Q)

J:.
~ .......

z ...
0

H

~
~

0
O'.l
p

Cl
J:.

...rnQ)

.0

E
Q)
00 :E
'C

~

c

tU

0

rn

~

c

H

ri
Q)

00

H

Q)

::i

Q)

II.

...riQ)
t
tU

·.r.

C.)

...
0

Q)

....tU
'C

J:.

....
~

0
"'"'

.,8

z

.

: ~::
..... :

:ii: :
......

~

......

...

i:i..~

: : ,_
""~

~

>

~

OD~~
~

~

.,

h ~

:

M

c-1
~
~

:ii~

.-< ~

t--"'1.0......
~

>h

~

~
~

:

: : : :ii:
.....
~
~

0 .,
: :
: : z~ : ~~ : z~~
o~

:
~
~

o~>r.>~ ~

""
: :

~

: : :
~

"5' ~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

~

:

:
::

i.

ij
Town
County

Places of Location

s

••

IOI

f'"' . . . . . . .

........

54 Yolo ............ 811 Yolo ............... Yolo ............ .
55 Vesper . . . . . . . . . . 84 1Red Bluff •......... Tehama ...•......
56. Naval ........... 87J Vallejo ............ Solano .......... .
57 Rose's Bar ...... 89 Bmartsville ........• Yuba ........... .
58 North Star ..... : 91 1''ort Jones ......... Siskiyou ......... .
59 St. llelena ...... ; 93 St. Helena ......... Napa •............
60 Henry Clay ...... 95 Sutter Creek ........ Amador ......... .
61 Howard ......... 96 Yreka ............. Siskiyou ......... .
62 Jefferson ........ 97 La Porte ••.•....... JPlumas ..••.......
63 llornitos . . . . . . . . 98 Hornitos •.......... Mariposa .•.......
64 Yosemite . . . . . . . . 99 Merced . . . . • . . . . . . . Merced ....•......
65 Glay ............ 101 Dutch Flat ......... Placer ........... .
66 Oroville ......... 103 Oroville ..•......... Butte ........... .
67 Lexington ....... 104 El Monte .......... Los Angeles ...... .
68 Arcata .......... 106 Arcata ............. Humboldt •........
69 Pajaro .......... llO Watsonville ........ Santa Cruz ....... .
70 Chico ........... lll Chico .....•........ Butte ...••........
71 Summit ......... 112 Knight's Ferry . . . . . Stanislau!I ....... .
72 Eden ............ ll3 San Leandro ...... ·!Alameda ......... .
73 Concord ......... 117 Sacramento •....... Sacramento ..•....
74 Clinton .......... 119 Igo ................ Sh1t.11ta ........... .
75 Fidelity ......... 120 San Francisco ....•. San Francisco .... .
76 Alamo .......... 122 Walnut Creek ...... Contra Costa ••..•.
77 Sotoyome . . . . . .123 Healdsburg ......... Sonoma •.••.......
78 Table Mountain ... 124'Cherokee .•......... Butte •............
79 La Fayette ...... 126 Sebastopol ......... Sonoma ..•........
80 Hermann ........ 127 Snn Francisco ...... San Francisco .... .
81 Visalia .......... 128 Visalia .....••..•..• Tulare ...•.•.....•
82 Nicolaus ........ 129 Wheatland .....•... Yuba .....••.•.. · ·
83 ~ood~ridge ...... 131 Woodbridge ....••.• San Joaquin ..... .
84 Smcerity ........ 132 Greenville ......... Plumas .......... .
85 Vacaville ........ 134 Vacaville .......... Solano ........... ·
d6 Valley .......... 135 Linden ............. San Joaquin ..... .
87 Paeifie .......... 136 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco .... .
81! Crockett· ......... 139 San Francisco •..... San Francisco

26
::!7
28

14,

15,
13,
May

"
"
"
"
May

"
"

"

"
"

..

1858.

"
"
"
"
"1856
"
"
"
"
"
"
1857.
"
"
"
"
"

18.56

i855.
1856.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"

"

"
"
"

1855.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

1853.
1854.

1860.

"

IO,

"

"
"
"
"
" "
"14, 1859.
"
13,
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
11, 1850.

"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
15,
May

"
"
"
"
"

"

"
"
"
"
May
"

8,

8,

1,

4,

"
"
"
"

"
"2,
"

"2,
"
"
"
"

3,

"
"4,

"
"
"
"
"
" 8,
"
"
"
"

May

..

July
May

"

"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
5,
3,

7,
3,

May
May

D.ite When Charter
was Issued

"
"
"
"
May

8an Diego ....... 35 t;;an Diego .......•. ::>an Diego .........
St. John's ....... 37 Yreka ...........••• Siskiyou ...........
Santa Cruz ...... 38 Santa Cruz ........• Santa Cruz .........
29 Sacramento ..... 40 Sacramento ......... Sacramento . .......
30 ::Martinez ........ 41 Martinez .•......... Contra Costa .......
31 Los Angeles . . . . . 42 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ........
32 Hiram .......... 43 El Dorado ..•..•...• El Dorado •.........
33 Mount Moriah. . . . 44 San Francisco ...••• San Francisco ......
34 Crescent ........ 45 Crescent City .....•• Del Norte ..•......•
35 Texas ........... 46 San Juan ....•..... San Benito .•.......
36 Forbestown . . . . . . 50 Forbestown ............ Butte ..............
37 Illinoistown ..... 51 Colfax ....••....... Placer .............
38 Suisun
.••..... 55 Suisun ••........... Solano •............
39 Volcano ......... 56 Volcano •.•........• Amador •••.........
40 Santa Rosa ...... 57 Santa Rosa ......... Sonoma ............
41 Union ........... 58 Sacramento ........... " Sacramento
42 Gravel Range .... 59 Camptonville ...••.. Yuba ..•..•...•....
43 Plumas ......... 60 Quincy ......•..... Plumas ............
44 Live Oak ........ 61 Oakland ......••••.• Alameda ...........
45 Natoma ......... 64 Folsom ......•...... Sacramento ...........
46 Amador ......... 65 Jackson ............... Amador .•. : . .......
47 ""'"'' . . .. . . . . . . 66 Allogh"'Y •..•...••
,is )forning Star . . . . 68 Stockton ........... San Joaquin ........
49 Entt>rprise .......
Yuba City ......... Sutter ...•.........
50 Bear )fountain. . . 76 Angel's Camp ...... Calaveras .....•....
51 Calaveras . . . . . . . 78 San Andreas ..•...• !Calaveras •..•......
52 Humboldt '. . . . . . . 79jEureka ............ Humboldt ..........
53 Ione ............ 80.Ione ............... IAmador ...........

Names of Lodges

List of the Subordinate Lodges, ctc.-Continued.

i:.,,17.l

0"'

50 ......51
50
50 ......

50
5
50 ......
1
50
75 10
50 ......
50 10
1
<IO
50 10
50
6
1
30
30 ......
50 ......
50 ......
30
ti
75
5
75 10
30 ......
5
50
75 25
5
50
50t ......
50 ......
50 ......
5
50
3
50

~A

"'"'
"""

-!!:!

" ..

°'"'

9

4~

4H
337
154
87
70
358
55

87
120
50

9.5

58
00
32
36
132
59
208
90
128
130
219
31
la5
131
49
585
83
211
58
131
201
159
78

89

153
481
50
41

710
522

gl

!l.

12!

~.

9
g

g

9

9

94
76

28

254
X09
31
66
8:13

\l

9
9

0

"''

>'!
0

'"'~·
l7l

N

<:..>

>
z

E:
w

~

z

~

s
g'=J

0
'=J

~

t:I

0

!:"

t:I

0
:ti

t;

8

l'J

~

b;I

:i

[Jl

0
txl

t"
0

txl

>
>'!

z

::0
ti
....

tll
0

u;

.- c::

487
122
24!1
276
107
588
23
3\16
78
39
2J
77
94

:11;s

"'"'
-o
.,,,,

9

9
9
9
12

121
111

!l
9!

\l

9
9

1:11
\l

"

'""'

:::
A

:;;

"

···········

"
" 1863.
" "
13, 1864.

.
" "
" .."
"

"
Oct.
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
Oct.
"

"
"

1865.
12,
11,

"

1865.
13,

"

14,

"

May

1862.

17,
15,

May

"

." ". """

..............

1867.

"

10,

"

"

"
1871.

"
"

"
14,
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"14,
"
"
"
"
" "
"
"14, 1870.

"
"
"
1869.
"
"
"
"

"

"
"

1873.

"

"'0

"'
A

.. £

,...;
.'!l=

•>
"

35

fi()

501--- ... 1

30 ......
50
1
50 2~

liO ......
7fi 10

..

50 ······
50 ······
50 ······
50 ······
5
50
30 ······
5
50
30 ······
5
60
5
60
50 20
4-0 ······
50 ······
50 ······
50 ...
50 ······
1
50
1
35
50 ······
1
30
50 ······
50 ······
75
1
100 10
50
5

1'
1
50
50

~

50
50
75
30
50
8
50 ......
fiO
1
50
1
50 ······
30 2)1;
30
5
50 10
50
2
50
l
100
5
50 10
50
5
50
5
50
3
50
5
50
5
30
1
50
1
30 .....
30 ......
30 ......
30 ......
9
9

9

181
!l

ul

12
12
9
9
12
9
12
12
9
9

H

9
12
9
9
24

so

154

182

66

80
40
75
Jl4
117
83
529
25
164
1-13
171
159
67
204
280
99
213
146
472
521
116
94
241
93

9
9
9
9
9
9
9

rno
\;

125
698
68
2i2
216
92

52
30
33
54
35'

96

123
321
140
235

26

72

9

(l

9
12
9
12
9

\)

9
9
9
12

~I91

9/

12
12
12
12
9'
91
9

(l

9
12
9
12

903

68

138
130
12-l
77
171
27
12
488
117
171

12
!l

47
3-i
75
3l'2

""' i..e ~= :=a::a
""
-< <
=

l«A
""'

._..; ... .:
0
.s e .S'.+:i
ep.~
,,,_

"
" .. I

18,

" "
" "
"
"12, 1912.

11,

"
1872.

"
"

"
"
"

.. .. ."

.

1868.

15,

" "
" "
14, 1869.

1868.

15,

.. " "

Oct.

.." """ """
"
.. . . . .. " " . ""
"... " ..
"
"

....... ······

.

Keith ......•.... 187 Gilroy •..•.••.••••• Santa Clara ••..•••• Oct.
Oakland •••.•••.. li'.!8 Oakland ........... Alameda ...........
Northern Light ..• 190 Millville .................. Shasta .•.•.••.•.••• Oct.
Marin ........... 191 San Rafael •..•••..• Marin ......•.....•
"
lSanta Barbara .... 192 Santa Barbara .•... Santa Barbara •...•
"
l<'erndale ........ 193 (erndale ........... Humboldt .......... Oet.
Mountain View ... 194 Mountain View ..... Santa Clara •.......
"
Buckeye ........ 195 Winters .....•..... Yolo •..•...........
"
San Simeon ...... 196 Cambria ...•......• San Luis Obispo ....
"
Wilmington ..... 1981 Wilmington ........ Los Angeles ........ Oct.
Hartley ......... 199 Lakeport •.....••.• Lake ...•........••
"
Truckee ......... 200 ·'l'ruekee •......••.•. Nevada ....••...••.
"
Silveyville ...
.201 Dixon .................. Solano •............
"
Pentalpha ....... 202 Los Angeles •......• Los Angeles .•..••..
Confidence ....... 203 Castroville •..•...•• Monterey .•••...•••
"
Salinas .......... 204 Salinas .................... Monterey •.........
"
Olivet ........... 205 Corning ..........•• Tehama .............
Oct.
Stanislaus ....... 206 Modesto ........•.. Stanislaus •..•..••..
"
Anaheim ........ 207 Anaheim
Orange •.•••••••.•••
"
Rio Vista ........ 201:S Rio Vista ........... Solano ......•.•....
King David's ..... 209 San Luis Obispo ..... San Luis Obispo .....
"
Friendship ....... 210 1San Jose ........ ; .. Santa Clara •....... Oct.
s~ Benito .•...•• 211 Holli•te• •••...••... San Benito .........
"
So. San Francisco.212 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ...•..
"
San Buenaventura.214 Ventura ..........• Ventura ............
"
Oak Grove ....... 215 1Alameda •........• Alameda .....•...•.
"
Dorie . . . . • . . . . . 216 ,San Franeiseo .•.•.. San Francisco ..••..
"
Monterey ....... 217 Monterey •...•....• Monterey •...•.....
"
Mosaic . , ....... 218 Livermore •..••.•.•• Alameda .••.•.••••• Oct.
Speranza Italiana.219 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ••••••
"
Downey ......... 220 Downey •..•......•. Los Angeles •.••.•..
"
Inyo •........... 221 Independence ....••• Inyo ...............
"
Roseville ........ 222 Rocklin .........••• Placer .....••••.••. Oct.
Bakersfield ...... 224 Bakersfield ......... Kern
Oet.
Brooklyn . . . . . . . . 225 East Oakland ....... Alame.da ...........
"
San Mateo •...... 226 San Mateo ......•.. San Mateo ........•
"
Athens . . . . . . . . . . 228 Davis ............. Yolo ..............•
"

...............

117
118
119
120
121
122
123
124
125
126
127
128
i29
130
131
132
133
134
135
136
137
138
139
140
141
142
143
144
145
146
147
148
149
150
151
152
153

]11

110

109

105
106
107
108

104

90
91
92
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103

112
113
114
115
116

..

County.

Date when Charter
was Issued.

.............. Yolo '" ...............
Grafton ......... 141
Franklin . . . .. . . . 143 Courtland .....•.••. Saeramento ._ ........
Oriental . . . . . . . . . 144 San Franeisco •••..• San Francisco ......
Vitruvius ........ 145 Bloomfield .......... Sonoma ..........•.
Abell . . . . . . . . . . . 146 Ukiah .............. Mendoeino ........•
Eel River ....... 147 [•'ortuna ............ Humboldt ...........
Lassen . . . . . . : ... 149 dusanville ...•...... Lassen
Molino .......... 150 T£>hama ......•••... Tehama .....••.....
Woodland . . . . . . . 156 Woorlland .........• Yolo ..••......•...•
Keystone ........ 161 Milton .......••.••• Calaveras •...•...•.
Harmony ........ 164 Sierra City .....•.•. Sierra ........•...•
Excelsior ........ 166 San Francisco •••••. San Francisco •.....
Alameda ........ 167 Centerville ............. Alameda .•.•..•....
Redwood City ... 168 Redwood City ...... San :M:ateo •.••.....
Mission ......... 169 San Francisco •••... San Franciseo •.••..
Elk Grove ....... 173 Elk Grove ••.•.•••.• Sacramento ••••..•.
Drytown . . . . . .. . 174 Plymouth .......... Amador ...••.••••..
Antioch . . . . . . . . . 175 Antioch .........•.• Contra Costa •.•....
Phoenix . . . . . . . . . 178 San Bernardino ••.•. San Bernardino .....
Mendocino ...... 179 Mendocino •.....•..• Mendocino ........•
Petaluma •....... 180 Petaluma ......... · ISonoma ••......• • .•
Russian River .. : 181 Windsor .••••...••• Sonoma •.....•....•
Arbuckle ........ 182 Arbuckle . . . . . . . . . . Colusa •............
Clear Lake ..... : 183 Lower Lake •.••.... Lake .. . .. .. .. . ..
Sierra Valley .... 184 Sierra ville •••....•• Sierra .............
Claiborne ........ 185 Point Arena ...•••.• Mendocino •••...•..
Evening Star .... 186 Btna :M:ills ......... Siskiyou ...........

. .... .......

Names of Lodges

Pli.ces of Location.

List of the Snnordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.
c...>

ti:J

>

w
t.n

0\

>

.....

z

6:d

....t"

n

~

0

IS

0

tl

0

t"'

tl

z>

pj

0

:i::
ti:J

,.,

"')

0

:/l

t"'
0
tl
0

>
~

z

tl
.....

~

0

c:l:;:j

Ul

"l

c

""

~
r.r.

"""

0\

Town.

County.

z

....

.............

182
183
184
185
186
187
188
189
190

Lompoc ......... 262 Lompoc ............ Santa Barbara .... .
Hesperian ....... 264 Santa Maria ........ Santa Barbara .... .
Orland .......... 265 Orland ............. Glenn ............. .
North East ...... 266 Fort Bidwell ....... Modoc ............ .
Galt ............. 267 1Galt ............... Sacramento ....... .
Durant .......... 268 'Berkeley ........... Alameda .......... .
Olive Branch ..... 269\Tulare ............. Tulare ............ .
Snow Mountain ... 271 Stony Ford ........ Colusa ............ .
Pasadena ........ 272 Pasadena .........• Los Angeles ....... .
Anchor .......... 273 Compton ..........• Los Angeles ....... .
191 Arroyo .......... 274 Arroyo Grande ....• San Luis Obispo .... .
192 Oakdale ......... 275 Oakdale ...........• Stanislaus ......... .
193 Selma ........... 277 Selma ............. Fresno ............ .
194 Southern Calif .... 278 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
195 Hanford ......... 2 79 !Hanford ...•....... Kings ............. .
196 Madera .......... 280 Madera ............ Madera ........... .
197 Mount Shasta .... 281 Anderson .......... Shasta ............ .
198 Callayomi ........ 282 Middletown ........ Lake ............. .
199 South West ...... 283 National City ...... San Diego ......... .
20D San Miguel ...... 285 San Miguel ...... ; . San Luis Obispo .... .
201 Paso Robles ...... 286 Paso Robles ........ San Luis Obispo .... .
202 ·winnedumah .... 287 Bishop ............• Inyo .............. .
203 Maxwell ......... 288 Maxwell ..........• Colusa ............ .
204 Elsinore ......... 289 Elsinore •..........• Riverside ......... .
205 East Gate ....... 290 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... .
206 Santa Paula ...... 291 Santa Paula ........ Ventura .......... .
207 Los Gatos , ....... 292 Los Gatos ........•. Santa Clara ....... .
208 Orange Grove .... 293 l)range •........•. : Orange ........... .
209 Traver .......... 294 ,Kingsburg ......... Fresno ............ .
210 Mt. Jackson ..... 295 IGuerneville ......... Sonoma ........... .
211 Sih-er Gate ...... 296 San Diego .........• San Diego ......... .
212 Dunsmuir ........ 297 IDunsmuir .......... Siskiyou .......... .
213 Mokelumne Hill .. 298 Mokelumne Hill .... Calaveras ......... .
214 Liberty .......... 299 1Santa Clara .......• Santa Clara ....... .
215 Redlands ........ 300 !Redlands •..•......• San Bernardino .... .
216 On.tario .......... :lOl Ontario •...•.••...• San Bernardino .... .
217 Santa Lucia ...... 302 1Kings' City •....... Monterey •....... , .

I

........

\I
Solano
.... Butte ······· .......
North Butte ..... 230 Gridley
Covelo . . . . . . . . . . 231 Covelo ............. Mendocino .........
.Janesville . . . . . . . 232 Lassen ............. Lassen .............
Calistoga ........ 233 Calistoga .......... Napa ..............
Plumas ............
Hope ............ 234 Beckwith ......
Surprise Valley ... 235 Cedarville .......... Modoc .............
Hill's Ferry ...... 236 N'ewman ........... Stanislaus ..........
Guadalupe ....... 237 Gua<1alupe ......... Santa Barbara .....
Colusa ........... 240 Colusa ............. Colusa
Santa Ana ....... 241 Santa Ana ......... Orange .............
Magnolia ... ~ .... 242 S:rnta Barbara ...... Santa Barbara ......
Eucalyptus ....... 243 Haywards .......... Alameda ...........
Alcatraz ......... 244 W !'St Oakland ...... Alameda ...........
Laurel .......... 245 "illows ............ Glenn .. ······· ....
Los Angeles ........
Pomona ........ :246 Pomona ............
Fresno .......... 247\Fresno ............. Fresno .............
Alturas .......... 248 Alturas ............ Modoc .............
Adin ............ 250 IAdin .............. Modoc .............
Landmark ....... 253\Esparto •.......... Yolo ..............
Reading ......... 254 Redding ........... Shasta .............
Welcome ........ 255 Lemoore ........... Kings ... '. .........
Lodi ............ 256 Lodi .............. San Joaquin ........
Penrhyn •.•.•...• 258 Penryn ············ Placer ·············
Evergreen ....... 2591 Riverside .......... Riverside ..........
King Solomon's .. 260 San Francisco ...•. San Francisco ......
Tuscan .......... 261 Williams ........... Colusa .............

un

154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
163
164
165
166
167
168
169
170
171
172
173
174
175
176
177
178
179
180

E
::l

Places of Location.

"
Oct.
"

"
"

"

16,

"
14,

"

Oct.

"
Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"
"
"

"
"

"
Oct.
"
"

"
"
"

Oct.

"

1886.

"
"
"
"

1885.

"
1884.
"
"

1884.

"
"

1883.

"
"

1881.
1882.

"
"
"
1880.
"
"
"

1879

" "
" "
" "
11, 1888.
"
"
" "
" "
" "
10, 1889.
" "
" "
" "
"
"
16, 1890.
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"
"

"
16,
"
"

"
Oct.
"
"

"
"
"

16,

"
"

"
"

Oct.

11,

Oct.

"

15,
12,

"

15,

Oct.
Oct.

"

"
"

"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

"
"
"

16,
Oct.

"

"
"

"

1878.
10,

"
"

"
"

Oct.

"

"

Oct.

"
11,
"
"

"

"
"

1876.

12,

Oct.

"
"
1877.

" "
14, 1875.

"
"
"
"

"
"
"
"
"
Oct.
"
"

"
1874.

"
16,
"
"
"
"

1873.

18,

Date .when Charter
was Issued.

I
Oct .
. . . . . .----::-:. 229 '\ll<'jo •............ Solano •............

Names of Lodires.

Cl)

...
..,.

.;

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

"::l

t:i:l

~

z

2

8

9
9
\l

9
9
9
9
18
9
9
9
9
9
12
\l

B
0
":I
(')

~

77
67
144

784
15!l
183

142
81
109
510

12
9
!l
9
9
!l
9
!I

9
10
\)

9

5
50 ..... .
50 .... ..
50
3

114
48

186
254
149
62
9

9
!l
9

30 .... ..

50 ..... .
50 .... ..
40 .... ..

9

!l

301

6;-J
6!1

,
.....

~-

>

z
.....

::a

0

:;j

0

lj

I:'"
0

d

143

z>

0
;:;

\)

301 .... ..
30 .... .

125
58

172

6'36

8:.1
1G3

50
1
80 10
.')0
3
50 ......
301"""
30 .... ..
50 .... ..
50 .... ..
50 ..... .
30
1
30 ......

1

30
H
75 15
50 ......
50
3

f>O

4H

42
4:13
72
55

tr)

~

...,

"1

0

rn.

tr)

0
t:l
Q

9
9
9
9
9
l:!
12
9
9

H

lll!J

411

9
10
\i

48
.'12
!I

96

208

122

2

4
5

,g
1

6
1
7
1
8

tr)

I"'

...,

;...

2

tJ
H

o·
3
1
5

12
9

50
2
30
5
30 ......
50 10
50 ......
30
1
50 .... ..
!10 .... ..
30
6

1

\I
It
511

1

50

"I
12
12

!•

!l

"1

rn
\l

q

0

9

H

t"

\l

~~

... ,;
""
~~

rn
...,

-<

<=

~<=

>=I

°'w
°'

:::;::I ]~I9

-<

OJ-

,..i:i

75
50
40
50
30
50 16!
1
30
50 ······
50 10
50 ......
1
50
3
50
50 ······
50 ······
5
50
3
50
:~
50
1
40
30 ......
1
30
8
50
50 ......
50 ......
3
30
50 ......
50 15
50 ......

...0"',;

-"... s.g
w.~
""' ~OS
~>=I
""

,;

~
Town.

l
County.

·I

Porterville ....... 303 Porterville ••....... •rulare ............ .
Reedley ......... 304 Reedley .•......... Fresno ............ .
Azusa ........... 305 Azusa ....•........ Los Angeles ....... .
Ashlar .......... 306 Colton ............. San Bernardino .... .
Santa Monica .... 307 Santa Monica ...... Los Angeles ....... .
Monrovia ........ 308 Monrovia .......... Los Angeles ....... .
Delano .......... 309 Delano ..........•.. Kern ...•..........
Sisson ..........• 310 Sisson ..........•.. Siskiyou .......... .
Los Banos ....... 312 Los Banos ......•.. Merced ......•.•...
Tehachapi ....... 313 Tehachapi .......... Kern .•............•
Temescal ........ 314 Corona. ............. Riverside ......... .
Norwalk ......... 315 Norwalk ........... Los Angeles •.......
Sanger .......... 316 Sanger ............ Fresno •............
Fallbrook ........ 317 Fallbrook .......... San Diego ......••..
Emmanuel ....... :n8 Biggs ••............ Butte •............
Hollenbeck ...... 319 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....•...
South Gate ....... 320 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles •.......
Ali.'lal ........... 321 Pleasanton ......... Alameda ...•.......
Alhambra ........ 322 Alhambra ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Whittier ......... 323 Whittier . . . . . . . . . . Los Angeles .......•
Corona .......... 324 Pasadena •......... Los Angeles ....... .
Consuelo ......... 325 Escondido •......••• San Diego ......... .
Needles ......... 326 Needles ...........• San Bernardino .... .
Long Beach ....... 327 Long Beach ........ Los Angeles ....... .
Redondo ......... 328 Redondo ........... Los Angeles ....... .
Vallee de Franee .. 329 Los Angeles ........ Los A1!,geles •.......

z

Places of Location.

''
''

''
'' ''
" "
12, 1892.
" "
'' "
'' "
11, 1893.
'' "
'' ''
"
''
''11, 1894.
""'
"
"
''
"'' ,,

''

''

"

"

1897.

''
15,

''
Oct.

''

1896.

13,

Oct.

.

"
"

''
''

"
"

11, 1895.
Oct.

Oct.

''
''
''
"

''

"

''
''
''
Oct.
"

Oct.

''
''

''

~gl···~-~

''

14,

"
"
"

"
"
"
"

"

"
"

"

"

''

''

''
"
''

''

2

50

101
15

44
5:i

9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9
9

102

1

50 .... ..
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
75 15
50
5
50 ······
30 .... ..
50 ..... .
50 ..... .
75 ..... .
50
5
30 ..... .
50
5
50
I
75
:~
50 ......
50
3
50 ......
75
5

50

50 ..... .
50
]
50 ······
75 10
30 ......
50 4%
50 ......
50
::!

41) .... ..

424
50 ..... .

205
372

99
395
166
253

432

95

80

302

32

91
605

482
235

108
::!50

472

370

265
218
307
6i8

335
JOO

102

198

110
246

29
50 .... ..

185
67
287

1033
72!1
82
267
209
3!'4
97
151
428
17!1
JOI

169
480

12

1)3

74
H

172
137
12l
85
73
135
112

135

184
69
8::!

9
9
12
9
9
9
9

H'

!-I

9
9
9
9

~

~;:;;

"'"'

"" ,,

M

§ -o
.,_;e

50 .... ..
75 ..... .
53 ······
30 ......
50 20

50 ..... .

501.
50.
501 12

30 ......
50
1

50 ...... 1
30
3
50
8

35 ...... ;

50

~g .... ~I

30, .... ..

2

501

~gl"'"i

fi0 ..... .
50 1.... ..
501 ..... .

30 .... ..

501 .... ..

1890.
1891.

rn,

Oct.
Oct.

''

~~ i1.iE

"
"

"

.£~

.,;::
"'"" "'"'
.. ~

....

.E ~...

was Issued.

Date when Charter

244
Kilauea ......... 330 Hilo •...•.........• Hawaiian Ter.••.••
Oct.
245 Pacific Grove ..... 331 Pacific Grove ....... Monterey ........•.
15, 1897
246 San Pedro ....... 332 San Pedro •......... Los Angeles •....... j
''
'
247 Alt~ ............ 333 Bridgeport ......... Mono ............ .
'' "
248 Covina .......... 334 Covina ...•••..•...• Lo11 Angeles ••••.•..
"
'' "
Oct.
14, 1898.
249 West Gate ....... 335 Los Angeles ..•..... Los Angeles •......
Oct.
14, 1899.
250 Fruitvale ........ 336 Oakland . • . . . . . . . . . Alameda .••...•.•
251 Carquinez ........ 337 Crockett ••••....... Contra Costa .... .
"
''
"
252 San Jacinto ..... 338 San Jacinto ........ Riverside ....•...
'' "
"
253 Fullerton ........ 339 Fullerton .......... Orange •......••.
''
''
Oct.
11, 1900.
254 Oxnard .......... 341 Oxnard •.••........ Ventura ......•..
Oct.
10, 1901.
255 San Fernando .... 343 Fernando •......... Los Angeles •.....
Oct.
15, 1902.
256 Starr King ...... 344 San Francisco •••... San Francisco ... .
'' ''
257 Brentwood ......• 345 Brentwood ...•..•. : Contra Costa •....
"
'' "
258 Palo Alto ........ 346 Palo Alto ..••...... Santa Clara ...... .
"
"
''
259 McKinley ........ 347 Richmond •.•....... Contra Costa ..... .
"
"
''
260 San Bernardino ... 348 San Bernardino .... San Bernardino .. .
"
'' "
261 Sequoia ......... 349 Oakland ........... Alameda ........ .
''
262 Palestine ........ 3!'il Los Angeles •....... Los Angeles .••..
Oct.
16, 1903
263 Sunset .......... 352 Los Angeles ..••.... Los Angeles •......
"
264 Pinole ........... 353 Pinole •.......•.... Contra Costa ..... .
265 Presidio ......... 354 San Francisco . . . . . . San Francisco
"
"
"
266 Hollywood ..... 355 Hollywood ••...•... Los Angeles ...... .
"
'' ''
267 Mill Valley ...... 356 Mill Valley •........ Marin ........... .
"
'' "
268 Buena Park ...... 357 Buena Park •..•.... Orange .......... .
"
"13, 1904.
"
269 Golden Gate . . ... 358 Los Angeles •.....•. Los Angeles •......
Oct.
270 Loyalton ........ 359 Loyalton .•....•.... Sierra ........... .
'' "
2il San Francisco .... 360 San Francisco .••••. San Franciseo .... .
'' "
272 Fort Bragg ...... 361 Fort Bragg •.•..•.•. Mendocino •••.....
"
273 Cbaritv .......... 362 Campbell ........... Santa Clara •.••...
''
'' ''
274 Berkeiey ........ 363 Berkeley •.•...•.... Alameda ...•......
275 Willits .......... 365 Willits ...•..•..... 'Mendocino ....... .
"
''
Oct.
12, 1905.
276 Las Palmas ...... 366 Fresno .....••....•• Fresno .....••....
''
'
;,_
"
277 South Pasadena ... 367 South Pasadena .... Los Angeles •••.••.
"
"
278 Unity ........... 368 Glendate ........... Los Angeles ...... .
'' "
279 Ocean Park ...... 369 Ocean Park ........ Los Angeles •..••..
'' ''
280 Amity ........... 3'i'O San Francisco •••..• San Francisco ••.•..

219
220
221
222
223
224
225
226
227
22q
229
230
231
232
233
234
235
206
237
238
2:39
240
241
242
243

:.l) 8

Names of Lodges.

~

,: I

Lii:t of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

~

§

>

'

:...

g

0
"'l

~

§

t"'

t)

z

>

Cl
:ii

C\

w

t<

l?l

~·

~

~(.f

t;j

0

t;rJ

>·
,.,

z

t;j

:JJ

t:i
0

rn
d

~

t"

Ui
,.,

('.(;

.,

~

Z

§

.<:>

I

Town.

Le Progres de
1 '0ceanie ...... 371 Honolulu .•.••••••.. Hawaiian Ter. • . . . .. Oct.
Gardena ......... 372IGardena .......... •j'Los Angeles • . . . .. . • Oet.
Veteran ......... 373,Sawtelle •.......... Los Angeles ........ • "
.Jewel ........... 374\San Francisco •..... ,San Francisco . . .. ..
''
Richmonc1 ....... 375 San Francisco ....... San Francisco . . . . • .
"
1
Francis Drake .... 316 South San Fra.neisco.[San Mateo . .. . • . . . .
"
Artesia .......... 3 77 Artesia ............ /.Los An. geles • . . . . . . .
"
Mizpah .......... 378 1Los Angeles ...••.. · ILos Angeles .. .. . .. .
"
Fillmore ......... 379\1Fillmore ......••... Ventura • . . • • . . . • . ..
"
Huntington Beach.380 Huntington Beach .. Orange . . . . . . . . . . . .
''
Oceanside ........ 381 !oceanside •......... San Diego • . . . . . . . ..
"
Highland Park .... 3s2JLos Angeles ......... Loa Angeles......... Oct.
Orosi ............ 383 Orosi ...•.......•.. Tulare . • . . . . . . . . . . .
''
El Centro ........ 384 IEl Centro ........... Imperial . . . . . . . . . . .
''
Dinuba .......... 38!l!Dinuba ............. Tulare . . . . • . . . . . . . .
"
Coalinga ......... 387(Coalinga ........... Fresno .. . . . .. . . . . . .
"
Parnassus ....... 388 iSan Francisco ....... San Francisco.......
"
Palos Verdes ..... 389[Long Beach ......... Los Angeles.........
"
Imperial ......... 390 Imperial ........... Imperial . . . . . . . . . . . Oct.
East Belt ........ 391 jl Tuolumne .......... Tuolumne . . . . . . . . . .
"
West Lake ....... 392 L.os Angeles ........ Los Angeles... . . ..
"
Balder .......... 393 ISan Francisco ........ San Francisco. . . . . . .
"
University ....... 394 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.........
"
Turlock ......... 395JTurlock ........... Stanislaus . . . . . . . . ..
"
Apollo ........... 396JAlameda ........... Alameda . . . .. • . . . . .
"
Rising Light ...... 39i[Huntington Park ... Los Angeles.........
"

-·-1-· -- ----

Count;.

.12, 1905.
10, 11106.
"
"
''
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
·~
''
''
"
"
10, 1907.
''
''
''
''
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
15,
1908
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

Date when Charter
was l55ued.

50 IC
50
2
50
3
50 10
50 10
501
ti
30 ... ., .
50 15
50
1

~
<

S

~A ~::;j

%~ :B~

-

... ,; ... d
o'" o.O
- !: -:;

,;
~
A

9;

... ,;

t"'

tJ
....

z

0
"'1

t:=J

337
210
184

111

352

z

:::

,..,
57
703

77

16'7

368
275

tJ
t::
(/J

t"'
0

t'1

0

>
,..,
53
352
71
138
138

m;

:1l

81}

433
112

c::

rn

0
"'1

Cil
,..,

l:ll
0

176
102

8()

200

"'"'
~~

.,o

~i::

0

51::

.........,T1,.d,,. ...........

,,1.........

''

,,

"
"

l"A

~

::::J"'9

gg/""~

z

307
308 l'raternity ....... 399 1San Jose ........... 'Santa Clara .......
Oct.
15, 1908
vV .......
9'
211
309 Burlingame ...... 400,Burlingame ........ San Mateo .........
11)1
"
"
~1
206
310 Bay View ...... .40110akland ........... Alameda ........... Oct.
14,
1909.
311 Brawley ......... 402 Brawley ........•.. Imperial ..........
91 269
"
9
92
"
312 Yerba Buena ..... 403i0akland ............ Alameda ..........
"
"
Lo, ••
501 25 J ')i
273
"
313 "~"""
"
30 .......
" "
65
3H :;l,foneta ......... .405 Los Angeles ....... ·/Los Angeles ......
"
"14, "
9
352
?0! .. ····1
315 Burbank ....... .406 Burbank ........... Los Angeles ....... Oct.
1909.
001 ......
9
81
316 La 'Mesa ......... 407 La Mesa. . . . . . . . . . . . San Diego .........
Oct.
13, 1910.
501
3
......
9
73
317 Sierra Madre .... 408/Sierra Madre ••...... Los
50
.....
"
Honolulu
........
409
Honolulu
..........
Haw<.ii
............
"
9
71
"
318
0
"
" "
50 JO 12
210
::I
319 Charter Rock .... 410 1Berkeli>v ........... Alameda ...........
"
50 ······
9
>
447
" "
320 Perris ........... 411,Perris ............. Riverside ..........
"
3 10
30
"
78
"
321 Calexico ........ .4I21Calexico ........... !Imperial ...........
~
50
5 12
"
" "
50
322 Vl-'aucoba ........ 4131Big Pine ........... Inyo ...............
t"'
"
.
30
Arlington
.......
.414iLos
Angeles
........
Los
Angeles
........
"
"
34
0
323
"
50
~
" "
lt'5
324 Silver Trowel ..... 415 ILos Angeles ........ Los Angeles ....... ·I
Q
"
50 ......
9
" "
201
325 Lindsay ........ .4161Lindsay ........... Tulare ............
lXJ
"
9
50 ......
" "
76
326 Clovis .......... .417/Clovis ............. Fresno ............
0
g
"
50 ......
Elysian ......... .418 Los Angeles ........ Los Angeles: .......
73
" "
"ii
3<>-1
9
"
50
5
"11, "
275
a
328 Upland ......... .419/Upland ............ San Bernardmo ..... Oct.
1911.
3
9
50
82
Kerman ......... .420 Kerman .......•.... Fresno ..............
>
329 Inglewood
....... 421
t"
35 ······
9
47
.....
"
" "
Inglewood ........... Los Angeles ........
330 Eagle Rock ......
'1l
"
50
3
"
9
103
Eagle Rock ......... Los Angeles ........
"
0
331 York ...........
50 ......
"
9
58
Watts
..........•..•
~
"
332 Exeter .......... 424
[,os Angeles ........ Oct.
12, 1912.
50 ······
9
77
....
333 Holtville ....... .425 Exeter .......•.•.. Tulare .........•...
"
150 ...... 10
>
" "
Holtville
............
78
334 Midway ........ .426
Imperial •..........
fj,
50 •,•••··
"
" "
77
33:; Chino Valley ..... 42i Taft ............•.. Kern .......•......
100 . ....
"
9
" "
189
336 San Dimas ....... 428 Chino ••..••••...... San Bernardino .....
"
San Dimas •........ Los Angeles ........
50 ······
9
" "
46
337
35 ······
" "
9
61
338 Pittsburg ........ 429 Pittsburg .......... Contra Costa .......
"
50
" "
1 12
62
{<
339 McClou<l ....... .430 )Mc Cloud ............ Siskiyou ...........
"
Alpha ........... 431 Richmond .......... Contra Costa ......•
50 ..._., ..
"
9
50
0-.
.jl.
"
" "
263
.....

282
283
284
285
286
287
288
289
290
291
292
293
294
295
296
297
298
299
300
301
302
303
304
305
306

28 l

l

Places of Location.

'7::---=:---::-----~---"--~~---

Ne.mes of Lod.ies.

.

Llst of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

z

::s

I:

..,"'
Town.

Places of Location.

Oluntr.

........

380
381

379

3i7
318

316

375

366
367
368
369
370
371
312
3i3
374

47T,.

Riverbank ....... 459 1Riverbank ......... !Stanislaus ....... .
Mount Oso ...... .460/Tracy ..•.....•..•. San Joaquin .....•
Argonaut ....... .461 San Francisco ...••. San Francisco .... .
Pa.:il Revere •.... .4621San Francisco ...... San Francisco .... .
Morgan Hill ..... 463/Morgan Hill ........ Santa Clara ..... .
Alta Vista ...... .464 San J<'rancisco ...... San Francisco .... .
Center ........... 465 Fresno ..........•.• Fresno ••••....•.
Libertas ........ .466/Bakersfield ••......• Kern .......••...
Cuh·er City ..... .467jCulver City ...•..... Los .Angeles ...... .
Rockridge ...... .468t0akland ........... Alameda •...•••..•
Yorba Linda ..... 469 ;Yorba Linda .•...... 0range .......... .
Lincoln ......... .4iO!San Francisco ...... San Prancisco .... .
Delta ........... .471/Stockton . . . . ....•. 1San Joaquin •.....
Maui ........... .4~2 Kahului ............ /Hawaiian Te-:. • ••.
Blythe ..•....... .413 Blythe ............. ,San Bernardmo ... .
Vlotory ..........
Frano~oo .....• ,s,. Frnno~oo •....

............

340
. .. .
......... "
341 Mariwpa ....... .434
............ Kern .. .................
342 Fairmount ....... 435 San Francisco ...... San Francisco .....•
343 Claremont ....... 436 Claremont ............ Los Angeles •......
344 Lancaster ...... .437 Lancaster ........... Los Angeles .•.....
345 Acacia ......... .438 Los Angeles ...•.•. Los Angeles .....•.
346 Tyrian . . . . .. .-.. .439 Manteca ........•.. San Joaquin .......
347 Standard ........ 440 Oakland
Alameda ...........
348 Coronado ....... .441 Corcnado ............. San Diego .........
349 · Blackmer ....... .442 San Diego ......... San Diego .........
350 Schofield . . . . . . . . 443 Schofield Barracks ... Hawaiian Ter .......
351 Carpinteria ..... .444 Carpinteria .......... Santa Barbara .....
352 Wilshire ........ .445 Los Angeles ........ ., Los Angeles ...•....
353 La Puente ...... .446 Puente ............ Los Angeles ........
354 Torrance ........ 447 Torrance •.......... Los Angeles ........
355 Mt. Diablo ..... .448 Concord ............. Contra Costa ...•...
356 Park •.......... .449 San Francisco ...... San Francisco ......
357 Van Nuys ....... 450 Van Nuys .......•. Los Angeles ........
358 Montebello ...... 451 Montebello ......... Los Angeles ........
359 San Pasqual .... .452 Pasadena ............. Los Angeles ........
360 Bethlehem ...... .453 San Francisco ....... San Francisco .......
361 Crocker ......... 454 Daly City ........... San Mateo ..........
362 Golden \Vest .... .4~5 San Francisco ....... san Francisco .......
363 Kennett ......... 4~6 Kennett ........... 1Shasta .............
364 Ramona .......•. 4;>7jAlhambra .......... 1Los Angeles ........
365 Henry S. Orme .. .458,Los Argeles ........ !Los Angeles .•......

Names of Lodges.

i....

"

Oct.

"
"
"
"
Oet.

"

"
"
Oct.

"
"
"

Oct.
Oct.

"
"

"
"

"

"
Oet.

"
"
"
"
"
"
"
"

"
"

"

"
"
Oet.

"

..

"
"

"

"

22,
12,

"

1917.

"
"

"

"

191i)
1916

"

"
"
"
"

"

k

<

~=

""
"

<

9
12
9
9
12
9

9

10
101
51

~

~

~.

12
12
12
12
9
9
9

OU ......
9
50
6
9
50 ...... 12
75
5 12
50 JO
9
75 . .... 12
50 ······
9
75 ······ 12
50 ······
9
50 10
9
50 .. ...
9
50 10 12
50 ..
9

50 ......
IOI
50
50 ......
50 ......

50
50
50

...... ...... •*•••·

~

~.

9
9
9
9
9
9

9
9

}I

······1 12

100 ......
50
50 ......
50
3
50 10
50 ......
50
5
50 ......
50 ......
50
5
fiO ....
75 25
l
40
50 . ....
flO
5
50 JO
3
50

i'-A

. .: lti

.. $,J

Cl.I

rn

w

"

t:l

,890

t;

0\

....z
>

'1

0

t'
"ii

>
....

("l

t>J
0
"ii

"

0

96
30
31

ii8

t:l
t"

~

z>

>-3
:i:

t:J

0
"'.I

trl

76

36

107

36

83
85
81

27

56
8li
131
327

267
53
84
23()

t"'
Cl

0

'"3
t:J

z
>

ti

~

b:l
0

c:

73
80
5'i
149
109
169
139
:H
294
59
54
56
299
78
61
104
lil

0
"'.I

t"'
....

Cl.I
,.,,

N

°'.i:.

iO
445
68

-2 m .B·g A" ""ell
'""'
"' to .,_
"'-"' <ii ~~
"''"
~~

"
... ..... ...
"16, 1919.
"
/)
75
9
I
"A
"
"

"

"

"
"
"
"10, 1918.

11,

"

"

"

"
"

"
"
"
"

"

"
" "
14, 1915.

"

"
"

" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
15, 1914.
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "
" "

Date when Charter
was Issued.

List of the Subordinate Lodges, etc.-Continued.

Location.

County.

I Chartered.

\Became Extinct\

----~------

LODGES.

N~-me

Remarks.

I

.

Caymus .......... Yountville ...... l:sapa ........... J\Iay

93

109

Dibble ........... !Omega ......... .INe•ada ......... May

1

Owen .•...•..••. · /Scott's Bar ...•.•• Siskiyou .....•.. ·!May

108

I

1

Mount J f$erson ... ,Garrotte ......... !Tuolumne ....... ,May

I

Manzanita ....... North San Juan. :Nevada ......... ,May
Siskiyou ......... Henley ......... siskiyou , ....... May
107

105

JC3

Mount Hermon .... !Elizabethtown ... /Plumas .......... May
98 Quartzburg .......!Quartzburg ...... !Mariposa ........ May
99 La Grange ....... Merced ........ ·:Merced ..•...... May
100 Campo ~eco ..•.... Campo Seeo ...... ,C,alaveras ....... 1IMay

94

Umty ........ , .. ·iOrleans Flat ..... Cilevada ......... May
Quitman ......... North Bloomfield. Nevada ......... May
Polar Star ........ Poorman 's Creek. jPlumas ......... J\Iay
Aca.cia .......... Coloma ......... i F.\ Dorado ....... May

88
88
90
92

I

Sai~t Louis ....... \IIowland 's Flat ... S~crra ......... · 1May

~o?ntain .....•.. Don Ped~·o 's Bar· Tuolumne ....... 1May
1
l{1S1.ng S~ar: ...... For:st H i~l. : ..... Plaeer .......... !May
Indian Diggings ... Indian D1ggrngs. · 11 El Dorado ....... May

86

8<>

8~

8.2

i4
75
77

73

I

NGbraska ........ 1Michigan Bar .... :Sacramento ...... May
E. K
.. Kane ...... !Nevada ........ ·jl'ievada ......... May
Tyro ............ Drytown ......... Amador ........ · 1May
Franklb ......... Meadow Valley ... Plumas ......... May
Wisconsin Hill. ... ;Wisconsin Hill ... !Placer .......... :\'.fay
Mountain Forest .. JEureka North .... !Sierra ........... 1May
Petaluma ........ Petaluma ........ !Sonoma ......... May

71

72

Corinthian ........1M. arysville ...... j·Y.'uba .... · .. · • · ·1May

69

2, 1855 IDee.,

1874 Consolidated with Marysville No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
2, 1855 Oct.
15, 1887 Consolidated with Ione No. 80.
2, 1855 Dec.
1, 1858 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dee.
27, 1859 Surrendered.
15, 1857" . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Charter never issued.
3, 1855 Aug. 29, 1857 Surrendered.
2, 1855 May
1870 Surrendered.
2, 1855 Dee.,
1898 Consolidated with Areturas No.
180 as Petaluma No. 180.
8, 1856 IMay 18, 1861 Surrendered.
3, 1919 Consolidated with Eureka No. 16.
8, 1865 Sept.
17, 1874 Consolidated with St. Mark's No.
8, 1856 loet.
115 as St. Mark's·No. 85.
1882 Consolidated with Gibsonville,
8, 1856 INov.,
No. 158.
8, 1856 Name changed to Quitman.
8, 1856 M:ay
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevada, No. 13.
8, 1856 Oct.
8, 1858 Surrendered.
8, 1856 May
8, 1856 March 29, 1916 Consolidated with Palmyra No.
26, as Palmyra No. 26.
8, 1856 !Oct.
10, 1867 Removed and name changed to
St. Helena.
s. 1856 Dee. 24, 1859 Surrendered.
8; 1856 .............. Name changed to Hornitas.
16, 1913 N,ame changed to Yoseniite No. 99.
9, 1856 Oct.
8, 1856 Oct.,
1898 Consolidated with Calaveras
No. 78.
13, 1910 Consolidated with Nevuda No. 13.
8, 1856 IOet.
15, 1856 Oct.
11, 1876jConsolidated with St. John's
No. 37.
11, 18761Consolidated with Tuolumne No. 8
14, 1857 IOet.
and Columbia No. 28, as Tuol·
umne No. 8.
14, 1857 IOct.
15, 1908,Consolidated with North Star
No. 91.
14, 1857 !Sept. 27, 1879 Surrendered.

Berryman ........ Sacramento •..... Sacramento ...... I.April 19, 1850 , .....•........
changed to Jennings.
Jennings ......... Sacramento ..•... Sacramento ......••••••••••...• llfay
6, 18561Charter surrendered.
Sutter ........... Sacramento ...... Sacramento ...... May 7, 1850 May
6, 1856 Surrendered.
Davy Crockett .... San Francisco .•.. San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 \Aug. 18 1 185:1. Name changed to San Francisco.
San Francisco .... San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Nov. 27, 1850 May 13, 1859 Revoked.
Willamette ..•.... Portland ........ Multnomah ...... Nov. 27, 1850 Nov.,
1851 Transferred
Oregon. to jurisdiction of
9, 1851 Nov.,
1851 Transferred to jurisdiction of
Oregon.
15 La Fayette ....... La Fayette, Ore. . . .......•..•...•. May
24, 1851 *\ ...•.•........ Charter never issued.
Nashville ........ Nashville ......• El Dorado ...••.• Dee.
5, 1853* .............. Charter never i,;sued.
15, 1891 Consolidated with Tuolumne No.
Pacific .......... Valparaiso ...... Chili ............ May 5, 1853 Oct.
8 and Mt. Jefferson No. 107, as
28 Columbia ........ Columbia ....... Tuolumne ....... May
Tuolumne No. 8.
5, 1853 \Oet.
18, 1873 Surrendered.
5, 1853 Oct.
13, 1883 Consolidated wi,th Calaveras
29 Diamond ......... Diamond Springs. El Dorado ..•.... May
No. 78.
31 Mokelumne .....• Mokelumne Hill .. Calaveras ..•.... May
15, 1887 Revoked.
5, 1853 JOet.
3, 1864 Surrendered.
34 Santa Clara ......• Santa Clara ...... Santa Clara ...... May 3, 185-1 jSept.
36 Butte .....•...... Bidwell ......... Butte .....•..... May
3, 1854 i.June 16, 1916 Consolidated with Corinthian No.
9, as Corinthian No. 9.
30 Yuba ........... Marysville •••••• Yuba ....•....•. May
15, 1897 Surrendered.
1854 \oet.
6, 1856 Smrendered.
47 Michigan City .... Michigan Bluff •.. Placer .......... May 3,.
3, 1854 May
48 Grass Valley ...... Grass Valley ..... Nevada ......... May
29, 1857 Revoked.
3,
1854
\June
1864 Surrendered.
49 Lebanon ........ San Francisco .... San Francisco .... Ma_y
3, 1854 Nov.
52 Rough and Ready. Rough and 'Ready. Nevada ......... May 3, 1854 May 10, 1856 Surrendered.
20, 1857 Surrendered.
53 Franklin ......... Sacramento ..... Saeramento ...... May
2, 1855 Feb.
15, 1919\Consolidated with Tuolumn!l No. 8.
54 Saint James ...... .Jamestown ...... Tuolumne ....... May
1856 \Sept .
62 Geo. Washington . Chinese Camp .... Tuolumne ....... May 8,
3, 1855 Oct. · 29, 1857 Surrendered.
U3 Iowa Hill ....•.•. Iowa Hill. ....... Placer .......... May
18591Surrendered.
2, 1855 May 14,
2, 1855 Name changed to Corinthian No.
67 Minnesota ....... Minnesota ....... Sierra ........... May
2, 1855 May
69.
6\) Ind. Hoyal Arch .. \Marysville ...... Yuba ........... May

No.
4
4
6
7
7
11

Na:rne.

EXTINCT

t

t><j

0

tn

..,.
"'

~

z

0
:ll

l:>:j

....

>
t<

(')

'lj

t:J

Q

ti

s

ti

z

;..

0

:ll

~

1-3

"l

"'0

t><j

0
::;:i

"'b

0

1-3

;.<

o.

Name.

Location.

County.

hturn• .•..••••. Pot•lnm• •••••.. Bonomo ....•••... OoC

180

Contra Costa ...••• 3omersville ...... )Contra Costa ..... vet.
Tyre .•.....••••• Gold Run ........ !Placer .......... Oct.
•••..••• 1
.....•. IS.n Mo too ......• ·Oct.
1
Equality .....••.. 1Colusa.. . ......• 1'colusa .......... !Oct.
227
238

14, 1869 July
20, 1872 Surrendered.
30, 1870" .............. Charter never issued.

1898Con>0lidatod
Arizona. ·, ith Petoluma No.

P,.~d"o

P~o•foo

14, 1875 April

14, 1875 Sopt.

18, 1873 Oct.
14, 1875 Oct.

.
1, 1882 Consolidated with Colusa No. 142

26, 1890 Sumnd,,.d.

15, 1897 Surrendered.
16, 1884 Surrendered.

16, 1879 Mch.
4, 1881 • Mch.
15, 1881 Mch.

.
::Solomon ..•..•••• 1Tombutone ..•..• IArizona
Ter ...... June
I
..•..... -/Arizona
Ter .....• Oct.

Tran~ferred to jurisdiction of

25, 1882

Arizona. to jurisdiction of
Tran~ferred

Arizona. to JUnsdiction
. . . .
25, 1882 Transferred
of

25, 1882

No. 287.

Tyrian •..•..••••• 1Dunmgan ......• .I Yolo ............ Oct.
Hueneme ........ Hueneme ........ Ventura ......... /Oct.

.Manila ..•..•..• -)Mamla •...•••••• Philippine

284
311

342

_ ,; --~ ;i : • , ( ~ ]

'It

Oct.

10, 1901 /Dec.

14, 1886 Oct.
12, 1892 Oct.

19, 1912

Phihppme Islands.

...irr_ed to jurisdiction of

w<lli Il$w>lon Nu. 'M.

ll, 1911
16, 1902 Consol·dated with Oxnard No. 341.

Consol!datedwi~hWoodlandNo.156
"40 S•nta M,,;, . ..... ••nta M.,ia ..••.• Santa Ba.b.,, .... Oct. 11, 1900 Out.
13, 1910 Con~b"3w
!~lands
Tran~i
1

Fall River .....•• ,Burgettville •... ·/Shasta .......... Oct.

W

270

ll, 1883 Oct.
10, 1895 Revoked.
Arizona.
•~tpo..t ..••••• • IW '"tport ..••••..• Mendocino ..•.... Dot. 16,
1884 May 26, 1888 Su,,,nd.,,d.

Tucson ...•••..• •1rucson

n

.......• Arizona Ter ...... /Oct.

1

Arizona ..•.....•• . Phoenix

I

276

263

257

-

:s C?lusa N~.
. No. 132
.
.
/
249 G,.,nvtllo
..•..• ··: G,.oovtllo
......• !Plum'" ...•....•. •Oct.
10, 1878 Od.
16, 1896 Con'Ohda1'd
with24?·
Smrenty
2~;
Bro~herhood
....• i Dun.can's Mills ... /Sonoma ......... /Oct. 10, 18!8 April .19, 1888 Surren.dered. .
.
2v~ Bodie ..........• 1Bodie .........•• 1:\Iono ........... Oet. 10, 1818 Dec. 20, l918·Consohdated with Wmnedumah

240

239

213
218

Q

z

~

z

6
::::i

t:

;..

Q

'=:I

0

t.:::J

tJ
t"'
0
tJ
0

0\
.i:-

;..

"'.J

10, 1867 Dot.
16, 1919 Nome
ohongud
to A<buckl,
77 as
No. 180.
10, 1867 ..•••...•.•... Nomo '"•god to Cloiborno.
15, 1868 Der.,
1884 Consolidated with Natoma No. 64.

ll, 1866 Deo.,

ll, 1866 Mch.

16, 1879 Surrendered.
25, 1882 Transferred to jurisdiction of

I..............

Bodoga ..••• · ..•• iBodoga ..•••..•. !Sonoma ......•.. Oo< 14, 1871 Out.
12, 1889 Rovokod. '·.
.
Plo~ant0n
• . • . . • • Livormo,. ...••.• IAlomoda ••.....• ,1
0.C 11, 1872 Oct.
18 1881 Nomo chang,,d t.o Mo.ale.
223 Maui ..•.••..••.• Wailuku ......... !Hawaii ......... lf'ct. 18, 1873 Nov. 17; 1877 Surrendered.

LatroJ;>e .......... Latrobe .....•... El Dorado ....... Oct.
Paradise ......... Eiaywards .....•. 1.-\.lameda ........ 0ct.
Rocklin ........•• Rocklin .......... 1Placer ........... July

189
197

182 Me•ldfan ........ A•bueklo ......• Col,., .......... Out.
185 A,.n•• ..•••. · .••. P,,nt• Mou,. .... "oudocino ...... Oct.

Merced .....•..•
Aztlan •....•..••

176
177

:i5

Hemarlls.

11, 1911 '~onsolioated with Palmyra 1'o. ~6.
26, 189-i Revoked.
18, 1861 Surrendered.
28, 185F Charter never issued.
5, 185!' Surrendered.
8, 190[ Surrendered.
14, 187(· Revoked.
13, 1863 Revoked.
16, 1913 ~nsolidated with La Grange No. 99,
now known as Yosemite No. 99.
1862 Surrendered.
10, 1860 lT une
10, 1860 Oct. ' 16, 1879 Surrendered.
10, 1860 April
1, 1882 Consolidated with Equality No.
240 as Colusa No. 240.
2, 1865 Surrendered.
16, 1861 !Dec.
10, 1911 Consolidated with El Dorado No.
16, 1862 Oct.
26 as Palmyra No. 26.
15, 1862 Oct.
11, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
16, 1864 Surrendered.
15, 1862 July
16, 18651Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Aug.
16, 1872,Surrendered.
14, 1863 .Tan.
16, 1865 Transfe_rred to j~risdiction of Nevada.
14, 1863 Oct.
15, 1908'Jonsohdated with Jefferson No. 97.
14, 1863 Sept. 28, 1864 Surrendered.
14, 1863 Dec.,
1898l1 ·onsolidated wit_h c:eo~g~town No. 25.
14, 1863 Tan.
16, 1865,Transferre!1 to iurisd1ction of Nevada.
15, 1863 Tan.
16, 1865,Transferred to jurisdiction of Nevada.
13, 1864 Tan.
16, 186~.Transferred to ~ur'.sd'.ct'.on of Nev.ada.
13, 1864 Tan.
16, 186;),Transferred to ~ur'.sd'.ct'.on of Nevada.
13, 186-1 Tan.
16 1865Transferred to iurisd1ction of Nevada.
1~, 186\ Tan.
16; 1865 1Transferred to i~risdiction of Nevada.
2<>, 186-l Oct.
1, 1864,Charter never issued.
12, 1865
Name changed to Antioch.

12, 1865 Oct.

Josephns .•••••••• !Brush Creek ...•.. Butte ........... ,May
Rising Sun ••••••• Brandy 9ity ..•.. Sierra .......... May
Carson ..•.•••.••• Carson City ...... Nevada Ter .....•. May
1
Mount Carmel. •••• 1Red Dog ........• Nevada ........ ·1May
Washoe ..•..••••• Washoe City ...•. Nevada Ter ...... May
Gibsonville •.•••• Gibsonville .....• Sierra ..........• 1May
Gilroy ..•..•••••• Gilroy .....•...• Santa Clara .....• IMay
P~lot. ~ill.: ....... Pi~ot. ~ill.: ...•.. El Dorado ...... · !May
VIrflilia City ..••• Virginia City...•• Nevada Te.,. ...... May
Silver City .•••••• Silver City ....... Nevada Ter ...... )May
Silver Star ..•.••• Gold Hill ........ ,Nevada Ter ...... ;Oct.
Esme~alda .••.••• A~ro;a............ N eYada Ter ...... 10ct.
1
Escunal •••....•• Virgmia Citv .... 1NeYada Ter ...... 'Oct.
La:a_der ..•.....•• Aust~n .._...~..... iX ev:i da Ter ...... [Oct.
Alpme ........••• :\larkleenlle .... [Alpme .......... May
Claiborne .....••• Antioch ......... !1 ·ontra Costa ..... IOct.

152
153
t.'5-1
155
157
158
159
160
162
163
165
170
171

3nelling ........ i:\Ierced ........• Oct.
Prescott ........ ·/Arizona Ter ...... Oct.

San Luis Obispo ••• ,San Luis Obispo .. ,San Luis Obispo .. ,May
Palmyra •.••••••• Placerville ...•.. El Dorado ....... May

1-18
151

,_;2

Oro Fino ..•..•••• !Oro Fino ........• !Siskiyou ....... · 1May
Violet •.•..••••• ·!Spanish Flat ...•. El . Dorado ....... May
Colusa ............ Colusa .......•.• Colusa .......... May

137
138
l-l2

11-1
115
116

!Became Extinc1

14, 1857 Oct.
1-1, 1857 June
14, 1857 May
14, 1857* Jan.
13, 1858 .Tan.
13, 1858 Oct.
1858 JCt.
13, 1859 !May
13, 1859 Oct.

Chartered.

Mt. Zion .•.••••• ::trizzly Flat ..... El Dorado ....... May
Saint Mark's .•••• Fiddletown ...... Amador ......... May
Windsor ••.•.•••• Windsor .....•.. Sierra ........... May
::?olsom .••.•••••• Folsom .••...•... Sacramento ...... Feb.
118 Vallecito .••••••• Valleeito .•....•• Calaveras ....... May
121 lonic .....•...••• Iowa Hill ......•. Placer .......... May
125 Progress ••••••••• San Francisco .... San Francisco ... .
130 Unity .••..•..••• San Bernardino ... San Bernardino .. May
133 Yosemite .....•••.Coulterville ...... 1)fariposa ........ ,May

No.

EXTINCT LODGES-CONTINUED

..,

::a
i:tj

'..,"

"'0

i:tj

Q

8t;j

zn..,

><

i:tj

°'

o,
....

EXTINCT LODGES OF THE

648

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

649

GRAND LODGES OF THE UNITED STATES
AND BRITISH A:MERICA
In Correspondence with the Grand Lodge of California .
-t>:l I""
:;:;

I""""'!

-- -

d

C"1

°'

·.:: ; rl

lC Q

ctJ

er- rl
~

c;.
I""""'!

...;[?

....;

Grand Lodges.

~ "'~
....,

I~

1 ~i:r.i=-"""A____A~"'~-c~"'. """'""'---'o::_·_
00 C'·l

Ot-

O'l 00

..........
•r.i"' ,......,.....
,.....,...,

·;:;~
...0

u

.....
0

Grand Secretaries.

Residences.

Organized

Alabama .......... George A. Beauchamp.Montgomery ...... June 15, 1821
Alberta. ........... 8. Y. Taylor ........... Calgary ........... Oct. 12, 1905
Arizona ........... George J. Roskruge ... Tucson ............ Mar. 25, 1882
Arkansas .......... l"ay Hempstead ...... Little Rock ...•.... Mar. 25, 1882
British Columbla ... W. A. DeWolf Smith •. New \Vestmlnster .. Feb. 22, 1832
Canada ............w. W. Logan ......... Hamilton .......... Oct. 10, 1855
Colorado ...........Charles H. Jacobson ... Denver ............ Aug. 2, 1861
8, 1789
Connecticut •.. , •.• George A. Kies .........Hartford •...•..... July
Delaware ..........John F. Robinson ...•.Wilmington ........ June 6, 1806
Dist. of Columbla •• Arvlne W. Johnston ... Washington ....... Feb. 19, 1811
5, 1830
Florida ............ Wilber P. Webster ...• Jacksonville .... , .. July
Georgia ........... Prank F. Baker ..... Macon ............. Dec. 16, 1786
Idaho ..............Geo. I•J. Knepper ..... .Boise .............. Dec. 17, 1867
Il!lnels .............Isaac Cutter .......... Camp Point ....... April 6, 1840
Indiana ............Calvin W. Prather .... Indianapolis ...... Jan. 12, 1818
8, 1844
Iowa .............. Newton R. Parvin .....Cedar Rapids ...... Jan.
Kansas ............ Albert K. Wllson ....• ,Topeka .•.........• Mar. 17, 1856
8, 1800
Kentucky •••••••••• Dave Jackson .........Louisville .••..•••.. Oct.
Louisiana. ..........Tohn A. Davllla ....... New Orleans ...... June 20, 1812
Maine ............. Chas. B. Davis ....... Portland ..........June 1, 1820
Manitoba •••.••••.• James A. Ovas ..•..••. Wlnnepeg ...•....• May 12, 1875
Maryland ......... George Cook .•...•....Baltimore •••..•... April 17, 1887
Massachusetts •••• Fred'k W. Hamilton. ,Boston •.......••.. Mar.
8, 1777
Michigan .......... Lou B. Winsor ........Grand Hap!ds ...... Sept. 17, 1844
Minnesota ......... John Fishel ......... ,.Saint Paul ........Feb. 23, 1863
Mississippi ••••.••• Ollver L. McKay ..•... Vicksburg •.•..•.•. July 27, 1818
4, 1821
Mlssour ...........John R. Parson ....... St. Louis .......... May
Montana ........... Cornelius Hedges, Jr .. Helena ••......•... Jan. 24, 1866
Nebraska ..........Francis E. White ..... Omaha ............ Sept. 23, 1857
Nevada •••••••.•• .,Jlldward D. Vanderlelth.Reno ............... Jan. 16, 1865
New Brunswick ... J. Twining Hartt ..... Saint John ......... Oct. 10, 1867
8, 1789
New Hampshire .... Harry M. Cheney .....Concord ....•..••.. July
New Jersey •.•••.• Isaac Cherry ...•......Trenton •...•....•. Dec. 18, 1786
7, 1877
New Mexico ....... A!pheus A. Keen ...... Albuquerque ...... Aug.
New York ......... Hobert J'. Kenworthy.New York ......... Sept. 5, 1781
North Carolina ... .\V. w. Wlllson .......Raleigh ............ Dec. 12, 1 T77
North Dakota •••.• Walt.er J,, Stockwell ... l-'argo ..............June 13, 1889
Nova Scotia ....... Thomas Mowbray ..... Halifax ...........Jan. 21, 1866
7, 1808
Ohio .............. Jacob H. Bromwell ... Cincinnati ........ Jan.
Oklahoma ••....••• wm. M. Anderson .... Oklahoma Clty .... Nov. 10, J\109
Oregon ............ James F. Robinson .... Portland .......... Sept. 15, 1851
Pennsylvania ...... John A. Perry .........Phlladelphla ...... Sept. 25, 1786
Prince Ed. Island .. L. M. McKinnon .......Montague .......•.. June 24, 1875
Quebec ............\Valter C. Hagar ......Montreal •....•.... Oct. 20, 1869
Rhode Island •.... s. Penrose Williams •. Providence ........June 27, 1791
Saskatchewan ..... W. B. •rate ...........Regina ............ Aug. 9, 1906
South Carolina •••• 0. Frank Hart ........Columbia ..........Mar. 24, 1787
South Dakota ••.• Geo. A. Pettigrew ...•• Sioux Falls ........July 21, 1775
27, 1813
Tenne~see ......... fitlth M. Caln ......... Nashvllle .......... Dec.
Texas ............. W. B. Pierson ..........Waco ............. Dec. 20, 1837
Utah ••...••....••• Freeman A. McCarty .Salt Lake City ..•.. Jan. 17, 1872
Vermont ...........Frank A. Ross ........ Burlington •...•... Oct. 14, 1794
Virginia ........... Charles A. Nesbitt .... Richmond .........Oct. 13, 1778
8, 1858
Washington ....... Horace W. Tyler ...... Tacoma ............ Dec.
West Virginia ......Jnhn M. Colans ..... ,.Charleston ......... May 11, 1865
18,
1843
Wisconsin .•....••• William W. Perry •.•. ,Milwaukee ........Dec.
Wyoming ...........Jos. M. Londes ........ Casper ............ Dec. 15, 1~74

650

LIST OF El,EC'l'IVE GRAND OFFICERS

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNB

651

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M ... W ... GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE
Vear
Elected.
1850
1851
1852
1853
1854
1855
1856
1857
1858
1859
1860
1861
1862
1863
1864
1865
1866
1867
1868
1869
1870
1871
1872
1873
1874
1875
1876
1877
1878
1879
1880
1881
1882
1883
1884
1885
1886
1887
1888
1889
1890
i.891
1892
1893
1894
1895

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

•Jonathan D. Stevenson ... •John A. Tutt........ •Caleb Fenner.
•John A. Tutt............. •Benjamin D. Hyam.. •E. F. W. Ellis.
•Benjamin D. Hyam ...... •Charles M. Radcliff .. •Adolphus Hollub.
•Charles M. Radcliff...... •Townsen<l A. Thomas •John R. Crandall.
•William H. Howard..... •Nathaniel G. Curtis.. •Rector E. Colo.
•William H. Howard ..... •Townsend A. Thomas •John A. Raymond.
•William H. Howard ..... •John A Raymond ..... •Lemuel Lyon.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Charles Marsh . . . . . . . •Aaron D. Parle.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shepheard. •William McCormick.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis ...... •Philip W. Shepheard. •Ebenezer Lane.
•Nathaniel G. Curtis...... •Philip W. Shepheard. •William C. BelcheI'.
•James L. English ........ •William C. Belcher .. •John W. Harville.
•William C. Belcher ...... •Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •John W. Harville.
•William C. Belcher ...... •Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •Louis Cohn.
•William C. Belcher ...... •Gilbert B. Claiborne .. •William A. Davies.
•Gilbert B. Claiborne ..... •William. A. Davies ... •Isaac S. Titus.·
•Gilbert B. Claiborne..... •Henry H. Hartley .... •wm. H. Peterson.
•William A. Davies ....... •Henry H. Hartiey .... •Thomas Beck.
•Charles Marsh........... •Leonidas E. Pratt. ... •Theodore G. Cockrill.
•Leonidas E. Pratt. ....... •Isaac S. Titus ........ •John S. Ward
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Isaac S. Titus ........ •Charles L. Wiggin.
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •Charles L. Wiggin... •Benj. H. Freeman.
•Leonidas E. Pratt........ •nenj. H. Freeman... George c. Perkins.
•Isaac S. Titus........... George C. Perkins ... •John M. Browne.
George C. Perkins........ •John M. Browne..... •William B. Parker.
•John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •Wiley J. Tinnin.
•John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •William S. \Veils.
•John M. Browne ......... •Charles L. Wiggin ... •Wi'.liam W. Tra,vlor.
•John M. Browne ......... •\Villinm W. Traylor .. •William H. Crane.
•William W. Traylor ...... •Samuel C. Denson .... •clay W. Taylor.
•s'amuel C. Denson ....... •Clay \V. Taylor ...... •John Q. Adams.
•Clay W. Taylor .......... •Jolin Q. Adams...... •Jonathan D. Hines.
•Clay W. Taylor .......... •.Jonathan D. Hines ... •Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines...... •Wiley J. Tinnin...... •Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Jonathan D. Hines ...... •Wiley J. Tinnin ...... •Edmund C. Atkinson.
•Wiley J. Tinnin .......... •Edmund c. Atkinson. •Hiram N. Rucker.
•Edmund C. Atkinson ..... •Hiram N. Rucker .... •Morris M. Estee.
•Hiram N. Rucker ........ •Morris M. Estee ..... •Alvah R. Conklin.
•Morris M. Estee......... •Alvah R. Conklin.... •William Johnston
•Morris M. Estee......... •William .Johnston.... •Charles R. Gritman.
•Alvah R. Conklin......... •William Johnston.... •Charles R. Gritman.
•William Johnston........ •Charles Ray Gritman. *Henry S. Orme.
•Charles R. Gritman ..... •Henry S. Orme....... James B. Stevens.
•Henry S. Orme........... James B. Stevens .... •Edward M. Preston.
James B. Stevens........ •Edward M. Preston.. William T. Lucas.
•Edward M. Preston...... Wiiliam T. Lucas....
Thomas Flint.

*Deceased

'

18m DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850.
Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary.

•sashel Woods
•L
•B
..... • . .
evl Stowell
•John H. G1'hon
enj. S. Olds.........
"""""
,
•Townsend A. 'rhomas. •Levi Stowell
.......
•John R. McConnell ... "Add'ison Martin
•Levi Stowell ..........
"Richard F. Knott .... •Add Ison Martin " " " •Levi Stowell ......... .
•Robert N. Wood ..... •A
·"" ·
•s
ddlson Martin
•Levi Stowell .. " .. " "
amuel A, Merritt ... •A
" " ..
ddison Martin
•Le,•! Stowell .. " " .. "
•Peter W. Randle
······
•Alex G. Abe'11•••••••••••••••••
· · · · · "Addison Martin
•John B. Bope. · · · · · · · "Addison Martin······ •
:James W. Bicknell ... "Addison Martin...... Alex. G. Abell ....... .
Thomas P. Hawley,.
· · · · · · "Alex G. Abell
• Al I
H
•Addison Martin
•Alex G. Abell.·.·.·.·.·.·.·.·
v nza
ayward .... •Addison Martin ..... .
•Caleb E. Wilcoxon...
· · · · · · "Alex G. Abell
•John B. Hewson ..... •James Lald!ey ........ •Alex G. Abell~:::::::
•\Villlam A. Davies ... •James LaldJey, ....... "Alex G. Abell
•Isaac S. Titus
•James Laidley., ..... "Alex G. Abell::::::::
•Henry H. Har~i~~:::: •James Laldley ........ •AJex G. Abell
"Thomas Beck
•James Laldle~·. · · · · · .. "Alex G. Abell
•Leonidas E. Pr~~t · · · · :James Laidley, · · · · · .. •Alex G. Abell
*Frederick F. Bars~::: James Laldley · · · · · · · · •Alex G. Abell
•Richard Dale
•James Laidley. · · · · · .. "Alex G. Abell.······'
•Benj, H. Fre;~"a:~ .. • :;ames Laldley ........ •Alex G. Abell ...... ..
Geo. C. Perkins
"· •James Laldley .. "· ... "Alex G. Abell
•John M. Brown~:::::
ames Laldley .... ., .. •Alex G. Abell ....... .
Chas. E. Mitchell .... •James Laldley ........ •AJex G. Abell::::::::
0 Wiley J. Tinnin
•James Laldley. · · · · · .. •Alex G. Abell
•Jacob H. Neff · · · '' •.Tames Laidley, ....... *Alex G Abell "· " " ·
.. "· .. · •James Laidley., ...... "Alex. ·
" " .. "
•Solon W. Craigue .... •Ja
L
G. Abell ........
• Wm. H. Crane
mes a 1dley. · · · · • .. "Alex. G. Abell
•Robert C. Brod·~;.'.'.'.' "Moses Heller ......... "Alex. G. Aben"'"•"
*John Q. Adams
•Moses Heller .... ····· "Alex. G. Abell········
•Orrin W. Hollen·b~~k· "Moses Heller ......... "Alex. G. Abeu"'""'
"Thomas .r. Bowers .. : •Moses Heller ......... "Alex. G. Abell' ...... .
•George Hinds
•Moses Heller. . . . . . . . . •Alex. G. Abell ....... .
•Hiram N. Ruck'e'r'.'.'.'.' •Moses Heller ......... "Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
"HI
•Moses Heller ......... "Alex. G. Abell.·······
• ram N. Rucker .... •Moses Heller ......... "Alex G A
...... ..
Henry H. Knapp, .... •N a th an W ·Spaulding. •Alex.· G.· Abell.··'''··
bell
•
.~i:~\~hn~~~!lin .... •Nathan W. Spaulding. "Alex. G. Abell ....... .
'M
· · · · · .. •Nathan W. Spaulding. "Alex. G. Abell .... " "
arcus D. Boruck
•N th
W
•Henry S. Orme ... .'.'.'
a an . . Spaulding. "Alex. G. Abell ...... ..
'Henry S. Orme
•Nathan W. Spaulding. •Alex. G. Abell' ...... .
. ..... •Nathan W. Spaulding. •George Johnso...... ..
James B. Stevens . . . . •Nath an w . Spaulding. •George Johnsonn .. · ...
•Edward M. Preston .. •N th
Wm. T. Lucas
a an W. Spaulding. •George Johnson ..... .
. ...... "Edward Coleman·..... "George John
..... .
Thomas Flint
.
•Edward Colem
•
son ..... .
Frank M. Ang~jl;tti: .·
an.···· George Johnson
*Edward Coleman ..... •George Johnson .. ·....
0

*Deceased.

0

•

•

0

•

·'' ·''

•

•

•

0

•

·'

•

....

•

•

·'

"

•

•

Grand
Lecturer.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

653

LIST OF ELECTIVE GRAND OFFICERS

652

LIST OF ELECTED OFFICERS OF THE

M. ·. W. ·. GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA,
18TH DAY OF APRIL, A. L. 5850

SINCE ITS ORGANIZATION ON THE

Year.

Grand Master.

Deputy
Grand Master.

Senior
Grand Warden.

Frank M. Angellotti.
Thomas Flint. · · · • · • • Charles L. Patton.
William T. Lucas .• ···•··
1896
Frank M. Angellotti ..
Thomas Flint.······· .... •· Charles L. Patton.• .. •James A. Foshay.
1897
1898 Frank M. Angellotti. • • • • • •James A. Foshay ..... •William S. Wells.
Orrin s. Henderson.
Charles L. Patton.··•·•··
1899
•William S. Wells.····
*Charles w. Nutting.
1900 *James A. Foshay ... ······
Orrin s. Henderson.·
George w. Hunter.
1901 •William S. Wells· • · · · · · · · •Charles W. Nutting.'
Motley H. Flint.
Orrin s. Henderson .... ·•
t.02
George w. Hunter.··
1903 •Charles W. Nutting ... · · · · Motley H. Flint ...... •Edward H. Hart.
George w. Hunter ..... •• •Edward H. Hart.···· George M. Perine.
1304
•Reuben H. Lloyd.
Motley H. Flint.········•
1905
Geo. M. Perine .. • ....
1906 *Edward H. Hart ...... · · · •Reuben H. Lloyd.···· Oscar Lawler.
Dana R. Weller.
George M. Perine .... ·•·• •v . Frank Pierce.····
1907
Oscar Lawler •. • · · • · · • · · • Dana R. Weller .. ···· Alonzo J. Monroe.
1908
1909 •w. Frank Pierce ..... ···· Alonzo J. Monroe ...• wm. P. Filmer.
John D. Murphey.
Dana R. Weller •..... ····
1910
Wm. P. Filmer.·····
1911 Alonzo J. Monroe .•... ··• John D. Murphey···· Benj. F. Bledsoe.
Albert G. Burnett.
Wm. P. Filmer ..........
1912
Benj. F. Bledsoe .. ···
John D. Murphey··:····· Albert G. Burnett· · · · Francis V. Keesling.
1913
1914 Benj. F. Bledsoe ... ······ Francis V. Keesling·· Wm. Rhodes Hervey.
Albert G. Burnett· · · · · · ·
1915
Wm. Rhodes H~rvey. Bradford Webster.
Francis V. Keesling .. · · · · Bradford Webster · · · Charles A. Adams.
1916
1917 Wm. Rhodes Hervey.···· Charles A. Adams.··· George F. Rodden.
Samuel E. Burke.
Bradford Webster.·······
1918
George F. Rodden· · · ·
Charles Albert Adams.··
1919
•Deceased.

Junior
Grand Warden.

Grand Treasurer.

Grand
Secretary

Cliarles L. Patton ... •Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson ......
•,James A. Foshay .... *Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson .•.•••
•William S. Wells .... •Edward Coleman ... .. *George Johnson ....••
Orrin S. Henderson .. •Edward Coleman .... . *George Johnso'n ....••
•t ~l1arles W. Nutting ..•Edward Coleman ....• *George Johnson ......
ll<>orge W. Hunter ... "Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson ......
Motley H. Flint. .... "Edward Coleman .... . *George Johnson .....•
•Mitward H. Hart. ....*Edward Coleman ... .. •George Johnson .•...•
lleorge M. Perine .... "Edward Coleman .... . •George Johnson ......
•Houben H. Lloyd .... "Edward Coleman ... .. *George Johnson ....•.
llHear Lawler ....... •Edward Coleman .... . •George J'ohnson •..•••
•w. Frank Pierce .... •Edward Coleman .... . *George Johnson ......
Alonzo J. Monroe .... "Edward Coleman .... . John Whicher ........
John Whicher ........
William P. Filmer ... *Edward Coleman .. ..
,John D. Murphey .... *Edward Coleman .... . John Whlcher ........
llcnj. F. Bledsoe .... *Edward Coleman .... . John Whlcher ........
i\ lbert G. Burnett ... "Edward Coleman .... . John Whlcher ........
Francis V. Keesling .. Wm. P. Filmer ..... . John Whicher ........
W. Rh@des Hervey .. Wm. P. Filmer ...... . John Whicher ........
Bradford Webster ... Wm. P. Filmer ..... . John Whlcher ........
<'has. Albert Adams Wm. P. Filmer ..... .
John Whlcher ........
tlcorge F. Rodden ... Wm. P. Filmer .... .
John Whicher ........
~amuel E. Burke .... Wm. P. Filmer .... .
John Whicher ........
\\'llliam A. Sherman. Wm. P. Filmer ...... . John Whicher ........
•Deceased.

Grand
Lecturer.

Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Wm. H. Edwards.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. Baker.
Thomas J. llaker.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

654

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County;

Abell .........•.... 146 Ukiah ............... Mendocmo.
Acacia ............. 438 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Adin •............. 250 Adin ......•.•...••.. :Modoc.
Alamo .........•... 122 Walnut Creek ......• Contra Costa.
Alameda ........•.. 167 Centerville ...•.....• Alameda.
Alcatraz ........... 244 Oakland ...•..••...•• Alameda.
Alhambra ........•. 322 Alhambra •.......... Los Angeles.
Alisa! •..•.......... 321 Pleasanton ...........Alameda.
Alpha ............. .431 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Alta ............... 333 Bridgeport ...•...••• Mono.
Alta Vista ....... .464 San Francisco ........San Francisco.
Alturas ..•......... 248 Alturas .............•Modoc.
Amity ...••....•... 370 San Francisco .......• San Francisco.
Amador •........... 65 Jackson ....•.......• Amador.
Anaheim ........... 207 Anaheim ..........•. Orange.
Anchor .•.......•.. 273 Compton ............•Los Angeles.
Antioch ............ 175 Antioch ............. Contra Costa.
Apollo ............. 396 Alameda ............. Alameda.
Arbuckle .......... 182 Arbucklo ............ Colusa.
Arcata ............. 106 Arcata .............• Humboldt.
Argonaut ........•. 461 San Francisco ........San Fr'.1ncis~o.
Arroyo ............ 274 Arroyo Grande ...... .San Luis Obispo.
Arlington ......... .414 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Artesia •........... 377 Artesia ......•.•....• Los Angeles.
Ashlar •............ 306 Colton •.........•....San Bernardino.
Athens ............ 228 Davis ............... Yolo.
Azusa ..•.•......•. 305 Azusa ..........•.... Los Angeles.
Bakersfield •........ 224 Bakersfield ...........Kern.
Balder ............. 393 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Bay View ......... 401 Oakland •...•..•..... Alameda.
Bear Mountain .•.•. 76 Angels Camp ..•..... Calaveras.
Benicia . . . . . . • . . . . • 5 Benicia ..............Solano.
Berkeley ........... 363 Berkeley •....•...... Alameda.
Bethlehem ........ .453 San Francisco .....•... San Francisco
Blackmer .......... 442 San Diego ........... San Diego.
Blythe ........... .473 Blythe .............. San Bernardino.
Brawley ........... 402 Brawley •••......•... Imperial.
Brentwood ...•..... 345 Brentwood ...........Contra Costa.
Brooklyn .....••... 225 East Oakland ........ Alameda.
Buckeye ........... 195 Winters ..........•.. Yolo.

No.

Post Offlce.

County.

Buena Park ••...••• 357 Buena Park .......... Orange.
Burb.ank .•...•...•. 406 Burbank •...••.....• Los Angeles.
Burlmgame ••...••• 400 Burlingame ••.......• San Mateo.
Cal~xico. .. .•.....•. 412 Calexico ............. Imperial.
California . . . • . . . . • 1 San Francisco ......•. San Francisco.
Cal'lveras •....•..• 78 San Andreas ......... Calaveras.
Callayomi ......... 282 Middletown •.......•. Lake.
·
Calistoga •.•....•.. 233 Calistoga ............ Napa.
Carpinteria .......• 444 Carpinteria .......... Santa Barbara
Carquinez ••••..•.•. 337 Crockett ••.......... Contra Costa•.
Center ............ .465 Fresno ..............FreHno.
Charity •••...•••.. 362 Campbell •....••..••• Santa Clara
Ch~rter Rocle ...... 410 Berkeley .....•....... Alameda. .
Chico •..•.....•.... 111 Chico •..•.....•....• Butte.
Chi~o Valley •..... 427 Chino ............... San Bernardino.
Claiborne ...•...•.. 185 Point Arena ......... Mendocino
Claremont ......... 436 Claremont .........•. Los Angel~s.
Clay · ............. 101 Dutch Flat .......... Placer.
Clear Lake ........ 183 Lower Lake ......... Lake.
Clinton ............ 119 Igo ..•.•...•........ Shasta.
Clovis ...........•. 417 Clovis ............... Fresno.
Coalinga ..•....•... 387 Coalinga ........•.•.•. Tulare.
Concord •...•...... 117 Sacramento ..•..•.... Sacramento.
Confidence •........ 203 Castroville •.....•... Monterey.
Consuelo .......... 325 Escondido •.••....... San Diego.
Colusa ..••........ 240 Colusa ...•.........•• Colusa
Corinthian . . . . . . • . . 9 Marysville ...•....... Yuba ..
Corona .•.......... 324 Pasadena •........... Los Angeles.
Coronado .......... 441 Coronado ............ San Diego.
Covelo
..•......... 231 Covulo
.
~
• • · · · ·.........M e nd oc l no.
Covina ..••........ 334 Covina •............. Los Angeles.
Crescent ........... 45 Crescent City •....... Del Norte.
Crocker ............ 454 Daly City . •.. , .... , .. San Mateo.
Crockett .........•.. 139 San Francisco ....... ·San Francisco.
Culver City ....... , . 467 Culver City ....... , .. J,os Angeles
Curtis •.•........•. 140 Cloverdale ........... Sonoma.
.
Delano ..........•. 309 Delano •............. Kern.
D:lta · ............. 471 Stocldon ............ San ,Joaquin.
Dmuba ............ 381'i Dinuba .............. Tulare.
Dorie ............. 216 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Downey ........... 220 Downey ...•.......•• Los Angeles.
Drytown .......... 174 Plymouth ............ Amador.
Dunsmuir •........ 297 Dunsmuir ....•.....•. Siskiyou.
Durant ....•....••. 268 Berkcl<>.Y ............ Alameda.

655

656

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Eagle Rock ..•.•••.• 422 Eagle Rock •.•..•....• Los Angeles.
East Belt •.•.....•. 391 Tuolumne •....•..... Tuolumne.
East Gate ......... 290 Los Angeles ..•..•••. Los Angeles.
Eden •••.•......... 113 San Leandro ...•.••.. Alameda.
Eel River .........• 147 Fortuna .•.•....••... Humboldt.
El Centro ..••....•.. 384 El Centro ••.•........ Imperial.
Elk Grove •........ 173 Elk Grove •.......••• Sacramento.
Elsinore ........... 289 Elsinore •.•....•...•• Riverside.
Elysian ............ 418 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Emmanuel ......... 318 Biggs ...•...••...... Butte.
Enterprise ........• 70 Yuba City •......••.. Sutter.
Eu<'alyptus ........ 243 Haywards •.......••• Alameda.
Eureka • . . • . • . . . . . . 16 Auburn •........•••• Placer.
Evening Star ...•.• 186 Etna Mills •.••....••. Siskiyou.
Evergreen •••...... 259 Riverside ..••...•..•. Riverside.
Excelsior ...•...... 166 San Francisco ......•. San Francisco.
Exeter .... '. ....... 424 Exeter ......••..•..• Tulare.
Fairmount ......... 435 San Francisco ....... 8an Francisco.
Fallbrook ..•..•.•. 317 Fallbruok •..•.••..•• San Diego.
Ferndale .......•.. 193 Oakland ............• Humboldt.
Fidelity ........... 120 San Francisco ...•...• San Francisco.
Fillmore ........... 379 Fillmore .•.•..•..•••• Ventura.
Forbestown . . . . . . . • 50 Forbestown ......•••• Butte.
Forest ......•...... 66 Allegheny •••••••..•• Sierra.
Fort Bragg •....... 361 Fort Bragg ••........•Mendocino.
Franklin .......... 143 Courtland •.......... .Sacramento.
Francis Drake ..... 376 South San Francisco ..•San Mateo.
Fraternity ......... 399 San Jose .•....•••••• Santa Clara.
Fresno ............ 247 Fresno •..•.•.....••.• Fresno.
Friendship .....•... 210 San Jose •••.......•• Santa Clara.
Fruitvale •.......•. 336 Oakland •..•....•.• ,Alameda.
Fullerton •.•.•...... 339 Fullerton ...•...••••• Orange.
Galt •.............. 267 Galt .......•.•.•...• Sacramento.
Gardena .........• 372 Gardena .••......•.•. Los Angeles.
Georgetown •.....•• 25 Georgetown ......•..• El Dorado.
Glendora ......... .404 Glendora •....•...... Los Angeles.
Golden Gate . . . . . . • 30 San Francisco ....•.•. San Fran~isco.
Golden West ........ 455 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Golden State •.•... 338 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Gold Hill •••....... 32 Lincoln ......•......• Placer.
Grafton ........... 141 Grafton ............. Yolo.
Gravel Range ....•• 59 Camptonville •.•....• Yuba.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No. Post Office.
County.
Guadalupe ........• 237 Guadalupe ........••. Santa Barbara.
Hammonton .......• 433 Hammonton ........• Yuba.
Hanford ••...•.... 279 Hanford •............ Kings.
Harmony .•.•...... 164 Sierra City .... , ..... Sierra.
Hartley •.••..•.... 199 Lakeport •........... Lake.
Hawaiian •......... 21 Honolulu ......•.•... Hawaiian Ter.
Henry Clay .....•.• 95 Sutter Creek .••.•.•.. Amador.
Hermann ...........127 San Francisco ......... San Francisco.
Hesperian •........ 264 Santa Maria ......•.•Santa Barbara.
Highland Park ..... 382 Los Angeles ........•. Los Angeles.
Hill's Ferry •...... 236 Newman .............Stanislaus.
Hiram •....•••....• 43 El Dorado ••.••• .' .... EI Dorado.
Henry S. Orme ..... 458 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Hollenbeck •..•.... 319 Los Angeles .•....•... Los Angeles.
Hollywood .••..... 355 Hollywood .....•..... Los Angeles.
Holtville ........•.. 425 Holtville .....•••.••. Imperial.
Honolulu ......... .409 Honolulu ............ Hawaiian Ter.
Hope ...•......•... 234 Beckwith •........... Plumas.
Hornitos •..•••..... 98 IIornitos ............. Mariposa.
Howard ...•..•.... 96 Yreka ............... Siskiyou.
Humboldt ••......• 79 Eureka ......•...... Humboldt.
Huntington Beach •.. 380 Huntington Beneh ....Orange.
Illinoistown ..•••.•• 51 Colfax ......•....... Placer.
Imperial •.•........ 390 I.mperial .............Imperial.
Inglewood .......... 421 Inglewood ....•...... Los Angeles.
Inyo .••........•.. 221 Independence ........ Inyo.
Ione . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 80 Ione ......•........• Amador ..
Jefferson •......... 97 Laporte ••••......... Plumas.
Jan es ville .......... 232 Lassen •............ Lassen.
Jewel · ...........• 374 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Keith •... ' ........ 187 Gilroy .........•.•.•. Santa Clara.
Kennett .......... .456 Kennett ..........•. ,Shasta.
Kerman ............ 420 Kerman ........•..•. Fresno.
Keystone ••.......• 161 Milton .............. Calaveras.
Kilauea ........... 330 Hilo ................ Hawaiian Ter.
King David's ...... 209 San Luis Obispo . . • . • San Luis Obispo.
King Solomon's .... 260 San Francisco .••..... San Francisco.
La Fayette ••...•.. 126 Sebastopol .....•...•. Sonoma.
La Mesa ........... 407 La Mesa ............. San Diego.
Lancaster .......... 437 Lancaster ........•.. Los Angeles.
Lanclmark ......•• 253 Esparto •..........•.Yolo.
La Puente .....•... 446 Puente ....••......•• Los Angeles,
Laa Pal mas •••••••. 366 Fresno ............... Fresno.
Lassen •••••••••••. 149 Susanville •••••••.••. Lassen.

657

658
Lodge.

ALPHABETICAL LIST OI~ LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

Lau:rel ......•..... 245 Willows •••.•.......••Glenn.
le Progres de
I 'Oceanic ........ 371 Honolulu ............Hawaiian Ter.
Lexington •......•. 104 El. Monte ....•....... Los Angeles.
Libertas .......... .466 Bakersfield ..........Kern.
Liberty ............ 299 Santa Clara .......... Santa Cla:ra.
Lincoln ........... .470 San Francisco ....... San Francisco.
Lindsay ........... 416 Lindsay •............ Tulare.
Live Oak •........ 61 Oakland ••........... Alameda.
liodi •............. 256 Lodi ................ San Joaquin.
J,ompoc ......•.... 262 Lompoc ..............Santa Barbara.
Long Beach •...•.•. 327 Long Beach .......... Los Angeles.
Los Angeles . • • . . . • . 42 Los Angeles •........ Los Angeles.
Los Banos ......... 312 Los Banos ..•....•.•• Merced.
Los Gatos .•....... 292 Los Gatos ........... Santa Clara.
Loyalton .......... 359 Loyalton .•.......... Sierra.
Madera •••••..•.... 280 Madera ...•..•....•.. Madera.
Madison ......•.••. 23 Grass Valley •........ Nevada..
Magnolia. ..•.•...•. 242 Santa Barbara •...... Santa Barbara.
Maricopa ........• .434 Maricopa ........... Kern.
Marin ............. 191 San Rafael .......... Marin.
Mariposa .•........ 24 Mariposa .........•.. Mariposa.
Martinez .•..... ·,.. 41 Martinez ............ Contra Costa.
Maui .............. 472 Maui, Kahului ....... Hawaiian Ter.
Maxwell •.•..•.•... 288 Maxwell •..........•. Colusa.
Mc Cloud .......... 430 Mccloud ......•...... Siskiyou.
McKinley •........• 347 Richmond ........... Contra Costa.
Mendocino ......... 179 Mendocino .....•.... Mendocino.
Midway ..... .,..... .426 Taft ....•.....•..... Kern.
Mill Valley ........ 356 Mill Valley .......•.. Marin.
Mission ..••........ 169 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Mizpah ..........•. 378 Los Angeles •........ Los Angeies
Mokelumne Hill .... 298 Mokelumne Hill •..... Calaveras.
Molino ..........•. 150 Tehama ....•.....•.. Tehama.
Moneta ............ 405 Los Angeles ......... Los Angeles.
Montebello ........ 451 :Montebello .......... Los Angeles.
Monrovia ......•.• 308 Monrovia ......•..... Los Angeles.
Monterey .........• 217 Monterey •..••.....•. Monterey.
Morgan Hill ........ 463 Morgan Hill .......... Santa Clara.
Morning Star ....•• 68 Stockton •.....••..•. San Joaquin.
Mosaic ........•... 218 Livermore ...•....... Alameda.
Mount Diablo ...... 448 Concord ............. Contra Costa.
Mount Jackson .. ; .. 295 Guerneville •• , , . , , , , .~ot1oma,

GRAND LODGE OJ;' CALIFORNIA

Lodge.
No. Post Otnce.
County.
Mount Moriah •.•.. 44 San Francisco ••...... San Francisco.
Mount Oso ........ 460 Tracy ............... San Joaquin.
Mountain Shade .•• 18 Downieville .•...••... Sierra;
Mount Shasta .....• 281 Anderson ............ Shasta.
Mountain View .... 194 Mountain View ...... Santa Clara.
Natoma •.....•.... 64 Folsom ..•..••....•.• Sacramento.
Naval ............. 87 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Needles ............ 326 Needles ....•....••.. San Bernardino.
Nevada ......••... 13 Nevada City .......•. Nevada.
Newville .......... 205 Paskenta ............Tehama.
Nicolaus ...•....•• 129 Wheatland ••....•••.. Yuba.
North Butte •...... 230 Gridley •.......•..•• Butte.
North East •..•..•. 266 Fort Bidwell •....... ,Modoc.
Northern Light •... 190 Millville ..•...•...••. Shasta.
North Star • • . . . . • • 91 Fort Jones ..•..•....• Siskiyou.
Norwalk .......... 315 Norwalk ......•..•... Los Angeles.
Oakdale •.....•.... 275 Oakdale .... : ..•...•. Stanislaus.
Oak Grove .......•• 215 Alameda •......••...• Alameda.
Oakland ......•...• 188 Oakland .........••.. Alameda.
Occidental . . . . . . . . . 22 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Ocean Park •...... 369 Oceanpark ............ Los Angeles. !It
Oceanside .......... 381 Oceanside ......... : . San Diego.
Olive Branch ••.... 269 Tulare ..........•... Tulare.
Olivet ............. 364 Corning ............. Tehama.
Ontario •.....•.... 301 Ontario ........ , ..•• San Bernardinti.
Ophir •....•..•.•.. 33 Murphy's •.•...•..... Calaveras.
Orange Grove •..... 293 Orange •....••..•.... Orange.
Oriental ..•..•.•... 144 San Francisco ........ San Franciseo.
Orland .........••. 265 Orland ....••..••.... Glenn.
Orosi ... "· ........ 383 Orosi ...•...••....••. Tulare.
Oroville ............ 103 Oroville ............. Butte.
Oxnard ............ 341 Oxnard .............. Ventura.
Pacific ............ 136 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pacific Grove .....•. 331 Pacific Grove ......... Monterey.
Pajaro ............. 110 Watsonville •..•.•••.•Santa Cruz.
Palestine ••••...... 351 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
Palmyra .......... 26 Placerville •......•... El Dorado.
Palo Alto ..•..•.... 346 Palo Alto ..........•• Santa Clara.
Palos Verdes ....••. 389 Long Beach .....•.... Los Angeles.
Parfaite Union . . . . 17 San Francisco •....... San Francisco.
Park .............. 449 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Parnassus •.......•. 388 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Pasadena •....•..•• 272 Pasadena ..•..••.•.•. Los Angeles.
Paso Robles .....••. 286 Paso Robles .......... San Luis Obisp,1.

659

660
Lodge.

ALPHABE'rICAL LIST OF LODGES

No.

Post Office.

County.

Paul Revere ...... .462 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Penrhyn ........... 258 Penryn •.......•..•. ,Placer.
Pentalpha ......•.. 202 Los Angeles ...••••.•.Los Angeles.
Perris ............. 411 Perris ............... Riverside.
Petaluma •...•.•••. 180 Petaluma ............ Sonoma.
Phoenix ...•..••.•• 178 San Bernardino • . . . . San Bernardino.
Pinole ............. 353 Pinole •...•...••.•... Contra Costa.
Pittsburg ....••.... 429 Pittsburg ...•..•....• Contra Costa.
Plumas . . . . . . . . • . • . 60 Quincy •..••.•. , •.... Plumas.
Pomona .•.......... 246 Pomona •..••..•.•... Los AngeJe!I.
Porterville •.....••. 303 Porterville ...•.•.... , Tulare.
Presidio ...•...•.•. 354 San Francisco ••...•.. San Francisco.
Ramona ........... 457 Alhambra ...•......•. Los Angeles.
Reading ........... 254 Redding ............. Shasta.
Redland1 ..•....•.• 300 Redlands ..•.........•San Bernardino.
Redondo .••..••.... 328 Redondo ••.........•. Los Angeles.
Redwood City ...•.. 168 Redwood City •••..•.. San :Mateo.
Reedley •.••.••.••• 304 Reedley ..•.•..•..... Fresno.
Richmond ....••.•. 375. San Francisco •...... San Francisco.
Rio Vista •.••..••.. 208 Rio Vista •••...•.•..• Solano.
Rising Light ........ 397 Huntington Park ..... Los Angeles.
Riverbank ........ .459 Riverbank .......•... Stanislaus.
Rockridge ......... 468 Oakland .............Alameda.
Rose's Bar ..••...•• 89 Smartsville ...........Yuba.
Hoscvi!le .......... 222 Roseville •.....•......Placer.
Russian River •..•.. 181 Windsor ............. Sonoma.
Sacramento .•..•..• 40 Sacramento ......•.•. Sacramento.
Saint Helena ..•..•. 93 St. Helena ........... Napa.
Saint John's •...••• 37 Yreka •.............• Siskiyou.
Salinas •••..•...... 204 Salinas •............. :Monterey.
'i>an Benito ......... 211 Hollister ..•.......... San Benito.
San Buenaventura •.. 214 Ventura ...•......•.. Ventura.
San Diego ....•.... 35 San Diego ...••....•.. San Diego.
San Dimas .•......• 428 San Dimas ........... Los Angeles.
Sanger .....••..... 316 Sanger .............. Fresno.
San Bernardino •.... 348 San Bernardino •.•..•San Bernardino.
Sa,.. Fernando •..•.• 343 Fernando •••..•.••••. Los Angeles.
San Francisco .•..• 360 San Francisco .••.•... San Francisco.
San Jacinto •••.••.. 338 San Jacinto .•••••••• Riverside.
San Joaquin ••.•••• 19 Stockton ............. San Joaquin.
San Jose •.••••••••• 10 San Jose •.••••.••••• Santa Clara.
San :MateQ ••••••.•• 226 San Mateo ••••••••••. San Mateo.
San Miguel ••••••• 28~ San Miguel •••• ~ .•••• San Luis Obispo.

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

San Pasqual ........ 452 Pasadena ............ Los Angeles.
'san Pedro ••..•..•• 332 San Pedro ...•....... Los Angeles.
Santa Ana .•.•••... 241 Santa An'1. ..•.•...... Orange.
Santa Barbara •••.. 192 Santa Barbara ••....• Santa Barbara.
Santa Cruz •..•.... 38 Santa Cruz ....••... Santa Cruz.
Santa Lucia •••..•. 302 Kings City ...••.... :Monterey.
Santa Moniea •..••. 307 Santa Monica .•..•..• Los Ang11les.
Santa Paula •••.•.• 291 Santa Paula ......... Ventura.
Santa Rosa ••..•••. 57 Santa Rosa •..•••.••. Sonoma.
San Simeon •....•. 196 Cambria ••..•......•. San Luis Obispo.
Schofield ....•..... 443 Schofield Barracks .... Hawaiian Ter.
Selma •.••••.••..•• 277 Selma ...•...••....•. Fresno.
Sequoia. ••••.•....•. 349 Oakland •.•...•..•••. Alameda.
Sierra Madre ....... 408 Sierra Madre ......... Los Angeles.
Sierra Valley ..•... 184 Sierravil!e •..••.•..•• Sierra.
Silveyville ......... 201 Dixon ............... Solano.
Silver Gate •..•.... 296 San Diego ..•......•. San Diego.
Silver Trowel ....... 415 Los Angeles ........•. Los Angeles.
Sineerity •..•••.•.. 132 Greenville ..•...•.•. Plumas.
Sisson ••••.....•... 310 Sisson ..•...•••....•. Siskiyou.
Snow Mountain .... 271 Stony Ford •.••...••. Colusa.
Solano ............ 229 Vallejo .............. Solano.
Sotoyome .•....••.. 123 Healdsburg •..•..... Sonoma.
Southern California.278 Los Angeles ..........Los Angeles.
South Gate ...••.•• 320 Los Angeles ......•.•Los Angeles.
South Pasadena .•.. 367 South Pasadena ....•. Los Angeles.
South San Francisco 212 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
South West ...•.... 283 National City .••.•.•. San Diego.
Speranza Italiana .•. 219 San Francisco ........ Sa,n Francisco.
Standard .......... 440 Oakland .....•...... Alameda.
Stanislaus •..•.•.•. 206 :Modesto ••....•...••. Stanislaus.
Starr King •.•.•••• 344 San Francisco ..•••... San Francisco.
Suisun • . . . . • • . . . . . 55 Suisun ••......•..•.. Solano.
Summit •.....•..•. 112 Knights Ferry ..•..•. Stanislaus.
Sunset ••...••...... 352 Los Angeles •........ Los Angeles.
Surprise Valley .... 235 Cedarville ..•......•. Modoc.
Table Mountain ••.. 124 Cherokee ....••...... Butte.
Tehachapi • ; ....... 313 Tehachapi •.••.•..••. Kern.
Tehama • . • • . . • . • • . . 3 Sacramento ....•...•. Sacramento.
Temescal •....•..•. 314 Corona ...•••...•.... Riverside.
Temple • . . . . • . . . • • • 14 Sonoma ...... , , .•••. Sonoma.
Texas •..•....•••.• 46 San Juan •.•..•....• San Benito.
Tormnce .......... 447 Torrance ............. J,os Angeles.
Traver •. , ...•..... 294 Kingsburg •.......••. Fresno.

661

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

662

ALPHABETICAL LIST OF LODGES

LOCATION OF LODGES
Lodge.

No.

Post Office.

County.

Trinity ........•... 27 Weaverville ..........Trinity.
Truckee .....•..... 200 Truckee .........••.. Nevada.
Tuolumne • . • . . • • • . . 8 Sonora •............• Tuolumne •.
Turlock ............ 395 Turlock .....•.....•. Stanislaus.
Tuscan ........•... 261 Williams ......•.•... Colusa.
Tyrian ............ 439 Manteca ............ San Joaquin.
Union ...........•. 58 Sacramento ........•. Sacramento.
Unity ............. 368 Glendale ............. Los Angeles..
University ......••. 394 Los Angeles .......•. Los Angeles.
.
Upland ........•.... 419 Upland •............• San Bernardino.
Vacaville ••........ 134 ·Vacaville ......•...•. Solano.
Vallee de France ..•. 329 Los Angeles .........,Los Angeles.
Valley ............. 135 Linden .............. San Joaquin.
Van Nuys ......... .450 Van Nuys ........... Los Angeles.
Vesper ............ 84 Red Bluff ..........•. Tehama.
Veteran .....•..... 373 Sawtelle •.....•.•..•. Los Angeles.
Victory .. _........ .47 4 San Francisco ........ San Francisco.
Visalia ....•.•...•• 128 Visalia ........••...• Tulare.
Vitruvius .......... 145 Bloomfield ........... Sonoma.
Volcano .......•... 56 Volcano ...•.•..•.... Amador.
Washington ...•...• 20 Sacramento .......••. Sacramento.
Waucoba .......... 413 Big Pine ...........•. Inyo.
Welcome •........• 255 Lemoore .•......•... Kings.
Western Star • . . . • . 2 Shasta .••..... : ••... Shasta.
West Gate •..••.... 335 Los Angeles ....•.... Los Angeles.
West Lake .....••.. 392 Los Angeles ..••....• Los Angeles.
Whittier ..•...••... 323 Whittiei ...•...•.••.. Los Angeles.
Willits ............. 365 Willits .............. Mendocino.
Wilmington •••..... 198 Wilmington •.•.....•. Los Angeles.
Wilshire ........... 445 Los Angeles .......... Los Angeles.
Winnedumah ••....• 287 Bishop ..•........... Inyo.
Woodbridge ........ 131 Woodbridge ......... San Joaquin.
Woodland .......... 156 Woodland ........... Yolo.
Yerba Buena ....... 403 Oakland ............. Alameda.
Yolo .........••.•.. 81 Yolo ................ Yolo.
Yorba Linda ... _... 469Yorba Linda •....... Orange.
York .............. 423 Watts ....••....•.... Los Angeles.
Yosemite . . . . . . . . . . 99 Merced ............. Merced.
Yount •....•....••• 12 Napa ................ Napa.

Alphabetically Arranged
Post omce.
Lodge.
No.
Adin ••.•......•••••••••• A din ..•.•••••••••••.••••••• 250
Alhambra •.••.••.••••••• Alhambra ••...•..•••••••••• 322
Alhambra ........•.....• Ramona •.........•..••..•. ,457
Alameda •.•••••.•••••••• Oak Grove •••••.•...•.••.••. 215
''
..•..•...•••••• Apollo •••.••.••...•••.•••••• 896
Alleghany ••••••••••••••• Forest • . • . . • • . • • • . . . • • • • • • • 66
Alturas .•.•.•••••.••••.• Alturas •••••••.....•••••••• 248
Anaheim •....•..•••...•• Anaheim
207
Anderson ••.••••••••••••• Mount Sb~s·t~·:::::::::::::: :281
Angels Camp ••••.••••..• Bear Mountain •.••••••••..• 76
Antioch ................. Antioch .................... 175
Arroyo Grande •. , ••••..•• Arroyo ••••••..•••. , •••••••• 274
At1burn ..••..••••.••••••• Eureka • • • • . . • • • • • • • • • • • • • • • HI
Arbuckle •••.•......•.••• Meridian .••.....•...•••.••• 182
Arcata ..•••...•••.•••••• Arcata •..•••••....••.• , •••. 106
!rtesia •••••••..••••••••• Artesia •••••••..••••.••••.•• 377
zusa ; •.•.••••••••..•••• Azusa ••••••.•••...•••.••••. 305
Bakersfield ...............Bakersfield ••..••.••.••••• , • 224
Baker.9field .....••....••• Libertas ................... 466
Beckwith ....••..•.••..•• Hope •••••••••••••••..•.••.• 234
Benicia •••..•••••• : ••. , •.Benicia , .••• , •....•••••.•• , 5
Berkeley •..••••••••••••• Durant .•••••..•••.••••••..• 268
Berkeley ..••..•••••••••• Berkeley •••• , •...••••.•.••• 363
Berkeley .......•.•...••• Charter Rock .............. .410
Big Pine .....•.....•.... Waucoba .........•......... 413
Biggs •.••..••••••••••••• Emmanuel • •
318
Bishop ••.••.•.•••••••••. Winnedumah •: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : 287
Bloomfield ••••.•••••••••• Vitruvius • . • • •
145
Blythe .................. Blythe ........ :::::::::::::473
Brawley .•••••••••••••••• Brawley •.•••.•.•.....••• , •• 402
Brentwood ..••••••••••••• Brentwood •••••••••••...•.• 345
Bridgeport .............. .Alta ....................... 333
Buena Park .............. Buena Park ................ 357
Burbank ................. 13urbank .................... 406
Burlingame .............. Burlingame ............. , .•. 400
Calexico ........•.••.•..• Calexico •........•....... ~ •. 412
Calistoga •••••••••• , ••••• Calistoga •.••..•..•.•.•••••• 233
Cambria •..•••••••••• ', ••• San Simeon ..•.•••.••...•••• 196

663

LOCATION OF LODGES

664

No.
Lo dg.e.
P ost omce.
362
Campbell •...•• • •• • • •• • •• Charity . • . . . • . . . • . . . . . . . . . . 59
Camptonville .. • .••.. • •• • Grav~l R~nge ......•....•... 444
. Carpinteria .......... • ... Qarpmtena ................. 203
Castroville • •.•••••.•••• •.Confidence .................. 235
Cedarville •••••• •.••••••.surprise Valley •.......•.... 167
Centerville •.•• •. •.•••• ...Alameda .... : ............. '124
Table Mountam · · · · · · · · · · · •
Chero·kee • • · • • • • • • • • • • • • •
111
hico·
Chico . . • . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .7
C
Ghino Valley .. · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 42 .
Chino ....• • .............. Claremont .................. 436
c.Jaremont .. · · · · • · · · · · · · • Curtis .•........•.......... • 140
Cloverdale •• · · • · • • ·••·•••Clovis ...................... 417
Clovis ... · · · · · · · · · · · • · · • ·
387
Coalinga . · · · · · · · · · • · · · · • • · ·
Coa:J:inga • · · • • • • • • • • • • • • ••
51
Illinoistown • • • · · · • · · • · · · · · •
Colf
314
~· '· '· · · • · ·'' ' ' ' '
Temescal • • · · · · · · · · · · · • · · · · ·
00

•

n-

•

•

·' '' •

•

•

•

'·' ·' ''

....

~~::~~an~·'.'.'.'.'.' .'.'.'.'.'.'.'.~.'.'.Franklin • • · • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ~:~

Covelo ..• , , , . , , •• •. •. •', ,Covelo , . , , . , .•..... , ........ 240
Colusa •. • • • • • · · · · · • · · · · · · ·" .
Colusa .• · • · · • • • • • • • • • • • •'
306
.Ashlar
.• • • • · · · · • · · · · · · • • · ·" 334
Colton • · · • • • • • • • • • • • • •''
Covina .....• • .• ' • ' ' ' . • • ..Covina ..•..•.....•......... 273
Anchor • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · • ·"
Compton • • · • • • • • ••·•·••··Mt. Diablo ............. ·.... 448

~~~~~;; '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.':.":::.'ouvet ..... ················ ·!~~

Coronado ...........•.. • • Coronado .................. .
t ............ .. : .... 45
Crescent City ........ " " Cres Cen
.
Crockett •.. • .. • • • • • • • • • ..Carqu1ne~ ................... 337
·t
Culver City ........ " " " .. 457
Culver Ci Y· · · · · · · · · · · · · ·
454
Daly City ............... Crocker .................... 228
Athens •. • · · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · ·
Davis · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · '''
..•............ , ... , .309
Delano • · · · • • • • • • • •• · • • • ·~~~:: .....•...•....•....• ,385
Dinuba ••.• • •• • •• • •• •• · ••
2-01
Dixon ...•.••.. •. • • • •. • •• Silveyville ....•............. 220
Downey ..•••••.. •.•.•••.Downey •.........•......... 18·
Mountain Shade ...... " " "
Dow'nieville .. · · · · · · · · · • · ·Cl
........................101
Dutch Flat •• • • • • • • • • • • • • ay
................... 297
Dunsmuir • •.•.... •••.• ...Dunsmuir
Eagle Rock ...............Eagle' Rock .............. •. -~~:
Elk Grove •.• • ...• •.•.••.Elk Grove •.. • ......•....... 289
Elsinore •• • • • • • • • • • • • • • • •Elsinore • · • · · · · · • · · · · · · · · · · · 384.
El Centro .............. •• El Centro • · · · • · · · · · • • · · • · · · · 43
El Dorado • • · • · • • • • • • • • • .Hir~m • ·" '·' · ·' · '· · ·' · '' · ·. 104
El Monte ..• • · • • • • • • • • • • •Lexmgton • · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 325
Esc<iiuUde •..... , . , , , , ....Consuelo · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · ' · ·

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA
Post Office.
Lodge.
No.
Esparto .................La·ndmark ................. 253
Etna Mills .............. Evening Star , ... , . , . , , , • , .. 188
Eureka •..•.••••••••••••• Humboldt • . . . . • • . • • . . • . . . . . 79
Exeter .........•.••••••.• Exeter .•. , ................. 424
Fallbrook ............... .Fallbrook ................... 317
Fernando ................ San Fernando ............... 343
Ferndale .•.•••• , •• , ......Ferndale •••..••.•••.•.•.. , .. 193
Fillmore ................. Fillmore .............. , , ....379
Forbestown •.....••••• , , .Forbestown • . . • . . • . . . • . . • • . • 50
Folsom •.••.• , ..•••• , • , • ',Natoma .•.•..••. , .. , . , .....• 64
Fort Bidwell ............. North East ................. 266
Fort Bragg .............. Fort Bragg •. , .. , . , . , , , .. .'.. 361
Fort Jones ............... North Star ................. 91
Fortuna .......•......••• Eel River •................• 147
Fresno ...................Fresno ...... , .............. 247
''
. • . . . . . . . . . • • . . • . • Las Palmas ..••..•.......... 366
·''
· · ....•.........•. Center ..................... 465
Fullerton ...••••.•••••••• Fullerton ...•.• , .• , . , ••...•. 339
Galt .....................Galt •.. , ...••• , ............. 267
Gardena •...••••••• , ••••• G2'rdena ...•••• , .• , •.•...... 372
Georgetown •..•.••••••••• Georgetown ••• ,., ••••••...... 25
Gilroy •......•••.•••••••• Keith ...••..•••••.. , .• , .... 187
Glendale •...••••••••••• , •Unity ..••.•....••...•...... 368
Glendora ........•••••••• Glendora .....••.•...••..... 404
Grafton ....•..•••.••••• ,Grafton ..... , ..•........... 141
Grass Valley ..•••••.••••• Madison •••• , ...••...•• , , •.• 23
Greenville ...•••••••••••• Sincerity , ........•.....••.• 132
Gridley .................. North Butte ................ 230
Guadalupe ...•..•.••••••• Guadalupe •.....• ,..•.• , . , ... 237
Guerneville .............. Mount Jackson ............. 295
Hammonton ........•...• Hammonton ................ 433
Hanford ......•••••••••••Hanford •••...•.• , .......... 279
Haywards ..•.••••••••••• Eucalyptus ••••..••..•...... 243
Healdsburg ..••.••.•••••• Sotoyome . , ................. 123
Hilo, T. H ................ Kilauea •.....•.....•.....•.. 330
Hornitos ......•.••••.••.• Hornitos .......•....•...... 98
Hollister .................San Benito ...••..•.. , .•.... 211
Hollywood •.••••••••••••• Hollywood ..•.••....•..•.... 355
Holt..-ille .•.....•.••...•.• Holtville ................... 425
Honolulu, T. H ............Hawaiian •• , ...•.• , ..•.. , . , 21
Honolulu, T. H ..........•.le Progres de 1'Oceanic ...... 371
Honolulu, T. H .........• .'.Honolulu ...•.............. .409
Huntington Beach •••• , ••• Huntington Beach •• , , , • , , , •. 380

665

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES

666

Post Office.
Post omce.

Lodge.

No.

Huntington Park ••••••..•• Rising Light · • • · • • • · • · · • • • · .397 ·
Igo
•••••••••• Clinton •...•••.•... · · · · · · · • .119
lm~;i~1·:
Imperial .. · · • • • · · · · · • • · · · • ··;~~
Independence •• • • •····••.Inyo • • • '" • • • • • • • · • • • • • · · · • " 2
Inglewood .....•...•..•••• • •4 l
Ingl ewoo d ••• • • · · .. • .. • ...
80
Ione • • • . • ••• • ...• • ••• • • • •Ione •• • .••. • • • • ..•• • • • • . • • • 65
Jackson • • • • .••• • • • • • • ••• Ama~or • •. • .... • •. • •.•.. •. '. 472
Kahului, T. H. · · · · ······· ..Maui · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 456
Kennett ...••.......•.••.Kennett ........ · · · · · · · · • • · ·
Kerman .•......... · .. · · · · · .420
K erman ..•. • · • • · • • • • • ... ·
·294
Kingsburg •••••••• , •••••• Traver ••••.• • • · · • · • • • • • • · • •
Citv
Santa Lucia •..•••••..•• • • · · 302
•
K mgs
., .. "·" • • ·" • • •
•
.112
1
Knights Ferry • ·••••• ••••Sum7 t '.'.'.'.'.'.':.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'. 199
LakeMpo~: • .. • .. • .. ; · • • • ..~:r;;:sa ................... ,401
L a. eter · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · Lancaster ....• · · · · · · · · • • • · · 437
ancas
.. · · • · · · · • • · · · • ·
•••••••.•..••••.••• 97
Laporte •. • • •. • •• • • • • •. • .Jelfers~n
232
·
J
anesv1lle
•••..... · · • · · · · • • · 255
L assen .......... ·" .. ·"
Lemoore .. · • · • • • • • • • • • • • •Welcome ••. · · • • • · · • • • • • · • · • 32
Lincoln •••..•••.•••••• • • •Gold Hill •••.••••••.••••.••• 135
Linden • •. • ...... • •. • ....V~lley ............... • .•. • ..416
Lindsay .....••. • • ....• • .L1nds.ay •................... 218
Livermore •••.••••••••••• Kosa1c • • · · · · · • • • • • · · • • • • • · ·
Lodi • .••• • • •.••••. • .• • • .••. 256
I JO di • • • ' • • • * ' ' ' ' • • • • • • • • •
262
Lompoc •••••••.••• • • ••••• Lompoc ••••••.....••...••.••
lear Lake • , ................183
L ower L a ke .•••••. • •• • •. C
Long Beach •••••••••..••.••. 327
h
L ong Beac • • · • • • • • • • • • • •
389
,,
.............. Palos Verdes •.... • • • • • · · • • • • 2
Los Angeles • • . . • • . • • . . . . . • • 4
Los A nge1es • • · • • · · • · • • • • • .
8
"
..••.....•••• ,Wilmington .•••.•.•..•.• ·. · .19
"
Pentalpha .................. 202
''
• •.•.. • • •' • ..• Southern California •......•. 278
'•
•.•.•.• • ••..•• East Gate ••••..••..•.•.•••• 290
••
.. • • · • • •••••• 'Hollenbeck ••.••.•.. • • • • • · • • 319
"
• ........ '··.·South Gate ............... • .320
"
....... •• ....... Vallee de France ............329
"
.............. West Gate .................. 335
••
·' • ·' '• .••• •·.Palestine •••.•••...••.• • · · • .351
. . . . . . . . . . . •. . .
2
Sunset •••••••.•..•••• · • · · •• 35
"
• ·. · ·. • •• ' •.• ·Golden State •..•••••.•. · • • • .858
• ••• •• • ••• • •••
78
Mizpah ...••••.•. · .• • •• · • · ..8
"
• · • · · .. · ..... ·Highland Park .............. 882
• · • · • ·······'west Lake ••......•.....•••• 392
• • · · • ·• .... •.•University ............ · .. · • .894
· · · • '· · • ......,.,.oneta .......... · · • •• • · • · · .405
• • • .. • • • • .. • .. • • • 4J".L

·.::::: ..........

L

..
..

Lodge.

667
No.

Los Angeles .•..••.••..•.•Arlington ••.••.••.•..•...• ;414
'•
.................. Silver Trowel . ............... 415
"
••..•.•.•••••• Elysian .•...•••...•...•....• 418
''
•••....•••••• .Acacia ....••............... 438
• ••....••••••• Wilshire ....••......•...... 445
.............. Van Nuys ................. .450
"
•.............
Henry S. Orme ...•.....•..• 458
"
Los Banos ••••••••••••••• Los Banos ••••....•••...•.•. 312
Los Gatos •...•••••••••••• Los Gatos •••••••••...•••.•. 292
Loyalton •••••••••••••••••Loyalton ••••••••••..••.•.•. 359
Manteca .••......•••••.• Tyrian ....•.........•...... 439
1\faricopa •..•.•..•...••• Maricopa .....•....... , , ..• 434
Marysville ............... Corinthian • . • • • • • • ... . . • • • • • 9
Maxwell ••••••••••••••••• Maxwell •••••••.•••••.•...•• 288
Madera •••••••••••••••••• Madera •..••••.•.•• ; ....•... 280
Mariposa ••••••••••••••• ,Mariposa ••.•••••••.....•••. 24
Martinez ••••••••••••••• ,.){artinez ••.••••••••..•••••.• 41
McCloud .................. McCloud •••••.....••......• 430
Merced •• , •••••••••••••• ,Yosemite ...•..............• 99
Mendocino ••••••••••••• ,.Mendocino .................. 179
Middletown •••••••••••• ,.Callayomi ••••••...••••••.•• 282
Milton ••.••••••••••••••••Keystone ••••..•.•••••....•• 161
Mill Valley .............. Mill Valley ................. 356
Millville ............. , .. ,Northern Light ••••...•• , ••. 190
Mokelumne Bill •••••••••• Mokelumne Hill ..••.......• 298
Manr:wia •••••••.•••• , ••• Monrovia .•••••...••..••.... 308
Mont\Jbello ......••..••.• Montebello ................ .451
Monterey ••.••••••••••••• Monterey ••••..•..•..•...••. 217
Morgan Hill ........•.... Morgan Hill ................ 463
Mountain View ...........Mountain View .............194
Modesto •••.....••••••••• Stanislaus •..•...•.......••. 206
Murphy's ••.••••••••••••• Ophir •..•••••••......•.•..• 38
National City ............ South West •••.....•.•...... 283
Napa ••••..••••.•••••••••Yount ••••••..••....•.. ·..... 12
Newman ............... .,Hill's Ferry ................ 236
Needles ...•••..•.•.•••••• Needles ...••••......•.•.... 826
Nevada City •.••••••••••• Nevada .••.•....•..•.•..... 13
Norwalk •••.••••••••••••• Norw11-lk ••.••.•..•.....•••• 315
Oakland •.••••••••••. , •.• Live Oak •••••.••.•.•....•• 61

..

''
"

................. Oakland ................... 188
•.••.•••••••••••• Brooklyn .................... 225

''
''

................. . Sequoia .................... 349
................. .Aleatraz ..................... . 244
•..••...••..••••• Fruitvale ................... 336
••....••••...•••• Bay View •......•.....••.•. 401

."

668

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCATION OF LODGES
Post Offlce.
Lodge.
No.
Oakland ...............••Yerba Buena ................ 40CI
••.••.••••.•.....• Standard ................... 441)
"
''
................. Rockridge .................. 468
Oakdale .....••.••••••••• Oakdale •................... 275
Oceanpark ................ Ocean Park ................ 369
Oceanside ................Oceanside ................... 381
Ontario •••••••••••••••••• Ontario ••••................ 301
Orange •••••••.•••••••••• Orange Grove ............... 293
Orland •••..••.•••••••••• Orland .••.•.•.............. 26:1
Orosi .•.•.•••••••••••••••Orosi ••••••••.•.•..•.....•.. 383
Oroville •••..•••••••••••• Oroville •........••..•...•.. 103
Oxnard •••.••••••••••••• ,Oxnard ••.••.•... , ....•.•.. 341
Pacific Grove ........... ,Pacific Grove •....•.•...... 331
Palo Alto •• : ••••••••••••• Palo Alto •..•....•..••..... 346·
Pasadena •.•.••.•••••...• Pasadena •................. 272
Pasadena •..••.•••••••.•• Corona ..................... 324
Pasadena •............... San ·Pasqual ............... .452
Paskenta ................. Newville ••.•.....•..•....•• 201'
Paso Robles .•.•.•••••.•.. Paso Robles ......•..•....•• 286
Penryn •..••.•.••.•••••.• Penrhyn ••......•.....•....•258
Perris ..•.•••••........••.Perris .................... ·. .411
Petaluma •••••••••••• , •• , Petaluma •........•......•• 180
Pinole ..•...•.••••••••••• Pinole •....•••.....•...•... 353
Pittsburg ..........•....• Pittsburg ................... 429
Placerville •...•••••••••.• Palmyra .................... 26
Pleasanton •••.••.••••••• ,Alisal ••.•..•...........•... 321
Plymouth ...............•Drytown ................... 174
Point Arena ••••..•.•••• , Claiborne .................. 185
Pomona ..................Pomona .....•........•..... 246
Porterville •..•••••••••••• Porterville ................. 303
Puente .................. La Puente ................. .446
Quincy .••••.•..•••••.•• ,Plumas ......•............. 60
Redondo ••••..•...•••••• ,Redondo ................... 328
Redding ......•.•••••••• ,Reading .................••. 254
Redlands .••..•••••••.•• ,Redlands ..............•..•. 300
Reedley ..••••••.• , •••••• Reedley •.................•. 304
Redwood City ............ Redwood City .............. 168
Red Blufl •••••••••.••.••• Vesper .•..................• 84
Richmond ............•..•Alpha ...................... 431
Richmond .....•........• McKinley .................. 347
Rio Vista ••.••.•....••.•• Rio Vista ••.••..•........•. 208
Riverbank ......•..•.....Riverbank .................. 459
Riverside • , , , , •••••• , , , , .ETergreen •••.•.•• • •.••.• , •• 2159

Post Offlce.
Lodge.
No.
Roseville
..
Roseville
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
·
•
·
·
•...•.•..
•.•'.Tehama
...................
222
acra.mento
S
3
::
• · .. • .. • · • • ... Washingt~~ ..•.•••••.•.••••••
· · • • ·'" · · • · "· 20
40
• • • • · • • · • • • • • .Sacramento
"
· · · .... • · • .... Union
. • • .. · • • · · ...... • 58
' 1
• • • • • • ·······.Concord .••... ············'··
·
Sai.n.t. Helena
S .
· • •• · · · · • · .... · ..... 117
·
·
·
·
·
•
·
•
·
·
·
·
amt
Helena
· · · · · · · · · · · · · . • 93
S an Andreas · · • • · ·•····•.Calaveras
an
Bernardino
...•••
•
•.•
Phoenix
•
.
.
. . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 78
S
••
. ••••••••••••••••.••• 178
flan Diego
••••..• • • •San Bernardino ••.... • •..... 348
,.
.. • · • · · • · • • · • • .S~n Diego .................. 35
. ,.
.. • • · · ··•··· ... Silver Gate ................. 296
San, Dimas · · · · · · · ····•··.Blackmer
..,
· · ·" · · · · .. · ...... 442
· · · · · · · ·······.,an
San Francisco.
C J'fDimas
• • .. " · ...... • .. · .. 428
1
,
• • • • • • • • • • • a i o.rn1a . . • • . • . . . . . • . . . . . •
1
.
,,
• · • • · • • • • • • .Parfa1te
Union .. ........... 17
• · · · • • • · • • • •0 cc1dental • • • . . . . . • . . . . . . . . 22
30
· ·" ·••···•.Golden Gate
"
• · · •• .. ·••·.Mount Moriah •• •·······'·'" 44
"
• · · · • • • • · • •• Fidelit.r
, ..••••..• ' • ' ' 20
"
• · • • · • • · • • • • Hermann• •••• • ' · · · · · ' • · · · • ~ · 1127
"
• • • • • • • • • • •• Pacific
•.• • • • • • • ' · · • · · · ' " 36
• · · · ·······.Crockett..•.. ·········'······ 139
"
· · ••· .. ••• .. Oriental. ••••••••••••••••••••
• ..... • '· • • ·' · · • · • '1144
"
• •
' ••••••••.•••••••••• 166
· · • · ···••• •• Excelsior
"
• • • • • • • • ••• ,M1ss1o:ii ....••••..••........ 169
"
• ·" • • • •" • .Sou~h San Francisco......... 212
"
• · • • ••• •••• ,Doric ....................... 216
•• • • •. • • • • • .S~eranza ltaliana .... • ..... • 219
"
· · · • • • • • • • • .Kmg Solomon's •..•..•...... 260
"
• · • • • • • • • • •• Star~ :rcing •..••......••.... 344
"
• · • • • • • • • • •• Pres1d10 ...•.•...•.....•..•. 354
• · • • •·••••• •.San Francisco •.•••...•..... 360
"
•.•••.•••••• ~mity ••.•••••.••...••.•.•. 370
"

.

.

.
."
"

• • • • • • • · • • • • ~we! • · • • • • • • • • • · • • · · • · ...• 374
• · • • ···•·• •• Richmond •••.•..•..•....... 375
• · · · · · ·. · · · • . Parnassus •••..•••••......... 388

"

: : :: : : : : :::

"
"
"
"

· · · · · · · · · · · .Bethlehem .................. 453
· · · · ······ .• Golden West ............... 455
............ Argonaut .................. 461
· · · ·· ····•·.Paul Revere ............... _462

"

"

:!:!~;rou~
t.. .' .' .' .' :.' .' ::.' :.' ::::::::
....................... 449

669

GRAND LODGE OF CALIFORNIA

LOCA TlON OF LODGES

670

Lodge.

Post omce.

No.

San Francisco ............ Alta Vista . · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · · 464
"
"
........... Lincoln .................... 470
"
"
........... Victory ................... .474
San Jacinto •.••••.•...•.. San Jacinto ........... · .. · · 338
San Jose ... , ............ .. San Jose ....... ·. · · · · · · · · · · 10
"
.l!'riendship ................. 210
"
................. Fraternity .................. 399
San Juan. : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : Texas •••••.•....• · · . • · · · · · • ·46
San Leandro •.••..•..••• ,Eden • · .• • • • · · · · · • · · · · • · · • • .113
San Luis Obispo .......... King David's ......... · • · · · .209
San Mateo ••••••••.•.•••• San Mateo ••...•........... 226
San Miguel ...............Ban Miguel ••....•..•....•.. 285
San Pedro
San Pedro .•.•.. · .. · . · · • • · · · 332
San Rafael '.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.'.':Marin •.•••........ ·. • · · · · · .191
Santa Ana ............... Santa Ana .................. 241
Santa Barbara .......... ,Santa Barbara ........•..... 192
''
Magnolia • • • • • . • . • .•........ 242
Santa Clara ••. : : : : : : : : : : :Liberty •••••••• • •• • . • · • · · · • 299
Santa Cruz .••••••.••••••• Santa Cruz ...... • · • · · • · · · • · 38
Santa Maria ••.•••••.•••• Hesperian •.••••.•• ·. • •. • • · .264
Santa Monica ••••.•••••• ,Santa Moniea .•..•.•• •. • • • • .307
Santa Paula ••.••••••••• , ,Santa Paula ••..•. · .. · · · · · .. 291
Santa Rosa .... • ... • .... ,Santa Rosa- . • ...... • .•• • ... • 57
Salinas ..••••••••••••• , •• Salinas ••••..•.... ·• · · • · · · · .204
Sanger ...•• , •. , •.• , , •• , , ..Sanger ......................316
Sawtelle
Veteran .................... 373
Schofield -~~;;~:1~~ • .'.'.'.'.'.'.'Schofield .................. · 443
Sebastopol
La Fayette ••. · . • · · · · · • · • • • .126
Selma .... :::::::::::::::selma ...................... 277
Shasta
Western- Star •....... · · · · • ·• 2
Sierra :~~·
:Harmony .•.•......... · • · · • .164
Sierra Madre ............• Sierra Madre ..... ·. · · · · · · · .408
Sierraville •••••••.••••••• Sierra Valley •• · • · · · · · · • • ·; .184
Sisson ....................Sisson •.•••••.• •. • • · · · • · · · • .310
Smartsville ••••••••••.••• ~oee 's Bar • • • • · • • · · · · · · · · · · • 89
South Pasadena ...........South Pasadena •• · · • • · • • · • · .367
South San Francisco ....... Francis Drake ....... •. • • • · .376
Sonoma •...•••••••••.•••• Temple •.•••••.•• · · • • • • • • • · • 14
Sonora
Tuolumne •••.•••• • • · • · • • • · • 8
Stockto~· ••. • ••
•San Joaquin ........ ·. · · · · · 19
''
•..•• • • • • • • • .• • • •Morning Star ...............· 68

C :: : :: : : : :: :: ::

0

0

•. •

•. •

•

•

'' •·:::::::::::::::Delta ..................... .

471

Stony Ford
Snow Mountain •. · · · • • · • • · • · 271
Susanville • : : : : : : : : : : : : : :Lassen •••••.••......•• ·• • ..149 ·

P.:>st Office.

Lodge,

671
No.

Sutter Creek •.••.••.•.••• Henry Clay ...•••.......••.. 95
Suisun ................... Suisun • . . . . . . . . • . . . . . . . . . . . 55
Taft ..................... Midway .................... 426
Tehama ..................Molino ..••.•............•.. 150
Tehachapi ••..•.••••••••• Tehachapi ••.............•.• 313
Torrance ................. Torrance ................... 447
Tracy ...........•....... Mt. Oso ..................... 460
Truckee •....•..•..•.•••• Truckee •...•............... 200
Tulare ................... Olive Branch ............... 269
Tuolumno ................ East Belt .................. 391
Turlock ..................Turlock .................... 395
Ukiah .....•..•..••.••••• Allell •••.•.•...........••.• 146
Upland .............•...• Upland ..................... 419
Vallejo •.....•..•.••••••• Naval ••••........•......••. 87
''
•..••.•.•...•••..• Solano •.•..•...........•... 229
Vaca ville •.. ·•.....•...••. Vaca ville ...•.•............•134
Van Nuys ..............•Van Nuys ................. .450
VeDtura .....•..•.•••.••• San Buenaventura ........... 214
Visalia •.•.•.•..••••••••• Visalia •.•...•.•...........• 128
Volcano •....•..•.••••••• Volcano •.....•.•..•........ 56
'Valnut Creek ••••••.••••• Alamo ...................... 122
Watsonville •...•••.•••••• Pajaro ••...•............... 110
Watts .................... York ....................... 42ll
Weaverville ............. Trinity ..................... 27
Wheatland ....•.••••••••• Nicolaus .•.•.•.....•....... 129
Whittier ..•....••.••••••• Whittier .................... 323
Winters .•..•••.••••••••• Buckeye .................... 195
Willits .•••••••••.••••••• Willits ••.••••....••..•..... 365
Willows ................ .,Laurel •....• , ••.•.......... 245
Windsor •••...••••••••••• Russian River ••........•.... 181
Williams •..••••••••••••••Tuscan •••••......•......... 261
Wilmington ••..•••••••••• Wilmington ••.••••..•..•.... 198
Woodbridge ............. Woodbridge ................ 131
Woodland ••.•.•••••••••• Woodland •••••...•....••.•• 156
Yolo .....................Yolo .•..•.•••••...••.•..•.. 81
Yorba Linda ............. Yorba Linda .............. .469
Yreka ................... St. John's .................. 37
''
.................. . Howard . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 96
Yuba City ............... Enterprise .................. 70

INDEX-l9l9
A

Page

Acacia Lodge X o. 438---Grand Master's reference to ............................353
Petition to work in German language ............................................ 515
Report of Committee on petition to work in German ............ 575
·Accounts-Personnel of Committee on ........................................................629
Report of Committee on .................................................................... 518
Adams, Charles Albert-Resolution indorsing public education ........626
Address of Grand Master (See Grand :\'.laster's Address) ................333
Alphabetical list of Lodges ..........................................................................654
Location of Lodges ............................................................................663
Amaranth, Order of-Interest in Masonic Homes ................................. .457
Amendments to Constitution-Secti<;m 28.................................................. 577
Section 34 .................................................................................................. 548
Section 37....................................................................................................548
Section 41 .............................................................................................. 571-2
Section 32B .............................................................................................. 578
Section 88 ....................................................................................................... v•v . ,
Section 89 ...................... ..
Section 91 ..................................................................................................581
Section 114 ........... :.......................... .. .. .............................................. 572.
........................................572
Section 122 .................. ....................... ....
Section 161 ................................................................................................619
Section 248
619
Section 247 ................................................................................... :~..........619
American's Creed, The-Resolution indorsing....................................... .416
Printing and circulating .............................................................. 546, 624
Angellotti, Frank M.-Address at Memorial Services ............................ 389
Annual dues paid by Lodges-Detail of... ................................................... 553
Annual Oration .......................................................................................... 505, 624
Arbuckle Lodge No. 182-:'.'.famc changed from :\feridian ............ 516, 566
Ashlar Lodge Xo. 306--Trial record from ...................................... 370, 584

B
Baker, Thomas ].-Commendation of by Grand Master.. ...................... 353
Bakersfield Lodge X o. 224-Trial record from ................................ 371, 584
Balder Lodge No. 393-Trial record from ........................................ 371, 584
Baumgartner, B. R.-Lecture
Blackmer Lodge No. 442-Trial record from ....................................371, 584

ii

•

INDEX

INDEX

iii

Page

Page

Bledsoe, Benjamin F.-Death of mother ..................................................626
Bloch, Dr. Herbert !.-Survey of Covina Home by ........................ 350, 498
Blythe Lodge-Dispensation for ............. ·---------···----.. ··-·---...............................337
Organization and roster of members ........ ---·--·---···-···-····-·-·---·----...... 367
Charter ordered for ............................................................................565-6
Boards of Relief-Appropriations for .... ·--·-············--·-··-··--·-·----·-----·----·-----544
Reports of Honolulu ........................................................................... .441
Of Los Angeles ........................................................................................ 429
Of Oakland ................................................................................................ 435
Of Sacramento ........................................................................................441
Of San Diego .......................................................................................... 439
Of San Francisco .................................................................................... 418
Of San Jose ................................................. :............................................ 444
Bodie Lodge No. 252-Consolidation with Winnedumah No. 287 ...... 369
Bonds of Grand Lodge-List of holdings ................................................ 385
Of Secretaries and Treasurers .......................................................... 370
Braden, H. R.-Resolution opposing Bolshevism ................................... .417
Brooklyn Lodge No. 225-Trial record from ....................................371, 584
Buena Park Masonic Hall-Corner stone laid .......................................... 352
Burdick, William A.-Donation of books by ............................................ 563
Business in First degree-Proposal to adopt practice ............................ 613
Buzzo, Benjamin R.-Lowering of Service flag ................................... .402
By-Laws-Amendments to reported .............................................................. 368
Appointment of Committee on ............................................................ 333
Report of Committee on ...................................................................... 566

General Policy and Purposes recommended ....................................358
Creation of................................................................................................577
Resolutions referred to ................................................................613, 620
On Grand Lecturer's Report... .................................................. .415, 541
On Grand Master's Address ...................................................... 359, 445
On Grand Secretary's Report.. ............................................................386
On Masonic Homes maintenance ..............................................360, 568
Standing, personnel of.. ........................................................................629
Report on plans for Homes revenue .................................................. 568
Consolidation of Lodges ......................................................355, 366, 369, 580
Constitution of New Lodges ·------·-···------------------······--·-····· .. ················· .. ······-.336
Constitutions-Sale of ........................................................................................ 374
Corner stones of Churches-Invitations declined ................................... ~ .. 352
Coronado Lodge No. 441-Trial record from ....................................371, 587
Correspondence-Report of Committee on ............................551, Appendix
Covina Grammar School-Corner stone laid ............................................ 352
Credentials-Report of Committee on ........................................................ 592
Crescent Lodge No. 45-Trial record from ................................................ 581
Crocker Lodge No. 454-Dedication of HalL. ......................................... 353
Crockett Lodge No. 139-Trial record from ...................................... 371, 583

c
Camp Tucker-Donation for ............................................................................ 498
Certificates of Standing-Change of phrasing.................................. 547, 618
Charities and Corrections-Examination of Home by Board of ....... .459
Charter-Duplicate issued to Sotoyome Lodge No. 123....................... .370
Charters-Appointment of Committee on .................................................... 333
Report of Committee ............................................................................ 565
Cherry, E. M.-Donation of books by ........................................................ 564
Claiborne Lodge No. 185-Trial record from .................................... 371, 581
Clough, Frederick W.-Death of announced ............................................ 337
Memorial services in honor of... ......................................................... 386
Tribute to ..................................................................................................405
Committees-By-Laws .............................................................................. 333, 566
Charters ............................................................................................ 333, 565
Endowment, report of .......................................................................... 522
Finance, reports of .................................................................................. 543

D
Degrees conferred by courtesy........................................................................ 373
Petitioners to pay additional for Homes .................................... 571-2
De'.ta Lodge No. 471-Constitution of... ...............................................336, 366
Dispensations issued during the year ..........................................351, 369, 580
Dues-Suspensions for non-payment, observations on .............................174

E
Eastern Star-Interest shown in Homes ..................................................... .457
East Gate Lodge No. 290-Trial record from .................................. 371, 591
Education, Public-Indorsement of..............................................................626
Eighteenth Century Lodge-Vote of thanks to players of... .................614
Elkus, Eugene S.-The American's Creed ..........................................416, 546
Endowment Fund-Grand Master's reference to .................................. 350
Investment of ........................................................................351, 541, 567
Pennsylvania plan .................................................................................. 351
Reference to English methods ............................................................ 351
Report of Committee on ........................................................................ 522
Report of Grand Treasurer .......................................................... 363-4
Subscriptions to reported ...................................................................... 525
Thanks to players of 18th Century Lodge ........................................ 614

•

iv

INDEX

INDEX
Page

England, Grand Lodge of... .......................................................................338, 339
English language in Lodge work, references to ........................................353
Eureka Lodge No. 16-Consolidation with Rising Star No. 83 ........370
Evergreen Lodge No. 259-Trial record from ..................................371, 584
Excelsior Lodge No. 166-Trial record from ....................................371, 584
Expulsions ....................................................................................................370, 583

F
Filmer, William P.-Message from .............................. :...........................360
Fillmore Masonic Hall-Corner stone laid ................................................352
Finances of Homes ........................................................ ·-·············"····················459
Report of Committee on ...................................................................... 543
Firestone, Nathan M.-Solo at Memorial services ................................396
Fischer, Will H.-Report on Tablet to Soldiers................................... .402
Floral pieces and jewels ..................................................................................616
Funds~Investment of Endowment .............................................................. 567
For refreshments ............................................................................ ~ .......617
Receipts during the year ...................................................................... 385
·warrants drawn during the year ....................................................377
Funerals by Boards of RelieL ............................................ .423, 429, 438, 443

G
General Policy and Purposes-Creatiort of Committee....................358, 577
George Washington Lodge No. 62-Consolidation with
370, 5?0
Tuolumne No.
George \Vashington Memorial Association-Reference to ...................... 352
German language-Grand Master's observations on
Petition of Acacia Lodge to work in .............................................. 515
Report of Committee on ...................................................................... 575
Grand Lecturer's Report ................................................................................405
Commendations by ................................................................... .......... 412
Lodges of Instruction held ...................................................... ........413
Proposal to shorten Ritual ..................................................................623
Report of Committee on ...................................................................... 541
Visitations by ..................................................................................... :.... 407
Grand Lodge of England-Peace Jubilee of... ................................. 338, 339
Homes supported
Grand Lodges of North America-List of... ............................................. 649
Grand Master's Address
Acacia Lodge No. 438-Reference to use of English ................353
Baker, Thomas }.-Commendation of ..............................................353
Blanket dispensation for annual elections ...................................... 351

v

Page
Blythe Lodge, dispensation issued for forming .... "··········· ............ 337
Committee on .......................................................................................... 359
Committee on General Policy and Purposes...................:.............. 358
Consolidation of Lodges not regularly proceeding......................355
Constitution of new Lodges ····················"···················........................336
Corner stones of Churches ................................................................ 352
Corner stone laid at Buena Park................. :...................................... 352
At Covina ........................................................................................ 352
At Fillmore .....................................................,................................ 352
At Quincy ........................................................................................352
Deaths of officers reported .................................................................. 337
Dedication of Crocker Lodge Hall................................................ :... 353
Dispensations issued ........................................................................ :.351
Endowment drive .................................................................................... 350
Grand Lodge of England .................................................................... 338
Group plan of initiation................................................ :....................... 357
Growth of Lodges ................................................................................. 358
Installations ............................................................................................ 337
Lawler, Oscar, relative to assault upon ..:......................................... 335
Masonic Education ................................................................................ 357
Masonic Homes ·H·-·····-·····--··--·H·--·----··H···· __ .... ., .................................... 349
Physical requirements ..........................................................................356
Recommendations ....................................................................................353
Red
-·····-···--~·H·-·H··-···HH•················-· ............... ................................334
Report of Committee on ...................................................................... 445
San Fernando Lodge, jurisdiction of................................................ 355
Texas Tornado ...................................................................................... 335
Victory Lodge, dispensation issued .................................................. 337
Visitations ........................................................................................335, ll07
Waiver of jurisdiction refused ... :........................................................ 352
Grand Officers 1919-List of ........................................................................ 330
Present at opening ................................................................................ 331
Grand Secretary's Report...........................:......................................................366
Amendments to by-laws reported ....................................................368
Bonds of Secretaries and Trcasurers..............................................370
Charter, duplicate, issued to Sotoyome Lodge .............................. 370

~~~:':!::::k::~£i .• .• .• • • •. • • =········ : f~

E~ergency Re1ief Fund, condition of.............................................. 376

~~~~'.;,~;:~1:~~~:~:'.

:: : : ~ :

INDEX
vi

vii

INDEX
Pa,,;e

Lodges not reporting .............................................................................. 366
Necrology-Deaths in other jurisdictions ...................................... 375
New Lodges formed ................................................................................366
Receipts during the year ...................................................................... 385
Report of Committee on ....................................................................447
Report to Grand Master ···························-················-···············--······339
Soldier Memorial tablet. ......................................................................... 371
Statement of work done by Lodges .................................................. 367
Suspensions for non-payment of dues, observations on .............. 374
To print American's Creed ................................................................. .416
Trial records reported ............................ "'" .......................................... :.. 370
Warrants drawn during the year ........................................................ 377
Grand Treasurer-Report of .......................................................................... 362
Granite Lodge No. 222-Consolidation with Roseville No. 432 ........ 360
Group Plan of Initiation-Reference to ...................................................... 357
Grievances (See Reports of Committees.)

Pag,.
Lincoln Lodge No. 470--Constitution of... ........................................ ,~336, 366
List of Grand Officers .................................................................................... 330
Live Oak Lodge No. 61-Trial record from .................................... 370, 590
Lloyd, H. ].-Donation of rare book by .............................. :..................... 564
Location of Lodges ............................................................................................ 663
Lodges-Alphabetical list of.....................................................................631, 654
Amendments to by-laws reported ........................................... ,.......... 368
Chartered in 1918..................................................................... .,.......... 366

;:::~~i:t:t!o~----~~:::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::.~:::::~-~~'..}~'.___ ;~~

I

Contributing to Endowment Fund .............................. :., ................... 525
Dispensations for new .................................................... T' ................ 366
Extinct, list of................................................... ,..... ,.... r·······················-644
List of largest ........................................................................................ 372
-Location of ·..............................................................................................663
Number represented at Grand Lodge ............................................ 332
Receipts from during the year ...................................... ,.. 1.................. 385
Statement of work for the year .................... ,................................... 367
Visitations to hy Grand Master ....................................... ,.................... 407
Los Angeles Board of Relief-Report of.. ............................................. .429
Los Banos Lodge No. 312-Annual dues delinquent... ........... ,..,.............. 552
Loyalton Lodge No. 359-Returns received late ...................................... 551

Ingram, H. R.-Donation of books by ................................................ ,..... 564
Ingram, Thomas-Address at Memorial services ................................ 387
Initiations during the year ................................................................................ 367

M

H
Hawaiian Lodge No. 21-Trial records from .......................... 371, 588, 589
Hervey, William R.-Attendance at Grand Lodge of England ............ 338
Honolulu Board of Relief-Report of... ...................................................... .441

J
Jewels and floral pieces .......................................................... --·-----·-···········----616
Johnson, Walter Perry-Donation of books by ........................................ 564
Jurisdiction of San Fernando Lodge No. 343 .................................. 355, 574

King Solomon's Lodge No. 260-Trial record from ...................... 371, 583

L
Lambert, Charles G.-Appointed Grand Treasurer pro tem ................ 332
Larsen, Louis A.-Songs by .......................................................... 332, 389, 399
Lawler, Oscar-Assault upon ...................................................................... 335
Message from .......................................................................................... 360
Library Committee-Report of.................................................................... 563-4
Life memberships reported ................................................................................ 368
Report of Jurisprudence Committee on .................................... 578

Maclcley, George W.-Message from ................................................, ......... 360
Masonic Education.....:.Appropriation for ........................................................ 625
Grand Master's observations ..................................·............................ 357
Recommendations adopted ......................... '..'. ...................................... 592
Report of Committee ............................................................................ 548
Resolutions referred to ..................................... ~ ..........................·.... 416-17
To circulate American's Creecl... ................... ,.................................... .417
Masonic Homes-Annual report of Trustees ............. ~ ............................. .448
Admission of persons not indigent, problem of.. ....................... .457
Appropriation for .......................................................................... 504, 544
Assets and liabilities .... :........................................................ :............ 467
Rui!dings, condition of ....................................................... ,.................. 452
Ry-laws tmclcr incorporation .......................................... ~ ................... 450
Cash receipts and disbursements ........................................................ 464

viii

INDEX

INDEX

ix
Page

Children at Covina, names of... .................. :............................ :........ .495
Committee to devise means of maintenance ................................360
Covina-Domestic Science bungalow ................................................483
General report ................................................................................481
Health of children ........................................................................ 482
Vocational building ........................................................................ 483
Daggett, John Randolph-Donation from ......................................456
Deaths at Decato ...............................................................................'... 480
. Decato Home, general report .................. :...........................................468
Deficit, appropriation asked to cover ............................................. .459
Departures from Covina Home ..........................................................497
From Decoto Home .................................................................. 480
:9onations to Covina Home ..................................................................486
To Deco to Home ............................................................................470
Eastern Star-Cooperation by............................................................ 457
Endowment Fund .............................................................................. 363-4
How may be invested .................................................................... 567
English Homes, report on .................................................................. 345
Entertainment Fund ................................................................................ 365
Expenses for the year ............................................................................ 460
Farm, problem of .................................................................................. 453
Fees from petitions for degrees ............................................................ 571
Finances, suggestions for assisting ....................................................453
Fletcher, William F.-Donation from ............................................. .456
Grand Master's reference to ................................................................349
Incorporation ............................................................................................ 448
Legacies received ....................................................................................456
Mental and physical survey of children ..................................... .498
Officers, who are ....................................................................................450
Organization of Board ............................................................................ 448
Pay residents, problem of...................................................................... 573
Payne, Mary M.-Donation from ..................................................... .456
Physical condition of property .............................................•............ 452
Pennsylvania plan for revenue .................................................... 351, 453
·Property, title to .......................... ,...........................................................451
Receipts from per capita tax ..............................................................385
Residents at Covina-List of... ........................................................ .495
At Decato-List of..........................................................................477

Physical and mental condition of... ............................................ .452
Resolution to require contributions for maintenance ................ 372
Report of Committee on plans for. revenue ....................................568
Report of Secretary ·············································-·······························460
Of Treasurer ...................................................................................363
Of Trustees ................................................................................... .448
Scholarships donated .............................................................................. 457
State Board of Charities-Examination by...................... ;.............. .459
Suit to quiet title to realty ............................................................. .451
Survey by Prof. Ritter and Dr. Bloch .............................................. 350
Tucker, John-Donation from ........................................................... .456
Vacancies on Board-Provision for filling .................................. ..450
Well er, Dana R.-Thanks to ............................................................. .451
Wells, William S.-Death of ..............................................................448
Masonic Service Association of the U. S ..................................................... 562
Report of Committee on ......................... :............................................619
Masonic Temple Association-Purchase of stock. ................................... 544
Maui Lodge No. 472-Constitution of.................................................. 336, 366
Mayer, Samuel D.-Message to, and reply .......................................... 360-1
Membership of Lodges ............................................................................ 366, 367
Meridian Lodge No. 182-Change of name to Arbuckle ............ 516, 566
Memorial Services ..............................................................................................386
Address of Frank M. Angellotti... ........................................ :............389
Of Thomas Ingram ........................................................................ 387
Of Jacob Nieto ................................................................................ 399
Of William D. Stephens .............................................................. 396
Mt:morial Tablet to Soldiers-Report of Special Committee ............... .402
Report of Finance Committee ........................................................... ,546
Mission Lodge No. 169-Trial record~ from ....................................371, 587
Mokelumne Hill Lodge No. 298-Returns not reported ...................... 551
Moneta Lodge No. 405-Petition for restoration .................................... 371
Morrell, Frank E.-Memorial services in honor of ................................386
Tributes to ........................................................................................386, 406

N
Necrology-Deaths reported .................................................. ,...............337, 375
Funerals conducted by Boards of Relief ................. .423, 429, 438, 443
Memorial services .......................................................................... :.......386
Nieto, Rev. Jacob-Address at Memorial service ..................................399

INDEX·

0

INDEX

xi

Page

Page

Oakland Board of Relief-Report oj. ....'................................................. ..435
Officers of Grand Lodge-E'.ection of... .....................................................625
Installation of .................................................. ., ..................................6Zl
. .. Since organization .................................................................................649
Olive Branch Lodge No. 267...c....Reimbursement oL .................................546
Ontario Lodge No. 301-Petition for reinstatement... .....................370, 590
Oration-Annual ............................................................................................... 505
Printing of .......................................................'. ......................................515
Owens, Henry NL-Donation of books by .................................................. 564
Oxnard· Lodge No. 341-Trial record from ................... :..................371, 584

Boards of Relief ................................................................................544
Masonic Education, appropriation for ..............................:.......625
Masonic Homes ..............................................................................544
Olive Branch Lodge, reimbursement of... ...............................546
Portrait of Grand Master ............................................................545 •
Printing of Annual Oration .............. ,.........................................624
San Jacinto Lodge-Donation to ........................................ 563, 623
Salaries of Officers........................................................................ 545
Soldier :tvfemorial .......................................................................... 546
Temple stock, purchase oL. ......................................................... 544
Grand Lecturer's Report ......................................................................541
Grand Master's Address ......................................................................445
Grand Secretary's· Report ............ ~ ...........................................:...........447
Grievances-Trial record No. 255, Coronado Lodge No. 441....587
Trial record No. 251, Crescent Lodge No. 45 ........................ 581
Trial record No. 259, Crockett Lodge No. 139.................... 583
Trial r.ecords Nos. 254, 257, Hawaiian Lodge No. 21....588-9
Petition for restoration Live Oak Lodge ::\o. 61.. ..............590
Omnibus report ................................................... c............................ 584
Petition for restoration, Case 144............. :................................590
Petition for restoration, Case 148..............................................5.90
Trial record No. 260, Reading Lodge No. 254...................... 585
Trial record No. 245, Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219.... 586
Jurisprudence-Acacia Lodge, petitfon -to work in German .... 575
Certificates of Standing................................................................618
Consolidation of Lodges, procedure ............................................ 580
Creation of Committee on General Policy............................571
Dispensations approved ................................................................580
Funds for refreshments ................................................................617
Jewels and floral pieces ............... .'................................................616
Jurisdiction of San Fernando Lodge ................................355, 574
Life Memberships ..........................................................................578
Masonic Service Association ..........c.............................................619
Method of reinstatement after suspension for cause ............617
Physical qualifications ....................................... :...... :."................615
Library, report of................................................... :..................:.............563
Masonic Education ............................ :................. ~ ............. :...................548
Plans for Homes revenue ......................... ~ ........................................:.568
Pay of Members
·
·
· · ·...................
·
Ll.:.U

p
Palmyra Lodge No. 26-Donation of books by ............. :.................... :..... 564
Pay o.f Members-Report of Committee ......................................................620
Peace Jubilee-Grand Lodge of England ...........................c........338, 339, 541
Report of William Rhodes Hervey.................... :.............................541Perkins, George C.-Message to, and reply .. ~ ...........................................360
Petitions for degrees-Fee to be added for Homes ................................571
Physical Qualifications ........................................................................................356
Report of Committee on .................................................. :...................615
Plumas County-Corner stone of Courthouse laid ................... :............. 352
Public Education-Resolution indorsing ...................................................... 626

R
Reading Lodge No. 254-Trial record from ......................................371, 585
Red Cross-Commendation by Grand Master...................... :...................334
Reese,· David-Commendation of ....................................................................412
Reiief-Emergency Fund, condition of ....L........... :c ..................................... 376
·
Reports of Boards of... .............................., .. :: .................................... .:418
Texas Tornado
Reports of Committees-Accounts.-.c ...•. o.•••••.•••••• ~ ••••••••••••••••••• : .....................518
By-Laws ·.. c................................................................................................. 566
Charters ..................................................................................................565
Correspondence ................................................................. :...................551
- Credentials
: . . :J£ndowmept Committee
..Finance .. ·······'.·:·:... :::..:................................................................:...,.., ...,......543
American's .Creed,. printing of .._. ........................ ,.......:.,..........,.()24

xii

INDEX
Page

Returns of Lodges .................................................................................. 551
War Fund ................................................................................................ 518
Report of Grand Lecturer ............................................................................. .405
Of Grand Master...............................................c....................................333
Of Grand Secretary................................................................................ 366
Of Grand Treasurer ·'································-·····-···································362
Of Temple Association ...................................................................... 517
Resolutions opposing Bolshevism .................................................................. 417
The American's Creed ...................................................................... .Al6
Public Education ....................................................................................626
Restoration after suspension for cause-Method of ................................617
Returns of Lodges-Report of Committee on .......................................... 551
Rising Star Lodge No. 83-Consolidation with Eureka No. 16............ 370
Ritual-Reference to Grand Lodge of England ............................ c••••••••••• 348
Proposal to shorten................................................................................623
Ritter, Prof. Arthur }.-Survey of Home by .................................. 350, 498
Rosenberg, Joseph-Donation of book by.................................................... 564

s
Sacramento Board of Relief-Report of ..................................................... .441
San Diego Board of Relief:.__Report of... .................................................... .437
San Francisco Board of Relief-Report of... ............................................ .418
San Jose Board of Relief-Report oL ....................................................... 444
Sacramento Lodge No. 40---Trial record from ........................................ 370
San Fernando Lodge No. 343-Jurisdiction of... .............................355, 574
San Jacinto Lodge-Donation to ............................................................ 563, 623
Scholarships for Children ................................................................................ 457
Sciots, Order of-Scholarship donated by ................................................. .457
Scottish Rite Bodies-Scholarship donated by......................................... .457
Smith, James D.-Donation of books by.................................................... 563
Social Purposes-Funds for .................................................................... 515, 617
Soldier Memorial-Programme of services ................................................386
Prayer at ................................................................................................ 387
List of names of Soldier dead ............................................................ 394
Resolution to erect tablet ...................................................... 371, 402, 546
Sotoyome Lodge No. 123-Duplicate charter for .................................... 370
Speranza Italiana Lodge No. 219-Trial record fronL. ................. 370, 586
Stephens, William D.-Address at Memorial service .............................. 396
Stevens, James Baunty-Present at opening .............................................. 332
Suspension for cause-Method of reinstatement ........................................617
For non-payment of dues-Observations on .................................. 374

INDEX

xiii

T

Page

Tcmescal Lodge No. 314-Trial record from .................................... 370, 584
Temple Association-Report oL .................................................................... 517
Thrift Stamps-Resolution indorsing............................................................613
~ilton, R. Fletcher-Appointed Grand Organist pro tem ....................332
rial Records .................................................................. 370, 581, 583, 584, 591
Trowel-Presented to Grand Lodge of England ......................................344
Trustees Masonic Homes (See Masonic Homes).
·
Tuolumne Lodge No. 8-Consolidation with George Washington
No. 62 ........................................................................................... .255, 370, 580

v
Victor, Charles H.-Annual Oration ............................................................ 505
·
Printing Oration .................................................................................... 515
Victory Lodge-Charter ordered for ............................................................565
Dispensation for ...................................................................................... 337
Organization and roster of members ................................................ 367
Visitations of Grand Master ............................................................................ 335

w
Waiver of Jurisdiction-Refusal by Grand Master ................................352
War Fund-Report of Committee .................................................................. 518
War Savings-Resolution indorsing ..............................................................613
Warrants drawn during the year ..................................................................377
Wells, William S.-Death of.......................................................................... 337
Memorial services in honor of............................................................386
Winnedumah Lodge No. 287-Consolidation with Bodie No. 252...... 369
Wood, Fred B.-Donation of books by ...................................................... 504

y
Yorba Linda Lodge-Constitution of.................................................... 336, 366

REPORT
OF THE

Committee on Correspondence
OCTOBER, 1919

By JESSE M. WHITED
To the Most Worshipful Grand Masters, Officers and Members of
the Grand Lodge of California, and Brethren of this Jurisdiction:
I submit my first report on Foreign Correspondence.
A retiring member of a Supreme Court gave to his successor this
injunction : "Give your decision, but if possible, never the reasons for
the same. Men will agree with your rnling, !mt very seldom with your
arguments." Having this in mind, I am making no apologies for the
scope of this Report, or giving my reasons for presenting it to you in
the form that I have.
That great Mason and scholar, Albert Pike, after drawing 011 various
sources for his work, "Morals and Dogma," prefaced it with the statement that he could, on that account, claim little of the merit of
authorship, and did not care to distinguish his own from that which he
had taken from other sources, but was quite willing that every portion
of the book, in turn, should be regarded as borrowed from some old and
better writer.
As that method was followed by me, I era ve the same indulgence.
Thanks are due to the Secretaries of the several General, Grand
Bodies of the United States, practically all the Grand Secretaries of the
various Grand Lodges, the. National Masonic Research Society of /\namo~a, Iowa, and the Editors of a numher of Masonic periodicals, for
statistics and other valuable :ind interesting data, which make up this
Report.
Jf the information in some cases, as to certain Jurisdictions is missing,
or not up to date, it is due to the failnre of partit's to answer comnnmications.
A rural newspaper once made the statement that the only imlividuals
privileged to use the pronoun, "we," were editors and men with a tapeworm. To this classification should also be added the Chairman of a
Correspondence Committee. It is of course understood that the view• or
opinions expressed in this Report arc those only of myself,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCF;

2

3

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

AMERICAN HISTORY
There is a tendency among Masonic writers to make American
Masonry responsible for the American Revolution and everything '
connected with it, arid subsequent thereto down to the present
time. As a matter of fact, Masonry, as an organization, so far as
we have been able to find out, has never done anything that has
become historic, unless it was to furnish the ground for the AntiMasonic Movement. Even in that time, the majority of the Brethren "took to the tall timbers," by surrendering their charters, and
disbanding their Lodges.
When American Masonry, as a body, does something, or suffer because of their activities and belief like our French, Spanish,
Italian or South American Brothers have done, it will then be time
enough for us to talk along this extravagant line,
District of Columbia:
During the Civil \Var, when the United States forces had divided
the great State of Louisiana, an<l when the Confederate camps bad
manv militarv Lodges, whose delegates could not reach New Orleans
to a'ttend G1;rnd Lodge, it was urged that another Grand Lodge be
formed. But better counsel prevailed, and by the aid of general
officers in both armies who were Masons the delegates were able to
get to New Orleans tm.der a flag of truce, and s.o the Grand Lo?ge
of Louisiana was kept mtact. It was freely admitted .that many improper men Juul been initiated, which was an embarrassment. This
was prohab!y true in other cases, of which we have no particular
knowledge.

******

Jn looking up the l\Tasonic connection of the signers of the l?cclaration of Independence, ;mcl of other great men the Republic has
produced. we find the records laconic. an.cl unsatisfactory. For example,
we find the name of John Adams 1s 111 the rosters of three lodges,
either of which would fit the date, locality or associations of President
John Adams. Trnditi.on f<.1vors he lie! th::t he was. a Mason; He is
recorded in the puhhc prmts as hcmg 111 Mawmc processions .and
"comhinations". bnt the pristine democracy of American Freemasonry
forbids more than the bare record of his name on the lodge roll.

* * * * * *

M ASON'IC Pl<J1 Slllt'.NTS.

George Washington. rai:-cd in Frcdcrickslmrg Lodge 4, Fredericksburg, Va., August 4, 1753.
Thomas J cffrrson, made a Ma son in colonial times, attended
Lodge of Nine Sh;tcrs in Paris, France, with Thomas Paine, in French
Revolution.
James :Vfonroc, made in St. John's Regimental (Army) Lodge in
1777, then a captain in Virginia troops, when suffering from a wound.
Andrew Jackson was a member of Philanthropic Lodge, Clover
Bottom, Tenn., and served as Grand Master of that state 1822-23.

James K. Polk, raised in Columbia Lodge 31, Columbia, Tenn.,
September 4, 1820.
James Buchanan, raised in ·Lodge 43, Lancaster, Pa., January
24, 1817.
Andrew Johnson, raised in Greenville Lodge 119, Greenville,
Tenn.; dates unknown, but supposed to be between 1848 and 1852.
James A. Garfield, raised in Magnolia Lodge 20, Columbus, Ohio,
December 22. 1864. He also received the Capitular and Ternplar
degrees and those of the Lodge of Perfection in the Scottish Rite.
William McKinley, raised in Hiram Lodge 21, Winchester, Va,,
May 3, 1865; exalted in Canton Chapter 84, Canton, Ohio. 1834.
Theodore Roosevelt, raised in Matinecock Lodge 806, Oyster Hay,
N. Y., January 2, 1901.
\Villiam Howard Taft, made a Mason at sight by M. \V. Charles
S. Hoskinson, Grand Master of Ohio, at Cincinnati. Fehruary 18,
1g.
•

Florida:
"Those who signed the Declaration of Tndepemkncc arc as
follows:
"l. John Adams-Member of St. John's Lodge, Boston.
"2. Samttcl Adams-Memhcr of St. John's Lodge, Boston.
"3. Josiah Bartlett-Grand Master of M assachrn;ctts.
"4. Benjamin Franklin-Great Master of St. John's Lodge, Boston.
"S. Elhridgc Gcrry-Lihrary of Masonic I listmy. Vol. JV.
"6. John Hancock-:Vfcrchant's Lodge', Qnchcc, 1760; St. Andrew's
l.,odge.
''7. Hcnjamin Harrison - Procccthl!'S
1763, Virgima,
1788-1822.
"8. Fra's Hopkinson-Library of Masonic I listorv. Vol. TV.
"9. \Vm. Hooper-Proceedings Crancl Lodge Virginia, 1788-1822.
"IO. Thomas Jefferson-Lodge of Nine l\fnscs, Paris.
"11. Francis Lightfoot Lee-Proceedings Crarnl l,wlgc Virg'inia,
1788-1822.
.
"12. Richard Henry Lcc-Lihrary Masonic I listory. Vol. TV,
"13. Fans Lcc-Lihrary Masonic I 'H• r•. V1·1. IV.
"14. Phil Living:;tonc-Library l\fasonic I listory. Vol. JV.
"15. Robt. Morris-Library Masonic I listory. Vol. TV.
"16. Thomas X cl son, J r.-Procccdings Cram! Lo(lgc Virginia.
1788-1822.
"17. Robert Treat Paine-Library M:1so11k 11 istory. Vol. JV.
"18. George Ross-Lihrary l\fasonic l listnry. Vnl. TV.
"19. Benjamin Rush-Library Masonic I listory. Vol. IV.
"20. Roger Sherman-Library ".VTasonic l listory. Vol. IV.
"21. Matthew Thornton-Lihrary Masonic I listory. Vol. TV.
"22. \Vm. \Vhippk-Lihrary Masonic I listory. Vo1. TV.
"23. John Witerspoon-Lihrary l\lasonic 11 istnry. Vol. IV.
"24. Oliver \Vokott-Lil:rary Masonic 11
Vol. JV.
''Pevton Randolph. tlw l'r1•,id('llt pf ; i.,. ii rel «n11\ i11e11tal Cell" rc'ss
in 1774, was Provincial Grand Master of Virginia".

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT' ON CORRJ;~8PON1YENCl·J

Kansas:
The following by the grand orator is not true"Do you know that fifty-two out of the fifty-six si.gner~ o,f the De~a­
ration of Independence were Masons? That the lustoric Bostoff. ea
Party' was an adjourned Masonic lodge?. That every one of the .o ih~r~ ·
of the Revolution from the rank of maJor to the commander-111-c iet,
was a Mason exc;pt Benedict Arnold?"
Onlv a very few of the signers of the De.clar~tion of Independence
were ~fasons. There is very little authentic history on the Boston
Tea Party.
Every one of the officers of the Revolution was not a .Maso1R ad
has already been proven. The writer recalls that a prominent ~
Man told him not long ago that the Boston Te:i Party w~re . t e
;riginal Red .Men. Because the members of t.h1s party disguised
themselves as Indians the circumstance w.as .seized upon t~ ~ake
it appear that the Boston Tea Party was mstltuted and earned out
by a lodge of Red Men.
•
The present age is demanding to know the truth ~once:nmg
Freemasonry, and every speaker ~ho a~dresses a Masonic audience
should first of all know what he is talking about.

Virginia:
'The conditions in Richmond in April, 1865, are an apt contrast
A Federal officer saved our old Masonic hall, the oldest on the con~
tinent, and a Federal Mason and general had a meeting called in
that hall, at which foes united, and it was attended by a large number of soldiers in blue, gathered there to devise measures of relief for
the families of their enemies in grey, still lighting against them. One
of them left his saber in the ante-room, and it is there yet, a precious
relic and sotl\'<"nir \:\'hen Ot1r led t•s W""'' ·n tlw ,.,.,," ' hnn'ls r• ,,
Masons attended in perfect amity. William McKinley, afterward
President of the United States, was made a Mason in a Virginia
lodge, wi1ile a major in the Union army.'

4

North Carolina:
North Carolina's three "Signers" are all believed to ha.ve been
Ma~ons. Joseph Hewes certainly was, ~s I. ~ave seen his ~at~e
recorded as a visitor on the minutes of Unanmuty Lodge (now ~o.
7) of Edenton, K. C., on St. Jo!1i; the Evangelist's Day ~r;_ecem )er
27th), 1776. Brethren are now hvmg who heard from the ,1te Rro.
William L. Taylor, that his father was a Mason and had more ,than
once mentioned to .him the fact that John Pe!'ln, ~nother N o;th
Carolina "Signer", was a Mason. As to the third N~rth Carolma
"Signer", \Villiam Hooper, we have only secondary evidence.
South Dakota:
That there were only five Masons who. signed the. ~ecla_r;~tion of
I d
ndence John Hancock William Hooper, Philip L1vmgston,
B~nJ~~in Fr~nklin and Thomis Nelson, Jr. No <liscovere<l records so
far connect any other signer with Masonry.
South Dakota:
During the American Revolution Vvas~ington sent back t? the
British the box of a Masonic Lodge belong111g to an ~nemy regiment,
rd Rawdon at Comden after the American general De
d h en Lo
an
' had h1111
· ' b roug I1t t o 1i··i~ ow n . tent , ca red
Kalb wwas
taken wounded,
.
for him while he still live~ ~nd gave him a Mas.omc burial. after h1~
I th I 1 the American C1v1l \Var when the entire Craft wa~ appar
~~~ly · a ~nit ~pon the proposition "Voiced by· S~uth Carolma a:1.d
'ff · e. "Let us not hear among us that there 1s war, that stnte
""am
.
· concerns us no t" ·
and dissension
prevail; as Masons 1t

* * * * * *

******

The orator said that all the officers of the Revolution were Masons
except Benedict Arnold. Arnold was expelled for his treason. But
the exception was Charles Lee-no relation to the Virginia Lees.
The records of the Lodhe in Poughkeepsie, N, Y., extant today,
have in capitals: "Benedict Arno'.d, a traitor", following the resolution expunging his name from the roll.

BALLOT
We believe if a stricter investigation was made of applicants,
and the black ball used a little more freely, perhaps Masonry would
not have some of the "black sheep" that it undoubtedly has today,
particularly in large cities. This is so because of the "Degree
Mill" tendency.
When a man makes an applicatlon for a Life Insurance policy,
a Surety bond, or asks a financial favor in every-day life, he is
usually required to give some history of his family, himself, and
his financial condition. If this procedure was followed with applicants for preferment in our Order, and a close investigation made
into their answers, it would ultimately work to the advantage of
the Craft. Doubtless a large number of applications would never
get to the ballot box.
Illinois:
It is not supposah'c, among Maste1· J\:fosons, that there arc any
who would reject a candidate through malice, envy, ill will, anger,
jealousy, or spleen; if any lod!!L' bas admittPd to its fold any one who
can be guilty of such base conduct, it is her misfortune-perhaps
her fault-and for which there is no Masonic remedy. The right to
reject a candidate is a clear sequence of the right to vote, and it is
as clear and sacred as the right to elect. The ballot is not spread
to elect a candidate alone, but to determine whether tl1e candidate
shall be rejected, and for the further protection of the weak, of
the timid, or the poor, the secret ballot is spread. The duty to reject
is also as clear as the duty to vote; and that duty is to he the result
of conscientious convictions in each hrothcr's hrenst, and he votes upon
those convictions in the presence of Diety alone.

REPORT ON CORRESPONimXCE

REPORT ON CORHESPONDENCE

The rejection of a candidate, when declared, is to be shared in
silence by every brother, no matter how unpleasant; for if any one
states how he voted, he violates the secrecy of the ballot, and thereby
violates his obligation. The more shields there are thrown around
the ballot, which is the great safety-valve of Masonry, the better.

cants f~r the deg~ees of. Masonry than mere immoralitv
W
bJobkably as often 111 castmg the white ball as we do i . . t" e err
ac .ball. No Grand Master or anv other Mason h
. n cas mi:; .the

6

M1mitoba:
In one Jurisdiction it is permissible to explain that one has cast
a blackball. In another tbe merits of the candidate are made the
subject of debate before the ballot is spread.

Pennsylvania:
The Masonic ballot is sacred. HP who knowin"lv misuses it
should be promptly expelled from the Fraternity; and it is a clear
misuse of it when objections are raised to a petitioner for any other
than Masonic reasons. Private pique, business transactions and personal differences which do not relate to the character of tbe petitioner,
have no place in Freemasonry, and the Lodge whose members continue to abuse the ballot by such practices deserves to lose its warrant. "While the blackball has its place in Freemasonry, it should be
used only in the true Masonic spirit. Its abuse cannot be tolerated,
and they who abuse it should be promptly a11d speedily dealt with.

Virginia:
We are all making Masons too fast, and it is desirable that every
member of every lodge should know who is to be subject to a ballot.
Men are constantly l1eing black-hcil.ed, to the surprise of. perhaps, all
but one member, and frequently it later develops that tbis one memher knew what none of the others <lid, and which, if known. would
have resulted in unan"imous rejection. Still, it is not kind, or even
Masonic, to let the profane world knows who is to be subjected to a
ballot, and printing names on notices, even those sent in sealed
envelopes, risks just that. \Ve are all, or nearly all, very careless in,
throwing papers around our homes or offiees, nml the fact of the
envelopes having been sealed is no safeguard whatever. Every Mason
should attend stated communications, and if he docs not he cannot
complain of what takes place.

Washington:
One recommendation of the Grand Master was as follows:
If the Grand Lod:se of Oregon means bv tl1is action that the Grand
Master may set aside the ballot of any lodge, because he decides that ~
some brother has failed in his Masonic duty, then they have placed
in his hands a very tremendous power, and any Grand Master acting
thereon will be assuming a great deal. It is dangerous for any Mason
to say that a black hall which excludes some person from Masonic
membership is unworthily cast because he knows nothing to the detriment of the candidate, and much in his favor. Why a Grand Master
or anv other Mason should be ready and willing to charge a brother
with i:mworthy conduct because of the rejection of a profane, is something we have never been able to understand. If the ::Vlasonic ballot
is to be challenged by every dissatisfied one, and domineeringly decided
to be unworthy, then some other method should be adopted for the
selection of candidates. There are more reasons for rejecting appli-

7

1

;~Y ~~1;~~ t~otl:i~:1 ~0 ti~~~ ae 01~~~!~t:y·~,a~ 1 ~een 'inf0 ~~\i'u~n ~1~~ ~~~: ~~~
i

1111m1cal to the welfare f h C
sue
egis at1011 as this ts
of the individual M~son.0 t e ra t, and a trespass upon the right

BANQUETS
The question of Banquets or refreshments is playing an important part at the present time.
d

In one Jurisdiction, a short time ago, over a quarter million
oll~rs was spent alone for these items. There should be a happy

medium, however, th~t would satisfy everyone.
Pennsylvania:

riecf~~e ~':cc~~~ fef1t!re is one of _valu~, but un~1ueslio11ahly it is often carand kept witl;in b~ i's
be,~cpt m mmd that it should always be guarded
in the. clays previout~n~~\he r~~[:.Joolcfl 1t7hla7t th'.' dclcadeuce of Frec.maso~1ry
f
· · r
'
Wds ( uc to an excessive spirit
1
~Y ~l~~1 {~:1,:~ :JY.l\L:::ei~hSJr
pgv:ti;edi an~l,,that the neglect of. i1is duties
general r, . ,
'
. ins op lcr !' rcn, "':as largely caused bv its
P cva.encc for the 1eason that 1ts· mectmgs· ce·isc<l
to ap pea·1 t o
.
'
Ium.

tf

1

THE BIBLE
The proposition of the recognition of French Masonry raised
the question as to the place and function of the Holy Bible in a
lodge room.
If Masonry is to unite men of every country, sect and opinion it
would seem reasonable that a belief in the Holy Bible in any sh:pe
or form, other than a symbol, cannot or should not be insisted
upon.

Alabama:
"}'he questi<_Jn tht·n is: (I) "What dn these •1\ . · . . .
.
.•
rcqmrc
conn·rmiw
.
. ·. · llclt nt L,111dnurks
.
,,,, the .]~iii'"?
·c. Tl1c, .,111swc•r
ts s1111p 1e 'notl · ,. ' Tl
1~ n?t a word in. them ahout the Hih'.c am! d;e cnti;·c c01~11'.g. . . icre
v_mcm;:r that notl1111g on this point was required Prior to ti tcx'. Is J°ntlon of these 'Ancient Landmarks' in 172~
; l,
ic.1,)1onm ga
·
• • we Mvc no ev1c encc that

8

BEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

to obligate candidates
any use was ma· d e of the Bible in lodge except
.
upon it
upon it precisely as witnesses and jurors 111 court were sworn
at that' date and as we have seen done within the past twenty. ye~rs.
N 6 one ever supposed that the oath was thereby mad_e any more bmdmg,
but it was done only to give form and added solemmty to the cere~ony.
The stern logic of the fact that we arc constantly admitting/{mduli
Chinese Mohammedans, Parsees and Jews, not one of whom be 1eves a
the tea~hings of the Bible, forces the col!clusion that ~ asonry regards
the B,ble only as a symbol. When our ntuals and momtors tel! ~s the
Bible is one of the Great Lights in Masonry and _that as su~h it IS th.e
rule and guide to our faith, it can only be spc,akmg S_Ymbohcally as it
. t · 1 i when speaking of the other two (,rcat Li~hts, the square
ccrlatln Y s
. It is the rule ·me! guide to our faith because that
anc t 1c compasses.
'
·I
·
f "th · nd in
which it symbolizes, Truth, should rule ;~nc1 guH c us 111 our a1 , a
all our beliefs, thoughts, words, and act10ns.
British Columbia:
It is true that all people do not regard the Bible as the reveladon of
Divine will. Some claim that only what we know as the Old 1:estament
is of Divine authority, others acknowledge the Koran, and still odhdrs
hold other books in veneration, but all regular. Masons dutt, l~ ho,
b lieve that there is a Supreme Ruler of the Umve.rs.e, an t 1at : . as
e
1 d H·
·ll · to man The document con tam mg that rcvel<1tion
isarticular
w1
· its Volume o f t 11e S acre d L aw 'and what ·revea
f c
people,
7
is, o:1 any Pb
ust be displayed in the Lodges of that particular coun~ver ~ ~n~~e ~~:claim the Book of Constitutions, or a blank hook, as of
. ry. D" ·
uthority · and in substituting one of these fo_r the Volume C!f
dlny
the' French have• put
themselves outside the Masomc
t 1c s·IV111Cd
clcre aLaw
c
,
•
•
pale-if, indeed, they ever were w1th111 it.
Iowa:
G d
isted before the Bible was written, and d_oes not depend upon
ti t'~ 00ix for His existence, and if our pr~sent. B1bl~ were utterly de1a ed tomorrow, man, the child of God, hstenmg w1~h a rcver~i_it and
~~~~~ti;e ear to His divine voice, wou~d at once begm t!1e wntmg. of
another. The Bible is not religion, hut me:e!y one form. o.f its express10~.
The Bible did not and does no! make religion, but religion wrote evc1y
Bible that ever was or ever will he made.
Louisiana:
.
It seems to us that kissing tl1e Bible is not a sa~ramcntal part of a
de ·rec In many places a candidate is allowed to afJ'.1rm. _Moreover. bef g a ·candidate is obligated he is assured tlrn! nothmg :v1l.l be req~1ree
ofrhim that is contrary to his oh'iga!ions. to h1mse!f. K1s?11;g the ?~
1 is unsanitary, and any man may cons1der. 1t as possibly an 1bn1u~y io iJ1
self. At least one G~and Lodge provides that a new oo s 1a 1)e
provided for each camhllate.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

BIRTHDAYS
The date of the establishment of the first Masonic Lodge in
America continues to interest the Brethren of certain Jurisdictions.
Pennsylvania's' claim that in 1731 four Lodges of that Colony
formed a Grand Lodge seems to be clearly established. Under the
procedure the:i in vogue, it would seem that these Brethren• had
as much right to do this as the Brethren of the four London Lodges
did when they established the first Grand Lodge of England.
The question for us has as much real importance as the ancient
wheeze, "How old is Anne." The claim of one of the Deputy District Grand Masters of South Carolina is more interesting and entertaining.
As California can usually produce anything, perhaps when explorations are completed in the asphalt beds of Southern California, we may uncover a prehistoric Lodge.
Canada:
After all, these arc questions of little real importance. Masons
outside of Massachusetts and Pennsylvania care very little which
of the Grand Lodges had priority of existellce. The great fact
that interests Masons is that both are in the very front rank of
the world's greatest lodges, and both are doing Masonic work
worthy of the position they hold .
Massachusetts:
The first known warrant, deputation, commission. or other authority. issuing from the Grand Lodge of England or its Grand Master
(or from any other Masonic org;111ization or officer, for that matter)
to he exercised in America was that (April 13, 1733) by virtue of
which Henry Price founclccl a Provincial Grand Lodge in Boston,
July 30, 1733.
The first particular lodge in America to he duly constituted was
the first lodge in Boston, July 30, 1733.
The first lodge in America to he registered hy the Grand Lodge
of England in the official list of lodges was the Jirst lodge in
Boston.
Missouri:
Because a Freemason has a thigh hone docs not prove that an
Egyptian mummy was a Freemason, because a thigh hone was discovered in him. It is related that a Freemason, with a Moslem pin
on the lapel of his coat and a combination watch charm of the
double eagle, cross and crown dangling from his vest, accidentally happened on some Egyptologists as they uncovered the grave of a man of
the late stone age; in the grave were the remains of the man, food ancl
other things usually found in such tombs, also a stone hammer with a
wooden handle attached hy withes. When the Freemason saw the hammer he exclaimed: "Eureka, this man was a Freemason and the master
of his lodge, because here is his gavel." This incident may not he true,
hut it is in keeping with some of the eloquence dispensed from Masonic
platforms and Masonic papers about "the great antiquity of our great
and magnificent order."

10

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Carolina:
"In 1736 a Provincial Grand Master was deputized 'of South
Carolina in America'.
"I 11 1737 the Provincial Grand Lodge was unquestionably in
active existence.
"In 1777 the Provincial character was thrown off ai1d the title
changed to that of the I ndcpenclent Grand
of the Most
Ancient and Honorable Society of Free and Accepted :Vfasons.
"In 1i91 this cnmbcrsome title was shor~enecl when the (',rand
Lodge was incorporated by Act of Assembly as 'The Grand Lodge
of the Society of Free and Accepted Masons for this State'."

* * * * * *
One of the district deputy Grand l\Iastcrs, however, goes further:
We have now to mention a subject that we deem of l\fasonic
interest. For manv vears our attention has been engaged with the
subject of ethnology, ·the study of the Aborigines of North America.
About the year 1890, I was struck with the description of an Indian
mound located in 'Caldwe'.l comity. N. C.' Under that mound.
whose a•xe
hv the natural surroundings, extended several
centuries"' back
the \~·bite man's advent here, was found a Symbolic Masonic Lodge. A pit in the form of an oblong square 8
feet deep, facing due east and west. had been dug in the g~otmd.
In the south, west and cast were earth altars on platforms ot one,
two and three steps,
Behind these altars on a scat
was a skeleton of a man sitting on a seat cut in the earth. On
the top of each altar was a flat·· stone on which were several stone
objects. There was no altar or any other object in the . north side
of the inclosure. In the center was an altar on which was a
beautifully polished flat stone and on it was the remains of a fire
in place of the Great Light. As primitive man had no book of
revelation, from whence did they derive this light?
"Anent the discussion as to which is the :VTother Grand Lodge
of America, We believe it is still a mooted q11cstion. Be that
as it may, we hereby pnt in a claim for having the oldest Masonic
Lodges. Our hat is in the ring until some one comes along with
evidence antedating these old Indian mounds. In that case, the
belt will be cheerfully given over to the victorious

BUTTONS
Some enterprising Brother in Salt Lake City, the home of the
"American Masonic Federation," conceived the idea of having a
copyrighted universal emblem to be worn by members of regular
Lodges. This found favor only in Wyoming. The fraternity in
California have a remedy in Section 538-B of the Penal Code.
The best solution of the problem might be to follow the custom
of our English brothers and wear no emblem at all.
Idaho:
I. am not keen for the personal displav of Masonic emhlems and
would not ~ccept a man as a Mason were 'he covered with them from
head to heel.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

11

It seems to me that the teachings of Masonry from the
day
of 1111trnt10n to the end of life, if practiced and -observed,
and
protect us from imposition of every kind and character, that we do not
need patents and copyrights to protect us against the wiles of the
clandestine. The very fact that a man is advertising himself as a
Mason should create doubt and suspicion, and make us all the more
cautious in our dealings with him.
I cannot ~~e:efore advocate action by our Grand Lodge, and while
I have no cntlc1srn of those who take a different view I feel it mv
~uty to. admonish the craft, not lightly to take up the ad~ocacy of such
mnovat1011s.

New Jersey:
\\Then Masons need to carry a sign to protect themselves it augurs
ill for Freemasonry.
New Zealand:
.
Another type of men who do not bring credit upon Freemasonry
1s the brother vvho, when he comes to interview vou is decorated with
~s many Masonic emblems as a soldier may be with \~ar medals. There
is probably one on his tie, another on his watch-chain and another
on his finger. No Freemason has a right to make a 'parade of his
lV!asonry. 1~ Fre.emason should. he a mode~t member of society, doing
lus work qme~ly m th~ community, he should obey the laws, he should
be loyal to his .sovereign, he should look with a kindly eye upon the
weaknesses of his fellow-men, he should be ever ready to help the unfortunate, btt never should he parade before his fellow-men the fact that he
is a Mason, and endeavor to gain their favor and respect by means of the
number of Masonic decorations he wears on his watch-chain.
CANDIDATES
The Questionnaire adopted by Mexico and sent to all Candidates
could be followed undoubtedly with good results in any Jurisdiction.
The average man is prompted to make an application to become
a Mason, we think, either by curiosity, a desire for "worldly wealth
or honors" acquired by reason of his membership, or an admiration
for what he has heard or read regarding the Lodge. Too often,
the motive is one of the first two. If there is any method that
could be used to impress upon a petitioner that these should not
have a place in his thoughts it should be adopted.
Mexico:
Y 011 have expressed a wish to become a Freemason. Before going
further we deem it essential to meet you with candor and courteously
request your careful consideration of this Preliminarv Statement and
certain qncstions concerning yourself.
'
is a universal system of morality to which all good men
Its
are based upon belief in the existence
nf God, the immortality of
soul and the brotherhood of man. \Vhile
we acknowledge with deep reverence the eternal and all-powerful

12

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Creator, it places no restrictions upon a man's religious or political
opinions striving to unite all men as brothers and to free them from
darknes~ and error. Indeed, its moral and philosophic instructions
are drawn from truth itself and harmonize with the highest and best
that are to be found in every religion which makes for the enlightenment of mankind.
The realization of your desire to become a part of this Fraternity
will depend upon the judgment of the members as to wI1eth~r yo? are
suitable material for the Society and whether the Society 1s suitable
for you. It will, therefor~, b.e thei:. duty-;-in .c~se your petition is
presented to the lodge-to mstitute diligent u:qume~ about yo1:1; aft~r
which a vote by ballot will be taken, wherein a smgle negative will
preclude your admission. Exai;nine yourself, theref<?re, and sec whether
you can answer the expectations of the Fraternity; and above all,
endeavor to settle clearly and honestly in your own .mind .the motives
which lead you to seek our Society. The followmg will serve. to
facilitate this self-examination and to guard you .and ourselves agamst
mistakes:
1. Do you expect by becoming a member to obtain any outward
advantage relative to your position as a citizen and as an individual? '
If so, you will be disappointed.
2. Would your present convictions prevent. yo!-1. from disregardin."
distinctions which society has made between mdiv1duals, ~s t? their
station, wealth, religious opinions, politic~,
? If so, relmqm.sh the
idea of hecomini:< a Freemason, as no notice
taken of those d1scrm1nations in our meetings.
3. If, however, you believe that we advocate a civil rela.tion that
is chimerical of a liberty and equality neither good nor pract1~al, then
you should reconsider your resolution to join us, becanse with such
views you would not suit our society.
4. Curiosity, ambition for honors, and desire ~o enlarge th~ circle
of your soda' acquaintance, are not smtahle motives for seekmg admission into Freemasonry.
5. 'To those who vohrntarily knock at its d?or~ am) w~ose character, motives and daily lives are in harmony with its !ugh 1dcals, t!1e
Temples of the Society are open. To preserve and perpetuate !ts
teachings, every initiate is required to make vows of th.e 11!0st 1_nv101" hie secr0cv as to its rites and ceremonies. Th<'sc 0~.1hgatmns 111 no
wise conflict with the duties he owes to God, humamty, the c:i11ntry
of which he is a citizen, the community in which he lives, or hnnself.
6. Since the Masonic Fraternity, as has alre.ady been said: consists
of men of all classes and circumstances, you might perh_aps hnd .some
one among us with whom you h~ve b.een or arc at varn1;1cc. 1 herefore, determine to your own sat1sfact10n whether you will be strong
and charitable enough to acknowledge such a man as your Brother.
7. Otir membership is attained with some n~cessary expense,
which we require to be promptly and punctually paid, that our go?d
works may not suffer for want thereof. The amount .you. can ~eadily
ascertain (by reference to our By-Laws), and you will give this due
attention.
Kindly return this paper with your communication to the Secretary
pf the lodge on or before ................................................ , 19 ........... ..

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

13

Michigan:
Alt?gether too many candidates present then:selves at our doors
expcctmg to be made sport of, that the ceremomes are to be chara _
terized by fun and frolic, if not by farce and buffoonery. Part ~f
this is gathered from the comic papers, part from idle jest and part
I regret to say, from the insinuations and pretended inti~ations 0 £
Brethren. Part of this can be helped, but certainly that part which
comes from the thought~ess remarks of our Brethren themselves c·m
and oug~t to be, preven~ed. ~ittle docs the av~rage c~ndidate ~lre;n~
that he 1s about to receive serious and solemn 111struct1on; that he is
by symbolism to be taught a moral philosophy based upon monotheism
the belief in one God, the Creator, Preserver, and Benefactor of th~
world and all therein contained, and developed to the climax of teaching th~t greatest and i;nost expansive conc<:pt w.hich Go~ has permitted
the mmd of man partially to comprehend. the immortality of the soul
With no admixture of sadness, but with all the joys of righteous· and
happy living do we embellish the symbolism by which we develop and
unfold this moral philosophy to the candidate. How unlikely indeed
are we to succeed in our service to him if, even though the surround~
inP-s savor only of dignity, the candidate momentarily expects sudden
mirth at his expense. How much more our teachings will sink i~to his
heart and mind if he has no thought except that he is to be received
as a gentleman into the company of gentlemen; nay more, as a neophyte into the company of those who are about to take him by the
right hand and call him Brother. Bantering and baiting of candidates
is all wrong. It injures the reputation of Masonry; it decreases our
opportunity of service to the candidate; it reacts upon the thoughtless
Brother who utters the ill-timed jest; it lowers the moral tone of all
concerned.

CATHOLICISM
We have known some, and there are still some good men in
the Fraternity who were Catholics and Masons at the time the
ban was placed upon the organization by the Church. We have
known, and do know, good Masons who were born and raised
Catholics, but afterwards became members of the Order, very properly renouncing their Church connection. It is truly said a man·
cannot serve two masters, and by reason of the natural conflict
between the two ideals represented by each, a person cannot we
believe, be both a Catholic and a Mason.
·
'
The part that the Knights of Columbus played in war work
with their continuing efforts, and the criticism which has been lev:
eled against the Y. M. C. A., has naturally tended to make the
difference more marked. If the War Department had 'kept all
organizations based on sectarianism of every kind out of the army
we believe it would have been better for all concerned. All did
good work, but "the leopard cannot change his spots, or the
Ethiopian his skin." Hindsight is better than foresight, however.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

14

15

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

There is one thing that we must acknowledge. The Catholic
Church has an organization and uses it. Masonry has one, but
does not. The Jesuits say that if given a child for the first seven
years, he belongs to them forever.
What has Masonry done, or what is it doing to train and guide
the sons of its members? What has it done as a body to remove
illiteracy from our midst? Echo answers, "nothing," not only to
these two, but various other living questions of the day.
Stop, we forget the good brothers who believe and practice
that Masonry works through the individual only and accomplishes
its greatest good that way.
In business life, we have a sincere admiration for organization,
service, and the following individual:
"The man who has a thing to sell,
And goes and hollers down a well,
Is not as likely to collar the dollars,
As he who climbs a tree and hollers."
Alabama:
The laws of the Catholic church pronounce excommunication
upon all who "enter" or "favor" Freern;1sonrv or who do not "denounce its leaders and principal members''. There was a time when
excommunication was a fearfol punishment, but now there are
millions of Masons who do not even know that they rest under that
sentence.
Florida:
The qtwst;on has often heen asked. whether the petition of a
'Roman Catholic' should be received, and in reply, we hold that it is
absolutely impossible for a good Roman Catho!ic, one who believes
in the teachings of his church and endeavors to obey them, to be a
good Mason. He must be one or the other, for he cannot serve two
masters. This statement we make not because of prejudice or
bigotry and is based absolutely upon unequivocal Roman Catholic
authority and law.
The Catholic Encyclopedia gives in full the edict of excommunication of Pope Leo XTTI, against Masons, ancl acids:
'How can a ni;1n he a lov:11, olwclient Roman Catholic, and at
the same time cut himself off from his church, by his own actionthat of becoming a Mason? But further, and more emphatically,
the article continues : "The law now in force (Cont. Apostolicae
Sedis, 1869, Cap. IT, n. 24) pronounces excommunication upon 'those
who enter J\farnnic or C;1rhon;1rian or other sects of the same kind
* * * and those wl10 in any way favor those sects, or do not
cknounce their leaders and principal members'." (Second Col., p.
787.) Re-read this last sentence, and pause at the words "enter",
and "favor'', and "do not denounce their lemlers and principal members." 1n view of these statements. is our position-that a good
Roman Catholic cannot be a good Mason-overdrawn, or the fulmination of bigotry?'

Illinois:
"In certain Masonic publications there have appeared from time
to time articles attacking a certain church or religion. It is a well
known fact among Masons that these articles are an expression of
the views of the individual writer, and that the Masonic fraternity
is in no way responsible for these utterances. The general public
in many instances are of the impression that tl1cse publications arc
official and that what appears therein is an expression from the
entire fraternity.. Masonry is pro-religions, not anti-religious, and
I feel called upon to disclaim for the Grand Lodge, the lodges and
the Masons, any responsibility or connection whatever with the ant_ireligious expressions which have appeared, or which may appear 1.11
the future in any Masonic publication in Illinois".
Iowa:
One thing, however, we feel sha'u!d be made clear, and that is
that we do not shut out a Roman Catholic from our circle, but his
church has fixed things so that he cannot be true to his religion
and still he a consistent Freem;1snn. and this not because there is
anything irreligons or immoral in Freemasonry.
Kentucky:
Protestants classify the peoples of the world broaclly, as Presbyterians, Methodists, Baptists, Catholics, etc. The Catholic classification is much simpler. To the Catholic there arc hut two classes,
Catholics and non-Catholics-the goats and the sheep. We don't
recall that Peter had any commands to feed the first class.
Utah:
Among his (Grand Master, Oregon) dcci;;ions, we note one on the
Roman Catholic question-as to eligibility for the degrees and "can
a Catholic he a good Mason?" To the last he replied: "Ami I do
not believe that any religion will interfere with, or prevent any
man ];eimr a good Ma son." That ;111swcr shows very clearly that
the Grand Master did not take pains to post himself, before he
wrote that decision. We would respectfully refer him to "The
Catholic Encyclop~clia'', vol. ix., page 787. 11 e can hardly quctsion
that authority, and that will show him that his decision is an absurdity-that it represents an absolutely impossible condition-for,
according to Roman Catholic law. no Roman Catholic can be a
Mason · the moment he makes a move to become a Ma son, that
moment he automatically ceases to he a Roman Catholic by excommunication!! And forth er, excommunication is pronounced against
all Roman Catholics "who enter Masonic or Carhonarian or other
sects, of the same kind . . . and thmc who in anv wav fa1•or
those sects, or do not denounce their leaders and principal members". (See above reference, se.cond col.!!!) The matter couldn't
well be put clearer or stronger than that.
Virginia:
But, perhaps, worse and most clcstrnctive of all, is permitting our
peace-loving Institution, which is in its very essence the antithesis
of controversy, to he drawn into deligious contention. We have
our work to do in this world, and ha vc no mission to fight or contend with anybody. That we are sometimes attacked today by the

17

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Roman Church, as we have been for centuries, is no excuse whatever.
Wordy defense is confession of weak vulnerability, and just that is
what Rome "~~ants. Their fulminations have never hurt us in all
the ages, and if we only have the sense to leave them to beat the
air, they never will. If on earth there ever was a set of people who
could afford to smile in silence at any and all attacks, we are just
those people. What we choose to do as individuals is another story.
"Our fathers had none of these mistakes in their Masonry. These,
and some others, are modern innovations, and should be rigorously
weeded out. Let us keep our Masonry pure and simple; do what we
can for our fellow men, especially those of our household, and let other
organizations do as they will."

He (Grand Master of Mississippi) reports that on July 6th he refused to lay the cornerstone of the Government building at McComb
City, on account of the government refusing to comply with the laws of
Masonry in regard to the foundation stone.
He does not tell us wherein the government refused to comply
with their rules, but we can readi'.y guess. We understand that of late
years, through the influence of the Roman Catholic Church, influence
has been brought in Washington to forbid putting on cornerstones of
government buildings the name of the Grand Master and the fact that
the stone was laid with Masonic ceremonies.
We are pleased to find at least one Grand Master who will stand
up for the Masonic rights, even though it means the cornerstone is
not laid by the craft.

l6

Wisconsin:
Persistent attC'mpts on the part of certain persons to draw Masons
and Masonry into religious controversies require active vigilance by
those in authonty to prevent such a violation of the principles on
which this institution is founded. No discussion so quickly tends to destroy harmony of thought and unity of purpose as does that which pertains to religious creeds, and it is very properly prohibited in the Lodge
room. Yet it sometimes creeps in that sacred precinct to the detriment of Masonry, and into the writings and speech of Masons as such.
This is contrary to the dignity and high character of our profession,
and in direct antagonism to the declared attitude as set forth in the
First Degree in Freemasonry. This attitude has been shown to be
correct by years of experience, and was assnmed for the very purpose
of avoiding contentions which would arouse the passions and appeal
to the prejudices of the individual member. It therefore rests with us
to counteract by every force which lies within us those influences which
would make the institution of Masonry an ally of any movement directed against any creed or which assumes it to be the supporter of any
doctrine contrary to a broad tolerance based on the underlying principle of the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of Man.
CEREMONIES
Innovations of the following kind are good, because they naturally tend to bring our thoughts back to the original source of
Masonry. They also break the monotony of the "degree mill,"
if nothing more.
' ·
Connecticut:
On July 12, 1917, T laid the final piece of Masonry of the bridge at
Westport. The full record of the ceremonies performed will he found
in the report of the emergent communicatinn of the Grand Lodge of
that date. The occasion marked the completion of a fine bridge across
the Saugatuck river.
Florida:
We have had, in Florida, an instance where a Royal Arch Chapter
placed in position the keystone of the arch over the pulpit or chan.cel
in a church, at which ceremony an adaption of the ceremony of placmg
the keystone in the final arch was used with good effect.

Illinois:
It is apparent from the report of the Grand Master that lodges in
Virginia are permitted to lay cornerstones for a number of dispensations are recorded granting permission to local lodges to lay cornerstones
of various edifices. This is a question which has been much discussed in Illinois as to whether the cornerstone service was a general
Masonic rite which any lodge might perform or whether it was a function which belonged exclusively to the Grand Lodge. The latter organization at present assumes that it is one of its prC'rogatives, and docs not
delegate to its lodges the right to lay cornerstones.
Oklahoma:
"I also commissioned M .". W.". Brother A. E. M onroncy to act in
my stead in laying the cornerstone of the Dam, a one and one-half
million dollar oub'.ic improvement located about ten miles west of
Oklahoma City."
Rhode Island:
The occasion which brings us together this evening is both unusual
and appropriate-unusual in that it is seldom in this jurisdiction, composed as it is of so many old lodges, that the Grand Master is called
on to consecrate an altar of Freemasonry-and appropriate because it
brings prominently to our attention the most important feature in the
furnishings of the lodge. Tt is not without reason that the Mason
holds in highest veneration the altar of our order. Here the novitiate
first proclaims to his future brethren his belief in the Great Architect of
the Universe. Herc, on bended knee, he. is made a Mason in due and
ancient form, and here also he finds spread before him the Holy Bible.
which he later learns is the Great Light not only of the spiritual, but of
the Masonic world.
CHAIN LETTERS
The McKinley chain letter having petered out, some genius(?)
prepared a Masonic prayer, which was brought to the attention of
the world by a system of chain letters. Various Grand Lodges
and Grand Masters took notice of it, judicially and otherwise, but
it remained for the United States Government to give it its death
blow through a Post Office ruling.

18

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRE!:lPONDENCE

l!l

Nebraska:
I believe there are too many people imploring God to be on their
side, and making no effoi:t to get on God's side. I dislike to think of
the great, kind, and beneficent Ruler of the Universe as One whose
throne bas to be bombarded with a chain of paper missiles, meaningless
to all except a desire on the part of the sender to comply with the
request of a friend.

New South Wales:
Prayer is a solemn duty imposed on every Freemason, but this shou'.d
he the fervent out-pouring of the heart of the hmnbk suppliant, the
creature in the presence of his Divine Creator, for mercy not only for
ourselves but for our Brethren all the world over.
This Chain
reminds one of the custom of the ig;norant but
pious people of
who paste a few thousand written prayers within
a revolving barrel, and consider them duly recited when they have
turned the barrel once or twice. Moreover, the appeal to that little
vein of superstition by the veiled threat of dire calamity to any individual
breaking the chain is utterly unworthy of anyone professing adherence
to our
and Heavenly-inspired system of morality. I note, too, this
abuse
become so flagrant that the Grand Lodge of England has
condemned it.

Vermont:
The inevitable chain letter has again ma(le its appearance. Such
letters accompanied by a request for a small donation for some pretended object have from time to time been thrust at the fraternity.
All were fraudulent bit found many gullible victims. Now it is not
money but the grace of God that is sought. The trenches of heaven
are to be carried by bombarding them with streams of mechanical
prayer. If qua·ntity is desired, far better and probably equally effective
would it be to set in motion the eastern praying wheels driven at top
speed by an electric motor. The letter carries with it its own condemnation. The statement that 'this prayer was said hy Masons in
ancient times' is probably false and the threat of misfortune is hardly
Christian or God-like. I await with equanimity the disaster clue to me
for breaking at least five distinct chaius with which kind friends sought
to bind me. Interrupt the chain at every opportunity and be not the
victim of such a hoax. The postage wasted would soon buy a Liberty
Bond.

Wisconsin:
This fool practice is like Baneo's ghost, it refuses to down at our
hidding. The old saying; that "A fool is horn every rninnte" is amply
illnstratecl by the fact that we are constant'.y receiving letters of this
character. \Ve are sorry to say that some of this class of people get
into Masonic Lodges and write chain-letters.

CHAPLAINS
As stated elsewhere in this Report, questions involving religion in any shape should be handled with gloves. We do agree
with the Correspondent from Utah that printed prayers in Grand
Lodge proceedings seem to be out of place. We do not believe
they are ever read, or can ever produce the same impresison
as when given orally.
Illinois:
The installation of officers reveals the fact that eight associate
grand chaplains were appointed to look after the ;;piritual welfare
of our Connecticut Brethren. Their s;tlvation is no doubt assured.

North Dakota:
The Brethren of North Carolina are apparently deeply relig;ious as
they have a Grand Chaplain and seven Associate Grand Chaplains.

Pennsylvania:
[t is notice cl that he (Cran cl :\faster, Pennsylvania) appointed
sixteen grand chap~;dns. vVhetlwr this large number of clergymen
is nccc>sary for the spiritual welfare of the grand master or for
the craft at large is a matter of conjecture.

Utah:
The opening prayer is printed in full, and has the nsual characll'ristics of such productions. .It is an nnmistakahlc indication of
the outcropping;s of harharism-in us, of course-that the prayt'rs
printed in volumes of ProcePding;s remind ns of "Pliny's Lcttcrs"to \vhnmsoever :t(ldrc.,scd-they wt-re written for puh!ication ! !

CHARITY-REIMBURSEMENT FOR
The views of the New Mexic.o Correspondent coincides with
ours. If expert testimony is wanted, or any concrete examples, we
would suggest that the party interested communicate with our
good Brother Leo Bruck. For proof look at his report for the
Masonic Board of Relief.
Alabama:
Every ~fason and every loclg;e is under duty to afforcl relid to
!he Mason in distress regardless of whence he hails. There arc
just two limitations to this duty, the neecl of the brother am! the
ability of tlw r.rlicving Mason or lodge. There is no l1:~al claim for
reimln1rsemcnt against any otlwr Mason or lodi.;c in tlw absence
of a••rtTllll'll!. It would he a gracdnl act for the 1!)(1;.<·e of the dis~
tressed hrothcr, if ahk, to make reimbursement. am! to this c'rnl the
relieving lodge may, with entire propriety, lay all the facts before the
:odt'<' of the clistressccl brother, h1t it cliscredil s itself and true Ma sonic
charity when it. demands or insists on rcimhnrsemcnt.

20

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Arkansas:
It is a deplorable fact that some of the lodges of this jurisdiction have allowed sister jurisdictions to care for their sick and
bury their dead, and then repudiated the debt, on account of being
financially poor. And in this connection I want to take the time
to express to the representatives of the subordinate lodges my
utter contempt for a lodge that refuses to pay for the care of a sick
brother or the burial of a dead one. If it is wrong to defraud a
Lodge of Master Masons, under ordinary circumstances, it is doubly
so to refuse to pay the expenses incurred hy a sister lodge in caring
for our sick and afflicted, and a lodge that will not do that, should
have their charter arrested and have their organization wiped off
the map, for of all the contemptible, mean things it is oossihlc for a
lodge to do, I think that is the worst, and I would feel more kindly
to a lodge that would wilfully violate every edict of the Grand
Lodge than the one who obeys every edict implicitly and then refused
to pay the funeral expenses of a deceased brother, when such expense was incurred by a sister lodge.

New Mexico:
Under New Mexico he (Grand Master, Alabama) raps the jurisdiction because some times-and only some times-other jurisdictions
are asked to reimburse New Mexico for assistance rendered, stating
that there is no legal claim.
we admit the latter, hut he criticizes without knowing the facts.
The Cr"'lt S011thwest is the M ceca of indigent "lttnl!ers"-ancl to
the credit of that section no one is ever refused aid, hut as an
offset, at least half of their home lodges either decline to aid their
own members· or ignore letters of inquiry.
We have in mind a few of the many cases. Jn a section of the
.state abutting on a great area of grazing land there are struggling
lodges with a small membership who are constantly called upon to
meet the necessities of Masons and their families corning here with
insufficient means. These calls are met. No one is turned away,
and although the recipients are in good standing, their home lodges
refuse to even partly help, and in many cases to answer letters.
One lodge in particular has gone practically bankrupt in aiding the
destitute of other jurisdictions.
We are willing and expect to i<rant Masonic aid, hut when we
note in other proceedings the self laudation of their charity-giving,
evPn to tlv~ n~n1es of the rec;pients, anrl knowing what we are doing
quietly and without any public ostentation for the members of these
same jurisdictions, we are reminded of the parable of the Pharisee.
Should any one desire definite statement, refer to page 69 of our
proceedings for 1917.
·
California, Arizona, Colorado and New Mexico today are not
onlv takitirr core of their rown hut over seventy-five per cent of
assistance is given to non-resident members.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

A criticism like
j uriscliction.

the above

is

unjust and

unworthy

21

of that

South Dakota:
Charity begins at home, and if the funds of a lodge are expended
on strangers then the charity at home goes unfulfilled. The Southwest and the far West are learning by many bitter lessons in this
way, to take care of their own first. There are many states where
the jurisdiction of the lodge extends to the ends of the earth for
the purpose of collecting clues, but stops at the county line when
it comes to furnishing relief for the suffering brother.
Vermont:
To relieve the distressed is a duty incumbent upon Masons.
This we all admit; but when it is based upon lodge membership and
given on that account, every lodge and every individual should keep
well in mind two thoughts :
1. How far am I able and willing to go on my own responsibility?
2. T must not involve others beyond their corresponding ability
and willingness, and of that they must be the judge.
For these reasons, care should always he taken in extending
Masonic relief if it is proposed to draw upon others for reimburse~
ment, and nothing should he clone 011 their account without
authority.
The Grand Master of Nova Scotia says:
"Where the llrethrPn nr officers of a l()(hi·e are called upon for
the relief of a strange brother, if they expect to make a claim against
his lodge for reimbursement of the amount expended for his relief,
the lodge applie(I to should at once make inquiries of the lodRe to
which the applicant claims to belong as to his worthiness and the
willingness of the lodge to grant the rclid, before incurring the
expenses''.
The essence of the Kansas law is:
"Tn the absence of an explicit ;q.(rt'emcnt, no lrnl!-(c has any
claim on any other lod!-(l' for reimbursement for sums advancecl as
charity to or on behalf of a member of s11ch lodge or his family''.

Washington:
] ust the minute it becomes our duty to extend relief it passes
into the realms of insurance ; and if we admit that we are bounden
to that duty, then we shall iind some insurance departments jacking
ns up to maintain our ability. The proc11ring of authority at once
shows that it is a voluntary matter. The writer hopes to sec the
day when no Masonic Lodge will acknowledge any claim that is
not limited by the· obligation, which is individual, and when no
"demand for reimbursement" will ever be made, the reimbursement
being as voluntary as the giving,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

23

RJ;JPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

22

It is a troublesome auestion. but to our mind it is oedeetlv
clear that no Masonk Lodge has any right to extend help to any
brother except as a matter of charity. Not in the offensive sense of
the word charitv, but in its very best and broadest sense. We have
an obligation which all :\faster Masons know, and it is not inten~ed
or expected that we should go beyond the bounds of that ohl!gation either as an individual or as
lodge. If a lodge extends assistance onlv on the basis that it is to be repaid, what right have
they to ~!aim that they are dispensing charity? If they are dispcming charity, why s~ould they seek r~muneration? We. h~ve
yet to hear one Washmgton lodge repudiate any suc~1 obli~auop
which was within its ability to pay, and surely the charity which 1s
recommended to Washington in this case should be extended to it.

CLANDESTINE MASONRY
The main agency for the operating of spurious Masonry is the
"American Masonic Federation," with headquarters in Salt Lake
City, Utah, and the Cerneau Supreme Council of the Scottish Rite,,
in New York. The first was incorporated in 1917 under the laws
of the State of Idaho. Its leader is one M. McBeth Thompson.
The moving spirit in the Cerneau was one Captain W. Bayliss,
who died in Washington, D. C., on March 16th, 1919.
This Jurisdiction has not been invaded by the Cerneau clan,
but it is to be regretted that the "American Masonic Federation" is
active. Through the efforts of Past Grand Master William P.
Filmer, Grand Secretary Whicher and Brother Henry M. Owens,
these peddlers of fake degrees are slowly but surely being exposed
and receiving attention at the hands of the law.
There is an old saying that "There's a sucker born every
minute, and two persons waiting to catch him." Such being the
case, we suppose these fakes will always flourish.
Florida:
Efforts have been made in many of the Grand Jurisdictions, during
the past year, and especially in Illinois, looking to the J?rosecutio,n, and
punishment of those who wrongfully or fraudulently obtam from citizens
money for fees for which they pretend to confer Masonic degrees
'vVe should remember, however, that it is tl1e ignorant and innocent
citizen who is inveig'led into paying money to the hogus Masoni~ Bodies,
and who finds that he has been humhuggcd only ;\[ter hav111g hcen
initiated. The average man has little knowledge of Masonry. lie may
entertain a high opinion of the institution, hut docs not know that
Masons cannot solicit members. When he rccdvcs an invitation from
a clandestine Mason to join a "Masonic Lodge," he feels hig!ily honored
and readily consents. After he has paid his money and been initiated
and tries to visit other Masonic Lodges, he then learns the truth, that

he ha~ pai.d l~is money ~or com:terfeit. 'vVhcn he asks regular l'dasous
!O assist him 111 prosecutmg the m1postors, he has reason to feel offended
if they do not comply with his request.
The clandestine degree pe~cller. is becoming active in many sections
of the l..! ntted States, and it 1s with pleasure that we learn that many
prosecutions have been sncccssfullv conducted in several of the States
and e.special:y in Illinois. Several of the more prominent fraudulent
orgamzattons have been about broken up and the most prominent of
the men engaged in that work in Massachusetts and New England have
a~ last been r~m to earth, after having carried his case to t11e Supreme
Court of !!1e State, and even to the Supreme Conrt of the United St<itcs.
parms W1l~on, ~he head of the "Egyptian Rite of Memphis," who has
1ieen operatmg rn Mas~achusctt~ and New England for thirty years,
has at la.st al?recd to give up his operations in order to avoid a long
term· of 1mpnsonme11t to. wluch he was lialilc and had been convicted.
In some. of the Roc.ky Mountain Staks the hogns degree mongers are
very active, and their propaganda extends to the Middle \Vest.
Among the amusing communications coming to my table during the
y<•ar is a !\ ~w Year's Grc.cting, purporting to come from the Supreme
Lodge, A. 1·. an~! A. M., m the Scottish Rite Symholic for the United
~tatps 0f Am.cnca., and. the Co;1k(!crate(l Sup.rcmc Council. for the
£,. ~" N.1 Scottish Hite, Rllc of l\11zra1111 of the Rite of M cm plus for the
~mted ~:ltatcs of 1\mc~ica, in the i\. M. F. They claim to lmv,; their
~ce a~. Salt Lake City, 1ll the Sta~c of Utah. a.nd s~rnl frakrnal greeting
to all ,!n~c_ a_nd wnrth:r Masons ot whatever Rite ot grade throtlghont the
world. . t l;1s comes trom one of the mrist rank of frandnlcnt org·;mizaWms .c!a1111111g to he. l\Jas~nic i11 the United States. Their titks arc
g:rand1lnqucnt and might n11slead the tmsnspccting or nncdncatcd.

New South Wales:
Co-:~fasonry.-lt having hccn lirowdit under my notice lately that
some. ot our Brethren attend the meetings of this spurious organization,
l rc-ts~u~d !O all onr Lodges the edict of this Crand Lodge i11tenlicting
such v.1s1tat1011 .. l trust. those. who. have pursued this practice will he
warned of the nsk they mcur m fatlmg to conform to this edict.

REPORT ON

lmPORT ON CORRESPONDENClc

CORRE~PONDENCE

25

Iowa:

CLUBS
"A man cannot live by bread alone." The average attendance
at Masonic meetings is evidence enough that there is something
lacking. The success of the clubs established in this Jurisdiction
shows that they are filling a long-felt want, and so far as we can
learn are vital factors in practical Masonry.

The ~uestion of the benefits, and the advisability of forming these
clubs, is still in its infancy. The idea of the club and club life is growing
all over. In fact there seems to be little of social life outside of
c'.ubs of one kind and another. I don't know of any reason why a
Lodge might not maintain a club room wherein they may hold their
social events, if they see fit to, so long as it does not materially and
seriously interfere with the good of Masonry and its proper administration.

District of Columbia:

\Ve have no disposition to emasculate from l\fasonry the fellowship which is horn of club intercourse in that portion of a Masonic
temple which is occupied as a cluli house, hut we do not feel that the
profane world should be brought to believe that Masonry is a social
organization, and that it occupies no unique position among the various
social and benefit orders of which we have so many.

* * * * * *

. The Masonic Clubs and the Masonic Bowling League continue to he
important and commendable features of our social activities. The clnhs,
in addition to other important work, to which reference will shortly
be ry:iade, hold monthly 1'.1eetings for which interesting programs of
music, addresses and special features are prepared, while the Bowling
League offers to Master Masons clean sport with desirable surroundings.
There
now thirteen of the clubs, with an aggregate memhership
of almost
thousand. The first one was organized in 1908 in the
Geological Survey. A member of the fraternity, a clerk in this government bureau, became ill, and a number of his associates, also Masons,
g-ot together informally for the purpose of rendering him assistance.
Out of this volunteer organization there came the Trowel Club, which
now covers the whole of the Interior Department, and which was
followed in due time by the Ashier Club, composed of Masons in the
\Var. St~te and Navy Departments. the White House and the Civil
Service Commission; the Compass Cl uh, composed of Masons in the
Postoffice Department; the Fellowship Clnh, confined to the Bureau of
Engraving and Printing; the Lambskin Club, to the Navy Yard; the
Level Club, to the Department of Commerce; the Trestlchoard Cluh,
to the Government Printing Office; the Italian-American Club composed of Italian members of the fraternity; the South Gate Clul;, composed of employes of the Southern Railway Co. in this city; the Triangle Club, confined to the Department of Ai:rriculture: the Tonic Cluh,
to the Treasury Department: and the Circle Club, to Masonic emp'oy<'s
of the Government of the District of Columbia.

* * * * * *

He refers to the relief work done hy the clnh for its members, and
their furnishing a room in the Maoonic a11rl 0. E S. [!0111". anil tlwn
asks "why was not all of this done hy the lodges direct, and what was
the necessity of a club?" The query is not a surprise. Jt is like the
question of apathy and lack of attendance in the lodges. Mavl){' if the
lodges were made more attractive there would be fewer clubs. ·

Illinois:
Tt is truthfully said that it is difficult indeed for a Masonic lodge
to be successfuJ\y conducted against a counter attraction situated in
the same building, and a club room becomes a decided cmmtcr attraction for a certain class of our mcmhership. However. we fathers feel
much more secure with reference to our young men if we know that
they are in the habit of frequenting club rooms approved by the Masonic fraternity rather than the club rooms usually found about our
cities.

Washington:
Masonry is social in its nature; duh rooms in connection with a
Masonic Temple may he made a favorable adjunct to the workings of
the Craft, the only danger is that, to use a homely simile, "The tail
may become so vigorous as to wag the dog."

West Virginia:
I am aware of the fact that clubs arc becoming a fad, and a great
many Grand Lodges arc allowing so-called Masonic Clubs to he organized. T cannot hnt frcl that it is a mistake, and will result in injury
to the Fraternity. Lodges proper can introduce certain features of c'uh
life which can he made attractive am\ helpful, instead of organizing an
outside institution to he called a 'Masonic Club.' To use the name of
Masonry, or Masonic, in anything outside of Ma:;onry itself has always
seemed to me to he wrong, and should 110.t he tolerated. Moreover, in
the end, Masonic Clubs will most surely interfere with lodge attendance.
Of course, I am only speaking for myself, hut I feel sure I am speaking
for 'the good of tl1e Order.'

CONFERENCES
There has been and is a growing tendency in all Jurisdictions
to "get together." The Bogie of a National Grand Lodge of
course will always haunt some, and selfishness and petty jealousy
will continue to have their place in any movements looking towards the uniting of the Craft into a National organization. We do
not believe, on this account that there will ever be a General
Grand Lodge.
As the American Colonies surrendered part of their rights, without any harm, to make a great Nation, we believe that Grand
Lodges could well follow the example. Might we inquire if the
Supreme Councils of the Scottish Rite, the General Grand Chapters,
and the Grand Encampment have worked any great hardship in
their respective organizations?

26

REPOHT ON COHRESPONDl~NCE

27

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Kentucky:
Bot~1 in Europe an<l South America attempts have been made bv
Masomc leaders ti;i form some s?rt of federation among internatiom{J
groups . of Masomc powers takmg the form of a "Latin Masonic
Federation".
ARGENTINE:

for several
efforts have been ma<le to hold conventions of
Latm Masons
various republics of South America. Such conventions have actually beet/ .held, but fail to embrace all the jurisdictions.
May. an amb1t10ns program was endeavored with small
Argentme, looking toward a "Latin Masonic Federation".
success
All c;if these proposed federations are based upon the idea that the
reestablishment of universal solidarity can be more easilv effected if
the now separated racial groups are first well organized. •
CUBA:

The s;rand l\~<l:ster of Cuba has been an ardent advocate of an
all-Arpencan coal:t1011 of some sort. which will enable Masons of North
~nd South America to meet at intervals and devise wavs and means
tc;r drnwing the various jurisdictions closer together. :-\t the beginmng of the war, or thereabouts, he addressed a communication to
every. Grand Lodge in America on this subject, and though all
American G;and Lc;dges recognize Cuba, practically no attention whatever was paid to this fraternal message.
ENGLAND:

From Eng-Janel comes the suggestion of Sir Alfred Robbins, head of
the Board ~f Gene_r~l Purpose~ of the English Grand Lodge, that a
great Amencan-Bnttsh Masomc Brotherhood he formed-a Lcagt1e
of Masons. 'vVe refer to the text of this document in the Builder of
Anamosa, Iowa.
'
PARIS:

That of Europe found its latest expression in Paris, France, during
the la!er p;ut of June, 1917, when a congress of Masons of allied
countries met for the purpose of defining their attitude toward the
war.
. Jn this congress were ~athered the Grancl 1fasters or rcprcsentatt'.'es ~£.France, Italy, Spam, Switzerland, Portugal, Belginm, Serhia,
with v1s1tors from South an<l Central America.
The convention expressed its entire confidence that this war was
bein!l' fought for the freedom of the world according to the ideals
of Preemasonry, which would give to every nation and people the
amount of liberty, and to every individual the same. Autocracv
dealt its death blo\v at last.
SWISS BUREAU:

This and other efforts of our European and South American
h~other_s tow,lrd the ideal ef periodic intern:1tional conventions for th<'
chscuss1011 of Masonic affairs, has found inspiration in manv vears'
labor on the part of Swiss Masons, who have also heen the in~tig"ators
of most of the great peace movements and their ramifications before
the war.

Beginning with the labors of Past Grand Master Ed. Quartier
Tente some dozen years before the war, an "International Bureau
Masonic Affairs" was established, which now has the official approval
of the Grand Lodge of Switzerland, and is conducted as a part of its
activities.
This Bureau has constantly sought the support of all jurisdictions
in the world and received verv little. A few American Grand Lodges
and individual Masons and lPdges have contributed to its noble work.
During the war it has expended much time, money and labor in works
of charity, such as looking after prisoners of waL The data gathered
l:y this Burea11 have been of great service to us in our preliminary
survey.

CORRESPONDENCE REPORTS
The kind, size, value or qlfantity of the Report of the Reviewer, the Chairman of a Correspondence Committee, or a Committee itself, is guided by no fixed rule- Some Jurisdictions believe them a waste of printers' ink and paper, others that they
should be merely a recital of events without comment or criticism,
and the remainder allow an open field.
In most cases, it is a labor of love, and as such, its greatest
benefit is to the person compiling it. In its practical application
it reverses the proverb that "It is more blessed to give than to
receive," for undoubtedly the time and labor given is not appreciated by the readers, or ever given a thought, except by a few_
District of Columbia:
Our reviews arc written for the p11rposc of informing our constitu-

ency, briefly and concisely, what the fraternity all over the worl~I i~
doing. \Ve have pointed out w~1at appears to :1s as. crrnrs, not 111. a
spirit of carping criticism., hut w1~h the hope of. m<.lucmg the fraternity
to adhere as nearly as rcoss1hlc to lirst and hcst prrnnplcs :tml purposes.

Florida:
A.s we conceive it, the Report on Corrcspornlencc is designed to
;;en·c as a sort of post-graduate course in the School of Masonry, am!
its purpose is to give t!1e individual l\fasons c;f one lo~ality accural? _informaticn as to th" aclnevcmcnls and accomplishments 111 other locaht1cs"
1'o present
review of the doings of the various Cram\ Lodges.
would het:ome uninteresting am! stale without reasonable comment, and,
at the s~•mt time, pointing out wherein the rule and customs of that certain Crnnd Lodge varies from some, or possibly all others. The work
of the Co:-respon<lencc writer is a hard and exacting task, hut it has its
joys and hcncfits. 'v\'.c enter the t~'mpk of Masonry as we would ~·n!er
the temples of worship, and thc_re ts m them for us an unseen pn',sJClmg
spirit which transforms ancl !-(IVCS color and shape to all, brmg11114 ns
nc;·rc:'r to the great Grand Architect of tl1c Universe. Some of the Correspomkncc Reports an: m1 inspiration, urging HS to higher and hctter
thoughts and to hroaclcr ideas of our clnties to God, to our neighbor, and
ourselves.

28

REPORT ON CORHESPONDENCE

R1<1POH.T ON COHHESPONDENCE

Illinois:
There are many things tl1at go to the value of a report which we
have not time to refer to here, but the point of chiefest value most often
overlooked by superficial criticism is that it shall be attractive enough to
get itself read. If it cannot do this it manifestly might as well not be
written, so far as profit goes to anybody but the writer, who, if he puts
any thought into it, derives more benefit from it than anybody else.
The Grand Lodge of :V1assachusetts apparently does not believe in
wasting either paper or printers' ink in the preparation of fraternal
correspondence. Of course the Grand Lodge of Massachusetts is a very
independent and aristocratic body, claiming to be the oldest Masonic
organization in this country, which clajm is disputed bv both Pennsvlv:mia and South Carolina. Maybe the Grand Lodge ;'f J\fassachusctts
doesn't regard it as worth while to have presented in its proceedings a
resume of the transactions of other Grand Lodges and maybe it doesn't
care a mill site what they did.

Pennsylvania:
Above all things, keep yourself out of it; that is, withho'.d your
opinions, abstain from criticism and avoid controversy. To follow this
advice is usually difficult for the average 'American citizen' of positive
convictions, but in this case remember that you are addressing your
Brother Masons of Pennsylvania who want facts upon which to base
their own opinions and conclusions. Y Ot! are not their representative
in expressing views on the doings of other Grand Lodges;. you do not
speak ex cathedra and our· Brethren abroad are not inviting you to
be their mentor. Therefore, be a chronicler-a reporter, rather than
a critic, or even a reviewer, for a review largely involves allegation of
defects and criticism of the same.

Quebec:

The committee (Committee on Correspondence) shall refrain from
criticism of such proceedings (other Grand Jurisdictions) as well as promulgating the opinion of the committee upon decisions, laws and regulations of this or any other Grand Lodge.

If the work of the Masonic reviewer is thoroughly done, the task is
not an easy one. To skim, ever so lightly, over only the most important
parts of the fifty to seventy volumes of Grand Lodge proceedings passing annually through his hands, requires considerable tjme. Kone but
those who have filled the reviewer's chair ean form any idea of the
time and labor required, even after one has familiarized himself with
the contents of the reports, in order to prepare, in concise and readable
form, an epitome of what is best worth learning from them and a fair
discussion of what seems to call for criticism.

Minnesota:

Utah:

\Ve have been collecting, and reading, Masonic prnccl·dings since
1881, when we became a member of this committee, ;md claim to have
a practical knowledge of what a report should he. \Ve never vet saw
one on the topical plan that was worth printing, and when another tnrns
up in the accumulated pile we gci1erally feel like saying soml•thing.
Occasionally we t!o, and there is no personal malice involved in the jabs
either.

He further informs tts that he has "Tn no instance attemptl'd to <'Xpress our personal opinion upon the matters prl'sentcd." True, \mt why
not? You have thoughts, or you would not have ht·en appointed to the
position you occupy, and if thoughts. why not express them, for the
henclit of the Craft? No matter what starts them, give us these fruits
of your thinking. Grand 21.fosters and committcPs arc just men, like u;;,
and Grand Lodges arc men temporarily bnnchcd. That's all. If they
make fools of themselves, or if tlwy do co111111emlahlc things, criticise
them-for criticism inclmlcs both sides.

Michigan:

New Hampshire:
The industrious Grand Secretary, Kew lfampshirc, presents 69 reviews of 65 Jurisdictions, and as usual, gives us something that is well
taking time to read through. \Ve have several pages of notes on matters
we would like to discuss with him-here, we must have regard for
limitations. Under Alabama he relieves himself of some pent-up feelings, after this fashion: "It seems good to have a renl Correspon.dencc
Report again the stylish thing in Alabama." We do not quite agree with
him as to the value of· topical reports, hut this is a small thing in
comparison with the fact that our brother has for a neighhor, one who
has said things concerning the conventional form of these reports and
who is giving us a series of brief essays which arc very murh \~Orth
while.

North Carolina:
Jn one particular the Grand Lodge of New York surpasses all of
its sister Grand Jurisdictions, and that is the number of n·views of
Proceedings published in foreign languages, including German," Swiss,
Hungarian, Danish, Swedish, Norwegian, Belgian, Dutch, Spanish
Portuguese, Italian, French, Greek, Turkish, Serbian, A:gerian and
Egyptian. It is needless to say that the Committee 011 this Forcignvery Foreign-Correspondence has had to call to its assistance a corps
·of translators.

Vermont:
A large portion of the report is ma<lc with the scissors gathering
together the material like the items of a local newspaper. 'fhe same
news item is repeated over, as it occnrs in different Jnrisdictions, and
the 'reportorial corps', now dubbing themselves the 'knights of the
round table,' indulge in frequent jokes among themselves, throwing
bouquets, mentioning family news items as births, and deaths, filling
the columns of the Grand Lodge Proceedings all at the expense of
the Brethren.

Western Australia:
\Vhcn we consider the thousands of '.\1asons who cannot avail themselves of the Grand Lodge library, and who consequently have only the
Reviews to help them in their studies toward fitting themselves for
the important positions that eventually fall to their lot, the preparation and printing of a few extra pages is of small account when
weighed with the immense advantages. Even if the criticisms of some
of the reviewers arc at times "too drastic," or arc considered unsonnd,
the great hulk of the work is distinctly interesting and instructive, and
the opinions are courteous and moderate. The average Mason is surely
capable of discriminating.

REPOHT ON COHRIDSPONDENCE

HEPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

Wisconsin:
A Report on Correspondence must be, necessarilv, verv much like a
table prepared for a banquet. It must provide viands ·suited to the
various tastes of the different. guests that shalJ partake. There must
be necessarily a soup course, which is usually considered rather thin
and devoid of nourishment. It will be found that the present Report is
provided liberally in this respect. Then there must be the substantials
of life with a few of the dainties thrown in. vV e hope that all our
readers may fined something suited to their taste. We have earnestly
striven to that end.
CRIMES
From time immemorial, a Mason has been obliged to be a lawabiding citizen, not only in his Civil relations, but in his moral
ones. The charge to the youngest entered apprentice Mason is
specific enough along this line.
We believe that .when a man has been finally convicted by a
Court of last resort of a felony, or an act involving moral turpitude
that should, ipso faci:to, sever his relations with Masonry. However, as in every-day life, we have our "sob sisters." There have
been cases, and undoubtedly now are, where men have been finally
convicted of felonious acts, and who are in durance vile without
hope of release, but are in good standing because the formality of
a Masonic trial has not been gone thru with, or some technicality
has not been observed, and the case is on appeal. Too often sentiment imposes an inadequate punishment.
Connecticut:
On the ground that a man is presumed to be innocent, until proven
guilty, he (Grand Master of Oklahoma) ruled that a complaint in
court against a Mason does not of itself act as an objection to his
advancement. We dissent. On the principle that the Lodge, not the
can.didate, should have the benefit of every .doubt, an objection should
be promptly filed, staying advancement at least temporarily.

North Carolina:
'~·w? Brethren in M~ssouri were; convicted and sentenced to pcnit~nt1an~s-o_ne for robbmg the Umted States mail, and one for robbmg his friends by means of a confidence game. The first was
suspended for a definite term, not expelled; and the other was susp~nded for non-payment of dues, and not tried Masonically for his
crime. The Grand Master ordered an appeal, by the prosecution to
the Grand Lodge, saying:
·
'
. A 1\fa~onic L,:i<lge is not a reformatory, especially for inmates of
pemt<:nt1ari~s.
~v hat a spectacle it would he, for a Masonic Lodge,
clad 111 white g.oves and aprons, to have to go into a penitentiary
and conduct the Masomc funeral of one of its members. '

30

Maine:
What a trial in a civil or criminal court has to do with a trial
in Masonic Lodge we know not. Perhaps the evidence to be used in
the Masonic trial might be obtained more easily hy 11sing testimony
brought in the courts of the land, but why should the result of any
such trial have any bearing at all upon a Masonic trial? Are the
Commissioners to decide the case on testimony Masonically hefore
them, or upon the issue reached by the courts?
Maryland:
The violation of a criminal law of the State (Georgia) cloes not
constitute a Masonic offense, unless it involves moral turpitude. This
is not clear to the reader, as the distinction between crime and immorality must be technical.

* * * * * *

A violation of the law of the land is not a Masonic offense un' ess
it involves moral turpitude (South Carolina). \Ve!!, what is an
"upright" man?

31

North Dakota:
Amendment to Criminal Code-A provision was added to the Grand
~oc_lge. C.riminal Code to the effect t.hat the Grand Lodge takes original
J unsd1ct10n over members of constituent lodges convicted in the. state
?r federal courts of felony: It i~ the duty hereafter of every lodge
111 case a member thereof ts convicted of felony to transmit immediately to the Grand Lodge a copy of the information or indictment
together with a transcript of the judgment of the court, in any sud~
case. \Vhereupon the Grand Master will take judicial notice of the
same and proceed with the necessary steps for a Grand Lodge trial.
Oklahoma:
A decision of a conrt of jnsticc in a criminal case docs not in
itself constitute i:ruilt in a M.asonic body. It would not matter' whether
this man was guilty in the courts and given six months or ten years it
is up to the lodge to determine his guilt or innocence and the len~th
of time he is to be punished Maso11ically.
Wisconsin:
The Grand Master (Louisiana) held that a lodge cannot receive the
petition of a profane who has 1ll'C11 convictecl of a felony am! served
a term in a penitentiary, and this ruling was approved hy the Crancl
Lodge. vVe think the decision as announced is too broad; if the
brother was convicted of a crime involving moral tnrpitucle the rnlihg
is correct, otherwise not. A felony is any offense for which a person
may be punished by imprisonment in state's prison. There are many
offenses which from public policy the law p1111ishes thus severely hut
which do tH't involve the idea of any moral clclinqucncy on the part
of the offender,

CRITICS-AS OTHERS SEE US
All of the Correspondence Committees in their reports allow
California space. Their criticisms are generally friendly, and all
of them find much to commend in the addresses of Grand Masters
Keesling and Hervey, as well as the action of the Grand Lodge at
. the respective sessions considered.
Lack of space forbids further detail.

3Z

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

DISPENSATIONS
If there is a law, enforce it. If it is a bad law, the enforcement of it will cause its repeal. This applies to Masonry as in
every-day life. The growing disrespect for law or authority is
shaking the foundation of our country. The persons who have
been or are in power are responsible for this. The easiest way
to stop it is to have less law, and allow no one to set it aside by
dispensations or otherwise.
British Columbia:
The fact that no dispensations were granted to shorten the time
between degrees seemed so surprising that the reviewer went back and
read the list again, thinking that he had overlooked one or two. There
was, even before the war, as Brother Williams (Ohio) says, a tendency
among Grand Masters to allow the interval between degrees to be
shortened upon the flimsiest excuse or none at all, and as one reason for
these dispensations the war has been worked to the limit. In view of
the fact that Canada is in the war "good and strong," as Brother
Williams says, he had expected to find the Canadian Grand Masters
inclined to ignore precedent and to allow candidates to hurry through
the degrees simply because they were called to military service. Fortunately, so far as British Columbia, at least, is concerned, our Grand
Masters have not caught the disease.
Illinois:
One thing which has impressed the writer more than any other in
the review of various proceedings, is the utter senselessness of the dispensation habit, which seems to have fastened itself on all grand lodges.
A dispensation is merely the means whereby a grand master permits
himself to violate the law and to escape without censure. What is the
sense of having constitutions and by-laws if their provisions are to be
made subject to the will and caprice of one man.
If laws are good why not live up to them? If they are bad, then
repeal them and get them off the statute book. Where is the consistency in enacting a law forbidding a lodge to do a certain thing and
then investing a grand master with the power to set aside that law and
permit the lodge to do the prohibited thing? If the clispensatic ..1 ha hit
continues to grow in proportion to its present clay development. Free·masonry will wake up some morning and find itself in a ridiculous
predicament. It is most refreshing to note that in two or three grand
jurisdictions, grand masters refused to take advantage of the dispensation privilege, giving as a reason that they believed the laws as
enacted to be good and cou~d sec no reason for thC'ir llC'in~ set aside
to the detri111C'11t of the hest interests of the fraternity.
Kentucky:
Is there ever a necessity for such relaxation of the laws? Aside
from the fact that every suspension of the operation of a law tends to
l('ssen respect for all law, we can hardly imagine the existence of conditions that would make necessary the initiation and advancement of a
candidate in any wav. manner, or time different from the initiation and
advancC'ment of all Masons.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

33

New Mexico:
All decisions of the Grand Master were approved. One that looks
wrong to an outsider is in effect that a boy can petition and be balloted upon before he reached manhood (21 years of age) and then
can be initiated on the evening of his twenty-first birthday. If in
such a hurry why not have an early morning session? We believe
that we should wait until our applicants are men before we have anything to do with the petition.
Ohio:
I have been compelled to refuse more requests for Dispensations
than I have granted. In each instances, however, the granting of these
requests would have been in direct conflict with the Code and well established decisions of the Grand Lodge of Ohio. Requests for Dispensations to confer degrees out of time became so numerous on account
of men being called from ho11Je for military service in other states before
they could receive the degrees in regular order, that I was compelled to
issue a cautionary letter on July 19, 1917.
I do not deem it wise to confer degrees out of time. I am of
the opinion that much harm will be done to Freemasonry and little good
to the petitioner by this method. It were better to return to the old
law requiring a man to remain an Entered Apprentice for one year
before becoming a Fellow Craft, and to remain a Fe'.low Craft one
year before becoming a Master Mason, than to resort to this unseemly
hysterical method of conferring degrees wholesale, thereby destroying
the Constitution, Landmarks, and Code of the Masonic Institution.
The following, taken from his address (Pennsylvania), will cause
a howl on the part of the writers of the Correspondence Reports:
"Permission was granted .to Washington Lodge, No. 59, to receive
and act upon a petition for initiation and membership of a youth under
age, and by virtue of my presence I caused the petitioner to be made a
Mason upon the approval of his petition."
We do not helieve that there can he any excuse on earth for either
receiving the petition of a man who is under age, or of making him a
Mason, and we very much douht the wisdom of creating Masons at
sight, although we are bound to admit that Qhio ·has been guilty of
this very thing.
Utah:
Among dispensations granted we note three which permitted the conferring of two Degrees upon candidates at one and the same meeting.
We assume, of course, that there were imperative reasons for such action, but that does not change the fact that Masonry can mean but little
to such machine-made products. We would suggest-with a good deal
of diffidence- that Connecticut Lodges be equipped with a preparationroom in which such candidates may be trephined, and have the ritnal,
lectures, and charges of the Degrees laid away in the brain cavity, without the usual and unnecessary trouble of conferring them. To he sure,
this would necessitate the presentation of a lapel button npon the conclusion of the operation, so that the candidates, the Craft, and the public, might know that they were members of Masonic Lodges. There are
no restrictions upon this suggested course of action, and we would
modestly recommend it for adoption, by those Jurisdictions which permit
their Grand Masters to grant dispensations for the initiation, passing,
or raising, "of more than five, and not over thirty, at one and the same
meeting."

34

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

EASTERN STAR
One of the ancient toasts of the Fraternity was, "To the
Ladies, God Bless Them.. They cannot be Freemasons, but without them there would be no Freemasons." It is perhaps true in
Masonry as in every-day life, that "the hand that rocks the cradle
rules the world."
A politician once said that he would rather have five barbers
backing him than fifty bankers. As far as the Eastern Star is concerned, the same ·statement will hold good as to the effectiveness
and enthusiasm of this Order, when compared to some of our Blue
Lodge activities.
British Columbia:
The Eastern Star may he all that is c'aimecl for it, and we do not
believe our Grand Treasurer objects to that Order qua Eastern Star.
What he docs object to, and we agree with him, is the tendency to
allow the estimable persons who compose that Order to believe that they
are, in some way, a part .of the Masonic Institution.

Connecticut:
We never were a member of the 0. E. S. But we arc creclibly informed that their very ritual states that "it is no part of that ancient
Institution." Hence, any meticulous anxiety lest these good ladies
assume that their ornanization is a hranch of Masonry strikes us as hath
ahsurd and comic. Tn Connecticut, they have never shown the slightest
inclination to "hutt in," except continuously for over twenty years to
tactfully offer ;incl render all kinrls of ·material aid to onr Masonic
Horne. God bless them and prosper their organization.
With all our respect and esteem for that Order. we balk at the inclusion of any women on a Masonic Board.

Illinois:
The Grand Master (Tennessee) endorses the Order of the Eastern
Star and holclly states "We need their encouragement and cooperation." That's all right Brother Grand Master, all yon need is to give
them a little bit of encouragement and you will get considerably more cooperation than you have bargained for.

Maryland:
The Order of the Eastern Star (Cram! Master. J\rkansas) comes in
for the usual note of appreciation, and this expresses the enthusiasm of
an enthusiastic member: "Where there is apparent lack of interest ancl
unsatisfactory condition among the membership of a local Lodge, it is my
observation they have no Chapter of the Eastern Star, ancl T have
recommended to those Lodges that they establish a Chapter." Let me
suggest a motto as an inspiration, "flux J!nnina Pact1'."

Minnesota:
Now what has Bro. Eggleston against the Eastern Stars? Arc they
not our wives, our mothers, our sisters. or our daughters, and arc
they not noted for their good works in times of neccl? And arc not
our lodge halls honored by their occasional presence? The Hoosier
Schoolmaster would never have penned such an ungracious sentence.
No, never.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

3fi

New Hampshire:
In our report, having c:xpressed no liking for the Pennsylvania clccree that no member of their Home may join the Eastern Star, he responds: "We thought it was pretty well known that the Eastern Star
has no standing in Pennsylvania; we try to save one of the land marks
from being bent, as well as broken." We dismiss the matter by saying
that a decree of prohibition in joining a church or in taking a g:ass of
water would be of the same piece of cloth-the denial of individual
privilege, which carried with it no recognition whatever, in any form,
of that which is so apparently detested.

Virginia:
As to the Eastern Star I know nothing whatc:wr about it. Tt is
not a Masonic organizatiqn, and we, as Masons, have nothing in the
world to do with it, except, of course, that we ar~ glad to have the
ladies have an organization of this kincl, which interests them in Freemasonry.

Washington:
The Gran cl Master (Minnesota) clclivercc\ a very interesting aclclrcss.
A resolution recognizing the 0. E. S. as the bane\ maiden of masonry
and thanking them for their work in behalf of the Masonic Home, and
winding np with the recommendation that their grancl patron he rc>ccivecl
when the chief officns of other rc:cognizec\ Masonic bodies were rcccivccl in Grand Lodge, was adoptc:cl. Personally we clo not sec why,
if they arc going to recognize the institution, they shoulcl not receive the
hcacl of that institution, and the Crane\ Matron he received am! not the
Cram! Patron.

West Virginia:
The Brethren in Floricla have found the members of the Order of
the Eastern Star a most hc'.pfnl hocly in the I Jome ancl Orphanag-e
movemc:nt. Juclging by what these sist(•1·s have clone and arc• doing in
other jurisdictions, my guess is Florida will lincl them im\ispensihlc
hanclmaickns, especially in Masonic Home ancl Orphanage work.

EDUCATIONAL FUNDS
Practically every Jurisdiction in the United States should take
off its hat to the "Sage Brush" State. The Grand Lodge of Nevada provides an educational fund to assist children of deserving
Brethren, whether alive or dead, to secure an education. The
money is loaned to be used for the purpose of attending higher
institutions of learning. It is supposed to be repaid when possible.
The Grand Lodge of West Virginia has also swung into line.
This is practical Masonry.
The San Francisco Bodies, A. & A. S. R., and San Francisco
Pyramid No. 1 of the Sciots have each made an annual appropriation to be used in this way for some of the wards of the fraternity
at Covina.
Let the Knights Templar, Eastern Stars, Amaranth and
Shrine follow suit.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

36

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

FLAGS
It is only a small bit of bunting,
It is only an old colored rag;
Yet thousands have died for its honor
And shed their best blood for the flag.
An elaborate flag ceremony has been adopted by certain

Jurisdictions, and the use of it made compulsory at all times.
This, we believe, is a mistake. The simple tribute paid to the
American flag and what it represents, as outlined in Army Regulations, is .ample.
The flag should have a permanent place in the Lodge room
and Masonry. The average ceremony, however, tends to become
either a mere routine, or an excuse for fiddle-faddles.
Arkansas:
Only one dissenting voice has . been note~. Th_e v;eter?n ch~irman
of Foreign Correspondence Committee .o.f. Wisconsin .m ~1s rev;1ew of
Arkansas. 1916 Proceedings, severely criticizes our action m havmg the
flag displayed in local lodges at all meetings. He said, in part: 'Masonry would do better to adhere to its own particular field and leave
sentimental displavs of patriotism for more appropriate times and
places.' In all due respect to that .honorable brother's .long service and
:Masonic lore I feel that American freedom and its emblem, the
American flag, are so interwoven with American Masonic life and spirit
that its recognition has been tardy rather than untimely.

Cuba:
The Cuban flag is the. product of a Masonic inspiration. General
Narcisco Lopez, who landed in Cuba twice at the head ?f a. n·vol~1tionary expedition and. was captured amJ sho~ ,hY the SJ~am;~rds 111
Hahana, is generally believed to have been its ongrnato.r: With (,encral
Lopez were many Americans, the unfortunate hut glorious prcdecc·ssors
of the heroes of San Juan Hill. Lovers of liherty. champions of the
cause of small and tyrannized nations, is it necessary to add that th~y
were nearly all Masons? Hence it was designed to represent a Ma some
lodge. In the center of the Masonic triangle, the star recalls the Venerable Master; the two white bars are the columns of the lodge,. the
three blue ones are the Masons themselves, apprentices, compamons
and Master Masons, and the colors are the sam.e as th.ose of th~ g_reat
red white and blue banners of democracy with which the g.orious
Cuban flag is proudly waving today for the cause of humanity.

Florida:
If civilized nations in the world with whieh we are now at war salute
the American Flag it would seem that the Mason seen in an American
Lodge room who considers it wrong for him to salute the Flag, particularly at this time when that Flag is being carried. to foi;eign shores to
protect the very fundamentals of Masonry, should 1mmediatcly set about
separating himself from the fraternity. He is too little to be admitted
as a visitor in an American Lpdge.

Georgia:
There was a time, God keep its memory white, when Georida
Masons fought beneath another flag; when the South poured out its

:11

chivalry in blood. 'l'herc are those of you out there who gave the
most you had; and I know that were you called again today, yon
would close up your thinned, lmt heroic ranks, and to the tunes of
Dixie Land, charge again with your old rebel yell for the Stars and
forever.

Indiana:
In presenting the findings of the Committee to the Grand Lodge
the (~rand :Vfaster observes:
I concur in the recommendation of the committee, lmt am r011strained to ;:ay that in my opinion it will he difficult, if not. impossihle,
to formulate any ceremony of this character without violatinll,' the
traditions of the orcler. Masonic lodi:res and Masons as inrlividnals arc
mm;t happy to render obedience.to civil authority and the i\mcrican flag
is the hiphest sign and symbol of our ~oyalty and patriotism. The flag
ought to have and does have a prominent place in every lodge room. am\
no public ceremony ought to l:c held without its recognition. But we
stthmit with deference that. judging by the past, Masons arc not wanting in patriotism by reason of any omissions from our time-honorrd
rites and ceremonies; and that any innovation of this or any other chitracter will but open the door for changes which may ultimately overturn
the Ancient Landmarks of the order. Jn addition, I beg to note that
such a ceremony as contemplated must of necessity inclnde a salutation
or other recognition of this cmhlcm as the flag of our country, anrl until
Masonry sccs fit to exclude from its memhership all persons not citir.t'ns
of the United States, such ceremony wi'.I impose a rite upon members of
the order under allegiance to other governments. If such ceremony he
adopted, let it he snch that all Masons whether citizens of i\mcrica or
not, may, without doing viol<.'nce to their own fealty, cherrfully suhrnit
to and enjoy.

Iowa:
Now, while we ykld lo no one in our loyalty or patriotism. we
sometimes think what a pity it is that W(' cannot take our patriotism for
granted and assume that it is a ruling principle in onr lives that works
as regularly and steadily within us, as docs the beating of the heart within the human hody. \V c sometimes feel that these 'flag Haunters' arr
prompted more hy a desire of doing somethin!l pleasing that will make
them personally popular. To us this constant flopping of the flag is too
much like flouting the sacred name of God about. Tt makes the flag
so .common as to make it almost profane. In the old days wlwn the
flag was used for particular purposes on special occasions it meant
something; but now it seems as though we must do it to death. As
though we would be under suspicion for lack of patriotism if we were
not constantly paradinl{ it before the eyes of others. When every day
gets to he a holiday, there is nothing holy ahout it.

Kentucky:
In 1912, on the 26th of October, the last executive order concerning
the flag was niadc and it provided for the specific arrangement of the
stars. They wcrt' to he arranged in six horizontal rows of eight stars
each. Starting on the upper left hand corner and placing cad1 row
from left to right, the star corresponcling to each State is named in the
order of the State's ratification of the Constitution.
Tht1s star No. l, in the upper lefthand corner, is for Delaware. Star
No. 48, in the lower righthand corner, is for Arizona. The following

REPORT ON COllRESPONDENCE

3U

RRJPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

list will show yon at a glance exactly which star ~s yours:
First Row-No. 1, Delaware; 2, Pcnnsylvama; 3, New Jersey; 4,
Georgia; 5, Connecticut; 6, Massachusetts; 7, Maryland; 8, South Carolina.
.
. . .
,
Second Row-No. 9, New Hampsl11rc; JO, V1rgmia; 11, New )ork;
12, North Carolina; 13, Rhode Island; 14, Vermont; 15, Kentucky; 16,
Tennessee.
. .
.
. . . . .
Third Row-No. 17, Ohio; 18, Lot11s1ana; 19, Inchana; 20, ),hss1ss1pp1;
21, Illinois; 22, Alabama; 23, Maine; 24, Miss~ur~.
.
Fourth Row-No. 25 Arkansas; 26, M1ch1gan; 27, Florida; 28,
Texas; 29. Iowa; 30, Wi~consin; 31, S'.aliforni;;,; 32. Min~1cs.ot.a.
Fifth Row-No. 33, Oregon; 34, Kansas; 3.'J, \Vest V1rgm1a; 36, Nevada; 37; Nebraska; 38, Colorado; 39, North Dakota; 40, South Dakota.
Sixth Row-No. 41. Montana; 42, \Vashmgton; 43. Idaho; 44, \Vyoming; 45, L'tah; 46, Oklahoma; 47, New Mexico; 48, Arizona.

Louisiana:

If the flag is to he placed upon the altar ~n connection with the
Great Lights, it should not he a drapery and 1t should not have the
Great Lights resting on i~. It si.:cms to us tha'. the flag ~hou;d be cl_s:whcre than under the (,rcat Light. \Ve believe that 1t h,is a pt1ce
in every Masonic Lodge, and hclicvc it should he given it. But that
place is .the right place and not some wrong place.

Montana:
Patriotism seems to run rampant in this Grand Lodge for in the
volume of proceedings before us immcdiatc!y on tur~1i1~g over the cover
we find the picture of a flag with the notation that 1t 1s the flag of ou~
countrv and should be displayed in every lodge room. \Ve dot:ht very
much -the wisdom of such a clispla:y .. \V c find tha'. the ~n!ghts of
Columlms, the Eagles and other soc1cues parade their patno~1sm and
seize upon the flag as the emblem to put forward to ~iavc us bcl1cve_ tl:cy
arc patriotic. Methinks they protest t?O much. W c ar~ all patr1oti~;
at least. arc expected to be, and there 1s no nc.ed. of wavmg th~ flai;; 111
front of us. as an assurance that we arc patnotlc, because this. might
suggest that we fear that they might. th.ink. differrntly, and dom_g _so
smatters too much in our judgment of 11mtat1011 c,if !hose other societies
who want us to know that they say they arc patnottc. Masonry has i;n
flag· it is universal and inculcates in its votaries love of the country 111
who~c jurisdiction they may abide.

New Jersey:
The Grand Master says:
_
.
. . . .
"T have not approved the custom practleed 1!1 som~ Jnnsc!tctmns o~
nsing the flag to decorate the altar. The urnvcrsaltty of oar or<k1.
forhids that the flag of any country should decorate. the sacred alta1
of Freemasonry anywhere in the world. 'J.'he altar is to lie used l'.xdusivclv for the support of the three great lights of Ma~miry, symhohz~
ing a belief in God, over which any Mason may s<:hi.te w1tho11t rcgarc} t~
rat:e. country, or religion. What place more i1tt111g aQcl appropriate
could be designated for the flag in our lodges than the East, the place
of light?"
The Chairman of C. C. says :
.
"The exhibition of our country's banner m any oth~r way than by
prescribed custo111 and now hy military rule, seems to imply a lack of
intelligent comprehension of what that flag means 011 the part of any one
seeking to pt1t it to other use."

North Carolina:
The Grand Master :efu?e~I dispensations for the display of the flag
upon lodge altars, and m g1vmg his reason therefor, says:
"In the first place, it would be improper at such a time as this to
p'.ace anything above the flag for which we are sacrificing all that we
hold so dear. In the second place, it is hardly necessary to explain to
any good JYiason that it would not be convenient, expedient, or proper
to place the flag ahove the usual jewels that are required to he displayed
upon our altar in a legal lodge. Jn the third place, T would not so offend
the Americanism, nor insult the patriotism, of the Master of any lodge
in 1~1y Grand Jnrisdiction. ~urely they will love and honor and protect
the1r flag and the flag of the1r fathers, hut such an edict to compel them
to do so would be a reflection upon their Americanism and cast official doubt upon their patriotism."

Ohio:
The Grand \foster well said:
"~V ~ do not have to wear huttons, or go ahont telling people what
patn;iti.c l\fasons we are. \Ye l!vc ,it :1rnl teach it day in and day out,
am! 1t 1s a part of our very 1m;t1tt1tton."
This. is as true as steel, and this has hcen 01w of our objections to
the notmn that eHrv man nmst either have a flag 011 his 110nsc on
his antomohik. on his coat. or i11 his loclg-c room to he patriotic 'and
loyal to his country. Old Clorv is a i.;rand olcl institution, and we love
her as we clo onr life, bnt with a:t this we feel that the flag hnsincss
has hccn worked to the limit.
Frcc·masonry is universal, '.trnl. w.hile cvt•ry _Mason shonlcl lie patriotic
;1!1cl lo~al to co~rntry, and while 1t is appropnate to have the American
l•lai.:- displayed 111 the lodrre rooms. we do not hclicvl' that it shonlc\ he
liS<'tl as a covering for a l\bsonic altar.
lkt tl1is is simply a little more
of. :he hystt•ria whkh is prevai?ing in this country, as Old Clorv is
l'l'Jllg nscd everywhere in all sorts of positions, situations, and c(·rc1~1011ials as a Yl'llt ior prnt-up patriotism.

South Dakota:
,

~ r:csolution was pas:-;cd rcc111cstirrn; _each s:1honlinate lodge to keep

'~tthm

its hall an American flag and 111111icd1atcly after the loclgl' is
qeclar.ccl open, the stewards. on the onkr of the \Vorshipfnl l\1;1-;h•r. arc
to retire to the ankroom, :«·cure the 'Colom' arnl e.<cnrt it to the altar.
'he Lodge standing: and after sinu;ing one vcr,;(• of the National hvmn
'1\merica.' carry the tlag to the East and plan· it at the ri!.!hl han;l of
<h« \Vorshipfnl Master.
·
Virginia:
The writer has· been struck hy the fact that the' "profossional"
pa!riot and tlai.;waver is always with ns. In season and ont he is in
cvHlence, loml!y proclaiming his devotion to his co1111t rv . and de110~111dn.g. all who ~lo not "run with his machine." This- placcs the
quiet nttz<'ll who 1s advcr,,c to display at an t111fai1· disadvantage.
We know men who wonld lay down their lives f:ir our cmintrv who
thi1:k the constant references to and wa l'in({ of "The' Flag" as (to· speak
plamly) ~o much '.'flagcloodlc." . W c hope the committee will report next
year agamst pnttrng the flag m the lodge room. It is an innovation
1

I

40

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

(which puts us against it) an'U it is unnecessary. Shou'.d occasion arise
our Montana Brethren can be depended on to do their full duty by
Uncle Sam, flag or no flag, and their Virginia Brethren will back
them up.

Washington:
This flag which I present to you is the oldest among the ensigns
of the nations of the wor!d. It is twenty-four years older than England's royal standard; twenty-eight years older than the flag ?f Spain;
for seventeen years it had floated in the breeze before the tn-color of
France was seen, and it had ninety-three years of triumph and progress
before the flag of the German empire '.'"as mad_e. The fl'.1gs of ~he old
empires of China and Japan are but rnfants 111 comparison with our
own 'Star-Spangled Banner.'
Wyoming:
A resolution was adopted requiring that the American Flag be. displayed at each session of the Gr~nd· Lodge, an~ that all ~ubordmate
lodges be directed to secure and display an American Flag, m. the hall,
at all meetings. This is patriotism but not Masonry, and fo; this reason
we regret to see the measure adopted. There. are. many th~ngs that a:e
good in themse!ves that are out of place by bemg mdulged m on ccrtam
occasions. A dirge is appropriate at a funeral but would be out of place
at a wedding, and the contrary is true. Maso.nry woul:I do better to !l-eihere to its own particular field and leave sentm1ental displays of patriotism for more appropriate times and places.
FRENCH MASONRY
In nearly all of the Proceedings considerable space was given
to the recognition of the Masonic bodies in France. While the
matter will continue to be one of interest, the following summary
as to the action of. the various Grand Lodges is given simply as
a matter of record, which is taken from the very able report of
Past Grand Master Gnodwin, Correspondent of Utah.
Utah:
1. Grand Lodges which have recognized both the Grand Lodge ai1d
the Grand Orient of France:
Louisiana.
New Jersey.
Iowa.
California.
California's recognition was. conditfon.al upon the Grand <?rient
recalling charters it has issued m the United States. So far 1t has
not done this so they "are without the pale."
2. Grand Lodges which recognized the Grand Lodge of Franc~, only,
and either took no action at all with reference to the Grand Orient, or
refused recognition to that Grand Body:
Texas.
Oregon.
District of Columbia.
Rhode Island.
South Dakota.
Nevada.
3. Grand Lodges which did . not forn~ally rec?gl!ize eithe~ of the
(;rand Bodies of France, l;ut which chd give perm1ss10n to their memlicrs to visit French Lodges.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

41

(a) Those which restrict this privilege of visitation to Lodges
under the obedience of the Grand Lodge of France:
Philippine Islands.
Georgia.
Florida.
Indiana.
(b) Grand Lodges permitting their "members to visit Lodges of both
of the French Grand Bodies:
Alabama.
Kentucky.
North Dakota.
Colorado.
Wyoming.
New Yark.
4. Grand Lodges which took a more or less decided stand against
any measure of recognition being accorded either of the two Bodies
under consideration :
Missouri.
Virginia.
Connecticut.
\Visconsin.
5. Grand Lodges which considered the matter, hut postponed action
without, apparently, being committed definitely to one view or the other,
011 the merits of the question:
Massachusetts.
Oklahoma.
Vermont.
Arkansas.
Maine.
Idaho.
Illinois.
North Carolina.
Nebraska.
Tennessee.
Washington.
6. The Grand Lodge of Arizona "recognized" the "Masonic Bureau
for the Allied Armies," which is only a committee, composed of members of the Grand Orient of France, and appointed by that Grand Body.
We are somewhat at a loss to understand just how much our Arizona
Brethren meant by this action. It would seem to be a tacit recognition
of the Grand Orient of France, but perhaps our Brothers did not mran
it to be such.
The Grand Lodge of Michigan appropriated $200.00 to he used by the
same Bureau in its fine work for the soldiers. This, of course, does not
commit the Grand Lodge of Michigan, or show a leaning toward the
Grand Orient, any more than a similar contribution to the general fund
that is being gathered, a part of which is to be administered by the
K. C., would indicate Roman Catho:ic predilections.
To summarize: The , foregoing list shows that of the 50 Grand
Lodges named, 21 gave some measure of recognition to French Masonry.
Of the remaining 29, four were avowedly opposed to any form of
recognition; 11 considered the subject, but postponed action; in 12, the
matter was not mentioned, and 2 expressed themselves only so far as
concerns the "Masonic Bureau for the Allied Armies."

THE FUTURE
Masonic principles and their practical application triumphed
after an eight-year struggle with England, though, with privations
and ordeals that at that time appeared to be unsurmountable. It
took the Morgan episode, and the Masonic persecutions to solidify
the Craft. From present indications it would appear that there
will have to be something as radical and drastic in the Masonic
situation as these two movements to impress upon us the duty that
lies before us. This applies not only to the individual, but to the
fraternity.

42

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON CORH.ERPONDE::\CE

•

A glance. at the statistical table of membership of the various
Grand Lodges published elsewhere in this report shows that there
is a Masonic population of over two million in this country, and
the following excerpts from the address of Grand Master Power
of Mississippi and Grand Orator Burke of Colorado present the
existing conditions in words that should be burned into the hearts
and memories of every one who reads them.
Colorado:
The dangers which thn:atcn us arc not far to seek; they lurk at
our lodge room doors; their remedy involves no profound wistlom,
no revolutionary measures.
The statutes of our stat<.;ly fortune
Arc sculptured hy the chisc'.-not the axe !
Hand us the tools of the craft and the work of the craftsmen and
let ns try some of the specimens.
Trooping through the door of our preparation rooms we fine! an
ever increasing company composed of those from whose faces is missing
the stamp of high intelligence, in whose eyes the torch of education
has lighted no fires and whose haltinis steps are led l:y friendly sugg:es~
tion or quickened by the hope of gain.
Have committees forgotten to report whether these have 'sufficient
education and intelligence to understand and value the doctrines and
tenets of Freernasonrv?' Did the Senior Deacon demand of them if
they came 'unbiased Gy improper solicitation and uninfluenced hy mercenary motives?' VVhen they answered the inquiry, ditl they knnw that
'truth is a divine attribute and the foundation of every virtue?' Ha$
not bitter experience, 110 less th<m the language of the ritualist, yet
taught ns that 'it is better that no workmen be :lClckd to the roll than
even one unworthy foot allowed to cross the threshold?'
The shiftless beggar on our streets, the criminal who lilchcs for
his living the labor of others, the open apostle of the easiest way. arc
not the only violators of the commandment: 'Six days shalt thou
lahor'-these rarely wear the ;;quare or use the compass-hut it is
otherwise with the idle rich, the workman who watches the dock, the
maker of sho<ldv, the man who leans hnt never stands. vVhat do thcv
here? Have tl]ey never heard that 'the bee hive is an cmhkm of ii1dustry and recommends the practice of that virtue to every created
being?' \Vas the injunction that 'our necessary vocations arc on no
account to be neglected' omitted when they stoic past?
What of the canker of loose life and crnml:ling stan<lards, these
breaking family tics, these grinding whet•ls in our divorce courts, these
rapidly multiplying commercial crimes for which the law docs not always
provide a penalty? Apply to these the working tools which were the
favorite implements of our puritan forefathers. Docs not the square
still inculcate morality and the plumb rectitude of life and condnd ?'
vVhere is the responsibility for that spirit of lawlessness whid1
until the grim god of war stalkccl upon the stage, seemed at times ready
to shatter our constitutions ancl dissolve the social compact-a s1~'rit
that manifests itself in clmreh
school and state: in commerce, industry, and politics-a spirit
clai1m:d the protection of majorities

43

while it repudiated the obligations of minorities· that vaunted its
democracy while it fostered anarchy; that here, wher~ its forehead could
almost touch the 'blue vault of heaven, covered a state with obloquy;
that today actuates those who seek to extort shameful profit from their
c~:mntry's plight by. cornering the food smffs of a people, fomenting race
r~ots .m pop~lous cttles, or paralyzing the national arm by strikes in shippmg mdustnes and the manufacture of war munitions? Have we ceased
to 'recommend to our inferiors obedience and submission to our equals
courtesy and affability, and to our superiors kindness ;{ml condescension/ or do such recommendations now fall on deaf ears? If we forget
that 'in the state we are to be quiet and peaceable citizens, true to our
government, and just to our country,' that we are 'not to countenance
disloyalty or rchellion, but patiently suhmit to legal authority and conform with cheerfulness to the government of the country in which we
live,' we might better stretch forth impious hands and tear our starry
banner from the nation's capitol. Not every act of treason is punishable
by statute.

Mississippi:
I want to say a kw words to you ahont practical Masonry.

\Ve

l~arn that Freem~sonrr. is considered under two drnominations--opera-

t;vc am! speculative. [ o these ] would <tcld a third, and that is practical Masonrr-thc. Marn~iry that we practice in our everyday live.s;
not the Mas<. nry m wl11ch onr ancient Brethren wrought; not the
Masonry that we speculatl' on and whic.h some, unfortunately, speculate in-hnt the Masonry we live.
1f Freemasonry means nothing more than the forms and ceremonies
of i11it_iatio11, then Freemasonry means nothing-absolutely nothing. Do
not m1smHkrstand me; I would not discount in the least the forms an~!
ceremonies of initiation; I hdkvl' in them, else vou would not be maintaining, at considerahle expense, the lecturing c'orps that you have, but
these forms and ceremonies arc not the end, they are hut the means of
teaching great lessons, of impressing great truths.
This practical Masonry of which I speak. lJo you have your
~las(~m·y for the lodge room, for pam<ks and processions. and then cast
1t .aside ;incl consider it of no importance in your dealings with your
ne1ghhor, be he l\fason or profane, in your business, in your pleasures·?
Physician, as yon go ahout your practice, ar(' you mindful always
of your duty to your fellow-man, o_r .docs your vision sometimes get
dimmed by a cloud with a silver lmmg? Masonry would have you
serve. Are you a l\·lason every day and everywhere?
Lawyer, in .the court _room and in your office, arc you always
careful of the nghts of others or do you brush them aside as not to
l.Je considered wh~n your client's interests point the other way? ls
1t always your aim to see that justice prevails, 'that standard or
hotmda'.y of ri:;h~ tl;at mah·<:>< 11~ to render to every man his just
d~1~. w1~hout <11st111c.twn; J.11s1lce ts the very cement and support of
c1v1l society, ancl as JllStice 111 a great 1m-;1surc constitutes the real good
111a11, so should it lH' thc inv;1riahk n.rac1ice of every Mason nevc~r to
deviate from the minutest principles thereof.'
Does the merchant always practice his Masonry behiml the counter?
Are the scaks in his ;.;tore as evenly balanced as he would hold them
in the lodge room? They ought to be, if he would worthily wear the
name of Master Mason. Do you ever and always treat your neighbor as

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDE;NCE

you would have him treat you? If you do not, then you do not
practice the Masonry that you learned at the a'.tar.
Did it ever occur to you that the outside world knows nothin~ ~f
Masonry except as it is reflected in the lives of Masons? I:Io~ 1~ it
reflected in your life? Ever stop to as~ yourself that qu~st10n. By
their fruits ye shall know them.' That 1s absolutely and literally true.
Nothing truer was ever spoken. By what you and I do, by what we
say and what we are, the world will judge Masonry.
I ran across this petition not long ago. Its l_anguage is a. bit
homely, but its truth is very evident; it gives us a glimpse of practical
Masonry: ·
"'Teach me that sixty minutes make one hour, sixteen ounces one ·
pound, and one hundred cents one dollar.
"'Help me so to live that I can_ lie down at night with a clear
conscience, without a gun under mv pillow, and unhaunted by the faces
of those to whom I haye brought pain.
" 'Grant, I beseech Thee, that I may_ earn my meal tic~et on the
square and in doing so that I may not stick the gaff where 1t does not
belong.
"'Deafen me to the jingle of tainted money; b'.ind me to the faults
of the other fellow, but reveal to me my own.
"'Guide me so that each night when I look acr~ss the dinne~ tahlc
at my wife, who has been a blessing to me, I will have nothmg to
conceal.
"'Keep me young enough to lau~h with my children and lose myself in their play.
"'And when comes the smc~I of flowers and the tread of soft steµs
and the crush of the hearse's wheels on the gravel out in front of my
place, make the ceremony short and the epitaph simple "Here lies a
man."'
fy[ay each of us so live that when we come to die, the placing of
the square and compass on the stone that marks our grave may· be
assurance that there lies a real man.

evidenced by the innovations we are suffering to in·vade our dearest
tenets; the adhesion to the landslides that are moving politics in our
midst; by our eagerness to admit quantity in lieu of quality into our
ranks. Such splendid men who were so evident in the Order during
the existence of Washington, Franklin, Paul Revere and Joseph
Warren, now form a very small percentage of our membership.

44

GENERAL GRAND LODGE
As stated in another portion of this Report, the possibility of
a General Grand Lodge is too remote to ever be considered
seriously. There is no doubt but what there should be a common
meeting ground whereby certain standards and regulations would
be fixed that would remove friction between the various Jurisdictions and work for the ultimate good of all concerned.
District of Columbia:
He seems to believe 'the General Grand Lodge question is
slowly moving into the zone of controversy.' We pray not. Our
fear our belief is that should a General Grand Lodge ever succeed that unclean' hands will be put on it and it will merge into a
polit'ical cauldron. The one good reason against it is that existing
Grand Lodges lose their sovereignty the moment. t~ey acknowle_dg_e
a superior or controlling body. That we are dnftmg towards 1t 1s

45

Georgia:
The world of thought and action has changed and many problems of weight will arise in the future, and the time has come when
the voice of individual Grand Lodges can and will have but a minimum of weight, but as a body, concentrated into one great organization with one purpose in view much can be accomplished. Jealousy .and sectional feeling is of the past, the wars of the world
have made manifest the needs of consolidation to enable us to meet
in harmony and effectiveness the future.
Our Government is formed by a union of States, States by a
union of counties and counties are divided into districts. National
laws are applicable to the whole, without interference with or infringement upon the individual State rights. The States govern the
counties and the counties the districts, yet each has local laws that
in no wise affect the others. And so it should be with us for the
perfect accomplishment of the great and magnanimous principles
which we represent.
Idaho:
The trouble is that the above points in the direction of a Supreme Grand Lodge and such a proposition could not be entertained for a moment. lt might make Masonry a living force in the
world. It might be the means of turning Masonry toward the
future and make it too great a power in the affairs of men. No, no,
such a proposition is rank heresy.
Iowa:
We cannot agree with him (New Hampshire) .when he intimates
that precious little attention is paid by the Grand Chapters and the
Grand Commanderies to the national organizations which exercise
an advisory care over them. On the contrary, our experience has
been that these Grand E'odies do listen, heed, and profit by the
advice and suggestions of the national advisory body. At any rate,
this national body has served to furnish them a powerful means
for working together in harmony, for in the story of the work of
these Grand Bodies we have been able to find none of the petty
gri~vances, matters of contention and dissension which have prevented the Grand Bodies of Blue Lodge Masonry from united and
co-operative effort along lines of true progress in the great civic
life of America.
Everyone who is familiar with the facts knows what a wonderful
lack of unity and co-operation the Grand Lodges have presented in
the present crisis of the great world war. It has been in many
cases a most humiliating spectacle-one which has excited the derision and contempt of other fraternal organizations who have
worked together most beautifully by means of a national organization which furnished them with a means of national unity and cooperation.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

\Ve are convinced that the time is at hand when some way, some
means will be found to unite and solidify Masonry in the United
States. \Ve simply must work together. \Ve cannot work separate
and apart any longer, for the situation has become simply intolerable. There is no use denying it; no use blinking at it; the problem
has become a burning one, and presses for an immediate solution.
The Grand Officer or Past Grand Officer who is not willing to
sacrifice something of his power, pomp, and prestige for the sake of
making Masonry really worth that much more all over the land,
should go and take a look at himself.
Brother Cheney cannot deny that we are working under a total
lack of unity between sister Grand Jurisdictions; that under ,our
present system we are as powerless to supply that want as were the
divided American colonies to throw off the voke of George III. If
we do not change this system by uniting utider a common head
they did, how will we then get the peace, the unity, the harmony,
which we need?

so mad as to enter into such a movement. The Grand Lodges that
have adopted a cipher ritual would force one on us for uniformity,
as the General Grand Chapter has done. The Eastern Star, whose
percentage of Masonic membership is hardly, if at all, greater than
that of the Odd Fellows or Knights of Pythias, would be recognized as a part of our great Brotherhood. All three are noble
organizations but we, as Masons, have nothing to do with them. A
General Grand Lodge could, and probably would, embark in huge
enterprises for notoriety sake and tax us weaker ones beyo:1d endurance. No, Masonry stands for independence; let's keep it so.

46

as

Minnesota:
Because, in this country, Masonry is divided into forty-nine separate jurisdictions with forty-nine diverse policies, we have lost one
of the greatest opportunities that ever has knocked at our door.
Let us not mourn over the fact, but profit by our mistake. Let us
not be caught napping again.
Pennsylvania:
The General Grand Lodge question is slowly moving into the
zone of controversy. The cloud, no larger than a man's land, to
which reference was made in the conclusion to our report last year,
is assuming a more portentous aspect, and electrical discharges,
faint yet, may occasionally be seen playing about its periphery. A
meteorological chart is not yet possible. The idea is obnoxious to
us. We may discuss it at a later date.
We do not reproduce the above as a 'sign of the times' or as a
warning to Pennsylvania's pride in her sovereign power, but merely
as a subject which some day may furnish the correspondents pleasant discussion-if, indeed, it has not already begun.
Vermont:
The great activity of Masonry is upon the individual. Its object
and purpose is to give strength and character to the individual.
The scene of its greatest activity is in the local community. Its
work as an organization is little seen. No Grand Lodge was
thought of until after the institution became speculative. For generations it existed as a practical helpful organizaion without
thought or need of any Grand Lodge whatever.
Virginia:
'\Ne recommend that the resolution introduced by Bro. Pittenger
(Minnesota), looking to the formation of a Supreme Grand Lodge,
be not adopted, as the plan is directly contrary to the plan of Masonic territorial jurisdiction universally in practice in this country.
The occasional sporadic outbreaks along these lines are so hopeless as to need no answer, and yet a thoughtful Mason must see
chaos and calamity as the necessary result, should we all become

47

GERMAN EXCLUSION
The Grand Lodge of England, her colonies, and Scotland,
during the war, excluded from their Lodges all Masons of alien
enemy birth. Ireland did not go so far, but let each case rest on
its own merits.
As an abstract proposition, we believe they were wrong, but
it was undoubtedly a case of safety first. We now know what
war is first hand. Sherman was right.
British Columbia:
He quotes the remarks of one Brother who spoke against the proposed regulation, and follows with the statement of another Brother,
who said:
"Brethren, I wonder how you can sit here patiently and listen to
the suggestion that we should sit down in our lodges with Ylasons of
German birth. I would rather forfeit every Masonic privilege 1 have
ever gained, or am ever likely to gain, than do it."
This "seems strange doctrine" to Brother Haywornl, who rders
to the Masonic amenities of their civil war, forgetting that not only is
the present war being carried on hy the Germans in a manner which
up to now no one would have believed possible, !mt that at the outbreak of the war and for some time afterwards, Britain was full of
spies, and anyone with German or Austrian connections was looked upon
with suspicion and distrust.
Moreover, "the proof of the pudding is in the eating/' and we have
the assurance of the Grand Registrar (England) that the regulation
works smoothly and has givl'!1 universal satisfaction.
Connecticut:
Personally, we have always taken a lenient view regarding England's
action. And we cannot but contrast England's apparent lack of ma'.evolence with the brutal language cmploynl hy German <iraml Lodges in
proclaiming their much more drastic action in positively severing
relations with all Masons in enemy nations.
District of Columbia:
From the fact that Germany has procluced neither poet nor artist nor
i.rreat musician (for which she was former1y famous) since 1871, but, on
the contrary has oh'iged the vouth of Germany to serve their best years
as soldiers, we think we can discover the cause which has changed the
thoughts of that nation.

kEPORT ON CORREBPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENdhl

Florida:
The writer does not see whv Masons shou'.d refuse Masonic fellow'
ship at any time, to any brother-who can furnish them the proper credentials. A very different spirit existed during our civil war.

North Carolina:
We still hold to the belief that a war does not annul Masonic obligations and justify the severance of fraternal relations between the Grand
Lodges of warring nations.

South Dakota:
It was the German Brethren .who began by forbidding the Craft from
in any way recognizing the claims of Brethren in Allied armies when
found in distress, on the field of battle, in prison or other situations of
. need.

Texas:
I suppose that the Grand Lodge of Great Britain was acting upon
the American idea, "Safety first." In "Put Yourself in His Place," a
lesson is taught that if you had been in his p!ace you might have done
worse, which lesson it is well to keep in mind when you are inclined to
criticise.

Vermont:
As a war measure it is warranted. Country is superior to Masonry
and i.ts interests must always be first and foremost.

Virginia:
The onlv answer we feel due is to call attention to the obvious fact
that if those German-born, naturalized British Masons, some of them
of fifty years' standing, with sons in the British army, were spies, or a
class of men capable of being spies, expulsion was the only proper course.
Mere affront by forbidding their attending even their own lodges was
not right.
When we first criticised the action we were trying to be neutral, but
now we are as well prepared, perhaps better, to pass on the question as
was England then. We have a large German-born population, many of
them Masons. \Ve are satisfied that for any of our Grand Lodges to pass
such legislation would be un-Masonic and unjust. \Ve have in America
Past Grand :'vfasters who were born in Germany, but we are very sure
none are or would be spies. Besides, some of them are Jews. who have
no love, or reason for love, of German junkerism. Even were it true
that some might be disloyal and dangerous, there would be no opportunity for the exercise of such talent in Lodges.

Wisconsin:
The Grand Lodge of England condemned, without a hearing, those
who were members of its own Lodges, for no other offense than that
they were of German birth, even though they might have sons serving
in the trenches on the side of the At:ies. That this is unjust and unMasonic needs no argument to prove. We have long since learned
that it is never safe either to commend or condemn men in masses.
Each individual should be made accountable for his own acts and his
own acts only.

GERMAN MASONS
There are good and bad in all things. Masonry owes something to the Germany of the far past, as set forth by Brother
Baird of the District of Columbia, but nothing to the present
Masonry of Germany, as indicated under Vermont.
District of Columbia:
Neither the ancestors nor the successors of the present German
autocracy sl10uld be held responsible for the sins of the present Kaiser.
His grandmother was the grand and great Queen Victoria. His father
was a Mason and a man of amiable disposition, while his grandfather
was Kaiser Wilhelm der Grosse, who was a Mason and was greatly
admired. More than that, a greatnncle was Frederick the Great, an
enthusiastic Mason, who wrote the ritual of the 33d degree which we
are now using. And let us not forget that George III, who, by the way,
was a German, finding the war of the revolution so unpopular in England, was obliged to go to Hesse Darmstadt and Hesse Kassel to hire soldiers to come here and fight the Colonists, but when Frederick the
Great was informed of it he not only put a stop to it but made a
treaty with France not to molest France while the French were helping
the Colonists, and still more he sent a portrait to Washington with
this message, "From the oldest General in the world, to the greatest."
Molly Pitcher, who served the gun in the battle at Trenton, was a
German girl. Baron Von Steuben. who shaped \Vashimrton's Army,
was a German and a Mason. Carl Schurz. who was Mr. Lincoln's Secretary of the Interior, and who was such a comfort to Mr. Lincoln, was
also German. So let us not be led into the sophistry that all Germans
;ire like thnt nrayini< 1lfantis, Wilhelm der Zartleib, who caustd the
opera of "The Maqic Flute" [composed by Brother Mozart] to be puri<ed
of al'. Masonic inference before he would permit its rendition in Berlin.
In Germany's war with France in 1871, dnring the reign of Kaiser
\Vilhelm dc>r Grosse. persons and property were respected, hut in the
war just fi11isl1ed outrages unparalleled were not checked.

Iowa:
We cannot look upon the German as a mentally sound villain who in
cold b'ood makes a malicious attack upon us. but only as a poor, misguided lunatic, whose madness alone makes him a menace, and who because of his madness must be seized and held until he regains his
right mind and becomes harmless. We go into this war not with a
hatred for the German-for there must never be any American "Hymn
of Hate"-but with a sense of the terrible pity that his madness should
have made it necessary for us to make war upon him at all.

Vermont:
Tn support of his position he quotes from a German publication as
follows:
''The Masonry of Germany alone," writes a German newspaper, "de'c'"'''' rsteem and respect."
"The war," says a German writer, "has taught ns that the Masonry
of our con,1try must become exclusively national. Jt must wear a
German dress, and have a Gnman ch:1ractcr. lt must renounce every
connection with the World's Masonry."

51

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

"The war," says another German journalist; "has destroyed all idea
of Masonic Internationalism. International Masonry has become bankrup.t. !his. opinion is general in all German lodges. Masonic Cosmopohtamsm 1s, therefore, a fiction. German Freemasonry has no need
of the 'International,' which has nothing to offer it."
"The so-called English Masonry, which made such a boisterous entrance into the world in 1717, notwithstanding its unimportance, was
very different from what we German Masons represent to ourselves
as models of virtue. It was a very narrow-and very Eng1ish-organization which had absolute:y no thought of a union of lnimanity.

g-ation of peoples of one nationality under the guise of Freemasonry.
The fathers in Freemasonry who formu'ated the principles under which
the fraternity is today working never contemplated the organization of
class lodges wherein men of different nations, creeds, and professions
might segregate and use the lodge as a means of propagating their own
peculiar ideas and practices. The purpose of Freemasonry as originally
conceived was that of a fraternal democracy, wherein men of every
country, sect, and opinion, religious belief and political party, might
come tog-ether around a common altar, upon a common equality and meet
their fellows as children of one father. A lodge made up exc'.usively
of Germans, Frenchmen. Italians, Swedes, and using the particular
language of the constituents is not a Masonic lodge; hut a loclp-c composed of men representing these different nationalities and using the
language of the country wherein the lodge is located is Masonic. If the
war has done nothing else it has awakened us to the clanger of
class lodges and has served to bring to us a better understanding of the
object and purposes of genuine Freemasonry.

50

"Latin Masonry does not possess a single spark of the Masonic

¥

spiri~. Our
asonic idea is truly German, or, in a wider sense-Ger~1iamc. English Mas.0~1ry is nothing but vanity and sport; in it there
~s no ~r.ace of ou~ sp~ntual .comprehension. In France, Masonry works
1~1 politics, to which 1t sacrifices the great part of its activity. Interna-

tional Masonry is dead, and, notwithstanding all efforts to the contrary
will remain dead. Let us, therefore, be German Freemasons and work
in our own way."

Wisconsin:
These views may be the extreme views of individual German Masons
and not fairly represent the feelings of the great body of the Craft in
that country. We hope this is the case. Every Mason must render true
al~egiance to his flag and country. If the fortunes of war should bring
Wisconsin M <rsons into intimate contact with Masons fighting under the
flag of an enemy, nevertheless we hope they will remember that though
they may speak a foreign tongue and through the hatred engendered by
conflict shall have repudiated the ties of universal Freemasonry that they
are still Brethren who have knelt at the same altar and ha~e become
bound to us by ties of fraternalism that can never be repudiated or laid
aside, '.In~ that so far as is consistent with duty to our flag and country,
the prmc1ples of brotherly love may prevail and ame~ioratc so far as
possible the horrors and hardships of the conflict.
GERMAN SPEAKING LODGES
With very few exceptions, during the war Lodges using the
German language in their work voluntarily stopped it. This is as
it should be. Grand Lodges should now prohibit the use of any
language except our own, either in ritualistic work or in other ways.
If the war did anything, it solidified us as a Nation, and there
should be no room for a hyphenated citizen of any kind, much less
a Mason.
Illinois:
The year that has just closed has brought about one change which
regardless of the war and its effects, makes for genuine Freemasonry.
In Illinois and N cw Jcrsey, lodges conducting their business and performing the ritual in the German language were ordered to at once
become English speaking, or to surrender their charters. This action
was inspired, not so much because of prejudice against the German
people in this country and their language, as it was to prevent the segre-

Indiana:
We have developed a crop of wild-eyed I. W. W.'s, bewhiskered
Bolsheviki, and dirty-faced anarchists.
We h:ive suffered the Russi8ns to colmfr~e little Russia. the Ttali8ns
little Italies, and the Germans little Germarties: While livin'! 11nder the
protection of American institutions. they have remained forcip-ners to
? 11 intents and purposes.
It is said there are more Germans in New
York than in any other city of the world, excepting only the city of
Berlin.
There are communities in America where the pictures of the Kaiser
and Bismarck are the chief works of art, and the German kanguage
is the well-nigh universal language of print and speech.
Our boasted "little red school house" has too often been made a
breeding place of German kultur, its walls adorned with the uglv mug
of the Kai:o,er, the only man on earth who ever pnblicly shamed his own
mother.
New Jersey:
While such lodges are comparatively few in number and of minimum
membership, they constitute the exception which proves the better rule
of exercising Masonic functions in the prevailing tongue for the general
we~fare. not only of the Craft, but for the better citizenship and the
manhood of the nation from which all accessions to our membership
must come. The allowances of these exceptional lodges as a matter of
sentiment, has undoubtedly given reason to persons of comparatively
recent residence in this country, to attempt the establishment of lockE's
in which foreign ritualistic matter, as taught in the countries from
which they came, may be practiced in derogation of our Ritual, and in
some respects to invalidate the ethical principles wherein Freemasonry
finds its chief reason for being.
New York:
K ations have been disrupted by differences in languages. Differences in languages have caused more wars than differences in religion;
more unhappiness th:rn all other causes combined.

52

53

REPORT ON CORRESPOXDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDEXCE

!"or the sake ~f the Republic, we should plead for American Unity.
Ui:1ty cannot obtam or be preserved with foreign colonies fenced in and
ne1
rhoods- closed to callers and with preaching and teaching in
for
languages.
Breth:en, I would break up all cliques in our Government. It is a big
undertaking to govern this people. Even now the forces of dissension
and .an:archy are beating upon our shores and it will take the steadfast
patriotism of all our people to drive them back and to assure the life
and perpetuity of this nation.
. Here. and at .this tim~, we sh<;iuld all possess the American spirit.
Indulge 111 American music; American art· American literature· American customs; American ideals; American' education and abov~ all we
ou_ght not to flatter everything which is brought here from other c~un­
tries, .and whether t~at. be humans or merchandise does not matter.
.~merica cannot att~m its highest standing among nations, half foreign and half American.
J\ll newspapers prif!ted in thi~ country should be in English. All
publt~ speeches on n'!ttonal questions should be in English. All telephon:c and telegraphic communications in this country should be in
Engbsh.
Yes. every n:an should be required to transact his business at the
b~nk, t_he cour;tm~-house, at the grocer, the tailor and at all public
p.aces m the English _language, .not by reason of spite or to annoy or
harass but to adopt simply a wise precaution.
An alien language gives the alien viewpoint and if this countrv is to
endme, we must have nothing but the American viewpoint.
·
If we all set to and earne~tly and faithfully follow these things,
ere Ion~ we shall he cemented mto one complete and undivided people
~~"J.essmg one country, one flag, one language, one contentment, one

Connecticut:
A Masonic periodical states that some Arkansas Masons, who
had signed a petition to repeal the state-wide prohibition law,
afterwards tried in vain to have their names removed, on the
ground that they find their act in so signing to be 'in violation of
the edicts of Grand Lodge.' This is another 'straw' which shows
up the utter idiocy of this anti-liquor legislation by Grand Lodges,
even though their intentions are good. Further, if the majority
of individual Masons be so utterly irresponsible that they must
rely on their Grand Lodges for paternal guidance in every little
particular, the leading strings should be extended so as to cover
regulations on diet, hours of sleep, restrictions as to recreation, etc.,
even though Masonic teachings are aimed to embrace all of these in
general. \Ve thank heaven that our Masonic lines are not cast in
jurisdictions where such lunacy prevails. We hope that at some
future time these jurisdictions will awake to the foolishness and at
least partial inefficacy of such petty restrictions upon the individual. As an average proposition, the latter can better be trusted to
properly settle questions of conscience than can the holier-thanthou megalomaniacs who assume that they alone are competent to
play the paternal.
To make a logically complete job, Grand Lodges should regulate every moral question, leaving no initiative to the individual,
for of course all Grand Lodges have a few wise- men who know (at
least in their own estimation) that the average man has not sufficient brains to govern himself morally. 0 tempora, 0 mores!

North Dakota:
The report c'.oses with this declaration, which was adopted tmanimously:
. "We firm!:\'. bel_ievc; that as a body of citizens we should promote the
Idea of Amenca111zat10n, and to further this plan we demand that our
l:ws !)e s.o changed ~s to 1_Jrohihit the use of any language other than the
English 111 any pubhc, private or parochial school of elementary grade.
and. urge our m~mbers to see that such action is taken at the next
se5ston of our legislature."
GRAND LODGES
The suggestion was once made that the greatest good for the
United States and the various States would be done if Congress and
the State Legislatures would meet and then adjourn for ten years.
While t~is suggestion will never be followed, it is worth while
speculating what would occur if it .was put into effect so far as
Grand Lodges are concerned. Perhaps, if more detail was left to
the subordinate Lodges, there would lie less necessity for annual
communications. Of course, this would not be with pleasure to
the members of the Grand Lodge, but certainly it might profit the
Fraternity at large.

Illinois:
The Grand Lodge (Iowa) stopped long enough in its proceeding
to officially receive the Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter,
the Grand Master of the Grand Council, the Grand Commander of
Knights Templar of the State. \Vhere was the Sovereign Grand
Inspector of the Scottish Rite, as well as the Grand Patron of the
Eastern Star? Can it be that the Grand Lodge of Iowa is discriminating in favor of York Rite Masonry? It may be that when these
officials find out that they were not given the same recognition as
their competitors, their noses may be out of joint.
Concerning Brother Martin's criticism of the tendency of Grand
Lodges to limit the activities of local Lodges and interfere in their
private concerns, Brother McAllister (Washington) says:
"He may as well give that up. The tendency of the times is to
usurp authority in favor of the Grand Lodge, and neither he nor the
writer can stop it."
The writer, however, is disposed to agree with Brother Martin
because there is a feeling of unrest among the fraternity and a
growing conviction that there is entirely too much legislation for
the best interests of the society. It is possible to carry this to such
an extreme that lodges will rise in their might and absolutely clean
out of their Grand Lodges those meddlesome, office-holding,
authority-seeking Brethren who imagine that the future success of
the fraternity lies wholly and solely in the enactment of petty legislation which in many cases is without Masonic precedent and becomes highly burdensome to the present overworked and much annoyed Masonic Lodge.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

For the sake of the Republic, we should plead .for American Unity.
Unity cannot obtain or be preserved with foreign colonies fenced in and
neighborhoods dosed to callers and with preaching and teaching in
foreign languages.
Brethren, I would break up all cliques in our Government. It is a big
undertaking to govern this people. Even now the forces of dissension
and anarchy are beating upon our shores and it will take the steadfast
patriotism of all our people to drive them back and to assure the life
and perpetuity of this nation.
Here and at this time, we should all possess the American spirit.
lndulge in American music; American art; American literature; American customs; American ideals; American education and above all, we
ought not to flatter everything which is brought here from other countries, and whether that be humans or merchandise does not matter.
America cannot attain its highest standing among nations, half foreign and half American.
All newspapers printed in this country should be in English. All
public speeches on national questions should be in English. All telephonic and telegraphic communications in this coantrv should be in
•
English.
Yes. every man should be required to transact his business at the
bank. the coanting-house, at the grocer, the tailor and at all public
places in the English language, not by reason of spite or to annoy or
harass but to adopt simply a wise precaution.
An alien language gives the alien viewpoint and if this country is to
endure, we must have nothing but the American viewpoint.
If we all set to and earnestly and faithfully follow these things,
ere Ion~ we shall be cemented into one complete and undivided people
possessing one country, one flag, one language, one contentment one
'
God. .

Connecticut:
A Masonic periodical states that some Arkansas Masons, who
had signed a petition to repeal the state-wide prohibition law,
afterwards tried in vain to have their names removed, on the
ground that they find their act in so signing to be 'in violation of
the edicts of Grand Lodge.' This is another 'straw' which shows
up the utter idiocy of this anti-liquor legislation by Grand Lodges,
even though their intentions are good. Further, if the majority
9f individual Masons be so utterly irresponsible that they must
rely on their Grand Lodges for paternal guidance in every little
particular, the leading strings should be extended so as to cover
regulations on diet, hours of sleep, restrictions as to recreation, etc.,
even though Masonic teachings are aimed to embrace all of thes.e in
· general. We thank heaven that our Masonic lines are not cast in
jurisdictions where such lunacy prevails. We hope that at some
future time these jurisdictions will awake to the foolishness and at
least partial inefficacy of such petty restrictions upon the individual. As an average proposition, the latter can better be trusted to
properly settle questions of conscience than can the holier-thanthou megalomaniacs who assume that they alone are competent to
play the paternal.
To make a logically complete job, Grand Lodges should regulate every moral question, leaving no initiative to the individual,
for of course all Grand Lodges have a few wise· men who know (at
least in their own estimation) that the average man has not sufficient brains to govern himself morally. 0 tempora, 0 mores!

52

North Dakota:
The report e:oses with this declaration, which was adopted trnanimously:
. ''We firml:i: bel_iev~ that as a body of citizens we should promote the
idea of Amencamzatton, and to further this plan we demand that our
laws be so changed as to prohibit the use of any language other than the
Emdish in any public, private or parochial school of elementary grade.
and urge our members to see that such action is taken at the next
se&sion of our legislature."
GRAND LODGES
The suggestion was once made that the greatest good for the
United States and the various States would be done if Congress and
the State Legislatures would meet and then adjourn for ten years.
While this suggestion will never be followed, it is worth while
speculating what would occur if it .was put into effect so far as
Grand Lodges are concerned. Perhaps, if more detail was left to
the subordinate Lodges, there would lie less necessity for annual
communications. Of course, this would not be with pleasure to
the members of the Grand Lodge, but certainly it might profit the
Fraternity at large.

53

Illinois:
The Grand Lodge (Iowa) stopped long enough in its proceeding
to officially receive the Grand High Priest of the Grand Chapter,
the Grand Master of the Grand Council, the Grand Commander of
Knights Templar of the State. \Vhere was the Sovereign Grand
Inspector of the Scottish Rite. as well as the Grand Patron of the
Eastern Star? Can it be that the Grand Lodge of Iowa is discriminating in favor of York Rite Masonry? It may be that when these
officials find out that they were not given the same recognition as
their competitors, their noses may be out of joint.
Concerning Brother Martin's criticism of the tendency of Grand
Lodges to limit the activities of local Lodges and interfere in their
private concerns, Brother McAllister (\Vashington) says:
"He may as well give that up. The tendency of the times is to
usurp authority in favor of the Grand Lodge, and neither he nor the
writer can stop it."
The writer, however, is disposed to agree with Brother Martin
because there is a feeling of unrest among the fraternity and a
growing conviction that there is entirely too much legislation for
the best interests of the society. It is possible to carry this to such
an extreme that lodges will rise in their might and absolutely clean
out of their Grand Lodges those meddlesome, office-holding,
authority-seeking Brethren who imagine that the future success of
the fraternity lies wholly and solely in the enactment of petty legislation which in many cases is without Masonic precedent and becomes highly burdensome to the present overworked and much annoyed Masonic Lodge.

55

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Congress and Legislatures, yes, and many Grand Lodges and
Grand Masters, are continually over-legislating, and it is no wonder
that the books are filled with conflicting laws. If more time wa1
spent in repealing and harmonizing it would be for the interests of
Nation, States and Grand Lodges.
\Ve believe a Lodge has a right to spend its own money so long
as it does not encroach upon its duty to its members and meets its
full obligations to the Grand Lodge. This may seem "far Western," but a Lodge in Nevada has a
to regulate its own private
affairs.

GRAND MASTERS
Grand Masters, like Grand Lodges, are sometimes prone to
take to themselves certain prerogatives that do not belong to
them and trespass on fields where they have no right to enter.
We believe they should concern themselves simply and solely
with Grand Lodge affairs, and not attempt to regulate the universe or the Masonic activities of other bodies. In the various
excerpts there are two things that stand out prominently: the attitude of Grand Master Lamb of Kansas and the opinion of the
Grand Master of Virginia. Read them.

.54

Nevada:

New Mexico:
The tendency of the people of this country is to attempt to cure
everything by legislation, and that without any particular consideration or any training for th.e work. Hundreds of thousands of new
acts are presented every year to Congress and the various Legislatures. The same tendency is sometimes found in Masonic affairs.

SoutJ;i Dakota:
He also uotices with disparagement the eagerness of Grand
Lodges to regulate every little thing a Mason may do or say or
even think. It is the work of the younger member. Old hands are
appointed upon troublesome committes and are not there when the
report of some new chairman is adopted. The thing to restrict is
legislation by Grand Lodge. It used to be the decisions of Grand
Masters, but those have fallen into innocuous desuetude in nearly
all jurisdictions of late years.

Virginia:
. More than forty years have passed since we first attended Grand
Lodge. At first we were astonished to notice the delight of the
older delegates as they greeted each other. Then we soon began
to find the joy our own as we, year after yeat, renewed friendships
with many who have long since passed away and a few who still
remain. No man has yet, so far as we have seen in Masonic literature, been able to account for the deep feeling aroused by these
reunions, though many have tried. The older among us realize
that ties thus formed grow stronger with the years. Possibly the
truth contained in his next words in part explains it.

Washington:
In these
of contention against autocracy it seems to us that
the Grand
may well pattse and consider whether the constituent Lodges are not being robbed of some of their inalienable
rights. Democracy in Masonry is just as essential to its welfare as
it is in the Kation. Any form of Masonry which overlooks this
fact and arrogates to itself the supreme right to determine the
whole detail of Masonic life will !ind itself called to an accoundng in
the not far distant fnt11n·.

Alabama:
\Ve thought views like these belonged to a past age when it was
generally taught and believed that there were Grand Masters before
there were Grand Lodges. But now that we know that there never
was a Grand Master who was not chosen by a Grand Lodge, that
the Grand Lodge is the creator and the Grand Master its creature,
it is absurd to talk of Grand Master being superior to his Grand
Lodge, of the creature being superior to its creator.

Illinois:
For a long time the idea has obtained in many quarters that the
Grand Master of a Grand Lodge was a law unto himself. Jn other
words, that he could do pretty much as he pleased without getting
into trouble for his acts. Again. it has been assumed that a Grand
Master possessed certain autocratic powers, that he might create
Masons at sight and by an instanter process deprive members of
their existing rig1its. Just when this assumption of unwarranted
powers fastened itself upon the fraternity is unknown. It must
have grown out of the self-importance of individuals, for there is
nothing in the traditions or history of Freemasonry to warrant the
so-called "autocracy" of Grand Masters.
There has been in the past a practice prevalent in' some of the
larger bodies, particularly in the city of Chicago, of calling upon the
candidates raised during the year to contribute a certain amount
of money to a fund to be used in purchasing a gift for the Master.
Knowing this to be the practice, I issued an order to the Worshipful Masters of the Lodges in Cook Cotrnty, to the effect that they
were not to permit any money to be collected in their Lodges for
any purpose whatever, and particularly for the purpose of buying
a gift for the Master. I further ordered that Masters were not to
accept any gift purchased in this manner.

Kansas:
In his conclusion the Grand Master (Giles H. Lamb) said:
"My first act after my election to this great office was to decline
tn h: a candidate for political preferment to an office I had long
cherished an ambition to hold. I have little respect for the ma.11
who would attempt to coin the influence of a great office like that
of Grand Master of Masons in political gain, and I had rather be
Grand Master of Masons in J(ansas, honored, trusted and loved by
this great brotherhood, than to hold the office of congressman,
senator or governor for the same length of time."

REPOHT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Kentucky:
What prerogatives has the Grand Master that the Grand Lodge
has not? If its constitution forbids initiation of a candidate yet a
minor, can the Grand Master violate it under an assumed prerogative? Whence these so-called extra-constitutional prerogatives,
anyway? Where did they originate? And when? Had any past
Grand Lodge, even the Grand Lodge of England at its first Communication, the power to endow future Grand Masters of other
Jurisdictions, themselves the creatures of Grand Lodges, with powers above the constitutions of the Grand Lodges that elect them?
And what about the obligation of installation, wherein each Grand
Master solemnly agrees and undertakes to maintain and support
the constitution? Categorical answers, please, from those good
Brethren who believe in mythical prerogatives of Grand Masters.
Louisiana:
It might be well for all of us to come to some conclusion as to
the character of the Masonic government. Is it autocratic or democratic? Our own impression is that it is a constitutional democracy.
We take it that while during recess of the Grand Lodge the power
to override the law is "almost unlimited," yet it has a limit. When
the Grand Lodge has spoken we take it even a Grand Master cannot
override its decree.
The dedicatory ceremonies as planned by the Potentate of Jerusalem Temple, A. A. 0. N. M. S., to be held November 8th, 9th
and 10th, 1918, appear.ed to the Grand Master to be more elab?r:ite
and extensive than was proper during a time of war. My opm1011
was concurred in by all the Past Grand Masters, whom I consultee!
in the matter. They did not, however, agree .upon the proper
course of action, should that organization persist in its plans,
although most of them were of the opinion that it was the undou.bted right of the Grand Master to prohibit Masons from par!icipating in the ceremonies, if he cared to go to that extreme. } ortunately that was not necessary. After due consideration, Potentate
Weinberger agreed to omit the obnoxious features and defer to the
wishes of the Grand Master. I suggest that it may be wisdom on
the part of the Grand Lodg~ to specifically lay down in black and
white how far it claim'i jurisdiction over the acts of members of
organizations composed exclusively of Masons, as individuals therein or as component parts of those bodies, in order that there may be
no differen..:c of opinion on the matter, nor further disagreements
thereover.
Massachusetts:
There were Masters and Grand Masters years before anyone
invented or fabricated the ornamental, instructive and honorary
degrees conferred by bodies presided over in these latter years by
High Priests, Eminent and Puissant Commanders, etc. ;-Jo one can
take any other Masonic Degrees unless he has first received those
of the symbolic or, so-called. Blue Lodge. The degrees of Entered
Apprentice, Fellow Craft and Master Mason are fundamental. And
the organized governing body of the nlue Lodge can deal Masonically with all Masons within its territorial jurisdiction, whether
affiliated or. not.

HEPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

57

While the Grand Lodge cannot govern the other bodies, it is,
nevertheless, the supreme authority of the Jurisdicti?n. It is the
Grand Lodges who have determined what other bodies are or are
not Masonic. Grand Lodge recognition has been in the past, as it
must be in the future the final test. No other Masonic body could
live if there were no't third-degree Masons from whom to receive
applications.
On the other hand, the Grand Lodge alone may expel from
Masonry. The phrase, 'expelled from Masonry' means j1;1st what it
says. It is not expulsion from the first or second or third degree.
Expulsion from Masonry is Masonic death.
Michigan:
Instead of reading the whole of my repo.rt in open session, which
would take considerable time, I am trying the experiment of having
as much of it as possible printed in advance of the Communication
of Grand Lodge and copies given to the representatives as they register. The printed copies you have received contain the report of
all completed business to April 30th. This plan has the advantage
of making it unnecessary for me to read the report, except the
introduction, conclusion and such matters as have arisen, been completed, or suggested themselves since. April 30th, and. of enabling
you to refer conveniently to any subiect treated. It 1s hoped the
plan meets your approval.
Nebraska:
Resolved That the incoming Grand Master be requested to submit his app~intments to the Grand Lodge as soo~1 as p~ssible a!ter
his election, which shall be at least one hour pnor to mstallat10n,
so that clue inquiry ancl consideration may be had.
Ohio:
Grand Masters arc hut human, and nearly every one of them has
some particular fad which he works to the limit, and when he is
fully en.thused he sees only the things th:it will help along this fa?•.
and if by-laws, restrictions, or regulat10ns are m the way, his
tendehcy would be to set them aside.
Pennsylvania:
As to the "magisterial omnipotence" of our Grand Masters, perhaps he thinks they are like the man who admits. there are always
two sides to a question-his side, and the wrong side.
Utah:
Among other matters reported by the Jurispr1;1de~,ce <:;ommittee
(Virginia), and adopted by Grand Lodge, 'Yas this: Actmg Grand
Master to Nominate Candidates. The actmg Grand Master shall,
unless he waive his prerogative, nominate a ~and.idate fo~ every
office, and any brother may alw~ys make a nommatlon: and if there
be only one nominee for any office, the vote shall be viva voce; but
there shall always be at least two nominees for the office of Grand
Junior Deacon." This seems to us to be· putting a good deal of
power in the hands of the <_:;rand Master: and to OJ:!en the way for
wire-pulling and electioneering. The sect10n before 1t was amended,

58

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

as given here, made it mandatory that "some brother shall always
nominate a competitor." We note that the Virginia law requires
that these candidates shall retire-to save their blushes, occasioned
by such unexpected honors, we suspect-before any discussion or
balloting takes place, This plan may work out all right, but to us
it smacks of "kaiserism"-we prefer less of autocracy and more of
democracy. We now appreciate Brother Eggleston's remark, in his
review of Utah: "* * * in any case our Grand Masters are
Grand Masters in fact as well as in name. There is no appeal from
their decisions in vacation or from their rulings in the chair." And
the Virginia law enacts that, "The Grand Master, unless he decline,
shall always be in nomination for re-election." To us, that would
seem to hog-tie the Brethren, but perhaps it works all right in Virginia. ·

Virginia:
Observation covering a period of about six months has convinced me that the Grand Master of Masons in Virginia should be
an expert in mechanics and building operations, be versed in both
civil and Masonic law, should be a financier and also a peacemaker, and should be thoroughly equipped to master the problems
arising out of the. conduct of a home caring for children. He should
have ability to make a pretty good speech without notice. He
should know how to refuse a request and yet so phrase the words
denying the request that the brother whose request is denied is convinced that he is actually being clone a favor. He should combine
in one man the best qualities of an executive officer of a corporation
as well as having his heart responsive to sentiment and filled to
overflowing with the true spirit of fraternity,

******

We would ask the Committee on Foreign Correspondence of
this Grand Lodge (Philippine I slan<ls) if they are sure of their
ground in the statement on page 93 of their 1917 Proceedings,
viz.: 'The Grand Master is a creation ol Grand Lodge, with only
such powers as are delegated to him by that body?' We were
under the impression that the office of Grand Master existed prior
to the formation of the first Grand Lodge in 1717. That the relationship between Grand Lodges and Grand Masters is such that this
false opinion could be so general as it is, is a tribute indeed to both
Grand Lodges and Grand Masters (Alberta).
No, Hro. Darling, they were not sure of their ground. lt is a
part of that "progressive science" you must help us of the older
Jurisdictions to combat. Masonry is perfect, and not "a progressive science," as some of the new rituals state. Our system of
perfect democracy, choosing once a year an absolute, unhampered
ruler, is the only perfect system ever devised by man, and there is
no place in it for "creatnres" of anybody's making.
*•:iE-****

Fortunately, in Virginia w·e have no constitution that limits the
(~rµnd M~1ster in his work. He is governed only by the constitutions
of Masonry, the lanclniarks and laws of the Grand Lodge of Virginia, and he is empowered by virtue of the position he holds to set
aside any law of the Grand Lodge of Virginia,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

59

THE GROTTO
An organization with a high sounding title, "The Mystic
Order of the Veiled Prophets of the Enchanted Realm," endeavored to gain a foothold in several jurisdictions. The only relation
that the organization bears to the fraternity is that membership in
the Masonic Order is a prerequisite to admission.
The Grand Master of Indiana refused to allow them to meet
in a Masonic Lodge room. . The Grand Master of Louisiana ruled
that they were in the same category as the Odd Fellows, Druids,
Knights of Columbus and other fraternal organizations. The
Grand Lodge of North Dakota made it an offense for a Master
Mason to join. To our mind, the action of North Dakota is on
all fours with other Grand Lodge legislation where they concern
themselves with affairs that are not properly within their province, or Masonic only remotely. There is altogether too much
regulation in every walk of life, including Masonry. Why not
give the individual credit for some common sense?
·
GROUP INITIATION
If Masonry continues to increase in popular favor as it has,

California will sooner or later have to give the matter of group
initiation serious consideration, or find some means of handling
the increase. Of course, this condition naturally applies only to
large cities. A good solution of the matter without violating any
of the "ancient landmarks," and the feelings of some Past Masters-Grand, and otherwise-would be to make the use of printed
monitorial work .optional. Personally, we can see no advantage in
having a Master commit to memory the printed section of the
Monitors, which in ninety-nine cases out of one hundred the candidate has read before he receives his first degree or will after he
has been initiated. This method of instruction, as compared with
the manner in which the average Master "poll parrots" the word to
empty seats, is preferable.
Illinois:
For a long time, Freemasonry in many quarters of the world has
established the rigid rule that each candidate for Masonic honors must
receive his degrees singly and alone. This rule, unclouhtc<lly, became
the practice in the early <lays of the fraternity, when lodges were small
and candidates few. Twenty-five or thirty years ago it was an unusual
thing for any lodge to raise more than ten or twelve candidates in the
course of a year. It was with difficulty that sufficient candidates were
found to keep alive the working interest of the lodge. But conditions
have changed. Population has rapidly increased, lodges have rnu'.tipliecl
and petitions are so numerous, that it is not unusual for the average
lodge to raise fifty or sixty candidates in the course of a year. All of
this contributes to haste and carelessness in the conferring of degrees,

60

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

instead of impressing the can<li<late with the dignity and solem_nity oi
Masonry, the whole transact_io1.1 reso!ves itself into one .of gettmg the
work done. To cure the existmg evil, more lodges are sugge~ted, but
where this has been tried, it has faile<l to help matters, for the .mflux C:f
petitions continues and the ritual b~c<'.me.s 1_nore or )ess of a rapid transit
process. In several of the grand iunsdictlons during t~e past :year, the
question of collective work on candidates has been senously di~cuss~d.
Of course, the mere suggestion of such a procedure has me! with v_1gorous opposition on the part of the graybeards, but notw1ths~andmg
this, there is a growing conviction that lodges shou.ld be permitte~ to
confer the degrees upon a limited number of candidates at one time
under certain restrictions and conditions. It has been suggested that
with the adoption of this practice ~here will be less nec;essity for hurrying
candidates through the ceremornes, and that a period of seven days
should be ma<le mandatory between the time of conferring the degrees.
The writer is a firm believer in collective work, because a careful study
of the subject, together with present conditions has t~oroughly convinced
him that collective work will not only serve to relieve the burdens of
the lodge but will result in a more dignified rendering of our ritual
much to the benefit and impression of the candidate.

HIGHER DEGREES
There are good arguments both for and against the so-called
"higher degrees." Space does not permit an extended discussion.
That they exist and continue to grow (perhaps sometimes at the
expense of the Blue Lodge) is the best evidence that there is a
needed field for them. When Blue Lodges give to their members
the feast, both intellectual and material, with opport_unity for
service that the co-ordinate bodies offer, this problem will be less
acute.
Alabama:
We should not quarrel with any Grand Lodge for. rccoi:;-mzmg as
Masonry the symbolic lodges and degrees of. the Scottish Rite, whe~e
such exist. It would be possible for a Grand Lodg.e to test the Masomc
character of such lodges an<l degrees. But how is a Grand Lodge ?f
:\<faster Masons to know the Masonic character of Chapter, Council,
Commandery and Consistory, whose degrees they would not be permitted to witness?
Brother freed (British Columbia). dis31grees "in tot<( with the v}ew
of Grand Master Jermane, of the Distnct of Columbi.a, that Ancient
Craft Masonry and the Scottish Rite "should be krnt more c!osely
together". Craft Masonry he says "i~ sufficient u~to itself" .. \V.e feel
that Brother freed
a narrow view. There 1s. no conflic;t '!1 t.he
teachings of the two
and, with t~e :mderst~ndmg a~ to JUrts~1ction and control of degrees which prevails m English speakmg cqur~tnes,
there is no reason why they should not labor on the most mhmate
terms.

Connecticut:
Grand Lodge (Arkansas) adopted a resolution specifying the legitimate bodies of the so-called "hig-her degrees", and providing that
Brethren taking degrees in any others shall be expelled from lodge.

61

Although a member in all of these bodies, we believe the' action of the
Grand Lodge of Arkansas to be ultra vires.

* * *etc.,* are* tacitly
* recognized as Masonic,
From .long usage, the Chapter,
and in most jurisdictions hqve enacted a dependent membership law.
As a corollary. we believe it to be our duty to assist the "higher (?)
bodies" in dealing with those of their members who, whi'.e entirely
willing to forfeit their lodge membership, zealously cherish their higher
( ?) affiliations.
District of Columbia:
I am a strong believer in the thought that there should be, as far
as it is at all possible, at all times a close cooperation between Blue
Lodge Masonry and all other orders or institutions in any way related
to it or composed of Master Masons, including the Order of the Eastern
Star, in furtherance of any attempt to make the activities or principles
of Masonry a potent force for good. I have, therefore, gone as far as
seemed possible to go in the accomplishment of that end-perhaps to
an unusual length. * * * There has been no time when I thought
the promotion of any commendab!e project could be helped by a concerted action that I did not freely ask the executive heads of all the
branches of Masonry and allied orders in this jurisdiction to meet in
general conference with me and lend their aid and council; and I am
glad to report that no call I have made has failed to meet with the
most ready, earnest, enthusiastic and helpful response from all of
them.

Iowa:
Now that the White Shrine of Jerusalem has been established, it
would seem to be in order for some other enthusiast to get up another
female sisterhood that shall be one step higher than the White Shrine,
and so on, ad infinitum and ad nauseam. If someone does not put a stop
to the formation of these so-called "Masonic Associations" and adjuncts
there will be no end to the crazy business and the silly farce will
1·esult in making every Masonic institntion ridiclllous. It is high time
to call a halt.

Louisiana:
There was ·a time when the deep significance of its ceremonies,
coming. down, as they have, from the dim past, were wonderfully attractive, because they taught us not alone tlie customs of man when he
was struggling out of animalism, but they showed us how these customs
and ceremonies had been preserved through the ages. But it has begun
to appear that the show of tinsel and brass, and the blare of trumpet
and newspaper notoriety, public parades, garbed in fantastic and gaudy
costumes, have become the center of attraction, and the Sublime Degree
of a Master Mason is about to become, in the minds of the thoughtless
and the profane, nothing more nor less than a 'door mat' spread before
the portals of appendant degrees and organizations.
And the question is asked, not how useful may I become to humanity when I become a Master Mason, but how long will it take me to
hecome a 'Shriner'?
In these later days we hear much of the 'playground of freemasonry'
and the 'flower garden of freemasonry', catch-phrases invented and
put forth, often by well-meaning Masons and friends of the organization,
but Masonry has no playground nor flower garden; it is a progressive,
moral science; it respects the Ancient Landmarks; it works silently,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

but not the fess effectively; and it sanctions ethical standards. It has
and should have naught to do with vaudeville, red and green fire, blatant
street parades and that class of notoriety.
The conservative and thoughtful :\fason while not viewing these
matters with great alarm, still realizes that sooner or later-and conditions now appear that 'it will be sooner'-the picnic idea must be
eliminated. These organizations which have crept in and fastened upon
the great body of Freemasonry are like vegetable parasites and fungi.
Masonry is serious, verging upon the religious. 'Ne, if true Masons,
worship the one God who has no brother and brooks no rival. I look
forward to the rapidly approaching time when the evil effects of organ!·
zations which claim to be .Masonic, because composed exclusively of
Masons, or because fastened t1po11 the Masonic organization, will be
innocuous, either because under the ban of the Masons or because ot
internal reformation.

wi~e-spread practical charities, and the men who bear the name of

62

Manitoba:
The thought is gaining ground in many jurisdictions that the time
has come when fundamental Masonry, that Masonry which has stood
the test of the centuries should assert itself. and assume its rightful
position. The so-called 'Higher Degree' bodies are recognized by all
who are familiar with them, as having a distinct purpose to serve in
supplying a post-graduate course in Masonry to those who have shown
themselves worthy. It is recognized that they undoubtedly can, and do
and meaning of the blue lodge ritual.
in many cases broa:den the
But-objection is made, when
some cases, as is evident from
ment made, these so-called 'Higher Degree' bodies attempt to
of
Craft Masonry merely a recruiting ground and treat their own degree
as something superior to, and greater than, Craft Masonry, and by
so doing tend to lessen rather than increase interest, in the Masonry of
the blue lodges. The time is considered to be ripe by many, for declaring that the Master Mason's degree is the highest and greatest
Masonic. degree, and that anything else is simply explanatory and subsidiary to it.

Minnesota:
When a candidate for our degrees states that it is his intention and
ambition to get into the Shrine as quickly .as possiJ:ile every black ball
in the ballot box should be cast against him. \Vlule I am a member
of the A A. 0. N. M. S., it is my opinion that the Shrine is becoming(yes has already become) a curse .to Ancient Craft 2\'1".sonry. The
Shrine is not Masonry, and has nothmg whatever to do with Masonry,
except in so far as it requires its novitiates to be m~mbers o.f the
Craft. It misrepresents Masonry. Its methods of securmg candi?ates
are in direct conflict with our Ancient Landmarks and established
usages, and subversive of our _underlying prin~iples, and suggest the
question whether we have not iust cause for divorce.

Nevada:
The Shrine, dubbed the play-grour:d of Masonry, has its serious
side, and the lessons it teac~1es are 1111portant ones and are taught
earnestly. As a social factor .1t must 11f!t be un.dervaluecl; It pro!notes
friendship, strengthens entlmsiasm and its chanttes are tar reachmg.
The O. E. S., the flower garden of Masonry, has proved itself a
blessing.

The Consistory, with its lessons of uplift and inspiration and its

Kmghts Templar, they are . neede? as never before. All are no part
of ~ea! Masonry, but all, m th~1r way, help foster and keep alive
t~e idea of ~rotherhood-promote its growth, and encourage its practice.
It the subhme degree of a Master Mason is becoming "nothing more
nor less than a :do<?r rr;.at' spread b.efore th~ portals of appendant degrees and orgapizat10ns ·. the fault is not with the higher degrees. It
rests so!ely w:th. the JY;aster Masons and they shou!d be called up
sharply tor behtthng their sacred duty. As true Craftsmen it behoove>
~.hem to c~refully scrutinize all candidates and fearl.essly to ban all
hurry-ups . A large part of the blame, too, can be laid at the door of
yrand Masters and their "hurry-up" dispensations. Let sharp censu;.;~
tall their way t
•

* * * * * *
vVhy will Masters and G_rand Masters continue to prate so much
over the fuss and feat~e;s ot Masonry? The. motive of the petitioner
should· be close}y scrutm1z.ed. See that. there 1s a proper consciousness
of the; worth ot Masonry in ev~ry .cand1date:s breast. Insist sharply on
proficiency and let the .exapunat10ns be m open lodge. , Require a
month. between the conferring and a month for the Committee on
Investigation, an4 insist that the dispen~ing of hurry-up dispensations
be done away .with., as well as ~veryt~mg else that hurries Masonry
and cheapens ~t with haste. Brmg lnm to an understanding of the
_value o.f practical work ;md let .him see that Masonry plays a part
m the big affairs of the world, makmg for the uplift of fellowman. Then
there need .be :io fear of the higher degrees. The duties of the Blue
Lodge and its ties of br~therhood and mutual intrest in making ).fasonry
a po.wer. for good .. remam paramount, whether he sports a double-eagle,
glories m a noddmg plume, seeks the merriment of the fez or does
'
a buck and wing in a ministrcl show for the 0. E. S.

New Hampshire:
The Knights Tcmplar Christmas Observance in Rhode Jsland has
c;ept into the Grand Lodge, through Commandery greetings sent to the
brand f\'Iaster and the \atter's re~ponse thereto. This is the beginning
of a tlung that may easily grow mto a custom. We have no hesitation
in expressing our feeling that this is misplaced enthusiasm. As a Templar affair the observance is beautiful and appropriate but it has no
place in our lodge life, if we desire to preserve th~ institution as
established.

North Carolina:
All of the "higher hodics"-both York Rite and Scottish Rite-in
N ort~1 Carolina and w~ thought also in other states) make it a
practice to dr?p t;om their rolls members who, for any reason, are not
m good standmg m t?e Blue .Lodge and all other bodies whose degrees
lead up to the body 111 question. Knock out the foundation-the Blue
Lodge-;-and down topples the whole Masonic superstructure: Chapter.
Council, Commandery, and Scottish Rite.

J

Oregon:
To excel, to do a little better than the other fellow is laudable·
we have had teams, instituted drives, and "gone over the top" untii
we har.dly know where to stop. In the acquisition of members these
things are offensive to a well-known principle of our Orde~, and

64

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

should not be practiced even by the so-called higher Masonic Bodi~s.
\\Te are all of one faith. The Grand Secretary will report to you a
large increase in the number of new members and also that large
rrnmbers have vone the N. P. D. route. \Vhat we need is not more
n-embers but self-improvement. .
South Dakota:
\Ve sometimes think that those who find the Shrine a menace are
apt to disregard the thought that the same instinct or reason which
draws the profane to the old Craft it is tha.t draws the Mason towards
the Shrine. It is the desire of men for friendship, the kind of friendship traditional of the Craft, disinterested and lasting. So many thert1
are who find it so, and many have somehow missed it. There is abroad
a faith or a misgiving that the sons of the desert are even more
friend'.y than the Masons used to be. In these days when we have so
little leisure to cultivate friendship of the older kind and must take
it on the wing, may not the fantastic whimsies of the children of joy
have filled an aching void with many?
Vermont:
That such organizations are increasing there can be no doubt. But
the various degrees based upon symbolic Masonry exemplify some further legend. Even those orders that are not recognized as a part of
strict Masonry, are founded in furtherance of some purpose. Very
likely some of these have no other object than to afford entertainment
and pleasure to its members, but even this is not without its value.
So far as we know all these that are based upon symbolic Masonry
make membership in the Blue Lodge a prerequisite either to admission
or retention of membership in such organizations. And so long as this
continues and is insisted on and the organization maintains proper
standards, even though its purpose is nothing other than entertainment, membership in the Blue Lodge is fairly well protected; for we,
at last, have the right to say who shall be members of any of the
Masonic orders.
Virginia:
For a long time many thoughtful Masons have realized that there
is growing among Masons a danger of schism which, .compared with
that which so sorely tried Ohio many years ago, would make· their
troubles look like child's play. Ohio got into trouble by taking sides
between rival claimants for regularity in Scottish Rite affairs, and the
fact that she took the right side did not save her years of discord
and contention with dandestinism. Virginia was asked to take sides,
and this writer, who was present, well remembers that our Grand
Lodge wisely said, 'we know nothing whatever officially of any organization but our own, whether or not it calls itself Masonic'. The result
was peace till this day.

* * * * * *

Now this writer wears a rather ancient Shrine pin, and is not a
bird to "befoul its own nest''. There are thousands of Knights Templar
and Scottish Rite Masons who are active, useful Blue Lodge Masons,
and all the better for what they learned in these bodies; but the fact
remains that other thousands, equally worthy and intelligent, devote
all their attention and activities to these bodies and are in lodge utterly
worthless. Many of th.em simply pay ·dues and never attend lodge, but

REPOR'.r ON CORRESPONDENCE

65

~~~ ~~ti~~/n ~~e~~ ~~~er ~o~jes. They could belong to the better class,
s_iI?,ple' Ma~ter i\fasonsm~;ttil fu~~l1e~;~~/~~~ub:~teM~:o~;hef remainc(1

~~d ~t~mch1Z~ 1 ;~1 e0 r5~t~:C~~~a~nd~r~'.gh altruism of the ~c~tls~~P~i(e
Washington:
There is a note of growing unrest among the rand lod
·f ·
country over the increasing use of the Blue Lodgeg d
ges o tlus
bership basis for extraneous organizations The f e1:ees _as a mt;mthat th7se organizations are taking the atte~tion of theemg tsb grofmg
!!lea sf~~~h~ fefatul_res tohf Masonry which <;ire their fundamr::;~ls~rsTl~~~~
r ee mg . at most of the thmgs which th
· ·
]!~empt _to <;Jo lhoulq prop~rly be done. within the bod; ~?th~izl~d~~s
h~yh are simp Y domg thmgs which the lodge should do itse'f and
w 1c are proper 1y a part of its functions.
· '
• The m~lt!plicity of 'orders', and 'degrees', and 'ranks' and 'grad •
w111c 1 are emg tacked onto Masonry these days is enou h to m is
us wonqe_r what the old institution is for anyway If it isg to b a 1e
at rec1u1t111g round fc;r 'entertainment societie~,' let us ceas~ o~uy
s hugg ll to se ect and mstruct. Let's take 'em all in that is. th r
w 0 WI pay-and then let these other groups take their pick. '
ose

Wisconsin:
If these considerations could have had full fo

flnd. hm~d'.el~ fi~ty years ago Masonry would have rb~e~ntheh~~ft~ed f to
,;~ld~n~s~~:s" h1t?ou~ some of thfie so-called concordant orders. The~~

he
ave e~ome too rmly entrenched for us to eradicate
t dd1!1 at the present t!me, l?ut surely Masonry cannot be benefited b
a mg to t 11ose now 111 existence.
Y

HISTORY
If the Educational Committee could enlarge their activities
so as to gather valuable material regarding the past history of the
men and events connected _with Masonry, that are not embodied in
the Grand Lodge Proceedings, and which will soon be lost they
would perform a lasting service.
·
'
T~e same. statement also applies to individual Lodges.

It is a

cmost 1nterestmg
· . study, but like the work of a c orrespond ence
omm1ttee, 1t must be necessarily a labor of love,

Texas:
With a view to uniformity and comprehensiveness
d
·
those ?rethren appointed _to prepare their lodge histories ' an to assist
!ollowm~ skeleton or out:me of the work, which should b~ ~~r~~J~~st t~e
mg to circumstances. And we here remark that all m b
cor lod~ell sh.ould Jen~ their assistance and co-operation in ~hls e~o o~ the
~~~~~ Y m gathermg up the facts which do not appear in tbe lod;e' r~~=

66

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

SKELETON OR OUTLINE OF LODGE HISTORY.
CHAP'rER l. ·
Section I-Geographical loi;:a~ion, sur;otmdings, history, population,
development and general conditions, social and otherwise, of the community.
.
Section 2-Preliminary steps to formation of the lodge. Names of
the Brethren activelv concerned in the movement, and . of those .who
signed the petition for the dispensation, or charter, .theu occUJ?at10ns,
Masonic records and brief biographi.es. Other particulars of mterest
connected with them or the lodge 111 its early stages.
Section 3-If an old lodge, formed prior to the adoption of the present form a full copy of the petition, with signatures, would doubtless be
of intere~t. Give name and number of the lodge that recommended the
petition.
.
Section 4-To what Gran.ct Master or Deputy Grand M':lster d1e pl:tItion was presented, his action thereon and the date. Names of the
Brethren appointed Master and \Vardens of the new lodge.
Section 5-When, by whom, and in what building, the Io4ge was
ened under dispensation. Minutes of the fi_rst several meetmgs. or
0
c~pious extracts or summaries thereof, showmg how the new lodge
started off.
.
Section 6--If ;m old lodge, chartered P.r~or to adopt10n of prese:1t
form a full copy, with signatures, of the petition for a charter. To what
Com~1 unication of the Grand Lodge was it presented, ':"hen and where
did the Grand Lodge meet, the report of the Conumttee op Lodges
Under Dispensation, or other committee, ther9on, and the action _of tge
Grand Lodge. If refused, follow up the domgs of )he lodge till t e
charter was granted.
Section 7-Where. by whom and in .what lmilding, was .the lodge c~n­
stituted? Kam es of its officers given 111 the charter an4 mst:ill~d, mmutes or ·summary thereof and the social or other functions mc1dent to
the occasion (if any).
.
Section 8-Any facts of general Masonic. histor_ical or local m:erest
connected with the experiences and prC'.grcss of the ?dge and.~f Ma:ons
in the community. Copious sn111mar1es of the mmutes 1111,,,ht be of
service.
CHAPTER II,

Section 1-List of all the Worshipful Masters of the l?dge and the
vear in which each was elected and installed, 111 chronological order.
· s tion
roll in chronological order, of all the members of the
ec ·
' rganization those "made" Master Ma sons by the
0
• ·
.,
.
1o<1ge smce
lodge in one column, those affiliated m another. .
.
Section 3-A list of all Brethren who. have died wlule members
he lod c. with date of death, and notmg oh:;eryanc~ o~ the huna1
t
· g('f
) .,; tl
ames of officers performmg same and other
service 1 any , " 1 1 11
·
Brethren present.
Section 4-A brief historical account of the severa! lodge rooms occu ied the time of the occupancy of each, ~n<l the c.1rc_umstances conne~ted' with or causing the changes, ~he leasmg or bu1ldmg of. each. A
mention of any of the old lodge furniture or appurtenances 1mght be of
interest.
'

.°!

67

Section 5-All traditions of interest connected with the lodge, especially in the early days, and contemporaneous events in the community
in which the lodge or any of the Brethren were directly or indirectly
concerned.
CHAP'rER III.

Section 1-Note time and circumstances connected with each visit of
a Grand Officer, including the District Deputy Grand Master, to the
lodge and the social functions (if any) incident thereto.
Section 2-If the lodge was named for other than the town or some
noted historical or Biblical character, explain the circumstances with
biography of the namesake (if a person) or history of the case.
Section 3-Biographical sketches of other prominent and deserving
members of the lodge, past and present, hut avoiding fulsome praises of
the living.
.
Section 4-Special mention of any member or memhers of the lodge
who have held office in any of the Grand Bodies of Masonrv in Texas or
elsewhere (before coming here), or in the public service, iocal, state or
national.
CHAPTE:R JV.

Section I-Accounts, with dates and full particulars, including officers, members present, etc., of all notab!e functions or events in the
lodge, public or private, such as:
(a) St. John's Day celebrations and public installations.
(b) Cornerstone ceremonies.
(c) Any others, Mas01iic, patriotic, etc.
CHAPTJiR V.

Section 1-Brief mention of other Masonic bodies, in same town or
county, with date of charter and other particulars.
To these outlines could be added other features of interest. especially
of things not preserved in Printed Proceedings of the Grand Lodge.

Utah:
The report of the Grand Secretary (Minnesota) is exceptionally full
and valuable. His observations under the head of "Research aml
History", and "Masonic Grand Lodge Building", lay emphasis upon th.::
importance of preserving everything that pertains to the history of the
Grand Lodge and of the Constituent Lodges. He remarks that the
Grand Lodge of Kansas has been fortunate in that none of its archives
have ever been destroyed, and he describes the provisions made in the
new building for taking care of all such material. We feel that too
much attention cannot be given to this subject, and we know that lodges
are often careless or, indifferent as to the fate of documents that are
priceless. Kansas is to be commended for its work a!ong this line.
\Ve shall do well if we allow its suggestion to fructify in action in
our own jurisdictions. It is this: "Programmes, newspaper comments
and correspondence relative to official visits are deposited in the Grand
Secretary's office for historical reference". Ko one who has not had
occasion to lament the absence of such flotsam of other years, when
trying to vizualize the life and activities of other days. can fully appreciate what such a course, persisted in, would mean to those who one day
will seek to revivify our age for the benefit of generations not yet born.
Such records are the tracks we leave on the sands of our Jurassic
pedod, as it were, and will be invaluable in the restoration of forms
of life and thought of our day. There should be under the care and
direction of every Grand Lodge, a place of safe-keeping for all available
contemporaneous records.

68

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

HOMES AND ORPHANAGES
As usual, the opinions regarding the desirability of Masom.:
Homes, or the manner in which this form of relief should be
handled, is one that must be determined by the various jurisdictions according to circumstances. The idea of running these
Homes on the community or cottage plan, as a substitute for the
institutional one, is receiving favorable attention. This method
has much to commend it. It gives an opportunity for the development of the individual and removes the evils attendant to collecting adults ·and minors under one roof and attempting to handle
them under. set rules.
There are two things in this connection that this Jurisdiction
lacks. One is a place under Masonic management or influen.ces
where children may be placed, but cannot under the present rules
be admitted to the Home. Often a mother or father dies, leaving
the surviving parent with children. There is no financial aid necessary, but the circumstances are such that the minors must have
a home. About the only place of refuge in this case is an institution under sectarian control. · If our Masonic Homes could accommodate paid boarders in this class, it might solve the problem.
The other condition is the care of the physically helpless, who
are charges upon the Fraternity. It is hardly right or proper· that
they should be placed in the Homes. In sc:ime Jurisdictions the
Fraternity have been allowed the privilege of maintaining at state
institutions a separate building for the care of their own and paying for its upkeep. This might solve the problem.
In the statistical part of the report will be found data relative
to existing Masonic Homes. It is to be regretted that in a few
instances the information is missing, or not up to date, but this is
.due to the "Mafiana" habit on the part of the parties to whom
communications have been addressed.
HOSPITALS
A survey of the various States develops the fact that Blue
Lodge Masonry is doing nothing along this line.. The only work
that has been done has been thrQugh the Scottish Rit.e. . This
branch of our Fraternity also went to the relief of the State Board
of Health in Alabama, when it lacked funds to carry on a health
campaign.
The report of the special committee from the Oklahoma
Grand Lodge is reproduced in full, as it· outlines a movement that
·could be followed up profitably to all concerned if Masonry
chooses to interest itself f9r the ttood of. humanitr.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

69

Georgia:
SCOTTISH RITE HOSPITAL FOR CRIPPLED CHILDREN.
Masonic charity does not consist in charity confined onlv to :Masons
and those dependent upon them. It is broader than this'· it extends
to all who are needy and aff:icted whosoever they may bd. It is our
d!lty, and pr.ivilege, and pleasure tp lift the fallen, comfort the sorrowing,
aid the afflicted, and render assistance to all under proper conditions.
Al!d far more is_ this imposed upon us for the little children; by so
domg we can bring unto them protection, comfort, health and happiness, and make of them good men, good women, living factors in education, church and state.
·
.
The Scottish Rite branch of Masonry in no wise conflicts with the
York Rite. We are all Master Masons bound by the so'.emn ties
oi the Order. The charity of the two branches should not be and are
not in conflict. The Scottish Rite of Atlanta is doing a wonderful
work, accomplishing great good through the medium of the Hospital
for Crippled Children who are dependent upon the charity of the world.
I have been through this institution, seen these afflicted children, a11d
the results of the labor bestowed upon them. For this alone would
I be enabled to say, "I am g'.ad that I am a Mason."

Louisiana:
.

Tl:e ~ommitt_ee. heretofore ~ppointed ~o consider the aclvi.sabllity of
establish mg a N at10nal M asomc Sanatorium for Tuberculosis patients
r:p~rted. that they. by correspondence communicate.d with every jurisdiction 111 the Umted States, and they have replies from either the
Gra_nd Master o_r the Grand Secretary C?f f?rty-thre.e states covering this
sttbJect; that thirteen of these commu111cat1011s advise that
are now
helping to maintain State institutions in their respective
for the
upkeep of like sanatoriums; the majority of replies from the different
jurisdictions are of the opinion that an institution so located would be
so far from the majority of the Masons who are actually in need of such
assistance that they very much fear their lodges would not deem it wise
for them to enter into the support of a national institution. It was
recommended that owing to the existing conditions now throughout the
world on account of this borrib'.e world-wide war, that this matter be
deferred to some fnture date.

Oklahoma:
We, your special Committee, to whom was referred the resolution
covering the subject of Infant Welfare, beg leave to report that in the
short time allotted to us and from the fragmentary information available we have discovered that in several localities Masonic Bodies have
established an Infant Welfare plan of work, advice, help and organized
relief for the benefit of the infants of such localities.
The most notable bodies brought to our attention were the ones at
Du'.uth, Minn., which has been active for about eight years, and the one
at Atlanta, Ga.
We find that the work consists of the following elements:
First. Co-ordinating with the Federal Child's Bureau of the D.epartment of Labor.
Second. Co-ordinating with the American Association for the
Study and Prevention of Infant Mortality.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

70

REPORT ON CORlUJSPONDgNCl:~

Third Establishing a system of Masonic visit;:t~on .hy means of
h' -1 th~ birth of children and their status and c01.id1t10n 1s reported tk
~ ~~l;tral secretary or statistician of the commumty wh.ereby ad~~e~ t .
'. 111 d definite report of each birth in each block or section or . is nc
;ssi ned to each Masonic watcher is listed . at th~ . headquart~rs and
f g. th d ices of the phvsicians and Masomc families the h~a.th cond\~i~ns, ~:al~h surroundings and physical soundness or defcct1vencss of
eaeh child is reported.
Vonrth Certain days in the week a re srt a pa.rt for mothers to vis~
a Masoni~ physician in the employ of the 1\fasomc Bodr and have eal
~hilcl examined as to sanitation of eyes, nose, throat and 111 fact all bodt Y
conditions.
Fifth .'\ nurse calls at the home to examine .as to f:iod supp~y.
characte~ ;ml quality of food and sanitation, inclu<l1ng hathu~g
.fg1!dr~n and ~anitation of the floors, bedding and places where t e c 11 IS
spending its infancy.
Sixth. A c:inic for the correction of physical defects, including surgery, is also established.

o{

Seventh. ~Elk stations whereby insl!ected. cert!tie~l pure. ar:~ wholesome milk from the best supply of the richest quality is furrns 1e ·
Eighth Experienced women or trained nurses are assignef to ~he
duti of ~ducating, instructinlg a1 nd1 . d_ir,ect;;~; .:11:se~~~:sotC1l;~r to1re i~ th~
children are called to serve t 1e ia Jles m
' ·
.
event of disability of the mother.
N' ti
The Clinical Department includes den~istry, ope!·,~ting on de··
0 1

1

~orm~d ~i1il.dren,1 exa1~!~in~ ~lgat~Vef~t:~~ti~~~· \~~~~~\~y :h; ~;~l~l \fe;~!=
~~~e~l~of!~:1r a~ ;0~\he 11£i struggle with a reasonable opportumty for
success.
\Ve recommend the following:
That the Grand Master shall appoint a committee of Ii~: to l!~l'\l'T' a
1
l· 1 lookinp; toward the estahhshment of a Masnmc ln a1!t
cte _P Relief System in the State of Oklahoma, tinder Masomc
c a~e. ,m ·
t he ·oper·tted in each locality when the Brotherhoo.d
1
£~ ~1~rv~:~~~~:;;n:~ 1~m1ertake' and conduct the same ads a !ocal ::Vfaro~11 c
·
th ma1ngcmcnt of the Home Lo ge, its P1an Jemg
1d
~~~~~\;{i;~ d~ si~~m1 eto ;,iv'e it official recognition and state-wide uniformity, interests and encouragement.
.

wnW

d1

Said committee of five to report back ~o th~ Grnn<l Lodge at 1~s n~~~
<
•
•
ml that in the meantime 1t shall correspon w1

Cor;imuMatlo~ Bodie' 'engaged in said work and compile and as~ertain

vanous also;~c ith tl1e report and shall further correspond with the
fac~s to LosucJim
wf Okla.l1omn with the view of enlisting interests, sym.
various
ges o
'
k
pathy and co-operation in the plan of wor ·

71

LECTURES
Uusually the average Masonic lecturer is a bore. When he
does tell something that is true, but disagreeable, his ideas get
little support unless he is in a position to continue the crusade.
You can reach a person in three ways: through the stomach, the
eye, or the ear. The first is usually the most effective, with the
eye next.
Illinois:
The system of imparting Masonic instruction through lectures is
all right provided the lecturer is sufficiently well versed in the history, traditions, philosophy and ethics of the fraternity to be able to
give to the Brethren information which they should have. The
trouble is that the suggestion of Masonic education is construed by
a lot of Jack-in-the-Box lecturers as an invitation to them to immediately get into the field and bestow upon the craft the great
wealth of Masonic information which they imagine themselves to be
possessed of, much of which is the result of their own overwrought
imaginations. In these cases it is not so much the idea of service
which actuates them as it is the financial return to themselves. A
friend of the writer listened not long ago to an illustrated Masonic
lecture on Jerusalem wherein the speaker exhibited on the screen
a picture of some rocks with the statement, "These are undoubtedly
the identical rocks behind which the three principal characters of
the third degree secreted themselves." Such assertions can only
serve to disgust intelligent Masons and have no place in any system
of Masonic education.
Nevada:
Under 'Recommendations,' the Grand Master (Utah) took a fall
out of a 'lecturer of note,' who had recently given a series of lectures in Masonic subjects in Nevada. He seemed to feel that subjects which touch the core of community life and interests should
be taboo. He appealed .to Grand Lodge to put its 'stamp of disapproval upon this twentieth century heresy.' The Committee on
Address held with the lecturer and against the Grand Master-and
Grand Lodge supported the committee. The committee expressed
the opinion that 'This matter can safely be left to the good judgment of the different Masters.' A wise committee, we think. For the
love of our brother man, give us more heretics, and more power to
their utterances, if through this channel there may come to Masons
a vivifying interest in, and an irresistible and deepening consciousness of responsibility for conditions in the midst of which they live,
New Mexico:
Personally, I am not convinced that the method we agreed
upon for this year's work has been productive of the desired results.
One lecture given in May last, by a well known Mason from - - - .
was of a character to which we cannot give the endorsement of the
Grand Lodge. Another lecture given in Salt Lake in August was
higl;ily entertaining and pleasing in character, but in my judgment.
scarcely met the requirements of our jurisdiction.
·

REPORT ON CORR8SPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORHESPONDENC8,

I am convinced that the future development of this work lies in
the study of Masonic subjects by one or more groups in each
Lodge, rather than through the medium of lectures by Masons of
whose Masonic attainments we know but little." (Utah)
The last sentence is well worded, as unfortunately there are
some not only well informed but unusually bright Masons who
could lead the blind into light but who are obsessed with the
theory of evolution, whose ideas if carried out would place the fraternity in the position of the traditional individual who changed his
views with the administration.

The collection of clippings has grown remarkably during the
yea_r,, for last year we were. able to report but twenty-five groups.
w~1le at present we have mnety-three well started. The value of
this work has been demonstrated again and again.
Ten traveling libraries have been doing splendid work and concerning these the Librarian tells us:
'
""!" e believe that in~erest in these libraries is increasing steadily.
Dunng the past year 1t has been necessary to keep a waiting list
and even now t~ree of the ten libraries are reserved for fall use'.
However, there 1s small doubt but that many of the communities
wh.ose names are not on the list above would find material included
'Yh1ch. would be well worth the attention of the Brethren. These
hbranes are one stepping stone toward Masonic education and
when given proper attention by the Brethren must result to' their
advantage."

72

Wisconsin:
Closely akin to the above" (printed lists of members) "is the
Masonic Lecturer who seeks to obtain permission to give his lecture
before the subordinate Lodges for monetary consideration. There
may be, and doubtless are,· Masons capable of giving interesting
and valuable information to the craft by this means, and deservfog'
of compensation therefor if a subordinate Lodge wishes to so expend its funds. But I have insisted that no one be permitted to
circularize the subordinate Lodges, nor seek a hearing therein for
pay, without first proving his qualification, obtaining unquestioned
Masonic testimonials of an official character as to the nature and
value of his efforts, and having the permission of the Grand Lodge
after a full presentation of his cause to that body. What shall be
presented to the subordinate Lodges as instruction in Masonic history, philosophy and ethics is too important to permit a discussion
thereof by persons not vouched for as to ability and purpose, and
especially is this true where pay is demanded.
LIBRARY
Too often a Masonic library is nothing but a collection of
books which the average brother desires to get rid of, because
they have served his purpose and are in the way. The publjc
libraries supply the demands for current fiction, and a Masonic
library for reference use is a necessity to a small portion of the
Craft only.
The main function of a Grand Lodge library should be to
furnish traveling libraries for the use of Lodges located away from
populous towns, and where such a service will be appreciated and
used.
North Dakota:
In lieu of a Grand Librarian, the Grand Lodge of North Dakota
has secured the services of a lady, Miss Clara A. Richards, as
Librarian in charge. She is also building up an interesting Masonic
Museum. If we may judge by her report (read to the Grand Lodge
by Grand Secretary Stockwell), the library and museum could not
be in more capable and intelligent keeping.
~·*****

13

South Dakota:
. Eight hundred dollars was appropriated for maintenance and
improvem<:nt _of the Library, whieh is growing in size and usefulness. A chppmg bureau and pamphlet files have been add'ed.
MASONIC PHRASEOLOGY

.It is to be regretted that some of the phrases peculiar to
~asonry only have become so common as to have lost their significance. For example, "A man is on the square," is heard so
often the average person using it does not associate it with the
Masonic Fraternity. Likewise there are others too numerous to
mention.
Alabama:
I:i a very mild manner, he finds fault with the name of our fratc;rn.Ity !n .so,~th ~arolina-"Ancient Free Masons." In his Jurisdiction 1t 1s Ancient Free and Accepted Masons." He thinks "it
would appear more logical, if one must be dropped to drop 'Free'
rather than 'Accepted.' " We must explain.
'
In 1777 the Provincial Grand Lodge of South Carolina, holding
under ,~he Grand Lodge of England, assumed independence, and became The Grand Lodge of Free and Accepted Masons of South
Carolina." In 1783, the illegitimate, schematic Athol or Ancient
Masons invaded the Jurisdiction of South Ca;olina and on 24th
March, 1787, organized "The Grand Lodge of Ancient York Masons." In 1808, a union of these two Grand Lodges took place
which, however, was disrupted the year following. In 1817 the tw~
Grand Lodges were merged into one under the name it still bears
"The Grand Lodge of Ancient Free Masons of South Carolina." '
As between "Free" and "Accepted" we are inclined to believe
that "Free" is the correct term, at le~st, if only one is to be used
we lean. towards "Free." Dr. Anderson first used the word "Ac~
cepted" m the second edition of his "Constitutions."
.
In Masonry, the word "Free" originally signified that the persons so called were "free" of the guild, that is, were members, and

74

~EPORT

ON CORRESPONDENCE

had all the privileges of the guild, and those who were not thus
"free" were not allowed to work with those who were. In our system of Freemasonry, "Free" means not bound, not in captivity: In
1782, the Master of Royal Military Lodge at Woolwich, England,
being in the King's Bench Prison, held a meeting in said prison,
and made several Masons. The Grand Lodge of England held this
meeting of Masons illegal, and adopted a resolution affirming that
''it is inconsistent with the principles of Freemasonry for any Free
Masonic Lodge to be held, for the purpose of making, passing or
raising Masons, in any prison or place of confinement." Note the
word "confinement," it shows the meaning attached to the word
"Free" by our Old Mother.
Manitoba:
Phrases endeared by long association, terms which have a flavor
of antiquity, habits which indicate that Masonry has a historythese give character to our proceedings and differentiate Masonry
from ephemeral associations of m'ln.
South Dakota:
In my correspondence with the various Lodges in our J urisdiction I have observed that Communications are almost invariably
spoken of as "meetings." In my conversations with many old and
otherwise well informed members of the fraternity, I have lear.ned
that they have always been accustomed to use the terms regular
and special meeting, and many of them have come to believe that
the word Communication is 9nly used to designate the Annual
Communication of the Grand Lodge.
The same careless and incorrect use of the terms regular and
special meeting prevails very largely throughout many jurisdictions
other than our own, showing that Masons generally have become
very lax in this regard. If this unfortunate condition is suffered to
continue, the use of the good old Masonic word "Communication,"
with the proper prefix, Stated, Special, and Festival, will ultimately
become obsolete; and the fraternity as a whole will lose terins that
have a peculiar Masonic meaning.
MASONIC PRESS
The Masonic press is in a position to render as much service
to the Craft as the daily newspaper is to its readers. There are
some of the publications that are of great value. They are interesting, readable and reliable. Others too often contain only discussions of abstract theories and chronological tables, or ride the
editor's personal hobby until it is tiresome.
Canada:
Let our excellent Masonic press, to which every brother should
subscribe, open their columns to the earnest discussion of all permissible craft questions. Masonic papers help to mould Masonic
opinion, and their unifying influence and educative power should be
practically recognized by all earnest Masons.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

75

Illinois:
Masonic journals edited by Masons of standing who have some
knowledge of Freemasonry are greatly needed in order that the fraternity may be properly represented in the field of journalism. But
there ought to be some law prohibiting those lazy, shiftless members _of society wh? can't make a decent living at anything else from
startmg a Masomc newspaper and not only misrepresenting the
craft but abusing everybody who doesn't fall in with their ideas and
lend them their pocketbooks.

******

The Grand Master (Missouri) found it necessary to take one of
~he Masoi:ic newspapers to task for asking its readers to patronize
1ts advertisers, all of whom were members of the fraternity. The
\ir.a~d Master held that such advertising was in the nature of sohc1tmg patronage, on the ground of being a member of the Masonic
fraternity. Another individual who came in for attention from the
9rand J.4aster was a dancing master, who advertised a grand open11.1g of his new dance. hall as a Masonic dedication. It is strange at
tnnes the uses to which men put Freemasonry. It is often charged
that much of the present influx into the fraternity is inspired wholly
and solely by business reasons. It sometimes appears as though
there were some truth in the statement.
MASONIC RELIEF ASSOCIATION
This body was established in 1886 in St. Louis. There must
certainly have been a demand for it to have justified its existence
by continuing for that length of time. The last available figures
show that in 1916 its membership consisted of 48 Grand Lodges,
138 Relief Boards and 77 Lodges.
Iowa:
Our experience with this association would lead us to believe that
G~and M~st.er Penney is entirely wrong.
The service rendered by
this associat10n to the Masons of Iowa has been worth many times its
cos~, and _of late. it ha~ enlarged its service by rendering valuable
ass1stan~e 111 the d1scovermg and locating of Masons who have mysteriously disappeared. The troub!e is not with the association but with
its lazy subscribers who are too sluggish to make use of the valuable
information which it furnishes. If we would only arrest and convict
these palpable frauds we would soon clear the field of these nasty
pests. It is entirely our own fault if we do not make use of the valuable information which this association places at our disposal.
Nebraska:
The p~actical work. of this association can not be fully comprehe~ded w1_thout atte~dmg the meetings and witnessing the exemplificat_10n of its. efforts ~n behalf of the wo~thy, distressed applicants for
relief, and 111 detectmg. the fraud and impostor, and protecting the
members of the fratermty. The able work of this association is no
longer an experiment. but has been fully tested and found equal to
the emergency along the lines of its operations.

77

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

If lodges wi!l keep in close touch with the official circulars issued
by the association, which are furnished by the Grand Lodge, many
impostors, now living at the expense of their kind-hearted but unin
formed Brethren, will be forced to seek other employment.

The several Masonic Jurisdictions were invited to attend a
conference of Grand Masters at Cedar Rapids, Iowa, the 26th .of .
November, 1918, for the purpose of taking some acthm with respect
to the then existing war emergency and the opportunity fdr Ma"
sonic service therein. Twenty-two Jurisdictions responded to the
call, and fourteen expressed their approval in general terrris. The.
meeting was held and the following plan then evolved, which has
been submitted to all of the Grand Lodges:
That there be organized the MASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIA·
TION of the United States, a voluntary association of Masonic
Grand Jurisdictions of the United States of America, for service to
mankin.d.
All Masonic jurisdictions of the United States of America shall be
entitled to membership therein on equal footing on expressing their
approval of this Constitution and acceptance of the responsibility and
privileges out.ined therein. Any member shall be entitled to withdraw
at any time on ninety clays' notice provided it shall have complied with
all of its assumed obligations. Such notice shall be delivered by registered mail to the Secretary at his postoffice address.

76

New York:
There is a serious question in the minds of many as to whether
or not this large expenditure of money could not be put to a better
use by directly helping some worthy charitable cause or educatiiig
some worthy child or children, rather than participating in circulating
throughout the country the names and pedigrees of a few Masonic
frauds
We think the suggestion a wise one.
MASONIC SERVICE ASSOCIATION
The war, we believe, has conclusively proven that :M:asonry is
in the same condition as the thirteen i;olonies were before the
adoption of the Constitution. If the men who control the Grand
Lodges or the Masonic sentiment in their respective States are
big enough and broad enough to perhaps sacrifice some personal ·
ambitions, cast aside petty jealousies, and act on the principle of
the greatest good for the greatest number, the situation can be
remedied; but if not, there seems to be hope for nothing but a
continuation of the existing conditions.
On December 13th, 1917, the representatives of all the fraternal
organizations in the United States met in Washington, D. C.
Little was done other than to urge the wli.ole gathering to a more
enthusiastic participation in the war. On the same evening,
twenty-five Grand Masters of Masonic Grand Lodges met in the
Masonic Temple to discuss plans for united efforts on the part
of the various Grand Lodges for welfare work for our boys at
home and abroad. Nothing definite was accomplished, for reasons
which are too numerous to mention here. The meet;ng did give
birth to a resolution commissioning a Past Grand Master who
was then in France to do missionary work in France, with an idea
of gettin~ THEM to change their constitution, by-laws, regulations
and beliefs to conform to the various ideas of the American Masonic Grand Lodge, so that fraternal intercourse could once more
be had without violating ancient landmarks, etc. Up to the present, the appointed missionary does not seem to have accomplished
anything along this line.
On May 10th, 1918, a conference of Grand Masters and representatives of several Grand Jurisdictions held a meeting in New
York. Nothing practical was accomplished, but a printed report
of 208 pages contains the proceedings of the conference.

Object
The object of the Association shall be the service of mankind through
education, enlightenment, financial relief and Masonic visitation, particularly in times of disaster and distress, whether caused by war, pestilence, famine, fire, flood, earthquake or other calamity; and presently and
immediately ministering to, cherishing, comforting and relieving the
members of the fraternity, their dependents and others engaged in the
United States forces, in the present great war, wherever they may be
stationed and upon whate~er duties engaged in the service.
Administration
For the purpose of administration the United States 1s divided into
departments as follows:
The New England Division.
The Central Division.
The North Atlantic Division.
The Corn Belt Division.
The South Atlantic Division.
The North Pacific Division.
The Gulf Division.
The South Pacific Division.
The Great Lakes Division.
The Southwestern Division.
Upon the occurrence of a disaster of greater magnitude than a local
calamity, the Grand Masters of the several Grand Jurisdictions within
the department, in which the said disaster sha11 occur, shall appoint a
committee to survey the need, appraise it and report forthwith its findings
to the department. The department shall thereupon take action on the
report of the committee to the end that the fund necessary shall be
provided and properly disbursed.
The Association may enter into correspondence and. affiliation with
similar agencies in other lands or under other governments, the better
to teach the Fatherhood of Goel, and to promote the Brotherhood of Man.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The powers and duties of the Association may be enlarged or cur~
tailed from time to time, but no member jurisdiction shall be bound
thereby without its express assent.
Each department shall meet annually on a date and at a place to be
fixed by it, or oftener if it shall so determine. A meeting may be
called at any time on the request of three Grand Jurisdictions. A
general meeting of all departments shall be held triennially on the
eleventh day of November, or oftener on the call of ten Grand Juris-·
dictions. Notices of the time, place and object of the meetings shall.
be issued by the Secretaries.
At each meeting, departmental or general, a presiding officer shall
be elected by ballot, for the purposes of the meeting. Each department
shall select a Secretary, whose duties it shall be to keep the records and
attend to the correspondence of the department.
The sole officer of the Association shall be the Secretary, who shall
be selected at the general meeting, and shall hold office until the next
general meeting, .or during the pleasure of the Association, and his
functions shall be purely clerical.

*At a quarterly Communication of the Grand Lodge, held recently,
the matter was referred to the Grand Master, who has written Bro.
Schoonover to the effect that he will recommend that his Grand Lodge
join the Association at the coming Annual Communication.

7S

The Grand Lodges of the following States have by appropriate
action become members of the Association:
Georgia-November 27, 1918.
Texas-December 2, 1918.
Alabama-December 3, 1918.
South Carolina-December 9, 1918.
Minnesota-January 15, 1919.
Florida-January 21, 1919.
North Carolina'-January 21, 1919.
Utah-January 21, 1919.
Tennessee-January 29, 1919.
Louisiana-February 3, 1919.
Connecticut-February 5, 1919.
Arizona-February 11, 1919.
Mississippi-February 18, 1919.
New Jersey-March 16, 1919.
Oklahoma-May 1, 1919.
New York-May 6, 1919.
Maryland-May 13, 1919.
Rhode Island-Niay 19, 1919.
New Hampshire-May 21, 1919.
Michigan-May 27, 1919.
District of Columbia-May 14, 1919.
Nebraska-June 3, 1919.
Nevada-June 10, 1919.
South Dakota-June 10, 1919.
Washington-June 10, 1919.
Iowa-June 11, 1919.
Oregon-June 11, 1919.
North Dakota-June 17. 1919.
Montana-August 21, 1919.
*Massachusetts-June, 1919.
Pennsylvania-September 3, 1919.

79

Indiana, the only objector so far, considered the matter, and
the following is taken from the report of a special committee which
was adopted:
The question is now, shall Indiana approve this constitution and
unite with this organization? Although the conference was called to
provide for work among, and for the soldiers, the objects set forth in
the proposed constitution are much broader and far-reaching. They
are thus expressed :
·
"The object of the Association shall be the Service of Mankind
through education, enlightenment, financial relief and Masonic visitation, particularly in times of disaster and distress, whether caused by
war, pestilence, famine, fire, flood, earthquake or other calamity; and
presently and immediately ministering to, cherishing, comforting and
relieving the members of the fraternity, their dependents and others
engaged in the United States forces, in the present great war, wherever
they may be stationed and upon whatever ditties engaged in the service."
A little consideration will quickly develop the fact that under these
ohjects thus stated. an almost unlimited field of activities is opened up.
"The Servit:e of Mankind through education, enlightenment, financial
relief and Masonic visitation"-under such an avowed object, there
would be practically no limit to the activities in which the or:;anization may engage.
We have very great respect for the opinions of the Brethren who
formulated the plan or have since approved it. Nevertheless, it is the
belief of your committee that the War Emergency which alone could
have justified the call for such an organization has passed.
With the passing- of the emerrrencv there has n;issed a, so whatever
need for such organization may have arisen from the emergency.
So far as concerns great disasters, such as floods, fires or earthquakes,
the individual Grand Lodges have ever been ready and willing to respond liberally and generously, and more oromptly in our opinion than
could be done under the machinery proposed by this organization.
Therefore, for these purposes there is no real need for this new
machinery.
So far as the general education, enlightenment and uplift of the
wodd is concerned, we believe Masonry a.~ now constituted. is <loing its
full part as an agency for good in the world, in upbuilding the character
of its members, in helping to make real men of them who are now doingmen's work in all the activities of the world which make for its betterment.
·
Notwithstanding the eloauent lamentations over tlw failure of
Masonry to do its part in this great war crisis, we say frankly we are
not convinced that Masonry has proved recreant to the great trust im
posed upon it, nor to the great oblii[ations which it owes to the world
and to this lartd of ours in which it has so wondrously prospered. We
believe Masonry has now, as ever, heen faithful to the rrreat orinciol<"s
of loyalty and brotherhood upon which it is founded, both as individuals
and as organizations. Masonry has heen loyal and faithful and during

80

81

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

this war has maintained the traditions of the past which have given her
so strong a hold upon the affections and the esteem not only of her
own sons, but of the people at large.
There is no doubt but what the plan of the Association has
some defects. That there must be a great deal of good in it is
evidenced by the action of the Grand Lodges above mentioned. It
is a matter for careful consideration and we believe that California should swing into line with the others.

Now, what sort of equipment do Masons need to fit them for the
highest usefulness? If operative, I see some reason; if speculative, I
see a wonderful inspiration from such schools as the Iowa system provides, with its grand library and its wonderful equipment for study;
but a university involves several schools with specific courses and
teachers and esoteric work as well would involve difficulties innumerable. It shows a growing need, however, for the fellowship of kindred
spirits, who grow indifferent to the ritual, which lacks inspiration and
longs for a higher or deeper insight into the spirit of Masonry, with its
history and its influence. We are proud of the great names of good men
who figure so gloriously in our country's history. Can we trace the
connection, for instance, between patriottism and Freemasonry? Why
was the Father of His Country a Freemason? Why was a Freemason
the Father of His Country? Do we need a great school with is kaleidoscopic faculty to fit us for patriotic functions? It may be. At first
blush and with profound respect to its promoters, the scheme is too
ambitious. Is it a quartuor corona ti scheme? If so, let us have it.

NATIONAL UNIVERSITIES
This, being something practical, should appeal to the Craft in
general. Perhaps, in time, the seed planted may bear fruit. One
of the aims of George Washington was the establishment of a
national university. One was started, but never prospered. The
Catholic College at Georgetown (near Washington, D. C.), is
flourishing, but Congress has never seen fit to carry out the idea
of the Father of His Country.
Thomas Jefferson wished that he be mainly remembered as one
of the founders of the University of Virginia. Perhaps these ideas
were peculiar to our forefathers, and are now out of date.
Illinois:
However, a very interesting report was presented concerning the
establishment of a non-sectarian university under Masonic auspices.
The report is quite lef!gthy and in substance approves of"The formation of an incorporated company or organization of an
endowed foundation under Masonic auspices and direction for the
purpose of carrying out the fundamental princip!es and teachings of
the fraternity in reference to benevolence and education".
·
The Grand Lodge approved the report and named a special committee
of five to carry out its provisions. The. writer has long thou~ht that
somewhere in this great United States there should be a splendid university endowed by Masons where their sons might go and receive an
education under those influences which Freemasonry ever fosters and
encourages. It will be a difficult matter for the District of Columbia
to interest other grand lodges in their project because it goes without
saying that every grand lodge has ideas of its own upon every possible
Masonic subject and it will be a mighty hard matter to 12"et them together
in such a laudable enterprise as is contemplated by the Grand Lodge ~
of the District of Columbia.
Maryland:
Several stated communications are held in advance of this Annual
Communication (District of Columbia), in one of which a most important step towards a non-sectarian university is broached.
It is not for this correspondent to criticise or question this movement. The men at the back of it are too well situated to discuss a
local question, but if it means anything it means a great national school
of learning, with special concern for Masons in such ·a way as to
appeal to the frilternity throughout the country.

West Virginia:
Steps were taken, which were favorably received, looking toward
the establishment of a non-sectarian university under Masonic auspices.
I trust I will be pardoned for expressing an opinion against such an
undertaking. The report does not say the university shall be located
at the Na ti on al Capital, or in one of the states. If at the capital, the
answer will be, there are already in that city several half endowed,
ha1f supported similar institutions, which could be developed into great
seats of learning, if they were properly supported. And there are but
few of the states that do not have well endowed and prosperous universities for the higher education of their young men and women;
furtherm·ore, there are scattered all over the country sectarian c.olleges
and universities of the highest order, also a large number of nondenominational, non-sectarian universities, which impart the highest
courses of study, where Masons can attend a!)d not be hampered by
sectarian dogmas or isms of any sort. Really, I can see no earthly
reason for loading on the Craft the responsibility of creating and supporting a distinctive Masonic university.
NUMBERS
The question before the Fraternity now is whether Masonry
is going to base its claim to distinction to its numerical superiority or revert to the early idea of being a select association performing a labor for mankind that was peculiar to it!;lelf. Observation leads one to almost believe that we are rapidly becoming a
"degree mill," making members only, and not Masons.
Considerable criticism has been leveled at the Scottish Rite
for communicating degrees, but in earnestness, dignity and practical results, it perhaps has its advantage over Lodges meeting
three and four times a week, conferring five degrees at a time,
and allowing no set time to elapse between the conferring of the
.se.parate degrees on each individual.

82

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Is there any significance between the first statement and the
facts given under "Iowa?" There is a large increase in membership in proportion to the State population. One Lodge worked
overtime to make members, and yet there is no demand for
Brother Newton's great book, "The Builders," which is one of the
best Masonic treatises in existence.

o'clock in the afternoon. The Entered Apprentice degree was to be
conferred. In the portions of degree where . required, the ceremony
was conferred on candidates singly. It was the first degree conferred
by a new lodge, and Masters and Wardens of about fifteen lodges in
the jurisdiction assisted in the work. It is true that the communication
did not adjourn until shortly before midnight, but the motto that
"Masons shou:d be well taught" was carried out in regard to each
candidate.
We venture this information in no way of argument or apology,
but merely to substantiate our former statement that if the correspondents "could see the work of the lodges asking these dispensations,
they would understand the Landmarks are not being violated".

Canada:
As in other jurisdictions, there are ~wo troubles or dangers which
beset us at times. Whenever a lodge needs petitions for the degrees to
refill its treasury or meet its expenses, the door is open for the reception
of unfit material. And there is the other peril-numerical ambitionthe appetite for dimensions. It has been well said that "we need
quick recovery from the insanity of numbers". Are we not paying too
much attention to the wholesale birth of Masons and too little attention
to their care and nourishment after thev are born? Masters seem to be
possessed with an imaginary rivalry with competitors who do not exist.
The character of its people is the measure of a nation's greatness and
so with the craft. The calibre, the quality of membership, is all in all.
Quantitative totals are merely nominal rolls-Masons on paper-unless
good citizenship is added to the distinguished honor and dignity that
we have the power to bestow or withhold.
Colorado:
Trooping through the doors of our preparation rooms we find ·an
ever increasing company composed of those from whose faces is missing the stamp of high inte'.ligence, in whose eyes the torch of education has lighted no fires and whose halting steps are led by friendly
suggestion or quickened by the hope of gain.
"Have committees forgotten to report whether these have 'sufficient
education and intelligence to understand and value the doctrines ancl
tenets of Freemasonry?' Did the Senior Deacon demand of them if they
came 'unbiased by improper solicitation and uninfluenced by mercenary
motives'? \Vhen they answered the enquiry did they know that 'truth
is a divine attribute and the foundation of every virtue'? Has not bitter
experience, no less than the language of the ritualist, yet taught us
that 'it is better that no workmen be added to the roll than even one
unworthy foot allowed to cross the threshold'?
Georgia:
He (New Mexico) takes the Grand Master to task for granting
dispensations to confer degrees "on abnormally large numbers of
candidates at one meeting". Speaking of one instance, he says:
"It would seem that some small village suddenly realized that its
inhabitants should ·belong to the Masonic Lodge and realizfog this
they did not want to lose any time. The result was a class seven times
as large as it should have been and we venture to say that the lessons
of Masonry lost much of their impressiveness in the haste to handle
the largest class of the year. Not how many but how well can lessons
be taught should be the motto of Masters".
It so occurs that we saw the particular event to which he refers,
and can assure him that the contention of his last sentence was truthfully carried out. The lodge in question was convened about one

83

Indiana:
There is clanger, however, in the great influx now of not properly
guarding the outer door. As I see it, no regulation could be properly
adopted to exclude petitioners or deprive lodges of the privilege of
receiving the petitions of good men and electing them, but a note of
warning may not be out of place that extraordinary care he observed
when -floods of petitions are pouring in. A regulation might possibly
he adopted fixing a time limit between the conferring of degrees and
also a time limit from the election to the initiation of the candidate.
Iowa:
Somehow these war times have brought to the front as candidates
many men who have been all their lives trying to get something for
themselves and who seem to care more about what they can get out
of Masonry than they do about what they can give to it.

*

* * * * *

From 1900 to 1918 the population increased but five .per cent against
a 102 per cent for Masonry-in 1900 there were thirteen Masons to the
thousand of total popu'.ation, and in 1918 there are twenty-six.

*

* * * * *

During the summer a remarkable communication of an Iowa Lodge
was held which lasted continuously for twenty-four hours. Twenty
candidates were given all three degrees in full, working them in regular
classes.
·The communication was opened at 12 :01 A. M., and closed at 11 :SO
P. M. A lunch of coffee and sandwiches was served at 3 A. M., breakfast from 6 :30 to 7 :30, luncheon at noon and dinner in the evening.
Several sets of officers did the work and the attendance throughout
the day and night numbered 240. There were 100 members present at
one time through the evening.

*

*

* *

* *

At the last session of the Grand Lodge, an appropriation of $2000
was made for furnishing 'The Builders, a Story and Study of Masonry',
to all who received the degrees during the year. These books have not
been requisitioned for as contemplated. We have a number of hundred
volumes on hand. The Grand Secretary, when he found that the
number arranged for was not going to be used, did not order the last
$500 worth. and returned $500 of the appropriation to the treasury. I
do not think it worth while to require this appropriation for the coming
• year. Perhaps, we had better not force these books upon the Brethren
-they do not seem to want them.

84

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCI~

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

8~

Kansas:

Minnesota:

This fact must give us concern, mixed with our satisfaction, for
many of these have received the degrees without any prepai"ation, and
in many cases· I fear without much investigation. To the experienced
Freemason grave dangers to the Craft will arise from this rapid
Masonic advancement. True it is that in modern times we have lost
much of our early conservativeness, but still we have insisted that a
certain degree of restraint on newly made Masons is necessary, because
that which is quickly and easily attained is correspondingly deprived
of its due value and importance. The Fraternity must make endeavor''
to digest and assimilate this mass of raw material, some of which I
icar will cause serious internal disturbances.

We often congratulate ourselves with the remark that Masonry i:;
making such rapid progress and such large gains. Never before has
there been such an increase of membership as during the year 1916.
There seems to be a passion for members in these days. There is danger
in the popularity of Masonry. There is such a thing as the enthusiasm
of numbers working more for woe than for weal. Better material
and less of it would not be a policy wanting in both sense and judgment. It is not desirable that all men should be Masons. I am afraid
there are times when we are too anxious and too ready to take men in
for the sake of their numbers, their fees, or the making of a good
record of activity. Are we simply becoming a factory for turning out
Master Masons? There is danger that we are. What makes me a
Mason? My obligation. The best Mason is he to whom the obligation
is most intelligently and instructively given. Many of the jurisdictions
around us, and some of the largest, allow only one candidate to be
obligated at one time. The Ancient Landmarks had only one in mind.
So, too, our own Minnesota work. Moreover, every candidate is entitled
to have the whole work exemplified upon himself alone. It has been
said that lodges paying high rents must have many candidates in order
to meet their expenses. Is not tHis to commercialize the Craft and
cheapen it in the eyes of the world? Those lodges are wise who have
learned that the dues should be sufficient to care for the ordinary
expenses without the necessity of receiving candidates to benefit from
the fees. To insure independence, a sure and sufficient income is as
necessary for the lodge as for the individual. Raise your dues, Brethren,
but don't cheapen the Craft.

Louisiana:
The deficiencies caused by the rapidity of growth and the desire
for large membership, rather than care in selecting new material, are
becoming· more and more apparent. The organization in general, and
in this Grand Jurisdiction in particular, lacks that solidarity and
cohesiveness which gave us strength in by-gone days. * * * It
has begun to appear that the show of tinsel and brass, and the blare
of trumpet, a.nd newspaper notoriety, public· parades garbed in fantastic
and gaudy costumes, have become the center of attraction, and the
Sublime Degree of a Master Mason is about to become, in the minds of
the thoughtless and the profane, nothing more than a 'door mat' spread
before the portals of appendant degrees and organizations.

Massachusetts:
I have long been of the op1111on that many of our lodges are
altogether too large, and that better Masonic and equally good
financial results .would be obtained if there were more lodges, with
smaller membership.
Tt is hard to say that there is any fixed number of members which
should not be exceeded. Conditions vary in different places. It is
however, always true that where the membership is so large that each
member present cannot know all the others, and where only a very
small percentage of the members can ever have the opportunity of
serving the lodge in official capacities, the interest of the members
lessens and each individual member feels less responsibility for the
welfare of the lodge and for the exercise of the duties and responsibilities of Masonry as well. It is a practically universal rule that the
smaller the membership the larger percentage of members attend the
meetings. Elephantiasis is a disease equally injurious to an animal,
a human, or a lodge. Many lodges, however, are afflicted with it.
What is even much more necessary is the creation of a sentiment
in favor of more and smaller lodges where the Brethren may be more
united, may be thrown into closer fraternal intercourse, may have
more opportunity to serve, and where the tenets of our institution
can better be in cu lea ted.
The tendency of great lodges is to lessen rather than to enhance
the Masonic development of each individual member. The accomplishments of Masonry have never been engaged by fo1ancial considerations. When these become the criteria, then it is time to halt and
to recast our activities, for then the grand aims and purposes of our
fraternity are sure to be obscured".

Missouri:
But here and there the Grand East utters a serious warning against
the campaign for members now being so extensively waged through
all the land. Quality and not quantity is a sentiment which is growing
in popularity and one Grand Master emphasizes the thought by the
statement that he is much more "afraid of the white ha"! than of the
black", as an injury to our Order. And the opinion is growing among
older and wiser Masons that it were better to stop "making Masons"
and go to work and improve those we have made.

Nevada:
The large lodge has its advantages when it comes to doing things
in a large way, but the real service of Masonry ·comes from doing
things in the small, quiet way. When it comes to real usefulness,
personality and close contact are essentials. In the large lodge personal acquaintance and close fellowship are unknown. Time doe~
not al'.ow for the contact of the closer brotherhood. Too much energy
is expended in hustle and too little on friendship and getting in touch
with one another. while in tl1e small lodge there is no trouble in getting
nearer to the personal needs of the individual member, and this contact and fellowship arc what count in the real usefulness of Masonry.

New Jersey:
The Gra1id Master cal'.ed attention to the careless manner in which
lodges were receiving and acting upon petitions of soldiers, regardless·
f'f thf' :e 0 al requirernent ilS to residence, and calls aHentinn to the fact
tl1at it looked a little peculiar that a man would live ten or fifteen

86

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

l'ear~ within the jurisdiction of a lodge and never think about petition-

mg 1t, and the moment that he finds out that he is going to war come
tc: the ~c:nclusion that Masonry is a good thing and immediate!y present
his petition.

New South Wales:
. . ~l.1ile larger additions are made to our numbers every year by
1111t1at10n, th~ annual re~urns do not disclose a corresponding increase,
and all bodies are askmg why. Many reasons have been adduced:
First, that those ~n_itiatecl have joined from unworthy motives, or they
ha".e lacked stability of character a~d purpose; and secondly, that
while. lodges e~1gage themselves exclusively upon ceren1onial work, the
attent10n and mterest of the Master ~ason is neglected; and thirdly,
that so .many of our lodges arc m~1:1encally of such large and unwieldy
proportions that the natural amb1t10n of a brother to advance cannot
he gratified, and he loses interest.
Many ,remedie~ !lave bee:1 .suggested, in a~lclition to the highly important. p.ea for ng1d superv1~10n of th~ matenal with which our lodges
arc built, among others: 1 hat certain nights should be devoted to
lectures, papers and .discu.ssions on Masonic and kindred snhjects,
:ind so tl_ie ~pportumty. g1 vcn to all• members to take an acti vc part
111 the mght s proceeclmgs; that Master Masons should be invited
to extend their Masonic knowledge by proceeding to higher or more
advanced degrees; or th!lt as in most American jurisdictions, Grand
~ecturers should be appomted, who would arouse and maintain interest
m the Order, and so prevent the too prevalent lapse of nwmbership.

New York:
The. forms an~ ceremonies. of many of our lodges arc almost con,
stantly 111 use turnmg out nommal Masons. The degree work is clone
s? often that it has become machine-!ike, wi.thont spirit or meaning,
e~t~er to the officers of the. lodge or the candidates. Some lodges are
pilmg up members 11nt1l then- bulk has become unwielclv.
"ft is time to call a halt on quantity and give 1~10rc attention to
quality. W c should not only be more careful in the selection of new
ma!erial, but we should use every effort to improve and deve!op that
wl11eh we have. We cannot do the latter if all our time is taken up
in working degrees.
·

Ohio:
Tt is quite evident to us that there is an um1sual amount of hysteri;i
prevailing in many of the grand jurisdictions l:ccausc of the war and
we fear that it will not result in good to the fraternity. Lamln{arks,
usages, n!les and regulations of our Ancient Craft a re being set aside
and ignored with a freedom and recklessness that is astonishing, to say
the least. Many seem to feel that if a man wearing- the uniform of a
s?ldier should .knock a~ our doors he should be admitted without que~­
t10n. Indeed, 111 some mstanccs the doors have been opened and invitations extended to the boys in khaki, and we are not quite sure hut that
some of the lodges have ,gone so far as to endeavor to drive them in.
We believe this is all clcacl wrong. We have as much respect, love and
esteem for the American soldier as any person on earth, and recognize
and appreciate the patriotism exhibited by him when he casts his life
and fortune upon his country's altar and goes forth to battle in her
bt>half. Rut we do not believe that a soldier's uniform makes a gt>n-

87

tleman out of any man who was not such before he donned it, and we
believe that the same degree of care should be exercised, and that
Masonic rules and regulations should be followed as c'.osely in the
case of soldiers as others.

* * * * * *
We suggest that in the war between the states there were return!ng
heroes badly crippled and maimed for life, but there was no lettmg
down of the Masonic bars, and we see no reason why there should be
any at this time.

******

I do not deem it wise to confer degrees out of time. I am of opinion
that much harm will be done to Freemasonry, and little good to the
petitioner by this method. It were better to return to the ol? law
of requiring a man to remain an E. A. for one year befor~ becommg an
F. C., and to remain an F. C. for one year ~efore becommg an M. ~.,
than to resort to this unseemly and hystencal method of confernng
degrees wholesale, thereby destroying the Constitution, Landmarks, aml
Code of Masonic Institution.

West Virginia:
May it ever be the first great care of Masons when in .lodge assembled and at all other times, to so act that we may <;ontmue to grow
fast~r than the population, thus proving .the. inc.reasing regard in which
all right-thinking men hold our helovccl 111st1tution.

PAST MASTERS
Past Masters, like the poor, are always with us. They undoubtedly have their function in the Masonic machine, if for no
other purpose perhaps to be a warning as to how things should
not be done.
A number of Jurisdictions make it obligatory that an incoming
Master receive the degree of Past Master before being installed.
Why not make it an honor degree in fact, to be conferred only for
merit and actual service, determined by secret ballot, rather than
the perfunctory conferring of a ritual with no other requirement
than election to the "Oriental Chair?" It might then be more
highly prized.
Maryland:

A new Past Masters' Ritual has been provided .where t~e Mas!erelect has not received the degree in the Chapter prev10us to his elect10n.
There is a screw loose somewhere in the matter of this degree .. Supnose
a Brother has received the degree in the Chapter; who knows 1t? How
can he prove it? Must he do it to the satisfaction of the Lodge over
which he is called to preside?

Prince Edward Island:
In some lod1res too much reliance is placed on a degree team, composed of Past Masters, to put on the work. This ~s truly unfortum1te
as although having a degree team may be. ~he· easiest way .to get the
work clone, it is a death-blow to the .eff1c1ency and usefo.nes, of a

88

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

lodge,~its tendency being to dampen the ardour of the young officers,
and d1scou.rage the devel?pment of their talents. Every member who
accepts office should be given to understand that it is his bounden duty
to perform all the requirements of that office, for if he does not get up
the work he will never taken the pains to study out its meaning so ar1
to he benefited thereby. On the other hand the more a craftsman
learns about Masonry the keener he becomes to acquire additional
knowledge. (The efficiency of some lodges is greatlv retarded bv ol<'
Past Masters retaining a death-grip on the prindpal ·part of the iodg;
work.)

Saskatchewan:
"There is one thing in particular that I suggested to the Lodges and
t~at was that they have a standing committee of Past Masters, in addi~'<?1: t? the regular appointed committee, to handle all applications for
m1tiat10n. :My reason for this being that it would be much easier fon
a .member of a Lodge to remember the names of a standing committee; consequently Brethren with information or objections would be
ab~e to stat~ same w~ich would have a tendency to prevent mistakes
bemg made.
(Washmgton.)
It seems to us that the above suggestion contains considerable merit
!t ~ould form a ..body to which the average Mason would submit ob~
Je~t10ns ':Vith considerable confidence, and it seems to us that such a com- ·
m1ttee might be made to serve a very useful purpose in any Lodge.
South Dakota:
Brother Michie (South Carolina) is a friend of the Past Master's
degree. He ~a~es Br<?ther Sc_ott to task for saying that its requirement
as a prerequ1s1te to mstallat1on of the Master has been abolished in
mos~ of t_he Grand Lodges. \Ve are sorry to sav that it has been
abolished 111 South Dakota for twenty-odd years. We think that there
are many of the Western jurisdictions which gave it up because thev
had no one to <:oi;fer it properly in the early days, and now they ar~
:ish:im.ed. to admit it. \Ve should be glad to know how many and which
JUnsdict1011s have abandoned the degree. It seems odd that we are so
c:i-reless as to .send ou.t our Past Grand Masters disqualified from admission . to the. mstallat~on ceremony of the Master of a Lodge in all
Enghs.h, .Ir~sh 1 Sc?ttish and Colonial Lodges, as well as in all the
older Jurisdictions In the United States.
PHYSICAL QUALIFICATIONS.
There are three well defined rules along this subject: First a
candidate must literally comply with the Ancient Landmarks
being physically perfect, without maim or defect in body or limb'.
Second, that a candidate is eligible if he is physically able to
conform substantially with all the requirements of the Ritual and
Modes of Recognition, without the aid of artificial substitutes.
Third, a candidate is eligible, even with the substitution of artificial parts or limbs for portions of his natural person, provided
such are under his practical control.

89

We believe that the last regulation is entirely too liberal for
the good of the Craft. It is a product of the "sob-sister" sentiment or philanthropy occasioned by the war, when a soldier's uniform was a passport to everything, regardless of the mental or
moral qualifications of the man himself. It was not thought wise
after the Givil war or the Spanish-American war to go to such
lengths, and we do not know that the Craft suffered very much
thereby. It should be remembered that in lifting the ban you do
so not only for men who have served their country, BUT EVERY
OTHER CRIPPLED PERSON THAT IS OTHERWISE ELIGIBLE. There are undoubtedly individual cases of persons who
would be a credit to the Fraternity, but are now barred. Might
we inquire why they did not have sufficient interest in the Craft
to make their application before the injury? Is it not about
time we commence to THINK LESS OF THE INDIVIDUAL
AND MORE OF THE FRATERNITY, and would it not be
better to tighten the· rules a little rather than relax them? While
the exceptional case might argue for a change, still remember
that in legislation of this kind we are not dealing with the exceptions, but everyone and part1cularly some who would abuse the
privilege. There is of course a stock argument that it is better
to have a man with a wooden leg than one with a wooden head.
While one prejudice makes more votes than one hundred reasons,
still is there any necessity for Masonry having EITHER the
wooden-legged or the wooden-headed man, or BOTH of them?
Canada:
The general demand is for such bodily endowment as will
enable• the candidate to comply literally and fully with all the conditions of the ceremonies. We cannot help thinking that the constitution of 1723, when dealing with this subject, has been generally misunderstood. That law declar~c! that "no Master sho;ild
take an apprentice unless he has sufficient employment for him,
and unless he be a perfect youth, having no maim or defect ,fo his
body that may render him incapable of learning the art of serving
his Master's lord. ·The intent and meaning of this appears to be
that no apprentice might be taken who suffered from any defect
which would disqualify him to serve his employer. A trifling
defect would not disqualify him for cutting stone or laying it in
the wall, and a trifling defect oug~t not to disqualify a man for
Masonry in the modern and Masomc sense of the word:
England:
Representations have been made to the Board of General Purposes that cases of hardship may occur if no maimed person,
otherwise fully qualified, is allowed to become a Freemason. The
Board feel that it is impossible to lay down a hard and fast rule
as to the initiation of a candidate not perfect in his body within
the meaning of Article 4 of the Ancient Charges, prefaced to the

90

REPORT ON CORRESPOND.ENCE

•

,91

R:mPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Book of Constitutions. Eut the Board are of opinion that, when
the defect does not render a candidate incapable of learning our
art, there is no reason why he should not be initiated, provided he
is able to understand our secrets and mysteries and to explain or
exemplify them when properly called upon.
Each case of this description must be decided on its merits by
the members of the Lodge to whom the candidate is personally
known, subject to the investigation and approval of the Master· of
the Lodge, who is officially responsible that the candidate is in a
condition to comply with the requirements above named, and subject also in provinces and districts to the sanction of the Provincial or District Grand Master, and elsewhere to the sanction of
the Grand Master, after submission ·of the circumstances of the
case.

Iowa:
As to the matter of making Masons of cripples-the Craft
could be in a far worse business than that, provided, of course,
that the candidate is not crippled in mind or soul. Every thoughtful Mason must admit that we have been far too careful in the
past about seei11g that a candidate had plenty of hands and feet, and
have neglected to make sure that he was possessed of enough soul to
enable him to grasp that first principle of Masonry, which teaches
that it is the internal and spiritual and not the external and material qualifications that render a man worthy to be made a Mason.
We have been quick to kick about wooden legs, and far too slow
to object to wooden heads and stony hearts, and after all that is
the meat of the whole matter.

******
Brother McMillan was called upon to do the usual stunt of acting
as ringmaster in the physical qualifications circus which Texas carries
on. The report of the permissions granted and refused by him to initiate
candidates who were not 'perfect youths' covers about four pages of
closely printed matter. We never saw so many toe-nails, finger-tips,
and other trifling odds and ends of damaged anatomy collected together
in a volume of Masonic Proceedings before. He granted fifty pennissions and refused thirty-eight.
It would take a Chinese Philosopher several years of strenuous
life to reduce this mess of stuff to some sort of a rule of reason. Personally we have been compelled to pass up the whole blooming business.
One thing at least remains sure, and that is that if .your carcass is not
complete and entire in every respect and yon arc not a perfect Adonis
or a thoroughgoing Apollo, you had better not try to get into Masonry
in Texas-that is, may be and perhaps. W c have a sneaking idea that
when the Grand Master of Texas is called upon to decide one of these
picayunish physical qualification cases he retires to some closet where
nobody can see him and settles the whole matter by means of a dicebox and a pocket flashlight. Some day Texas will wake up and realize
what a spectacle she is making of herself with this silly farce. One can
hardly read this sort of stuff and believe that he is reading from an
officially published Masonic record.

Idaho:
The Senior Warden, as acting Grand Master, decided th~t a
man could be made a Mason "with left hand missing at the wnst."
The Jurisprudence Committee concurred and the Grand Lodge
adopted the report. Of course the thi~g ca_n be done .. All through
the obligation a slight change in the ntual 1s all that 1s needed. In
the first his "left stub" will answer for hand, and so for the oth~r
degrees. Why, it is all very simple. It is very str~nge that" this
had not been discovered years ago. And the above 1s .called ~ea­
sonableness and common sense in the matter of physical requtrements."

Louisiana:
It seems to us that if the Grand Master is to pass on the
physical qualifications of candidates he certainly should be required to pass also on their moral ?.nd mental ones.

Massachusetts:
Our constitution has relaxed the ancient regul~ti~n to such an
extent that I have felt it to be my duty to. constru_e 1t m th~ manner
indicated in order to carry out its true meanmg an.cl. mtent. Th~s reguiation is to be interpreted, not according to the Lev1hcal law, with which
Masonry never had anything to do, either as a syrr,ibol or.a fact,.bu~ by
its own terms and the lm,.ical consist.ency at!d propnety of 1~s apphcat10n.
So interpreted, its significance mamfestly 1s that the physical defect .of
the candidate whatever it may be, shall not be such as to ren~er him
incapable of ;eceiving and imparti1!g it~stru_ction, n<?r of perfon~mg any
duties that may be required of 111111 111 l11s capacity or vocation as a
Mason No such maim or defect of the body as the loss of an eye, an
ear, a· finger, or other !11ember not es.sential in the dischar.ge of his
Masonic duties or of his persnnal mamtenance, does any v10lence to
the spirit and ~riginal intent of this regulation.

Nevada:
Brother Michie (South Caro'.ina) does not agree with Nevada's
refusal to confer the .Master Mason's degr~e !JY co~trtesy upon a onekgged man from Michingan. Broth.er M1cl11e believes that the law
of the jurisdiction to which the matenal belonged should govern. Ju~t
the same Nevada does not purpose to help material into M.as~nry tha! it
would not itself help into Masonry. Would Brother M1ch1e sanct10n
a South Carolina lodge conferring the ~- M. degree upon a mei;iber
from New Jersey's famous ncgro lodge 1f requested so to do by sister
New Jersey? Hardly.

New Hampshire:
The Grand Master recommended that certain physical qualifications of candidates be not required upon the part of those who
have suffered injury in the honorable service of our country.
If those physical qualifications are not necessary on the part
of those who have been maimed in the service of. the country,
why are they necessary on the part of others who are equa.lly h?norable civilians? We would gladly honor our heroes, but m domg
so we would not withhold equal privileges from o.th~rs: There
should be no class distinction at our outer door or w1thm 1t.

•

92

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Ohio:
I~ has ever beei;i tr_ue that in time of great distress and deep fee'.ing

mankmd has been mchned to be governed more by the feelings of the
heart than by the direction of the brain, and our only fear is that having,
as we do, ~he strongest possible sympathy for our soldier boys, we may
thr?ugh this sympathy do things which, while responsive to the heart's
desire, may be greatly regretted later.
We have been pleased with the tendency in this direction during
recent years, but we believe there is a point beyond which this m~tter
should. not be carried, for one of the things which makes Masonry
attractive to us is the. fact that it has for ages stood \for a close
observance of the Ancient Landmarks and there is no question tut
that the "perfect youth" requirement is 'one of our Ancient Landmarks.
We are not in favor of adhering strictly to it because we believe that
it now ;norks an injustice to our Fraternity and to many good men
who desire to become memb~rs thereof, but we should dislike very much
to see our Lodge memberships made up of deformed men and cripples
even though they might be intellectually bright.
'

Pennsylvania:
. Settii;ig as.ide sympathy and sentiment, the Grand Master refused
dispensations 111 favor of soldiers who had lost both legs and right
arm. He believed it "was never the intention of our Institution to have
any for its members but ~u~h as were not only able to help themselves,
but were also able and w.1llmg to help others"; that if the Lodge doors
were opened to such applicants benevolent funds would know no limits·
that "safety lies in adhering pretty closely to the original intent."
'

Quebec:
As we u!lderstand the rule ?f physical perfection, it is desirable
f<;>r emblemat1cal purposes only, Just as are the working tools in the
different de,grees, ap? we haye y~t to leari;i .°! ~ny slight. defect in any
of these bemg suff1c1ent to mvahdate an 1111t1at10n passmg or raisin<>".
We .do exact in our own Juris~iction, and we believe, rightly, th;t
canchd~tes s~ould posses.s no physical defect which would prevent them
complymg with the reqmrements of the Ritual and this in onr be:icf· is
all that is required by the Ancient Regulati~ns.
'
'
H.e sees no reason why there should be any letting down of the
bars 111 the matter of physical qualifications because some of the
applicants may be injured soldiers. Nor do we.

Saskatchewan:
.
As a re~ult of the prese~1t war, many splendid men will be returnmg to us with some of their members missing, and a grave injustice
would he don~ to an Empire soldier if he were refused the privileges
of the Fratermty because he had the misfortune to lose a limb in defense
of the Empire.
ln e_ve1y case, wl!crc a dispensation has hccn asked for, I have
granted 1.t. 1f the apphcant .could comply with the requirements of the
Cere!1rnmals, even by. t.he a1cl of artificial limbs, and was in a physical
concht10_n to ean.1 a .hvmg, and not liable to become a charge upon the
Fratermty, and If !us moral character was all that a Mason should be.

93

South Dakota:
There is also a strong tendency to debar those of mental and
moral deficiencies. Blanks are being prepared in K!Ore than one Jurisdiction calling for a detailed history of a candidate's associ<ftions and
even his family connections during the last ten years. While the
wooden leg is gaining favor the wooden head is losing. If we can have
both we can bear either.

Tennessee:
Those favoring .this course forget or ignore the fact that ours is
the Ancient and Honorable Fraternity of Free and Acceptoo Masons.
Even where the ancient physical qualifications are rigidly required the
fraternity has not lacked in numbers: Old Masons are proud of that
fact. Why modernize ancient Masonry and add burdens on the fraternity by accepting the physically unfit? As indicated by the constant
pressure on the Masonic Homes and Masonic charity funds-aside
from appeals to individual members-the fraternity already has more
than it can do to care for those who, after joining it under the rigid
requirements, become needy and who leave dependent widows and
orphans. The scope of Masonic charity is wide enough already. Its
humane efforts are taxed to the limits now.

West Virginia:
Nevertheless, I have observed that some Grand Lodges, according
to my way of looking ,at things, are getting too "liberal"-perhaps
progressive is a better word. For many years I have opposed the
extremists on both sides of this matter, and have adhered strictly to
the rule that if a profane possesses the other essential moral qualifications, and can, without artificial aids, fulfill all the requirements of the
Ritual, he should be regarded as eligible for initiation. But I have
never believed, as some writers contend, that a wooden-legged man in
Masonry is better material than one with a wooden head.' In many
ways he might be superior, but as neither of them is eligible Masonic
material, this rule cannot apply.

Wisconsin:
We see no reason for letting down the bars in order to secure a
greater number of petitioners for the degrees. They are coming in
great abundance at the present time under the ancient regulations.
,
"The Grand Master seemed to be of the opinion that it is within
the province of the Grand Lodge to repeal one of the ancient landmarks, or at least that it may properly direct that it be disre~~arded.
He recommended that the landmark as to physical qualifications of
candidates for the degrees be so far relaxed as to permit the initiation of a candidate who has lost a limb and replaced it with an
artificial member. This thing of making a person eligible if he has a
combination of sticks and metal to wear and ineligible if he has not
or lays it aside, would be ludicrous if it were not so serious. It invokes
the idea that the institution of Freemasonry has no traditional moorings to which it must be anchored, but that any Grand Lodge may
cut adtift and make something different in these respects, of its own
volition. Every Master of a lodB"e upon installation, has assented to

94

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

of

the dogma that it is not in the power
any man or body of men, to
make innovations in the body of Masonry. There is enough good
material in the world from which to replenish our ranks and make
healthy growth, without disregarding the landmarks and making
Masons of cripple~."

Illinois:
The injunction t0 be read in all lodge~ (:New Jer.sey), appeai:s ~n the
title page The conjecture naturally anses as to. Just how this 1s !!Ccomplished. Why wouldn't it be a good i~ea t?. make Bob Shertffs
reading clerk of the grand lodge, and hav~ !um v1s1t the several lodges
of the jurisdiction, for the purpose of readmg to the brothers, th~ record
of proceedings. His sonorous "Hear ye! Hear ye! Hear ye! ' would
awaken the heaviest sleeper.

* * * * * *
North Dakota has joined the ranks of those who propose to disregard the ancient landmarks and confer the degrees of the Craft upon
those physically deformed, provided they can by artificial means and
by any stretch of the imagination show that they are able to meet
the requirements and obtain the means of subsistence. Has the
desire for increased membership become so urgent in North Dakota
that our Brethren arc willing to ·throw aside the teaching of the Craft,
wipe out the ancient landmarks and confer the status of Masonry upon
cripples? We know the old argument that has been applied over
and over again that these men are morally and intellectually worthy
and are only prevented by an accident of physical condition from
fulfilling the requirements of the degrees. If you are going to do
this why not disregard the rest of the landmark which requires that
the petitioner for the degrees shall be a 'man,' and confer the privileges of the Craft upon women and young men under age? They,
too, are intellectually and morally worthy, and you might as well disregard one landmark .of the Craft as another when you indulge in the
doctrine of expediency for the purpose of increasing lodge membership.
PROCEEDINGS
Our ever-present friend, Brother H. C. L., will do more
towards eliminating certain objectionable features of the printed
Proceedings of Grand Lodges than all the arguments available.
In general, the greater part of some of these volumes are
like evidence presented to a court, irrelevant, incompetent and immaterial.
District of Columbia:
The grievance and appeal report (Tennessee) wisely omits names
and specifications. We smnetimes think it would be as well to omit the
reports of our grievance committee. \Ve never know what use may be
made of them.
The report (West Virginia) on grievances and appeals, while au fait
in justice and in good English, is unfortunate in telling to the public
what concerns only the fraternity. The names and offenses should have
been deleted. It furnished our enemies with just the evidence they
want for use against us.
The report of the Committee on Grievances (British Columbia) is a
model, in that it omits the names and offenses, giving the enemy no data
to hurl back at us on "horrible examples." It is not generally known,
.or maybe it is not heeded, that Grand Lodge reports are on the shelves
in libraries (particularly the Congressional Library) where the public
can get them to read. A few years ago a renegade (Jesuit) :Mason in
Baltimore issued a volume, using Grand Lodge records for his authority
on these "horrible examples."

95

******

The following resolution was adopted:
"\Ve find that the size of our grand hody has increased until the
capacity of an ordinary place will not accommodate us ancl we have been
obliged to come into this large auditorium. All men ar~ not endo~ed
alike in many respects and but few men are .endowed with a su~ctent
voice to fill a room of this size. Theref.ore be 1t resolved. tl~at th.e (,::;,ml
Master be empowered to appoint a readmg clerk as one of !us officers.
Iowa:
\Ve can see how the names of th~ recipi~nts o.f Masonic chari~Y. can
well be withheld. This wou!d be m keepmg with a proper sp1.r1t. of
modesty and might spare the beneficiary ~ome . um.nentcd hum.1hat1011,
but why a Mason who has been false to hts obl;gatlons or has msult~cl
the institution by his dirty deeds ~hould be shielded and protected Ill
this way is beyond our comprehens1on.
New Jersey:
.
.
For several vears past it has been our pracl!ce to pnnt the rn1!n~s of
Brethren entered, passed, raised, affi:i'.lted, re~tored, suspended, dumtte~
and deceased in the proceedings. Tlus, I believe, to be an unnecessary
expenditure to th~ Grand .1:-odge. as well as a bur<l~nsome task for
Grand Secretary m comptlmg the same, all of ":'l11~h renders no p,1rtlcular advantage to the Craft; moreover, the prmtmg of these names
in our proceedings provides a source of in formal!on for pNsons to whom
it rightfully does not belong.

;he

'b

Oklahoma:
The Committee on Rules and Order of Business then offered a report
in which they indicated the order of procedure that was to he followed
at this annual meeting.
This is not a bad practice as it insures mt~ch regularity in the :kspatch
of the business of the grand body. Much time would be saved m ~l! of
our grand lodges if a fixed p.Jan of act!on was agre~d upon and r:fl"1dly
followed. The idea of c?mm1tte.es rcaclm!fo report~ wh~n theJ: fed ,1ke it
and representatives makmg motions and mtroducrng. 1 esolut101~s at. vulnerable points simply results in the whole transact1011 resolvtng itself
into a jargon.

a

******

To person who is deeply interested in Freemasom:y, the knowle<lg-e
derived from a careful reading of the .Printed Proceedmgs of ~.l~e m!iny
Grand Lodges, all of whom are worki!Jg along th~ san;e fam1.1ar Imes
for the uplift and betterment of humamty, yet all with different. methods
of reaching that end, must . not .only f!!ake the re:1d~r a wtse.r man
M<1sonically, but must als<;i g~ve htm a higher apprec1at1011 of the noble
purposes of our great Institution.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
96

REPORT 01\ CORRESPONDEN'CE

Texas:
In this connection we recommend that the cases of physical qualifica·
tions or disqualifications be not published in the printed Proceedings of
the Grand Lodge.
Utah:
The title page contains the following notation:
"It is the duty of each worshipful master fo have the printed pro•
ceedings of the grand lodge read in open lodge that no brother can
plead ignorance of the transactions of the grand lodge."
Wisconsin:
The proceedings of this Grand Lodge (Vtah) were largely of a
routine nature. We note that, as heretofore, the Grand Secretary has
facilitated the work of the reviewer by giving marginal references to
other portions of the proceedings where the matters mentioned in the
Grand Master's address were referred to or disposed of.
Idaho has a regulation requiring the proceedings of the Grand Lodge
to be read in the subordinate Lodges and a certificate to this effect filed
with the Grand Secretary, attaching a penalty for so failing to read the
proceedings or to report the fact to the Grand Secretary. \Ve wonder
what is meant by the regulation. Do the proceedings mean simply the
doings of the Grand Lodge or does it inc!ude all that is found in the
published proceedings? While we may wish that Masons would read
and study these things more, we doubt the propriety of cramming the
proceedings down their throats, and feel that no good can be accomplished in this manner. Some of the doings of the various Grand
Lodges with which we are acquainted would make about as interesting
reading as it would to undertake to read a city directory by rote. Perhaps they may be read as a bill is read in the State Legislature when
it is declared to be its first and second reading. The Seeretary reads the
title and announces that this is the first reading of the bill or the second
reading of the bill, as the case may be, and the bill is then supposed to
have been read.
PUBLICITY
As long as there are newspapers there is going to be publicity,
more or less, as to our activities. It is to be regretted that in
some instances it has been carried to such an extent as it has; because familiarity often breeds contempt.
Connecticut:
Your committee, to whom was referred so much of the Grand
Master's address as relates to publicity, made to the Grand Ledge at its
annual communication, February 3, 1916, beg leave to report:
"They ha'fe had the subject under consideration and are of the
opinion that, within proper bounds, ·Masons may and should welcome
publicity. A secret society is one which seeks to conceal its existence
and its objects. Freemasonry is not such a society and is secret only
as to the obligations, means of recognition, ballots upon candidates
and forms and ceremonies observed in conferring the degrees. With
the exception of those particulars, Masonry has no reservations from
the public. As to everything else-its designs, its moral and religious
tenets and the doctrines taught by it, the time and place of its meetings,

the names of the officers of a lodge and those belonging to it-are
all in no way secret, and may be known by any one. The fact that
a man has been made a Mason is not a secret to be concealed from
the public, nor is it anything of which he need be ashamed. The
public notices of the time and plaJ:e of holding Masonic lodges, the
name of the degree to be worked, as seen in many of the papers published in the larger towns and cities under the heading 'Fraternal News',
is useful to members of the craft, and particularly those temporarily
stopping in that locality, in affording them information as to the opening of the lodge and the nature of the work to be performed. The names
of officers elected, their installation and social occasions following lodge
meetings, which are usually joint affairs gotten up by the lodge and local
chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star·, are all matters in no way
secret, and public knowledge regarding them can do no harm. All
unnecessary secrecy tends to narrow rather than to broaden. There can
be no reason why we should undertake to keep secret and cast a veil of
mystery around that which is not secret and which the public is at liberty to know.
· "In connection with the general subject of this report, it may be appropriate to draw attention to the growing tendency to the indiscriminate
use of the word 'Masonic'. A Masonic club is a proper, useful, and
valuable association. It emphasizes the social side of fraternal life and
fills a real need. But in its conduct and in its activities good judgment
is necessary. A million men in this country have a vital interest in the
word 'Masonic'. Any man or body of men, who make use of it in connection with private or quasi public activity, owe it to their brethren to
see that it is put to a proper and dignified use. Cheap dances and boxing
bouts advertised publicly as Masonic and under the auspices of Masonic
clubs wound the sensibilities of most Masons. To some, the advertise·
ment of a Masonic baseball league, pool match, or bowling contest. is
objectionable. Your committee does not find such advertisement within
the purview of the Grand Lodge prohibition, but is of the opinion that,
in the use of the word 'Masonic' consideration is dtte to the dignity
associated with this word for centuries."

Florida:
"It is gross unmasonic conduct for a Mason to distribute business
cards having on the back thereof a parody on a subject of Masonry, or a
piece of doggerel tending to make light of any of the Masonic lectures
or ceremonies. The Masonic ceremonies are too sacred and beautiful
to be lightly treated and ridiculed."
Illinois:
Of course the grand master of North Carolina was correct. A good
many Masons have a mistaken idea concerning patriotism. To be patriotic it is not necessary to be flying flags, marching in street' parades
and hallooing on the slightest provocation. The world is full of people
who fight with their mouths and lay down their lives in their minds, but
the real patriot is the man who goes quietly about his business, putting
service to his country above all else, doing everything which his government asks of him to the best of his ability, and when the time comes,
should it be necessary, shoulders his rifle and goes over the top. \Vhen
the present war is over there is going to be a new standard of patriotism
established, and like charity it will not be of the tinkling cymbal and
the sounding brass variety.

03

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Manitoba:
"Several times during the past year questions were asked in regard
to Masonic insurance, and I take this opportunity of stating tb new
members who are possibly not fully informed in such matters, that this
Grand Lodge has no relations wil!h any insurance organization what··
soever; and, while insurance may be classified as a manifestation of the
cardinal virtue of Prudence, no duty to insure his life is assumed by a
man on joining a Lodge."
New Jersey:
Several requests were received from lodges for permission to parade
in Masonic regalia with other fraternal and patriotic societies. Masonry
is, and always has been, permeated with patriotism, hut has ever held
aloof from making public demonstration for any purpose except that
which has been its memorial custom.
Virginia:
We need no display, and the less we say and do to attract profane
attention the more our dignity will be respected. The shrine and grotto
do us great harm, because the world mistakably thinks they are Masonic,
as they are not. Public installations and parading to church are vanity,
and display too childish for grown men and too undignified for Masons.
Washington:
The Grand Master of Texas ruled:
"That it is impossible for a Master Mason, while under the j urisdiction of the Grand Lodge of Texas, to act as a soliciting agent for the
Masonic Life Association of Buffalo, New York, without violating the
laws, resolutions and edicts of the Grand Lodge of Texas."
This is in accord with the practice of Washington, and we are in
hearty sympathy with this law. It has been the basis of a succes'Sful
suit for damages in this State within a year. Masonry is not for the
financial profit of its memliers; and any man going into it for that purpose should be made to realize that it is a failure, and that he has never
been a Mason. Texas can help along somewhat in this line by following the example of several states which have discontinued the publication of extended lists of membership.
Wisconsin:
In 1908 this Grand Lodge discontinueCI the printing of the lists of
members for distribution. The wisdom of this action has been brought
forcibly to my attention during the past year. The attempts to exploit
private enterprises among· Masons,_ as evidenced _hy the requests fl?r
these lists, are numerous and persistent. The wish to turn Maso?H:
membership to commercial advantage seems not to abate, and_ the ac~1011
of this body, referred to above, has proven a valuable protect10n agamst
these impositions,

REGULARITY
The action of the various Grand Lodges in recognizing French
Masonry brought this question actively to the front. As in a large
number of other questions before us, conditions and not theories
should govern. Being in favor of patronizing home industry, we
believe that the rule laid down (under the subdivision "Argument") in the Report of the Special Committee on Foreign
Masonry, of the Grand Lodge, October, 1918, gives a reasonable
solution of the question.
Kentucky:
Upon the question of visitation and intercourse there are two distinct theories held by two distinct groups of Masonic jurists, and practiced by two groups of Grand Lodges:
First-A Mason may lawfully visit a lodge of a jurisdiction other
than his own, provided the grand lodge to which the lodge of his membership owes obedience has Masonically recognized the grand lodge to
which the lodge he proposes to visit owes obedience; and
Conversely-A Mason hailing from another jurisdiction may lawfully attend a lodge within the jurisdiction visited, provided the grand
lodge of that jurisdiction has Masonically recognized the grand lodge
to which the lodge of his membership owes obedience.
Second-A Mason, made in a just and lawfully constituted lodge,
may visit lodges of a jurisdiction other than his own, provided the grand
lodge having jurisdiction over the lodge he proposes to visit has issued
no edict of non-intercourse against the grand lodge to which the lodge
of his membership owes obedience ; and
Conversely-A Mason, made in a lodge duly constituted by a grand
lodge, may visit lodges of another jurisdiction, provided the grand lodge
to which the lodge of his membership O't'es obedience has issued no edict
of non-intercourse against the grand lodge to which the lodge he proposes to visit owes intercourse.
The first theory defines a policy which, in my opinion, is wholly indefensible, Masonically and logically. It assumes that each of the sixtyodd grand lodges of the world is the judge of, and must first fix, the
Masonic status of every other grand lodge; hence is a fruitful source of
Masonic antagonism and of hopeless confusion. It is an assumption that
rests on no basis of reason. Carried out, it results in the membership
of one jurisdiction being clandestine, at least irregular, in some jurisdictions and regular in others.
The second theory meets every Masonic requirement, is consonant
with Masonic history, is consistent with the doctrine of grand lodge
sovereignty, and does violence to no principle of grand lodge integrity
and autonomy, nor does it conflict with any rule of sound reasoning. Its
rationale is clear, distinct, definite, meets every difficulty, and answers
every objection. This Grand Lodge should go upon record and define
its attitude on this important question.

100

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE
REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Louisiana:
The Grand Master (Kentucky) held that a Kentucky Mason cou!J
visit a Lodge of a foreign jur_isdiction p~ovided that the. Kentucky Gr~nd
Lodge had not issued an edict of non-intercourse a~":mst such fore~gn
power. That is to say a Kentucky Mason could visit the clandestine
Lodge in Birmingham, Alabama, founded by the Supreme Lodge of the
Scottish Rite of Salt Lake City. We hold that the Grand Lodge alone
controls intercourse with all foreign powers, and affirmative action of
recognition is necessary before a Louisiana Mason can visit a Lodge of a
foreign jurisdiction.
Who is the best judge of the character of a foreign body-the individual Mason or the Grand Lodge?

* * * * * *
We are a good deal surprised to note the adoption of a report recommending that affiliation be had with bodies that do not '!nsist in I:od~e
on the presence of the Bible on the Altar and the declarat10n of belief m
the G. A. of the U.' It is a wonder that the Comn;itt~e paused with the
proposed elimination from the terms of fraternization of those two
'points.' There are other bars to the admission into c;ur Lodges of r;nany
'good men and true.' F<?r ~xample, the lack of the. signs of r.ecogmtion.
They are of far less intrmsic value than t~e above 1tem.s. \Viii th.e next
move be to dispense with them, and admit to our society of Universal
Brotherhood those that have them not? The logical goal of the propositions of the Manitoba Brethren is the elimination from the requirements for admission to our fellowship of all things that separate us from
every good man and true, and. the transformation of F:eei;nasonry into a
universal society of philosophical research and humamtanan endeavour.
If that dav should come there may be a great festival and much cheering, but ancient Freemasonry will be dead.
Utah:
However, we are frank to confess that th~ matter of "reguladty," as
applied to Lodges, does not bulk as large with us ~s 1t once did. ~Ve
are coming to feel more and more that, hke ere.eds m c~urches (which •
used to be the first thing considered when testmg the nght of a body
of Christians to be known as •'orthodox," and to be treated as Christians), these barr!er~ which have bee!l erected ~y one group of Brethren,
and which they ms1st must determme what ~s the Masonry of eve.ry
other group-that these are of very much !ess importance than the fruits
of the life and organization ; that conformity to one standard or another
is not the principal thing; the biggest scoundrels of any age were usually
sticklers for orthodoxy (the Scribes and Pharisees were orthodox, and
decidedlv "regular " while they plotted the murder of an innocent man) ;
the world has be~n bathed in blood, in times of peace by those whose
chief insistence was for conformi.t~-to "our," ::ir "my". sta:ida~?· W.e
need only recall the names of Philip II, of Spam; of his wife, Bloody
Mary," of England; of his sister-in-law, "Good Q1;1een Bess,'' or of our
own Pilgrim forbears who made the largest sacnfices, and subdued a
wilderness, that they might wor:;hip God as they desired tt? ?o. And
yet, within 15 years of tl;e landmg. at ~lyn;outh, Roger \Vilhams was
obliged to flee into the wilderness m mid-wmter, for safety ( wh~re he
found kinder treatment at the hands of Savages t~an he had experienced
from those who claimed for themselves a special stewardship of the
things of God), because he did not believe in all things with the author-

101

ities of the Colony. And less than twenty years after the settlement at
Plymouth, a woman was hanged at Charlestown for witchcraft, and forty
years later local authorities of towns in what is now New Hampshire,
and in the colony of Massachusetts, were ordered to tie to the tail-end
of a cart, three women, and whip them through the streets of the towns
and drive them outside of the bounds of the Colony, because they were
of the Quaker faith.
Vermont:
Eleven days from this date will mark the two-hundredth anniversary of the organization of the first Grand Lodge of Masons. On June
24, 1717, at the Goose and Gridiron Tavern in London, the representatives of four old Lodges met and organized a Grand Lodge, Anthony
Sayre being elected Grand Master. You will note that this was not the
beginning of Freemasonry. These four Lodges and others besides had
long been in existence and it was to give more definite form and add
efficiency to the institution that the bond of union was formed. Historians and scholars may search and seek to determine the exact .beginning of Masonry, but it is shrouded in the darkness of antiquity. Sufficient for us today that from this Grand Lodge thus established has descended all that we now recognize as legitimate Masonry.

* * * * * *
Concerning the statement in the foregoing extract that all we "now
recognize as legitimate Masonry" is descended from the English Grand
Lodge, allow us to ask about the Grand Lodges of Scotland and Ireland.
Are they supposed to be of English origin?
Washington:
We have in our own land today a Masonry (Negro) which asks not
that we set aside this fundamental belief, but is just as zealous and just
as earnest as we in its promulgation and in its teaching. A Masonry
which traces its origin as legitimately as we, and a Masonry whose men
are fighting in this battle shoulder to shoulder with the men from o'iir
Lodges and from France-parts of the same army, shedding their blood
just as freely as white Americans. But we are holding o.ut no olive
hranch to them. Shall it be said of us that a white skin on a Mason
is more of a landmark make a belief in God?
RELIGION
It is well to touch lightly on religious topics or matters of all
kinds. This also applies to the oft-repeated query as to whether
Masonry is a religion or not.
It is a question of opinion only, and one who questions an·
other's views in this particular usurps a prerogative that does not
rightly belong to him.
Iowa:
If Masonry is not good enough religion for us all, why isn't it?
What does the church teach that is good and great that Masonry does
not also teach? Masonry never banished anyone to perdition as lo~t
simply because he did not agree with it.

102

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

The church has just as often hurt the cause of true religion as it
has helped it, and many of the clergy have shown a narrow, hardhearted, cold-blooded hypocrisy and Pharisaism in their lives. What
is the use of our shutting our eyes to the facts? Sometimes these
preachers have taught an unhealthy and abnormal asceticism in a worship full of gloom, horror, ugliness and weakness. A man is not a
saint just because he is a preacher, and nobody rapped the preachers
quite so hard as Christ did Himself. Others, again, while pretending to
preach Jesus Christ have presented some unholy, unwholesome, and
unhealthy effigy of Him entirely at variance with the sweetness and
light that characterized His life and teachings on earth. They have persisted in pounding away at the pain and horror and the sadness of His
death instead of insisting upon the warmth, the glow, and the sweet,
springtime beauty of His life and the love that shone like perennial sunshine from His soul. More than once we have fled in disgust from the
teachings like that, but never have we seen a gloomy thing of this sort
taught in a Masonic lodge.
No, Brother Vanderlieth (Nevada), we would not like to do away
with church and the worship of God therein, but we would like to see
that worship made sweet, clean, wholesome, healthy, and happy, and we
· would like to see the church value and respect Masonry for the hroadgauged, healthy, and wholesome religion which Masonry has always
taught.
Idaho:
We are not a religious organization, although we are taught to
preach and practice the moral and social virtues.
We are not a political society, yet the craft has been influential in
the organization and maintenance of every free and enlightened government the wor!d has known.
\Ve are not a charitable institution, yet every true and worthy
Votary of Masonry regards it as his highest privilege and duty to care
for the widow, the orphan and the indigent.

Illinois:
Why is it necessary for Grand Masters and other church Masons
to be eternally exp'.aining that Freemasonry is not a religion? Why is
it necessary that Masons should he always apologizing to the church
because of its existence? It is left to every man to conceive religion
as his own mind and conscience may dictate. What is religion to one
man is a mere ceremonial rite to another. Therefore if a man without
any church connections whatsoever affiliates with Freemasonry a.nd
finds in it that which satisfies his conception of a religion and if he
believes in it and tries to live up to it to the best of his ahilit.v, why
persistently remind him that Freemasonry is not a religion and that he
ought to go and join some church?
Quebec:
Most people know Freemasonry as the synonym for esprit de corps
and loyal comradeship. And even were Freemasonry only a hobby, our
age is none the worse; nay, infinitely the better, for a world-wide
brotherhood which puts into daily practice reverence for God, straightness between man and man, and a ready benevolence to the needy and
distressed. \Vith regard to these great, universal rules, we, as members of this Order, can never forget that we are on our honor every
day we live.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

1oi

RITUAL
According to Buddha, "Rituals have no efficacy; prayers are
vain repetitions, and incantations have no saving power. But to
abandon. covetousness and lust, to become free from evil passions,
and to give up all hatred and ill-will, that is the right sacrifice and
the true worship." Albert Pike said that "The dead govern· the
living obey."
'
Memory work, and the information received by the recitation
of ritualistic matter, has undoubtedly had its time and place in
Masonry, but "the world do move," and too much ritual is having
a bad influence on attendance, if nothing worse.
Illinois:

•

. The idea has b~en held in some quarters that the ritual of Masomy
is a. holy somethmg handed down from time immemorial by God
Aim_1ghty or. som~hoc~y else and that to touch it with profane hands is
sacnlege. Ritual .1s s1111p!y a means to an encl. It is a vehicle to carry to
the hearts and minds of men the great truth which Freemasonry inculcates and the lessons that it ~eaches. Every member of the lodge should
be encouraged to _learn the ritual and le:;tures of Masonry, and when he
k!10ws them sufficiently well should he given every opportunity to display
his knowledge among his Brethren.

Michigan:
. The ritual_ism of M~s.onry is truly a wonderful thing. Simple in its
d1g111ty and wtth no strivmg for dramatic effect, its power is so intense
that, y>hen <;ven fairly r~ndered, _levity is impossible and the initiate is
cons:ioi.:sly. m1presse~ with a serious grandeur. With such possibilities
of histnomc express10n that the great Booth pronounced the Third
Degree the greate~t trag~dy cvt;r written,, even the Master who mouths
111~ w?rds an~ .m1s~o11~el\:es. h:s emphasis cannot entirely destroy its
be,mty.. So d1st111cttve i_s 1t m Its character that ten consecutive words
fr?m 1t canno~ be used 111 the press, on the rostrum, or in conversation
without pra~tlcally_ c'.'cr~ ~lason recognizing them; so quaint in its
~01:tcxt that its ant~qmty 1s mstantly impressed on the hearer; so tuneful
m Its rhythm that 1t rivals the stately n;easure of poetry; so natural in
Its movep1ents and so dev01d of restramt that its force is felt at first
s11bco11.sc10usly, but tl;e ~ords. o~tcn spoken always convey a new idea;
and withal, so lofty 111 its pr111c1plcs and so true its precepts that it is
not a wonder some men make Masonry their religion.

Ohio:
\Ve believe that many Masters who do not have the Ritual letterperfect, and "."ho woul?- not be able to confer the degrees exactly in
accordance w!th th.e Ritual, have much more of the real elements of
freemasonry m their heart, a114 will exemplify its precepts and teachings
m a far better manner, and will therefore be of much greater value to
th.e Craft than some other Masters who may be able to recite the Ritual
without a break.

104

REPORT ON COHRESPONDENCE

SOJOURNERS
We think that the Nevada rule is a good one. These sojourn·
ers undoubtedly have a place in our Masonic system because they
furnish a field from which members can be drawn, to establish a
new Lodge when such becomes a necessity or some Brothers need
office.
Idaho:
sojou:rning Mason we mean one whose home is in one
place and the lodge to which he belongs is in another. In I~aho
this condition of things is far too prevalent. The excuses given
are quite various. One man retains his membership in some
eastern state because the annual dues are lower; another because
his lodge needs his dues; anotqer becau.se he was made .a ~ason
in the lodge to which he still holds allegiance, and so ad mfimtum.
The whole matter seems to rest either on expediency or mere
sentiment. A man that is not worth more to his lodge than the
amount of his annual dues is a Masonic 'slacker.' The lodge whose
existence depends on the dues of a brother residing _in a foreig;n
jurisdiction should surrender its charter. Masonry 1s not sentimental. It is a brotherhood where united effort counts, where
duty is incumbent on each member, where his personal influence
stands for more than the mere pittance of his annual dues. One
good brother Mason has been punctual in attendance ·at every
meeting of the Boise lodges when refreshments were served for
the past 28 years, and yet prides himself in having his membership elsewhere. Comment in such case is superfluous.
A Sojourning Mason becomes ill or meets with some reverses
-in short is 'down and out.' The local lodge cares for him and
then applies to his lodge for reimbursement. Most lodges refuse,
as they ought to do. The down-and-outer should have affiliated
in his place of residence.
Nevada:
The Grand Lodge (Philippine Islands) passed an amendment
doing away with dues during suspension, claiming that it is an
unjust act to require such payment. The injustice is on the other
side. We have no use for slackers in any part of life's service.
Masonry is action. Its one great law is work and it has no use
for a shirker. A shirker is about as despicable a bit of humanity
as one can find. It is the duty of every Mason to belong to some
lodge and to contribute his proportion towards its support. At
its portal he promises conformity to its rules and regulations and
dues are an essential part of Masonry and its equality these days.
Does he work? is an important question in Masonry. Without
work, leaving the burdens to others, !nakes h_im a ~hirker, and
without work in Masonry, where labor 1s worship, he 1s of no use.
North Dakota:
In his address the Grand Master (South Dakota) called attention to the abuse of <limits by many individuals throughout the
country. After citing a number of instances in whic:h. men. J:ad
carried dimits for from ten to forty years, all the time hvmg

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

105

within easy reach of lodges and enjoying their privileges, they
applied again for active Masonic affiliation, he stated that the dimit
was brought into being only for the purpose of allowing a
member to withdraw from one lodge to join another. and that
it was never contemplated that <limits should be granted to men
who would carry them for years, and possibly for life either for
the purpose of avoiding the obligations of Masonry, or 'from some
more unworthy motive. Thousands of men throughout the country now avail themselves of the privilege of carrying a <limit and
.at the same time wear in a conspicuous place the emblem of
membership.
South Dakota:
Our Brother also clears up Nevada's law for us on a misunderstood point:
"If a brother contributes to a Lodge, the Grand Lodge, or to
a Board of Relief in Nevada, a sum equal to the dues of the
Lodge where he dwells, he is entitled to all the privileges of a
Mason. , In short, Nevada extends the hand to the worker and
has no use for the shirker. Blessed are they who help to bear
the burden and heat of the day.''
Which will get no adverse criticism from this scribe.
TEMPLES
Some of the evils that affict us at the present time are due to
the e.rection of costly and non-paying Temples, which has a tendency to commercialize. Experience perhaps will be the best and
only teacher.
Illinois:
Down in Texas if a lodge wants to sell or dispose of its real
property it must get a dispensation from the grand master. Seventeen such instruments have been issued during the year. Just
why the grand lodge dictates to its constituents in matters of this
sort is not readily understood, unless it is to prevent a lodge
which is anticipating the surrender of its charter from diverting
its funds from the grand lodge treasury.
Louisiana:
It is well that occasionally we should be reminded that
Masonic halls are dedicated places, and have been placed beyond
our reach for other affairs of life.
Minnesota:
It has been said that Lodges paying high rents must have
many candidates in order to meet
Is not this to commercialize the Craft and cheapen it
the eyes of the world?
Those Lodges are wise who have learned that the dues should
be sufficient for the ordinary expenses without the necessity of
receiving candidates to benefit from the fees.

106

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Ohio:
In one of his decisions the Grand Master (Wisconsin) held
that card playing and other forms of social entertainment should
not be permitted in the Lodge Hall. We can not for the life
of us see why an innocent game of cards, or other forms of
social entertainment, should not be permitted in Lodge rooms.
A Lodge room is not a sacred place. It is not dedicated to
God, but to the Holy Saints ] ohn, and we can not understand
why we should deplore the opening of Lodge rooms to entertainments which would not .in any manner reflect unfavorably
upon our Institution. We believe that the one great weakness
in Freemasonry is the fact that we do not cultivate the social
side enough, and hold ourselves too much aloof from the social
pleasures of life.
. _ ·~'- :
Washington:
A Lodge in Missouri may not mind its own business without
permission of the Grand Master. Of course, that is not the way
they say it, but that is the effect. They legislated:
"A Lodge shall not be permitted to contract debts for any
purpose or to engage in enterprises for building halls without
the consent and approval of the Grand Master. Lodges obtaining permission to contract debts shall at once notify the Grand
Secretary of the amount of debt, security given and when debt
matures. When any debt contracted as herein provided shall
have been paid, the Lodge shall notify the Grand Secretary of
such payment. A record of such debts shall be kept in th~ office
of the Grand Secretary."
We look in vain for a statement that when the debt matures
and the Lodge is unable to pay, the Grand Lodge will do so.
Wisconsin:
"The situation brought about through the misplaced enthusiasm and ambition of tho'se members of the Lodge who a1·e
responsible for this condition and who have mortgaged its future,
far beyond its ability to pay, is deplored.
"I think that the time has arrived when the Grand Lodge
should take some action in this matter, either by requiring Lodges
which are about to build to submit their plans, both for the
building and its financing, to the Trustees of the Grand Lodge
for approval, before it is permitted to mortgage its future, or
have this Grand Lodge fix a maximum indebtedness per capita.
beyond which a Lodge should not involve itself in debts."

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

107

THIRD DEGREE LECTURE
Some Grand Lodges have adopted a resolution making obligatory the learning of a portion of the lecture of the Master
Masons' Degree. A large number of Brethren are prevented from
visiting other Lodges than their own by reason of the fear that
they will not be able to stand the test of the average examining
committee by <.nswering a lot of categorical questions.
We believe that the coaching lectures of the First and Second
Degrees could be materially abridged without harm to anyone.
It is but proper that officers should be proficient in ritualistic
work, but why the average member should be obliged to commit
a large part of irrelevant matter to memory is beyond comprehension. THE PROVINCE OF AN EXAMINING COMMITTEE
IS TO ASCERTAIN WHETHER A MAN IS A MASON, AND
NOT HIS PROFICIENCY IN A SET CATECHISM OR THE
RITUAL. THE LAW DEFINES HIS RIGHT TO VISIT.
There are plenty of human poll-parrots in the fraternity, but
we suppose Grand Lecturers, Custodians of the Wark, etc., must
earn their salaries.
Alabama:
I am informed by a distinguished member of this Grand Lodge, ~ho
is present, that on one occasion a brother went to Brother Bru~d1dge
and boastingly said, "I do not need any instruction; I am perfect 111 the
work, and there are about 20 members in my Lodge who are a'.so
perfect." Brother Brundidge asked him about as follows :
My brother, how many indigent widows and orphans of deceased
Masons in the jurisdiction of your Lodge?
How many Masons in your Lodge who need brotherly advice and a
helping hand in their weakness?
How many Masons buried in your cemetery whose graves are
unmarked?
How much attention is being shown to the widows and orphans of
deceased Masons?
To these questions the brother replied, "I don't know !"
Brother Brundidge then said, "Have yon tried to find but?" "Have
you given these matters any attention?"
The brother replied, "I have not."
Brother Brundidge then said to him, "Go home, my brother, and
study these questions for twelve months, and you will then be in a
condition to receive and appreciate the light the unwritten book is
designed to impart."
Illinois:
Also that there be incorporated in the law an edict reqmrmg all
candidates to show an element of proficiency in the Master Mason's
degree before participation in the membership of the Lodge. This
latter recommendation is characteristic of those members of our fraternity who judge its worth wholly and solely by its ritual and its regulations. Their idea of doing something for the fraternity is to add a
new regulation, or requirement or to make some ruling whereby it is

108

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

possible to distinguish a Masonic legal hair, "'hyixt south and sou~h­
west side.'' There is absolutely no argument m favor of. requmng
candidates to pass an examination in the catechism of the third de~ree
more than to make the candidate's progress through Masonry a little
more burdensome and to exploit the pet projects of grand lecturers.
The catechism as now required from candidates is entirely too long
and as a result the examinations passed in i nearl:y every lodg;e are
far from satisfactory. Some of the keenest and brightest men m the
business world have found it next to impossibl.e to master t?e lon.g
array of irrelevant matter which they are required to learn m their
Masonis progress. Thi~ whole qt;estion ought. to be solved by. the pr~p­
aration of short, concise catechisms embodying those essentials which
every Mason ought to know.

North Dakota:
Why tell a man that he is a Ma;;ter M~son, ent!tl~d to all its ri~hts .
and privileges, and then fasten a strmg to 1t by attachmg some requirement for its enjoyment? \V ~ co,~fess that we .are unable to see how
any man who has been "Ra1se.d t? the Subh!fl~ Degree of Master
Mason can be denied any of its nghts or pnv1leges or have them
abridged or amended.
Ohio:
They are sticklers for ritualism and believe in crossing every "t"
and dotting every "i," and think that the man .who can not poll-parrotlike recite the Ritual and give all the lectures, is not a Mason. But our
Masonry teaches us that it is the obligation which makes us a Mason,
and we doubt the wisdom, and h1 fact doubt the power of Grand
Lodge to stipulate that the mere commitmei:t of a le~ture. after the c<~n­
didate has received the degree shall be required to give him the elective
franchise in his Lodge.
Suppose the Brother commits the lecture and then in a few day-;
forgets it, just as thousands upon thousands do, then wha~ happens?
Is he deprived of his vote simply because he has not the Third Degree
Lecture at his tongue's end?
Tennessee:
There is widespread demand that our initiates should ~e required
to memorize and repeat in open Lodge the lecture of the third degr~e,
and not merely, as at present, those of the firs! an.cl second. Th~ wrndom of such a law seems apparent. The obhgat1ons .assumed 1:1 ~hi.:
Master's degree are so compelling in importance that ignorance
mexcusable, and yet, by how many are they thoroughly known. Jn
certain other Grand Jurisdictions a recital of the lecture of the third
degree is obligatory, and this requirement is recommended for Tennessee. It is further recommended that a brother who. neglects or
refuses to commit and recite the lecture shall, after notice from the
Master that its recitation is required, be subject to charges of un-Masonic conduct and liable to discipline. It is also recommended that, .
upon the approval of this lecture, there shall be isst;ted to the b.rother,
through the office of the Grand Se<;retary: a .certtfi~ate or diploma,
evidencing his membership in the Order and m his parttcula~ Lod"i'e. It
is believed the furnishing of such diplomas would be an mcenttve to
the prompt commitment and recitation of the lecture, and :vould also
provide, especially in connection wi~h a stand~~d. form of r~ce1pt, for the
readier identification of the regularity of a v1s1tmg brothers Lodge.

;s

109

TOLERATION
Albert Pike stated that "A man should judge others as he
judges himself; believe others honest and sincere as he believes
himself; find for their actions the excuses that he finds for his,
and look always for a good rather than a bad motive." Add this
as a supplement to the Gold,eri Rule, and we have, perhaps, an
ideal .condition.
Illinois:
When the Jewish rabbi held the crucifix to the lips of the
dying soldier in Flanders, there gleamed through ·the smoke of
battle, the roar of guns, the screech of shells, the prophecy of
a new religion, based upon that long recognized Masonic
foundation stone, the Fatherhood of God and the Brotherhood of
Man. Anyone who follows the trend of modern thought with
an unprejudiced mind must become convinced that we are fast
approaching a new era of religious thought and action.
The
barriers of prejudice are being broken down. The jealousies and
selfishness of sects are being dissipated, and mankind is gravitating surely and slowly, toward a Universal Religion wherein
many of the old ideals will be forgotten and a better conception
of life and action adopted so far as man relates to the God of
all and his neighbor on earth. Those of us who are enthusiastically Masonic have a belief that the new religion which the
world is bound to recognize will be somewhat along the ideas
for which Freemasonry has been contending for two hundred
years. Of course no one is expecting that anything in Freemasonry will be at all accepted nor recognized in the new
religion nor will the fraternity in any way be given credit for
the new reformation, but there is a lingering suspicion that those
old fathers in Freemasonry who, two hundred years ago, conceived the society and laid down its fundamental principles were
prophets for they seem to have perceived a future understanding
to which all the world 111ust eventually come.
Louisiana:
Some day liberty will be established everywhere in this world.
The Teutonic claim to be the only people will cease. Then it
will be timely to again consider those matters. For that hour
we wait. May the bells SOOl1 ring out declaring liberty throughout not this land alone, but every land. Then Illinois will
recognize· the liberty for others she claims for herself. Then
she will recognize that our Brethren of the Scottish, living in
countries where it is . the only rite, or dominant rite, have the
liberty in working in Symbolic Masonry.
Minnesota:
The Brethren of our fraternity have been in the forefront on
the firing line, and have also performed every other service, even
to the most humble. I do not boast that we did more than
others. I glory in the statement that every true blue, loyal
American did his full dutv. ·when the roll of honor is called,
the soldiers of the republic. will be only known as Americans; not

110

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

as Jew nor as Gentile; not as Protestant nor as Catholic; not as
Christian nor as Unbeliever; not as white nor as black; not as
American born nor as hyphenated; not as Masons; not as Woodmen; not as Knights of Columbus, not as anything, but just true,
loyal, 100 per cent Americans. There may be some who can see
a distinction in our soldier boys because they belong to one
creed or another, but let me say to you that it matters nothing
to me what creed our soldier boys espouse. It seems to me that
the universality of Masonry which we have talked about for
years means almost enough to me at present to include in
Masonic charity the dying soldier boy on the fields ·of France,
clutching at his crucifix and repeating his Ave Maria while
resting his drooping head in the hands of a comrade, as well as
the one on whose finger ring was displayed the square and
compass.

VOUCHING
If there is ever a General Grand Body to consider uniform

regulations, "vouching" and "visiting" are two matters that should
receive careful consideration. If such a thing were possible, it
would be interesting to know what proportion of suspended, irregular or clandestine Masons visit the "higher" Masonic Bodies
where admission is governed by a system other than examination
by committee, or vouching.
Colorado:
Question: Will s1ttmg in a chapter of the Order of the Eastern Star constitute sufficient evidence to vouch for a man as
being a Master Mason?
Answer: Sections 217, 218, and 219 of the Book of Constitutions clearly state the "lawful information" whereby one Mason
may vouch for another.
The Order of the Eastern Star is not a Masonic institution,
and although membership in a Blue Lodge is requisite for membership in the Star, for a brother, the knowledge of this fact
is only incidental to the membership of the Lodge, and can not
be used as evidence, or as a basis of vouching for another.
Illinois:
The grand master (Florida) reported a matter of great Masonic
import. It appears that a petitioner in the Order of the Ea~tern Star
must be a Master Mason in good standing and when suspended by
his lodge he is automatically suspended in the Eastern Star. In order to carry out these provisions of the law .the Eastern Star must
have some authentic way of knowing who are in good standing in the
lodges and likewise who have been excused from the fraternity for
failure to pay dues. Hence the grand master presented this momentous question with the request that something be done to meet this
vital issue for the reason that the support of the Eastern Star
was seriously needed in the plans now going forward for the
construction of a Masonic home in the state. Suppose the Order
of Red Men or the Daughters of Isabella .should have made a

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

111

like request from the grand master stating that they did not
want any suspended Masons joining their organization and would
like to be kept advised on these matters that they might protect
themselves. The Order of the Eastern Star has absolutely no
connection whatsoever with the institution of Freemasonry. Just
the moment that our ·fraternity commences to recognize and
accord privileges to those organizations making affiliation in the
Masonic Fraternity a basis for membership, just that moment
it invites serious trouble.

Kentucky:
It appears that the decisions of Grand Masters in this jurisdiction (New Hampshire) are referred to Committee on Doings
of Grand Officers. This committee disapproved the decision just
quoted, saying:
"That we do not think that th·e decision of Most Worshipful
Brother Bales, that a brother who has sat with another brother
in the New Hampshire Consistory, S.". P.". R.". S."., 32°, cannot
avouch for such brother as a Master Mason, is correct, in view
of the Masonic practice and the relations established by our
Grand Lodge and existing between the various bodies of the
Craft in this State, and we recommend that the said decision be
not approved by the Grand Lodge."
The report of the committee was approved. Nevertheless,
we are not sure that the Grand Master was not right, and that
the reasoning of the committee is not specious. It seems to us
to be in the nature of the argument petitio principii.
Ohio:
Every Mason who has intelligence enough to be a Mason
knows that the Scottish Rite is builded upon the foundation of
the three Symbolic Degrees, and that there cannot be such a
thing as a Scottish Rite Mason who is not a Master Mason, and
if a Brother has sat in a Consistory of Scottish Rite Masons with
another Brother, he certainly has the lawful information to enable
him to vouch for him in a Lodge of Master Masons.
Virginia:
While the requirements for sitting in a Scottish Rite body may
be such as to justify this avouchment, that. is a matter which is
and should be known only to a Scottish Rite member, and the
G;rand Lodge which is composed of many Brethren not members
of the Scottish Rite or conversant with its requirements should
be based only on Blue Lodge requirements and practice. The
writer is opposed to any other body assuming to decide Blue
Lodge matters. Blue Lodge matters discussed in any other body
are necessarily viewed from the angle of that body and its
interests, and that is no place to settle Blue Lodge problems.
We have known personally a man s. n. p. d. for year~ in
Lodge, Chapter and Commandery who was active· in the Shrine
all along. And good standing in all three were required by
Shrine law.

112

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

WAR
Happily, the war, with all of its horrors, is behind us, and we
are more concerned with the immediate present and the future
than that which has gone before. Masons, as individuals, did their
duty, but that our Organization as a body did not, or was prevented as such, from taking an active part, and one that would
naturally rebound to its credit, is a question open to argument.
Whether things all turned out for the best or not is also a matter of
opinion.
The Proceedings reviewed are largely devoted to this subject,
but it is unnecessary in this Report to go into the matter in detail,
other than to spread a few facts "on the record."
Military Lodges were established by the following Grand
Lodges:
Kentucky:
W. A. Colson Lodge, U. D., July 29, 1917.
J. N. Saunders, Army Lodge, September 25, 1917.
Montana:
Montana Army Lodge No. 1, U. D., September 8, 1917,
New York:
Sea and Field Lodges at:
New York;
Paris,
Bonne,
Marseilles,
Coblentz.
North Dakota:
North Dakota Military Lodge No. 2.
South Carolina:
Army Lodge A, with 113th Field Artillery, U. S. A.
That not all of these were a source of satisfaction to their
Fathers, is indicated by the remark of one of the Grand Secretaries, who stated that he had heard nothing from them since the
charters were issued. In another case, we are informed that when
the roll was being called to ascertain if the number of Candidates·
were present, when the surname A--, was called, the answer
came, "General A-- is here." We also know of instances where
men about to be mustered out of the service spent a month's pay
to join, and are now charges upon the Fraternity. These examples would lead one to believe that we were wise in not following
some of our sister States.

113

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

On July 26th, 1917, Major-General Liggitt presented the colors
to the Masonic Ambulance Corps of this city, an organization of
124 Master Masons, all of them within the draft, but volunteered
for this particular organization, and recruited before the draft law
became effective. On May 13, 1919, these colors were returned to
Major-General John Morrison, by the same organization, standing
before him as the 364th Ambulance Company of the United States
Army.
The company was maintained intact, saw service
throughout the war and participated in all of the battles of the
91st Division. One of the many striking instances was when a
member of the Ambulance Corps picked up on the battlefield a
Captain who was the Senior Warden of his own Lodge, serving in
another regiment, and not known to be in that area.
In San Francisco the women with Masonic affiliations
formed an auxiliary to 'the Red Cross, and under Government
supervision, devoted their energies to the reclamation of army
uniforms. From August 5, 1918, to February 5, 1919, they
reclaimed 31,205 garments. Their maximum attendance for one
month was 5493. Minimum attendance for one day 440, and the
maximum attendance for one day 507. The organization has
changed its name, and with a membership of 1200 is now known
as the Women's Masonic Association, and will continue its activities for the benefit of Masonry and humanity.
In the statistical column will be found the amount collected
from the individual members of the Jurisdiction, which is being
used as the occasion requires. In addition to the collection of this
fund by the Grand Lodge, they maintained clubs at the various
mobilization camps for the benefit of the men in the service.
British Columbia:
Like the law," Brother Eggleston says, ir, nis review of Delaware, "Masonry is of necessity silent in the ~lash of ~rms; but
could Europe have had American Masonry, this. 'Yar might have
come just the same, but its horrors and brutalities would have
been lessened and the probability of other w~rs to follow woulrl
not have bee~ so great a cause for fear." Europe already had
British Masonry from which all American Masonry came, and also
that of Holland.

******

It is to be regretted that in end~avoring ~o "do something" for.
"their members certain Grand Lodges m the United States have shown
a willingness t~ ignore the principles upon which the Craft is established,
:·11d·h;•vt' a lnwt>rl the'r svmpathies '
et the bettrr of the1r 11'd
We .refer, of course, to the recognition, more or less complete, of the
alleged Freemasonry of France.
0

0

0

"''

0

"'

114

115

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Connecticut:
As individuals and citizens we have loyally and fully answered'
all calls upon us; as Masons we have not played the part we took
in '76 or in '61. Why not, remains to be told. ·
Some Grand Lodges have adopted. resolutions of loyalty and
ostentatiously wired the same to the President, who has in several
instances wired back a stereotyped reply of appreciation. While
we are mindful of the fact that loyalty to government and country
is a chief cornerstone of Masonry, frankly, we do not like this
showy ostentation. V>/e had better conserve our energies and resources as an organization for the fearful strain to which they will
certainly be subjected after this fearful war is brought to a conclnsion, when the crying needs in every direction will be appalling.

uniform makes a gentleman out of any man who was not. such
before he donned it, and we believe th~t the same degree ot ~are
should be exercised, and that Masomc Rules an_d Regulations
should be followed as closely in the case of so.ld1ers. as o.t~ers.
\Ve believe their petitions should not be ..received 111 111htary
Lodges, or in Lodges locat~d at or near military camps, but that
the petition of every aophcant should be presented to. and ~e
acted upon by the Lodge of his residence, and thei;i, 1f he . is
elected. his Lodge may request any Lodge most convement to him
to confer the degrees.

Illinois:
The i,var has imposed upon Masonry great duties and obligations, to measure up to which is a great privilege. The world is
watching to see how the institution will meet its problems. The
fraternity is on trial. Now is the time to demonstrate to all men
that Masonry is a living thing, not a matter of euphonious platitudes, sounding words without meaning, but a strong, vibrant
virile institution worthy the confidence and respect of a full grow~
man.
~~:

I

Bnt we may console ourselves with the reflection that the
wars of this country for several ci:nturies past have all been .successful wars with one solitary exception, and that was when we
were defeated by people of our own race, the inhabitants of the
Nor th American colonies.

******

"The British bull dog was never whipped but once, and then
by his own pup. Now that pup means to see that he is not
whipped this time."

Ohio:
It is quite evident that there is an unusual amount of hysteria
prevailing in many of the Grand Jurisdictions because of the war,
and we fear that it will not result in good to the Fraternity. Landmarks, usages, rules, and regulations of our Ancient Craft are
being set aside and ignored with a freedom and recklessness that
is astonishing, to say the least. Many seem to feel that if a man
wearing the uniform of a soldier should knock at our doors he
should be admitted without question. Indeed, in some instances
the doors have been opened and invitations extended to the boys
in khaki, and we are not quite sure but that some of the Lodges
have gone so far as to endeavor to drive them in. We believe
this is all dead wrong. We have as much respect, love, and
esteen1 for the American soldier as any person on earth, and recognize and appreciate the patriotism exhibited by him when he
casts his life and fortune upon his country's altar and goes forth
to battle in her behalf. But we do not believe that a soldier's

Minnesota:
Every loyal American was first and forerr:ost a soldier of th_e
Republic. As a soldier his first duty was obedience. So as Amencan soldiers, we went wherever we were ordered, we executed
whatever plans were laid before us: I kn.ow that .the Grand Mas• ters returned from Washington with a little feelmg of hurt, b~­
cause they were not permitted to carry out among the boys. m
khaki their plans of helpfulness and encouragement; but lookmg
back now in better perspective, it will appear .that the Gover ndment' s judgment was correct, and welfare work m camp and fie 1
should be consolidated. Elks' huts, Owls' huts, Eagles' hutsf
K. of C. huts, Masonic huts, Odd Fellows' h!lt.s, and a score o
others were better consolidated ho.th in !he sp1nt of economy and
efficiency. Let us not now be env10us ot tho~e who were successful in getting their work accepted. Though it would a~pear now
that to the Red Cross, the Y. M. C. f\· and the Salvation Army
might have been confided all the weltare wo~k-t<? these threethe great mother, the big brother and the lovmg sister.

116

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

AMERICAN E. F.
Y. M. 0. A.
PARIS DIVISION
BLVD MALESHERBES.
November 14, 1918.
Secretary of Masonic
Lodge, No.
DeRr Sir and Brother.Brother
of your Lodge registered with
us on
,
and we take plea.sure in
advising that he appeared
greatly pleased to meet with
Masonic Brothers in a For-

eign City.
There are at this time no
funds in France,
except the private personal
funds
of Loya.I Master
l\fasons, 'vhich have been
used by the writer to assist
worthy Master Masons who
have been in hospitals and
recovering have not received
their ·pay checks for several
months, and the assistance
seems greatly appreciated.
Regretting the Inability of
the small funds at our disposal to go all the way
around to give the assistance
needed, but trusting that the
Brothers at home will soon
awaken to the necessity and
supply us with sufficient.
~no:~Y to extend the work,
~fasonic

Fraternally yours,
M. E. WAITE,
Secretary Ma~onic
Overseas Club.
Mailiug Address,
Treas. Paris Division,
American Y. M. C. A.,
12 Rue d' Aguesseau.

(Censored)

Dec. 16, 1918.
Dr. W. N. Kendrick,
Grand Master of Masons,
Spring Valley, Minn.,
Dear Sir and Brother,Your remittance of Oct.
22nd, received, addressed to
Albert Plate!, Grand Secretary Of Grand Lodge of
France A. }... & A. M ..
came to me as secretary of
Overseas Masonic Club on
account of the death of Bro.
Plate!, three yea.rs ago, at
the front.
The draft and
letter was turned over to
Bro. Massonnee.u, Grand
Secretary at this time on
Nov. 30th, It coming to hand
on Nov. 29th. You are before this in receipt of
acknowledgment from the
Grand Secretary,
Upon opening envelope the
first thought was that at last
the long looked for remittance for use among our own
brothers had arrived, but to
this date not an American
Masonic dollar has ever been
sent across the seas for use
where urgently needed among
loyal U. S. A. Masons.
Yours truly and fraternally,
M. E. WAITE,
Secretary Overseas
Masonic Club.
l\fall Address,
12 Hue d' Aguesseau.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Dec. 16, 1918,
GRANDE LOGE DE
FRANCE.

0.

de Paris,

le December 3rd,

Dear Sir and

1

U~~sh\:;:rulv. >

Brother.On Saturday last we had
the pleasure of receiving Bro.

M. E. Waite, who handed .to
us your letter of Oct. 22nd,
together with a draft for
817 5 francs.
We regret to have ·to tell
you that our Bro. Albert
Plate!, former Grand Beere,.
tary, fell on the field ot
honor, and it is his suc~s;~u. who is now writing

Please accept our m o s t
grateful thanks for your very
kind donation in favor of
Ma.sonic prisoners of war.
As, however, the war is now
end, we propose to
devote the sum you have· so.
generously sent, to the relief
of our Brethren in .the re"c en tly recovered provinces,
at an

where, as I am sure you
must realize, there is intense misery and distress.

Many thanks, too, for your
efforts to bring about the
establishment of official relations (not renewal, for as
far as the Grande Loge de
France is concerned, they
h, ave ever existed) between
our two Grand Bodies. May
they be crowned with success at your' next Annual
Communication!
With fraternal greetings
and in the hope that we ma;
soon have the opportunity of
thanking you in person for
Your generous aid and support, I am yours faithfully
and fraternally,
MASSONNEAU.
M. Worshipful Brother
W. N. Kendrick,
Grand Master,
Grano Lodge of Minnesota
Spring Valley, Minn.
'

If an.y Mason has. ever had any doubt of the advisability or need
of a N:i- t 1odi;ial ~asomc Service Association surely this correspond
ence w1 11 1spel 1t.
New Jersey:

"The other side of this question in our mind is that we can
see no good reason wh:y a ma!1 .should, because he has gone into
the army, suddenly decide to JOm the Masonic Fraternity Wh
has he not thou?"ht of it before when he was at home. wher~
everyone knew him? We have known of several men who were
brought to a f?ll rea.lization of the fact that they could not becon;e ;Masons m t~e1r own home town, and who would lad!
e_nhs! m !he army if they thought they stood any chance 0~ geftmg mto it, when they were but a few miles away from those who
k new them."

117

WAR CHARITY
The Grand Lodge of Maryland appropriated $1500 to the Baltimore fund to. be used for the relief of the dependents of soldiers
and sailors. This was perhaps a little more practical than the
action of Missouri and Wisconsin. The "Show Me" State adopted
fifty fatherless children of France for a period of one year, appropriating the sum of $1825 for the purpose, while Wisconsin appropriated $365 for the purpose of caring for ten French children
for one year.
If the foster parents continue the appropriation until their
wards attain their majority, their action might appear to be of
some lasting use, but otherwise it would look to be only a drop in
the bucket.
GEORGE WASHINGTON MEMORIAL ASSOCIATION
The last report of the Treasurer showed about $95,000 on
hand. Since then, additional subscriptions amounting to $11,450
have been made. If the original idea of this Association is carried
out, it will accomplish one thing, if nothing more, and that is
locating a half million dollar Temple in a town of approximately
16,000 inhabitants, and undoubtedly free from debt, if the entire
amount is collected before operations are commenced. This is
certainly good for the inhabitants of Alexandria and an exception
in Masonic building. We yield to no one in our respect for
George Washington, but we do believe that if these relics are so
valuable, they could doubtless be located in a place where they
would be more accessible to the world in general, and, furthermore, that the money could be better employed for the ultimate
·good of Washington's memory and the Craft in general.
Our opinion is best expressed in the words of Brother Joseph
Greenfield of Georgia, who said:
"But I would rather stand before the final judgment bar, and
proffer as my passport for admission into the Celestial Lodge, a
crippled child made whole, or a maimed soldier made self-sustaining, than all the offerings of 'frozen-music' that can be erected from
now until the end of time. * * * There is a building in India
called the Taj Mahal. It is said to be the most beautiful structure
in the world, but it is the tomb of a woman. The Pyramids are the
most stupendous example of the builder's art ever erected, but they
are the tomb of a vanished civilization. St. Peter's at Rome is
the grandest religious temple now in existence, but it is the tomb of
a dying hierarchy. Westminster Abbey is the pride of the AngloSaxon race, but its glory is in its memorials of the dead."
LET US MAKE THE MONUMENTS OF MASONRY LIVING AND ACTIVE ONES.

118

ltn

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

Illinois:
It ought to be well understood that no Free Mason on the
western Continent would at this day. in the ·teast infinitesimal
degree, discount the character and services of \Vashington, who
b.eyond controversy was among the very greatest men of modern
times, but scores and thousands of us see in the pretended discovery of that which is not true, that any considerable portionof his earthly acti:ities were devoted to Freemasonry, or that
Freemasonry was m any marked degree affected by his performance, a. tendency to lay the Institution under liability to the
charge of toadyism, and to furnish the profane at least presumptive evidence of the truth of the charge.

and have erected to him as a Mason, a monument costing threequarters of a million dollars. \Ve may be dead wrong on t~il!
proposition and are candid enough to confess that we have tned
to come to that conclusion, but so far we have not been able to
do so.
\Ve are writing this review after our first visit to the tomb
of \Vashington and the Lodge room of Alexandria-\Vashington
Lodge, and we are bound to say that while w~ rever~ntly stood
with uncovered and bowed head at the tomb ot Washmgton, and
while every fiber of our soul was stirred to loyal and patriotic
·tension as we stood in the presence of his immortal dust and
tramped over the earth his feet had touched; and while we
reverently thanked Almighty God, as we stood in tlle Lodge room
of the Lodge over which he had presided, that he had sufficiently esteemed the Masonic Fraternity to become a member
thereof and to devote some of his time to its interests, yet we
could not become enthused over the proposition to erect to
\Vashington the Mason a memorial costing three-quarters of a
million dollars. It is possibly unfortunate that our visit was not
timed so as to be present at one of the love-feasts which seem
to contain an unusual degree of enthusiasm, and nearly every
one who attends goes home properly enthused over the project.

North Carolina:
. It .is. the idea to have a splendid building to be erected on the
site ongmally selected for the capitol of our nation the home of
our most distinguish~d brother, George \Vashingto'n, which will
be the common meetmg ground for all the Masons of our nation
of all branches. Besides this, there will be prepared a place
where the many valuable documents and records and relics of
f.4asonry may be collected together and preserved, and become
ot great educatic:inal value. to our Craft and the public, and among
these are the priceless relics of \l\Tashington and Lafayette, which
have already been offered, but for which fabulous sums have
been absolutely refused.
Ohio:
. In our humble opinion the annual trip to Alexandria is largely
~n .the nature o~ a Junket, as the business of the organization, .if
tt is to be contmued, could be transacted just as well by a few
enthusiasts, as to have the Grand Masters from all over the
country congregate there annually for a two days' good time.
As a rule the Grand Master is in office but one year, and while
he may get some inspiration and enthusiasm from his trip, it
ends when he goes out of office.
\Ve have no question whatever about the hospitality shown
at the Annuals, and we suspect that that is the "nigger in the
woodpile." The boys go down there and are so well trealed
that they allow their stomachs to guide them, instead of Masonic
usage.
It wa~ , our pleasure recently to visit the Lodge room of
Alexandria Lodge, and we saw every one of the "priceless relics"
that are there on exhibition. \Ve are frank to say that several
of these are of valt1e to the antiquarian, and we have no doubt
that our Alexandrian Brethren are anxious to have them properly
car~d for, but~ after. examining them carefully, and the Apron
which was at hrst said to be given by Lafayette to Washington
but which it is now admitted was not given by Lafayette at all'
we are still inclined to the opinion that the great, broad principl~
that all Masons stand upon a level, and that there should be no
distin~tions bet>~een them, sho~1ld prevail, and that Bro. George
\Vashmgton, while a great patriot and a great man, and while he
honored Freemasonry by uniting with it and contributing to its
success, should not be singled out in the great army of devoted
Masons who have done far more for the Order than ever he did,

Pennsylvania:
Another subject prominently and frequently presented is the
George \Vashington Masonic Memorial Association, the object
of which is to erect at Alexandria, Virginia, a memorial temple
to \Vashington, the Mason. The American Grand Lodges have
very generally endorsed the project, a large majority have become charter members of the Association, and a number of them
have donated considerable sums of money to its funds. The
movement is now beyond the experimental state and its ultimate
success appears to be assured. The Fraternity in the United
States will do itself honor, and at the same time accomplish a
stroke of good policy, by consummating this challenge-in
tangible, concrete form-that the Greatest American was not only
a patron of the Masonic Institution and endorsed its principles,
aims and purposes, but was also an active worker in it.
South Carolina:
If any of you have any idea that the Masons of Alexandria
have an ulterior motive in connection with this enterprise, dismiss
it from your minds now. I have never been in a community
where the real and true spirit of Masonry is more in evidence,
and our Brethren of Alexandria are absolutely unselfish in connection with this whole matter and only desire that the Masons
of America shall give to George Washington the ·recognition
which his services to his country and the craft entitle him to.
I can think of nothing better calculated to sustain the claim of
loyalty to law and devotion to country taught in every Masonic
lodge than the erection of this memorial to George \Vashington,
the Mason.

120

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

South Dakota:
He (Alabama) is not enthusiastic in support of the George
Washington Memorial. We could ask" him if it has not had the
effect of bringing a great society in the United States to the
support of Columbus. \Ve remember that in our boyhood we
took delight in debating the relative merits of \Vashington and
Columbus, and what a knockout blow it was to the Columbiana
when it was proclaimed that \Vashington could not tell a lie and
that Columbus could for he deceived the poor Indians about
the eclipse.
CONCLUSION.

If, in any' of the foregoing subdivisions, the views of some of the
Jurisdictions have been omitted, it is on account of the high cost of
paper and printing, and not intentionally.
It has been said that an optimist is a person who does not care what
happens, so long as it does not happen to him, while a pessimist is one
who lives with an optimist. Grand Masters, Orators, Lecturers, Correspondents, and a large number of Masonic writers seem to be
optimists, if their utterances are to be taken as expressing their views.
After endeavoring to digest some of these, a questionnaire was
sent to every Grand Secretary in the United States. . \Ve regret to say
that some of them were never returned. Evidently the Brothers· are
members in good standing of the "Mafiana" Club. In it was asked:
Did you or any Masonic Body in your Jurisdiction maintain any
service or institution open to the public, as well as Masons?..............
Please describe ........................... .
Only one answer was received:
"Yes. A library."
l t also contained the following inquiry:
"Did Masonry, as such, in your Jurisdic.tion, perform, contribute to, or assist in any public or Civic Act or deed? ................... .
1' lease describe .................................. .
The following answers were received :
"Gave pub:ic influence to State University with reference to military training."
"Yes. A \Var Chest."
"Contributed to the George Washington Masonic Memorial Association."
"$150::!.00 for relief of distressed Masons and their families in
Franc.e, and $100).00 for fire sufferers."
"Yes. Backed the English language measure for all schools."
In the de~ert of Masonry, these were the only oases. If there is
any of them deserving special mention, it is the action of North Dakota,

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

121

in publicly fathering the movement to make English compulsory in
every school, public, private and parochial.
A writer for one of our great national publications said that the
Bolshevist movement throughout the world would end when the people
commenced to raise more babies and wheat, and less Hell. Following
that line of thought, perhaps the existing condition of the Craft can best
be made better if we stop worshipping the "Sacred Cow of Precedent,"
pay less attention to what our enemies, real or fancied, are doing and
Start Something Ourselves. The world stands aside to let a man pass
who knows where he is going, but it is getting somewhat tired of any
person or body of men who can do nothing but wield the hammer.
Destructive work alone never accomp!ishes anything.
. I believe there is one Brother to whom these sentiments should
appeal, and that is Worshipful Brother J. Hugo Tatsch, Grand Orator
of \Vashington, who gave utterance to the following:
"But the fact remains, in spite of all that has been d01Je by Americans in the Masonic field, that we have barely scratched .the ~urface as
compared to the influence we can exert. \V1t~out entering 11.1to a detai:ed and laborious discussion C'.f the c~use.s, 1t must. be adnutted. th~t
as an institution we have done little to Justify our existence. As md1viduals, yes; we have accomplished mucl~; but a~ide from a f~w act~
of charitv which caused none of us any mconvemence or sacru,cc, the
America11 'Masonic Institution has not as an organization done one thing
to justify the boasts and claims made by the uninformed members of
the Society.
Two centuries have elapsed since the reorganization of our Society
took place; and what have ,we ~o point to? A large . membership,
numerous temples, several M aso;11c Hol1.}cs, a few scantily . supported
societies and publications f<?r the mformat10n o.f .the 9raft. Like a commercial concern engaged in zealously advertismg its trade-mark, we
have familiarized the world with the. sign of the square. and coml?a~~es;
but if you were to ask a representative man, one who 1s nc;t an nutiatc
of the fraternity, just what Masons had done for the wor'.d 111 the forum
of men and events, he would he hard pressed to find an answer.
Yet I cannot feel hut that the Society was created for .greater thing:"·
In my own opinion, I feel that we ha_ve run the tram of l\fason~<;
progress on a siding. Perhaps I am mistaken; but the cause c;f tl11s
situation lies in the fact that w~ have been t::io se.lfishly engage1 m 01;r
own local affairs to the exclus10n of what 1s gomg on Masomcally 111
other parts of th~ world. We must cease to think in local or na~ion:'l
terms; and must assist our Brethren of E.urope and South Amen~a m
establishing the fraternity as one of the vital movements for ~he hbe~­
ation of men's intellects and souls from th~alldom of ~very kmd. ~ e
cannot do this by meeting year after year "'.1thou.t lookmg ov:r the limitations which we have ourselves. erected m. edicts o.f non-mtercourse
and in the "holier-than-th~u" attitude. It 1~ ess~nt1al that we pla~e
ourselves in the other mans sho.es, an~ ~xamme pis pro~lem~ ~rom h:s
viewpoints. Thus we shall acqmre a v1s1011 of thmgs which is 1mposs1-

122

HH;!'ORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

ble now on account of our own preconceived
prejudices."

ideas

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

and

inherited

The solution of this mighty problem is actively before us both
individually and collectively. We believe the Craft have a gn:at opportunity now open to them, but whether they will embrace it or not,
time alone can tell.
"A prophet is without honor in his own country," so we stop here.
For the present, our task is dGne. We have endeavored to give sug~
gestions which can be accepted or rejected as the peruser of this may
see fit.
Y onrs sincerely and fraternally,

JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman.

123

APPENDIX
AMERICAN FREEMASONRY
The systems of Freemasonry practiced in the United States
are generally known as the York Rite and the Scottish Rite.
Properly speaking, they should be termed the American Rite and
the Scottish Rite, for the one commonly called York is peculiar in
its organized proceedings only to the United States.
The American Rite embraces the Symbolic, the Capitular, the
Cryptic and the Templar degrees.
The Symbolic degrees are conferred in a Lodge and are the
Entered Apprentice, the Fellow Craft and the Master Mason.
They are called Symbolic because their prominent mode of instructioi;i is by symbols.
The Capitular degrees are conferred in a Royal Arch Chapter
and are the Mark Master, the Past Master, the Most Excellent
Master and the Royal Arch. The supplemental and honorary degree of High Priesthood is conferred in a Council of High Priests
upon those who have been regularly elected to preside over a
Chapte.r of Royal Arch Masons. They are called Capitular because they are conferred in a Chapter, the work "Capitular" meaning "done in a Chapter."
The Cryptic degrees are conferred in a Council. They are the
Royal Master, the Select Master and the Super-Excellent Master.
They are called Cryptic because the word "crypt" means a secret
vault or underground passage.
The Templar degrees are conferred in a Commandery and are
the Red Cross, the Temple and the Malta. The name Knight
Templar comes from the efforts of the Christian Knights to take
the temple at Jerusalem from the Mohammedans.
The Scottish Rite embraces the degrees from the 4th to the
33rd, inclusive. In the Southern Jurisdiction of the United States
(which includes all territory south of the Ohio River and west of
the Mississippi River) the organization of the different bodies, and
the degrees conferred by them, are: Lodge of Perfection, 4° to
14°, inclusive; Chapter Rose Croix, 15° to 18°; Council of Kadosh,
19° to 30°; Consistory, 31 ° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.
In the Northern Jurisdiction (which includes a:ll States north
of the Ohio River and east of the Mississippi River) the degrees
conferred are: Lodge of Perfection, 4° to 14°, inclusive; Council
Princes of Jerusalem, 15 ° and 16°; Chapter Rose Croix, 17° and
18°; Consistory, 19° to 32°; Supreme Council, 33°.

124

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC PERIODICALS
Arkansas-Masonic Trowel, Little Rock.
California-Southwestern Freemason, Los Angeles; Trestle
Board, San Francisco.
Colorado-Square and Compass, Denver.
Delaware-Masonic Index, Wilmington.
District of Columbia-New Age, \Vashington.
Florida-Fraternal Record, Jacksonville; Florida Masonic
Journal, Jacksonville.
Georgia-Masonic Herald, Rome.
Illinois-Masonic Chronicle, Chicago; Fraternalist, Chicago;
Voice Review, Chicago; Illinois Freemason, Bloomington; Masonic
Review, Arcola; Masonic News, Peorir.; Mystic Light (NEGRO),
Rock Island.
Iowa-The E"uilder, Anamosa; American Freemason, Storm
Lake.
Indiana-Masonic Tidings, \Vinona Lake.
Kentucky-Masonic Home Journal, Louisville; Light, Louisville; Scottish Rite Bulletin, Louisville.
Louisiana-Square and Compasses, New Orleans; Plumb Line
(negro ), Natchitoches.
Maine-Masonic Token, Portland.
Massachusetts-New England Craftsman, Boston.
Michigan -Tyler-Keystone, Ann Arbor; Tyler-Keystone,
Owosso; Palistine Bulletin, Detroit; Trestle Board, Detroit; The
Ashlar, Detroit; Friendship Bulletin, Detroit.
Missouri-Inter-State Freemason, Kansas ~ity; Kansas City
Freemason, Kansas City; Missouri Freemason, St. Louis.
Minnesota-The Crescent, St. Paul; Masonic Calendar, Duluth; Masonic Observer, Minneapolis.
Nor th Carolina-Masonic Journal, Oxford.
New York-Masonic Standard, New York; Brotherhood, New
York; Gavel, Newburgh; Masonic News, Brooklyn.
Oklahoma-Oklahoma Mason, McAlister.
OhiO:-Masonic Bulletin, Cleveland.
Pennsylvania-Masonic Monthly, Philadelphia.
Tennessee-Tennessee Mason, Nashville.
Texas-Texas Freemason, San Antonio.
Utah-Universal Freemason (CLANDESTINE), Salt Lake
City.
Virginia-Masonic Journal, Richmond.
\Vashington-Masonic Tribune, Seattle.
\Visconsin-Masonic Tidings, Milwaukee.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

125

MASONIC PERIODICALS-Continued
Foreign
Australia-Australian Free Lance, Melbou;ne.
England-Freemason, London; Miscellanea Latomorum, London; Transactions of Coronati Lodge No. 2076, London.
South Africa-Masonic Journal, Johannesburg.
New Zealand-Master ai:id Past Master, Christchurch.
India-Review of Religions, Gurdaspur.
Canada-Freemason, Toronto; Masonic Sun, Toronto.

MASONIC CALENDAR
Ancient Craft Masons commence their era with the creation
of the world, calling it Anno Lucis (A. L.), "in the year of light."
Royal Arch Masons date from the year the Second Temple
was commenced by Zerubabel, Anno Inventionis (A. Inv.), "in the
year of Discovery."
Order of High Priesthood date from the year of the Blessing
of Abraham by the High Priest Melchizedek, Anno Benefacio
(A. n'.), "in the year of the Blessing."
Royal and Select Masters date from the year in which the
Temple of Solomon was completed, Anno Depositionis (A. Dep.),
"in the year of Deposit."
Knights Templar commence their era with the organization of
their order, Anno Ordinis (A. 0.), "in the year of the Order."
Scottish Rite, same as Ancient Craft, except the Jewish chronology is used, Anno Mundi (A. M.), "in the year of the world."
RULES FOR MASONIC DATES
Ancient CraftAdd 4000 years to the common time. Thus, 1918 ancl 40005918.
Royal ArchAdd 530 years to the common era. Thus, 1918 ancl 530-2448.
. Order of High PriesthoodTo the Christian era add 1913, the year of the Blessing (B.
C.). Thus, 1918 and 1913-3831.
Royal and Select MasonsAdd 1000 to the common era. Thus, 1918 and 1000-2918.
Knights TemplarFrom the Christian era take 1118. Thus, 1118 from 1918800.
Scottish RiteAdd 3760 to the common era. Thus, 1918 and 3760-5678.

126

REPORT ON CORRESI'ONDENCE

AMERICAN MASONIC GRAND BODIES
GENERAL GRAND CHAPTER, ROYAL ARCH MASONS
Frederick W. Craig, General Grand High Priest,
Capital City Eank, Des Moines, Iowa.
Charles A. Conover, General Grand Secretary,
Coldwater, Mich.
38th Convocation, Raleigh, N. C., 1921.
GRAND CHAPTER OF CALIFORNIA
Elmer H. McGowen, Grand High Priest,
Commercial and Savings Bank, Stockton, Calif.
Thomas A. Davies, Grand Secretary,
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
66th Annual Convocation, San Francisco, April 20, 1920.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

1 "9"I

SUPREME COUNCIL, A. & A. S. R. (Southern Juridiction)
George F. Moore, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander.
John H. Cowles, 33°, Secretary General,
House of the Temple, Washington, D. C.
Meets biennially third Monday in October, Washington, D. C.
William Parker Filmer, 33°, San Francisco, S. G. Insp. General,
Northern District of California.
Perry vVinslow Weidner, 33°, Los Angeles, S. G. Insp. General,
Southern District of California.
~UPREME COUNCIL, A. & A. S. R.

(Northern Jurisdiction)
Barton Smith, 33°, Sovereign Grand Commander,
James H. Codding, 33°, Secretary General,
299 Broadway, New York.
Meets annually the third Tuesday in September, Boston, :Mass.

GENERAL GRAND COUNCIL, ROY AL AND SELECT
MASONS
George A. Newell, General Grand Master,
Medina, N. Y.
Henry W. Mordhurst, General Grand Recorder,
Fort Wayne, Ind.
14th Triennial Assembly, to be fixed by first three General Grand
Officers.

IMPERIAL COUNCIL, A. A. 0. N. M. S.
W. Freeland Kendrick, Imperial Potentate,
Philadelphia, Pa.
E'enjamin W. Rowell, Imperial Recorder,
Masonic Temple, Boston, Mass.
· 46th Annual Session, Portland, Oregon, June, 1920.

GRAND COUNCIL OF CALIFORNIA
H. Ray Fry, Grand Master,
Wilcox Bldg., San Jose, Calif.
Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder,
Masonic Temple, San Francisco, Calif.
60th Annual Assembly, San Francisco, April 20, 1920.

GENERAL GRAND CHAPTER, ORDER EASTERN STAR
Mrs. Ellie Lines Chapin, General Grand Matron,
Pine Meadows, Conn.
Mrs. Minnie E. Keyes, General Grand Secretary,
Lansing, Mich.
17th Triennial Assembly, Washington, D. C., 1922.

GRAND ENCAMPMENT OF KNIGHTS TEMPLAR
Joseph K. Orr, Grand Master, Atlanta, Ga.
Frank H. Johnson, Grand Recorder, Louisville, Ky.
35th Triennial Conclave, New Orleans, 1922.
GRAND COMMANDERY OF CALIFORNIA
Benjamin F. Bledsoe, Grand Commander,
Federal Bldg., Los Angeles, Calif.
Thomas A. Davies, Grand Recorder,
Masonic Temple, San Francisco.
62nd Annual Conclave, San Francisco, Calif., April 22, 1920.

GRAND CHAPTER OF CALIFORNIA
Mrs. Elizabeth M. Marshall, Grand Matron,
2717 Portola Way, Sacramento, Calif.
Mrs. Kate J. Willats, Grand Secretary,
1002 Ellis Street, San Francisco, Calif.
Annual Session, San Francisco, October 21, 1919,

GRAND
MASTERSGRAND
SECRETARIES-

=======

CHAIRMEN
COM. CORRESPONDENCE·

GRAND
MASTERS-

GRAND
SECRETARIES·-

CHAIRMEN
COM. CORRESPONDENCE-

Philippine Islands ...... Milton E. Springer, Manila.. .................. Newton C. Comfort, Manila.................... Newton C. Comfort, Manila.
Porto Rico._................... \V. F. Lippitt, -San Juan ............................ Jose G. Torres, San Juan ........................ H. L. Moore, San Juar.:
P. E. Island ................ Rev. J. MacDougall, Cape Traverse .......... E. T. Carbonell, Charlottetown ................. W. P. Doull, Charlottetown.
Quebec ........................ Arthur Il. Wood, Montreal....................... W. W. Williamson, Montreal.. ................ E. D. T. Chambers, Quebec.

Maryland .................... Charles C. Homer, Jr., Baltimore............ George Cook, Baltimore............................ Rev. Henry Branch, Baltimore.
Massachusetts ............ Leon M. Abbott, Brookline...................... Frederick W. Hamilton, Boston .............. No.ne.
Mexico {Y. G. L.) .... S. Matta, Box 1986, City of Mexico.... C. C. Shanks, Box 1986, City ofMexico .. C. C. Shanks, Box 1986, Mexico City.
Michigan .................... Charles B. Eddy, Grand Rapids .............. Lou B. Winsor, Reed City...................... Lou B. Winsor, Reed City.
MinneSGla .................. George M. Stowe, Wadena ...................... John Fishel, St. Paul.. .............................. Irving Todd, Hastings.
Mississippi .......:........ c.Louis A. Benoist, Natchez ........................ Frederick G. Speed, Vickeburg................ George B. Power, Jackson.
Missouri ...................... John W. Bingham, Milan .......................... John R. Parson, St. Louis ...................... Charles C. Woods, St. Louis.
Montana ...................... W. L. Parmelee, Butte............ .
........ Cornelius Hedges, Jr., Helena ................ Herman S. Hepner, Helena.
Nebraska ~ ..................;John J. Tooley, Broken Bow.................. Francis E. White, Omaha ....................... Francis E. White, Omaha.
Nevada ........................ Wm. B. S. Park, Las Vegas..
...... Edw. D. Vanderlieth, Carson City........ Edw. D. Vanderlieth, Carson City.
New Brunswick.......... Daniel C. Ctart, St. John ...................... J. Twining Hartt, St. John ...................... James Vroom, St. Stephen.
New Hampshire..........
Harry M. Cheney, Concord ...................... Harry M. Cheney, Concord.
New Jersey .................. William L. Daniels, Trcnton .................... Isaac Cherry, Trenton ................................ Robert A. Shirrefs, Elizabeth.
New Mexico .........;..;;.;Alex. D. Goldenberg, Tucumcari.. .......... Alpheus A. Keen, Albuquerquc ................ John Milne, Albuquerque.
N. South Wales.........;William Thompson .................................... Arthur H. Bray, Sydney............................ S. Scott·Young.
New York. ........;.......... William S. Farmer, Syracuse.................. Rroert J. Kenworthy, New York ............ William Sherer_, Brooklyn.
New Zealand................ Alexander L. Herdman, AucklarnL. ..... ~.Malcolm Niccol, Auckland ........................ Malco.lm Niccol, Auckland.
North Carolina............ Henry A. Grady, Clinton .......................... William W. Wilson, Raleigh .................... Marsbal1 DeL. Haywood, Raleigh.
North Dakota ........_..... Amil P. Lenhart, Bismark........................ Walter L. Stockwell, Fargo ...................... Grant S. Hager, Grafton.
Nova Scotia................ John Hay, Truro ...................................... James C. Jones, Halifax .......................... James C. Jones, Halifax.
Ohio ................'. ...;....... Isaac Kinsey, Toledo ............................. Jacob IL Bromwel1, Cincinnati .............. Frank H. Marquis, Mansfield.
Oklahoma .................... 0. Alonzo Connor, Vinita ........................ Wm. M. Anderson, Oklahoma City ........ Thomas C. Humphry, Hugo.
Oregon ........................ Earl C. Bronaugh, Portland .................... James F. Robinson, Portland .................. David P. Mason, Albany.
Panama ........................ Jose Maria Fernandez, Panama .............. Jose Oller, Panama.................................... None.
Pennsylvania .............. James B. Krause, Philadelphia ................ John A. Perry, .Philadelphia ................... Thomas F. Penman, Scranton.

GRAND
LODGES-

Alabama ...................... Robert S. Teague, Montgomery............. Geo. A. Beauchamp, Montgomery .......... Oliver D. Street, Guntersville.
Alberta ........................ W. J. Botterill, Red Deer.. .................... S. Y. Taylor, Calgary ................................ Dr. II. Darling, Edmonton.
Arizona ...................... -James H. Barrett, Dnuglas ...................... George J. Ros.cruge, Tucson .................... Harry 0A. Drachman, Tucson.
Arkansas ..................-G. W. Wells, Imboden...................
.. ... Fay Hempstead, Little Rock. ................... S. 0. Whaley, Sulphur Springs.
Belgium ...................... Charles Magnette, Brussels........................ George Petre, Brussels.............................. None.
British Columbia........ S. J. Willis, Vancouver ........................... ,W. A. D. Smith, New Westminster ........ W. A. D. Smith, New Westminster.
California .................... Bradford Webster, San Francisco.,. ...... John Whicher, S~.n Francisco ................ Jesse M. Whited, San Francisco.
Canada ......................-William IL Wardrope, Hamilton .......... William M. Logan, Hamilton, Ont .......... Augustus T. Freed, Hamilton, Ont.
Colorado ...................... Clarence M. Kellogg, Denver.. .................. Cl1arlcs H. Jacobson, Denver .................. Stanlcy C. Warner, Denver.
Connecticut ................ Wallace S. Moyle, New Hli'ven ................ George A. Kies, Hartford ............;........... George A'. Kies, Hartford.
Cuba ............................ Erasmo Regueiferos, Habana .................. F. V. Preval, Habana ................................ Francisco de P. Rodriguez, Habana.
Delaware ....................-"~· Victor Hughes, Wilmington......
.... Harry J. Guthrie, Wilmington ................ Harry J. Guthrie, Wilmington.
Dist. Columbia ............ Joseph H. Milans, Washington .............. Arvine W. Johnston, Washington ............ Georgc W. Baird, Washingto.n.
England ......................J)uke of Con naught . .....................
.... P. Colville Smith, London ........................ None.
.. .... Wilber P. Webster, Jacksonville ............ Silas B. Wright, DcLand.
:Florida .......................... T. Picton Warlou, Orlando......
France (G. Looge) ..-M.W.Bro.Desmons,8RuePuteaux,Paris .. Edw. P. Denny, 8 Rue Puteaux, Paris ..
France (G. Orient) .. G. Corneau, 16 Rue Cadet, Paris ............ N. Vadccard, 16 Rue Cadet, Paris ........
Georgia ........................ Robert J. Travis, Savannah ................... Frank F. Baker, Macon ............................ Raymund Daniels, Atlanta.
Idaho ............................ Arch Cunningham, Boise ............. . .... George E. Knepper, Boise........................ George E. Knepper, Boise.
Illinois ........................ David G. Fitzgerrel!, Normal... ............... Isaac Cutter, Camp. Point.. ..................... Delmar D. Darrah, Bloomington.
Indiana ........................ Charles J. Orbison, Indianapolis..
. ..,..Calvin W. Prather, Indianapolis............ Elmer F. Gay, Indianapolis.
Iowa ............................ William A. Westfall, Mason City
.... : Newton R. Parvin, Cedar Rapids ............ Louis Block, Davenport.
Ireland ........................ Earl of D,onoughmore ............................ Henry E. Flavel\e, Dublin...................... None.
Kansas ........................ Owen J. Wood, To.peka......................... Albert K. Wi_lson, Topeka ........................ Albert K. Wilson, Topeka.
Kentucky .................... William. Carson Black, Barbourville...... Dave Jackson, Louisville .......................... William W. Clark, Owensboro.
Louisiana .................-Rudolph Krauoe, Lake Charles ................ Jnbn A. Davilla, New Orleans ................ Herrnan C. Duncan,- Alexandria.
Maine ........................-Silas B, Adams, Portland .......................... Charles n. Davis, Portland ........................ Albro E. Chaee, Portland.
Manitoba .................... Edward. T. Greenway, Crystal City........ James A. Ovas, Winnipeg ........................ A. L. Crossin.

GRAND
LODGES-

GRAND LODGES AND ADDRESSES OF GRAND OFFICERS

'"'

....

~

.....

l:".I

(')

~

t1

z

"d
0

~I'll

8;"d

z

0

,.,:rJ

:rJ
l:".I
"d
0

l'J

Cl

~

ti

z

~

~

!;rj

0

Cl

2:

0

>i

!;rj

0

""

l"l

!;rj

co

r

..

?

GRAND
MASTERSGRAND
SECRETARIES-CHAIRMEN
COM. CORRESPONDENCE-

;;-~
....

"',...
::i ?"

rJ;

2::
.... I

0

,...

'"'I>'

•

(

I/

:

I

..

//

----

.....

ti;!

tl1

t;;
"d

ti:

~

t<l

t1

z

"d
0

r/l

ti;!

:ti
:ti

l:l
0

z

0

1-i

~

"d

:ti

0

"'

I0

t1

Of

n

l'1
;ll

J:I

....

"'...

ti;!

()

z

ti;!

t1

z

0

"d

r/l

l:l

0
:ti
:ti
t?:l

1-'3
0

~

0

?
,,:x: z

"'111

1'

0
-1

;.
....::r:

. '' .

z

:-1

0

'-'t

0

o~,.,

........
0 I>'
-!"

I>' ...

::r ;!l.
........
....

'"'"'

o.~

...c::...o.

...::i ::i"'

~
C'l
'O ....

~'\.

w:

Rhode Island..............
S. Penrose Williams, Providence............ William M. Chatterton, Pawtucket.
Queensland ······-········] ames Stodart, Brisbane ...............;............ Charles H. Harley, Brisbane...................•
Saskatchewan ............ Robert Young, Prince Albert....................
B. Tate, Regina.................................... Arthur S. Gorrell, Regina.
Scotland ...................... Robert Gordon Gilmour, Craig Millar .... David Reid, Edinburgh .............................. Nonc.
South Australi.a .......... Eu,tace B. Grundy.................................... Charles R. J. Glover, A'.delaide ................ J. R. Robertsc.n.
South Carolina ............ Wm. W. Wannamaker, Orangeburg...... O. Frank Ilart, Columbia........................ James L. Mi<:hie, Darlington.
South Dakota .............. \Valter R. Burr, Selby ................................ t.eorge A. Pettigrew, Sioux Falls .......... Charles L. Brockway, Sioux Falls.
Switzerland (Alpina) .. Dr. J. Schwenter ........................................ Fr. Zimmermann ........................................ Ed. Quartier-la-Tente, Beaux Arts,
26 Neuchatel.
Tasmania .................... C. E. Davies, Hobart.. .............................. John Hamilton, Hobart.. ............................
Tennessee ······--···-·······Thomas Steele, Jr., Ripley...................... Stith M. Cain, Nashville....................... - ... Henry /( Chambers, Chattanooga.
Texas .......................... A. A. Ross, Lockhart ................................ W. B. Pearson, Waco ................................ John L. Terrell, Dallas.
Utah ............................ Arthur C. Wherry, Salt Lake City ........ Freeman A. McCarty, Salt Lake City .... Sam Henry Goodwin, Provo.
Vermont ...................... Edwin L. Wells, Lyndonville.................. Henry H. Ross, Burlington .................... Charles H. Darling, Burlington.
Victoria ........................ Frederick T. Rickford, Melbourne ........ Charles James Barrow, Melbourne........ David Meadowcraft, Melbourne.
Virginia ...................... Sal Cutchins, Richmond ............................ Cl1arles A. Nesbitt, Richmond ................ Joseph W. Eggleston, Richmond.
\'Vashington ................
Horace W. Tyler, Tacoma........................ Ralph C. McAllaster, Seattle.
West Virginia.............. George S. Laidley, Charleston ................ John M. Collins, Charleston .................... George W. Atkinson, Charleston.
West. Australia .......... Sir William Ellison-Macartney, Perth .... J. D. Stevenson, Perth .............................. J. D. $tevenso.n, Perth.
Wisconsin ........... - ....... Charles E. Shane, Eau Claire................ William W. Perry, Milwaukee ................ Aldro Jenks, Dodgeville.
Wyoming .................... Arthur K. Lee, Thermopolis .................. Joseph M. Lowndes, Landcr.................... Joseph M. Lowndes, Lander.

GRAND
LODGES-

GRAND LODGES AND ADDRESSES OF GRAND OFFICERS-Continued

Georgia ............... .

495,073

3,330

H

4,878
7,437
13,615
l,278

38
43
94
1.3

H

5,381
3,770
4,310
6,181
23,231
784
4,713
11
39
36
87
284
6
30

tt

3,280
5,754
545
4,692
9,357
1,268
44,491
4,817
3,211
47,693
6,784
4,499

i
,.

6,153
914
· S.092.
14,213
6,275
10,815
1,530
3,797
3,360
12,011
1.719
47,721
21,678
16.813
·12.159
10,622
4,S68
11,477
4,767
26,848
27,760
10,438
4,539
17,77.5

31
53
9
26
43
17
213
SI
24
189
71
37

tt

6.5
11
88
108
48
40
4
13
38
156
21
217
125
126
91
113
45
65
24
83
155
76
6S
108

17

475
2,103
1,.557

. .. "2',744'.

..

:

I

10,614
11,287
3,<>01
2,128
2,218
814
S,198
2,fJ79
10,329
9,500
1,803
2;2s9
3,959

· · · '4',i20· ·

1,259

168,747

. ...... ..........

28

..

651
475
23,9Sl
1,529
973
7,.363
3,081
1,578
743
1,236
22,877
. '. "1".476 ..

*
16
.. "i.3" ...

13
5
90
35
10
27
5
31
6
20
289

.~3

* '"i.7:i5"

IS
9

*

12

~4

69
8

n

60
70
30
15
37
10
16
13

6
21

419
2,049

..........
. . . .. . . . ..

864
3,369
1,505
6,742

1,554

. . .. . . . .

I
t

1,454

11
20
20
66
4
13
26
19
23
40
11

t

11
82
57
63
56
35
12
23
13
47
52
35
26
60_

.32

5
21

27
6
22
53
34
11

20
29
3
11
20
13
67
24
16
68
42
18
87

.. ...

* . .. . . . . .. .

10
60

*
*

25
22
13
23

*

t

275,775

2,105
2,507
2,388
8,730
512
2,883
3,983
2,679
4,779
6,341
929

2,010
J,269
222
2.818
4,149
817.
24,918
2,655
1,821
21,191
3,539
2,132
27,758

1,787
l,986
5,795
957
20,977
9,152
8.776
7,753
5,726
l',32S
6,075
2,649
19;109t
10,641
5,397
2,287
8,H.3

-130

2

2
3
l
1
2
I
9
2
2
5
3
2
7
I
1
3
4
5
1
2
3
3
3
I

4

1
2
3
2
5
5
4
!
4
2
I
1
2
4
3
2

3
I
2
4
I
2

280,055

2,570
4,S21
S69
1.274
6,116
l,198
2S,592
3,230
2,493
14,406
6,725
2,590
27,406
2,187
2,378
3,230
4,060
12,468
789
1,735
3.4.13
5,080
5,191
2,734
1,288

2,493
2,028
6,089
1,177
22,694
9,491
9,884
7,574
3,S58
3,019
2,480
1,666
'l,706
!1,490
6,454
3,242
8,769

4.843
846
2,097
11,541
2.836
3,099

;

17

I 8,539

213
30

78
224
17
53
96
3S
570
51
83
396
260
117
275
13
47
128
147
554
15
77
34
157

20
98
73
47
668
355
421
331
262
IOI
175
29
148
418
211
110
421

139
24
•245
311
100
80

6.673
2,397
10,335
45,793
12,159
12,199

---934,449

8,709
22,458
1,7SO
7,203
13,292
2,636
70,329
2,1S9
8,074
S3,935
17,329
13,026
37,44.1
2,823
2,606
12,367
8,491
3S,858
l,599
8,424
2,854
18,012
7,301
27,231
3,25.5

5,082
6,101
4,506
3,937
98,458
39,407
47.846
34,676
15,321
6,896
22,032
3,638
27,672
72,552
23,356
5,153
38,973

••"""" .................................. .

3,.559
602
1,500
8,098
3,656
4,590

There are 11 Subordinate Councils of the General Grand Council with 1471 members.

* Delaware has no Gran<! Commandery, the only Commandery in the State being at Wilmington, which is directly under the Grand En~ampment.
There are 7 Subordinate Commanderies of the Grand Encampment with HI! I members.
t The Grand Commandery of Massachusetts includes Rhode Island.

Grand Council of the United States.

tt Pennsylvania (131,954) and Virginia (27,141) have Grand Chapters, which are not members of the General Grand Chapter of the United
States.
! Connecticut, Illinois, Michigan, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Texas and Wisconsin have Grand Councils which are not members of the General

9,034
......
....... . . . . . . . . . . ....... . .........
7,163
125
9
............. ······· ········
........ ·········· ······· ·········· ...... ··········
433
..........
I
········
...... ········ ·······
...
419
I
....... ··········
·········· ........
········ .........
·········· .. .... ...
....... ········ .........
3.38
I
········ ··········
· · 23"2so· ·
....... .....
90
······· ....... , ..... .. .. ....... ... .... I . ....... . ........

.......

'.&~~·:... :::::::::::: ·::: .....

·······

·······

2S Montana ............... .. ......
26 Nebraska.... . . . . ....... .
27 Nevada ............... · · ......
28 New Hampshire .......... . ....
29 New Jersey .............. .
30 New Mexico ............. . .......
31 New York ............. . ..... , '
32 North Carolina ......... . .....
33 North Do.kota ............ . .......
34 Ohio .................. .
35 Oklahoma ........ .
......
.36
~ n .................. . .......
37 Pennsylvania . ........... . ......
38 Rhode Island ............ . ......
39 South Carolina ........... .
40 f'_outh Dakota ............ . ......
41 Iennessee ............... .
....
42
.......
43
44 Vermont ............... . .......
45 Virginia ......... .
46 Washington........... . .. ' .....
47 West Virginia. . . . . ...... . .......
48 Wisconsin .. , .
......
49 ;Wyoming.
......
Total. .. ·······

!

.. . .. . .. .. . . .. . .
. ..
Kansas...............
.....
Kentucky.....
.. . ...
Louisiana.....
..........
Maine..... .. . .. . . .. . .. . . . .. .. .
Maryland. . . . .
.. ... .
iMa.sachusetts.. . .
......
Michigan..................... . .
Minnesota............... . . . . . . .
23 Missi•sippi. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
24 Missouri. ...... :·:·_._._
.._._._
. ._....

10
11
12
13
14
IS
16
17
18
19
20
21
22

~ 1~l~;:[~~t. ~-f. ~~h'.m.~i~: : : : ......... .

6 Connecticut. . . . . . . ............ .
7 ,Delaware .. , .................... .

2 IArizona ...... .
3 Arkansas...... .
. ........... .
4 California. . . .
.... , ........ .
S IColorado.... . . ..
. ...... ..

I 'Alabama ........ .

Prepared by JESSE M. WHITED, Chair~an, Committee on Cor~eipondence,'C~Iifornia, 1919.

STATISTICAL RETURNS OF MASONIC ORGANIZATIO~S, AMERICAN RITE.

~

ttJ

,,

0
:>:I

('.)

z

tlj

z ,.

""<»

,...

t!'l

(l

z

t!'l

tj

0

":I

'fJ

t!'l

"'

:>:I

0

~

6
z

~

0
:>:I
:>:I

Q

z

0

,,

:>:I
lrJ
'ti
0
:>:I

n

'ti

0

;;...

ti;

GRAND LODGES, MEMBERSHIP, ORGANIZATION AND WAR ACTIVITIES
1
Member-, U.S. ]
When
ship
Service
Organized

22
80
208
50
872
445
118
554
443
149
510
39
272
150
453
895
20
103

328
213
151
282
34

Oregon ............ .
Pennsylvania .... .
Rhode Island .......... .
~outlt Carolina .......... .
South Dakota. , ... , .... .
Tennessee ........ :· .... .
Texas ................ ..
Utah ............... .
Vermont

Virginia. .. . . .. .. .. .. .. .
Washington. . . . . . . . . . .
We;t Virginia....... . . . .
Wisconsin .............. ,
Wyoming .... ,...........

267.
207
7J
83
32
230
98
998
113
16
43
42

New South Wales. . . . . . . .
New Zealand........
Queensland ......... , , , . .
South Australia.... . .. ,
Tasmania ............ , , .
Victoria ... ,. . . . . . . . . .
Western Australia. . . . . . .
Total. .......... , . .
Cub"' ................... '
Mexico (York) ...... ,....
Philippine falands. . . . . .
Porto Rico .. , . . . . . . . . . . .

8,776
1,018
3,S H
2,000

72,034

24,042
14,416
2,600
6,165
2,200
18,334
4,277

119,267

6,281

Total. ......... , . . .

567,054

400,000
28,905
69,745
4,204
2,500
32,000
8,500
21,200

15,327

Mar.
April
Jan.
April

iarterly

May
June
July
June
April
June
June
Feb.
June

June

June
Dec.
May
Dec.
June
Jan.
Dec •
Jan•

Cross

War
Relief

=======

::::.: ::1

·iooo·.001: :: ::::: ::
·.s1i.ooo·.oa
··20.0001::::::::
1·1.000:00 .. ·i.000.001· ·i6;ooo.oo
10,000 .. ' . . . . . . .•... ' . . • ' .. ' ' . ' ' •....•....
~t:zgg1:::::::

,

1917-18
1919
1918-19

......

1918
1918
1918
1918
1918
1918

1919
1918-19
1918
1918
1918
1918
1918
1919
1918

1919
1918
1918
1918
1918

··is.oo·o.oo

1· · ·2.000·

··4s»oo· ·

··2.443'.so

·· 45·,9001 ·.s.2:so:oo1:::::::::: r ·350.ool::::::::::

I

33,0001 1,000.00 Bonds and Stamps,
local lod ges,
$1 39,706.40
7,458.00
1918
37.000 . . . . . . . .
1918
100,000 . . . . . ..
155,000.00
1918
.... " ........ ..
1918
50,000 ...... .
1917-18-19
31,800 1. . . . . ..
1919
1918
1919
1918
5,008

1918-19
1918
1919
1918
1918
1918
1919

1~'.~IY~>o:oo :::::::::· :::::::: 1 :::~.~:~

··:fr.oool: ·
·isi.ooo :is:ooo.oo i.'>oo".oo· · ·6,90<>.oo ··io.000:00

i7o.6oo:oo
.:io1 ··siso.oo· ·!·$733.ool::::::::::

Stamps

1918
....... ·1· ....... ,......... .
1918
$30,000 $2,000.00 ......... .
.. .. .. .. .. 1 479,490 ............... ..
1918
1918-19
32,6001 · · ·1·s·6·.
1918
1919
1918
······1··········
1918
soo.oo, ..........
1918
50,000
3,000.00 230,000.00
1919
1918
1919
... ' .. ' ' .... ' ' . ' . ' . ' . . . . . ' .. ' . . . .
500.00
1917-18
5,000 .. '' ... ' ' ....... '. 2,000.00 .. ' . . . . . .
1919
24,100
834.00 ... ' ... ' . .
930.00 ......... .
1918-19
77 ,000 2,500.00 ' ' .. ' ' .... ' . ' ..... ' ' .. ' ... .
1918
20,500 . ' ..... ' ' ' ........ 10,000.00 30,000.00
1918
.. . .. .. .. .. . . .. .. . .. . .. .. .. .. 135.085,10
1918
10,000
842.00 3,000.00
5,000.00 85,614.00
1919
1919
1918
1918
11,622.05
1918
10,000
26,263.99
1918
2,000

Bonds

1· Liberty I. War .,Y. M. C. A.1· Red

Note-Absence of information as to any Jurisdiction is due to failure to receive the same, or if sent it was incomplete.

3,242
510
1,158
35
30
465
155
686

214
England ........ , . . . . . . .
Ireland ..... ,..........
Scotland......... .. . . .. .
Switzerland (Alpina)....
f!elgium.......... .. .. ..
Fran<--e (Grand Orient)....
France (Grand Lodge) .. , .
Italy.. . .. . .. . .. .. . . .. .

Total.... . . . . . . .

1,057

Total. .. ,..........

66,070
7,600
3,898
7,124
919
8,861
8,286

I 8,546
7.963

16.607 ........ Aug. 16, 1851
140,000 10,000 Feb. 2, 1764
10;283 .... , ... June 25, 1791
1,875 Mar. 24, 1787
19,636
l,652 July 21, 1875
13.526
31,434 . .... ' ' . Oct. 14, 1813
77,600 . . . . . , .. Dec. 20, 1837
2,841 . . . . . . . . Jlln. 16, 1872
15.174
Oct. 14. 1794

Feb.
Nov.
Oct.
Oct.
Feb.
Oct.
Dec.
Jan.
Nov.
Sept.
Oct.
May
June
Feb.
Oct.
Feb.
May
Nov.
Dec.
May
Jan.
Feb.
Sept.
Aug.
June
June
May
April
Feb.
May
Jan.
June
Oct.
Feb.

1 Reviewed
1 ~Dec.
1918

Annual 1 Proce.:.iComr:iunii~gs

I

32,538 ........ !June 14, 18211
3,366 ........ Mar. 25, 1882
25,000
1,600 Nov. 21, 1838
67,810
6,500 Apr. 18, 1850
20,245 , ....... Aug. 2, 1861
29,417
2,490 July 8, 1789
4,382
320 June 6. 1806
11,857
1,916 Dec. 11, 1810
14.749
1.213 Juiy 5, 1830
49,000 .. , .... , Dec. 16, 1786
5,681
337 Dec. 16. 1867
167,2861,,,,,.,. Apr. 6, 1840
88,148
10,102 Jan. 12, 1818
62,472
7,000 Jan. 8,1844
51,202 1, ........ Mar.17, 1850
49,071 1· . . . . . . . Oct. 16, 1800
20,588
1,723 July 12, 1812
33,386
2,850 June I, 1820
20,638
... , , . July 31, 1783
78,464
5,000 J u!y 30, 17 33
96,403
6,620 Sept. 14, 1844
36,976
3,592 Feb. 24, 1853
20,775 ........ July 27, 1818
74,201
992 April 21. 1821
13,817
996 Jan. 24, 1866
28,1361· 3,000 Sept. 23, 1857
2,078
145 Jan. 16, 1865
11,284 ........ July 18. 1789
49, 788
4,224 Dec. 18, 1786
4,338
387 Aug. 6, 1877
220,777 . , ...... Sept. 5, 1781
27,257
325* Jan. 14, 17711
11,612
1,350 June 12, 1889
122,343
15,000 Jan. 7, 1808
37,200
8,800 Nov. 10, 1892

--~-----

108
80
459
77
42
75
L'i
66
135

Alberta.................
British Columbia.........
Canada. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Manitoba. . .. . .. .. .. ..
New Brunswick . . . . . . . . . .
Nova Scotia.............
Prince Edward Island.. . . .
Quebec ............... ,..
Saskatchawan. . . . . . .

Total. . . . . . . . . . . . . 15,476

,_

275

365
643
116

272

565
530
418
592
235
206
116
269
439

66
86Q

550
25
550
384
132
112
22
30
337
667

Alabama .............. ,.
Arizona............
Arkansas............ . . .
California...............
Colorado........
Connecticut. . . . . . . . .
Delaware....... . . . . .
District of Columbia.
Florida...... . . . . . . .
Georgia ..... ,,.
Idaho .... ,..... .
Illinois.,,. , , . ,
Indiana. .
....
Iowa......
.....
Kansas.........
.....
Kentucky. . .
Louisiana....
Maine........ . . . . . . . . .
Maryland. . . . . . . . . . .
Massachusetts. . . . . . .
Michigan............
Minnesota .. , .... , . . .
Mississippi......
Missouri. . . . . .
Montana...... . . . . . . . .
Nebraska.........
....
Nevada. . . . . . . . . . . .
New Hampshire.... . . . . .
New Jersey ........... ,..
New Mexico... . .
New York ..............
North Carolina... . , . . .
North Dakota..
..
Ohio..........
. ... , .
Oklahoma .
. . . . . . .1

-----------:----:---.---!

Lodges

~~..E.s~M~~T~C~~~spondence Committee, California, 1919.

,_.

~

'tl

z

.

..
"9,':, §'.

""
"'

,_.

tIJ

c

~

~

z

'tl
0

00

0
:ti
:ti
tIJ

c

0

>-3

0
:ti

:ti
tIJ

tIJ

c

z

l"J

lj

z

w
'tl
0

t;j

Iii
:ti

0

c

z

0

Iii
>-3

'tl
0

l"J

....
""

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

137

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

MASONIC HOMES STATISTICS
Prep~red

by JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman, Committee on Correspondence, California, 1919.

State

ANCIENT AND ACCEPTED SCOTTISH RITE.
Prepared by JESSE M. WHITED, Chairman Committee on Correspondence, California, 1919.
Southern
Jurisdiction
June, 1918
Active 33° ...............................
Honorary 33° ............................
Emeriti Members 33° .................... ,.
Grand Crosses of the Court of Honour .......
Knights Commander of Court of Honour ....
Lodge of Perfection (4°-14°) ................
Chapter Rose Croix (15°-18°) ..............
Council of Kadosh (19°-30°) ...............
Consistory (31°-32°) .......................

26
1,057
2
8
1,446
123,395
108,258
101,187
99,377

Northern
Jurisdiction
Sept., 1918
44
1,265
1

..........
............
............
............
............

............

Lodge of Perfection (4°-14°) ................ . . . . . . . . . . . .

125,143

Council Princes of Jerusalem (15°-16°) ...... ............

117,858

Chapter Rose Croix (17°-18°) .............. . . . . . . . . . . . .

116,992

Consistory (19°-32°) ...................... ............

115,199

Location

Estab·
lished

Alabama ............ Montgomery ...........
Arkansas ........... Batesville .............
California ........... Decoto ................
California ........... Covina ................
Connecticut. ........ Wallingford ............

1912
1909
1889
1909
1889

Delaware ........... Wilmington ............
District of Columbia. Washington ............
Georgia ............. Macon ................

1912

Illinois ............. La Grange .............
Illinois ............. Sullivan ...............

1910
1914

Iridiana ............. Franklin ..............
Kansas ............. Wichita ...............
Kentucky ........... Louisville ..............
Kentucky ........... Shelbyville .............
Massachusetts ....... Charlestown ..
Michigan ........... Alma ..........
Mississippi . .. , ...... Meridan .......
Missouri ............ St. Louis .....
Montana ........... Helena ....
Nebraska ........... Plattsmouth ..... : .....
New Hampshire . .... Manchester .. ....
New Jersey ......... Burlington .............

1916

New York .......... Utica .................
North Carolina ...... Oxford ................
North Carolina ...... Greensboro ............
Ohio ............... Springfield .............
Oklahoma ........... Darlington .............
Pennsylvania . ....... Elizabethtown .........
Tennessee ........... Nashville (M. W. & 0.) ..
Tennessee ........... Nash ville (Old Masons).
( Fort Worth (Orphans) ..
Texas ............. l Arlington (Widows) .....
Virginia ............ Richmond .............
Washington ......... Puyallup ..............
Wisconsin ........... Dousman ..............

1913
190S

1896
1871
1901
1911
1911
1911
1899
1909
1903
1903

Per
Capita Tax

Residents
Adult Minor
33

123
100

131

66

.90
120
1.00
13
SS.per Initiation
.2S
28
Appropriation
.4S
.10 0 .E. S.
127

6

$0.90

.so
1.00

1

.so

.100. E. S.

97

.so

94
32
46
Sl
96

1.00
.2S
Appropriation

.so

1.00
Endowment
1.00
.7S

194
23
39

.so
[ $S.SO per.soinitiate
S7
.so
1902
2S9
1898

1874
1914
1897
1910
1913
1892
1899

90
96
43
343

160
92

29
33

Appropriation
Appropriation
1.00
I.SO
$1.00 per degree
Appropriation
.7S
$1.00 per degree
.2S
Endowment
.90

160
26

182
37S
29
47
108

310

S3

.39

23S

1.00
$1.00 per degree

32

6

.so

9

1890
1914

In addition to the above, the Order of the Eastern Star maintains separate Homes
in Illinois, Iowa, Nebraska and New York, and the Royal Arch Masons maintain one in
Texas.
The above figures are taken from information given direct by Grand Secretaries, or
from the last published proceeding, recent enough to be of value.
It should also be remembered that practically every Home in addition to the income
received from the per capita tax, has other resources.

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

139

INDEX

LARGEST LODGES
The largest subordinate lodges in various states of the United States are situated in the
following cities and states.

. Ef.Grand
Jurisdiction

~~~~~~~~~-

I

.

Name.

I
I

No.

.

Location

1-~~~~~~~~~1

" "

:::1"'

. .
M1ch1gan
........... , .. Palestme .... , , , ..... · 35 7 Detroit ............... , 3095
Michigan .............. Ashlar.............. . 91 Detroit ............... 2120
Michigan .............. 1Zion ..................
1 Detroit. .. . . . . . . . . . . . . 2065
Michigan .............. ,Friendship.. .. .. . .. . . . . 417 Detroit. .. . . .. . .. . . . .. . 1779
NewYork ............. GeneseeFalls .......... 507
1739
Minnesota ............. Minneapolis...........
19
1737
New York ............ ·Yonnondio ............. 1 163
.............
1706
Michigan ............. Detroit ............... · 1 2 Detroit ............... : 1653
Illinois ................ Garden City. . . . . . . . . . . 141 Chicago. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1652
"Indiana ............... Centre................ 23 Indianapolis ........... 1651
1
Ohio ................. .:York
................. 563 Columbus ............. 1521
Ohio.. .. . .. .. .. . .. . . Woodward.. . .. .. . .. . .. 508 Cleveland. .. . .. . . . .. .. 1500
Illinois ................ Pleiades..............
478 Chicago, .............. 1401
New York ............. Central City .. , ........ 305 Syracuse .............. 1399
Michigan ..... , ........ Union of S. 0....... . . .
3 Detroit......... . . . . . 1393
Ohio .................. Humboldt............. 476 Columbus .......... ,.. 1336
Illinois ........... , .... Union Park............ 610 Chicago............... 1305
Pennsylvania .......... :University ............. , 610 Philadelphia. . . . . . . . . . . 1297
Michigan .............. Lansing ............... 1.. 33 Lansing ............... 1271
Missouri. .............. Temple................ 299 Kansas City. . . . . . . . . . . 1250
Ohio ................. , Bigelow. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 243 Cleveland. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1248
New York ............. Syracuse .............. 501 Syracuse .............. 1230
Ohio .................. Halcyon ............... 498 ,Cleveland............. 1213
Pennsylvania .......... ,Dallas.... . .. .. . .. .. . 508 IPittsburgh............. 1212
Missouri. ............. 'Ivanhoe............... 446 Kansas City........... 1202
Ohio .................. Rubicon ............... 237 Toledo ................ 1178
Kentucky ............. Preston............... 281 Louisville.............. 1162
Connecticut. .......... Hiram... .. .. ........ 1 1 New Haven ........... 1161
Texas ................ l<'ort Worth .......... ·
Fort Worth............ 1150
Illinois . . . . . . . . . . . Garfield ............. , 686 Chicago. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1136
Illinois .............. Austin . . . . . . . . . . . . 1850 Chicago............... 1128
Michigan ............ •!Jackson......... . .. .
17 Jackson ............... 1120
Illinois.......... .. . Temple .. .. . .. .. . .. .
46 Peoria ................. , 1117
Ohio...... ... .... ..
Western Star..........
21 Youngstown ........... 11114
New York ............. Binghampton ......... 177 Binghampton .......... 1107
Illinois ............... 1Mystic Star...... . . .. 758 Chicago ............... · 1102
Kansas ............... IA!bert Pike .. . .. .. .. , 303 .Wichita.......... . . . . . 1100
Jllinois.............. . Normal Park..... . . . . 797 Chicago............. . . 1087
Illinois.. .. .. .. .. . . . . Lake View.. .. . .. .. ..
77 4 Chicago.. . .. . .. . . .. .. . 1085
Connecticut. . . . . . . . . Hartford. . . . . . . . . .
88 Hartford. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1083
Ohio ................ Yeatman.... .. .. . .. . 162 Cincinnati............. 1081
Minnesota.. . . . ....... •Ark. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 176 Minneapolis. . . . . . . . . . . 1081
Ohio .................. ,S. L. Collins .......... 396 Toledo................ 1075
Kan<ras ................ ,Orient................ 51 Topeka ...... , ........ ' 1074
Ohio ................... ,Iris ...................· 1 229 Cleveland. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1072
Indiana ......... , ..... Mystic Tie ............ : 398 ,lndianapolis ... , ....... 1070
Pennsylvania .......... Orienta!. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 385 Philadelphia. . . . . . . . . . . 1058
Missouri. ............. Mt. Moriah............ 40 St. Louis .............. 1058
Micbig-an .......... -. ... Doric................. 342 'Grand Rapids........ . 1055

1148

g~1~:::::::::::::: ::::11~?r~~~.::::::::::::::: 4g~ !?;:J~~. . . ::::::::::::: ~m

New York ............. Washington ... , ........ 240 Buffalo...... . . . . . . . . . . 1054
Illinois ................ Covenant.............. 526 Chicago............... 1050
¥'wa .................. ,Capital................ 110 ,Des Moines....... .. .. 1047
exas ................. El Paso. . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130 !El Paso. . . . . . . . . . . .. ·I 1047.
Kansas ............... !Wyandotte............ 1 3 Kansas City .......... ., 1042
Illinois ...... .' ......... ,Englewood ........ , .. · j 690 Chicago ............... i 1033
From 1919 Directory of Masonic Life Association.

Page
SubjectAmerican History _.. _.......................... _...................................................... . 2
American Masonic Federation .......................................................... 10, 22
Appendix ................... _................................................................................. . 123
4
Arnold, ..Benedict ...._ ............................................................................ ---·· ..
31
As others see us.......................
.. ................................ .
Ballot ........................................................................................................... . 5
Banquets ..................................................................... ,............................... . 7
I>ible Place of ........................................................................................... . 7
Birthdays .................................................................................................... .. 9
10
Buttons

125
Calendar Masonic
41, 59, 81, 88
Candidates
109
Catholicism
37
Ceremonies
Cerneau Masonry .................................................................................... .. 22
Cham letters ................................................................................................ 17
Chairman Correspondence Committees .......................................... 128-130
Chaplains ...................................................................................................... 19
CharityReimbursement for............................................................................ 19
VVar ........................... .,...................................................................... ., ... 117
Publication of ................................................................................... . 95
Clandestine Masonry
22
Clubs ............................................................................................................ 24
Conferences
44, 76
Cornerstones ............................................................................................. . 16
Correspondence-

Crimes
Cuban Flag ................................................................................................. .
Dates 1iasonic ........................................................................................... . 125
4
Declaration of Independence
32
Dispensations
111
Eastern Star
...............
127
Officers .......... ..
Membership
EducationFunds for ............................................................................................ 35
"The Builders" .................................................................................... 82
Lectures ................................................................................................ 71
National University............................................................................ 80

RJUPORT ON· CORRESPONDENCE

140

141

REPORT ON CORRESPONDENCE

·INDEX
INDEX
SubjectPage
First American Lodges ·····················--···--·····················-------~-----·········--··- 9
Felonies --···-··--·-------------·-···················-······--------·-···············--------············-----31, 94
Flag The American............................................................................................ 37
French Masonry ···································-------·············· ........ ..40, 99, 109, 117
Future What of the ......................................................................0, 81, 121
General Grand Lodge --·-········--·········-·-···························-······--······--·-·····- 44
GermanyGerman Exclusion ············-········-································-···--···········-···- 47
Masonry ·····-··-·····--···········----·························----·-·-·······--·--·- 49
Language ··-·······-·-········-·······-·····················-·······------·--·-·-···- 50
Grand E'odiesOfficers -···--···-·------································-···························-··------·-···-126-127
Membership .................................................................................. 134-135
Grand Lodges ..................................··-···-········-····················-·······----------·-····· 52
Officers .................................................................................................... 128-130
Membership -···--······-····-···············------··-···················-·····-·-------------134-135
Grand Masters ............ ---·-···········-·-··------------:........................ ~-·-·····55, 128-130
Grotto, The ---··-··-··'····-··-·-·················--···································-······-···--·-······· 59
Group Initiation ·····-···························-····-································-·············-·· 59
Higher Degrees.......................................................................................... 60
Knights of Columbus ......................................................................... .13, 110
Knights Templar --···································-···································-··········--·- 60
Officers .................................................................................................... 126
Membership .......................................................................................... 134-135
HistoryAmerican ·····-···-······················-·······-·······························-·······--············
2
Lodge -·············································-··························-········-····-············ 65
Homes Masonic ....................................................................................68, 137
Hospitals ··············-··-····-····························-···········-·························-··-·-·-····- 68
Lectures ····-·············-········-·····················-··········································-·····71, 107
Libraries ·········-·-···-·-···································································-·····-·-········ 72
Masonic Relief Association.................................................................... 75
MastersGrand .................................................................................................... 55
Past ··················-··-·················-········································'········-··--··-······· 87
Present Grand .............................................................................. 128-130
MembershipNumerical --·······--··-······················-····················································-·- 81
Physical qualifications ·········-·················································-··-··-···· 88
MembershipBlue Lodges .................................................................................. 134-135
Royal Arch Masons ...................................................................... 132-133

SubjectPage
Royal & Select Masters .............................................................. 132-133
Knights Templar ·······················-···--···············--·--···-···················132-133
Ancient & Accepted Scottish Rite .......................................... 132-133
A; A. O. N. M. S------············-····-·····-················-·-···········-·············132-133
O. E. S. ···························--··-····------------····-·-·····-·--·--·-··-·:................ 132-133
McKinley Chain Letter ---------···--··--·--······--····-·······---·--··········--······----------- 17

Mys~~i~;:in~--::::::.·.-_-_-_:·.·_::;::::::::.·:::.·.·.:::::::::::::.-.-.-.-.-.:::::::::::::_·_·_-_-_-_::::::::::::.·.·_·_·_-_-_-_-_::::::::. 1~~
Mas~:~b;:~h~~1~~~~--c~·;·~~::::::::·_·_·_·_·_·_·:::::::::::::·_·::::::::::::::::·::::::::::::::::·.:·:::.~~~-;Ji
Masonic Service Association ·-··-······················································-···· 76
Military Lodges ·--··-········--·-············--···-·············· -·····-············-··-· ······-····· 112
National University ·-···················--··-·····--················································· 80
Numbers ·········-······-··························-·········································-··············-- 81
Officers-

~~t;1:r;l0~-~~::::::::::::::::::::::::::··::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::::~;~~~~~

Grand ·········--·--···················-····························································128-130
Orphanages ·····-·············--··················-·······-··-··-·······················--·········-······· 68
Past Masters ·····-·-·························-··········-··········---··-································· 87
Phraseology ···--·-··-································-··········-·································-·······- 73
Physical Qualifications ··-·····--···--···---------·--------------································ 88
Presidents-Masonic ---···········-··········-·········-··········································-· 2
PressMasonic ·······································--·-····························-····--·-··········--···· 74
Periodicals ·---·············-··········-············-·····················-·········-················ 124
96

i~~~t~E. it;;.:> -_-

~:_E

QuestionnaireFor Candidates ·-·····---·················--------······-······················-················- 11
To Grand Secretaries ·····················--····-···············-········--········--·-···· 120
Refreshments ·-··-··-··------···-·············-··---·····-······--····················-········--··········
7
99
1

~~~:!;~ -~ : : : : : _: : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : : .: : : _: : : : : : : :-_-: : :·: : _: ~: :~ '.:I~f ~~~

Sciots-San Francisco Pyramid No. !................................................ 35
Scottish Rite ..............................................................................60, 68, 69, 111
Officers ................................ ..... ..................... .... ...................................... 127
Membership ····················· .................................................................... 132-133

•

